dialog: The Cellar
dialog: by
dialog: Josh Campbell & Matt Stuecken
speaker_heading: DARKNESS
dialog: And then --
scene_heading: A GUNNED ENGINE --
text: BLURRED HEADLIGHTS flash across the screen --
scene_heading: TIRES SQUEAL on asphalt --
text: A split second of unnerving silence and --
speaker_heading: CRAAASSSSH!
text: Lightning quick, CLOSE UP snippets of --
scene_heading: GLASS SHATTERING --
scene_heading: METAL BENDING and RIPPING --
text: A VEHICLE coming to rest --
text: A TIRE SPINNING upside down --
scene_heading: SMASH CUT TO:
speaker_heading: BLACK
text: And SILENCE.
text: The soft, rhythmic HUM of a distant generator fades in.
text: Followed by a deep, pained BREATH.
text: A dim light flickers, then steadies, revealing a --
speaker_heading: POV SHOT
text: But everything is out of focus -- blurred shades of grey.
text: The light fades as consciousness slips away, replaced again
dialog: by --
speaker_heading: DARKNESS
text: The generator continues its rhythmic HUM.
text: A slow FADE IN --
text: DIM FLUORESCENT LIGHT illuminates --
speaker_heading: A SMALL ROOM
text: A young woman lies on a sheet-less mattress on the floor. A
text: thin blanket covers her body. Her eyes remain closed.
scene_heading: This is MICHELLE BURKE (18). Classic Mid-Westerner --
text: attractive and smart with a slight edge that does little to
text: mask her deep-rooted wholesomeness.
text: But right now she’s bandaged, bruised and barely conscious.
text: Somewhere nearby -- the MUFFLED THUMP of a closing door.
text: Michelle’s EYES SNAP OPEN -- glassy but aware.
text: She touches her temple and winces. Her fingers come away
text: tinged with blood from the soaked-through gauze that’s taped
text: to her forehead.
text: Her eyes adjust. Take in her surroundings --
text: Low ceiling. Unpainted cinder block walls. Cement floor. No
text: windows. A closed door.
text: She turns her head causing her to MOAN.
text: And -- seemingly in response to her moan -- there's a
text: SHUFFLING SOUND on the other side of the door.
text: Michelle goes silent.
text: She waits, listens -- but the shuffling sound doesn’t return.
text: Her eyes flit around the room as her confusion builds.
text: She peels back the blanket --
text: She's in her underwear and there’s a makeshift brace wrapped
text: around her knee. Her shirt is crusted with blood and torn at
text: the collar. Confusion quickly turns to panic.
text: She moves to swing her legs off the mattress but searing pain
text: stops her. She grabs the brace, struggles not to cry out.
text: Her jeans sit in a crumpled pile next to the bed.
text: Keeping her leg steady, she reaches out and pulls them toward
text: her. A shaky hand digs her cell phone from a pocket.
text: She ignores the display telling her she has new texts. She
text: punches 911 -- but there’s no signal.
text: She holds up the phone, moves it around -- still nothing.
text: Michelle starts to sob. Stops. Takes a deep breath and --
text: Rolls off the bed. Gritted teeth muffle her agony.
text: She drags herself toward the door.
text: A lone TWO-BY-FOUR rests against the wall. She uses it to
text: haul herself up onto her good foot, shock and adrenaline help
text: her fight through the pain.
text: Steadying herself on the wooden crutch, she turns the door
text: handle. It doesn’t budge -- the bolt is locked.
text: Michelle looks around the room for another escape.
dialog: And then --
text: FOOTSTEPS on the other side of the door. Getting LOUDER with
text: each step. Growing CLOSER with each step.
text: She hops to the side of the door, grips the two-by-four like
text: a baseball bat... and waits.
dialog: The bolt lock slides --
dialog: The handle turns --
text: The door CREAKS open --
text: A foot steps into the room --
text: Michelle swings for the fences --
text: The two-by-four smashes into a man's shoulder. A tray of food
text: flies through the air as the man tumbles to the ground.
text: We'll come to know the man as HOWARD STAMMLER (40s), but
text: right now, he's batting practice.
text: Michelle lifts the wood. Howard raises his hands.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Wait! Stop!
text: Michelle slams down the two-by-four with all she’s got.
text: Howard’s forearm absorbs the brutal blow.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Just listen to me for a sec!
text: Michelle swings again, for his head this time.
text: Howard rolls out of the way. The two-by-four splinters
text: against the cement floor. He reaches back, latches onto the
text: wood and jerks it from her hands.
text: Michelle chokes back panicked sobs as she hops toward the
text: open door. Her knee cracks against the frame. She cries out
text: in pure agony, collapses hard to the floor.
text: Blood seeps from under her bandages.
text: Howard gets up, his body blocking the doorway. He towers over
text: Michelle, the two-by-four gripped tightly.
text: He stares down at her -- breathing hard -- his expression
text: somewhere between surprise and anger.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m only trying to help you!
text: Michelle frantically crawls away from him, her bad leg
text: dragging limply behind.
text: Howard steps after her.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Stay away from me!
text: Michelle struggles onto her good foot, SCREAMS from the pain.
text: She hops toward a shovel that rests against the back wall.
text: Howard drops the two-by-four.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I’m not going to hurt you.
text: Michelle hops faster, stumbles, falls. Her busted knee hits
text: the floor. She blacks out from the excruciating pain.
text: Howard stands over her for a beat. Then he walks to the back
text: of the room and grabs the shovel that rests against the wall.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM - LATER
text: Michelle's eyes slowly open. She's back on the mattress, the
text: thin blanket covering her again.
text: A tray of food sits on the floor next to the bed. The two-by-
text: four and shovel are gone.
text: Howard sits on a folding chair by the door, his forearm is
text: now wrapped with a bandage where she hit him with the wood.
text: She peers at him through the dim light. Is he sleeping? She
text: props herself up.
text: His voice cuts through the darkness, startling her --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You should eat the eggs. You’1ll be
text: dreaming of fresh food before long.
text: Michelle looks at the tray of food, then back to Howard --
text: detachment in his voice, intelligence in his weary eyes. A
text: combination that makes him hard to read.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: In a couple of weeks, everything's
text: going to be from a can.
text: Panic sets in again. Michelle grabs her cell. Holds it up.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I called the police. They'll be
dialog: here any minute. Let me go now.
dialog: You'll be in a lot less trouble.
text: Michelle shoots him a defiant look.
text: Howard shakes his head --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You've got no idea what happened,
dialog: do you?
text: Michelle lowers her cell but doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: There was an attack last night.
text: Some kind of bomb exploded. The
text: city’s destroyed.
text: Michelle looks at Howard like he’s a lunatic.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah... Right.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I was rushing back here when I came
dialog: across your wrecked car. I couldn’t
dialog: just leave you there.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: If you're such a good samaritan why
dialog: the hell am I locked in this room?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I spent all night setting your leg
dialog: and closing that wound on your
dialog: head. I needed some sleep and
dialog: didn't want you wandering off.
dialog: (rubs his bandaged arm)
text: Or cracking my head open with a
dialog: shovel.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You really think I'm stupid enough
dialog: to fall for this?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I think you're smart enough to know
dialog: that if I was gonna do something, I
dialog: would have done it already.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: How do I know you didn't? I woke up
dialog: in my underwear with no idea where
dialog: I am or how I got here. That's
dialog: pretty fucking disturbing.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I’m a doctor. I had to take off
dialog: your jeans to set your knee.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I want out of here. Now.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You can’t leave. The entire
text: countryside is blanketed with...
dialog: with some sort of poisonous
dialog: chemical.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You’re out of your mind.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You go outside, you die. But this
dialog: place has a filtration system. It
dialog: should protect us from whatever is
text: floating in the air out there.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What's gonna protect me from you?
text: Howard shakes his head, knows he's not going to convince her
text: of anything right now. He stands up.
text: Michelle pulls the blanket tighter around her neck.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You need to rest.
dialog: (pointing at the tray)
text: That's Ketamine in the small cup.
dialog: It'll help with the pain. I
dialog: recommend you take it... but I'll
dialog: leave that up to you.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Special K? We going clubbing?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I'm a veterinarian. It's the
dialog: strongest painkiller I have.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Thought you said you were a doctor.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: A veterinarian is a doctor.
text: He points to her leg as he tries for a little levity.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey. Consider yourself lucky. If
dialog: you were a horse, I would’ve had to
dialog: put you down.
text: Michelle’s not laughing.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Thanks, Doc. But I’m not taking a
dialog: date rape drug while being held
dialog: prisoner.
text: He takes a step toward her... and there’s a tiny shift in
text: Howard, something stirs beneath his calm exterior --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: If I wanted to drug you, I would've
dialog: crushed it up in your food or hid
dialog: it in your drink. Or shot you up
dialog: with it while you were already
dialog: unconscious. And then I could’ve
dialog: done what ever I wanted.
text: Michelle looks sick to her stomach. Howard takes a deep
dialog: breath, knows he went too far.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: This is a lot to take in. For both
dialog: of us. You need to eat and you need
dialog: to sleep.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: There will be plenty of time to
dialog: talk when you're feeling better.
text: Michelle pulls the tray onto her mattress and starts picking
text: at the eggs. She’s not convinced of Howard's story but
text: realizes that either way, she's fucked.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Call me if you need anything. I'll
dialog: be right outside.
text: That doesn't make her feel any better. He exits the room,
text: leaving the door open behind him. Michelle waits a beat...
text: She sets the food tray back on the floor.
text: Her hand lingers, grabs the butter knife.
text: She tries to pull herself up, but her weight shifts to her
text: busted knee. The pain is excruciating.
text: Michelle grits her teeth, falls back onto the mattress, eyes
text: watering. She can’t take it. She grabs the Ketamine off the
text: tray and drinks it.
text: She tucks the butter knife under her pillow and passes out.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE PARTY - BASEMENT - NIGHT - (FLASHBACK)
text: (Note: All of the flashbacks are grainy and high contrast --
dialog: it's hard to tell whether we are watching history, a memory
dialog: or something altogether different.)
text: Dozens of college students drink from plastic cups and bounce
text: to hip hop music in the basement of an off-campus house.
text: In a back corner Michelle stands across from PATRICK (19).
text: Despite the raging party going on around them, the
text: expressions on their faces say that they're not having fun.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Lauren's in my lit class. We were
dialog: just studying...
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: It took you ten minutes to close
dialog: your books and come downstairs?
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: I didn't hear you knock. I didn't
dialog: even know you were coming.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I wanted to surprise you. God, I'm
dialog: such an idiot.
text: Michelle takes a long drink from her cup.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Nothing happened.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I saw the way she looked at you...
dialog: the way she looked at me.
text: She locks eyes with Patrick, daring him to lie.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Okay. She kissed me... But I didn't
text: kiss her back.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What the hell does that even mean?
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: It means you can trust me.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Trust you? Why? So you can hurt me?
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Michelle, I love you.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah? You got a fucked up way of
text: showing it.
text: Michelle chugs the rest of her beer, throws the empty cup at
text: Patrick and charges for the stairs.
text: He chases after her.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: You can't go. You need to sober up.
text: Michelle pushes through the crowd of bodies, ignoring him.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Michelle wakes up. The fluorescent bulb is off but a bit of
text: light bleeds through the open door along with some noise --
text: HAMMERING and SANDING. It puts an anxious look on her face.
dialog: 10.
text: The food tray is gone. She reaches under her pillow. The
text: butter knife is gone too. A folded t-shirt and women’s
text: drawstring athletic shorts sit on the floor next to her cell.
text: Michelle reaches over, grabs her cell and opens up her texts -
text: - all six from Patrick. The last one at 2:42 a.m. -- “Sorry
dialog: had to end this way. I wish we could be 2gether 4ever.”
text: Is he referring to the attack? She shakes the thought from
text: her head.
text: Michelle swaps her torn, blood-crusted blouse for the t-
text: shirt. It’s skintight but it’s clean. She then gingerly pulls
text: the shorts on over her wounded knee.
text: Michelle looks around the empty room. She calls out --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Hey, Doc? These luxury
dialog: accommodations come with a
dialog: bathroom?
text: Howard enters carrying crutches made out of some nailed
text: together pieces of wood -- there’s material wrapped around
text: the tops, sanded hand grips and duct taped feet at the
text: bottom. They're rudimentary, but nonetheless impressive.
text: He sets the crutches down by her mattress.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: My name’s Howard.
text: Michelle doesn’t say anything as she pulls herself up onto
text: the crutches. Howard reaches for her arm to steady her.
text: She instinctively pulls away from his touch.
text: He gets the message, turns and leads the way out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Michelle enters the cramped living area. It’s windowless with
text: the same low ceilings and cinder block walls.
text: Her eyes dart around, studying every square inch --
text: In the middle there’s a small table with two folding chairs.
text: To her right, there's a kitchenette alongside a cupboard.
text: Next to the cupboard, an open door leads to another room.
dialog: 11.
text: To her left, a worn couch blocks a set of stairs that
text: disappear up into darkness.
text: And on the far side of the room, there's a fully stocked,
text: floor-to-ceiling wine rack that takes up the entire wall but
text: for one corner where there's a closed steel door with a
text: deadbolt above the handle.
text: Howard leads Michelle through the main living area into --
speaker_heading: HOWARD’S ROOM
text: A mattress on the floor. A small chest of drawers against a
text: wall. In the back, two shower curtains come together to
text: square off the corner.
text: Howard pulls one of the curtains aside to reveal a toilet, a
text: sink, a small mirror, and a tub.
text: Michelle crutches by him.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Howard lets the curtain go but stands right outside.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah, um, a little privacy, Doc.
text: Howard heads toward the door.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Let me know if you need any help.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You can help by closing the door on
dialog: your way out.
text: Through the slit in the shower curtain Michelle watches
text: Howard exit. He closes the bedroom door behind him.
text: Michelle quickly crutches into --
speaker_heading: HOWARD’S ROOM
text: She hobbles to the chest of drawers and starts rooting
text: through them. The top drawer is filled with women’s clothes.
text: The second drawer down contains men’s clothes.
dialog: 12.
text: Michelle opens the third drawer revealing a cornucopia of
dialog: pharmaceuticals, including the Ketamine, antibiotics and a
text: few syringes.
text: Michelle grabs a syringe. As she lifts it, she notices a
dialog: collection of old survival magazines underneath --
text: A headline on the cover of one of them catches her eye --
text: “HOW TO MAKE A WEAPON OUT OF ANYTHING.”
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.)
dialog: You okay in there, Michelle?
text: Michelle startles at hearing her name. She drops the syringe
text: and shuts the drawer. Hobbles over and opens the door.
text: Howard all but tumbles into the room, having had his ear
text: against the door.
text: Michelle tamps down her surprise and makes her way around him
dialog: back into the --
speaker_heading: MAIN ROOM
text: Leaning on her crutches, she opens the cupboard. Every square
text: inch is taken up with canned goods and dried foods.
text: Michelle turns to Howard.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: How do you know my name?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I looked in your purse, saw your
dialog: driver’s license.
text: She works her way to the back corner. She tries the steel
text: door next to the wine rack. The deadbolt is locked.
text: Howard watches her but doesn't say anything.
text: Michelle takes a seat on the couch, cranes her head to look
text: up the stairwell but she can't see where it ends.
text: She tries to act calm and confident --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Okay. So where the hell are we?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: Near Kenosha. 40 miles outside of
dialog: Milwaukee. Underneath my farmhouse.
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (looking at the wine rack)
dialog: Where you just happen to have a
text: fully stocked dungeon.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I converted this cellar into a
dialog: fallout shelter right after 9/11.
dialog: The electricity comes from solar
text: panels mounted on the barn roof.
text: Water’s piped in from a well
text: underneath the house then it goes
text: through a reverse osmosis filter.
text: Completely self contained.
text: Howard leans against the table.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Started to think I went a little
dialog: overboard, but figured, even if it
dialog: never serves its purpose, it makes
dialog: a decent wine cellar.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: How were you able to figure out
dialog: what happened? The TV and radio
dialog: would have stopped broadcasting the
text: instant the bomb went off.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: The ones from Milwaukee did. But I
dialog: was able to pick up a station from
dialog: Chicago... until that cut out too.
dialog: But it was enough info to know I
dialog: needed to get here quick.
text: Michelle loses a bit of confidence.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You saying Chicago was hit?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: All I know is that they’re not
dialog: broadcasting anymore.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: That’s where I’m from. That’s where
dialog: my mom is. I need to call her. I
dialog: need to make sure she’s okay.
text: The look on Howard's face says that she’s probably not.
text: Michelle tears up. Howard’s not sure what to do, what to say.
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I have a daughter in Washington,
dialog: D.C. I don’t know if anything
dialog: happened there. But, I mean, it’s
dialog: Washington, D.C.
text: He fights back his own emotions.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Never should have let her go.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: We need to go outside. Find a cell
dialog: signal. Figure out what happened.
text: Howard comes over, reaches out to comfort her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I’m sorry. I know it’s hard, but I
dialog: can’t let --
text: She suddenly swings her crutch --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Get the hell away from me, you
dialog: lying son of a bitch!
text: Michelle struggles to her feet, backs against a wall. She
text: keeps Howard at bay with her crutch.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: You're full of shit! There was no
dialog: attack. You’re just a sick pervert
dialog: trying to keep me down here.
text: Howard looks at her, his face a blank slate. And then -- a
text: flash of anger. He pulls the couch away from the stairs.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You want to see what’s out there?
dialog: (motioning toward stairs)
dialog: Go ahead.
text: Howard keeps his distance as Michelle cautiously crutches her
text: way to the steps, struggles to climb them.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - EVENING
text: Michelle arrives at the top of the stairs and finds a thick
text: lead door with a small 4x6 inch window.
text: Howard comes halfway up the stairs behind Michelle.
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Have a look.
text: Michelle leans in and stares out the window --
scene_heading: MICHELLE’S POV - EVENING
text: Late afternoon. Faint sunlight. A thin strip of the outside
text: world is visible along the top of the exterior stairwell --
text: Sunlight kicks off the front end of a dented pickup which
text: barely sticks out from behind the corner of a rundown barn.
text: Outside the barn, there’s a fenced in pen occupied by --
text: TWO DEAD PIGS. But not just dead -- their skin is completely
text: gone -- peeled, sliced or melted away. All that remains are
text: two huge blobs of blood-stained muscle and fat.
scene_heading: INT. TOP OF STAIRS - EVENING
text: Michelle pulls away. Terror pulses through her body.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Believe me now?
text: Howard climbs the stairs as Michelle tries to get her
text: panicked breathing under control.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
text: Mildred and Frank. They seemed fine
dialog: when we got here. I looked out a
dialog: few hours later. That’s what I saw.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What happened to them?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I don’t know.
text: Howard flips a switch on a kluged together piece of
text: electronic equipment by the door. A steady CLICKING SOUND
text: emanates from the machine as the meter fluctuates slightly.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
text: This is a Geiger counter.
text: A wire runs from the device to a wand. Howard threads the
text: wand through a small hole in the door. The clicking speeds up
text: and the meter moves but only a little.
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Definitely radioactive fallout in
dialog: the air, but not enough to do that
dialog: kind of damage, not that quickly.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah. Looks more like the work of
text: some twisted freak with a knife.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: God grant me the serenity...
text: Howard pulls the wand in. Looks up at Michelle.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: There’s something else out there.
dialog: Some sort of chemical, like mustard
dialog: gas... or worse.
text: Michelle subtly braces herself against the wall.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Whatever it is, we sure as hell
dialog: can’t open this door.
text: Without warning -- Michelle shoves Howard as hard as she can.
text: He loses balance, tumbles down the steps, ass over elbows.
text: Michelle grabs the door handle, turns it. But it's locked.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: God damn it!
text: Michelle frantically pulls at the door.
text: Howard gets to his feet -- his body fills the bottom of the
text: stairwell, blocking the light from the room.
text: Michelle bangs on the small window.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Help! Somebody help me!
text: Howard rubs his shoulder as he climbs the stairs.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: What the hell is wrong with you?!
text: There's real anger in his voice.
dialog: 17.
text: Michelle smashes her crutch against the glass, against the
text: handle, but it’s pointless. She begins sobbing, slides down
text: the wall until her butt hits the stairs.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Please let me go. Please. I
dialog: promise, I won’t tell anyone.
text: Howard stops a few steps below her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (bordering on creepy)
dialog: There’s no one to tell.
text: Michelle looks up at Howard, horrified.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: How long are you going to keep me
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You're not a prisoner.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (through her sobs)
dialog: Then open the fucking door.
text: Howard leans in, breathing right in her ear.
text: Michelle cowers as his hand reaches toward her... then past
text: her. He switches off the Geiger counter.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You're not thinking straight.
dialog: Probably have a concussion. Then
dialog: there’s the shock of all this info.
text: Howard stands back up, towering over her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: You open that door and whatever’s
dialog: out there comes in here. Is that
dialog: what you want? To end up looking
dialog: like my hogs?
text: Michelle can’t tell if it’s a warning or a threat.
text: They stare at each other for a long moment.
text: She finally shakes her head... surrenders.
text: Howard turns, lumbers back down the stairs. And as he goes,
text: the sun sets outside, leaving Michelle in near darkness.
dialog: 18.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - LATER
text: Looking in the mirror, Michelle peels the blood-crusted gauze
text: off her forehead. The cut is still gruesome, but the bleeding
text: has stopped. She tapes on a clean piece of gauze.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard sits at the table fiddling with a small radio but
dialog: nothing's being broadcast.
text: Michelle crutches into the room. Howard looks over.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (spinning the dial)
dialog: See?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
text: I see a broken radio.
text: Howard shakes his head as Michelle crutches by him.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Michelle sleeps restlessly.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE PARTY - NIGHT - (FLASHBACK)
text: Michelle pushes through partying students on the porch as she
text: storms out of the house toward her car.
text: Patrick continues after her.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Come on, Michelle. I made a
dialog: mistake. Give me another chance.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (slurring slightly)
dialog: Same thing my dad used to say. And
dialog: my mom was stupid enough to believe
dialog: it. Until he left her for good.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: This is about you and me. Not them.
text: Michelle opens her car door.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You're right. It's about you and
dialog: me. And Lauren. And that's one too
dialog: many.
text: She gets in the car and slams the door. Patrick grabs the
text: handle but it's already locked.
speaker_heading: PATRICK
dialog: Get out of the car. You're not
dialog: alright to drive. Seriously.
text: Michelle peels away from the curb --
text: Two students jump out of the way.
text: She squeals around a corner and disappears into the night...
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Michelle wakes with a start. She looks over to --
text: HOWARD standing silently in the doorway. He turns and walks
text: away without a word.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Michelle inspects her damaged knee. Then she glances at
text: Howard’s dresser drawers. She crutches toward them, keeping a
text: nervous eye on the door to the main room.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.)
dialog: You alright in there?
text: She stops.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah. I’m fine.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard and Michelle sit at the table, eating in silence. He
text: looks at her, but she keeps her eyes on her plate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (trying for small talk)
dialog: What were you doing in Milwaukee?
text: Eyes down, Michelle pushes her food around with her fork.
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (almost robotic)
text: Visiting a friend.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But he’s probably dead, right?
dialog: So what’s the point in talking
dialog: about it?
text: So much for small talk. Howard bites his tongue as he pushes
text: away from the table.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: A few days have passed. Michelle looks at herself in the
text: mirror. She peels the gauze from her head. The wound is
text: healed enough that she doesn’t replace the gauze.
text: She runs water but sneaks from the bathroom -- using the
text: noise to mask her movement. She hobbles into --
speaker_heading: HOWARD’S ROOM
text: She crosses the room without her crutches, limping but moving
dialog: reasonably well.
text: Michelle opens a drawer and takes the magazine with the “HOW
text: TO MAKE A WEAPON OUT OF ANYTHING” cover.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Michelle maneuvers through the main room -- past Howard. She
text: leans heavily on the crutches making it appear that she’s
dialog: completely dependent on them to get around.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Using the sharp edge of a soup can lid, Michelle whittles
text: away at the end of one of her crutches, slowly shaping it
text: into a point. She hears Howard moving outside and quickly
text: rewraps the end with tape.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM - LATER
text: Michelle lies on her mattress as Howard unwraps the bandage
text: on her knee. Michelle winces as the last layer sticks to her
text: pus-covered wound. Howard tugs it off.
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Ow! Damn it. That hurt.
text: They both stare at the wound. It’s gruesome.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: I need to go to a hospital. I need
dialog: a real doctor.
text: Howard ignores the dig.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Where are you hiding them?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: The antibiotics.
text: Michelle doesn’t answer.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Think you'll still be able to
dialog: refuse medicine when this turns
dialog: into gangrene... and I have to saw
dialog: your leg off?
text: Michelle looks from the wound to Howard. He’s serious.
text: She reaches into a small slit on the side of her mattress and
text: digs out a dozen pills. She sets them on the bed.
text: Howard separates them into two piles.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: (pointing at one pile)
dialog: You’re welcome to suffer through
dialog: the pain all you want...
dialog: (points at the other pile)
dialog: But you will take the antibiotics.
text: Michelle picks up one pill from each pile. Pops them both
text: into her mouth and swallows.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Happy?
text: Howard rewraps Michelle’s knee with a clean bandage then gets
text: up and heads for the door.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I’m stuck down here too, you know.
dialog: 22.
text: He pulls the door shut on his way out.
text: Michelle reaches over and grabs her crutch. She unravels the
text: duct tape and goes back to work, sharpening it into a point.
text: The painkiller kicks in. She groggily tucks the lid back
text: under the mattress then lies down and drifts to sleep.
scene_heading: INT. /EXT. MICHELLE'S CAR - NIGHT - (FLASHBACK)
text: Michelle speeds on a winding country road. A truck pulls up
text: behind her. Its LIGHTS GLARE in her rearview mirror. It seems
text: to get closer and closer.
text: Michelle swerves across the road drunkenly. The truck HONKS.
text: She guns the engine, accelerates. The truck keeps pace,
text: tailgating her yet again.
text: She glances at her rearview. The glare blinds her...
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Michelle jolts awake.
text: The bedroom door is open, but she’s alone. She reaches for
text: her crutches, notices that the tape at the foot of one of
text: them is unraveled, the carved point clearly visible.
text: She grabs it and tapes it up. But she has no idea if Howard
text: was in the room to see it or not.
text: She lies back on the bed for a moment, listens. Nothing but
text: the WHOOSH of air coming in through the vent above her.
text: Michelle stares up at the vent -- an idea comes to her. She
text: grabs her crutches and limps out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Michelle peeks into Howard’s room. He snores on his mattress.
text: She quietly closes his door then stares up at the ventilation
text: system above the kitchenette where two air ducts branch off
text: from the main register and pipe into the bedrooms.
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Michelle strips the cover from her pillow. She uses the spear-
text: point on her crutch to rip one end open and begins pulling
text: out the polyester stuffing.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Michelle climbs onto a folding chair beneath the main vent.
text: She pulls off the cover and shoves the stuffing into the
dialog: ventilation system.
text: When she has it all in, she takes a crutch and pushes it as
text: far into the duct as possible.
text: She climbs off the chair then reaches up and BANGS on the
text: vent with her crutch until Howard's snoring stops.
text: She hears him moving and quickly limps back into her room.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Michelle catches a glimpse of Howard through the open door.
text: She waits a beat then hobbles out of the bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard is on a chair underneath the main duct. His ear and
text: his hand are pressed up against the vent.
text: Howard turns to Michelle -- deadly serious look on his face.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: The ventilation system is failing.
text: Michelle’s face gives nothing away.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What are you gonna do?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Don’t know. If it’s the solar
dialog: panels we’re screwed because I
dialog: can’t go outside to repair them.
text: He turns valves on the ducts that lead into the bedrooms.
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
text: I’m shutting down the bedroom flow.
dialog: We'll have to limit ourselves to
dialog: this room. Keep the system from
dialog: having to work so hard.
text: He gets down from the chair.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What about the bathroom?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I‘ll keep a bucket in here. Short
dialog: of that, you'll have to be quick.
text: Howard seems to be staring at the tape on the bottom of
text: Michelle’s crutches as he speaks.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Michelle sets two plates on the table, unidentifiable blobs
text: of canned meat and pale vegetables on both.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Two years worth of food down here
dialog: and not a single piece of
dialog: chocolate.
text: Howard stands on a folding chair, his face against the vent.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Surviving is about the essentials.
text: Michelle drops into a chair, exhausted. She stares at the
text: wall of wine, looks around the rest of the sparse room.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah, there’s no way a bag of
dialog: chocolates would've fit in here.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Tell you what. Next time I’m
dialog: planning for the apocalypse, I'1l
dialog: make sure to buy candy bars. Right
dialog: now we have more pressing problems.
text: He gets down from the chair and joins Michelle at the table.
text: They both struggle to catch their breath.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: (somber )
dialog: We're not getting enough oxygen.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I might have to go outside and see
dialog: if I can fix it.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Thought it was poisonous outside.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: It is. But we’re facing carbon
dialog: dioxide poisoning down here.
dialog: Something has to be done.
text: Howard picks up a fork and starts eating. Michelle just
text: stares at her plate. Is she having second thoughts?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: If this crap is our last meal, we
dialog: need something better than water to
dialog: wash it down.
text: She crutches over to the wine rack and grabs a random bottle.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You’re not old enough for that.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Feel free to call the cops.
text: She sets the bottle on the table, hobbles over and digs
text: through the utensil drawer.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You were drinking the night you
dialog: crashed. I could smell it on you.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Then drunk driving saved my life.
dialog: Otherwise I’d be a skinless corpse,
dialog: right?
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: Where’s the corkscrew?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I’ve never opened a bottle down
dialog: here. It’s just storage. Guess
dialog: we'll have to make do with water.
text: Michelle pulls off her shoe. She grabs the bottle and puts
text: the base of it in the bottom of the shoe then starts gently
text: banging it against the nearby door frame.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing?
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Most parents won't notice if a
text: bottle of wine disappears, but they
text: will notice a missing corkscrew.
text: Michelle is breathing heavily from the lack of oxygen, but
text: little by little the wine forces the cork from the bottle.
text: When it’s halfway up, she twists it the rest of the way out.
text: She takes a moment to catch her breath, then fills her glass.
text: She goes to fill Howard’s glass. He holds his hand over it.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I don’t drink.
text: Michelle looks over at the wall of wine.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: That just decorative?
text: Howard looks down at his dinner plate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I used to. I don’t anymore.
text: Michelle raises her glass.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: More for me then. Cheers.
text: She takes a big swig.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Michelle’s food is still uneaten but the wine bottle is half
text: empty. The lack of oxygen mixed with the booze has her tipsy.
text: She refills her glass.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You’ve had enough.
text: Michelle picks up her glass and takes a gulp. She looks at
text: the full wine rack.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Why keep all those bottles if you
dialog: don’t drink?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: It’s a long story.
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: Yeah, maybe you can tell me some
dialog: day when we have more time.
text: Howard shrugs.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Maybe I‘11 tell you some day when
dialog: you’re ready to listen.
text: Michelle stares at the unappetizing food on the plate in
text: front of her.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I can’t look at this shit anymore.
text: Michelle, still tipsy, grabs her plate and limps over to the
text: sink WITHOUT HER CRUTCHES.
text: Howard watches her intently as she makes her way back to the
text: table and sits down next to her forgotten crutches.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (suspiciously)
dialog: Your knee’s getting a lot better.
text: Michelle takes another drink of wine, plays it cool.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Guess the alcohol numbs the pain.
text: Howard nods dubiously. All of a sudden, he gets up from his
text: chair and walks to the back of the room. He digs a small key
text: ring out of his pocket and opens up the locked closet door.
text: Howard pulls out the shovel before closing the door and
text: locking it.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Wondering how I could be so naive.
text: Howard walks underneath the main duct, tapping it with the
text: shovel handle as he goes.
text: TAP -- a hollow echo. TAP -- another hollow echo. TAP -- same
text: hollow sound. Howard glances at Michelle.
text: She fights to keep a disinterested look on her face.
dialog: 28.
text: He walks a few more feet. Reaches up, TAPS again -- and this
text: part of the duct answers with a muted THUMP.
text: Howard climbs onto a chair. He pushes the shovel deep into
text: the vent and starts fishing around.
text: Michelle surreptitiously unwraps the tape from the bottom of
text: her crutch under the table as she keeps her eyes on Howard.
text: Howard pulls the shovel out, bringing a big chunk of
text: polyester pillow stuffing with it.
text: Air immediately starts flowing into the room again.
text: Howard looks at Michelle. He’s furious.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I pulled you from a crushed car.
dialog: Kept you safe from whatever’s in
dialog: the air out there. I gave you
dialog: antibiotics from my limited supply.
text: He climbs off the chair, shakes the edge of the shovel at her
text: as he speaks. He doesn’t seem to notice her shaky hands
text: working underneath the table.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: You were a stranger. I owed you
dialog: nothing. But I helped you anyhow.
dialog: And instead of thanking me, you try
dialog: to kill us both.
text: Howard takes a step toward Michelle. She jumps up from the
text: table and thrusts her spike-tipped crutch at Howard. He
text: knocks it aside with the shovel.
text: She pulls it back, ready to strike again.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Is that your plan? Lock me up and
dialog: keep telling me how thankful I
dialog: should be until I throw myself at
dialog: you? Well, it’s never gonna happen.
dialog: (raises the spear higher)
dialog: I won’t let you hurt me.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: That’s the beauty of it. I don’t
dialog: have to.
text: He throws the shovel down.
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m gonna let you hurt yourself.
text: He reaches into his pocket and pulls out his key ring. Sets
text: it on the table.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s the small brass one.
text: Michelle hesitates for a long moment, not sure if she
text: believes him, not sure if this is some kind of a test.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: You're free to go.
text: Howard drags the couch away from the stairwell.
text: Keeping the crutch pointed in front of her, Michelle steps
text: forward, grabs the keys off the table.
text: She limps toward the exit, crutch at the ready.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: There's just one thing...
text: Howard’s voice wavers between menace and regret.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Once you leave, you can't come
dialog: back. You'll be covered with
dialog: whatever it is that melted the skin
dialog: off my hogs. Go ahead and kill
dialog: yourself if you like. But I’m not
dialog: going to let you kill me too. Your
dialog: choice.
text: Michelle makes her way into the --
scene_heading: STAIRWELL - DAY
text: She slowly climbs the stairs. Daylight filters in through the
text: tiny window above.
text: She gets to the top, fumbles with the key ring --
text: She sticks the small brass key in the lock --
text: She pauses, looks back down the stairs. Howard’s nowhere to
text: be seen. But he calls out --
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.)
dialog: Leave the keys in the door. And be
text: quick to close it.
text: Michelle pauses... Decision time. She hesitates --
text: And then the daylight from the window suddenly goes DARK.
text: Michelle spins around -- a man in a hazmat hood presses
text: against the window -- looking right at her.
text: He BANGS frantically.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (muffled)
dialog: Open the door! Open the god damn
dialog: door!
text: Michelle SCREAMS in terror.
text: Howard rushes to the bottom of the stairs, sees the figure on
text: the other side of the window --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Do not open that door!
text: Michelle panics, spins the key, unlocking the door.
text: Before Howard can get up to her, the man pulls open the door
text: and enters, pushing into Michelle -- TOUCHING HER --
text: The man blocks Michelle from getting out. He spins back,
text: shuts and locks the door. Then strips off his hazmat hood.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Shh! We don’t want them to find us.
text: This is NATE (20s), his matted hair and dirty face only
text: enhance his rugged good looks.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Get back! Get away from me!
text: Howard disappears down the stairwell. Michelle hesitates...
text: Maybe it’s the booze or the lack of oxygen -- or maybe it’s
text: something in Nate’s voice that convinces her. But Michelle
text: backs down the stairs, away from the door.
dialog: 31.
text: Nate looks out the window one more time before he heads down
dialog: into the --
speaker_heading: MAIN ROOM
text: Howard stands on a chair under the vent, turning the valves
text: on the ducts that lead to the bedrooms.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: We need to get that suit cleaned
text: off. Right now.
text: Nate hurries past Michelle into Howard’s room -- he clearly
dialog: knows his way around.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What the hell is going on?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (a concerned look)
dialog: That’s Nate.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You know him?
text: Howard nods, but not happily. He gets down from the chair and
text: heads for his bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Nate strips off the suit. Underneath he’s only wearing a pair
text: of boxers and few tattoos. He throws the suit in the tub.
text: Howard comes in and starts running the water over it.
text: Nate looks back, sees Michelle in the bedroom doorway. He
dialog: hurries into --
speaker_heading: HOWARD’S ROOM
text: -- in just his boxers. Michelle can’t help but notice Nate is
text: in great shape.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You touched the suit. You need to
dialog: get washed off right away.
text: He reaches for her. She doesn’t resist. He leads her back to
dialog: the --
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: BATHROOM
text: Howard scrubs the suit which is completely submerged. Nate
text: holds a towel under the faucet -- but the water flow has
text: reduced to a drip. Nate begins to put the towel in the tub.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: No! Water might be contaminated.
text: Howard closes the faucet.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Try the sink.
text: Nate spins the sink faucet. It sputters and a weak stream of
text: water flows out.
text: Nate wets the towel as he turns to Michelle.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Those clothes have to go. Throw ‘em
dialog: in the tub with the suit. Then wash
dialog: yourself down.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: If you want to keep your skin, you
dialog: need to lose your clothes. Now!
text: Michelle takes the towel, pauses, looks at Nate then Howard,
text: who’s paying no attention as he cleans the hazmat suit.
text: Nate sighs, turns away from her.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: No time to be modest.
text: Michelle strips down to her underwear.
text: Nate keeps his back to her, but turns enough to sneak a peek
text: in the mirror as Michelle washes herself down with the towel.
speaker_heading: ON HOWARD
text: He turns the hazmat suit inside out to scrub the rest.
text: And he sees -- written on the inside in permanent marker:
scene_heading: PROPERTY OF JOHN BENNETT, PIKEVILLE FIRE DEPT.
dialog: 33.
text: Howard stares at the name, his face tightening up. He glances
text: at Nate, who still has his back turned.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Nate, now in a pair of Howard’s jeans and a t-shirt, sits at
text: the table with Howard. They speak in tense whispers.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Got some nerve showing up here now.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You said I was always welcome.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: A lot’s changed since then. And you
dialog: know it.
text: Michelle walks in, dressed in a different set of clothes.
text: Nate eyes her as she heads for the couch.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (to Howard)
dialog: A little greedy wanting to keep
dialog: this all for yourself.
text: She sits on the couch and looks at the men distrustfully.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (to Howard, re: Nate)
text: He was out there. He seems fine.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Because of the hazmat suit.
dialog: (stares at Nate)
dialog: Lucky you happened to have that.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (to Howard)
dialog: This all part of the plan? You
dialog: couldn’t convince me so you called
dialog: for backup.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: What’s her problem?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Not sure where to start.
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You're both full of shit and now
dialog: you’re sitting there trying to get
dialog: your lies straight.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You seriously think I’ve been
text: standing at the top of the stairs
dialog: in a hazmat suit for a week -- just
dialog: waiting for you to open the door?
text: When he puts it that way, it does sound like a stretch.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I don’t know what to think anymore.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Lucky you. This is one of those
dialog: cases where ignorance is bliss.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (under his breath)
text: Then she should be ecstatic.
text: Nate gets up from the table, walks over to Michelle. He
text: offers his hand along with his most charming look.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I’m Nate. I built this place --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You helped.
text: Nate ignores him -- keeps his focus on Michelle.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: What’s your name?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Michelle.
text: He reaches out and she gives him a half-hearted shake. Nate
text: takes a seat on the couch next to her still holding her hand.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I wasn’t expecting to find anyone
dialog: but Howard here.
dialog: (flashes a magnetic smile)
dialog: Guess my luck finally took a turn.
text: Nate squeezes Michelle’s hand. She pulls it away guardedly.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: Nice to meet you, Michelle.
text: Out of the corner of her eye, Michelle glimpses Howard
text: furrowing his eyebrows at the sight of Nate next to her.
text: Michelle turns, offers Nate a forced smile.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Nice to meet you too, Nate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (interrupting the moment)
dialog: So how is it out there?
speaker_heading: NATE
text: Something’s still in the air. Not
dialog: as bad as it was but...
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: On the way here, I came across a
dialog: guy that looked like he’d been
text: dropped in a deep-fryer. That'd
dialog: been me if I didn’t have a suit.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Did everyone but me know the world
dialog: was about to end?
text: Howard stands, moves closer to them.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: So what happened? Who’s behind it?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Well, there was a lot of talk...
dialog: But not a lot of answers.
text: Nate leans forward on the couch. Howard and Michelle stare
text: with anticipation. This guy knows how to tell a story.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s all just rumors... But word
dialog: is, Iran got hold of some Russian
dialog: stockpiles -- nuclear, chemical,
dialog: the works. Hired some fanatical
dialog: whack jobs to hand deliver the
dialog: bombs. Then they exploded the
dialog: chemical stuff everywhere else.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Russians probably made it easy for
dialog: them.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Hold on a second. I rescue you.
dialog: Keep you safe. And you refuse to
dialog: believe a word I say. But this guy
dialog: shows up and tells us the obvious
dialog: and you buy in?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I have an honest face.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I didn't say I believed him. It’s
dialog: just his story makes sense.
text: Michelle startles as the ventilation system GROANS... then
text: starts emitting a cyclical CLUNKING sound.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Christ. Your little stunt must've
dialog: damaged the system.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Can you fix it?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I'd have to go out for that.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I‘ll do it.
speaker_heading: NATE HOWARD
dialog: No! Not a chance in hell.
text: Michelle’s taken aback by their adamant response.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You’ve done enough damage already.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: And it’s not safe. There are people
dialog: out there. Not a lot, but a few.
text: Scavengers. They’re desperate.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Shouldn't we try to help them?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: The water pump’s stressed. The
text: ventilation system’s struggling.
dialog: There are too many of us down here
dialog: already.
dialog: 37.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM
text: Howard puts on the hazmat suit. He doesn’t pull down the mask
text: yet. He walks out into the --
speaker_heading: MAIN ROOM
text: Michelle and Nate are on the couch -- and too close to each
text: other. Howard looks them over, grits his teeth.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: If I can’t get it fixed, then I’m
dialog: not sure we can support three
dialog: people down here.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: What are we gonna do, draw straws?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: It’s my cellar. I decide.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Get on out there.
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: You could use some fresh air.
text: Howard exhales irritably, closes the mask without responding.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Dark and overcast.
text: The modest farm house sits in the middle of nowhere. Fallow
text: fields in front, thick woods in back.
text: The dead pigs rot in their pen.
text: The cellar door opens. Howard steps out. He looks back as the
text: door slams shut.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Michelle stands by the table. Nate comes down the stairs and
text: takes a seat on the couch.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You really think he’d make you
dialog: leave?
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: He didn’t say it’d be me. He just
dialog: said he gets to decide.
text: Michelle walks over and sits down next to Nate.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You'd let him kick me out?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Howard’s shit when it comes to
dialog: people, but he’s good with
dialog: machines. He’ll fix it.
dialog: Not exactly the answer Michelle was looking for.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Something happen between you two?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: He hired me to help him convert
dialog: this place to what it is now. About
text: halfway through, he started
dialog: changing everything. But didn’t
dialog: want to pay. So I walked. Guess
text: he’s still pissed off about it.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: And you think... you think he’s
dialog: alright?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Did something happen between you
dialog: two?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: No. It’s just, he seems off.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Everyone thought he was nuts when
dialog: he built this place. But then
dialog: again, I guess he was right.
scene_heading: EXT. BARN ROOF - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Howard climbs to the top of a ladder. As he steps onto the
text: roof, something catches his leg.
text: He looks back -- it’s a bent nail, tugging at the hazmat
text: suit, nearly causing it to rip.
dialog: 39.
text: Howard carefully takes a step back and releases himself from
dialog: the nail.
text: He then moves across the roof in the wan light. His BREATH
text: FOGS the plastic mask.
text: He stops at the solar panels. A large tree branch has fallen
text: across the panels. Two of the four are cracked. Howard shoves
text: the branch to the side.
text: The branch rolls off the edge of the barn and lands with an
text: echoing WHACK! Howard freezes, looks around...
text: Nothing but emptiness and silence. And then --
text: THWOCKA-THWOCKA-THWOCKA-THWOCKA. Howard spins around and --
speaker_heading: HOWARD'S POV
text: On the horizon, something in the air, way out in the distance
dialog: -- maybe a helicopter?
text: Howard wipes the fog from his face mask...
text: His hand moves away but whatever it was has slipped behind a
text: hill before Howard can make heads or tails of it.
speaker_heading: CUTTING WIDE
text: Howard stares at the horizon but it’s empty. He turns back to
text: the roof, looks over the rest of the solar panels.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Howard heads for the cellar door. He stops, turns and makes
text: for the front door of the farm house instead.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Howard opens the closet door in his bedroom. He pulls out a
text: small safe and sets it on his bed.
text: He unlocks it --
text: The safe door opens revealing a revolver and a box of ammo.
dialog: 40.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - BACK STAIRWELL - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Howard comes down the stairs into the --
speaker_heading: KITCHEN
text: Howard grabs a plastic trash bag from under the sink. He
text: stuffs the gun and ammo into it, then pulls open a cabinet.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER
text: Howard enters the cellar, locking the door behind him. He
text: hurries down the stairs, trash bag in hand.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard gives Nate and Michelle a thumbs up as he rushes past
text: them toward his room.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Howard steps into the bathroom, takes the gun out of the
text: trash bag and quickly wraps it in a towel. He throws the bag
text: in the tub. Then he begins stripping out of the hazmat suit.
text: Michelle pulls aside the shower curtain.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (0.S.)
dialog: See anything out there?
text: Howard pauses, considers his answer.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Nope... Nothing.
text: Howard turns on the water -- a weak stream drips.
text: Nate steps up behind Michelle.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: What’s in the bag?
text: Howard pulls the bag from the tub, reaches inside and pulls
text: out a sealed bag of Hershey’s miniature chocolates. He wipes
text: it with a wet towel, then throws it to Michelle with a smile.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Dessert.
dialog: 4l.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard and Michelle sit at the table as Nate works at the
text: kitchenette behind them.
text: Michelle fills two glasses to the brim with wine. Howard
text: watches, a look of disappointment on his face.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (with flair)
dialog: The house special for the lady.
text: Nate sets a plate down in front of Michelle. It’s the same
text: canned food but he’s arranged things to look almost
text: appetizing.
text: Michelle smiles.
text: Howard rolls his eyes, turns a suspicious eye to Nate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Where did you get that hazmat suit?
text: Howard keeps his eyes on Nate who pauses before he answers --
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I’m a volunteer firefighter. When
dialog: the attack happened, I went
dialog: straight to the firehouse. We all
text: suited up waiting for orders. But
dialog: nothing came. Land lines, cell
dialog: phones, radios -- everything was
dialog: dead. Didn’t take long before most
dialog: of the guys went home to check on
dialog: their families. When none of them
dialog: came back, I figured I’d take my
dialog: chances and come here.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I didn’t know you were volunteering
text: at the fire department.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Just started a few months back.
dialog: (pointed)
dialog: If you came into town more often,
dialog: you'd know that.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: Charlie still running the show down
dialog: there?
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Charlie? Yeah. He sure is.
text: Howard locks eyes with Nate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: My old pal John Bennett volunteers
dialog: too. You must know John.
text: A moment of tension -- Nate’s eyes say be careful.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Nope. Must not have the same shift.
text: Howard and Nate stare each other down.
text: Nate turns to Michelle, takes a sip of his wine. Swishes it
text: in his mouth.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh that’s nice. A little oaky with
text: hints of raspberry. Mmmm. Smooth
dialog: finish.
text: Howard looks up from his plate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Don’t know what you’re talking
dialog: about, do you?
text: Nate holds his glass out to Howard.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Wanna show me how it’s done?
text: Howard ignores the question -- he just stares at Nate.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: (turns to Michelle)
dialog: What do you taste, Michelle?
text: Michelle takes a sip. Swishes it the same way Nate did.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I do taste the raspberry.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (smiles at Howard)
dialog: How can you argue with that?
text: Howard struggles to cover up his irritation.
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Empty dinner plates and crumpled candy wrappers. Nate washes
text: down the last of the wine.
text: Howard pushes his dish and silverware toward Nate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I bought dinner. How about you do
text: the washing up.
text: Nate pushes the plate back toward Howard.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I’m still thirsty. Michelle, why
dialog: don’t you grab another bottle.
dialog: (still looking at Howard)
dialog: It’s not like we have to drive
dialog: anywhere.
text: Michelle gets up -- drunkenly wobbles to the wine rack.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (quietly to Nate)
dialog: Remember, this is my cellar and
dialog: that’s my wine. You’re just a
dialog: guest.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (leans in close)
dialog: Then start treating me like a
dialog: guest.
text: Howard stands up, walks into his room and closes the door.
text: Michelle limps back over with a new bottle of wine.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What was that all about?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Howard used to have a drinking
dialog: problem.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I know. He told me.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: He also tell you about his wife?
text: Michelle shakes her head.
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: I guess he wouldn’t. About three
dialog: years ago she was killed. He wasn’t
dialog: charged, but most folks around here
dialog: figured it fairly suspicious.
text: Michelle drops into her seat.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Oh my god. That’s awful. Then who
dialog: has his daughter?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: What daughter?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: He told me that he has a daughter
dialog: in Washington, D.C.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Howard never had any kids.
text: Michelle sets the wine bottle on the table, suddenly her
text: thoughts a jumble.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Why would he lie about that?
text: Nate takes the bottle, starts opening it.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (ominous )
dialog: I don’t know. Maybe to gain your
dialog: trust. But we ought to be watching
text: out for each other. Pressure seems
dialog: to be getting to him down here.
text: Nate fills Michelle's empty glass with more wine.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Nate sits on the couch, very close to Michelle. She holds a
text: nearly empty glass of wine in her lap. Her head bobs. Nate
text: takes the glass off her lap and sets it on the floor.
text: He turns and leans in for a kiss.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
text: Nooo... mmmmmm.
text: Michelle pushes him away clumsily.
dialog: 45.
text: Howard opens his door, comes into the room.
text: Nate breaks off from his attempted make-out session.
text: Howard grabs some crackers out of the cupboard. He sits at
text: the table and slowly goes about opening them, staring daggers
text: at Nate the entire time.
text: Nate stares right back as Michelle falls sideways on the
text: couch and passes out. Nate looks at her, then back at Howard.
text: Nate gets up off the couch.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Guess I’1l take the bed tonight.
text: Nate goes into the small bedroom and slams the door.
text: Howard eats his crackers while staring at Michelle.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard SAWS and HAMMERS on a piece of wood.
text: The bedroom door opens. Nate comes out holding his head,
dialog: looking like complete shit.
text: Howard whacks at a nail, notices Nate wincing with each
dialog: strike.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: What the hell time is it?
text: Howard looks around the windowless cellar.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Does it matter?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Where’s Michelle?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: She’s in the bathroom. Throwing up.
dialog: You must be proud of yourself.
text: Nate settles into a chair as Howard goes back to his
text: hammering -- a big smile on his face each time Nate winces.
text: Michelle stumbles in, holding her head with both hands. She
text: collapses to the couch. Her face is the same color as the
text: cinder block walls.
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I think that stuff is seeping in
text: here. Feels like my skin is peeling
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: So you finally believe me.
text: Howard pounds in another nail.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Can you stop hammering for a
dialog: minute!
text: Howard stops hammering. He looks over to Nate.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Almost done.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: With what?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: The frame on one of the solar
dialog: panels was broken. This should hold
dialog: it for a while at least.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: When’re you gonna take it out?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I’m not. You are.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Why me?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Because it’s time you start earning
dialog: your keep.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Nate climbs the stares in the hazmat suit, holding the wooden
text: corner. Howard waits until he hears the door close then he
dialog: walks up the --
speaker_heading: STAIRWELL
text: And locks the door behind Nate.
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Howard sits down next to Michelle on the couch.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Nate’s a liar.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: The hazmat suit. It had someone
dialog: else’s name in it.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: So he grabbed the wrong suit in the
dialog: panic.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: He also said Charlie Winston was
dialog: still fire chief. But Charlie
dialog: retired years ago. I was at the
dialog: party.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What’s your point?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: If he doesn’t work at the fire
dialog: department, how'd he get the suit?
dialog: And what happened to the guy who’s
dialog: name is on it?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Why don’t you just ask him?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Look, Nate’s been in and out of
dialog: trouble for as long as I’ve known
dialog: him. Spent some time in prison --
dialog: mostly small stuff. But he’s got a
dialog: violent streak in him. You should
dialog: be careful.
text: Just then -- pounding from the top of the stairwell.
text: Howard doesn’t move.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Let him in.
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Did you hear what I just told you?
dialog: He can’t be trusted.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Let. Him. In.
text: Howard gets up, heads for the stairwell.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard and Nate finish their meal. Michelle stands at the
text: sink, watching water drip from the open faucet into her empty
dialog: glass.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: It’s getting worse.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: We're using too much water.
text: Nate takes his dish over to Michelle. Tosses it in the sink.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Leave ‘em. Howard’ll figure it out.
text: He playfully slaps her ass. She jumps, swats at him --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (flirting)
dialog: Can you please not do that?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: It’s really hard not to.
text: Nate winks. Michelle smiles.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: God...
text: Howard’s stomach turns as he watches them. He pushes back his
text: chair. It SCRAPES loudly, grabbing Nate and Michelle's
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Fuck it.
text: He crosses to the wine rack, selects a bottle. He turns back
text: and hands it to Michelle.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Go on, open it.
dialog: 49,
text: Michelle goes through the process.
text: Howard pulls out TWO wine glasses, sets them on the table.
text: Michelle pulls the cork out and puts the bottle down. Howard
text: pours two small portions into the glasses.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: 1986 Montrachet. Best bottle in the
dialog: cellar. You don’t want to know what
dialog: it’s worth. But the idea of it
text: sitting down here, untouched, as
dialog: the world ends -- or worse yet,
dialog: having you two heathens drink it on
dialog: your own, without half a clue
dialog: what’s on your lips -- well, that
dialog: thought is more than I can bear.
text: Howard sets one glass in front of Michelle, picks up the
text: other himself. He swirls the wine, puts his nose to the glass
text: and inhales deeply. He smiles.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Cheers.
text: Michelle doesn’t touch her glass. Howard clinks it anyway
text: then takes a mouthful of the wine.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s the stuff!
text: Howard picks the bottle up, fills his glass to the rim. And
text: chugs the entire glass as Nate and Michelle watch in silence.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Don’t you want to savor it?
text: Howard ignores him.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (to Michelle)
dialog: Try it.
text: She doesn’t move.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: What’s wrong with you? That’s a few
dialog: hundred dollars worth of wine in
dialog: your glass. It’s oaky. With a hint
text: of raspberries.
text: Michelle watches as Howard pours himself another full glass.
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Maybe you should slow down.
text: Howard pounds the wine.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (glares at Michelle)
dialog: What’s the problem, princess? You
dialog: couldn’t get enough last night.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Back off.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I wasn't talking to you.
dialog: (back to Michelle)
dialog: Were you visiting your boyfriend in
dialog: Milwaukee?
text: Michelle doesn’t answer.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Pretty girl like you. You've
dialog: probably had plenty of boyfriends.
dialog: Those poor saps. They didn’t have a
dialog: clue what they were getting into.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (growling)
dialog: I said, leave her alone.
text: Howard’s gaze shifts to Nate. He lifts his glass, but doesn’t
dialog: drink.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You know what this is? This thing
dialog: I’ve done for both of you? It’s
dialog: called charity. And when someone
dialog: provides you with charity, the
dialog: polite thing to do is thank them.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You wouldn’t have this place if it
dialog: weren’t for me.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I could've hired any old vagrant to
dialog: do a half-assed job.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Hindsight being what it is, I wish
dialog: I had.
text: Nate picks up the wine bottle but keeps his eyes on Howard.
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You spent all your money on this
dialog: cellar. And for what?
text: Nate takes a big swig straight from the bottle. He swishes it
text: in his mouth, leans over, and spits it on the floor.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: To protect a bunch of shitty wine.
text: Howard’s expression turns dark and unhinged...
text: He jumps up -- flings his wine glass at Nate. It CRASHES into
text: the table. Glass and wine splatter into Nate’s face.
dialog: Howard charges --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You fucking ingrate!
text: Nate wipes the wine from his eyes as Howard SLAMS into him.
text: They collide into the wall. Nate takes the brunt of the hit
text: in his back -- the oxygen rushes out of his lungs.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Stop it!
text: Howard steps back, throws a haymaker.
text: Nate ducks the punch and swings a fist into Howard’s gut.
text: Howard GROANS in drunken pain. And just like that, the fight
text: has turned. Howard has lost the initiative. Older, drunker
text: and weaker -- he’s in trouble.
text: Nate comes up with a crushing upper cut --
text: Howard stumbles backwards -- stunned. Nate stalks forward,
text: jabs Howard, follows with a right hook --
text: SMACK! Full impact. Howard's head snaps back, his body
text: careens into the wine rack and --
text: Dozens of bottles SHATTER. Wine EXPLODES in all directions.
text: Glass rips through Howard’s skin as he tumbles to the ground.
text: Nate kicks Howard in the ribs. Hard.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s enough!
text: Michelle grabs Nate around the stomach, pulls him away.
dialog: 52.
text: Howard groggily looks up from the ground, encircled by broken
text: glass and Cabernet.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You fuckin’ come at me again, and I
dialog: won’t stop. Hear me?
text: Nate stomps into Michelle’s bedroom leaving Howard and
text: Michelle to stare at each other.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Howard looks at himself in the mirror, picks shards of glass
text: from his back.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Michelle sweeps up the mess. She looks shaken. Whatever the
text: hell is going on, it’s getting worse and she’s starting to
text: lose her composure.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM
text: Howard is now bandaged up. He listens to Michelle SWEEPING
text: GLASS. Then climbs into his bed, each cut and bruise
text: screaming at him.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Michelle lies down on the couch with a blanket. Her spike-
text: tipped crutch lies on the floor in front of her.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - MORNING
text: A GLASS held under the faucet, but no water comes out.
text: Michelle stands at the sink, a concerned look on her face as
text: she stares at her empty glass.
text: Howard walks out of his room. His REVOLVER is holstered on
text: his hip.
text: Michelle eyes the gun.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: It’s not working at all.
dialog: 53.
text: Howard comes over to have a look as Nate enters from
text: Michelle’s room.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (conciliatory)
dialog: Listen, Howard, I gotta say...
text: But his words fade away as he sees the gun.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: What the hell is that for?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: This cellar is mine. I’m in charge
dialog: down here. You either get in line
dialog: or you get the hell out.
text: Nate releases a blustery chuckle.
text: Howard reaches down, touches the butt of the gun.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: You want to try me?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Okay, Howard. Whatever you say.
text: Howard nods then turns his attention to the faucet.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Too damn many of us down here.
text: Michelle eyes both men, an uneasy look on her face.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Howard removes a throw rug from the floor. Underneath,
text: there’s a trap door. He pulls it open, revealing a narrow
text: crawl space. Howard nods to Nate, hands him a flashlight --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You first.
text: Nate grimaces, but climbs down into the crawl space. Howard
text: turns to Michelle.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I want you up by the door. If you
dialog: see any water running through the
dialog: yard, you come let me know.
dialog: 54.
text: Michelle nods as Howard drops down into the crawl space. She
text: climbs over the couch and into the --
speaker_heading: STAIRWELL
text: At the top of the stairs, Michelle looks out the window --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE’S POV
text: The yard. The dead pigs. The barn. And the front end of the
text: pickup. This time it’s not obscured by reflecting sunlight.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: MICHELLE -- staring at the yellow paint and large dent on the
dialog: old truck.
text: Suddenly her blood runs cold as her memory kicks in --
scene_heading: INT. /EXT. MICHELLE'S CAR - NIGHT - (FLASHBACK)
text: Michelle is blinded by the headlight glare in her rearview.
text: She nearly veers off the road, wrenches the steering wheel at
text: the last possible moment.
text: The truck behind her HONKS again and pulls alongside her.
text: Michelle looks over at the truck -- DENTED, YELLOW, OLD.
text: Michelle's eyes flit back to the road, but there's a turn
text: ahead and it's too close.
text: The truck swerves -- is it trying to run her off the road, or
dialog: is it just trying to pass her?
text: Michelle overcompensates as she turns away from the truck,
text: her car weaves toward the edge of the road --
text: She slams on the breaks, twists the wheel --
text: The car SQUEALS across the pavement --
text: Michelle knows she won't make it. Her eyes open wide in pure
dialog: terror...
dialog: 55.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - DAY
text: Michelle stares at the old truck -- the same one as in the
text: flashback. She hyperventilates, struggles to regain control
text: of her breathing.
text: She tries the door handle. Locked. A long beat of shallow
text: breaths and then she turns and heads down the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard and Nate climb out of the crawl space. Nate has a
text: small pump in his hands.
text: Michelle stands by the men -- a troubled look on her face.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You alright?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah. Fine.
dialog: (changing the subject)
dialog: What’s with the engine?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: It’s a pump. And it’s busted.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I can fix it.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Let’s hope you're right.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - NIGHT
text: Nate works on the pump. Michelle puts together another meal.
text: Howard walks in from his room. He doesn’t say a word, just
text: pulls a bottle of wine off the wall and hands it to Michelle.
text: She opens it. Nate fidgets with the pump, doesn’t look up.
text: Howard pulls out a single wine glass, sets it on the table.
text: Michelle pulls out the cork. It drops to the floor.
text: As Howard reaches down for it, Michelle slips liquid Ketamine
text: into his glass.
text: Howard comes up with the cork, sets it on the table.
dialog: 56.
text: Michelle pours him a full glass of wine and forces a smile.
text: Howard nods, takes a sip.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: A little off. Might be corked.
text: He spins the wine, sniffs it.
text: Michelle watches nervously.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: But I guess we can’t let it go to
dialog: waste. Especially, now that our
dialog: reserves have been... depleted.
text: Howard takes a big drink.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Howard is slumped on the couch, unconscious.
text: Nate and Michelle stand over him.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: It was his truck. He ran me off the
dialog: road that night.
dialog: (shivers)
dialog: He planned to bring me here. Guess
dialog: he figured he’d at least have a
text: plaything for the end of the world.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: He’s never been the most stable
dialog: guy. And now that he’s drinking
dialog: again...
text: Nate pulls the gun from Howard’s holster.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: Best that we hold onto this for
dialog: safe keeping.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: He’s gonna freak when he wakes up.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Let him. Not much he can do if I'm
text: holding the gun.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What about me?
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I’ll protect you...
dialog: (nods at the stairs)
dialog: Or we could just take care of it
dialog: for good.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You want to throw him out?
text: He shrugs. Michelle shifts warily.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: He’s been talking about doing the
dialog: same to us.
text: Michelle works this over in her mind, slowly shakes her head.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I can’t do it.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Fine. Without the gun, he can’t
dialog: hurt us.
text: Nate looks deeply into her eyes.
text: Michelle produces a cautious smile. Nate leans in for a kiss.
dialog: And it’s decision time.
text: Michelle balks, turns away.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: What’s wrong?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You’1l take care of me, right?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: We'll take care of each other.
text: Michelle reads between the lines. She leans in, kisses Nate.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Nate and Michelle naked on the bed, having the kind of wild,
text: passionate sex that only happens with the world coming to an
dialog: end.
text: Michelle MOANS in ecstasy.
dialog: 58.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard on the couch. His eyes flicker open. He rubs his face.
text: Michelle’s MOANS echo from the other room.
text: Howard’s brain slowly returns to consciousness as Michelle
text: works her way toward an orgasm.
text: Howard reaches down to his waist. His gun is missing.
text: The look on Howard’s face is chilling as he begins to piece
dialog: together what’s happened.
text: With one final SQUEAL of ecstasy, Michelle’s noise dies down.
text: And then Howard hears someone coming his way. He closes his
text: eyes, feigns like he’s still passed out.
text: Michelle enters and heads for the bathroom -- wearing only
text: her PANTIES.
text: Howard’s eyes open to slits. He covertly watches her pass.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM - LATER
text: Howard sits on his mattress, propped up on his pillow against
text: the back wall. He drinks from an open wine bottle.
text: Nate comes into the bedroom, the revolver tucked into his
text: waistband in clear view.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Give me back my gun.
text: Nate passes by him and walks into the bathroom.
speaker_heading: NATE (0.S.)
dialog: Not gonna happen.
text: Howard takes another slug of wine as he’s forced to listen to
text: Nate PEE in the toilet.
text: Nate steps out of the bathroom, heads for the door.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Guess you never plan on sleeping
dialog: again.
text: Nate stops, walks over to Howard, kicking an empty wine
text: bottle out of the way.
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Good point. Give me your keys.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Fuck you.
text: Howard takes another drink.
text: Nate pulls the gun, points it at Howard’s head.
text: Nate’s demeanor is darker and colder than we’ve seen it.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Give me the fuckin’ keys or you’re
dialog: going to be lying out there next to
dialog: your dead pigs.
text: Michelle appears in the doorway of Howard’s room, surprised
text: by Nate’s tone.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (to Michelle)
dialog: This is who you decided to throw
dialog: your lot in with? After all I’ve
dialog: done for you.
text: Michelle marches over. Stands at Nate’s side.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: All you've done for me? You mean
dialog: like running me off the road and
dialog: nearly killing me.
text: Howard’s face shifts through emotions -- lands on anger.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (pointing at Nate)
dialog: This asshole tell you that?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I saw your truck. It was you.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You were unconscious, you don’t
dialog: remember shit. I saved you.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You have an answer for everything.
dialog: But why are there always so many
dialog: questions?
text: Nate pulls back the hammer on the revolver.
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I’m only going to say it once more.
dialog: Give me the keys.
text: His finger tenses on the trigger. He’s really going to shoot
dialog: Howard.
text: Howard reaches into his pocket, pulls out his key ring, hands
text: it over.
text: Nate smiles -- really enjoying this now.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: The pump is fixed. When you sober
dialog: up, take it down to the well.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Nate and Michelle stand at the door. Nate turns the key in
dialog: the lock.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: This door requires a key on either
dialog: side. Whenever we’re in here, this
dialog: stays locked. If you get up to use
dialog: the bathroom, you wake me first. If
dialog: this door’s unlocked, I need to
dialog: know about it.
text: Michelle lets out a small laugh.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: First I’m locked in a cellar. Now
dialog: I’m locked in a room in that
dialog: cellar. Just keeps getting better.
text: Nate turns on her, a cold look in his eyes --
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You take this seriously or you
dialog: could end up dead.
text: Michelle is put off by his tone. She wipes away her smile and
dialog: nods.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: The trap door to the crawl space is open. Howard pokes his
text: head out, looks at Nate, who is near the sink.
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Should be working.
text: Nate turns the faucet. Water POURS in a thick stream.
text: Howard pulls himself up through the trap door and closes it,
text: drags the throw rug back over it.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You were down there so long, I
dialog: thought you might have fallen in.
text: Nate smiles cheerfully. Howard sneers.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You’re one hell of a bastard,
text: coming in here, taking over.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Shit. You didn’t give me any
dialog: choice. But you were right about
dialog: one thing. This place. It’s not big
dialog: enough for three people.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You’re going to kick me out?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Well, I’m not going anywhere. And
dialog: neither is Michelle. Guess that
dialog: only leaves you. She needs a little
dialog: convincing, but she’ll come around.
text: Nate looks over as Michelle enters from the bedroom.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, baby.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Morning...
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: If it is morning. God I hate having
dialog: no idea what time it is.
text: Nate opens the cupboard. Grabs a can of beans.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Being that all our meals are
dialog: basically the same, guess it really
dialog: doesn’t matter much.
text: Michelle offers a weak smile.
dialog: 62.
text: Howard processes Nate’s words. His face is ashen.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Nate, Michelle and Howard sit around the table finishing
dialog: their meal.
text: Howard’s halfway through another bottle of wine. Nate pushes
text: his empty plate in front of Howard.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Clean that up, would ya.
text: Nate gets up from the table, the revolver visible in his
text: waistband.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: This food is killing me.
text: He pats his belly as he walks toward Howard’s room.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: (with a smile)
dialog: Just remember, I tried to get you
dialog: to spend the extra money for a vent
text: above the toilet.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Least you could do is close the
dialog: door.
text: Nate swings Howard's bedroom door closed behind him.
text: Howard leans in close to Michelle. He speaks in a hushed
dialog: whisper.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: You were right.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: This is all a put on. There was no
dialog: attack. Nate and I planned this
dialog: from the start. He talked me into
dialog: it. Said we could get a girl down
dialog: here and nobody would ever know.
text: Michelle is caught completely off guard.
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Why are you telling me this?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Isn't it obvious? I’m jealous. You
dialog: weren’t supposed to be only for
dialog: him.
text: Michelle’s stomach turns.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You’re lying.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: About there being an attack or
dialog: about there not being an attack?
dialog: (a wry smile)
dialog: You fell for it. Now you’re his
dialog: little toy and I’m locked down here
dialog: to suffer until he tires of you...
dialog: And god only knows what’s gonna
dialog: happen then. He can’t just let you
dialog: walk out, can he?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Why would I believe you?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Because you know it’s true. And
dialog: you'll never be safe as long as he
dialog: has that gun.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Giving you the gun isn’t gonna make
dialog: me feel any better.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Tell you what, just get me the
dialog: keys. I’1l find a phone and call
dialog: the police... What do you have to
dialog: lose? Either you’re rid of me for
dialog: good, or else I'll bring back help.
text: Michelle looks doubtful.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I can get you out of here, back to
dialog: your family, to your life. But only
dialog: if you help me.
text: The toilet FLUSHES.
text: Howard peers at Michelle. She doesn’t say a word.
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM
text: Howard sleeps on the mattress.
text: Michelle comes in and nudges him awake.
text: Howard’s eyes open. Michelle’s kneeling next to him. The key
text: ring JANGLES softly in her hand.
text: Howard shakes off the cobwebs and grabs the keys from her.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: The door to the small bedroom is closed. Michelle sits on the
text: couch, anxiously picking at her fingernails.
text: Howard comes out dressed in a hazmat suit. They whisper --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: If it’s all the lie, why are you
dialog: wearing the suit?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: Nate still has a gun. If he’s awake
dialog: when I come back, we’ll tell him I
dialog: had to check on the solar panels.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Are you coming back?
text: Just then, the bedroom door whips open.
text: Nate comes out, gun drawn.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Where the hell you think you're
dialog: going?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: The electricity’s shorting out. I
dialog: need to check the panels.
text: Nate sees the key ring in Howard’s hand. He turns to
text: Michelle, eyes ablaze with rage.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: He said it was an emergency.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: And you didn’t wake me?
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I was scared. I panicked.
text: Nate flicks on the overhead light. It’s working fine.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (to Howard)
dialog: You’re free to go. But the suit
dialog: stays here.
text: Howard turns and heads back toward his bedroom.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
text: The keys. Leave them on the table.
text: Howard complies.
text: Nate steps toward Michelle, a menacing look on his face.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: I thought we were getting
dialog: somewhere, you and me...
text: He reaches up and gently rubs her chin with his hand that
text: still holds the revolver. A shiver runs through Michelle when
text: the cold metal touches her face.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Nate sleeps on the mattress. Michelle sits next to him,
text: propped against her pillow, staring at the blank wall.
text: She moves to get out of bed but stops. Shakes Nate. His hand
text: whips from under the pillow, gun pointed at Michelle.
text: She flinches. Then gently pushes his gun arm away from her.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I gotta use the bathroom.
text: Nate sits up. He unties the key ring from his waistband,
text: hands it to Michelle.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM
text: Howard snores loudly on his mattress. Two empty wine bottles
text: rest on the cement floor next to his bed.
text: Michelle tiptoes by him into the --
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: BATHROOM
text: She pulls the curtain closed.
text: Howard’s snoring stops.
text: Michelle finishes peeing. She pulls up her underwear, parts
dialog: the shower curtains to leave --
text: Howard stands there, leering at her with drunken eyes.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: It’s all yours.
text: She moves to slide by him. But he steps in front of her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You’re too good for me. But you’1ll
dialog: lie down with that cretin.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Get out of the way.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You’ve given me nothing but trouble
dialog: since you got here. I should’ve
dialog: left you in that ditch...
text: Michelle steps around him into --
scene_heading: HOWARD’S BEDROOM
text: Howard matches her steps, blocks her path to the door.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Get away from me!
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: ...-would’ve made my life so much
dialog: easier.
text: Howard steps toward her.
text: Michelle reaches down, grabs a wine bottle and swings it.
text: Howard jumps back, avoids the impact.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: You bitch.
text: He grabs Michelle around the neck, a crazed look in his eyes.
dialog: 67.
dialog: And then --
text: WHAM! The revolver smashes Howard in the back of the head.
text: Howard collapses forward into Michelle, knocking both of them
text: onto the mattress, leaving Michelle underneath his limp body.
text: Nate stands over them both, looking down at Michelle.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You ready to deal with this problem
dialog: for good?
text: Michelle looks up at Nate. He waits for a response.
text: She stares at him a long beat... and shakes her head no.
text: Nate turns and leaves the room as Michelle frantically
text: struggles to get out from under Howard’s leaden weight.
text: Michelle finally manages to push Howard off of her. She
text: scurries for the door.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM - LATER
text: Howard comes to -- reaches to the back of his head and finds
text: it crusted with blood.
text: He wobbles to his feet, stumbles into the --
speaker_heading: MAIN ROOM
text: Michelle stands at the sink pouring out full wine bottles.
text: Judging by the dozen or so empty bottles on the counter,
dialog: she’s been at it awhile.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: What are you doing?
text: Michelle ignores him. Howard hurries over and grabs a bottle
text: out of Michelle’s hand.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Don’t touch me!
text: Nate saunters into the room. He walks right up and holds the
text: revolver against Howard's skull.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I’ve just about had enough of you.
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: That’s my wine.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Can't drink it if you’re dead.
text: Howard lets go of the bottle and backs away.
text: Nate locks eyes on Howard, a chilling look on his face --
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: You enjoy attacking women, don’t
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I didn’t attack her. I would never
dialog: do that. I...
text: Howard reaches a hand out to Michelle -- she backs away from
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Look, I got emotional. I’m sorry.
dialog: But that’s not me.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: This whole set up has just about
dialog: run its course... Michelle, go in
text: the other room.
text: Tears form in Michelle’s eyes.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Wait, no. Michelle. Don't go!
text: She turns away from Howard, walks into the bedroom and closes
text: the door.
text: Howard backs away from Nate. Nate grabs him by the scruff of
text: the neck with one hand, holds the gun to his temple with the
dialog: other.
speaker_heading: NATE
text: Up the stairs.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Nate, please don’t.
speaker_heading: NATE
text: Get up the FUCKIN’ STAIRS!
text: Nate shoves him forward. Howard stumbles, falls at the bottom
text: of the stairs. Tears form in his eyes.
dialog: 69.
text: Nate kicks Howard in the ass.
speaker_heading: NATE (CONT'D)
dialog: Move!
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Please, please no.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: It’s not like I didn’t give you
dialog: enough chances.
text: Howard stumbles to his feet. Nate shoves the gun barrel in
text: his back, pushes him into the --
speaker_heading: STAIRWELL
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (sobbing hysterically)
dialog: Don’t, Nate. Please. What do I have
dialog: to do? I’1l do anything!
text: Nate pulls out the keys.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Michelle stands with her ear to the door, listening...
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.)
dialog: You can’t do this! It’s murder...
text: Tears form in her eyes.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: We can work this out. I'll stay out
dialog: of your way. You won’t even know
dialog: I’m here.
text: Michelle reaches for the door handle... hesitates.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Please, Nate! Please...!
text: Michelle pulls open the door. Rushes to the --
speaker_heading: STAIRWELL
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: No! Stop!
dialog: 70.
text: Nate keeps his eyes on Howard, who’s kneeling on the stairs.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t do it, Nate.
text: Nate pauses, considering...
text: Howard looks up to him with pleading eyes.
text: Nate pushes Howard back down the stairs.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Shut up.
text: Howard stumbles into the --
speaker_heading: MAIN ROOM
text: Nate follows on his heels.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: There are gonna be some changes.
dialog: You stay in your room. Always. You
dialog: wanna come out, you ask for my
dialog: permission and you do it when she’s
dialog: not out here. You don’t go anywhere
dialog: near her, no matter what. Got me?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Okay. However you --
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: And stop talking. I’ve heard enough
dialog: out of you for a lifetime. So do us
dialog: all a favor. And shut the fuck up.
text: Nate sneers at Howard. Howard returns an empty look --
text: something has snapped inside of both of them.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM - LATER
text: Howard sits at the edge of his bed. He doesn’t move an inch.
text: There’s a feral look in his eyes.
dialog: 71.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Michelle awakens -- next to Nate -- from a bad dream. Cold
text: sweat runs down her face. She shivers.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: (half asleep)
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Yeah.
text: She burrows into his arms. He pushes her away, pulls off the
dialog: covers.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I gotta piss.
text: Nate climbs out of bed and crosses to the door. He unlocks
text: it, walks out, closing it behind him.
text: Michelle hears the sound of Nate locking the door from the
text: outside. She curls into her pillow, eyes flutter closed.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - MORNING
text: Howard sits at the table, fiddling with the radio.
text: Michelle walks in rubbing sleep from her eyes, she scans the
text: room, then walks into Howard’s room.
text: A moment later she comes back in -- wide awake.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Where’s Nate?
text: Howard looks up, mulls over his answer.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Where is he?
text: There’s a long beat before Howard responds --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Said he heard something outside.
dialog: Decided to go have a look.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: How long has he been gone?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
text: A couple of hours.
dialog: 72.
text: She stares warily at Howard.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Think he’1l be back soon?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Depends on what he finds, I
dialog: suppose.
text: Michelle moves to the cupboard.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I knew this was gonna happen.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What?
text: Howard motions around the cellar.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: The attack. Way things have been
dialog: going in the world -- growing
text: population, dwindling resources.
text: Too many rats in the cage. And a
dialog: bunch of politicians who only care
dialog: about getting a sound bite in the
dialog: next news cycle -- it wasn’t hard
dialog: to see we were coming to a
dialog: crossroads. But that’s the problem
dialog: with people -- they’re so damn
dialog: entitled, so insistent on believing
dialog: in whatever it is that they want to
dialog: be true, facts be damned. Try
dialog: telling them something they don’t
dialog: want to hear. Might as well talk to
text: the wall.
text: Michelle nods, but doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: But sometimes people need to hear
dialog: the truth.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Like what?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: At the bottom of everything, people
dialog: are selfish and brutal. We do
dialog: what’s best for ourselves. We want
dialog: to pretend like it’s logic or
dialog: morality or religion. But it’s not.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s darker than that. And if
dialog: you’re in denial...
text: Howard locks eyes on Michelle --
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: ..-if you’re in denial, Michelle,
dialog: then you’re in danger. I know it’s
dialog: hard to face facts, to admit it’s
text: all a frenzy of selfish and
dialog: desperate chaos. But if you don’t
dialog: face those facts, you’re putting
dialog: yourself in a far worse, far
dialog: riskier position.
text: Michelle breaks eye contact, pulls out some food
text: her growing sense of unease.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - LATER
dialog: 73.
dialog: -- masking
text: Michelle washes her face at the sink. She reaches for a towel
text: and notices splattered drops of pink on it. She looks around.
text: More drops of pink liquid remain in the bottom of the tub.
text: Could be watered down BLOOD.
text: She stands there frozen, staring.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard is on the couch now, reading. He looks up as Michelle
text: enters.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What really happened?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Nate wouldn’t leave me down here
dialog: with you. Not after what you did.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I told you, it’1l never happen
dialog: again. You made sure of that.
text: Howard motions to the empty wine rack.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Guess I should thank you.
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (stoic)
dialog: Howard?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I can’t do it anymore.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Can’t do what?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Whatever you're going to do to me,
dialog: just get it over with.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You got it wrong. Nate was trying
dialog: to... He’ll be back soon. You’1ll
dialog: see.
text: Silent tears begin to roll down Michelle's face.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You told me the whole story was a
dialog: lie. Then you begged for your life
dialog: when Nate was going to make you
dialog: leave. I can’t live with the
dialog: uncertainty anymore. Or is that
dialog: part of the game?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I'm sorry. I lied to you earlier. I
dialog: needed the keys. I needed to get
dialog: out. Nate was going to kill me.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: So what, you killed him first?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Michelle, I’m not going to do
dialog: anything to you. I’d never hurt
dialog: you. You’re like my own daughter.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: And you're like my father. He was a
dialog: lying son of a bitch.
text: Michelle’s lips quiver, she crumples against the wall.
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Stop crying. I’m trying to help
dialog: you. That’s all I’ve ever done...
text: Michelle heaves. Howard aches for her, but knows better than
text: to approach.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s going to be alright.
text: And then -- a RUMBLE echoes from outside. GRAVEL CRUNCHES
text: under something heavy, something big.
text: And it’s coming closer.
text: Howard flips off the lights, leaving only a weak beam of
text: sunlight from the tiny window at the top of the stairwell.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Don’t make a noise.
text: The vehicle stops above them. The engine cuts out --
text: An unnerving silence.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: What if it’s help?
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: What if it’s not?
text: Howard moves toward Michelle who stands in near darkness
text: looking up the stairwell... waiting.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (barely audible)
dialog: Maybe it’s Nate.
text: Howard nods as he slowly, methodically moves closer.
text: Michelle gazes at the stairwell, unsure of whether to scream
text: for help or heave silently.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: If it’s Nate, he’1ll knock.
text: An eternity passes.
text: The RUMBLE of the engine restarting breaks the silence.
dialog: 76.
text: Michelle suddenly charges for the stairwell --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Help! Hel --
text: Howard tackles her, covers her mouth.
text: The engine cuts out again.
text: Michelle bites Howard, pulls free for a moment. But he pulls
text: her back and they struggle across the floor.
text: And now there’s POUNDING on the stairwell door.
scene_heading: LOUDER and LOUDER.
text: Michelle squirms. Howard holds her down. He drags her toward
text: a kitchen drawer and reaches into it. She bites him again,
text: but as she does so, he plunges a syringe into her arm.
text: BANG, BANG, BANG from the stairwell.
text: Michelle stops struggling.
dialog: BANG, BANG, BANG!
text: Her eyes close.
text: The pounding stops.
text: As Michelle fades into unconsciousness, she hears --
text: The engine FIRING UP. The vehicle pulling away.
text: Howard watches Michelle, a sad look on his face.
scene_heading: INT. /EXT. MICHELLE'S CAR - NIGHT - (FLASHBACK)
text: Michelle's car SQUEALS across the road...
text: Her eyes wide in pure terror...
text: And the car careens over the ledge, the back tires catching
text: and flipping it. It rolls to the bottom of the ditch -- all
text: BROKEN GLASS and BENDING METAL.
text: Then a sudden SILENCE as it comes to a rest.
text: And the darkness is pierced by a set of headlights pulling to
text: a stop on the road above.
dialog: 77.
text: Someone climbs out of the vehicle and steps into the beams of
text: light. Then begins climbing down the side of the embankment.
scene_heading: INT. MICHELLE'S CAR - CONTINUOUS
text: She's upside down, belted into her seat, the door crushed to
text: her side, blood gushing from her head, eyes slit open in semi-
dialog: consciousness.
text: A sudden SHRIEK from the door but it refuses to be opened.
text: Another, louder SHRIEK. And again. And again. The door is
text: Slowly pried open.
text: And finally -- the door gives, swings open, revealing --
text: HOWARD, standing above Michelle, looking down at her. The
text: expression on his face is... hard to read.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Don't worry. Everything's going to
dialog: be alright.
text: As Howard reaches down for Michelle, she slips into
dialog: unconsciousness...
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BEDROOM
text: Michelle wakes up.
text: Alone on the mattress where it all started.
text: She gets to her feet, crosses the room and pulls on the door.
text: It’s locked. She leans in, examines the deadbolt lock above
text: the door handle.
text: There are two flathead screws facing her. She touches them
text: with her fingers... an idea forming.
text: Michelle bangs on the door. She waits.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Come on! I gotta use the bathroom.
text: Footsteps approach. The lock clicks. The door opens.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Morning.
text: Michelle walks by him without saying another word.
dialog: 78.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - MORNING
text: Howard sits at the table. He doesn’t notice as Michelle slips
text: a butter knife into her pocket.
text: Michelle opens the cupboard, reaches to the very back and
text: pulls out five bottles of wine.
text: Howard sees them lined up on the counter.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Where’d those come from?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Nate had me hide some bottles. Said
dialog: we should save them for special
dialog: occasions.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: And what’s so special about today?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: It's my birthday.
text: Michelle starts opening the wine.
text: Howard steps over, takes the bottle from her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Still, kind of early for that,
dialog: wouldn’t you say?
text: Howard looks down at the bottle in his hand, clearly tempted.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You got some big plans that I don’t
dialog: know about?
text: She puts her hand back on the bottle. Her fingers slightly
text: overlap Howard’s fingers. He lets go of the bottle.
text: Michelle finishes opening it. She pours herself some.
text: Howard puts his hand over his empty glass.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I’m good.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Gonna make me drink alone?
text: Howard keeps his hand over the glass, fighting temptation.
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Come on. One drink. That’s it.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Okay. One drink. And only because
dialog: it’s your birthday.
text: Howard moves his hand away. Michelle pours him a full glass.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: The second bottle has been opened. Michelle and Howard sit at
dialog: the table.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I don’t really like this one.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Open another.
text: Michelle crosses, bringing her glass with her. She grabs
text: another bottle off the counter and opens it.
text: While Howard isn’t looking, she pours her full glass down the
dialog: drain.
text: Michelle stumbles, nearly falls on her way back to the table.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Careful. Maybe you’ve had too much.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Or maybe I haven’t had enough.
text: She pours herself a full glass and tops off Howard.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Normally, you don’t mix Chardonnay
dialog: and Shiraz. But hell...
dialog: He tastes a bit.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Makes a half decent rose.
text: Michelle offers a smile, clinks glasses with Howard.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - LATER
text: Michelle is on the couch, eyes barely open. There’s a fourth
text: bottle on the table in front of Howard.
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (slurring)
dialog: I miss beer. Wine’s too strong.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Well if you didn’t guzzle it down
dialog: so quickly...
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: And I miss Pepsi and Starbucks and
dialog: lasagna and chocolate chip cookie
dialog: dough...
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: We have some freeze dried lasagna.
dialog: Somewhere...
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Uh huh.
text: She’s fading. Her eyes close and she slumps on the couch.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Alright, missy. I think it’s time
dialog: for a nap.
text: Howard stands, a bit wobbly himself. He walks over to
text: Michelle and pulls her to her feet. She MOANS softly.
text: Howard takes Michelle to her room, keeping her on a more or
dialog: less straight line.
scene_heading: INT. MICHELLE’S ROOM
text: Howard sets Michelle down on her bed. She rolls over and
text: curls into a ball.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: There you go. Nothing a bit of
dialog: sleep won’t sort out.
text: He gently pulls a blanket over her as she sinks into the bed.
text: Howard stands up and watches her for a moment -- a soft,
text: wistful look on his face --
text: Then he reaches into her purse which lies next to the bed. He
text: digs around, pulls out her wallet.
text: Michelle watches him anxiously through half-closed eyes.
dialog: 81.
text: Howard pulls out her driver’s license, stares at it a beat,
text: then tosses on the mattress next to her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: (ice cold)
dialog: Hope you hid some more wine. Looks
dialog: like we'll be doing this again in
dialog: six months. For your real birthday.
text: Michelle’s eyes pop wide open.
text: Howard turns and walks out.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard closes the door to Michelle’s room and locks it with
dialog: his key.
scene_heading: INT. MICHELLE’S ROOM
text: Michelle lies on the mattress, completely still, eyes wide
text: open -- sober and aware.
text: She slips out of bed -- in complete control of her senses.
text: Michelle pulls the butter knife from her back pocket and
text: approaches the lock.
text: The two flathead screws face Michelle. The butter knife is
text: just thin enough to fit into the grooves.
text: She goes to work loosening the screws.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM
text: Howard sits at the table and pours himself another glass of
text: wine. He takes a big gulp and shakes his head disappointedly.
scene_heading: INT. MICHELLE’S ROOM - LATER
text: The screws have been removed from the deadbolt. Michelle has
text: her ear to the door, listening to --
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard -- face down on the table -- SNORING. A fifth bottle
text: of wine is half empty in front of him.
dialog: 82.
text: The lock on Michelle’s door pops out of its hole. And the
text: door swings open.
text: Michelle hurries into the room and begins sifting through
text: Howard’s pockets.
text: She finds the keys and crosses to the metal door, unlocks it.
text: Michelle pulls open the door and finds -- the HAZMAT SUIT,
text: along with the gun and a set of car keys.
text: Michelle pockets the car keys, tucks the gun in her waistband
text: and grabs the suit.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Michelle pulls on the hazmat suit. She checks herself in the
text: mirror and then exits.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Michelle walks by a passed out Howard, heads up the
dialog: stairwell.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS
text: Michelle reaches the top of the stairwell and goes through
text: the key ring.
text: BUT THE KEY TO THE DOOR IS MISSING.
text: She frantically goes through the keys again. Still not there.
text: She tries other keys, but none of them work.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Michelle returns to the bottom of the stairs and scans the
text: room, looking for the key.
text: Howard stirs, readjusts his head, but clearly he’s beginning
dialog: to wake up.
text: Michelle is growing frantic. She reaches down and slides the
text: carpet over, revealing the trap door. She pulls open the door
dialog: and climbs down into the --
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: CRAWL SPACE
text: It’s only a couple of feet high. The well is at one dark end.
text: Michelle glances around, finds what she’s looking for --
text: cracks of DAYLIGHT.
text: She moves toward the light, doing her best not to scrape up
dialog: the suit.
text: At the far end of the crawl space, she finds an old vent that
text: has been boarded over.
text: She pulls at the boards, but they’re solid. So she rolls over
text: on her back, feet to the boards, and kicks as hard as she
dialog: can.
text: THUMP! But the boards hold.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard stirs, lifts his head at the sound of Michelle kicking
text: the boards in the crawl space. He shakes his head, still half
dialog: asleep.
scene_heading: INT. CRAWL SPACE - CONTINUOUS
text: Michelle kicks the boards again. They’re starting to crack
text: and come loose, revealing the old metal vent behind them.
text: CRACK, CRACK, CRACK!
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard shakes himself out of his stupor. He sees the trap
text: door wide open. Suddenly he’s fully awake.
text: He moves to the trap door, ducks his head inside, spins
dialog: around and finds --
text: The KICKED OUT VENT.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - DAY
text: A steady rain falls. Michelle comes around the side of the
text: farm house in the hazmat suit, the mask is fogging from her
text: breath. Rain patters off her hood.
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard scrambles across the room, finds the closet door wide
text: open - gun and hazmat suit missing.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Fuck!
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - DAY
text: Michelle comes around the corner of the farm house and
text: freezes. Nothing she has experienced yet compares to the
text: horror in her eyes now --
speaker_heading: MICHELLE’S POV
text: Mask FOGGED, but through it -- NATE, face down in a puddle,
text: raindrops bounce off the back of his head but it’s not enough
text: to wash away the blood, skull fragments and brain matter.
speaker_heading: CUTTING WIDE
text: Michelle lifts the hazmat mask from her face and stares in
dialog: shock.
scene_heading: INT. HOWARD’S ROOM
text: Howard scrambles in, throws the mattress into the air and
text: finds the cellar door key beneath it.
text: He grabs the key and rushes out.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - CELLAR ENTRANCE - DAY
text: The LOCK CLICKS. The DOOR FLIES OPEN.
text: Howard climbs out of the stairwell. He’s wrapped head to toe
text: in a blanket. He scans the yard --
text: His eyes lock in on the two dead pigs -- steady raindrops
text: chew at their rotting flesh.
text: Howard hesitates for a long moment...
dialog: 85.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - DAY
text: Michelle stands in the rain, staring at Nate’s body. She’s
text: barely breathing.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.)
dialog: Michelle!
text: Michelle jumps at the sound of her name. ADRENALINE rushes
text: through her veins.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: We gotta get back inside. It’s not
dialog: safe!
text: His voice is getting closer.
text: Michelle scans her options --
text: THE WOODS -- fifty yards away.
text: THE BARN -- twenty-five yards away.
text: THE FARM HOUSE -- five yards away.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Michelle!
text: His voice just around the corner now.
text: Michelle rushes to the farm house’s back door, her feet
text: churning up the muddy ground beneath her.
text: She turns the handle. The door swings open.
text: Howard comes around the corner, catches a glimpse of the
text: hazmat suit disappearing inside the farm house.
text: Howard glances down at Nate’s corpse for a brief moment then
text: he makes for the house.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - MUDROOM - DAY
text: Michelle spins the lock on the back door then peeks out the
text: small window next to it --
text: Howard approaches, wrapped head to toe in the wet blanket.
text: Michelle reaches down to her waistband for the gun. Realizes
text: it’s on the inside of the hazmat suit.
text: She grabs the suit’s zipper when --
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: BAM!
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - BACK PORCH - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard throws himself into the back door again and again.
text: The door holds.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - MUDROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Zipper down, Michelle reaches into the hazmat suit.
text: She pulls out the revolver. It slips in her gloved hands.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - BACK PORCH - CONTINUOUS
text: Howard stops, takes a step back and kicks hard just below the
text: door handle.
speaker_heading: CRACK!
text: The door jamb splinters.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - MUDROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Michelle tries to thread her gloved and shaking finger
text: through the trigger.
speaker_heading: BAM!
text: The back door FLIES OPEN.
text: Howard stands in the doorway, his face all but hidden beneath
text: the wet blanket.
text: Michelle spins -- the gun tumbles out of her slippery glove,
text: hits the ground near Howard’s feet.
text: Michelle turns, bolts from the room.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Wait!
text: Howard pulls the wet blanket from his face. He reaches down
text: and picks up the gun, shoves it in his pocket.
text: Howard pushes the door closed behind him then follows
text: Michelle’s muddy footprints out of the room.
dialog: 87.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY
text: Michelle rushes into the kitchen, over to the counter where
text: she starts tearing through the kitchen drawers.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (0.S.)
dialog: (yells from the hallway)
dialog: You’re not safe!
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: No shit!
text: Michelle flings aside a silverware tray -- she’s done with
text: butter knives. She rips open another drawer.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - DAY
text: Down the long corridor, Howard closes in -- watching Michelle
text: move frantically in the kitchen with her back to him.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I didn’t have a choice. You didn’t
dialog: know Nate like I did. He was
dialog: dangerous... I did it for us.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Howard now visible in the hallway behind her. He moves
text: slowly, talks calmly.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: He was going to kill me. I had to
dialog: protect myself.
text: Michelle still rooting through drawers, looking for
dialog: something, anything she could use as a weapon.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You coming to finish the job.
text: Howard steps into the kitchen.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You don’t have to love me. You
dialog: don’t even have to like me, but
dialog: please. Don’t leave me. I don’t
dialog: want to be alone. I’1l never hurt
dialog: you. You can trust me.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Trust you? You’re a murderer.
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: It was self-defense.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I don’t believe you.
text: Michelle stops searching. She stands at the counter, frozen,
text: but stays facing the other way.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE’S POV
text: A refection in the rain-coated window --
text: Howard approaches her from behind.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Howard’s close enough to touch her. He reaches out.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I won’t let you leave.
text: Michelle spins -- a butcher’s knife gripped in her hand.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You can’t stop me!
text: The blade slices throw the wet blanket that covers Howard --
text: he stumbles, falls to his ass, taking the knife with him.
text: Michelle bolts toward the rear stairway.
text: Howard looks down, a big slice through the wet blanket but
text: the blade only grazed his chest.
text: Howard pulls the gun from his pocket as he gets to his feet.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - BACK STAIRWELL - DAY
text: Michelle races up the back stairs. A cumbersome task in the
text: oversized hazmat suit.
text: She glances over her shoulder.
text: Howard starts up the stairs behind her, revolver at his side.
text: Michelle trips over the top step, stumbles, steadies herself
text: on a large cabinet at the top of the landing.
text: It wobbles against the wall.
dialog: 89.
text: Howard’s halfway up the stairs behind her.
text: She tugs hard on the cabinet. It rocks more. She pulls on it
text: again. It rocks further. One more huge pull --
dialog: Tipping point --
text: The cabinet crashes down the stairwell, forcing Howard to
text: retreat back down the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY
text: Michelle hurries into the master bedroom.
text: A cordless phone sits on the bedside table. She rips it out
text: of its cradle -- but the battery’s dead.
text: Michelle throws the phone. Moves to the window -- a two story
text: drop to the ground below.
text: Her eyes lock on the yellow pickup parked against the barn.
text: She opens the window wide.
text: Rain blows in, pattering off the carpeted floors as Michelle
text: leans out and looks down at the muddy ground below.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - MAIN STAIRWAY - DAY
text: Howard marches up the main stairway, gun still in hand.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY
text: Howard stalks into the bedroom. He sees the open window.
text: He crosses the room, looks out the window -- no sign of
text: Michelle. Howard turns back, looks around the room --
text: The closet door is closed.
text: The bathroom door is half open.
text: Howard slowly approaches the closet --
text: He rips open the door -- it’s empty.
text: Howard walks toward the bathroom.
text: He pushes the door all the way open.
dialog: 90.
text: He notices the shower curtain pulled across the tub.
text: He steps into the --
speaker_heading: BATHROOM
text: Howard reaches out, he grips the shower curtain --
text: He pulls it aside and finds --
text: MICHELLE, a bottle of foaming tile cleaner in her hand. She
text: sprays the cleaner into Howard's face.
text: He drops the revolver as his hands fly up to protect his
text: eyes, but the damage is done. He’s momentarily blinded.
text: Michelle lunges for the revolver. Howard grabs for her but
text: can’t get a grip on the slippery hazmat suit.
text: Michelle comes up, gun in hand. She backs toward the door as
text: she gets her finger through the trigger.
text: Howard wipes his eyes with the wet blanket that’s still
text: wrapped around his head.
text: He squints, wipes some more. He manages to open them a bit.
dialog: Takes a moment to focus --
text: Michelle stands in the bathroom doorway, gun trained on him.
text: Howard puts his hands up.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: It’s not easy killing someone.
dialog: Pulling that trigger was the
dialog: hardest thing I’ve ever done...
text: Howard seems to get lost in a moment of thought.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: First real feeling I’ve had since
dialog: they took my daughter.
text: Howard wipes his eyes again. It’s hard to tell if the water
text: dripping from them is from the cleaning solution or from
dialog: tears.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Spare me your bullshit. I know you
dialog: never had a kid. I also know you
dialog: killed your wife. Nate told me.
dialog: 91.
text: Howard stands there, a forlorn look on his face.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: And you believed him? Why...
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: He didn’t run me off the road. He
dialog: didn’t kidnap me and lock me in a
dialog: cellar. He didn’t attack me.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: I saved you.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Stop with the fucking lies! You’re
text: out here, walking around, breathing
dialog: the air. You seem fine... I mean,
dialog: except for the fact that you’re
dialog: batshit crazy.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: It’s the rain. The rain must’ve
dialog: washed that crap from the air.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You always have an answer.
text: Howard stands there a beat, a tortured look on his face --
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Three years ago, I was driving home
dialog: from a party. My wife was in the
dialog: car with me. I was drunk. I lost
dialog: control and hit a tree. My wife
dialog: didn’t make it.
text: His eyes water up.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: The state claimed I was an unfit
dialog: father. They fought to take my
dialog: daughter, Lily away. Nate testified
dialog: against me -- he lied, saying he'd
dialog: seen me hit her. All because he
dialog: thought I owed him some money. My
dialog: in-laws got custody. Took Lily with
dialog: them to D.C. and I haven’t seen her
dialog: since. Not sure I ever will again.
text: Howard takes a small step toward her.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: I can’t lose you too.
dialog: 92.
text: Michelle raises the gun to his face.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Stay the fuck away from me.
dialog: Another small step.
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: You don’t have it in you.
text: Michelle starts to lower the gun.
text: Howard smiles as he takes another step.
speaker_heading: HOWARD (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s going to be okay.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I know it will.
text: Michelle PULLS THE TRIGGER --
text: A bullet RIPS through Howard’s knee. He collapses, screaming
text: to the floor.
text: Howard rolls around in agonizing pain.
text: Michelle turns and runs out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. FARM HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY
text: Michelle sprints toward the front stairs.
text: She slows when she sees -- the entire stairway wall is filled
text: with a collection of framed family photos from over the years
text: -- different shots of Howard, a BEAUTIFUL WOMAN and a YOUNG
speaker_heading: GIRL.
text: Michelle pauses, stares at them, a million thoughts rushing
text: through her head.
text: Howard’s SCREAMS snap her out of it. She continues down the
dialog: steps.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM HOUSE - DAY
text: Michelle runs out the front door.
text: She sprints across the muddy yard, past Nate’s body. She
text: reaches the truck and pulls open the door. She grabs the keys
text: from a pocket on the inside of the hazmat suit.
dialog: 93.
text: Howard’s voice drifts out the open window upstairs
speaker_heading: HOWARD
dialog: Michelle! ...be careful.
text: Michelle starts to get in the truck, looks over her shoulder
text: and sees the rotting pig flesh in the pen.
text: She climbs in the truck and closes the door.
scene_heading: EXT. PICKUP - CONTINUOUS
dialog: The engine ROARS to life --
text: Michelle stomps on the gas --
text: Mud flies across the yard as the tires spin.
scene_heading: INT. PICKUP - DAY
text: The truck bounces along the pothole filled driveway. After a
text: couple hundred yards, Michelle reaches the road.
text: She pulls out onto the asphalt and floors the accelerator as
text: rain SPLATTERS on the windshield.
text: She reaches down and turns on the old radio, scans the dial
text: but only comes up with STATIC. Maybe it’s busted.
text: Michelle turns her eyes back to the remote farm road as she
text: pulls up to an intersection.
text: A sign directs her to CHICAGO: 25 MILES.
scene_heading: EXT. PICKUP - DAY
text: The truck turns onto the two lane highway in the direction of
text: CHICAGO. The road is eerily empty.
scene_heading: INT. PICKUP - MOMENTS LATER
text: Michelle comes upon a filling station. She pulls in, but it’s
dialog: closed.
scene_heading: EXT. FILLING STATION - CONTINUOUS
text: Michelle climbs out of the truck and walks up to the filling
text: station door, looks in, knocks.
dialog: 94.
text: She walks around to the side of the building and sees --
scene_heading: TWO PAY PHONES.
text: Michelle moves to the first phone, lifts the receiver.
text: There’s no dial tone. She dials 9-1-1 anyway. Nothing
dialog: happens.
text: She picks up the receiver on the second phone -- same
text: problem. She flips the lever, trying to get something. Her
text: gut is churning by this point.
text: Michelle drops the receiver. She heads back to the truck and
dialog: climbs in.
scene_heading: INT. PICKUP - LATER
text: The rain has stopped. Michelle has driven out of the storm.
text: She speeds up a hill, passes a road sign -- CHICAGO: 10
speaker_heading: MILES.
text: The road is still completely empty. Just Michelle, the pickup
text: and Michelle’s growing sense of foreboding.
text: The truck has almost reached the top of the hill. It’s clear
text: there will be a vantage point as she crests. Michelle’s
dialog: anticipation grows...
text: Her heart thumps...
text: Her eyes widen...
scene_heading: EXT. PICKUP - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: FRONT ANGLE
text: The truck crests the hill. It slows, pulling forward into a --
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP ON
text: MICHELLE -- not breathing, a look of horror on her face.
text: Shock doesn’t even begin to explain what she’s going through.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE’S POV
text: THE DOWNTOWN CHICAGO SKYLINE - reduced to smoking rubble.
dialog: 95.
scene_heading: INT. PICKUP - DAY
text: Michelle stares out at the decimation. Her lips quiver. Her
dialog: heart pounds.
text: She slowly pulls down the mask on the hazmat suit before
text: taking a breath.
text: SMASH TO BLACK
speaker_heading: ROLL CREDITS
dialog: 
