speaker_heading: 1408
dialog: Written by
dialog: Scott Alexander & Larry Karaszewski
speaker_heading: * FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY -~ DAY
text: A dull highway. A crappy sedan rears by.
scene_heading: INT. CRAPPY CAR ~- DAY
text: + the wheel, driving this piece of shit, is MIKE ENSLIN, 35,
text: a grizzled, weary soul. He stares glassily at the road, a
text: cigarette behind his ear, a styrofoam cup of Exxon coffee at
text: his mouth.
text: A sign drifts by: "Woodfin, Rte 251 N - Asheville, Interstate
text: 240.E, Hwy 40, Next Right, Thru Traffic Merge”
text: Heh? Mike frowns.
scene_heading: EXT, COUNTRY ROAD - DUSK
text: RAIN pours down on an unpaved country intersection.
text: Mike stands outside his car, soaked, checking a wet map. He's
text: confused and annoyed. ‘There are no road markings at all. He
text: checks his watch.
scene_heading: Se EXT. COUNTRY INN - NIGHT
text: A qaaint rural inn, dark of night. The ambiance is
text: picturesque, but off-putting. Porch lanterns glow. Shadows
text: are deep. An ancient elm tree frames the banging weathered
dialog: sign: "The Camden Inn"
text: Then, finally ~~ headlights. Mike's car pulls up in the mud.
scene_heading: INT. INN - NIGHT
text: Mike trudges into the homey, worn lobby.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Hi. Mike Enslin, checking in --
text: The gregarious INNKEEPERS jump up, excited. They're country
text: folk, beaming.
scene_heading: MR. INNKEEPER
dialog: Oh, Mr. Enslin! We were so worried
dialog: you weren't gonna show!
scene_heading: MRS. INNKEEPER
dialog: It's such an honor to have you here.
dialog: 
dialog: ,%
dialog: a!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (disinterested)
dialog: Yeah. Great. Uh, if I could just
dialog: get my key --
dialog: 
text: They ignore his exhaustion.
scene_heading: MR. INNREEPER
dialog: You probably want to hear all about
dialog: our haunted history! Well, that rear
text: staircase is where the maid reputedly
dialog: hung herself in 1870.
scene_heading: MRS. INNKEEPER
dialog: Phere's a picture -~
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Can we do this in the morning?
scene_heading: MRS. INNKEEPER
dialog: (rummaging through drawers)
dialog: Wait! It's printed in our brochure!
scene_heading: INSERT - BROCHURE
text: She thrusts out a brochure that says "HAUNTED!" There's a
text: BHOTO of the lobby, and a faint white shape in a window.
scene_heading: MRS. INNKEEPER
dialog: Do you SEE her?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Uh --
scene_heading: MRS. INNKEEPER
dialog: A guest took that photo in 1986. You
dialog: can sort of see Syivia's “ethereal
text: apparation” reflected in the window.
text: Mike stares, unimpressed.
scene_heading: MR. INNKEEPER
dialog: At least, Sylvia is what we call her.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Terrifying.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I'm ready to hit the sack. In your
dialog: letter, you mentioned the scariest
dialog: rooms were in the old attic?
scene_heading: MRS. INNKEEPER
text: Phat's right. The third floor is the
dialog: former servant's quarters. People
dialog: say all Sylvia's c xen died up
dialog: there of tuberculosis.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: +
dialog: ete
speaker_heading: MRS. INNKEEPER (CONT'D)
dialog: (spooky)
text: Right up there. Right above where
dialog: you and I are standing, right now...
scene_heading: MR. INNKEEPER
text: Guests have reported strange sounds.
dialog: At the stroke of midnight, there's
text: been weird noises. Creaks. Moane.
dialog: (mysterioso)
dialog: Qur best advice... is to lock your
text: door from the inside.
scene_heading: INT. INN ~ MIKE'S ROOM - LATE NIGHT
text: Mike lies om the antigue bed, on a quilt, drinking mini-bar
text: BOOZE. He has an army of tiny Scotches, Gins, Vodkas. He's
text: bored out of his mind.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The boozes are empty. Somewhere, a grandfather clock CHIMES
text: midnight. DONG, DONG, DONG! Mike groggily glances at a
text: bedsiae clock. Waiting. Listening. Alert to anything...
text: Suddenly -~ 2 loud CRASH! Mike jerks, startled.
text: He jumps up, concerned... then realizes it’s only THUNDER. Oh.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Mike is snoring, drooling, passed out.
scene_heading: WE. CRAPPY CAR - DRIVING - DAY
dialog: ie
text: iike is pack in the car, driving another endless interstate.
text: He speaks flatly inte a pocket MINI-RECORDER.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: People spoke of the spectral presence
dialog: of Sylvia... though I personally
dialog: never encountered her.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: in any case, the Eggs Benedict
dialog: “ ous, and Mrs. Clark says
dialog: if you have a party ef four, she'll
dialog: make her famous flourless chocolate
dialog: cake.
dialog: 
dialog: (beat)
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D}
dialog: ma Shiver Scale of 1 to 10, I award
dialog: he Camden Inn seven skulls.
dialog: 
dialog: &
dialog: t
text: Mike clicks the recorder OFF. He puts it down -~ then has a
text: thought and turns it back ON.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Fuck ‘em, Six skulis.
speaker_heading: zB
dialog: cet
scene_heading: . BARNES & NOBLE ~ NIGHT
dialog: beh
text: A mall bookstore. The marguee shouts "GHOST SURVIVAL GUIDE
dialog: Author M. Enslin Tonight! 7 B.M.”
scene_heading: INT. BARNES & NOBLE - NIGHT
text: Mike enters, disheveled. The store is sad and generic -- an
text: air of listlessness hanging over the shelves. Mike tiredly
text: approaches the busy CASHIER.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Excuse me. I'm Mike Enslin.
speaker_heading: CASHIER
dialog: Sorry?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: iim, uh... the "star" of your
dialog: booksigning tonight.
speaker_heading: CASHIER
dialog: (a dawning awareness)
dialog: Oh, right. Right! Okay then!
text: The Cashier finishes his order, then flicks on a small B.A.
text: SYSTEM. He grabs a MICROPHONE and reads off a xeroxed FLYER:
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT MANAGER
dialog: Attention, book lovers! In the
dialog: Author’s Corner tonight, we have
dialog: noted cccult writer Mike Enslin!
dialog: He's the author of the bestselling
dialog: Ghost Survival Guides, with such
dialog: titles as "Ten Haunted Hotels," "Ten
dialog: Haunted Graveyards,” and "Ten Haunted
dialog: Lighthouses"!
text: Around the store, peeple lock up. Mike leans inte the cuyv.
speaker_heading: P
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You got a bathroom I can clean up in,
dialog: first?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BARNES & NOBLE ~ LATER
dialog: it's depressing -- the sad reality of
text: The back of the store has 30 or 40 folding
scene_heading: y FIVE SPECTATORS. Mike s
text: paperbacks, discoursing.
dialog: The event.
dialog: bpooksignings.
dialog: chairs, but there's
text: alongside a pile of
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Sure, these places have colorful
dialog: historias. That's the hook: The
text: wedding night murder. The caretaker
text: who leaped te his death. The runaway
text: horse that trampled the old lady.
dialog: The war widow who went crazy and
dialog: threw the baby down the well...
text: The people go wide-eyed. Mike lets this hang... then deflates
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: But there's never any documentation!
dialog: If you do one icta of research, the
dialog: tragic event never happened! It's
dialog: just a marketing hook invented by
dialog: desperate hotels when the interstate
text: gets built too far away.
text: The crowd doesn’t get it. One EMPHATIC MAN raises his hand.
speaker_heading: EMPHATIC MAN
dialog: Have you ever seen a poltergeist?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (he reacts)
dialog: See? That's exactly what I'm talking
dialog: about. You didn't hear one word I
dialog: just said. I can type myself sick
dialog: debunking these places, shooting
dialog: arrows in the legends, and it only
dialog: makes people want to stay there more.
speaker_heading: LADY
dialog: (she raises her hand)
dialog: Well, my family’s planning a trip
dialog: this summer. Would you say there's a
dialog: higher concentration of ghosts in New
dialog: England or in the South?
text: Mike wipes his face.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: i say nowhere, but no one’s
dialog: ening. L prebably want to
dialog: +
dialog: k-up my “Ten Haunted Antebellum
dialog: ansions."
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: eo
dialog: 3
speaker_heading: LATER
dialog: 
dialog: Mike is si ng paperbacks, rote, the same autograph over and
text: over: "Stay Scared! Mike Enslin" “Stay Scared! Mike Ensiin”
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Of course, I try to be scientific. If
text: travel with an EMF meter, an infrared
text: camera... a full~range spectrometer.
dialog: But I've never had to use them,
dialog: because there's nothing to record!
text: Then -- a HARDBACK enters frame. He looks up, surprised.
text: A NERVOUS WOMAN holds the book. It's a dusty, faded copy of
text: Mike's early novel, "The Road Back Nowhere.” The artwork is
text: heartfelt: A watercolor of a boy holding a surfboard.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Jesus. What rock did you find that
dialog: under?
speaker_heading: NERVOUS WOMAN
dialog: Ebay.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Wow. Haven't seen one of these in
dialog: years.
dialog: (awkward)
dialog: How much did it... go for?
text: The woman bites her lip, preferring not to say.
speaker_heading: NERVOUS WOMAN
dialog: Well, there weren't many bidders.
dialog: (she smiles)
dialog: But it’s a lovely book. Are you
dialog: going to write another one like this?
text: He glances at the back cover: A dacade-old PHOTO of himself --
text: young and optimistic.
dialog: Fh
text: Mike's face falls.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Nope. That was a different guy.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. FLORIDA BEACH - DAWN
dialog: 
text: The sun is peeking over the horizon. The pink sky is lovely,
text: breaking over a rocky inlet.
text: Mike drives into a beach parking lot. He glances over -~
text: spotting a cluster of parked cars. Across the sand, a GROUP
text: of dedicated SURFERS in wetsuits ride the early morning waves.
dialog: 
text: Mike stares -- then keeps driving. A surfboard sticks out of
text: his car. He goes to the far end of the parking lot, off by
text: himself, then pulls over.
scene_heading: EXT. OCEAN - LATER
dialog: Mike rides a wave, It's exquisite. For him, this experience
dialog: isn't about adrenaline, but tranquility, The weariness that
text: usually hangs over him is gone. He's alone and perfectly
text: serene. Happy.
text: Mike enjoys the spray in his face. Until -- he hears a
text: strange BUZZING. He looks around, then UP.
speaker_heading: ABOVE
text: A small AIRPLANE flies over, towing a BANNER.
text: Mike squints, trying to read it.
text: The sky is too bright. The banner is silhouetted...
text: Mike focuses harder... distracted... when --
speaker_heading: BAM!
text: A monstrous WAVE suddenly POUNDS him!
text: Crash! Mike gets slammed underwater.
speaker_heading: UNDERNEATH
text: Mike gets pulled down.
text: He screams out, but only bubbles emerge.
text: The water BATTERS him. Everything swirls. He spins, losing
dialog: track of which way is up.
text: Mike struggles, desperate... trying to reach for sky...
text: getting sucked deeper toward the darkness...
dialog: When -~
dialog: _,@
dialog: vty
dialog: me
scene_heading: ANGLE ~ HIS SURFBOARD
text: suddenly appears from above. Like a godsend.
dialog: grabs for it -- when -~ it unexpectedly pitches
text: im in the head.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: cur TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH ~ LATER
scene_heading: ECU - MIKE'S FACE
text: Mike lies mutely on his back, on the sand. Hyperventilating.
text: Winded. Eves glassy.
text: But alive.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MAILBOXES, ETC. ~ DAY
text: An overlit, bleached-white fluorescent hellhole. An anonymous
text: storefront of mailboxes, packing supplies, and key-cutting.
text: Mike enters and goes over to his mailbox. He unlocks it,
text: removing a STARTLING AMOUNT of MAIL.
text: The friendly MAILBOX GUY nods.
speaker_heading: MAILBOX GUY
dialog: You've been gone awhile.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (disinterested)
dialog: Yeah.
scene_heading: INT. PALM COFFEE SHOP - DAY
text: Mike sits in a corner booth, alone. His breakfast sits
text: abandoned, runny egg yolks congealed. He sips his eighth cup
dialog: of coffee.
text: The table is spread with months of opened mail. Dozens of
text: BROCHURES for HOTELS, INNS, B & B's. Mike flips through them.
dialog: Some have macabre marketing -- "Spirits! Strange?" A few
text: have even Photoshopped transparent phantoms into their antique-
text: laden lobbies. Mike glances at a Post-it: “Dear Mr. Enslin,
dialog: please consider cur Motel for your next Ghost Guide."
dialog: 
text: He stares ~- then tosses it. He rummages through more mail:
text: bill from a nursing home. Skeptical Enquirer magazine. he
text: Weekly World News. He slashes an envelope with his fancy
text: LETTER OPENER. Inside is a childish greeting card -- a
text: cartoon tiger says "You're Terrrrrrr-ific! Happy Birthday!"
speaker_heading: bb
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Mike frowns, then throws it in the trash pile. He reaches for
text: a POSTCARD.
scene_heading: INSERT ~ POSTCARD
text: The back has but three scribbled words: "DON'T ENTER 1408"
speaker_heading: ON MIKE
text: Hm. He gazes, then flips over the card. [It's a generic
text: giveaway HOTEL POSTCARD. A montage of photos: Elegant 1920s
text: exterior. Classy rooms. An overstuffed lounge filled with
text: smiling, attractive rich people. A scrolling font says: “When
dialog: in New York City, visit the Dolphin Hotel!”
text: Mike fixates on the word “New York.” His face darkens, and he
text: tosses the card in the junk pile.
text: He starts to move on -- when something catches his eye. He
text: peers back at the cerd,..
scene_heading: TIGHT - POSTCARD
text: Again, “DON'T ENTER 1408." We PUSH IN on the numbere, until
text: they fill the screen. 1408... 1408...
text: Mike thinks. He clicks a pen, then scribbles the digits as a
dialog: math column: 1+ 4+ 0+ @ =........ 13.
text: A smile flickers across his face.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: cute.
text: Mike is amused. He considers the card, then suddenly OPENS
scene_heading: HIS LAPTOP COMPUTER.
scene_heading: ANGLE - COMPUTER
text: Mike spins the mouse, clicking “Internet.” He waits
text: patiently, while the green WI-FI icon scrolls, Searching...
text: searching... until ~- "NO SIGNAL AVAILABLE"
text: Mike groans.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Goddamn corner booth.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: inked, Mike grabs the computer. He JUMPS from his beoth and
text: starts meandering around the coffee shop, eyeballing the
text: computer screen like a hungry hawk.
text: A few steps -- Ahl A glimmer ef green, then red.
dialog: AS ®
dialog: oe
dialog: ect
text: He marches toward the door -- eyes glued to the screen, The
text: DINERS shoot him locks, but he is indifferent to other people.
text: He lifts the laptop over his head, trying different positions.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. COFFEE SHOP -~ SAME TIME
text: Mike exits the building. Suddenly, he finds a signal.
text: Ah-HA! The Internet opens. The WEB PAGE speaks:
scene_heading: INTERNET LADY VOICE
dialog: Good morning, Mike.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: (he smiles)
dialog: Good morning, Fake Voice Lady!
text: He guickly sits on a cinderblock wall and starts EXPERTLY
speaker_heading: TYPING.
scene_heading: INSERT ~ COMPUTER
text: Mike goes to "GOOGLE." He types in “DOLPHIN HOTEL NEW YORK”
dialog: 
text: Beat. A page of text appears. Mike clicks on a link to the
text: Dolphin. A millisecond pause -- then the DOLPHIN HOTEL's
text: stylish HOMEPAGE APPEARS. It is exactly what one would
text: expect: Chandeliers. Clinking champagne flutes. Links to
text: “SPA" "DINING" "BANQUET FACILITIES" “RESERVATIONS”...
text: Mike knows this is a dead end. He clicks back to "GOOGLE,"
text: then tries “DOLPHIN HOTEL GHOSTS”
text: The computer responds, "NO RESULTS”
text: Mike backspaces and tries again: “DOLPHIN HOTEL SUPERNATURAL"
text: The computer responds, “NO RESULTS*
text: Mike backspaces and tries yet again: "DOLPHIN HOTEL HAUNTING"
text: The computer responds, "NO RESULTS"
text: Mike stares. Unbowed, his face darkens. He tries a different
text: approach: "DOLPHIN HOTEL DEATE”
speaker_heading: THE COMPUTER
text: pauses -- then the SCREEN FILLS WITH ENTRIES.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: suddenly gasps, horrified,
dialog: #
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Jesus Christ...
speaker_heading: gUPT POs
scene_heading: INT. RESEARCH LIBRARY ~- DAY
text: Mike sits in a musty library basement, screlling through
text: MICROFICHE rolls. On the amber screen is an ancient New York
text: Herald-Tribune: The headline screams “FACTORY OWNER LEAPS FROM
text: HOTEL." There is a portrait of a stuffy-looking rich man,
text: then underneath a gory WEEGEE-LIKE PHOTO of a bloody mess on a
text: New York sidewalk, the cops dourly cleaning up.
text: For the first time, Mike seems affected. Truly bothered.
text: Shaken, he scribbles notes on a4 LEGAL PAD, Under the word
text: "DOLPHIN," we see the pad is filled with items...
text: A spooky pause... when suddenly -- RING!! It's his CELLPHONE.
text: Mike jumps, startled. Embarrassed by the noise, he quickly
dialog: answers it.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Hello?
text: But, nothing. Mike frowns.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Helle! This is Mike Enslin. Is
dialog: anybody there?
text: No response. Just -~ a faint crackling STATIC.
text: Mike struggles to hear ~- when CLICK. The line goes dead.
text: Weird. Mike looks back at his list of deaths...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MIKE'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: cU on a jumble of old NEWSPAPER ARTICLES. A blizzard of words
text: and headlines: “SUICIDE”... "DROWNING"... "ELECTROCUTION"...
text: "HEART ATTACK." We slowly PULL OUT, revealing dozens of
text: Dolphin articles, tacked on a corkboard. A blur of photos,
text: nasty death images and old-fashioned formal portraits. The
text: victims lock like solid early 20th-century citizens: A walrus-
text: moustached man in a bowler. “A prim woman in round spectacles.
text: We CONPINUE PULLING OUT, finding Mike on a ratty couch.
text: Surrounded by these horrors. Hé holds the Dolphin POSTCARD,
text: staring. Agitated. Suddenly he downs a shot of bourbon, then
text: dials the phone number. He waits. RING. RING ~-
dialog: e
dialog: a
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR (¥
text: Good evening, Delphin see’
dialog: I direct your call?
dialog: How may
speaker_heading: MIX
dialog: ling about Room 1408.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OPERATOR (V.0.3
dialog: i don't believe we have such a room.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (leng beat)
dialog: Don't you...?
dialog: Another pause.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR (¥.0.)
dialog: Er, one moment, please.
text: Mike gets put on HOLD. Sprightly MUSIC kicks in, and a
scene_heading: RECORDED ANNOUNCEMENT.
speaker_heading: SMCOTH RECORDING
dialog: “When staying at the Dolphin, be
dialog: certain to enicy New York's finest
text: dining, at the fabled Blue Mar
dialog: Restaurant on our Mezzanine lev-~-"
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: (cutting in)
dialog: May I help you?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes, I'd like to stay in Room 1408.
speaker_heading: _ HOTEL VOICE
dialog: That room is unavailable.
text: Mike raises an eyebrow.
dialog: How ‘bout Saturday?
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: it's unavailable.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: het
dialog: ww
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: Unavailable.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (ticked off)
dialog: Next month?
dialog: Unavailable.
dialog: Next summer!
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Thank you for calling.
text: CLICK. The man HANGS UP.
text: Mike is stupefied.
scene_heading: INT. MANHATTAN LITERARY AGENCY - DAY
text: A busy New York agency with million-dollar views. SAM
text: FARRELL, a@ gregarious old-school gentleman agent, yells out.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: } Where's good Chinese, near
dialog: th? I gotta have lunch with that
dialog: iot from Random House.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: (on the phone, gesturing)
dialog: it's Mike Enslin, calling from
dialog: Florida again.
text: Sam winces. He looks around, then hails a bookish LAWYER.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Clay! You got a sec' for Mike
speaker_heading: Ensiin
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Uh -- sure -~
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Great.
text: am PULLS him into his leather-bound office.
dialog: faa)
scene_heading: NT. SAM'S OFFICE
dialog: 4
text: Sam slams the door and lowers his voice.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Now look, this guy tends to get 4
dialog: dittle morose, so try to keep the
text: energy up. Otherwise, he stews in
dialog: his own funk.
dialog: 
text: Sam PUNCHES his speakerphone.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Mikel!)
speaker_heading: MIKE (V.0.)
dialog: Sam --
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Read the first five chapters last
dialog: night. Spooky shit. Conldn't sleep
dialog: a wink. It's gonna make a bundle --
speaker_heading: MIKE (V.0.)
dialog: So did you --
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: You better believe I didi And I got
dialog: our top lawyer here right now!
dialog: (he winks}
dialog: Mike, Clay. Clay, Mike. Mike, talk
dialog: fast. This guy's $400 an hour.
speaker_heading: MIKE (V.0.)
dialog: So, about the Dolphin --
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Yes, the Dolphin! That stick-up-its-
dialog: ass relic on 61st. Too posh for a
dialog: free plug! Well, you're gonna LOVE
dialog: what Clay cooked up: He dug arcund
dialog: and found you a Federal Civil Rights
dialog: law! Bin't thet a hoot?
dialog: {he chuckles}
dialog: Like somebody would discriminate
dialog: against you: A well-to-do white man!
dialog: (amused)
dialog: But the law's the law: If the room's
dialog: not occupied, they have to give it to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: MIKE (¥.0.)
dialog: Good.
speaker_heading: CLAY
dialog: $c we'll beok it, and if they refuse,
dialog: we'll rattle our saber and file suit.
text: A pause. Sam turns quiet, leaning into the speakerphone.
dialog: fo
dialog: un
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: eS But Mike... on a more personal note:
dialog: Are you really sure you want to come
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: MIKE (¥.0.3
dialog: (tentative)
dialog: S-sure. It'll make a solid closing
dialog: chapter for the --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Yeah yeah. = know the routine.
dialog: (sincere)
dialog: But seriously... buddy. It's New
dialog: York. All that happened...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: De you really want to put yourself
dialog: through that...?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - MIKE
text: His face clouds. He considers his past, then whispers.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I'll be quick. And it's a different
dialog: S part of town...
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Are you gonna call Lily?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: N-no. It’s a job.
dialog: (his voice cracks)
dialog: T'll be in, and out.
text: We hold on Mike, brimming with uncertainty...
text: Then -- a loud SHRIEEEEEK!
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - DAY
text: An AIRPLANE descends into New York.
scene_heading: INT. AIRPLANE ~ DAY
text: Mike looks out the window. The grid of New York is below,
text: neatly geometric, Until -- the plane suddenly banks, swooping
text: in. he whole view spins.
text: Mike recoils, nauseated.
dialog: 
dialog: he
dialog: a
scene_heading: BET. NEW YORK - DAY
text: Blackness. Then -- a TAXI emerges into the light. We've been
text: looking into the Holland Tunnel.
scene_heading: INT. CAB - DRIVING
dialog: 
text: A carved crucifix swings from the mirror.
dialog: 
text: Mike rides in back. Face wan. New York's a jumble. He peers
text: about -- everything seems discordant. Canal Street is a
dialog: collection of unsettling images:
text: smoke curis from a grate. [It clears, revealing a MAN lying
text: motionless on the sidewalk.
text: Sparks arc inside an open factory door.
text: A snarling DOG barks behind bars.
text: Seafood decomposes in a fish market.
text: {he CABBIE HONKS furiously at the congestion.
speaker_heading: / CABBIE
dialog: This traffic's a fuckin’ nightmare.
dialog: I'm gonna cut up Eighth.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (woozy)
dialog: N-no. Please. Don't go that way...
dialog: Canal's fine...
speaker_heading: CABBIE
dialog: Just lemme drive.
text: The Cabbie hooks left.
dialog: 
text: Mike blanches back. The cab drives uptown, and the sense
text: of DREAD grows. Crumbling buildings block out the sun. Mike
text: grimaces, anxious. Knowing something is approaching...
scene_heading: OUT THE WINDOW
text: An old brick school comes into view. On the PLAYGROUND,
scene_heading: CHILDREN RUN AROUND.
text: Mike shudders. Distraught, he averts his eves.
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN HOTEL ~ NIGHT
text: A sumptuous refugee from the Jazz Age. A STATUE OF A SMILING
text: DOLPHIN deminates the portal. It leers a happy greeting.
dialog: 
dialog: 17.
text: Mike's cab arrives. He gets out, carrying a duffel.
scene_heading: INT. DOLPHIN LOBBY - NIGHT
text: Swanky and archaic, but beautifully maintained. The last time
text: it was hip, Dorothy Parker got drunk in the coatroom,
dialog: 
text: The DOORMAN opens the deor for Mik Mike's sweating, his
text: usual imsouciance rattled. He glances around the small lobby:
text: On the mezzanine, a PIANIST plays Gershwin. Chic GUESTS in
text: evening wear cavort. A RICH OLD COUPLE walks a poodle. A
text: BEAUTIFUL WOMAN in a gown casually breastfeeds a baby.
text: Mike goes up to Reception. The DESK CLERK smiles formally.
speaker_heading: DESK CLERK
dialog: Welcome to the Dolphin, sir, Are you
dialog: checking in?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes. Mike Enslin, staying for cone
dialog: night.
text: Hmphh? The Desk Clerk suddenly tightens up, awkward.
speaker_heading: DESK CLERK
dialog: Uh... could you excuse me one moment?
text: She hurries off. Mike raises an eyebrow.
text: We follow the Clerk as she scurries down the counter. She
text: reaches a rigid ASSISTANT MANAGER and whispers. He listens,
text: giving Mike a discreet glance. The Assistant Manager whispers
text: something back, then rushes out a rear door.
dialog: Beat.
text: Mike waits. Biding his time...
text: Pause ~~ then the rear door opens, and out glides the Manager,
text: MR. OLIN. Olin, 60, is a precise man of European air, his
text: tailored suit, carefully-parted hair and manicured nails only
text: made bearable by his clipped dry wit.
speaker_heading: TIGHT - OLIN
text: He nods professionally and extends his hand.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Mr. Enslin, iim Gerald Olin. the
dialog: Manager of the Dolphin. £ there's
dialog: any way I can be of assistance while
dialog: you're here -- dinner reservations,
dialog: i at all -- please
dialog: I'm delighted to be at your
dialog: 
dialog: Service.
dialog: ie.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Uh, that's great.
dialog: 
dialog: Iocan just get my key to 1408,
dialog: il stay out of your hair.
text: Beat. Olin's eyes narrow.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: You wouldn't prefer an upgrade? An
dialog: executive suite with complimentary
dialog: breakfast?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (hostile)
dialog: 1408, please.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: So insistent.
dialog: (nis voice lowers)
dialog: Mr. Enslin, could you humor me with a
dialog: more... private conversation?
scene_heading: INT. OLIN'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: An impeccable Edwardian study. Oak paneling. Fine books. An
text: antigue desk with a lozenge-shaped green lamp.
text: Olin opens a humidor.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Cigar?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No, thank you. I don’t smoke.
text: Olin's eyes shift to the cigarette behind Mike’s ear. Mike
dialog: sees this.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I quit years ago.
dialog: (he starts to explain)
dialog: The cigarette behind the ear is... 1
dialog: dumne. Habit. Part affectation,
dialog: part superstition. A writer thing.
speaker_heading: . OLIN
dialog: Well, then, do you drink?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Of course! I just said I'm a writer.
text: Olin smiles thinly. He opens a liquor cabinet and removes a
text: fine BOTTLE OF COGNAC.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Remy 1939. Exquisite. Runs about
dialog: oO bottle, when you can find it --
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (he raises his hand)
dialog: I appreciate the bribe, but IT intend
dialog: to stay in that room.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: (put off)
dialog: How long?
dialog: MIKE .
dialog: How leng? Er, my usual is overnight.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: oh. I see.
dialog: (he purses his lips}
dialog: Nobody has ever lasted more than an
dialog: hour.
text: Mike takes this in, then cracks up, PARODYING Olin with a
dialog: silly Transylvania accent.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oooo! Bleh! “Nobody has ever iasted
text: more than an hour. When the clouds
text: D> pass over the moon, the spirits rise
text: from the family graveyard to haunt
dialog: the ballroom."
text: Olin stares, unamused.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: IT don't know why you're mocking me.
dialog: I am genuinely, to the best of my
dialog: ability, trying to help you.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No, you're just playing a little
dialog: game, which frankly I find tiresome.
dialog: You're “selling the mystique.” But
dialog: eventually, we both know you'll give
dialog: me the key, I'll write my story, and
dialog: your bookings will go up 50%.
text: Olin is repelled. Mike smirks and pulls out his mini-recorder.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Bo you mind if I record our
dialog: conversation?
dialog: the waits; beat}
dialog: Good. fI'li take that as a yes.
dialog: 
dialog: a
dialog: o
text: Mike s “RECORD.” The LED glows red, like an eye, and the
text: little wheels start spinning...
dialog: 
text: Olin glares, his politeness fading.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Sir, you completely misunderstand the
dialog: situation. The Dolphin may not have
dialog: the cachet cf the Plaga or the
dialog: Carlyle... but we run 90% occupancy.
dialog: (emphatic)
dialog: This isn’t about my concern for the
dialog: hotel, OR about my concern for you.
dialog: Frankly -- selfishly -- I don't want
dialog: yon to enter 1408, because I don’t
dialog: want to have to clean up the mess.
dialog: 
text: Olin lets this chilling thought hang.
text: Mike's eyes widen.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Hotels are all about presentation and
dialog: creature comforts... though behind
dialog: the scenes, we witness quite the bit
dialog: of nastiness.
dialog: (heavy)
dialog: But my training is as a manager, not
dialog: & a coroner! Under my watch there have
dialog: been four deaths. Four! After the
dialog: last one, I said snough. I forbade
dialog: any guests from ever entering again.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: And that last suicide was... Randolph
dialog: Hyde? 1996? An orthodontist who
text: slit his wrists and cut off his
dialog: genitals?
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Yes. You've done your homework.
dialog: Grievously, since the hotel opened 95
dialog: years ago, there have been seven
dialog: jumpers, four overdoses, five
dialog: hangings, three m --
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: Three mutilations. Two stranglings:
speaker_heading: (inte the MINTRECORDER)
dialog: "Manager Gerald Olin is well-versed
dialog: in the hotel's tragic history, dryly
text: reciting the docket of carnage like a
text: bookkeeper discussing his ledger.”
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: (he frowns)
dialog: You think you're clever?!
speaker_heading: (MORE}
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OLIN (CONT'D)
dialog: Well in your investigation, did you
dialog: discover the twenty-two natural
dialog: deaths?
dialog: 
text: Mike leans forward, interest
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “Natural’? Uh, no. What ~~
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: You didn't find them, because they're
dialog: not reported in newspapers. But all
text: told, 58 people have died up there.
text: Mike is momentarily speechless.
text: Olin pulls out a small key and opens his desk bottom drawer.
text: He removes a BULGING FILE and brings it around to Mike. Olin
text: stares a moment -- then sits next to him.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: You know nothing. 1408's quests have
dialog: died of heart attacks, strokes,
dialog: drownings +-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: "Drownings"?
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Yes. Mr. Grady Miller died drowning
text: in @ bowl of chicken soup.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: H-how?
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: How indeed? Isn't that interesting?
dialog: Well, it's all in the file:
dialog: (he PATS the folder)
dialog: And you're welcome to read all of it.
dialog: Every word! I'll even give you my
dialog: office! You can peruse the materials
dialog: to your heart's content. You can
dialog: take notes. Put it all in your book!
dialog: (pause; he turns somber)
dialog: In return, my only condition... is
dialog: that you don’t stay in the room.
dialog: 
text: Mike eyeballs the file.
dialog: Considering. Then -~
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: to never got that drink.
dialog: 
dialog: 22.
text: Olin amiles a flicker, then gets up fer the Cognac. He takes
text: out a crystal snifter, wipes it clean, carefully pours...
text: Mike notices a silver DESK FRAME. He furtively cranes
dialog: around... to check out who's in it. And -~ *s a calendar.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: @ the drink. Mike gratefully snorts it,
dialog: Olin hands MUU ;
text: laver, the spreading warmth. Then, he looks up.
dialog: enjoying the
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Dammit to HELL!
text: Olin BLOWS UP and angrily THROWS the file at Mike.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Fine! READ the blasted file! Read
dialog: it anyway!
dialog: (livid)
dialog: Once you see it, you won’t WANT to go
dialog: in the room!
text: Mike is stunned et this outburst. Hesitant, he opens the TOP
text: FOLDER. Inside is a pile of wrinkled yellow newsprint. Olin
text: testily narrates from memory.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: The first victim! Kevin O'Malley. A
dialog: sewing machine salesman who checked
dialog: into the hotel opening week, October
dialog: 1812:
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: (he winces at the photo)
dialog: He... cut his own throat?
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Yes. But that's not the horrific
text: part. Afterward, in a fit of
dialog: insanity, he tried to stitch himself
text: back up with a sewing needle before
text: he bled to death.
text: Mike makes a face.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Jesus...
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Mr. Enslini No one needs to know you
dialog: didn't go in. I'll give you a fake
dialog: ceceipt! You can take photo graphs in
dialog: 1404: The layouts are identical,
dialog: nobody will know the difference ~-
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hey, my readers expect the truth -~
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: No, your readers don't expect much of
dialog: anything -- except grotesquerie and
dialog: cheap thrills:
dialog: (snide, from memory)
dialog: "The headless ghost of Eugene Rilsby,
dialog: forever walking his deserted
text: farmhouse. The Barking Phantom of
dialog: Mount Hope Cemetery ~~"
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: {surprised)
dialog: How do you know that?!
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: I've done my own research! Your
dialog: books are easy to find -- in the
dialog: cheap paperback section.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And they are completely cynical. The
dialog: work of a talented, intelligent man
dialog: who doesn't believe in anything but
dialog: himself.
text: Mike reacts, pissed.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Where the fuck do you get off --~-!
dialog: (hurt)
dialog: This meeting's over ~-
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Oh please. Quit acting like a sore
dialog: schoolgirl.
dialog: (calming)
dialog: Io said you were talented. There was
dialog: that first book... I -- I rather
dialog: enjoyed that. It was popular.
dialog: Hardback. Er... what was it called?
dialog: "The Road To Nowhere” --?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (uneasy)
dialog: "The Road Back Nowhere.”
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: That was sort of... a gilded memoir?
text: fravels of a young man --
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: Only parts of it were true --
dialog: i
speaker_heading: OLIN
speaker_heading: OLED
dialog: B fhe father seemed like a real s.o.b. -~
text: Mike seethes. He hits "STOP" on the recorder. He jumps up.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Give me my key.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Mr. Enslin --
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Give me my key! Do you know why I
dialog: can walk inte any spooky old room?
dialog: Because I know that ghoulies and
dialog: ghosties don't exist.
dialog: (dark)
dialog: And that's good, because I also know
dialog: there's no God to protect us from
dialog: them, if they did.
scene_heading: INT. DOLPHIN LOBBY - NIGHT
text: Behind Reception, a wall of old-fashioned mail slots. Olin
text: carries over a little stool. He steps up to 1408's mailbox,
text: reaching his hand far... far back into the shadowy recess.
text: » He fiddles around, then pulls out a TARNISHED KEY on a long
text: brass paddle. Embossed are the numbers 1408.
text: Mike reacts, surprised.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You still use actual keys? That's a
dialog: nice touch. Antiquey.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Most hotels use magnetic cards.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: So do we. 1408 is the exception.
dialog: {beat}
dialog: Electronic devices don't work
dialog: properly in there. Computers...
dialog: celiphones... wristwatches...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You don't happen to have a pacemaker,
dialog: do you, Mr. Enslin?
dialog: 
text: Mike shoota him a look. He speaks into his mini-recorder.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: phantom in room
dialog: 
dialog: #
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: I didn't say “phantom.”
dialog: Uh, “spirit.”
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: You misunderstand. What's in 1408
dialog: den't that kind of presence.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Then what is it?
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Olin pads away. He crosses the recoco lobby, guiding Mike to
text: the ELEVATOR. He presses "UP," then turne and whispers.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: It's an evil fucking room.
text: Mike's eyebrows raise.
text: DING! The elevator arrives. The shimmery doors open.
text: Olin gestures: After you. Mike enters. Olin starts to follow
text: -- when a MAITRE'D in a tux comes running over. He interrupts
text: Olin and quickly MUTTERS something in French. Olin nods and
text: MUTTERS back. He scribbles his signature on a form. The
text: Maitre'd bows and runs off.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR - SAME TIME
text: iin enters. It's an old-fashioned cage. Olin hits "14," and
text: the doors rattle closed. They stand in silence.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Do you enjoy traveling alone?
text: Mike ignores this. He stares at the panel: Rows of BUTTONS,
dialog: with the customary lie: 12345 6789 1011 12... 14 15 16
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Why do hotels think they can just
dialog: make the number 13 disappear?
text: Olin chuckles. They lurch upward, lights ticking: 5...6...7.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: How filthy’s the room? The sheets
dialog: haven't been changed in a decade.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: No, no, no. This is a professional
dialog: establishment. Our maids give 1408 a
dialog: light turn once a month.
speaker_heading: {MORE}
speaker_heading: OLIN (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But I supervise, and they work in
dialog: pairs. We treat the room as a
dialog: chamber filled with poison gas. We
dialog: stay only ten minutes, and I insist
text: the door be kept open.
text: Olin's face tightens, regretful.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Even then... last year, a young maid
dialog: from El Salvador found herself locked
text: in the bathroom. dust for a moment.
dialog: When we pulled her out, she was --
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Dead?
text: Olin stares.
speaker_heading: OLIN
text: No. Blind. She had taken a pair of
text: scissors and carved out her eyes.
text: DING! The elevator hits 14. The doors open.
scene_heading: INT. 14TH FLOOR - SAME TIME
text: Mike peers out It's a perfectly uneventful corridor -~ red~
text: and-gold carpet, drab end tables, old-tyme light fixtures.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Your floor.
text: Mike waits for Olin to take a step -- but the man is immobile.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: i'm afraid this is as far as I ge.
text: The room is at the end of the hall to
dialog: the right.
text: Mike nods, a tad apprehensive. He exits ~- on legs that seem
text: heavier. Mike takes a few steps, then turns.
speaker_heading: AT THE END
text: Clin stands framed in the elevator, an ordinary man in a plain
text: suit. Hands clasped, face withdrawn, he sighs.
dialog: Good luck.
dialog: Startled,
text: Olin pulls out the bottle of
text: doors SHUT.
text: Mike catches it. He starts
dialog: 
dialog: Olin is gone
dialog: 
speaker_heading: AD
dialog: my
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: is now alone. He hoists his duffel, then walks slowly down
text: the hushed hallway. Past 1401... 1402...
text: Mike examines Olin's file.
speaker_heading: INSERT ~ FILE
text: A grisly PHOTOGRAPH marked "KEVIN O'’MALLEY.* He lies dead in
dialog: sly
text: the bathtub. Hie eyes are wide, his throat gashed open, a
text: sewing needle protruding from raw flesh.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: grimaces. He walks past 1404... past a mol
text: tray. On the plate are remains of a beef b
text: ketchup. A fly buzzes...
dialog: oldering room service
dialog: urger soaked in red
speaker_heading: INSERT - FILE
text: Back to the photos. Mike flips to a nasty half-covered BODY
text: in bed. The sheets are soaked.
speaker_heading: IN THE HALL
text: Mike is getting rattled. He makes a turn. 1406 goes by...
text: 1407... wood-paneled doors and elegant wallpaper...
text: Mike finds a scratched NOTE on hotel stationery.
scene_heading: INSER?P - FILE
dialog: Frantic writing: “My brother was eaten by wolves on the
dialog: Connecticut Turnpike”
speaker_heading: IN THE HALL
text: Mike stops, considering this oddity.
text: He looks up -- and realizes he's in front of 1401.
dialog: Buh?
text: Mike looks around, confused. Somehow, he's back at the
dialog: elevator.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What the fuck?
text: Mike slowly shakes his head. Then, he packs up the file and
dialog: Marches away. Pay attention!
dialog: 
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Mike watches the numbers go by. Get to that room! 2, 3, 4,
text: 5, 6, 7. He swings around a corner. And there, unassuming
dialog: and anonymous, is 1408.
dialog: Finally.
text: Mike pulls out his brass KEY. He starts to insert it -- when,
text: he's startled by WHIMPERING.
text: AT THE NEXT ROOM
text: is a YOUNG MOTHER turned away from us. She hoids a sobbing
text: BABY. She fumbles with her mag card, then disappears inside.
text: BACK ON MIKE AT THE DOOR
text: Okay. He takes a breath, then inserts the key in the lock.
scene_heading: MICRO-CLOSEUP - INSIDE THE LOCK
text: The vintage mechanism looks like a GIGANTIC DARK CHAMBER,
text: filled with crazy angles of cold steel.
text: The key enters like a medieval battering ram. It slowly
text: turns. The tumblers RUMBLE with echoing CLINKS and CRICKS.
text: The sound rises ominously LOUD...
scene_heading: BACK TO MIKE ~ NORMAL PERSPECTIVE
text: And, the sound becomes a teeny CLICK,
text: The door unlocks.
text: Inside the next room, the Young Mother's VOICE leaks out:
speaker_heading: . YOUNG MOTHER (C.S.)
dialog: (singing softly}
dialog: "Mama loves her baby, baby, baby...”
text: The knot in Mike's stomach grows.
text: He grips the doorknob. He lifts up his recorder.
dialog: “It's 7:52 p.m., and I'm about to
text: enter Room 1408 of the Dolphin Hotel.
dialog: if something happens to me, I,
dialog: Michael Enslin, being of sound mind,
dialog: do hereby leave all my earthly
dialog: belongings and whatnot to my ex-wife
dialog: Lily."
dialog: 
text: He hits STOP.
dialog: 
dialog: 29.
text: Then, he slowly turns the knob --
dialog: a
dialog: the tension builds ~-
dialog: fe
text: the wooden door opens ~~
dialog: And...
scene_heading: INT. 1408 - SAME TIME
text: It's -- just a hotel room.
text: A two-room ers: pleasant and banal. Pastel sitting area,
text: beige carpet, forgettable furniture.
text: Mike sees this -~ and gasps, relieved. He starts LAUGHING.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: That's it?
dialog: (he LAUGHS harder)
dialog: That's friggin’ IT?!
text: Astonished, he enters and throws his stuff down. He defiantly
text: SLAMS the door shut and SHOUTS.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: All right, Olin!! You win Round One!
dialog: {annoyed with himself)
dialog: You had me goin'! Where's the
dialog: spiderwebs, the lightning, the river
dialog: of blood?! This is just... a Zoom!
text: Mike gives himself a tour.
text: There's a couch. A coffee table. A desk with various items:
text: A fax machine. A glass ashtray. An old-fashioned rotary
text: telephone. A book “of matches, with a Norman Rockwellish
text: sketch of a smiling Doorman at the hotel
dialog: 
text: On the wall are three framed paintings. In the carpet below
text: is a water stain.
text: The wall THERMOSTAT says 80. Mika clicks the “down” arrow.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: There's a queen-size bed with
text: fluffy piliows. ATV. A
text: nightstand Bible. Mike picks it up.
text: -. then tosses it aside
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Mike flicks on the bathroom lights. It’s bright and sparkling
text: -- a pleasing glow of luxury.
text: There's a tub. A bidet. Baskets of soap.
dialog: 
text: The toilet paper roll is folded in a fancy little triangle.
text: Mike tears off a sheet and wipes his nose.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Mike opens an armoi and finds the MINI-BAR. He peruses the
text: sodas, booze and chips. He glances at the price sheet.
speaker_heading: MIKE ;
dialog: Eight dollars for Corn-Nuts? This is
dialog: an evil fucking room.
dialog: cur TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - LATER
text: Mike lies on the made bed, eating Corn-Nuts and swigging
text: Olin's Cognac. He narrates into his recorder, from memory:
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: "The living room has two chairs, a
text: sofa, a writing desk, and a faux-
text: antique armoire. The carpet is beige
text: and unremarkable, except for a stain
text: beneath a thrift-store painting of a
dialog: sailing ship.”
scene_heading: TIGHT - THE PAINTING
text: We FOCUS ON the painting, as Mike describes it from memory.
speaker_heading: MIKE (9.S.)
dialog: “The work is executed in the always
dialog: dull Currier & Ives fashion --
text: sailors on a white schooner."
text: We MOVE TO the SECOND PAINTING -- an old lady in a rocking
dialog: chair.
speaker_heading: MIKE (0.8.)
text: "The second painting is an old woman,
text: @ la Whistler's mother, smiling down
text: as small children play at her feet."
text: We MOVE TO the THIRD PAINTING -- a British hunting scene.
speaker_heading: MIKE (0.8.)
dialog: “The third and final, painfully-dull
dialog: painting is the ever popular "The
dialog: Hunt" ~~ horses, hounds, and
dialog: constipated British lords.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: 
dialog: “These paintings have been here
dialog: leng time. lifted them, IT
dialog: sure I'd see light patches.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: a
dialog: m
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE (.5.) (CONT'D)
dialog: ng bugs, like when you turn
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: BACK ON MIKE
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “The bedroom has a queen-size bed,
dialog: two nightstands, and butterfly
text: wallpaper.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: “Some smartass spoke cf the banality
dialog: of evil. If that's so, then we've
dialog: entered the seventh ring of Hell."
text: Mike gets up and walks to the window. He opens the drapes.
text: OUTSIDE, another building completely fills the view. Below
text: are cars and a huge lit-up BANK CLOCK. Mike opens the paned
text: windew. TRAFFIC NOISE rises in.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “The panorama is a typical cramped
text: New York view of nothing: A gray
text: building, and honking traffic below."
text: The clock outside clicks from 7:59 to 8:00 PM.
text: Suddenly, LOUD MUSIC.
text: Mike jumps, startled.
speaker_heading: BEHIND HIM
text: The clock RADIO has gone off. The CARPENTERS sing:
speaker_heading: _ THE CARPENTERS (0.S.)
dialog: (singing)
dialog: “We've only just begun..."
text: Mike laughs. He turns it OFF, flicking the alarm switch.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Silly...
text: Mike turns -- then suddenly freezes.
speaker_heading: THE BED
text: is turned down.
dialog: The
dialog: mint chocolates on +.
dialog: s t is folded, and there are little
dialog: he pillows.
dialog: “d
dialog: 
dialog: ww
speaker_heading: KR
text: Mike blinks, 4s if this will make the mints disappear.
dialog: But they don't.
text: He strolls over and picks up a mint. He peers...
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Bravo, Olin. That is VERY unsettling.
text: Mike opens the candy, then EATS it. He thinks, £
text: spinning. Until -- he suddenly stops, mid-chew.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: That means someone's in the room..:
text: Mike whirls.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Emboldened, Mike RUNS te the CLOSET. He slams open the door ~~
dialog: and ~- it’s empty.
text: Hm. Mike looks around. Ah! Suddenly he drops to his knees
text: and peers under the BED. But... there’s nothing.
text: Hm! Mike thinks. He bolts into the bathroom. He grabs the
text: shower curtain, takes a breath, then YANKS it aside.
dialog: And -- nobody. Huh?i
text: Mike wracks his mind. Tantalized.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Come out, come out...
text: Detective-like, he starts RAPPING on the drywall.
dialog: RAP! RAP RAP!
text: He RAPS his way toward the door... when... something catches
dialog: his eye.
scene_heading: TIGHT ~ TOILET PAPER
text: The toilet paper roll has returned to its original state.
text: Once again, it has a folded triangle.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANGLE ~ MIRE
text: His eyes bulge.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Whoa. Bizarre.
dialog: (peat)
text: A ghost that offers turndown service.
text: » He gawke at it. Then, he pulls out his recorder. CLICK!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: "Okay, let's Encyclopedia Brown this
dialog: fucker. I was facing the window.
dialog: Then I saw the mints, ran te the
dialog: closet, which would leave time for
dialog: Houdini to get in the bathroom, do
dialog: the paper trick ~~
dialog: (he stops)
dialog: "No, I would've seen him --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: "No. Unless he started in the
dialog: bathroom, so when I turned my back,
dialog: he did the mints and escaped into...
dialog: the living room!"
text: Mike barrels into the
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM
text: He Lopes around -- searching... searching. Until, he spots --
text: the AIR VENT up in the ceiling.
text: Ahi Mike runs up -- and thinks he sees movement inside. or,
dialog: does he?
text: ® He stands on his tiptoes and SHOUTS up into it.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Helloce! Hello, asshole! You're
dialog: gonna have to try harder!
dialog: (he smirks)
dialog: Nice and HOT up there??
text: Mike wipes his brow. He realizes he's sweating.
text: Mike runs to the THERMOSTAT and checks it. It's now 84.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oh, for God's sake.
text: Mike pushes the “down” arrow again. Nothing. He BANGS it.
text: Inked, he grabs the clunky telephone, peers at the archaic
text: dial, then sticks his finger in the hole and dials "0."
dialog: 
dialog: Tt spins. Click-click-—c k-click-click. Then --
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hello! This is Mr. Enslin in Room
dialog: 1408.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR (V.
dialog: Good evening. Are you re
dialog: out?
dialog: 
dialog: ©
dialog: Tete
dialog: ws
dialog: a
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: "Check out"?
dialog: (he chuckles mordantly)
dialog: Why would I do that, when there's
dialog: such wonderful maid service?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And so discreet!
dialog: {beat}
dialog: No, I just need someone to fix my
text: thermostat. This room's on fire.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR (V.0.}
dialog: Of course, sir. We'll send an
dialog: engineer right up.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Thanks.
text: Mike hangs up.
text: Beat. Through the wall, the baby CRIES. Waaah! Waaah...!
text: Mike considers it all. He sits on the sofa, then starts his
dialog: recorder.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “Hotel rooms are naturally creepy. I
dialog: mean, how many people have slept in
dialog: that bed before you? How many were
dialog: sick? How many lost their minds?
dialog: {beat}
dialog: "How many died?”
text: Mike thinks. He unzips his duffel, slides over his LAPTOP,
text: and carefully removes a small EQUIPMENT CASE. Inside is
text: assorted gear: An EMF meter, microphones, a UV black light.
scene_heading: ACROSS THE ROOM
text: Mike dims the room. Then, he turns on the UV light. It HUMS,
text: emitting a weird blue glow. He holds the tube over the carpet
text: stain, and it GLOWS, vivid and brackish.
text: Hm. Mike waves the UV light around the room. Things are
text: revealed, the past becoming ctherworldly and phosphorescent:
text: Spatters on the drapes.
text: Multicolered blotches on the couch.
text: Drips across the walls.
text: Soiled puddles in the bed.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: is repelled. Ugh. He feels sick.
text: Unable to bear any more, he FLICKS ON the lights.
text: Normalcy is restored, Mike rubs his eyes, then returns to the
text: living reom. He glances at
scene_heading: THE THREE PAINTINGS
text: Which are... askew. Just slightly... tilted.
text: The ship's crooked horizon is unpleasantly vivid...
speaker_heading: CU - MIKE
text: A strange, sealike sensation. He staggers, a bit nauseous.
text: A SOUND of pounding waves. The painted water seems real...
text: Mike is losing his equilibrium.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: God, I feel like I smoked some cheap
dialog: dope.
text: He straightens the three paintings, then turns away.
text: Mike takes a step ~~ then -- suddenly gets a look.
dialog: He spins!
text: The paintings are still straight.
text: Hm. Mike queasily sits, putting his head between his legs.
text: Overheated, he fumbles for his recorder.
speaker_heading: / MIKE
dialog: What did Olin say?
dialog: (dizzy)
dialog: Something about poison gas...?
text: A woozy, unclear contemplation.... when -- BZZZZ!
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Mike jerks. BZ2Z22Z! It's the door. He pops from his trance.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Wewho is itp?
speaker_heading: . . GRUFP VOICE
dialog: Engineering. You got a problem with
dialog: your heat?
dialog: 
dialog: 36.
text: Mike scurries to the door. He peers through the EYEHOLE.
speaker_heading: DISTORTED POV
text: Through the glass, a hairy New York ENGINEER in overalls.
scene_heading: BACK ON MIKE
text: Good snough. He goes to open the decor. He pulls -~ and it’s
dialog: stuck. It won't Budge.
text: Mike struggles with the handle.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: The door's stuck! Can you give it a
dialog: shove?
speaker_heading: GRUFF VOICE
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I ain't touching it.
text: Mike reacts, irritated. He tugs harder, wrenching with all
text: his might -- when, it suddenly releases and SLAMS open. BAM!
text: Mike tumbles, off-balance.
speaker_heading: THE DOOR
text: opens wide. Revealed is the ENGINEER, a huge, heavyset man.
text: He carries a steel toolbox.
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: Ts it tee hot or too cold?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oh, it's definitely too hot. C'mon
dialog: in. he box is right here --
text: Mike strides over to the thermostat, He starts to gesture to
text: the panel -- when he realizes -- he's... alone,
dialog: 
text: Confused, Mike turns.
text: The guy is still standing in the doorway.
text: Mike gestures again, for emphasis.
speaker_heading: ; MIKE
dialog: iosaid... the box is here.
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: i know where the fuck it is. But I
dialog: ain't going in that room.
text: What! Mike glowers, put-out.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You just have to walk seven or eight
dialog: feet ~~
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: I said I’m not goin' ini You know
dialog: what happened in there?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes, I'm quite aware --
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: Look, I'll talk you through it. Any
dialog: jackass can fix that thing.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Just remove the panel.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The Engineer waits, feet planted.
text: Mike stares in disbelief. Then, beaten, he pulls off the
text: thermostat PANEL. Inside are springs and levers.
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: Okay. Now -~ inside, you see a coil?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: Good, Now above that coil is a
text: little tube filled with mercury.
dialog: That's supposed to activate the
dialog: contact switch, but this hotel's so
dialog: old, half the shit don’t work.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Just give the tube a little tap.
text: Mike glares, unsure.
speaker_heading: ENGINEER
dialog: dust tap the thing!
text: Mike relents. He FLICKS the tube. The mercury suddenly emits
text: a blue SPARK, then rolls downward.
text: The system CHURNS, then the air-conditioning BLOWS on. Mike
text: smiles, relieved.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You're a genius. Let me get you a
dialog: tip --
text: Mike turns to thank the man -~ and he’s GONE.
text: Huh? Bewildered, Mike runs te the door. He peers out.
dialog: 
scene_heading: HIS Poy ~ DOWN THE CORRIDOR
text: The hall is empty. The elevater doors glide closed.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: frowns. Odd...
text: A discombobulated beat, then he pulls his head back in,
text: Haltingly, he shuts the door.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM
text: Mike's alone. He paces about, convincing himself he's okay...
text: When ~~ sudden jarring MUSIC.
speaker_heading: THE CARPENTERS (0.8.)
dialog: "We've only just begun..."
text: Mike whirls! The CLOCK RADIO has turned back on.
speaker_heading: THE CARPENTERS (0.8.)
dialog: “Po Live...”
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Christ, you again!?
speaker_heading: AT THE RADIO
text: Mike marches over. He once again CLICKS OFF the radio.
text: The digital clock flickers, then switches to "60:00."
text: Suddenly, it starts counting backward: "59:59... 59:58..."
text: Mike leans closer, mesmerized. "59:55... 59:54..."
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP ~ MIKE
text: A dawning awareness. Slowly, he guips.
text: nd, he remembers Clin's warning from before...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OLIN'S VOICE
dialog: "Nobody has ever lasted longer than
dialog: an hour...”
text: Em. Mike glances worriedly at the clock ticking down.
dialog: Silence.
text: He realizes something odd. The SILENCE is ABSOLUTE. The
text: traffic molse is gone.
text: Perplexed, Mike walks to the window. He sticks hie head out.
dialog: 
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE
text: It looks exactly as before. The New York street is filled
text: with a crush of traffic, buses, pecple. Except,
text: disconcertingly, there is literally no sound.
text: Mike can’t hear anything. It's as if we're watching a TV show
text: with the volume turned off.
dialog: 
text: fire engine races by, lights flashing. Dead silent.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: is confounded. The lack of noise is highly disturbing. He
text: stares, then pulls his head in...
text: When CRASH! The WINDOW VIOLENTLY SLAMS DOWN on MIKE’S HAND!
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: AARAGGHHREH!
text: Mike SCREAMS, agonized. An animal caught in a trap.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: GODDAMN!! FUCKI!!
text: Mike struggles, fighting to use his good hand to crack the
text: window open. Finally he tears his broken hand out.
speaker_heading: TIGHT - HAND
text: It's a mess. The skin is ripped, bleeding.
text: Panicked, Mike runs into
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: He turns on the sink. Water streams out, as he puts his
text: wounded hand under the flow.
dialog: 
text: But then -- the faucet SPUTTERS and dies.
text: Mike angrily turns the handles. Nothing. livid, he punches
dialog: the sink.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You son-of-a...
text: FWOOOCOOSH! Suddenly SCALDING HOT WATER spews out!
text: Yeowlill It BURNS Mike's hand.
text: Mike CRIES OUT. He yanks away his hand, now bloody AND burnt.
text: The radio goes off.
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: THE CARPENTERS
dialog: “We've only just begun...*
text: Mike SHRIERS.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Puck YOU, radioll
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: Incensed, Mike lunges in, grabs the electrical cord, and PULLS
dialog: it from the walii
text: And -- nothing changes. The song keeps playing. The timer
text: keeps clicking down: "56:24... 56:23..."
text: Mike gasps in disbelief. Flummoxed, he staggers back to
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: He grabs a towel and wraps it around his bleeding hand.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: A gust of wind blows in, ruffling the curtains. We follow the
text: breeze across the room... to the BIBLE on the nightstand.
text: The wind flutters the pages. They flip by... then stop.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BIBLE
scene_heading: The page is covered with SCRAWLED, MANIC WORDS:
dialog: “DON'T LET ME DIE HERE”
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Suddenly, RINGGGGGII!
text: Mike jumps. Surprised, he runs to the phone. He grabs it.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: YES? ?if
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: Sir, I'm sorry, but there was a
text: miscommunication in the kitchen.
dialog: There's going te be a ten-minute
dialog: delay on your sandwich.
text: s bug out.
dialog: Mike's
dialog: ii
dialog: ©
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Pi X didn't order a
dialog: 
speaker_heading: (MORE }
dialog: 
dialog: ai.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: ferazed)
dialog: But as long as we're on the phone,
dialog: let's talk about the window that Just
dialog: broke my hand, and the water that
dialog: burned me alivell
dialog: 
dialog: A leng pause. Then --
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: I'm sorry. You're welcome to
dialog: substitute a side dish for your
dialog: french fries. We have cottage
dialog: cheese, macaroni salad --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Are you goddam LISTENING to me?i My
dialog: hand needs STITCHES —~-
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: Iunderstand. If you leave your dry
dialog: cleaning out by 10 a.m., we'll have
dialog: x pressed and returned by 5 the same
dialog: ay.
text: Mike gapes.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: FUCK! Fuck YOU! I want you to call
dialog: me a cab to the nearest hospital!
text: The Hotel Voice turns sour, ruffled.
speaker_heading: ; ; HOTEL VOICE
dialog: Sir, I will not tolerate you speaking
dialog: to me in that tone of voice -~
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You're a fuckin' IDIOT!
speaker_heading: HOTEL VOICE
dialog: If you wish, connect you to our
dialog: manager, Mr.
dialog: 
dialog: goop! Olin it is! Put him onl!
text: Pause -- then the line goes on HOLD. Sprightly MUSIC kicks
text: in. The RECORDED ANNOUNCEMENT we heard before repeats:
scene_heading: SMOOTH RECORDING
dialog: “When staying at the Dolphin, be
dialog: certain to enjoy New York's finest
text: dining, at the fabled Blue Marlin
dialog: Restaurant on our Mezzanine level.”
dialog: 
text: Mike waits, stewing.
dialog: 
dialog: 42.
text: He watches his blood dripping cut of his hand. The red
text: droplets hitting the carpet...
scene_heading: SMOOTH RECORDING
dialog: “Muscles tense? Then make an
dialog: appointment to visit our deluxe spa,
text: on the Coral level. With full
dialog: massage, facial, and aromatherapy
dialog: facilities, it‘ll leave vou feeling
dialog: relaxed and revitalized."
text: Mike's hand keeps bleeding.
text: His temper is growing.
scene_heading: SMOOTH RECORDING
dialog: “Your call is important to us.
dialog: Please stay on the line--"
scene_heading: CLICK -- BEEEEEEERP!
dialog: It's a DIALTONE.
text: Mike has been disconnected.
text: He stares in amazement.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You are kidding.
text: Furious, Mike throws the phone.
text: He grips his wounded hand and stomps into the
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM
text: Mike's fed up. He rushes to the door, going to open it --
dialog: And... the deadbolt's locked.
text: Huh? Uncertain, Mike fumbles in his pocket for the big ROOM
text: KEY. He angrily gems it inte the lock, thrusting it through
text: the oversize hole.
text: And -- PLIP! Ths key slips from Mike's fingers -- plunging
dialog: into the door! [It disappears, gone,
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Wha--?i
text: Mike fiddles with the keyhole, trying to find the key.
text: Frustrated, he slams his EYE up against the hole.
speaker_heading: RIS Pov
text: Blackness. Hollow. A gentle whisper inside...
dialog: 
scene_heading: MIKE'’S EYEBALL
text: bulges, peering up... down...
speaker_heading: WIDE ~ MIKE
text: He scowls. He spins and looks around... thinking. Mike runs
text: to his bag, unzips a pocket, and pulls out his LETTER OPENER.
text: Mike jams the metal blade into the keyhole. He wiggles it...
dialog: trying... desperately... to engage the mechanics...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: c'mon...
text: He struggles to pick the lock. Forcing it around... when ~-
text: LUNK! The DEADBOLT UNLOCKS!:
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah!
text: Mike smiles victoriously. He triumphantly turns the handle --
dialog: And -~
text: CRACK! The DOOR HANDLE BREAKS OFF IN HIS HAND.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - MIKE
text: His face goes ashen. This is unconceivable.
text: The door is now unopenable from the inside.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Mike goes rabid, furiously KICKING the door! He PUNCHES it
text: with his bruised hand. He claws crazily at the handle stump.
dialog: He's TRAPPED.
text: Losing it, Mike whirls and careens across the room. Passing
speaker_heading: THE THERMOSTAT
text: which now reads 75 degrees. 74...
text: AT THE WINDOW
text: Mike runs to the pane and throws it open. He SCREAMS.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: HELLO?!
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE
text: it's utterly silent, like before. Not a sound from the busy
dialog: traffic.
dialog: louder.
dialog: 
dialog: Mike scream
dialog: 
dialog: Up
text: Mike's VOICE ECHOES, the only noise in the world.
speaker_heading: ECHO
scene_heading: HELP... HELP... HELP...t
dialog: This is very disturbing.
text: Mike peers around ~- then spots a lit window across the
text: street. There is a SILHOUETTED MAN.
text: Mike gasps, a ray of hope.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hey! Sirti
text: No reaction. He SCREAMS louder.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: CAN YOU SEE ME?! OVER HERE, IN THE
speaker_heading: DOLPHIN? ?
text: Mike waves his right arm.
text: ACROSS THE STREET
text: The Man waves his right arm.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: YES, HERE! I NEED YOU TO CALL THE
speaker_heading: POLICE)!
text: Mike jumps, excited.
dialog: 
text: ACROSS THE STREET
text: The Man jumps, toc. An exact rhyming movement.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THE MAN
text: freezes.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: slowly... worriedly... shifte from side to side.
speaker_heading: THE MAN
text: mirror-like, shifts from side to side.
speaker_heading: MEKE
text: trembles. Fearful, shaking, he leans toward the lamp.
speaker_heading: THE MAN
text: leans toward a lamp. Revealing... he... is... Mike.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: freezes, stunned. He ig watching himself.
scene_heading: CLOSER VIEW - THE MAN
text: is Mike, standing in a parallel version of the hotel room.
text: Staring blank-eyed at us.
text: A chilling beat ~- and then an INSANE MANIAC with a clawhammer
text: comes rushing into view. He swings the hammer straight at the
dialog: doppelganger’s head,
speaker_heading: ANGLE ~- MIKE
text: He SCREAMS and spins in fear.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: And -- the Maniac isn't there. Mike is alone.
text: Mike's chest heaves, overcome. Panicked, whirling about. Off-
text: balance, ha spins back to the view outside.
scene_heading: ACROSS THE WAY
text: The man is gone. The lit window is gone, It's just darkness.
text: Mike is befuddled.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: He stares, shaking and impotent. Then, he notices the PEOPLE
text: below on the street. Silent, but -- real.
dialog: 
dialog: 46.
text: Desperate, Mike suddenly goes deranged. He picks up a LAMP ~-
speaker_heading: MIK
dialog: Bs
speaker_heading: HELP MEL:
dialog: 
scene_heading: WIDE — THE WINDOW
text: Mike unplugs the lamp and THROWS it! Tt flies out the window
dialog: and soars outward!
text: Mike lurches out, to watch what happens--
text: The LAMP drops. Down... down...
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: waits eagerly, wild-eyed.
speaker_heading: THE LAMP
text: drops closer to the street... then...
text: Like mist, it just... disappears. The lamp is gone.
speaker_heading: MIKE'S EYES
dialog: bug out.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Jesus, I'm losing my mind. I'm
text: hallucinating.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING RooM
text: Unsteady, Mike collapses. He feels helpless, like the walls
dialog: are closing in...
text: Then -- an ethereal LITTLE GIRL‘S VOICE. Wispy, faint...
speaker_heading: GIRL'S VOICE
dialog: Daddy... Daddy.....-.
text: We suddenly PUSH IN TO MIKE. CLUTCHES for breath.
dialog: 
text: All color bleeds from his face. He holds his head, gasping.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Stop it. Get ahold of yourself
dialog: You're letting your mind run to
dialog: places that aren't real.
dialog: (he works to calm himself)
dialog: It's just a classic haunte
dialog: power of suggestion: Gaslit fixtures.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: se
dialog: 
dialog: a7,
speaker_heading: MIRE (CONT'D)
dialog: Faded rugs. Like that motel in
dialog: re’s a yeason for
dialog: 
text: The radio continues its ominous countdown: 46:25... 46:24.
text: Mike peers around, scoping -- then sees something. Maddened,
text: he hopbles up to the AIRVENT.
speaker_heading: ANGLE - VENT
text: There is... something inside the vent. A tiny black TUBE?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Is that a camera? A spycam?
dialog: (accusatory)
dialog: Hello?! Who are you, the perverted
dialog: owner of the hotel? Some rich
dialog: sadist, enjoying my terror?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Or perhaps it's just punctilious Mr.
text: Olin, whacking-off in his leather
dialog: chair.
speaker_heading: ANGLE - MIKE
text: He is cracking. Paranoid.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Wait a second..! He gave me booze.
dialog: {trying to focus)
dialog: Was it laced? Did Olin take a
dialog: sip...? Can't remember...
text: Mike eyes are glazed. He spots the Cognac bottle. He runs
text: over and uncorks it, taking a sniff...
text: Hm. Something else catches his eye.
scene_heading: ON THE NIGHTSTAND
text: are the mint wrappers. Mike gasps, remorseful.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Aghi The mystery chocolate. Shit!
dialog: Never take candy from a stranger.
text: Mike's mind ratchets into overdrive, freaking. Until ~-
speaker_heading: GIRL'’S VOICE
dialog: Daddy, pay attention!
text: Mike whirls.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANGLE - TV
text: The TY is ON. Onscreen is a flickering old HOME VIDEO: Mike's
text: daughter GRACIE, 5, sits on the carpet playing dolls. She
text: laughs and motions urgently.
speaker_heading: GRACIE (ON VIDEC)
dialog: Daddy, sit down!
dialog: BACK TO ~ MIKE
text: He gapes in disbelief.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Gracie...?
scene_heading: IN THE HOME VIDEO
text: AB YOUNGER MIKE enters frame. Cheerful and buoyant. He sits
text: on the floor with Gracie. She hands him a rotund little doll.
speaker_heading: GRACIE (ON VIDEO)
dialog: Okay, you be the daddy, and I'm going
dialog: to be the mommy.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE (ON VIDEO)
dialog: But I don't want to be the daddy. I
dialog: want to be -- the dog.
speaker_heading: GRACIE (ON VIDEO}
dialog: (outraged)
dialog: That's silly! You can't be the dog!
dialog: You have to be a person!
scene_heading: BACK TO - MIKE
text: He shudders, disturbed.
speaker_heading: ‘MIKE
dialog: W-where'd this come from...?
scene_heading: IN THE HOME VIDEO
text: Mike's former wife LILY, 30, enters. She's pretty, aloof.
speaker_heading: LILY (ON VIDEO}
dialog: Hey, what are you scoundrels up to?
speaker_heading: GRACIE (ON VIDEO)
dialog: We're busy. Daddy and I got married.
speaker_heading: LILY (ON VIDEO)
dialog: (feigning shock)
dialog: 
scene_heading: YOUNG MIKE (ON VIDEO}
dialog: I'm very popular around here!
speaker_heading: ANGLE - MIKE
text: His face falls. Sad and traumatized.
text: Wanting to hang onto this memory, he slowly reaches out te the
dialog: sereen... wishing... in some way... he could touch it --
text: ZAPPP!! It violently SHOCKS him.
text: OW! Mike tumbles back. The screen blazes, then goes te
text: STATIC. Gracie is gone.
scene_heading: WIDE - THE ROOM
text: Mike is alone, hurt. Not understanding. He senses something,
dialog: then turns...
scene_heading: ANGLE - NIGHTSTAND
text: Sitting there are the two little DOLLS from the video.
speaker_heading: MIKE'S
text: eyes widen with fear.
text: The figures are a tiny man and woman. Here in the room.
text: Mike gulps, then picks them up. Yes, they are real. Mike is
text: overcome with feelings. He tenderly cradles the dolls.
text: Staring into their painted faces...
text: Until -- he glimpses movement in the room. He turns.
text: AT THE WINDOW
text: A quick FLASH of the rich FACTORY OWNER who killed himself:
text: He steps to the ledge and jumps.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: is stunned.
text: AT THE WINDOW
text: Another apparition. A PORTLY LADY in a 1950's flowered dress.
text: She sobs, then pulls a chair to the window. She lashes out at
text: the air, then leaps.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: cries out, shocked.
dialog: 
text: Mike cradles the dolle closer. Wanting to cling to something
dialog: good...
text: When -- a FAINT SOUND. Soft and muffled.
text: Mike freezes.
text: From the next reom over is the SOUND again. A BABY CRYING.
text: Then, the gentle murmur of the Mother.
dialog: What?i
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Mike JUMPS to attention. He drops the dolls and frantically
text: runs to the wall. He KNOCKS on it.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Ma'am? Ma‘am! Can you hear me??
text: The baby CRIES louder. Drowning him out.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Quiet, kid.
dialog: {he BANGS harder)
dialog: Ma'am?! Please! I need your help!i!
text: The baby CRIES harder. Mike realizes she can’t possibly hear
dialog: him.
text: Frenzied, he grabs a nearby CHAIR.
text: Mike swings the chair, then SMASHES it into the wall!
dialog: Bam! BAMI!
text: The baby SCREAMS louder.
text: Mike swings harder, brutally.
text: CRASH! The chair splits apart.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: HELLO?!
text: Suddeniy -- SHRRRRRITIIEEEEERK! The baby SCREAMS like it’s
text: being BURNED ALIVE.
text: Agh! Mike pulls back, holding his ears.
text: TS MAGNIFIED, LOUDER, like the volume on 2 stereo
text: Mike winces, shutting his eyes, trying toe block it out --
text: b When, it suddenly sPops.
dialog: opens his
dialog: 
dialog: He sits
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: »+-Isn't there anyone?
text: Slowly, a SHADOW crosses his face.
speaker_heading: ABOVE
text: A quick FLASH: A natty MAN in Jazz Age suspenders hangs
text: himself from a noose on the chandelier.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: grimaces. He yelps and backs away. Frightened, he makes his
text: way to the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Mike enters -- then shudders.
text: & The bathroom is TRANSFORMED. It's no longer the lush,
text: comforting boudoir of duxury -- but a STERILE, FLUORESCENT-LIT
scene_heading: NURSING HOME BATHROOM.
text: Sitting in a wheelchair is a decrepit OLD MAN. He peers up,
text: eyes rheumy and lost, then shouts:
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: I wish I was dead!
text: Mike freezes. An endless pause.
text: Then, he whispers.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Dad?
speaker_heading: PATHER
dialog: Where's my garden?
dialog: (foggy)
dialog: I can't smell anything!
text: Mike is shaking.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: S me -~ Michael,
dialog: Dad, it’
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FATHER
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: g)
dialog: 
dialog: {trenb
dialog: Your... son.
speaker_heading: FATHER
speaker_heading: (suddenly LOUD)
dialog: I HATE this place!
dialog: (enraged, confused}
dialog: How'd I get here?
text: Mike starts crying.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I'm sorry...!
text: Mike drops to his knees and hugs him. Holding the old man
text: tight, his face against his Father’s scratchy, unshaven cheek.
speaker_heading: WIDE OVERHEAD
text: We look down on weeping Mike.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Z’m so sorry...
text: We slowly PULL OUT... revealing that Mike is back in the hotel
text: bathroom. He's on his knees, hugging the toilet.
dialog: There's no Father.
text: Mike moans, shaken. He looks around in bewilderment.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: He was so real.
dialog: (upset)
dialog: As real as me.
text: Wobbly, Mike stands. He looks in the mirror, examining his
text: haggard face.
text: Then -~- he peeks back at the imagined camera in the vent. Hm.
speaker_heading: oe MIKE
dialog: This is more than special effects.
text: Mike takes out his MINI-RECORDER. He speaks into it:
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “Maybe I'm not real. Maybe I'm...
text: just having a dream. An incredibly
dialog: vivid, lucid dream.”
dialog: 
text: He paces around, thinking.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “When's the last time I remember
dialog: going to bed?”
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “Today I flew in. Or... was that
dialog: yesterday?
dialog: (onsure)
dialog: "God, what happened yesterday? Can't
dialog: vemember anything. Was I on a train?
dialog: (wracking his brain)
dialog: “EZ must've woken up and had
dialog: breakfast. Somewhere. But... where
dialog: was I? Where did I eat...?"
text: Mike is getting nervous.
text: He glances at the wall he bashed, then does a take.
scene_heading: THE WALL'S CRACK
text: has grown. The crack has spiderwebbed larger. Clear,
text: FLUID seeps out...
text: Mike grimaces, afraid. He shivers and backs away.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “People say you can't die in your
dialog: sleep. Is that true??"
speaker_heading: THE THERMOSTAT
text: now reads 60 DEGREES. 58. 58.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: cubs himself. Panic grows across his face.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “They say the shock wakes you up. If
dialog: your mind thinks you're about to die ~~"
dialog: viscous
text: Freaking, Mike makes his way to the WINDOW. He clicks off the
text: recorder, then starts to climb ont --
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE
text: The wind BLOWS. Mike shudders and prepares to jump.
dialog: down --
speaker_heading: MIKE'S Pov
text: A dizzying, spinning view of the STREET.
dialog: He looks
dialog: 
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: Suddenly, 4 SLAP of reality. Re GASPS and tumbles inside.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What the fuck am I doing?
dialog: (dawning)
dialog: This is what the room wants!
text: Mike's eyes shift about, wary.
text: A shadow. He spins.
text: Behind a chair, a MAN peeks over the pillow.
text: Mike GASPS and crawls away.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: There's gotta be a way outiil
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Mike looks for options -- then notices the FLOOR MAP on the
text: inside of the door.
text: Ah! He darts over and scrutinizes it.
speaker_heading: TIGHT — MAP
text: It indicates the building layout. Rooms, halls, exits...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Okay, okay! Look at our options..!
dialog: Guest rooms on both sides...
text: emergency exits... stairwell...
text: Mike's eyes gleam manically. Suddenly ~-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: The next window!
text: He looks back fearfully, then heedlessly calculates.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: This room's fifteen feet across, so
dialog: the next window... is just... five
dialog: feet past that wall!
text: Mike dashes across the room. He paces toe~-to-heel, measuring.
text: Yes! Hope returns to his face.
text: He runs back to his window, then climbs back up. Invigorated,
text: he CLICKS ON the recorder.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: “If I slip and fall, and this tape
dialog: gets found among my splattered
dialog: remains on 6lst Street, let it he
dialog: known that it was an accident.
dialog: {beat}
dialog: “The room Gid not win. It did not
dialog: possess me to lea Iwas just an
dialog: arrogant self-hating bastard who -~
dialog: 
text: Suddenly, he STOPS. Puzzled by these words.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Why did I just say that?
text: A strange dislocation. Then, he pockets the recorder.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: This fuckin' room. It's poliuted my
dialog: mind!
text: Defiant, he STEPS OUT.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: But I can do this!
scene_heading: EXT, BUILDING LEDGE ~ SAME TIME
text: Mike gingerly climbs cutside, the wind blowing his clothes.
text: He peeks downward, then -- stifling his fear, tentatively
text: lowers one foot onto the ledge.
text: His fingers claw the brick, then find a decorative cornice to
dialog: grab onto.
text: He takes a breath... then gingerly swings out his other leg.
text: Both feet are out. He guips, then glances down.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Busy traffic, thirteen stories down.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: tries to stay calm.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Just ignore it. Don't worry...
text: He presses his face to the wall, then... carefully, starts to
text: inch along the ledge,
text: He slides his left foot. Beat. He slides his right...
text: He dossn't dare lean back. He blindly reaches out, gripping
text: the next section of cornice.
text: Okay. He slides his left foot. Then his right.
text: His face is sweating. He reaches... fingers slipping... then,
text: his hand finds the next cornice.
text: Good. He slides again. He reaches -- and still no window.
speaker_heading: cU - MIKE
text: Cheek pressed to the dusty brick, he is confused.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Where the hell is it?
text: Mike slides his left leg over. His right leg over.
text: Starting to jitter, he reaches again. And ~~ no window.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (getting worried)
dialog: Where is it?!
text: He reaches further... straining... then slides again.
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: WHERE IS IT??!
text: Daring gravity, he leans back, to get a look --
scene_heading: SUPERWIDE - THE BUILDING
text: And, THERE ARE NO OTHER WINDOWS. THE ENTIRE BUILDING TS ONE
scene_heading: CONTINUOUS SURFACE OF BRICK, EXCEPT FOR MIKE AND 1408.
text: Mike SCREAMS, horrified.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Nooooolli
text: He flounders, stunned. Mike slips.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: Agghhi
text: Mike falls, BANGING his face on the wall.
text: He DROPS, about to plummet, desperately clambering, scratching
text: his fingers into the old brick, when -~
text: BAM! One hand snags the ledge as it passes by.
text: Chest heaving, hysterical, Mike catches his breath-
text: The wind pelts him.
text: Mike whimpers.
text: Then, he resignedly starts shimmying back to 1408. Slowly,
text: then, faster... his expression despondent...
scene_heading: TIGHT - MIKE'S HANDS
text: pull him along. Struggling to return to the hell he was
text: escaping.
text: AT THE WINDOW
text: Mike finally reaches his room. Quivering, sucking in all his
text: strength, he LIFTS HIMSELF UP onto the ledge. A shaky beat ~-
text: then, he looks back inside.
speaker_heading: FAST ZOOM
text: across the room, RIGHT UP TO THE MAP on the door.
text: ZOOMING TIGHTER, until the MAP FILLS THE FRAME. And -- it's
text: alive, the black lines slithering around like worms. The map
text: rearranges itself, deors and walls moving about.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: goes pale.
text: Suddenly -- the Portiy Lady steps out into the window. She is
text: sobbing.
speaker_heading: PORTLY LADY
dialog: May Jesus forgive me...
dialog: (beat; she scowls
dialog: hatefully
dialog: And FUCK YOU, HENRY SMITH!
dialog: - A bizarre
dialog: hing at him
dialog: 
text: She starts to jump ~- when she suddenly sees M.
text: discombobulation, then she lashes out at him, p
dialog: like the movements we saw earlier.
dialog: 
text: Freaked out, she leaps.
speaker_heading: PORTLY LADY
dialog: Abhhbhh!
text: She hurtles past.
text: Mike gasps and jerks away. Scared, ha tumbles back inside.
dialog: 
dialog: 58.
scene_heading: Int. 1408 - SAME TIME
dialog: 
text: Mike lands on the room floor, covered in sweat, terrified.
text: Shaking, huddled in a fetal position.
text: He rocks back and forth... then hears a s e CLINKING
text: sound, Click-clack click~clack click-cla
dialog: 3
dialog: a
text: The room darkens...
text: Wearied, he looks up ~~ and FREEZES.
speaker_heading: THE WINDOW
text: has been BRICKED-UP. Completely solid.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: moans, unnerved. He peers in disbelief, then runs and pounds
text: on the brick.
text: It's old. Like it's been there forever.
text: Despairing, Mike tears into the
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: And -- the BEDROOM WINDOW IS GONE. The WALL IS SOLID DRYWALL.
dialog: No trace there ever was a window.
text: Mike starts hyperventilating.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No -- that‘s impossible --
text: He starts feeling the wall. Searching for anything...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Tt can't... I know...
text: Mike is losing it. On the edge of sanity. He grapples for
text: his minirecorder and hits REWIND.
text: We HEAR Mike's voice spsed by, chipmunk-like. He hits PLAY:
scene_heading: . MIKE'S RECORDED VOICE
dialog: “What did Clin say, something about
dialog: boison gas ~~"
text: Mike speeds further. PLAY.
dialog: 
scene_heading: MIKE‘S RECORDED VOICE
dialog: “Hotel rooms are naturally creepy --"
text: No. He speeds further. Then:
dialog: 
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: MIKE'S RECORDED VOICE
dialog: "The bedroom has a queen-size bed,
dialog: two nightstands, and butterfly
text: wallpaper.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: "The room has no window."
speaker_heading: HUA?
text: A chilling beat.
dialog: Nowss
text: Shaking, he hits rewind. Play.
scene_heading: MIKE'S RECORDED VOICE
dialog: "The room has no window."
text: Mike CRIES out, scared. He hits rewind. Play.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S RECORDED VOICE
dialog: (whisper)
dialog: "Your daughter was eaten by wolves on
dialog: the Connecticut turnpike.”
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: AHH!
text: Mike DROPS the recorder, like he's been electrocuted.
text: He trembles, pained.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - CLOCK
dialog: be
text: he unplugged clock continues ticking down: 32:14... 32:1
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: shuts his eyes. Until -- a TORMENTED SOBBING.
text: What now? He opens his eyes. The SOBBING is in the next
text: room. It sounds like two people...
text: Afraid of what he'll find -- he peeks into the next room.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM
dialog: 
text: There is a VISION. A FLASHBACK FROM THE PAST:
text: A MAN and WOMAN are locked in a tight embrace, in a doctor's
text: office. We can't see their faces. They both cry, the man
text: hugging and comforting the woman.
dialog: gin
dialog: 
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: 5 MIKE
dialog: i £
text: stares, anguished. All color drains
scene_heading: FLASHBACK VISION:
dialog: 
text: The couple looks up -~- and they're Young Mike and Lily. Both
text: have tear~streaked faces.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Iocan't accept it...
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: (bereaved)
dialog: But he said --
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Maybe he’s wrong! Doctors don't know
dialog: everything!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: There are experimental treatments...
text: Young Mike shakes his head.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
text: She's doomed.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Don’t say thati
text: We REVEAL Gracie in a hospital bed, listening behind a
text: curtain. She's nine, pallid and thin.
speaker_heading: LILY (0.8.)
dialog: She'll only get through this if she
dialog: believes. We need to give her hope!
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE (0.8.)
dialog: Why? So she can spend the and of her
dialog: life being LIED to?!
text: Gracie's eyes widen.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ~ MIKE
text: He recoils, shocked she heard this. He's crushed.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Gracie...
text: Mike feebly extends his arm -~
dialog: When --
dialog: 
dialog: w e
dialog: 
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: BLACKNESS |
text: The room goes COMPLETELY DARK.
text: Mike gasps, confused.
dialog: H-hey --
text: He stumbles. CRASH! A lamp FALLS and breaks.
speaker_heading: MIKE (V.0.}
dialog: Owl
text: We hear Mike's breathing accelerate, getting heavy.
text: Suddeniy, a TERRIFYING VOICE. The VOICE OF THE ROOM, rasping,
text: non-human, coming from everywhere:
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: ARE YOU A MEAT EATER, MR. ENSLIN??1!
speaker_heading: MIKE (¥.0.)
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Wewhat? Who are you?i! How the fuck
dialog: do you know about my daughter??
text: We HEAR Mike trip around. He reaches for the LIGHT SWITCH.
text: He frantically FLICKS it -- up down, up down ~-
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NORMAL
text: BLINK! The lights go on.
text: The room is back to normal. Mike is gasping, heaving.
dialog: Looking about. Okay. Okay. Everything seems alright...
dialog: He turns -- and, AGHH!
speaker_heading: HIS Pov
text: A terrifying SKINNY LADY lunges at him! Grabbing his throat!
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: screams, Startled. Fighting her off.
scene_heading: THE SKINNY LADY
text: grips harder, snarling.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: staggers back, trying te push her bony hands away --~
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: When he glances sideways inte a MIRROR. In the reflection, he
text: is alone. Staggering back, choking himself.
dialog: bray oo
dialog: What?!
text: pe and releases his own grip. He coughs, struggling
dialog: Mike yelpe 1 .
text: for breath. He peers around. He is alone.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Jesus...
text: He shivers, stupefied. Suddenly ~-
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: READY TO LEAVE?111
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (he jumps, startled)
dialog: Not your wayl!
text: Dazed, Mike rubs himself for warmth.
speaker_heading: THE THERMOSTAT
text: clicks to 56.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: runs to his duffel. He rummages for a COAT and quickly puts
text: itoon. Underneath is his CELLPHONE.
text: Desperate, he flips it open -- but it flashes: "BATTERY Low"
text: What?! Mike growls, livid. Suddenly he glimpses something
dialog: else -- his LAPTOP.
text: Hmm..! His eyes light up. He nervously glances back, then
text: quickly covers the computer. Mike grabs a shirt.
speaker_heading: A? THE VENT
text: Mike runs to the vent, cool air blowing down.
text: Suddenly, he pushes the desk over. WHUMP! Everything on it
text: CRASHES down. Mike drags the desk to the wall, then climbs
text: up. He glances suspiciously at the little black tube inside
text: the ve +. then hooks the shirt over the grate, blocking it.
dialog: 
text: Mike jumps down. He runs to his
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
text: Mike grabs it and snaps it open. The SCREEN lights up.
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: >» Good, good...
text: ke spins the mouse, clicking “Internet.*
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: C'mon, this crappy old hotel must've
dialog: popped for wireless ~-
text: He waits patiently. The WI-FI icon scrolls. Searching...
dialog: searching... then --
scene_heading: “NO SIGNAL AVAILABLE”
text: Mike groans.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Irked, he grabs the laptop and starts stalking around the
text: room. Holding it over his head. Hunting for a sweet spot.
text: The icon flashes red... green... red. Mike glances at the
text: bricked-over window,
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Maybe there's a signal outside...
text: Mike stands on a chair, holding the laptop up against the
text: » brick. Amd... with a little jiggling -- the icon turns GREEN.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: 2
speaker_heading: Tibd
text: The screen flashes. An INTERNET WINDOW OPENS.
scene_heading: INTERNET LADY VOICE
dialog: Good evening, Mike.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Good evening, Fake Voice
dialog: 
text: Mike gleefully dances about. He FLIPS the Bird.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: And FUCK YOU, Mr. Scary Room Voice
dialog: Guy! I'm connected!!
scene_heading: INSERT - COMPUTER
text: Mike goes to his contacts. He quickly clicks on “BUDDY LIST."
text: And -~ one name is there: "LILY _ENSLIN’
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Ah, shit.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: on
dialog: aes
text: Mike winces ~~ he has no choice. He steels himself, then
text: types into the Instant Message Box: "LILY, I NEED HELP”
dialog: No response.
text: Mike types again: “EMERGENCY!”
text: Long baat. Then, a WINDOW OPENS UP as a REAL-TIME WEBCAM
text: LINK. A woman's face stares back at us: Mike's ex.
speaker_heading: WEBCAM CU - LILY
text: She's more weary than pretty these days. Just hanging on.
text: She looks dryly at Mike.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDECLINK)
dialog: Lock what the internet dragged in.
speaker_heading: ; MIKE
dialog: Lily! Thank God --
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK}
dialog: How about “hello.”
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I don't have time --
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK}
dialog: Yeah, well neither de I.
text: She goes to sign off.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Wait! Wait! Please --)
text: She stops.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: i need you call the cops, send ‘em to
dialog: West 61st and -~
speaker_heading: OVER VIDECLINK)
dialog: (
dialog: ve
dialog: 
scene_heading: {OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: You're in the City, and you didn't
dialog: tell me?!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: i... uh, I was only supposed to be
dialog: here a few hours ~~
dialog: 
dialog: a
dialog: Or
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: Jesusi Since the divorce, you've
dialog: been like a phantom! Now suddenly
dialog: you show up, you need @ favor --
dialog: 
dialog: {IKE
dialog: Lily, shut up!i! Zim in danger.
text: Lily freezes, shocked.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINE}
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I'm locked in a hotel room! There's
dialog: someone... something... trying to
dialog: kill me.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: Mike, back up! Who?!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I can’t explain. Just call the cops!
dialog: Teli ‘em Dolphin Hotel...
text: Suddenly, an unexpected HISSING. Mike looks up.
speaker_heading: ABOVE
text: The EMERGENCY SPRINKLERS go off! Water RAINS DOWN upon Mike
dialog: and the computer!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No -- NO!
text: Mike tries to cover the laptop, but it’s too late. Water
text: falls through the keys and into the electronics.
text: Lily's IMAGE over the screen begins te BREAK UP.
speaker_heading: ; LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: Mike... I... Can't hear...
speaker_heading: NIKE ;
dialog: Oh Christ! Lily, Dolphin Hotel!
dialog: 1408! Bust down the door!
text: PSSSTTTT! The computer screen goes BLACK,
speaker_heading: MIKE
scene_heading: FUCK! FUCK FUCK FUCKI Li
text: Raining droplets are everywhere, falling into the electric
speaker_heading: LAMPS.
text: The LIGHTS begin to flicker, creating a slow strobe effect.
dialog: 8
dialog: o
dialog: 
dialog: 66.
scene_heading: FLASHES OF LIGHT
dialog: 
text: illuminate the painting of grandma in the rocking chair.
dialog: Darkness. Then FLASH!
dialog: 
text: The painting changes: Grandma is now standing, staring out.
speaker_heading: FLASH!
text: The old lady turns into THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN from the lobby.
text: Her breast is bare. BLOOD drips from her nipple, down inte
text: her baby's open mouth. The baby's face is blue, dead,
speaker_heading: FLASH!
text: THE PAINTING OF THE SATLORS
text: turns into a ROTTING GHOST SHIP. They sail into a roiling
text: sea, covered in black clouds. The seamen's faces are pale,
text: starving, staring hopelessly.
text: Mike turns, shaky. FLASH!
text: THE PAINTING OF THE HUNT
text: The British men in red coats and hats get pulled off their
text: xses by the dogs. The dogs RIP the men apart, tearing their
dialog: 
text: whimpers. Around him, rain pours harder. WHOOOSH! A TORNADO-
text: LIKE SOUND roars. A liguid churning, growing louder...
text: Mike covers his ears and careens through the sopping mess,
text: shivering, looking for a way out. His feet smoosh in the
text: soaking carpet.
text: Mike passes the Thermostat. It's dropped to 48 DEGREES.
text: He pounds on the closed-up windows.
text: He tugs on the door.
text: find BLOWS fiercer. A BLAST OF COLD gushes from the AIR VENT,
text: blowing the shirt down. .
text: Mike's eyes narrow, thinking. Intrigued, he takes a step
text: closer to the VENT...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Ho ho. That goes some
dialog: ean just pull a Bruce
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Mike CLAMBERS UP onto the desk. He's right beneath the grate.
text: He takes out his PENLIGHT and shines it up through the
dialog: opening.
scene_heading: INSIDE THE VENT
dialog: 
text: it's dark, foreboding. In the shadows ie the black tube.
text: Mike puts his face up te it.
speaker_heading: ANGLE - MIKE
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hello, perv. I'm coming to get you.
text: He tugs the grate ~- it's fastened with four bolts. Fine. He
text: hurriedly pulis out his trusty LETTER OPENER and starts to use
dialog: it as a screwdriver...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Okay. Here goes nothin’.
text: Mike unscrews the first bolt. It falls to the ground.
text: An anxious pause ~~ then he quickly unscrews the second bolt.
dialog: The third.
dialog: The fourth.
text: Wary, Mike reaches and slowly pulis the grate off the ceiling.
text: He drops it, watching it hit the floor with a CLANG.
text: Beat -~ then he slowly turns back to the now-open vent.
text: Suddenly, he LUNGES at the tiny black tube and GRABS it.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: HAIIL
text: Mike squeezes it im his fist -- then reacts, surprised.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - MIKE'S HAND
text: He's holding a roll of DUCT TAPE. That's all,
speaker_heading: ANGLE ~ MIKE
text: A bewildered silence.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: There's... nobody watching me??!
dialog: {long pause; confused)
dialog: Why am I disappointed?
dialog: 
text: A halting moment. He gathers his wits, then stares inte the
text: open VENT.
dialog: 
dialog: 68,
scene_heading: INSIDE THE VENT
text: It's metal DARKNESS. Air WHOOSHES sinisterly.
text: Mike gulps, then waves his pathetic letter opener. He SHOUTS.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: I’ve got a kni
dialog: No response.
text: Mike steeis himself, then painfully lifts his body up inte...
scene_heading: INT. AIR-CONDITIONING VENT - SAME TIME
text: Mike clangs onto the hard cold surface. He pulls his legs up.
text: Inside, it’s black. We can't see a foot ahead.
text: Mike aims his penlight, but it's just 4 dull glow. Shadows
text: and rat droppings.
text: Mike takes a breath, then squirms forward.
text: It's murky and unsettling. The air BLASTS. Mike slithers
text: along... unsure, creeped-out. Until, his penlight reveals
scene_heading: A JUNCTION AHEAD
text: A "T" split. Shafts go left and right.
text: Mike stops -- not sure where to go. He shines the tiny light
text: both ways... but the beam disappears into dimness.
text: Then -~ faint VOICES.
text: Mike's eyes bulge.
text: he VOICES are from the right.
text: Mike gets excited. Other people! He scrambles down the vent.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Hey! Heyil
text: Wot far, he sees LIGHT. It's coming from a GRATE in the floor
dialog: of the shaft!
text: Mike hustles faster. He reaches the grate ~~ than looks down.
scene_heading: BELOW ~ HOTEL ROOM
text: it's the next Hotel Room. From above, we see the Young Mother
text: holding her CRYING baby.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: YOUNG MOTHER
dialog: Shh, shh. Mama loves her baby...
text: The Baby WATLS harder.
text: The Mother turns -- REVEALING SHE'S LILY. Young Lily, from
dialog: the PAST.
speaker_heading: DILLY
dialog: C'mon, Gracie. Stop arying.
dialog: (frazzled)
dialog: No, I don’t know where vour daddy is.
text: Probably booging it up...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: goes ashen.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Nen-no..,! Honey, I'm here...
speaker_heading: YOUNG LILY
text: can't hear him. She carries Baby Gracie into the next room.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: is tormented. He scurries to follow her. He rushes along the
text: vent. Banging himself on the sharp metal -~
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Ow! Wait --
text: He spots the next GRATE. Braced, he rushes over to it -- then
speaker_heading: GASPS.
speaker_heading: BELOW
text: is a PARK. Trees, a path.
text: Then two men walk by. Young Mike from the PAST, arguing with
text: his Father. Father is younger, healthy.
speaker_heading: FATHER
dialog: Mike, doen't do this! She needs you.
dialog: (reticent)
dialog: She lost a child, toc.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: fenraged)
dialog: Why do you a
dialog: s lecture me?
dialog: 
dialog: Me
speaker_heading: FATHER
dialog: I’m not -~
dialog: 
dialog: 70.6
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: I’m an adult! fF can make my own
dialog: decisions!
text: Mike storms away.
scene_heading: MIKE IN THE VENT
text: His face collapses. Pained by the memory.
text: He stares mutely, then feels something strange. Icky. He
text: turns the penlight on his hand...
text: And crawling across his fingers is a COCKROACH.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Ugh...
text: Mike brushes away the bug. The penlight'’s beam swings ~-
text: revealing HUNDREDS OF ROACHES. The VENT IS FESTERING.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: YEOGGHI
text: Grossed-out, Mike hurriedly BACKS UP, Rushing backwards
text: through the vent.
dialog: Hurry!
text: The beam rolls, grazing across skittering bugs.
text: Mike rushes faster. His breathing echoes through the
text: claustrophic metal.
text: Suddenly, he reaches a junction -- and DROPS.
dialog: Agghi! He's plunged down a
speaker_heading: VERTICAL SHAFT
text: Mike plummets intc blackness, falling backwards!
text: He flails, then SLAMS his hand, just catching the edge.
text: Hanging on for dear life.
text: Mike glances down. [It's ABSOLUTELY BLACK below.
dialog: 
dialog: With
text: a of adrenaline, Mike struggles to pull himself out.
dialog: Straining
text: muscles clenching... he lifts himself up.
text: Okay. Mike sucks in air. Resclved, he whirls about to race
dialog: forward --
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP
text: Pasty KEVIN O'MALLEY is face-to-face with him! Kevin's eyes
text: ave Wild, his skin bloated and blue.
text: Mike SCREAMS, startled.
text: Kevin gazes crazily, his mouth a pinched grimace.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Kevin...?
dialog: (trembling)
dialog: Kevin O'Malley??
text: Kevin stares, unspeaking. His breathing 4 HORRIBLE WHEEZE.
text: Then... he slowly lifts his head. Revealing his. THROAT Is
text: SLICED OPEN, ear to ear.
text: His bloody windpipe is visible, raspy. Kevin's mouth opens
text: and shuts, puppetiike, but only a moist gurgle comes out.
text: Mike recoils, terrified.
speaker_heading: ON THE MEN
text: Kevin O'Malley raises a 6-INCH NEEDLE AND THREAD. He points
text: and gurgles a barely intelligible phrase.
dialog: Then, again: “Fix it.°
text: Yikes! Mike pulls back in disgust and fear.
text: Kevin O'Malley suddenly lunges forward.
text: HELP! Mike spins away. Kevin CHASES. Freakily gurgling,
dialog: “Pix iti Fix iti”
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: barrels through the tiny space. Rushing for his life.
text: Kevin O'Malley SKITTERS after him. Mike races, reaching
speaker_heading: THE T-JUNCTION
text: He squirms down the RIGHT VENT.
text: He makes it a few feet, when --
dialog: CRUNCH! THE
dialog: giant hand =
text: VENT COLLAPSES RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIM!! As if a
dialog: S squeezed 1t like @ Coke can.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Mike yelps and jolts back.
dialog: 
text: The Vent continues CRUSHING IN, moving closer! He turns --
dialog: DOWN THE LEFT VENT
text: comes Kevin, his face a horrible rictus, waving the needle.
speaker_heading: MIRE
text: crawls Like hell! Faster, towards the
speaker_heading: MAIN VENT
text: Where in the distance he can see the OPENING to 1408! A slim
dialog: square of light --
scene_heading: THE OTHER VENT
text: keeps CRUSHING! Metal SMASHING closer --
speaker_heading: MIKE'S FEET
text: scurry as fast as they can.
text: SLAM! Kevin O'Malley STABS his needle into Mike's leg.
text: Mike SCREAMS, pained.
text: He KICKS backward. His foot SMUSHES through Kevin's head,
text: like a sponge. Kevin O'Malley collapses, the CRUSHING VENT
text: SQUEEZING him out of view.
text: Mike speeds faster. Room 1408 visible --
text: The CRUSHING, TWISTING METAL is now inches away ~-
text: As Mike HURLS himself forward...
scene_heading: INT. 1408 ~ SAME TIME
text: »..and falls through the vent into the room.
text: LAMi! He bounces off the desk, hitting the ground --
dialog: “a
text: as the sheet metal Vent BUCKLES CLOSED. BAM]!
scene_heading: TIGHT - MIKE
text: He lies there, overwhelmed. Breathing in fits, face drenched
text: in sweat, absolutely dumbsetruck.
text: He looks up at the ceiling... then around the room. Beat.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I need a drink.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INSIDE THE MINI-E
dialog: 
speaker_heading: S WING
dialog: 
dialog: Mike
text: grimaces,
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: What are you
dialog: (vexed)
dialog: Where's my BOOZE?!
text: Olin smiles, unruftled.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: T was just checking, sir. Are your
dialog: accomodations exceeding your
dialog: expectations?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You know GODDAMN WELL they are: What
dialog: do you want from me?
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: No no no. What de you want? What do
dialog: want, Mr. Ensiin? You sought
dialog: this room.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Twas doing my job!
speaker_heading: : OLIN
dialog: (like he misheard}
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 7a.
text: AR COLLAGE of tearful VOICES...
speaker_heading: SORROWFUL VOICE #1
dialog: She's in a better place, Mike...
scene_heading: SORROWFUL VOICE #2
dialog: She was in so mich pain...
scene_heading: SORROWFUL VOICE #3
text: I'm sure she’s smiling down at us
dialog: Eight now...
text: Mike winces, agonized.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: How Many spixits have you broken?
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: ARAABAH!
text: Enraged, Mike SLAMS shut the Mini-Bar.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I WANT MY DRINK!!
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Mike spins. He looks around, then spots the Cognac in the
text: bedroom. Ahi He beelines for the bottle, then snatches it
text: up. He uncorks it and thirstily chugs the drink.
text: Pause -~ then he calms. He glances down at the hotel Bible.
text: Curious, Mike picks it up, then flips through.
speaker_heading: INSERT - BIBLE
text: The PAGES are all now blank.
dialog: Weird.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: frowns. Then, a faraway voice...
speaker_heading: GRACIE (V.0.)
dialog: Why is our bible purple?
text: Mike looks up. There is a spectral
scene_heading: FLASHBACK VISION:
text: The Enslin family's old apartment, set-up as a grim hospice.
text: Gracie lies in bed, in a pink butterfly nightgown, in the
text: final, terrible stages of cancer, She's skeletal. Waxen.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Lily site by her, gripping a purple BIBLE. She laughs
dialog: awkwardly.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: I-~- XI dunno. It was a wedding
dialog: present.
dialog: {she caresses it)
dialog: But it's nice. The cover is real
dialog: leather...
speaker_heading: GRACTIE
dialog: Are there people where I'm going?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: You're not going anywhere.
speaker_heading: GRACTE
dialog: That isn't what Daddy said.
text: We reveal Young Mike sitting in the window, smoking a
text: cigarette. He stubs out the smoke.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: Daddy says a lot of stupid things.
text: {he comes over to the bed)
dialog: You're too young to understand, but
dialog: when you grow up and become an
dialog: adult...
dialog: (he forces a smile)
dialog: you'll realize I'm crazy.
text: Gracie giggles. Mike gently brushes her cheek.
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: Daddy, everyone dies.
text: A tense pause.
text: Lily glances at Mike. He struggles to be consoling.
speaker_heading: _YOUNG MIKE
dialog: ¥Y-you're right. Everyone dies...
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: (she jumps in)
dialog: And then you'll go to a better place.
dialog: And lots of psople will be there...
dialog: ther voice cracks)
dialog: All your fxriends.... And you’ll be
dialog: able to run around again... play...
text: Gracie looks up at Mike.
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: Bo you believe that, Daddy...?
dialog: 
text: A profound silence. He stammers, stuck.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: dT... Tees
text: Gracie etares pleadingly.
dialog: Waiting. Then ~~
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: Yes. I do.
speaker_heading: GRACTIE
text: (she breaks into a smile)
dialog: Good, Then I do too.
text: We hold.on her hsartfeit face.
dialog: Cur Tos
speaker_heading: ANOTHER VISION
text: Flames RAGE. It's a cremation.
text: A tiny coffin enters the burning fire.
scene_heading: PRESENT - MIKE
text: He sobs, pained. Wincing at this memory.
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK VISION
text: The crematorium glows white, then blazes pliercingly hot. The
text: casket disappears into the heat.
dialog: cur TO:
scene_heading: ANOTHER FLASHBACK
dialog: 
text: young Mike sits on Gracie's bed, wee g. He's unshaven,
text: distraught, clinging to her old pink nightgown.
text: Gracie is gone.
text: Lily can't even look at him.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: She could have hung on. But we had
dialog: to fill her head! With all those
dialog: fucking stories about the glorious
dialog: afterlife...
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: . LILY
dialog: . _ {erying) .
dialog: Why do you have to blame anyone?!
dialog: 
dialog: “ad
dialog: ~
text: Mike throws down the nightie.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MIKE
dialog: ZI gotta get out.
text: He jumps up and charges out of the apartment. SLAM!
speaker_heading: CUT TOs
scene_heading: INT. 1408 — PRESENT
text: Mike breaks down, devastated.
text: He slumps back against the wall, whispering to himself.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Gracie... Gracie...
text: He holds his gut, a terrible ache that will never leave.
text: A sorrowful silence... an emptiness... until --
speaker_heading: CLICK.
text: Mike turns, startled. His MINI~RECORDER has clicked into
text: PLAY. Its wheels spin...
scene_heading: MIKE'S RECORDED VOICE
dialog: “Hey, there's nothing to feel guilty
dialog: about. When a couple loses a child, 80%
dialog: of the time, they end up divorced ~~"
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No... I should've stayed -—-
scene_heading: MIKE'S RECORDED VOTCE
dialog: "And those bad doctors weren’t your
dialog: fault. You worked freelance. You
dialog: couldn't help if you were stuck with
dialog: @ crappy HMO...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Stop --
scene_heading: MIKE'S RECORDED VOICE
dialog: “And that b.s. about second-hand
dialog: smoke? C'mon! It's not like puffing
dialog: a couple cigarettes gives your
dialog: daughter cancer..."
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Jesus! Shut up!
dialog: 
text: e grabs the recorder and hits STOP.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: INSERT — RECORDER
dialog: 72.
text: A pause ~- then the wheels suddenly lurch into motion, by
dialog: themselves.
text: The grating, scary Voice cf the Room SCREECHES out.
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: (over tape recorder)
dialog: SHUT UP YOURSELF, ASSHOLE! You
text: WALKED OUT, LIKE A SNIVELING LITTLE
text: PUSSY! WALKED OUT ON YOUR WIFE, YOUR
dialog: FATHER, YOUR FRIENDS...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (bitter)
dialog: iowas sparing them -~
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: YOU'RE A MISERABLE LIAR!
text: Mike stares desolately.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: i -- I was searching...
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
text: SEARCHING FOR WHAT? FOR SOMETHING
dialog: THAT COULD PROVE YOU WRONG?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: Mike sighs. Beaten,
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes.
text: Suddenly -~ RITIIIINNGG!
text: He spins.
speaker_heading: THE FAX MACHINE
text: starts whirring. It's LCD screen says, "Receiving"
text: PAPER begins feeding.
text: Mike peers, confused.
scene_heading: TIGHT - FAX MACHINE
text: Something begins coming into the output tray.
dialog: Not 4 plece of paper.
dialog: 
dialog: os
speaker_heading: oO
text: But his daughter's PINK BUTTERFLY NIGHTGOWN. Stained with
text: mucus, blood, all the liquids of her dying.
text: SHOOM! It's ejected from the machine, into Mike's hands.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: AHHBEHI!!
text: Mike tries to push it off, freaked, but the mucus on the
text: nightgown clings to his hands.
text: Mike shakes it, revulsed. He desperately races away ~-
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Into the bathroom. Mike throws the nightie in the sink,
text: violently turning on the water.
text: FWOCSH! Water pours out, everywhere.
text: Mike shudders to tear the nightgown away. It comes loose,
text: discolored fluids floating in the sink...
text: Frightened, Mike backs out, SLAMMING the door.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM
text: Mike bolts back in, shivering. He can SEE HIS BREATH.
text: The Thermostat has dropped to 32 degrees.
text: Water droplets ere FROZEN AROUND THE ROOM. A weird, almost
text: Christmas-like atmosphere.
text: Mike blinks. He stares up.
scene_heading: THE WALL'S CRACK
text: has grown. The fissures cover the walls, ceiling and floor.
text: Like a spiderweb.
speaker_heading: THE CLOCK
text: keeps ticking down. 16:41... 16:40... 16:39...
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: seems lost. Eyes blank. Surrendered, he lies on the floor,
text: spreading his arms in the frost like a child making an ice
dialog: angel...
text: Then, a distant veice, like a dream..
speaker_heading: SILY (0.8.}
dialog: Can you hear me...?
dialog: 
dialog: Be.
text: Mike bolts up, dazed. He wheels around.
dialog: 
scene_heading: ANGLE - HIS COMPIN
text: is working again! Lily's glitchy IMAGE is on the SCREEN!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: 
text: Mike rushes over, astonished. She smiles to see him.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: Mike! Jesus! I've been trying you
dialog: to get through...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Did you call the police?
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
text: They're at the hotel.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: They're... w-why aren't they here?
dialog: ‘Y y
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: Didn't you say the Dolphin --
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Right! Yes --
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK}
dialog: You're sure?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Of course I'm sure! Please! Send
dialog: them to 1408!
text: Lily bites her lip, scared.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINE)
dialog: Mike, they're in 1408. The room's
text: empty.
text: We PUSH IN TO MIKE. His blood freezes, terrified.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Th -- that's impossible.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: Mike, where the hell are you?!
dialog: 
text: Mike looks all around.
text: Suddenly everything in the room looks more menacing. Jagged.
text: Mike's face collapses to a whisper.
dialog: 
dialog: BL.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: T... don’t know.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK}
dialog: Don't panic! We can figure this out.
text: Mike blanches. Hands shaking, he picks up the room FILE.
text: Vintage PHOTOS of grisly 1408 DEATH SCENES: A MILITARY MAN.
scene_heading: YOUNG EXECUTIVE IN A DERBY. A CUTE WOMAN.
text: All bleodied and gone.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No, we can't.
dialog: (morose)
dialog: I'm going to die.
text: ON THE COMPUTER
text: uily goes frantic.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: You're freaking! Look, don't move!
dialog: I can get there in fifteen minutes --
text: Mike glances at the CLOCK. 14:51... 14:50...
text: He shudders.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: That'll be too late.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: No it WON'T! I'll check evary room!
dialog: M-maybe you got the numbers mixed-up.
dialog: You're in 1480, or 1804...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: . (emphatic)
dialog: Lily, please stay away! I don't want
dialog: anything te happen to you ~~
text: This admission catches them both by surprise.
text: Beat -- then she flashes a tender smile.
speaker_heading: LILY (OVER VIDEOLINK)
dialog: Well... I feel the same way. See you
dialog: goon.
text: He shakes the computer...
dialog: A
text: When suddenly -- WHUMP!i The ENTIRE ROOM SHAKES, as if by a
text: huge EARTHQUAKE.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: PLASTER falls from the ceiling. Furniture and lamps CRASH.
text: The entire FLOOR begins to buckle and crack.
text: Mike loses his footing and stumbles to the ground. His head
text: strikes the floor with a sickening CRACK!
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - MIKE
speaker_heading: THUD.
text: His eyea shut -- then reopen, dazed. He looks up, discriented
text: and childlike.
speaker_heading: ABOVE
text: A light frost is falling. ICE CRYSTALS form on his hair.
text: Then, the ARMCIRE swivels into view... and comes DOWN.
text: Yikes!i Mike LURCHES out of the way, as -- SMASH! -- the
text: massive cabinet crashes to the floor, splintering.
text: Miks groggily leaps to his feet. He gazes around.
speaker_heading: THE SUITE
text: is a complete wreck. Broken furniture, collapsed ceiling and
dialog: walls.
text: The floor has BOWED around the bed, which lies at a slant.
text: Mike's feet are in liquid. A sludgy half-frozen muck. His
text: eyes follow the source of the water. Puddled in the corner...
text: then up... trickling down the wall... leading to
text: THE PAINTING OF THE GHOST SHIP
text: Which is now PHOTO-REALISTIC and ALIVE. Tossing in the waves!
text: The jaundiced, starved faces of the sailors are MOVING. They
text: SCREAM, frenzied. They're all now the VICTIMS FROM 1408: The
text: Natty Man in suspenders. The Factory Owner. And most
text: prominently, Kevin O'Malley, hands on the tiller, his eyes
text: boring straight at us. .
dialog: 
dialog: Chilled, Mike turns ~~
dialog: , 9
dialog: al
dialog: 
text: THE PAINTING OF THE HUNT
text: The dogs are ravenous, BARKING! Tearing their masters to
text: pieces. The men moan. The horses run off.
text: THE PAINTING OF MOTHER AND CHILD
text: The blue baby's mouth is twisted, teeth filed to RAZOR SHARP
text: POINTS. The mother weeps with despair, as the baby HISSES and
text: attacks her.
text: Mike covers his eyes, unable to take it.
text: ON THE PAINTINGS
text: The CRIES grew louder, more insistent. The ship rocks harder.
text: The ocean pounds.
text: The SHRIEKING grows.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Stop! STOP!
text: Unhinged, Mike SLAMS his fist at the painting, trying to stop
text: it. His knuckles BREAK the glass, ripping the canvas.
text: Suddenly -- FLOCOOCOOSH! SEA WATER BLASTS FROM THE PAINTING:
text: LIKE THE FORCE OF A HUNDRED FIRE HOSES.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: gets SLAMMED against the wall.
text: The ROOM FILLS with water, at an incredible speed. Higher,
dialog: higher ~-
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Mike struggles to float above. Furniture bangs around --
text: Mike fights the current. Debris swallows him up. Fatigued,
text: delirious, he starts muttering the Act of Contrition:
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: "O my God, I am heartily sorry for
dialog: having offended Thee, and I datest
dialog: all my sins..."
text: Mike's will gives out. He gets pulled under.
scene_heading: INT. 1408 ~ UNDERWATER
text: All is grim, like slow-motion. Murky and green.
text: Underwater, Mike turns, and sees the back wall has vanished.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: B4.
text: In its place is the GHOST SHIP. Sinking downward toward a
text: black abyss.
text: Mike gapes, his eyes bulging from lack of air.
text: Everything swirls. He spins, getting sucked deeper...
text: His arms tire. Bubbles pop from his mouth, as he begins to
text: breathe in water. Mike's body goes limp. He's pulled into
dialog: the ocean's darkness...
dialog: All seems lost... the end imminent, when ~-
text: A strange object unexpectedly appears.
text: Foggy, Mike looks up.
text: Then -- he gasps.
scene_heading: IT'S MIKE'S SURFBOARD
text: Hovering above him, like a godsend.
text: Mike is startled, confused -~ but grateful. He lurches and
text: grabs it -- hanging on —- his last chance for life. When, it
text: unexpectedly pitches and HAMMERS him in the head.
dialog: cur To:
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH ~ DAY
scene_heading: ECU - MIKE'S FACE
dialog: 
text: Mike lies mutely on his back, on the sand. Hyperv
text: Winded. Eyes glassy.
text: But, alive.
text: He's back in the beach scene from the beginning.
text: Then... a faint BUZZING. Mike looks up.
speaker_heading: IN THE SKY
text: The small AIRPLANE flies overhead, towing the BANNER, It
text: passes through the brightness, in sharp silhouette,
text: Mike squints, trying to read it.
text: The plane crosses a cloud, and the banner becomes readable:
scene_heading: "CHEAP AUTO TNSURANCE CALL 1-800-222-1408"
dialog: m
dialog: ur
speaker_heading: » MIKE'S
text: eyes widen.
scene_heading: TIGHT - THE BANNER
dialog: The four numbers: "1408°
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: trembles, everything spinning, his memories collapsing.
dialog: Nothing making any sense...
dialog: 
text: His chest tightens. His brain fesis like it's going to
dialog: explode. Then --
text: A wet LIFEGUARD thrusts his head into view.
speaker_heading: LIFEGUARD
dialog: Sir! Can you breathe? Is there any
dialog: water in your lungs?
dialog: {beat}
dialog: Can you focus??
text: Mike's jaw quivers, but forms no words. Utterly drained, he
text: passes out.
speaker_heading: S DISSOLVE To:
speaker_heading: ECU ~ MIKE
text: His head is bandaged and his face drawn, but his breathing is
dialog: even.
text: Slowly, he opens his eyes.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM ~ DAY
text: Mike is lying in a hospital bed, hooked up to an IV. A tree
text: is outside the window.
speaker_heading: LILY (0.8.)
dialog: He's alive...!
text: Mike turns. Sitting in a chair, watching him, is Lily. She
text: stands, relieved. Smiling anxiously.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: W-w-where am I?
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: You're in a hospital.
text: Mike wipes his eyes, confused.
dialog: 
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: In New York?
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: New York??
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: Ho -- Miami. You got hit in the head
dialog: with your board, You've been out for
dialog: a day.
text: Mike tries to takes this in, uncomprehending. She comes over.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: They called me, so I flew down.
dialog: (awkward shrug}
dialog: Guess I'm still listed as your next
dialog: of kin...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: So I'm not in New York?
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: No! Why do you keep saying that?!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Because I thought... God, it was so
dialog: vivid. I must've gotten banged in
dialog: the brains so hard, all my circuits
dialog: Bd fried.
dialog: {trying to focus)
dialog: I was trapped... I was dying... in
dialog: this weird hotel. The Dolphin --
dialog: The what?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: The Dolphin. The one on the
text: southeast corner of 61st and 8th.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: . (beat)
dialog: Mike, that's @ Banana Republic.
text: His expression falis.
text: She trembles, then starts weeping.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: you crying?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Because -~- T haven't seen you for so
dialog: long. And then -- we're here, like
dialog: this:
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: (CONT'D)
dialog: (soft)
text: In another hospital.
text: His eyes get watery. She gets emotional, then suddenly
text: hurries into the bathroom.
dialog: 
text: IN THE BATHROOM
text: Lily grabs @ tissue and wipes her face. She stares in the
text: mirror. A final sniffle, then she tentatively returns.
text: BACK AT THE BED
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Do you know it's been three years?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Since --
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Since...
text: They both trail off. She peers at him, still terribly hurt.
text: Her voice drops to a hush.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Mike, why'd you leave?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (somber, he whispers)
dialog: Because... every time I looked at
dialog: you, I saw her face.
text: Lily shudders, silent.
text: ike reaches out... straining... and takes her hand.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: i’m sorry. Sorry I blew it... sorr
dialog: ¥ ¥
dialog: for everything...
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Everything?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: For -- Gracie...
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: You had nothing to do with Gracie.
text: He looks in her eyes, seeing the truth of his life.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Then -~ I'm sorry for running away.
dialog: For making mistakes. For sbandoning
dialog: everyone...
dialog: 
dialog: B8.
scene_heading: cLosEue -— LILY
text: She nods, acceptingly-
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: You should get some rest.
speaker_heading: CUT TOs
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - LATER
text: Lily huddles by herself, talking on a CELLPHONE.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: (on cellphone}
dialog: I think I’m gonna stay a couple extra
dialog: days.
dialog: (beat; embarrassed)
dialog: No, nothing's going on. But Mike had
text: a concussion and he's talking kind of
text: strange. Almost hallucinatory...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He might need a little help.
dialog: cur TO:
scene_heading: INT. RENTAL CAR - DRIVING - DAY
text: Lily drives a white rental car. Mike sits in the passenger
text: seat staring, a large bandage across his temple.
text: The boulevard is quite uninspiring: Overgrown palm trees,
text: graffitied Cuban markets, faded pink motels.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Remind me again. Why do you live
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I can be anonymous.
text: She laughs.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH PARKING LOT - DAY
text: Lily drops Mike off at his car. It has two parking tickets.
text: He peers out at the turquoise water. In the distance, a
text: dolphin jumps in the waves.
speaker_heading: cur TGs
speaker_heading: J
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MATLBOXZES, ETC. - DAY
text: The same fluerescent craphole we saw before. The scene plays
text: just Like last time: Mike enters and goes to his mailbox. He
text: aniocks it, removing a startling amount of MATL.
text: The MAILBOX GUY nods.
speaker_heading: MAILBOX GUY
dialog: You've been gone awhile.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah.
text: A disinterested beat -- then Mike reacts, offput.
scene_heading: INT. PALM COFFEE SHOP ~ DAY
text: Mike sits in his corner booth, alone. He's going through
text: months of OPENED MAIL. The table is spread with brochures
text: from haunted hotels and inns... a bill from Saint Joseph's
dialog: Nursing Home... the Weekly World News...
text: Mike slashes an envelope with his letter opener, removing a
text: childish GREETING CARD. It has a cartoon monkey saying "No
dialog: Monkeying Around! Happy Birthday!"
text: Mike reacts, strangely. The oddest sensation...
text: He frowns -- then suddenly wades through all the hotel mail.
text: Franticaily digging through photos, flyers... searching...
dialog: searching...
scene_heading: INT. MAILBOXES, ETC. - DAY
text: The door SLAMS open. Mike barges back in, a bit frenzied.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Did I drop a postcard??
text: The Mailbox Guy stares.
speaker_heading: MATLBOX GUY
dialog: Uh... nope.
text: Perturbed, Mike scans the floor. Then his eyes drift... up,
text: up... te the CEILING. Up there is an AIR VENT.
text: Mike is bothered.
scene_heading: EXT. MAILBOXES, ETC. - SECONDS LATER
text: Mike runs out, punching "411" into his CELLPHONE. He paces
text: the sidewalk, bristling with nervous energy.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes! In New York city, can I have
dialog: the number for the Dolphin Hotel??
dialog: Leng beat. Then:
speaker_heading: OPERATOR (V.0.}
dialog: I have no such listing.
dialog: ‘t accept this.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Are you sure?
speaker_heading: OPERATOR (V.0.3
dialog: Sir, Ihave no such listing.
dialog: cur TO:
scene_heading: INT. RESEARCH LIBRARY ~ DAY
text: Mike RUNS up to the research desk. He flags down a LIBRARIAN.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY MICROFICHE ROOM
text: Mike frantically scrolls through MICROFICHE, pages blurring
text: by. Suddenly, he finds the ancient New York Herald-Tribune
text: front page. He leans in -- but the headline has changed.
text: Now it says "FACTORY OWNER LEAPS OFF BRIDGE.“ Underneath is a
text: PHOTO of some cops at a riverbank.
text: Mike gasps, disturbed.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No way --
text: A moment of dislocation... when he remembers something. Mike
text: whips out his LEGAL PAD, But -- now the pages are all EMPTY.
text: A spooky pause... when suddenly ~- RING!! It's his CELLPHONE.
text: Mike jumps, startled. Quickly, he answers. The screen says
dialog: "LILY." 7
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: H-Hey.
speaker_heading: , LILY (V.6.3
dialog: i'm just checking up. How are you?
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: Uh... tell you the truth, I'm
dialog: questionable...
dialog: 
dialog: curt TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEACH RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: Mike and ILdly have dinner at a nice beachfront cafe. Waves
dialog: crash in the b.g.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: It's fuckin' weird. This hotel thing
dialog: feels so real...
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Maybe I should drive you back to the
dialog: hospital --
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No, no -- I'm not ill. It's just...
dialog: this powerful sense of deja vu. The
dialog: feeling of something so immediate --
dialog: yet you know it didn't happen.
text: He stares, entranced.
speaker_heading: ; MIKE
dialog: I can't believe I’m sitting here with
dialog: you.
text: She slowly smiles.
text: A WOMAN in a flowered dress passes by. Mike glances --~ and
dialog: for a FLASH she's the Portly Lady from 1408.
dialog: Huh?
text: Mike turns -- and now she’s 4 CUBAN LADY.
dialog: 
text: He wipes his eyes, on edge. Questioning himself. He leans i)
text: to Lily, his voice tremulous. We MOVE IN on the couple.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Did I tell you that Gracie was there?
speaker_heading: DILLY
dialog: (off-guard)
dialog: NOees
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Can you imagine how strange
dialog: «-» the sensation that I saw
dialog: her just a few hours ago?
dialog: 
text: Lily blinks back tears. She grabs for her wine.
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: S-sounds like one of your books.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Io know. Except usually, I have to
text: pretend the haunted house is scary.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: This time, my trip was imaginary...
dialog: and it's the most terrifying place
dialog: i've ever been.
text: AT THE NEXT TABLE
text: Left on a plate are the remains of
text: Two GUYS get up and leave.
text: A fly buzzes...
text: a beef burger soaked in red ketchup.
text: Mike doesn't notice.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: ¥You should write about it.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What? The dream?
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: (she slowly nods)
dialog: If it means something to you. Maybe,
dialog: you've been given a second chance.
dialog: D Mike thinks.
text: CLICK! CLICK! CLICK! CLICK! CLICK!
scene_heading: INT. MIKE'S OFFICE - DAY
text: TIGHT on Mike, rapidly TYPING AWAY at his computer.
scene_heading: CLICK! CLICK! CLICK:
text: The computer screen FILLS WITH WORDS. Mike is on fire, ideas
text: pouring out. His face ablaze...
speaker_heading: MIKE'’S VOICE
dialog: “T grabbed my overnight case. ‘Mr.
dialog: Olin, I've never seen a ghost, and ft
dialog: don't believe I ever will.‘
dialog: (beat) .
dialog: "Olin smirked. “I'm afraid you don't
dialog: believe in anything. But in 1408,
dialog: your unbelief wiil only render you
dialog: more vulnerable. ‘*
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: It's dark outside. The desk is littered with potato chip bags.
speaker_heading: MIEE’S VOICE
dialog: "The man wore 4 1920's brown wool
text: suit. Suspenders. He pulled the
dialog: noose round hig neck ~- then
dialog: jumped..."
text: Mike types faster.
speaker_heading: MIKE‘S VOICE
dialog: "The window vanished. Ll evidence
dialog: of its existence erased..."
text: CLICK! CLICK! CLICK!
speaker_heading: MIKE'S VOICE
text: "Kevin O'Malley's throat gushed a
dialog: sickly rich red..."
text: Mike slurps a coffee.
speaker_heading: MIKE'S VOICE
dialog: "My narration on the tape recorder
text: became fragmentary, a loop of unease.
text: No longer the voice cf a man at
dialog: work... but of a perplexed individual
dialog: losing his hold on reality.”
scene_heading: INT. SAM'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Sam grins at his speakerphone. He shouts.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Mikey! You sound happy.
speaker_heading: MIRE (V.0.}
dialog: (giddy, on phone)
dialog: Iocan’t believe it! The work's just
dialog: pouring out of me! I think I've
dialog: invented some new literary form: The
dialog: fiction memoir. Autobiography of a
dialog: nightmare. It's sort of like Capote
text: meets Whitley Strieber.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: EZ love it! "In Cold Blood” with
dialog: aliens!
dialog: (gleeful)
dialog: Iowanna put it out to auction --
dialog: start a bidding war! When can I read
dialog: in?
dialog: A
dialog: MIKE af?
dialog: yo i it te you the
dialog: An
dialog: Ba
scene_heading: EXT. MIAMI AIRPORT - DAY
text: Mike is dropping off Lily. She has her bags. A tender smile
dialog: between them.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ‘Ll see you soon.
text: An awkward pause -- and then they kiss.
scene_heading: INT. MIKE'S OFFICE - DAY
text: The laser printer is WHIRRING. Pages come speeding out, crisp
dialog: and clean.
text: Mike reads them proudly.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Mike neatly stacks the sheets. He slides them into a fat
text: manila ENVELOPE.
scene_heading: INT. CRAPPY CAR - DAY
text: Mike jeuntily climbs in his car, gushing the _ Package. He
text: sweeps a pile of junk eff the seat, onto the floor. A shred
text: of paper catches his eye -- the nursing home biil
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Hmm. He thinks...
scene_heading: INT. SAINT JOSEPH'S NURSING HOME ~ DAY
text: An airless lobby. VERY CLD PEOPLE sit unmoving, some in
text: wheelchairs. ORDERLIES silently clean. A TV plays unwatched.
text: Mike bursts through the doors. He looks around, lost. ALL
text: the WOMEN look alike -- wrinkled emaciated figures with big
text: glasses and white hair. All the MEN are huddled in bathrobes,
text: faces unshaven, syss vacant.
dialog: 
text: Mike studies the men, trying to decide if one is his father.
text: But then... he notices his dad in a wheelchair, rolled over by
text: a window. A shell of a man, gazing cut...
text: Mike's face falls. Then, he girds himself and hurries over.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Dad?
dialog: 
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: FATHER
text: doesn’t react. Mike gently approaches.
speaker_heading: MIKE /
dialog: T haven't... seen you in awhile...
dialog: No response.
text: Mike pulls up a chair. He takes his father’s veined hand.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Are you doing okay?
text: Nothing. No reaction at all. Mike whispers.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Well... I'm actually pretty good.
dialog: I'm speaking to Lily again...
text: The old guy keeps staring out the glass.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: And... I've written a new book.
dialog: (a careful beat)
dialog: I think you'd like it.
text: A beat. Then -- a brief flicker crosses Father's face. His
text: eyes widen.
speaker_heading: PATHER
dialog: Michael...??
speaker_heading: cU - MIKE
text: He trembles, touched. A pang of emotion, this briefest of
dialog: connections meaning so much to him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MAILBOXES, ETC. ~ DAY
text: Mike strides back into the mailbox store. The place is
text: cluttered, WORKMEN busy on ladders. The clock says 4:55.
text: Mike slams the big envelope down on the counter.
dialog: 
dialog: Hil
dialog: overnight.
text: The Mailbox Guy is turned away from us. He doesn't move.
text: Mike glances nervously at the clock.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Um -- where are the forms I've got to
dialog: fill out? I really need this in New
dialog: York tomorrow.
scene_heading: MAILBOX GUY'S VOICE
dialog: I’m sorry, we're closed.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Huh? Wol That's wrong.
dialog: {he points at the clock)
dialog: It‘s only five of. I -- still have
dialog: five more minutes!
text: The Mailbox Guy turns... revealing HE IS ACTUALLY MR. OLIN.
text: OLIN SMIRKS, OMNISCIENT and ALL-POWERFUL. He takes the
dialog: package.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr. Enslin. Your time is
dialog: up.
text: Mike GASPS, stupefied.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Wha...?it
speaker_heading: A WORKMAN
text: scrapes away some drywall, revealing BUTTERFLY PAPER UNDERNEATH.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: spins, bewildered.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Noooo...!
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Oh come, Mr. Enslin. You didn’t
dialog: really think it was just a dream?!
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Another WORKMAN turns, revealing he's the ENGINEER from the
text: hotel. He slams the floor, unveiling BEIGE CARPET underneath.
scene_heading: ON MIKE'S FACE
text: All color drains.
text: His expression goes from fear... to realization... to madness.
text: The room starts SPINNING.
dialog: 
dialog: ST.
text: BROUND HIM, the SOUND of CONSTRUCTION BUILDS. Louder, LOUDER,
text: a CRUSH of ac ity.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THE ROOM
text: spins faster. Every revolution transforms us back te 1408.
text: The WALLS all become wallpaperad.
text: A WORKMAN leers, in a blur becoming Kevin O'Malley.
text: Mike staggers, terrified.
text: The room spins faster. The Mailbox Store is vanishing.
text: The CEILING tile crashes down, revealing 1408's VENT.
text: The FURNITURE appears around us.
text: The WHIR builds to a high-pitched, painful SHRIEK --
dialog: And THEN --
scene_heading: INT. 1408 - SAME TIME
text: The howl suddenly STOPS.
text: And Mike is left, collapsed onto the carpet of 1498. Curled
text: in a fetal position, whimpering, confused.
text: He slowly lifts his head... and a horrible guttural MOAN
text: passes from his lips.
text: He's back.
text: THE ROOM IS JUS? AS HE LEFT IT. RAVAGED. DRENCHED. LIKE A
text: HURRICANE BLEW THROUGH.
text: The unplugged clock keeps ticking down: 4:55... 4:54...
text: Mike unsteadily rises. He shouts plaintively.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: No, NOi I was OUT --
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: WRONG! YOU NEVER LEFT!
text: Mike jerks, startled.
text: The voice is behing him. Unnerved, Mike slowly turns. And
dialog: back there... is...
dialog: 
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: A DOOR
text: Standing all by itself in the middie of the room.
text: Tentative, shaky, he crosses closer...
text: The door waits. Mike forces himself. Sweating. Heart
text: pounding crazy.
text: Valiantly, hands trembling... he reaches to the handle.
text: Grimacing with dread, he starts to turn it --
text: When ~- his courage lets out. He lets go.
text: The VOICE snickers.
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
text: MICHAEL..! YOU'VE BEEN LOOKING FOR
text: SOMETHING TO BELIEVE IN. FOR A LIFE
scene_heading: AFTER DEATH: WELL, HERE I AM.
speaker_heading: THE DOOR HANDLE
text: starts turning by itself.
text: Mike shudders.
speaker_heading: THE DOOR
text: slowly opens. Through the crack, we SEE a DEEP, BLACK SPACE
text: of a place that exists somewhere other than 1408.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: seiges up, aghast.
text: A DARK SHADOW falis over him...
text: We DON'T SEE what is revealed behind the door. But Mike does.
text: His FACE beholds a horror no sane person can endure.
text: His eyes widen, His mouth opens in a silent scream.
text: His legs buckle under him.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: GODDDDDDDDPPDDI iis
dialog: Beat.
dialog: 99.
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: YOU SATD GOD DOESN’T EXIST!
text: Mike crumples in on himself, finished. He's cowering, beaten.
text: He covers his head, preparing for a fatal blow. We MOVE
text: CLOSER... CLOSER... until his FACE IS IN TIGHT CLOSE-UP.
text: Readying himself for an unimaginable fate.
text: The tension of the moment builds to a climax. The end
dialog: imminent. And then -~
text: A melancholy MUSIC.
scene_heading: ; _ KAREN CARPENTER'S VOICE
dialog: (singing)
dialog: "We've only just begun...”
text: Huh? Mike looks up.
scene_heading: IN FRONT OF HIM
text: The door has DISAPPEARED.
text: In its place is
speaker_heading: GRACIE
text: Dressed in her dirty pink nightgown. She's pale, skeletally
text: thin, her hair falling out.
text: She locks at Mike and smiles. A smile that makes her face
text: lock even more skuli-like.
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: Daddy...?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (anguished)
dialog: You're mot reall!
text: He backs away. Hurt, she weakly reaches te touch him..
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: I need help.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You're not Graciel!
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: (soft)
dialog: I wet myself.
text: Tears spring to Mike's eyes. Fighting this, he steps back.
dialog: Al e
dialog: 
dialog: Mike can't stand this.
text: She shivers, her little body wispy...
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: Seo cold...
text: Mike's face caves. Suddenly overpowered by feelings, he
text: RUSHES FORWARD and GRABS her tightly.
speaker_heading: MIKE ;
dialog: Oh Gracie, Gracie, Gracie...
scene_heading: TIGHT - MIKE AND GRACIE
text: His eyes are shut, clinging to her tiny body. The most
dialog: electric thing he’s ever felt.
text: She speaks, barely a whisper.
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: It won't let me stay.
text: He looks up, as she convulses violently. Her face damp with
text: sweat. He touches her forehead -- it’s burning up.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Nol Honey, no one’s gonna take you.
text: Her eyes brim with tears of pain.
speaker_heading: GRACIE
dialog: Do you love me, Daddy?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You know I do!
speaker_heading: GRACTE
dialog: I wish we could stay together. You,
dialog: me, Mommy --
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: We can! I promise we CAN!
text: Happy, she brushes her hand to his cheek.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON - MIKE'S CHEEK
text: As she withdraws her hand, it leaves a TRAIL OF ASH.
dialog: 
dialog: fet
dialog: co
dialog: os
speaker_heading: GRACIE
text: unexpectedly collapses, like a balloon that's lost all air.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Gracie?
text: he falle back, eyes frozen. She's stopped breathing.
dialog: wa
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: 4
speaker_heading: GRACIE?!
text: Mike shakes her, but she is still.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Noli:
text: Mike immediately begins CPR. He puts his mouth over hers,
text: breathing air into her lost lungs.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Not againi Goddammit, NOT AGAIN:
text: He furiously begins CPR. He begs, between breaths.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Stay... stay...
speaker_heading: MIRE
text: keeps pressing on her chest. Through his face, we see vain
text: hope. Despair. And finally... loss.
text: Shaken, he pulls his hands away. They are CCVERED IN ASH.
speaker_heading: ABOVE
text: Gracie's body has TURNED TO DUST. She is gone.
text: Mike is immobile. Hands gray with the remains of his child.
text: His heart is empty. Absolute sorrow. Grieving, eyes sunken,
text: he looks up. Just wanting it to end.
text: ticks down. OO:10... 00:09... 00:08...
speaker_heading: MIRE
text: slowly reacts, sobbing.
speaker_heading: THE CLOCK
text: 00:02... 06203... 00:00.
dialog: 3°
speaker_heading: O
dialog: 0
dialog: we
dialog: reaches the finish:
dialog: 
dialog: Aad --
speaker_heading: MIKE'S EYES
text: starts FLICKERING. The LED numbers flash randomly...
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: waits despondently. Around him, the ash disappears. The gray
text: dust dissipates, like a dream, into nothingness.
text: Mike stares, uncomprehending. Until he peers up -- and GASPS.
scene_heading: WIDE VIEW OF THE ROOM
text: 1408 has RETURNED TO ITS OPENING STATE. No water damage.
text: Windows back. Everything restored to when we first entered.
text: The clock radio RESETS TO 60:00. It begins counting down
dialog: again: 59:59... 59:58... 59:57...
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: goes into shock. Dumbstruck. His voice cracking.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Why don't... you just kill me?
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
text: BECAUSE ALL THINGS COME DOWN TO
speaker_heading: CHOICE.
text: Mike trembles, utterly desolate.
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: YOU GET TO RELIVE THE SAME HOUR.
scene_heading: AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN.
text: The THERMOSTAT starts rising: 85... 90... 95...
text: Mike's skin gets clammy. He staggers, lightheaded.
scene_heading: VOICE OF TEE ROOM
dialog: UNLESS, YOU CHOOSE TO END IT.
text: Something FALLS right behind him. Mike turns --
speaker_heading: A ROPE NOOSE
text: hangs, attached te the ceiling. Below it is a chair.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: pet
speaker_heading: O
dialog: uo
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: nods, acquiescing.
dialog: ey
text: The TEMPERATURE is getting hellish: 118... 120... 12
text: Mike is weeping. Confused. Unable to think clearly, he steps
text: onto the chair. Hse slowly draws the rope around his neck.
text: Mike stands there, eyes glassy. Pondering his fate.
text: But -- not jumping. Emotions and regrets pound through his
dialog: body.
text: He grips the rope tight... then suddenly pulis it off, crying.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I... can’t.
dialog: (distraught)
dialog: I'm sorry! I just... can't do it.
text: The VOICE booms, furious.
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: THEN YOU LEAVE ME NO OPTION!
text: The TV suddeniy turns on.
text: ON THE TV SCREEN
text: We see Lily, guilelessiy entering the Dolphin lobby.
speaker_heading: MIKE'S FACE
text: face falls, horrified.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Lily...?
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: (mocking)
text: YES, "LILY"! I'LL TAKE HER IN TRADE.
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: N-NO!
speaker_heading: ON THE TV
text: Lily's celiphone sharply RINGS. She answers.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Hello?
text: We hear MIKE'S SIMULATED VOICE.
speaker_heading: MIKE'S VOICE
dialog: (over cellphone}
dialog: Lily, it's me.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Mike?
speaker_heading: MIKE‘S VOICE
dialog: Hurry! Come up to my room.
scene_heading: THE REAL MIKE
text: gapes in horror.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Leave her out of this!!
speaker_heading: ON THE TV
text: Lily enters the elevator. The doors shutting...
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: starts freaking out. He spins, then notices his CELLPHONE on
text: the floor. Its screen flickers.
text: Ahi Mike looks around, paranoid, then grabs the phone. Its
text: power blinks. Frantic, he hurriedly DIALS Lily. He bites his
dialog: nails. RING! RING...!
speaker_heading: ON LILY
text: She rides up the elevator, oblivious.
speaker_heading: ON MIKE
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: C'mon, c'mon...
text: More RINGING. Then ~~ a MAN answers, through garbled STATIC.
speaker_heading: MAN (V.0.}
dialog: Hello?
text: A discombobuiated beat. It's a wrong mumber, but... strangely
dialog: familiar.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hello?! Who -- who is this???
dialog: 108.
scene_heading: » INT. RESEARCH LIBRARY - THE PAST
dialog: 
dialog: tt's Mike back in the microfiche room, in the past,
text: the call. Ail he hears is STATIC.
dialog: Hello! This i
dialog: anybody there?
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. 1408 - PRESENT
text: Mike blanches, realiging. He shouts deliriously.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: My God! Don't come to the Dolphin!
dialog: Stay out of 140-~
text: His phone suddenly SPARKS, shorting. It FLAMES, burning him.
text: He cries out and drops it. Mike turns worriedly to
speaker_heading: THE TV
text: Lily is still in the elevator, rising. Floors go by: 8... 9...
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: eS gets a galvanized look.
speaker_heading: MIRE
dialog: iwon't let you have her.
text: Incensed, he runs toward the door.
speaker_heading: CRAZY ANGLE
text: Suddenly -- the ROOM PIVOTS, slanting to 45 DEGREES!
text: Mike trips, falling. SLAM!
text: The floor is crazy. Mike tries to get up, attempting to
text: climb. His naked hands fall on hot carpet, singeing him.
text: Mike SCREAMS in pain. But he keeps going.
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
text: YOU CAN'T SAVE HER. SHE'S DOOMED:
speaker_heading: ON THE TV
text: The elevator opens on the 14th floor. Lily steps out...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: WIDE -— THE ROOM
text: Mike crawls upward, his squilibrium reeling.
text: The SLANT is now INSANE. ‘The floor is practically vertical.
text: Mike hangs onto the furniture, like a rock climber. Using all
text: his might, he hoists himself.
text: The thermostat keeps rising. 140. 145...
text: Mike struggles to move. He can barely breathe through the
text: sweltering heat. He looks up -- and the living room has
text: LENGTHENED. The DOOR now seems a football field away. Just a
text: speck.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: moans. His feet STICK to the hot melting carpet. He wants to
text: move, but collapses. The fabric burns into his hands.
text: The door is hopelessly far away. In anguish, unable to crawl,
text: he weakly glances at the TV.
speaker_heading: ON THE TV
text: Lily walks down the hall. Approaching...
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - MIKE
text: In a final gasp at salvation, Mike whispers.
speaker_heading: ; MIKE
dialog: Lily. Go...
speaker_heading: ON THE TV
text: Lily takes & step, then suddenly stops.
text: Like she heard him.
text: She contemplates this sensation, her face a mix of strange
text: emotions. Then ~~ she suddenly turns and LEAVES.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: sobs, relieved.
dialog: 
dialog: et
dialog: ao
dialog: =
text: s overwrought. Volatile, rapturous. He slowly locks
text: up... and then his expression darkens.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ived the life of a
dialog: 
dialog: I know I've
dialog: selfish ma
dialog: {pause}
dialog: But I doen't have to die that way.
dialog: 
text: Mike reaches for the fallen BOOK OF MATCHES.
text: He stares -- then rips out_a match and STRIKES it against the
text: cover, with its funny little doorman.
text: An instant, TINY FLAME.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Maybe this room isn't real. Maybe
dialog: Tim not even real.
dialog: (wheezing, desperate)
dialog: But this fire... is real.
text: Mike crawls across the floor. Holding the match out,
text: straining to touch it to a CURTAIN...
text: When -~ WHOOSH! A HUSH OF WIND from the air conditioning vent
text: blows it out.
scene_heading: VOICE OF THE ROOM
dialog: YOU'D JUST BE KILLING YOURSELF.
text: Mike considers this... then nods.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: As long as I kill you too, IT can rest
dialog: in peace.
text: Suddenly, Mike grabs Olin's
speaker_heading: COGNAC BOTTLE
text: Mike pops the cork, then lights the ENTIRE BOOK OF MATCHES.
text: The FLAME BLAZES bright, a crazy glow under his face, Mike
text: shoves it in the bottle, lighting the flammable liquid. Mike
text: spins and HURLS the MOLOTOV COCKTAIL.
text: BLAMMMM!! The entire ROOM explodes in flames.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: The FIRE instantly spreads, igniting the carpet and furniture.
text: FSSST! The SPRINKLERS COME ON -~ the room's desperate attempt
text: to save itself. Mike laughs manically.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Too LATE! You'll never hurt anyone
dialog: again.
text: The CURTAINS flare up, blindingly orange. The blaze SEARS,
text: the walls erupt.
text: Mike stands inside the inferno, seething. In a final act, he
text: clicks on his recorder:
speaker_heading: MIRE
text: "The decor is tattered and the staff
dialog: surly... but on a Shiver Scale, I
dialog: award the Dolphin Hotel ten skulls.”
text: The flames congeal, then DETONATE,
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL WINDOW ~ SAME TIME
text: KABOOM! A thundering FIREBALL blasts out the window.
scene_heading: INT. 1408 ~ SAME TIME
text: Mike is obliterated from view.
text: The raging flames scorch the ceiling, then get sucked into the
speaker_heading: AIR VENT.
scene_heading: INT. VENT
text: Pulsing FIRE courses through the vents. Splitting in all
dialog: directions.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - SAME TIME
text: Fire ALARMS go off.
text: Hotel doors start SLAMMING open. Frantic GUESTS rush toward
text: the exits, SCREAMING, pushing each other.
dialog: i
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN HOTEL - UPPER STORIES - SAME TD
text: Flames POUR OUT of the top stories. Smoke fills the sky.
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN HOTEL - AT THE STREET ~ SAME TIME
text: Sirens WAIL. GUESTS come flying sut the doors, many in
text: pajamas, furiously racing for the street.
dialog: 
text: Flames ripple. In the broiling heat, the room begins to MELT.
text: The walls sag, sinking into strange, unpleasant curves.
dialog: 
text: The paintings begin te bend. Moans cry out.
text: The chandelier droops like a glob of spit.
text: fhe clock radio meite into the floor.
text: The yellow-orange LIGHT brightens almost painfully hot -~ and
text: then, for a final setend -~ we glimpse Mike.
speaker_heading: GRACIE'S VOICE
dialog: Daddy, everyone dies.
text: Mike's eyes glisten. A brief, satisfied smile... and then
text: he's swallowed by the fire.
scene_heading: INT. DOLPHIN. LOBBY - SAME. TIME
text: The ceiling COLLAPSES, burning. SHOUTS and SCREAMS, as the
text: last GUESTS shove their way out. We MOVE THROUGH the blazing
text: debris. Past the ash, through the charred furniture, toward
dialog: the Reception counter...
scene_heading: INT. OLIN'S OFFICE - SAME TIME
text: The beautiful oak paneling is ablaze. Shelves fall, rare
text: books crumbling into dust.
text: Sitting amid the devastation, perfectly calm at his desk, is
text: Olin. Like the captain of the Titanic, he is unruffled. He
text: leans back in his chair, at peace, enjoying a cigar. An amber
text: brandy in his hand.
speaker_heading: OLIN
dialog: Well done, Mr. Enslin. Well done!
text: He swirls the brandy in its snifter, then takes a slow sip.
dialog: aes
text: Until, oddiy ~- RING! [It's an interrupting PHONECALL. Olin
text: stares quizzically, then begrudgingly puts down his brandy.
scene_heading: INSERT - THE SNIFTER
text: It gets placed on the desk upon a PILE OF POSTCARDS. The same
dialog: Dolphin Hotel postcard that Mike received.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ~ OLIN
text: He answers his phone, crisp and professional.
speaker_heading: _ OLIN
dialog: Good evening. Dolphin Hotel.
text: nm listens, then shrugs.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: be
dialog: fot
dialog: Oo
speaker_heading: OLTN
dialog: No, I'm so sorry. We're not :
dialog: accepting reservations at this time.
text: Olin gentiy hangs up the phone. Then he takes a puff of his
dialog: cigar.
text: Behind him, the walls CAVE IN.
dialog: cur TO:
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN HOTEL ~ LATER
text: The FIRE DEPARTMENT is in front, spraying the building down.
text: Hook-and-ladders fill the street.
text: POLICEMEN hold back the shivering guests. We TRACK PAST their
text: bewildered faces ~- cold, frightened, tired ~- until we land
text: on one woman, off to herself.
text: Lily. She gazes up at the Hotel. Then, she sadly speaks.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: Goodbye, Mike.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT, CEMETERY - DAY
text: A smail funeral, under gray skies.
text: A DOZEN people are huddled around a fresh grave, watching the
text: coffin get lowered into the ground.
text: Lily's face is withdrawn. Not overwrought... but utterly
text: drained. She stares, then drops a flower on the casket.
text: Sam gives her a supportive hug.
speaker_heading: CUr TO:
scene_heading: INT. MIKE'S OFFICE - DAY
text: The grubby office is filled with boxes. Sam and Lily are
text: silently packing up Mike's belongings.
text: There are hundreds of hooks. Cameras. A sound meter. A
text: chipped Edgar Allen Poe award. Lily sighs.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: You live a life, and ail that's left
text: behind are boxes of junk.
text: Sam clases a box.
dialog: 
dialog: he
dialog: ee
dialog: a
speaker_heading: SAM
text: At least he went out in a blaze.
speaker_heading: . LILY
dialog: hat’s not funny.
dialog: et
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: No, I'm sorry, I -- I wasn't trying
dialog: to be funny.
dialog: (genuine)
dialog: What I meant was -- he went out like
text: one of his characters.
dialog: (he sighs}
dialog: It's just a shame he won't be around
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: On the desk is a cute framed PHOTO of Lily, Mike and Gracie in
text: happier times. Lily stares, then takes it for herself.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MIDTOWN MANHATTAN -— DAY
text: A bustling New York street. Sam shuffles up, looking a bit
text: weathered. He enters a gleaming office building.
scene_heading: INT. LITERARY AGENCY - SAME TIME
text: Sam enters his office, in a haze. His Secretary locks up.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: How was the trip?
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: (he shoots her a lock)
dialog: Tt was a funeral.
text: Sam goes to an overflowing INBOX on her desk, piled with mail.
text: He grabs the mail and drifts aimlessly away.
text: He flips through the papers. Publishers Weekly... catalogs...
text: New York Review of Books. Sam goas into his office --
scene_heading: INT. SAM'S OFFICE
text: Suddenly he reaches a big
dialog: 
text: and wades to the end of the mai
text: Manila envelopes -- and freezes.
scene_heading: INSERT - ENVELOPE
dialog: The return address is “ENSLIN"
speaker_heading: ANGLE ~ SAM
dialog: 
text: A&A moment of dislocation... struggling
text: He gapes in disbheli
text: S Means... then he kicks the door shut.
dialog: to process what thi
dialog: 
text: Shaking, Sam site at his desk. He stares at the package, then
text: slowly, with utmost care, unseals the flap. He tremblingly
text: reaches inside... and pulls out Mike's completed pages.
text: Sam gasps, overcome, and drops them. We SLOWLY PUSH IN To the
text: pile of laser-printed pages, crisp and elegant. The cover
dialog: page is simple:
dialog: "1408"
dialog: by Mike Enslin
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
