dialog: 16 Blocks
dialog: by
dialog: Richard Wenk
dialog: January 2004
speaker_heading: BLACKNESS
text: Too inky and deep to see much. A room of some kind. And the
text: faint glow of an alarm clock’s LED reading 6:16
text: From another room a PHONE RINGS. Muffled TALKING then...
text: BOOM! A door EXPLODES OPEN, LIGHT pouring into the small
text: room revealing a WIRY RUSSIAN MAN asleep on a cot. His WILD
text: HAIRED BROTHER shakes him awake.
scene_heading: EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - DAWN
text: The Russian Brothers exit their shit-hole walk-up dressed in
text: paint splattered work clothes and clutching mugs of instant
text: coffee. They get into a Black Econoline Van and drive off...
scene_heading: EXT. SUPPLY STORE
text: The Black Van idling next to a loading dock, RADIO BLARING.
scene_heading: INT. BLACK VAN
text: The Russians wait, eyes on the Delivery Door. Cold and
text: bored, Wiry shakes out a line of crystal meth on the console
text: and SNORTS it.
text: A STOCKY, well-dressed MAN emerges from the side entrance,
text: walks to the Van and drops a large paper bag onto the drivers
text: lap. Speaks to them in Russian then disappears back inside.
text: Wild Hair opens the bag and removes TWO TECH-9 HANDGUNS and
text: FOUR CLIPS of ammunition. Hands them to his brother who
text: begins loading them.
text: Wild Hair JERKS THE VAN onto a Brooklyn Street. The Van
text: swallowed up by morning traffic...
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT 4D - SAME TIME
text: Looking at the front door. Chained, dead bolted and police
text: locked. Nothing out of the ordinary.
text: Except the CAT in the FOYER that stares at the door,
text: mesmerized at something we can’t see. It just stares. And
text: stares.
text: Then suddenly the fur on it’s back stands on end and it BOLTS
dialog: just as...
text: BOOM! The door EXPLODES inward, BATTERING RAM
text: DISTINTEGRATING the door jam. HINGES FLYING every which way
text: as Police BURST inside, WEAPONS DRAWN. Lead team FREEZING,
text: gans dropping to their side. CAMERA drifts to the ground to
text: THREE shirtless DRUG COURIERS sprawled around a_card table
text: covered with scales, baking soda and baggies. Elaborate
text: jailhouse tattoos interrupted with well placed bullet holes.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT 4D - WIDER
text: Peeling wallpaper and gated windows covered in tin foil.
text: Narcotics Officers CANNOVA, PEDERSON and BRIGGS, all mid 30’s
text: and vital, survey the carnage as SECOND TEAM sweeps the rest
dialog: of the place.
text: Cannova kneels down next to the BODY propped up like a
dialog: ec.
text: tailor’s dummy against the wall and c s the body
dialog: temperature.
speaker_heading: CANNOVA
dialog: Couple hours.
dialog: (strands)
dialog: He’s cleaning house fellas. Gotta
dialog: move now.
dialog: (turns to Pederson)
dialog: Who’s downstairs we don’t need?
text: PEDERSON unclips a radio from his belt.
speaker_heading: PEDERSON
dialog: That’s easy.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY
text: Both TEAMS huddle outside the apartment, some have
text: handkerchiefs under their noses.
text: From up the stairs limps JACK MOSLEY. Mid-40's, out_of
text: shape, face flushed from climbing the two flights. A slight
text: herniated limp to his gate.
text: Cannova pulls him inside the apartment.
speaker_heading: CANNOVA
dialog: I need you to baby sit this until
dialog: Uniforms get here. Don’t leave
text: until it’s sealed.
text: The hard-bodied cop then turns and herds the others towards
text: the stairs.
text: Jack stands inside the apartment as the SOUND of both TEAMS
text: dissipate down the stairs.
text: He takes out a handkerchief, covers his nose and steps over
text: one of the bodies. Goes around the room checking the
text: cabinets. Finally finds a bottle of Cutty Sark under the
text: sink. Plops down with it on a decomposing couch, pulls a
text: DAILY NEWS from his back pocket and begins his wait.
scene_heading: EXT. FIFTH PRECINCT - EARLY MORNING
text: Aging pre-war walk up on the boarder of Chinatown and Little
dialog: Ttaly.
scene_heading: INT. PRECINCT LOBBY
text: UNIFORMS, PAA’s and a few CIVILIANS looking for justice.
text: Jack walks in past the TS (Telephone and Sign-Out) Desk
text: heading for the stairs, slightly buzzed. Passing the waist
text: high Sergeants Desk manned by a Uniformed SERGEANT.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Big Jack’s in the house... Hey the
dialog: Loo’s looking for you.
scene_heading: ANTI-CRIME DIVISION - MORNING
text: Fluorescent-lit room with poor ventilation and rows of
text: government issue metal desks. All of which are filled with
dialog: COPS typing 5’s (case reports), taking statements or
text: interviewing witnesses and perps. LOUD and CHAOTIC.
text: GRACE, a large Hispanic woman and the Units PAA (Police
text: Administrative Assistant), fields calls at a reception desk.
text: Jack saunters over and leans in close.
speaker_heading: JACK |
dialog: When are you going to run away with
dialog: me Gracie?
text: Grace reaches into her top drawer and slides a box of Tic
text: Tacs towards Jack, never looking up.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: How’s Thursday looking for ya.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Bad. Got a colonoscopy scheduled.
dialog: Anytime after that.
speaker_heading: GRACE
text: porgeant Cannova called in. Twice.
dialog: Wondered where you’ve been. Needs
dialog: you to write up a wire request.
dialog: (hands him a paper)
dialog: Them’s the particulars. Said to
dialog: make sure you put the right dates
dialog: on this one.
text: Jack ignores the remark and pops a breath mint.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: He say when they needed it?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Said you can get it signed on your
dialog: way in tomorrow.
text: Jack’s relieved. Stretches.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Where does the time go...
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: And the Lieutenant’s looking for
dialog: you. Been up twice already. Said
text: to find him right away.
text: Jack eyes the clock above her. 7:54
scene_heading: INT. THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY
text: LIEUTENANT KINCAID, young, freshly laundered and all attitude *
text: BS Ss up the stairs and down the hall in his crisp blue
text: INIFORM. Strides into Anti-Crime.
text: Jack slips out of the COFFEE ROOM and down the stairs like a *
dialog: kid without a hall pass. *
scene_heading: PRECINCT LOBBY - MORNING
text: Jack stands behind SEVERAL other COPS waiting to sign out,
text: wishing the line to move faster. Looking into the bullpen *
text: with its OVERWORKED COPS and the incessant RINGING of phones. *
text: Jack’s eyes drifting to an ELDERLY CHINESE WOMAN, sitting
text: alone on a scarred mahogany bench. Clutching some personal
text: belongings, face numb. sudden widow.
text: She’s escorted by some DETECTIVES to an interview room, no
text: one seeing PAGES of her dog eared photo album slip behind the
dialog: bench.
text: Jack looks away, walks up to the sign-out desk, grabs the
text: pen... then drops it.
scene_heading: INT. BULLPEN
text: Jack digs the album pages out from behind the bench and calis
text: a UNIFORM over. Hands them to him, pointing to the interview
text: room. Steps back into the lobby and walks back to the TS
text: desk, reaches for the pen... when another hand snatches it
dialog: away.
text: LIEUTENANT KINCAID stands there holding the pen. *
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Grace tell you to find me?
speaker_heading: JACK ;
dialog: Don’t remember. Been dealing with
dialog: a ton of shit.
text: Kincaid barely hides his disdain. Holds out a folder.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Get this guy from lock-up and take
dialog: him to Centre Street. DA needs him
text: ASAP. He’s got to be in front of a
dialog: Grand Jury before ten.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I’m off the clock, Loo.
speaker_heading: . KINCAID
dialog: You sign that sheet?
text: Jack wants to kick himself.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Don’t you have some regular mutt
dialog: doin’ this?
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Can’t find him.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: C’mon Loo, I’ve been on all night.
dialog: Give it to Cibelli or Meadows.
text: They’ re on light duty.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
text: Cibelli and Meadows are busy doing
dialog: police work. This is a nothing
dialog: assignment Jack. One guess why the
dialog: Captain picked you.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You were too busy?
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Fuck you. Were up to me I’d have
dialog: you driving blood s les to state
dialog: ab or reorganizing the filing
text: cabinets for the gambling squad.
text: Kincaid slaps the folder into Jack’s hand, checks his watch.
speaker_heading: KINCAID {cont’d)
dialog: A hundred and eighteen minutes to
dialog: take this hemorrhoid sixteen
dialog: blocks. Even you can handle this
dialog: one.
scene_heading: HOLDING CELLS —- PRECINCT BASEMENT
text: Massive steel bars set in turn of the century cinder block
text: sit at the end of a long concrete hallway.
dialog: 6.
text: A caged-in Watch Room is to the left. Behind it sits 8 jail
text: cells and a holding tank.
text: Jack walks to the window but there’s no one behind it. Bangs
text: on the cage.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Yo!
text: A CORRECTIONS OFFICER, bloated and bored looking, shuffles
text: out of a back toilet buckling his pants.
scene_heading: CORRECTIONS OFFICER
dialog: Excuse me for taking a shit.
text: Jack shoves the pick up slip through a slot in the cage
text: without a word. The Officer grabs it and waddles back
text: towards the celis.
text: Waiting Jack flips open the folder. Edward Bunker.
text: Underneath a long list of arrests_and dates. B and E’s
text: mostly. All petty shit. Just a lot of it. CLANGING of the
text: steel door opening makes Jack turn. The Corrections Officer
text: slides his paper back through the slot.
scene_heading: CORRECTIONS OFFICER (cont! d)
dialog: Come back in an hour.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Hour? What for?
scene_heading: INT. CELL BLOCK
text: The thick steel door of cell number 6 rolls open and reveals
text: EDDIE BUNKER, fringe phayer and all around fuck up sitting in
text: his underwear. Mid 20’s, he appears quite comfortable like
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: CORRECTIONS OFFICER (OS)
dialog: Supposed to wear a suit when he
dialog: leaves.
text: Jack looks to Eddie.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: Grey one. Two buttons, cuffs on
text: the pants.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: And?
scene_heading: CORRECTIONS OFFICER
dialog: Not here yet.
text: Jack walks over to Eddie.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Get dressed,
text: Eddie hesitates.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I’m supposed to have a suit. It
dialog: was part of the arrangement.
text: Jerks Eddie to his feet.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: New arrangement. Cause I’m not
dialog: waiting an hour for a fucking grey
dialog: suit.
scene_heading: CELL BLOCK - MINUTES LATER
text: Eddie steps out of the cell in his street clothes. Clown
text: sized jeans, Hilfiger polo shirt and Korean sneakers. He
text: clutches a ratty School Composition notebook in one hand and
text: has a look of grave disappointment.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: That suit’s kinda important to me.
text: Jack ignores Eddie and CUFFS him. A WIZENED FACE pushes his
text: head against the bars of the opposite cell and looks
text: pleadingly at Eddie.
speaker_heading: FACE,
dialog: You take the old jady right? Is
dialog: that it, kid? The old lady?
text: Eddie shrugs as Jack pulls him down the tomb~like hallway.
speaker_heading: FACE (cont’d)
dialog: What’s the ANSWER!
scene_heading: PRECINCT LOBBY - MORNING
text: Jack signs out a vehicle then pushes Eddie towards the double
text: doors, Mixing in with UNIFORMS filing out in pairs to start
dialog: their shifts.
text: A FRESH-FACED UNIFORM going against the flow, presses his way
text: inside, suit bag over his shoulder. Eddie pulls up, about to
text: say something but Jack yanks him out the door, Eddie looking
text: back as his suit disappears into a sea of blue...
scene_heading: EXT. FIFTH PRECINCT - BAXTER STREET
text: The curb jammed with Black and Whites and unmarked Police
text: cars. Jack pulls Eddie down the sidewalk, checking key tag
dialog: against license plates.
text: Eddie noticing the hitch in Jack’s walk.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Got a little limp there.
text: Jack keeps walking in stony silence, the shrunken blood
text: vessels in his head starting to throb. Unlocks the back door
text: of a crap-brown Impala and shoves Eddie’s head down and
text: through the door.
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Standard issue with a sliding fiberglass partition separating
text: front from back, which is open. Eddie settles in.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: These cars never change. Same
text: drive shaft hump in the middle.
text: Same smell. Pinesol and wet dog.
text: Jack pops the car in gear throwing Eddie back against the
text: seat before he can finish.
scene_heading: EXT. BAXTER STREET
text: Jack hangs a right and lurches into the morning rush hour
dialog: traffic
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Jack flips down the visor and weaves the car towards West
text: Broadway. Sneaks a look at Eddie in the rearview. Kid
text: scribbling something in his book.
text: Cutting cars off trying to make the light.
text: Which he doesn’t. Gridlock at Baxter and West Broadway puts
text: the Impala at a dead stop. The LED clock on the dash reading
dialog: 8:06
text: They sit in silence for a minute. Eddie’s mind whirring
text: away. Leans forward.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You're driving along in a
dialog: hurricane. You_pass a bus stop
text: with three people waiting there. An
dialog: old lady who’s about to die, our
dialog: best friend who saved your life
dialog: once and the woman of your dreams.
dialog: You only have room to take one.
dialog: What do you do?
text: Jack TURNS UP THE RADIO pretending he didn’t hear it.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: It’s an ancient question that’s
dialog: supposed to tell you what kind of
dialog: person you are inside.
dialog: {beat)
dialog: Who do you take?
text: Jack HITS THE ACCELERATOR and hangs a sharp left down a small
text: alley. Weaving around delivery trucks and Sanitation bins,
text: tossing Eddie back and forth across the seat. Cuts across
dialog: a...
speaker_heading: PARKING LOT
text: In and around COMMUTERS pulling in. Getting familiar waves
text: from the ATTENDANTS as Jack maneuvers the car onto...
scene_heading: EXT. MULBERRY STREET - MORNING
text: Awnings being unfurled, pushearts line the curb. HEAVYSET
text: MEN in Bermudas’s and gold chains set up folding chairs
text: outside mobbed-up restaurants.
text: The Impala slipping into traffic.
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Jack looks back at Eddie through the mirror, the kid still
text: waiting for an answer.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: The old lady, right? I mean she
dialog: won’t make it if you leave her.
dialog: But that sounds obvious.
dialog: Kid’s not going give up.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I wouldn’t drive in a hurricane so
dialog: it doesn’t apply to me.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: It’s hypothetical. Pretend.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I don’t have to. So shut up.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Okay.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: They say your soul’s not intact
dialog: until you know the answer.
text: Eddie sits back and looks out the window, pondering the
text: estion. Oblivious to his circumstances. Which bugs Jack
dialog: or some reason.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: What’d they give you?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Give me?
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Must’ ve cut yourself a sweet deal
dialog: Sittin’ there all comfy like.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Oh, Dropped the charges. Anda
dialog: suit. Which I didn’t get thanks to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: That’s cheap to rat to a grand
dialog: jury.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: It’s all I wanted. And I’m not a
dialog: rat. I’m a conduit of information.
dialog: That’s what they said.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Yeah? Well if it looks like a rat
text: and squeals like a rat...
text: Eddie thinks for a minute.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: Could be a Vole. They look like
dialog: rats from far away. hen you get
dialog: closer and you realize it isn’t
dialog: one.
text: Jack stares at the kid then pushes through a yellow light
text: faking a right onto Lafayette. Never noticing the Black
text: Econoline Van staying close behind them.
scene_heading: EXT. LAFAYETTE STREET - EARLY MORNING
text: PEDESTRIANS in rush mode fill the sidewalk. Bodegas roll out
text: carts of fruit and greens. Grill work is rolled up as
dialog: businesses OPEN.
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Jack looking impatient. Eyes searching the sidewalks for
text: something. Eddie SEES the top of a MASSIVE GRANITE BUILDING
text: 12 blocks away.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: That it?
text: Jack ignores him. Spots what he’s looking for.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: If you knew all the crazy stuff
dialog: that happened to me in the past
dialog: couple months... See I just never
dialog: watched for the signs. Never knew
dialog: to look for ‘em.
speaker_heading: {MORE)
dialog: il.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Then when I started, everything
dialog: fell into place. Even when it made
dialog: no sense. Like yesterday. All
dialog: bad.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But I’m right where I’m supposed to
dialog: be. You believe that?
text: Jack double parks the Impala on the west side of the street
text: and shuts off the engine.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I believe life’s too fucking long
dialog: and guys like you make it even
dialog: longer.
text: Starts to get out.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Where ya going?
text: Eddie looks across the street at the Liquor Store then to the
text: dashboard clock.
dialog: 8:09
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: I got an appointment after court.
dialog: Gotta be there by noon.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You'll get there.
text: Eddie watches Jack fumble around in his pockets for some
dialog: cash.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You’re not the regular guy who does
dialog: this, are you?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: First time. How am I doing?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I don’t think you’re supposed to
dialog: stop.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: No? Gee, I better check my witness
dialog: escort handbook. Oops, I forgot
dialog: it. Oh weil...
text: Jack gets out. Leans back in.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: When you get to the courthouse you
dialog: can fill out one of those cards and
dialog: rate your travel experience with
dialog: the NYPD.
text: SLAMS the door.
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: EXT. LAFAYETTE STREET
text: Jack LOCKS the Impala and crosses the busy street into a
text: Liquor store. The Black Econoline Van drifting past and
text: disappearing around the corner.
scene_heading: INT. CHINESE LIQUOR STORE
text: Small and cramped with too many aisles and too many stacked
text: boxes. Jack limping towards the back and grabbing a bottle
text: of Puerto Rican Rum and a bag of nuts.
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Eddie stares out his window then checks the dashboard clock.
text: Edgy all of a sudden.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: He’s not the right guy.
text: Not sensing the Black Econoline Van pulling up directly.
text: behind the Impala, throwing a shadow through the back window.
scene_heading: INT, CHINESE LIQUOR STORE
text: Jack moving to the register. A middle-aged CHINESE MAN and
text: his WIFE behind it.
text: Jack exchanging pleasantries with them in broken Chinese.
text: The WIFE laughing and correcting him. Showing Jack a picture
dialog: of her daughter.
scene_heading: EXT. LAFAYETTE STREET
text: The Van’s doors open and the two Russians step out into the
text: street. Both holding canvas bags. The Wiry one hanging by
text: the Van, eyeing the foot traffic. Wild Hair moving to the
text: street side of the Impala.
scene_heading: INT. CHINESE LIQUOR STORE
text: The Chinese man bagging Jack’s breakfast while the Wife makes
text: change. Jack about to leave when the Chinese Man beckons him
text: towards the back...
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA - SAME TIME
text: Eddie Bunker looks around trying to see where the hell Jack
text: is. Checks the clock again. Slides to the passenger door
text: and tries to open it. NO DOOR HANDLE. Starts over the
text: partition when then HEARS a TAPPING on the street-side
dialog: window.
dialog: 13.
text: Falls back to see some WILD HAIRED Russian Man peering
text: inside. Smiling as he motions Eddie to roll down the window.
text: Eddie sliding over and looking for the button.
scene_heading: INT. CHINESE LIQUOR STORE
text: Jack being shown the jimmied lock on the back delivery door
text: to the store. Empty liquor cartons lay nearby. Jack .
text: explaining something in Chinese and motioning to the security
text: monitor over the register.
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Eddie gestures to the Russian to_try the door. HEARING
text: SHOUTS: turning to see the Wiry Russian SCREAMING at his
dialog: other.
text: Looking back in time to see the TECH-9 PRESSED TO THE GLASS.
speaker_heading: BLAM!
text: Only the glass doesn’t shatter.
text: Instead it’s SPATTERED WITH BLOOD, HAIR AND BRAIN MATTER.
text: What's left of the Russian’s face slides away revealing Jack,
text: his gun barrel still smoking half-way across the street.
scene_heading: EXT. LAFAYETTE - SIMULTANEOUS
text: Jack stands in the middle of the street, gun hand shaking.
text: Tunnel vision_and audio collapse washing over him. Not
text: hearing the PEDESTRIAN SCREAMS or BRAKES SQUEAL around him...
text: Nor seeing the Wiry Russian coming from around the Van
text: raising his Tech-9 until it’s too late...
text: Turning just in time to HEAR the CHAMBER EXPLODE... the exact
text: moment a skidding TAXI SIDESWIPES the Russian knocking the
text: shot a millimeter off line.
text: PEDESTRIANS and SHOPKEEPERS scatter as the bullet SHATTERS a
text: plate glass window.
text: Jack charging toward the Impala. Knees pumping like out of
text: sync pistons as the Wiry Russian gets to his feet, too high
text: and too crazed to register pain. Leveling the machine
text: pistol and BLASTING AWAY...
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Jack bellying through the door as bullets thud sickeningly
text: close to his ear. A cacophony of metal chunks being
text: disgorged echo around him. Not noticing his 9mm bouncing to
dialog: the pavement...
dialog: 14,
text: Eddie hugging the back floorboards.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: WHAT’S HAPPENING?!
text: Jack beneath the steering wheel, fumbling for the RADIO.
text: Dropping it as SLIVERS OF GLASS RAIN DOWN ON HIM. Reaching
text: up and turning the key. Heart hammering through his ribs.
text: Gets the key in the ignition and throws the Impala in
text: reverse, pressing his hand on the accelerator... The Impala
text: SLAMMING INTO THE Russian, knocking him six feet...
text: Jack up into the drivers seat, throws it into drive and
text: accelerates towards Spring Street.
scene_heading: EXT. IMPALA
text: Russian FIRING FROM THE GROUND, bullets PELTING THE REAR
text: TIRES. The car leaking fuel and spewing smoke. Sputtering
text: onto Spring Street.
scene_heading: INT. IMPALA
text: Rolling to a stop half-way up the block...
text: Jack trying to locate the Russian through cracked windows and
text: smoke, PEOPLE obscuring his vision. Grabbing for his gun
text: and realizing it’s gone.
text: KICKS OPEN THE PASSENGER DOOR, stays low and RIPS OPEN THE
text: BACK DOOR. Eddie Bunker balled up on the floor, clutching
text: his book. Pulls the kid onto the sidewalk as the street
text: swims with PEOPLE and movement.
scene_heading: JACK AND EDDIE - MOVING
text: Across the sidewalk and down a service alley as fast as
text: Jack’s bad leg can take them... Coming out into another
text: alley... Eyes trying to focus, operating on pure instinct.
text: Spotting the Van on Lafayette, doors open and no one
dialog: inside... The crazy Russian out here somewhere...
text: Over a small cinder block wall and into a...
scene_heading: SMALL PARKING LOT - MULBERRY STREET
text: Dozens of cars packed like sardines in between two buildings.
text: Jack and Eddie stumbling over hoods and bumpers. Jack
text: pulling Eddie into the...
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING KIOSK
text: Just off the sidewalk. Cramped makeshift office with a gated
text: window and door-less entrance. Jack grabbing the rotary
dialog: phone.
text: FREEZING when he spots HIM coming fast across the street. |
text: Backlit by the rising sun. Hand already reaching behind his
text: back, the skinny MAN zeroed in on Jack.
text: Pushing Eddie to the floor as the Man pulls his hand from
text: behind his back and aims... a parking ticket in Jack’s face.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: I’m the tan Caddy.
scene_heading: EXT. MULBERRY STREET
text: Jack pulls Eddie across the street, adrenaline surging.
text: Hitting the sidewalk and heading south.
text: Jack suddenly realizing that Eddie is gone. Turning to see
text: Eddie running back towards the commotion.
text: Cars swerving around the kid. Jack heading after him,
text: screaming.
text: Eddie stopping to avoid a taxi, Jack just about there when
text: Eddie bends down and retrieves the notebook he dropped.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Are you fucking nuts!
text: Jack yanks Eddie to the side walk, Trying to get his
text: bearings. A BIKE MESSENGER whizzing by makes Jack flinch,
text: the BUSINESS MAN reaching into his briefcase... Suddenly
text: EVERYONE looks like a potential killer.
scene_heading: DELIVERY ALLEY
text: Moving in and around the DELIVERY TRUCKS delivering produce,
text: meats and liquor. Jack trying shake the fuzziness. Trying
dialog: to remember what to do...
text: BOOM! A door bursts open! Jack SPINNING... THREE CHINESE
text: BUSBOYS dumping steaming water into the alley. Every
text: movement, every sound is heightened.
text: Jack still searching...Eddie humming to himself now. Jack
text: watching the signs above gated back entrances... en
text: pindin it. Jerking Eddie through the back door of Number
dialog: and into-
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: INT. STORAGE ROOM
text: Jammed with liquor boxes piled too high to be safe. The
text: ALARM wailing... Jack pushing Eddie towards a curtained
text: doorway when suddenly a baseball bat flies through it,
text: missing Jack’s head by millimeters, smashing into a crate of
dialog: Merlot.
text: Jack grabbing the bat and pulling DOMINIC FORLINI, the white-
text: haired 77 year old bar owner through it. Surprised and
text: shocked by the sight of Jack.
speaker_heading: FORLINI
dialog: Jesus Jackie I thought it was kids.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Lock it.
scene_heading: INT. DOMINIC’S - EARLY MORNING
text: A tiny drinker’s hideaway on the edge of Little Italy. Red
text: naugahyde booths, kidney shaped bar with two Espresso
text: machines.
text: Jack to the wall phone, knowing right where it is. Shaky
text: fingers dialing...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: This is officer Jack Mosley, badge
dialog: 227. I am 10-13, one-three-three
text: Mulberry; Officer is plainclothes,
dialog: green shirt, black slacks. I have
dialog: male prisoner, 24, white polo
dialog: shirt, sneakers. We are under
text: fire. Perp is in white overalls
dialog: with automatic weapon...
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER (OS)
dialog: Roger 10-13, 1-3-3 Mulberry-.
text: Jack hangs up as Dominic shuffles in, seeing the blood caking
text: above Jack’s left eye.
speaker_heading: FORLINI
dialog: Jackie what’s going on? You--
text: But Jack is moving again. Pointing to the illegal BUSBOYS as
text: he crosses the room.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Get ‘em out of here! You too.
text: Forlini herds them out the front door. Jack dragging Eddie
text: hard into a booth along the far wall.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: They said you were a nobody!
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I am! I swear! I don’t under--
text: Jack roughly hauls Eddie out of the booth and across the
dialog: room...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Rats like you turn my stomach.
dialog: You people don’t give a shit who
dialog: gets covered with your garbage.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: This is a mis--
text: Jack throws him into a booth left of the door and underneath
text: a large window.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Bottom feeders like you would rat
dialog: your own mother it meant saving
dialog: your own ass.
text: Jack reaches ap and polis the curtains closed, PLUNGING THE
text: BAR INTO EVEN EATER DARKNESS. Operating on sheer instinct.
text: Rust and cobwebs showing...
speaker_heading: BOOTH
text: Jack drops in hard and angry.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Shoulda let them kill you...
text: Eddie’s body still trembling, hands wrapped tightly around
text: his notebook.
speaker_heading: ; EDDIE
dialog: I’m just supposed to-
speaker_heading: JACK,
dialog: Not another syllable.
text: The SOUND of brakes SCREECHING TO A HALT outside. Jack parts
text: the curtain a sliver. UNIFORMED PATROLMEN JUMPING from their
dialog: blue and whites...
text: Relief spreads through Jack. Pulse dropping. Crosses to the
text: bar and pours a Johnny Walker as Eddie peers through the
dialog: curtain.
speaker_heading: EDDIE'S POV
text: As_two Unmarked Cars pull up: Patrolmen turning as MEN in
text: SUITS exit their vehicles flashing gold shields...
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: BOOTH
text: Eddie stares unblinkingly at the largest suit in particular,
text: face going pale.
text: Jack looks up from the bar to see Eddie sliding under the
text: table... BOOM! The front door explodes open.
scene_heading: INT. DOMINIC’S - WIDER
text: Homicide Detective FRANK NUGENT is inside before Jack can
dialog: move.
text: Detectives JIMMY MULVEY AND ROBERT TORRES right behind,
text: spreading out across the room, movements routine and
dialog: precise.
text: The back ALARM SOUNDING then shutting off. Detective JERRY
text: SHUE, steps through the back curtain, EXIT light above
text: bouncing off his blue-black toupee. Gives Nugent the all
text: clear sign, and everybody holsters their weapons.
text: Mulvey’s thin, a hawk-like nose and hooded eyes, Torres
text: short and compact. A fire hydrant with feet. Hard-ass guys.
text: Nugent looks at Jack with a shit-eating grin. A large man
text: who doesn’t inhabit the room, he consumes it. Older than
text: Jack, but vital. The eyes and arrogance of Ted Williams.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: Shit hits the fan and he’s standing
text: there with a drink in his hand.
dialog: Like it was nothing.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: God I miss this bastard.
text: The others snicker. Jack looking around confused.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: We were two blocks over when the
dialog: call went out. Heard it was you,
dialog: we made like the friggin’ cavalry.
text: Reaches across the bar and slaps his meaty hand on Jack’s
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Long time Jack.
scene_heading: UNDER THE TABLE
text: Eddie taking small, silent breaths. His view obscured by
text: tables and chairs. He eyes the door to his left when
text: Torres’s stumpy legs step in front of him. Eddie freezes any
text: movement, notebook clutched to his chest. Trying to find a
dialog: sign in this...
dialog: 19,
scene_heading: DOMINIC’S - WIDER
text: All eyes on Nugent as he bellies up to the bar. Relaxed and
dialog: confident.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Big mess out there Jack. You
dialog: didn’t lose the wit, did ya?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: No. He’s safe.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Good man. Where is he?
text: Jack hesitates. Something’s not right about this. But_he’s
text: unable to keep his eyes off the booth near the door. All
text: eyes shift across the room. Eddie Bunker slowly rising from
text: beneath the table. Eyes locking | into Nugent’s. A flicker of
text: recognition and fear. Jack looking from> Eddie to Nugent.
text: Eddie BOLTS for the door but Mulvey and Torres grab him.
text: Nugent casually sits on a bar stool as his guys drag Eddie
text: across the room.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: How you been, Jack? Heard you’ve
dialog: been to the farm.
text: Jack looking down at his drink.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Twice. Working a strong program
dialog: now.
text: Nugent smiles as Jack knocks it back.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: You believe that mutt Gruber made
dialog: Captain? Told me you hooked up
text: with Cannova’s unit. Supposed to
dialog: be a good bunch of guys.
text: Jack’s half listening. Watching Mulvey throw the kid in the
text: corner and pat him down.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: He’s clean.
text: Mulvey looks back at Jack, grins, and keeps patting.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Still with what’s her name? The
dialog: newspaper lady?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Not for a while now.
dialog: 20.
text: Jack seeing Mulvey now uncuff Eddie and hold him while Torres
text: pulis a Saturday night special from his ankle and presses it
text: into Eddie’s shaking hand, then lets it drop to the floor.
text: Nugent looks back to his guys then to Jack.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Cocksucker was gonna testify
dialog: against Ryan. You remember him
dialog: from Narcotics. Part of my team
dialog: now.
dialog: t)
dialog: (bea
text: Dick’11 roll over they indict him.
dialog: And I can’t have that. His shit’s
dialog: gonna open some closets I can’t
dialog: ave opened. Some go way back.
text: Suddenly Jack's whole demeanor changes. Like he’s been
text: slapped out of a deep, medicated sleep.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: The whole thing caught us unaware.
dialog: You were a last minute thing on
dialog: this. Supposed to be Teach’s_
dialog: nephew driving him. That’s his
dialog: thing. Who knows where the fuck
dialog: he went. So Gruber pegged you.
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Never figured you’d cap one of ‘em,
dialog: Fuckin’ Russians. That’s what you
dialog: get when you hire drug addicts.
text: Across the room, Torres holds the throw down gun with his
dialog: handkerchief and fi L
text: Mulvey with his foot on Eddie’s chest.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: I figure it this way. You pop the
dialog: guys trying to spring the rat
dialog: asStard but the little shit gets
dialog: your gun. Takes you hostage. We
text: come in and save the day. He dies
dialog: you live.
text: Like ordering a sandwich. Waits for Jack to process it.
text: Eyeing him like a father would the wayward son.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Shit, maybe you get a medal. Get
dialog: your life straightened out. Get
dialog: you_back where you belong. This
dialog: could be a good thing Jack.
text: Torres nods to Nugent. They’re ready.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: You want to stay for it?
text: Jack doesn’t move. Looks around the room. Mulvey to his
text: left. Torres on the right. Shue dead center. Now looks at
text: Eddie. Body trembling, eyes pleading with Jack.
dialog: 21.
text: Eyes falling to his drink. Staring into it like there might
text: be an answer there, self loathing washing over his face.
text: Nugent’s run out of patience and stands.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Make yourself useful. Pour us a
text: couple of drinks.
text: Nugent crosses the room and nods to Shue. Jack turns his
text: back, unable to watch. Reaching for the Chivas when he
text: catches Jerry Shue in the mirror, eye-fucking Jack with a
text: shit-eating grin as he takes out his .38
text: Torres and Mulvey move away from Eddie. Shue aiming the
dialog: gun...
speaker_heading: BLAM!
text: The SOUND is DEAFENING. Jack pulling the trigger on the
text: sawed-off Shotgun that was under the bar, BLOWING Jerry
text: Shue’s left kneecap into tiny fragments. Swinging and
text: racking at the same time, both barrels leveled at Frank
text: Nugent’s heart, arms a little shaky.
text: Torres and Mulvey weapons still holstered, freeze. Dead
text: silence. Ever REATH, every CREAK magnified. The writhing,
text: unnatural MOANS of Jerry Shue the only SOUND.
text: Frank Nugent doesn’t blink. Stares right down the barrel of
text: Dominic Forlini’s taped up shotgun. You’d swear his heart
dialog: never skipped a beat.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’ d)
dialog: That changes everything Jack.
text: Jack moves around in front of the bar, shotgun rising to
text: Nugent’s head.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Jury’s tenure ends at ten. That
text: kid gets there a minute past and
dialog: all this doesn’t matter. Ryan
dialog: walks. All you have to do is look
dialog: the other way.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Eddie.
text: Eddie hustles across the room and behind Jack. Jack backing
text: the both of them towards the rear door.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: I can’t help you once you walk out
dialog: that door.
text: Jack stepping over Jerry Shue, eyeballs rolling back in his
text: head like an Atlantic City slot. Eddie disappearing through
text: the curtain. Jack holding Nugent’s stare, trying to hold it
dialog: together.
dialog: 22.
text: Then he’s gone.
text: Torres and Mulvey grabbing their weapons. Mulvey moving to
text: Jerry. Torres out the back door. Nugent looking down at
text: Jerry Shue with no emotion, pulling his cell. Eyeing the
text: neon clock over the bar
dialog: 8:18
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Get him to a hospital. Make sure
dialog: he knows to keep his mouth shut for
dialog: now. Nobody outside this room
dialog: knows an thing ;
dialog: (dialin is cell)
dialog: And stay off your radios. We know
dialog: where he’s going so this shouldn’t
dialog: be hard.
scene_heading: EXT. DELIVERY ALLEY
text: Moving with Jack and Eddie underneath scaffolding, past an
text: empty loading dock to a set of cement steps leading to a sub-
text: basement door. Jack shaken...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: What the fuck did you see? TELL
speaker_heading: _ EDDIE
dialog: That big guy in there and his
dialog: friend, the one whose picture the
dialog: DA showed me. I saw them telling
dialog: some Puerto Rican dude to get lost
dialog: or they were gonna carve up his
dialog: kids. Threatening him. That’s
dialog: a .
text: Jack’s mind beginning to clear.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT - CHINESE LAUNDRY
text: Dripping steam pipes feed a dozen industrial washers and
text: dryers. Sweltering, oppressive heat. CHINESE WORKERS sort
text: and fold on both sides of a long cafeteria tables.
text: Down a dark cinder block passageway. Jack finding a drainage
text: grate, dropping the shotgun info it.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Don’t we need that?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Had one shell in it for twenty
dialog: years. Lucky it went off.
text: Eddie staring at the drainage grate like it means something.
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: DELIVERY ALLEY - SAME TIME
text: Torres, thick and massive, moves with the methodical
text: concentration of a panther stalking its prey.
scene_heading: INT. CHINESE LAUNDRY
text: Street level. Jack pulling Eddie out of the service elevator
text: and towards the door, badge in the air for the surprised
text: OWNER to see. Calming him in halting Chinese.
text: Stepping next to a SEAMSTRESS working in the window, peering
text: out. No black van. No Russian. No Police...
text: Jack unlocks Eddie’s cuffs. Whips off his shirt, tossing it
text: away. Just a T-shirt now. Hands Eddie a shirt from a
text: cleaning bin.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Put this on.
text: Then hands him a hanger of dry cleaning.
speaker_heading: JACK {(cont’ d)
dialog: Walk slow. Like you know where
dialog: you’re going. I’ll be right behind
dialog: you.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST BROADWAY - MORNING
text: Eddie steps into the street and starts South, Jack three
text: steps behind, the two weaving through the crowds. Eddie, dry
text: cieaning bag giung over his shoulder, hugging the shadows of
text: the building facades. Jack’s eyes darting everywhere.
text: PATROL CARS from Mid-Town South, 1st and the 5th cruise by
text: from side streets. None of it seems to bother Eddie, walking
text: down West Broadway with a coolness in his step.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: They didn’t tell you Ryan was a
dialog: cop, did they?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I just saw his picture on the
dialog: table. They never said he was
dialog: police.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Well you’re about to rat out the
dialog: top Homicide detective in the New
dialog: York City police department. Bet
dialog: that’s worth more than a suit.
text: Crossing Grand Street now, blending in with the foot traffic.
text: Getting lost in a sea of faces... The Courthouse eleven
text: blocks away. The clock on the MONY BUILDING steeple flashing
dialog: 24.
dialog: 8:21
scene_heading: EXT. GRAND STREET - SAME TIME
text: Frank Nugent stands in the doorway of a boarded up
text: Restaurant, hands in his pockets. One by one UNMARKED CARS
text: pull up and stocky MEN exit the vehicles. Some in SUITS,
text: others in WINDBREAKERS and JEANS. WEAPONS jammed in the back
text: of pants and in shoulder holsters. These are hard,
text: unflinching COPS.
text: We’re too far away to HEAR but it’s obvious Nugent is
dialog: briefing them. No small talk either. The facts, the deal
text: and that’s it. They break as quickly as they got there.
text: Just as an OFFICIAL CAR pulls to the curb. Out of it steps
text: DANIEL GRUBER, Captain of the 5th and very pissed. Again
text: we're too far away to hear what’s being said. But Nugent
text: seems to be a calming influence.
text: They walk toward us and slowly we begin to hear...
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: ++. put out descriptions over
dialog: precinct channels. No names. Or
dialog: hat one’s a cop. It'll help to
dialog: have some eyes.
dialog: (beat) .
dialog: How long can you sit on this?
speaker_heading: GRUBER
text: He shot a cop for Christsakes.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: You’re the Precinct Captain, Dan.
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: GRUBER
dialog: Hour. Maybe a little more.
dialog: Who’s on this with you?
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: ny guys. Ortiz and Maldonado from
text: the six-six. Touhey and Kaller
dialog: from the one-eleven. A couple of
dialog: others you don’t want to know
dialog: about. I’ve called in all favors.
text: Gruber stares into the busy streets.
speaker_heading: GRUBER
dialog: guy can’t tie his shoe without
text: falling down suddenly he’s a
dialog: cowboy. What's that about?
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: I woke him up. That was my
dialog: mistake.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont'd)
dialog: He’1l probably do what he always
dialog: does and we can all go back to
dialog: work.
speaker_heading: GRUBER
dialog: And if he doesn’t?
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: These are his streets, Dan. I want
dialog: to quash this thing before he gets
text: his legs back.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It’ll get ugly for the six of us if
dialog: that kid talks.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST BROADWAY
text: Jack and Eddie approaching Broome, foot traffic thinning.
text: Eddie walking more relaxed. Jack just off his left shoulder.
text: Eddie slowing to look in store windows as they go.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Pick it up.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You said go easy.
speaker_heading: _ SACK
dialog: I’m saying go faster now.
text: Jack searching for a cab now.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Slow, fast. You have no idea what
dialog: you're doing, do you?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I’m sure you_have your good
dialog: qualities. But ever since I met
dialog: You nothing’s gone right, So TI
dialog: ave to consider the possibility
dialog: that I’m with the wrong gy:
dialog: mean look at you. Out o teath,
dialog: hungover, and a leg that’s gonna
dialog: ive out any secon You were a
dialog: orse, they’d shoot ya. No
dialog: offense.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: None taken. Coming froma guy
dialog: who’s spent half his adult ein
dialog: the joint.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I cease and desisted being that guy
dialog: a while ago.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Sure you did.
dialog: 26.
text: Passing a DUANE REED and a window of CLOCKS. Eddie staring
dialog: at the time:
dialog: 8:25
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Look. This is a big day for me. I
dialog: need to be at a certain place by
dialog: noon or I can’t get what I’m
dialog: destined to have. And in order to
dialog: get there by noon I have to be
dialog: inished in court by ten. I can’t
dialog: be late.
text: Jack’s not hearing a thing. Eyes now searching the streets.
text: Start of the day FOOT TRAFFIC making it hard to spot trouble.
text: Suddenly realizing Eddie’s not talking and looks back.
speaker_heading: GONE.
text: Head SPINNING in every direction. Nothing. Then a TAPPING
text: SOUND on glass. Sees Eddie waving from inside...
scene_heading: INT. CAMMERANO’S BAKERY
text: Ricotta cheesecakes, cannoli shells, sheets of Prato cookies
text: fill display cases. White cake boxes with customer names |
text: stacked against the back wall. FAT ITALIAN WOMEN with their
text: stockings rolled down picking up orders from MAMA CAMMERANO.
text: BELLS above the door RINGING as Jack slides into the crowded
text: store and hovering near the front window watching the street
text: scene unfold. COPS in BLUE fanning out across West Broadway.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: When you go in for your leg, get
dialog: your eyes checked too.
text: Jack watches their movements over the top of Wedding Cakes.
text: Eddie sliding to the cake display near the back, captivated
text: by the elaborate cakes. GRANDMA CAMMERANO eyes him
dialog: suspiciously.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: You make all these here?
text: Insulted, Grandma spits something in Italian and gestures
text: towards the back.
scene_heading: INT. BAKERY BACK ROOM
text: Steel tables and racks of delicacies. LARGE MEN hand stir
text: large vats of batter and pull freshly baked bread from brick
text: ovens. Against the far wall a beautiful 19 year old ITALIAN
text: GIRL meticulously decorates a sheet cake. At least attempts
dialog: to.
dialog: 27.
text: Mama Cammerano’s son, ALFONSE (40’s) leans against her,
text: ressing his sweaty body against hers, pretending to be
text: interested in her artwork, furry hands smoothing out her
text: apron in inappropriate places.
text: Suddenly Eddie’s face appears over his shoulder.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Never seen a border like that.
dialog: Very inventive. You do all the
dialog: cakes here?
text: Alphonse has to step away. The Girl looks at Eddie, a shy,
text: but dazzling smile of thanks.
speaker_heading: ALFONSE
dialog: She speak no English. Who you be?
dialog: You inspector?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: That’s right. FDA approved. This
dialog: here is a spot check.
dialog: (holds up notebook)
dialog: Pon t make me put you down in my
dialog: ook.
text: Eddie looks around the place then starts around the table,
text: picking up an icing tube as he goes. Slowly strolls behind
text: iphonse, making the man nervous, appearing on the other
dialog: side.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: When’s the last time you
dialog: disinfected your utensils? Or
dialog: those guys had showers? Huh?
dialog: Better get your act together my
dialog: man.
text: Alfonse is flustered and strides towards the front. Only now
text: do we see the back of his jacket. The word ASS scripted out
text: in powder blue icing. The Italian girl stifling her GIGGLE.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Well he is.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You don’t need have to put up with
dialog: that crap. Sue him for harassment.
dialog: Besides, you got talent. You could
dialog: work anyplace. And I should know.
scene_heading: BAKERY WINDOW
text: Jack seeing Torres appear on the block. Walking towards
text: several of the UNIFORMS. Talking with them. Suddenly ALL
text: EYES looking right into the Bakery.
scene_heading: BAKERY BACK ROOM
text: Eddie showing the girl a page in his book.
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: ... this one’s kinda elaborate.
text: So I seal it first with a glaze.
dialog: Gives you a stronger canvas. Then
dialog: I use butter cream instead of
dialog: shortening.
text: She’s not looking at the page. Just at Eddie. Not
text: understanding a thing but enjoying his enthusiasm.
speaker_heading: EDDIE {cont’d)
dialog: (flipping the page)
dialog: On this one I took ---
text: Eddie jerked away towards service door by Jack. Looking back
text: for oné last look at the smiling girl.
scene_heading: EXT. SERVICE ALLEY
text: Narrow and crammed. Jack pulling Eddie close.
speaker_heading: JACK :
dialog: This isn’t a game asshole. Keep it
dialog: together or we’re both dead.
text: Eddie turns and holds out the business card.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Know what that is?
text: Jack says nothing.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont'd)
text: It’s a sign.
dialog: (beat
dialog: You know how long I’ve been looking
dialog: for a place that sells this
dialog: particular buttercream? Well the
dialog: irl in there uses the same
dialog: uttercream. Gives me their card.
dialog: That bakery, that girl, this
dialog: moment. What are the odds?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You are nuts.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: I’m just following the signs Jack.
dialog: I_just can’t figure how you fit in
dialog: all this.
scene_heading: INT. CAMMERANO’S BAKERY
text: Alfonse scrubs the icing from his sport coat as Torres and
text: TWO UNIFORMS enter. They walk over to the Italian Girl who
text: slides her cake into the display. Torres asking her the
text: question. The Italian Girl not understanding.
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: ALFONSE
text: (eyeing the girl with
dialog: contempt)
text: They go out the back.
scene_heading: EXT. SERVICE ALLEY
text: Torres stepping out into the narrow delivery way. Looks
text: right then left. No Jack or Eddie.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING STAIRWELL
text: Jack limps up a back set of stairs as fast as his broken body
text: can take him. Eddie staying a few steps in front, taking it
text: slow on purpose.
speaker_heading: EDDIE ;
dialog: What’s interesting in all this is
dialog: cops always stick together.
dialog: eat
dialog: So I’m wondering why you’re not?
text: Jack hurrying to the next floor, too winded to say anything.
scene_heading: EXT. SERVICE ALLEY
text: Torres a block_away from the bakery, eyes searching. Rows
text: of walk-ups. Eyes falling on basement door. All the glass
text: panels glistening in the morning sun. EXCEPT ONE. Torres
text: moves closer and sees the pane is missing. Unclips his cell
dialog: phone...
scene_heading: FOURTH FLOOR HALLWAY
text: Jack’s breathing is heavy as he searches for a hidden key
text: outside Apartment D. Not there.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Shit.
text: Eddie pushes Jack aside.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Step aside and let a pro handle
dialog: this.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT D
text: WE HOLD on the door as the SOUNDS of a LOCK BEING PICKED is
text: heard. Then HEARD again. And AGAIN. The door not opening.
text: Finally the Medeco dead bolt clicks open, then the cylinder
text: lock. “The door swings open to reveal Jack holding a piece of
text: the dry cleaning hanger.
dialog: 30,
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: No wonder you’re twelve-time loser.
dialog: Can’t pick a simple lock.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Yeah, well if I had more time...
text: Jack pushes past him as Eddie takes in the surroundings.
text: Neat, functional and clean.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Woman. About your age. Works.
text: (touches a half-dead
dialog: plant)
dialog: A lot. Nothing of any real value.
text: Jack not listening. Rummaging through the living room
text: closet. Comes out empty handed.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Where’d she put it...
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Guess you haven’t been here in a
dialog: while. You and the lady on the
dialog: outs?
text: Eddie moving to the hallway now. Spots pictures lining one
text: of the walls.
speaker_heading: PICTURES
text: Family shots. A SMILING WOMAN in most of them. And two of a
text: younger, more vibrant Jack. In his rookie uniform with
text: gleaming, idealistic eyes and a few years later with his arm
text: around the woman.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: So that’s what you look like when
dialog: you smile.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Your lady’s pretty, Jack.
text: Eddie eyes drift into the bathroom. Toilet seat up. Man’s
text: razor on the sink. Uh oh. Eddie quietly lowers the seat and
text: hides the razor so Jack doesn’t see. Walks into the bedroom
text: and slides open the closet. Men’s clothing. Shuts it just
text: as Jack walks in.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont'd)
dialog: Nothing here. Maybe--
text: Jack flinging it open. Stares at the clothes, a flash of
text: hurt and sadness appears on his face then it quickly
dialog: disappears.
text: Leans down into the back of the closet and finally reemerges
text: with a dust covered .38 and a box of shells. Eddie watches
text: Jack stare uncomfortably at the clothes for a beat.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: HALLWAY
text: Jack moving full tilt out of the bedroom loading the .38 and
text: moving towards the door...
text: FREEZING when he sees_the door handle turn. Motions Eddie
text: away from the door. Pulling him down the hall just as..
speaker_heading: THE FRONT DOOR
text: EXPLODES inward. Torres stepping inside, WEAPON DRAWN.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT D
text: Torres eyes the living room. Not moving a step. Listening.
text: Starting his way through the place. Living room, hallway,
text: bathroom, bedroom, finally the spare room. All empty.
text: Returns to the living room, holstering his gun.
text: Almost out the door when Torres spots the empty shell box on
text: the coffee table.
text: Torres quickly bolting the door, turning, senses heightened.
text: Takes out his Glock and moves to the living room closet.
text: Empty. Now down the hall... Into the bathroom, checking the
dialog: shower.
dialog: Nothing.
text: To the bedroom... Windows gated and locked from the inside.
text: Closet of clothes and nothing else. Back to the hall and
dialog: into...
speaker_heading: SPARE ROOM
text: No windows in here. Just a desk, wobbly Ikea dresser... and
text: a large closet. Torres levels the gun as he kicks open the
dialog: hinged doors...
text: Not prepared for THE MURPHY BED FALLING FROM THE WALL.
text: Slamming into Torres and driving him into the ground.
text: Pinning him underneath, Jack and Eddie on top.
text: Torres reaching his Glock... fires a round through the
text: mattress. The shell searing past Eddie’s ear.
text: Jack rolling off the bed. Torres feeling the cold steel of
text: Jack’s .38 against his temple. Freezing as Jack COCKS THE
speaker_heading: HAMMER.
dialog: 32.
text: Eddie lifts the bed as Jack rolls Torres on his belly. using
text: his handcuffs to secure his hands. Jerks Torres to his feet.
text: Eddie against the wall, touching his ear. Still feeling the
dialog: heat there.
speaker_heading: TORRES
dialog: Shoulda done what you always do,
dialog: Jack.
text: Jack roughly drops Torres onto the bed. Stops when Torres’
text: cell phone vibrates.
speaker_heading: TORRES (cont’d)
dialog: They know I’m here. I don’t answer
dialog: it...
text: Jack grabs Torres’ cell phone from his belt and shoves the
text: bed up into the closet.
speaker_heading: FRONT DOOR
text: Jack racing to the front door, stopping when he sees Eddie’s
text: not following. Kid standing in the hall, strange look on his
dialog: ace.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: C’mon.
text: Not moving. Touching his ear.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I gotta pee. Should I go now or
dialog: hold it?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Go already!
text: Eddie slips into the bathroom as Jack looks around the
text: apartment. An end-of-the-road sadness about him as_he takes
text: in what used to be familiar surroundings and is no longer.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Let’s go!
text: Water still running. Jack bolting to bathroom and kicking
text: open the door.
speaker_heading: BATHROOM
text: Empty. Window to the fire escape open. Jack looks out the
text: window and sees Eddie almost to the street.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Shit!
dialog: 33.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING STAIRWELL
text: Jack huffing and puffing down the stairs. Wincing every time
text: his left leg hits the marble step. Heart driving a body that
text: can no longer keep pace.
text: Torres’ cell phone RINGS. Jack flips it open.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS)
dialog: Bob.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: He’s napping.
text: A pause.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS)
dialog: Hell Jack. I’m impressed.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You shoot him too?
text: Jack doesn’t answer.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS) (cont’d)
dialog: Feels good, doesn’t it Jack, Back
dialog: on your Eset. Doing the thing.
dialog: ea
dialog: You remind me of Teddy Apple from
dialog: the academy. Same kind of cop.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Fourse we know what happened to
dialog: im.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: That was a bad thing.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS)
dialog: That’s not the point Jack.
dialog: Shouldn’t have happened. He
dialog: couldn’t do what was necessary.
dialog: Bither can you.
text: Long silence. Just the SOUND of Jack’s labored breathing.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS) (cont’d)
dialog: You_lost him, didn’t you. He
dialog: bailed on you.
dialog: (laughter)
dialog: You blame him?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Well I got things to do. Go home
dialog: Jack.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: By the way. I forgot all about
dialog: Diane. How’s she been?
text: Jack slapping the phone shut.
dialog: 34.
scene_heading: EXT. DELANCEY STREET - MORNING
text: Service doors to the street BANG OPEN and Jack hits the
text: sidewalk. No sign of Eddie. MOVING with Jack as he crosses
text: Delancey, down a cross-town alley and out onto Bowery.
text: Looking into the SEA OF PEOPLE on their way to work. No way
text: to spot him in this. Trying to think now...
scene_heading: INT. NUGENT’S CAR - SAME TIME
text: Nugent shotgun. Mulvey driving. RADIO open as a
text: COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN triangulates the cell phone signal
text: over the radio from One Police Plaza.
speaker_heading: COM TECH (0.S.)
text: Subject’s moving east on Delancey.
text: Approaching Bowery.
text: Mulvey looks at Nugent who smiles.
scene_heading: EDDIE - SAME TIME
text: Moving QUICKLY down Bowery. Swallowed up by the CROWDS, eyes
text: straight ahead, notebook under his arm.
text: But the distant SOUNDS of police SIRENS and the inability to
text: see past the PEOPLE in front of him puts him on edge.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY STATION
text: Eddie races down the steps and JUMPS IN LINE to buy a token,
text: EYES TAKING EVERYTHING IN. Behind him a weary WOMAN
text: COMMUTER, with a defeated, world-won’t stop-kicking my-ass
text: face, grumbles at the line’s slowness.
text: TWO UNIFORMED COPS coming down the stairs and STOPPING,
scene_heading: RADIOS SQUAWKING.
text: Eddie wishing the line to MOVE faster, a tuning fork of
text: nerves. Steps to the window, a TRANSIT COP RIGHT NEXT TO
dialog: HIM...
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: One please.
text: And realizes... he has no money. Looks back at the faces of
text: impatient COMMUTERS. TRANSIT COP EYES Eddie. Steps out of
dialog: line looking for a place to go.
text: Thinks about jumping a turnstile but ANOTHER TRANSIT COP
text: hovers just on the other side. PEOPLE pushing past him to
text: make the next train. SEEING the UNIFORMS begin to scan the
text: COMMUTERS... The SUBWAY CLOCK announcing it’s...
dialog: 35.
dialog: 8:31
text: HEART POUNDING... Then NOTICES the Woman Commuter scooping
text: 30 tokens into her hands and heading for the turnstile. She
text: FUMBLES and DROPS ALL THIRTY TOKENS on the ground. One rolls
text: across the cement floor right to Eddie...
dialog: Who steps on it.
text: Looks at_ the harried Woman as PEOPLE push past her without
text: even a glance. The Woman gathers up the tokens and starts
text: for the turnstiles. Eddie not moving a muscle, foot covering
text: the valuable token. Watching the Woman inch closer to the
text: gate. Struggling with something and mumbling to himself...
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Always do what you’ve always
dialog: done...
text: Lifts his foot, grabs the token, walks up and hands it to her
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont/d)
dialog: Ma’‘am? You missed this one.
speaker_heading: WOMAN —
dialog: You want a friggin’ reward?
text: The Woman pushes through the turnstile. Eddie watches her
text: go, eyes falling to the ground.. and to the glint inside his
text: right pants cuff... where a single token rests.
scene_heading: SUBWAY PLATFORM
text: Eddie anxiously makes his way to the front of the platform.
text: HEARS the BLARE of the approaching D train.
text: Suddenly A HAND GRABS HIS SHOULDER and SPINS him around.
dialog: lack,
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Let’s go.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: No.
text: Jack pressing his .38 to Eddie’s kidney. Which doesn’t seem
dialog: to bother Eddie.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: You gonna shoot me?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That bullet back there missed my
text: head by less than an inch. It was
text: a sign.
dialog: (beat) :
dialog: And in case you didn’t notice, I
dialog: didn’t start being target practice
dialog: until I hooked up with you.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: If I can find you Eddie, they can’t
dialog: be far behind.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You’re a nice man, Jack. But I
dialog: have to follow my signs. And you,
text: are a big, fat DETOUR sign.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You’re the wrong guy, Jack. It’s
dialog: not your fault.
text: The D train SQUEALS into the station. Eddie and Jack JOSTLED
text: as COMMUTERS surge forward. Jack SHOUTING over the
text: SCREECHING BREAKS.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Eddie. I can get you there.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I need to get you there.
text: PEOPLE pour out as the doors open. Eddie pushing his way
text: inside, leaving Jack on the platform.
speaker_heading: EDDIE ;
dialog: Don’t worry, Jack. Everything’s
dialog: going to be okay.
text: The doors to the car chosing. Eddie puts up his hand to wave
text: good-bye... AND JACK GRABS IT. Pulling Eddie onto the
text: platform as the doors seal shut
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: What the--
text: Stopping when he sees Jack staring back into the subway car.
text: Turning to back to see TWO of NUGENT’S GUYS (Pouhey ani
text: Kalier) inside the car, FLYING TOWARDS THE CLOSED DOOR.
text: Jack already pulling Eddie up the stairs as the SOUNDS of
text: train’s EMERGENCY BREAKS SHRIEKS from the tunnel.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWERY
text: Jack and Eddie BURST from the subway entrance and into the
text: street, Jack trying to flag down a cab. Eddie shaken,
dialog: nothing making sense.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I don’t get this...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: That’s because you got the I.Q. of
text: a sprinkler head.
text: Pulling Eddie down the middle of Bowery looking back at the
scene_heading: SUBWAY EXIT...
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Back in the apartment. What did
dialog: that_gquy mean when he said you
dialog: should do what you always do?
text: Jack watching for a cab. Knowing they’re seconds away from
text: being trapped.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: You knew him.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: We worked narcotics together back a
dialog: ways. They went their way I went
dialog: mine.
text: Eddie processing this. Stops in his tracks as Jack BOLTS
text: into the street to flag down a gypsy cab.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: {to himself)
dialog: Cause they were bad. And you’re
dialog: not.
dialog: (putting it together)
dialog: I could have gotten the other guy.
dialog: The cop who woulda looked the other
dialog: way. me of them. But I didn’t...
text: Eddie races up to Jack and hugs him. Tight.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: I got ou! I was meant to get you.
dialog: It’s all happening. Just ina
dialog: different order.
scene_heading: INT. GYPSY CAB
text: Jack and Eddie pile into the back seat. Cab smelling like
text: ptale air freshener, open partition separating front from
dialog: ack,
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: 100 Centre Street.
text: The cab pulls away.
speaker_heading: EDDIE .
dialog: I was wrong the whole time. You
dialog: believe that?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Hard to fathom.
text: Eddie looking at Jack. Differently now.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Funny what the signs look like
dialog: sometimes.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: *
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont'd)
dialog: You think it might be a voice from
dialog: heaven or a glow that lights your
dialog: way. Or a piece of paper that
dialog: floats into your hand with the
dialog: answer on it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But sometimes it_can be a
text: miserable, crumpled, bum-legged cop
dialog: with a drinking problem. And I
dialog: almost didn’t see it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You’re the guy, Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (exasperated, to himself)
dialog: I’m the guy.
scene_heading: INT. NUGENT’S CAR - MOVING
text: Mulvey on the phone, navigating traffic onto Bowery.
text: Nugent’s eyes the streets, smelling blood.
speaker_heading: MULVEY
dialog: (shutting phone) |
dialog: Kaller. They just missed them at
dialog: the Houston Street Station.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: (into radio)
dialog: Go Com Tech.
speaker_heading: COM TECH (OS)
text: Subject’s moving south on Bowery.
dialog: Speed indicates vehicle.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Let’s go.
text: Mulvey kicks it into third gear.
scene_heading: INT. GYPSY CAB - BOWERY AND DELANCEY
text: Jack’s right arm under his jacket, finger on the .38 Stomach
text: in a knot. Eyes peeled. Traffic crawling crosstown.
text: Torres’ phone on the seat next to him.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Make a left at Broome. I want to
dialog: come in the back.
text: The fat, unshaven TURKISH CABBIE grunts. Jack looks over at
text: Eddie, scribbling in that notebook.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: What’s with the book?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Ideas and stuff.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Like how to break into a Walgreens?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Cakes.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Cakes.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Birthday cakes. Tm o) ening a
dialog: bakery in Seattle. nly ibicthday
dialog: cakes though. A sp cia ty store.
dialog: There’s big money Pn cakes.
dialog: Dead serious.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Perfect. I can see the headlines
text: now. Cupcake Criminal brings down
text: NYPD Big Wigs.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Funny. When’s your birthday? I/11
dialog: send you one.
text: Jack shaking his head, chuckling to himself.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: No, what?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I had a buck for every one of you
dialog: that had a plan to do something
dialog: else I'd be living on a houseboat
dialog: in Florida.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Trust me. One thing doesn’t go
dialog: your way and you’1ll be Srawling out
text: someone’s window with a set of
text: cutlery and a mink coat.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I only robbed Beauty Salons.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I’m not even going to ask.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: They’re all the same. Sinks in the
text: back. Chairs in the front.
text: Register in the corner. No
dialog: surprises.
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: That’s what I mean. You’re a thief
dialog: Eddie. That’s what you do. That’s
dialog: what you’ll always do.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: And you know everything, right?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I_ know if you drop a slice of bread
text: with jelly on it, it always lands
text: jelly side down.
dialog: (beat
dialog: No beating the odds, kid.
text: Jack feeling the cab slow. Looking ahead at traffic being
text: diverted onto Grand. Six lanes funneling into three. Jack
text: checking his watch again the looking out the windows.
speaker_heading: _ CAB DRIVER
dialog: Past this we go better.
text: Jack nodding. Racking his brain. Willing himself to figure
text: their next move. Slowly approaching Grand, seeing the
text: REPAIR CREWS in the middle of Bowery. Jack picks up Torres’
text: phone and opens it.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: What’s the ADA’s name who cut your
dialog: deal?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: MacDonald I think.
text: Starts to dial... and suddenly freezes. Staring at the
dialog: Phone.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Stop.
text: Driver looking confused. Jack tossing money over the seat,
text: opening the door with the cab still moving and pulling Eddie
dialog: out onto
speaker_heading: BOWERY
text: Through jammed VEHICLES, quickly onto the sidewalk and into
text: the SEA OF PEOPLE moving towards the corner. Dropping the
text: Phone into the back of a CHINESE DELIVERY cart heading
text: uptown.
scene_heading: INT. NUGENT’S CAR - SAME TIME
text: Mulvey moving in and out of traffic and closing in.
speaker_heading: COM TECH (0S
dialog: Subject now heading north. I
text: repeat north on Bowery.
dialog: 41.
text: Mulvey looking to Nugent who smiles and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: The mutt figured it out.
dialog: (into radio)
dialog: Thanks Com Tech. We’ll take it
dialog: from here.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You’re hungover with a bad leg.
dialog: What’s your next move, Jimmy?
speaker_heading: MULVEY
dialog: Change cabs. Cause I ain’t
dialog: walking.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWERY
text: Jack walking along side Eddie. Tense and ready as they
text: approach Grand. Suddenly pulling Eddie into
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRONICS STORE
text: The usual “Going Out of Business” sign that’s been up for a
text: year. Place jammed with all kinds of gadgets. TOURISTS
text: crowding the windows outside.
text: Jack moving to the Grand Street window and peering over the
text: digital camera display.
speaker_heading: JACK’S POV
text: Grand Street traffic jam crawling by... And a cluster of
text: Nugent’s PLAINCLOTHES COPS walking the street eyeballing each
text: car and cab, hands on their weapons.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Jesus...
text: Jack stepping back, just now noticing the vast array of
text: clocks a flashing the same time:
dialog: 8:40
text: Moving back to the door and stopping, face draining. Two
dialog: j A thir
text: more COPS appear just outside. d, ORTIZ, already
text: coming through the door...
scene_heading: EXT. ELECTRONICS STORE ROOF
text: The security access door kicked open by Jack, he and Eddie
text: starting across the roof.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: A few more seconds I woulda had
dialog: that one.
dialog: 42.
text: Moving to the edge and looking down. Five stories below
text: Nugent’s COPS grid searching the area. Jack and Eddie moving
text: parallel above them.
text: Up a four rung ladder and onto the adjoining roof. Jack
text: struggles to keep pace, his limp more pronounced.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: You should get that looked at.
text: Jack gritting his teeth and walking.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Had a friend who iimped just like
dialog: that. Never had it looked at.
dialog: Just limped around. Finally got
dialog: too much and went to the doctor.
text: Fracture. Only now it’s infected.
text: They cut it off. Right above the
dialog: nee.
text: Jack glares at Eddie.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: No, it was a good thing. No more
dialog: pain. Even better no more second
dialog: story work. Lives in gersey now.
text: Motorman on a PATH train. i
dialog: whole life changed for the better.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Everything happens for a reason.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You’re a sunny little shit, I’1l
dialog: give you that.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: No getting around what’s supposed
dialog: to be. It’s gonna happen anyway so
dialog: you might as well enjoy the
dialog: journey. Destiny, Jack.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Ever hear that Samarra story?
text: Jack’s too slow to stop him.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
text: Guy sends his servant to the market
text: for some fruit. The servant comes
text: back white as a ghost. Tells the
dialog: guy that Death bumped into him and
dialog: gave him a strange look. I gotta
dialog: go to Samarra and hide, he says.
text: So he takes off to Samarra. Later
text: the gry goes to the market and sees
text: Death. He asks Death why he bumped
text: into his servant and gave him a
dialog: strange look. Death says, “I
dialog: didn’t mean to.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: I was ust surprised to see him
dialog: here when I knew I had an
dialog: appointment with him tonight... in
dialog: Samarra.”
text: Eddie waits the required length for a dramatic pause.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: See? You can’t cheat destiny.
text: The bullet blows through Jack’s right hand before the SHOT is
text: HEARD.
text: Jack falling to his knees, catching sight of MALDONADO on the
text: far roof in front of them, already on his ceil.
text: Eddie helping Jack to his feet and dragging him back. Over
text: the facade to the next roof. Stopping as KALLER climbs onto
text: the roof 60 yards in front of them.
text: Now moving for rear of their roof, blood seeping out of
text: Jack’s palm.
speaker_heading: EDGE OF ROOF
text: Eddie pooking over. And extremely wide service alley. On
text: the other side a giant WAREHOUSE with the words CHINA FARM
text: painted across its football field sized wall.
text: One story below the fire escape landing starts. Saturated
text: with pigeons.
speaker_heading: 3 ' EDDIE
dialog: ‘ump !
text: Jack hesitates.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: C’mon!
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I hate those flying rats.
text: Kaller’s bullet sprays concrete inches from them, Jack jumps
text: landing squarely on the steel flooring, pigeons flapping into
text: the air. Waving his arms like a girl to get them away.
text: Looking up just as Eddie jumps.
text: Eddie misjudging the depth and hitting the railing, momentum
text: and body weight TAKING HIM OVER IT. Sailing downward until
text: Jack's bad hand clasps Eddie’s forearm. Eddie hanging there,
text: his free hand clutching that notebook.
speaker_heading: JACK {cont’ d)
dialog: Drop the stupid book!
text: Eddie won’t. Jack’s grip lessening. At the last second
text: Eddie shoves the notebook in his teeth, grabs the railing and
text: pulls himself up and over.
dialog: 44,
text: Jack on his feet, glaring at Eddie. About to start down when
text: a second floor window is blasted out. ORTIZ scrambling out
text: gate the second floor fire escape, 9mm poised to end it right
dialog: ere.
text: Jack shoving Eddie back against the wall. Looking up at the
text: roof. The pigeons lining the facade, staring at their perch.
text: Pinned down and seconds away from being shredded.
text: Jack following Eddie’s eyes down four stories to a large
text: dumpster. Too far, too small and too dark inside to know
dialog: what’s in there.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: You live it’1l be as a vegetable.
text: Eddie stuffs his notebook in his pants. Stares closely at
text: the dumpster.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Don’t even think about it.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: It’s right below_us. What are the
dialog: odds of that? It’s a sign.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: It’s an ALLEY! That’s where they
dialog: put dumpsters!
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: We can make it.
speaker_heading: JACK.
dialog: There’s no we in this. Just--
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I can’t be late, Jack.
text: And he JUMPS. Sailing four stories, outstretched arms
text: flapping through space - Thudding hard into the dumpster. A
text: WHOOSHING SOUND followed by a time delayed eruption of...
text: Feathers, Thousands of white and red chicken feathers
text: pluming into the air, Jack staring in disbelief.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You gotta be kidding me...
text: Suddenly the pigeons above set sail. Kaller’s BULLET
text: RICOCHETING OFF THE RAILING.
scene_heading: INT. DUMPSTER
text: Eddie pushing away the floating feathers and looking up as
text: Jack’s body hurdles down, slamming onto another sack of
text: chicken feathers that explode around them.
dialog: 4s.
text: Jack looking at the fluttering life savers in disbelief. The
text: first trace of a bewildered smile. Eddie scrambling to the
text: edge and jumps to the ground as Jack pulls himself out.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Don’t be so negative next time.
scene_heading: INT. CHINA FARM WAREHOUSE
text: Security doors blasting open revealing a jong corridor. Jack
text: and Eddie moving quickly down it, blood still dripping from
text: Jack’s hand. Stepping through the first door and into...
scene_heading: INT. CHICKEN PEN
text: A thousand chickens crammed into wire cages stacked one on
text: top of another to the ceiling. In the middle a steel table
text: awash in sticky blood attached to a conveyor belt. The
text: SCREECHES bouncing off the sheet metal walls is DEAFENING.
text: Eddie covering his ears, just now noticing the large plastic
text: bin overflowing with chicken heads.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: McNuggets...
scene_heading: INT. BUTCHER’ S ROOM
text: Two dozen LABORERS in bloodied aprons pluck, gut and clean
text: the mounds of chickens and ducks. Large plastic barrels
text: overflowing with feathers and entrails. ack and Eddie
text: moving right through. Laborers never looking up.
scene_heading: EXT. CHINA FARM WAREHOUSE - SAME TIME
text: Ortiz, Kaller and Maldonado coolly and aaickly dispensin
text: directions to THREE MORE COPS. Sealing off the exits an
text: fanning out in pairs, heading inside.
scene_heading: MEAT AND POULTRY AREA
text: Restaurant MERCHANTS and CHEFS pick out ducks, chickens and
text: cuts of beef for today’s menus. Over a HUNDRED PEOPLE jam
text: the tiny area. Shouting for prize sections like it was the
text: stock exchange. LOUD and CHAOTIC.
text: Jack and Eddie appearing through a curtain of plastic
text: translucent slats into the main area.
text: Jack realizing he’s trapped in the middle of the place and no
text: idea where they might be coming from, Too many PEOPLE moving
text: in too many directions. CAMERA craning up above the THRONGS
text: of PEOPLE and showing us what Jack can’t see.
dialog: 46.
text: The three teams of Cops surrounding him, moving in perfect
text: unison right at him.
scene_heading: FISH AND PRODUCE AREA
text: Kaller and Maldonado coming from the Mott Street exit.
text: Following Jack’s blood trail. Seconds away.
text: The SOUND gets to them first. A mixture of high pitched
text: screeches and human SCREAMS. The Cops stopping in their
dialog: tracks.
text: Then they see it.
text: A thousand wild chickens coming right at them. Shrieking, |
text: pecking, flapping chickens. Fluttering four and five feet in
text: the air... In PEOPLE’S faces, and at their feet. A tidal
dialog: wave of white...
text: A sea of people running over them. Kalier trying to get his
text: cell phone to his mouth only to be swarmed over by
text: hysterical, freedom fighting chickens,
scene_heading: EXT. CHINA FARM WAREHOUSE - MOTT STREET
text: Pandemonium. PEOPLE STREAMING out of the warehouse, chickens
text: pecking at their legs and arms. The chickens flooding the
text: sidewalk and darting into the street.
text: Kaller and Maldonado unable to stem the flow. Not enough
text: eyes to see it all.
text: WAREHOUSE WORKERS in long white coats desperately trying to
text: gather the chickens, getting pecked for their troubles.
text: Only now noticing two of the white coats ignore the chickens
text: and just walk off. We lose them in all the confusion...
text: just as Nugent’s car pulls to the curb, Nugent out before
text: it stops. Eyeing the surroundings with interest. Kaller
text: stepping to the car.
speaker_heading: KALLER
text: The block’s sealed. He can’t get
dialog: ar.
scene_heading: MOTT STREET
text: Jack and Eddie emerging from the crowd, dropping their white
text: coats and slipping into the heart of Chinatown.
text: Past noodle shops and acupuncture stores. The narrow street
text: and lack of pedestrians making it easy to be seen. Jack’s
text: body out of sync as it pushes itself beyond its limits.
dialog: 47.
text: Ortiz’s car screeches into view from behind. TWO MORE cars
text: appear up ahead. Jack’s pulling Eddie down a flight of
dialog: stairs and into...
scene_heading: INT. MADAM SOLKA’S HOUSE OF SPIRITS
text: Fortunes told and sold in this flamboyant railroad flat.
text: Jack and Eddie FLYING through beaded curtains, across the
text: black velvet room lit in deep red and adorned with too many
text: ornate mirrors. SEVERAL of the SOLKA clan lounge on deep
text: couches that surround the standard round table with a crystal
text: ball and tarot cards.
text: Down a narrow hall, through a tiny kitchen where the little
text: Solka’s are being fed and into a...
speaker_heading: BACK ROOM
text: Boxes stacked in every corner. A BEEFY GYPSY sits ina
text: decomposing arm chair guardin the contraband. Alread:
text: rising as Jack approaches, .38 aimed at the man’s heart.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Hoe mien!
dialog: (cocking the hammer)
dialog: Where is it?
speaker_heading: BLACKNESS
text: Broken by a shaft of light as a access panel cut into the
text: floor is lifted illuminating a set of stairs. Jack and Eddie
dialog: climb down towards us...
scene_heading: EXT. KLING STREET
text: Nugent’s car SCREECHING UP behind Madam Solka’s just as
text: Kaller and Ortiz exit the rear of the building.
text: No Jack. Momentary confusion. Sense memory washes through
dialog: Nugent.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: He’s in the basements. Headed for
text: the electrical tunnel. He gets in
dialog: there we’re fucked.
text: Kaller and Ortiz take off with Torres and Mulvey into Madam
text: Solka’s as Nugent races his car for the end of the block.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT ROOMS
text: Jack and Eddie move through an underground city. An entire
text: are block of basements connected by door-size holes
text: blasted through cinder block and sheetrock walls. Each one
text: operating illegal businesses beneath the streets.
text: Jack pulling Eddie across a CHINESE GAMBLING DEN crowded with
text: Fan Tan and craps tables towards the door size hole in the
text: opposite wall.
scene_heading: NEXT BASEMENT
text: Jack and Eddie emerging from the other side of a wall and
text: into a SWEATSHOP of CHINESE FAMILIES shrink wrapping bootleg
text: CD’s and videos.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: How far do these go?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: End of the block. But we’re not
dialog: going that far.
scene_heading: EXT. KLING STREET
text: Nugent vaulting out of his car at the far end of Kling.
text: Blowing the lock off a security grate and heading down a set
text: of stairs without hesitation.
scene_heading: INT. BOILER ROOM
text: Nugent pushes aside a shelving unit and kicks the plywood
text: door behind it off it’s hinges...
speaker_heading: BASEMENT ROOM
text: MIGRANT WORKERS silk screening T-shirts and stamping out.
text: knockoff Prada handbags. Jack and Eddie crossing through,
text: rolling open a steel door and entering the next room.
text: This one is empty. An abandoned cock fighting den with open
text: wire cages and a blood stained ring surrounded by sheetrock
dialog: walls.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: How’d you know about this place?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Years ago we’d try to bust this
dialog: place every six months or so.
dialog: Never could catch the big shits.
dialog: Until we discovered a feed tunnel
dialog: down here.
dialog: 49.
text: Jack moving towards an open doorway cut out of the sheetrock.
text: Suddenly SOUNDS of COMMOTION behind them. Turning to see
text: Torres and company crossing the room behind them.
text: Jack racing back. Rolling the steel door over the opening
text: just as Mulvey gets to it. Mulvey’s gun arm snaking between
text: it. Barrel aimed at Jack’s face. Index finger trying to
dialog: squeeze.
text: Pressure of the door on Mulvey’s shoulder making it
dialog: difficult.
text: Jack shoving the door one last time. Mulvey SCREAMING and
text: pulling his arm back.
text: The door slams shut and Jack bolts it. Turns towards the
text: next room. Nugent standing in the doorway. Jack pushing
text: Eddie to the side and FIRING.
text: Nu gat and Jack diving to behind opposite sides of the flimsy
dialog: wall,
text: Jack landing next to Eddie. BLAM! The 9mm bullet blows a
text: three inch hole through the wall and zips just under Jack’s
text: chin. Three more shots blast through the wall. ECHOING
text: through the room until it’s silent.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS)
dialog: You alright Jack?
text: Jack’s ears still ringing. Motions for Eddie to stay silent.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS) (cont’d)
dialog: I was aiming for the kid if that
dialog: makes you feel better.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You missed.
text: BLAM! Another slug blisters through the wall just above
text: Eddie’s head. Jack glaring at Eddie.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: On the other side of the wall. Half inch sheetrock the only
text: thing separating him from Jack and Eddie.
speaker_heading: . NUGENT
dialog: Kid’s gonna get you killed. He
dialog: worth that?
text: No response. Nugent moving down the wall listening for any
dialog: sign.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Only way out’s in here. Guess we
dialog: gotta work something out. I gst
dialog: all day. You got all day Jack?
dialog: 50.
scene_heading: BASEMENT ROOMS - JACK AND NUGENT
text: Jack glances at his watch: 8:51
text: Looks around the tiny room. He can HEAR The SOUNDS of the
text: others working on that metal door. Watches as Eddie slips
text: across the room looking around.
text: Nugent Pops a piece of Juicy Fruit in his mouth then slides
text: the pack into the open doorway.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Have a piece of gum. We’re gonna
dialog: be here a while.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I’m a sugarless kinda guy.
speaker_heading: NUGENT .
dialog: Then slide ‘em back, will ya?
text: Even Jack has to grin at that one.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Guess we’re even. You‘ve got my
dialog: gum, I’ve got your way out.
text: Eddie pushing aside a rusted shelving unit to reveal a BROKEN
text: DOWN SERVICE ELEVATOR, accordion door chained shut, Eddie
text: turning to Jack wide-eyed. Jack slipping over, whispering...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Can you get it open?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Got to find something to work with.
dialog: It’s rusted pretty good.
text: On the other side of the wall Nugent sits up, sensing
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (0.S.)
dialog: You there Jack?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (hushed, to Eddie)
dialog: Try something.
text: Jack moving back to the wall.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Right here Frank.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Thought you left me.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: And not say goodbye?
dialog: 51.
text: Nugent removes the throw down gun from his ankle and checks
dialog: the cylinder.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: What are we doing here Jack? We’re
dialog: both too old for this shit.
text: Jack says nothing. Watches Eddie find a sliver of metal and
text: begin to fumble with the lock.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Don’t tell me this is all about
dialog: that thing.
dialog: No answer.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Cause if it is, I don’t understand.
dialog: That was fucking forever ago.
dialog: eat
dialog: Shit like that happens sometimes.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Shit like that? Like you roughed
dialog: up some fucking pimp. He was a
dialog: citizen.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Guy shoulda never held out like
dialog: that.
text: Eddie hovers over the rusted lock and chain, ears taking it
dialog: all in.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Think I wouldn’t take back what
dialog: happened? Do it in a heartbeat.
dialog: Far as I know no one’s figured how
dialog: to do that.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I taught you anything I taught you
dialog: when you signed up for this job you
dialog: put away your heart. Hide it an
dialog: don’t take it out until you retire.
dialog: You do this 732 you have to get
dialog: past things like that.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: It crossed the line, Frank. You
text: crossed the line.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: There are no fucking lines. When
dialog: are you going to understand that?
dialog: There’s getting it_done or not
dialog: getting it done. Period. Ask the
dialog: mother of some dead kid if she
dialog: wants me to stay in the lines. She
dialog: doesn’t care. She wants justice.
dialog: That’s what I do.
speaker_heading: {MORE)
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont'd)
dialog: Clear cases and put bad guys away
dialog: no matter what it takes. I give
dialog: them justice.
text: Jack looking at Eddie working frantically. Both men stalling
dialog: for time...
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: Course Teddy A never understood
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: He was a good cop. Everybody knew--
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: He was a stubborn Pollock.
text: Nugent reloads his 9mm as he buys himself some time.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: He finally busts this big time
dialog: dealer he’d been chasin’ for years.
text: Nailed him dead to right. Guy’s
dialog: got priors as pong as my arm 50
text: his animal’s looking at forty to
dialog: forever. Only his partner never
dialog: reads the guy his rights. Said he
dialog: thought Teddy did it.
dialog: . (beat)
dialog: Like I said, shit happens. All my
dialog: Reddy had to say was he did it. |
dialog: But he couldn’t. By the book or it
text: didn’t count. The scumbag walks.
dialog: Think the cocksucker would thank
dialog: his lucky stars, pack his shit and
dialog: never look back. But that’s not
dialog: how these beasts think.
dialog: (beat)
text: Forty-six hours later he hunts down
text: reddy and puts four in the back of
text: his head while he sat in his car
text: eating a sandwich.
text: A long silence. Mulvey entering Nugent’s room and nodding
text: silently.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)
dialog: The bad gays have no lines, Jack.
dialog: Why should we?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Because we’re supposed to be the
dialog: good guys.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: I am a good guy. I put my life on
dialog: the line every day to put these
text: scumbags away. Day after day.
text: Year after year. One_guy dies but
dialog: we save six others? 1711 take
dialog: that. And so would you.
dialog: 53.
text: Eddie wiping sweat off his brow.
text: Nugent picks up the .32 and stands.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (cont’d)}
dialog: There are three types of people in
dialog: this world, Jack. Those who make
dialog: it happen, those who watch it
dialog: happen, and those who say... what
dialog: happened?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Guess which one you are.
text: Jack drops his head as Nugent and Mulvey RAISE THEIR
text: WEAPONS... Eddie still fumbling over the lock. Making one
text: last try... Turns the metal sliver once more... POP!
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I got it!
text: BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The EXPLOSIONS OF GUN FIRE strafe the
text: room. The flimsy walls shredded from both sides.
text: Jack crawling through the dust and debris, flopping into the
text: elevator cagé next to Eddie. Kicking the handle to send the
text: rickety cagé up as bullets ricochet from all directions.
text: Nugent and Mulvey step through the shredded sheet rock as
text: Torres and Ortiz barge in from the other side. Seeing the
text: service elevator rising. FIRING futilely at the cast iron
text: base disappearing into the ceiling. Mulvey already on his
dialog: radio...
speaker_heading: MULVEY
dialog: He’s in the building!
scene_heading: INT. WELFARE HOTEL LOBBY
text: Two ratty arm chairs and graffiti tagged mail boxes. Ortiz
text: and Maldonado FLYING through the front doors, Touhey and
text: Kaller from the rear. Elevator already open and empty.
text: FOOTSTEPS echo above them. Ortiz and Maldonado up the back
text: stairs. Touhey and Kaller up the front.
scene_heading: THIRD FLOOR HALLWAY
text: Jack and Eddie moving through a maze of chipped linoleum
text: hallways. VOICES and FOOTSTEPS growing behind them. Turning
text: down another hall.
text: Different VOICES LOUDER and CLOSER from in front of them.
text: Jack stopping. Out of breath and out of options. Starts
text: rapping on doors. One after another. No one answering. The
text: SOUNDS closer now. Frantically banging then giving up:
text: Readying his .38
dialog: 54.
text: A door opens 2 crack. Ancient, frightened eyes staring out.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (holding up his badge)
dialog: Police. Open up!
text: The door closes. VOICES a split second from turning into the
text: hallway. The RATTLE of a chain coming off.
scene_heading: INT. SAM’S APARTMENT
text: Jack and Eddie fall inside. Jack chaining the door. The OLD
text: MAN steps back befuddled. Creeping towards 80, eyes showing
dialog: alarm.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: No. You have to go. They said
dialog: they’d be back shortly.
text: VOICES from the hall. Jack puts his finger to his mouth, gun
text: at his side. Then a KNOCK at the door. And ANOTHER KNOCK.
text: A long moment. Mumbling of VOICES...
scene_heading: EXT. CONFUCIUS PLACE
text: Frank Nugent stands out front of the Welfare Hotel, Kaller’s
text: VOICE cackling over the radio. Behind him CROWDS begin
text: dining the block.
speaker_heading: KALLER (0.S.)
dialog: ++. could be in any one of the
dialog: rooms. But definitely in the
dialog: building. Want us to door to door
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: (into radio)
dialog: No. You take the roof. The rest
dialog: of you seal the back and alleys.
text: Bob, Jimmy and I’1l hold down the
dialog: front.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Lets sit tight. He’s the one with
text: the clock ticking...
scene_heading: INT. SAM’S ROOM
text: Jack’s eyes on his watch: 9:04 Ear pressed to the door as
text: the VOICES break up and disappear. Turns to the frightened
dialog: old man...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Phone.
text: Sam gestures to a padlocked door in the hall.
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: HALL
text: Jack moving to it, ripping off the padlock with his gun and
text: kicking in the door.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: Cell phones. Hundreds of boxes of cell phones stacked on the
text: queen size bed. The rest of the room filled bootleg furs,
text: contraband silks, boxes of electronics and high end linens
text: stacked to the ceiling. Jack digs through the mountains of
dialog: OxeSs.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Someone’s using this guy’s place to
dialog: store their shit.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Ghost Shadows or Tongs probably.
dialog: Those gangs use shut-ins like him
text: to warehouse their stash, drugs.
dialog: People like him have nobody and are
text: just too scared to say anything.
text: Jack moving back into the...
speaker_heading: LIVING ROOM
text: Sam wishing them to leave. Nervously standing there, oddly
text: resplendent in his tweed sports coat, crisp white shirt and
text: purgundy colored ascot. Pants neatly creased, shoes shined.
text: Holding tightly to what little dignity he is afforded.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Your phone.
text: The old man pointing to the kitchenette and a cordless phone
text: with oversized buttons. Jack stuffing some paper towels in
text: his palm and grabbing the phone. Putting his .38 on a table
text: near the front door.
text: Eddie taking in the room. A single fold out bed, a chenille
text: bedspread lovingly draped across it. Tin tray table with a
text: transistor radio for a night stand holding a picture frame
text: and brush. Steamer trunk serving as_a dresser. 15 inch
text: Pillips on the floor showing QVC. All shoved into one
text: corner. A little oasis shoved into one corner.
text: Sam looks pleadingly to Jack as he walks by.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: I never open the door. They told
dialog: me not to. You have to leave.
dialog: They’ re going to come back soon.
dialog: Please.
dialog: 56.
text: Sam sitting down on his bed, worried eyes constantly moving
text: to the door. Eddie sitting next to him.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: We’1l be gone in a minute.
dialog: (beaty
dialog: I’m Eddie.
speaker_heading: SAM
dialog: Sam.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Hi Sam. Lemme ask you something.
dialog: You're driving in a hurricane...
text: Jack moves toward the back, dialing the phone.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: {into phone)
text: Dan MacDonald’s office.
text: Waits as he’s transferred. Looks back at Eddie and the old
dialog: man.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: So who would you take?
text: Sam’s eyes sparkle to life. He reaches over and turns a
text: picture frame in Eddie’s direction. A creased snapshot of a
text: young WOMAN standing in front of a massive, ornate CLOCK.
text: Eddie stares at the photo then to Sam.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont/’d)
dialog: phe girl of your dreams. You take
dialog: er?
text: Now peering through a dirty window. Uniformed POLICE wander
text: the block, blue barricades lining the curb. Jack not
text: understanding. A VOICE on the other end of the phone.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Dan MacDonald please.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tell him it’s the guy with his
dialog: witness.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - 100 CENTRE STREET - MORNING
text: A OVERWORKED CLERK races for all he’s worth down a brightly
text: lit corridor, sliding around one corner and flying through a
text: door with a large C over it.
dialog: 57.
scene_heading: INT. GRAND JURY ROOM C
text: Small and plain with no windows. TWENTY FOUR CITIZENS sit at
text: one end in a semi-circle of tiered seats. In front of them
text: are a COURT STENOGRAPHER, two COURT OFFICERS and a desk
text: occupied by Assistant District Attorney DAN MACDONALD and his
text: measly STAFF of TWO. An easel holding a diagram, case
text: numbers and names is prominent.
text: The air is tense and uncomfortable as the Overworked Clerk
text: slips behind MacDonald and whispers in his ear.
scene_heading: INT. ADA MACDONALD’S OFFICE
text: The mid-morning SUN illuminates mountains of files stacked in
text: every conceivable space. MacDonald, 30, runs his hand across
dialog: where his hair used to be. {(INTERCUT as needed)
scene_heading: . MACDONALD .
dialog: I just hung up with your Captain
dialog: ten minutes ago. You should’ve
dialog: been here by now. Where the hell
dialog: are you?
speaker_heading: JACK
text: About seven blocks away. Only
dialog: there’s a few Cops between me and
dialog: ou that don’t want him there.
dialog: ou’ re going to have to buy
dialog: yourself some more time.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
text: There is no more time. The jury’s
dialog: tenure ends at ten. That’s it.
dialog: Without that kid they’11 vote “No
text: Bill” and Ryan walks and case goes
text: in the toilet.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You guys could indict a ham
dialog: sandwich. What’s the deal?
text: MacDonald slumps onto his desk, swivels to face a bulletin
text: board with pictures of Police Officers, witnesses and case
text: numbers. Red magic marker lines connect the faces to one
text: another. Weariness drips from voice.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: Went fishing without enough bait.
dialog: My boss thought if we went to the
dialog: grand jury Ryan would fold. He
dialog: idn’t. We had only circumstantial
dialog: until we ran into Edward Bunker
dialog: last night. He’s an eye witness.
dialog: He makes it all work.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I got one shot at this, Mosley. I
dialog: need that kid.
dialog: 58.
scene_heading: INT. SAM’S APARTMENT - SAME TIME
text: Jack watching as an army of CHINESE FAMILIES in brightly
text: covered attire pour onto the edges of the barricades on
text: Confucius Place. MUSICIANS gather in the street.
text: And suddenly understanding what it is.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD (OS)
dialog: Where are you? I’11 send my squad.
text: Jack doesn’t answer. Thinking.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Someone over there set this thing
dialog: in motion. You got a leak.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Maybe even one of your squad.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: See you at the courthouse.
text: ghsck. Jack moves away from window. Pulls Eddie towards the
dialog: oor--
text: BAM! Sam's DOOR blows open, TWO ON LONG GANG MEMBERS step
text: inside. Cool, menacing stares. The larger one, ONG, steps
text: in as his PARTNER hangs back. Heavy boots, overcoats like
dialog: ents.
speaker_heading: ONG
dialog: What the fuck is this?
text: Ong glaring at Sam, not moving from the door, His Partner
text: moves to the bedroom. YELLING something in Chinese from the
dialog: a
speaker_heading: ONG (cont’d)
dialog: You steal my things? THIS IS MY
dialog: PLACE!
text: Jack puts his hands up in surrender. Eyes his gun sitting
text: behind Ong on the table.
speaker_heading: ONG (cont’d)
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: We needed a phone. No trouble. We
dialog: just want to walk out of here.
text: The Partner reappears and mumbles something in Chinese.
text: Tense silence as Ong stares down Jack. Then he grins and
text: s ats at Jack. No response from Jack. Ong motions them to
text: the door.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Eddie.
text: Eddie points to Sam.
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: What about him?
speaker_heading: JACK ,
dialog: What about him? He’s fine.
dialog: {to Sam)
dialog: You fine?
text: Sam nervously nods.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: He’s fine. Let’s go.
text: Eddie doesn’t budge.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: He opened the door.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Eddie.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: He never opens the door. That’s
dialog: what he said. But today he did.
dialog: When we needed him to. It’s a
dialog: sign.
dialog: (beat) .
dialog: We’re supposed to help him. He
dialog: can’t stay here.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Don’t start with this --
text: But Eddie already has, turning to Ong.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Think you're tough shit pickin’ on
dialog: a little old man? Well I’m
dialog: standing right here and I don’t see
dialog: you doing something about that. So
dialog: you must be a pussy.
text: Jack’s shoulders slump. Ong whips out a six inch blade and
text: moves for Eddie. WHAM! Ong’s arm snaps like a twig, Jack’s
text: move so quick and so jarring, the pain hasn’t even registered
text: yet. The thumb to the windpipe does, sending Ong to the
text: ground gasping for air.
text: Jack already to the .38 , spinning and SPLITTING OPEN the
text: Partner’s nose before his weapon Clears his beit. The two
text: writhing on the floor in massive pain.
text: Jack clutching his hand, nauseous from the pain, kneels down
dialog: and confiscatés ID’s from both.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Get your shit out of here and don’t
dialog: come back.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont'd)
dialog: Anything happens to that man, he
dialog: gets so much as a cold, and I will
dialog: tell Tommy Chan the two of you are
dialog: my stoolies.
text: Frightened look from Ong as Jack shows his badge.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: You know what Tommy Chan did to the
dialog: last rat he caught? Cut the
dialog: bastards head off and mailed it to
dialog: his mother.
text: Eddie leans in.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: And two hundred dollars a month.
text: Under the door. Cash.
dialog: (off Jack’s look)
text: They shoved him in a corner like he
text: was an animal. Used his place.
dialog: They should pay him rent for that.
text: Jack looks at Eddie differently this time. The slightest
text: trace of a smile. Turns to the broken men.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: What he said.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR STAIRWELL
text: Jack and Eddie descending, eyes and ears open. Jack’s limp
dialog: more pronounced.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You were going to walk out and
dialog: leave him there.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Can’t fix everything, Eddie.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You sound like your friend down
dialog: there.
dialog: That one stings.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: He ain’t_my friend. And I’m
dialog: nothing like him.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: But you know what he did. What
dialog: this is about, don’t you?
text: It takes a while for Jack to answer.
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: JACK,
dialog: Witness tampering. You saw two
text: police detectives intimidating a
dialog: witness for profit.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: They been doing it for years.
dialog: Started out as a way to keep their
text: informants on the street. They get
dialog: popped, Frank would find the key
dialog: witness and get him to change their
dialog: tune. Threaten him or his family.
text: Keeps his snitch out there working.
dialog: Least that’s how they rationalize
dialog: it. Until they figured out they
dialog: could squeeze some money out it.
scene_heading: EXT. CONFUCIUS PLACE - MORNING
text: Riotous with every imaginable color. SOUNDS of FIRECRACKERS,
text: loud GONGS and DRUMS accompany CHANTS of long life and
text: happiness... The Wedding procession moving towards Mott
text: Street and past police barricades.
text: Torres and Kaller on either side, Ortiz and Maldonado watch
text: the back. Touhey on the roof.
text: In front Nugent and Mulvey move amongst the revelers,
text: slipping amongst them like barracudas.
scene_heading: INT. RESIDENCE LOBBY
text: Jack and Eddie moving across the deserted lobby and settling
text: on either side of the front doors. The MUFFLED SOUNDS of the
text: procession growing LOUDER. Jack staring out into the chaos.
dialog: Nervous time.
speaker_heading: EDDIE :
dialog: You know they’re out there waiting.
dialog: What are we going to do?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Wait for one of your signs.
text: Quiet as they watch the swirl of people gathering along the
dialog: street.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: What were you talking about with
text: him in the basement. Something
text: about a citizen.
text: Jack’s eyes grow hard. They never leave the street as he
dialog: speaks.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Four years ago one of Nugent’s top
text: informants stabbed a cab driver.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont'd)
dialog: Nugent needed this guy so he pays 4
dialog: visit to the eye witness. Up to
dialog: this point the witnesses were
dialog: nickel and dime scum bags. This
dialog: one was different. Chinese guy.
text: Sixty something. A citizen minding
dialog: his own business.
dialog: (beat)
text: The old guy wouldn’t budge. Sticks
text: to his story. Frank threatens him
dialog: but the guy doesn’t fold. Gets so
text: mad he shoves his gun in the guy’s
text: mouth. Guy drops dead right there.
text: Heart attack. Frank leaves.
text: amily finds the old guy the next
dialog: lay.
text: Long silence as the Wedding Parade comes into view. Behind
text: them the elevator opens and a LARGE FAMILY of NINE emerges
text: and heads for the front doors.
scene_heading: EXT. CONFUCIUS PLACE
text: The bridal chair passing. Held high above the crowd.
text: Heavily curtained to prevent the bride from glimpsing unlucky
text: sights. Mirrors of all shapes and sizes decorate it’s red
text: satin sheath, protecting her from evil influence. FAMILY
text: scatters grain and beans as symbols of fertility. ATTENDANTS
text: with lanterns and banners swirl among them. A papier-mache
text: Unicorn dances around her for luck. MUSICIANS play a Chinese
text: wedding SONG.
text: The Hotel doors open, the LARGE FAMILY oozes outside.
text: Nugent and Mulvey seeing it right_away. Pushing through the
text: CROWDED SIDEWALK towards the Family. Getting to them just as
text: they are swallowed up by the crowd.
text: Pulling them apart but Jack and Eddie are not there. Nugent
text: and Mulvey whipping around, eyes searching the sidewalk...
speaker_heading: ON JACK
text: Out the SERVICE DOORS and into the middle of the street.
text: Surrounded by swirling color and movement. A dozen parasols
text: spinning along side Jack. Behind him a twenty foot DRAGON
text: snakes in and out of the CROWD. The firecrackers being set
text: off to frighten away evil spirits all around him.
text: Eddie six yards ahead of him.
scene_heading: EXT. CONFUCIUS PLACE
text: The spectacle flowing past the barricades and outside the
text: established perimeter. The Groom, accompanied by a child as
text: an omen of his future sons, waits for his bride.
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Safety just fifteen yards away. Willing himself to keep
text: going. Ten yards...
text: REVELERS CHANT. Behind Jack the Dragon slithers away
text: revealing Mulvey, stepping up from behind, Glock coming up.
text: The dragon snakes back in between them...
text: Mulvey trying to push it out of the way, finally ducking
text: underneath it only to find... Jack gone.
text: Pushing through the CROWD as the CAMERA drifts up high over
text: Confucius Place, the THRONGS of PEOPLE spilling away in all
dialog: directions...
scene_heading: INT. VIDEO ARCADE - MORNING
text: Noisy and crammed with ASIAN YOUTHS. One PUNK banging on the
text: rest room door, throwing up his hands.
speaker_heading: JACK’S WATCH
text: Sitting on the edge of a sink. 9:12
scene_heading: INT. VIDEO ARCADE REST ROOM
text: Two stalls, a urinal and a rusty sink where Jack runs water
text: over his hand. Eddie standing on the toilet tank peering
text: through a mesh grating that looks onto the street.
speaker_heading: EDDIE’S POV
text: West Broadway and in particular a shoe shine stand across the
text: street that 1s presently unoccupied.
scene_heading: ARCADE REST ROOM
text: Eddie jumping down.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: Six blocks.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Might as well be six miles we don’t
dialog: get some help.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: They say there are no shortcuts to
dialog: places worth going.
text: Jack stuffing paper towels in his palm. Laughs.
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: EDDIE {cont’d)
dialog: Someone’s going to help us, Jack.
dialog: Don’t you worry.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I shot a cop and your re a rat.
dialog: Who’s going to help us.
text: Eddie smiles a weary smile and lets it go.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: We’ll make it. And before ten.
dialog: Cause I have to be -—
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: -- someplace before noon. Where do
dialog: you have to be that’s so important?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: A place. Got to pick up something.
text: Cynical laugh from Jack.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont'd)
dialog: It’s not what you think. I’ma
dialog: baker Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Thief to cake maker. Just like
dialog: that.
text: Bleeding stopped. Eddie up on the toilet checking again.
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Not just like that. It was a
dialog: process. A journey. Because I
text: followed the signs.
dialog: (jumps back down)
dialog: Like nine months ago I’m
dialog: incarcerated. They throw this
dialog: ancient guy in with me. Marvis.
text: Has cancer in his throat, so he can
dialog: hardly talk. But that first night
dialog: he_ says something that started it
dialog: all. “Says, “If you always do what
dialog: you always done, you’ll always have
dialog: what you always got”.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Well I don’t like what I got.
dialog: Thievin' gives me upset stomachs
dialog: and I suck at it. Maybe I should
dialog: try something else.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I’m sure check washing crossed your
dialog: mind.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Nope. Cakes. On the inside I’m
dialog: known for my cakes.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont'd)
dialog: But as a goof, I start decorating
dialog: them. Anything you could think of.
text: Girlfriends. Cars. Gang logos.
dialog: You name it. Find out I’m great at
dialog: it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I got nothin’ but time so I do my
dialog: due diligence and find you can make
dialog: good money on birthday cakes. Kid
dialog: ones. Put Barney or a Dragon Ball
dialog: on one and whoosh, your mark-up is
text: through the roof.
text: Jack just staring at this kid. Nods for Eddie to check
text: again, so he climbs back up and checks the shoe shine stand.
text: Empty.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Nothing.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Anyway I get_out and start saving
dialog: for my own place. I’m doin’ okay
dialog: but I don’t see a bakery in m
dialog: future any time soon. hich
dialog: figure will cost thirty grand to
dialog: get started. But I keep tellin’
dialog: myself do what you've always done,
dialog: have what you always got
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I didn’t give up like I always did.
dialog: I had faith for some reason. Then
dialog: one amazing episode after another
dialog: and I have the money.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Why was that old guy was put in
dialog: with me? It was a sign. And this
dialog: time I didn’t miss it. We’ll be
dialog: okay: Because I was meant to bake
dialog: cakes.
text: Eddie climbing to look again.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Hate to burst your bubble kid, but
dialog: in 23 years of police work I’ve
dialog: never met a thief that stayed out.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: People change Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Dates change. Seasons change.
dialog: People don’t.
text: Eddie shakes his head then spots something across the street.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Tall, skinny guy?
dialog: 66.
scene_heading: EXT. SHOE SHINE STAND - MORNING
text: SHAQUILLE EVANS sits on his high shoe shine chair, legs
text: stretched. Munching on a Cinnabon, licking his fingers and
text: watching gaggles of KOREAN GIRLS waddle by. A sign behind
text: him reads: SHINIST OF FINE FOOTWEAR
text: Six-nine, 165 pounds, he looks like a praying mantis in shiny
text: lime green sweats. A burn scar puckers his left cheek,
text: drawing the eye into a permanent squint. An old thirty.
text: A SANITATION WORKER moseys up and holds out a twenty.
speaker_heading: SANITATION WORKER
dialog: They said you got phone cards.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: I got phone cards, green cards,
dialog: credit cards, ID cards. I’m the
text: card king, garbage man.
text: Shaquille reaching into his shine box and taking out a pile
text: of pre-paid phone cards wrapped in a rubber band.
speaker_heading: Shaquille (cont’d)
dialog: How many minutes you want?
text: The Worker takes a sixty minute card for his twenty and walks
text: away revealing Jack and Eddie standing there.
scene_heading: INT. SHAQUILLE’S APARTMENT
text: The door opens and Shaquille leads Jack and Eddie inside.
text: 022 and Harriet neat and clean with matching furniture and
text: wall to wall.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: Honey! Look who’s here?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I’1l get my keys.
text: Shaquille heads down the hall as his wife, SALMA appears in
text: the kitchen doorway. Pretty Puerto Rican woman in her late
text: 20’s. Her glare saying it all. She hates Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: Salma.
text: She turns back into the kitchen without a word.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: A guy saves your life you owe him.
dialog: Therefore you take your best friend
dialog: from that bus stop.
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: And leave the women. I don’t think
dialog: that makes you a good soul. Do
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: (slumping)
dialog: No.
text: Silence... Suddenly Eddie brightens.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Chuck Berry.
dialog: (off Jack’s look)
dialog: Was an armed robber. Went to
dialog: prison.
text: Jack looks completely confused.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: You said nobody changes. He
dialog: changed.
text: Jack staring at Eddie.
speaker_heading: what? EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: at?
dialog: JACK | .
dialog: Nothing. I was just visualizing
dialog: duct tape over your mouth.
dialog: (beat)
speaker_heading: SHAQ!
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE (0.S.)
dialog: One sec!
text: Shaquille emerging from the bedroom. Stops outside a
text: goorway and motions Jack over. Jack peering into the den.
text: Shaquille’s SON, 7, playing Playstation2.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Big.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: Bight next month.
text: About to start out when he looks at the big screen Sony.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE {(cont’d)
dialog: What’s that you’re playin’?
scene_heading: LITTLE SHAQUILLE
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: Hey.
text: Kid shrugs sheepishly.
scene_heading: LITTLE SHAQUILLE
dialog: {almost inaudible)
dialog: Vice City.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: Turn it off.
scene_heading: LITTLE SHAQUILLE
dialog: Nooocoaeaccco00!
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE | ;
dialog: Turn it off or I’m disconnecting
dialog: Playstation.
scene_heading: LITTLE SHAQUILLE
text: Bram and William play it.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: They swallow razor blades you gonna
dialog: do that too? It’s too violent.
dialog: It’s rated M. You know what that
dialog: means? Now turn it off!
scene_heading: LITTLE SHAQUILLE
dialog: (turning it off)
dialog: I hate you.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT PARKING GARAGE
dialog: 68.
text: Trunk’s open of Shaquille’s ‘98 Town car. Eddie climbing in.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: (to Jack)
dialog: Yes sir. Me and Jack go back a
dialog: long ways. When I went up, he took
dialog: care of things down here for me.
dialog: Food, bills...
text: Jack tucking his gun in his waist.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Lafayette to Centre. Pull in
dialog: downstairs. Pop the trunk and go
dialog: home. Slates cle
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR TRUNK
text: Jack climbing in, Shaquille shutting the trunk.
text: Bodies getting comfortable.
scene_heading: EXT. BROADWAY - AFTERNOON
text: BLACKNESS.
text: Shaquille eases the Lincoln on_to Broadway and heads south.
text: Keeping the car in traffic’s flow.
dialog: 69.
scene_heading: INT. TRUNK
text: Intermittent glow from the BRAKE LIGHTS the only light
text: source. The car begins to move and we’re plunged into
text: darkness. After a moment...
speaker_heading: EDDIE (OS)
dialog: Barry White.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Stole three hundred tires and went
text: to jail. He changed too.
speaker_heading: JACK (OS)
dialog: Can it. We need the air.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR
text: Shaquille easing into the stop and go as traffic congests.
text: Clutches the steering wheel with NERVOUSNESS. Eyes peeled
dialog: and uncomfortable.
scene_heading: INT. TRUNK
text: Hot in here now. BRAKE LIGHTS on again as the car stops.
text: Jack and Eddie back to back. Eddie humming.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: What’s that you keep humming?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Sorry I’11 stop.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I know that tune. Do it again
text: Eddie does it almost inaudibly. Jack following it in his
text: head. Car moving again.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Wheels on the bus?
dialog: (half singing)
text: The wheels on the bus goes round
text: and round, ali through the town.
text: Eddie starts singing it.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: The people on the bus go up and
dialog: down, up and down...
speaker_heading: _ JACK
dialog: I though it was the horn went toot-
dialog: toot-toot.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: That comes after. Wheels, people,
text: horn then money in the box.
dialog: There’s more but I can’t remember
dialog: ‘em.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Whatever. Why that stupid song?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: 70.
dialog: I don’t know. My sister sung it to
dialog: me when I was little. Said if I
dialog: sang it to myself the scary stuff
dialog: would go away.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: How old are you?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: Twenty-four.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Twenty-four and you believe singing
dialog: an idiotic song
dialog: Bus will make you brave.
text: Eddie doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’ d)
dialog: You know it’s stupid, right?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I guess.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You guess?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Okay it’s stupid. I won’t do it
dialog: anymore.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Do it, don’t do it. I don’t care.
dialog: I’m just saying it’s stupid.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I heard you the first time.
dialog: ike Wheels-On-The-
text: Eddie moves away from Jack. Jack suddenly aware he’s hurt
dialog: Eddie’s feelings.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Look--
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I’m not doing it anymore, okay?
dialog: Just drop it.
text: Car hits_a pot hole causing both to wince.
text: badly. After some silence...
dialog: Jack feeling
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: The wipers on the bus go swish-
text: swish-swish, then the doors go open
text: and shut then the driver on the bus
dialog: says move on back. That’s the
dialog: rest.
text: The faintest smile appears on Eddie’s face. The car turning
text: again. Ride bumpy a of a sudden. A quick flash of the
text: brake light reveals a strange look on Jack’s face.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR
text: Shaquille nervously steering the car down a service alley,
text: sweating profusely in spite of the AC on high.
text: Suddenly Jack’s .38 is at his temple.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Where you going Shaq?
text: Rear seat pushed out, Jack COCKING THE HAMMER back.
speaker_heading: SHAQUILLE
dialog: {stammering)
dialog: Frank pulled me just before you
dialog: showed! Said if you reached out I
dialog: otta call him. hreatened my kid!
dialog: wear to Christ I didn’t want to--
text: Suddenly through the windshield Nugent, Torres and Mulvey
text: grow larger as the car heads towards them.
text: Jack's over the seat, JAMMING HIS FOOT ON THE ACCELERATOR and
text: PUSHING SHAQUILLE OUT THE DOOR. The Lincoln jerking forward
text: and barreling down on Nugent.
text: Nugent, Torres and Mulvey FIRING THEIR WEAPONS into the car.
text: Windshield SHATTERS as Jack dives into the back...
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY
text: Nugent and company EMPTYING THEIR GUNS into the oncoming car
text: as it CAREENS OFF THE ALLEY WALLS, the Lincoln almost on top
dialog: of them.
text: BLAM! The trunk cylinder BLOWN INTO THE AIR, trunk flying
text: open. Jack and Eddie tumbling out of it and onto the
text: pavement right before the Lincoln SLAMS INTO A GARBAGE BIN.
text: Jack getting off THREE SHOTS before taking off.
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: JACK AND EDDIE
text: Racing into the middle of Lafayette Street. MTA bus chugging
text: through traffic just ahead. Nugent’s COPS flying onto the
text: sidewalks.
text: Jack breathing through his mouth, two heartbeats away from a
text: heart attack. Knee buckling but keeps going: Closing on the
text: bus. Catching up and banging on the door flashing his badge
text: at the driver.
text: Jack losing steam as the doors swing open. Eddie jumping on
text: then turning, hanging out the door, arm outstretched,
text: grabbing Jack’s wrist.
scene_heading: INT. MTA BUS
text: Eddie pulling Jack inside. Jack over to the driver, badge in
text: his face.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (breathless)
dialog: No stops.
text: Eddie slumping into a seat near the front. Jack standing
text: pext to the driver. TWENTY PASSENGERS scattered through the
dialog: us.
text: Jack watching through the windshield. The Courthouse. Five
dialog: 0
text: and a half blocks and closing. Checks his watch:
dialog: 9:20
speaker_heading: JACK’S POV
text: Kaller and Maldonado up ahead, flashing badges in the middle
text: of Lafayette. Mulvey and Torres gaining ground from the
dialog: rear.
scene_heading: INT. MTA BUS
text: Jack moves closer to the Driver. Eddie on his feet as the
text: Bus starts to pull over.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Keep going.
text: Cops moving in front of the bus now. Driver’s confused but
text: keeps it moving. Past Kaller and Maldonado who race to keep
dialog: up.
scene_heading: EXT, LAFAYETTE STREET
text: The big M5 RUMBLING towards Canal. Picking up speed...
dialog: 73.
scene_heading: INT. MTA BUS
text: Jack’s gun on the driver’s back. Holding onto the rail as
text: the bus rumbles on.
text: Suddenly the Bus is JOLTED, swaying WILDLY OUT OF CONTROL.
text: PASSENGERS flying into the aisle.
scene_heading: EXT. LAFAYETTE STREET
text: Torres and Mulvey firing at the Bus’ tires. Shredded rubber
text: flying off the rims, SPARKS SHOWERING THE STREET.
text: The bus listing, screeching and groaning to a stop a block
dialog: and half from Canal.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Passengers SCREAMING. Jack off the floor, locking the doors
text: and forcing the driver towards the back.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Everybody up!
text: Forcin passengers against the windows face first. Hands
text: over their heads.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: (to Eddie)
dialog: Move ‘em against the windows!
text: Eddie positioning people in front of all the windows. Jack
text: pushing FOUR to move towards the front to cover the
text: windshield.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS/INTERSECTION
text: Mulvey, Torres, Kaller and Maldonado surrounding the bus.
text: Nugent arriving, quickly sizing up the situation.
speaker_heading: TORRES
dialog: Had to stop it Frank. Runs right
text: to the Courthouse.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Get Gruber here and let’s get our
dialog: stories straight. Going to have to
dialog: paint a neat picture for command.
text: RMP’s from three Precincts already converging on the
dialog: intersection,
dialog: 74.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Frightened passengers line the windows. Jack moving up the
text: aisie, Eddie like his shadow behind him.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
scene_heading: DON’T WORRY EVERYBODY. THIS MAN’S
scene_heading: A POLICE OFFICER. EVERYTHING WILL
scene_heading: BE OKAY. REMAIN CALM.
text: CRYING from the back of the bus. An OLD MAN having trouble
text: standing, his WIFE becoming hysterical. Those around him
text: trying to keep him up. A SUIT, TIE and BRIEFCASE turns to
dialog: Jac
speaker_heading: STAB
dialog: This guy can’t stand any more.
text: Jack thinks, then grabs several newspapers from off the
text: seats. Rummages around under the Driver’s seat, coming away
text: with a roll of duct tape. Hands out pages of the papet to
text: passengers: Everyone taping over their windows with the New
dialog: ork Post and Daily News.
scene_heading: INT. RAYS PIZZA - MINUTES LATER
text: Staging area being set up. MDT’s, hard lines’s and dispatch
dialog: tables being positioned as everybody who needs to be here
text: arrives.
text: SWAT and HRT are gearin up. Nugent and Gruber talking to
scene_heading: DEPUTY COMMISSIONER WAGNER.
speaker_heading: GRUBER
dialog: Thought we could take care of this
text: quickly and quietly.
speaker_heading: WAGNER
dialog: (furious)
text: Guy shoots a cop and takes a grand
dialog: jury witness hostage and you want
dialog: me to be-~-
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: My fault Bernie. I _asked him to
dialog: let me handle it. I worked with
dialog: Mosley years ago. Felt an
dialog: obligation to talk him in. Didn’t
dialog: realize he was this gone.
text: Hostage Negotiator MIKE SHEEHAN walks up clipping a headset
text: to his ear.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN
dialog: What do we got?
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: WAGNER
text: Cop. Vet. Flipped, shot a
text: detective and took a hostage an
dialog: hour ago. Now this.
text: Sheehan eyes the group. Decides not to say anything.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN
dialog: How many in there?
speaker_heading: WAGNER
dialog: We’re blind right now. We’re
dialog: checking the route.
text: Sheehan stares at the bus. Papers finished going up.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN
dialog: Suicidal?
speaker_heading: WAGNER
dialog: Been to the farm twice the last
dialog: four years. Nothing like this
dialog: though.
text: Sheehan eyes Nugent.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN
dialog: What do you know?
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: After he nailed Jerry he spouted
text: something about making headlines.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN
dialog: Let’s get him a radio and let’s see
dialog: what he wants.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS/INTERSECTION
text: A CROWD has packed the sidewalks, PEOPLE hang out windows to
dialog: watch,
text: Black clad SWAT Snipers line the rooftops, high powered
text: rifles pointed at the bus. Scopes reflecting the rising sun.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Jack and Eddie moving passengers to the back. Jack looking
text: at that Chinese Woman who’s face is stiff with fear.
text: Mumbling a prayer only she can hear.
text: Jack kneels, says something in Chinese. She looks up and
text: suddenly seems calm.
text: A VOICE booms through the bus.
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN (OS)
dialog: This is Sergeant Mike Sheehan.
dialog: I’1l be the one talking to you.
dialog: First thing I need to do is get a
dialog: radio to you so we can talk. Make
dialog: sure everyone is alright.
speaker_heading: JACK’S POV
text: Sheehan behind a Patrol Car, bullhorn in hand. Jack’s eyes
text: scan the rest of the block. Sharpshooters and Police
dialog: everywhere.
speaker_heading: INTERSECTION
text: The bus doors open. Sheehan removes his windbreaker and |
text: steps in front of the car. Arms in the air, Police radio in
text: his right hand.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN .
dialog: I am not armed. I’m just going to
dialog: step in there, hand you a radio and
dialog: make sure we’ve got no injuries...
speaker_heading: JACK (OS)
dialog: Throw it.
text: Sheehan stops.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN
dialog: I need to--
text: The bus doors start to close.
speaker_heading: okay! SHEEHAN (cont’d)
dialog: ay!
text: The doors stop and Sheehan under hands the radio through
dialog: them.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Doors hiss shut. Eddie retrieves the radio and hands it to
text: Jack. RADIO already CACKLING.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN (OS)
dialog: You copy me, Jack?
speaker_heading: . JACK
dialog: {into radio)
dialog: Everybody’s okay in here.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN (OS)
dialog: Good. That’s good. How many
dialog: people you have in there Jack?
dialog: 77.
text: Eddie mouthing nineteen. Jack about to say it then stops.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: fyenty-two. Including me and the
dialog: 1a.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN (0.S.)
dialog: Good. I think it’s important that
dialog: we're honest with each other. So
dialog: I’m going to tell you what’s what.
dialog: We’re going to do whatever it takes
dialog: to ensure the safety of the
dialog: hostages. I understand you’ve been
dialog: under a lot of pressure and that
dialog: it’s been a rough day for you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But that end’s here. It’ll be up
dialog: to you how.
dialog: (beat)
text: The block’s sealed. SWAT and HRT
text: are in place. It’s a frozen zone.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So_let’s work this out and we can
dialog: all go home and hug our loved ones.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Because this is as far as you go,
dialog: Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK’S POV
text: Nothing but guns trained on the bus. 360 degrees of
text: automatic weapons scatter the landscape. Rooftops, store
text: fronts, vehicles. Even the SOUNDS of HELICOPTERS can be
dialog: heard above.
text: Watches Wagner and Gruber talking with Sheehan. Then sees
text: Nugent staring at the bus. Looking RIGHT at the window
text: Jack’s peering out of. Like he can see him...
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Jack moves away. Every terrified face on the bus on him.
text: Looks at his watch.
dialog: 9:25
text: Jack sits. You can see all hope and desire ebb from his
text: broken body. Eyes dim. Shoulders slump. Eddie sits next to
text: him and puts his hand on Jack’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: _ EDDIE
dialog: They say in every adversity there’s
dialog: seeds for a greater opportunity.
text: Jack doesn’t respond. Just stares at the floor. Whatever
text: fight that was left is long gone.
dialog: 78.
text: Eddie gets up and walks to the back window and peers out. |
text: Jack notices Eddie’s notebook on the seat beside him. Flips
dialog: it open...
speaker_heading: THE NOTEBOOK
text: Beginning pages crammed with cake designs, recipes and
text: ingredients. Deeper in, the pages are filled with
dialog: calculations of costs, equipment prices and lists of various
dialog: distributors. Business cards, lease agreement from a Seattle
text: building owner taped to some pages. A question mark next
text: to Jack’s name. Months of painstaking thought. Each page
text: filled with hope, craft and hard work.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Jack looking up_at Eddie. Differently this time. The kid
text: consoling a LATINO WOMAN, that ever present smile soothing
dialog: er.
text: Jack’s eyes drifting to the radio on the seat across from
text: him. Picks it up.
speaker_heading: , JACK
dialog: (into radio)
dialog: Sheehan.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN (0.S.)
dialog: Right here Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Here’s my demands. I want District
dialog: Attorney MacDonald, a court
dialog: stenographer and a member of the
dialog: television media to board this bus
dialog: to witness and record sworn
dialog: testimony.
dialog: (beat)
text: After we talk we all walk out of
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN (0.S.)
dialog: That’s a tall order Jack. It’s
dialog: going to take some--
text: Jack cutting him off.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: DA, court reporter and a media
dialog: person I would know. Thirty
dialog: Minutes or I start shooting.
text: Eddie shocked by Jack’s tone. Turns to Passengers.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: He’s kidding.
text: Jack clicks off the radio. Moves to back of bus.
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Bring the courthouse to us. That’s
dialog: brilliant.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Everybody up.
scene_heading: INT. RAY’S PIZZERIA
text: Keenan look back at MacDonald then to Sheehan.
speaker_heading: WAGNER
dialog: He knows nobody’s going in that
dialog: bus? What’s he up to?
text: Sheehan about to say something when the BUS DOORS open and
text: the radio is tossed out to the pavement.
speaker_heading: WAGNER (cont’ d)
dialog: Prepare a breach.
speaker_heading: STAGING AREA
text: SWAT TEAMS put on their gear and ready assault weapons. RAY
text: FITZPATRICK, chiseled vet of 18 years is popping in an
dialog: ou
text: earpiece when Frank Nugent taps him on the s ler.
speaker_heading: FITZPATRICK
dialog: Frank.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Ray. You guys going in?
speaker_heading: FITZPATRICK
dialog: Looks like it.
text: Nugent pulls him away from the others.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: I need you to do something.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Jack gathering the passengers into the center aisle. Sizing
text: up the GUY IN THE SUIT. Looking at his grey suit. Two
text: buttons and pants with cuffs. Points to him...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You.
dialog: (nods over to Eddie)
text: Change clothes with him.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Me? What for?
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You wanted a suit didn’t you?
text: Eddie sensing something’s not right.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You’re leaving with them.
text: Eddie’s stunned.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Why? They’re coming here, right?
dialog: fou told them to bring everybody
dialog: ere.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: No one’s coming Eddie. I just
dialog: said that so they wouldn’t be ready
dialog: when this goes down.
text: Eddie’s confused.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: What about testifying?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Forget about testifying.
dialog: (beat) .
dialog: In less than 10 minutes they’ re
text: going to breach the bus. Stun
text: grenades, tear gas and AK-47’s.
text: ‘ive seconds from bang to bullets.
dialog: They’11 kill me and you then go
dialog: have a sandwich. Stay in here and
dialog: ou’1l die. The ondy’. chance you
dialog: 1
dialog: ave is to get OFF this bus.
dialog: (beat)
text: It's over.
text: Eddie stares into Jack’s spiritless eyes. Just now starting
dialog: to understand.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: What about making that guy pay?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don’t guit now, Jack. We’re a
dialog: team. Maybe we’ re not seeing a
dialog: sign we’re supposed to see.
dialog: Maybe...
text: But Jack’s already made up his mind, leading the line to the
text: front of the bus.
dialog: 81.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS/INTERSECTION
text: SWAT and HRT take up positions around the bus. RADIOS
text: cackle as everyone readies for an all out assault.
text: When the Bus doors open. Hands up, one after another,
text: passengers step down onto the street.
text: Confusion. RADIOS all blare with “Hold your Fire!” Commands.
scene_heading: INT. RAY’S PIZZERIA
text: Wagner, Gruber, Nugent and Sheehan watch stunned as it
text: unfolds.
speaker_heading: WAGNER
dialog: What’s he doing? He giving up?
speaker_heading: SHEEHAN
dialog: Fuck if I know.
text: MORE passengers drift into the street...
scene_heading: EXT. BUS/INTERSECTION
text: Helmeted SWAT TEAMS dart into the intersection grabbing
text: passengers and pulling them away from the bus while
text: sharpshooters remain focused on the door.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Jack stands near the front doors out of street view. Eddie
text: in the middle of the line dressed in the grey suit. He can’t
text: help looking down at it. Exactly what he wanted.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: {to passengers)
dialog: Remember keep your hands above your
dialog: heads until they tell you to put
dialog: ‘em down.
text: Eddie moving next to Jack.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: This isn’t the way it was supposed
dialog: to be.
text: Jack ignoring him. Tapping each passenger to signal they can
text: step out. Eddie sounding more like a child now, fear in his
dialog: voice.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Listen_to me. I don’t want to
dialog: leave like this. I--~-
dialog: 82.
text: Jack pulls Eddie into line, adjusts his tie.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: When you get out there, they’1l
dialog: haul you to a debriefing area.
dialog: It's going to be hectic in there...
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Jack. I need to tell you how much--
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Try and get out of there fast. Get
dialog: ase the perimeter and don’t look
dialog: ac
text: Jack pushes him out the door.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS/INTERSECTION
text: Eddie stepping onto the street, hands shielding his eyes as
text: two SWAT OFFICERS swoop down, grab him by the arms and whisk
text: him away from the bus.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Jack peering through a slit in the newspaper as Eddie is led
text: through the crowd. FOUR more PASSENGERS remain...
scene_heading: INT. FLOWER SHOP
text: Crammed and LOUD. Hastily set up area where HRT DETECTIVES
text: interview the released passengers. Eddie’s dropped into the
text: hands of a PLAINCLOTHES OFFICER.
scene_heading: PLAINCLOTHES OFFICER
dialog: You hurt?
text: Eddie shakes his head, eyeing the confusion and chaos in
dialog: ere.
scene_heading: PLAINCLOTHES OFFICER (cont’d)
dialog: We’re gonna take a statement and
dialog: ask you some questions.
text: Eddie being led to the rear of the flower store. Spots Torres
text: and Mulvey huddling near the front door.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: There a bathroom here?
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE ALLEY
text: Eddie exits the shop through the service door and walks
text: through a swarm of UNIFORMED POLICE miiling about. Onto the
text: sidewalk, turns left and is swallowed up by the CROWD.
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: ON EDDIE
text: As he ducks under the yellow police tape as MORE SWAT race
text: past him.
dialog: He’s free.
text: But for some reason Eddie stops. Eyes the GIANT CLOCK above
speaker_heading: the BANK:
dialog: 9:29
text: Then taking in SWAT TEAMS getting ready to breach. Looking
text: to the solitary bus, the LAST TWO PASSENGERS stepping out to
text: safety and the doors hissing shut.
scene_heading: INT. BUS - SAME TIME
text: Jack stands alone amongst the fluttering newspapers. Sealed
text: inside and resigned to his fate.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS/INTERSECTION
text: SWAT MOVING like a well-oiled machine. Positions taken by
scene_heading: STUN GRENADE MARKSMEN. Safeties are switched OFF, target
dialog: sited...
text: When out of nowhere EDDIE STEPS UNDER THE POLICE TAPE AND
text: puto, THE INTERSECTION. Walking towards the bus, hands over
dialog: is head.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: HOLD IT! DON’T SHOOT YET!
text: UTTER CONFUSION. COPS looking to OTHER COPS for
text: instructions. RADIOS start CACKLING with CONFLICTING SHOUTS
text: to STAND DOWN or GET HIM OUT OF THERE.
speaker_heading: CHAOS slowly ERUPTS
text: The STAB being escorted to the Flower Shop trying to tell
dialog: anyone who will listen that that’s his suit! But ALL EYES
dialog: are on Eddie.
text: NUGENT recognizing Eddie and racing to the line to get a
speaker_heading: SHOT.
text: Eddie walking towards the bus, hands still in the air,
text: IGNORING THE PANDEMONIUM around him.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d) |
dialog: Don’t shoot! I forget something in
dialog: there!
dialog: 84.
text: Ten yards away... Nugent PUSHING through the THRONGS, gun
text: out of his holster. Taking AIM.... Then JOSTLED by SWAT who
text: SWARM the intersection and try to get Eddie’s attention.
scene_heading: INT. BUS - SAME TIME
text: Jack HEARING the COMMOTION and peering out to see what’s
text: happening. All he can see are CONFUSED SWAT TEAMS moving
text: into the intersection and SCREAMING at someone...
text: Then BANGING on the bus DOORS. Jack looking over and seeing
text: a NOTEBOOK slide between the rubber sealers.
text: The DOORS are PRIED OPEN and Eddie steps up into the bus.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Almost forgot. You never told me
dialog: what you wanted on your cake.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Are you out of your mind!
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Well I wanted to send you
dialog: something. You know, to thank you
dialog: for all you did for me.
text: Jack is almost speechless.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You got away, you dumb shit!
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I never get away, Jack. You_saw my
dialog: sheet. t least doing what I
dialog: always did
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I just want to do what I said I’d
dialog: do. So I don’t end up like I
dialog: always have.
text: Jack staring at the kid. Eddie staring right back. About to
dialog: say more...
text: BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Windows imploding as gas canisters and
text: stun grenades pierce the bus.
text: Both hitting the floor. Jack crawling to the drivers seat,
text: starting the bus and hitting the accelerator.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS/INTERSECTION
text: The bus rolls forward. Rumbling straight through the
text: barricades in front of it. SWAT TEAMS fire from every
text: angle, BULLETS STRAFING THE ENTIRE BUS.
text: Bus picking up speed. Sparks and smoke coming from the wheel
text: drums. The SOUND of metal grinding on cement is unearthly.
dialog: 85.
text: Confusion from all Units as the bus begins to outrun them.
text: Heading directly for Canal.
scene_heading: EXT. CANAL STREET
text: Massive cement barricades already set in place. Behind them
text: an army of FIRE and EMS trucks. Behind them, a DOZEN
text: SHARPSHOOTERS, assault rifles aimed and ready. This bus is
dialog: going no further than here.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: Eddie holding on as the bus lists from side to side. Jack
text: tearing off a piece of a newspaper to see. Gaining speed as
text: Canal approaches. Both seeing the barricades for the first
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Any words of wisdom now, smart guy?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Look for the signs.
text: Bullets spray the inside of the bus. Ricochetting
text: everywhere. Jack looking through the shattered windows and
text: smoke for something. Anything. Eyes catching a metal sign
text: on the side of a building stating: ALL DELIVERIES THIS WA
text: And arrow pointing down a service alley.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Hold on.
text: Eddie STARTS SINGING Wheels-On-The- Bus LOUDLY and falls into
text: a seat as Jack swings the wheel hard left
scene_heading: EXT. LAFAYETTE STREET
text: The right side of the bus lifting off the ground as it makes
text: the turn at full speed. Straightens, landing hard, sparks
text: shooting from all four rims.
text: Screaming towards the mouth of an alley as SWAT TEAMS
text: scramble to keep up.
scene_heading: INT. BUS - THROUGH WINDSHIELD
text: The_ alley opening approaching fast... and looking way too
text: small. Eddie humming louder now. Turning away a split
dialog: second before...
dialog: 86.
scene_heading: EXT. LAFAYETTE STREET/ALLEY WAY
text: ... the bus slams into the opening. Sides grinding against
text: the brick walls, peeling open like a can opener. Mirrors,
text: reflectors and door handles splintering.
text: Then stops. The bus wedged a third of the way in. Smoke
text: billowing from underneath, the smell of burning metal
dialog: intense.
speaker_heading: ALLEY WAY
text: In milliseconds the bus is surrounded. From rooftops SWAT
text: and HRT descend onto the bus’ roof. In the front an EMS
text: truck slams into the crumpled grill. From the rear an army
text: of Tactics already leveling their weapons awaiting word.
text: The bus sitting there hissing. The sound of rustling
text: newspaper flapping in blown out windows.
text: Sheehan racing up, RADIO cackling.
speaker_heading: WAGNER (OS)
dialog: Breach it!
text: MORE stun grenades and tear gas are blasted through the shot
text: out windows.
scene_heading: INT. BUS
text: SWAT TEAMS in masks crash through the back and side windows.
text: A thick smoke hides everything except for the pin point
text: lasers from SWAT rifles as they sweep the interior.
text: Ray Fitzpatrick taking the point and moving towards the
dialog: ront.
text: Smoke clearing as they get to the front... Ray ready to put
text: down anything that moves... Then finds the buses doors open
text: and wedged almost parallel to an alley delivery door. Which
text: hangs open.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRE STREET
text: BUSINESSES and SHOPS emptying as PEDESTRIANS head north
text: towards Canal to see the commotion. Eyes on the AVIATION
text: UNITS circling the block.
text: Jack and Eddie moving against the flow. The Courthouse right
text: there three blocks straight ahead and nothing in their way.
text: Eddie clutching his coat tight. Jack still reeling.
dialog: Thinking if Eddie didn’t come back... If he was on that bus
dialog: alone...
dialog: 87.
text: Eddie’s eyes seem different. Unfocused. His steps sluggish.
text: His notebook slips from his coat as they cross the
text: intersection at Franklin.
text: Jack looking back and spotting Eddie’s notebook fluttering in
text: the middle of Franklin. Looking up at the courthouse. Two
text: blocks to go. Willing himself to ignore the book and keep
text: going. Starting to walk faster...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Shit...
text: Jack turns and jogs the half a block for the book. Holding
text: up traffic as he picks it up and starts back towards Eddie.
text: Holding up for Eddie to see. Then watching Eddie fall to the
text: pavement for no apparent reason. Racing up and pulling him
text: to his feet.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I think I got shot.
text: Jack now seeing the blood seeping from Eddie’s neck.
text: Grabbing him around the waist, pulling to his feet and
text: towards the courthouse as Eddie hums.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Two more blocks.
text: Eddie nods again. Takes a few more steps... and stops
text: humming.
scene_heading: INT. TIRE WAREHOUSE
text: A massive, warehouse filled with used tires waiting to be
text: melted down. Eddie lays alone in darkness. Jack’s shirt
text: covers the wound but is now soaked in blood...
text: The massive warehouse door is rolled open and Jack quickly
text: moves to Eddie’s side. Presses on the shirt harder.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I got help on the way. Just hang
dialog: in there. We’re almost home.
text: Eddie barely nods. Eyes closing.
speaker_heading: JACK {cont’d)
dialog: C’mon. You gotta stay awake. Talk
text: to me. Bus stop. Three people.
dialog: Who you gonna save?
text: Eddie stares into nothingness. Eyes searching for something.
text: Suddenly there’s a hint of sparkle in them and Eddie smiles.
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I know the answer, Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: The friend. Loyalty.
text: Eddie shakes his head. Finding peace within himself he looks
text: up at Jack.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Port Authority.
text: Jack looks at Eddie, not understanding.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Locker there with thirty-two
dialog: thousand dollars in it.
dialog: (beat)
text: Except they sweep the lockers out
dialog: every 24 hours.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That’s why I have to get there by
dialog: noon.
text: Jack pulls the shirt away and sees the wound for the first
text: time. An uneasy feeling fills him.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Couple days ago this guy Maurice
text: turns up at my place with a gun and
text: a shoebox he took it from a dealer
dialog: on Ocean Avenue. Needs a place to
dialog: lay low. I tell him I’m on
dialog: parole... but he’s not asking.
text: Jack working more feverishly as Eddie’s words flow out
text: dreamlike.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Then somebody deceased Maurice that
dialog: next morning.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Inside that shoebox was thirty-two
dialog: thousand, Jack. Exact amount to
dialog: open my bakery. It was a sign,
dialog: wasn’t it?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: A big, bold one.
text: Jack pressing the shirt against Eddie’s neck trying to slow
dialog: the blood flow.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: Stashed it in a locker at Port
dialog: Authority yesterday. But when I
dialog: come back to my room my P.O.’s
text: standing there with Maurice’s gun
dialog: on my bed.
dialog: (beat}
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont'd)
dialog: I’m looking at fifteen years for
dialog: having a weapon that’s not mine.
dialog: Until that DA happens to stop by my
text: cell with the picture of that cop.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Which is how I met you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: See how it all makes sense?
text: Jack nods. Then Eddie goes silent.
text: JACK . .
dialog: Hey. You’re not going to die on me
dialog: are you?
text: The words are hoarse.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I don’t know. I never died before.
text: Drifting off.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Eddie.
text: An effort to open his eyes.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: You were meant to have that bakery.
text: Eddie’s mouth cracks the tiniest smile.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Did I hear something positive come
dialog: out of that mouth of yours?
text: Jack leans in close.
speaker_heading: JACK.
dialog: You need to make it Eddie. For
dialog: both of us.
text: Suddenly red and white lights swirl across the warehouse
text: walls... Jack turning as an EMT Truck pulls into the
text: warehouse. TWO Paramedics exit the vehicle, engine still
dialog: running.
text: The woman is in her 40’s and carries a weary, battered grace
text: about her. Her name tag reads: DIANE. The DRIVER is younger
text: and is following her lead.
text: Diane kneels over a shivering Eddie without looking at Jack.
text: Views the wound without expression.
scene_heading: INT. EMT TRUCK
text: The back doors blowing open as_ Jack and the DRIVER load
text: Eddie onto a secured gurney. Wall mounted Medic kit is
text: popped open. A saline drip is prepared.
dialog: 90.
text: Diane cuts off Eddie’s shirt and rolls him onto his side to
text: find the exit wound.
text: Small, round burn marks made by cigarettes dot Eddie’s torso.
text: Years of them. Diane flicks Jack a glance to make sure he’s
dialog: seen them,
text: then gets to work.
speaker_heading: DIANE /
dialog: I don’t know if I can fix this
dialog: here.
text: Takes Eddie’s hand, has him hold a piece of gauze over the
text: hole while she grabs a syringe.
text: Diane injects it into the wound and Eddie winces. Looking at
text: her more closely.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You’re the lady whose apartment we
dialog: were in...
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: (to Jack)
dialog: You went to my apartment?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I needed my gun.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: It was very clean.
text: Diane staring at Jack.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: There’s a hole in your Murphy bed.
dialog: Other than that...
text: She tries to continue working, then stops. Eyes boring into
dialog: Jack.
speaker_heading: DIANS
dialog: I had Police grilling me for an
text: hour at the hospital.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: What’d you tell them?
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: That we’ve barely spoken in two
dialog: years. That you were a self
text: medicating, depressed individual.
dialog: That you didn’t care anymore.
dialog: About anything or anyone.
dialog: beat)
dialog: I told them the truth.
text: Jack stares at the floor. Eddie very uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: DIANE (cont’d)
dialog: What’d you do this time, Jack?
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Just saved my life three times.
dialog: I’m an important witness to police
dialog: corruption.
text: Diane looks to Jack for an explanation but gets none.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: He’s a good man, lady. Give him
dialog: another chance. He’s gonna need
dialog: somebody to talk to when I leave.
text: Jack and Diane stare at each other for several moments.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Eddie? Meet my sister, Diane
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Sister? Shit. For a_ second there
dialog: I had hope for you. Even your
dialog: family don’t like you.
text: Diane begins stitching the wound. Eyes wandering to Jack.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: Haven’t seen my sister in eleven
dialog: years. Lives in Seattle. I’m
dialog: supposed to get on a bus tonight to
dialog: go see her.
text: Diane smiles at Eddie but refuses to look at Jack.
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: The bullet missed his carotid. I
dialog: did what I could with the mess in
dialog: there. He moves around too much I
dialog: can’t promise it’1l hold.
text: Ties it off and cuts. Dresses it. Slides over and takes
text: Jack's hand. Undoing the wrap...
speaker_heading: DIANE (cont’d)
dialog: He really shouldn’t be on his feet.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: A couple blocks.
text: Diane sighs when she sees the bullet hole.
speaker_heading: JACK {(cont’d)
dialog: I’m going to need one more favor,
dialog: Di.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE ALLEY
text: Diane’s EMT truck pulls out of the warehouse and slides onto
dialog: Franklin.
dialog: 92.
scene_heading: INT. BACK OF EMT TRUCK
text: Jack and Eddie bouncing around on opposite sides. Weariness
text: oozes from both of them.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: And you never told me what you
dialog: wanted on your cake.
speaker_heading: JACK ;
dialog: Nothing in my life I want to see in
dialog: icing.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Gotta be one thing. Pet, first
dialog: car. Special day-
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: There are some people who don’t
dialog: deserve to have part of their life
dialog: decorated on a cake. I’m one of
dialog: them.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I’m not a good guy, Eddie.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I think you are.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But if you don’t think so, then
dialog: change. There’s always a another
dialog: chance. Third and fourth ones.
dialog: I’m proof of that. Just have to be
dialog: ready for them. Look for the
dialog: signs. Don’t quit.
text: Jack stares into space at something only he can see.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: There are mistakes you make that
dialog: you pay for, for the rest of your
dialog: ife. “No reprieves. No second
dialog: chances.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I don’t believe that.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Sometimes we do the right thing for
dialog: the wrong reason or the wrong thing
dialog: for what we think is the right
dialog: reason and it doesn’t work out and
dialog: we give up. But if you do the
dialog: right thing for the right reason it
dialog: always turns out good. Maybe not
dialog: right away. But eventually...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Eventually is a bunch of--
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Don’t. Let me have this one, Jack.
dialog: It’s all I got left to hold on to.
text: Jack nods, understands. Long silence. Then the Truck starts
dialog: to slow down.
scene_heading: EXT. FRANKLIN AND CHURCH - MORNING
text: Diane’s truck rolling to a stop in front of two unmarked
text: POLICE CARS blocking the street. Frank Nugent and Jimmy
text: Mulvey leaning against hoods.
text: Nugent walking to her side of the truck as Mulvey covers the
text: driver's side. Diane rolls down her window, eyes showing
dialog: surprise but no fear.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Diane.
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: Frank.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: A little out of your sector, aren’t
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: Saving lives knows no boundaries.
dialog: You should know that Frank.
dialog: Nugent done being polite.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: Step out of the vehicle and open
dialog: the back for me.
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: What for?
text: Nugent flings open the door and pulls her out of the truck.
text: Mulvey pulling the Driver out and taking his keys. All four
text: moving to the rear.
scene_heading: INT. BACK OF EMT TRUCK
text: Eddie unhooking the IV from his arm. Jack trying to hear
text: outside.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Think we’re here already? Maybe
dialog: something happened.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I don’t know. I told him to honk
dialog: the horn if there was.
dialog: 94.
text: The SOUND of the KEY being inserted into the back doors.
scene_heading: EXT. EMT TRUCK
text: Mulvey turns the key as Frank trains his gun on the back,
text: The SOUND of the bolts clicking open. Mulvey un-holstering
text: his weapon and looking to Nugent who nods. Mulvey pulls the
dialog: handle...
scene_heading: INT. EMT TRUCK
text: Jack holding his .38 at his side as both doors open...
scene_heading: EXT, EMT TRUCK
text: Mulvey flinging the doors wide open to reveal...
text: Nothing. An empty truck. At the same time...
scene_heading: INT. EMT TRUCK
text: The doors to Jack’s truck open to reveal CARL, veteran EMT
text: driver standing outside his truck.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: This as far as I can get ya. They
dialog: got check points from here on in.
speaker_heading: JACK AND EDDIE
text: Moving down Leonard Street. Top of the Courthouse peeking
text: above the buildings. Not a cop in sight.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Maybe they gave up.
text: Getting to the corner of Centre and Leonard. Peering out at
dialog: the Courthouse...
scene_heading: JACK AND EDDIE’S POV ~- THE COURTHOUSE
text: The towering granite monolith with massive columns supporting
text: the chiseled words... “Only The Just Man Enjoys Peace of
dialog: Mind”.
text: And beneath it.... a sea of blue. DOZENS of Uniforms man
text: barricades that surround the Courthouse entrance. MEDIA VANS
text: line the edges of Foley Park.
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: JACK AND EDDIE
text: Almost breathless from the sight. Jack checking his watch:
dialog: 9:38
speaker_heading: COURTHOUSE ROOF
text: Ray Fitzpatrick nestles himself between columns and sights
text: his rifle on the plaza below. The RADIO next to him CACKLES.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS)
dialog: All set up there Ray?
speaker_heading: FITZPATRICK
dialog: Set.
speaker_heading: NUGENT (OS)
dialog: You know the drill.
speaker_heading: FITZPATRICK
dialog: I see ‘em, I shoot ‘em.
scene_heading: INT. A VERY DARK AREA - SAME TIME
text: Nugent clipping the radio to his belt then taking out his
text: Glock. Torres and Mulvey hover in the shadows nearby.
text: We can’t tell where they are exactly. A blue emergency light
text: above a fire box the only illumination.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARKING STRUCTURE
text: A massive steel columned structure sectioned off and
text: consuming the square city block.
text: Jack and Eddie moving through a section containing City
text: Vehicles and trucks. Just the SOUND of their footsteps and
text: the hum of fluorescents.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Used to bring witnesses in this way
dialog: to avoid the media. Called it
dialog: Gotti Avenue. Hardly used anymore.
text: They walk towards a set of double doors a hundred yards away.
dialog: The reason we can see them in this darkness... Is the blue
text: emergency light to the left of them.
text: Walking in silence for a bit. 60 yards away from those
text: shadowS. Both too tired to talk.
text: Moving for the doors at the other end. Twenty five yards
text: away. Jack stopping and checking his watch.
dialog: 96.
dialog: 9:44
text: Reaching behind him for his handcuffs.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: I should bring you in right.
text: Eddie understands. Hold out his arms.
speaker_heading: . EDDIE
dialog: Think we’1ll ever see each other
dialog: after this?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Not in this lifetime. Think of us
text: as two shits passing in the night.
text: Turning and heading right for the doors. Fifteen yards away.
text: Moving under a section of giant steel beams...
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Hate this area. You have to watch
dialog: out for all those pige--
text: Looking towards the rafters and seeing them empty: - - A chill
text: going down his spine at that exact instant. Shoving Eddie
text: out of the way as gun fire erupts from the shadows.
text: Jack falling behind a Street Sweeper, firing his .38 blindly.
text: Firing two more shots and dashing to the other side to get
text: Eddie. Finding him behind a snow plow.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING STRUCTURE
text: Nugent, Torres and Mulvey step out of the shadows spread out
text: and advance with precision into the garage.
speaker_heading: JACK AND EDDIE
text: Moving silently between vehicles, staying low. Jack using
text: his gun to smash the fluorescents plunging the entire section
dialog: into darkness...
text: Steering Eddie deeper into the cars. Towards the back wall
dialog: but away from any way out...
scene_heading: NUGENT, MULVEY AND TORRES
text: Moving, through the rows of cars and trucks parked end to end.
text: No talk. No taunts. Just focused on killing and going home.
text: Squeezing the target area smaller and smaller.
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: JACK AND EDDIE
text: Crawling between a row City Sedans all the same color and
text: markings. HEARING the SOUNDS of their movement but unable to
text: see them. Stopping. Jack easing open the back door to the
dialog: car.
scene_heading: INT. CITY SEDAN
text: Jack shoves Eddie inside, removes the cuffs then cracks the
dialog: window a bit.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Stay put. When I yell your name
dialog: run for those double doors and
dialog: don’t stop till you get upstairs.
text: Quietly shuts the door. Eddie’s heart pounding as Jack’s
text: FOOTSTEPS ECHO away. Neither on noticing the door not
dialog: completely closed...
speaker_heading: ON JACK
text: Staying low and moving away from Eddie. Seeing under the
text: cars. Waiting. A glimmer of a polished shoe. BLAM!
scene_heading: PARKING STRUCTURE
text: Mulvey’s ankle bone shatters as he goes down hard. Torres
text: and Nugent turning towards the SOUND. Moving towards Jack
text: from two directions.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Leading them farther and farther from Eddie.
speaker_heading: TORRES
text: Standing still and silent in the shadows. Catches sight of
text: Jack’s figure moving into the row of SNOW PLOWS. Moving
text: parallel and coming at Jack from his blind side.
text: Seeing Jack disappear behind one. Moving down on the other
text: side gt the Plow. Gun readied waiting for Jack to come
dialog: around.
text: Never seeing the Plow door swing open. Hitting Torres hard
text: on the shoulder, knocking him to the cement. Jack out and
text: slamming his gun to Torres skull before he can turn.
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: Hearing Torres go down. Staring into the black of the
text: parking structure. The first glint of uncertainty in his
text: g es. A SOUND of FOOTSTEPS running. Nugent turning to the
speaker_heading: UND.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Crouched behind two Vehicles, willing Nugent to stalk him.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Come on...
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: Staring into the shadows. Sensing Jack’s position. | Starts
text: towards it. Then stops. Those spooky black eyes seeing like
text: bat... Seeing the door of a parked sedan ajar two rows over.
scene_heading: INT. CITY SEDAN
text: Eddie laying frozen on the back floor.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: Moving down the aisle towards the Sedan.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Trying to see where Nugent is but can’t.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
text: Glock up. One car away.
scene_heading: INT. CITY SEDAN
text: Eddie sensing something. A flicker of a SHADOW. Turning to
dialog: look up just as...
scene_heading: INT. PARKING STRUCTURE
text: Jack up and opening fire on Eddie’s sedan. Blowing out the
text: windshield as Nugent dives away for cover.
dialog: 99.
scene_heading: INT. CITY SEDAN
text: Eddie shaking on the floor of the car as glass rains down on
text: him. Too scared to wait for Jack. Kicks open the back door
text: and does what Jack wants him to do... He runs.
scene_heading: PARKING STRUCTURE
text: Nugent up at the SOUND. Aiming the Glock as he watches Eddie
text: stumble for the double doors. Nugent casually waiting...
text: Eddie in his sights... About to squeeze one off and...
text: Freezing as the barrel of Jack’s .38 is jammed in his ear.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Not even a twitch.
scene_heading: EXT. 100 CENTRE STREET ~ MORNING
text: The Courthouse still CRAWLING with COPS.
scene_heading: EXT. SAINT FRANCIS CHURCH
text: A crumbling sanctuary across the street from the Courthouse.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH
text: Back doors burst open, Jack and Eddie dragging Nugent inside
text: and dropping him in an aisle between the pews. Jack ripping
text: a tasseled cord from a faded velvet curtain and tying his
text: hands behind him.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I’m a hundred yards away. That
dialog: scare ya Frank?
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: You could be a hundred feet away.
dialog: The two of ya will never get
dialog: inside.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You have it half right.
text: Checks his watch. 9:50
text: A SOUND and FATHER JERRY CONNELLY, 50, emerges from his
text: office behind the alter. Unafraid and more than a little
text: tough, even in his priestly get-up.
dialog: 100.
scene_heading: _ FATHER CONNELLY
dialog: What’s going on--
text: Stops when Jack steps out of the shadows.
speaker_heading: FATHER CONNELLY (cont’d)
dialog: Mosley?
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Twenty years I’ve been trying to
dialog: get you in here.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Been on the news my friend. Not
dialog: even sure God can help you now.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Then I guess I’m stuck with you. I
dialog: only got a couple minutes.
text: Father Connelly looks down at the bloodied Frank Nugent.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’ d)
dialog: Bad guy.
dialog: Then to Eddie.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Good guy;
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Very good guy.
text: Father Connelly now looking into Jack’s eyes.
speaker_heading: . JACK (cont’ d)
dialog: Trying to be a good guy. Just new
text: at it.
text: He walks Father Connelly towards the Church doors.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: I’m asking you to trust me Jerry.
dialog: What they’re saying on the news is
dialog: not what is. All I_want to do is
dialog: set that straight, let the chips
dialog: fall where they may.
text: Father Connelly smiles.
scene_heading: FATHER CONNELLY
dialog: In 40 years I’ve never known you to
dialog: ask for anything.
scene_heading: EXT. CHURCH
text: Father Connelly calling over a UNIFORM then is suddenly being
text: escorted towards the Courthouse steps.
dialog: 101.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH
text: Jack walks to Eddie, wincing with every breath. Adjusting
text: the gauze on Eddie’s neck.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You hurry, you might make it.
text: Eddie’s confused.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: But I have to testify.
text: Jack squeezes out a wounded sigh.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: No you don’t. I used you Eddie. I
dialog: risked your life because you were
dialog: going to do what I couldn’t.
dialog: (beat) .
dialog: One of the guys they were going to
dialog: get when you testified? One o
dialog: hem’s me Eddie. You were going to
dialog: get me.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Only now I’m going to get me. And
dialog: him.
text: Eddie listening. Jack stares up at the ceiling.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: I was one of them, One of the
dialog: team. And I was in that room when
dialog: that old man died. I was on his
dialog: couch when Frank stuck that gun in
text: his mouth.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Mr. Ling. Remember his name Frank?
text: Nugent saying nothing. Jack’s words coming harder now.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont'd)
dialog: I sat there as Frank told the old
dialog: man that he didn’t see what he saw.
dialog: I watched Frank get more and more
dialog: pissed because the guy wouldn’t
dialog: change his story. Not understanding
dialog: why the police are asking him to
text: lie. Frank screaming at him...
dialog: Next thing I know Frank’s got the
text: barrel of his gun in the guy’s
text: mouth, hammer back.
text: The searing, painful images flying through Jack’s head.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: I’m screaming at Frank to cool down
dialog: when he... just fell.
dialog: 102.
text: Tears starting to show.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: That old man was doing the right
dialog: thing - He was telling the truth.
dialog: And he’s dead because of it.
text: Jack staring into space.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Walked out of there and never said
dialog: a word. Not that day. Not the
dialog: next. Not ever. Frank knew I
dialog: wouldn’t. Because he trained me to
dialog: be just like him. Only he could
dialog: forget it. And I couldn’t.
text: Looks down at Nugent.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’ d)
dialog: I looked back and realized I was
text: heading for that night for a long
dialog: time. Making my own rules or
dialog: following his. “Until I was as
text: broken and corrupt as him,
dialog: _ (beat)
dialog: I didn’t care after that night.
dialog: About me or anything.
text: The last words echo through the church. For a while no one
dialog: speaks.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: But you stayed a cop.
text: Jack looking up.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: I mean you didn’t retire. Take a
text: pension and disappear. Deep down
dialog: you knew if you left, you’d never
dialog: tell. And he’d win.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I wasn’t meant to meet you. You
dialog: were meant to meet me. This is
dialog: where you’re supposed to be.
text: Jack finally looks at Eddie but can find no words.
speaker_heading: EDDIE (cont’d)
dialog: This is your other chance Jack.
dialog: You knew that back in that bar.
dialog: Only now it’s for the right reason.
text: CHURCH DOORS opening and Father Connelly coming in.
scene_heading: FATHER CONNELLY
dialog: It’s all set. You tell them
dialog: Detective Nugent’s whereabouts and
dialog: you'll get your say. Deals off you
dialog: get there a minute past ten.
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Just saying good-bye.
scene_heading: FATHER CONNELLY
dialog: I suggest leaving through my
dialog: private quarters. It’1l leave you
text: out near Sixth Avenue. Far away
dialog: from what’s out there.
text: Jack smiles. Walks Eddie to a set of doors behind the alter.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Hope you make it.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I will. It’s meant to be Jack.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I’11 call you sometime.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Don’t. That way I won’t know if
dialog: xov fucked up again. And I can
dialog: elieve what I want.
text: In spite of the pain... Eddie smiles. That same damn smile
dialog: he had when we first met him in that cell ninety-eight
dialog: minutes ago.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Aw Jack. There you go being
dialog: negative again.
text: Turns to go.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Hey.
text: Eddie stopping.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: What’s the answer?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Give the keys to your best friend,
dialog: let him drive the old lady to the
dialog: hospital while you stay at the bus
dialog: stop with the woman of my dreams.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Gotta figure if you were destined
dialog: to find her, you’11 be okay.
text: Jack smiles.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Damn.
text: And Eddie’s gone.
dialog: 104.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTHOUSE PLAZA
text: A COMMOTION taking place around the steps. Commissioner
text: Keenan, DA WALTER HAGEN, Swat Commander Sheehan as well as
text: ADA MacDonald and his staff. Heated discussions exploding
text: into SHOUTING.
text: The large clock showing:
dialog: 9:56
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH
text: Jack standing with Father Connelly, taking a deep breath and
text: looking back at Frank Nugent.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: You’re going ruin the lives of six
dialog: great cops so you can feel good.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I’ll never feel good. And that’s
dialog: what I’1l have to live with.
speaker_heading: NUGENT
dialog: Then what for?
speaker_heading: JACK :
dialog: Because there’s gotta be a line.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. FRANCIS CHURCH - MORNING
text: ROWS and ROWS of New York City POLICEMEN stand waiting.
text: AVIATION UNITS hover in overhead, K-9 and Emergency Services
text: line the block.
text: And outside of that, yetlow police tape cordons off
text: SPECTATORS who line the sidewalk six deep.
text: Slowly the church doors open. Father Connelly emerges
text: first, Jack right behind him.
speaker_heading: JACK'S POV
text: The sea of blue UNIFORMS forming a gauntlet all the way to
text: the courthouse. Across the street on the massive granite
text: steps, everybody waits.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTHOUSE PLAZA
text: Every eye trained on the two as they start for the
text: courthouse. The sea of blue UNIFORMS begin to part as they
text: reach Centre Street and start across.
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTHOUSE ROOF
text: Ray Fitzpatrick cradles his Maunz 308 Assault rifle and
text: stares through the Hauser scope waiting for Jack to step into
dialog: view...
scene_heading: COURTHOUSE PLAZA
text: Jack feeling the stares from every blue Uniform as he closes
text: in on the Courthouse. Staring up at the flocks of pigeons
text: and without knowing it.... he begins to hum.
scene_heading: FATHER CONNELLY
dialog: Oh. Part of the deal is when
dialog: you’re able you have to attend my
dialog: mass on a regular basis.
speaker_heading: JACK.
dialog: That’s blackmail. Deal’s off.
scene_heading: FATHER CONNELLY
dialog: Then may perpetual light shine on
dialog: your hairy ass.
text: Jack smiling now. Almost over.
speaker_heading: COURTHOUSE ROOF
text: Ray Fitzpatrick zeroing in... crosshairs finding Jack.
text: Finger ready to squeeze... Movement of Father onnelly
text: causing uncertainty... Blocking a clean shot.
text: And suddenly he’s clear. Crosshairs between Jack’s eyes.
scene_heading: COURTHOUSE PLAZA
text: Jack still humming when the PIGEON EXPLODES just in front of
text: him. Everyone hitting the ground as OFFICERS and SWAT look
text: up at where the shot came from. Sheehan SCREAMING OVER HIS
speaker_heading: DIO.
text: Ray Fitzpatrick stunned as OTHER SWAT TEAM MEMBERS race to
text: his spot and grab his weapon.
text: Jack crumpling to the ground. All feeling leaving his body.
text: Blurred faces going white... SOUNDS far away and muffled.
text: Eyes staring into white light, feeling nothing anymore. No
dialog: pain, no fear. Just peace.
text: Then a gust of wind is sucked into his lungs. Faces slowly
text: adrift back into focus. Father Connelly saying something but
text: Jack can’t hear him.
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: FATHER CONNELLY (0S)
dialog: Jack?
text: Father Connelly kneeling down... Jack opening his eyes now.
text: Slowly being helped to his feet. A CRISP UNIFORM helping
dialog: Father Connelly.
text: Jack jooking down at what’s left_of the pigeon and wincing. .
text: Only now understanding. The bullet deflected into his left
text: shoulder by a flying rat.
text: Father Connelly and the Crisp Uniform lead Jack towards the
text: Courthouse steps. Jack staggering up the final steps alone
text: and finding himself before DA HAGEN and ADA MacDonald and
dialog: Commissioner Wagner.
speaker_heading: WAGNER
dialog: Where’s Detective Nugent.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Church.
scene_heading: DA. HAGEN
dialog: Where’s my witness. Where’s Mr.
dialog: Bunker.
text: Jack slowly looks at all three men. Up at the clock.
dialog: 9:57.
speaker_heading: JACK
text: Mr. Bunker’s no longer with us.
text: Hagen’s face goes red.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: I’1ll be taking his place.
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: I have information pertaining to
dialog: the witness tampering investigation
dialog: dating back four years. Names,
dialog: cases and dates. Including charges
text: of extortion and manslaughter.
text: Stunned Silence. The magnitude starting to be understood by
dialog: all.
speaker_heading: ADA MACDONALD
dialog: What do you want Mosley? What are
dialog: you looking for?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Expunge Bunker’s record. Wipe it
dialog: clean. Like he never existed.
speaker_heading: ADA MACDONALD
dialog: Done. What else?
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Just some peace. You got any left
dialog: in there?
text: And on those words Jack’s led inside and the large doors of
text: 100 Centre Street close.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLENWOOD CORRECTIONAL FACILITY - LATE AFTERNOON
text: White concrete buildings in the middle of nowhere surrounded
text: by acres of chain link fences and razor wire.
text: The Visitors Yard is full of FAMILIES and INMATES. The HORN
text: SOUNDS ending visiting time. We spot Jack walking towards
text: the gate with Diane. He looks healed and healthy, having
text: dropped a few pounds. She holds his hands and looks at him
text: with a mixture of worry and pride.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You love him?
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: I do. He makes me happy, Jack.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Then I’m happy.
text: They get to the gate.
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: We both decided the wedding can
dialog: wait till you get out.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You’re not worried he might change
dialog: his mind in the next nine months?
text: Diane smiles and hugs him.
speaker_heading: DIANE
dialog: See you next month.
scene_heading: INT. ALLENWOOD CORRECTIONAL FACILITY
text: Dorm like rooms with steel _and glass doors that line both
text: sides of a wide hallway. All of them open now...
scene_heading: INT. JACK’S CELL
text: 10x10 with a desk, cot and sink. A small window with bars
text: sits above the sink. Jack tossing bird seed to some pigeons
text: perched on the ledge outside.
text: The SOUND of mail being tossed inside his room. Several
text: magazines, two letters and a small UPS box. Jack taking the
text: box and looking at it. Cuts it open and takes out...
dialog: 108.
text: A cake.
text: Decorated like a monopoly board. Only instead of Park Place
dialog: and Broadway the squares are Baxter Street, Lafayette, the
text: 5th Precinct, St. Francis Church _and 100 Centre Street.
text: Sixteen blocks worth of wonderfully decorated and colorful
dialog: squares.
text: Jack not sure if he’s going to laugh or cry. Sliding his
text: finger across the bottom and tasting the icing.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Son of a bitch...
text: Taking it and walking out into the hall.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont’d)
dialog: Bernie. Ted. You guys got to try
dialog: this.
text: Not noticing the picture fall from the box onto the floor.
text: But we do. It’s Eddie. Standing in front of a small .
text: storefront with hand painted letters on the window. Wearing
text: a Chef’s hat.
dialog: And that smile.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK
dialog: 
