dialog: & 3 idiots
text: Fits t THE ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY
dialog: M3 idiots
text: Fiems THE ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY
speaker_heading: Om Books International
dialog: 
dialog: First published in 2010
dialog: 
speaker_heading: Om Books International
dialog: Corporate & Editorial Office
dialog: A-12, Sector 64, Noida 201 301
dialog: Uttar Pradesh, India
dialog: Phone: +91 120 477 4100
dialog: Sales Office
scene_heading: 4379/4B, Prakash House, Ansari Road
dialog: Darya Ganj, New Delhi 110 002, India
dialog: Phone: +91 11 2326 3363, 2326 5303
speaker_heading: 91 11 2327 8091
dialog: Email: sales@ombooks.com
dialog: Website: www.ombooks.com
dialog: Fax:
dialog: 
scene_heading: © VINOD CHOPRA FILMS PVT. LTD.
dialog: wwvvinodchopra.com
scene_heading: er visuals © VINOD CHOPRA FILMS PVT. LTD.
text: poster on front cover by Rahul Nanda (H-One)
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: nceptualised & Compiled by Smriti Kiran
dialog: er Design by Sneha Pamneja
dialog: Book Design by Shraboni Roy
dialog: ‘Typeset by Mindways Design, New Delhi
text: ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No part of
dialog: form by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or by
dialog: 
dialog: is book may be reproduced or transmitted in any
dialog: any information storage and retrieval system, except as may be expressly permitted in writing
dialog: by the publisher.
dialog: ISBN: 978-93-80070-18-6
speaker_heading: 10987654321
scene_heading: Printed at Replika Press Pye. Lrd., India
speaker_heading: CONTENTS
speaker_heading: 391
speaker_heading: 409
dialog: 421
dialog: Acknowledgements
dialog: Introduction: Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: The Original Screenplay
dialog: The Method in the Madness:
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani, Abhijat Joshi, &
dialog: Vidhu Vinod Chopra Recollect: Smriti Kiran
dialog: Things of Beauty: Abhijat Joshi
dialog: Casting a Spell: Smriti Kiran
dialog: Opening Credits
dialog: End Credits
dialog: Profiles
dialog: Publisher’s Note
speaker_heading: ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
dialog: India produces about 800 films every year but not even eight get documented.
text: There is no reading material available for film students or film lovers on the behind-
dialog: the-scenes action, the vision of the filmmakers, and the processes involved in making
dialog: a film. Lage Raho Munnabhai: The Original Screenplay was published last year.
dialog: 3 Idiots: The Original Screenplay is our second attempt in this direction. This book
text: is not just the screenplay; it is also a peek into the minds of its makers.
dialog: I would like to thank Smriti Kiran who took the initiative to come up with this
text: book within 5 months of the release of the film. She has spent many long days
text: and long nights chasing the cast and crew, writing and rewriting, with a smile on
dialog: her face. Without her persistence, this book would not have happened.
dialog: I would also like to thank Ajay Mago and his team at Om Books International for
dialog: giving shape to our vision.
dialog: Talso wish to thank Maheep Dhillon for tirelessly redrafting the screenplay; Supriya
text: Kelkar for her eye for detail; Rohan Mapuskar for poring over the dialogues;
text: Dileep Desai, Amit Gulati, Mustafa Neemuchwala, Teja Pratap, Insia Lacewalla for
text: production support; Anupama Chopra for her invaluable insight.
dialog: And Vinod Chopra for clearing all obstacles as always.
dialog: — Rajkumar Hirani
scene_heading: 02_Acknowledgements.indd 7 5/31/2010 1:46:14 AM
scene_heading: 02_Acknowledgements.indd 8 5/31/2010 1:46:17 AM
speaker_heading: INTRODUCTION
dialog: 
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 9 5/31/2010 1:47:14 AM
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 10 6/31/2010 1:47:17 AM
dialog: Every story has a back story and so does mine.
dialog: My father, Suresh Hirani, was fourteen years old when he along with the family
text: moved to India during Partition. Initially, they took shelter in refugee camps in
dialog: Agra and later shifted to Ferozabad. He had lost everything so education was low
dialog: on the priority list. There were more pressing and immediate concerns like food,
dialog: clothes, and shelter to worry about. To make ends meet, my father started working
text: in a bangle factory where he painted patterns on bangles. Later, he began selling
text: ice-cream on the streets. Despite compelling and adverse circumstances, his thirst
dialog: for knowledge did not wane.
dialog: My father’s sister, who was married in Nagpur, got him a job there in a general
dialog: store as a store attendant. The city brought with it opportunity. My father enrolled
dialog: himself in night school. Work in the day and classes at night continued and he
text: somehow managed to graduate. Fortified with a degree and some savings, he was
dialog: itching to grow. So when a friend suggested that typewriters, which were new at
dialog: the time, were the future, my father decided to explore this avenue. He invested
dialog: his life’s savings, borrowed the rest of the money needed and opened a typewriting
dialog: institute which was referred to as a ‘Commerce Institute’ then. My father christened
dialog: it ‘Rajkumar Commerce Institute’. I was not even born then. So now you know
dialog: that I was named after a typewriting institute and not the other way round! Most
dialog: parents would name their enterprises after their children, but I’ve had the rare
dialog: honour of being named after my father’s enterprise. I’m proud of that fact.
dialog: My father’s business flourished. He got married and I was born soon after. The
dialog: plan was to get into engineering but I didn’t have enough marks in my higher
dialog: secondary exams (12th standard) to make the cut so I studied commerce. I had
dialog: also enrolled in this foundation course for chartered accountancy simultaneously,
dialog: the classes for which were held in the evenings. At the end of the foundation
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 11 6/31/2010 1:47:17 AM
dialog: course, the exams for chartered accountancy were to be held. I despised these
dialog: classes from the very beginning. I had no interest in chartered accountancy and
dialog: these classes were a huge imposition, both in terms of time and the fact that I was
dialog: wasting this time on something I knew was not for me. But I had the baggage of
dialog: the engineering debacle on my head so abandoning this very viable option would
dialog: have appeared self-indulgent, foolish, and luxurious at the time. I was afraid I
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani with his father, Suresh Hirani. Photo Credit Himmat Singh Sekhwat, Tehelka
dialog: would hurt my parents and also somewhat scared to take this step that could harm
text: my ‘future’. I carried on with the charade.
dialog: Subconsciously, I was aware that there were some set presumptions about my future.
dialog: I was expected to either become a chartered accountant or take over my father’s
dialog: business. Both possibilities mortified me. Though at that point in time, I was not
dialog: thinking about what would make me happy. Like any normal person, I had
dialog: responsibilities and the usual concerns that range from job to future to career. As
dialog: 12
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 12 6/31/2010 1:47:17 AM
dialog: the time for the foundation course’s exams drew close, I would often wake up in
text: the middle of the night in cold sweat.
text: Finally, the exams were upon me. I realised that there was no escaping the inevitable.
dialog: It was imperative to tell my father that I found a root canal procedure more exciting
dialog: than chartered accountancy. Even after twenty years, that evening is as clear in my
text: head as if it had happened just yesterday.
dialog: Tt was a regular evening in Nagpur but for me it was going to be the most significant
text: and decisive evening of my life. My father was standing alone in the living room.
text: I walked in and walked up to where he was standing, taking lead-laden steps. My
dialog: throat was dry with uncertainty and fear. It was one thing to tell your father that
dialog: you did not want to pursue what seemed like an excellent career choice but it was
dialog: another thing to not offer an alternative plan. The only thing I was clear about
dialog: was that chartered accountancy was not my cup of tea. My voice quivered with
dialog: apprehension as I told him that I did not want to take the exams because I did
dialog: not enjoy chartered accountancy at all. He looked at me and then in the most
dialog: nonchalant manner told me to not do it and join his office starting next morning.
text: It was as short and simple as that. I was ecstatic. The weight of the world had lifted
dialog: from my shoulders. I felt free. This happened during the period leading up to the
dialog: festival Makar Sankranti which is known for kite flying. I remember running up
text: to our terrace right after ‘the conversation’ and flying kites with this silly grin on
text: my face. Now, the kite flying seems almost like a symbol for the sense of freedom
dialog: and relief that had swept over me that day.
dialog: My commerce classes in college occupied only four hours of my time in the
dialog: morning (7 am to 11.00 am), so the rest of my time was devoted to helping my
text: father with his business (11.30 am to 6.30 pm) which had graduated from typing
text: courses to repairing and selling new kinds of calculators and other office equipment.
text: I immersed myself in it with the gusto of a man who had just been extracted from
dialog: the gallows. I used to teach typing, go out and give demos to prospective clients,
dialog: and repair spoiled units. I was even sent to Delhi to do a course in repairing
dialog: electronic calculators.
dialog: This is the period where I had my first brush with theatre. I met Narendra Thakur
dialog: and a few other students who used to perform and produce plays regularly at our
dialog: college. I joined them. (Before this, my only experience on stage was in the 9th
dialog: standard. I was cast in the role of ‘Noorjahan’ in a play.) I became a regular with
dialog: the theatre gang. Abandoning the foundation course opened up my evenings to
dialog: 13
scene_heading: 03_Introductionindd 13, 6/31/2010 1:47:22 AM
text: be occupied, and occupied they were with writing, reading, and brainstorming
dialog: about plays. This stirred something within me. I have always believed that there
dialog: are two approaches to learning: one is to study something academically and the
dialog: other is to get interested in something and then start to gather material on it and
dialog: learn about it. The latter is always a more gratifying experience. I would hunt for
dialog: Hindi plays in quaint bookshops. I would devour anything on theatre. We would
dialog: participate in competitions, youth festivals, and travel to any place that even
dialog: hinted at an opportunity for exposure in the field. Youth festivals were a platform
dialog: where teams from all the colleges in Nagpur came and performed. At one such
dialog: festival, I met another theatre group which was performing for the Nagpur Medical
text: College. There were a few people in that group, especially Debashish Naha, who
dialog: were passionate about theatre and took this enterprise very seriously. There was
dialog: an instant connection with Debashish and soon our friendship led to my theatre
text: group merging with his to form a new theatre group called Awaaz. Debashish and
dialog: I would spend hours working on plays. He would get me plays written in Bangla
dialog: 
text: Finding his voice ... performing on stage (middle) for Awaaz, in Nagpur.
dialog: 14
scene_heading: 03_Introductionindd 14 6/31/2010 1:47:22 AM
dialog: and we would sit down and translate them in Hindi. We started putting up plays
dialog: under our banner. Personalities such as Marathi theatre-director Kishore Kulkarni,
dialog: who had received acclaim on stage were invited to direct plays for our group. We
dialog: learnt under many such people who had a command over their craft and a natural
dialog: flair for the medium. Since everyone was busy till 6 pm everyday, we used to meet
dialog: after that. These meetings were held either at the Bengali Association Hall or at the
dialog: Sindhi Gurudwara nearby which had a hall, or at the local school hall. Wherever
dialog: we found some empty space, we parked ourselves. The rehearsals used to go on
dialog: till midnight.
dialog: We pursued this with such passion that theatre soon became an obsession. We
dialog: managed to put up a record three to four plays a year. These plays were not restricted
dialog: to performing at colleges. We started putting up ticketed shows. Apart from the
dialog: creative aspect, the entire production of the play was handled by us. We organised
dialog: everything from booking the hall, putting up the sets, props, costumes, accounts,
dialog: and even ticketing. Watching plays was not the preferred pastime in Nagpur, so we
text: used to sell the tickets to friends and relatives. Accounts were maintained diligently.
dialog: In fact, I still have some of the accounts from those days. We used to barely cover
dialog: our production costs and that is all we wanted. We were not doing this for profit.
dialog: We just wanted to be able to put up plays and hoped to cover costs and use the
dialog: money to put up the next one. On those rare occasions, if anything was earned over
dialog: and above the production cost, it ensured a grand meal for our entire group.
dialog: It was not difficult to speak to my father the second time. Intuitive and observant,
dialog: he was not blind to my growing passion for theatre. The suggestion to tread this
dialog: path in earnest came from my father. He told me to enrol in a program to get
dialog: formal education (my father is a great believer in learning) in the field of writing,
dialog: directing, and storytelling. The natural choice was to apply to the Film and Television
speaker_heading: Institute of India (FTI).
dialog: My first attempt (1983) to get into FTII in the direction course was unsuccessful. I
dialog: had very little knowledge of the exam and the enrolment procedures. I had travelled
dialog: to Mumbai to take the exam. There I learnt that the entrance exam for FTII was
dialog: exactly like bank exams, and anyone studying for it would clear it without blinking. I
dialog: also realised that seats for the direction course were few and almost everyone applied
dialog: for this course. I came back to Nagpur and enrolled myself in the Faculty of Law as
dialog: that seemed like a reasonable option if things did not work out. Alongside, I started
dialog: preparing for the FTII exam. The next year (1984), I applied again to FTII but
dialog: 15
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 15 5/31/2010 1:47:30 AM
dialog: 
dialog: Learning the grammar of cinema ... at FIL.
dialog: this time for the editing and not the direction course. I got admission. The day I
dialog: received the telegram, informing me about my admission to FTII, was the happiest
dialog: day of my life. I was delirious with joy. I thought I had arrived and my life was
dialog: made. This thought stemmed from naiveté. Sitting in Nagpur, I had only heard of
dialog: the ten to fifteen names of really successful people who had graduated from FTII
dialog: so I assumed that getting admission meant I was set up for life. I looked at my
dialog: admission in the Institute as one looks at getting into law school or engineering.
dialog: Once you get in and work hard, the moment you graduate, you become a director.
dialog: All these illusions were shattered two days into my time at FTII. My enthusiasm
dialog: was replaced by an inferiority complex. I was from a small town in the midst of
dialog: students waxing eloquent about theories, films, and ideas that were Greek and
text: Latin to me. It took me time but I found my feet again and got my voice back.
dialog: It taught me a very important lesson: you cannot lose yourself just by perceiving
dialog: yourself to know less. If stereotypes have to be broken, then first they have to be
dialog: broken within you.
dialog: 16
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 16 5/31/2010 1:47:30 AM
text: Thus, began the journey of disillusionment and enlightenment, unlearning and
dialog: learning, passion, failure, and fulfillment. After three years at FTII, I moved to
dialog: Mumbai (1987) and stayed with my friend and batchmate Sriram Raghavan
dialog: (filmmaker). My first job was as an editor on an advertisement directed by Bharat
dialog: Rangachari. After this, I was recommended by late editor Renu Saluja and I edited
dialog: a documentary. I was paid Rs 1500 for my first job and Rs 500 for the second one.
text: But things were slow to come by. After sometime, the situation became precarious.
text: Video had just exploded on the scene so we were hard pressed for assignments as
dialog: we did not know how to edit on video. I could not even turn to my father for
dialog: help because he was going through a financial slump. His business of typewriters
dialog: had taken a beating because of the arrival of computers. So both my father and I
dialog: were facing what you can term a ‘technological gap’.
text: The first year in Mumbai (1987), after passing out from the Institute, was a difficult
dialog: one. I came very close to giving up during that year. There were many dark nights
dialog: of the soul. I thought about going back to Nagpur. Maybe do something related
dialog: to cinema there. It was a matter of survival, and the strangest options came to my
dialog: mind. I entertained the idea of shooting marriage videos creatively and putting a
dialog: completely unique spin to them. Maybe do multiple camera set-ups and scale things
dialog: up considerably. Exports, which was a much talked about thing back then, was the
dialog: other option that came to mind. I went to Fort in Mumbai (there are many street
dialog: vendors of second-hand books in Fort) and picked up a book on exports. I was
text: desperately groping in the dark trying to hold on to something. Fortunately, FTII
text: revived its one-month video course that was promised to us. We rushed back to
dialog: the Institute for the course. After one month, we returned to Mumbai with the
dialog: knowledge of what would be our survival kit in the city: video editing.
dialog: I joined an editing studio called Ekta Studio (1988) as an in-house editor on a
dialog: monthly salary of Rs 1000. My six-month stint here gave me enough contacts and
dialog: clout in the market to get regular work. I told myself, rather theatrically, that it
dialog: mattered not if I didn’t make a lot of money: this life I have devoted to cinema. I
dialog: convinced myself with something as dramatic as that. Once you accept this, then
text: the dark nights disappear and all nights convert to being nights of battle: the battle
dialog: to become better, to excel, to strive towards quality.
dialog: During this phase of finding my feet in the business, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, my peer
dialog: from FTII, who was assisting Vinod, called me to edit the promos of 1942: A Love
dialog: Story (1992). But things did not go beyond that just yet. Meanwhile, from editing I
dialog: 17
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 17 5/31/2010 1:47:34 AM
dialog: had moved up to directing advertising films and opened my own production house
dialog: called Canvas Films (1991).
dialog: In 1998, I was called in to edit the promos of Kareeb as well because Vinod had liked
dialog: my work on 1942: A Love Story. This was again a one-off stint. I continued doing
dialog: work in advertising. Canvas Films flourished and I became financially secure.
dialog: I had settled into a comfortable pattern till the morning I received a call from
dialog: Vinod (2000). He wanted me to edit Mission Kashmir. Not just the promos but the
dialog: entire film. Initially, I was reluctant as I did not want to leave a lucrative set-up.
dialog: But once I learnt of Renu’s condition (Renu, Vinod’s first wife and film editor, was
dialog: suffering from cancer and her condition was going from bad to worse with each
dialog: passing day), I could not say no. It was during the making of Mission Kashmir that
dialog: my latent desire to direct a feature film resurfaced. Watching cinema being made
text: with such passion and commitment by Vinod and his team rekindled the spirit in
dialog: me that I had in my theatre days.
dialog: * #,
dialog: 
dialog: 2
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: &
dialog: 7
dialog: cv
dialog: a
dialog: Miles to go before I sleep ...
dialog: 18
scene_heading: 03_Introductionindd 18 5/31/2010 1:47:34 AM
dialog: I knew I was ready to make a film. And I began working on writing my first film.
dialog: How Munna Bhai came about is another long story but that I will keep for the
dialog: book on Munna Bhai M.B.B.S.
dialog: So why did I just spill my guts and share my life with you?
dialog: Simply because so much of 3 /diots is personal. 1 am a small town man from
dialog: Nagpur with no connections or background in films. I started working towards
dialog: something that made me happy and that is all there is to it. I worked with passion
dialog: and honesty, and even if success had not come my way, I would still have been
dialog: really happy as I got to chase my dreams.
dialog: It has been a long and wonderful ride, but the key here is, it has been a ride of my
dialog: choice. The desire to make 3 Idiots stemmed from this thought. I am not trying
dialog: to say that engineering or chartered accountancy or any other profession for that
dialog: matter is any less than wildlife photography or filmmaking, and so on. My belief is
dialog: simple. Choose your own path. Choose without fear. It is not a foolproof formula
dialog: for happiness or success but it is definitely one that is most likely to work.
dialog: — Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: 19
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 19 5/31/2010 1:47:35 AM
scene_heading: 03_Introduction.indd 20 5/31/2010 1:47:96 AM
scene_heading: THE ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY
scene_heading: EXT. AIRPORT — DAY
text: A plane taxies on the runway.
scene_heading: INT. AIRPLANE — DAY
text: An AIR HOSTESS closes the overhead
text: bins. FARHAN (30s), a passenger, is
text: reading a book when his phone rings. He
text: scrambles for it, embarrassed he hadn't
text: turned it off. Other passengers look at
text: him disapprovingly. He sheepishly takes
dialog: the call.
dialog: wer
text: A beat.
dialog: wer
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: aa?
speaker_heading: AIR HOSTESS
dialog: Sir, kindly switch off your mobile phone.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Just one sec, please, one sec, please.
text: The airplane revs its engines. Farhan hangs
text: up, looking disturbed. He tries to catch the
dialog: attention of the Air hostess.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Excuse me.
text: The plane races down the runway.
text: Farhan appears to be in acute physical
text: discomfort as the plane takes off.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hello... Yes?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘What?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: (to the Air hostess)
dialog: Excuse me.
text: He unbuckles his seat belt and stands up.
text: The Air hostess is alarmed.
speaker_heading: AIR HOSTESS
dialog: Sir, please sit down.
text: Farhan tries to steady himself but keels over
text: and falls in the aisle, unconscious.
speaker_heading: AIR HOSTESS
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: Captain, there’s a medical emergency.
text: A passenger has just fallen down in the
dialog: aisle.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT — CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
text: Delhi, Air India 101 returning due to
dialog: medical emergency.
scene_heading: EXT. AIRPORT — CONTINUOUS
text: The plane returns to the airport.
scene_heading: INT. AIRPLANE — CONTINUOUS
text: The Air hostesses rush to help Farhan.
speaker_heading: AIR HOSTESS
dialog: Excuse me Sir. Sir, excuse me. Sir, excuse
dialog: me Sir.
scene_heading: INT. TERMINAL —- MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The airline ground STAFF anda DOCTOR
text: are taking an unconscious Farhan on a
dialog: 24
text: wheelchair through the terminal. As they
text: approach the exit, Farhan opens his eyes,
text: looks around furtively, and jumps out of
dialog: the wheelchair.
dialog: wert
dialog: un fare!
text: Farhan takes several deep breaths. The
text: Doctor and the Airline Staff are astonished
dialog: and concerned.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: wat F faga Ste €1 AQ ore att aT,
dialog: ary ait are) Fo gar aT
text: Farhan starts running towards the exit.
text: The flummoxed Medical Staff call out
dialog: after him.
speaker_heading: MEDICAL STAFF
dialog: Gentleman, wait!
text: Farhan charges through the crowded
text: terminal, slowing down only once he nears
dialog: the exit.
scene_heading: EXT. AIRPORT — CONTINUOUS
text: Outside the terminal, waiting for arriving
text: passengers, is a queue of DRIVERS holding
text: placards. Farhan randomly picks one with
text: a placard that reads MR. DHILLON.
dialog: wer
dialog: ast Frere are |
text: The driver looks at Farhan suspiciously.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hold on!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: I'm fine now, thanks. Carry on, please.
dialog: I will go.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Get the cab yaar!
dialog: gait fi. faethe
dialog: wer
dialog: wal, art get ee pears are at at
dialog: frat are mat
scene_heading: INT. CAB / EXT. DELHI ROADS —
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER
text: Farhan is in the cab and on the move.
text: He takes out his phone and starts to dial
dialog: a number.
dialog: gat a atl
text: A beat.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. RAJU’S NEW HOUSE /
speaker_heading: CAB — DAY
text: The screen of RAJU’s phone, on his
text: bedside table, illuminates with Farhan’s
text: call. Raju (30s) peeps out from under
text: the bedsheet, grabs the phone, looks at
text: it and answers it.
dialog: ae
dialog: wert
dialog: a sett agree at Foote fae F ae ger
speaker_heading: Wed WT EI
dialog: 26
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Mr. Dhillon?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Want the name tattooed? Get the car
dialog: fast man!
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: To the hotel, Sir?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes, yes, but via Vasant Vihar.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Step on the gas, dude!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yeah, Farhan?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Get ready. I'll pick you up in five
dialog: minutes.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (sleepily)
dialog: aa Sa ae?
dialog: wert
dialog: ade ar wrt ar fara fer?
dialog: wy
speaker_heading: aM AER?
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: wer 21
text: Raju sits up on the bed with a jerk. In
text: the balcony, outside the room, his wife,
text: SOONI, does breathing exercises.
dialog: aa att wer 3?
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: at, ater fe ae tay & frat & at ae
dialog: are at Sa at ot, zt F1
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: (looks at his watch)
dialog: Oh, shucks!
dialog: wert
dialog: a gt aedt gee aT AT AI
speaker_heading: wT
text: He grabs a toothbrush and tube of
text: toothpaste and rushes back into the room.
text: Sooni gives him a puzzled look as he
text: throws on a kurta.
dialog: 27
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Chatur called. Remember him?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Who? ‘Silencer’?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yeah. He said Rancho is coming.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: ‘What?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He said: If you want to meet Rancho come
text: to the campus at 8. On the tank.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hurry!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Ok.
dialog: att ¥ ary ee F ar ver So) ae a
text: He grabs his shoes
dialog: mh .
dialog: A... HAT eret fet TAT
text: In response, Sooni indicates something with
text: her eyes, without breaking her breathing
dialog: pattern.
speaker_heading: Ret
dialog: I?
text: She gestures frantically, without
dialog: speaking.
speaker_heading: WA
dialog: a # ar aa aear 21 ata
text: She finally breaks her breathing pattern
text: and yells out to him.
dialog: ait
dialog: at te at ver & orsir
scene_heading: EXT. RAJU’S NEW HOUSE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Raju runs out of his home, shoes, water
text: bottle, toothbrush, and toothpaste in hand.
text: He is not wearing his trousers. Farhan’s
text: cab screeches to a halt in front of him
text: and he gets in. They take off.
dialog: Bere
dialog: we at aea ora aT ae?
dialog: 28
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sooni, I'll be back soon. Oh, shoes.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: We found our buddy.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: I will talk after coming back — bye.
speaker_heading: SOONI
dialog: You forgot your pants.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Now to the hotel, Sir?
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: site efafraftt a a1
dialog: seat
dialog: (with resignation)
dialog: ah Atl
text: Raju shakes out his shoes, peering into
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: wT
dialog: (disappointed)
dialog: pert
dialog: (amused)
dialog: I aes St aa we wer ze, ad Aa te -
dialog: re Af ge vat 21
text: Startled, Raju looks down at his bare
dialog: legs.
dialog: wh
dialog: sire aa!
text: Farhan chuckles.
scene_heading: EXT. IMPERIAL COLLEGE OF
scene_heading: ENGINEERING —~ MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The taxi enters the campus of Imperial
dialog: College of Engineering (ICE). It comes
text: to a halt in front of a building. Raju
text: runs out, brushing his teeth. Farhan
text: follows, calling out instructions to the
dialog: driver.
dialog: 29
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes,but via Imperial College of
dialog: Engineering.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Ok, Sir.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Forgot my socks.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: More than just your socks. Your pants.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Oh no!
dialog: wer
speaker_heading: ame ST) Ae as aed aT eS S| SAT
dialog: area year sar) aa aere ae — feet
scene_heading: EXT. AIRPORT — DAY
text: A SIKH MAN waits outside the airport.
text: Referring to the slip of paper in his hand,
text: he speaks into his phone.
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: fect: west ao at we fete
dialog: wa a?
scene_heading: EXT. WATER TANK, ICE — DAY
text: Farhan and Raju bolt up the steps towards
text: the water tank. They climb up the ladder
text: that leads to the terrace of the tank, and
text: emerge, panting. CHATUR (30s), stands
text: at the far end of the terrace, his back to
text: them. Raju and Farhan frantically search
dialog: the terrace.
dialog: wer
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: va!
text: No Rancho in sight, they finally walk up
dialog: to Chatur.
dialog: wert
dialog: 30
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Now get my brother from the airport.
dialog: Same last name — Dhillon.
scene_heading: HARBHAJAN SINGH DHILLON
dialog: This is Dhillon. Where's my cab? On
dialog: the runway?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey Rancho.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hey Chatur, where’s Rancho?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Where's Rancho?
dialog: Chatur types something on his fancy
dialog: phone. The electronic English to Hindi
speaker_heading: dictionary shows the translation LIQUOR =
text: MADIERA' on the phone screen.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: Welcome, idiots.
text: He turns to face them.
dialog: att
dialog: afer fear?
text: (takes out a bottle from his jacket pocket)
dialog: a at Fa TH ar ae fe a?
text: He throws the bottle at them. Farhan
dialog: catches it.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Have a drink.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: aart @1 ved ao ear!
text: Chatur holds up his phone to Raju and
text: Farhan. On the screen is a picture of his
text: wife in front of a mansion.
dialog: var, efeaey 3.5 fafa
text: Chatur presses a button on the phone.
dialog: 31
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Some ‘madeira’ for you? The same rum
dialog: you guzzled those days.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Where is Rancho?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I will tell you. First look at this.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Don't eye my wife. Check out the mansion
text: behind, idiots, $ 3.5 million.
text: As a slide show of photographs starts on
text: it, he keeps up a running commentary.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: Swimming pool — heated. Living room —
text: maple wood flooring.
text: The photograph changes on the phone.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: My new Lambhorghini 6496cc — very
dialog: fast!
text: Farhan and Raju are perplexed.
dialog: 
dialog: aa ey wii fear wer % a aa?
dialog: age
dialog: aa 1a?
text: Chatur’s fingers glide over his phone
text: again. A date appears on screen: 5th
dialog: September.
dialog: at
dialog: we wa &?
dialog: (looks at the phone)
dialog: ofa fraaz art At Se) aie var are?
text: Chatur pushes through them and shuffles
text: up to the dome-like structure in the centre
text: of the terrace. He wipes the fungus off
text: a portion of the wall, to reveal a date
text: chiselled into it — SEPT 5. Farhan and
text: Raju look on, baffled.
dialog: 32
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Why'te you showing us all this?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Forgot?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: “Sth September’. Today's date. What
dialog: else?
speaker_heading: FLASH:
text: Its ten years back. A drunk and angry Chatur
text: stands next to the same wall and yells.
dialog: ae
dialog: aa wr de) ae at Be ATT
dialog: met) TF) at A & Ret Fa,
dialog: ahr saer weep B12 herr? ater?
speaker_heading: SET? SITET?
speaker_heading: END OF FLASH
dialog: age ~ ~ .
dialog: ae we oer? wet 4 oe sfeae a of
dialog: amg at) omg ae ae sire ong wr
dialog: ae |
text: Farhan loses his temper. He flings down
text: the bottle he is holding at Chatur. It
text: shatters at Chatur’s feet. He moves
text: threateningly towards Chatur but Raju
text: holds him back.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: at, F eae wert ws H ort e1 a
dialog: amt te dts & ora 2) fe ar a
dialog: fret & faci ota arr A et saat ge
dialog: ve @| fret & fe 4e aan, aél Gar) oie
dialog: ga war ara 2, af ae yee at ot &
dialog: fers get sre?
text: Chatur continues, unfazed.
dialog: ade
dialog: set aoa) ase are at weF aTeT |
text: Farhan lunges at Chatur.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I challenge you. We'll meet again afier ten
dialog: years. Same day. Same place. We'll see who's
dialog: more successful. Have the balls? Cmon,
dialog: bet!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Remember? I'd challenged that idiot right
dialog: here. I kept my promise. I'm back.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Jackass! I aborted a flight, he forgot his
dialog: pants all to meet Rancho. Five years
dialog: we've searched. Don’t even know if he’s
dialog: alive. And you think he'll show up for
dialog: your silly bet.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I know he won't show up.
dialog: wert
dialog: ak 1 gab aia deat & ar F aie?
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (restraining Farhan)
dialog: at ey wit gear?
dialog: ae . 5 5 5
dialog: va a fear aah sat dt wet we
dialog: ng ait F pet ves wa
dialog: wh 5
dialog: yaad dat arasy 2 tt Het 2?
dialog: el
dialog: \
dialog: wert
dialog: wel & Pat?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: He is in Shimla.
text: Farhan and Raju’s faces light up with hope
dialog: and happiness.
scene_heading: EXT. ENROUTE TO SHIMLA — DAY
dialog: Opening Titles roll.
scene_heading: PBS 1 — BEHTI HAWA SA THA WOH
dialog: gedt ea a at at
dialog: ws aT aT at at
dialog: gedt ea a at at
dialog: set aT aT at at
dialog: 34
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You gonna break his jaw or should [2
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: So why did you call us here?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: To meet Rancho. Come and see where
dialog: I've reached and where he rots.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: So you know where Rancho is?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Where?
dialog: Free as the wind was he
dialog: Like a soaring kite was he
dialog: Where did he go ... lets find him
dialog: Free as the wind was he
dialog: Like a soaring kite was he
dialog: Area, weReraT, eA F aerar ar ar
dialog: ea at wet at Pes aad
speaker_heading: a TH MT BT HT FATA
dialog: a we a ga & fra a at
dialog: wer 8 aay ar at
dialog: gee ean fer ar
dialog: arid oT F ote & sar
dialog: reat 7 ae & sar
dialog: we & ar t were Far ar ar
speaker_heading: eT wet aH ved Ee
dialog: qe aea tate aPATAT
dialog: oe rr ae & Rat ar ar
dialog: qed aa aT at
dialog: ae BATT a at
text: Chatur’s SUV is cruising along on the
text: beautiful road leading up to Shimla.
scene_heading: INT. SUV — CONTINUOUS
text: Chatur is at the wheel. Farhan sits next
text: to him, in the front. Raju, still without
text: pants, sits in the backseat.
text: Farhan looks out of the window and
text: reminisces.
dialog: 35
dialog: Where did he go ... lets find him
dialog: We were led by the path we took
text: While he carved a path of his own
text: Stumbling, rising, carefree walked he
dialog: We fretted about the morrow
dialog: He simply revelled in today
dialog: Living each moment to the fullest
dialog: Where did he come from ...
dialog: He who touched our hearts and vanished ...
dialog: Where did he go ... lets find him
text: In scorching Sun, he was like a patch of
dialog: shade ...
text: In an endless desert, like an oasis ...
text: On a bruised heart, like soothing balm
dialog: was he
dialog: Afraid, we stayed confined in the well
text: Fearless, he frolicked in the river
dialog: Never hesitating to swim
dialog: against the tide
text: He wandered lonesome as a cloud
dialog: . Yet he was our dearest friend
dialog: Where did he go ... lets find him
dialog: wert
dialog: wat | wrersera earrerera ores | Saar
dialog: am do gam 4 a ga of aep
dialog: wp te 8, aa él ariey aT ar Te
text: The SUV enters a tunnel and the screen
text: goes black.
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK:
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
text: A shoal of sperms surge forward. One happy
text: sperm races ahead and hits the ova.
speaker_heading: REM (V.O.)
dialog: arat der ae & fae ff de at Pater
dialog: efy 4 tq aarit ve at
dialog: From the point of view of the mother
text: delivering the baby, the gloved hand of a
text: doctor brings out a baby.
dialog: we VO.
dialog: 19781 At wey ya aot dee faq
dialog: y got!
speaker_heading: HREM (V.O.)
dialog: ae oa aver aie fae We ae F
dialog: ter ger efafrae TT |
dialog: wer ait dan. sitar
dialog: 36
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho. Ranchhoddas Shamaldas
dialog: Chanchad. He was as unique as his name.
dialog: From birth we were taught — life is a race.
dialog: Run fast or you'll be trampled.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Even to be born, one had to race 300
dialog: million sperms.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: 1978. I was born at 5.15 pm.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: At 5.16, my father announced ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: My son will be an engineer.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S AUNTY
dialog: Farhan Qureshi. B.Tech. Engineer.
dialog: An Imperial College of Engineering identity
text: card, with Farhan’s photograph on it, is
dialog: stamped.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: And my fate was sealed.
scene_heading: EXT. IMPERIAL COLLEGE OF
scene_heading: ENGINEERING — DAY
dialog: From the stamp on the card, dissolve to the
text: ICE logo outside the ICE campus where
text: Farhan stands facing it. It’s ten years back.
text: He has a suitcase in one hand, a holdall
text: in another, a rucksack on his back and a
text: pillow tucked under his arm.
speaker_heading: wR (V.O.)
dialog: gar aaa creat at, aren feet 7 ger
dialog: aw Te!
text: Farhan walks into the college.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: He enters a corridor bustling with
text: FRESHMEN and walks up to the notice
text: board. He moves his finger up the room
text: list and stops on his name. Next to his
text: name are the names of his room-mates.
text: Farhan reads aloud.
speaker_heading: RET
text: Farhan notes the room number. Just then,
scene_heading: MANMOHAN, AKA MILLIMETER,
text: a street-smart 12 year old, comes up
text: behind him.
dialog: 37
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘What I wanted to be ... no one asked.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Raju Rastogi, Ranchhoddas Chanchad.
dialog: Prefer
dialog: eH aeae seit |
text: A startled Farhan turns to face him.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: D-26.
text: Millimeter picks up Farhan’s bags and starts
dialog: to walk away.
dialog: fairer
dialog: ait |
text: Farhan follows him, taking in the ambience
text: of the college as they walk.
dialog: farcitier
dialog: Home eet) wy wy) | aa efitaad
dialog: att met, ae Sf arr 2, aici fas
dialog: ve 81 aT Te
text: Farhan spots a litter of puppies and gets
dialog: excited.
dialog: wert
speaker_heading: saa WHS |
text: He takes out a camera from his rucksack
text: and clicks their photographs from different
dialog: angles.
speaker_heading: faeittex
dialog: q fectage 1 a Amege ate a saat
dialog: at, Atma]! | at at, Get a at a SRA
dialog: age wat aed
dialog: 38
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Room number?
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: C'mon.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: I’m Man Mohan. M.M. These engineers
dialog: call me Millimeter. For eggs, bread,
dialog: milk, laundry, finishing journals, copying
dialog: assignments, I’m your guy. Fixed rates.
dialog: No bargaining.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey wait, hold this.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
text: Meet Kilobyte, Megabyte, and their mother
dialog: Gigabyte. Go ahead, click — this family
dialog: doesn’t bite.
text: Still pictures of Gigabyte and the puppies
text: cover the screen.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM, HOSTEL, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The door opens and Millimeter and Farhan
text: enter the room. Glancing at them briefly,
text: Raju continues to perform ‘aarti’ in front
text: of a wall covered with pictures of different
dialog: gods and goddesses.
dialog: faeirtree
dialog: ait at war we oie wT
text: Amused, Farhan looks at the wall, and
text: then extends his hand to Raju.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: are) ert atti
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (ignoring the proffered hand)
dialog: Hag wari
text: Raju immediately goes back to praying.
text: Millimeter is putting Farhan’s bags in a
text: corner. He looks at Farhan. Raju starts to
text: move around the room with a ‘puja thal’
text: with burning incense on it. With the turn
text: of his hand, he shoves the fumes from the
text: incense in every corner of the room.
speaker_heading: freffiex
dialog: wast Ft | ars fer sae wT aT aT ST
dialog: amy wart & fava go area... flee
dialog: ag 4 ait asat at aie wren sie
dialog: mem — ot warm, we ae fear eI
dialog: 39
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Check him out ...
dialog: soul.
dialog: another god-fearing
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hi. Farhan Qureshi,
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: I'm Raju Rastogi.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Don’t worry, a few days here and he'll lose
dialog: faith in God. Then naked babes will be on
dialog: the wall, and he'll say — “Oh God, give me
dialog: one chance with her”.
dialog: my
dialog: (irritated at Millimeter’ irreverence)
dialog: a, aot frm get 81 frepet
dialog: fairer
dialog: am saa at) et Suan we ar)
dialog: wert
dialog: aa) tea oa do wa a
dialog: farcitirer
dialog: war aifea) gat om ar fea fear ar
dialog: art At gaat we fey er sist ae
text: Millimeter leaves the room. Raju
dialog: wonders.
dialog: wh
dialog: wat?
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, HOSTEL, ICE —
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: In the corridor, a group of bare chested
text: freshmen, standing in a row, take off their
text: pants to reveal their underwear. They bend
text: down and shout in unison.
dialog: aa faereff
dialog: seine, gait tz a
text: In a coordinated move, they spin around
text: and offer up their backsides, patting
dialog: them.
dialog: aa faereff
dialog: 40
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Get out of here.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Four bucks. Two per bag.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Here's five. Keep the change.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Thanks boss. For your tip, here's one
dialog: in return — wear your best underwear
dialog: tonight.
speaker_heading: RAJU
speaker_heading: ALL STUDENTS
dialog: Your Majesty, Thou art great.
speaker_heading: ALL STUDENTS
dialog: Accept this humble offering.
text: A Senior moves down the line, inspecting
text: butts and stamping them.
dialog: thin Aiae 1
dialog: are, a at te 21 G1 a a aR,
dialog: arel aT, aT ATL et et at Peeper Perper
speaker_heading: FereraT |
dialog: Farhan and Raju are part of the butt-
dialog: offering line-up.
speaker_heading: tert (V.O.)
dialog: sad wie a feat e ai, aa sari
dialog: ae 2 4, fe geri F ah 9, ga Sy
dialog: From their positions of obeisance, Farhan
text: and Raju spot RANCHO. Though laden
text: with luggage, he walks briskly into the
text: corridor, before faltering to a halt.
text: Bewildered, he takes in the scene before
text: him. To his right, a group of freshmen in
text: their underwear perform pelvic thrusts to
dialog: a Senior's instructions.
dialog: a at, ae SAT
text: He cuts his eyes to the left. There, Chatur, in
text: his snazzy briefs, does a James Bond act.
text: And then, Rancho is spotted by a
dialog: predator.
dialog: thin Aiae 1
dialog: . deer) we ae) tre sate ae
dialog: oo a at
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Ha ... here's a He-Man. What a pretty
text: piece. Cute and compact.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: A campus tradition — on Day 1. Freshmen
dialog: must pay their respects to seniors in their
dialog: underwear. This is when we first saw
dialog: Rancho.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR
dialog: Spiderman, Batman.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Fresh meat, Greetings. Drop your pants,
dialog: get stamped.
text: The Senior crows in delight.
dialog: fry aifsae 1
dialog: art gar @ ae? ater
text: Ragging Senior 2 pulls out the name tag
text: from Rancho’s bag.
speaker_heading: dfn aifrae 2
speaker_heading: thin aifrae 1
dialog: ae oe et STAT |
speaker_heading: Stir aifrae 1
dialog: aet - te gar! te care
text: Rancho is silent, rooted to the spot.
speaker_heading: Yr Aira 1
text: Ragging Senior 1 takes out Rancho’s water
text: bottle from his bag and empties the bottle
text: into the pocket of his jeans.
speaker_heading: thin aifrae 1
dialog: ae Gre wat vera seq) dat Sa wa
text: Rancho does not react. Instead, he holds
text: his hand over his heart and mumbles.
dialog: _
dialog: {rr aifraz 1
dialog: wat ate?
dialog: 42
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Name?
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 2
dialog: ‘Ranchhoddas Shamaldas Chanchad’.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: What a mouthful!
dialog: cramming,
dialog: Needs serious
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Come on — pants off.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Being stubborn?
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Wet pants not good, kiddo. Take them
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Aal izz well ... aal izz well.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: What's that?
text: Farhan and Raju are so immersed in
dialog: Rancho’s situation that they inadvertently
text: straighten up, pulling up their pants.
dialog: eer
dialog: (whispers to Raju)
dialog: a em att war 2?
text: Rancho does not break his silence. Ragging
text: Senior 1 gestures to Chatur.
dialog: thin Aiae 1
dialog: Q ae aya za) 0 Sey ais - ayat
dialog: eal a!
text: Chatur obediently runs up to Rancho.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Take off your pants or they are going to
dialog: piss on you.
dialog: thin Aiae 1
dialog: aie ofits, feed ster F of arth Be
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Sorry Sir, I was born in Uganda, studied
text: in Pondicherry, so little slow in Hindi.
dialog: thin Aiae 1
dialog: at eaiteit are at sai cedt fear 21
text: Leaving Chatur to explain, Ragging Senior
text: 1 walks up to Farhan and Raju.
dialog: thin Aiae 1
dialog: fee A vest fran ora?
dialog: 43
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Aal izz well ... aal izz well.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: What did he say?
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Someone tell him. Hey James Bond — make
dialog: him understand!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Hey 007! Ashamed to speak Hindi?
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: So explain slowly. No hurry.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Feeling cold?
text: Chatur opens his dictionary and puts
dialog: together a literal translation of the Senior’s
dialog: threat.
dialog: aa sale aéf dt ae am we Aafia
dialog: eer |
text: The Seniors burst out laughing.
speaker_heading: Ur dia 1
dialog: a) faa at qafract den?
dialog: ‘fir diay 2
text: The Seniors are absorbed in making fun
dialog: of Chatur.
dialog: Rancho takes advantage of this distraction
text: and slips into his room, banging the door
text: shut. Ragging Senior 1 notices this and
text: runs after him. He starts banging on the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: Ur dia 1
dialog: a wet ot art... Boge aT
text: All the students, including Farhan and
text: Raju, watch with interest. Ragging Senior
text: 1 calls out threateningly.
speaker_heading: Ur dia 1
dialog: aet at, wa a. eh a A ae wary
dialog: yates Be |
text: There is no response from the room.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Pray undress or he'll do ‘urine-expulsion’
dialog: on you.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Calls pissing ‘urine-expulsion’!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 2
dialog: A true linguist in the land of engineers!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Hey, come out of there.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Come out or ... of I'll do ‘urine-expulsion’
dialog: on your door.
speaker_heading: ehry aifaae 1
dialog: aq om far) aver sé ater at — at
dialog: H - dh gt aie 4 at cea 7 ae
speaker_heading: BET |
text: Inside the room, Rancho thinks.
dialog: fir aifrae
dialog: wh. att
text: He looks around the room and as his
text: eyes rest on the ceiling, he seems to have
dialog: found a solution.
speaker_heading: ehry aifaae 1
dialog: am!
text: Rancho looks around the room again.
text: He spots something and throws off his
text: rucksack moving towards it. Outside,
text: curious students pour out of their rooms.
text: The tension mounts.
dialog: fir aifrae
dialog: ar!
text: Ragging Senior 1 bangs on the door
dialog: again,
speaker_heading: ehry aifaae 1
dialog: ura!
text: Inside the room, Rancho climbs onto a
text: chair, unscrews the bulb from the hanging
text: light and rips out its wire.
dialog: finn aifaae
dialog: wl
dialog: 45
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: If you aren't out by the count of ten,
dialog: Tl do ‘urine-expulsion’ on your door all
dialog: semester.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: One ... two.
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Three!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Four!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Five!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Six!
text: Rancho turns off the switch that the
text: hanging light was attached to. With his
text: teeth, he bites off the plastic from the
text: ends of the wire.
dialog: fier aia
dialog: ara!
text: Rancho places the exposed wire ends
text: strategically under a metal spoon, and
text: starts binding the spoon to a wooden
text: ruler. Outside, in desperation, Ragging
text: Senior 1 calls out again.
dialog: dry dia 1
dialog: are! aT!
text: A laugh escapes Farhan. The Senior whips
text: around menacingly. Raju surreptitiously
text: indicates Farhan to him. Inside the room,
text: Rancho has finished binding the spoon to
text: the wooden ruler.
dialog: finn tifa
dialog: wa!
text: Angry, frustrated and with no other option,
text: the Senior walks to the door, faces it and
text: unzips. Unseen by him, from underneath
text: the door, Rancho slides out the spoon.
text: He then puts on the switch that the wire
text: under the spoon is connected to. The
text: Senior starts urinating. As the stream of
text: urine hits the spoon, he gets electrocuted.
text: He jerks back and collapses, writhing in
text: pain. The semi-naked group of Freshmen
text: break into delighted laughter.
text: Rancho’s door opens and he walks out.
text: Laughter changes into sounds of scurrying
dialog: 46
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Seven!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Eight! Nine!
speaker_heading: RAGGING SENIOR 1
dialog: Ten!
text: as everyone tries to get out of his way.
text: He just walks to where his water bottle
text: had fallen, picks it up and walks back
text: into his room.
text: Farhan and Raju exchange a look.
text: Fully dressed again, they open their room
text: door tentatively. Rancho is sprawled on
text: his bed, fast asleep, not a care in the
dialog: world.
speaker_heading: wert (V.O.)
dialog: veg de feet) sy Ua atl art 7
dialog: arerg feral
scene_heading: EXT. ICE — DAY
speaker_heading: VIRU SAHASTRABUDDHE (mid-50’s)
text: cycles to work. On the carrier of his bicycle
text: is a bird’s nest with a clay bird and five
text: eggs in it.
speaker_heading: wert (V.O.)
dialog: a, WW ae Ge Tew. Byer TET
dialog: gard a1
scene_heading: EXT. HOSTEL, ICE -—-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Millimeter stands in the centre of the
text: hostel courtyard and calls out.
speaker_heading: fareffiex
dialog: ot Fe at wat 2 as - ah) we
speaker_heading: MST | Feet SATS
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Salt water is a great conductor of electricity.
dialog: 8th-grade-physics. We had studied it. He
dialog: applied it.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Dr. Viru Sahastrabuddhe was the Director
dialog: of ICE. Students called him Virus,
text: computer Virus.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
text: Virus is on the way, with eggs. First year
text: students are summoned. Come quickly.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS,
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: ICE -
text: An office PEON, on his bicycle, overtakes
dialog: the Director.
speaker_heading: FARHAN (V.O.)
dialog: Virus was the most competitive man we
dialog: had ever seen.
text: The Director pedals harder to get ahead
dialog: of the peon.
speaker_heading: HEM (V.O.)
dialog: ore aered Fel Stat aT
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
text: The Director puts on a shirt and smooths
text: his hand over the buttons to fasten the
text: velcro beneath them. He hooks a tie onto
text: his collar.
speaker_heading: ert (V.O.)
dialog: eee aa & far oe 4 ger sel, Jere
dialog: wma 4, att ag F eH
dialog: 
text: In a classroom, the Director writes on the
text: board with both hands.
speaker_heading: HEM (V.O.)
dialog: awe wa fre vad a1
text: The clock in the Director's office strikes 2
text: pm. A shaving kit is opened, the Director
text: lies down on a couch and a needle is placed
text: on a gramophone record. Music envelopes
dialog: 48
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He couldn't bear anyone getting ahead
dialog: of him.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: To save time, his shirts had Velcro and
dialog: his ties had hooks.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He'd trained his mind to write with both
text: hands simultaneously.
text: the room. The Director’s man-Friday,
text: GOVIND, shaves him as he naps.
speaker_heading: wert (V.O.)
dialog: al sagas & fe a oeysfaes arr
dialog: ara fae 4 fea oa
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HOSTEL FOYER / CORRIDOR,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: The Director reaches the hostel. He strides
text: down the corridor, bird nest in hand, as
text: nervous freshmen rush past him to gather
text: in the courtyard. The Director reaches
text: them and slows down.
dialog: (re: nest in his hand)
dialog: a aM 2?
text: Chatur pipes up.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Sir, nest.
dialog: feserept ?
dialog: at
dialog: ae Haat ae aT I
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Wrong.
text: He starts moving towards a raised platform
text: in the courtyard, where Govind stands
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Everyday at 2 pm he took a 7% minute
dialog: power nap with an operaas lullaby. Govind,
dialog: his valet, had instructions to carry out all
dialog: unproductive tasks such as shaving, nail-
dialog: cutting, etc. during this time.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: What is this?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: ‘Whose?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Koel bird’s nest, Sir.
text: attentively, next to a pile of cardboard
dialog: cartons.
dialog: ar a gat & afar F cad e1
text: Rancho, Farhan and Raju make a rushed,
text: belated entry, looking like they've just
text: woken up. The Director turns around to
text: face the students.
dialog: aie sa carb aot za shar ¥ ona &
dialog: at wat yet aa aed 2?
text: A beat.
dialog: at aed cat ost HT aa AG ata
dialog: a fret aa 21
text: He holds up an egg from the nest and
text: drops it. The egg splatters on the ground.
text: The students wince at the brutal action.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: Competition over. Their life begins with
dialog: murder. That’s nature. Compete or die.
text: While everyone listens transfixed, Rancho
text: starts getting restless. The Director hands
text: over the nest to Govind.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You also are like the koel birds.
text: With a sudden movement, he turns over
text: a carton. ICE application forms spill out
text: onto the courtyard floor.
dialog: 50
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: A koel bird never makes her own nest.
text: She lays her eggs in other nests.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: And when they hatch, what do they do?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: They push the other eggs out of the
dialog: nest.
speaker_heading: STEaee
dialog: a a a fe @, fara sat a TT
dialog: ait ongdig ¥ 9é7
text: Millimeter irons clothes in the corridor
text: adjoining the courtyard.
text: He lip syncs to the Director's words.
dialog: sreeaer frrettrez
dialog: are wit at et art smedis F are
dialog: ara cathe ont 2 sik at a Rp
dialog: a a factae act 21 a1
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: STeaee
dialog: ae a fiefs) ater cer) Ae ge
dialog: ae 4 dm ort veng fear a...
dialog: The
dialog: sadness.
text: Director’s voice softens with
dialog: Settee
text: He takes out a pen from his shirt
text: pocket and holds it up for the students
dialog: to see.
speaker_heading: SEIT
dialog: az a ta goo af eafer ert a
dialog: teenie Oo) eer Fo qreren OH, aie
dialog: H ae, wearers + Car Ge sore fear
dialog: ait afafe 4, ep fra aaa 21
dialog: 51
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: And these are the eggs you pushed to get
dialog: into ICE.
scene_heading: DIRECTOR / MILLIMETER
dialog: Don't forget, ICE gets 400,000 applications
dialog: a year and only 200 are selected — you!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: And these? Finished. Broken eggs. My
dialog: son ... he tried for three years.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: ... Rejected. Every time, Remember, life
dialog: is a race. If you don't run fast, you'll get
dialog: trampled.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Let me tell you a very interesting story.
text: This is an astronaut’s pen. Fountain pens
dialog: and ballpoint pens don't work in outer
dialog: space. So scientists spent millions to invent
dialog: this pen. It can write at any angle, in any
dialog: temperature, in zero gravity.
text: All the students look at the pen.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: One day, when I was a student, the Director
dialog: of our institute called me. He said, “Viru
dialog: Sahastrabuddhe.” I said, “Yes Sir” “Come
dialog: here!” Main darr gaya. He showed me
dialog: this pen. He said, “This is a symbol of
dialog: excellence. I give it to you. Aur jis din
dialog: tumhe tumahre jaisa koi extraordinary
dialog: student mile, to yeh pen usse paas on
dialog: kar dena.”
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Battis sal se Viru Sahastrabuddhe is waiting
dialog: for that student. But no luck. Anyone here,
dialog: who'll strive to win this pen?
text: Led by an over eager Chatur, whose hand
text: shoots up first, all the students raise their
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Good. Put your hands down.
text: As all the hands go down, Rancho raises
text: his. The Director looks up after putting
text: the pen back in his shirt pocket. He sees
text: the lone, raised hand.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: Shall I post it on the notice board? Hands
dialog: down.
dialog: ae, War wa aaa & ae
dialog: 52
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: One question, Sir.
dialog: ae, ea Fo pered OM, ate aera et
dialog: fear? arat Stere aa ot ATI
text: There's a burst of involuntary laughter
text: from the students. Raju glares at Rancho
text: disapprovingly. The Director seems
text: stumped. Chatur looks at him anxiously.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I will get back to you on this.
text: Seeming disoriented, he walks away.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, ICE - MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Farhan and Raju walk behind Rancho on
text: the way to their first class. In a low voice,
text: Raju speaks reprovingly of Rancho’s antics,
text: even as Farhan looks on with amused
dialog: enjoyment.
speaker_heading: WH.
dialog: are aa aot aires Bt LY Heer car
dialog: %, fer ¥ setaer at Gach wear 21 sa
speaker_heading: wl & sah MT WA GT A Hea
text: In front of them, ambling along, carefree,
text: Rancho encounters Millimeter.
speaker_heading: frefrtree
text: Rancho and Farhan dissolve into
text: laughter. Raju looks at Millimeter with
text: displeasure.
dialog: 53
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir, if pens didn’t work in outer space why
dialog: didn’t the astronauts use a pencil? They'd
dialog: have saved millions.
speaker_heading: RAJU
text: He zaps a senior’s privates at night.
dialog: Fingers the Director in the day. Best
dialog: avoid him.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: You deflated Virus’s erection. Your Majesty,
dialog: thou art great. Accept this humble
dialog: offering
dialog: aa, rT aet Fi ee et Se aT?
dialog: Prefer
text: Angered at his impertinence, Raju takes
text: off his slipper and rushes towards him
text: threateningly.
dialog: are, ay} stat %, ve...
text: Rancho and Farhan quickly intercede and
dialog: restrain Raju.
dialog: ei
speaker_heading: eh FT, TS ATI
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: WG, FI at we a!
text: Rancho puts his arm around Millimeter
text: and starts to walk with him.
text: Farhan and Raju follow.
dialog: Yet
dialog: aire ara @1 airert | ea
text: Rancho takes out money from his pocket
text: and hands it over to Millimeter.
dialog: _
dialog: aie a ae gram ab ara ¥ de
dialog: Stl eerft orarét &, Peet ae var wert
dialog: aren &?
dialog: 54
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Buzz off. You don’t have school?
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Who'll pay for it? Your pop?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Keep off my dad! You ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Relax.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Raju, what are you doing!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: For school you don't need any money. You
dialog: need a uniform.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Pick a school, buy the uniform and slip
text: into class. In so much of a crowd, no
dialog: one will notice.
dialog: faeirtree
dialog: aie yes 7a at?
text: He puts his arm around Millimeter as
text: they continue to walk on. Raju purses
dialog: his lips and gives Farhan an ‘I told you
dialog: so’ look.
speaker_heading: mt
dialog: an ..
text: But Farhan gazes after Rancho
text: admiringly.
dialog: 
dialog: wey Sey f dat aa all ae}
dialog: if ve age vst sa ora ari
dialog: ay aa a aber & foie ata 9 aay
dialog: at tae 91 a ae we MT a mae
dialog: git vet ar
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM, ICE — DAY
scene_heading: A class is in progress. PROFESSOR
text: POTDAR writes the word ‘MACHINE’
text: on the blackboard and turns to face the
dialog: students.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: What is a machine?
text: Chatur’s hand, and one other, shoots up.
text: Professor Potdar looks around. His eyes
text: alight on Rancho who has a beatific smile
text: on his face.
dialog: 55
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: If I get caught?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Then new uniform, new school.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: See that?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He was different... He challenged
text: conventions at every stage. A free-spirited
text: bird had landed in Virus's nest. We were
text: robots, blindly following our professors’
dialog: commands. He was the only one who
dialog: was not a machine.
dialog: it
dialog: veda at, sayy 4 area at fe
dialog: saitat atta F og art zat dar
speaker_heading: S| set HoT aT ete ATI
dialog: sitar stare
text: Taken aback, Rancho stops smiling.
dialog: diet, agit or safer dei |
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: A machine is anything that reduces human
dialog: effort.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: Will you please elaborate?
text: Rancho stands up and starts to explain.
dialog: ei
dialog: at al a saae at asia 2, ae)
text: Chatur frowns at Rancho in disdain.
dialog: ei
dialog: vet ar wt 22 seq cara, ear aT
dialog: oa... asin 2%, az
text: Rancho launches into examples to
dialog: illustrate his point with gusto and
dialog: enthusiasm.
dialog: 56
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: What're you smiling for?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir, to study engineering was a childhood
dialog: dream. I'm so happy to be here finally.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: No need to be so happy.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: Define a machine.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Anything that simplifies work, or saves
dialog: time, is a machine.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: It’s a warm day, press a button, get a blast
dialog: of air. The fan ... a machine!
dialog: Heit a amy aay eet Hh AT at He
scene_heading: aod @ ... ee... aoe @ ATI
text: A beat.
dialog: wal
dialog: apist ar fears eat Haar & ... eet
dialog: ase 8 ae) a, tease et ysit
dialog: 4 fat er @ aes a fa a ah Te
dialog: at fr ca, aa asia 2, at
text: Rancho pulls his jeans zipper up and down
dialog: to demonstrate.
dialog: up Favs H ay, wy Aves F seq) ay
scene_heading: St... AT .. SST AT SAI
text: Students laugh.
text: Furious, Professor Potdar throws a piece
text: of chalk at Rancho. Rancho looks at him
text: in shock.
dialog: stair ear
dialog: a
dialog: ?
dialog: edt
dialog: a, a a a aa waz az
text: Chatur laughs jecringly, braying in his
dialog: typical style.
text: Professor Potdar imitates Rancho, pulling
text: the zip on his fly, up and down.
dialog: 57
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Speak to a friend miles away. The
dialog: telephone ... a machine!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Compute millions in seconds. The
dialog: calculator ... a machine! We're surrounded
text: by machines. From a pen’s nib to a pants’
dialog: zip — all machines.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Up and down in a second. Up, down,
dialog: up, down...
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: What is the definition?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I just gave it to you, Sir.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: You'll write this in the exam? This is a
dialog: machine — up, down ... idiot! Anybody
dialog: else?
text: Chatur raises his hand.
dialog: ae?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Sir, machines are any combination of bodies
dialog: so connected that their relative motions
dialog: are constrained and by which means,
dialog: force and motion may be transmitted
dialog: and modified as a screw and its nut, or
text: a lever arranged to turn about a fulcrum
text: or a pulley about its pivot, etc., especially,
dialog: a construction, more or less complex
text: consisting of a combination of moving
dialog: parts, or simple mechanical elements, as
text: wheels, levers, cams, etc.
text: Professor Potdar looks at Chatur with
dialog: admiration and approval.
dialog: arate
dialog: wa ara 2? aehee! aig fae seq
text: Chatur sits down and looks around
text: triumphantly.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Thank you ... Thank you.
text: Rancho is puzzled.
speaker_heading: arart ATT HI
dialog: (derisively)
dialog: 58
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: Wonderful. Perfect. Please sit down.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: But Sir, I said the same thing, in simple
dialog: language.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: If you prefer simple language, join an Arts
dialog: and Commerce college.
dialog: afer az, Adee At at eae A ora area |
dialog: ta fart Shaft te & sar wraer?
dialog: ary frat & Sper oat %2 fara #
scene_heading: aét Saag 2 Se oP aTeeeT OR SIT
dialog: eit
text: Rancho is abruptly cut short by the
dialog: Professor.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: Get out!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: areata A aTet STE |
text: Rancho is stunned. Raju and Farhan look
dialog: from the Professor to Rancho, not daring
text: to utter a sound. Rancho starts to walk
text: out of the classroom.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: Idiot!
text: Rancho stops mid-way and starts walking
text: back to his seat.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: So, we were discussing the machine ...
dialog: Why'te you back?
dialog: 59
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: But Sir, one must get the meaning too ...
dialog: What's the point of blindly cramming a
dialog: bookish definition?
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: You think you're smarter than the book?
dialog: Write the textbook definition, mister, if
dialog: you want to pass.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: But there are other books ...
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: In simple language — out!
speaker_heading: WR, BS AA Wa s AI
dialog: as _
dialog: war?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Instruments that record, analyse, summarise,
dialog: organise, debate and explain information;
text: that are illustrated, non-illustrated, hard-
text: bound, paperback, jacketed, non-jacketed;
dialog: with foreword, introduction, table-of-
dialog: contents, index; that are intended for the
dialog: enlightenment, understanding, enrichment,
dialog: enhancement and education of the human
text: brain through the sensory route of vision.
dialog: Sometimes touch.
text: Professor Potdar and the students gape
dialog: at Rancho.
dialog: HR BET FA aed zt?
speaker_heading: frat A) ERT
text: There is a wave of laughter in the class.
dialog: ga Ya wae al ot a?
dialog: art ee ved aif at at ae) cer
dialog: amet far Arar gare ef aa |
dialog: 60
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I forgot something.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Books, Sir
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I forgot my books. May I?
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR POTDAR
dialog: Couldn't you ask simply?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I tried earlier, Sir. It simply didn’t work.
dialog: The class, except for Chatur and Raju,
text: bursts into laughter, Farhan chuckling
text: the loudest. Professor Potdar is rendered
text: speechless.
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS,
scene_heading: CAMPUS, ICE — DAY / NIGHT
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
text: A) — Rancho strolls in the corridor.
text: B) Rancho attends a senior class.
speaker_heading: REM (V.O.)
dialog: ved ot aha gars Fo aH, gree SareT
dialog: vad & at wae ae a free areata
dialog: a at % oh ao oA atl we at
dialog: ant ae amt dz ver 2, cet 4 Paar
dialog: &, we atl ay et aay aay aT at
dialog: C) Inthe hostel bathroom, students mill
text: around the shower stalls, yelling at
text: those inside to hurry.
text: D) In the campus lawns, a bare-bodied
text: Rancho soaps himself, rinsing off
text: with water from the garden hose.
text: Passing professors stare at him in
dialog: surprise.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Morning Sir!
dialog: E) In the college cafeteria, Rancho
text: dismantles a mixer with his
text: screwdriver. Behind him, an
text: attendant opens the refrigerator
text: door — and it comes off in his hand.
text: Rancho darts him a guilty look.
dialog: 61
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Professors kept Rancho mostly out. ...
dialog: Seldom in, when thrown out of one class,
dialog: he'd slip into another. He said — “First year
dialog: or fourth year, it’s knowledge. Just grab
dialog: it.” He was unlike any of us. We fought
dialog: for a shower every morning. He'd bathe
dialog: wherever he found water.
speaker_heading: wt (V.O.)
scene_heading: agit @ sea ws ati Ga FH wmgrae
dialog: eh FAA ar sit Asha fees, Sa ret car
dialog: ari ae de art ai, ae atl
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. LAB / CORRIDOR, ICE
speaker_heading: — DAY
text: In a lab, JOY LOBO, a student, works on
text: his creation, a miniature helicopter.
speaker_heading: REM (V.O.)
dialog: up at a, ot feat sb aa a,
dialog: ofa airar
text: From the window he spots the Director
text: walking down the corridor. Joy rushes out
text: of the lab towards him.
speaker_heading: JoY
dialog: Sir. Excuse me, Sir.
text: The Director continues walking. Joy keeps
text: up with him.
dialog: setae
dialog: site
dialog: aq at at dt area S seq oe
dialog: sear
dialog: wat?
dialog: site
dialog: vrdaet, 3¢ feo seat aed 41
dialog: aay aa a 8 cea esiifrae 2 ae are
dialog: fafeqa arama 4 art aed &1
dialog: 62
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Machines were his passion. When he
text: spotted them, he opened them. Some he
dialog: could re-assemble ... some he couldn't.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: There was another, just like him, Joy
dialog: Lobo.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Mr. Joy Lobo.
dialog: joy
dialog: Sir, if I could know the
dialog: convocation dates ...
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Why?
dialog: joy
dialog: Actually, Dad wants to make train
dialog: reservations. I’m the first engineer from
dialog: my village. Everyone wants to attend.
text: The Director takes out his mobile phone
text: and hands it over to Joy.
speaker_heading: sl Ste t
dialog: wT |
text: Joy looks a little unsure.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Come, please, please. Hurry up. Don't
dialog: waste my time.
text: He reluctantly dials his Father’s
dialog: number.
text: An ELDERLY MAN potters around
text: amongst plants in his backyard. He is
text: Joy’s father, MR LOBO.
text: His phone rings. He answers the call.
dialog: eet
dialog: ae
dialog: (filled with happiness)
dialog: ae
dialog: aét er |
text: The blood drains from Joy's face.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: In that case, call your dad please.
speaker_heading: JOY’S FATHER
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: JOY
dialog: Dad, the Director wants to speak to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: JOY’S FATHER
dialog: Joy.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Mr. Lobo, your son won't graduate this
dialog: year.
dialog: (crushed)
dialog: war Ba AR?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: He has violated all deadlines. Mr. Lobo, it’s
dialog: an unrealistic project. He’s making some
dialog: nonsense helicopter. I suggest you don’t
dialog: book your tickets. I’m so sorry.
text: The Director disconnects the phone.
speaker_heading: JoY
dialog: Sir, I am this close, Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Is your project ready?
speaker_heading: JoY
dialog: Ie.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Is your project ready?
dialog: sitar
dialog: fe
dialog: afae are, at er wader He
dialog: ata
dialog: ae yg ast ar vere = cif)
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Why! Why should I give you an
dialog: extension?
dialog: 64
speaker_heading: JOY’S FATHER
dialog: What happened, Sir?
dialog: joy
dialog: Sir, see it once, please.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Submit it, and we'll consider.
dialog: joy
dialog: Sir, a small extension ...
dialog: ata
dialog: ae 33% Srp & ae 4 et wey reese
speaker_heading: wet Ge TAT Ae) AT
text: The Director stops and looks at Joy
text: sternly.
speaker_heading: SECT
dialog: a yee rar Gar ws fear are
dialog: a
dialog: Sete
dialog: wat at vee wat as ae
dialog: ae
dialog: ae ome Oy at weit Ae TT UH SET
dialog: ce at cif cfg
dialog: setae
dialog: feex ciel, a2 sitveqqr a AT der ot
dialog: Ha fie & ae var ar Ae Fk ar
dialog: ae weage + eat ater 4 crear fear
dialog: at at are fra A de aaer
text: A beat.
dialog: Sree
dialog: H omar frre ¢ aaa % ware
dialog: wal, one tH ANT
text: The Director walks away.
dialog: 65
speaker_heading: JOY
dialog: After Dad’s stroke, I couldn't focus for
dialog: two months.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Did you stop eating for two months?
dialog: Joy
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Stopped bathing?
dialog: Joy
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: So why did you stop studying?
dialog: Joy
dialog: Sir, I'm very close. See it once, please ...
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Mr. Lobo! Sunday afternoon, my son fell
text: off a train and died. Monday morning,
dialog: I taught a class. So don’t give me that
dialog: nonsense.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I can give you sympathy, not an extension,
dialog: Pm sorry.
speaker_heading: JOY
dialog: (desperately)
dialog: Sir ... I'm very close ...
text: His words trail away. He looks down at
text: the helicopter in his hand. Despair and
text: frustration well up inside him. He smites
text: his forehead in agony, then turns around
text: and drops the helicopter into a dustbin. He
text: walks away. From behind a pillar, Rancho
text: gazes after him compassionately. He walks
text: up to the dustbin, retrieves the helicopter
text: and looks at it wonderingly.
dialog: Fade IN: Give me some sunshine.
scene_heading: EXT. HOSTEL, ICE — NIGHT
scene_heading: PBS 2- GIVE ME SOME SUNSHINE
speaker_heading: ae HT eT
dialog: ae ae & ot fre
speaker_heading: Ue Tet at ae Bt
speaker_heading: ae HT eT
dialog: ae ae & ot fre
speaker_heading: Ue Tet at ae Bt
dialog: Pra at ar ret
dialog: Pra it aa or
dialog: Pra at Oiler arr
scene_heading: ME AAT FH AT TIA FT
dialog: Pra at ar ret
dialog: Pra it aa or
dialog: Pra at Gee arr
scene_heading: ME AAT FH AT TIA FT
dialog: 66
dialog: Lifelong I lived
dialog: The life of another
dialog: For just one moment
dialog: Let me live as I...
dialog: Lifelong I lived
dialog: The life of another
dialog: For just one moment
dialog: Let me live as I...
dialog: Give me some sunshine
dialog: Give me some rain
dialog: Give me another chance
dialog: I wanna grow up once again
dialog: Give me some sunshine
dialog: Give me some rain
dialog: Give me another chance
dialog: I wanna grow up once again
text: On a ledge outside his hostel room, Joy
text: strums a guitar and sings in a voice filled
text: with pain and hopelessness.
text: Rancho observes him from a distance.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM, HOSTEL,
speaker_heading: NIGHT
speaker_heading: ICE —
text: A portable black and white monitor shows
text: candid images of the trio’s room. The images
text: are being shot by the camera atop Joy's
dialog: helicopter. Rancho operates the helicopter
text: with childish enthusiasm. He goes up to
text: Raju, who is studying at his desk. Raju
text: glances into the camera disapprovingly.
dialog: (in awe)
dialog: ara 4 var feast aaraq 8, are efter
dialog: S oe gees Se! ST eT ST.
dialog: aaa e
text: He zeroes in on Farhan’s face.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: u, qe a we war at fe aed
dialog: suyfaena feared 21 sor a aa
text: Rancho pans the camera to himself.
dialog: sear da wel) ey Sst u, se sr ya
dialog: arora | Seat HEME S| Saat Pasay
dialog: saat fuart Pars a7
dialog: 
dialog: Raju’s not drawn in by Rancho’s
dialog: enthusiasm.
dialog: 67
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Dude's come up with an amazing design.
text: A wireless camera atop a helicopter. Can
dialog: be used for traffic updates, security ...
dialog: Wow!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: But Virus said it’s an impractical design,
dialog: it won't fly.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Te will fly! We'll make it fly. Don’t tell Joy.
dialog: Irll be a surprise. We'll fly it up to his
text: window and capture his reaction.
dialog: Re
speaker_heading: afer F 42 BaF 21
dialog: ei
dialog: (unfazed)
dialog: HT a sete a a aa a, aH
dialog: fet 4 sm, ae at - aft sy aa,
dialog: att sy ae
text: Rancho grabs Raju’s hand and places it
text: on Raju’s heart.
dialog: aq,
dialog: ate st det
dialog: ei
dialog: att sy ae
dialog: wert
dialog: at 4 Ge vat aa &
speaker_heading: TSTSaTA |
dialog: ear aat
dialog: it
dialog: ae eat wa H wep aheblere sor war
dialog: ar at wa we yer eq sat oie a a
dialog: facet at — “ater 2a da”
text: Raju rolls his eyes.
dialog: vei
dialog: aie ay att ya 4 at ora A oH ae
dialog: aa Fart eg, at cat sar at art at
dialog: aa ¥ ae faa a sé 2, ae ta a
dialog: Facarer weal at “stfer Sop aa”, “sift Ea
dialog: a\ oa fea wm aa ane F one) a oT
dialog: amat fea @ 1, Fst Sete 2, ae | Saar
dialog: 68
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: If we work on his project, who'll work
dialog: on ours? Tests, vivas, quizzes — 42 exams
dialog: per semester.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You scare easily, bro. Take your hand,
dialog: put it over your heart, and say, “aal izz
dialog: well”.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Aal izz well?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Aal izz well.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: New words of wisdom from his Holiness
dialog: Guru Ranchhoddas.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: We had an old watchman in our village.
dialog: On night patrol, he'd call out, “aal izz
dialog: well”.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: And we slept peacefully. Then there was
dialog: a theft and we learned that he couldn't
dialog: see at night! He'd just yell “Aal izz well”,
dialog: and we felt secure. That day I understood
dialog: this heart scares easily. You have to trick
dialog: it. However big the problem, tell your
dialog: heart, “Aal izz well, pal”.
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: at! oie saa starr ater et orart
dialog: ¥
dialog: art 21
text: Farhan breaks into a laugh.
dialog: edt
dialog: a 4a oe ae al, wet Ww ded Geer
dialog: wey aft 21
text: Raju makes a derisive sound.
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. —- VARIOUS LOCATIONS,
speaker_heading: ICE — DAY / NIGHT
speaker_heading: PBS 3 — AAL IZZ WELL
dialog: Ha Tab ater
dialog: Ha Tab ater
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes. That resolves the problem?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No. But you gain courage to face iat.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: We're gonna really need the mantra.
dialog: Learn it.
text: When life spins out of control
dialog: Just let your lips roll
dialog: Let your lips roll
dialog: And whistle away the toll
dialog: Yell — Aal izz Well ...
text: When life spins out of control
dialog: Just let your lips roll
dialog: Let your lips roll
dialog: And whistle away the toll
dialog: Yell — Aal izz Well ...
dialog: pit rar art aS eT Fa err
dialog: ot ange frei ar at Ferg eT
speaker_heading: ale aT or ara Fae Far ePT
dialog: ae ym,
dialog: ae Tar
dialog: onet sy Fer
speaker_heading: anegert ES Ta Ter
dialog: Breer ait Pear at area
dialog: arrd FT a Ta Ter
dialog: fea ot Rr ae ae FT TaTT
dialog: fea ot & wa st |X Baa
dialog: Rea sae 2, Gre a Seer are
dialog: ate yar
dialog: wet var
dialog: mea sitet Sa set
speaker_heading: ae ae att eT
dialog: 
speaker_heading: eprreyy Ft et Ta aT
dialog: we at foe at Prev ae
dialog: ate at Pee at Rear ae
text: The chicken’s clueless about the ege’s fate
dialog: Will it hatch or become an omelette
dialog: No one knows what the future holds
dialog: So let your lips roll
dialog: And whistle away the toll
dialog: Whistle away the toll
dialog: Yell — Aal izz Well ...
dialog: Hey bro — Aal ize, Well
dialog: Hey mate — Aal ize, Well
dialog: Hey bro — Aal ize, Well
dialog: Confusion and more confusion
dialog: No sign of any solution
dialog: Ah... finally a solution
dialog: But wait ... what was the question?
dialog: If the timid heart with fear
dialog: is about to die
dialog: Then con it bro, with this simple lie
dialog: Hearts an idiot, it will fall under that spell
dialog: Let your lips roll
dialog: And whistle away the toll
dialog: Whistle away the toll
dialog: Yell — Aal izz, Well
dialog: Hey bro — Aal ize, Well
dialog: Hey mate — Aal ize, Well
dialog: Hey bro — Aal ize, Well
dialog: Blew the scholarship on booze
dialog: But that did not dispel my blues
dialog: Holy incense lit up my plight
dialog: And yet God’ nowhere in sight
dialog: aier yer ar area era arr
dialog: ae Tar
dialog: ae va & ater asa
text: Working on Joy's helicopter in the spare
text: time he gets, Rancho is still unable to
text: make it fly. In the midst of revelry with
text: his friends, he hits upon the solution.
dialog: Year
text: In the hostel corridor stand, Farhan,
text: Raju and Millimeter. Next to Rancho
dialog: who operates a remote designed for the
text: helicopter. The helicopter starts to fly.
text: Ecstatic, the friends follow it, navigating.
text: Other students join them, the excitement
text: spreading, until a huge crowd stands
text: outside Joy’s block.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: a cia a fazer a a oa, aa at
dialog: fasat a a et ATI
text: Rancho takes the helicopter up, towards
dialog: Joy's room.
text: The lamb is clueless for what it’s destined
dialog: Will it be served on skewers or simply
dialog: minced
dialog: No one knows what the future holds
dialog: So let your lips roll
dialog: And whistle away the toll
dialog: Whistle away the toll
dialog: Yell — Aal izz Well
dialog: Hey Mrs. Chicken — Aal iz Well
dialog: Hey Mr. Lamb — Aal izz Well
dialog: Hey bro ~ Aal izz Well
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Got it, got it ... yes ....
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey, take it up to Joy’s window.
dialog: a oa
dialog: wert
speaker_heading: GR, GI!
text: The helicopter crosses Chatur’s window.
text: Raju, holding the monitor, guffaws with
text: laughter at the sight of Chatur dancing in
text: his underwear — and cramming.
dialog: at at! U aerat a ca! UT oT
speaker_heading: TT!
text: Everyone laughs. The helicopter continues
dialog: to rise.
dialog: wy
dialog: ait fa, aet at are
dialog: wert
dialog: & otal aia... aia fast we ars
dialog: aa ata, aex ta
text: The helicopter reaches Joy’s window. On
text: the monitor is Joy's body, suspended from
dialog: the ceiling,
dialog: aw
text: Even as time seems to stand still, Rancho,
text: Farhan and Raju run to Joy’s room.
text: They fling open the door and stand,
text: shell-shocked, looking at Joy’s lifeless
dialog: body — and the ‘I QUIT” he’ written
text: on the wall.
dialog: 72
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hey Joy.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Take it higher.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Look at Silencer — the nude dude!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Joy, come out.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey Joy, come to the window.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Joy, look outside.
speaker_heading: RAJU
scene_heading: JOY ... JOY
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVEYARD — DAY
text: In the steady drizzle, a group of black
text: umbrellas huddle around a fresh grave.
text: Hugging his son’ coffin, crying inconsolably,
dialog: is Joys father.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: ‘We commend our brother Joy to the Lord.
dialog: May the Lord receive him into his peace
text: and raise up his body on the final day.
text: Farhan and Raju stand together, grief etched
text: on their faces. Rancho stands by himself,
text: oblivious to the rain soaking him, his tears
text: mingling with the raindrops.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Let us pray for our brother Joy to our lord
dialog: Jesus Christ who said “I’m the resurrection
dialog: and the life. The man who believes in me
dialog: will live even if he dies. And every living
dialog: person who puts his faith in me will never
dialog: suffer eternal death ...”.
text: Rancho makes a futile attempt to wipe
text: his eyes, and looks up. He spots the
text: Director on the fringe of the group of
text: mourners. His eyes suddenly fierce, he
text: walks up to him.
dialog: (in a low voice)
dialog: eal aT gers at var wen,
dialog: am @l aa ala we 2 Bees
dialog: 
text: The Director waits, frowning.
dialog: 73
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Good news, Sir The police and Joy’s
dialog: father have no clue. Everyone thinks this
dialog: is suicide.
dialog: _
dialog: aresrey fer F onan - Ata ar are:
dialog: gies Go ay faenes, Rafer eq
dialog: afer |
text: The Director nods in grim agreement.
dialog: _
dialog: al are 4 ae qari oie fea are ara
dialog: a St et Yar oS vere, SaaT ea? aT
dialog: at fre #2 A a az
text: Surprise and disbelief race across the
text: Director’s face. From a distance, with
text: increasing alarm, Farhan and Raju watch
text: their friend speak to the Director.
dialog: it
dialog: 4 gaffes A aS carers 2 ae — te
dialog: alg agit & aa and ot set er dor
speaker_heading: AMT ae |
text: The Director's face is set in anger.
dialog: _
dialog: aad at var aeat ara fe a qares Aet,
dialog: wet aI
text: In fury, the Director turns to look at
dialog: Rancho.
text: Joy's coffin is lowered into the grave.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: DAY
text: The Director sits in an armchair, seething
text: with anger. Rancho stands before him.
dialog: 74
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: The post mortem report — Cause of Death:
dialog: Intense pressure on windpipe resulting in
dialog: choking.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: All think the pressure on the jugular killed
dialog: him. What about the mental pressure for
dialog: the last four years? That’s missing in the
dialog: report.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Engineers are a clever bunch. They will
dialog: never make a machine to measure mental
dialog: pressure.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: If they had, all would know ... this isn’t
dialog: suicide ... it’s murder, Sir.
dialog: Settee
dialog: (in a raised voice)
dialog: aia & yas & fore qe yet du st wz
dialog: a? WH wee Toe a oma at et
dialog: forte Ba? 3 frei ae Gore omit
dialog: at aor ay eat F co ster?
dialog: 
dialog: a
dialog: ae, Yo smyat ary aéf 2 ver eae) ae
dialog: tract fen at dy @ vr eo ae Ae
dialog: ua ae efefery 2 ar) ae qaes F
dialog: gear 4.1 eae ee ag de Fae a HE
speaker_heading: RSS YASS Hl TSS HAT 21 Ae Aer
dialog: a ee fat 4 ay oie aaes 4 SIT
dialog: ae S| aw aT yea at wer SF ae
dialog: Sree
dialog: gat aga & ae Fo adh aa aaa
dialog: ae fe so aq ate ¢ wee airy
dialog: ate aedti ada a 4 4 ae ale
dialog: ae tet é ae ones vif 4 a. 1
speaker_heading: aH war ort = FI
dialog: var
dialog: av diz 4.1, afe a. 11 ay, aet & ag
dialog: wa onefsart Gt at at wet Heat aR,
dialog: srr at at a ae BAT! ad Het
dialog: @ at fae ade at - or fer, gear F
dialog: area at) ae get Y are wel fer vere
dialog: az, aet Y fas ae Rrarar ot ver 2 fe
dialog: ae Sa ad S11
text: Beside himself with rage, the Director
text: springs to his feet.
dialog: setae
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: 75
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: How dare you blame me for Joy’s suicide?
dialog: If one student can’t handle pressure, is it
dialog: our fault? Life is full of pressures. Will you
dialog: always blame others for pressure in life?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I don't blame you, Sir. I blame the system.
dialog: Look at these statistics — India ranks No.1
dialog: in suicides. Every 90 minutes, a student
text: attempts suicide. Suicide is a bigger killer
dialog: than disease. Something's terribly wrong,
dialog: Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I can't speak for the rest but this is one of
dialog: the finest colleges in the country. I’ve run
dialog: this place for 32 years. We were ranked
dialog: 28th. Now we're No. 1.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: What's the point, Sir? Here they don’t
dialog: discuss new ideas or inventions. They
dialog: discuss grades, jobs, settling in USA. They
dialog: teach how to get good scores. They don’t
dialog: teach engineering.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Now you will teach me how to teach?
text: The Director grabs Rancho’s hand and starts
text: dragging him out of the office. Stunned,
text: unable to retaliate, Rancho glances back
text: helplessly at his fallen sheet of statistics.
dialog: ae, ae Te...
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR,
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: ICE -
text: As students and professors watch stunned,
text: the Director drags Rancho through the
text: corridors of ICE.
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM,
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: ICE -
text: The Director enters a classroom with
text: Rancho. The teaching professor falls silent
text: as the Director hurls Rancho towards his
text: table. The class watches, bafHed.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (to the professor)
dialog: Vaidyanathan, please sit down.
text: Farhan and Raju glance at each other,
dialog: worried.
dialog: (addressing the students, re: Rancho)
dialog: a seat ye aad 31 at ant srk
dialog: 76
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No Sir, I
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir, Sir my paper ...
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: Here is a self-proclaimed professor who
dialog: thinks he is better than our highly qualified
dialog: teacher. Professor Ranchhoddas Chanchad
dialog: will teach us engineering.
text: Leaving Rancho at the head of the class,
text: the Director joins the seated students
text: facing him.
text: Rancho looks at a loss for words. Chatur
text: smiles broadly, enjoying his discomfort.
text: Farhan and Raju look at their friend
dialog: anxiously.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: We do not have all day.
text: Rancho collects himself. He takes off his
text: sling bag, places it on the table and picks
text: up a book lying there. He leafs through the
text: book and then, referring to it, writes two
text: words on the board - FARHANITRATE
text: and PRERAJULISATION. He turns to
dialog: face the class.
speaker_heading: svat er Aaas AASTAT 21
text: Chatur quickly sets the timer on his
dialog: watch.
dialog: gar cen wigs ... aa)
text: There’s a flurry of activity in the classroom.
text: The students search through their textbooks
text: frantically. Chatur charges to the teacher's
text: table and grabs the book Rancho had
dialog: referred to.
dialog: 77
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You have 30 seconds to define the terms.
dialog: written.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You may refer to your books. Raise your
dialog: hand if you get the answer. Let’s see who
dialog: comes first, who comes last. Your time
dialog: starts ... now.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Give me this!
text: The Director, his competitive spirit awoken,
text: snatches a book, and then another, from
text: the student next to him. He goes through
text: both books simultaneously: ambidextrous.
dialog: The whole class works through text books
text: manically. Rancho keeps time.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Time up.
text: The students look up reluctantly. The
text: Director is still flipping pages.
dialog: ei
dialog: (to the Director)
dialog: Time up Sir, time up.
dialog: (to the class)
dialog: war? feet at care wat fra? ta ordi
dialog: oa Wa ae aaa yer fae @ ae ara
dialog: amen ...? Uff? ae? wet aa
dialog: ar 7a) tH a S Ge at fh ay,
dialog: wa eT) amy anit at at ae
dialog: saat! fh fer sem! oie & siet B,
dialog: Yor ae eT |
dialog: %
dialog: w
text: Farhan gives an involuntary laugh.
dialog: 78
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No one got the answer? Now rewind
dialog: your life by a minute. When I asked
dialog: this question, were you excited? Curious?
dialog: Thrilled that you'd learn something new?
dialog: Anyone? ... Sir? No. You all got into a frantic
dialog: race. What's the use of such methods, even
dialog: if you come first. Will your knowledge
dialog: increase? No, just the pressure. This is a
dialog: college, not a pressure cooker.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Even a circus lion learns to sit on a chair
dialog: in fear of the whip. But you call such a
text: lion ‘well trained’, not ‘well educated’.
speaker_heading: STEaeT
dialog: eect! fea sa ae of Petater aaret or
dialog: a asa a Haast Sars, TAI
dialog: Yat
dialog: av ta ae ada & a aa az
text: The Director looks incredulous.
dialog: veal
dialog: aera at a ae } as 21 wer
speaker_heading: a TI
text: Rancho goes up to the board and underlines
scene_heading: FARHAN in FARHANITRATE and RAJU
text: in PRERAJULISATION. The students
text: break into laughter.
dialog: Sree
scene_heading: wage! AAT! Fa OA TSTSIFT
dialog: sfatrater
dialog: edt
dialog: wal ae) smear efafrater wet ver ver
dialog: a al a at oy Awe aeae TAT EI
text: A beat.
dialog: Year
dialog: H a amet ae vet war at fe ved
dialog: aa e1
text: The Director looks apoplectic.
dialog: at aa ot wet Besar
dialog: 79
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Hello! This is not a philosophy class. Just
dialog: explain those two words.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir, these words don’t exist.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: These are my friends’ names. Fathan and
dialog: Raju.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Quiet! Nonsense! Is this how you'll teach
dialog: engineering?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir, I wasn’t teaching you engineering.
dialog: You're an expert at that.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I was teaching you ... how to teach.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: And I’m sure one day you'll learn because
dialog: unlike you, I never abandon my weak
dialog: students.
text: Before the Director's wrath can spill over,
text: Rancho grabs his bag from the table and
text: makes a run for the exit.
dialog: vat
dialog: aa, a!
text: The students crack up in mirth. In helpless
text: rage, the Director yells at them.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Quiet! Quiet, I said!
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: DAY
text: The Director sits at his desk and writes two
text: letters simultaneously: Ambidextrous.
speaker_heading: srevaet (V.O.)
dialog: as ae & aa F amet afd Her area
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: In one letter he writes —
speaker_heading: ‘slet#et_ (V.O.)
speaker_heading: HEFT |
text: In the other letter he writes —
speaker_heading: sete (V.O.)
speaker_heading: TI
text: In both letters, he writes simultaneously.
speaker_heading: setaez (V.O.)
dialog: nea ara WS) at Hee aeh Gore Ay
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Bye, Sir!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I regret to inform you that your son ...
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Farhan.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Raju.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: — have fallen into bad company. Without
dialog: urgent corrective steps, his future will be
dialog: ruined.
scene_heading: INT. FARHAN’S HOUSE / RAJU’S
speaker_heading: HOUSE — DAY
text: Split screen. Farhan and Raju’s FAMILIES
dialog: receive the letters from the Director.
speaker_heading: wR (V.O.)
dialog: aaa & ade ea ae F dey ay aT
dialog: ave fat) fetferar aie apmaret & arse
dialog: Tar aie erat ahi at # Ga aA
scene_heading: INT. FARHAN’S HOUSE — DAY
text: The door to Farhan’s room opens. Farhan’s
text: Father leads the trio into the room. He
text: points towards the air conditioner.
scene_heading: HET | AR AST | ATE GATT | STE PET |
dialog: H wma, ae at qa A IS ah ae
dialog: set aed FY ast GH eRe TaraT ZI
dialog: arr Yar eat Hert et Fes F ora fear
dialog: gata ae fear) ays at aéf org?
text: Rancho fidgets and looks around restlessly,
text: to the left, to the right
text: A beat.
text: And then he stands riveted. The far wall
text: in the room is covered with wildlife
text: photography. The pictures are stunning.
dialog: Hunters and prey, newborn cubs,
text: unrehearsed moments of nature. Farhan’s
text: Father drones on, but Rancho is no longer
dialog: listening.
dialog: 81
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: Virus’ letters dropped on our homes like
dialog: atom bombs. Hiroshima and Nagasaki
text: plunged into gloom. Our parents invited
dialog: us for a dressing down.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Come in. See that? We could afford just
dialog: one air-conditioner We put it in Farhan’s
dialog: room, so he could study in comfort. I didn’t
dialog: buy a car. I managed with a scooter. We
dialog: put all our money into Farhan’s education.
dialog: We sacrificed our comforts for Farhan’s
dialog: future. Understand?
dialog: wer & fait
dialog: aie Sb ae wa aT ta aa at
dialog: fafive area 4, dt aa omy ora wT
dialog: fe ye we var att wt arti?
dialog: 
text: Rancho walks towards the photographs,
text: riveted.
dialog: _
dialog: &, a wer ot fem wer?
text: Even as Farhan tries to shush Rancho, his
text: Father answers.
speaker_heading: BG Bl AT AA A TATA H AL WI
dialog: arraet Bt cei fee fae a1 pea & fee
dialog: wert
dialog: (meekly)
dialog: 91% |
dialog: wer & frat
dialog: aT aT? 94% A AMT 91% |
text: Rancho stifles a spontaneous giggle. But
text: the damage is done.
dialog: arret Aa AT wee?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: And after that when I get such a letter
dialog: from the Principal, can you imagine how
dialog: I must have felt?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You took these pictures, Farhan?
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: He was obsessed with photography for
dialog: a while. Went around taking pictures
dialog: of animals. Wanted to be a wildlife
dialog: photographer. Son, what was your score
dialog: that year? Tell.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: 91%.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Hear that? Straight drop from 94% to
dialog: 91%.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: You find it funny?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No Sir, sorry. I’m just amazed at the
dialog: photos. Why make him an engineer ...2
dialog: Why not a wildlife photographer?
text: Farhan’s Father interrupts Rancho and
text: speaks with barely contained fury.
dialog: ama... aa srs ae ama one ear
dialog: & At ae a wget seme Ae aha
text: Unaware of the tension within the group,
text: Farhan’s Mother comes up to the boys,
text: smiling warmly.
dialog: aedi, GT aT war! at SABI
dialog: wert
dialog: at aa a, ad 21
text: As the visibly relieved boys start moving
text: towards the dining area, Farhan’s Father
text: steps in front of Rancho and places a
text: restraining hand on his shoulder.
dialog: ST |
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. RAJU’S HOUSE -
speaker_heading: NIGHT
speaker_heading: wt (V.O.)
dialog: yer te wet ae sie a Hear TT ae,
speaker_heading: WS WR ved!
text: The images on screen turn black and white.
text: Raju’s one-room home is in the low-income
dialog: 83
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Enough! I humbly request you — don’t
dialog: ruin my son’s future,
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S MOTHER
text: Food’s on the table, boys.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: C'mon, let’s eat
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: If you ever visit again, do eat with us.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Dad denied us a meal ... So, to fill our
text: bellies with food ... and ears with more
text: reprimands, we reached Raju’s house.
text: housing sector of the city. Inside the house,
text: his paralysed father occupies the only bed.
text: At the cooking stove, his Mother coughs
text: incessantly. And his sister, KAMMO, sits
text: at the window, staring at nothing.
text: The sofa has exposed springs and a
text: strategically placed bowl catches the water
text: leaking from the roof,
speaker_heading: REM (V.O.)
dialog: WAH AL 1950s Hl sites ws ase Pei
dialog: al ore feet ar) wa ster ar eT fara
dialog: up taaegs ay, wp aad a at oie
dialog: ue fareaét ae) ah F fleet eo fpr
scene_heading: ait wt 4 24 aad eT Tec) at aT
dialog: 4 fers 4f cite carers ere vedt af
dialog: am feat sar 4 crear 4, whee
text: The trio sits on the floor with plates,
text: waiting to be served their meal. Raju’s
text: Mother starts making rotis.
dialog: ay et Aras
dialog: wee bt a me & Hit) arefs 800
speaker_heading: aia & cet FH) at G eT fra aa
dialog: at omdt Ba erit saat?
text: Kammo starts serving the food to the
dialog: boys.
dialog: ori
dialog: fast ofr ar
dialog: ay et rari
dialog: 2 ae eh ee Sr
dialog: 84
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: Raju’s house was straight out of a’50s black
text: and white film. A small, dingy room, a
text: paralysed father, a coughing mother and
text: an unwed sister. A sofa sprouting springs
dialog: and a 24-hour water supply from the
text: leaking roof. His mother was a retired
text: school teacher and a tireless complainer.
dialog: His father was once a postmaster. Paralysis
text: shut down his body partly — and his salary
dialog: completely. And the sister ...
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Kammo’s turned 28. They demand a
dialog: Maruti 800 in dowry. If you don’t study
dialog: and earn, how will she marry?
speaker_heading: KAMMO
dialog: Some lady's finger?
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Lady's finger is now Rs. 12/ per kilo,
dialog: cauliflower is Rs. 10/.
text: Rancho and Farhan exchange a look.
dialog: (embarrassed)
speaker_heading: AL
text: Kammo ladles some cottage cheese on to
dialog: Rancho’s plate.
dialog: Beit
dialog: wie af?
dialog: wy a Fait
dialog: wie at der qe feat F sdhedh afer
dialog: Haare ae ger F faba...
text: Rancho and Farhan stiffen with
dialog: discomfort.
dialog: Beit
dialog: wie 2
dialog: Er
dialog: wat, wal, TH aa, FH ZI
speaker_heading: wT
dialog: wy er toa ot, a aT...
dialog: wy a Fait
dialog: oem @ ae, ay at ot Z1
text: A beat.
dialog: wy a Fait
dialog: a sat 2 - gedit & fas aarsit, deer
dialog: 85
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Ie’s daylight robbery! What will we eat if
dialog: we get warnings from your college?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Mom!
speaker_heading: KAMMO
dialog: Cottage cheese?
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Cottage cheese should be sold at the
text: jewellers, in velvet pouches.
speaker_heading: KAMMO
dialog: Cottage cheese?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No, no, it’s ok, Thank you.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Mom, please.
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Alright, P'll shut up.
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
text: Earn for the family, slave like a maid
dialog: and then take the vow of silence. If not
dialog: wat) a oa at ayer & at ae a
text: Rancho and Farhan, about to take their
text: first bites, stop. Raju, fed up of the
text: whining, pushes away his plate and walks
text: out in a huff.
dialog: wert
speaker_heading: TT
text: Raju’s Mother starts crying.
text: Rancho and Farhan look nonplussed, food
text: morsels still in their raised hands, inches
text: away from their mouths.
speaker_heading: HEM (V.O.)
dialog: ant aig drwa1 et ara zat a,
dialog: yer Wie 9 are FT|
text: They put the food into their mouths and
dialog: start chewing.
text: Raju’s Father starts making small, moaning
dialog: sounds.
text: Raju’s Mother, still weepy, leans over and
text: scratches his chest with her rolling pin.
dialog: Rancho and Farhan stop chewing, their
text: mouths agape with shock.
dialog: Sra wae et err Ah ora Ter BT
dialog: at ant &
dialog: with my son, with whom do I share my
dialog: woes — his friends?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey Raju.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We were in a huge dilemma. Do we
dialog: comfort our friend or console his mom?
dialog: Screw it, we thought, let’s focus on the
dialog: cottage cheese.
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Even his eczema cream costs Rs. 55/
dialog: now.
text: She continues making rotis with her rolling
text: pin. A hair, fresh off her husband’s eczema-
text: infected chest, gets rolled into the dough.
text: Farhan starts retching.
dialog: aie wa & ser?
text: Rancho and Farhan decline hurriedly and
dialog: emphatically.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RET /
dialog: wat wet S| aH, A TT, Fe Ae TTI
scene_heading: EXT. ROADSIDE —- MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The images on screen return to colour.
text: Rancho, Farhan and Raju are walking
text: down a street. Rancho suddenly starts
dialog: laughing.
dialog: tet
text: Farhan joins Rancho.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: meh cr a ..
text: Raju gets angry.
dialog: wh ~ ~ ~
dialog: at oH A aT art sttpe ct fears de
dialog: yas ay sar sat) feeae est
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: at at, a at at wee See 2! Gait ae
dialog: aS faa et a
dialog: 87
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Another roti?
speaker_heading: FARHAN / RANCHO
dialog: No, thank you. We're through.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Lady's finger for Rs. 12/.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Cauliflower for Rs. 10/.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: At least you were offered a meal. Unlike
dialog: your sadistic dad ... ‘Hitler’ Qureshi!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘And your mom is Mother Teresa ... Feeding
dialog: us ‘eczema roti’!
text: Raju grabs Farhan’s collar. Rancho
dialog: intervenes.
dialog: a at ot ch Aare el GT ST!
dialog: wert
speaker_heading: aS aT ak WI
dialog: it
dialog: UA! GS ae TA aT aa as ae
dialog: a qa wh & ai wai sex aed &,
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: aes oa | Yar aay saa Hee Seay
dialog: ant?
dialog: ei
text: Rancho points towards a brightly decorated
dialog: wedding venue.
dialog: vei
dialog: at ea
text: Rancho’s eyes dance with childish
dialog: mischief.
dialog: a
dialog: ad!
dialog: wert
text: As always, Farhan follows Rancho
text: enthusiastically and Raju follows them
text: both reluctantly.
dialog: 88
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Don't poke fun at my mom!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Enough, Raju.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I’m famished. Let’s eat out.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: I’s month end. Who'll pay? His Mother
dialog: Teresa?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: To eat out, you don’t need money. Just
text: a uniform.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Look ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: C'mon!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Come ...
scene_heading: EXT. GATE, WEDDING VENUE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The boys enter the wedding wearing pink
text: pagdis and carrying white envelopes. They
text: greet the hosts at the gate with enthusiastic
dialog: familiarity.
dialog: vedt / Bert
speaker_heading: TART |
dialog: 
dialog: edt
dialog: site stent!
scene_heading: INT. HALL, WEDDING VENUE —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The three friends sit at a table. Rancho
text: hails a waiter.
dialog: vat
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: ete ast, ete ort
text: Raju glances around nervously.
speaker_heading: WH .
dialog: an Aasry ae TA PT
dialog: (to the waiter)
dialog: aie vered Haar 8?
text: The waiter offers Rancho the snacks he’s
dialog: carrying.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: ar sit ft 2, ey ae | ar
dialog: 89
speaker_heading: RANCHO / FARHAN
dialog: Good evening, good evening.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Oh, Uncle!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Three large vodkas.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Half soda, half water.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: If we're caught, we're dead.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: What's for starters?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Get double portions.
dialog: Instead of picking a snack or two, Rancho
text: relieves the waiter of his entire tray of
dialog: snacks.
dialog: aie 4 as 21 oie aie Ga ae ae
dialog: — a We Tet wT!
text: ‘A pompous, nasal voice carries actoss to
text: them. They look in its direction. And
text: see the flashily dressed SUHAS holds up
text: PIA’s wrist in indignation. Pia’s back is
dialog: to the boys.
speaker_heading: SUHAS (O.S.)
dialog: Pia, what the hell!
text: Suhas's tone becomes condescending.
dialog: wert
dialog: a wa ved 8? wet toa agi a
dialog: ata faa, arr ear ate, aerr at
dialog: frat at eh, steer oat act 2, 4
dialog: a a eva at ae yeah 21 ott ee
speaker_heading: zz at 4m JI
dialog: 
text: Rancho looks on, amused. Before Pia can
text: respond to Suhas, Suhas is accosted by a
text: jewel-bedecked, perfectly coiffed, distant
dialog: AUNT of his.
speaker_heading: AUNTY
dialog: Hi, handsome.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Hey, Aunty, you're looking good.
speaker_heading: AUNTY
dialog: Don’t miss my set, darling!
dialog: 90
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Leave this here and start some peppy
dialog: music.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Why're you wearing this ancient piece
dialog: of junk? What'll people say — “Suhas
text: fiancée ... a doctor in the making, wearing
dialog: a cheap, 200-rupee watch!” Please take it
dialog: off. Thank you.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Rubies?
dialog: ote
dialog: Hert & 21
dialog: 
dialog: aret
dialog: & ea ch fe sae, ut ge front
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: OF course ... Of course.
text: Before leaving with his Aunt, Suhas turns
text: to Pia and indicates his watch, reminding
dialog: her of his instructions.
text: A gleam in his eyes, Rancho gets up from
text: his table. Armed with a bouquet of flowers,
text: he taps Pia on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Excuse me.
text: Pia turns around to face him.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Yes?
text: Rancho offers her the flowers. She accepts,
text: with a gracious smile, holding the flowers
text: in one hand, a drink in the other.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Flowers. May I take the glass?
dialog: 91
speaker_heading: AUNTY
dialog: From Mandalay.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Mandalay ... Wow!
speaker_heading: AUNTY
dialog: Hey, le’s go meet David.
text: Rancho gently extracts from her hand the
text: glass with her drink in it. Pia is taken
dialog: aback.
dialog: frar
dialog: wat?
dialog: _
dialog: amy tare be S AeA, Ar ae He
dialog: arET |
dialog: frar
dialog: aryet vat srestie
dialog: _
dialog: wate F arrer art ah ot wears ey
dialog: art @|
dialog: frar
dialog: (curiously)
dialog: wal?
text: Rancho points towards Suhas.
dialog: it
dialog: oa ma a ait oh we afer)
text: Pia’s smile fades.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: (coldly)
dialog: Excuse me?
dialog: var
dialog: a orett vai, see ea 2, urea ST
dialog: fear
dialog: Listen ...
dialog: 92
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: So you don't break it on my head.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Why would I do that?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: For the free advice I'll now impart.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Don't marry that ass.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He's not a human being, he’s a price
dialog: tag.
dialog: feat ae agar ster Tet srsaza
speaker_heading: ama aa aa TT STI
text: With increasing incredulity and anger, Pia
text: tries to get a word in edgeways.
dialog: fast at fefrarsi Sit ¢? cach aa feat
dialog: & @ ut we? Fo ad yea a ge
dialog: aaa | se at aes
text: Before Pia can object, Rancho hands her
text: drink back to her and walks off, towards
text: Suhas. Despite herself, Pia watches,
dialog: fascinated.
text: Rancho waylays a waiter, lifts a bowl of
text: mint chutney from his tray, and gestures
text: to him to follow him. He then walks by
text: Suhas, and, with a nimble flick of his wrist,
text: empties the bowl on his shoes. Pia gasps in
text: shock. As Rancho strolls on unnoticed, the
text: waiter tries to make a quick getaway.
speaker_heading: AUNTY
dialog: Oh my God!
dialog: ert
dialog: (to the waiter)
dialog: @.. @ .. &! aa! at aa fear ae?
dialog: at dw a see & go @1 ge ot ae
scene_heading: aif ATE 300-Sfee IT |
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He'll turn your life into a nightmare of
dialog: brands and prices.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He'll ruin your life. Your future will be
dialog: finished. Want a demonstration? Shall I
dialog: find out the price of his shoes? I won't
dialog: ask. He'll announce it himself. Just see.
dialog: Hold.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: ‘What the hell ... Mint chutney on my
dialog: $300 shoes!
text: ‘As Suhas has a meledown, a smug Rancho
text: walks back to Pia.
dialog: apt at) ff vsagy 2) aa 2 at ar
dialog: wa dt ort a1
text: Rancho walks away.
text: Suhas continues bawling over his ruined
dialog: Italian shoes.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Genuine Italian leather — hand stitched!
text: Pia walks up to a MAN and taps him on
dialog: the shoulder.
text: The man turns. It’s Viru Sahastrabuddhe.
dialog: fear
dialog: 33, a om tree
text: The Director looks in the direction she’s
text: pointed in. And sees Rancho, Farhan and
text: Raju piling food into their plates from
text: the buffet.
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: (baffled)
dialog: a oo He wea S| a set war ae eB
text: The Director makes as if to move towards
text: them. Pia stops him. She has a look of
text: glee and resolution on her face.
dialog: frar
dialog: 94
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Run for your life! It's free advice. Take it
dialog: or leave it.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Dad, are they your guests?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: My students. What're they doing here?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Hold on, Dad.
dialog: ‘Typical, hungry hostel residents, the boys
dialog: keep adding to the mounds of food in their
text: plates, discussing the spread reverentially.
dialog: af ys ar |
speaker_heading: EM
dialog: 4, Ut & fre ae wet 21
speaker_heading: uss a HT AES FI
dialog: wert
dialog: TT ...!
text: Pia appears before them.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Hil
dialog: (pleasantly surprised)
dialog: e! ea!
dialog: frat
dialog: amt a ate ata ft Aw | a ATI
text: The Director walks up from the back and
text: stands behind the trio.
dialog: at ar ef ars
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Can I ask you for little more help?
dialog: 95
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: These chick peas smell great.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No room for puri.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Just pile it on.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ok ...!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: That was an eye-opener. Thank you so
dialog: much.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: It was my moral responsibility.
dialog: ae os ye H aa 7 Wee ast aa
dialog: 
dialog: S| SIT Saar sreRT aed 2, Fe
dialog: ei
dialog: aedt <1
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: atl
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You're really sweet.
dialog: _
dialog: at! wat 2 Sef oh?
dialog: fear
dialog: fara arr as |
dialog: ‘eh
dialog: ae!
text: The boys turn around — and freeze in shock.
text: The Director regards them icily. In a reflex
text: action their hands go over their hearts and
text: they start mumbling.
dialog: Wa / tat / wert
text: Thoroughly enjoying Rancho’ discomfiture,
text: Pia speaks close to his car.
dialog: 96
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes, yes.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Dad won't let me break off this engagement.
dialog: You explain so well. Can you give him a
dialog: demo too? Certainly.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Certainly. Raju, the mint chutney.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Where is your daddy?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Right behind you.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Oh!
speaker_heading: RAJU / RANCHO / FARHAN
dialog: Aal izz well ... aal izz well.
dialog: frat
dialog: apt ait) st Usaey 21 ca @ at at
dialog: aa at a a1
dialog: setae
dialog: A aT aet RIT He Me BT?
text: Rancho springs into action. He takes out
text: the white envelope from his pocket.
dialog: ae... frame 2 ard @ ae, Sat 7)
text: Pia snatches the envelope from Rancho’s
dialog: hand.
dialog: fra
dialog: wat & ah aa ger at amet 2
dialog: Reeling from this new blow, Rancho looks
dialog: from Pia to the Director to the bride on
dialog: stage.
dialog: Sie! Tet! a, aTeT eet feath afeat
dialog: 2 aR?
text: Pia tears open the envelope and holds
text: it up, shaking it out. Nothing comes
dialog: out.
dialog: 97
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Run for your life! Its free advice. Take it
dialog: or leave it.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: What're you doing here?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: We'll hand these gifts to the couple.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Pll do that for you. It’s my sister's
dialog: wedding,
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Oh sister! Sir, how many daughters do
dialog: you have?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Empty. No gift cheques.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: (feigning innocence)
dialog: Forgot the cheques, Raju ... Farhan?
text: Ignoring this feeble attempt at deception,
text: Pia breaks in, smiling sweetly, savouring
dialog: her revenge.
dialog: fear
dialog: ash Ait & aH A att?
dialog: _
scene_heading: wet ae... OF Ugeactt Aer Ht eH A
speaker_heading: SR, Bet ST aH I
dialog: 
dialog: it
dialog: ae teaaett feet 4 scafetet ae ordt
dialog: 2 ae oie omer FY ash gray atte ay,
dialog: sae sae Al at AF Star st up tar
dialog: srret Tae St amet Hons es fsa
dialog: 
dialog: aia dt ast fear eqaeet?
text: Rancho glares at Pia.
dialog: ei
dialog: ay, feorga tt 21
text: The Director extends his hand for the
dialog: design.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: We didn’t invite you. You must be from
dialog: the groom's side.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No Sir, we're here as the emissaries of
dialog: science.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: How? Can you explain?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Dad, he explains superbly. 'm sure he'll
dialog: give us a demo. Wont you?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Well, Delhi has plenty of power cuts
dialog: that ... disrupt wedding celebrations. So
dialog: I thought of making an inverter that ...
text: draws power from guests’ cars.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I see.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Wow. So where's the inverter?
speaker_heading: RANCHO.
dialog: Sir, the design is ready.
dialog: Yat
text: Everyone looks at Farhan.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hmm?
dialog: a
dialog: feares fear ar ar qat?
text: Farhan points towards Raju.
speaker_heading: EM
dialog: ate - 35 aa at fear ari
text: All turn to look at Raju now.
dialog: _
dialog: wy feates?
text: In response, Raju lets out a loud,
text: involuntary burp.
dialog: a
dialog: az, tease fears wifes a1, el ay, F
dialog: wal ae, ae H ompeel Ereee Ta TAT
dialog: fears, at amg wife aie, ate seer
dialog: arr ATT ST ae) waif sithee atler
dialog: ara Fa at met F gre gor FI aT,
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Where’s the design, Farhan?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I gave you the design?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: T gave it to Raju.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Raju, design?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Never mind the design. Ill make the inverter
dialog: and show you.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You can only invent stories, not an
dialog: inverter.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I'll make one, I promise. And I'll name
dialog: it after you. After all, it was invented ...
dialog: at your daughter’s wedding. So it'll be an
dialog: honour. ...
text: The Director cuts Rancho short.
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: we wy at gat A aa F air
dialog: a faery area |
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
scene_heading: NEXT MORNING
text: Faces pinched with anxiety, eyes downcast,
text: Farhan and Raju sit uncomfortably on their
text: seats in the Director's office. Opposite them,
text: the Director chomps on his afternoon meal,
text: never taking his gaze off them.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (bravely)
dialog: ae ATT We Ge Gee fea aT aL? aA
dialog: airy ae Sa ae... cerereraeea A ae
text: In response, the Director snaps a food
text: morsel off his fork and bites down
dialog: fiercely.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: aie art & em fred onét F vet gar
dialog: az
dialog: wy
dialog: at a, 4H dt omit one FT se seta
dialog: wer
dialog: eahae ae, Yo omey a wet pear
dialog: (looks at Raju)
dialog: aie} Ft aah eer ae)
speaker_heading: Tr
dialog: (glaring at Farhan)
dialog: a at aw. FF ft ae Hem az
dialog: 100
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Farhan, Raju. I'll see you in my office
dialog: tomorrow ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sir, what was the cost per plate? We'll
dialog: reimburse you ... in installments.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We'll never gate-crash a wedding again..
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Not even my own.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: In fact, I won't even marry. Nor will he.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Uh...
dialog: right. No marriage.
dialog: wer a at at At ond wet Het afew
dialog: at
text: Finally, having finished his meal, he lays
text: down his fork and knife.
dialog: za gfrar # et sfeaee aa ter aq)
text: He dabs his mouth with a napkin and
text: gets up. Farhan and Raju also start to
dialog: rise.
dialog: 
text: The Director walks to the portable white
text: board in his office. He wheels it up to
dialog: the boys.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Pay attention.
text: He starts writing on the board. Farhan
text: and Raju exchange a puzzled look. The
text: Director finishes writing and turns. On
text: the board is written — “25000000”.
dialog: a 2 wretsera & Pratt Bt yacht saat
speaker_heading: Be BIS STAI
dialog: 
text: Farhan and Raju gape in surprise. The
text: Director wipes out two zeros from the
text: figure. The figure on the board now reads,
dialog: “250000.”
dialog: 101
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Your parents shouldn't have married
dialog: either.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: The world would have two less idiots
dialog: to feed.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Sit!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: This is Ranchhoddas’s father’s monthly
dialog: income.
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: wa saa & wm ar et Set freer et at
text: He wipes out another zero from the figure.
text: The figure on the board reads, “25000.”
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: al ney et saa 2 Heer?
dialog: wert
dialog: al a, aa AI
text: The Director wipes out another zero. The
text: figure on the board reads, “2500.”
speaker_heading: STSFRT
dialog: at aa um oie Get ey Het... a a
dialog: . fer aH = TTI
text: The Director faces the boys, his hands
text: behind his back.
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: ada etl ae wai } aa fae a
dialog: ait | Sr aT ws 21 sa Biles S ATT
text: The clock strikes two. The door opens and
text: Govind walks in with a shaving kit.
text: The Director removes his spectacles and
text: tie and loosens his shirt from the collar.
text: He lies down on his couch and closes
text: his eyes. Govind places the needle on
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: Couple of zeroes less, and it’s still a sizeable
dialog: income.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: But erase another zero, and I would worry
dialog: a little. Isn't that your father’s income,
dialog: Farhan?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes, Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Now take away another zero ... and that’s
dialog: your family income, Raju Rastogi ... big
dialog: reason to worry.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Take my advice and shift into Chatur
dialog: Ramalingam’s room. Exams are on you
dialog: head. Stay with Chanchad and you're
dialog: sure to fail.
dialog: the gramophone record and, as opera
text: music fills the room, he starts lathering
text: the Director’s face.
text: The boys stare, open-mouthed, at this
dialog: elaborate ritual.
text: The Director holds up a restraining finger
text: to Govind, opens his eyes and looks at
dialog: Farhan and Raju.
dialog: Sl et Fe
dialog: at wert 27
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: wet A!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Then get lost!
text: The boys scurry out.
scene_heading: INT. TOILET, HOSTEL, ICE - DAY
text: Rancho, Farhan and Raju sit on commodes
text: in their respective stalls.
dialog: UT Aa ae) aaa Bae Tey
dialog: aa wi @ - fags ws aT aT
dialog: Ha ae
dialog: wy
dialog: ord tga afea) cit tea sah aa #
dialog: &) a Gar ea ay wa 2% Aa, Bra
dialog: eed oe gf fact Perera
speaker_heading: TT
dialog: tag, © aT aes we wee aR?
dialog: 103
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: ‘Want a shave?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No Sir.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Raju, don't worry. This is Virus’s move to
dialog: split us. Divide and rule.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: T have to worry. He grades us, and I need
dialog: good grades for a good job. Unlike you, I
dialog: don’t have a rich dad I can live off.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: What nonsense are you speaking, Raju?
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM, HOSTEL ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The trio shaves at the wash basins.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: St aterm er ae eet aa? att aT
dialog: gear, ¥ aa
dialog: wert
dialog: U oa WEA HIT He wT eI
dialog: ™
dialog: aét ¥ dia ¥ ares sar ver S| aif ye
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (overcome with emotion)
dialog: aft at amet Aart star Bt eareat Foret
dialog: S| pat pr met wet et eet sate asda
dialog: at areft soo afe free ota aril F
dialog: apt um ast am vet aadt
dialog: a
dialog: aa q areeqaee Fat ep aret Fares
dialog: at fee ey arr aar ata aad 2%?
dialog: vat
dialog: aa ue aa # fee afeat fara
dialog: ert
dialog: ?
dialog: m
text: Rancho and Farhan break into a laugh.
dialog: Raju doesn’t appreciate it.
dialog: ™
dialog: at at aa Hae vel, at
dialog: 104
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Must we follow all his hogwash? “Aal
dialog: izz well’... I won't be his flunky ... like
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You're crossing the line ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: No, I'm drawing one. I have a family to
dialog: support,
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Dad’s medicines swallow up Mom’s
dialog: pension. My sister can't marry because they
dialog: want a car in dowry. Mom hasn't bought
dialog: a single saree in five years.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Now don’t get your mom's wardrobe into
dialog: the debate.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: By the way, how many sarees per annum
dialog: is reasonable?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hey ... no wisecracks about Mom.
text: Rancho walks up to Raju.
dialog: a Ta, eT aT yet St eT aH ger
dialog: Hat SPIT | Ug verdict ar fet Ber
dialog: 
dialog: wh
dialog: fet yeEa 4 gers? aay wesTsey
dialog: a?
text: Farhan chuckles. Rancho nods, merriment
text: dancing in his eyes.
speaker_heading: Ww
dialog: ae ay arr
text: Raju walks away, angrily. Farhan runs
dialog: after him.
speaker_heading: RET
scene_heading: ot, Ft ae TS, SAT Ae ATE BATT
dialog: am eet a ae ar sq sraifeac
text: Raju pulls out the tube of toothpaste from
text: Farhan’s t-shirt pocket. He squeezes out
text: the entire tube on Farhan’s palm.
speaker_heading: wT
dialog: afar eg savifraa, a? ot Stet Saar
dialog: ae ee |
text: Raju walks away.
text: Farhan looks on helplessly.
dialog: 105
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: We'll study with all our heart, but not
dialog: just for grades. To quote a Wise One —
dialog: “Study to be accomplished, not affluent.
dialog: Follow excellence. And success will chase
dialog: you, pants down!”
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Which Wise One says this? His Holiness
dialog: Guru Ranchhoddas?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Go rot in the bogs!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Raju, don’t stress. We'll top our class.
dialog: Nothing is impossible.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Nothing is impossible? Shove this back
text: into the tube.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, HOSTEL, ICE —
speaker_heading: DAY
text: Raju, his trunk and idols of gods in hand,
text: comes out of the room he shares with
text: Rancho and Farhan. He walks down the
text: corridor and enters Chatur’s room.
speaker_heading: wer (V.O.)
dialog: aa 4 ot a fee ace fear! ora at sae
scene_heading: HM AH Het Pret Tet fest ST Ape
scene_heading: wa, SH ST TH ASSESS |
scene_heading: INT. CHATUR’S ROOM, HOSTEL,
speaker_heading: ICE — NIGHT
text: Chatur paces his room, memorizing loudly
dialog: from a textbook. From time to time, he
text: tilts a bottle of pills into his mouth. Raju
text: studies at his desk and the third roommate
text: is sprawled on his bed.
speaker_heading: HEM (V.O.)
dialog: esa a
text: A foul smell assails the room. Raju and the
text: boy on the bed jump up and try to get as
text: far away from Chatur as possible.
dialog: ak
text: Chatur continues cramming, unfazed.
speaker_heading: ert (V.O.)
dialog: aie sare stor gat T SreaT ars
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: Raju got onto another train. His travails
dialog: with Chatur began. Yes, I mean travails,
dialog: not travels.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Chatur was called ‘Silencer’. To sharpen
dialog: his memory, he popped pills from a local
text: quack. And then let off silent ... but
dialog: lethal farts.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I didn’t do it ... Raju?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He always blamed others for the output.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, HOSTEL, ICE —
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: Graffiti on Chatur’s room door reads “GAS
speaker_heading: CHAMBER”.
text: Chatur opens his door, looks around
text: furtively, and then scurries out. He holds
text: a pile of magazines in his hands.
speaker_heading: wer (V.O.)
dialog: aera’ fet FY sere ae w= 4a aT!
dialog: aa Tl
text: Chatur starts sliding the magazines under
text: the doors of the hostel rooms. They're
dialog: porn magazines.
speaker_heading: HEM (V.O.)
dialog: aol at at & BT Has!
text: In their rooms, textbooks forgotten,
text: students drool over the magazines.
text: Rancho sees Chatur in action, and frowns.
text: And then, smiles slowly.
dialog: wert
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY, ICE — DAY
dialog: Chatur and the ICE librarian, DUBEY
text: are sitting at the computer on the first
text: floor of the library. Chatur types as Dubey
text: dictates.
dialog: 107
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: Silencer crammed 18 hours a day. On
dialog: exam eve, he would distract others.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: His belief — there are only two ways of
dialog: topping. Elevate your own grades or lower
dialog: your opponents’ grades.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho decided to subdue Silencer and
dialog: rescue Raju ... with one master plan.
dialog: wa
dialog: &1 daw HT HaaT ez ...
dialog: ag
dialog: naaat vat afer gait Ho qe ae AT
speaker_heading: ame fat FRET eI
dialog: Bo
dialog: atv te
text: Rancho watches, unseen. He turns from
dialog: them and makes an indication to someone,
text: miming a telephone receiver.
speaker_heading: wer (V.O.)
dialog: fat 2 7 ederet ale oy & fae age
dialog: al Fal Tar at) Sat aaa at a
dialog: ge fer H fered 1
text: A phone rings at the library reception,
dialog: downstairs.
dialog: aah
speaker_heading: eet | @t, Jarat EI
dialog: (looking up at Chatur)
text: Chatur gets up and runs down to take
dialog: the call.
dialog: age
dialog: gait flearse omy wa tac F ond
dialog: al
dialog: a
dialog: aet a, 2 af ar aa ear
dialog: 108
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Our Director has unceasingly served ...
dialog: ‘Served’ means ...
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Damn the meaning, I'll memorize it.
speaker_heading: DUBEY
text: Memorising parrot.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Chatur was the introductory speaker, at
dialog: the Teachers’ Day function. To impress
dialog: Virus, he got his speech written by the
dialog: in high-brow Hindi.
dialog: librarian ...
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Hello. Hold on.
dialog: Chatur, call for you.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Please collect the printout. I'll be right
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Oh ... the things I have to do ...
text: Dubey collects the printout from the printer.
text: ‘As he’ perusing it, Rancho hails him.
dialog: are frat 21
dialog: a
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: eT |
dialog: atl ai
text: Dubey hands over the printout of the
text: speech to Rancho and leaves hurriedly.
dialog: a
dialog: ore de 2%, ae a wae He ST A,
dialog: H ara €1
dialog: 
dialog: al
text: Rancho tears up the printout of the
dialog: speech.
text: Chatur reaches the reception and picks
text: up the phone receiver.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Hello! Hello!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hello, Mr, Ramalingam?
text: Standing at a spot from where he can see
text: Chatur but Chatur cannot see him, Farhan
text: speaks to him on a cell phone.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Mr. Dubey, the Director was remembering
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes. Just now.
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: T'll see him right away. Give this to
dialog: Chatur.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes.
dialog: StF arya wae gyfer ar A ser ver
dialog: 21 ay Siret F 2?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Yes, Sir.
speaker_heading: REM
speaker_heading: 2.41 Fl, Aer a HT aT FI
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: What! How?
dialog: wert
dialog: a scare aM A afaw, gear ales
dialog: a te & aver Poa & aa as F
dialog: wat Fa ee?
text: Rancho works on the computer, Chatur
dialog: and Dubey were on, moments ago. He
text: alters key words in Chatur’s speech.
speaker_heading: REM (V.O.)
dialog: Yea a sah afr S ae ve sea Set!
dialog: Sa, Tae TT TA TATA |
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Dubey enters the Director's office.
dialog: amt ast Fara, Ae?
dialog: 110
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: I'm calling from the police station. Are
dialog: you from Uganda?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Your life is in danger.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Listen carefully, or else you'll get killed as
dialog: soon as you step out of the college gate.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Why? What happened?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: While Chatur was kept engaged, Rancho
dialog: altered a few words in his speech, for e.g.,
dialog: ‘served’ became ‘screwed’.
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Yes, Sir?
speaker_heading: SEtaet
dialog: (astonished)
dialog: art é TA?
dialog: a
dialog: wai meatier) wares € az
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: Congratulations!
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY,
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: ICE -
text: Farhan is still on the phone with Chatur.
text: He’s running out of things to say.
dialog: wert
dialog: at, we fie, wm fie ofirae aed
dialog: ar wt 2) aes aif)
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Excuse me, Sir!
dialog: Rancho has finished altering Chatur’s
text: speech. He gives a print command for the
dialog: changed speech and goes to the printer
text: to collect it. Farhan rushes to him with
text: the cell phone, gesturing to him to speak
dialog: into it.
dialog: 
dialog: at, seit St at ot, F eet ari
dialog: lll
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Dubey. Librarian. I’m permanent staff,
dialog: Sir.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hold on a moment. The chief’s on the
dialog: other line.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes ... so where was I?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: You said I may die outside the gate.
dialog: a a
dialog: a
dialog: sp
dialog: eat wa qa a ae
dialog: are Ge oh oft
dialog: |
dialog: i
dialog: i
dialog: aa
dialog: oft Perret at) aire oir |
dialog: it
dialog: 
text: Farhan stifles his laughter.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: ‘What nonsense! I know that!
dialog: vei
dialog: ae, 2a tate aia aT
dialog: ap Stl Ma sara!
text: Rancho hangs up. A baffled Chatur walks
text: up to the first floor. He encounters Rancho
text: and Farhan on the stairs.
dialog: Yat
dialog: & aaa, sy] 4 ae few fear 21
text: Chatur snatches the printout from Rancho’s
dialog: hand.
dialog: 112
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Right. As you get out of the gate, you'll
text: see a traffic signal.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Traffic signal. Ok. Ok.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: When it turns red, all the cars will halt.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Ok ... Ok. Then?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Then cross the road with great caution.
dialog: Because son, in rush hour if a car hits
dialog: you, you're dead.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You know that? Excellent. Then you're
dialog: safe my boy.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: From the librarian, Silencer.
dialog: q sre ata A tz, oes!
dialog: Rancho and Farhan charge out of the
text: library, laughing, exhilarated.
dialog: wert
dialog: wes!
text: They bump into Dubey, returning from
dialog: the Director's office, and immediately
dialog: sober up.
dialog: a, setae aT tet, sat ae Gear?
dialog: Year
dialog: gar art at aa A Gt He ae
dialog: fear |
text: The boys run off, trying not to laugh
text: too loudly.
dialog: are fren? are!
scene_heading: INT. AUDITORIUM, ICE — DAY
text: Chatur, formally attired, walks onto stage
text: to thundering applause.
text: The auditorium is packed with students,
dialog: teachers and guests.
text: The Director sits with the Chief Guest,
dialog: the Minister of Education, in the first
dialog: row.
text: Rancho and Farhan sit together, eager
text: with anticipation.
dialog: 113
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: You don’t call me that, Chanchad!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Chanchad!
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Hey. The Director said he didn’t call for
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Who said ‘called’? I just said he
dialog: ‘remembered’ you.
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Remembered? Rascals!
text: Chatur starts speaking into the mike, after
text: the applause dies down.
dialog: age . -
dialog: ores aera ete |
text: Dubey, sitting right behind the Director,
dialog: gives Chatur an encouraging thumbs
dialog: up.
dialog: ade
dialog: cafata fasta fren at aft ore. Sf. Fraré
dialog: ot, area Pract sie Ae are aera |
dialog: al rat @1
dialog: (beaming at the Director)
dialog: ai des weaga!
text: Everyone applauds. Dubey taps the
text: Director's shoulder.
dialog: a, dt a we ee we eM eI
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: He's a great guy, really you are!
text: Rancho and Farhan get up from their
text: seats and make their way to where Raju
text: is. They sit down behind him.
dialog: age
dialog: faeet acta are & erehy fee, Se Bieter
dialog: H, aera Y arene fees ...
text: The auditorium explodes with laughter
text: and hooting. The Minister is in splits. The
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Distinguished Mr. Chairperson.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Chief Guest, the Honorable Minister
dialog: of Education, respected teachers and
dialog: friends, if ICE has now soared beyond
dialog: the stratosphere, the credit goes solely to
dialog: Dr. Viru Sahastrabuddhe!
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: Sir, the voice is his but the words are
dialog: mine.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: For 32 years, he has unceasingly screwed
dialog: students.
text: Director is shocked. Dubey looks stunned
text: and uncomprehending.
dialog: (explains to an astonished Raju)
dialog: sal Haas = THe YF aac fear
dialog: |
dialog: ou
dialog: sails & ont ft eet eit
text: The Minister guffaws loudly.
dialog: ade
dialog: aY dt ama eter & fe ue ea
dialog: ort Set arr A seh are BA HT
dialog: aaa 21
dialog: The students, including Rancho, Farhan
text: and Raju, howl in mirth. Encouraged,
text: Chatur continues.
dialog: set ad ara 4 at om a
dialog: aifat gaat #1 aad ar aa sual,
text: The Director tries to get up but the
text: Minister, roaring with laughter, holds
dialog: him back.
text: As Chatur starts on the next line, the
text: Director turns around to Dubey and gives
text: him a murderous look.
text: Dubey frantically tries to mime his
dialog: innocence.
dialog: 115
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: This means he has pulled off one wonder
dialog: after another.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: T'm sure his endeavours will continue.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: ‘We are astounded at how one man, in one
dialog: lifetime, can screw so many, so well.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: With rigorous training, he’s built up his
dialog: stamina. He’s spent every living minute just
dialog: screwing. Let’s replicate his methods.
dialog: aT eT Aa BT set 1 we te fader
dialog: 4 da wai, ger & anv, Br ey
text: The students hoot appreciatively. Rancho,
text: Farhan and Raju clap enthusiastically.
text: Chatur is on a high.
dialog: amas ar a ert BT
speaker_heading: CROWD
scene_heading: LCE... LC-E... LC-E
text: Millimeter stands next to some students,
text: laughing loudly.
dialog: age
speaker_heading: Sar ei Heel GT see HA HT AAT
dialog: get wal 4s at dare } fet oa
dialog: wal a Het Oa, AT set TA!
dialog: 
text: Dubey has had enough. He gets up from
text: his seat and heads for the stage.
speaker_heading: WT FR OA, A Fee BA!
text: Chatur laughs along with the crowd,
text: thoroughly enjoying his new-found status.
text: He waits until the auditorium quietens.
dialog: ag
dialog: aera, TAR |
text: At the mention of his name, the Minister
text: stiffens, suddenly wary.
dialog: 116
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Tomorrow ICE students will go across
dialog: the globe. Wherever we go, we promise
dialog: to screw.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: We will make ICE proud.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: We'll hoist this screwer’s flag all over the
dialog: world. We'll show the world that our
dialog: capacity to screw... cannot be matched by
dialog: any student... anywhere on the planet.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: No other student, no other student!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Mr. Minister. Good evening.
dialog: at
dialog: (to Raju)
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: age
speaker_heading: AI
text: In the wings, Dubey slaps his forehead
dialog: in frustration.
text: The students go mad with delight.
text: Raju gapes, incredulous.
text: Dubey desperately tries to stop Chatur,
dialog: miming the meaning of Sttan.
text: The indignant Minister turns towards
dialog: the Director.
dialog: fafreet
dialog: aa aan ad ae tar 8 Fe
dialog: asa |
dialog: aa
dialog: eat cat at Ho a 21 aa OH wad
dialog: 2| tar ae atl et at!
text: The crowd agrees loudly, raucously.
dialog: fafreet
dialog: (with mounting anger)
dialog: ase & & ater
dialog: 117
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: You have given this institution what it
dialog: sorely needs.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Booty, funds.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Bosom!
speaker_heading: DUBEY
dialog: It’s bosom, stupid. Bosom means ...
speaker_heading: MINISTER
dialog: What nonsense! That's insulting.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: Everyone has a bosom, but it remains
dialog: pocketed. No one offers it so readily!
speaker_heading: MINISTER
dialog: Vulgar fellow!
dialog: ag
dialog: # fear 21
text: More hoots and catcalls.
dialog: fafree
text: Furious, the Minister gets up and starts
text: walking out. The Director follows him.
dialog: fafreee
dialog: agordt & fra gerar at Gay aet 41
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Its miscommunication.
dialog: fafree
text: In the wings, Dubey faints.
text: Chatur gestures graciously to the clapping
text: and hooting crowd to settle down.
dialog: AG a ~
dialog: za eof aaat we wH sei ae oT
speaker_heading: w% eI
dialog: it
dialog: Hae |
dialog: ay
dialog: 118
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: You have generously offered your bosom
dialog: .. to this relentless screwer.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Now see how he makes it grow.
speaker_heading: MINISTER
dialog: Is this what you teach here, Director?
speaker_heading: MINISTER
dialog: Had you invited me here to insult me?
speaker_heading: MINISTER
dialog: Impertinent fool!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: On this august occasion, here’s a Sanskrit
dialog: verse ....
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Listen to this — the might of his farting
dialog: in verse.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: A good loud fart is honourable.
speaker_heading: fafefrex
dialog: Wey? se AIserae!
dialog: a
speaker_heading: FER TL - aH TT
dialog: aan Jar!
dialog: aa
dialog: wom - asdet we argh - wer
dialog: Tey |
text: The Director runs onto the stage. He
text: slaps Chatur on the back of his head,
text: grabs him by the neck and shakes him.
text: He then kicks him on his butt, driving
text: him off the stage.
dialog: For the students this is the grand finale to
text: an evening of entertainment. They throw
text: handkerchiefs up in the air, rejoicing.
dialog: we
dialog: are ...! Fat Sa, FAT SAT Ae!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Out!
text: Rancho and Farhan, traces of mirth still
text: on their faces, speak to Raju.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: ea, fear ays wer se at wer SPT
dialog: ta, ta, ce!
dialog: 119
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: ‘Fart? Go, Silencer!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: A medium fart is tolerable.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Tolerable tolerable!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: Softer windbreaks are terrible.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: What did I do?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: That’s what mindless cramming does to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Cramming may see you through four years
dialog: of college but it will ‘screw’ you for the
dialog: next 40 years!
text: Farhan laughs at the usage of the word.
text: Raju, however, is all serious and cold
text: again. Ignoring the other two boys, he
text: gets up and leaves.
dialog: 2
scene_heading: EXT. WATER TANK, ICE — LATER
speaker_heading: THAT NIGHT
text: Rancho and Farhan laugh as they go over
text: the events in the auditorium.
dialog: z Fr fen fr
dialog: Bal
dialog: ag a0:
dialog: vie
dialog: gar Har sirar are Pare at aD omefEar
speaker_heading: wet aT
text: Chatur comes onto the terrace, swaying
text: on his feet, drunk and dishevelled. He
text: hurls a bottle at them, which smashes just
text: missing their feet.
dialog: ag!
text: Chatur trembles with anger and humiliation.
dialog: aa
dialog: q ees) Fa Gert var fares &?
dialog: 120
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He still doesn’t get it
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘Medium fart is tolerable’... Unbelievable!
dialog: You're a poet, Rancho. How did you think
dialog: of this?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: That was fun. He didn't know what hit
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Oye!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: You swines. What did I ever do to you?
text: Rancho and Farhan try to lighten him
dialog: up.
dialog: aft are) vase aa a are
dialog: ade
dialog: waa dri sae wafer a srace vet
dialog: acim | ong faa a ate ge tat fre)
speaker_heading: tat Ades ait HE AEH |
dialog: (placatingly)
dialog: an, SS at ar, tegaeit gar 2, et arr
dialog: wy a set we a - fe ea aR
speaker_heading: Wa Vell BS HAH S Tet Ae) AEA BT
dialog: 
text: Ina friendly gesture, Rancho puts his hand
text: on Chatur’s arm but Chatur shrugs it off
text: viciously. Rancho backs away warily.
dialog: Y get sar qed aet svar 21
speaker_heading: EM
dialog: at a sat ae oar 2? aT aT
dialog: aa HE HAT B? FAH ITH...
text: Farhan and Rancho crack up again.
dialog: ade
dialog: za... Ae faga Y dati wp fer wef
dialog: # ae qaaaraa aah fears fee
dialog: Hoe - we gH asi
dialog: 121
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sorry man. Don't take it personally.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Iwill. Chatur Ramalingam will never forget
dialog: this insult. I'll think of it every minute,
dialog: every second of my life.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sorry man, That was a demo for Raju —
dialog: don't cram blindly. Understand and enjoy
dialog: the wonders of Science.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I'm not here to enjoy.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: So you're here to screw science.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Laugh at my methods. But one day these
dialog: methods will bring me success. That day
dialog: Til laugh and you'll cry.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You're on the wrong track again. Don’t
speaker_heading: reat Fae AT
dialog: 1am at 1 @ fem @ fest a wT
dialog: qe? da are? ora? are?
dialog: 
text: Chatur lunges in their direction, towards
text: the broken bottle on the ground. He picks
text: up a shard of glass.
dialog: var
dialog: a wt I AI
text: Chatur stumbles up to the partly
text: constructed dome-like structure in the
text: centre of the terrace.
dialog: var
dialog: ot ae!
dialog: wert
dialog: war at ar Seer |
text: With the glass shard, Chatur starts to
text: scratch something into the wall of the dome.
text: Rancho and Farhan watch, mystified.
dialog: var
dialog: war fera ter & ae?
text: Chatur finishes writing and turns to the
text: boys, his eyes filled with venom.
dialog: 122
dialog: chase success. Become a good engineer
dialog: and success will chase you.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: These ideals don’t work in the real world.
dialog: You take your train, I'll take mine. Ten
dialog: years from now, we'll meet at the same
dialog: station. Same day. Same place. We'll see
dialog: who's more successful you... or I. Have
dialog: the balls? C'mon, bet! It’s a challenge.
dialog: Watch it!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Watch it!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: What has happened to him?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: What's he writing?
dialog: age
dialog: a 3c YT Aa!
text: The date chiselled on the wall reads:
speaker_heading: SEPT 5.
scene_heading: INT. WATCH SHOWROOM, MARKET
speaker_heading: — NIGHT
text: An expensive new watch adorns Pia’s wrist.
text: Pia looks embarrassed.
dialog: frat
dialog: & aera!
dialog: aera
dialog: (patronisingly)
dialog: amet Stet ait far
dialog: qa wer at yet 2eqa EH |
dialog: (to the salesperson)
dialog: aae fea at fat aa?
text: Pia looks at her wrist, trying to get used
text: to the weight and feel of the watch.
text: She glances up — and sees Rancho and
text: Millimeter passing outside the watch
text: showroom. Her eyes narrow in sudden
dialog: anger.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I'll be back.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, MARKET —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Pia walks out of the watch showroom,
text: looking for Rancho. She spots him. Pushing
text: her way through the crowd of shoppers,
dialog: 123
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Don't forget this date.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I’m not used to such expensive gifts,
dialog: Suhas.
text: she reaches him and Millimeter as they
text: walk on, their backs to her.
text: She grabs Rancho’s shoulder and turns
dialog: him around.
dialog: fear
dialog: (livid)
dialog: aita gat at at at
dialog: (startled)
dialog: ar?
dialog: fear
dialog: qo Aa ater
dialog: 
dialog: a etaree SAT Vet BI a eer!
text: Rancho points down to the box he is
text: holding. It says — ‘VIRUS INVERTER’.
text: He realises his mistake and quickly tries
text: to cover the lettering with his hand. But
text: Pia has seen it. She grabs the box from his
text: hands and flings it on the ground.
dialog: 
text: Rancho looks from the smashed inverter
text: to Pia, with indignation. Millimeter
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You changed the speech?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Dont lie.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Oh ... Yeah.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: What's your problem with Dad?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Thave no problem I'm making an inverter
dialog: named after him.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Look ... Oh!
text: rushes to gather the scattered parts of
dialog: the box.
dialog: Prefer
dialog: ae as fears
dialog: fear
dialog: ait 3S rs oS a?
dialog: (pointing behind her)
dialog: a eat a, yer wa!
text: Pia turns to see Suhas standing in the sea of
text: people, looking around with a supercilious
text: expression on his face.
text: Millimeter hands the retrieved inverter to
text: Rancho. They walk away.
dialog: =
dialog: (inspecting the inverter)
dialog: wr ats fear ar!
text: Pia catches up with them and grabs Rancho
text: by his shoulder again.
dialog: fra
dialog: (furious)
dialog: ea sae gy aie fer a ae?
dialog: at oie aor ate? vee efafrafer a, sab
dialog: da ¥ areit ee ver 31 2) ae de A
dialog: 
dialog: 125
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: She destroyed it!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Why’re you harassing Dad?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: “Cause he runs a factory, not a college.
dialog: Churning out asses. Like that one!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: She destroyed it, man.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: How dare you call him an ass?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He is one! First engineering, then MBA,
dialog: then becomes a banker in USA. Because
dialog: it rakes in more money? Life for him is
dialog: just a profit-loss statement.
text: Pia raises a finger threateningly, but
text: Rancho doesn’t let her speak, pressing on
text: relentlessly.
dialog: 
text: Pia listens with growing outrage.
dialog: frar
speaker_heading: OH Sead HT et ATT NT Bl? FAT AAT
dialog: 
text: Rancho notices the new watch on her
dialog: wrist.
dialog: var
dialog: or, ote, 7a ast itr wH fare, vas
speaker_heading: wT
text: He hands the inverter to Millimeter.
dialog: 4
dialog: q
dialog: asa 8?
text: Rancho takes off the new watch from
text: Pia’s wrist.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He sees profit in you, so he’s with you.
dialog: Director's daughter, doctor in the making ...
dialog: Good for his image! It’s not you he cares
dialog: for.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Who do you think you are? What do you
dialog: mean he doesn’t care for me?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: New watch? One moment.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Do you always need a demo?
dialog: 
dialog: 6, Gera!
text: Suhas turns around, spots them and walks
dialog: up to them.
dialog: aera
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: wet at? ong @a dm afer a ZI
dialog: Year
dialog: ast aH ag caat ori ge et & Aa
text: Suhas grabs Pia's wrist. He explodes.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: What? Lost the watch!
dialog: ot aS wet ae war at eT
dialog: aera
dialog: ae ae are a afi
text: Pia is taken aback by his reaction.
dialog: wat
dialog: ga! ae ara! ae dt ae
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: (to Rancho)
dialog: Just shut up!
dialog: (to Pia)
dialog: How could you be so careless, Pia?! And
dialog: this callous attitude — It’s disgusting! It’s
dialog: disrespectful!
dialog: 127
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey, Suhas!
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Where were you?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: She's looking for her watch.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Never mind. Get another.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Tt cost 400,000!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Mine’s just 250/ but keeps the same
dialog: time.
text: Eyes wide with shock, Pia stares at
dialog: Suhas.
dialog: aera
dialog: oe aie et FY Pref at sey ora fee
dialog: acer om ar Gert wéra areqit
dialog: at ast!
text: Tears of humiliation fill Pia’s eyes.
dialog: oer
dialog: wa? Ba A a a?
text: Pia swallows, blinking back the tears.
dialog: frat omg aire eset fea! aa aT ae
dialog: wit ot et!
text: Suhas moves away, searching the ground
dialog: for the watch. The truth behind his
text: character finally hits Pia. Anger replaces
dialog: hurt.
text: She turns to the grinning Rancho, grabs
text: the 4-lakh watch from his hand, and
text: marches upto Suhas. She taps Suhas on
text: the shoulder, grabs his hand, and slams
text: the watch into it.
dialog: frat
dialog: mea!
text: She storms off, leaving a gaping Suhas
dialog: behind.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: That was a limited-edition watch. Now
dialog: wear your ancient piece of junk at
dialog: dinner.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: What are you staring at?
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Here come the tears! Real mature, Pia.
dialog: I can't handle this! Stop crying and look
dialog: for it.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Find another wrist for this watch ... Ass!
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT, MARKET -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
dialog: Impressed, Rancho and Millimeter run
dialog: up to Pia.
dialog: 2, 4 at aifas a ae: saat ye we
dialog: vat ater fear!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Get lost!
text: Pia has reached the parking lot where her
text: scooter’s parked.
dialog: 
text: She gets her helmet out of her scooter.
text: In a burst of anger, she threatens Rancho
dialog: with it.
speaker_heading: Sb op
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: ‘What do you mean?
dialog: 129
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You are solid! You called him an ass to
dialog: his face!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: It’s too noisy here. She’s saying “Thank
dialog: you”, I hear “Get lose”.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I said “Get lost”.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Don’t get so uptight. Actually, you never
dialog: really loved him.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: When you see him, do the winds
dialog: whisper a melody? Does your scarf fly
dialog: Hl Fo gust Seq a 2, ar aa
dialog: aie qe var ast A Tal
dialog: frat
dialog: (snapping)
dialog: oa fe fieedt 4 aor 2, faa anew
dialog: H set
dialog: oe we wel feat men HT ata 21
dialog: sat & wa ar eer at er vat
dialog: & aa wat eat 21
text: Pia gives Rancho a sweet, fake smile, then
text: swings her helmet at him again.
text: Rancho’s phone rings. He answers it.
dialog: eect | aT?
text: Rancho’s bantering tone changes to one
dialog: of shock.
dialog: aa? aie ats? ith ae, F ara @
dialog: a aa qa!
text: He hangs up, thinking hard. He glances
text: at Pia as she gets on her scooter. Sudden
text: hope on his face, he runs up to her.
dialog: 2! gH Afeaet were a a?
text: Pia nods dismissively.
dialog: (desperately)
dialog: wf, wie!
dialog: in slow motion? Does the moon appear
dialog: gigantic?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: That happens in films, not in real life.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Happens in life too — if you love a person
dialog: .. Not an ass.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hello. What?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Oh God! Ok, I’m on my way.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You're a Medical student right?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Need your help. It’s an emergency,
dialog: please.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: What?
dialog: (pleading)
dialog: He ae det, AT) ae a, TA staer
dialog: ait ar way ard zt ... fe wt Gare Sr
dialog: facieefes ata... ef? are ae sey a,
scene_heading: EXT. ENROUTE TO RAJU’S HOUSE
speaker_heading: — MOMENTS LATER
text: Pia’s scooter speeds down the road. Rancho
text: rides, Pia is sitting behind him.
dialog: fear
dialog: HT get & ond Foe ora, BY sree
dialog: as 4, 3s pat age 4 St at afer
dialog: aw 2% ae F qerh ser ae wa 2!
dialog: smfafetaa! a fecskea at dt F ...
dialog: (grits her teeth in frustration)
dialog: a aet Toe et Steet Sh
scene_heading: EXT. RAJU’S HOUSE —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The scooter stops in front of Raju’s
dialog: house.
scene_heading: INT. RAJU’S HOUSE —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The images on screen turn black and
dialog: white.
text: Pia and Rancho rush into the house.
dialog: wat, Wy Het eB?
dialog: 131
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Please come with me. What's that oath you
dialog: doctors take — you'll never deny a patient
dialog: help ... the Hippocratic Oath. Please help
dialog: me, it’s an emergency.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You gate-crash my sister's wedding, break
dialog: off my engagement, my dad is popping BP
dialog: pills because of you and here I am, helping
dialog: you! Unbelievable! This Hippocratic Oath,
dialog: It’s really done us in!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Where’s Raju, Aunty?
speaker_heading: wy a ATaTit
dialog: ceil aa var 2, der) tegen at et de
dialog: vet wrt feat a! ate ta & eae
dialog: — for dw fae F vday ef argh 2,
text: Pia examines Raju’s Father.
dialog: fear
speaker_heading: Aeaeg eT TT) area
speaker_heading: wy a ATaTit
dialog: & Tl
text: Rancho’s mind scrambles for a solution.
dialog: And then, he has it.
scene_heading: EXT. ENROUTE TO HOSPITAL -
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER
text: Rancho, Pia and Raju’s Father travel on
text: the scooter. Rancho rides.
text: Raju’s Father is propped upright between
text: Rancho and Pia, lengths of coloured fabric
text: binding him to Rancho. His arms dangle
text: by his sides. From time to time, he lurches
text: and is steadied by Pia.
text: The scooter weaves through traffic, and
text: is spotted by a traffic cop.
dialog: aa te aie!
text: Rancho ignores him, rushing on.
scene_heading: EXT. / INT. HOSPITAL -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Rancho takes the scooter into the hospital.
text: Shouting warnings to people in his way
dialog: 132
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
text: Gone to get a cab. Called the ambulance
dialog: two hours ago. In this country, pizza reaches
dialog: in 30 minutes but an ambulance!
speaker_heading: PIA
text: He needs hospitalisation. Urgently
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Oh God.
speaker_heading: TRAFFIC COP
dialog: Hey stop!
text: and using the horn liberally, he rides into
text: the entrance lobby and past the waiting
text: area. Pia hangs on for dear life.
text: Doctors, nurses, attendants, patients and
text: relatives watch in startled amazement.
dialog: wir
scene_heading: Wa, Fa... FA Ya eal ea... TI
dialog: 
text: Rancho travels through corridors, crossing
text: nurses’ stations and doctors’ cubicles. He
text: turns into a ward and finally comes to a stop
text: next to a doctor examining his patient.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Doctor, Doctor, emergency, emergency!
text: He turns off the ignition and indicates
text: Raju’s Father to the bemused doctor.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Patient!
scene_heading: EXT. / INT. HOSPITAL —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Raju jumps out of an autorickshaw, pays
text: the driver, and rushes into the hospital.
text: Rancho and Farhan stand, talking, in the
dialog: waiting area.
dialog: 
dialog: a 1 waa 2%, aa Wa?
dialog: (on seeing Raju)
text: U, AT WH WT...
text: Raju charges up to Rancho and Farhan.
dialog: 133
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Move, it’s an emergency! Move! Move!
dialog: Move! Move! It’s an emergency!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: That's the patient. Keep this. Hey, here's
dialog: Raju ...
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (furiously, to Rancho)
dialog: oa, aa at eet Fa sar?
text: Rancho’s taken aback. A flicker of hurt
text: crosses his face. He covers it up quickly.
dialog: ei
dialog: at aa eis dee & Aaa?
dialog: U! aa & ghar A ae a aT!
dialog: it
dialog: at! ster 4 We
text: Raju hurries towards the doctor walking
text: down the corridor with Pia. The two of
text: them cross him, talking.
dialog: sfaet
text: At the doctor’s words, Raju’s face fills with
text: consternation.
dialog: sfaet
dialog: wert a a oe | oe FH oa Tee Z
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: OK.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Bye.
dialog: 134
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What the hell! You brought Dad on the
text: scooter.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Should I’ve sent him by courier?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: No wisecracks on Dad's profession! Where
dialog: is he?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Go ask the doctor.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Close call, Pia. A little delay and we would
dialog: have lost him.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Glad you didn’t wait for an ambulance
dialog: and got him on the scooter. Call me if
dialog: there’s a problem.
text: Raju lowers his head, filled with remorse.
text: He then looks up at his friends.
speaker_heading: Aa
text: Farhan tries to lighten things up for Raju.
text: He applauds lightly.
dialog: pert
dialog: are diet at Sm a dire 2! at areas
dialog: aa Aad frat ver 2, af?
text: Rancho and Farhan chuckle.
dialog: al aay asl eH Ata 2?
text: ‘As Rancho and Farhan crack up at their
text: joke, Raju smiles at them fondly.
text: Pia walks back to the boys after
dialog: completing some admission formalities
dialog: and paperwork.
dialog: frat
dialog: aat oat aa ati at se TF
dialog: anit er
dialog: 
dialog: at aga att 21 arg Aesit wep
dialog: & dat 21 aa at Geenret ares ar ae
dialog: ae & wat fee ate
text: Raju is overcome with emotion. His eyes
text: fill with tears. He rushes to Rancho and
text: envelopes him in a hug.
dialog: 135
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rancho. Thank you.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Thanking your buddies! Silencer teaching
dialog: you manners?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Didn't he teach you — a friend is a man’s
dialog: greatest bosom?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Go on now. You have an exam
dialog: tomorrow.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Exams we have many but Dad mostly just
dialog: one. We won't budge from here without
dialog: your father. Don’t worry.
dialog: a ,
dialog: veal ss am wet aR
dialog: (sobbing)
dialog: H ee nar atl
dialog: (teary eyed)
speaker_heading: wT
speaker_heading: We WH FS
text: Moved by the scene in front of her, Pia
text: exchanges a look with Farhan.
scene_heading: 0... TH, TT BT Ta WT wT Ta
dialog: ar fit ot
text: Rancho wipes Raju’s face with the sleeve
text: of his jacket.
dialog: aie tet adh seat ya ae ST, atl
dialog: 7
dialog: Fat ae
text: Smiling through his tears, Raju leaves.
speaker_heading: aT
text: Rancho watches him go, an affectionate
text: smile on his face. He wipes his eyes.
text: Pia looks at Rancho like she’s never seen
text: him before, her eyes filled with wonder.
dialog: 136
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rancho, forgive me. I was scared
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: It’s ok. Quiet, now.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Please forgive me.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: It’s ok, calm down. Go see your dad.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: And don’t go with that weepy face.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Thanks buddy.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Go.
scene_heading: EXT. HOSPITAL - MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Rancho and Pia walk out of the hospital.
text: Rancho wheels Pia’s scooter.
dialog: Rel
dialog: \ far at
dialog: at a var ai, a!
dialog: Bt &?
dialog: (smiling mischievously)
dialog: aedt St & Sat) wae aa z1
text: He puts the scooter on its stand.
dialog: frat
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: afer ont ose ord aa 21
dialog: ger fra at 21 aa ge sa oer art
dialog: at at ast vet wed a1
text: Pia looks startled by Rancho’s words.
dialog: air
dialog: wat vedt @ ws aft ee) aa
text: As Rancho starts to walk back into the
text: hospital, Pia finds her voice.
dialog: 137
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Natty scooter. Saved a life. How much
dialog: does it cost?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Pour some mint chutney on it. Ir'll tell
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Oh...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey, Happy Independence Day, buddy!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: But today isn’t Independence Day.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: For you it is! Now you're free to wear
dialog: your mom’s watch.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No ass can say it’s an ancient piece of
dialog: junk. Bye.
dialog: fear
dialog: &) ge Sa ca a a a at at ast
dialog: ft?
text: Rancho smiles at her.
dialog: it
dialog: (gently)
dialog: get et mel F asat Sue a fra aw
dialog: are & a, fre aa F ast gett a,
dialog: war Has Stat 8?
text: Pia smiles, acknowledging the truth of
dialog: his words.
dialog: it
dialog: wa fer ga aad at ar aed fr ae
speaker_heading: wa A ATI
text: Pia swallows the lump in her throat.
dialog: fear
dialog: al
dialog: var
dialog: Gat a set qa eA af, a?
dialog: fear
dialog: atl ge Ba yar?
dialog: var
dialog: at amy et tare — AES ST a TH
dialog: mY sre , a fat at aH ot
dialog: 
text: Pia lunges at him in mock anger.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Hey! How do you know it was my mom's
dialog: watch?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Atyour sister's wedding, you wore sparkling
text: new clothes. Only the watch was old.
dialog: What could that mean?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You really missed your mom that day,
dialog: didn’t you?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Your mom must've been really beautiful?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Yes. How do you know?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Seen your dad? “Life is a race. If you
dialog: don't run fast you'll be a broken egg ...
text: the cuckoo bird”.
text: Rancho dodges her, laughing. She
text: smiles back. He waves at her as he walks
text: back into the hospital. She looks at his
text: receding back with a dreamy look in her
dialog: eyes.
text: The wind picks up, whipping her hair
text: around her face.
text: The song starts in the background.
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS
speaker_heading: — NIGHT
speaker_heading: PBS 4 — ZOOBI DOOBI
dialog: 4
dialog: qa
speaker_heading: $4484 “
dialog: 3)
dialog: a4.
dialog: a4
dialog: aL. a
speaker_heading: Y
dialog: &
dialog: 4
dialog: al
dialog: ow
dialog: siz:
dialog: aged
dialog: 4
dialog: 4
dialog: 139
text: The winds whisper a melody
text: The sky hums along
text: Time itself is singing ...
dialog: Zoobi do... pum para
dialog: Zoobi doobi param ...
dialog: Zoobi doobi ... zoobi .
dialog: Zoobi doobi param ... :
text: zoobi doobi ... as it jives and jigs along
dialog: My silly heart goes Zoobi doobi’
dialog: pum...
dialog: .. doobi pum paara
dialog: pum ..
text: Leaves sing on their branches
dialog: Bees jam with flowers
text: Crazy sunbeams dance off petals
text: As birds yodel in the skies
dialog: Flowers, bold and brazen
dialog: Snuggle and cootchie-coo
dialog: Ive seen it happen in films
dialog: Whats now happening with us
dialog: Zoobi ... doobi ... zoobi doobi pum paara
dialog: Zoobi doobi param ...
dialog: pum
speaker_heading: Fi WT BAS AT
dialog: Rater Rater Rater
scene_heading: wT wT AT AT EAT
dialog: fey fy Re Ro ae
speaker_heading: APA AR aTSt
dialog: X ore wad 7
dialog: rear Perit F rar &
dialog: a wr @ EFE..
dialog: ee
speaker_heading: Fi WT BAS AT
speaker_heading: HA BT Me TH Te
speaker_heading: sare AT eT
speaker_heading: soo AT TET
dialog: 2 ua abet er
dialog: a Lt Me
dialog: oar Perit F rar &
speaker_heading: a wre FTE
dialog: ee
speaker_heading: Fi WT BAS AT
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL —-
speaker_heading: MORNING
speaker_heading: NEXT
text: On a bench in the waiting area, the trio
text: is fast asleep. Pia, dressed and ready to
text: face the day, walks up to them briskly
text: and starts waking them.
dialog: 140
text: Zoobi doobi as it jives and jigs along
dialog: My silly heart goes Zoobi doobi’
text: Pitter-patter go the raindrops
text: Whish-whoosh whistles the wind
dialog: Do-da-dee waltzes the rain
text: Boom-boom echoes the sky
text: Drenched in rain and passion
dialog: You sway your hips on cue
dialog: I've seen it happen in films
dialog: Whats now happening with us
dialog: Zoobi doobi ... zoobi ... doobi pum paara
dialog: Zoobi doobi param ... pum ...
text: Zoobi doobi ... as it jives and jigs along
dialog: My silly heart goes Zoobi doobi’
dialog: The gorgeous low moon
dialog: Serenades the earth
text: A shooting star skips along
text: Crooning a ballad of love
text: The night is bright but lonesome
dialog: Come touch me, my handsome
dialog: I've seen it happen in films
dialog: Whats now happening with us
dialog: Zoobi doobi ... zoobi ... doobi pum paara
dialog: Zoobi doobi param ... pum ...
text: Zoobi doobi ... as it jives and jigs along
dialog: My silly heart goes Zoobi doobi’
dialog: 12
dialog: 4
dialog: (startled)
dialog: war? sted alte a 7a Far?
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (panicking)
dialog: war?
dialog: fra
dialog: wat... fis! ars ate et TA | AT
text: They are all awake now.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: aad 2%?
dialog: fear
dialog: H 2) get sews 21 dia ae at at ara
speaker_heading: S 1 ae, AT Ve AHL TTT) WHS TH,
dialog: ay ofa! sea fey ae)
text: Pia indicates the time on her wrist watch
text: and Rancho does a double-take. She's
text: wearing her mother’s watch. He grabs her
text: wrist and looks into her face.
dialog: 2! ar get vet ven ze 2!
text: He gives her a warm smile.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: (whispers tenderly)
dialog: Go!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Hello. Wake up ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Huh ... Uncle's dead?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: ‘What?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: No, stupid! It’s 8.30, your exam is at 9.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: But we can’t leave him alone.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I'm here. It’s a matter of three hours. Take
dialog: my scooter. It’s getting late.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey ... Gosh, what an ancient watch!
scene_heading: EXT. ENROUTETO ICE—~MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: The boys race towards college on Pia’s
text: scooter.
text: The tower clock at the campus gate shows
text: 9.30 am, as the scooter zips in.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Rancho, Farhan and Raju run through a
text: corridor, to their class.
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM, ICE —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The classroom is filled with the silence
dialog: of students writing an exam. Rancho,
text: Farhan and Raju rush in, creating a minor
text: disturbance. They grab blank answer sheets
text: from the Examiner's desk.
text: They scramble to find their seats.
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: Settle down there!
text: The Examiner looks at the clock on the
text: classroom wall. It is a few minutes past
text: nine-thirty. Time passes. The clock now
text: shows a few minutes past twelve.
text: The classroom is empty except for Rancho,
text: Farhan, Raju and Chatur. Chatur is on his
dialog: 142
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sorry, we're late.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: It was an emergency!
text: way out. He submits his answer sheet to
text: the Examiner and indicates the trio.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: (in a theatrical whisper)
dialog: Sir, they’re still writing.
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: (to the trio)
dialog: Hello! Time up!
dialog: (pleading)
dialog: ay, ofa fare ae ey are Ae ce os 41
dialog: gag ty met, a, aie, ist
text: The Examiner looks at them indignantly.
speaker_heading: wR (V.O.)
text: The boys continue to write. The Examiner
text: starts to organise the answer sheets.
speaker_heading: tert (V.O.)
dialog: ay fier ft faa 1 che ar Geet ar ata
dialog: wa a ata Set A fag a qari
text: Rancho finishes. He gets up and walks up
text: to the Examiner’s desk. Farhan and Raju
text: also rush across with their answer sheets.
dialog: 
dialog: aartrat
dialog: amg a2 a ma... Fa a aH eI
dialog: 143
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Please, five minutes. We started half an
dialog: hour late. It was an emergency.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He glared at us like we'd asked for both
text: his kidneys.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: But we continued writing. He got busy
text: in arranging the answer sheets.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Done, Sir.
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: You're late. I can’t accept these.
speaker_heading: EM
dialog: ae fs, ae!
text: Suddenly Rancho's tone and body language
dialog: change.
dialog: ae ay ort & at ae?
text: Unperturbed, the Examiner leans on his
text: desk and looks at Rancho.
dialog: ae, ay el sat ATH aie Ter FE
dialog: yar 2?
text: The Examiner is a little disturbed now.
dialog: Sane
dialog: ai. aa a gr aT
text: Rancho, holding his own answer sheet,
text: takes Farhan and Raju’s answer sheets from
text: them too. In a sudden move, he jumbles
text: them up with the rest of the answer sheets
text: on the Examiner's desk.
dialog: (yelling)
scene_heading: wel vat 8) AMT, ATT, APT, APT, ATT
text: He dashes out of the classroom, Raju
text: close on his heel. After freezing for a
text: second, Farhan comes to and bolts out
dialog: 144
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sir, please, Sir!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir, do you know who we are?
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: Prime Minister’s son? Even then ... I will
dialog: not accept your paper.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Do you know our names and roll
dialog: numbers?
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: No ... Who are you?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He doesn’t know — Run! Run! Run! Run!
dialog: Run!
text: too. The Examiner runs after them, to
dialog: the door.
dialog: aantrat
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: O) pent ae vee zat a!
text: He runs back to his desk, confused, and
text: tries to look through the mess there.
dialog: sate
dialog: aime fae & Sear Ae. Fae &
dialog: fea @ at dae?
text: He finally gives up, slamming his hands
text: on the desk in frustration.
dialog: Sat
dialog: oe!
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS,
scene_heading: CAMPUS, ICE — DAY
text: Rancho is fast asleep on his bed. Raju prays
text: fervently to the images and idols of gods
text: and goddesses in his corner of the room.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: ae 9% car ca we aif, omy afar
speaker_heading: tert (V.O.)
dialog: art free wr art 41 St wey aa
dialog: wat & we set wee ee FH at
dialog: 145
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: Hey, what's your roll number?
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: Where the hell are their papers?
speaker_heading: EXAMINER
dialog: Aah!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: O Lord, have mercy.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Today was Results day. Everyone was
dialog: striking a deal with god ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Just take the case of my Electronics. I'll
dialog: offer a coconut.
text: Outdoors, a Student pours milk into a
text: bowl near a snake coiled at the base of
text: an ant hill.
dialog: wee 1
dialog: eee ga Prasat
text: A Student feeds grass to a cow, by the
text: roadside.
dialog: ee 2
dialog: oar
text: A Student prays in the shower.
speaker_heading: RES 8
dialog: age 4 gar) aa faee ayer car!
text: A Student places a currency note before
text: the idol of a local god, under a tree.
dialog: were 4
dialog: ara, sae Ya ea oe Aa age,
dialog: WT | Tea, TAT, TAT |
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, ICE — DAY
text: Farhan and Raju run through a corridor
text: to the throng of students around the
text: notice board.
speaker_heading: wR (V.O.)
dialog: at svt F at omer ofthe sane
dialog: af wé rd, warm war arn fart
dialog: art ot!
dialog: 146
speaker_heading: STUDENT 1
dialog: Sir Snake, please take care of my Physics.
dialog: I promise a pint of milk per day.
speaker_heading: STUDENT 2
dialog: O Mother Cow, help me pass ...
speaker_heading: STUDENT 3
dialog: Oh God! I will see Malti and Sangita as
dialog: my sisters. But take care of my results.
speaker_heading: STUDENT 4
dialog: Watch over my results God, I'll offer
dialog: Rs 100/ every month, promise.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: 100/ won't bribe even a traffic cop let
dialog: alone the Almighty.
text: They squeeze their way through the cluster
text: of bodies, Raju finally reaches the notice
text: board, Farhan behind him.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: aap a, ft a de ae, aa 4 ae
speaker_heading: a aR
text: Raju scans the list on the board.
speaker_heading: Ww
dialog: aa @ ot... We!
speaker_heading: EMT
dialog: aie ar?
text: He looks at the list again.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: (in a faltering voice)
dialog: Second last.
dialog: wert
dialog: oir?
text: Raju’s gaze travels up and down the
dialog: list.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: (in dismay)
dialog: wat @ ae .!
dialog: at?
text: Deeply disturbed, Farhan pushes his way
text: out of the group at the notice board.
dialog: 147
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Check from the bottom. Check from the
dialog: bottom.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: You are ... last!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: And you?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Not there!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘What?
speaker_heading: HEM (V.O.)
dialog: fet do vari gafaa sé tt ey are 4,
dialog: we zaferr st eat .. eat aha Ge
dialog: a va ai
text: Farhan sits on a step, away from everyone.
text: Behind him, Chatur is in an agitated
text: conversation with another student.
speaker_heading: CHATUR (O.S.)
dialog: There’s a mistake. It’s not possible. It’s
dialog: injustice!
text: Chatur’s voice breaks. He slams his hand
text: on a pillar in frustration and despair.
text: Raju comes and sits next to Farhan. He
text: looks even more depressed than he did
dialog: earlier.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: ara a acer saat fear gal vet &
dialog: a?
dialog: (flat voice)
dialog: Aas oat 21
dialog: wert
dialog: ala! Se I aT?
dialog: va
text: Startled, Farhan looks at him.
dialog: wert
dialog: yea?
text: Raju nods, miserable.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: My heart sank. Not cause our ranks tanked,
dialog: but ‘cause our friend flunked.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: What's Silencer howling about?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: He got the second rank.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Who's first?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rancho.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho?
dialog: Er
dialog: (incredulously)
dialog: ale!
text: Farhan jumps up and rushes back to
text: the notice board. He pushes aggressively
text: through the crowd of students.
dialog: wert
dialog: ee A. Be AT AR!
text: Farhan’s eyes skim over the list Raju missed
text: before. At the top, at number 1, is the
dialog: name ‘Ranchhoddas Chanchad’.
text: Farhan and Raju walk away, together, faces
text: morose, eyes downcast.
speaker_heading: wert (V.O.)
dialog: eo def & a F oa fer et
dialog: ae aT seat Sat a a sa aa 21
dialog: afer tea we aa at sae ge ear
dialog: aie arr 3
scene_heading: EXT. OPEN-AIR AUDITORIUM, ICE
speaker_heading: — CONTINUOUS
text: The Director and Chatur sit with glum
text: faces, in the first row of a series of
dialog: seats.
dialog: The seats have been arranged for the
text: group photograph. Govind is arranging
dialog: students in the seats according to their
dialog: rank in the exams.
speaker_heading: GOVIND
dialog: Ranchhoddas Chanchad. Front row. Right
dialog: of the Director.
dialog: 149
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘What?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Move over!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We learned a lesson in Human Behavior:
dialog: Your friend fails, you feel bad. Your friend
dialog: tops, you feel worse. We were sad. ‘Two
dialog: others were sadder.
text: Rancho runs up, bright and sprightly, to sit
text: next to the Director, on his right. Chatur
text: flanks the Director on the left.
speaker_heading: GOVIND
text: Uday Sinha. Second row. Third the seat.
dialog: Alok Mital Second row fifth Seat.
text: Rancho looks around for Farhan and Raju.
text: They are sitting at the extreme corner. He
text: waves at them. They wave back unhappily.
text: Rancho’s cheery expression changes into a
dialog: troubled one.
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: it
dialog: (missing the sarcasm)
dialog: ae, 4a at ye afer fey 4 & crac 8,
dialog: ds were aesme, af dS weee TTA
dialog: sea dle area atl
speaker_heading: syetaet
dialog: Pet wa Be seat oa z?
dialog: it
dialog: (enthusiastically)
dialog: a, at ae ae free ot Soa, aT
dialog: sifea tS 9 cera @t aéf arfen, az) fer
dialog: 
dialog: 150
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir, why this seating according to rank?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Any problem with that?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes, this grading system is like a caste
dialog: system: A-graders: Masters C-graders:
dialog: Slaves. It’s not nice, Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You have a better idea?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes. Results should not be displayed at
dialog: all. Why publicise someone's flaws? If
dialog: your iron count is low, will the doctor
dialog: prescribe tonic or air your report on TV.
dialog: You see, Sir?
dialog: steer areat athe ear ar areeht fee
dialog: eet 3 fearon) | af az
dialog: Settee
dialog: after, Zz a ome Fey ge at H aq as
dialog: a aah BY H TS oe aM A foe
dialog: a? 4 2a oa Bel ome Aas oma e
dialog: ate, are Oy af, ary Het a Ta
text: Rancho laughs good-naturedly at the
text: Director's mocking words.
dialog: aah
dialog: wet ae, FT Ades aT wet aT, otf aa
dialog: 2, as eaee a feaee ae feats
dialog: art afar F eet ort e Fo are ae
dialog: H ger 1 Ae dea fear are aa 2 at
dialog: srar fe srt fear 31 ary A)
dialog: 
dialog: az, ate at at aa ae Saar are aT
dialog: (looking over at Chatur)
dialog: aot ar wet seat er alee 2) Car set
dialog: ea, ate fa oat ari ae aresr
speaker_heading: STEaee
dialog: q meet se! go meet ez!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: (excitedly)
dialog: Bet, Sir bet?
dialog: 151
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: So basically, what you are saying is, I should
dialog: personally go to each student’s room and
dialog: whisper in the ears ... “You have come
dialog: first”; “You're second”; “Oh, I’m so sorry,
dialog: you have failed”.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No Sir, I mean grades create a divide. I’ve
dialog: topped, so I’m next to you. My pals came
text: last, they're in the back in the corner.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: At least they’re in the corner. More time
dialog: with you, and they'll be out of the photo.
dialog: They will neither pass, nor get a job.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: They'll get jobs, Sir. There must be some
dialog: firm that prefers humans to machines.
dialog: They'll get jobs. I guarantee.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You guarantee it! You guarantee it!
dialog: i qe
dialog: ot az)
text: Govind comes running up to them.
text: The Director gestures towards Raju and
dialog: Farhan.
dialog: 
dialog: cas Ha wm ar ah ser wey A
dialog: ata fret ar...
text: The enormity of the Director's words stuns
dialog: both Govind and Rancho.
dialog: _
dialog: ae
dialog: eof?
text: Rancho breaks into a smile.
speaker_heading: PHOTOGRAPHER (O.S.)
dialog: Smile, please.
dialog: eof, ae
text: Camera flashes. The image on screen freezes
text: to the group photograph of the class.
dialog: 152
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Govind!
speaker_heading: GOVIND
dialog: Yes, Sir?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Even if one of them gets a job in campus
dialog: interviews ...
speaker_heading: GOVIND
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: .. shave off my moustache.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Sir!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Happy?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Happy, Sir!
scene_heading: END OF FLASHBACK.
scene_heading: BACK TO PRESENT:
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF SHIMLA -
speaker_heading: DAY
text: The sound of incessant honking fills the
dialog: soundtrack.
text: Farhan, Raju and Chatur are travelling in
text: Chatur’s SUV.
text: Chatur, in the driver’s seat, is pressing
text: down on the horn.
text: A foul smell hits Farhan and Raju.
speaker_heading: Ww
text: (explosively, wrinkling his nose)
speaker_heading: ver 2 AT
dialog: weer
dialog: (trying to wave away the smell)
dialog: at afte Sa! fee att ara at?
text: They roll down their windows and fan
text: their hands frantically in front of their
text: noses to ward off the stink.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I didn’t do it ...
dialog: F/R,
dialog: WH on!
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: (in disgust)
dialog: ait, set eet year & sq ae earsit
dialog: Al
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Jackass! Honking to hide your tooting.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Septic tank! Popping pills again?
speaker_heading: CHATUR / FARHAN / RAJU
dialog: Raju ... |
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: This is a familiar stink.
dialog: wy
dialog: 81 Ge HS Bre eH ze!
text: Raju rolls down the window and sticks out
text: his head and torso, breathing deeply.
scene_heading: EXT. RIDGE, SHIMLA CITY -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: In a popular, bustling spot of the city,
text: an Arab tourist clicks pictures of a row
text: of women, all burkha-clad. Chatur’s SUV
text: comes to a halt near them.
text: Farhan, Raju and Chatur get out of the
dialog: SUV.
dialog: wy
dialog: (to Farhan)
dialog: al a, a aa 21 ¥ Fe aie &
dialog: aa 1
text: Farhan takes out a suit on a hanger, from
dialog: the car.
dialog: wer
dialog: OS Tay, A age wae a ae He
dialog: yet a1
text: Chatur rushes up to Farhan and grabs the
text: suit from him.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Don't you touch my suit!
dialog: wert
dialog: (to Raju)
dialog: ere ar an, tt ae at fat te Bf
dialog: yea Fa |
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: He’s the sole cause for global warming.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Toss me your wallet — I'll buy pants.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Take Chatur’s suit instead.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho will recognise you even in
dialog: underwear.
dialog: 154
text: Chatur walks up to a chick peas seller and
text: shows him an address on his phone.
dialog: ac
dialog: aaa?
dialog: ade
dialog: (to Raju)
dialog: ™
dialog: aterat at art & ars
text: Raju hails the chick peas seller again.
speaker_heading: WH
dialog: agarea, ager - set fore ¥ ag
text: The chick peas seller points. Farhan, Raju
text: and Chatur follow his gaze. There, looming
text: proud at the top of a hill, taller than
text: the tallest trees around it, is a beautiful,
dialog: palace-like mansion.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: aAaTet
dialog: a, at get wa 21
text: Farhan and Raju's faces light up with pride.
text: Chatur looks disgruntled.
text: Farhan and Raju exchange a smile,
text: anticipating the end of their search.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Where's this?
speaker_heading: CHANAWALA
dialog: If I could read, would I sell chick peas?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
text: He can’t read.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: But he can speak.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Wait. Do you know a Ranchhoddas
dialog: Chanchad?
speaker_heading: CHANAWALA
dialog: Yes, he lives there.
dialog: (eagerly)
dialog: aa!
scene_heading: EXT. CHANCHAD BHAWAN, SHIMLA
speaker_heading: — MOMENTS LATER
text: Chatur’s SUV enters the gates of Chanchad
text: Bhawan. A series of vehicles line the
text: driveway. In the sprawling lawn is a crowd
text: of people dressed in white.
text: Farhan hurries up the pathway leading to
text: the house. Raju and Chatur follow. Raju
text: flings Chatur's pill box at him.
dialog: at ade aT a a Sar!
text: Chatur catches it.
dialog: age
dialog: (gratefully)
dialog: cit Seer) wet fer?
dialog: (indicating his trousers)
dialog: ate A ari
text: Chatur looks at Raju and sees his trousers
dialog: on him,
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Hey how dare you! That's my pant!
text: Chatur grabs Raju’s arm and pulls him up
text: short. He bends down and tries to tug his
text: trousers off Raju.
dialog: 156
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Let's go!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Chatur, your pills.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Thanks. Where were they?
speaker_heading: RAJU
text: In the pocket.
dialog: wy
dialog: aa ar get ate gar eT afar A fear
speaker_heading: aa aaaT 21
dialog: one
text: Raju shakes Chatur off and tries to walk
text: on. Chatur pulls him back and buries
text: his head between his legs, pulling at his
dialog: trousers.
dialog: uw qe AT) We aT...
dialog: Fa Be TS AK! HT Tad Set!
dialog: Ure Aret! SAT.
dialog: 
text: Raju breaks free and charges ahead. Chatur
text: stumbles behind him, yelling.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: T want it now!
scene_heading: INT. CHANCHAD BHAWAN, SHIMLA
speaker_heading: — CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan rushes through the open doors of
text: the house and stops short.
text: He sees a body laid on the ground, in
text: the hall. People mill around, paying their
text: respects. The mood is somber.
text: Raju and Chatur enter.
speaker_heading: WH
dialog: aa Bar?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho’s father.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Karl Marx says to share all resources.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Hey Shut up. Take off the pants.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hey you will give people the wrong
dialog: idea.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What happened?
text: A huge portrait of a ferocious-looking
text: MAN is displayed in the room. The name
text: under the frame says - SHAMALDAS
text: CHANCHAD. Farhan addresses someone
text: who looks like an ATTENDANT in the
dialog: household.
dialog: ugaed, J wreisara wet fireiit?
text: The Attendant points to a MAN sitting
text: with his back to them, in conversation with
text: someone who looks like a POLITICIAN.
dialog: 
text: With suppressed excitement, Farhan,
text: Raju and Chatur walk slowly towards the
text: seated Man. Reaching him, Farhan taps
text: his shoulder.
text: The Man turns around ...
dialog: But it is not Rancho.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: ‘Yes?
dialog: 
dialog: site att! ey wrersera & fara aed
dialog: a
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Brother, where can Ranchhoddas be
dialog: found?
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
text: There he is sitting.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sorry. We're looking for Ranchhoddas.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: wal, Tress gare BTS |
dialog: west saa wes F Gt ZI
dialog: afer?
text: Farhan looks at Raju and Chatur. They
text: are all nonplussed.
text: The Politician rises from his seat. The
text: Man stands up with him.
speaker_heading: Aa
text: They clasp hands. The Politician leaves
text: with his entourage. The Man starts walking
text: away too, directing a dirty look at Farhan,
dialog: Raju and Chatur.
text: Unable to comprehend what is happening,
text: Farhan looks around, baffled. Something
text: on the wall catches his eye. It’s a framed
dialog: ICE degree.
text: Farhan goes closer to the wall. In mounting
text: shock, he reads out the name on the
dialog: degree.
dialog: wert
dialog: comdteert whee’
text: His gaze travels downward, to the framed
text: photograph below the degree. He pales.
text: Without taking his eyes off the photograph,
text: he beckons Raju.
dialog: 159
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: I am Ranchhoddas.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No, I mean ... ‘Ranchhoddas Shamaldas
dialog: Chanchad’.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Ranchhoddas Shamaldas Chanchad. That’s
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: POLITICIAN
dialog: Ranchhod, take care, Son.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘Ranchhoddas Chanchad’.
dialog: Ser
dialog: wy
text: Raju and Chatur come up beside Farhan
dialog: to look at the photograph. It’s the group
text: photograph of all of them at ICE. In
dialog: place of Rancho, however, is the Man
dialog: they've just met.
speaker_heading: INTERVAL
speaker_heading: FADE IN
scene_heading: EXT. RIDGE, SHIMLA — DAY
text: The city looks quaint and pretty from
text: the balcony of the cafe. Farhan leans over.
dialog: However, the view is the last thing on his
dialog: preoccupied mind.
text: Next to him, seated at a table, Raju absently
text: reaches for some cookies from a hamper
text: Chatur’s left there.
dialog: wy
dialog: ae ¥ efaer F gear onett esata
dialog: fecet @ fara ae aestaae 4 snat aie
dialog: at Ah vat omeit & free
text: Farhan turns towards Raju.
dialog: wer
dialog: afer aed creer) aaepe war 2, ays A
dialog: mel sat are!
dialog: wy
dialog: fre Het a?
dialog: 160
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Raju!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: I'll be in the Guinness book for driving
text: from Delhi to Shimla in an underwear.
dialog: That too, for the wrong guy!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Same name, same degree, same photo, but
dialog: a different guy. What's going on?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: How did Silencer get Rancho’s address?
text: Raju’s words make Farhan realise where
text: to start solving their puzzle.
speaker_heading: EM
dialog: at!
dialog: (calls out)
speaker_heading: IT AGT! SAT GT
dialog: Chatur is taking a leak against someone's
text: compound wall. At the sound of his name,
text: he turns — and yelps in horror.
dialog: age
dialog: ma
text: He rushes towards Farhan and Raju,
text: zipping up on the way. He snatches the
text: tin of biscuits as well as the biscuit in
text: Raju’s hand.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: How dare you open this? I got this from
text: San Francisco, handmade biscuits.
text: Chatur picks up the hamper and takes it
dialog: away from Raju.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Specially for Mr. Phunsukh Wangdu.
dialog: i .
dialog: ae
scene_heading: HR ae FE TE) aT... A... GATT
dialog: as! 2 4 at te sa? Gf a a de
dialog: aster | 400 4 = aes size fey) wH
dialog: aret A ae ae tere, sta oT Aifet rae
dialog: 161
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Good point!
dialog: Hey Chatur, come here.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Hey! Hey!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Phunsukh Bangdu? Now, who's that?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Not Bangdu. Wangdu. ‘W’. Phunsukh
dialog: Wangdu. Do you know who that is?
dialog: He’s a great scientist. 400 patents. The
dialog: world wants him. Took me a year to get
dialog: we. aq, wa & aa t Sa fa
dialog: me wer, ome fat dt aa! aaa
text: Chatur finishes tidying up and re-packing
dialog: the hamper.
speaker_heading: Tr
dialog: wet A?
dialog: at
dialog: a ta a a Par
text: Chatur takes out a photograph from his
text: laptop bag and gives it to Raju.
dialog: at
dialog: a tat
text: Raju looks at the photograph. He is
text: stunned.
dialog: aa
dialog: at aad edt are ya aet one at freer
speaker_heading: aie 4 fe HT
text: Farhan takes the photograph from Raju.
text: It’s a tourist like photograph of TRACY,
text: taken in a street of Shimla. In the
text: background, at the far corner of the
dialog: photograph, is Rancho.
dialog: aa
dialog: fran) ae ast Ved fet war) FA fare
dialog: at BM shadt dae St) Say ATH aT!
speaker_heading: HS CST |
dialog: 162
text: an appointment. Once he signs the deal
dialog: with my company, I'll be huge!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Forget Wangdu. How'd you get Rancho’s
dialog: address?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: You should be thanking Phunsukh Wangdu.
dialog: He led me to Rancho.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: See this.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: My secretary was here to fix an appointment
dialog: with Wangdu.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: She didn’t get the appointment with
dialog: Wangdu but I found Rancho. I checked
dialog: the Shimla directory and found Rancho’s
dialog: name.
dialog: wy
text: Farhan puts his hand on Raju’s shoulder.
text: He has a resolute look on his face.
dialog: wert
dialog: >
dialog: e|
scene_heading: INT. CHANCHAD BHAWAN, SHIMLA
speaker_heading: — MOMENTS LATER
text: REAL RANCHO stands before his Father’s
text: portrait, a brass urn with his Father’s ashes
text: in his hand.
dialog: (choked with emotion)
dialog: arg ty aft ora) FY arash araéy saat
speaker_heading: Bat BT Te FAT WTI
text: Farhan, Raju and Chatur walk down a
text: long corridor into the room. They stop at
text: a table covered with urns, a little distance
dialog: away from Real Rancho.
dialog: at atl ome wy aT att oT) one as
dialog: ae dt a as aM...
speaker_heading: wer (O.S.)
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: 163
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: ‘What happened to his face? Plastic surgery
dialog: in honour of your visit?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Only one man has can give the answer.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Sorry Papa, I couldn't fulfill your last
dialog: wish. You kept asking me to take you
dialog: on a pilgrimage. But I waited for the
dialog: highway tender.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: There the tender opened, here you closed
dialog: your eyes. I am so sorry, Papa. I could not
dialog: be a good son...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Whar are you saying ...
text: Startled, Real Rancho turns towards
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: a sam act efafrae aati feet fear ae
dialog: west 215 a At aS aI
dialog: faa tat
dialog: (aggressively)
dialog: fat oefaorr Ae ort F aa Bae ate
speaker_heading: wet BAT BNI
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: (eyes flashing with anger)
dialog: set at HT art | ey ae aT Par S|
dialog: ats a1 fest & sie 4 a area atreaet
dialog: aie aest wea a were FT?
dialog: q fet eae dea af 81 a oe aa
dialog: ort?
text: Real Rancho comes to a decision. He
text: places the urn on the table between him
text: and the other three. He walks up to a
text: cabinet — and takes out a rifle.
text: As he loads the first bullet, Chatur turns
text: tail and runs out of the house.
text: In a smooth, expert action, Real Rancho
text: points the rifle at Farhan and Raju.
dialog: feast tar
dialog: (menacingly)
dialog: art FY cpa ga, Peat ar gar ft aa
dialog: aa | at te < Were He ie
dialog: 164
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You're an engineer. Your degree’s on the
dialog: wall! You were a very good son.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: How dare you barge in without permission?
dialog: T'll have you arrested.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No, you'll be arrested. We've made
dialog: enquiries. You use the degree to clinch
dialog: contracts.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: I’s our friend’s degree. How did you
dialog: get it?
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: This is a 150-acre estate. If I shoot and
dialog: bury you, no one would even notice. Get
dialog: the point? Now get lost.
text: Farhan and Raju glance at each other but
dialog: don't move. Real Rancho indicates to the
text: urn on the table.
dialog: a get akear a ae & arm
text: Slowly, Farhan and Raju walk backward.
text: They exchange another, brief look. Then
text: Farhan yells out.
speaker_heading: RET
text: Simultaneously, Raju makes his move. He
text: gtabs the urn from the table and dashes
text: through a door, Farhan on his heel.
text: Real Rancho jerks out of his inertia and
text: starts running after both of them.
scene_heading: REAL RANCHO.
dialog: No!
text: Raju runs back into the room they were
text: in, looking around wildly. Farhan urges
text: him towards another door.
speaker_heading: RT
dialog: Say, Sat, SIC
text: They barge in through the door of a
text: bathroom. Real Rancho comes galloping
text: after them, sees them and stops. He cocks
text: his gun and aims at them.
dialog: aa a es! a ae
dialog: 165
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: I'm taking Papa’s ashes to the sacred river.
dialog: Can take yours too.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Grab Papa! Here, here.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Here, here!
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Let go of Papa!
text: Cornered, Raju and Farhan scramble
dialog: desperately to the only weapon they
text: find — the commode. Raju drops to his
text: knees beside it, slams back the cover and
text: dangles the urn in the open cavity.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: aa a 2 9g, Fea aa 9 aftafaesty
dialog: ae om dt oT a1
dialog: WT Bt AL caret He!
speaker_heading: mh 5 n
dialog: amr i A vet, wee A TTT)
dialog: a are... Wa et te a fara, fart
dialog: ae a!
text: Real Rancho places his finger on the
dialog: trigger.
text: Raju places his finger on the flush lever.
dialog: ™ 2:
dialog: 1 are caren, F wT cars|
dialog: aa, ¥ dw Prem. a
text: Farhan takes a step towards Real Rancho,
text: bluffing bravely.
dialog: wert
dialog: (aggressively)
text: Farhan reaches out and takes the lid off
text: the urn in Raju’s hand.
dialog: 166
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Tell the truth or Papa is flushed!
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Hand over Papa!
speaker_heading: RAJU
text: Papa goes to the sacred sewer.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Get Papa out of the pot.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: You pull the trigger, I pull the flush.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: T'll count to three.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Whom are you scaring? Fire.
speaker_heading: EMT
dialog: Wy, Tat sez
text: Raju looks into the urn. It’s empty. The
text: colour drains from his face.
dialog: feat ar
dialog: Wel
text: Raju looks behind Real Rancho, at the
text: table covered with urns. He sees the
dialog: correct urn there.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: wat eH at ase omen, afer aa F de
dialog: amr at St asear b oer) Bast?
text: Raju nudges Farhan.
speaker_heading: ER
dialog: aa &?
text: Real Rancho starts to panic now.
scene_heading: REAL RANCHO.
dialog: Two.
text: An incensed Farhan continues his verbal
dialog: barrage.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: fer set & OM aM GS fared wear
speaker_heading: ary WT BT
text: Raju gets up and taps Farhan.
dialog: Er
dialog: aa &?
dialog: 167
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: Raju, scatter the ashes.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: One.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Take us down, and Papa's going down
dialog: the drain.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘What?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: Then grope for him in the gutter.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: What is it, Raju?
dialog: a
dialog: (in a low voice)
dialog: vet oer at oa are) a at are
dialog: q
dialog: aw an
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: (flabbergasted)
dialog: areit?
dialog: areit?
dialog: wert
dialog: (in a frenzy)
dialog: at ae St, act ae ft, F me were
dialog: at a eT)
dialog: (fearfully)
dialog: wet, wel, At |
dialog: wert
dialog: wait He St, are He AT
text: Farhan’s shaking hands drop the lid into
text: the commode. Real Rancho panics and
text: throws down his gun, raising his hands
dialog: in surrender.
speaker_heading: wat! esq TTI
text: Silence descends on the room. Farhan and
text: Raju look at Real Rancho warily. Slowly,
text: Raju kneels by the pot again.
dialog: wm
dialog: (threateningly)
dialog: 168
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: We've got the wrong urn. It’s empty!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Empty?
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Empty?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Empty — we'll empty it out!
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: No, no!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We'll empty it out
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: No! Hands up!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Who are you?
dialog: fract tar
dialog: at ¥ wrist % az
text: Raju jerks the urn downward, into the
dialog: commode.
text: Gelling out in alarm)
dialog: at... @! a4, ae et aka, or at
dialog: ania, wa det er % a! F A wrersarey
dialog: él a dt we a
dialog: Ble?
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM, CHANCHAD
speaker_heading: BHAWAN, SHIMLA -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan, Raju and Real Rancho sit on the
text: bathroom floor. Raju is still holding onto
text: the urn. Farhan holds Real Rancho’s rifle,
text: it’s barrel pointing upward, away from
dialog: everyone.
text: Real Rancho launches into his story.
dialog: gat Fat a TA |B He A oT
dialog: a oa ae H vee fear) ae H ails sey
scene_heading: UM A Fest Tae, AS FS ot GAT, SEAT
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK
text: Chhote (10 years) enters a school compound
text: and pauses, looking around, adjusting his
text: ill-fitted tie. Then, a gradual smile lights
text: up his face. He starts walking.
dialog: 169
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: I am Ranchhoddas.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: I swear on Papa, it’s true. !am Ranchhodas!
dialog: That was Chhote.
speaker_heading: RAJU / FARHAN
dialog: Chhote?
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: He was our gardener’s son. Everyone called
dialog: him Chhote. He stayed on with us after
text: he was orphaned. He did odd jobs around
dialog: the house, ran errands. He had a passion
dialog: for learning.
speaker_heading: faa tat (V.O.)
dialog: at Aer quar afrett ved & ea Fae
dialog: ge ara at
text: Chhote sits in a classroom, smiling, happy
dialog: to be there.
text: He studies on a bench in the school
dialog: compound. Real Rancho (10 years) runs
text: up to him with a pile of books and mouths
text: some instructions to him. Chhote grins
dialog: good-naturedly.
speaker_heading: faa tat (V.O.)
scene_heading: 3 Seer weer Aa AT SA STAT TS
dialog: fergerat ar) At crest He we AT... flor
text: Chhote writes on the board of an empty
text: classroom, solving a complex mathematical
dialog: equation.
text: A TEACHER watches him from the door
dialog: of the classroom.
speaker_heading: faa tat (V.O.)
dialog: war 8)
speaker_heading: apeestt
dialog: am at ara A a sere ay at &
dialog: Terr?
text: Chhote turns and looks at the teacher,
text: wide eyed with fright and guilt.
dialog: 170
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Held wear my old uniform and slip into
dialog: school. And attend any class he liked.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: I took advantage of him. I made him do
dialog: my homework, take my exams. It was
dialog: going well, till one day ...
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Our teacher saw a sixth grader doing tenth
dialog: grade math.
speaker_heading: TEACHER
dialog: Which grade are you in, son? What's
dialog: your name?
speaker_heading: feast tat (V.O.)
dialog: ey ves Ta) oT as one a, safer
dialog: spect + fafoat ar sa 4 ged oe
dialog: aart die AAT |
text: The Teacher leads Chhote down a school
dialog: corridor.
scene_heading: INT. CHANCHAD BHAWAN, SHIMLA
speaker_heading: — DAY
text: An imposing looking man, SHAMALDAS
text: CHANCHAD, sits in his grandiose
text: home. Chhote and the Teacher stand
text: before him.
dialog: saree
dialog: geared gad at 2, ater A a &
dialog: walt |
text: Shamaldas rises from his leather sofa and
text: goes up to the Teacher.
dialog: saree
dialog: ue fearaa 8 cer yey aes Step 2, aie
dialog: R gaa 4, A fe & fe ayer ay
dialog: wed | Fe 42H aa bar seh erm
dialog: (glancing at Chhote)
dialog: feat aet sa fear a afer, yer
scene_heading: END OF FLASHBACK
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM, CHANCHAD
scene_heading: BHAWAN, SHIMLA — DAY
text: Real Rancho continues his reminiscing.
dialog: 171
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: We got caught. Papa was a powerful man,
dialog: so our teacher alerted him before going
dialog: to the Principal.
speaker_heading: SHAMALDAS
dialog: You started it, you will finish it.
speaker_heading: SHAMALDAS
dialog: People pretend to show me respect, but
text: behind my back they mock me as an
dialog: illiterate. I won't let that happen to my
dialog: son. This boy wants to study. I want just
dialog: a degree. Let the game go on. Make this
dialog: kid an engineer and I'll have a degree in
dialog: my son’s name on that wall.
dialog: Rar A onedis F year war) aT |
dialog: ara Sta at fr fet fet & ae ogee
dialog: a feat orett & aren F seh Peer
text: Deeply moved by the story, Farhan and
text: Raju are in tears.
dialog: at aaae sect at — F dt sal fein,
dialog: we um fer a sae omdt a ced ar
dialog: aa oe art war arr?
text: Farhan and Raju smile.
dialog: aed fra wea & ge ert ar FY user
dialog: eat El Got Sah wT) we Aer a Abe
dialog: feet et Ad aa AKI
text: Farhan and Raju exchange a look and
dialog: speak together.
speaker_heading: eM / WT
dialog: aM at aie?
text: Raju places the urn in front of Real
dialog: Rancho.
scene_heading: EXT. CHANCHAD BHAWAN, SHIMLA
speaker_heading: — CONTINUOUS
text: Real Rancho stands in his driveway,
text: watching Chatur’s SUV zoom away.
text: He turns from the SUV with a sigh of
text: relief and looks down at the urn in his
text: hands. He lifts the lid to look inside
text: and does a double take. He peers into
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: I went to London for four years, he went
dialog: to college as me. He'd promised to cut
dialog: contact with all after getting the degree.
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: But he always said, “I will not meet but
dialog: then what will you people do? Two idiots
dialog: will come looking for me.”
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: He really misses you both. I'll give you
dialog: his address, go to him. But please keep
dialog: my secret.
speaker_heading: FARHAN / RAJU
dialog: What secret?
text: it, upturns it — to no avail. It’s empty.
text: In panic and anger, he yells after the
text: retreating SUV.
dialog: fract tar
dialog: WT... Ta!
text: Just then, an attendant rushes to him with
text: a similar urn in his hands.
dialog: 330
dialog: at sat 2)
scene_heading: EXT. ROADS — MOMENTS LATER
text: From the backseat of the SUV, an anxious
text: Chatur pesters Farhan and Raju.
dialog: ude ¢ aa sy eT oa? ao ae
dialog: ares eH 8?
text: Raju is at the wheel. Farhan is sitting
text: next to him.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: aaeded H 1 a a aa ae omer
speaker_heading: RET
speaker_heading: Sa Be SH HEI
dialog: age _
dialog: ey wel WN we 2?
dialog: wert
dialog: ere |
speaker_heading: REAL RANCHO
dialog: Papa!
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: You got the wrong urn, Sit. Papa is in
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: What the hell’s going on? Who was that
dialog: gun guy?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Complicated story. Without subtitles. You
dialog: will not understand.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ignore it.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Where are we going?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ladakh.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Ladakh! Why?
speaker_heading: EM
dialog: var a fre
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: School teacher?
text: Chatur brays with laughter, in his typical
dialog: style.
dialog: aa ,
dialog: arecti? a Ue age ofasee ait
dialog: at wit afer
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: D for Donkey man!
dialog: wa ; ;
dialog: vee die F qaqa aime &
dialog: nect fafrar etat Slt ae HEAT
dialog: $4
text: A clothes peg holds a notepad dangling
text: from the rear view mirror of the SUV.
text: Raju pulls it off and clips it onto his nose,
text: as Farhan plugs cotton into his ears, both
dialog: shutting out Chatur.
dialog: 174
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: To meet Rancho.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: What's he doing in Ladakh?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No clue. We have the address of a
dialog: school.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I'm Vice President of Rockledge
dialog: Corporation, and he ... A for Apple, B
dialog: for Ball ...
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Next week I will sign a huge deal with
dialog: Phunsukh Wangdu and he ...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: % fee AA ar) SA AT AMS HT Se ATI
dialog: al we at BT aT!
text: The SUV travels through stunning
text: landscapes. Farhan looks out of the window,
dialog: remembering,
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK:
scene_heading: INT. AUDITORIUM, ICE — DAY
text: The auditorium is packed with students.
text: They listen to the commanding voice of
dialog: the Director.
dialog: sl Se Fe
dialog: ay Yo ney wae ae Jee SS a
dialog: ay?
text: Chatur, sitting in the front row, pipes
text: up eagerly, along with almost everyone
dialog: else.
speaker_heading: CHATUR / STUDENTS
dialog: Neil Armstrong, Sir.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: And he ... A for Apple, B for Ball ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Today my respect for that idiot shot up.
dialog: Most of us went to college just for a
dialog: degree. No degree meant no plum job,
dialog: no pretty wife ... no credit card, no social
dialog: status. None of this mattered to him. He
dialog: was in college for the joy of learning. He
dialog: never cared if he was first or last.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Who was the first man on the Moon?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Obviously, it is Neil Armstrong. We all
dialog: know it. Who was the second?
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Don’t waste your time, it’s not important.
dialog: Nobody remembers the man who comes
dialog: second.
text: Rancho, Farhan and Raju, sitting together
text: in the back row, exchange looks.
dialog: a née ae, sea aofat ga aera
dialog: aah, arret ate ate eer & fac
dialog: vet, srr ea FY Ger er
text: Unimpressed by the Director’s words,
text: Rancho shifts restlessly. He glances at his
text: friends. They're both transfixed by the
dialog: Director.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: This is your last lap, my friends Put the
text: medal on the pedal. Accelerator dabao.
dialog: Go out there and make history!
text: The auditorium reverberates with applause.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Any questions?
text: Raju raises his hand tentatively.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: ‘Yes?
dialog: 176
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Soon, 26 companies will be here with job
dialog: offers. You'll have a job even before your
dialog: final exam.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: . SR Tweet Hove et aah a er
dialog: a ae .. ot vari ofa... wet or?
text: Chatur and a few other students snigger.
dialog: Settee
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: aft ye aaa? oie me 2 fh aa
dialog: a aaa som FI
text: Farhan raises his hand.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (raising his eyebrows)
dialog: As expected.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Please come on stage. Everybody give them
dialog: a big hand. Come on stage. Come!
text: Students start clapping. Rancho rubs
text: his hand across his face in exasperation.
text: Looking trapped, Farhan and Raju make
text: their way slowly to the stage.
speaker_heading: STEER
dialog: area, omga, Bre Ge HE eH!
text: As Farhan and Raju climb the steps to
text: the stage, the Director goes up to them,
text: continuing to speak.
dialog: Settee
dialog: fet a ama a4 a adie & aaa
dialog: ae egy 4 are arg 2)
dialog: 177
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sir, suppose a student gets a job. But
dialog: narrowly fails the final exam, will he still
dialog: have the job?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Very good question. Anyone else with the
dialog: same question?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Come, come, don't waste my time!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: For the last four years they've been our
text: most consistent students. Consistently last
dialog: in every exam.
text: A few students laugh again, Chatur among
dialog: them.
text: Rancho watches through narrowed,
text: troubled eyes.
text: The Director leads the cringing Farhan
text: and Raju to the centre of the stage.
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: aH ae Siar ear et at ofa
dialog: & oer or frre & ey ae F aay aT
dialog: aa &1 at sere & vat fear
text: Chatur brays loudly. But most students
text: are not laughing anymore. Rancho looks
text: deeply disturbed and angry.
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: ws 2 are feat ert | Sa OT aT
dialog: Ga at a sb ater o ae oraz aa
dialog: & wa 2) oe waeét ee) Stet ae
speaker_heading: Ties F fear GRR) Gere ws
dialog: STS |
text: As Farhan and Raju stand there, battered,
text: the Director stares piercingly at Rancho.
text: Rancho looks back at him steadily, anger
text: flashing in his eyes.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Give them a big hand, please everybody.
text: he Director starts clapping. No one else
dialog: Ping.
dialog: joins in.
dialog: 178
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Come my geniuses, come. Their brains
dialog: will fecch a handsome price. Cause they're
text: completely unused.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: And to answer their question, the exam
dialog: won't affect their jobs because no company
dialog: will hire them anyway! They're so unique,
dialog: their names will be written in gold -
dialog: ‘Farhanitrate’ and ‘Prerajulisation’.
scene_heading: EXT. WATER TANK STEPS, ICE -
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: Rancho, Farhan and Raju sprawl on the
text: wide steps leading up to the tank. They
dialog: are drunk.
dialog: wert
dialog: (slurring)
dialog: Aret TT seneary eee fear | ayes Te,
dialog: Goal sa wre ait wad aT
text: Raju suddenly raises his hand to the
dialog: heavens.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: ward! F ae-ag ers Su, caret orrcafeat
dialog: (stumbling to his feet)
dialog: aa Uh A ae Se) aaa al se sfaar
dialog: aq va a
text: Rancho cracks up, holding on to Farhan's
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: ae Fo oer S41 wee ae A yas var
dialog: Bab, TET!
dialog: u, ara Hr aut & wer & aan?
text: Rancho sips his drink, still laughing.
dialog: Er
dialog: (to Rancho)
dialog: wat Fay a, atl ae ee A ZT
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He screwed us! In front of everyone.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: God, I'll give up mear, light a 1000 incense
dialog: sticks. Do me just one favor — pick Virus
dialog: from this world!
speaker_heading: RAJU
text: Burn him in hell. Fry Virus-nuggets in
dialog: bubbling hot oil, God!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You think God is a contract killer?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You shut up. You're in the centre of the
dialog: photo every year. We're rotting in the
dialog: qa & aa Aree F ge } Get Pasay
dialog: &, em aie ard Bes H BS w Ae Z, a!
dialog: a
dialog: a
dialog: b al,
dialog: i
dialog: wife 9a ait a are 2) sfafrattr ar
dialog: do 2, Yr) ar Gert gar & aan 2?
text: Rancho grabs Farhan's rucksack from next
dialog: to him.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: aa at ar ar 21
dialog: a aa ae wey Pet
text: Rancho opens the bag and empties it,
text: picking out an envelope from the spilled
dialog: contents.
dialog: wert
dialog: Ha! He!
dialog: ht
dialog: (holding up the envelope)
dialog: art a 2% 2 a a1 a de oS
speaker_heading: We FEI
dialog: 180
dialog: corner. This year we may fall out of the
dialog: photo altogether.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Know why I come first?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RANCHO.
dialog: Because I love machines. Engineering is
dialog: my passion. Know your passion?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: That's my bag.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Be quiet.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: What are you up to?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: This ...
dialog: letter.
dialog: is your passion. Go post this
dialog: at afer & war at?
text: Farhan snatches the envelope from
dialog: Rancho.
text: Rancho snatches the envelope back from
dialog: Farhan.
dialog: wert
dialog: at!
dialog: ara at vet cat a aa fre a
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Istvan.
dialog: art feat aed at at aft oy are
dialog: faze eee B se A sae Heh a cee
text: Raju sips his rum and chuckles appreciatively
dialog: at the nickname.
dialog: atl at arr ee frat ar tare 31
text: A beat.
dialog: fe | wre ae a oT, at afer decree
dialog: oT, at ara st at wet ed?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 181
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: 5 years ago he wrote this for his favorite
dialog: wildlife photographer, André ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He wanted to train with him in Hungary.
dialog: But in fear of his dad, Hitler Qureshi,
dialog: never posted it.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Quit engineering, marry photography,
dialog: follow your talent.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: If Lata Mangeshkar’s dad forced her to
dialog: be a fast bowler and Sachin Tendulkar’s
dialog: dad pushed him to be a singer, imagine
dialog: the disaster?
text: Rancho fixes his gaze on Farhan.
dialog: _
dialog: a wae war 2 A aa da were? ara
dialog: eam Gea & ST 4, aie ont He eer
dialog: & ast a1
text: Raju gets on his haunches and bows his
text: head in front of Rancho.
dialog: (to Raju)
dialog: walle q sei 2) seit) a ea, seer
dialog: aa te) safrat ar 2, ayfeat Serer
dialog: e1 a ee & few, we seq St et H
dialog: fa, wm ata & fer at wae A scar
dialog: aem, amt Fe?
dialog: it
dialog: (indicating Raju)
dialog: (indicating Farhan)
speaker_heading: Uh AT AL A BI
text: Farhan is struck by a thought.
dialog: a
dialog: ne gat fet ST eat Fs sea A
dialog: aie seat
dialog: ow ey
dialog: ae
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Do you get it? Idiot! Loves Photography,
dialog: but is marrying machines.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Your Holiness Guru Ranchhoddas
dialog: engineering is my girlfriend and wife
dialog: both. But I still fail. Why?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Explain,
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: ’Cause you're a coward. Scared of the
dialog: future. Look at this, more holy rings
dialog: than fingers. One ring per fear: exam,
dialog: sister’s dowry and job. With such fear of
dialog: tomorrow, how will you live today? How
dialog: will you focus on studies?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Strange buddies! One lives in fear and the
text: other in pretense.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You live in both — fear and pretense.
dialog: seh
dialog: 1 Y sear wate!
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: tt aq a! a a, fear 9 sear 2, afer
dialog: alert Bl Seat B!
dialog: wy.
dialog: a!
text: Farhan and Raju guffaw with laughter at
dialog: their observation.
dialog: Yat
dialog: U1 aa, aa, © ee! ee!
dialog: wy
dialog: wl usqeq ear eof 2 arb Her
dialog: fxn |
dialog: (challengingly)
dialog: @ feat at at & fear ar ates
dialog: edt
dialog: a
dialog: ~
dialog: aa
dialog: a
dialog: (protesting weakly)
dialog: aa ae ait wet ar wet Bae sige
dialog: at a al
dialog: et a 3
speaker_heading: ge mart & TST
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: a at aa, A at aa! F azar area
dialog: 183
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey! I am not scared!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Listen, he loves Pia but is scared to tell
dialog: her ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: What rubbish!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Easy to offer free advice, tough to follow
dialog: it. Have the guts? Go confess to Pia.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Say!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: There’s no connection!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Deep connection, Your Holiness.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Listen, if you confess to Pia. I'll tell
dialog: & -— ome g fear at amet fer a art
dialog: ar ater at at Fo or Se gear A
dialog: a
text: The words of his friends seem to have set
text: wheels in motion in Rancho’s mind.
dialog: mh
dialog: a aan et ater ae, ater sar!
text: Rancho gets on his feet. He descends a
text: few steps unsteadily.
dialog: Yat
dialog: ad!
text: Farhan and Raju don’t move from where
text: they are. Rancho takes a gulp of his drink,
text: almost as if he is gathering courage.
dialog: Yat
dialog: ad!
text: His friends finally pay attention.
dialog: 184
dialog: Dad — No engineering, ’'m marrying
dialog: photography.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: And [ll dump my tings before the job
dialog: interview. Deal?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Have the guts?
speaker_heading: RAJU
text: His Holiness is speechless.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Let's go.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Follow me.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: fenere?
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: wet?
text: Rancho descends a few more steps. A
text: reckless smile comes onto his face.
dialog: Yat
dialog: ae |
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: wel?
scene_heading: EXT. GATE, DIRECTOR’S HOUSE,
scene_heading: ICE — MOMENTS LATER
text: The Director's house is in darkness except
dialog: for the florescent lamps lighting the
text: driveway. The nameplate at the gate reads
dialog: ‘Viru Sahastrabuddhe’.
text: Farhan falls on the nameplate.
speaker_heading: REM
text: Raju peers through the bars of the closed
dialog: gate.
speaker_heading: WL
dialog: tte ot, oe Sri art dt vet 21
dialog: & sum, ¥ ser aa G1 oer
text: Rancho pushes open the gate.
dialog: 185
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: ‘Where?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Let’s go.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey Virus! P'm anti-Virus.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hope no dog here.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Cowards! Let's go.
dialog: wert
dialog: vu, aa a gat gee ae Sa aT
dialog: at # aaa oat Sr
text: Farhan makes the sound of a siren.
speaker_heading: WH
dialog: Tee Tee
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S BEDROOM,
scene_heading: DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Director, fast asleep in his bed, gives
text: a start, but continues sleeping.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN, DIRECTOR'S HOUSE,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Rancho and Raju steal through the garden
text: to a trellis grill attached to a wall of the
text: house. They start climbing the grill.
scene_heading: EXT. GATE, DIRECTOR’S HOUSE,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan attacks the Director’s nameplate
text: with a rock.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN, DIRECTOR'S HOUSE,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Rancho and Raju have climbed the trellis
text: and reached the top of the wall.
scene_heading: EXT. GATE, DIRECTOR’S HOUSE,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan has gouged out key alphabets from
text: the Director’s nameplate. The nameplate
text: now reads ‘Viru § buddhe’.
dialog: 186
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: If there is any danger, I'll give the Virus
dialog: alert.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Shh, sshh!
speaker_heading: EM
scene_heading: INT. PIA’S ROOM, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE —- CONTINUOUS
text: Rancho and Raju are at an open bedroom
text: window. The bedroom is dark, just the
text: outline of a sleeping figure under a quilt,
text: on the bed is visible.
text: As Raju takes a swig from his rum bottle,
text: Rancho climbs into the room clumsily.
dialog: Ty
speaker_heading: T
scene_heading: EXT. DRIVEWAY, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE —- CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan deflates the tyres of the Director’s
text: car, laughing delightedly.
scene_heading: INT. PIA’S ROOM, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE —- CONTINUOUS
text: Rancho weaves his way to the bed. The
text: person sleeping on the bed is completely
text: covered by a quilt — except for her
dialog: hand.
text: Plonking down on a stool beside the bed,
text: Rancho smiles at the hand.
text: Raju makes himself comfortable on the
text: window sill. He picks up a guitar lying
text: near the window.
dialog: 187
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: Beware — Virus inside.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hoi ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Shh!
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: 2! ¥ games fe ¢?
dialog: frat:
text: The quilt moves suddenly.
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: art 22
text: Rancho clasps down on the hand to stop
text: it from moving.
dialog: ga... fart aa) F wrest Biss |
dialog: a fawe A at aa aa fee F car
dialog: TST |
text: Raju starts singing.
dialog: a 5
dialog: ES a FE...
dialog: far... Ger aa Ree 4 faa ar aes
dialog: fare a1
text: Dream sequence cut — Rancho and Pia
text: cootchie-coo on Pia’s scooter, Raju’s Father
text: sitting between them.
dialog: wal
dialog: Hom yt ash Get aa wet FT
speaker_heading: fact RAT EI
text: The hand sticking out from under the
text: blanket makes a thumbs-up sign.
dialog: 188
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Need background score?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Pia!
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Who's it?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Don't yell! It’s me, Ranchhoddas Chanchad.
dialog: Just listen for a moment, then I’m gone
dialog: Say not a word ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Say not a word ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Pia ... Those 22 minutes with you on
dialog: the scooter were the most enchanting 22
dialog: minutes of my life.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I could spend an eternity with you on
text: the scooter.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Wow!
text: Raju continues to sing.
dialog: wy
dialog: ae aT TAT e |
text: Rancho takes ‘Pia’s hand’ in his hands.
dialog: vat @, oH aa Ger S areyy F eager
dialog: we do we Ae ae A ont a1
text: Dream sequence cut — a smiling Pia rides
text: her scooter wearing bridal finery and her
dialog: helmet.
text: Dream sequence cut — the hint ofa smile on
text: her face, Pia walks purposefully, removing
text: her helmet as she walks.
text: Dream sequence cut — Pia and Rancho'’s
text: faces close in for a kiss.
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: (gesturing with her hand)
dialog: wat?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Every night you ride into my dreams on
dialog: your scooter, dressed as a bride.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Instead of a veil, you lift your helmet
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: .. and come close to kiss me.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: But that kiss doesn’t happen.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Why?
dialog: eats are ara ¥ or ond @, sire fax
dialog: Horr oar 2
text: The hand Rancho is talking to, slams
text: on a light switch. The light comes on to
text: reveal the person the hand belongs to, as
text: she sits up.
dialog: si
dialog: are da aét ott & eis
text: Rancho recoils with shock at the sight of
text: Mona, falling off the stool.
text: Raju gets ready to make a run for it.
dialog: org tH att... at aM aA Fra a
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: (wistfully)
dialog: art era |
text: From under the quilt next to Mona, Pia
dialog: emerges.
dialog: frat
dialog: diet! dha F gat cer! are ater aT Sear
dialog: xe -
dialog: 3
dialog: (befuddled)
dialog: a ar 8?
dialog: 190
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Because the noses collide, and I wake
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: The noses never collide, stupid!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I'm sorry, I thought you were Pia.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: I wish I was.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Sister, why did you interrupt? It took him
dialog: four years to say this.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Pia, kiss him. Show that noses don't collide.
dialog: You have my permission, kiss him... He's
dialog: so cute!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Who's this?
dialog: fear
dialog: ler!
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: (looking at Raju)
dialog: at aM a?
text: Panicking, Raju drops the guitar and swings
text: out of the window.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN, DIRECTOR’S HOUSE,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Raju jumps off the wall leading from the
text: window, and lands in the garden below,
text: with a loud thud.
scene_heading: EXT. DIRECTOR’S BEDROOM,
scene_heading: DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Director starts in his sleep again.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN, DIRECTOR’S HOUSE,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Finding himself still in one piece, Raju
text: tills with laughter. The rum bottle in
text: his hand is intact too, and he takes a
text: celebratory swig from it, still lying on
dialog: the ground.
scene_heading: EXT. PIAS ROOM, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE —- CONTINUOUS
text: Pia is sitting up in bed, and Mona stands
text: beside it, talking to Rancho. Mona is in
text: an advanced stage of pregnancy.
dialog: er
text: (excitedly, holding her belly)
dialog: ua 2, ct oad a @ 4 a, &
dialog: fers | we ere |
dialog: 191
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: My sister!
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: ‘When you were talking, he kicked. First
dialog: time!
dialog: it
dialog: ‘i?
speaker_heading: ART
dialog: aa 4 Sifas & yer ari af ares S aT
dialog: fe av 4 efafae ar ver 2 at slaer
dialog: ei
dialog: (confiused)
dialog: Ades?
dialog: frar
dialog: es at eet
text: Rancho addresses Mona's belly.
dialog: vei
dialog: wea 8) ae se Hea ar fermper &
dialog: ctfet J are aera Sit cre feet Stet | SaTeT
dialog: srr a, age fet 4 aa waar aie
dialog: aera sitet et Fer
text: Mona stiffens with surprise.
speaker_heading: TAT
dialog: (holding her belly)
dialog: eee! Bt fres! far A ate “ater sa
dialog: ae” |
dialog: veit / frat
dialog: att sy ae
dialog: 192
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He? How do you know the baby is a
dialog: ‘he’ or ‘she?
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Papa asked the astrologer if we'd get an
dialog: engineer or a doctor.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Meaning?
speaker_heading: PIA
text: Boy becomes an engineer, gitl a doctor.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Champ, better stay inside. Out here it’s a
dialog: circus. Your grandpa is the ringmaster. He'll
dialog: crack his whip — “Run! Life is a race. Be
dialog: an engineer”. But you follow your heart.
dialog: If Grandpa scares you then put your hand
dialog: on your heart and say, “Aal izz well”.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Ha! He kicked! Say it again “Aal izz
dialog: well”.
speaker_heading: RANCHO / PIA
dialog: Aal izz well!
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: (gasps)
dialog: @ Are! arr! flan ater
text: Mona takes Pia and Rancho’s hands and
text: places them on her belly along with her
dialog: own.
dialog: (loudly, in unison)
dialog: sitet Sy at
text: All three of them feel the baby’s kick at
text: the same time and are overjoyed.
text: From outside comes another, much louder
text: chant. Rancho, Pia and Mona look up
dialog: in alarm.
speaker_heading: EM / 1 OS)
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT DOOR, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE —- CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan and Raju urinate into the Director's
text: mailbox.
speaker_heading: wert / WH (OS)
dialog: SF Fa!
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S BEDROOM,
scene_heading: DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Director wakes up with a start.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Kicked again. Once more ~ “Aal izz
dialog: well”.
speaker_heading: RANCHO / PIA / MONA
dialog: Aal izz well!
speaker_heading: FARHAN / RAJU
dialog: Aal...
speaker_heading: FARHAN / RAJU
dialog: .. izz well!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Who is it?
scene_heading: INT. PIAS ROOM, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: In panic, Pia pushes Rancho towards the
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Go!
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT DOOR, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Oblivious to the imminent threat, Farhan
text: and Raju are still urinating on the Director's
text: mailbox.
dialog: gwar ot faedt Sorat 1 a @ - earth
speaker_heading: ae 4 - oT Aer
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM, DIRECTOR'S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: The Director heads to the front door
text: with a torch.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT DOOR, DIRECTOR’S
scene_heading: HOUSE, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Rancho reaches his friends in a run. He
text: pulls them away from the mailbox.
text: The lights inside the house come on.
scene_heading: mE TT! BE TT, a, a, aT, oT
dialog: wae oT, oT...
text: The trio charges away from the house.
dialog: 194
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You sent hate-mail to Dad, here's pee-
dialog: mail for you!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Enjoy the pee-mail, happy reading!
dialog: wert
text: (as Rancho flings Raju’s blanket over
dialog: him)
speaker_heading: ay aa FI
text: The front door opens and the Director
text: rushes out.
dialog: 
text: He skids on the urine-slick floor, steadying
dialog: himself in time.
dialog: 
dialog: wert
dialog: (yells)
scene_heading: aT St Te STAT, Ale ATTA
text: The Director sees three people run out
dialog: of his gate.
text: As the other two run out of sight, Raju,
text: with drunk bravado, fires a parting
dialog: shot.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: ait ara...
text: For just a moment, the randomly moving
text: beam of the Director's torch catches Raju’s
text: face, before his friends yank him away.
dialog: wart!
dialog: 195
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Not on me buddy!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Your future son-in-law.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: And the wedding party!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Rastogi!
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING FOYER, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The three run into a college building,
text: whooping and laughing.
scene_heading: EXT. GATE, DIRECTOR’S HOUSE,
speaker_heading: ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: The Director hurries down his driveway,
text: pointing his torch in the direction the
dialog: boys ran in.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING STAIRS, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The trio runs up a flight of steps in the
dialog: college building.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING FOYER, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: A security guard runs into the building,
text: flashing his torch around searchingly.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING CORRIDOR, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The trio charges down a corridor, Raju still
text: swilling down rum from his bottle.
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM, ICE —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The boys barge into a classroom, hooting
text: with delight. They vault over desks and
text: dive to the ground, just in time.
text: The security guard enters the classroom
text: and flashes his torch around. He doesn’t
dialog: 196
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Security, that way!
text: see anyone. He leaves, shutting the door
text: behind him.
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM, ICE - NEXT
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: The trio is fast asleep on the ground,
text: behind desks and chairs
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: So you all have already learnt about the
dialog: simple pendulum. Now let’s get down to
dialog: the advanced study about the compound
text: pendulum. It’s an irregular object oscillating
dialog: about its own axis. Let me demonstrate
dialog: to you.
text: Rancho wakes up, disoriented. He glances
text: at his sleeping friends, then creeps up to
text: a desk and peers over it. The classroom
text: is packed with students. A Professor is
text: teaching. He holds up pencil.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: CLASS
dialog: Pencil.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: What's inside?
speaker_heading: CLASS
dialog: Lead.
text: Rancho’s peeping head is joined by
text: Farhan’s. Both sets of eyes go wide with
dialog: horror.
dialog: 197
text: Rancho and Farhan straighten up stealthily
text: and slide into chairs at the back of the
dialog: class.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: Good. Lead is the axis to this pencil. Even
dialog: you can be a compound pendulum, if you
dialog: oscillate about ...
text: The Director strides into the classroom,
text: snapping his fingers at the Professor. The
text: hapless Professor falls silent. The Director
text: stands at the head of the class and scans
text: it, his face contorted with anger. His gaze
text: travels over Rancho and Farhan.
speaker_heading: BIST DIRECTOR
dialog: ay wir wet 2? Where is Raju Rastogi?
speaker_heading: RAJU (O.S.)
dialog: Present, Sir!
text: Startled, Rancho and Farhan turn around
text: as does the rest of the class.
text: A dishevelled and drunk Raju comes to his
text: feet. Rancho and Farhan, trepidation on
text: their faces, help him steady himself.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hi! Everybody is here!
dialog: Good Morning, Sir!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: zt DIRECTOR
dialog: (in a dangerous voice) Where were you last night?
dialog: wet Ud A Get a?
dialog: Before Raju can say anything, Rancho
text: pipes up.
dialog: 198
dialog: wat
dialog: ae Ug at wer am ae Ba ae Jee
dialog: at TT A, A
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (looking at Rancho, puzzled)
speaker_heading: TET?
dialog: Sl et Fe
dialog: (with mock amazement)
dialog: React?
text: Farhan joins in.
dialog: :
dialog: aoa oo ca a ae aa safe ter
dialog: fer wer & aR...
dialog: a
dialog: Fa TA He W Bl?
text: Farhan and Rancho tug at Raju, trying to
dialog: get him to shut up.
speaker_heading: Brstaet
dialog: wa EE a A?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Aah ... hmmm ...
dialog: edt
scene_heading: BASIN Alek, AC SISA ALT eT WS
speaker_heading: frat ae Sa, SSAA eT
dialog: wh
dialog: (to Farhan)
dialog: et We ferar?
dialog: 199
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Studying all night, Sir.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hasn't slept for two nights, that’s why he
text: looks scruffy.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Not slept?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: What did you study?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Induction motor, Sir. The whole
dialog: chapter.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Whole chapter?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We. Mel Shh, shh.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: In that case, Mr. Raju Rastogi ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: (shouting out, military style)
dialog: Yes, Sir!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Can you tell us how an induction motor
dialog: starts?
text: Without hesitation, Raju brings his hands
text: together in a loud clap, and proceeds to
dialog: answer the question.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Verrrrrrroooommmmmmmm! Vvroom
dialog: vroom...
text: All the students laugh. Rancho and Farhan,
text: horrified, try to stop Raju.
scene_heading: we / it FARHAN / RANCHO
dialog: WW .. W.. Raju ... Raju ...
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Stop it!
speaker_heading: RAJU,
dialog: (petering off
scene_heading: Virrrmmm... rmm... rmm
text: An empty rum bottle tumbles down from
text: under the desks.
dialog: 200
text: Chatur picks up the bottle and shows it
dialog: to the Director.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Sir, rum!
text: The Director looks at the still beaming
text: Raju menacingly.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Mr. Rastogi, ler’s have a cup of tea in
dialog: my office.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE -
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Door to the Director's office opens.
text: Raju enters. Sober, cleaned up and
dialog: humbled.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: (meekly)
dialog: Sir?
text: The Director sits at his desk, his laptop before
text: him. He looks up, his face inscrutable.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Close the door.
text: Raju closes the door and stands there,
dialog: fearful.
dialog: zey HT ora 8?
speaker_heading: mH
speaker_heading: et, ARI
dialog: 201
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Can you type?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes, Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: wm dee cea art? Will you type a letter for me?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: (surprised, swallowing nervously)
dialog: Definitely, Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Come, sit.
text: Raju walks towards the desk.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sit, 'm sorry, Sir...
text: He sits opposite the Director. The Director
text: turns his laptop towards him.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Please type. ‘Dear Sir,
text: Raju starts to type diligently.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: It is my painful duty to inform you that
dialog: your son is rusticated ...”
text: Raju looks up.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: No, sorry, delete that. Go back
dialog: (as Raju starts typing again)
dialog: Your son, Mr. Raju Rastogi...
text: Raju looks up, stricken.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: ... is rusticated from the Imperial College of
dialog: Engineering. Come on, type, go on ...
dialog: 202
text: Raju starts breaking down. Tears roll
text: down his face.
speaker_heading: WH RAJU
dialog: (pleadingly) Iell kill my dad, Sir.
dialog: aa ae aa ae
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Please type!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sir, please, Sir!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: My decision is final and irrevocable.
speaker_heading: ww RAJU
dialog: (sobbing) He lives just to see me become an
dialog: at farer fay safere &@ far yer efeafrax engineer.
speaker_heading: aA ta ah, ACI
speaker_heading: setae DIRECTOR
dialog: a qa A cat 4 aq eel A ved Should’ve thought of that before peeing
dialog: art afen af on my door.
speaker_heading: ww RAJU
dialog: (begs) Sir, give me one chance ... please.
dialog: atl wm Hat aie & df ay, etic
dialog: we Her df) ae ait aes
text: The clock strikes 2 pm. The door opens
text: and Govind walks in with the shaving
text: kit. The Director gets up from his chair.
speaker_heading: STEaeT DIRECTOR
dialog: oe @) der # 4 oe am frat a Ok, remove your name from the letter
dialog: ae Mesa wes HAA Sat a1 AT and put in Rancho’s. I know he was with
dialog: vat & fe wa aed at gee ara ari Ae you last night. Be my witness and T’ll
dialog: fem a ont sie F Ge att a spare you.
dialog: set Praprefar |
dialog: 203
text: He lies down on the couch. Govind readies
dialog: him for the shave.
dialog: el
text: Opera music fills the room. A shell-shocked
text: Raju stands next to the desk, rooted to
dialog: the spot.
text: As Govind begins lathering the Director,
text: tears pour down Raju’s face. Images of
text: his Father, Mother and Sister flash before
text: him in quick succession. And then one
text: of Rancho enveloping him in a hug after
dialog: saving his Father's life.
text: He starts sobbing uncontrollably at the
dialog: choice he has to make.
text: When he finally falls silent, there’s a dark
text: hopelessness in his eyes. He starts walking.
text: Unmindful of the wire his foot gets tangled
text: in, he steps up on the sill of a large, open
text: window in the room. He stands there a
text: moment, facing the skyline.
text: There's a crash, and a lamp in the room
text: is yanked towards the window.
text: The Director and Govind look up
text: startled.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS, ICE —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
scene_heading: PBS 5 — JAANE NAHI DENGE TUJHE
dialog: 204
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You have 72 minutes to think.
dialog: We won't let go of you
dialog: We're not done yet... no way
dialog: art we & ast
dialog: ont at Bh ae
text: The lamp from the Director's room dangles
text: outside the window, suspended by the wire
text: Raju’s foot had got tangled in.
text: Raju’s twisted body lies on the ground,
text: three floors below.
text: People rush towards him, from all over.
text: From under Raju’ lifeless face, blood trickles
text: out, slowly gathering momentum.
scene_heading: EXT. / INT. ROADS / AMBULANCE
speaker_heading: — MOMENTS LATER
text: Rancho, his clothes smeared with blood,
text: races through the traffic on Pia’s scooter,
text: making way for the ambulance behind
dialog: him.
text: Inside the ambulance, a distraught Pia
text: and Farhan sit with the unconscious Raju,
text: willing him to hold on.
speaker_heading: SONG CONTINUES
dialog: ay a wt & Set at
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL — CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
text: A) Raju is wheeled in on a stretcher.
dialog: The Medical Staff, Rancho, Farhan
text: and Pia all running alongside the
dialog: stretcher.
dialog: B) Doctors operate on Raju.
dialog: We won't let go of you
dialog: Were not done yet... no way
dialog: The heavens may beckon you
dialog: But welll take up arms against God
dialog: And its not a fight we intend to lose
text: C) Rancho and Farhan, in blood-stained
text: clothes, crying and anxious, wait
text: outside in the corridor.
speaker_heading: SONG CONTINUES
speaker_heading: ar & Tae BRT
dialog: ame Fora ay erat at
dialog: ord a garer OF air aH...
speaker_heading: MUSIC FADES OUT
scene_heading: INT. WARD, HOSPITAL — DAY
text: Raju lies on a hospital bed. He is heavily
text: bandaged and has tubes and wires coming
text: out of his body. His eyes are open and
dialog: vacant.
dialog: Rancho, Pia, Farhan and Raju’s Mother
text: are gathered at the foot of the bed.
dialog: fear
dialog: veil... SH Aser er Sea |
text: Rancho looks at the monitor.
dialog: fear
dialog: (loudly)
dialog: a!
text: The monitor begins to beep. The numbers
text: and graphs that denote Raju’s heart rate
text: start fluctuating.
text: Pia takes Farhan, Rancho and Raju’s Mother
text: away from Raju's bed.
dialog: 206
dialog: You may try your best to escape
dialog: Try with all your might
dialog: But there is no way
dialog: we are letting go of you
dialog: We won't let go of you
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Rancho, watch that monitor.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Raju!
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: aa tar |
text: Rancho listens to Pia intently. Suddenly
text: something flashes in his eyes. He walks
text: up to Raju’s bed.
dialog: (excitedly)
dialog: aime ay, 7S Te ay a aa aH
dialog: amd ai a ot ca at, aT
dialog: ar be Tz |
text: Pia, Farhan and Raju’s Mother look at
text: Rancho, puzzled.
text: Rajuts POV: Rancho's distorted image covers
text: the screen. His voice is distorted.
dialog: vert oftare at ete ger e wa... far ae
dialog: a Um ae som dt aaa ae STAT! aa
dialog: aa seat att |
text: Pia and Farhan are moved by Rancho's
dialog: brave attempt at lightheartedness. Raju’s
text: Mother starts crying.
scene_heading: faar ar eee HiT eS 2S AE aTaTI
text: Raju’ POV: A distorted image of Rancho
text: speaks in a warbling voice.
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: PIA
text: His body is paralysed with shock, but his
dialog: mind is alert He can see and hear us. Please
dialog: don’t cry in front of him. Speak to him
dialog: normally, motivate him, joke around.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Good news, Raju. Your dad’s recovered
dialog: The new medicine worked.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Is this your family tradition? As one man
text: in the family gets up, the other conks out?
dialog: Come, wake up.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Your dad wants Pia’s scooter.
dialog: war diaat 2... & SP ate ct aah Ste
text: Raju remains as still and unmoving as
text: before. In his mind, however, he imagines
dialog: in technicolour ...
scene_heading: EXT. INDIA GATE — DAY
text: Raju’s Father rides Pia’s scooter with
text: a beatific smile on his face. He is still
text: unshaven and clad in just his vest and
dialog: long underwear.
scene_heading: INT. WARD HOSPITAL — NIGHT
text: Rancho carries a laptop to Raju’s bed and
text: places it on the tray table in front of him.
text: Pia is with him.
dialog: aaa 1, area area AI
text: Farhan’s face fills the laptop screen. He
text: holds up a letter.
dialog: 
dialog: wet
text: In the common room, Farhan leans forward
dialog: wa Aer a mea @1 oie at wr
dialog: 2
text: into the web camera, forcing a playful
text: note into his voice.
dialog: 208
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Should I give it to him? Hope he won't
dialog: dent it?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Raju, Farhan is live on webcam. From
dialog: the hostel.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Look, Virus has cancelled your suspension
dialog: order. Problem solved. ... Wake up now.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Everything's resolved! You hear that?
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: ae! eT aT teint
text: Raju does not move. Farhan leans back,
dialog: upset.
scene_heading: INT. WARD, HOSPITAL —- NIGHT
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
dialog: A) Rancho, Fathan and Raju ride triple
text: seat on Pia’s scooter, racing to college
dialog: for their exam.
text: B) The three friends pop their heads
dialog: out of barrels of water in the
dialog: bathroom.
dialog: C) They fool around on the bum
dialog: seats.
dialog: D) Farhan and Rancho flank a
text: blindfolded Raju on the parapet
text: of the tank. Rancho removes his
text: blindfold. Raju sees where he is
text: and jumps into Rancho’s arms with
dialog: fright.
text: Rancho sits at Raju’s bedside, holding his
text: hand in both of his, remembering all the
dialog: good times they had together.
dialog: at wey ar Tape e
speaker_heading: sb wey H ASaSIT Rit
text: Rancho smiles through his tears at the
text: memories. He looks at Raju and places a
text: tender hand on his forehead.
dialog: at tt ant at a ang
dialog: Hah war Te at ad
dialog: art # wer 2 art Far
dialog: 209
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rise and shine, buddy.
dialog: In this journey of few strides
dialog: On the path called life don't quit...
dialog: Just celebrate the ride
dialog: Listen please to those who love you
dialog: Every dark night is followed by sunrise
dialog: Don't shut out those who love you
scene_heading: INT. WARD, HOSPITAL — DAY
speaker_heading: SONG CONTINUES
dialog: It’s Raju’s birthday and the whole ward is
text: decorated for a party. Rancho and Farhan
text: lead a mob of boisterous students with party
text: hats, balloons and gifts. Rancho carries a
text: cake, Farhan a bottle of rum.
text: They all surround Raju’s bed. Farhan waves
text: the rum bottle in Raju’s face. Rancho, at
dialog: the monitor connected to Raju, indicates
text: that there’s no response.
text: Farhan holds up a dart board with the
text: Director's face on it. A dart hits it. Raju’s
text: monitor readings go wild. Delighted, his
text: friends start pelting the Director's face
dialog: with darts.
text: Pia walks into the festive atmosphere,
text: smiling. Like magic, everyone disappears,
text: leaving Rancho alone. Puzzled, Pia walks
text: up to the dart board — and then turns
text: on Rancho indignantly. Rancho smiles
text: sheepishly — and then tries, too late, to
text: also hide the rum bottle from her.
speaker_heading: MUSIC FADES OUT
scene_heading: INT. WARD, HOSPITAL — DAY
text: Raju’s Mother stands at the foot of his
text: bed in a bright, shiny saree. Rancho and
text: Farhan flank Raju on both sides, addressing
text: him excitedly.
dialog: 210
dialog: We won't let go of you
dialog: We're not done yet ... no way
dialog: We won't let go of you
dialog: We're not done yet ... no way
dialog: air
dialog: a ta, a a at aad 2, att are
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Brand new!
dialog: ararsit
dialog: we a eg af 2, sear ta...
dialog: wa art wach 2, a7
dialog: (voice breaking)
dialog: wae at
dialog: wa! da a, det aT ee?
text: Raju does not react. Desperate and defeated,
text: Raju’s Mother breaks down.
speaker_heading: FADE IN
dialog: at aa H Far kere ar
dialog: oe | Tra F Her Ar
dialog: ae vat ot off a qar ge
dialog: ant a rae Pra a
dialog: oS oT art XY aa & Fat
text: Raju’s Mother runs to the far end of the
text: ward to hide her tears from Raju. Farhan
text: rushes after her and tries to console her,
dialog: 211
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Look, Mom bought a new saree.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: It cost Rs 2000.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Wake up now ..
text: but ten sarees.
dialog: .. She bought not one,
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Look!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey Raju!
speaker_heading: RAJU’S MOTHER
dialog: Cmon tell me ... How do I look?
dialog: Remember the letters Mom would write ...
dialog: Always blessed you with eternal life
dialog: Don't die on her ... you can't die
dialog: Look at us now, don't turn away
dialog: Smile once to show you care
dialog: Wake up, don't torment us anymore
text: bolster her spirits. But as she collapses,
text: weeping, into his arms, his own despair
text: shows in his eyes.
text: At Raju’s bedside, Rancho rants at his
dialog: comatose friend for making his Mother
dialog: cry.
text: Next to Raju’s monitor are pictures of his
text: Mother and Father and his sister, Kammo.
dialog: Rancho randomly picks up Kammo’s
text: picture and thrusts it into Raju’s face
text: while chastising him. Raju’s monitor beeps
text: loudly, the graphic lines on it changing
dialog: rapidly.
text: Rancho stops short, looking from the
text: monitor to the picture. A desperate idea
text: takes hold in his mind.
speaker_heading: MUSIC FADES OUT:
dialog: U! at BAT!
text: Rajus POV: A distorted image of Rancho
text: addresses him.
dialog: 10 Gl at oat & at A? ok war
dialog: ome ca at wat Bs
dialog: he
text: Startled, Farhan pops his head out from the
text: corner he was in, looking at Rancho.
dialog: (excitedly)
dialog: aie at at fa cea G: ate: ae Fr,
dialog: ge wt aTeft soo wet ated!
dialog: 212
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey Kammo.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: ‘Ae! Ae did you hear about Kammo? She's
dialog: getting married.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Without any dowry! The bridegroom wants
dialog: nothing at all.
text: Raju’ POV: A distorted image of Rancho
text: continues to speak, as Farhan, gaping at the
text: monitor, walks to the bed.
dialog: air
dialog: ai at!
text: There is rapid movement on the monitor.
text: Farhan joins in with vigour,
dialog: saat sat A seq GM zB!
text: A terrible foreboding seizes Farhan.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: at ..?
dialog: 213
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Nothing at all. He just wants Kammo.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You know who the bridegroom is?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yeah!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes! You know who the bridegroom is?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Guess!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You know him very well!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He loves animals.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Huh ... ?
dialog: var
dialog: oat aet 2!
text: Farhan’s fear is confirmed. In panic, he
text: tries to shut Rancho up.
dialog: wert
dialog: ay at on, wT ae wre gq! ay a oT
dialog: Yet
dialog: wel AT?
text: Raju’s POV: Rancho, distorted, speaks
text: enthusiastically, as a horrified Farhan tries
dialog: to quieten him.
dialog: _
dialog: grt am ae aaa cea!
dialog: (thrusting Kammo’ picture into Farhan’s
dialog: hands)
dialog: at mem ae di aeq a mel,
dialog: wer!
text: Raju’s hand twitches.
dialog: _
dialog: aire at ft at, oA, eT
text: Raju’s hand twitches again. And his mouth.
text: His eyes move.
dialog: ei
dialog: (jubilant)
dialog: & 2! ay, e!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He's going to be a wildlife photographer.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Quiet ... Shhhh ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Didn't get it?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: It’s our Farhan. Farhan will never take any
dialog: dowry. Farhan will marry your sister.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: For Free! Free! Free!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey, hey, hey! Raju, hey!
text: Raju regains consciousness. Rancho is
text: ecstatic, the other patients in the ward
dialog: share his joy.
text: Farhan looks from Kammo’s picture to
text: Raju, aghast.
speaker_heading: wR (V.O.)
dialog: wee ot S24, at AT arr Sta Het aha
dialog: wet a aa Tat At?
text: ‘As Farhan lowers Kammo’s picture, Raju
text: smiles up at him. Before he can muster
text: up a smile in return, Rancho envelopes
text: him in a hug.
dialog: 
dialog: aa ST al ae St! At St AR!
dialog: (to Raju)
dialog: aa fret at var Th set at oer ear
dialog: 2 as) He BMT, sikh? SA!
dialog: ™
dialog: (faintly)
dialog: a
dialog: a / wert
dialog: Bl?
text: Rancho drops his head down, his ear next
text: to Raju’s mouth.
speaker_heading: RANCHO / FARHAN
dialog: Raju!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Raju!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: One kilo lady's finger, 500 grams cottage
dialog: cheese for ‘free’ would’ve woken him. Why
dialog: sacrifice me?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Well done, buddy. So it’s all fixed. Farhan
dialog: will marry your sister.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rancho.
speaker_heading: RANCHO / FARHAN
dialog: Yes?
dialog: 7
text: A grinning Rancho turns to Farhan.
dialog: aa war Tare!
text: Farhan rejoices as relief sweeps over his
dialog: face.
text: A telieved smile lights up Farhan’ face.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, HOSPITAL ~ DAY
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
text: Celebrating Raju’s recovery, Rancho sprints
text: into the ward with a box of sweets, feeding
dialog: a piece to everyone he meets — doctors,
dialog: nurses, patients.
text: Raju, now in a wheelchair, watches him,
text: his eyes welling up. Rancho goes up to
text: him and tenderly feeds him a piece too.
text: Overwhelmed with emotion, they hug
dialog: each other.
dialog: Farhan captures all these moments on
text: his camera.
scene_heading: INT. WARD, HOSPITAL — DAY
text: Raju reclines on his hospital bed as his
text: Mother feeds him lady’s finger with roti.
text: Farhan, sitting by Raju’s side, scrawls
text: something on the cast on his arm. Raju
dialog: 216
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rascals. Stop fibbing.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Lucky escape!
dialog: We won't let go of you
dialog: We're not done yet ... no way
dialog: We won't let go of you
dialog: We're not done yet ... no way
text: raises his arm to see — lady’s finger Rs.
text: 12 kg. He lowers his arm, his expression
text: inscrutable. Then he and Farhan break
text: into laughter simultaneously.
speaker_heading: SONG ENDS.
scene_heading: EXT. FOYER, HOSPITAL — DAY
text: A taxi enters the hospital premises.
scene_heading: INT. WARD, HOSPITAL -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan at the nurse’s station is arranging
dialog: his certificates in files.
text: A nurse walks up to him.
dialog: va
text: Raju, dressed formally, is in a wheelchair.
text: Rancho wheels him out to where Farhan
text: is, as Pia packs his bag at his bed.
dialog: a gee SI
speaker_heading: NURSE
text: It’s waiting.
speaker_heading: Ret
speaker_heading: am ZI
dialog: (to Raju)
dialog: wat?
dialog: Las ,
text: Farhan’s face lights up.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: You called for a taxi?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: I did.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: T'm going for the job interview.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: HoT T sat we Ae AA?
text: Pia joins Rancho and Raju and exchanges
text: a smile with Rancho.
dialog: wat da dt ae ay wen sie A ate
text: Raju takes off the rings on his fingers as
text: he speaks.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: ara, ¥ ae aah area?
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: ar
text: Farhan stares with disbelief as Raju drops
text: the rings in a bed pan.
speaker_heading: 4h aa
dialog: a at ae...
dialog: wert
dialog: (befuddled)
dialog: wat?
text: Pia plucks an envelope from Rancho’s
dialog: hands.
dialog: fear
dialog: & ati yg adh ara fe a i & ae
dialog: a wee & fee oT air
dialog: wert
dialog: wat & a?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You coming with me?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: No. I'm going for the interview. You're
dialog: going home.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Why would I go home?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Remember, we promised this rascal.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Give me your tie.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I doubt you'll go for the interview after
dialog: reading this.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: What's that?
dialog: fear
dialog: faedt &
dialog: Yat
dialog: a fers og & - emt A
dialog: frat
text: Farhan’s mouth falls open with shock. He
text: turns to his bag and frantically searches
text: it. He doesn’t find what he’s looking for.
text: He looks up to see Rancho, Pia and Raju
text: smiling at him.
dialog: wert
dialog: ara gy ai) 3 at faedt te ae at
dialog: aeat! dat afaete saat creat 21
text: A flash of excitement crosses Farhan’s face.
text: Pia holds out the letter to him.
dialog: fra
dialog: ue at & feu afta tH pie
dialog: Year
dialog: wed 2 ga Bat A ST
text: Farhan grabs the envelope. He takes out
text: the letter with trembling hands and starts
text: reading, incredulous.
text: As he reaches the end of the letter,
text: something strikes him and the joy fades
text: from his face. He looks up at his friends,
text: despair clouding his eyes.
dialog: 219
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: A letter.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: For you, from Hungary.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Some photographer called André Istvan.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You posted my letter!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He loved your pictures. The guy wants
dialog: you to assist him.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Internship in the Brazilian rain forest,
dialog: for a year.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Will pay you, too.
dialog: wert
speaker_heading: seat wet ATT
dialog: var
dialog: a Sth ua, ae ae a aes Sear
text: Farhan shakes his head.
text: Rancho persists.
dialog: it
dialog: MT St AA HEMT | el a Tart Are aE
dialog: wa Sear erat OA et Peet aera A
dialog: aa aren — fe dee aa ¥ ap, cei
dialog: te oe a, geo at fear ae cat a, aT
dialog: art freett qe oie et aad ar
scene_heading: INT. FARHAN’S HOUSE- SOMETIME
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Fathan’s Mother opens a gleaming new
text: laptop, a ribbon rosette on it. Farhan’s
text: Father looks at her expectantly.
dialog: wal ware 2? dae aT SA?
speaker_heading: araTeit
dialog: (happy, but trying to be practical)
dialog: at
dialog: art areas at amet Par wet 2) ae
dialog: at ae Gor at te A TT | fer oT we
dialog: 2 ae gt eat we wet a, at!
text: Eyes downcast, letter in hand, Farhan enters
text: the living room of his home.
speaker_heading: 220
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Dad will never agree.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Go speak to him ... from your heart.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: For once, dump your fears or someday,
dialog: on your deathbed, you'll regret it. You'll
dialog: remember that the letter was in your
text: hand, the taxi at the gate with just a
dialog: little courage, you could’ve turned your
dialog: life around.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Do you think he'll like it?
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Why such an expensive gift?
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Our son's getting his first job today. Don’t
dialog: be stingy at such a proud moment.
dialog: wert Bt Aras
dialog: (spotting him)
dialog: a BRET |
text: Farhan’s Father turns around in surprise. He
text: walks up to Farhan, his wife following.
dialog: WM, SIT GENT Sete AT aT?
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: H sé var) # efeafaae at sear area,
speaker_heading: oraT |
text: Farhan’s Father looks at him
text: uncomprehendingly.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW HALL -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Raju sits across an interview panel, in his
dialog: wheelchair.
text: His face is peaceful and calm.
dialog: see
dialog: (indicating the wheelchair)
dialog: var at war? a es Uy weiss?
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: ae) at arr ait fates & a1, ae, FH sab
speaker_heading: ag Witt 4 ae TT A, AT
text: The interviewers exchange looks.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER 2
dialog: 221
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S MOTHER
dialog: Farhan?
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Didn't you have the job interview today?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: I didn’t go. I don’t want to be an engineer,
dialog: Dad.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER 1
dialog: ‘What happened? You had an accident?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: See that building? I jumped from its
dialog: third floor.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Because I was rusticated from college.
dialog: ae, Hy at H setaer H easy F Gore
dialog: feat ari
text: The interviewers try and digest these
dialog: facts.
scene_heading: INT. FARHAN’S HOUSE -—-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan's perturbed Father struggles to make
dialog: sense of the situation.
dialog: ged fea at aa meat 21 ot a
scene_heading: AIST AAT ST SA STAT GHA TATA |
dialog: fee arr art vet at aT
dialog: a, Basi fertat Se sitet He
dialog: wert
dialog: al aed ae fer
dialog: qa aa ae aa st cet ar met
dialog: aed, ar ae aad serra ay
dialog: 222
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER 3
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Drunk, I urinated on the Director's
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: That scoundrel Rancho is messing with
dialog: your mind!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: I don't enjoy engineering. fd make a terrible
dialog: engineer. Rancho has a simple belief: Make
dialog: your passion your profession. Then work
dialog: will become play.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: What will you earn in that jungle?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: A small stipend, but I'll learn a lot.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Five years from now when you see your
dialog: friends buying cars and homes, you'll
dialog: curse yourself.
speaker_heading: Ret
dialog: ae amy et HT! sear ae ST fe
dialog: Haat omg at aly oer
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: ot, ea crt) wet fe wear sae F
dialog: 9 f& gate a fe ger aa ade
dialog: H gat 2&1 at gar ard?
dialog: 
text: A beat.
dialog: wert
dialog: aye aed yA eae AY wey wet orrarar
dialog: at) ast aT 8 Beret a we wey Fy
speaker_heading: wat a 4) HAT oe Aart HT HI
dialog: aed 4H GF FAR wel @ 7a ay
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: at wa omy fear ar crear
dialog: A beat
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: amy war ard, GH Isat 21 HIT
dialog: wel Tar |
dialog: fer ca ae ord a? ST at
dialog: at?
text: Farhan’s Mother, her face fearful, puts
text: a restraining hand on her husband’s
dialog: shoulder.
dialog: 223
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Life as an engineer will bring only
dialog: frustration. Then I'll curse you I'd rather
dialog: curse myself, Dad.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: The world will laugh! Label you a loser,
dialog: for quitting in the final year. Mr. Kapoor
dialog: feels you're fortunate to be at ICE. Whar'll
dialog: he think?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Mr. Kapoor didn’t provide me with an
dialog: air-conditioner. It wasn’t Mr. Kapoor who
dialog: slept in discomfort while I slept well. He
dialog: didn’t take me around the zoo on his
dialog: shoulders.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You did all that Father.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Dad, how you feel, matters to me. Mr.
dialog: Kapoor makes no difference. I don’t even
dialog: know his first name.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: You think you're the hero of a
dialog: melodrama?
speaker_heading: araTeit
dialog: (tearfiully)
dialog: aq ft aifsre) Rear & Farr) ger aT
dialog: (in a huff)
dialog: fe dt feenom aay a ne aT) Qe AT
dialog: area were 4, ae Bt A a TST
text: Disturbed and angry, Farhan’s Father walks
text: towards a chair and sits down. Farhan
text: turns to face his Father.
dialog: wert
dialog: (softly)
dialog: wet crear) F gags vet we) aE
speaker_heading: SITE |
text: Farhan walks up to where his Father is
text: sitting. Takes out his wallet, kneels before
text: his Father and shows him a photograph in
text: his wallet. It’s a picture of Farhan’s Father
text: and mother, smiling.
dialog: wert
dialog: a at tar & a, fa are Sar Hed
dialog: ax, oa HT oe ete eet oat a a
dialog: wa em aa a pert sat wt atest
dialog: eet art
text: Farhan’s Father looks from the photograph
text: to Fathan’s face, silenced. A sob escapes
dialog: Farhan’s Mother.
dialog: 224
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S MOTHER
dialog: Enough, please. He's upset. God forbid, if
dialog: he did something crazy like Raju.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Then the discussion is over. Don’t say a
dialog: word or his Lordship will jump off the
dialog: roof,
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No, Dad. I'll never attempt suicide. I
dialog: promise.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: The Rancho you detest put this picture in
dialog: my wallet. Told me to see it if a suicidal
dialog: thought crossed my mind and imagine
dialog: whar'd happen to your smiles when you
dialog: see my dead body.
dialog: wert
dialog: oe, H omar aise HT aed ZI
dialog: wa Aaes Bt dea ary Ae Y eer
dialog: wt Tet |
text: Farhan clasps his Fathers hand in between
text: his hands.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: aay ae at? ope FY pretree sq ar
dialog: at oy Wy ser al ae ser arn,
dialog: amet eat ert) oe crear H gy weary
dialog: arg fact dt Rast acit) ama faa sit
dialog: ft mem fer a wea
text: Farhan’s Father looks at his son like he’s
dialog: never really seen him before.
speaker_heading: EMT
dialog: a aH A oma a at Be) aT
dialog: dite ati efi rer
text: Farhan’s Father turns his gaze away from
text: his son’s beseeching one. He gets up and
text: walks away from Farhan.
text: Farhan looks at his Father's receding back
text: in growing desperation.
dialog: pert
dialog: Tea? ST AEA HT AT AST
text: Farhan’s Father walks to the new laptop
text: and closes it. He turns to his wife.
dialog: ay ama ae BT
dialog: 225
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: I want to convince you, Dad but not with
text: a suicide threat.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Dad, what will happen if I become a
dialog: photographer? I'll earn less I'll have a
text: smaller house, a smaller car But Pll be
dialog: happy. I will be really happy Whatever I
dialog: do for you will be out of genuine love.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: T’ve always listened to you For once, let
dialog: me listen to my heart. Please, Dad.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Dad .... Please don't go away.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Return this.
text: Farhan, standing behind his parents, head
text: lowered in defeat, looks up sharply.
dialog: ga amety & aie oT ora a?
text: Farhan breaks down, overcome with love
dialog: and happiness.
dialog: oer afte Yor at ahr aar ders
text: Farhan rushes to his Father and hugs him.
text: They are both crying. Farhan’s Mother
text: looks on, sobbing.
dialog: aT a2, ott feet oft a1
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW HALL —-
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Interviewer refers to Raju’s file, open
text: before him.
dialog: eee 1
dialog: ary F518?
speaker_heading: TH
speaker_heading: BW) aI A Mec WSS A A
dialog: ay at ar a eat aed ema) F
speaker_heading: set wT
text: Raju speaks in a calm, matter-of-fact
dialog: tone.
dialog: 226
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Son, what's the cost of a professional
dialog: camera? Can the laptop be exchanged
dialog: for it?
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: If you need more money, just ask.
speaker_heading: FARHAN’S FATHER
dialog: Go live your life, my son.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER 1
dialog: Your grades are consistently poor.
dialog: Reason?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Fear. I was a good student since childhood.
dialog: Parents hoped I'd end their poverty. That
dialog: scared me.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: zat oat dt tar te wit et) we
dialog: seat oneity ay are Seer Ay aa F sie
speaker_heading: set wT
dialog: (omiling ruefully)
dialog: year Se eT GT aa, wa A re
dialog: apr war ae eT. a Se at
text: The Interviewers listen in silence.
speaker_heading: wT
dialog: fret) qa art east arth
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: ae, ona 49 rare & et wer fe a ae
dialog: aia fear ear, 49 fas aa
dialog: ase & fae aay ater waif at
dialog: ase & a eS A ae ST a at He
dialog: a ST ae) se aT APT TT ast festa
dialog: ae aT at, dh we orpare wet
dialog: 
dialog: art ts
dialog: set & ft dee alt Bi ae a
dialog: iver ae fam a um ectiee
dialog: arett 4 ea Bl am am ae ware a
dialog: eenas 2 |
text: The Interviewer slides Raju’s open file
text: back to him.
dialog: art ts
dialog: ae ore ony eH ater feet fee art ory
dialog: 227
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Here I saw the mad race. You don’t count
dialog: if you're not first My fear grew. Fear is not
dialog: good for grades, Sir. Prayed to God for
dialog: favours. No ... begged for favours.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: 16 broken bones gave me two months to
text: think and reflect. Finally, sense dawned.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Today, I didn’t beg God for this job, just
dialog: thanked him for this life. IF you reject me,
dialog: no regrets I'll still do something worthwhile
dialog: with my life.
speaker_heading: COMPANY HEAD
dialog: Such frank behaviour is not good for our
dialog: firm. We need someone diplomatic to handle
dialog: clients. You're too straightforward.
speaker_heading: COMPANY HEAD
dialog: But if you assure us you'll control this
dialog: attitude ...
dialog: The Company head and the Interviewer
text: exchange a look.
dialog: wert 3s
dialog: . TT ee a aT eI
speaker_heading: SAAR 1
dialog: |
text: Raju smiles at them pleasantly.
speaker_heading: rH
dialog: aa at ga & a RT ws aa
dialog: ara %, ae ast afew & ona ea
text: Raju closes his file.
speaker_heading: Tr
dialog: am ait att ve aif,
dialog: ufeqs we aa gi ae tH aff,
dialog: wes AI
dialog: art
text: He turns his wheelchair around and starts
dialog: to wheel himself out.
dialog: wert 3s
dialog: aT |
text: Raju turns around.
dialog: wert 3s
dialog: veda art 4 HY faegetet ae wer ZI
dialog: get ant wera fra 21 ate wa &
dialog: a ad & aa & a
speaker_heading: COMPANY HEAD
dialog: ... We may consider you.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER 1
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: It took two broken legs to get me up on
dialog: my feet. Wasn't easy to get this attitude.
dialog: Can't change it, Sir.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: You keep your job... ll keep my attitude.
dialog: I'm sorry, don’t mind, Sir.
speaker_heading: COMPANY HEAD
dialog: Wait.
speaker_heading: COMPANY HEAD
dialog: I've interviewed countless candidates for
text: 25 years. Everyone turns into a yes-man
dialog: to get the job. Where did you spring
dialog: from, Son?
speaker_heading: WH
dialog: (puzzled)
dialog: a, F...
text: Raju’s eyes brim up with tears of
dialog: gratitude.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Thank you, Sir! Thank you!
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS, ICE — MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Rancho and Pia sit on a bench, restless
text: with anxiety, waiting for Farhan and Raju.
text: Pia spots them and points them out to
dialog: Rancho.
text: Farhan wheels Raju in his wheelchair. The
text: two of them stop, on seeing Rancho and
text: Pia. Farhan helps Raju up.
text: As Rancho and Pia look on, confused,
text: Farhan and Raju exchange a smile, and
text: drop their pants. They bow to Rancho,
text: saluting him.
dialog: Gelling)
dialog: (voices breaking)
text: Rancho breaks down, tears of joy rolling
text: down his face. Farhan and Raju smile at
text: him through their tears.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sir?
speaker_heading: COMPANY HEAD
dialog: Shall we discuss the salary?
speaker_heading: FARHAN / RAJU
dialog: Your Majesty, thou art great. Accept this
dialog: humble offering!
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: DAY
text: The needle is placed on the record. Strains
text: of opera flood the room.
text: The Director is asleep on his couch, one
text: hand on his face. Govind shifts his hand,
text: and lifts his razor.
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE /
scene_heading: CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS
text: The Director looks in the mirror with
text: disbelief and screams in anger.
text: The barber's kit crashes on the ground
text: outside the Director's office.
dialog: mifare |
text: The Director holds Govind by his collar
text: and shakes him violently.
dialog: aifare
dialog: ata a 4 ot ater ar, ae ear aa
dialog: at are ear
text: As Govind lies dazed on the Director's
text: couch, the Director looks at his face from
text: different angles, in a hand mirror. Nothing
dialog: makes it look better.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE —
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: The Director sits at the dining table,
text: drinking, the hand mirror concealing his
text: face from his daughters. Pia moves the
text: mirror away. She and Mona gasp.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Govind!
speaker_heading: GOVIND
dialog: You had said, ‘If one of them gets a job,
text: shave it off.’
dialog: fear
dialog: (voice quavering with laughter)
dialog: a war He fear?
text: Mona bursts out laughing.
dialog: tar at ver 2 fm feat + Ae Hus sae
dialog: fea! goat ae oh at
text: Pia giggles along with Mona. But the
text: Director is beside himself with anger.
dialog: H ae wat are veri) ae er ae aa
dialog: frerit sa qo weet A aa er sie
dialog: aq ae GY Ae ara
text: The smile fades from Pia’s face.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Dad, that’s not fair.
text: The Director rises and walks unsteadily,
text: the glass of whiskey in his hand.
dialog: tattay so Hae St aa US aT | vs fee
dialog: ey aes ae IL ar To a wars
scene_heading: INT. ROOM, HOSTEL,
speaker_heading: NIGHT
speaker_heading: ICE —
text: A whiskey bottle thumps down on the
text: ledge outside the trio’s room. Rancho
text: looks up from the desk he’s working at
text: and sees Pia at the window. She has her
text: helmet on.
speaker_heading: 231
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: What have you done?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: I feel naked without my moustache. I’ve
dialog: lost my dignity.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I wont accept defeat, Rastogi. The job isn’t
dialog: yours until you pass your final exam. And
dialog: this time, I will set the question paper.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Everything is fair in love and war. And
dialog: this is World War III. Rastogi, you're
dialog: dead meat!
dialog: Hey!
text: Pia giggles.
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
dialog: aa et war He aT al? What are you doing here?
text: He helps her in, through the window. She
text: almost loses her balance, squealing loudly.
text: Farhan wakes up with all the commotion
text: and peeps out of his quilt.
speaker_heading: vail RANCHO
dialog: weet, Ba, T Be careful.
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
dialog: wl gat fh eat a1 You've been drinking.
speaker_heading: frar PIA
dialog: at aml a ae wart at Yup, had to down a couple.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: : RANCHO
dialog: aa! a a a! A couple too many!
speaker_heading: frar PIA
dialog: fea afer at! Needed the guts.
speaker_heading: vei RANCHO
dialog: wre & fea? For what?
text: Pia pulls out a set of keys and holds them
dialog: up for Rancho to see.
speaker_heading: frar PIA
dialog: a gr & fal For stealing this.
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
dialog: a aa 2? What's this?
dialog: 232
dialog: fear
text: Farhan’s eyes widen in shock.
dialog: air
speaker_heading: TM, Ton
dialog: fear
dialog: aa aia & teary ¥ aa dae 8, oT
dialog: (indicating the sleeping Raju)
text: Rancho is both shocked and amused.
dialog: He aie de? 4 a7 cifey & ar, zr
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Everything’s fair in love and war.
text: Farhan giggles into his quilt.
text: Pia wraps her arms around Rancho.
dialog: fear
dialog: fear wet Hoare sta 8 anh 8?
text: She moves closer to Rancho, pouting her
text: lips. Farhan watches with interest. Just
text: before she can touch Rancho’s lips with
text: hers, Rancho pulls her helmet visor over
text: her face. Farhan subsides disappointed.
dialog: Yat
dialog: um fate! seb esi | F cit, THT
dialog: 233
speaker_heading: PIA
text: The duplicate key to Virus's office.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Shh, shh, shh
speaker_heading: PIA
text: The question paper’s in a cover with a
dialog: red seal. Dad has set it, to fail Raju. Go
dialog: get ic
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Are you mad or what! That's cheating!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Tell me something, Do you really feel the
dialog: noses collide while kissing?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Wait. Have some dhokla.
text: He hands her a plate of dhoklas.
dialog: frar
dialog: aa yore arr Peay age etd at ae
text: Rancho opens the room door expecting
text: her to leave but she sits down on the bed
text: and does a newsreader act.
dialog: fear
dialog: ga + sam F at ced fro fer
text: Farhan cracks up under his quilt.
dialog: fear
dialog: ae a ar art ay, eat air aaa!
dialog: var
dialog: aa
text: Pia walks up to the door but instead of
text: leaving she shuts it.
dialog: ei
dialog: fear
dialog: 3 erat, wrper at F aot ah, ve Gert
dialog: aay — wreisert sarreera wes —
text: Pain clouds Rancho’: face.
dialog: it
dialog: frat, eat orét wet a sedi
dialog: 234
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You Gujaratis are so cute. But why does
dialog: your food sound so dangerous? Dhokla,
dialog: fafa, handwa, thepla, khakbra.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Sound like missiles — “Today Bush dropped
dialog: two dhoklas on Iraq ...’
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: ‘400 dead, 200 injured’!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: C'mon.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: C'mon. Oh ...
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I can deal with khakhra, fafda. Bue
dialog: .. ‘Ranchhoddas Shamaldas
dialog: Chanchad’ — yuck, I won't change my
dialog: your name
dialog: last name after marriage.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Pia, we can’t get married.
text: Rancho turns away from Pia. She comes
text: from behind him and hugs him.
speaker_heading: frat PIA
dialog: ait? Peet oie a area a? Why? Is there someone else?
text: Rancho does not respond.
speaker_heading: frat PIA
dialog: HT Bl? Are you gay?
text: Farhan chuckles softly.
speaker_heading: edt RANCHO
dialog: wat... No ...
speaker_heading: frat PIA
dialog: fee yet yor vat set ect? Then why don't you propose to me?
text: Rancho is silent.
speaker_heading: frat PIA
dialog: (aggressively) Are you impotent?
text: Farhan is thoroughly entertained. Pia grabs
text: Rancho’s face in both hands, trying to get
text: him to kiss her.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Then prove it. Prove it.
speaker_heading: eat RANCHO
dialog: frat: Pia!
text: Pia grabs Rancho’s face by the cheeks and
text: moves closer to him.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Prove it.
dialog: 235
text: Rancho moves back.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Pia, no!
text: Farhan emerges from under the blanket.
speaker_heading: WE
scene_heading: END OF FLASHBACK
text: BACK TO PRESENT
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. EN-ROUTETO LADAKH /
scene_heading: THE DIRECTOR’S HOUSE - DAY
text: Farhan turns to Raju who is driving the
dialog: SUV.
dialog: wert
dialog: eh! .. Bh ..!
dialog: at Ba Fa?
dialog: wert
dialog: ae ery far @r eared fear a aéh
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Stop here, my bladders are bursting.
dialog: wert
dialog: wery aI
dialog: am 1 2a ¥ sae
dialog: wert
dialog: wel ae) afer cae ae wT TRE AY
speaker_heading: Wa 31
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Stop, stop!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Stop! Stop!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We didn’t inform Pia.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Shut up!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Are you in touch with her?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No but I have her home number.
dialog: at at wr a, ¥ ara ZI
speaker_heading: REM
text: The SUV stops. Raju and Farhan get
dialog: out.
text: Chatur rushes out to a spot by the road,
dialog: to take a leak.
dialog: ade
dialog: aie, at aa ek safe ot fea
dialog: ast |
text: Farhan dials Pia’s residence number.
dialog: ate ot, serra eat are) art seth
dialog: saat | sare Te 2
text: Raju sits on a rock, next to Chatur’s SUV.
text: Farhan stands a little away, looking into
dialog: the distance.
dialog: wert
dialog: fear at at set a eit
dialog: 237
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Then call her, I'l stop.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Stop, Stop, Stop.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: No place for urine-expulsion in this
dialog: country.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hello, is Pia there?
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: No, she’s not.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Is she at the hospital?
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Why would she be there? She's getting
dialog: married today in Manali.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Too late! She’s married?
dialog: “ 3 3
dialog: ai eg & aa) te w: de a em ez
dialog: met arr at we A vet at wea a
dialog: aavit | gar aterar 2
dialog: ua peti ee aera Sar a fey
dialog: Sie aa | HES ART GAGE aE A
dialog: Het 2) aa aa we A eer fra a
dialog: ag at gar & ar erm? = Sosa fact te
dialog: fer & ome site fer ao wre aa ste
dialog: wert | Gra ws afsari, afte safe,
text: ‘As Chatur rambles on, Farhan and Raju
text: exchange a look. They plug their ears with
text: cotton and move to the car.
text: The SUV takes a U-turn.
text: Inside the car, in the boot, Chatur lies
text: gagged and bound.
dialog: age
dialog: (muffled)
speaker_heading: Wo. WAI
scene_heading: EXT. PIA’S WEDDING VENUE,
speaker_heading: MANALI - DAY
text: The SUV drives into a wedding venue
text: and stops in the porch. There, a signboard
text: made up of flowers proclaims the bride
dialog: and groom's names.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Not yet. It’s a six-hour drive If we rush,
dialog: we'll reach before the vows. What do
dialog: you say?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: It’s a no-brainer. Let’s turn back.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: No turning back. Straight to Ladakh. We'll
dialog: meet Rancho and return. I have a Friday
dialog: meeting with Phunsukh Wangdu. Get into
dialog: the car. If I miss my meeting, the Japanese
dialog: will get him. They’te offering him a first
dialog: name in the company ‘Phunsukh and
dialog: Fujiyashi’, profit sharing, stock options,
dialog: full creative control .....
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Raju ... Raju.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: (exclaims)
dialog: “Pia weds Suhas’!
text: Raju takes out the hanger with the rest
text: of Chatur’s suit on it.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: ug Fay wt az atl
text: Chatur protests by banging his bound feet
text: and hands against the SUV.
text: Farhan and Raju, now wearing pink saafas
text: and with white envelopes in hand scurry
text: up a flight of stairs.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: (to passing guests)
dialog: eet!
dialog: (to Raju)
dialog: aa 24 ved ata 21
text: They reach the first floor and split up.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: a I Tas!
speaker_heading: mH
speaker_heading: ae FI
scene_heading: INT. PIA’S ROOM, WEDDING
speaker_heading: VENUE — CONTINUOUS
text: Pia sits before a mirror in bridal finery,
text: fastening an earring.
dialog: 239
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Thanks for the suit.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Virus will have a heart attack ...
dialog: Hello ...
dialog: At every daughter’s wedding, we're there
dialog: to rock the party.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Listen, I'll update Pia, you peel off the
dialog: price tag.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Ok.
text: Farhan enters the room and stands behind
dialog: her.
text: Pia sees his reflection in the mirror.
dialog: fear
dialog: (surprised and happy)
dialog: wert!
dialog: (with a huge smile)
text: Pain clouds Pia’s face. Her smile fades.
text: She turns away from Farhan and starts
text: slipping on her bangles.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE SUHAS’S
scene_heading: ROOM, WEDDING VENUE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
dialog: A member of the hotel Housekeeping Staff,
text: a clothes iron in his hand, approaches
text: Suhas’s door. Raju waylays him.
dialog: 107 a fer?
speaker_heading: HOUSEKEEPING
dialog: Yes, Sir!
dialog: (taking the clothes iron)
dialog: sat mai frat cen wd a a!
speaker_heading: HOUSEKEEPING
dialog: Sorry, Sir.
dialog: a,
dialog: weit oTeit eit |
dialog: 240
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Farhan!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We found Rancho.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: For Room 107?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: You've taken ages.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Off, now.
text: The man leaves. Raju takes off his jacket
text: and saafa. He keeps on the waistcoat of
text: Chatur’s three piece suit.
text: He knocks on Suhas’s door.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Housekeeping, Sir.
speaker_heading: SUHAS (O.S.)
dialog: Come in.
scene_heading: INT. SUHAS’S ROOM, WEDDING
speaker_heading: VENUE — CONTINUOUS
text: Raju enters holding up the clothes iron,
text: a big, fake smile on his face.
text: Suhas, in his bathrobe, sits before the
text: mirror, snipping hair from his nose. He
text: sings along with the music playing in
dialog: the room.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Amore Amore ... Amore ...
dialog: (to Raju)
dialog: Quick quick... Quick, iron my sherwani.
scene_heading: INT. PIA’S ROOM, WEDDING VENUE
speaker_heading: — CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan desperately tries to reason with
dialog: Pia.
dialog: 
dialog: oe Yat fret gar ei aa At ge Ta A
dialog: amet eri?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You're mad, Farhan!
dialog: 241
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We found Rancho! Now you can't marry
dialog: this ass.
dialog: wert
dialog: are get goraen far ga at at ar
dialog: credit a1 oie saat are Fo ara ah ae
dialog: cat at tt eT!
dialog: (indicating a plate of dhokla and mint
dialog: chutney)
scene_heading: INT. SUHAS’S ROOM, WEDDING
speaker_heading: VENUE — CONTINUOUS
text: A bowl of mint chutney lies next to a
text: half-eaten dhokia on a plate. Raju empties
text: the bowl into the plate.
text: Suhas sings loudly, in high spirits.
text: Casting a furtive glance in Suhas’s direction,
text: Raju dips the iron into the mint chutney.
text: He then brings the sauce-smeared iron
text: down on the sherwani.
text: Suhas stands before the mirror, spraying
text: himself liberally with cologne, singing
text: loudly and moving along with the song.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Amore ... Amore ... Amore ...
text: Raju smiles at Suhas, pretending to be
text: ironing efficiently. He looks down at
text: the sherwani. There's a huge green stain
text: on it.
scene_heading: INT. PIA’S ROOM, WEDDING VENUE
speaker_heading: — CONTINUOUS
dialog: wer
dialog: (referring to Suhas)
dialog: an a oy 2 ati ane art act F sta
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Don't fool yourself, Pia. You still love
dialog: Rancho. You're still eating his favourite
dialog: food.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He's incorrigible. Once a price tag, always
dialog: a price tag.
dialog: frat
dialog: Te HEM We st a as Ar
speaker_heading: wat BEAT |
text: There’s an anguished yell from outside.
speaker_heading: aera (O.S.)
scene_heading: INT. SUHAS’S ROOM, WEDDING
speaker_heading: VENUE — CONTINUOUS
text: Suhas is holding Raju by the collar and
text: shaking him vigorously.
dialog: ae
dialog: at wet eit aa a am at
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: H qe eet gael
dialog: aera
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: ae, ae eae asa A Me tet west arth
dialog: seat art & avi F ct fae 8 aie
speaker_heading: at om ae) UH fe at)
text: Raju slips out of Suhas’s grip, grabs the
dialog: sherwani ftom the ironing board ...
dialog: wy
dialog: um fiz, at ¥ aie ae om a, F
dialog: rar
text: And runs out of the room.
dialog: 243
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Shut up, Farhan. Suhas is a changed man.
dialog: He doesn't speak of brands and prices
dialog: anymore.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: My Rs 150,000 sherwani ...
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Why do you people eat chutney?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Tl sort it out, Sir.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Our laundry specialises in cleaning mint-
dialog: stained suits. I'll clean it in a jiffy.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: One minute, Sir!
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Get it soon!
scene_heading: INT. PIA’S ROOM, WEDDING VENUE
speaker_heading: — CONTINUOUS
text: Pia is unrelenting.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: But it’s too late now, Farhan.
text: Farhan looks down helplessly.
speaker_heading: HT (O.S.)
dialog: frat:
text: Mona comes to the door. Farhan shifts to
text: hide from her gaze.
speaker_heading: AAT
dialog: far act, de a we 2) aT ara
text: Pia gets up to leave.
scene_heading: EXT. MANDAP, WEDDING VENUE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan watches dejectedly as Pia sits beside
text: the groom. The groom wears a sherwani and,
text: over his face, the traditional flower veil.
text: Farhan looks away, defeated. And catches
text: sight of the groom’s discarded shoes. A pair
text: of bright red sneakers. With sudden hope,
text: Farhan looks at the groom again.
dialog: (from behind the flower veil)
dialog: frat # ai faearar aati aT aT ATE
dialog: area |
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Pia!
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Let’s go, Pia, we're late.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Pia, it’s me ... Raju. Don’t yell, they'll
dialog: kill me.
dialog: 244
text: Pia’s eyes widen with shock
text: Farhan hurries out of the wedding area,
text: smiling in relief.
dialog: frat
dialog: (in a low, angry voice)
dialog: Hert het 3?
scene_heading: INT. SUHAS’S, WEDDING VENUE
scene_heading: ROOM — CONTINUOUS
text: Suhas, still in his bathrobe, speaks agitatedly
text: to housekeeping, on the phone.
dialog: a cao & orar a at, sari
dialog: awh Tal
scene_heading: EXT. MANDAP, WEDDING VENUE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Priest recites the wedding mantras as
text: Pia and Raju speak in whispers.
dialog: fra
dialog: set TST Sie Fert BT Avi
dialog: wh
dialog: aa ae @ flarl seb aren dt ae
dialog: arr
text: Farhan slowly manoeuvres Chatur’s SUV
text: to the entrance of the wedding area. Still
text: trussed up in the back of the SUV, Chatur
text: makes angry sounds. Farhan takes out his
text: phone and calls Raju.
text: A phone rings in the mandap. The mantra-
text: reciting Priest and Raju, both feel in their
text: pockets and take out their cell phones.
dialog: 245
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: ‘Where is Suhas?
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Housekeeping took my sherwani.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Go ... Send Suhas here.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: It’s rude to leave the ceremony.
text: The Priest looks mildly disappointed that
dialog: it’s Raju's call,
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: mat te 7 Sh 81H ae we Se ao a
speaker_heading: sor ae ATT
dialog: wert
dialog: (to Chatur, snapping)
dialog: at ao a oT, fea vat ae
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE SUHAS’S
scene_heading: ROOM, WEDDING VENUE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Suhas steps out of his room, bouncing
text: in frustration and helplessness. A passing
text: waiter stops short on seeing him.
dialog: qez
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: aed!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yeah, Farhan?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
text: ‘The car's ready. Grab her hand and run.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Don’t move.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Sir ...!
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: My sherwani?
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: You're here ...?
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: So who's at the altar?
dialog: ere
dialog: Bt?
text: Suhas runs towards the mandap.
scene_heading: EXT. MANDAP, WEDDING VENUE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The pheras have started. Pia and Raju
dialog: circle the holy fire.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: aie ee at ma ar eat one a arent
dialog: H geq A onet ger é fears aa...
dialog: frat
dialog: (whispering with worry)
text: Raju stops in front of Pia and takes off
dialog: the veil.
speaker_heading: wT
text: The Director, still moustacheless, stands
text: in the mandap with Mona. They both are
text: startled, on seeing Raju.
dialog: wart!
dialog: wh
dialog: ye aT
text: The Director starts to move towards Raju
text: but Mona stops him.
dialog: 247
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: Altar?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Another couple of rounds, and we'll be
dialog: considered married I'm already married,
dialog: Pia. Let’s go.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: It’s too late. People will laugh at me.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: So you'll commit suicide?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Rastogi!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: People will gossip briefly, then forget.
dialog: ™
dialog: cf ast oe TT ae met St aT aT
dialog: foratt ae ef aepit ar mst te 7 a...
text: Pia looks up, Raju’s words stirring the
dialog: memory of similar words once spoken by
dialog: Rancho. Words she had believed in.
dialog: afer fay anit & sz 4,
dialog: (indicating Suhas, who's just come running
dialog: up)
dialog: at se 7a a omer He ait
text: Suhas stands in the aisle leading up
text: to the mandap, his feet in pink furry
text: slippers, his flowered robe flapping, his
text: face bewildered.
speaker_heading: SUHAS
dialog: (pointing at Raju)
dialog: Housekeeping?
text: Pia looks at Suhas, glances at the Director
text: and Mona and then at Farhan waiting in
text: the SUV. Farhan opens the back door of
text: the SUY, in readiness and encouragement.
text: A look of determination replaces the
text: apprehension and doubt on Pia’s face and
text: she takes Raju’s hand.
text: They run past the guests and dive into
text: the waiting SUV.
text: The Director, Mona and Suhas run after
dialog: them.
text: But they're too late. The SUV zips out of the
text: venue as everyone looks on in shock.
dialog: 248
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: But you ... you'll regret on your deathbed
dialog: that the car was at the gate ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
text: Rancho within reach but in the fear of
dialog: people, you married this ass.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD — CONTINUOUS
text: Pia and Raju giggle in the backseat.
dialog: Farhan drives.
speaker_heading: RET FARHAN
dialog: (hesitatingly) Pia, minor problem.
dialog: a fia, wa afer ar mee aT eat
speaker_heading: aI
speaker_heading: frat PIA
dialog: ar? What?
speaker_heading: RET FARHAN
dialog: (sheepishly) We don't know if Rancho’s married.
dialog: let ot mt of at a8, a ae aT
text: Pia’s smile vanishes. She squeals in
dialog: outrage.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WH RAJU
dialog: (placatingly) He won't be married.
dialog: wat @ eri an, aa of ant
speaker_heading: frat PIA
dialog: (livid) And if he is?
speaker_heading: ws RAJU
dialog: at grat ama str ee et Then we'll drop you back.
text: Pia pummels Raju with her hands. He
text: laughs, warding off her blows. Trying
text: to distract her, he reaches for a tin of
text: biscuits in Chatur’s hamper, and holds it
text: out to her.
dialog: 249
speaker_heading: Tr
dialog: at egret ae at are, wat eg ait & fafere
text: Chatur makes loud protesting sounds.
text: Startled, Pia peers over her seat and sees
text: him in the boot.
dialog: frar
dialog: we wet A sa?
dialog: wert
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: aa fafere eroit ar, fate areit - get
dialog: are &
text: Pia is livid.
text: She thrusts the biscuits back at him in
dialog: annoyance.
dialog: wert
text: The SUV travels through hills and valleys.
text: Farhan reminisces as he drives.
dialog: wert
dialog: wet a Fea to aT
dialog: aoe fret ater
dialog: H uéagd ai, ae uw wet aT met a
dialog: fase feat ari
speaker_heading: Sq
dialog: 250
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Relax! Handmade biscuit? Handmade from
dialog: San Francisco.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: What's he doing here?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ignore him ...
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: The biscuits very good.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Aal izz well, aal izz well ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Till yesterday, I was a law-abiding citizen.
dialog: But in the last 24 hours, I had grounded
text: an aircraft, almost assigned Shamaldas’s
dialog: ashes to the sewers, and made a bride
dialog: elope from her own wedding!
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK
scene_heading: INT. / EXT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE,
speaker_heading: ICE — NIGHT
text: Farhan and Rancho stand outside the
dialog: Director’s office trying to unlock the
dialog: door.
dialog: wert (V.O.) ;
dialog: aa oa amet eat } fers
text: His hands shake with fear, Farhan finally
text: opens the lock. They slip into the office
text: and look around in the dark.
speaker_heading: wert (V.O.)
dialog: we at at at aren ateit 9 or fsserar
dialog: a wm few aes Fe Te, Ter
dialog: al dat ¥ Fa wat ari
text: Rancho puts on a torch.
dialog: Yat
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: Sica
text: They search the office for the envelope
text: with the question paper in it.
speaker_heading: wert (V.O.)
dialog: a det Se at fe see aL het a Tar
scene_heading: at fee @ ater ae Sa aR Peet TST
dialog: afer ee ff ae cat art die a) ay
dialog: we tat af et
dialog: 251
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: All for Rancho.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: But he too would do anything for friends.
dialog: Like stealing the question paper... from
text: the lion’s den.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Envelope with the red seal.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ok!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: He feared that if Raju failed, there would
dialog: be another high jump. We were principled
text: thieves, stealing the paper only for Raju.
dialog: We'd sworn we won't even take a peek.
text: Frustrated at not being able to find the
text: envelope, Farhan lifts the phone off its
text: cradle and hands it over to Rancho.
speaker_heading: wert (V.O.)
speaker_heading: far & yw ATI
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Pia’ cellphone vibrates with an incoming call.
text: It is on the dining table, close to the laptop
dialog: and files the Director is working on.
text: Behind the Director, Mona and Pia speak
text: to Mona's husband on the land line.
speaker_heading: TAT
dialog: (on the phone)
dialog: wet a Ta! St A OM Ht Te Te
dialog: ae eM at fear ae!
text: The Director looks up, distracted by the
text: cellphone’s buzzing.
speaker_heading: BIST
dialog: far Gert Br
speaker_heading: AAT
text: (as Pia grabs the receiver from her)
dialog: uc faz, far: far!
dialog: frar
dialog: (on the phone)
dialog: fem Ara 21
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Where's it hidden ...?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We'll grow old searching! Ask Pia.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Mr. Papa-'To-Be!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Pia, your phone.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: One minute, Pia! Pia!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: If you say ‘Aal izz well’, he kicks.
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: (clutching her stomach, delighted)
dialog: ® ar, ART!
text: Pia’ cellphone vibrates again.
dialog: (exasperated)
speaker_heading: frat Gert GPT
speaker_heading: frat (O.S.)
dialog: , ST A A ST A
text: The Director reaches out and picks up
text: the phone. On the screen, the caller ID
text: is ‘DAD OFFICE’. His face goes rigid
text: with shock.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: As Rancho waits for Pia to answer her
text: phone, Farhan calls out in triumph.
dialog: eer
dialog: (holding the question paper)
dialog: fret war) Yar
text: Rancho hangs up.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Director answers Pia’s phone.
dialog: eet?
text: The line disconnects just as the Director
text: speaks into the phone. Behind him,
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: He kicked!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Pia, your phone.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Brother-in-law, when are you coming?
dialog: Come soon.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Found it! Rancho!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Hello?
text: oblivious to the situation, Mona and Pia
text: continue chatting to Mona’s husband on
dialog: the land line.
text: The Director rushes out of the house,
text: under an umbrella.
text: It is raining heavily outside.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: As Farhan holds the torch, Rancho
text: deftly detaches the circular seal from the
dialog: envelope.
text: (Intercut — The Director runs into a
text: corridor in the college building, closing
dialog: his umbrella)
text: Rancho opens the envelope. He takes out the
text: question paper and gives it to Farhan.
dialog: Farhan puts the question paper into the
text: copier and switches it on.
text: (Intercut — The Director hurries down a
dialog: corridor.)
text: Farhan picks up the copy that emerges
text: from the copier and returns the original
dialog: to Rancho.
dialog: 
dialog: a a!
text: Rancho inserts the question paper back
text: into the envelope and brings out a bottle
dialog: of glue.
dialog: 254
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Quick, photocopy this.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Take it!
text: (Intercut — The Director heads towards a
dialog: flight of steps)
text: Rancho glues the seal back onto the
dialog: envelope.
text: (Intercur — The Director hurries up the
dialog: stairs)
text: Rancho presses down on the seal.
dialog: wet & fe ar?
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: ical
dialog: wa WR Tae |
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ok.
dialog: art 41
text: Rancho gives Farhan the envelope.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Director flings open his office door
text: and surveys it, panting with rage and
text: exertion. At first glance, everything seems
text: in its place, untouched. Then his gaze falls
text: on the copier. It’s on.
text: He rushes to the cabinet with the question
text: paper in it. He checks the seal on the
text: envelope and feels the glue on it.
text: Rage fills his face.
dialog: 255
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: ‘Where was it?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Back there.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Then keep it back.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Carefully.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM, HOSTEL,
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER
speaker_heading: ICE —
text: Raju is studying at his desk.
text: ‘The room door swings open and Farhan and
text: Rancho rush in, drenched and panting.
dialog: aa wa!
dialog: ™ .;
dialog: sim wet Te F a? at?
text: Farhan and Rancho sit down, their
text: heartbeats gradually slowing down. Rancho
text: takes out the question paper from his bag
text: and hands it to Raju.
dialog: 
dialog: em al
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Question paper.
text: Raju gives a start.
dialog: qa A da ta ee G few ge ae
dialog: fear ar
text: Raju looks from Farhan to Rancho. He
text: glances at the question paper, shaking
text: his head.
dialog: 256
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: We're safe!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Where were you?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Here!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: A gift.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Virus set it himself, to fail you.
speaker_heading: WH
dialog: diet Rrra 2) fee ae gar B er
dialog: ar a...
text: He crumples up the question paper and
text: throws it over his head, towards the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: ae!
speaker_heading: TH
text: Rancho and Farhan stare at Raju with
dialog: new respect and pride.
text: Rancho’s eyes well up at his friends courage.
text: He envelopes Raju in a brief hug, before
text: Farhan comes up and does the same.
dialog: eer
dialog: (affectionately)
dialog: are!
speaker_heading: pert (V.O.)
dialog: art af feet citer ferry wa fear are er
text: Farhan glances at the photograph of
dialog: Rajurs Sister.
speaker_heading: uM (V.O.)
dialog: . oe fee FF ort sit st peter
dialog: fear |
text: The door to the room is ung open. The
text: Director flanked by two security guards
dialog: 257
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Strange buddies! First teach you to be
dialog: upright, then offer a path to shame No way.
dialog: If I pass, itll be on my own steam ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hey!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: If 1 don’t, it’s still ok.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Idiot!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Hed won us over! I felt like embracing
dialog: him as family ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: .. but then I controlled my emotions.
text: stands at the entrance. Raju, Farhan and
text: Rancho look at him with shock.
text: Glowering with rage, the Director enters
text: the room and stops at the crumpled
text: question paper on the ground. He picks it
text: up, opens it and looks at it. He looks up
text: at the boys. His gaze focusses on Rancho.
text: He takes the umbrella from under his arm
text: and starts hitting Rancho with it.
dialog: a ete <
text: Farhan and Raju call out to him, pleading,
text: trying to get him to stop. Rancho stands
text: silent, head bowed, taking every blow
dialog: without protest.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sir, please, Sir.
dialog: 
dialog: ar!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Sir, please, Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Rascal!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sir sorry Sir! Sir please, please, please!
dialog: Sorry, Sir!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Rascal!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sir, Sir, Sir!
dialog: 258
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Damn thief!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Thief
dialog: setae
dialog: freq da eel aa o1
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sir!
dialog: setae
dialog: R wast Fey HIT! ye wT
dialog: wary Fe!
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: He Fal we Se Ae!
text: Rancho continues to stand still and silent
text: as the Director hits him like a man
dialog: possessed.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Bloody rascals!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sir!
text: Exhausted, the Director finally stops.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sorry Sir, sorry Sir!
dialog: Sree
dialog: qa werafes| wer ase de TA arr
dialog: vet & freed wef va at ome fat ater &
dialog: yfera! omg fat ait = oferty
dialog: (to the three of them)
dialog: Wen! Tepe, sift site a!
text: Throwing his umbrella on the ground, he
text: leaves the room.
speaker_heading: 259
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Wanted to change the system.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You'll pee on my door!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sir, what are you doing? Sorry Sir.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You are rusticated! If all of you aren't out
dialog: by morning, I'll call the police! I will call
dialog: the police! Rascals! Rascals, all of you!
speaker_heading: sett (O.S.)
dialog: we we at aif at adi wet a
dialog: arat?
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE —
scene_heading: LATER THE SAME NIGHT
text: Pia gathers the used plates at the dining
text: table. Mona sits on a chair a little away.
text: The Director stands in the centre of the
text: room, waiting for an answer.
dialog: frar
dialog: art 8} caer ef ah 35)
text: A beat.
dialog: frar
dialog: omg fa a ardt wear at at adh) st
text: Mona looks at Pia, alarmed.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Stop it, Pia!
text: Pia turns and looks into her Father's
dialog: eyes.
dialog: frar
dialog: amet aT pray @, fe wear ea A fire
dialog: We A?
text: Mona gets up from her chair and rushes
dialog: forward.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Shut up, Pia!
text: Increasingly distraught, Pia lashes out at
dialog: her Father.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: How did he get my office key?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I gave him the key, Dad.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I wish Fd given this key to my brother,
dialog: He would be alive today.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You think your son fell off a train and
dialog: died?
dialog: frat
dialog: al saa yer a at gar saat cred %?
text: The Director looks at Pia stunned,
text: uncomprehending.
dialog: fear
dialog: ther voice breaking)
dialog: foaat Gere star wear Y Ses sete Sy
dialog: a a a aM Ge STAM wT
text: Catching her breath on a sob, she stares
text: at her Father accusingly, before leaving
dialog: the room.
dialog: (to Mona, whispering, shocked)
dialog: a aa HE te 8?
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: (urgently)
dialog: as. my wat Fea oT aT HAT
dialog: y wear
text: Pia comes back into the room, her face
text: tear-stained, a duffel bag in her hand. She
text: upturns the bag. Her brother’s knick-knacks
text: tumble onto the dining table.
dialog: er
dialog: faar, ety ge: gar ae ete far: AF
dialog: ae A...
text: Unheeding of Mona’s words, Pia pulls out
text: a piece of paper from the contents of the
text: bag. Holding it with both hands, weeping,
text: she turns to her Father.
dialog: 261
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You decided he'd be an engineer. Did you
dialog: ever ask him what he wanted to be?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You put such pressure on him ...
dialog: that he
dialog: chose death over the entrance exam.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I don't understand ...
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Dad, you go to your room.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Pia, don’t do this!
dialog: frat
dialog: aed a1
text: She holds up the piece of paper in her
dialog: hands.
dialog: fra
dialog: we a Bass ae F Ser Ew fra set
dialog: wa, 331
speaker_heading: aT
dialog: (tears filling her eyes)
dialog: far ama va @ at der oi
dialog: frat
dialog: (shouting, in anguish)
dialog: war dt oS wart ater
text: She looks at her Father, weeping
text: uncontrollably.
dialog: fear
scene_heading: UH a, TH UH Ie aT GA HE eq —
dialog: fe wet act shafraftt dt ee t1 ot
dialog: (shaking the suicide note in his face)
dialog: a omy agar fier at 3s
text: The Director reaches for the note. He
text: pulls at it with both hands. Pia, sobbing
text: brokenly, finally lets it go.
speaker_heading: sretaet
text: (fiercely, on the verge of breaking down)
dialog: at yas wal Ae AehAT|
text: Pia looks at him through her tears.
dialog: 262
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: He wanted to study literature, be a
dialog: writer.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: But all he wrote was this suicide note.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Put that away, please!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: No more cover-ups!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Just once if you'd only said — “Don't do
dialog: engineering if you don’t want to. Just do
dialog: what your heart is in,” then he would be
dialog: alive today.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: He didn’t commit suicide.
dialog: frat
dialog: (delivering a verdict)
dialog: a1
text: She runs out of the house, grabbing her
text: helmet and raincoat on the way out.
text: The Director shuts his eyes, a broken
dialog: man.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY, MUMBAI — LATER SAME
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: It’s has been raining ceaselessly. The traffic
text: in the city has come to a standstill.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL-LATER SAME
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: Pia, still distraught, sits in the waiting
text: area of her hospital, trying to calm herself
text: down. On a television set behind her, a
dialog: Newsreader reports that many city roads
dialog: are completely submerged because of the
dialog: rain.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, HOSTEL, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
dialog: Laden with their luggage, Rancho, Farhan
text: and Raju step out of their room, into knee-
text: deep water. Raju walks with a crutch.
text: Millimeter follows the boys with his own
dialog: bag.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S HOUSE, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: With shaking hands the Director reaches
text: into the pile of his son's belongings, on
text: the dining table. He picks up a book and
speaker_heading: 263
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You're right, Dad. It wasn’t suicide ... It
dialog: was murder.
text: opens it slowly. Mona's voice comes from
text: across the room.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Dad ...
text: The Director, in the fog of grief, doesn’t
text: hear her. Behind him, Mona crouches on
text: the ground, holding her stomach. She’
dialog: in pain.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Dad!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (snapping to attention)
dialog: Mona?
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Irs pouring down.
text: The trio trudges through the water,
text: Millimeter close behind. Rancho turns
dialog: to Millimeter.
dialog: at ga sear a aya STAT ay SS
dialog: wal ot ver 2?
dialog: faeifirer
dialog: wai, a ts vat Peart ae at 21
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR (O.S.)
dialog: Please help, we are desperate here!
text: Rancho looks in the direction of the
dialog: voice.
text: A car is stalled in water.
dialog: 264
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Go back, Millimeter. Why’te you following
dialog: us?
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Why? Your mom owns the road?
speaker_heading: sevaez (O.S.)
dialog: war at ger FY owa Zp tga 8?
text: The Director stands before the raised
text: bonnet of the car, talking agitatedly on
dialog: the phone.
dialog: feat cit ered a wregeay aT
dialog: (Intercut — An ambulance driver sits
text: inside his unmoving ambulance as the
dialog: rain beats down)
speaker_heading: —
dialog: go get Fo ot vo sont aaa
text: The trio and Millimeter reach the car.
text: Mona is in the backseat, moaning in pain,
text: on the phone with Pia.
speaker_heading: aT
text: Mona hands over the phone to Rancho.
dialog: & ATT, aT Ba?
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Rancho, Pia.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hello?
text: (Intercut — Pia, still in the hospital waiting
text: area, speaks urgently into the phone)
dialog: 265
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You can’t send an ambulance?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Get it from another hospital.
speaker_heading: AMBULANCE GUY
dialog: The entire city’s flooded, Sir. We're
dialog: helpless.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: No Pia, he ...
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Mona, you ok?
dialog: fear
dialog: eat set ver eifraa 1 ora H Star
dialog: wed & dat Ft
speaker_heading: gerer (O.S.)
dialog: am ays set we % e oer an to ae
dialog: ary anit + saat wa...
text: He takes the phone off his ear and looks
dialog: at it.
dialog: spac me fear! ATA!
text: He turns around and hurries to the back
text: of the car. He peers into the car. The back
text: door is open and Mona’s gone.
dialog: (alarmed)
speaker_heading: APT?
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINOUS
dialog: Rancho and Farhan carry Mona through
text: a flooded corridor, Millimeter walking
text: beside them. Raju follows behind, on the
dialog: phone with Pia.
text: Mona is crying out in pain.
scene_heading: INT. COMMON ROOM, ICE /
scene_heading: HOSPITAL — CONTINUOUS
text: They all enter the common room. It’s
text: pitch dark.
dialog: aaret ... BATT
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Rancho, you can't reach here. Do as
dialog: I say.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: The water bag has burst ...
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Disconnected! Mona.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Mona!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Carefully.
dialog: (to Millimeter)
dialog: ase St we, ASS GIT AR!
dialog: wert
dialog: (to Rancho)
dialog: wel Het Het |
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: To the table tennis table!
dialog: Rancho and Farhan put Mona down on
text: the table tennis table.
speaker_heading: TH
dialog: (to Pia, on the phone)
dialog: a, @F a ved wa, she a
dialog: oraz |
text: At the hospital, Pia hurries up to a nurse's
text: station and opens a laptop.
dialog: fra
text: Raju hobbles over to the computer in the
text: common room and turns it on.
text: At the nurse’s station, Raju’s image fills
text: the screen on Pia’s laptop.
speaker_heading: 267
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Turn on the lights.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Where to?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Pia, we're in the common room.
speaker_heading: PIA
text: Raju, turn on the web camera.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes, yes!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes Pia.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Where's Mona? Show me.
dialog: a) ares ails, eres sity
dialog: 
text: Raju, with Farhan’s help, wheels the
text: computer table to where Mona is lying.
dialog: wert
dialog: a at, far
dialog: frar
dialog: aa aa GH a am FS Ger oa,
dialog: ait?
text: Mona writhes in pain.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Gelling)
dialog: Pia, I'm dying!
text: At the nurse's station, a hospital Matron
text: joins Pia. She looks at the laptop screen,
dialog: worried.
dialog: frat
dialog: wea aa far # efferent cite Sige wet
dialog: a aa ft seg ter ae a1
text: In the common room, Rancho, Millimeter
text: next to him, nods, dazed.
dialog: alt
dialog: tl
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia speaks firmly
text: into the web camera.
dialog: fear
dialog: eer ot fectate ga arr wer
speaker_heading: 268
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes ... Yes ... hold on, hold on, don’t worry!
dialog: Hold on, hold on!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Here, Pia.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Didi, don't worry. I'm with you.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Rancho, even when there were no hospitals
dialog: or doctors, babies were delivered.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: You all will deliver this baby.
text: In the common room, Mona screams with
dialog: fear and pain.
text: Raju and Farhan look at Mona, petrified.
text: Rancho puts his hand over his heart.
text: The Director storms in through the
text: common room door, bellowing.
dialog: setae
dialog: aa sae a? ge arr He RT we A?
text: Pia’s voice stops him in his tracks.
dialog: Se da # na ona! aig = aree ate
dialog: fea, site!
text: The Director falls silent, looking around
text: in confusion.
dialog: ant amsit) tat ae at at war aT
dialog: a... a!
text: Everyone rushes to their tasks.
text: Rancho looks around searchingly, then
text: dashes towards a window.
text: The Director, anxious but out of his depth,
text: backs away, into a corner.
speaker_heading: 269
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: All izz well, all izz well!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: How dare you? I'll kill you?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Dad, stay out of this!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Farhan, get towels and scissors. Millimeter,
dialog: get clothes clips and hot water. Rancho,
dialog: cover Mona.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes, Yes.
text: Rancho yanks down the curtain from the
dialog: window.
text: He and Raju cover Mona with the
dialog: curtain.
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia speaks to Mona
text: gently, encouragingly.
dialog: frar
dialog: eel yt aT
scene_heading: RANCHO ON PIA’S LAPTOP.
dialog: Ya, ya, push!
dialog: ast AMT, Sasi FT, SF aT!
dialog: frar
dialog: qa at
text: In the common room, Raju and Rancho
dialog: continue to urge Mona on.
speaker_heading: RANCHO / RAJU
dialog: C™mon cmon Mona ...
text: In frustration, Mona slaps the person
text: closest to her — Rancho. He holds his
text: face, shocked.
speaker_heading: AAT
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Met! FAT YT YT Ya, Ae et TAI
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia speaks urgently
dialog: to Rancho.
dialog: fear
dialog: eat cat wrehit at vet a?
dialog: 270
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Mona, try pushing.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Mona, try pushing.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Push!
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Stop it! I can’t do it.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Rancho, check if there’ crowning?
text: In the common room, Rancho and Raju
text: look baffled. Mona whimpers in pain.
dialog: HST... AAT?
dialog: (to the matron)
dialog: at seat ae smsir |
text: At the nurse’s station, the Matron hands
text: Pia a diagram. Pia holds it up to the web
text: camera. She indicates the baby’s head in
dialog: the diagram.
dialog: frat
text: In the common room, Rancho, taken
text: aback, hesitates.
dialog: 
dialog: at?
text: At the nurse's station, Pia calls out with
dialog: increasing panic.
dialog: fra
dialog: ay at Pat aed
text: In the common room, Rancho is still
text: hesitant. Mona explodes.
speaker_heading: MONA
dialog: Go!
dialog: ™ .
dialog: aT ST ST, Fat, at ey SIAL |
speaker_heading: 271
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Crowning...?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Get that diagram.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: See if the head is coming out?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Come on Rancho, check quickly.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Go, Rancho, go.
text: Rancho walks to the foot of the table
text: tennis table and goes under the curtain
dialog: covering Mona.
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia waits anxiously.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Mona, Mona, easy, easy!
text: In the common room, Farhan, getting a
text: towel out of his bag, glances at the table
text: tennis table with worry.
text: Rancho emerges from under the curtain.
dialog: él aét, at arehiat) aél ar ver 21
text: At the nurse's station, Pia, now desperate,
text: pleads with Mona.
dialog: frar
dialog: eer ey yt wT
text: In the common room, Mona slumps
text: back exhausted. She starts to lose
dialog: consciousness.
text: The Director rushes to her side and takes
text: her hand in his.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Mona! Mona!
text: At the nurse's station, the Matron shakes
dialog: her head.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No crowning.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Mona, please push.
speaker_heading: MATRON
dialog: She’s tired, Pia.
dialog: 272
dialog: fear
dialog: (in panic)
dialog: Bost SF! ae at ger aat Bei at get
dialog: Heey
dialog: frat
dialog: aet wet freon aay Hy?
text: In the common room, Rancho springs
dialog: into action.
dialog: ae BT aa eat &? har eta e? aT
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia hits some keys
text: on her laptop.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Tl show you.
text: An animated sequence of a vacuum-assisted
text: delivery starts playing on the computer
text: screen in the common room.
speaker_heading: frat (V.O.)
dialog: wr At aH wa sie yor wet we OT
dialog: at a ay at S ao wa 2) aa
dialog: ay sage fede ara 8 aie a ay adi
dialog: & a 7 favn orar 2&1 fee aay aT arez
dialog: dia aa &1
text: In the common room, Rancho snaps his
text: fingers decisively.
speaker_heading: 273
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Wake her! If she won't push, its a big
dialog: problem.
speaker_heading: MATRON
dialog: They need a vacuum cup.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Where will they get one?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: What's a vacuum cup? How is it used?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: If the mother’s too fatigued to push, a cup
text: is placed on baby’s head. Suction makes
text: the cup stick to the head and the baby
text: is pulled out.
dialog: _
dialog: HA a wad @! oe GA AH Fe!
speaker_heading: SHEL?
dialog: aa?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes Sir, vacuum cleaner!
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia looks
dialog: troubled.
dialog: aerator Foe Tet Sar aT
dialog: 
dialog: veal ate ¢ avery
dialog: fore FH ater ae eT
dialog: fear
text: In the common room, the Director answers
dialog: Pia’s question.
speaker_heading: 3 Etat
speaker_heading: 2 aif A
dialog: ei
dialog: PEM, Tet oT, aH sith A a Ss
dialog: al
speaker_heading: 274
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I can make this.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: With a vacuum cleaner.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Vacuum cleaner?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: That pressure’s too high. Rancho.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Ll control it.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Do you have a vacuum cleaner?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Yes, in my office.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan, rush and get it.
dialog: Rancho and the Director feel in their
text: pockets, take out the office keys and throw
text: them at Farhan simultaneously.
dialog: 
dialog: a a ats
text: Farhan catches both keys and holds them up
text: for an embarrassed, awkward moment.
text: The Director turns to Rancho, looking
dialog: explosive.
text: Rancho hurriedly attempts a diversion.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Mona, push Mona! C’mon, push! Mona,
dialog: C'mon!
text: Farhan runs to the door. A blinding flash
text: of lightning fills the room and then the
text: room plunges into darkness. Farhan stops
text: at the door.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: ait WE ahs! arty
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: aa B30 |
text: At the nurse's station, Pia’s laptop screen
text: goes blank.
dialog: frat
dialog: (alarmed)
dialog: aa Bar?
text: In the common room, Raju’s phone
dialog: rings.
dialog: 275
speaker_heading: RANCHO / DIRECTOR
dialog: Here’s the key.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Oh my God!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (putting his phone on speaker)
dialog: at far
dialog: frar
speaker_heading: Sect TA, FAT Bar?
dialog: 4h c
dialog: at mee act mee
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia panics.
dialog: fear
dialog: at ats! aa aaqe aiae Ga cer?
text: In the dark common room, Rancho starts
dialog: issuing instructions.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan!
dialog: wert
dialog: a
dialog: it
dialog: él
dialog: (hysterical)
dialog: ba?
dialog: it
dialog: facies arace ar aret Praret | Seer
dialog: oF ait!
speaker_heading: 276
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes, Pia.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Raju, what happened?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: ‘The power's gone.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: How'll the vacuum work now?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan, you get the vacuum, I'll get the
dialog: power.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ok!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Millimeter, get Virus out.
text: Millimeter runs up to the Director, grasps
text: his arm and tugs.
text: The Director, flabbergasted, tries to swat
text: Millimeter away.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: What nonsense is this!
dialog: (cutting into the fracas)
dialog: ae a aaa vet a, oe AT aaa, GT
dialog: Hy aaa Bt, Saree, aT! aT Seth ah
dialog: aM, eat, AT!
speaker_heading: fareffiex
text: Millimeter rushes out of the room.
scene_heading: EXT. HOSTEL, CAMPUS, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan runs through knee-deep water
text: with a torch.
speaker_heading: 277
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: C'mon Virus, get out!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Not this Virus. My Virus, the inverter.
dialog: Get that, quick!
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Sorry, sorry, got it now.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Raju!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Raju, wake up the hostel boys. Get car
text: batteries, wires, and a vacuum gauge.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, HOSTEL, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Raju bangs on room doors, waking up
dialog: students.
dialog: was, dm, ater fae, ee By A
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR'S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan enters the Director’s office and
text: looks around.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Students run through water with
text: torches.
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE, ICE —
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan finds the vacuum cleaner.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: The students, led by Rancho and Raju,
text: run to parked cars in the campus. Using
text: crowbars, they pry open bonnets and
dialog: remove the batteries from the cars.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan hurries back to the common room
text: with the vacuum cleaner.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS, ICE — CONTINUOUS
text: Millimeter runs back to the common room
text: with the Virus inverter, holding an umbrella
text: over it to shield it from the rain.
dialog: 278
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Emergency in the common room!
scene_heading: INT, COMMON ROOM, ICE -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: The Director looks up as students, eager
text: to help, pour into the common room.
speaker_heading: STUDENTS
dialog: Good evening Sit, good evening Sir ...
dialog: Sete
dialog: Yedt wet 8?
text: Rancho rushes in, making his way through
dialog: the group.
speaker_heading: at ARI
dialog: (to the students)
dialog: aa arr art gf set vet, er aif!
dialog: ws aaa!
text: The batteries are lined up, an intricate web
dialog: of wires connecting them. All connections
text: go into the Virus inverter.
text: Rancho works furiously on the setup,
text: issuing rapid instructions all the while.
dialog: n
dialog: aa fafay cite ae oie eqaret @t ART
dialog: H alae a1 a AI
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Ok.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Where's Rancho?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Here, Sir. Keep the batteries here and
dialog: the wires.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Raju!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes,
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Raju, switch off everything, connect the
text: inverter to the mains.
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
dialog: (throwing him a wire) Take this!
dialog: a at!
text: Raju goes to the main switchboard, turns
text: off all the switches and starts working.
text: Farhan runs in with the vacuum cleaner.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho, vacuum cleaner!
text: Rancho gets up from the battery line-up
text: and moves across the room.
speaker_heading: var RANCHO
dialog: wer, at RT SAT aM Se ale, FAT Farhan, get your lens cleaner?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Blower blower.
speaker_heading: tit RANCHO
dialog: a, a a & ot Fe Yeah, get it.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ok!
text: Farhan opens his camera bag and takes out
text: the blower. Rancho is already working on
dialog: the vacuum cleaner.
speaker_heading: wert FARHAN
dialog: ve, a a wae Rancho, blower.
speaker_heading: vei RANCHO
dialog: ai, 73! 3 dag ay wey F aa gael Good. Fix this to the gauge.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ok!
dialog: 280
text: Rancho slices the blower into two cups.
text: Farhan inserts the vacuum gauge nozzle
text: into the vacuum cleaner pipe.
text: Rancho attaches one of the blower cups to
text: the end of the vacuum cleaner pipe.
text: Millimeter runs in with a bucket of hot
dialog: water.
dialog: The Director looks at all the activity
text: and then towards Mona, with growing
dialog: concern.
text: Raju finishes connecting the inverter wire
text: to the mains.
dialog: x
dialog: veal, a 7a!
text: Rancho runs to the Virus inverter.
dialog: aa faa ate &?
speaker_heading: wT
dialog: at
text: Rancho switches on the Virus Inverter.
speaker_heading: att He
dialog: 
dialog: ce
dialog: a
text: Raju pauses before the switchboard,
text: glancing towards the room nervously.
speaker_heading: 281
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rancho, I’m done!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: All switches off?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes,
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Hit the table and computer switches.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes!
text: Millimeter crosses himself in prayer.
text: The Director stares towards the switchboard,
text: waiting for a miracle to happen.
text: Raju takes a deep breath and presses the
text: table tennis switch.
text: The light above the table tennis table
text: comes on.
text: The room erupts with claps and cheers.
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
text: (briskly) Raju, turn on the computer.
dialog: Ty, weet at aT
text: Raju hurries to the computer and Rancho
text: rushes towards the vacuum cleaner.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
dialog: ay ais, dey fi, mage ae aa! Come on, help me.. connect this!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ok!
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
dialog: eat | Connected with this.
text: They get the vacuum cleaner to the table
dialog: tennis table.
text: At the hospital, the Matron, at Pia’s laptop,
text: calls out to her excitedly.
dialog: 282
text: Pia rushes back to her laptop which now
text: has a small crowd of nurses and patients
text: around it. Pia sees the common room
text: image back on the screen and Rancho
text: ready with his vacuum device.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Love you, Rancho!
text: In the common room, Rancho stands at
text: the foot of the table tennis table, holding
text: the modified vacuum cleaner.
dialog: air
dialog: EMT!
text: Farhan switches on the vacuum cleaner. It
text: comes to life with a loud, jarring sound.
dialog: The thought of that machine being used on
text: his daughter makes the Director's head spin.
text: He collapses into Millimeter’s arms.
dialog: frat, wast festa eat afer?
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia leans into her
text: web camera to answer Rancho.
speaker_heading: 283
speaker_heading: MATRON
dialog: Pia, come here quick.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan, turn it on!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Pia, how much suction?
dialog: fear
dialog: 0.5 & sae wet tar
text: In the common room, Farhan stands by
text: the vacuum cleaner, the gauge in his hand.
text: Rancho calls out to him.
dialog: WREM, 0.5!
dialog: hat He!
text: Rancho covers the improvised vacuum cup
text: with his palm.
text: Rancho covers and uncovers the vacuum
dialog: cup a couple of times, to test it.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Ok!
text: At the nurse’s station, there is an air of
text: suppressed excitement in the crowd around
text: the laptop. Pia smiles, her eyes brimming
text: with confidence in Rancho.
dialog: tert
dialog: aaae aire 4 festa, dra art & afeae
dialog: H oma ae vet ed
text: In the common room, the boys are ready
dialog: to take the plunge.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Not more than 0.5.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan, 0.5!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Cover it!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: 0.5!
speaker_heading: MATRON
dialog: Vacuum cleaner baby! Mother of all
dialog: deliveries.
text: Rancho stands still for a moment, gathering
dialog: courage.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Ok.
text: Vacuum cup in hand, he goes under the
text: curtain covering Mona.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Raju, get on the table.
text: In the ward, adjoining the nurse station,
text: Pia has the Matron lying on a bed.
dialog: fran
dialog: wet deh ad ay ae aha ge wa AT
dialog: el, Br
text: Raju rushes to the table tennis table. Mona
text: stirs weakly.
dialog: 
dialog: (from under the curtain)
dialog: ait He!
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: al
text: Farhan turns on the vacuum cleaner.
dialog: 285
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan, stop.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Push the baby down, like this.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Ok, ok.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Farhan, turn it on!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes!
text: At the hospital, Pia rushes back to the
dialog: laptop.
dialog: fear
dialog: (to Mona)
dialog: aw om det, yr wt, J SA S seh
text: Mona starts pushing. Raju kneels next to
text: her, on the table tennis table, his hands on
text: her belly, gently pushing downward.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: C'mon, you can do it C'mon, push ...
text: Mona tries to push, crying out with the
text: effort. Raju’s hand strokes her forehead.
dialog: fear
dialog: aay & ae F Arai, ea aim, wie dey
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Come on Mona, come on Mona, Mona
dialog: push!
text: Her face contorting with agony, Mona
text: keeps trying to push.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Yes come on, Mona, push push Mona,
dialog: come on come on come on!
text: From under the curtain covering Mona
text: comes a welcome yell.
dialog: al wt 2!
text: The Director, leaning heavily on Millimeter,
text: is roused from his stupor.
dialog: 286
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: C'mon sister, C'mon, you can do it C'mon,
dialog: push ... it.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Do it for Champ!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He’s coming out!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Come on, Didi, you can do it.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Push Mona, come on, push!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Yes Mona good, push Mona, you can do
dialog: it Mona!
text: The Director is at the table. He holds
text: Mona’ hand, leans over her and joins in
dialog: the spirit of encouragement all around
dialog: the room.
text: Mona's body half rises from the table,
text: she gives one final push and falls back,
text: exhausted.
speaker_heading: edt RANCHO
text: (from under the curtain) Farhan, turn it off.
speaker_heading: REM FS HT
speaker_heading: REM FARHAN
dialog: at ae fear, ae fears Ok, off.
text: Rancho emerges from under the curtain,
text: holding a baby.
text: There is awed silence in the room.
text: Tears course down Mona’ face.
text: Raju smiles through tears.
text: Farhan stands stunned.
text: The Director looks at his grandson
text: incredulously.
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia cries with joy.
text: The crowd around her stares at the laptop
speaker_heading: 287
text: screen in startled wonder. The Matron
text: finally finds her voice, remembering her
dialog: professional training.
dialog: tert
text: In the common room, everyone snaps
dialog: to life.
dialog: cert et faery ar aedt: arefifereper ats
dialog: ya
text: Farhan puts two clothes clips on the
text: umbilical cord.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: a, aa, a a
dialog: aa amit, ait
speaker_heading: syetaet
dialog: aut %, Fut aH!
dialog: ame, da 4 A we oI
text: Farhan cuts the umbilical cord.
dialog: ww
dialog: ead!
text: Farhan holds out a towel, Rancho carefully
text: places the baby in it and wraps him
dialog: with it.
speaker_heading: MATRON
text: Two clips, cut the umbilical cord.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Farhan, two clips on the cord.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Take this!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Get scissors.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Be careful!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
text: Cut at the centre.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Get a towel.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Towel!
text: At the nurse’s station, the Matron steps
text: up to Pia, troubled.
dialog: frat, frat a a gat et wer?
text: In the common room, everyone stops
dialog: short.
dialog: 
dialog: #
text: He looks down at the swaddled baby in
text: his arms. He shakes him gently.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey Champ!
text: The baby doesn't respond.
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia instructs Rancho
text: in a voice trembling with panic.
dialog: fra
dialog: Veal, at sah de et te FT
dialog: Farhan helps Rancho turn the baby
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: REM
dialog: a a!
text: Rancho rubs the baby’s back.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey, Champ!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Come on, Champ!
speaker_heading: MATRON
dialog: Pia, he’s not crying?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: PIA
text: Rancho, rub his back.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Here!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Come on, Champ!
dialog: (to Pia)
dialog: sal, qe vel at ver FI
text: At the nurse’s station, the Matron breaks
text: down. Pia is frantic.
dialog: frar
speaker_heading: wre Fe FX ea Bil BAI
text: Rancho blows air into the baby’s mouth
text: repeatedly. The Director looks from the
text: baby to Mona, desperate, hoping. Mona
text: stares at her baby, trembling.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Come on. Come on, Champ!
text: The baby doesn't cry. Rancho finally looks
text: up. He walks to the web camera, and holds
text: up the still baby.
dialog: ae wat a wet 21
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia breaks down
text: and turns away from her laptop.
text: In the common room, Rancho slowly
text: turns to Mona. As the reality hits her, she
text: is racked with grief. She stretches out her
text: hand towards her baby, sobbing.
dialog: et aa aa, at a Fa
text: ‘The baby’s leg swings up and hits Rancho
text: on the cheek.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Champ come on.
dialog: No, nothing.
speaker_heading: PIA
text: Blow air into his mouth.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No response.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hush Mona, say — “Aal izz well, aal iz
dialog: well.”
text: Stunned, Rancho looks down, from the
text: baby’s leg to his face.
text: He looks up again, and speaks falteringly.
speaker_heading: ad ARTI
text: Raju looks up sharply.
dialog: (dazed)
speaker_heading: od, ad ARTI
text: He looks at the baby from head to toe
text: again. And suddenly understands. His eyes
text: widen with excitement.
dialog: att sa dat att att st ae
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia hears the familiar
text: words and rushes back to the laptop.
text: In the common room, the trio chants to
dialog: the baby.
speaker_heading: aA
text: At the nurse’s station, Pia chants into the
text: web camera.
dialog: fear
speaker_heading: 291
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He kicked.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: ‘What?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He kicked
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Say — “Aal izz well, aal izz well.”
speaker_heading: RANCHO / FARHAN / RAJU
dialog: Aal izz well, aal izz well, aal izz well.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Aal izz well, aal izz well.
text: In the common room, everyone is now
text: chanting.
dialog: att sq dat ater
text: The baby kicks Rancho again. And starts
dialog: crying.
text: Roars of jubilation fill the room. Rancho,
text: Farhan, Raju and Millimeter laugh and
dialog: cry at the same time.
text: The Director and Mona hug each other,
text: sobbing in relief and happiness.
text: At the nurse's station, Pia weeps with joy,
text: along with everyone else. Rancho holds
text: the baby up to the web camera. Her eyes
text: brimming with love, Pia blows a kiss to
dialog: her little nephew.
text: In the common room, Farhan gets ready
text: to click a picture as Rancho hands the
dialog: baby to the Director.
speaker_heading: wer (V.O.)
dialog: gafrar sar dt F are ar saree ae
dialog: eal oe are FY Sa Ye Sle a TAH
dialog: a & wal
text: The Director holds his grandson, speaking
dialog: to him.
dialog: aifws aa aa @ gd! Ged aT?
dialog: aeeT! sit feet ae aT!
text: Farhan looks at the Director in incredulity
text: and laughs.
dialog: 292
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: Aal izz well, aal izz well.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: If Virus had said, “My grandson will be an
dialog: engineer,” I would’ve broken his jaw. But
dialog: when he finally spoke, he stunned us.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: What a kick! Wanna be a footballer? Be
dialog: what you want to be.
text: While everyone’s attention is on the baby,
text: Rancho picks up his luggage and quietly
text: walks out. The Director sees him leave.
text: He puts the baby into Mona’s arms and
text: follows him.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR, ICE —- DAWN
text: Rancho trudges through the waterlogged
text: corridor. The Director shouts out to him
text: from behind, hurrying after him.
dialog: wel! Het A we at? ae UH ae 9S
dialog: faa a!
text: Rancho stops and turns.
dialog: Settee
dialog: yer a, ae 2? fe aa F Oe aa
dialog: wet ast Be?
text: Rancho listens with downcast eyes.
dialog: (increasingly agitated)
dialog: or aa A Afar at fes ce ont & at
dialog: ait afaét FY gach veh, feet see F
dialog: ot aed 2%, fat & are H oT ward 2,
dialog: sugar ta Fo ot aad 2,
text: The Director’s voice breaks.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You were wrong, you were wrong!
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: You cannot be right all the time! You
dialog: understand?
speaker_heading: 293
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Wait — I’ve not finished with you!
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: First day of college, you'd asked me a
dialog: question ... Why didn't astronauts use a
dialog: pencil in space?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Ifa pencil tip breaks in space it would float
dialog: in zero gravity. It could get into someone's
text: eyes or nose or the instrument panel.
text: Rancho looks at the Director, with
text: understanding in his eyes.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Yes, Sir.
text: The Director takes out the astronaut’s
text: pen from his shirt pocket and waves it
text: in Rancho’s face.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: This was an important invention. You
dialog: understand?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes, Sir.
dialog: at qt mer at fe wa ale
dialog: 
dialog: umpstsiisn Se aT...
text: Overcome with emotion, the Director
text: breaks down. His body shakes with silent
text: sobs as he clips the pen onto Rancho’s
dialog: tshirt.
text: Stunned at the magnanimity of the gesture,
text: Rancho gazes up at the Director. A smile
text: comes onto his face.
dialog: Graft) a eas
dialog: a a ar at, a rest) sary FH ore aes
dialog: aet a frepet aTsir |
text: The Director pushes Rancho aside. Dawn
text: is breaking. He looks up and sighs,
dialog: having come to some sort of peace within
dialog: himself.
dialog: 294
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: My Director said, “When you find an
dialog: extraordinary student ...”
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Go, study! Pass your exams and leave.
text: Rancho gives him one last look and, his
text: smile widening, walks away.
scene_heading: EXT. GROUNDS, ICE — DAY
text: Its graduation day. Students in their
text: graduation robes and hats sit facing the stage
dialog: on which they will get their degrees on.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER (OS)
dialog: And now, student of the year ...
dialog: Ranchhoddas Shamaldas Chanchad!
text: As Rancho walks up to the stage, the
dialog: students, with the exception of Chatur,
text: give him a standing ovation. Among those
text: applauding, their eyes brimming with pride,
dialog: are Raju, Pia and Millimeter.
text: On stage, the Director hands Rancho his
dialog: degree with aplomb. Farhan, the only
text: student not in a graduation robe, has his
dialog: camera ready.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Sir, one photo, Sir!
text: The Director grabs Rancho’s hand and
text: drags him forward in a mock imitation
text: of dragging him through the college
dialog: corridors.
text: He stops, puts his arm around Rancho
text: and smiles warmly.
text: Farhan clicks.
text: The new graduates throw up their hats
dialog: in celebration.
text: Farhan walks in the crowd, capturing
text: moments on his camera; the Director
dialog: 295
text: laughing with his students, a grimacing
text: Chatur being kissed on his cheek by his
text: Mother, Raju and his Mother embracing
text: while weeping tears of joy.
text: In the midst of all this, unnoticed by
dialog: anyone, his degree in his hand, Rancho
text: loads his luggage into a taxi.
speaker_heading: EM (V.O.)
dialog: eq art al et eae Y ae ae F ape
dialog: a OMT aed atl oa fer wa wH cat
dialog: a ovat feat ve 41 siirra ah ae ae
dialog: wz 4, f ea 4 2a ae A wH ar
dialog: oat ae ta we F1
text: Rancho looks around once, tears in his
text: eyes, before getting into the taxi. Farhan,
text: looking through his viewfinder, sees this.
text: He lowers his camera, puzzled, and watches
text: as the taxi drives away.
scene_heading: EXT. LADAKH ROADS — DAY
text: Chatur’s SUV travels through the stark,
text: stunning landscape of Ladakh.
text: Inside the SUV, Chatur, still gagged and
text: bound, now sits on the backseat. He is
text: flanked by Pia and Raju. Pia has her eyes
text: closed and hands folded in prayer.
dialog: Farhan drives.
text: The SUV turns in the direction of a road
text: sign reading ‘Skitsal School’.
text: Chatur makes angry noises through his
dialog: Sag.
text: Farhan glances at him through his rear-
dialog: view mirror.
dialog: 296
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: I wanted to capture all these memories and
dialog: take them home. That day, we hugged,
dialog: we rejoiced, we cried ... We vowed that
dialog: . Who
dialog: knew then, we were seeing Rancho for
dialog: we'd meet at least once a year ..
dialog: the last time ...
dialog: wert
dialog: am ait & Saar
text: Raju removes Chatur’s gag.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Pll sue you all in an American court.
scene_heading: EXT. DRIVEWAY, SCHOOL — DAY
text: The SUV drives up a path lined with
text: solar panels and comes to a halt beside a
text: beautiful wooden building.
text: Raju, Pia, Farhan and Chatur rush out.
scene_heading: EXT. COMPOUND, SCHOOL -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Raju, Pia and Farhan run into a compound
text: filled with children in the midst of fun
dialog: activities and science experiments.
text: A child dressed as an astronaut passes
dialog: them.
dialog: frat
speaker_heading: TH!
text: Pia shows Raju a group of children
text: around an old, battered scooter. They use
text: a contraption on the back of the scooter
dialog: to grind grain into flour.
text: Farhan looks at a group of children
text: shearing sheep, using power generated by
text: a moving bicycle.
dialog: |
dialog: ow
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Untie him.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Raju!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Only Rancho can create a school like
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: 297
dialog: frar
dialog: (looking around searchingly)
dialog: ae He?
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING, SCHOOL -
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Away from the bustling compound, against a
text: seemingly deserted school building, Chatur
text: finds a spot to relieve himself. As he unzips,
text: a Child calls out to him in Ladakhi.
dialog: fs 1
dialog: (giggling)
dialog: sft are weer
text: Chatur looks up, irritated. From a window
text: above him, two Children peer down at
dialog: him.
dialog: at
dialog: a aa, Brat, aa!
text: The second, slightly Older Child tries
dialog: again.
dialog: fas 2
dialog: a wet YB At HT
dialog: at
dialog: q are aR, 8?
text: The Boys exchange a look. As Chatur starts
text: to urinate against the wall, they throw
text: down a wire with a live, broken light bulb
text: attached to it. The bulb hits the stream
text: of urine and Chatur gets electrocuted.
text: He starts yelling in pain. The Children
text: start laughing.
speaker_heading: 298
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: But where is he?
speaker_heading: KID 1
dialog: Don't pee here.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Go away creatures!
speaker_heading: KID 2
dialog: Don't pee here.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Pll smack you?
text: Farhan, Raju and Pia come running
text: towards the noise. Their faces break into
text: gtins of delight.
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: (excitedly)
dialog: fra vat) afar at or ora af 21
text: Leaving Chatur, the three of them run
text: towards another part of the school, looking
text: around searchingly.
text: They pass a neatly dressed YOUNG
text: BOY carrying a file. Farhan stops and
text: addresses him.
speaker_heading: ER
dialog: og aed, wera wet fare
text: Raju and Pia join them.
dialog: fear
dialog: Saar a wretsera ars 21
speaker_heading: Aa
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: (frustratedly)
dialog: Saat a var & afar?
text: The Boy looks from one to the other with
text: amusement and a dawning realisation.
speaker_heading: facfifrex
scene_heading: HT MT St ATH, MT A STG... SASIT
speaker_heading: a ATI
speaker_heading: 299
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Bingo! He cannot be far ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Excuse me, where is Ranchhoddas?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: He’s not Ranchhoddas!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rancho ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Chhote... Dammit, what's his name?
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Calm down. Come with me.
scene_heading: INT. PHUNSUKH WANGDU’S ROOM,
scene_heading: SCHOOL — CONTINUOUS
text: Farhan, Raju and Pia follow the Boy into
text: a colourful, cluttered workshop-office.
text: Intriguing gadgets and experimental setups
dialog: vie for space with the books, blackboard,
text: computer and charts.
dialog: aw
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: wet %, tit wet 2?
dialog: wert
dialog: va!
text: Without answering them, the boy gets out
text: some books from a bookshelf and places
dialog: them before Farhan.
dialog: faferiier
dialog: ua 21 a tat aie a
text: Farhan looks down at the books. They're all
text: books he’s written. He looks up, moved.
text: The Boy switches on the computer. The
text: screen is filled with the home page of
dialog: ‘Raju Rastogi’s blog’.
dialog: faferiier
dialog: pet fert & at # as ah & ara
speaker_heading: 1
text: Raju looks at the computer screen, then
text: looks up wonderingly.
text: The Boy takes a battered, red helmet off
text: a wall peg and turns to Pia.
dialog: 300
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Where's he?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Farhan, he’s read all your books.
speaker_heading: MILLMETER
dialog: Raju, he reads your blog everyday. Proudly
dialog: shares it with the kids.
dialog: fafertrez
dialog: wat at AT?
text: Pia looks at the helmet in surprised
text: wonder. She looks up at the young man
text: smiling at her.
dialog: fra
dialog: (softly, puzzled)
dialog: aH aM a? oie ey aa HA Ba
dialog: art a?
dialog: Tear wet?
dialog: fra
dialog: wet |
dialog: faferfrez
dialog: aa year faferiies oq aérfree air
dialog: aa va 21
text: Pia, Raju and Farhan gasp. Surprised
dialog: pleasure and recognition replaces the
text: bafflement on their faces and everyone
text: speaks at the same time.
dialog: a4
dialog: Henfiex, faites gt wars TI
dialog: a8
text: Farhan and Raju envelope Millimeter in a
text: hug. Pia smiles, blinking back tears.
speaker_heading: 301
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: Remember your helmet, Pia? It was
dialog: stolen ...
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Who are you? How do you know us?
speaker_heading: MILLMETRE
dialog: Didn't you recognise me?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: How would you? Millimeter is now
dialog: Centimeter.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rascal!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Not Centimeter, you're Kilometer.
dialog: Heer
dialog: aie afer JY aet war He were?
dialog: faferfier
dialog: vet ae Ae are YH faedt arth
dialog: wer Af ot aT fene freer ore ferar
dialog: a, Ver wed & at or yes a1 we
dialog: ay ye af
dialog: wert
dialog: ara att |
text: Pia, touched by Millimeter’s story, averts
text: her face, wiping off a tear. She looks back
text: at Millimeter, with growing indignation
text: and anger in her eyes.
dialog: fear
dialog: wet @ at sfeae?
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE, LADAKH —- MOMENTS
speaker_heading: LATER
text: A model plane circles over the shimmering
text: turquoise of a lake. On a narrow strip of
text: sand jutting into the lake, stands the group
text: controlling the plane — Rancho and several
text: laughing, clamouring children.
text: Rancho manoeuvres the plane with a remote
text: control, childish glee and enthusiasm on
text: his face. He turns from the lake and stops
text: short. Riding towards him, on the old,
text: flour-making scooter from his school, is Pia.
text: Without taking his eyes off Pia, Rancho
text: addresses the Child next to him.
dialog: Yar
dialog: Sa, GA FT |
dialog: 302
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: How did you get here?
speaker_heading: MILLIMETER
dialog: I got a letter with a train ticket inside It
dialog: said — “Miss being in school? Catch this
dialog: I did.
dialog: train” ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: That rascal Rancho!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Where is that idiot?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Dorje, you fly it.
text: He hands over the remote control to the
text: Child and stares at his fantasy-come-alive.
text: The Children chase behind the plane.
text: The scooter stops.
text: Rancho tilts his head to the side and
text: looks at Pia dreamily, a small smile on
text: his face.
dialog: at (V.0.)
dialog: aa tt geq & eegs FY eer we de
dialog: at a avd Fo ondh a1
text: Pia parks the scooter and starts walking
text: towards Rancho. She takes off her helmet
text: as she walks.
speaker_heading: vat (V.0.)
dialog: ye feet med Ae oe ard afl
text: Rancho’s smile grows as Pia comes
dialog: closer.
text: Pia reaches him and slaps him across his
dialog: face.
dialog: are! area!
dialog: fear
dialog: (furious)
dialog: aa & vet oT wet a?
dialog: (lowering his eyes)
dialog: aah... APT
dialog: fear
dialog: amet at?
dialog: 303
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Every night you ride into my dreams on
text: a scooter, dressed as a bride.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Instead of a veil, you lift your helmet and
dialog: come close to kiss me.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Ouch!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Couldn't you tell me before leaving?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: No. Sorry.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Did you marry?
text: Rancho gives an incredulous laugh.
speaker_heading: ei RANCHO
dialog: wa, wer! AT | What? No.
dialog: The importance of the question suddenly
text: hits him and he sobers down in a
dialog: hurry.
speaker_heading: Yat RANCHO
dialog: or? You?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Almost .... Idiot!
text: Rancho breathes out in relief, smiling. Pia
text: starts smiling too.
text: She looks at Rancho expectantly, waiting.
speaker_heading: frar PIA
dialog: at? So?
speaker_heading: tet RANCHO
dialog: at diz? So what?
speaker_heading: far PIA
dialog: feet A are Hed er? Do you love someone?
text: Rancho hesitates, then speaks reluctantly.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes.
text: Pain and disappointment fill Pia’s face. She
text: manages to mask her emotions and turns
text: her face away from Rancho, unable to look
text: at him as she asks her next question.
dialog: 304
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Who?
text: Rancho looks at her, a slow smile starts
text: to appears on his face.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: You.
text: Pia looks back at him, startled. Her face
text: floods with relief and joy. She grabs Rancho
text: and kisses him on the lips.
text: When she finally lets go of him, Rancho
text: staggers back astounded. He has a thrilled
text: smile on his face. Pia smiles back.
dialog: fear
dialog: war, are dra ¥ vet ont & eft
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: That's right!
dialog: eer
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: 
text: Rancho turns to see Farhan standing behind
text: him at a distance. He smiles in delight.
dialog: wert
dialog: (angrily)
text: Farhan takes off a shoe and starts moving
text: towards Rancho, aggressively.
dialog: 305
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: See, the noses don’t collide, stupid.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rancho!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hi ... Farhan!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Screw your ‘H?,
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: aR, a, A Ta a A ...
text: Rancho starts to walk backwards.
dialog: wert
dialog: wat wal, TAT art A
dialog: ae ot, FT art at ar
dialog: wert
dialog: wat wal, TAT art A
text: Rancho starts running backwards. Farhan
text: runs towards him.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: ae ae Hwa ane € ATI
text: Someone shoves him from behind. Rancho
text: turns around to see Raju. Rancho smiles,
text: overjoyed to see his friend.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: at TH!
text: Raju slaps him. Rancho, reeling from the
text: blow, spins towards Farhan. Farhan slaps
text: him. Rancho starts running. Raju and
text: Farhan chase him, swearing loudly.
dialog: are!
dialog: wert
dialog: ex ta!
dialog: 306
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey, listen to me ...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No, you listen to me.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I can explain everything.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: No, you listen to me.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I can explain everything.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hi... Raju!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Rascal!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Look here.
text: Rancho runs around Pia’s parked scooter,
text: trying his best to dodge his furious friends.
text: They catch up with him and all collapse
text: on the sand, pummelling each other.
speaker_heading: wT
dialog: wit sat ame aeaT ate ee ay Paar
dialog: wad 4! aprat fae & art! art et
dialog: wet Set!
speaker_heading: RET
text: Pia watches the three friends
dialog: affectionately.
dialog: fra
dialog: art, cite a8 aep A at aed arr
dialog: mh .
scene_heading: al FAT PT IST, AT 2! UH GT eT
dialog: fear set?
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: ert) ret!
dialog: Pia finally decides Rancho’s been punished
dialog: enough.
dialog: frat
dialog: at, ae GSI
text: Farhan and Raju stand back and look at
text: Rancho curled up on the sand.
speaker_heading: aa, SS Art BI
dialog: 307
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: How we hunted for you! Didn't have a
dialog: coin for one phone call?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: One phone call?
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Add a couple from me too.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: One phone call?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Rascal, scoundrel!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Let him go now.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: On your feet, C'mon!
text: Farhan gives Rancho a hand and Rancho
text: hauls himself up. The three friends hold
text: their sides, panting. They straighten up
text: and, slowly, start laughing.
text: Farhan steps forward and hugs Rancho.
text: Rancho opens out an arm and Raju steps
text: into it. The three hug each other laughing
text: and crying.
text: Pia looks at them, smiling, wiping a tear.
text: Chatur’s SUV comes to a halt a little
text: away from them. Chatur pokes his head
text: out of the SUV.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Having fun, idiots?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Hey ... Hi Chatur.
text: Chatur walks towards Rancho, still limping
dialog: from the electric shock.
dialog: at
dialog: (mockingly)
dialog: wre wes! TT ARE! AMT Het
dialog: ved ag... aa # Say aq ag et? wwe
text: Chatur gives a loud braying laugh at his
text: own joke. His laugh ends abruptly as he
text: winces with the remnant of pain from the
text: shock. He clutches the front of his pants
text: briefly, then resumes.
dialog: 308
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You idiot.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Ranchhoddas Chanchad. How do you do,
dialog: Mr. Teacher? Wow, you're a teacher in a
dialog: village — A for Apple, B for Ball...
dialog: ay ahi wm aa owes a Tl
dialog: a oq ftrt ¥ aet wear cata a
dialog: area ment eae
text: Chatur laughs again. Rancho smiles,
text: amused and completely unaffected. He
text: glances at the others, his eyes twinkling.
dialog: ade
dialog: u aat feat & estes? dtr? oe zone?
dialog: we AT ta aem AF 100 Stat AY ae
dialog: ar tbe att Gert Aa a coer eI
text: Raju and Farhan look at Chatur with
text: increasing anger and disgust.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: (snapping)
speaker_heading: HI THA TE SLI
dialog: at
dialog: ara at & wea atl Vaart Pres ST
dialog: geet de at) sfaal Al ace Ae AT
text: Chatur cracks up again. Farhan lunges
text: towards him.
dialog: Er
dialog: a eae aa diem & oF ae, wae
dialog: Rancho restrains Farhan.
dialog: wet ¢ an, OS ATI
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Our trains left together. But yours travelled
dialog: in reverse ... from engineer to primary
dialog: teacher.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: What's your salary, Chanchad? Rs 5000?
dialog: For me that’s $100. My son's pocket money
dialog: is more than your salary.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Cut the crap.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Crap is what he gave us. Wanted to
dialog: change the education system, change
dialog: the world. Finally what does he change?
dialog: Kids diapers
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You gonna break his jaw or should I?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Just relax.
text: Rancho grins, thoroughly entertained by
dialog: Chatur.
dialog: at
dialog: (gloating)
dialog: 
text: He takes out a document and hands it
text: over to Rancho.
speaker_heading: agt FY
dialog: qed Bt det tae ar a goa, #
speaker_heading: Strat 1
text: Rancho scans the document and reads the
text: heading out loud.
dialog: ei
dialog: ‘sree site fepte’? safaterart are!
text: Everyone starts to laugh.
speaker_heading: mH
dialog: aq!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Unbelievable!
dialog: wert
dialog: a wiret = eT!
text: Rancho takes out a pen and starts to sign
text: the document. Chatur notices the pen he’s
text: signing with. His face falls.
dialog: tage dt aaa ar te 21 ae Te ae
dialog: arr? FA aay?
dialog: 310
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Remember I'd said one day you'd cry and
dialog: I'd laugh?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Sign here. Accept — You lost, I won!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: “Declaration of Defeat’? Unbelievable,
dialog: man!
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Chatur!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Crazy guy.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Hey, this is Virus’s pen! You pinched it?
dialog: air
speaker_heading: oa FN FAS ALI
text: Chatur snatches the pen from Rancho’s
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: (viciously)
dialog: This is for winners, not losers!
text: Suddenly changing tack, Chatur puts his
text: arm around Rancho’s shoulder and starts
text: walking with him, towards his car.
dialog: cists
dialog: (condescendingly)
dialog: ae ad vai, eat eae A cate a aie
dialog: arm afev, at alr ae afte ety
text: He hands over his assistant’s visiting card
text: to Rancho. Rancho stands still, looking
text: at the card, bemused. Chatur walks off,
dialog: singing.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: ‘A for apple, B for ball ...
text: Laughing incredulously, Rancho turns to
dialog: his friends.
dialog: a facga wat seen, ar!
dialog: Thinking that Chatur’s jibes might have
text: hurt him, Rancho’s friends try to make
dialog: him feel better.
speaker_heading: RET
speaker_heading: Oe SH He, SH HI
speaker_heading: 311
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Forget it, man.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: If your school ever needs help, call my
dialog: assistant for a donation.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: He hasn't changed at all!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Ignore him.
dialog: SS ae Sael, ee A sera wea FI
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Phunsukh Wangdu.
text: Farhan and Raju do a double-take.
text: Pia looks horrified.
speaker_heading: RAJU / FARHAN
dialog: Wangdu!
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: (in revulsion)
dialog: Pia ‘Wangdu’
dialog: _
dialog: al
dialog: al at are & 400 Yersrq 2?
dialog: al
dialog: Pia makes the point most important to
dialog: her.
dialog: 312
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: He’ full of crap.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: The good news is your name isn’t
dialog: Ranchhoddas Chanchad Imagine, after
dialog: marriage, I'm Pia Chanchad — Yuck! By
dialog: the way, what is your real name?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: You mean, youre a scientist?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: You have 400 patents?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes.
dialog: _@
dialog: 4
dialog: aa
dialog: a ad nama q age a aire 2?
dialog: a
dialog: :
dialog: anit at Sing a ee ve Be
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: (crying out in despair)
dialog: I don’t like Wangdu!!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: (to Farhan)
dialog: I think so ...
speaker_heading: RET
dialog: ae Uh ad an, T ashe @ a
dialog: ere?
dialog: apres & afer aedt a Al yet <1
dialog: wy
dialog: Wad Tz GAaE aie &?
text: Pia finally realises what Raju and Farhan
text: are getting at. Her pained expression turns
text: into a gradually widening smile.
dialog: at aa el
dialog: 313
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: I won't change my name after marriage.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: You mean you're Chatur’s Wangdu?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Its you the Japanese are wooing?
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Are you a scientist or a teacher?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Scientist, but I also teach children.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: So you are The Phunsukh Wangdu?
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes, yes!
text: As Raju and Farhan burst into ecstatic,
text: triumphant laughter.
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Hey Silencer.
dialog: to ag, aay at!
speaker_heading: REM
speaker_heading: U Bh Bh THI
text: Chatur ignores their shouts. Instead, he
text: kisses his hand and pats his butt with it,
text: in a silent rendition of ‘Kiss my ass’.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Take that!
dialog: |
dialog: ave 24,
text: Rancho pulls out his cellphone and dials
dialog: a number.
text: Chatur has almost reached his car. His
text: cellphone rings. He takes it out of his
text: pocket. ‘Phunsukh Wangdu calling’ flashes
text: on the screen. Chatur stops in his tracks.
text: With reverence he answers the phone.
dialog: aa
dialog: wr aT!
dialog: (in a businesslike tone)
dialog: ong Oy att feet ogy, aft srr aeriT
dialog: a aa 4 ga sé set ee oer
speaker_heading: 314
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hey Chatur, come back!
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: Stop!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Wait, I'll stop him.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Mr. Wangdu, I can’t believe it’s you.
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr. Chatur. I can’t sign the deal
dialog: with your company
text: Chatur’s face loses colour.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: What Sir? Why sir?
text: Rancho’s tone changes back to his natural
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: Yi RANCHO
dialog: at dy AeA Be ae AT Ww aT How do I sign, man? You took my pen.
dialog: a m1
text: Farhan, Raju and Pia burst into loud
dialog: laughter.
text: Chatur puts his hand on his free ear, trying
dialog: to block out the sound.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: (confused)
dialog: What pen, Sir? I didn’t get you...
speaker_heading: wir RANCHO
text: a at a aa #2 qa at a The one in your hand — Virus’s pen!
text: The four friends guffaw with mirth.
speaker_heading: war CHATUR
dialog: aaa &t tH? Virus’s pen?
text: Chatur looks at the pen in his hand. A
text: terrible realisation begins to dawn on him.
text: He turns around.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: (falteringly)
dialog: Mr. Wangdu...?
text: Four hands wave at Chatur.
dialog: 315
dialog: 
dialog: af att age!
dialog: oa
dialog: amy We!
text: A dazed Chatur looks down at the
dialog: document Rancho had signed. The
dialog: signature reads ‘Phunsukh Wangdu’.
dialog: wert
text: an sear at aarene at 11
text: They can’t stop laughing.
text: The truth finally hitting him, Chatur gasps
text: and stutters, desperately grappling for a
dialog: way to retrieve the situation.
text: He starts talking nervously, too fast,
text: keeping a fake, sickly sweet smile plastered
text: on his face.
dialog: aa
dialog: qe A, a ate A, ta, ong Ae fez
dialog: aire. dest wis A, ys at ati oe
text: Raju juts out his hip and does his own
dialog: rendition of ‘Kiss my ass’.
dialog: mh .
dialog: Uo age! set, sea!
dialog: Uo omg ant cif are: see & are ar
dialog: q aes ¥ .. 7 aw SET
dialog: 316
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Yes, Chatur?
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: A for Apple, B for Ball is...
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: .. S for ‘Screwed’.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: You got me, Rancho — I mean, Mr.
dialog: Wangdu. Totally floored me. Good one
dialog: I hope our personal problems won't affect
dialog: this deal.
speaker_heading: RAJU
dialog: Hey Chatur — take that.
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: I was just joking, man. Deep down, I
dialog: knew you'd do great things.
speaker_heading: wal / UL / RE
dialog: aa
dialog: a at at a, omg Hy cafes gq, mye
speaker_heading: Yat 100, aa 01g fa, TS TIT
dialog: are facta Ate
text: Chatur turns around and pulls down
text: his pants, exposing his bright blue
dialog: underwear.
text: The four wince and turn away.
dialog: were ae de at aeQ wae
dialog: wi!
dialog: fear
dialog: a!
dialog: reir!
text: As Chatur turns back towards them, pants
text: still down, the four of them turn and run
text: away from him.
text: Alarmed, Chatur calls out.
dialog: ae
dialog: & tat
dialog: (wheedling)
dialog: a Ste act amet ae at we we
text: Chatur hobbles behind them, pulling his
text: pants up on the way.
speaker_heading: 317
speaker_heading: RANCHO / RAJU / FARHAN
dialog: You're fibbing!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: No, really, I swear. No no no no, I'm
dialog: telling you, Rancho — 100, Chatur — 0.
dialog: You win, I lose. You don’t believe me?
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Your Majesty, thou art great. Accept this
dialog: humble offering.
speaker_heading: PIA
dialog: Free advice, Mr. Wangdu - Run for your
dialog: life!
speaker_heading: RANCHO
dialog: Chalo!
speaker_heading: CHATUR
dialog: Hey Rancho. Rancho, Tl lose my job,
dialog: man. I have small kids ...
speaker_heading: wer (V.O.)
dialog: aat afc, arrardt odt art ae ae
dialog: ae ae
text: Ina paradisiacal valley ringed by mountains,
text: Rancho, Farhan, Raju and Pia run, laughing
text: with exhilaration, jewel-like waters lapping
text: the shore they run on, as Chatur stumbles
text: after them, whining,
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: THE END
speaker_heading: 318
speaker_heading: FARHAN
dialog: His Holiness Guru Ranchhoddas had
dialog: correctly stated — “Follow Excellence ...
dialog: Success will chase you, pants down.”
text: THE MVIETHOD IN THE IVIADNESS
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani, Abhijat Joshi, & Vidhu Vinod Chopra Recollect
dialog: In the course of putting this book together, the many conversations I had with Rajkumar
dialog: Hirani revealed that in a life spanning over four decades filled with many challenging
text: and debilitating experiences, the one that is clearly etched in his memory as the
dialog: most oppressive of them all is the month preceding his 12th standard exams. “Every
dialog: night I would get a recurring dream that I was taking an exam and I did not know
dialog: the answer to even a single question. I would wake up in cold sweat,” he said. Raju
text: attributes this to the fear psychosis created around exams and grades in India. The
text: first few daunting months at FTII, a year without work and money in Mumbai,
dialog: myriad struggles to set up a career, the Herculean task of making movies were lesser
text: strains compared to the pressures of Higher Secondary exams in his life.
dialog: It was no surprise then that when he started hunting for a subject he felt deeply
text: about as the DNA for his first feature film, he decided on the story of three friends
text: in a medical college. The aim was to weave a tale that enthralled with anecdotes
text: from life in a hostel and make a comment both on the education system and the
dialog: medical practice in India. For Raju, life in a hostel signified freedom. The time he
dialog: spent doing theatre with his group Awaaz with the students from Nagpur Medical
text: College, hostel life at FTI, and the horrors of education engineered towards grades
dialog: were experiences that had left an indelible impression on him. Therefore, the first
text: draft of Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. had, instead of the lovable Bhai and his sidekick
text: Circuit, three friends living in a medical college. The script and the ideas kept
text: changing and evolving. At the end, the three friends had to wait and give way to
text: the duo that became the Indian equivalent of Batman and Robin: the incorrigible
text: and immensely endearing Munna and Circuit.
text: But the initial idea that he started with lay latent in Raju’s subconscious for the
dialog: next six years. Such must have been his desire to make this film one day and
dialog: so great the need for the world to have this idea translated on screen that the
text: universe conspired to make it happen. Vidya Balan and the Mumbai deluge of
text: 2005 played significant roles in pulling this blueprint out from the deep recesses
text: of Raju’s mind. It was May 2005 and Vidya had just finished shooting for the
text: first schedule of Lage Raho Munna Bhai. She and Raju had struck up an instant
text: rapport often recommending interesting films and books to each other. Vidya
dialog: happened to read Five Point Someone during this period. She knew Chetan so she
dialog: was aware that he was keen to get the book across to Raju as possible material
text: for a film. Vidya immediately lent her copy of the book to Raju saying that this
dialog: was an idea she felt had legs. But being in the middle of making a film, Raju
text: did not have time to breathe let alone read. The book gathered dust on his
dialog: bookshelf for sometime. And then in July, Mumbai faced the worst rain-induced
text: floods ever. Life for everyone in Mumbai came to a standstill. Raju’s lane was
text: completely flooded and he had no choice but to stay home for a couple of days.
text: That is when he picked up Five Point Someone and read it. The story of three
text: friends and their experiences in an engineering college took him by surprise and
text: brought to the fore his first draft of Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. He discussed it with
dialog: Vinod and Abhijat. The rights to adapt the book into a film were bought and
dialog: the rest as they say is history.
text: The one-liner (a scene-wise synopsis of the screenplay and its trajectory) of 3 Idiots
text: was ready in a record nine days and the first draft of the screenplay with dialogues was
text: ready in 18 days from the day Abhijat Joshi, Vidhu Vinod Chopra, and Rajkumar
dialog: Hirani started working on it (2006). After that, it took the three writers, two-and-
text: a-half years to arrive at a shooting script.
text: The evolution of the screenplay involved ponderous work on innumerable drafts,
text: multiple scenarios (some retained and many abandoned), copious amounts of green
text: tea, long walks, and several trips around the globe.
dialog: The journey was through a labyrinth of possibilities. [In some drafts Pia was Farhan’s
dialog: ex-girlfriend; Chatur and not Suhas was to marry Pia; Farhan was an unhappy
text: corporate honcho in New York; instead of wildlife photography, linguistics was
dialog: Farhan’s passion; Joy and Phunsukh Wangdu were added and deleted frequently.]
dialog: The key to the screenplay was to find the best way forward that enabled the narrative
dialog: to be consistently compelling, real, and entertaining.
dialog: These interviews with the writers were recorded between January and April 2010,
dialog: at various locations, in Mumbai.
dialog: 322
dialog: There is a method to the three of you working together. How does it work?
dialog: VC: We have been working together for many years and have immense mutual
dialog: respect and affection for each other. Abhijat and I go back to the Kareeb days
dialog: and with Raju my writing association started with Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. 1 don't
dialog: sit with them and write continuously. My biggest contribution and challenge is
dialog: to channelise their passion and energies in a direction. I am their rubbish radar.
dialog: They do the writing and come to me constantly with material at regular intervals.
dialog: I either change some things or add new things to it or reject it. My work here is
dialog: of a good reviewer.
dialog: RH: Abhijat and I write constantly while working on the screenplay and once we
dialog: have a ready draft, we start the sessions with Vinod. He is brilliant at catching
dialog: the problems, the chinks in the script, the flaws. It is fantastic to get this kind of
dialog: perspective on one’s work as one is going along. It keeps us on the right track.
dialog: AJ: The interesting thing about the three of us working together is the diversity
dialog: in our methods of working which eventually enhances the material we work on.
dialog: Vinod’s method of writing and Raju’s and my methods are completely different but
dialog: our goal is the same: a great story.
dialog: Raju and I operate by working on individual scenes and later binding them
dialog: together which brings the desired unpredictability to our work whereas Vinod
dialog: likes his character arcs and plot defined. Therefore, when we take the scenes to
dialog: Vinod, he lends the necessary prespective to them. The principle which has been
dialog: the guiding metaphor throughout Aristotle's writings has been that the action of a
text: narrative or drama must be presented as “a complete whole, with its several incidents
text: so closely connected that the transposal [shifting an incident/scene from one point in
dialog: the narrative to another] or withdrawal of any one of them will disjoin and dislocate
dialog: the whole.” This is the principle that Vinod follows. His focus is the whole. Every
text: scene in the film must carry the story forward. It must have a purpose that serves
dialog: this movement. You cannot narrate a scene to Vinod and tell him that the purpose
text: of the scene is to make people laugh or cry. He will immediately throw it out.
text: Scenes might be luminous on their own but they are useless if they do not light
dialog: up the whole narrative is Vinod’s belief. Raju and I often get carried away by the
text: individual scenes. In the second half of 3 diots, Vinod took out a few dramatic
dialog: scenes which in hindsight I feel would have weakened our film. He believes that
text: we cannot overload the audience because after a while, they stop caring. There is
dialog: Fatigue that sets in. You need to have that balance where you don’t give in to the
speaker_heading: 323
dialog: temptation of overdoing things. To give you an example, the speech scene was
dialog: kept not because it was funny but because it had a purpose beyond making the
text: audience laugh. The speech demonstrated the pitfalls of rote learning and brought
text: the conflicting philosophies in the film, of chasing excellence and blindly chasing
text: success, out in the open.
dialog: This is the way in which we work together. Different perspectives enable us to
dialog: retain quality without losing focus.
text: The germ of the idea came from Chetan Bhagat’s book Five Point Someone.
dialog: What is it that drew you to the book?
dialog: RH: I loved the description of hostel life in the book. It instantly held my attention.
dialog: I had lived in a the hostel, like the boys in the book, so it was very appealing to
dialog: me. Education and the pressures one faces with regard to education that would result
dialog: in a ‘better life’, the one defined by society and not necessarily by the individual,
dialog: have always been of great interest to me. This gave me a wonderful opportunity to
text: combine these thoughts with a few anecdotes from the book.
dialog: It took over two-and-a-half years for the screenplay to come together. What
dialog: were the challenges that you faced while writing it?
text: RH: Five Point Someone, though immensely enjoyable, was very anecdotal in its
dialog: treatment. I knew the moment I read the book that we would have to spend
text: considerable time adapting it into a screenplay. There is nothing in the book that
text: binds it together. For a film, a binding thread is critical. The audience has to be
text: taken on a journey through the characters and plot. It has to move towards something
text: to hold the attention of the viewers. For example, in Lagaan, one of the things
dialog: that keeps you hooked till the end is the cricket match. The whole film is moving
dialog: towards that. I could not find this thread within the book and from there stemmed
dialog: the desire to create an external story. The idea for the external story came to me in
dialog: Kenya. The Kenyan Film Board had invited a select group of Indian film directors
text: and cinematographers to explore Kenya as a shooting destination for Indian films.
dialog: Therefore, Nikhil Advani, Shaad Ali, and I, including a few other directors and
dialog: cinematographers, travelled to Kenya. Initially, as usual, I was very reluctant to go.
dialog: What happens with me is that whenever I am invited to some place and if I am
dialog: working, I start thinking that it is a waste of time, and, therefore, why should I go.
dialog: This is the reason I decline most of the times and then I regret it. Twice over I passed
speaker_heading: 324
dialog: up the opportunity to go to Australia thinking that I am working on my script and
dialog: it would be a waste of time. In both cases, I could have easily gone and come back
dialog: and my life would not have changed. So when this invitation came, sometime in
dialog: March 2007, I decided I must go. I went but out of habit carried my laptop with
dialog: me hoping I would find time to get some work done there. On reaching Kenya,
dialog: I discovered that they had a packed itinerary planned for us for each day of our
dialog: stay. Obviously, they wanted to show us the maximum number of locations. The day
dialog: used to start at 6 am and end at 9 pm. After two days of intense sightseeing, I got
dialog: anxious about my script. I started getting very edgy. On the third day, I refused to
text: go. Nikhil and everyone else started laughing at me. I realised that if I told them
dialog: the truth, then I would not be able to escape so I lied and told them that I was
text: not well. They left without me. I took out my laptop and started working on my
text: script. Funnily, one lady who was with the film board, landed up in my room with
dialog: a doctor. I sheepishly told them that now I was better. Hopefully, when she reads
dialog: this she shall realise how pivotal this day of work in Kenya was to 3 Idiots.
dialog: That entire day, the one day I managed to work on my script, away from all phone
text: calls and distractions, I sat in my hotel room thinking about the story that I need
dialog: to introduce to bind the film. That is when this thought about the bet between the
text: rivals struck me. One friend goes away and then the other two search for him. For
dialog: the audience, the binding factor would then be — do they find this friend or not?
dialog: If they do find him, then what is the story of the friend? Why did he leave? Where
text: did he go? Does he win the bet or does he lose? At every stage, these questions
text: would be at the back of their minds. This desire and curiosity in the audience to
dialog: get to the end of the film is the backbone of a screenplay. If I were to remove
text: this entire story from the screenplay, then the film becomes just a story set in a
dialog: college and you are not really looking forward to anything. I remember I called
dialog: Abhijat from there and told him this idea and he loved it. The icing on the cake
dialog: was Abhijat coming up with the imposter idea.
dialog: AJ: The imposter idea in the film came from a real-life story. I knew a man
dialog: (I cannot name him as he is someone from the industry) who actually did what
text: the real Ranchoddas does in the film. A man applies to FTII and gets through. He
dialog: also applies to an engineering college and gets selected. He gets selected in many
text: places. He is a brilliant guy. Of all the entrance exams he clears, he decides to enrol
text: in the engineering college. This brilliant guy is our imposter’s friend. The imposter
text: wants to study cinema so he takes his friend’s permission and impersonates him. He
text: studies at FTII for three years posing as the brilliant guy who chose engineering.
dialog: 325
text: The imposter passes out of the Institute, joins the film industry, changes back to
text: his real identity and makes films. This real-life story, which not too many people
dialog: know about, inspired the whole Rancho-imposter track.
dialog: RH: We combined the search and the imposter tracks and got the story of the
text: film. The binding thread which was missing to keep the narrative moving was now
dialog: in place. This was probably one of the most critical of the challenges we faced in
dialog: writing 3 Idiots.
dialog: ‘What according to you is the core of 3 Idiots?
dialog: AJ: The first scene that we wrote for 3 Idiots was the conversation between Boman
text: and Aamir at Joy’s funeral. This scene was in a different form and shape the first
dialog: time we wrote it. On the night of the suicide, Rancho goes up to the tower in
text: the campus, rings the bell, gathers the students and delivers a speech. But in this
dialog: form, the scene became too dramatic, grim, and preachy. We worked for days to
dialog: make it more real and yet retain the drama and impact. The scene you see in the
dialog: film felt more natural so we changed the speech to a conversation at the funeral.
dialog: We purposely chose to make the boy who commits suicide a Christian so that the
text: funeral is set in a cemetery. The grey of the cemetery and the rain gave the scene
dialog: the grim and colourless tone that we needed. This scene, according to me, is the
dialog: core of 3 Idiots. Why should people be killing themselves? There is something wrong
dialog: with the system. Why is everyone running after grades and not knowledge? That
text: is what the film addresses and attacks.
dialog: VC: I agree with Abhijat. 3 /diots questions the system and its pitfalls. The pressure
dialog: to chase grades leads students to give in to pursuits that might not be the ones of
text: their choice and compels them to take the set and decided path to set and decided
dialog: goals. This only leads to suicides or mediocrity. Chasing excellence is not encouraged.
dialog: Excellence over success is a philosophy I have always followed which has led me to
dialog: take some very irrational decisions that have made no business sense. But because
dialog: the pursuit was for quality, in the long run, success came in leaps and bounds.
text: It is a very personal film. Not only does it embody a philosophy that is close
dialog: to your heart but it heavily borrows from your lives as well. Which portions
dialog: in the film have been picked from your lives?
dialog: RH: There is a lot in the film from the scenes to the quirks added to embellish
dialog: characters to dialogues that we have taken from our lives. I used to know a guy
speaker_heading: 326
text: called Prasan Jain in FTII who once had a bath at the entrance gate of the campus
dialog: to make the faculty aware that there was an acute water shortage in the hostel. So
text: Rancho bathing in the garden came from there. “Jahanpanah tussi great ho” is also
dialog: borrowed from the Film Institute. We were ragged for an entire month after we
dialog: joined. All throughout that month, if we spotted a senior, we had to pull down our
text: pants, bend over, pat our butts, and say, “Jahanpanah tussi great ho. Tohfa kubool karo.”
dialog: This practice was called Farshi. In my days at the Nagpur Medical College with my
dialog: theatre buddies, I got to know about this guy who used to slip magazines under
text: the doors of other students to distract them during exams. The competition there
dialog: was so fierce that people resorted to some really desperate things. The conversation
dialog: between Farhan and his father is again inspired by the conversation I had with my
dialog: father which I have mentioned in detail in the introduction to this book.
dialog: AJ: I have already told you about the impostor story. Apart from the search for the
text: third friend and the imposter track, the third primary element in the story is the
dialog: bet between Chatur and Rancho. This bet signifies the clash of rival ideologies. We
dialog: got the idea for this from an anecdote from Vinod’s initial years in the industry. After
text: the trial of one of the films made by a big Bollywood producer, Vinod hitched a
text: ride with him in his posh car to be dropped to the nearest bus stop. The producer
text: asked Vinod what he thought about the film. Vinod launched into shredding the
text: screenplay bit by bit and let the man know without mincing words that the film
dialog: was utter rubbish. The gentleman turned around and said, “Jadd vaddi gaadi lenga
dialog: na tadd dekhanga tu kaisi picture banayenga” (When you get used to riding in a big
dialog: car, then we will see the kind of films you make). The producer’s point was simple:
dialog: when you get used to the luxuries, it is what works at the box office that takes
text: precedence over the quality of cinema. Vinod got out of the car and swore that this
dialog: is something he would never adhere to. He was clear from the beginning that the
dialog: ball game was cinema and not money. If you got the former right, then the latter
dialog: would follow. This clash of philosophies, of thought, money versus good cinema
dialog: was the trigger for the bet between Rancho and Chatur. The Rancho “definition
dialog: of books and the machine” scene is my gift to Raju’s son Veer. Raju was helping
dialog: Veer with his homework. One of the questions in the assignment was: Why do we
dialog: celebrate Good Friday? Veer’s answer to that was “to commemorate the resurrection
dialog: of Christ.” Raju wanted to know if Veer knew the meaning of this answer. To his
text: surprise, Veer did not. Raju launched into explaining it to him and then asked Veer
dialog: to write the answer the way he had understood it. But Veer was adamant that it
dialog: had to be written only in the manner that he had written it or his teacher would
speaker_heading: 327
text: not be happy. Easy or uncomplicated language and, most importantly, veering away
dialog: from the expected and accepted form of the answer was not an option. Raju was
dialog: very baffled and concerned about this. He told me this story over the phone and
text: it became the genesis of the Rancho-Professor ‘definition-of-machine’ face-off.
text: The scene where Rancho, Farhan, and Raju go to Farhan’s house after the Director
text: sends the warning letter to both Raju and Farhan’s parents is also inspired from
dialog: two different incidents that happened in my life and Raju’s. Once, I had met a
text: lady who was furious with her daughter. The daughter was a bright girl but the lady
text: was yelling at her because she had scored 91 per cent instead of 94 per cent. The
dialog: 3 per cent drop was unacceptable. The insanity of this mad race for marks left me
dialog: amused and disturbed at the same time. When we were writing this scene, I really
dialog: wanted to incorporate this. While at FTII, Raju with his Institute friends used to
text: travel to Mumbai often over the weekends. On one such weekend, a friend of his
text: invited them to his house for dinner. They all landed up at his place eager to devour
dialog: the free food so looked forward to in those money-strapped college days. The friend
text: who invited them and his mother had had a big fight. They sat in silence waiting
text: for the announcement that the food is ready. After two hours, the mother got up
text: and told the boys, “Beta agli baar aaoge to khaana zaroor kha kar jaana.” Raju still
dialog: remembers this because it was close to midnight when they were asked to leave and
text: they were famished with barely over twenty rupees between all of them.
text: The watch track between Pia and Rancho again came from an anecdote that Vinod
dialog: had told me about ...
dialog: VC: See I told you I cannot remember half the things. Abhijat has been gifted with
dialog: a photographic memory. A relative of mine was working in the Gulf and was very
dialog: well off. I was not doing that well then. During one of his visits, he was flaunting
dialog: his watch which cost a couple of lakhs. I heard him out and then exclaimed that
text: there must be something wrong with his watch. He was taken aback and frantically
dialog: examined his expensive watch. There was nothing wrong with it according to him
text: so he asked me to explain myself. ‘Aapki ghadi itni mehngi hai aur meri sirf do sau
dialog: rupyaye ki lekin phir bhi time same dikhateen hein” (your watch is very expensive
dialog: and mine costs only Rs 200 but both of them tell the same time), was my reply
text: which left him speechless.
text: Rancho propels the story forward. He illustrates the philosophy of the film. A
dialog: lot of people felt that his character does not have an arc in the film. Rancho
speaker_heading: 328
text: enters the story, preaches, and then leaves. He is too perfect. How did Rancho as
dialog: a character evolve and did you have any fears and apprehensions that he might
text: appear to be more fiction than real as he began to take shape?
dialog: RH: The backbone of Rancho’s character which also separates him from everybody
text: else is his lack of fear. He is a brilliant, free-spirited, and honest boy who is
text: chasing what he is interested in most. Probably a person without fear has become
dialog: unfathomable today so Rancho might seem unreal to some but to me he is very
dialog: real. My first thoughts on Rancho were that he is a boy from a village who has had
dialog: no experience with formal education so he does not know the fear of teachers. He
text: speaks to them as he speaks to everyone. I could have dwelled on his childhood
dialog: and background a little more in the film to bring this to the fore but I eventually
dialog: felt that it was not necessary. Rancho lives by his philosophy and his beliefs. He
dialog: makes choices which are absurd conventionally but he is not here to conform and
text: he does not feel the need to.
dialog: VC: Why does he appear superhuman? It was very easy for Raju, Abhijat, and
dialog: me to flesh out Rancho as we understand him completely. In fact, I see a lot
dialog: of myself in Rancho. There are just too many similarities. I was always a topper
dialog: in my school. I remember being thrown out of class because I dared to ask my
dialog: teacher who Hamlet was. In college, I found BA very boring so I used to attend
dialog: MA classes and I even studied the books prescribed for MA Economics. In my
dialog: BA exams, I scored only 55 per cent. I was a consistent topper with scores usually
dialog: ranging between eighties and nineties. I was sure that there was a mistake in the way
dialog: I had been marked. I asked for a recheck and realised that the objections to some
dialog: of the answers stemmed from the fact that I did not follow the pattern of writing
dialog: the expected answers. I was quoting writers and theories, with all due respect, which
dialog: were out of the purview of my teacher. Therefore, when I took my final BA exams,
dialog: I wrote all my references with the page numbers and the titles of the books and
dialog: the authors. This is how I topped my BA exams. What surprised and baffled me
dialog: though was the resistance of the educators to reward inventiveness. This reluctance
dialog: and rigidity is steeped in our education system. You would be surprised to know
dialog: that FTII had failed me. I was thrown out without a diploma. Then my student
dialog: film, Murder At Monkey Hill, won the National Award and was also nominated
dialog: for an Oscar. The moment I won the National Award, FTII appointed me as a
dialog: member of their governing council. In this capacity, I spoke out against the staff
dialog: as I was aware of everything that goes on there. The staff protested against me
dialog: and said that I couldn't be on the governing council because I had failed. The
speaker_heading: 329
dialog: FTII management had to pass me then and I got my diploma. They had failed
dialog: me because they wanted me to take a lot of exams, some of which I thought were
dialog: completely ridiculous. For example, they wanted us to submit a feature film script
dialog: which I never did. The reason for that was simple. I felt we were not yet trained
dialog: to do this. I protested against these unfair practices. It gives me no pleasure to say
dialog: this but I did not have any teacher to look up to, and at that stage of your life,
dialog: a guiding force can be such a boon. These experiences and the lack of guidance
dialog: became my reason to back talent. I am passionate about doing this because I never
dialog: had that privilege. I learnt the English language at the age of 16 (as late as that)
dialog: and what am I doing now? I am making a film in Hollywood. Even now, I have a
dialog: problem understanding my actors and I ask them to talk slowly because it is tough
dialog: for me to understand their accents.
dialog: I can draw many parallels but the point I am making is that Rancho is not an
text: unbelievable, fictional, larger-than-life character. He is probably someone who is a
dialog: little tough to understand in this world because he does not conform. We are so
text: happy sitting back and accepting whatever is doled out that anyone who questions,
dialog: is considered an aberration.
dialog: AJ: While writing, we did not look at Rancho as a character in the film but as the
dialog: hero of the film and he has been written like that, though he is neither superhuman
dialog: nor a comic book hero. He has the attributes of a hero and it would be dangerous
text: to pretend otherwise. He is an uninhibited free spirit with insatiable curiosity and
text: genuine queries. He does not operate with arrogance or cockiness and Aamir has
dialog: also played him with that inherent earnestness. But it would be incorrect to say
text: that he does not have an arc in the film or a journey. His journey in the film starts
text: from Joy’s suicide. He would not have taken on the system had he not seen that a
dialog: perfectly wonderful boy was driven to suicide because of the mechanical, unthinking,
text: ruthless system education has been reduced to. This stirs something inside him that
text: he cannot ignore. A clear inspiration and influence here was the film Deewar (1975).
text: Amitabh Bachchan is a daily wage worker at the dockyard. All workers there have
text: to pay extortion money to Peter, the local goon. One man refuses to pay this and
text: he is killed by the goons. The death of this innocent person changes Amitabh.
dialog: He decides to fight back. “Raheem Chacha ab woh hoga jo 25 saal mein nahin hua.
dialog: Agle hafie se ek aur coolie inn darindon ko hafia nahin dene wala hai” (Something
dialog: that has not happened in 25 years will happen now. Next week one more worker
dialog: will not pay the extortion money to the goons), goes the famous dialogue. Without
text: this death which changes him, Amitabh would have remained just a worker content
dialog: 330
text: to earn his daily wages. This incident, its futility and cruelty, changes him. While
dialog: writing Rancho, Raju and I had discussed this scene from Deewar. Therefore, Joy's
text: suicide is a turning point in Rancho’s life. This is his journey. And in the course
text: of his own journey, he changes lives including his own.
dialog: Like Rancho, Virus’s character must have been a challenge. How did you
dialog: achieve balance there?
dialog: RH: During Munna Bhai M.B.B.S., we were shooting a scene where Boman was
text: to deliver a speech to the students. He improvised and added in the speech that a
dialog: doctor should be dispassionate towards his patients. He must maintain an emotional
dialog: distance to give him perspective. The exact line was: “Agar mein apni family par operate
dialog: karoonga to mere haath kampenge.” While scripting this, my debate with Boman was
text: that this argument is so logical and valid that it completely justifies Dr. Asthana’s
dialog: character. It makes my hero look weak. Boman looked at me and said that this
dialog: was my problem and not his. As an antagonist, he must have a point of view and
dialog: if that point of view weakens the protagonist, then the director has to make the
dialog: protagonist stronger. This has stayed with me since then. I have consciously applied
dialog: this while constructing the characters in my films. This helps in creating characters
text: that are real and not one dimensional. Therefore, Virus despite his quirks has a ring
text: of reality. His intention is not to go out there and harm students. He believes that
dialog: life is a race and if you don’t run fast enough, you would be left behind. This is
text: his point of view and he is unwavering in his belief.
text: The film starts with Farhan abandoning a flight that has already taken off. But it
dialog: was a long process before you arrived at this opening for the film. In the earlier
dialog: drafts I read, several approaches were tried including the one where you were even
dialog: contemplating bringing in Amitabh Bachchan as the narrator. How did you reach this
dialog: opening scene and why was this scene the most appropriate according to you?
dialog: RH: The starting point is always tough. The idea was to set up an extraordinarily
text: large activity which Farhan has to abandon at the very mention of Rancho. This
dialog: was done to establish the importance of Rancho in Farhan’s life.
dialog: AJ: Though we went along with the airplane scene to open the film, I do have an
dialog: alternate scene that happens to be my favourite. Given a chance, I would still do that
dialog: instead of this. In my favoured beginning, Farhan is a linguist and is in the middle
text: of a conversation between two Heads of State at the UN. He is the interpreter. He
dialog: 331
text: leaves this session to meet Rancho and these two men are left in the lurch. There
dialog: is a lot of comedy that emerges from linguistics but we did not have enough time
dialog: to develop it so we went along with the airplane scene. The airplane scene was also
dialog: more dramatic. But these things are a matter of exploration. One explores multiple
text: possibilities and then chooses the one that best works for the film.
dialog: Joy’s suicide was a critical point of debate. There are drafts that had it and
dialog: several that did not. Its inclusion was probably most fiercely debated in the
dialog: entire screenplay. It was felt that this was too dark an incident for this film or
text: that it might dilute the revelation of Virus’s son’s death being a suicide. What
dialog: was the thought behind the suicide scene and the reason for placing it within
dialog: 20 minutes of getting into the film?
dialog: VC: There was a lot of back and forth that happened over this. I had serious
dialog: doubts about whether we should include this or not. But what convinced me was
dialog: that this gave motivation to Rancho’s character. Raju took it a step further by
text: adding a montage and a voice-over at the editing stage. There is a small montage
text: with Farhan’s voice-over talking about Rancho and his quirky personality and from
text: there the voice-over says, “Ek aur tha bilkul Rancho jaisa.” And we cut to Joy. This
text: voice-over that Raju introduced at the editing table, integrated the Joy track into
text: the script. Otherwise, it would have been too much of a jump. It also illustrated
dialog: that a brilliant guy like Rancho can go one way or the other. He can either become
text: Phunsukh Wangdu or become so dejected by seeing mediocrity flourish around him
dialog: that he gives up on life.
text: RH: Joy’s suicide was thrown out and brought back innumerable times. Abhijat
dialog: and I were very keen to keep it as we felt that the conflict in the film would start
dialog: from there, otherwise it would just be a fun film without anything substantial in
dialog: it. Vinod and Aamir felt that it should not be there. They thought that it was
dialog: too dark and grim. It was a jarring inclusion in the film. But Abhijat and I were
dialog: convinced that this had to be there. This went on for a long time. In fact, we only
dialog: got it back into the script a month before the shoot started (September 2008).
text: But the debate over it continued and then finally the montage and the voice-over
text: during the edit, settled the matter. Earlier, the Rancho montage was not there in
dialog: the film. We had not even planned to keep it. Nevertheless, I shot it. Simply, so
dialog: that if I ever felt like reviving it, then it could be done. The feedback after the
dialog: first screening of the film we organised for a sample audience revealed that Rancho
dialog: being a mad genius was not coming across. I added the montage then and, linking
dialog: 332
text: it with Joy’s introduction by that voice-over, made Joy both integral to the plot
dialog: and also lent him credibility.
text: AJ: Joy’s suicide is the spine of the film. The second-half revelations are climatic
text: devices. But Joy’s suicide is what makes Rancho realise that pressure to perform
text: is the killer and it has to be fought. It is this belief that takes Rancho’s character
dialog: and the story forward. Otherwise, why is he doing the things that he is doing? The
dialog: first half of the film would become insubstantial if we took out the suicide.
dialog: The challenge was to put this thing that worries us about the system right on top
text: so that we know what Rancho is fighting, and the film is saved from sinking under
text: the weight of this intense scene.
text: The interval point is a bit of a shock. The tone of the scene and the treatment
text: are unlike the rest of the film. There were other interval points discussed as
dialog: well before arriving at this one. How did this come about?
dialog: RH: I wanted the fact that Rancho is an imposter to be revealed earlier in the film.
dialog: I felt if we stretched revealing this till the interval, then it would seem that this
dialog: very rich kid had come into a college and was having fun. I felt that the audience
dialog: needed to be told as quickly in the film as possible that he was an imposter because
dialog: it would get the audience to feel for him. So in the earlier drafts, we came out of
text: the flashback one more time in the first half to reveal that Rancho was not actually
text: Rancho but an imposter. Then we went back into the flashback and there was a
text: different interval point (Farhan and Raju discovering that Pia is getting married
dialog: being one of the options considered). But after a lot of thought and work on the
dialog: script, I felt that the interval would be a great point to reveal that Rancho was not
dialog: Rancho but an imposter. Sometimes, I still feel that it might have been better to
dialog: reveal this earlier even though what we eventually put in the film is a great interval
dialog: point. In the end, these are choices that one makes. So once it was settled that this
dialog: was going to be the interval point, we narrated it to Vinod. He suggested that we
text: add the element of the college photograph having a different face on Rancho. This
dialog: appealed to me as it enhanced the scene.
dialog: VC: Unlike the West, Indian cinema does not follow the three-act structure which is
text: a two-act deal. It is a very unusual way of watching movies. No one else across the
text: world watches films like this — you see one part of the film, break for samosas and
dialog: chai, then you watch the rest of the film. This makes the interval point extremely
dialog: critical. Therefore, one must invest a lot of thought in where the break would
dialog: happen. In this film, my thought process was focussed on the level of interest of
dialog: 333
text: the audience when they would go and buy their popcorn. Basically, their eagerness
dialog: to come back to find out what happens next in the film is vital. When I made
dialog: the suggestion, I did not think that Raju would retain it. It lends a thriller-like
dialog: quality to the twist. I felt that the audience would enjoy the suspense. The first
dialog: time I told Raju, he said he liked it but I do not believe anything Raju says in the
text: evening. It is an age-old joke between us that I am the ‘in-the moment guy’ and
text: he is the ‘next morning guy’. He likes to mull over and think over all the options.
dialog: He makes up his mind only after that. So I always go with what Raju feels about
dialog: things the next morning and not on the evening that they are suggested. I am
dialog: happy that he retained it.
dialog: The film initially ended with these people finding Rancho teaching in Ladakh
text: in a school, leading a simple happy life doing what he loves doing. Phunsukh
dialog: ‘Wangdu was not in the film at all. How did the idea of Phunsukh Wangdu
dialog: fall into place?
dialog: RH: Yes, that is true. Phunsukh Wangdu was not in the film earlier. The film
text: ended with Farhan, Raju, and Pia reaching Ladakh and discovering that Rancho
dialog: teaches in this fascinating little school and that is his success. Whatever he wanted
dialog: to do, he did it. But we felt that maybe the audience would not understand this.
dialog: They would probably say that ‘yaar khush to hain, lekin paise to kam kamaata hai
dialog: na” (He might be happy but he earns very little money). We felt that to make the
dialog: audience understand, we had to show him to be successful in the conventional
dialog: way. This is the reason we added the Phunsukh Wangdu, coveted-scientist angle
text: and backtracked to plant him in the film. This is where Chatur’s quest emerged.
text: He was shown to be looking for someone in the entire film and at the end the
text: man he is searching for is Rancho. The idea was to show a man living a simple life
text: out of choice. Rancho has the option of signing a deal with anyone and raking in
dialog: millions but he has chosen to do differently. We felt this would help the audience
dialog: understand things better.
dialog: Another reason was that we kept feeling that the climax was not great. It seemed
dialog: that our climax was the delivery and then we were just wrapping up the film in
dialog: Ladakh. It felt weak. We, however, were doing a lot of things in Ladakh. First, we
text: were showing an unusual school. As Farhan, Raju, and Pia enter the school, they
text: see (an entire scene was there intially) that a race is going on, kids are running
text: and one kid falls down. Instead of carrying on, all the kids run back to pick
text: him up and then proceed to finish the rest of the race. These guys look at each
dialog: 334
text: other and say that this can only be Rancho’s school. Chatur’s electrocution scene
dialog: initially had Millimeter in it. So all this material was there but these pieces were
dialog: not coming together to result in a spectacular end to the film. When we found
dialog: Phunsukh Wangdu, things started falling into place. But to clean this up and to
dialog: get it all together at the end took us a lot of time. Finally, it evolved to become
text: a big twist at the end.
dialog: We solved the Phunsukh Wangdu riddle in our heads in Goa. Abhijat was on
dialog: a writing visit to Mumbai. I received a call to attend the Film Festival in Goa
dialog: (IFFI, end 2007). We decided to travel to Goa for two days on this pretext. Any
dialog: reason to get away from Mumbai and write. We stayed at the same hotel as the
dialog: one where we had shot the Lage Raho song with the old people. Abhijat got very
text: excited about it. He has this fascination for revisiting places that have a context.
dialog: Except for the chief minister’s party the night we had arrived, we did not attend
dialog: the festival at all. We took a long walk on the beach the day we arrived and
dialog: Phunsukh Wangdu fell into place. It was quite magical and we were very happy
text: with the climax after that.
text: Phunsukh Wangdu, the real identity of Rancho, is revealed at the end. The
dialog: point of revelation that Rancho is actually Phunsukh Wangdu is something
dialog: you battled with for over a year. What made you decide the final route?
dialog: RH: This was a tough one to decide. We were unsure of this right up till the day
dialog: before we shot the scene. Abhijat and I felt that it should be revealed the moment
dialog: the friends reunite, before Chatur’s arrival. By doing this, we would have revealed this
text: to the audience that Rancho was Phunsukh Wangdu, the man Chatur was chasing
text: and Chatur’s dialogues and demeanour with Rancho after this revelation would
text: become even more hilarious to the audience as they would know that he would be
text: in for a real shock when he found out that Rancho is Phunsukh. But both Aamir
dialog: and Madhavan were of the view that the revelation should happen at the end so
text: that the film ends on a high note. They felt that revealing it earlier would weaken
dialog: this dramatic twist. This is when the tussle started. Abhijat and I resisted for a
text: long time but Aamir and Madhavan were so vehement and insistent that it became
dialog: a question in our minds also. When I was in Ladakh for the shoot, I started to
dialog: feel that maybe their suggestion holds some weight. Maybe the surprise at the end
dialog: would be a great way to end the film. So I changed it and rewrote it in Ladakh a
dialog: day before the shoot. Frankly, I still don’t know which route was better. Actually,
text: it is a matter of interpretation. Both routes are correct in their own way.
dialog: 335
text: Chatur’s speech scene is a complete departure from the Raju Hirani sensibility
dialog: and the overall VCF sensibility. There were also varied opinions about the
dialog: shloka at the end of the speech. Were there any apprehensions at the time of
dialog: writing this?
dialog: RH: I was aware that what we were doing with this film, we had not done before.
dialog: There was also complete awareness of the fact that we might be panned for using
text: what people might label as toilet humour. There are ragging scenes with boys in
text: their underwear. The language is of a certain quality and other things as well,
dialog: but while writing, we realised that the campus world we had created would look
dialog: completely false if we didn’t use the language, the irreverence of youth, and the
dialog: whole college milieu while creating it. This is the way this world is and, therefore,
dialog: our job was to stay true to this world. This was the necessity of this world. This
dialog: scene we cracked when Abhijat and I were in Columbus, Ohio (April 2007). The
dialog: decision that Rancho will change Chatur’s speech was already in place but we had
dialog: not worked out the details of the scene yet. We decided to make it more challenging
dialog: for ourselves. It would have been easy to change the entire speech but if only a few
dialog: words were to be changed, then it would have been tough. Therefore, the challenge
dialog: was to write a speech that, if kept in its original format, sounded great but if you
dialog: were to change just a few words in it, then it would become completely different.
dialog: We struggled for many days to find the right words. We had thought about many
dialog: words and many ideas but nothing was good enough. We wanted it to rhyme too.
dialog: One day, we were out for a drive and we hit upon chamatkar’ and ‘balatkar’. But
dialog: after using this a few times, we felt that we needed a change because carrying an
text: entire speech only on a single word change might get monotonous so the hunt
dialog: for the second word started. I was in Ohio then, visiting Abhijat. We were out
dialog: for a walk when the second word struck us (dhan’ and ‘ttan). Abhijat’s daughter
dialog: Anoushka (age 12) was also with us. While Abhijat and I were talking, we cracked
text: this and Abhijat almost fell down laughing. We were both in splits but we could
dialog: not share this with Anoushka.
text: The shloka at the end is another story. It was not there in the scene. While writing
dialog: the screenplay, we had rented a small farmhouse in Pune where we used to go and
dialog: write very often. During one of our writing sojourns in this farmhouse, in some
dialog: other context and not in the context of this speech scene, Abhijat told me this
dialog: shloka. laughed to the point of tears. I decided there and then that I wanted it
text: in the speech scene and it was incorporated at the end of the scene. Since Chatur
dialog: already had this trait of farting and is called Silencer by everyone, the shloka fitted
dialog: 336
dialog: in perfectly. But Vinod felt we should take it out. Later, even Abhijat felt the same.
dialog: But I was very keen to retain it. During the edit, Vinod said that the scene was
dialog: too long and we should take out the shloka but Vir (Vinod’s elder brother) who
dialog: saw the scene was in splits and didn’t want me to touch it. I really wanted it to be
dialog: in the film so I was happy that eventually everyone came around to it.
dialog: VC: (Blushing) I was very shocked by that shloka. But Vir loved it and I tested it
dialog: through screenings on other people and they died laughing too. My objection had
dialog: nothing to do with sensibility because as Raju said, one has to adopt the sensibility
dialog: of the film and not some general sensibility. Therefore, there were no sensibility
dialog: issues here. I just felt that the scene was getting too long and might be a bit of a
dialog: stretch. My biggest concern is always that the audience should not be bored.
dialog: AJ: The speech scene was hilarious but I must say that it was not in the script just
text: as a set piece for humour. It is the illustration and the turning point for the clash
text: of the ideologies which is the key element in the film. Rancho protests against rote
dialog: learning that our education system encourages. He is completely against it. The
text: ‘definition of a machine’ scene introduces that. The speech scene illustrates the ills
text: of following blindly without understanding the meaning of things. It shows that
text: Chatur is end-oriented whereas Rancho worries about the journey. With the speech,
text: the battle of the philosophies becomes an open battle. Right after this scene, we
text: have the scene where Chatur and Rancho lay a bet to meet after ten years to see
text: who is more successful. The speech scene lent to the progression of this theme in
dialog: the film.
dialog: The shloka at the end is another story. I knew that if I told Raju this, he would
dialog: immediately want it in the film and that is what happened. Later in the edit, I too
dialog: was unsure about it like Vinod and like he said, it was not because of any sensibility
dialog: issues. It was because I felt that Rancho probably would not meddle with the
dialog: speech to this extent. He would change just two words and that would be enough
dialog: for him to drive the point home. But I am glad that Raju and Vir prevailed in the
text: end because the shloka is the pitce de résistance of the speech scene (laughing).
text: The delivery scene has invited a lot of mixed reactions from a section of the
dialog: audience. I remember you telling me that you began this film by first deciding
dialog: on the climax because that was a huge challenge you faced while writing Lage
dialog: Raho? Frankly, what were you people thinking when you decided on this as
dialog: the concluding episode in the film?
dialog: 337
text: RH: The origin of this scene is from Munna Bhai M.B.B.S.1 had thought of this
text: scene where Munna gets admission into medical college. He has only done this to
text: spite Asthana. He has no other motivation to study at a medical college other
text: than his disdain for Asthana. One night, he is roaming the streets with Circuit.
text: They are drunk. Munna is wearing the doctor's white jacket so that he feels like
text: a doctor. There is a Mumbai bandh’ that day. Both of them are crossing a chawl.
text: A boy comes running out of the chawl and is hunting for an auto-rickshaw. His
text: mother is pregnant and her waters just broke. He has to rush her to the hospital
text: or find a doctor. He spots Munna and drags Munna into the chaw/ because he
text: thinks that Munna is a doctor. These guys have no idea what to do but somehow
text: they get through the delivery. The idea behind the scene was to get Munna to
dialog: realise the value and responsibilities of doctors. The moment he held the newborn,
dialog: this would have hit him. Now, he would really want to study medicine. The
dialog: script underwent many changes and this route was abandoned. I had told Abhijat
dialog: about it. While writing 3 Idiots, like I told you earlier, we were determined to
dialog: first decide the climax. Abhijat and I talk a lot when we are writing so this is
dialog: one of the scenes I mentioned again and Abhijat said, “Why don’t we use this
dialog: here?” Rancho could apply engineering for the delivery. This thought combined
dialog: with a short story I had read somewhere about a man who used to talk to his
text: baby while he was still in his mother’s womb, connected with Pia’s sister and
dialog: ‘Aal izz well’, our climax, started taking shape. Then, we spent a lot of time with
dialog: gynaecologists to make it authentic. It became a big joke in office. Whenever
dialog: Vinod used to come to office and ask for us, he was told that we had gone to
dialog: the gynaecologist. Everyone teased us endlessly about our visits to gynaecologists.
dialog: One of my friends had introduced us to Dr. Sejal Desai who became our guide
dialog: while writing this scene. She told us about the various procedures by which a baby
dialog: could be delivered. The only procedure which could be combined with engineering
dialog: was the suction method. A lot of people think that this cannot happen but the
text: scene is totally authentic and it is possible to deliver a baby like this. At every
dialog: step, we consulted the doctors and, in a way, we wrote the scene with them. A
dialog: lot of work, a lot of research, and a lot of time were spent on this. Even during
text: the shoot, the doctors were there and constantly monitoring what was happening
dialog: and how it was being depicted. This is not one of those up in the air, fantasy
dialog: things that we have put in the film for the sake of a great climax.
dialog: You have often referred to the three scenes that constitute this continuous chunk
text: in the film as the soul of 3 Idiots: Raju’s job interview, Farhan’s conversation
speaker_heading: 338
text: with his father, and Rancho breaking down when they come and tell him
text: about their triumphs. These scenes had several rewrites before they took the
dialog: final form in which they are in the film. Why do you feel that this chunk is
dialog: the essence of 3 idiots?
dialog: RH: These are the moments in the film I am most attached to and they make me
dialog: very emotional. Even while narrating these scenes, I would often get choked with
dialog: emotion. In a way, I feel, they are the crux of the film. I have always been fond
dialog: of an underdog succeeding. I like hope. I see victory in hope. Be happy, go and
dialog: do whatever you want without fear. This is what one wants to say about life. We
dialog: had to put a lot of work into these scenes. For example, a lot of back and forth
dialog: happened in order to elevate the interview scene to the level we aimed to take it
text: to. It was written and rewritten several times. Initially, Raju Rastogi was only saying
dialog: things about fear, god, and superstition and he used to get the job. I felt that the
text: scene was flat. It lacked punch and impact. Then we hit upon the ‘attitude’ angle
dialog: which transformed the scene completely.
dialog: How this happened is quiet remarkable as well. I had read a chicken soup story
text: about a small boy who is asked by his teacher to write an essay about what he wants
text: to become. The boy writes his essay describing his dream, of owning a ranch one
text: day with thousands of horses. The teacher is not impressed and tells him to alter
text: this unrealistic aim to a more practical one. He tells him to aspire for something
dialog: more achievable as the boy comes from too poor a background to ever achieve this
text: dream. He also threatens to fail him in the assignment if it is not altered. The boy
text: comes the next day and again submits the same assignment. The teacher is furious
text: now. He tells him that he will surely get an F on this assignment. The boy says,
dialog: “You can keep your F Sir and I will keep my dream.” I was very moved by this
dialog: story. I narrated it to Abhijat and was itching to use it somewhere. For a year, the
dialog: subconscious thought was to apply this somewhere in the script but we could never
text: find the right moment or place for it. In the end, in a different form, it was used in
dialog: this scene. I think the thought here is of preserving what defines you. Once you are
dialog: willing to give that up, then that is the first step towards losing your identity and
dialog: your dreams. Farhan’s confrontation with his father, apart from writing it, was also
dialog: not an easy scene to execute. Even in the writing of it, initially, I was not entirely
dialog: satisfied with the trigger that makes the father come around. I felt maybe Farhan
dialog: has to say more, do more. Something here was not working for me. Also, I was
text: very unsure about executing the father’s change of heart. The tone, the blocking, the
dialog: pitch, everything had to be perfect for this scene to work. I expressed all of this to
speaker_heading: 339
dialog: Abhijat. I was very restless about this. He reassured me and said that he would do
dialog: something. He wrote this entire scene on his own and mailed it to me.
dialog: What clicked was this gesture he suggested for Farhan. The father gets very angry
text: during their conversation and comes and sits down on a chair. Farhan goes up to
text: his father and kneels down before him and talks to him. It was this act of deference
dialog: and total submission that elevated the scene. If you noticed, the tone of the scene
text: is not of rebellion but of persuasion. Farhan is asking for permission; he is not
text: informing his parents. He is appealing to them to let him live his dreams. If they
dialog: would not have come around, he would have sacrificed his dream.
text: Lastly, the scene where Rancho breaks down was not there in the film earlier. If
dialog: you look at it, there was no need for it technically because after these two scenes
dialog: (Raju’s job interview and Farhan’s conversation with his father), we could have
text: gone straight to the barber shaving off Virus’s moustache as he had lost the bet.
dialog: But I have always felt that when there is an emotion this potent, it has to play
dialog: out in full. You need to see the aftermath, otherwise it appears abrupt. The trick
text: to pacing a film is as much in speeding it up as in slowing it down and letting it
dialog: breathe when the screenplay demands it. I wrote this scene to bring the emotion
text: in the earlier scenes to its rightful conclusion.
dialog: But when we shot the scene that in its original form had Raju and Farhan come
dialog: and hug Rancho and he breaks down, I was not satisfied. I called Abhijat and asked
dialog: him about what he thought of them taking off their pants and saying, “Jahanpanah,
dialog: tussi great ho,” to Rancho. Earlier this was to happen right at the end when they
dialog: reunite in Ladakh. Abhijat liked the idea and we changed it on location. We
text: removed it from the climax of the film and brought it up to this point. Instead of
text: these boys, now Chatur takes off his pants at the end and says, “Jahanpanah, tussi
dialog: great ho. Tohfa kabool karo.”
text: There seems to be a design to the way 3 Idiots has been written. The drama
text: is carefully balanced with laughter. The audience does not cave in under the
dialog: weight of any scene. Was this intentional?
dialog: RH: This is an inherent trait in all my films. If I had my way, I would package
dialog: everything with laughter. I believe in the world that I create in my films. One
dialog: can choose to be cynical or one can choose to look at things differently. If you
dialog: really analyse the emotional, dramatic scenes, you will notice that they incite tears
dialog: of happiness and hope and not of despair and loss except for Joy's suicide. I hate
dialog: 340
dialog: sadness in films. So more than design, this happens because of the way we look at
dialog: the world: our beliefs, experiences, and ideas.
dialog: AJ: I agree with Raju but it is still gratifying to see that after every dramatic scene,
dialog: we managed to diffuse the tension by making people laugh within minutes. In terms
text: of craft, this is a massive challenge. It can ruin a film if not done seamlessly and
dialog: effortlessly. Our inspiration for this was The Lion King. Mufasa’s death is this dark,
text: hard-hitting, unforgettable, and memorable moment but exactly two minutes later
dialog: you are transported to the world of ‘Hakuna Matata’. We shed tears with Simba,
text: we are moved and stirred but two minutes later we are singing “Hakuna Matata’
text: with joy and hope. Most screenplays would dwell on an event like Mufasa’s death
dialog: for at least ten minutes.
dialog: Your (Raju and Abhijat) collaboration began during Lage Raho Munna Bhai.
dialog: It continued through 3 Idiots and now you are writing another film together.
dialog: It is a delicate relationship where many things have to come together for it to
dialog: become productive. How does it work for both of you?
dialog: AJ: Raju and I share the same sensibility. Our approaches, our ideas, the path
dialog: that we want to take, are all the same. When Raju and I write, the path that we
dialog: follow is completely non-linear. We start with writing the scenes that we value. It
text: is a nightmare later to string them together and beat them into a narrative. But
dialog: the magic of this method is that once you do this, you have, as writers, followed
text: such an unknown path that the audience has no chance of second guessing the
dialog: trajectory of the film. So we first follow the magic and pen down what we treasure
dialog: most and then apply reason and bind it together. It is a rare and wonderful meeting
dialog: of minds.
dialog: RH: I spend more time with him than I do with my wife. I wish he were a woman
dialog: (laughs). Apart from him being a good writer and our sensibilities being the same
dialog: (we are both from small towns and we have shared similar experiences; our reference
dialog: points are the same), the quality I most enjoy and admire in Abhijat is that he does
text: not defend his scenes. Most writers spend a huge chunk of their time defending
dialog: their scenes. If I want something done differently, he understands my point of
dialog: view. This does not mean that he is not passionate about what he writes or does
text: not believe in his scene but it simply means that he is ready to explore. He has a
dialog: positive aura. Secondly, I don't have to walk on eggshells with him. That is a huge
dialog: relief. In cinema, you waste a lot of time, precious time, dealing with egos because
speaker_heading: 341
dialog: everyone you are dealing with is an artist. You have to think of ways and means to
dialog: convey your opinion without hurting people or offending them. This house-keeping
text: I don’t have to do with him. I can say what I feel without hesitation and without
dialog: any sugar-coating. It saves us a tremendous amount of time. And most importantly,
dialog: Abhijat does not give up. We could have been through a million drafts but he
dialog: does not get fatigued by the evolving screenplay. He keeps at it. I am the same so
dialog: I know that this stems from tremendous passion. Even if the shoot is on and things
dialog: need to be changed, he has that faith in me and I in him that if it makes the film
dialog: better, we will do whatever it takes. This synergy is rare. Before Abhijat and I started
dialog: working together, I never thought that I would need a writing partner or I could
dialog: work with a writing partner but now I feel it is essential to have one.
text: The process of screenwriting and directing holds such mystery that many find it
dialog: hard to figure out where to start. What would your suggestions be to students
dialog: aspiring to write and direct their material?
dialog: RH: I believe that formal education in some form is essential to an extent. One
dialog: does not have to enrol in an institute or course necessarily but other modes of
dialog: learning like reading, watching theatre and films can help you gather the tools and
dialog: grammar that will enable you to write and make films. But what is most critical to
dialog: preserve is the faculty to think from your heart. Once you get into theory which is
dialog: important, we tend to lose the innocence with which films were watched earlier. We
text: tend to view them only with an eye on the craft: there comes the central conflict;
text: those are the hurdles in the plot; lensing just changed; and a crane was used for
dialog: this shot, and so on, is what we start focussing on. We start viewing films purely
dialog: from the perspective of craft. The ability to think from the heart and appreciate a
dialog: film honestly vanishes. For me, to keep this faculty to think from the heart alive
dialog: is the biggest battle. This is what leads to honest work. The other thing is to try
dialog: to bring in fresh ideas. It is very tough to do that these days but the effort should
dialog: be there to achieve this.
dialog: AJ: I feel that novelty of idea is paramount. Anything you are writing or attempting
dialog: to write should not have the sound of something that has been done a hundred
dialog: times before. The approach that though it has been done before but I will write it
dialog: so well that it will work, according to me, does not work. You need to feel strongly
dialog: about the idea that you choose and you need to believe in it. It must sound unique
dialog: to you to begin with. Once you have settled on the idea, the element of time comes
dialog: in. A screenplay demands a lot of time and patience. The writing process, in case
dialog: 342
dialog: quality is the goal, cannot be rushed. Therefore, you must be prepared to devote
dialog: that time. At least two to three years. Once these two commitments are made, then
dialog: for the first two or three months you must not write. You must mull over the idea.
dialog: Where do I want to go with this thought? What am I trying to say? Who are the
dialog: characters in my story? Why is what I am saying worth saying? Why should I be
dialog: writing this at all? These are the questions you should spend time answering in
dialog: these initial months. Once you have convincingly answered these for yourself, you
dialog: should start the writing process. A good technique is to keep two screenplays going
dialog: at the same time. It helps sometimes. You might love some moments but they don’t
dialog: work for a screenplay so you can always put them in the other one you are working
dialog: on or save them for some other story in the future. So you don’t hang on to your
text: darlings. But more than two screenplays at a time is a distraction.
dialog: VC: The only process and method I know is consistent, relentless, passionate, and
dialog: focussed hard work. Let me tell you a secret. Talent, as is the popular belief, is not
dialog: inborn. It is something you have to work for. If you work hard enough, you can
dialog: achieve anything. That is the key to it all.
dialog: — Smriti Kiran
speaker_heading: 343
text: THINGS OF BEAUTY
dialog: A thing of beauty is a joy forever ...
dialog: — John Keats
dialog: Praise this world to the Angel ... show him
dialog: some simple thing, refashioned by age after age,
text: till it lives in our hands and eyes as a part of ourselves.
dialog: — Rainer Maria Rilke
text: Three minutes of cinema time ...
text: A young lady who hates her father’s archenemy and furiously confronts him must
text: within the next three minutes break off her engagement with her fiancé, fall
text: hopelessly in love with the same archenemy, and convincingly fantasise singing a
text: rain-drenched love song with him.
text: The girl is Pia; the nemesis she must confront is Rancho; the fiancé she must plunk
text: is Suhas, the Price Tag; and the song she must sing is “Zoobi Doobi’.
dialog: The question is: How do we achieve this sea change within three minutes of cinema
dialog: time?
text: Raju and I ponder over this question in New York City over two cups of tea. We
dialog: know with absolute certainty that we can’t spend a single extra minute garnishing
dialog: the love story. Our screenplay, completed except for this one problem, is already
dialog: half-an-hour longer than we would ideally want. And the placement of the love
text: song is particularly precarious: around the 75th minute into the film, a time when
text: most people are itching to leave either for the restroom or for some popcorn. If the
text: screenplay sags even for a second before the song, audiences the world over would
text: end up using the song as a restroom break. And if they did so, they wouldn't return
text: from such a mass exodus in time for the interval point, the biggest twist and the
text: most crucial plot-point of the story.
dialog: We can't let them go for a break. Which means Pia must fall in love with her
dialog: archenemy in no time at all. But how?
text: In Shakespeare’s Richard III, Princess Anne goes to slay her husband’s murderer
text: Richard, only to get engaged to him in the same scene, mesmerised by his
dialog: allure. Richard later boasts: “Was ever a woman in this humor wooed? Was ever a
text: woman in this humor won?” remind Raju of the scene. Raju wryly reminds me that
dialog: we are not Shakespeare. Point taken. So how do lesser mortals achieve this effect?
text: Through some mundane, everyday thing. Some simple object, refashioned age after
dialog: age. In this case, it’s going to be Pia’s watch.
text: In their first meeting, Rancho had seen Pia being reprimanded by her brand-obsessed
dialog: fiancé for wearing a cheap watch at her sister’s wedding. When we wrote that scene,
dialog: we had not seen the potential of the watch as a /eitmotif. Now, in New York City,
dialog: where I have followed Raju from Columbus on the last leg of his US trip in the
dialog: hope that we can crack the Pia-Rancho track before his departure to India, we
text: decide to play with the watch and see what happens.
text: What happens is a little miracle that a screenwriter encounters once in about three
dialog: or four years.
text: Opening salvo with the watch: it helps Rancho deflate Pia’s fiancé with one swift
text: ‘demo: Rancho hides the expensive watch that the fiancé has just bought for Pia
text: and tells him that she has lost it. This simple ruse brings rushing to the fore all the
text: maniacal materialism, brand-obsession, price-consciousness, and the sheer rudeness of
text: the fiancé. Moments later, stunned and insulted, Pia breaks off the engagement.
text: Salvo two: Rancho has vanquished Pia’s fiancé but not yet won her over. It happens
text: in an instant, through a single innocuous remark. He congratulates Pia for showing
text: the courage in breaking off with her fiancé and points out that ‘Ab tum jab chaho
dialog: apni maa ki ghadi pehan sakti ho” (Now you are free to wear your mom's watch).
text: This single sentence causes an explosion in Pia’s cognitive universe. In a flash, it
text: alters her perception, memory, reasoning, and finally her judgment. How does Rancho
text: know that the cheap watch she was wearing at her sister’s wedding once belonged to her
dialog: mother? Because he could reason that the bride's sister, otherwise dressed opulently,
speaker_heading: 348
dialog: could be wearing one object so humble only for its sentimental value. Ergo he
dialog: possesses sensitivity and tenderness that she had never suspected he did!
text: Salvo three: The next time Pia meets Rancho, she holds out her wrist — she is
text: wearing her mother’s watch. Without a single word, through the semiotics of that
text: one gesture, she conveys to him that she has forgiven him his ruthless deconstruction
dialog: and debunking of her father’s and her fiancé’s philosophies, embraced his values and
text: is now firmly in his camp. In fact, she loves him.
text: Thus, the watch helps us tide over one of the trickiest plot points that had threatened
text: to derail our screenplay. Even more importantly, it infuses Rancho’s character with
text: one quality that sets him apart from almost all characters before him in Indian
text: cinema — authenticity. When Pia’s fiancé is ranting about the astronomical price of
text: the lost limited edition watch, Rancho gently retorts, “Meri to dhai sau ki hai yaar,
dialog: lekin time wohi batati hai” (Mine is inexpensive, but shows the same time). [This
text: is an incident that we borrowed almost verbatim from Vidhu Vinod Chopra’ life,
dialog: when as a young and struggling student, he could not ignore the slight about his
text: humble watch from an affluent relative.) This remark by Rancho is emblematic of
text: his authentic nature and the very first overt declaration of one of his many priorities:
dialog: value over price, passion over pragmatism, excellence over success, understanding
dialog: over information, communication over jargon, education over training, knowledge
text: over diploma, and a mother’s watch over a limited-edition watch!
dialog: All we asked of the watch was to save us a few minutes. What it gifted us was the
text: kernel, the essence, the very nucleus of the film.
dialog: Strangely, we stumbled on the extraordinary potential of objects through a problem
dialog: that we faced very early in the screenplay, a problem that is every writer’s nightmare:
text: a big cliché.
text: The scene: The Director’s motivational speech to the freshmen on their first day
dialog: at college.
dialog: Audiences around the world have heard and witnessed such spiel a zillion times,
text: ranging from the great bombast in Patton and Full Metal Jacket to the lamest
text: offerings from the trashiest of campus flicks.
text: Tom Stoppard, the great English playwright, came to the rescue. Not in person,
text: but in spirit — boleto Chetana. Stoppard thrives on introducing bizarre objects into
text: his plays and later providing perfectly plausible explanations for them. One of his
speaker_heading: 349
text: plays begins with a man opening the door of his apartment with shaving foam on
text: his face, a bow and an arrow in one hand and a tortoise in the other to find a
text: policeman carrying a bouquet of flowers standing outside. Soon enough, Stoppard
text: gives us an entirely convincing reason for this outlandish spectacle. Inspired by
text: Stoppard’s virtuosity, the cuckoo’ nest, complete with the fake bird atop it, was born.
text: The Director carries this strange object in his hand as he strides down the imposing
text: corridors. The audience wonders about the logic of this peculiar object, till in his
text: speech, the Director links it with competition that abounds in nature: a hoel kills
text: off its competition by pushing the host bird’s eggs out of the nest. As the audience
dialog: gets involved in the story of the koe/ and ruthless competition, we have successfully
text: negated a big cliché. Later in the same scene, instead of ending the speech with
text: rhetoric or polemics, we take it to its climax with another object: the Director takes
text: out a gleaming astronaut’ pen, holds it up enticingly as the ultimate trophy for the
text: students. Through Rancho’s healthy disrespect for the pen, and his archrival Chatur’s
text: salivating regard for it, we were able to immediately and wordlessly set up the clash
dialog: between two conflicting philosophies: obsession with success versus excellence. Once
text: again, an inanimate object was helping us not merely to scale over a plot hurdle
text: but in intensifying the film as a comedy of ideas.
dialog: Since one speech was served so ably by two diverse objects, Raju and I intuitively
text: grasped that inanimate objects would play a seminal role in the story. In fact, as
dialog: I have lately grown fond of saying, they would form the DNA of the film.
dialog: For Lage Raho Munna Bhai, we had discovered about halfway through the scripting
dialog: process that the DNA of the film was ‘olta kar’ or do the opposite — the principal
dialog: of inversion. For constraints of space, I can only give one quick example of this.
dialog: 
text: ‘When Munna is asked how to deal with a boy who desecrated Gandhi's statue,
text: from behind him Bapu answers: “Give more stones to the lad, tell him to topple
dialog: all my statues.” This is clearly inverse to the answer that the audience is likely to
text: postulate in their heads and therefore highly intriguing because they cannot second
dialog: guess what will follow. Throughout Lage Raho Munna Bhai, whenever in trouble,
dialog: we had summoned this principal of inversion.
dialog: For Broken Horses, another screenplay I co-authored with Vinod, the DNA is memory;
text: the childhood memory of a mentally challenged character. Whenever faced with major
text: dilemmas, he summons not his faculty of reasoning but the faculty of reminiscence:
dialog: what his parents taught him when he was little. In every major dramatic scene, we
dialog: found ourselves relying utterly on memory for solutions.
dialog: 350
dialog: For 3 Idiots, which was being written at the same time as Broken Horses, we realised
text: that the DNA was objects. Objects marked the comic and the tragic, the dramatic
text: and the philosophical beats of the film with equal felicity. To chronicle the genesis
dialog: of each object that served us so valiantly for transfusing red corpuscles into our
dialog: scenes would fill a book longer than the screenplay. But here is the briefest account
dialog: of our extended encounter with things.
dialog: The Comic Objects
text: The empty gift envelopes, the mounds of food on the plates of three friends, and most
text: crucially, the mint chutney are irreplaceable for the comic flavour of the scene where
text: Rancho gatecrashes Pia’s sister’s wedding. Of these, the mint chutney proved to be
text: a powerful motif. Rancho first drops it on Suhas’s shoes to determine their price.
dialog: We went on to use it in three more scenes:
text: A. In the song ‘Zoobi Doobi’ where Pia imagines Rancho as a chef eulogising
text: the virtues of the “ever-useful mint chutney that, apart from being delicious,
text: also reveals a man’s character.”
text: B. The scene where a drunken Pia barges into Rancho’s room and he, scrupulously
text: small town, offers her dhokla with mint chutney to distract her from her
text: amorous advances. This leads to the memorable lines about the menacing
text: names of innocuous Gujarati food items like dhokla, fafda, thepla that sound
dialog: like missiles to Pia.
text: C. The scene of Pia’s wedding, when to stop the groom from heading for the
text: altar, Raju Rastogi irons his clothes with an iron drenched in mint chutney.
text: As promised, the chutney reveals the groom’s character instantly as Pia hears
text: him scream out the price of his ruined wedding dress.
dialog: Our most innovative comic object, however, is not the mint chutney. The pride of
dialog: that place must go to an object so humble, so self-effacing that most people would
text: not even remember it — the heart-rate monitor in the hospital where Raju Rastogi lay
text: in a coma after his suicidal ‘high jump’. This object served an extraordinary purpose.
text: It saved Reel No. 7 of the film from becoming so grave, heavy, and weighty that
dialog: it could have sunk the entire film. This, by far, is our favourite reel of the film. It
text: starts with the Director’s brutal act of compelling Rastogi to type the letter of his
text: own rustication — an act that drives Rastogi into attempting suicide and culminates,
text: after Rastogi’s recovery, in the twin movement of Farhan convincing his father that
speaker_heading: 351
text: he does not want to become an engineer and Rastogi successfully facing a crucial
text: job interview. This reel is clearly the heart of 3 Idiots. The problem was that scene
text: after overwhelmingly moving scene, this was also by far the grimmest, darkest, and
dialog: the longest (about 20 minutes) reel of the film. We desperately needed to bring
text: some levity, some joy to this beat of the story. Since the searing dramatic scenes
dialog: allowed no scope for comic maneuvering, we came up with what I consider to be
dialog: the most daring and audacious tricks of our screenwriting careers — we decided to
text: lace the musical interludes of the song ‘Jaane Nahi Denge Tujhe’ with comedy. But
dialog: hold on! Swanand Kirkere has written those stanzas so movingly and Sonu Nigam
dialog: has sung them with such unbridled emotionalism that how the hell can we bring
dialog: in comedy into the interludes?
text: Well, with the help of the little heart-rate monitor.
text: Knowing that Rastogi’s brain responds to voice despite the coma, Rancho begins to
text: tell outrageous and funny lies to him to try and revive him. Though the idea was
dialog: comic, we realised that it would fall flat since the lies would not elicit a response
text: from the coma-stricken Rastogi. This is where the heart-rate monitor stepped in.
dialog: Whenever Rastogi responds to anything that is said, his heart rate increases and
text: the graph on the monitor alters. The dance of this graph started drawing laughter
text: from the audience at every screening. The more outrageous the lie or the action,
text: the more vibrant the externalisation of Rastogi’s inner thoughts. When Rancho
text: finally utters the most outrageous lie that poor Farhan would marry Rastogi’s sister
text: without any dowry, the seismic dance of the white graph reaches a frenzied climax.
text: The next moment the coma-stricken patient's right hand moves. Life returns to his
text: limbs, hope returns to his friends’ hearts and we, the writers, about to lose our
dialog: comic licenses for non-use, get a fresh lease of life. Thank you, monitor!
dialog: Apart from these major objects, there were many minor ones that came fleetingly
text: into the film to help us find chuckles, guffaws, and occasionally, that big explosive
text: theatre-shaking laughter that makes the years of the screenwriter’s toil totally
text: worthwhile: the spoon at the end of the rod that Rancho improvises to electrocute
text: the urinating senior; the single grey hair that is kneaded into the flour as the friends
text: are eating rotis at the Rastogi house; Chatur’s hand-crafied biscuits from San Francisco
text: that he so jealously guards for Phunsukh Wangdu, the comic device that enabled
text: us to weave in the Wangdu track without drawing attention to it; the urn of ashes
text: that the friends so shockingly and irreverently waylay and through the threat of
text: immersing the ashes in the sewer, blackmail the fake Rancho into revealing the secret
dialog: 352
dialog: of the real Rancho being an imposter, thus enabling us to make a long exposition
text: dramatic and funny. Pia’s helmet helped us negate the sentimentality and cliché of
dialog: Rancho’s dream [“Pia, tum roz dulhan ke costume mein scooter pe baith kar mere
text: sapne mein aati ho. Ghoongat ki jagah apna helmet uthaati ho....” (Every night you
dialog: ride into my dreams on your scooter, dressed as a bride. Instead of the veil, you
dialog: lift your helmet...) ] and last but not least, the two keys to the Director's office that
text: are flung at Farhan, one by Rancho and the other by the Director, one from a dear
text: friend and the other from a dreaded foe, one stolen and the other legitimate but
text: both thrown at him with the same aim: to save a human life.
dialog: The Dramatic Objects
text: A chopper with a surveillance camera mounted atop, rises in the air and soars. It
text: seems to embody the joy and goodwill of the entire campus in its flight. With
text: the crowd beneath giving it rousing cheers, it continues upwards like Shelley's
text: Skylark — “Soaring doth thou sing, and singing ever soarest.” Rancho, remote in his
text: hand, guides this invention to the window of its originator, Joy Lobo, hoping to
text: catch his astonishment and euphoria on the mounted camera ... and Joy Lobo
text: hangs from the ceiling fan, a failure in his own eyes. His most brilliant success,
text: the flying camera, hovers outside his window, recoding the inescapable evidence of
dialog: his flight from this world.
text: This is the biggest turning point in the film. From this point on, Rancho, though
text: an imposter, living under an alias and hence keen on keeping a low profile, takes
text: off his gloves and takes on the system.
dialog: I am ashamed to admit that for one full year, for the first five or six drafts of
dialog: the screenplay, we had something as lame as sleeping pills as the means of Joy’s
dialog: demise. Peel off a few drafts of the screenplay, and what you stare at is pure
dialog: mediocrity!
text: A few rings, a wheelchair, a laptop, and a letter, these simple objects provided us
text: with the bulwark for the most important beat of the story in 3 Idiots — the twin
text: movement where Raju Rastogi, a changed man after his suicide attempt, fearlessly
text: faces a job interview and Farhan, unyielding but loving, wins his father’s blessings
text: for leaving engineering and embracing photography. Without the aid of objects,
text: the scenes would have needed so many lines of dialogue to convey the complex
dialog: emotions that they would have degenerated into sermons. Objects helped us slash
text: the dialogue and deepen the emotion.
speaker_heading: 353
text: Before facing the job interview, Raju Rastogi takes off his lucky rings that embody
text: all his superstitions and fears and discards them in a metallic bedpan. CLANG!
text: Wordlessly, with that mutinous clang, the hitherto weak man has trashed his old
text: fearful self. Later, the wheelchair is crucial to the scene when he faces the interview
text: panel. More than what he has lost, the wheelchair represents what he has gained:
text: “Dono taange tudvaake apne pairon pe khada rahena seekha hai” (It took two broken
text: legs to get me up on my feet). The same scene, without changing a single line
text: of dialogue, with Rastogi sitting in an ordinary chair would never have had the
dialog: same impact.
text: A laptop versus a letter — that is the essence of the encounter between Farhan
text: and his father. The letter is Farhan’s dream, written five years ago to his revered
dialog: photographer requesting apprenticeship but never posted for fear of breaking his
text: father’s heart. Rancho sends it out without Farhan’s knowledge and lo! the photographer
text: answers, inviting Farhan to the Brazilian rainforest to work with him. Now Farhan
text: stands at two divergent roads, one that leads him to engineering and the other to
dialog: his passion, photography. Which one will he take? At this very moment, Farhan’s
text: father is proudly showing his mother the brand new laptop, a gift for Farhan, in
text: anticipation of a plush new engineering job. The laptop represents the recompense
dialog: for all the sacrifices and hardships that the father has undertaken for the education
text: of his son and all his solid and conservative hopes of a good life for his son. In
dialog: this sense, the laptop is the exact opposite of the sense of adventure, uncertainty
text: and passion that the letter represents. The scene becomes the battleground for two
text: disparate philosophies through two commonplace objects. When Farhan, without
text: an ounce of anger or bitterness, with immense love and respect, makes his father
text: see the validity of his argument, the letter wins. The father tells the mother to
text: return the laptop and buy a professional camera for his son.
text: Another such scene where two rival philosophies clash appears earlier in the film —
text: the scene of the vital bet between Chatur and Rancho. It is a clash not of individuals
dialog: but of priorities and values: Chatur’s obsession with success versus Rancho’s respect
text: for excellence. The rivals decide on a date ten years later, when they will meet and
text: compare notes on who won and who lost. While there is no overt use of objects in
dialog: the scene, we achieved the ‘concretisation’ or the ‘solidification’ effect through getting
text: Chatur to carve out a date on the mossy wall of the terrace. By being engraved on
text: the wall, the date became tangible, solid, permanent. It received an import that it
text: lacked when it was merely uttered verbally in earlier drafts. Chatur carves the date
text: not merely on the wall but also on the psyche of the audience.
speaker_heading: 354
text: Perhaps the most telling example of this ‘solidification’ or ‘concretisation’ of a scene
dialog: is the interval point of the film. Both Raju and I were extremely proud of our twist:
text: afier a long and eventful journey, the friends seem to reach Rancho, but when Farhan
text: puts his hand on the man’ shoulder, the man who turns and looks at them is not their
text: friend. It is a complete stranger. The friends are shocked. INTERMISSION. When we
dialog: narrated this scene to Vinod, he didn’t share our enthusiasm. He was uneasy and
text: restless till he realised what he was missing in the scene. A tangible deepening of
text: the mystery. Vinod felt that without solid evidence of some kind, the audience
dialog: might take the encounter with the wrong man as some minor misunderstanding,
dialog: a communication gaffe that might soon be sorted out. So he added a few extra
text: seconds to our scene: Afier meeting the stranger, Farhan sees on the wall, a group photo
text: of the classmates, featuring all three friends but the place where Rancho sat in the real
text: photo is now occupied by this total stranger. The wrong man. INTERMISSION. The
text: inanimate photo provides the scene with the final turn of the screw. The nebulous
text: mystery suddenly becomes concrete. The plot thickens.
dialog: Am I reading too much into this concept of ‘solidification’ or ‘concretisation’
dialog: through objects? Am I zealously overanalysing a moot point? Are there no major
dialog: scenes in 3 Idiots that do not rely on objects? Wrong. In fact, the most famous
dialog: scene of the film, Chatur’s speech that goes outrageously wrong [chamatkar versus
dialog: balatkar, dhan versus sttun] relies entirely on wordplay. So does my favorite scene:
text: Rancho’s deliberately obscure, whimsical, and wooly-headed definition of books
dialog: [“Instruments that record, analyse, summarise, organise, debate and explain information;
text: that are illustrated, non-illustrated, hard-bound, paperback, jacketed, non-jacketed; with
dialog: foreword, introduction, table-of-contents, index; that are intended for the enlightenment,
dialog: understanding, enrichment, enhancement and education of the human brain through the
dialog: sensory route of vision. Sometimes touch.”] In both these scenes we relied exclusively
dialog: on verbal dexterity. In one instance crude, in the other, sophisticated. Do these
dialog: scenes, then, constitute the antithesis of my argument? Hardly. Because these scenes,
text: if anything, serve to demonstrate the devastating effects of the lack of ‘concrete’
dialog: understanding and ‘solid’ conceptual clarity that plague our educational system.
text: The wordplay scenes are meant, as Rancho would put it, to be a ‘demo’ of what
text: obfuscation, empty jargon, hyperbole, pomposity, rote learning bring upon us —
dialog: nothing but ‘balaktkar pe balatkar’.
dialog: Objects were our closest allies for three years. Like a friend that you can confidently
dialog: call up in the middle of the night at the time of a crisis, we knocked on the door of
dialog: objects every time we were in trouble. Every time, they responded generously. Most
speaker_heading: 355
dialog: times, like good friends, they didn’t make a big show of the help they had extended
text: and remained largely inconspicuous. Almost invisible. But every object I listed here
text: is now a part of what Rogers and Hammerstein have famously described as “a few
text: of my favorite things.” Right from the official stamp that seals Farhan’s fate at the
text: beginning of the film, to the astronauts pen that with one signature turns Chatur’s
text: gloating victory into a humiliating defeat at the very end of the film, 3 Idiots, could
dialog: not have been written without dreaming up hundreds of such objects. The most
dialog: menial of these objects, are for me, things of beauty. They took our hollow scenes
dialog: and filled them with humor or drama; they took our most abstract concepts and
dialog: made them accessible.
text: In Shakepeare’s words, they gave “the airy nothing a local habitation and a name.”
dialog: — Abhijat Joshi
speaker_heading: 356
speaker_heading: CASTING A SPELL
text: From the suppressed frustration of the hospital sweeper in Munna Bhai M.B.B.S,
text: the helplessness of the retired man who breaks into an impromptu stripping act
dialog: to get his pension, to the sparkling purity of Chhote in 3 idiots, while it may be
dialog: difficult for us to recall the names of the actors who played these roles, their faces
dialog: will remain forever etched in our memories; the characters merging into these actors
text: making the on-screen persona inseparable from the one in reality.
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani believes that the face maketh the character. If anything comes as
text: a close second to the script in his school of filmmaking, it is casting. Every face
text: visible in a Rajkumar Hirani film has been hand-picked by him. “Casting is half
dialog: the job done as far as characters in the film are concerned. Sometimes, we find the
dialog: right people and at times, the right people find us,” says the man who drives his
dialog: ADs (assistant directors) and casting team literally up the wall even for the right
text: junior artists meant to provide the ‘background’ in a scene.
text: Tt took Raju a year to freeze on the actor for Joy Lobo’s father in 3 Idiots, a character
text: that appears for barely two minutes on screen. Over five hundred screen tests later,
dialog: he exclaimed with frustration, “Maybe honest faces are vanishing from this planet.”
dialog: The brief was to find a face that would be the epitome of selfless love, kindness,
text: and innocence. Every heart in the theatre would break when he mourned his son’s
text: untimely death. Raju’s associate, Rajesh Mapuskar, came to the rescue and suggested
dialog: child actor, Madhav Vaze, from the acclaimed Marathi film Shyamchi Ayee (Shyam’s
dialog: mother) made in 1953. He would be of the right age now to play the role. The
dialog: hunt for the actor began and he was finally located in Pune. The only question
dialog: was: had Madhav’s face retained the same stirring innocence it had fifty-six years
text: ago? One look at him and Raju knew he had found Mr. Lobo.
dialog: And sometimes, the right actor finds his/her way to the right role. Every project
text: goes through various stages of casting. A single change in the script could have
dialog: one consider someone else rather than the actor initially under consideration for a
dialog: particular role. If one were to imagine anyone other than Aamir Khan as Rancho,
text: Kareena Kapoor as Pia, or Sanjay Dutt as Munna Bhai, the entire perception and
dialog: tone of these characters would change in our heads.
text: The principal cast of 3 Idiots came together with all the serendipitous twists and
text: turns of a commercial potboiler.
speaker_heading: @ RANCHO AAMIR KHAN
dialog: I never thought of casting Aamir in 3 Idiots. In his case, it is the right man finding
text: his way to the right role. Aamir, in real life, is Rancho.
dialog: — Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: We had actually not thought of Aamir for 3 Idiots. I happened to call him for Rajesh
dialog: Mapuskar’s film Ferrari ki Sawari. During that time, we were also in the process of
dialog: casting for 3 Idiots. Aamir asked me if there was anything that Raju was doing because
dialog: he was keen to work with him. I immediately called him in for a narration of 3 Idiots.
dialog: And just like that, we found Rancho.
dialog: — Vidhu Vinod Chopra
dialog: In the twenty-six years that Aamir Khan has spent in the film industry, he and
dialog: Vidhu Vinod Chopra have met and spoken about several projects. Vinod had
dialog: offered 1942: A Love Story to Aamir but that fell through. After that, Aamir became
text: accustomed to Vinod calling him once every few years and invariably asking for his
dialog: dates for projects that were to begin shooting a month later. Aamir would always
dialog: hear the script but decline because he needed more time to prepare. Moreover, he
dialog: reasoned that if Vinod called him barely a month before the principal photography
dialog: for a project was to begin, then he was anyway not the man Vinod needed for
dialog: the job.
text: So when in late 2007, his phone rang with Vinod’s name flashing on the display
text: screen, Aamir assumed that it was one of Vinod’s regular ‘once-in-four-years’ calls.
dialog: Vinod had called to discuss a project still in the process of being written. The
dialog: conversation went something like this ...
text: Aamir: “Yaar tu mujhe yeh sab filmein offer karta rehta hai, why don't you ever
dialog: offer me a film with Raju?”
dialog: (You keep offering me these films but why don’t you ever offer me a film
dialog: with Raju?)
dialog: 360
dialog: Vinod: “Bulaonga to karega tu?”
dialog: (IFT call you, will you do it?)
dialog: Aamir: “Script achchi lagegi to zaroor karoonga.”
dialog: (If I like the script, I will definitely do it.)
dialog: Vinod: “To phir aaja kal aur sunn le.”
dialog: (Then come tomorrow and hear it.)
text: Unaware that Raju had a ready script or was even working on a project, Aamir was
text: stunned by the turn of events. Vinod had managed to stump him yet again.
dialog: But this time things did work out.
dialog: You had expressed a desire to work with Raju. Both of you had even met and
dialog: discussed a project. Why did things not work out earlier?
dialog: I have very high regard for Raju’s work and for Raju as a person. The first time
dialog: we met was at the premiere of Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. | loved the film and thought
dialog: it was wonderful. A little over six months after that, Raju called me to discuss an
dialog: idea he had for a film. This was before Lage Raho. 1 was travelling then, but we
dialog: decided to meet the moment I was back in town. After I returned, Raju came to
dialog: meet me and told me that things had changed. In fact, the morning of the day we
dialog: met, he decided that the idea he was to share with me, would now be used to do
dialog: the second innings of Munna Bhai. 1 was still curious to hear of the idea. When
dialog: I heard it, I thought it was a fantastic idea and completely suited the Munna Bhai
dialog: genre. And Sanjay would do a great job but at the same time I felt that I had
dialog: missed out on an opportunity.
dialog: What drew me to Raju was his unique style of filmmaking. I had observed in the
dialog: two Munna Bhai films that he views his characters with a lot of warmth. So even if
text: it is a bad guy in his film, his approach to the character is very warm. In his work,
dialog: there is a certain joy and simplicity which is what appeals to me and to all of us.
dialog: Also, Raju is a straightforward person who you take to instantly. He has a basic respect
dialog: and regard for each and every person he deals with, no matter who they are.
dialog: After the first narration, what was your reaction to the script?
dialog: My first reaction to the script was one of disappointment. It did not work for me
dialog: and if Raju had still wanted to make it the way it was then, I would have had to
speaker_heading: 361
dialog: opt out. I felt sad because I really wanted to work with him. The script had a lot
dialog: of potential but it was not in place as yet. I expressed my reservations to Raju.
dialog: He heard me out and said that he agreed with quite a few of my points. He told
dialog: me to give him some time and then he came back after about two months. When
dialog: I heard the script the second time round, I liked it. A lot of the issues I had raised
dialog: and he had agreed with, had been addressed.
dialog: ‘What were the problems that you had with the first version of the script that
dialog: was narrated to you?
dialog: My basic problem was that Rancho was too heroic in the first draft. He was cocky
text: and belting out one smart line after another. I felt he should behave like a normal
text: guy. For example, in the introduction scene, initially, he was heroic in the way he
text: faced the guys who were ragging him. It was Rancho’s attitude and not the scene
dialog: that was a problem for me. The scene has stayed pretty much the same as it had
dialog: been earlier. Rancho’s attitude did not make sense to me. A young boy who comes
dialog: into the first year should be scared when he faces his seniors. He cannot be this
text: guy who comes in and churns out smart lines. He came across as too confident
dialog: and too sure of himself. But as I understood him, he seemed to me a guy who is
text: normal. He does not really know how to face guys who are stronger than him and
text: are bullying him. That is the reason he runs away and hides in his room.
dialog: The tone initially was of one-upmanship and I felt that Rancho should not really
dialog: care about that. I wanted him to be scared in the ragging scene and do things out
text: of fear and not out of knowing how to handle these tough situations. Similarly,
text: in the scene where the Director addresses the first year students and talks to them
dialog: about the astronaut’s pen, had I said my lines in a cocky manner, then the character
dialog: would have comes across differently but when the lines are said with a sense of
text: excitement as though the idea has just occurred to the character, and he thinks it
dialog: is a damn good one, so he just says it out loud because he wants to share it, that
text: takes on a different colour altogether. Rancho is enthusiastic about his thoughts
text: and shares them spontaneously but he does not know why the others are laughing
text: because he has not said anything meaning to be funny. Yet, it comes across as a
dialog: joke. Other people find it funny. This is broadly what I had a problem with. It
dialog: was the crystallisation of the core thought that I was excited about: what the film
dialog: is trying to say — chase excellence and not success — and this is what I wanted
text: coming through in Rancho.
dialog: 362
dialog: You were not convinced about playing a 20-year-old student in the film. What
dialog: made you change your mind?
dialog: When I read the script, I did not feel that Rancho is me because Rancho is a
dialog: naturally brilliant guy and I don’t see myself as that. Rancho’s philosophy in life
dialog: all along I have been following but as a personality he is a little quirky. I don’t see
dialog: myself as that. But broadly speaking, how he lives his life is similar to how I live
dialog: mine but when I was reading the script, I didn’t see it that way. Perhaps I don’t see
dialog: myself that way, so I couldn’t relate myself to him. However, the interesting thing
dialog: that happened was that I told Raju what I felt: “Though I love the script, how am
dialog: I going to fit this role? I am 43 now and by the time we make the film, I will be
dialog: 44 and I have to play a 20-year-old so I don’t think I am the right guy for this
dialog: film. I personally feel you should cast someone in that age group.” I even offered
dialog: to help him find a younger actor for the role. My fear was that fundamentally
dialog: if people didn’t accept me as a 20-year-old, then the whole film would go for a
dialog: toss. And that would not be worth it. You are making an entire film. There is too
dialog: much hard work involved so why should you let the fate of the film hinge on a
dialog: weak point. Your lead actor is 44 and he is going to play a 20-year-old. Despite
dialog: not being convinced of it ourselves, if we still went ahead and shot the film, and
dialog: it looked bad, then what were we going to do? This is when Raju spoke to me at
dialog: length. I think during our interaction leading up to this conversation, Raju had
dialog: become increasingly convinced about me playing Rancho. Maybe to start with, he
dialog: was not totally convinced. I don’t know what was going through his mind but I felt
dialog: that somewhere along the way, he became surer about me doing the film. Perhaps
dialog: the interaction helped him in his head as well. The first thing he said was that he
dialog: thought I looked young. Second, he felt that I could pull it off as I have often
dialog: pulled off things that people have not expected me to. He gave me the example of
dialog: Ghajini. His logic was that if I could pull that off, why not this? I kept countering
dialog: him by saying that there were limits to what one can do physically. Lastly, he said,
dialog: “Throughout your career, you have been like Rancho. You have taken paths that are
dialog: unconventional. You have not followed any rules. Instead you have broken them.
dialog: You have chased excellence and success has come after that. When you play Rancho,
dialog: the audience is going to believe you as opposed to some other actor who has been
dialog: chasing success in reality but spouts these lines on screen. You will bring a lot of
dialog: credibility to the character and that is why I want you to play it.” This is what his
dialog: opinion was but I kept insisting on finding a younger actor. This discussion went
dialog: on. What eventually helped me make up my mind was Raju’s faith in me. We spent
speaker_heading: 363
dialog: a lot of time together and discussed many drafts of the script and throughout the
dialog: process Raju was certain that he wanted me for the role. I instinctively trust Raju
dialog: as a director. I trust his judgement and instinct. I might not be able to see myself
dialog: in a particular way but if the director is able to see me that way, and feel enthused
dialog: and excited about it, then that is important to me.
dialog: I am so glad he pushed me. I decided to go with Raju’s judgment. His faith in me,
dialog: my intense desire to work with him and, of course, what he was making convinced
dialog: me to take on the challenge.
dialog: Once you were convinced and you signed the film, what was your approach
dialog: to Rancho?
dialog: I felt Rancho is boyish and transparent. He has a clean heart so most of what he
dialog: thinks and feels is quite evident to people. Had I actually been 20 years old, I might
dialog: have played the character differently. I don’t know how I would have played it but
dialog: it would have been different. At this age, I had the additional burden of pulling off
dialog: playing a guy half my age. I had to approach him differently. I had to work on my
dialog: mannerisms and the way I look to cut the age. I was really bulked up for Ghajini
dialog: so I lost a lot of muscle. I tried to look as small as possible in order to look boyish.
dialog: I wore oversized clothes. I had to internalise the mannerisms because if you don’t
dialog: internalise them, they come out totally fake. In my head, when I was constructing
dialog: him, I felt he is a guy who is constantly moving. His mind is buzzing. So he seldom
text: stays still. He is either scratching his head, shifting from one foot to the other or
text: shaking his head. He is quick. There is so much going on in his head that he has a
dialog: lot of buzz in him. That is how I saw him. And because he is transparent, all that
text: is going on inside him comes out spontaneously. This trait helped me negotiate the
dialog: smart lines because the lines are very smart. I felt that if he is so smart, confident, and
text: cocky, then he will become a pain in the neck after a point. To make him likeable,
dialog: the audience has to feel he is innocent. Let me give you a ‘demo’ (smiles). One of
dialog: my toughest scenes in the film was when Rancho confronts the Director after Joy's
dialog: death. Those are some pretty heavy lines. You might feel those things but to actually
dialog: go and tell the head of your educational institute all that and to actually provoke
dialog: him without being asked anything is a rather extreme thing to do. The insinuation
dialog: of Rancho’s words is severe. How does one pull this off? Raju and I even considered
dialog: at one point to have Rancho drunk in this scene but then we did not go down that
dialog: route. The best way then to go about it, and which is what I did, would be to play
text: him as emotionally overwrought. He is so grief-stricken that he goes and says what
speaker_heading: 364
dialog: he feels without thinking of the consequences. And the only way to balance the
text: outspokenness of the earlier scene would be to show a degree of fear when he is in
text: the Director's office the next morning. He is not taking on the Director or playing
dialog: this like a challenge. He is making a plea. I am saying a lot of harsh things to the
dialog: Director and, therefore, I cannot come from a position of arrogance.
dialog: Basically, I played Rancho with a different attitude. He is just being plain honest
dialog: because he is innocent enough to be honest. He might be scared but he has to
dialog: say what he feels because that is who he is. The smart lines, I know, needed to be
dialog: retained but as an actor, I had to say them in a way that made them palatable.
text: Farhan and Raju, as characters, were most likely to have the audience behind
dialog: them because most people would identify either with Farhan or with Raju.
dialog: Rancho is a man you admire but not someone who evokes sympathy or empathy.
dialog: Was this a concern for you?
dialog: I was aware of this but it was not a concern for me. One of the problems with
text: Rancho, speaking from a purely dramatic point of view, is that he has no flaws.
dialog: When the character does not have flaws, you may admire the character but you don’t
text: emotionally connect with the character because he does not have any problems. He
dialog: does not need your help. And he is succeeding in whatever he does, therefore, there
dialog: is no sympathy or empathy for him. As an audience you don’t emotionally invest
dialog: in him. For example, in Taare Zameen Par, your heart goes out to Ishaan because
dialog: you see the trouble he is going through. You are totally behind him as a viewer. It
dialog: is a very author-backed character. The characters in 3 /diots with the potential of
text: a strong emotional connect with the audience are Farhan and Raju. These are the
text: two who have problems. There is a growth in these characters that results in their
text: transformation through the film. In Rancho, there is no growth. He is the same
dialog: from the beginning to the end. It was a very big challenge for me to play Rancho
dialog: because emotionally he is not author-backed. His only problem is that he loves Pia
dialog: but cannot marry her. But that is not the main plot. This was another reason it
dialog: was essential to not make him oversmart. He would have got on everyone’s nerves.
dialog: I warned Raju about this in the beginning that we would have to be careful with
dialog: this guy or he would be in danger of going overboard. I told him that he would
dialog: have to be careful as a director and watch out and not let me slip up anywhere.
dialog: And I think somewhere what works for Rancho is the screenplay because the
text: screenplay really supports him. The story is about two friends who are looking for
dialog: 365
text: their friend. It is through their intensity, their warmth, and their love for this guy
dialog: that the audience emotionally connects with Rancho, Whenever I read the script,
dialog: I always cried in Farhan’s scene with his father and Raju’s job interview scene
dialog: but I never cried for Rancho. I never felt bad for him. It was a task to engage with
dialog: him emotionally. That came from the bonding and love that Sharman and Maddy
dialog: brought for Rancho in their performances. The warmth they feel towards Rancho
text: seeps through to the audience. Again, at another level, the screenplay is very clever
dialog: because throughout the film, you are looking for Rancho and you have only seen
dialog: flashes of him through Farhan’s eyes. We have not met him as yet. You meet him
text: head-on only at the end where he is himself and not a person who is being looked
text: at from someone else’s point of view.
text: The tenderness, love, and warmth the three friends share warms the viewer to
text: Rancho. The emotional high point for Rancho’s character is when he sits around
text: waiting nervously for his friends to return from the situations (Farhan confronts
text: his father and Raju goes for a job interview) they have gone to face, and the
text: moment he realises that they have returned triumphant from these situations, he
text: breaks down.
dialog: You were not convinced about Joy’s suicide being in the film for a long time.
dialog: You opposed it vehemently. Why was that?
dialog: At the script level, I felt that it might not be necessary. The point was coming
text: through in any case. It is accomplished through Virus’s character as his son had
dialog: committed suicide. But the actual reason is a connected thing. If the suicide was
dialog: retained, then the two scenes that came right after it would be very tough to
dialog: negotiate for me. I was not convinced that people would buy those scenes because,
dialog: like we just discussed, Rancho is saying some very provocative and harsh things to
dialog: the Director. See, either the tone of the film is at such a high pitch that saying all
dialog: this to the Director is alright because the entire film is like that, but we were not
dialog: doing that. So this worried me. The graveyard scene and the scene after that were
text: tough. Right after those is the classroom scene where he is challenging the authority
dialog: of the Director and getting away with it. That line was a very tricky one: “Nahin
text: Sir, mein aap ko engineering nahin sikha raha, mein to aapko yeh sikha raha tha ke
dialog: padhate kaise hain.” (1 am not teaching you engineering Sir, I am teaching you how
dialog: to teach). I thought the audience would beat us for this. I had to really struggle
dialog: to carry this off. I thought it would be best for Rancho to say this cheekily, pick
dialog: up his bag, and bolt out of there. If I had said these lines in a heroic way or in
speaker_heading: 366
dialog: a manner which suggested that I was taking on the Director, then we would have
dialog: been doomed.
dialog: But coming back to Joy’s suicide, in hindsight, when I see the film, I think Raju
dialog: was right about keeping the suicide just like he was right about all the decisions
dialog: that he took.
text: The principal photography of the film began in August 2008. The scene in
dialog: Ladakh, the climax of the film, if not shot in the first schedule would have had
dialog: to be shot after a year as Ladakh is only accessible for a few months a year.
dialog: The decision was made to shoot the climax in Ladakh in the first schedule
dialog: itself. Do you think it would have affected performances had you people shot
dialog: it at the beginning and not a year later which is what you had to do because
dialog: of terrible weather?
dialog: I was very relieved that we could not shoot the entire climax then even though
dialog: it was a terrible experience for the entire team. We shot for a day and then bad
dialog: weather hits. It was scary how we evacuated everyone to safety. But all is well that
dialog: ends well. Our performances would have suffered because we had not lived those
dialog: characters as yet. Especially mine. At least Sharman and Madhavan had shot in
text: Bengaluru for the first few scenes of the film and, therefore, had forged some sort of
dialog: a connect but my first day of shooting for 3 /diots was in Ladakh. I told everyone
dialog: that I was very happy because it would certainly have compromised the credibility
dialog: we were able to bring in when we shot for it after shooting for the entire film.
dialog: You actually drank for your drunken scenes. Method acting?
dialog: I actually find it difficult to do drunken scenes without drinking. It helps my
dialog: performance if I actually drink and perform. I believe in aides. My goal is to give
dialog: my best performance and if anything helps in achieving this, I am happy to use it.
dialog: I am not one of those people who shy away from using things that can enhance
text: their performance and eventually the film.
dialog: What do you think is the core of 3 Idiots?
dialog: Chase excellence and not success is definitely the core thought. To put it differently,
dialog: do what you believe in and what makes you happy. What makes you happy may
dialog: not always be conducive to what we commonly understand as success. Farhan
dialog: wants to be a wildlife photographer and it may not appear to people that he may
speaker_heading: 367
dialog: be successful doing that even in the conventional way. For this, first one needs
dialog: to understand what success is. Doing what makes you happy and doing it well is
dialog: success. It may get you less monetary benefits. However, it may also get you good
dialog: monetary benefits and one must not discount that. So you may get success in the
dialog: conventional way as well by doing what makes you happy but the key is to do what
dialog: makes you happy, what is fulfilling to you. That is the core thought of the film.
scene_heading: fl PIA SAHASTRABUDDHE: KAREENA KAPOOR
dialog: The first thing I did was to ask Kareena to put on weight. Even when she was shooting
dialog: for other films, I would send her messages saying, “Hope you are eating Kareena.” Pia
dialog: had to be real and feisty.
dialog: — Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: I saw her in Omkara and Jab We Met. In my opinion, of all the actresses we have, she
dialog: is one of the finest. It was a natural choice to go for a fine actress.
dialog: — Vidhu Vinod Chopra
text: On a crisp November morning in 2003, Kareena Kapoor wangled a day off from her
text: hectic schedule and headed for Gaiety Galaxy, one of the oldest single-screen cinema
text: halls in suburban Mumbai, to catch the first show of the latest release that week.
text: She walked out of the hall mesmerised. A quick call was made to her manager, Zahid,
text: from the parking lot of the hall enquiring about the man who had directed the film
dialog: she had just seen. Zahid gushed: “He is God! He is God! Don’t know his name but
dialog: he has directed over 200 advertisements.” He promised to get back with details.
dialog: The film Kareena had seen was Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. and its first-time director was
text: Rajkumar Hirani. His name was immediately scribbled in the wish list of directors
text: in her diary. Kareena’s mother, Babita, told her to play her Sindhi card with him
dialog: if need be: “Just tell him, ‘My mother is Sindhi just like you and, therefore, you
dialog: must work with me.’
dialog: You had wanted to work with Rajkumar Hirani and Aamir Khan for a long
dialog: time. 3 Idiots presented the opportunity to work with both. How did this fall
dialog: into place for you?
dialog: ‘We met at Mukesh Ambani’s party in December 2007. Before I could go and talk to
dialog: him, he came up to me and told me how much he liked my work in Jab We Met.
speaker_heading: 368
dialog: Then he said the magic words: “I am doing a film with Aamir and I might have a
dialog: role for you.” I jumped and told him that I am game and he does not even have
dialog: to narrate it to me. But Raju insisted that I hear it and then let him know how
dialog: I feel. He was writing at the time and promised to call the moment he was done.
dialog: When a month passed by without a word, I messaged him. This time, he asked me
dialog: to wait for a week, and exactly a week later, Raju called and told me that he had
dialog: finished and I was called in for a narration. I went for the narration with absolute
dialog: certainty that I would do this film. Nothing was going to change my mind. I heard
dialog: the script. My first reaction was that this film would create history and I wanted
dialog: to be a part of it. I knew that the film belonged to the ‘3 Idiots’ and my role in
dialog: terms of screen-time would be small but this would be a ground-breaking film
dialog: and only a fool would pass up this opportunity. I have worked in this industry
dialog: for nearly a decade and this was the most real and evocative screenplay that I had
dialog: ever heard. Also, it was my chance to work with Raju Hirani. The simplicity and
text: romance in his work are unmatched. He does not have to travel to Paris, New
text: York, London, San Francisco, or build opulent sets or drape actors in designer wear
text: to create magic. He plays with the magic of moments, of silence, and of life. He
dialog: just moves you and stirs something deep within. I was in and nothing was going
dialog: to change my mind.
dialog: With Raju, you got Aamir as a bonus. It took a decade for you and Aamir to
dialog: come together. Surely there must have been opportunities before this?
dialog: There had been opportunities before this but nothing worked out. I was supposed
dialog: to do Ghajini but when Murgadoss approached me for Ghajini, I had already signed
dialog: Mani Ratnam’s Lajjo with Aamir. Aamir called me and said that he could not do
dialog: two back-to-back films with me. I opted out of Ghajini and stayed with Lajjo.
dialog: Unfortunately, Lajjo was shelved. Vishal Bharadwaj was also supposed to do a project
dialog: with us. Aamir and he had creative differences over the script so that got scrapped
dialog: as well. Basically, every project we were supposed to do didn’t happen. I would often
dialog: bump into Aamir and complain. He kept assuring me and promised that he would
dialog: give me one of the best films of his career. And today that has happened. It almost
dialog: feels like a dream. I am in 3 /diots and it is Aamir Khan’s best film ever. He is very
dialog: lucky for the Kapoor sisters. Both, Karisma and I have given super blockbusters with
dialog: him. I keep teasing Aamir: “You do one film in three years so I don’t know when
dialog: another heroine will get a chance to work with you. It will probably be my niece
text: Samaira (laughs).” Aamir is truly a genius. He is a gift to work with.
speaker_heading: 369
dialog: Pia is very different from the roles you have done so far. What was your
dialog: approach to Pia?
dialog: Pia is real. She is spontaneous and outspoken. I have received more accolades for Pia
dialog: than I did for Geet from Jab We Met. Geet was euphoric, mad, and larger than
dialog: life. Every girl wanted to be like Geet but Pia’s USP is that she is every girl. She
dialog: touches a cord across all age groups. I was shooting Kurbaan around the same time
dialog: as I was shooting for 3 Idiots. Kurbaan was such an intense role. 3 Idiots, on the
dialog: other hand, is very real and these are roles much tougher to play because then a
text: heroine has to break away from her identity and image and reveal a part of herself.
dialog: This is where Raju’s brilliance comes in. On the sets of the film, I became Pia and
dialog: that’s what everybody saw. Kareena vanished for the time that I was shooting for
dialog: 3 Idiots. And Pia has made such an impact that it has left me speechless. I knew
dialog: this would happen and that is why the length of my role was immaterial. No one
dialog: ever thought of me as Kareena here. Though I was the only actor in the film who
dialog: was doing multiple projects at the time, I gave priority to 3 Idiots as it was the
dialog: first film I was doing with Raju, Vinod, and Aamir.
dialog: At the time of the narration, I am sure, you must have looked forward to the
text: confrontation between Pia and her father (Virus). That is the one scene that
dialog: belonged to you. Was that a part of the extensive rehearsals that were held
dialog: before the principal photography for the film began?
dialog: This ia my favourite scene in the film. When I heard this scene, I knew that this
dialog: would be my big opportunity and the centrepiece of my performance. I was determined
dialog: to nail it. I had come fully prepared for it. Raju was very keen that I rehearse this
dialog: scene. I am a spontaneous actress and too much rehearsing does not help me. Raju
dialog: listened to me which was very nice of him. I requested him to just roll the camera.
dialog: I felt that the entire scene was set up in such a way that the only way to approach
text: it was to be spontaneous. The scene begins with Pia clearing the table and you can
text: feel by the way she is putting away the plates and the spoons that she is going to
dialog: explode. This was done in a single take. I don’t know what got into me but I did
text: not use glycerin. The moment I finished the shot, I expected to hear some kind of
text: a sound but there was complete silence on the floor. I panicked and thought I had
text: messed up the scene. Raju removed the headphones. He had tears in his eyes and
text: the entire crew gave me a thunderous applause. I was preparing for this scene for a
dialog: while and I knew if I did not get this right, then there would be trouble.
speaker_heading: 370
dialog: You did a drunken scene on screen for the first time in your career in 3 Idiots?
dialog: What was that experience like?
dialog: Raju was really worried about this scene. I have never ever done a drunken scene
dialog: and I am a teetotaler. This stretched on for fifteen to twenty takes. Drunken
dialog: scenes are not easy to do. It is very tough to get the consistency of drunkness
dialog: and the slurs have to be the same. To make the job at hand tougher, this was a
dialog: sync-sound film. Aamir helped me a lot in that scene. He told me to look at the
dialog: centre of my forehead so that my eyes look a little crossed. Raju even told me that
dialog: I could drink if that helped me perform. These boys had done a drunken scene
dialog: earlier and they had actually got drunk for it. Aamir kept on telling me to have a
dialog: glass of wine. I told them that this route would not work for me because if I had
dialog: any alcohol I would just fall asleep instantly.
dialog: There were so many takes we did. Finally, Raju asked us to wrap up. I think he
dialog: was fed up. He said he would manage something in the edit. I was feeling terrible
dialog: thinking maybe I could not deliver as per expectations. But then the film released
dialog: and people went wild about the dhokla-fafada scene. Fans messaged me dialogues
dialog: from the scene and I went crazy with the kind of response I got. Raju was aghast
dialog: because he had used a ‘No-Good’ take. Normally, actresses in Hindi films don't
text: get the opportunity to do a drunken scene and when they do, it is a tough one to
dialog: nail. I am happy that people gave me such an overwhelming response to my first
text: drunken scene.
dialog: Saif has worked with Vinod Chopra Films in Parineeta and Eklavya. He knows
dialog: everyone well. Any advice he offered before you took on the film?
dialog: During the making of Ek/avya, Raju had spoken to Saif about 3 Jdiors but at that
dialog: time he was still writing. Shahrukh Khan stepped in later but then eventually
dialog: Aamir did the film. These changes are common in the industry as things keep
dialog: changing according to how the script pans out. Maybe 3 /diots was not meant to
dialog: be for Saif but he was so happy when he got to know that I was going to be in
dialog: it. He was constantly on the sets with me and he saw the film in the office before
text: the first print was out. He was completely floored by it. He kept saying, “What
dialog: have they made? How are we ever going to surpass this? What have they done?
dialog: Everything will now fall short of 3 /diots.” Even though he had just given a huge
dialog: hit — Love Aajkal — the same year, he is one actor who was genuinely happy for
dialog: our team. He is very close to Vinod, Raju, and Aamir, and was there throughout
dialog: the making of the film. He is as much a part of the 3 Idiots team as I am.
speaker_heading: 371
scene_heading: Hf VIRU SAHASTRABUDDHE: BOMAN IRANI
dialog: Boman has to be a part of all my films. After school and college, it is difficult to make
dialog: lifelong friends. Boman is one such friend I have made. He was the only actor I wanted
text: for this role and he did not have a choice but to agree to play Virus. He is a friend
dialog: and I can completely take advantage of that friendship.
dialog: — Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: Raju and your relationship organically developed into one that went beyond
dialog: films. Your interaction on a film is not restricted to just discussing the character
dialog: you are playing. You are an integral part of his ideas team and long discussions
dialog: revolving around the script between you and him are an essential part of Raju’s
dialog: creative process. What was your reaction to the idea and the script of 3 Idiots
dialog: the first time you heard it?
dialog: Raju told me about buying the rights to Five Point Someone when we were in Leeds
dialog: for IIFA (2007). Raju was there to pick up the best director award for Lage Raho.
dialog: I was very surprised that Raju had bought the rights for this book because my first
dialog: reaction to it was: “What are you going to do with the book? The novel in itself does
dialog: not seem like material for a film.” Raju told me that he and Abhijat were working
dialog: on the screenplay. A few months later when Raju and I were on a flight to Nagpur,
dialog: he narrated the script to me and I loved it. I had my concerns which we discussed
dialog: over several subsequent sessions but what they had done with it was fantastic.
dialog: You were reluctant to play Virus because you thought it would be in broad
text: strokes a repeat of Asthana from M.B.B.S. Why were you apprehensive about
dialog: Virus and what convinced you?
dialog: I was offered this role even by the guy who was planning to make Five Point Someone
dialog: earlier but he could not get the project off the ground. The first time I heard the
dialog: character, I felt Irfan Khan would be very interesting in this role. For me, this
dialog: seemed a lot like Asthana from M.B.B.S. though Raju kept telling me that it is
dialog: different. Eventually, I realised that I didn’t have a choice. I would have to do this.
dialog: T couldn't say no to Raju. Once that was settled, Raju and I got down to working
text: on the character, fleshing it out and giving it body.
dialog: A lot of people felt that Virus was more a caricature than a character. What
dialog: do you feel about that?
dialog: 372
text: Virus comes across as a caricature because, with all due respect, our teachers who
text: have been teaching for many years do become somewhat caricatures of themselves.
dialog: I fed on that. I played that up and that is why he seems caricature-ish. Raju
dialog: and I travelled to Pune for a weekend. While writing 3 Jdiots, they had hired a
dialog: farmhouse there which was used for writing sessions. For two days we sat and
dialog: worked out Virus.
dialog: I wanted this man to be special. I thought of him as dark and edgy with cussedness
text: being the underlying trait more than anything else. The tone is of sarcasm. He
dialog: has a mean streak. Then we started padding him up with quirks to embellish his
text: character. The idea was also to take Virus away from Asthana as much as possible.
text: We gave Virus this unruly dense crop of hair on his head. Instead of suits he
dialog: wore these ill-fitting clothes belonging to another generation. I borrowed a lot
dialog: from people I know in real life. Interestingly, Virus’s daily ritual of the power
text: nap whilst listening to opera and getting his shave done is drawn from Mahatma
dialog: Gandhi's life. He didn’t listen to opera but he was a very busy man. He had told
text: his staff to cut his nails and shave him whilst he took a nap. This way he saved
dialog: time. This was our reference point for the quirk we added to Virus’s character.
dialog: Then I wanted him to lisp. For that I had to rehearse for months because if it
dialog: did not look natural, it could go very wrong. Another of my favourites was that
dialog: Virus has to be ambidextrous. I had called up Abhijat and Raju in America to
dialog: discuss this with them. They loved it. Being ambidextrous is a mark of genius and
dialog: my perception of Virus was that he is a genius. He is not an ordinary guy but
dialog: he has chosen to devote his life to numbers instead of applying himself to greater
dialog: pursuits. The only thing that we changed was his body language. Earlier, I thought
dialog: that it might be interesting to have a man who constantly speaks about life being
text: a race and his every habit is geared towards saving time, being laborious and slow
text: in his own movements. He walks and moves slowly, but during the rehearsals this
dialog: did not work at all so we changed it. All this really helped in uplifting Virus as
dialog: a character.
dialog: This is your first film with Aamir Khan. He is the protaganist and you are the
dialog: antagonist so to speak in 3 Idiots. What was the experience like?
dialog: This script was narrated to everyone from Hrithik to Shahrukh. I have no idea
dialog: why Aamir was not considered but eventually he is the one who did it and was
text: a perfect fit for the role. He is amazing to work with in all respects — calibre,
speaker_heading: 373
dialog: commitment, courtesy. The experience of working with him is special. The defining
dialog: thing about Aamir is that, the equation is not of two co-stars working together but
text: of two colleagues, two collaborators. No one is working at cross purposes. All of
dialog: us become a team and our goal — the film.
dialog: During the interviews, everyone told me that Raju pampers you more than
dialog: anyone else on the sets? Is that true?
dialog: Who told you that? Tell me? (laughing) Were Sharman, Raju, and Aamir joking
dialog: about this? I am sure they were. This is just what everyone says. He pampers
dialog: everyone. No special favours extended to me.
scene_heading: Hf RAJU RASTOGI: SHARMAN JOSHI
dialog: Sharman was on my radar since the time my wife, Manjeet, and I had seen his work
dialog: in Style. We had both really liked him and I wanted to work with him whenever the
dialog: right role came along.
dialog: — Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: Sharman Joshi would have frequented the theatres more had he known that
dialog: movie watching would reap such rich benefits. In early 2007, Sharman got out
text: of Globus, a theatre in Bandra (Mumbai) and noticed Raju Hirani with his
dialog: team in the compound of the cinema hall. Sharman had always wanted to work
text: with Raju. Though tempted to walk up to him and introduce himself, Sharman
dialog: hesitated thinking that this might not be the right place to approach him. But he
text: was pleasantly surprised when on spotting him, Raju smiled and waved at him.
text: Confidence boosted, Sharman walked up to him.
text: But bigger surprises were in store for Sharman that night. Raju told him that he
dialog: had a role for him but since he was still in the process of writing, he would get
text: in touch with him soon.
text: Sharman went home in a daze.
dialog: How did 3 Idiots come together for you? I believe that the restrooms at various
dialog: multiplexes have played an important role?
dialog: (Smiles) The first time Raju Sir told me he had a role for me was at a chance
dialog: meeting in the compound of a cinema hall. Though I did not get a call from him
dialog: for a few months, after that I knew that the offer was for real. The very first time
speaker_heading: 374
dialog: you meet Raju Sir, you can feel the honesty and sincerity. He is not the fi/mi lingo
dialog: sweet-talking types. So I was assured in my mind that something would come out
dialog: of our meeting. But as luck would have it, we bumped into each other once again
text: at a multiplex (PVR in Juhu). We met in the restroom after the film was over. We
text: stood there chatting for 15 minutes. Again, a few months passed by. Uncannily, we
text: bumped into each other in the restroom of the same multiplex yet again but this
dialog: time during the interval. Raju and I joked that slowly we were inching towards the
text: beginning of the film. Three chance meetings at cinema halls are rather weird.
dialog: Finally, we connected and I went and met him at his office. The first meeting was
dialog: supposed to be a casual one but I think Raju was so excited and happy that he
dialog: narrated the entire script to me. This would be approximately six months after our
text: first meeting in the compound of a cinema hall.
dialog: Shahrukh was doing the film at the time when I was signed on. Then there was
dialog: an eight-month break where Shahrukh was not doing the film and eventually
dialog: Aamir came in. Once Aamir came in, I was constantly in touch with Raju but
dialog: during the in-between period, I did not bother him at all. That’s how this whole
dialog: thing happened.
dialog: What was your first reaction to the script?
dialog: I loved the script and even though they still had to make the final decision about
dialog: me, I went out that night and celebrated. I didn’t even know which character I
dialog: would play — Farhan or Raju — if I was doing the film. I honestly loved both
dialog: characters so it would not have mattered to me which one I would play. Initially,
dialog: Shahrukh was playing Rancho but later Aamir came in, and once he did, I auditioned
dialog: for both the parts. I had read Five Point Someone so for the first script narration
dialog: I had come with some pre-conceived notions about the different roles in the film.
dialog: For example, in the book, Alok’s character is rather weak. I was a little worried
dialog: about that. But once the script was narrated to me, the character was completely
text: different and was not weak. By the time Aamir was finalised, formal meetings
dialog: happened, script narrations started, and then the auditions. I was comfortable
dialog: playing either part because I felt both had a lot of scope for an actor in terms of
dialog: meat and challenge. What is beautiful about working with Raju is that for every
text: little change, Raju involves everyone. His humility is on a different level and he
dialog: truly and honestly respects every individual. I was pleasantly surprised that Raju
dialog: gave me a pen and pad and asked me to jot down what I felt about the film and
dialog: 375
dialog: if I had any inputs, these could be discussed. He likes participation, and, most
dialog: importantly, that participation is truly appreciated.
dialog: I auditioned for the role with the scene in the Director's office after we were
text: caught gate-crashing his daughter Mona’s wedding. It is the one with “Sir aapki
dialog: per plate cost kya thi”. At that time, Madhavan was not there so I had auditioned
dialog: with another actor.
dialog: I was drawn to the script because it is about finding yourself. The scenes where
dialog: Farhan confronts his father and his job interview are the core of the film. I loved
text: the human element in the film and the journey of these two friends who find
dialog: themselves through various experiences.
dialog: You said that you auditioned for both Raju and Farhan? Did you seriously
dialog: like both the roles equally?
dialog: Raju Sir being Raju Sir gave me the option of auditioning for whichever role
dialog: I wanted to play. This he did in the first meeting itself. Like I said, I had gone
dialog: there with pre-conceived notions so I had my apprehensions. I told him what
dialog: I felt about Alok’s character. He just smiled and narrated the script to me. After
dialog: the narration, he asked me the same question. My answer this time round was
dialog: whichever one he would like me to audition for. I had understood that both the
dialog: characters were solid. He made me audition for Raju. Then, after a few weeks, he
dialog: made me audition for Farhan.
dialog: Eventually, he made me play Raju’s character. Frankly, this film is so well etched out
dialog: that I really didn’t have to do much. This script is remarkable and equally remarkable
dialog: is the way it has been executed. For an actor, half the job was already done.
dialog: Before the first schedule began, I read the script many times over. I knew the
dialog: progression of the entire script from any given point in time. The script was
dialog: the Bible, therefore, whichever scene we shot for, I played the script back in my
dialog: head, followed the progression and performed it accordingly. My lifelines on the
dialog: set were the script, Raju Sir, and my instincts.
dialog: For all the drunken scenes in the film, I believe you people actually got drunk.
dialog: ‘What was that experience like?
text: We had a blast shooting the water tank scene and the one after that at the Director's
text: house. It was so much fun. The night at the water tank went a little out of hand.
speaker_heading: 376
dialog: We gave lengthy takes. The production team finally asked us to get on with it as
dialog: they were running out of stock though I don’t think that was the case. I think they
dialog: just wanted us to pack up (laughs). The night after that, we were at the Director's
dialog: house. Vinod Chopra was with us that night so he also drank with us in Aamir’s
text: trailer. After a few drinks, he said: “Koi bhi bahar ka dekhega to kahega ke kaisa
text: producer hai, khud bhi pee raha hai aur apne actors ko bhi pila raha hai. Shooting late
dialog: ho gayi to kya hoga?” (If anyone from outside the unit were to see us like this, he
dialog: would wonder what kind of a producer I am — not only am I drinking but I am
dialog: also making my actors drink. What will happen if the shooting gets delayed?)
dialog: Not by design but by chance, Aamir, Madhavan, and you were finalised as
dialog: the ‘3 Idiots’ and you had worked with each other before in Rang de Basanti.
dialog: What was it like on the sets?
dialog: I was ecstatic when Aamir came in. We already had an equation. I knew how fabulous
dialog: life was going to be on the sets and that made me very happy. Then I discovered
dialog: Raju Sir on the sets and he was a pleasure as well. I was not sure how Raju Sir
dialog: would be on the sets. I think he was a bit paranoid in the first schedule. There
dialog: was a lot of responsibility and pressure on him. He needed to be extra careful.
dialog: I started to feel the pressure too. It was a Raju Hirani film with Aamir Khan and,
dialog: predictably, there were a lot of expectations. I could feel and realise how important
dialog: it was for Raju Sir to set the right tone on the sets from the beginning. Once that
text: was done, Raju Sir transformed and everything lightened up. There was a comfort
dialog: factor with Aamir and Maddy. Also, Raju Sir really pampers his actors. I used to
text: tease him about pampering Boman more and Boman would protest wildly. There
dialog: is a complete sense of freedom with Raju Sir. You are allowed to perform a scene
dialog: whichever way you want to and try options if you feel they might lend something
text: to the scene. He is very caring towards every individual on the set and this is what
text: transfers onto the screen.
scene_heading: Hf FARHAN QURESHI: MADHAVAN
dialog: Madhavan came in because we were looking for a competent actor to play Farhan.
dialog: I had my doubts about Madhavan only because of his weight, which he promised me
dialog: he would shed but I caught him eating kulfi once. After the kulfi, the confidence dipped
dialog: even lower but then I was pleasantly surprised with his competence and he has done
text: exceedingly well.
dialog: — Vidhu Vinod Chopra
speaker_heading: 377
text: He watched Secret, the screen adaptation of Rhonda Byrne’s eponymous bestselling
text: book. Amongst other things, Secret talks about quantifying desires by putting them
dialog: down on paper. He did just that and wrote down the names of all the directors he
text: wanted to work with. Raju Hirani’s name topped the list.
text: Three weeks later he received a message from Raju Hirani.
text: The next day, Madhavan boarded a flight to Mumbai.
dialog: You were approached for Munna Bhai at the time Raju was thinking of making
dialog: it as a television series. What was the meeting like?
dialog: I don’t remember meeting Raju for the television series. I was approached and we
dialog: had met but I have no recollection of the meeting. It was only when Munna Bhai
dialog: M.B.B.S. released that I came to know that it was this particular film that Raju
dialog: had wanted to make for television for which he had approached me.
dialog: I remember seeing Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. and saying where had this guy been
dialog: hiding all this while. It is a sign of greatness to be able to say so many things in
dialog: the simplest manner. He struck me as a filmmaker and not merely as a director.
dialog: I desperately wanted to get in touch with him. I remember gushing and raving in
dialog: the message I sent him after watching the film. He immediately called me back
dialog: and told me that he likes my work immensely.
dialog: ‘We met sporadically after that at award functions and social gatherings. I had even
dialog: approached Raju to write the screenplay of Ramji Londonwale because I thought it
dialog: was a subject that might appeal to him. He was busy with Lage Raho at the time
dialog: but he was kind enough to suggest Abbas Tyrewala for it. Abbas was also caught
dialog: up with his own film. Eventually, Sanjay Dayma wrote the film. But I knew the
dialog: moment I met Raju that our connection was for keeps.
dialog: How did 3 Idiots happen? Your belief is that the process started with you
dialog: watching the film Secret. What happened when you got the phone call?
dialog: Sarita, my wife, had been telling me to get in touch with Raju. She had heard that
dialog: he was making a film that revolved around three engineering students. I reasoned
dialog: with her that films don’t get made that way. If Raju had not already considered me
dialog: for a role, it wouldn't be right for me and I did not want to put him in a spot
text: by calling him. When I got the message from him, Sarita and I sat staring at it in
dialog: stunned silence. I don’t know how much this has to do with Secret but this was such
speaker_heading: 378
dialog: an amazing coincidence. The message was simple: “Maddy, I need to speak with you.”
dialog: Even before calling him back, I told Sarita that I was doing a film with Raju.
dialog: Then I called up Raju and he politely asked me to meet him whenever I was in
dialog: Mumbai next. I told him, “I am coming tomorrow.” I remember going to his office
dialog: and meeting him. He narrated the script to me which made me laugh and cry at
dialog: the same time.
dialog: I immediately offered to give him a screen test. He was aghast but I insisted. I picked
text: out two scenes from the script. One of them was eventually not in the film. This
text: is the scene where one of the puppies I have grown fond of in the hostel dies and
dialog: I get drunk and react. The other scene was the scene with my father in the film
dialog: where I tell him that I don’t want to pursue engineering. Raju was not going to take
dialog: a decision right then even though I could see that he was convinced. He said that
dialog: he would let me know. I did not hear from him for two weeks. Then I received a
dialog: mail from him saying that Vinod Chopra would call me. This was somewhere in
dialog: April 2008 and we were supposed to shoot in August. After waiting for some more
dialog: time, I called Raju and asked him if I could give my dates away as I had not heard
dialog: from them and my other producers were waiting. Raju was shocked to hear this
dialog: and said that I absolutely couldn't give away my dates because we were shooting
dialog: in July. Apparently there was some confusion and I had not been informed. Then
dialog: Vinod called and things were finalised.
dialog: Did you audition for both the roles or was it always Farhan?
dialog: Farhan was the only role I related to when I heard the script. I think even Raju had
dialog: only Farhan in mind as far as I was concerned. When Raju narrated the script to me,
dialog: I knew that every student and every father in the country would relate to Farhan.
dialog: If I was able to pull this role off, then that would be my biggest achievement.
dialog: What were your first reactions to the script?
dialog: The best part about Raju is that he encourages us to think like the characters we
dialog: are to play. Our feedback is considered and taken very seriously. As an example,
dialog: for a long time, I felt that I did not have enough of a trigger to go confront my
dialog: father. Initially, the letter to Andre Istevan was not there in the script. I spoke to
dialog: Raju several times about this. Two or three weeks later, Raju told me about the
dialog: idea of the letter to Andre Istevan that Farhan never posted, and that became
dialog: the trigger. I did not even know that Raju had taken my apprehension seriously
speaker_heading: 379
dialog: and had been working on it. Raju came up with this idea and then he and Abhijat
dialog: planted the fact that I am an animal lover with a natural talent and interest in
dialog: wildlife photography.
dialog: The film started its principal photography with your scene in the airplane.
dialog: ‘What was your approach to Farhan as he is also the narrator of the film?
dialog: The first transformation you see on screen is in Farhan. So there was the additional
dialog: challenge of making that believable. If the audience did not find me convincing,
dialog: then it would set the wrong tone for the film. I set about working on my look first.
dialog: Also as a character, I go through maximum transformation. Raju’s transformation
text: happens in college after his suicide attempt. He loses his fears and there is a complete
text: change in his attitude evident in the interview scene but Farhan’s transformation
dialog: in terms of his personality was to happen once he left college. There had to be a
text: marked difference between the Farhan the audience would see in the first scene
dialog: and the one they would see in college. I gave myself a darker, leaner, and rugged
dialog: look for the portions in the present. I am a wildlife photographer and, therefore,
dialog: spend time in the sun, wear those jackets with many pockets to hold things that
text: come in handy on a shoot and name an edgier personality. There is an aggressive
text: dimension to Farhan, the wildlife photographer. But as an engineering student, he
text: is mild and innocent. I went completely clean shaven, chubby cheeked with round
dialog: boyish glasses. It took us a very long time to zero in on the glasses, I remember.
dialog: So, I worked on the look as well as the personality to make sure that the journey
text: of the character is evident and real.
scene_heading: Hf CHATUR RAMALINGAM: OMI VAIDYA
dialog: We took a huge gamble by casting Omi. He has a long and important role in the film
dialog: and we were casting someone for it who did not know Hindi at all. It was a huge
dialog: chance we took which paid off eventually. Omi is a great find. He brought credibility
dialog: and believability to Chatur’ character which was critical for it to work.
dialog: — Rajkumar Hirani
text: His feet were killing him. The entire day he had spent running from pillar to post
dialog: taking care of proceedings at a grand Marathi event that he had organised in Los
dialog: Angeles. A lot of people from the Marathi community in America had flown in to
text: attend the event. Finally, the night was winding down and it was time to let go
text: and have some fun. He hit the dance floor and inadvertently started dancing with
dialog: 380
text: a girl. She was a screenwriter from Michigan and he, a working actor and film
text: director. They exchanged numbers.
text: Four years later, the actor-director while on a visit to India to find possible buyers
text: for his film, got a call from her — out of the blue. Supriya Kelkar, the screenwriter
dialog: from Michigan was now working with Vinod Chopra on Broken Horses and wanted
text: to give Omi Vaidya a heads-up on a possible role in their production 3 Idiots.
dialog: Omi Vaidya might never have bagged this career-altering role were it not for that
text: random dance four years ago at a Marathi night in Los Angeles.
dialog: You have lived in America all your life and are a working actor in LA. Was
dialog: Hindi Cinema on your agenda?
dialog: Both my parents were very supportive of my choice to pursue acting, otherwise
dialog: it would have been very difficult to do this. Most Indians settled abroad might
dialog: not have managed to do what I did. I had my family backing me and that is
dialog: the reason it was possible. My mother had wanted to become an actress but she
dialog: could never pursue that desire so she made sure that at least I could follow my
dialog: dreams. Therefore, I did not have to worry about things like rent and food after
dialog: college and was able to concentrate only on acting. Bollywood, strangely, was never
dialog: on the radar nor was the sensibility preferred or familiar. I did not know much
dialog: about Bollywood films. I had seen some of Aamir Khan's films. But three-hour-
dialog: long films with all the dancing made little sense to me and the sensibility did not
dialog: hold much appeal for me either. I had seen a bit of Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. but
dialog: nothing of Lage Raho. All of this, I later realised, was actually a boon. It was an
dialog: asset to have little knowledge of Bollywood. It helped me when I was shooting
dialog: with the top-of-the-line actors like Aamir Khan in 3 Jdots. 1 was not weighed
dialog: down by the awe of shooting with the biggest star in Bollywood. I could perform
dialog: without being hampered.
dialog: How did 3 Idiots happen and what drew you to the material despite no prior
dialog: plans or inclination to be part of Hindi Cinema?
dialog: When I got a call from Supriya, I sent my showreel across and Raju liked it because
dialog: he felt that I was very boyish and, most importantly, I was not from India. Initially,
dialog: I was very sceptical. I informed them that I didn’t speak the language at all so
dialog: how would this be feasible. The people scheduled to audition me just refused to
dialog: listen assuming that I would at least have some knowledge of the language because
speaker_heading: 381
dialog: everybody who says they don’t know the language, do know a little bit. Little did
dialog: they know that I really did not know the language at all.
dialog: I was auditioned on Raju Rastogi’s lines from the film and I was terrible. I spent
text: some three hours in the office reading the material. During the screen test, 30 seconds
dialog: after I started saying the lines, the casting director started correcting me and a
dialog: minute into the audition, she asked me to stop. I was politely thanked so I knew
dialog: that they had not been impressed but then I had gone in knowing that I would
dialog: fail, What worked in my favour was that Raju came into the office while I was
dialog: meeting his team. He had some work there so I ran into him. We got to chat a
dialog: bit and therefore a personal connection was established.
dialog: A few days later, I received a call from the team asking me to come in again. And
dialog: this time, they said that they would send me a script for the audition. They sent me
dialog: a portion from Munna Bhai. The brief was that I would have to learn the lines and
dialog: not speak them. I was not to worry about speaking Hindi correctly: the character
dialog: was an NRI though he had not been fully fleshed out as yet but I was just to do
dialog: what Omi would do. I felt much more comfortable with this. The way I did it was
dialog: that even though I knew what I was saying, I did it like I did not because Omi
dialog: would not know what he was saying. So I did gestures that were absolutely not in
dialog: syne with what I was saying. They liked this a lot. After this test, the brief for the
dialog: character expanded a little bit. I was told that the character is a top honcho of a
text: corporate concern, always in a suit with a whole lot of expensive and fancy stuff.
dialog: He has come back to India to prove a point to these guys who used to make fun
dialog: of him. This was what I was given to play with. I was asked again not to worry
dialog: about the Hindi. If I so wanted, then I could do it all in English. So I did this
dialog: test even better. I smoked a ciggarette and did my thing. All the Hindi words that
dialog: I knew were the bad words so I sprinkled what I was saying with that. My mother
dialog: was there with me so she was a bit shocked.
dialog: I did the audition well but I was quite sure that I was not right for the role because I
dialog: did not speak the language at all. I went back to LA after this test and did not
dialog: hear from the 3 /diots team for a month. In LA, if you don’t get a call for a week
dialog: after an audition, it can be safely assumed that you didn’t get the job.
dialog: But a month later, I got a call from the production team and this time I was told
dialog: that I would be auditioning with scenes from 3 Idiots. I knew then that I was in
dialog: the race and, therefore, being seriously considered. Then I started studying the text.
dialog: They gave me the now famous balatkar speech scene. The other scene they gave
dialog: 382
dialog: me was the water tank scene where I lose my temper and the bet between Rancho
dialog: and Chatur is made. I could see that they wanted to gauge whether I could do
dialog: both comedy and drama. The Broken Horses team was in New Mexico so I flew
dialog: to New Mexico and did the audition. I gave it my best shot. I gave up a role to
dialog: make it for this audition and I don’t regret my decision. Again, I did not get a
dialog: call from the team for another month. Then Raju called me himself and told me
dialog: that though I had done a great job someone had taught me how to speak those
dialog: lines. He was right because my mom had taught me. He told me to stop learning
dialog: Hindi as this character would know very little Hindi. They were writing him like
dialog: that, therefore, if I wanted the role, I would have to stop learning Hindi and stop
dialog: watching Hindi movies. He did not want my interpretation of the character and
dialog: performance to be affected by such factors.
dialog: Things work differently here than in the West. Did you have any apprehensions
dialog: about being away from the Hollywood scene for the considerable duration
dialog: 3 Idiots demanded you to be away?
dialog: I had my doubts because I was giving up six months of my life and not being paid
dialog: much according to Hollywood standards. I worried about whether this was the right
dialog: choice or not. But the very reason I chose this as my preferred field of work was
dialog: because I wanted to be able to do new, fun, and exciting things. This would offer
dialog: all the things I looked for in a job. It was a new system and sensibility I would
dialog: be operating in. Therefore, I wanted to do this and it was my choice. Also Raju’s
dialog: sincerity and personal emails to me convinced me that I would be taken care of.
dialog: Once I came down here and saw the level of professional courtesy I was extended,
dialog: the sincerity and the seriousness, I knew I had taken the right decision.
dialog: What were your first reactions to the script?
dialog: That it is a very long one (laughs). There were lots of pages. I read through it
dialog: but I kept my focus on Chatur. I had not thought of the film as a whole. I only
dialog: focussed on my character. When I saw the full film, that is when I realised what
dialog: the whole film was all about. I really just kept my mind on Chatur. Also my lack
dialog: of knowledge of the language kept me from understanding a lot of things.
dialog: You were already dealing with language issues. I am sure there were portions
dialog: in the film that were more challenging than others. Tell us a little about those
dialog: tough ones you had to get your head around?
speaker_heading: 383
text: It has to be the scene on the water tank where I am angry and drunk. I am a
dialog: happy person and emotions like anger and jealousy do not come easily to me.
dialog: Before performing this scene, I had to separate myself from everyone to be able
dialog: to do a good job. The anger and depression had to be worked on. I had a three-
dialog: day break before we were to shoot this scene. I requested Raju to let me leave the
dialog: production for those three days and to just put me up in a small room or club
dialog: or hotel somewhere away from everyone. Raju agreed and I isolated myself. When
text: I reached the set three days later, I kept to myself and let the isolation gnaw at me.
dialog: Raju loved my work in that scene. It took me another three days after the scene
dialog: to come out of the state I had driven myself into though.
dialog: ‘What was the experience like for you since this is your first brush with Hindi
dialog: Cinema?
dialog: The whole experience was very different from America. It was very interesting.
dialog: I really wanted to do this and I am glad I did. This was primarily because I knew
dialog: that Raju wanted me and it is very rare and different from America where whether
dialog: the director wants you or does not want you does not matter because the corporate
dialog: guys make the decision. Here, the director really liked me and wanted me and
dialog: we had developed a personal connection. Systems-wise, things were completely
dialog: different from the West. Here make-up and costume trials were done in your hotel
dialog: room which was a little odd. I got the script five days before we began shooting.
dialog: Though it took some getting used to, all of this had its own flavour. Also, I am
dialog: not from here so I don’t really have hang ups about chatting and mixing around
dialog: with the drivers and kitchen staff. So I could absorb a lot and get in touch with
dialog: the ground realities a lot better as I chatted with these people. These guys have
text: the most interesting stories. The others are more politically correct and talk about
dialog: show business all the time. The biggest perk of the role was that I was playing a fat
dialog: balding guy in major chunks of the film for which I had to put on weight. I put
dialog: on twelve kilograms and had a lot of fun doing that because I could eat whatever
dialog: I wanted and did not have to exercise.
dialog: — Smriti Kiran
speaker_heading: 384
speaker_heading: OPENING CREDITS
speaker_heading: 3 IDIOTS
scene_heading: A RAJKUMAR HIRANI FILM
scene_heading: A VIDHU VINOD CHOPRA PRODUCTION
dialog: Aamir Khan
dialog: Kareena Kapoor
dialog: R. Madhavan
dialog: Sharman Joshi
dialog: Omi
dialog: Boman Irani
dialog: Mona Singh
dialog: Jaaved Jaaferi
dialog: Pareekshit Sahani
dialog: Sanjay Lafont
dialog: Rahul Kumar
dialog: Story & Screenplay
dialog: Abhijat Joshi
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: Screenplay Associate
dialog: Vidhu Vinod Chopra
dialog: Costumes
dialog: Sheena Parikh
dialog: Manish Malhotra
dialog: Raghuveer Shetty
dialog: Make-up
dialog: Vikram Gaikwad
dialog: Chartered Accountant
dialog: Anil Sekhri
dialog: Chief Accountant
dialog: Ramakant Dubey
dialog: Senior Accountant
dialog: Kirit Parekh
dialog: Dialogue Supervisor
dialog: Ranjeet Bahadur
dialog: Direction Assistants
dialog: Maheep Dhillon
dialog: Menaka Nagarajan
dialog: Jai Sharma
dialog: Rohan Mapuskar
dialog: Gaurav Chandelya
dialog: Karan Narvekar
dialog: Mrunmayee Lagoo
dialog: Production Co-ordinator
dialog: Dileep Desai
dialog: Unit Production Manager
dialog: Sarvesh Singh
dialog: Production Managers
dialog: Salim Qureshi
dialog: Sachin Utekar
dialog: Bhavin Thakkar
dialog: First Assistant Director
dialog: Vinay Waikul
speaker_heading: 388
dialog: Associate Director
dialog: Rajesh Mapuskar
dialog: Co-Editor
dialog: Ranjeet Bahadur
dialog: Assistant Editor
dialog: Gaurav Chandelya
dialog: Action
dialog: Sham Kaushal
dialog: Visual Effects
dialog: (Fable Farm)
dialog: Biju D.
dialog: Mitul Patel
dialog: Amol Thakur
dialog: Background Score
dialog: Sanjay Wandrekar
dialog: Atul Raninga
dialog: Shantanu Moitra
dialog: Song & Music Recording
dialog: Sachin K. Sanghvi
dialog: Production Designers
dialog: (Acropolis)
dialog: Rajnish Hedao
dialog: Sumit Basu
dialog: Snigdha Basu
dialog: Publicity Design
dialog: Rahul and Himanshu Nanda (H-one)
dialog: Re-recording Engineer
dialog: Anup Dev
speaker_heading: 389
dialog: Choreography
dialog: Bosco-Caesar
dialog: Avit Dias
dialog: Line Producer
dialog: Sanjiv Kishinchandani
dialog: Production Sound Mixing (Sync)
dialog: Nihar Ranjan Samal
dialog: Sound Design & Mixing Engineer
dialog: Bishwadeep Chatterjee
dialog: Executive Producer
dialog: Anil Davda
dialog: Lyrics
dialog: Swanand Kirkire
dialog: Music Director
dialog: Shantanu Moitra
dialog: Dialogues
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: Abhijat Joshi
dialog: Director of Photography
dialog: Muraleedharan C.K., ISC
dialog: Creative Producer
dialog: Vir Chopra
dialog: Producer
dialog: Vidhu Vinod Chopra
dialog: Editor & Director
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: 390
speaker_heading: END CREDITS
speaker_heading: 3 IDIOTS
scene_heading: A RAJKUMAR HIRANI FILM
scene_heading: A VIDHU VINOD CHOPRA PRODUCTION
dialog: Cast
dialog: Rancho = Aamir Khan
dialog: Pia Kareena Kapoor
dialog: Farhan R. Madhavan
dialog: Raju = Sharman Joshi
dialog: Chatur Omi
dialog: Viru Sahastrabuddhe Boman Irani
dialog: Mona Mona Singh
dialog: Ranchhoddas Chanchad __Jaaved Jaaferi
dialog: Farhan’s Father — Pareekshit Sahani
dialog: Suhas — Sanjay Lafont
dialog: Millimeter Rahul Kumar
dialog: Raju’s Mother — Amardeep Jha
dialog: Farhan’s Mother Farida Dadi
dialog: Raju’s Father = Mukund Bhatt
dialog: Raju’s Sister Chaitali Bose
dialog: Campus Interview Panel Head Jayant Kriplani
dialog: Shamaldas Chanchad Aron Baali
dialog: Chhote Shoaib Ahmed
dialog: Centimeter Dushyant Wagh
dialog: Air Hostess
dialog: Pilot
speaker_heading: Airline Ground Staff 1
dialog: Airline Ground Staff 2
dialog: Doctor at Airport
dialog: Airport Cab Driver
dialog: Raju’s Wife
dialog: Mr. Dhillon
dialog: Aunt at Farhan’s Birth
dialog: Lead Ragging Senior
dialog: Ragging Senior 2
dialog: Govind
dialog: Machine Class Professor
dialog: Joy
dialog: Joy’s Father
dialog: Priest at Joy’s Funeral
dialog: Professor in Corridor
dialog: Professor Vaidyanathan
dialog: Waiter at Mona’s Wedding
dialog: Lady at Mona’s Wedding
dialog: Mona’s Husband
speaker_heading: ICE Student 1
speaker_heading: ICE Student 2
speaker_heading: ICE Student 3
speaker_heading: ICE Student 4
dialog: Librarian Dubey
dialog: Library Clerk
dialog: Minister in Auditorium
text: Doctor Startled by Scooter in Hospital
dialog: Doctor 1 Attending on Raju’s Father
dialog: Doctor 2 Attending on Raju’s Father
dialog: Exam Hall Professor
dialog: Girl at Notice Board with Chatur
dialog: Peanut Vendor at Shimla
dialog: Caretaker at Shyamaldas’ House
dialog: Minister at Shyamaldas’ Funeral
dialog: Chhote’s Teacher (Masterji)
dialog: Pooja Goswami
dialog: Captain A.S. Duggal
dialog: Annapurna Kaul
dialog: Chandrashekhar
dialog: R.S. Kodange
dialog: Dharmendra Bhurji
dialog: Meghna Bhalla
dialog: Harvinder Singh
dialog: Dilshad Edibam
dialog: Rajeev Ravindranath
dialog: Hitesh Tak
dialog: Rajendra Patwardhan
dialog: Achyut Potdar
dialog: Ali Fazal
dialog: Madhav Vaze
dialog: Dileep Desai
dialog: Professor Raghunath
dialog: Professor Vaidyanathan
dialog: Kumar Veer Singh
dialog: Shailaja Dhar
dialog: Dinesh Kumar
dialog: Pitabhash Tripathi
dialog: Aakash Dabhade
dialog: Apul Jaisinghani
dialog: Trilok Sadhwani
dialog: Akhil Mishra
dialog: Sonu
dialog: Atul Tiwari
dialog: Dr. Praful Kulkarni
dialog: Dr. Jalil Parkar
dialog: Dr. Debashish Naha
dialog: Michael Joseph
speaker_heading: Smriti
dialog: Sanjay Sood
dialog: Dayal Sharma
dialog: Rakesh Sharma
dialog: Elihud George
speaker_heading: 394
dialog: College Security Guard
dialog: Professor in Induction Motor Class
dialog: Ambulance Driver
dialog: Doctor in Ambulance with Raju
dialog: Nurse
dialog: Campus Interview Panelist 1
dialog: Campus Interview Panelist 2
dialog: Campus Interview Panelist 3
dialog: Maid at Pia’s House
dialog: Housekeeping Boy at Pia’s Wedding
dialog: Manager at Pia’s Wedding
dialog: Panditji at Pia’s Wedding
dialog: Matron in Hospital with Pia
dialog: Mona’s Baby
dialog: Kid 1 at Rancho’s School
dialog: Kid 2 at Rancho’s School
dialog: Chief Executive International Operations
speaker_heading: Sarvanna
dialog: Tanveer Ahmed
dialog: Shankar Sachdev
dialog: Dr. Kishor Patil
dialog: Insia Lacewalla
dialog: Keshav Rae
dialog: Mrs. Lata Kurdikar
dialog: Suhas Vaidya
dialog: Nishi Singh
dialog: Saurabh Agnihotri
dialog: Sitaram Sharma
dialog: Pundit Prayag Raj
dialog: Supriya Shukla
dialog: Malvika Singh
dialog: Tsanwal Namgyal
dialog: Jigmet Dorjey
dialog: Subhash Dhar
speaker_heading: Reliance Team
dialog: Head of Distribution (India)
dialog: Head of Distribution (Overseas)
dialog: Project Head
dialog: Project Team
dialog: Media Consultant
dialog: Stills
dialog: Kamal Gianchandani
dialog: Anil Arjun
dialog: Rohit Sharma
dialog: Arun Mehra
dialog: Deepa Singh
dialog: Spice
dialog: Zishaan Akbar Latif
text: Based on the novel Five Point Someone by Chetan Bhagat
dialog: Special Thanks to
dialog: Amitabh Jhunjhunwala
dialog: Indu Shekhar Vasisst, CAO, IIM Bangalore
dialog: Dia Mirza
dialog: Javed Akhtar
dialog: Dr. Deskit Dolma & Dr. Rinchen Angmo, Leh
dialog: Professor T. Kundu, IIT Bombay
dialog: 395
dialog: Dr. Sejal Desai
dialog: Jitendra Bhargava, Air India
dialog: Sunil Bohra
dialog: Doctors & Staff of Kulkarni Hospital, Jogeshwari
dialog: Making of 3 Idiots
dialog: Director
dialog: Editor
dialog: Videography
dialog: Additional Videography
dialog: Background Score
dialog: Karan Narvekar
dialog: Rachit Mehta
dialog: Karan Narvekar, Aman Mahajan
dialog: Nilip Deb, Ramani Ranjan Das
dialog: Rooshin Dalal, Abhishek Ghag
dialog: Cinematography Assistance
dialog: Chief Assistants
dialog: Focus Puller
dialog: Assistants
dialog: Gaffer
dialog: Key Grip
dialog: Jimmy Jib Operator
dialog: Steadicam Operator
dialog: 2nd Unit Camera
dialog: Rajesh Shah
dialog: Ramni Ranjan Das
dialog: Satish Reddy
dialog: Vinod V.
dialog: Sibaprasad Sahoo
dialog: Deval Samanta
dialog: Arjun Bhurji
dialog: Dharmendra Bhurji
dialog: Piyush Acharya
dialog: Sundaram P.
dialog: Nageshwar (Bangalore)
dialog: Lanhert Pereira
dialog: Hiroo Keswani
dialog: Art Direction Assistance
dialog: Assistant Art Directors
dialog: Assistant Set Dresser
dialog: Prop Master
dialog: Vipin Kumar
dialog: Ajay Chodankar
dialog: Saikat Bose
dialog: Paresh Mistry
dialog: Ratheesh U.K.
dialog: Sushmita Jha
dialog: Jini Dhamande
speaker_heading: 396
dialog: Playback Singers
dialog: Sonu Nigam, Shreya Ghoshal, Shaan, Suraj Jagan,
dialog: Swanand Kirkire, Shantanu Moitra
dialog: Legal Consultant
dialog: Legal & Insurance Advisor
dialog: Head of Digital Marketing
dialog: Marketing & Promotions
dialog: Associates to Producer
dialog: Assistant to Producer
dialog: Ashni Parikh
dialog: Amitabh Gupta
dialog: Anand Jaisingh
dialog: Insia Lacewalla
dialog: Teja Pratap
dialog: Thomas T. George
dialog: Smriti Kiran
dialog: Aman Mahajan
dialog: Hetal Adesara
dialog: Mustafa Neemuchwala
dialog: Promos & Trailors
dialog: Promo Design
dialog: Promo Editor
speaker_heading: Promo Graphics
dialog: Trigger Happy Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
dialog: Nilesh Kataria
speaker_heading: Gauuri Cheda, Getafixx (I)
dialog: Make-up Artists
dialog: Aamir Khan
dialog: Kareena Kapoor
dialog: Sharman Joshi
dialog: Boman Irani
dialog: Jaaved Jaaferi
dialog: Joginder Gupta
dialog: Ritesh Nayak
dialog: Vinod Rathod
dialog: Mahendra Pawar
dialog: Avadhoot Wardham
dialog: Hair stylists
dialog: Aamir Khan
dialog: Kareena Kapoor
dialog: R. Madhavan & Sharman Joshi
dialog: Avan Contractor
dialog: Hemalata Sawant
dialog: Serina Tixeira
dialog: Sound Post Production
dialog: Additional Dialogue Recording
dialog: Dubbing Studio
dialog: Recordist
dialog: Jitendra Chaudhary
dialog: Sri Lakshmi Studio
dialog: Ramesh Paudel
speaker_heading: 397
dialog: Sound Design Assistant
dialog: Studio
dialog: Re-recording Assistants
dialog: Studio
dialog: Dialogue Cleaning
dialog: Studio
dialog: Foleys
dialog: Foley Recordist
dialog: Studio
dialog: Production Assistants
dialog: Production Support
dialog: Direction Support
dialog: Boom Operators
dialog: Make-up Assistants
dialog: Hairdressers
dialog: M. Lakshmi Naidu
speaker_heading: Q Factor
dialog: Subir Sudhir Kumar Das
dialog: Jagdish Nachnekar
dialog: Shree Balaji Studio
dialog: Kumar
dialog: Pancham
dialog: Karnail Singh
dialog: Rajan Gupta
dialog: Sajjan Chaudhary
dialog: Varun Visoi
dialog: Aradhana Sound Service
dialog: Parshuram Mane
dialog: Bharat Jha
dialog: Prakash Kalekar
dialog: K. S. Ravindran
dialog: Atishay Dayal
dialog: Anil More
dialog: Rajesh Pandey
dialog: Poonam Wahi
dialog: Major Harpal Singh Virk
dialog: Lakshmipriya Devi
dialog: Karan Tejpal
dialog: Shubha M. Ramachandra
dialog: Gyan Mishra
dialog: Sashi Kashare
dialog: Nilesh Patkar
dialog: Rajendra Sharma
dialog: Ramesh Sharma
dialog: Pratap Borade
dialog: Seema Williams
dialog: Valerian Kini
speaker_heading: 398
dialog: Wardrobe Assistants
dialog: Additional Costumes
dialog: Action Assistants
dialog: Suraj Godambe
speaker_heading: Slavia Ippalvattage
dialog: Mohammed Shakeel Shaikh
dialog: Sejal Jain
dialog: Jhanvi Mehta
dialog: Suresh Kumar
dialog: Isha Ahluwalia
dialog: Darshan Jalan
dialog: Paramjeet Singh ‘Pamma’
dialog: Sanjeev Kumar ‘Bitu’
dialog: Sincere Thanks To
dialog: For Assistance in Ladakh
dialog: For Assistance in Himachal
dialog: For Assistance in Delhi
dialog: For Assistance in Bengaluru
dialog: For Assistance in Mumbai
dialog: Druk White Lotus School
dialog: Delhi Public School, Leh
dialog: Tibetan School, Tsomoriri
dialog: Maj. Gen. M.S. Buttar
dialog: Colonel Manish Bassi
dialog: Tashi Namgyal, Dy. Commandante, ITBP
dialog: Lt. Col. Mittal
dialog: Principal Negi, Rakcham School
dialog: Group Captain Karanjit Singh Dhillon
dialog: Shashi Kiran Gupta, Principal,
dialog: Dayanand Public School, Simla
dialog: Prabhdip Singh Sandhu
dialog: Balbeer Kukreja
dialog: Ranjana Chand
dialog: Rohitashy Gaur
dialog: Tikamchand Thakur, Manali
dialog: Pranav Agarwal
dialog: Pritpal Singh
dialog: Jasbir Grewal, Vice President Operations,
dialog: Fortis
dialog: Rashmi Kaul, Fortis
speaker_heading: 399
dialog: For Casting Assistance
dialog: Madhav Sawant
dialog: Dr. Rajiv Punjabi
dialog: Professor Amitav De, IIT Bombay
dialog: Vaibhava Rele
dialog: Indrani Singh, Literacy India
dialog: Nalini Rathnam, Bangalore
dialog: Aporup Acharya, Bangalore
dialog: Amita Sehgal
dialog: Shankar Sachdev
dialog: Vineet Sharma
dialog: Inventions Used in the Film
text: Quadrotor Helicopter
dialog: Scooter Mill
dialog: Sheep Shearer
dialog: Co-ordinated by
dialog: English Subtitling
dialog: Assistance
dialog: Subtitling Editor
dialog: Idea Forge Technology Pvt. Ltd.
dialog: Sheikh Jahangir Sheikh Usman
dialog: Mohammad Idris Chidda
dialog: Professor Anil Gupta
speaker_heading: National Innovation Foundation
speaker_heading: Honey Bee Network, SRISTI
dialog: Maheep Dhillon
dialog: Abhijat Joshi
dialog: Bharati Desai
dialog: Aamir Khan
dialog: Vir Chopra
dialog: Subhash Dhar
dialog: Supriya Kelkar
dialog: Greta Kaemmer
dialog: Paramanand Kumar
dialog: Processing, Digital Intermediate & Additional Vfx
speaker_heading: Reliance Mediaworks
dialog: Business Head D.I. & Processing
dialog: Head of Operations
dialog: Production Head
dialog: Supervising Colorist
speaker_heading: DI Colorist
dialog: Krishna Shetty
dialog: Nishit Shetty
dialog: Rajiv Raghunathan
dialog: Ken Metzker
dialog: Makarand Surte
dialog: 400
dialog: Line Producer
dialog: Vfx Co-ordinator
speaker_heading: Vfx Team
dialog: Online Team
speaker_heading: Telecine Colorist
dialog: Conformist Team Leaders
dialog: Conformists
dialog: Dilesh Gupta
dialog: N.Vinoth Ganesh
dialog: Nilesh R Dubey
dialog: R. Ravichandran
dialog: Jignesh Patel
dialog: R. Mahimairaj
dialog: Soumen Das
dialog: Abrez Mohd.
dialog: Shubham Singh Rathore
dialog: R. Parthiban
dialog: S. Muthustalin
dialog: Parantap Singh
dialog: Rahul Mandal
dialog: Georgy Joe Ajith
dialog: Badarinath Chinimilli
dialog: Rohan Kothary
dialog: Mayur D. Parmar
dialog: Jignesh R. Trivedi
dialog: Achal Rohit Muchhala
dialog: Hardeep Singh Sembi
dialog: Shane Sullivan
dialog: Pankaj Singh
dialog: Vinod Durgavle
dialog: Liju Prabhakar
dialog: L. Sampath Kumar
dialog: Mahesh B. Deshpande
dialog: Debakriti Kundu
dialog: Nitin Minz
dialog: Ganesh Navgane
dialog: Samir Acharya
dialog: Chandrakanth P.T.
dialog: Sivalingam Chitravel
dialog: Soma Sundaram Krishnan
dialog: Abhijit Ghadge
dialog: Balasarvana Perumal
dialog: Scanning and Recording Team Leaders Arup A. Chakravarty
dialog: 401
dialog: Scanning and Recording Team
dialog: Data Managers Team Leader
dialog: Data Managers
dialog: VFx team, Fable Farm
dialog: Sumeet J. Nabar
dialog: Sachin S. Jadhav
dialog: Mohammad Habib Khan
dialog: Vedant Chawan
dialog: Jitendra Kubal
dialog: Shravan Patil
dialog: Shripad Gore
dialog: Ravi Tiwari
dialog: Shridhar V. Mitke
dialog: Kanak Pandya
dialog: Dhanpat Maurya
dialog: Sameer Saurabh
dialog: Parul Dhanapalan
dialog: Prashant Sartape
dialog: Nishant Jogdand
dialog: Bhavesh Patel
dialog: Rohan Kharade
dialog: Kapil Pandit
dialog: Sutanu Mondal
dialog: Abhishek Sawant
dialog: Prinay Singh
dialog: Jignesh Malavia
dialog: Amit Maladkar
dialog: Faiyaz Choudhari
dialog: Shakil Sheikh
dialog: Sriniwas Rao
dialog: Kishor Shetty
dialog: Latif Pasha
dialog: Gadamalla Nagaraju
dialog: Songs & Background Score Orchestration
dialog: Background Vocals
dialog: Rhythm Programming
dialog: Songs Arranged, Orchestrated &
dialog: Conducted by
dialog: Strings Conducted by
dialog: Guitars & Additional Arrangements
dialog: Shaan, Shreya Ghoshal
dialog: Sriram lyer
dialog: Daniel B. George
dialog: Chandan Singh Jawda
dialog: Ankur Mukherjee
dialog: 402
dialog: Bass
dialog: ‘Woodwinds
dialog: Cello
dialog: Solo Violin
dialog: Flute
dialog: Mandolin
dialog: Shehnai
dialog: Taar Shehnai
dialog: Mouth Organ
dialog: Additional Rhythms
dialog: Strings
dialog: Brass
dialog: Music Coordinators
dialog: Studios
dialog: Additional Recordists
dialog: Brennon Denfer
dialog: P.M.K. Naveen Kumar
dialog: V.S. Shekar
dialog: Suresh Lalwani
dialog: Paras Nath
dialog: Chandrkant Lakshpati
dialog: Madhukar Dhumal
dialog: Sunil Das
dialog: Shantanu Moitra
dialog: Deepak Borkar
dialog: Franco Vaz
dialog: Nikhil Koparde
dialog: Bombay Cine Musicians’ Orchestra
dialog: Joseph Monsorate
dialog: Blasco Monsorate
dialog: Prem Singh Sodha
dialog: Kishore Sodha
dialog: Ivan Muns
dialog: Ratnakar Gowda
dialog: John Rodrigues
dialog: Pancham, Media Minds, Empire
dialog: Chinmay Harshe
dialog: Harshad Sathe
dialog: Choreography Assistants
dialog: ‘Aal is Well’
dialog: ‘Zoobi Doobi’
dialog: Sadanand Yadav
dialog: Pravin Solanki
dialog: Gulnaaz Khan
dialog: Ranju Varghese
dialog: Hitesh Patel
dialog: Augustus Pereira
dialog: Rakesh Sharma
dialog: Nasreen Shaikh
dialog: Outdoor Production Co-ordinators
dialog: Ladakh
dialog: Odpal D. George,
dialog: Himalayan Safaris
speaker_heading: 403
dialog: Bengaluru
dialog: Delhi
dialog: Shimla
dialog: Ramesh Babu
dialog: Ravi Barnebaas
dialog: Ravi Sareen
speaker_heading: Navmeet
dialog: Devinder
dialog: Vishal Bahl
dialog: Special animatronic baby effects
dialog: designed and created by BRIAN WADE
dialog: Artists’ Managers
dialog: Aamir Khan
dialog: Kareena Kapoor
dialog: R. Madhavan
dialog: Sharman Joshi
dialog: Boman Irani
dialog: Binky Mendez
dialog: Zahid Khan
dialog: Shobha Sant
dialog: Kukki Khan
dialog: Shailaja Desai
dialog: Personal Attendants
dialog: Aamir Khan
dialog: Kareena Kapoor
dialog: R. Madhavan
dialog: Sharman Joshi
dialog: Boman Irani
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani
dialog: Camera Attendants
dialog: Grip Assistants
dialog: Sudhakar Gowda
dialog: Yuvraj Ghorpade
dialog: Ganesh Shinde
dialog: Bed Prakash
dialog: Alim Basha
dialog: Mehboob Basha
dialog: Suresh Kumar
dialog: Ikramuddin Shaikh
dialog: Mahendra Chauhan
dialog: Karan Saud
dialog: Rajiv Sharma
dialog: Mukesh Sundriyal
dialog: Vineet Dwivedi
dialog: Mohammed Rafique Shaikh
dialog: Ankush Athule
dialog: Raju Dobal
dialog: 
dialog: Rinku Kumar
speaker_heading: 404
dialog: Steadicam Assistants
dialog: Jimmy Jib Assistants
dialog: Sound Equipment Attendants
dialog: Walkie Talkie Attendant
dialog: Dressmen
dialog: Set Security Manager
dialog: Stuntmen
dialog: Rig Attendants
dialog: Babulal Mali
dialog: Mukesh Waghela
dialog: Vasant Suvarna
dialog: Yeshwant Suvarna
dialog: Akhtar Ali Shah
dialog: Sarwar Shaikh
dialog: Mubarak Ali
dialog: Mohammad Bakar
dialog: Easkkimuthu P.
dialog: Kishor Kamal Mahato
dialog: Rajaram Jaiswal
dialog: Rajesh Kodadi
dialog: Deepak Sule
dialog: Dinkar Sontake
dialog: Baljeet Singh
dialog: Mohammed Wazir Shaikh
dialog: Mohammed Salim Shaikh
dialog: Mohammed Gulzar Shaikh
dialog: Javed Ali
dialog: Kamlesh Patel
dialog: Raju, Ramesh, Vipin, Mukha,
dialog: Deepak, Lakha, Titu
dialog: Narender Singh
dialog: Agyapal Singh Bhanwar
dialog: Production Boys
dialog: Head Production Boy
dialog: Production Boys
dialog: Ashok Amre
dialog: Kumar Veer
dialog: Shankar Mooppanar
dialog: J.S. Negi
dialog: Akhil Sekh
dialog: Malang Parmar
dialog: Gagan Mohanty
dialog: 405
dialog: Manoj Das
dialog: Ganpat Das
dialog: Rajesh Mane
dialog: Set Boys
dialog: Mistry
dialog: Head Master
dialog: Head Painter
dialog: Head Tapist
dialog: Carpenters
dialog: Assistants
dialog: Vilas Panchal
dialog: Kiran Mulukuntla
dialog: Mohanlal Mahato
dialog: Eliyas Ali
dialog: Virendra Chaurasia
dialog: Rajendra Vishwakarma
dialog: Yakub Pathan
dialog: Manoj Khanwilkar
dialog: Punal Nathanel Kapila
dialog: Firoz Khan
dialog: Light Boys
dialog: Best Boy
dialog: Electricians
dialog: Sparks
dialog: Vinodu Kesavan
dialog: Jaidev Prajapati
dialog: Dawood Khan
dialog: Sanjeev Devadiga
dialog: Chandrakant Mohite
dialog: Shambhunath Katwa
dialog: Shuvhroneel Mitra
dialog: Sanjay Kalmaste
dialog: Javed Qureshi
dialog: Prasidhnath Shukla
dialog: Shailesh
dialog: Ravi
dialog: Pramod Pathak
dialog: Nandalal Prajapati
dialog: Suryamani Pathak
dialog: Suleman
dialog: Kedar
dialog: Salim
speaker_heading: 406
dialog: Production Office Staff
dialog: Reception & Admin
dialog: Accountant
dialog: Trainees & Interns
dialog: Jane D’souza
dialog: Asmi Ghanekar
dialog: Manini Chadha
dialog: Yogesh Rawool
dialog: Kayoze Irani
dialog: Office Boys
dialog: Mohan Saud
dialog: Karan Saud
dialog: Mane Singh Saud
dialog: Govind Bahadur Kumal
dialog: Loha Singh
dialog: Gajju
dialog: Ravindra Mandekar
dialog: Drivers
dialog: Shivanand Chinetty
dialog: Sanjay Chavan
dialog: Shambhu Jha
dialog: N. Subbaya
dialog: M. Mada Swamy
dialog: V. Anand
dialog: Kartik Prasad
dialog: Equipment & Services
dialog: Raw Stock
dialog: Camera
dialog: Lights
dialog: Generators
dialog: Sound
dialog: Kodak
dialog: Prime Focus Ltd.
dialog: Shree Ganesh Movie Lights
dialog: Lighthouse
speaker_heading: Stereovision
dialog: Subhash Light House, Delhi
dialog: Shree Ganesh Movie Lights
dialog: Mirajbhai
dialog: Timmy (Chandigarh)
dialog: Anil Girkar & Co
speaker_heading: 407
dialog: Additional Construction
dialog: Animal Supplier
dialog: Water Effects
dialog: Wigs
dialog: Nagra
dialog: Rigs
dialog: Cars
dialog: Vanity Vans
dialog: Transport
dialog: Junior Artists
dialog: Security
dialog: Catering
speaker_heading: Pfa Design Firm
dialog: Shankar
dialog: Shiva
dialog: Sungun Murgan (Bangalore)
dialog: Surendra S. Salvi
dialog: Santram Bali
speaker_heading: Amjad
dialog: Sajjad Bhai
dialog: Anup
dialog: Timmy (Chandigarh)
dialog: Sandhu Transport
dialog: Ravinder Suri
dialog: Girdhar
dialog: Sonu (Simla)
dialog: Sonu / Sujal Associates (Bangalore)
dialog: Ace Security & Protection
dialog: Sisa (Bangalore)
dialog: G.L. Sahu
dialog: Sri Swami Caterers
dialog: Natraj Canteen
dialog: Amma Ki Rasoi (Delhi)
dialog: Music On
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DOLBY
speaker_heading: DIGITAL
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RELIANCE
dialog: MediaWorks
dialog: 2
speaker_heading: FILMS.
dialog: © Vinod Chopra Films Pvt. Ltd., 2009
speaker_heading: 408
speaker_heading: PROFILES
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RAJKUMAR HIRANI
dialog: Rajkumar Hirani graduated from the Film and Television
dialog: Institute of India specialising in editing, He went on
dialog: to edit films, serials and ad films before starting his own company,
dialog: Canvas Films, to make ad films.
dialog: He produced and directed over 200 ad films before making his
dialog: feature film debut with the path-breaking Munna Bhai M.B.B.S.
dialog: He followed it up with Lage Raho Munna Bhai. Both these films
dialog: won numerous awards including the National Film Award. Raju’
text: third film as writer, editor and director is 3 Idiots.
speaker_heading: FILMOGRAPHY
dialog: Director
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
scene_heading: Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. 2003
dialog: Editor
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
scene_heading: Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. 2003
dialog: Mission Kashmir 2000
dialog: Tere Liye 1999
speaker_heading: Jazbaat 1994
dialog: Story & Screenplay
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
scene_heading: Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. 2003
dialog: Dialogue
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
speaker_heading: 411
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ABHIJAT JOSHI
dialog: Abhijat Joshi isan M.RA. from the University of Texas, Austin, and
dialog: a multilingual playwright, screenwriter and Professor of Creative
text: Writing at Otterbein College, Westerville, Ohio. His play, A Shaft
dialog: of Sunlight, which explored sectarian violence in Gujarat, won
dialog: the BBC World Service Playwriting Contest in 1993, and was
dialog: published and performed extensively in London. He won the
dialog: National Film Award in 2007 for the screenplay of Lage Raho
dialog: Munna Bhai. His most recent work as a writer is Rajkumar Hirani’s
dialog: 3 Idiots.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FILMOGRAPHY
dialog: Story & Screenplay
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Eklavya: The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Screenplay
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
dialog: Mission Kashmir 2000
speaker_heading: Kareeb 1998
speaker_heading: 413
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SWANAND KIRKIRE
dialog: Swanand Kirkire, a graduate of the National School of Drama,
dialog: Delhi, isa writer, song-writer, actor, singer, playwright and director.
dialog: He made his debut as a lyricist and singer for Hazaaron Khwaishein
dialog: Aisi and followed it up with films like Parineeta, Eklavya: The
text: Royal Guard and Lage Rabo Munna Bhai, which fetched him the
dialog: coveted National Award in 2007 for Best Lyrics. Swanand has
dialog: written the dialogue for Eklavya: The Royal Guard, and the lyrics for
dialog: 3 Idiots.
speaker_heading: FILMOGRAPHY
dialog: Lyricist
dialog: 3 ldiots 2009
dialog: Paa 2009
dialog: Welcome to Sajjanpur 2008
dialog: Laaga Chunari Mein Daag 2007
dialog: Eklavya: The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Khoya Khoya Chand 2007
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
dialog: Parineeta 2005
dialog: Sehar 2005
dialog: Hazaaron Khwaishein Aisi 2003
dialog: Singer
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Paa 2009
dialog: Gulaal 2009
dialog: Khoya Khoya Chand 2007
dialog: Parineeta 2005
dialog: Sehar 2005
dialog: Hazaaron Khwaishein Aisi 2003
dialog: 415
dialog: Dialogue Writer
dialog: Eklavya: The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Chameli 2003
dialog: Actor
dialog: Eklavya: The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Hazaaron Khwaishein Aisi 2003
dialog: Chameli 2003
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SHANTANU MOITRA
dialog: Shantanu Moitra is the music director of landmark films
dialog: like Parineeta, Lage Raho Munna Bhai, Hazaaron Khwaishein
text: Aisi, Eklavya: The Royal Guard, 3 Idiots, and the Bangla
dialog: film, Antaheen.
dialog: Since childhood, he was fascinated with folk music from around
text: the world. After quitting client servicing in an advertising agency,
dialog: Shantanu started composing jingles. “Bole mere lips, I love Uncle
dialog: Chips? was his first advertisement and he has scored for more than
dialog: 2000 advertisements. In 2007, he won the Cannes Bronze Lion
dialog: for scoring the Happydent advertisement.
text: Shantanu is a keen trekker, avid photographer and an amateur
dialog: astronomer, In 2006, he won the R.D. Burman Filmfare Award
dialog: for New Music Talent.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FILMOGRAPHY
dialog: Music Director and Composer
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Antaheen 2009
dialog: Welcome to Sajjanpur 2008
dialog: Khoya Khoya Chand 2007
dialog: Laaga Chunari Mein Daag 2007
dialog: Eklavya: The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
dialog: Yahaan 2005
dialog: Parineeta 2005
dialog: Hazaaron Khwaishein Aisi 2003
speaker_heading: 417
dialog: 
speaker_heading: VIDHU VINOD CHOPRA
dialog: Vidhu Vinod Chopra studied filmmaking at the Film &
dialog: Television Institute of India, Pune. His first documentary,
text: An Encounter With Faces, highlighted the plight of India’s destitute
dialog: children. It was nominated for an Oscar in the Documentary
dialog: Short Subject category in 1979.
dialog: Since then, he has directed films like Khamosh, Parinda, 1942: A
dialog: Love Story, Kareeb, Mission Kashmir and Eklavya: The Royal Guard.
dialog: Of these, Parinda and Eklavya: The Royal Guard were nominated
dialog: as India’s official entries to the Oscars in the Best Foreign Film
dialog: category in 1989 and 2007 respectively.
dialog: His film company — Vinod Chopra Films — has also produced
dialog: films like Munna Bhai M.B.B.S., Parineeta, Lage Raho Munna
text: Bhai and 3 Idiots. Vinod Chopra Films continues to receive
dialog: national and international recognition.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FILMOGRAPHY
dialog: Director Story & Screenplay
dialog: Eklavya : The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Mission Kashmir 2000 Eklavya: The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Kareeb 1998 Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
dialog: 1942: A Love Story 1993 (Screenplay Associate)
dialog: Parinda 1989 Parineeta 2005
scene_heading: Khamosh 1985 Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. 2003 (Screenplay)
dialog: Sazaaye Maut 1981 Mission Kashmir 2000
dialog: An Encounter with Faces 1978 Kareeb 1998
dialog: Murder at Monkey Hill 1976 1942: A Love Story 1993
dialog: Parinda 1989
dialog: Khamosh 1985
dialog: Sazaaye Maut 1981
dialog: An Encounter With Faces 1978
dialog: (Screenplay)
dialog: Murder at Monkey Hill 1976
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 419
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009 (Screenplay Associate)
dialog: Producer
dialog: 3 Idiots 2009
dialog: Eklavya: The Royal Guard 2007
dialog: Lage Raho Munna Bhai 2006
dialog: Parineeta 2005
scene_heading: Munna Bhai M.B.B.S. 2003
dialog: Mission Kashmir 2000
speaker_heading: Kareeb 1998
dialog: 1942: A Love Story 1993
dialog: Parinda 1989
dialog: Khamosh \985
dialog: Sazaaye Maut 1981
speaker_heading: PUBLISHER'S NOTE
speaker_heading: OM
speaker_heading: Om Books International
dialog: 
scene_heading: 11_Publisher's note.indd 422 5/31/2010 1:53:57 AM
text: A WorD OF THANKS
dialog: Within a span of 10 months — between August 2009 and June 2010 — Om Books
text: International has published the original screenplays of two unparalleled blockbusters of
dialog: Hindi cinema — Lage Raho Munna Bhai and now 3 Idiots — directed by Rajkumar
dialog: Hirani and produced by Vinod Chopra Films. This would not have been possible
dialog: without the trust and faith Vidhu Vinod Chopra, Anupama Chopra, Rajkumar
text: Hirani and Abhijat Joshi reposed in Om Books International. For this, not only
dialog: am I grateful to all of them, I am humbled as well.
dialog: Smriti Kiran conceptualised and compiled 3 Idiots: The Original Screenplay. 1 thank
dialog: her for her efforts.
dialog: I thank Shraboni Roy, our graphic designer, Sangita Koushik, our editor, Sanjay
dialog: Gupta and Raj John, for their support.
dialog: And last, but not least, I would like to thank Dipa Chaudhuri for not losing sight
dialog: of our common goal till the very end. Without her inputs and patience, this book
dialog: would have fallen short of the expectations of those who wrote the original screenplay
text: of 3 Idiots and turned it into a landmark film and a modern classic.
dialog: — Ajay Mago
speaker_heading: 423
scene_heading: 11_Publisher's note.indd 423 5/31/2010 1:53:57 AM
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: SMRITI KIRAN covered entertainment, particularly the Hindi film industry for over 11 years as a journalist and
text: television producer at NDTV, before joining the industry at Vinod Chopra Films where she worked on a film
text: under development, and briefly on 3 Idiots.
text: Her Twitter profile (smritikiran) describes her as a cinema junkie, freelance television producer and journalist,
text: writer, aspiring filmmaker, voracious reader and coffee addict. Her husband agrees with the coffee addict part.
text: In between reading primarily Indian authors and poring over Hindi film scripts, she works on her own script
dialog: which she hopes to direct into a film one dai
dialog: 
text: Apart from following her dreams and continuing to learn from the best in the business, she leads the screenplays
text: division at Vinod Chopra Films, a venture which aims to bring screenplays of the greatest Indian classics and
text: more recent films which contribute to the dynamism of Indian cinema, to cinema buffs and readers across
dialog: the world.
dialog: smriti.kiran@gmail.com
dialog: 425
scene_heading: 11_Publisher's note.indd 425 5/31/2010 1:53:58 AM
scene_heading: 11_Publisher's note.indd 426 5/31/2010 1:53:58 AM
dialog: 
