dialog: The 47 Ronin
dialog: by
dialog: Chris Morgan
text: DARKNESS...
text: Then a VOICE rises from the pitch.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR (VO)
dialog: Feudal Japan. The Age of Shoguns
dialog: and Samurai. A time when the
dialog: ideals of Loyalty and Honor are
dialog: prized above all else by the people
dialog: of the Land of the Rising Sun...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: In Edo, the Emperor has been
text: reduced to a ceremonial puppet.
dialog: All power rests with the Shogun --
dialog: military warlord Tokugawa
dialog: Tsunayoshi -- and is enforced by
dialog: his provincial barons -- the
dialog: Daimyo. The peace of the realm is
text: kept by the swords of their loyal
dialog: retainers, the samurai -- warriors
dialog: of incomparable skill and honor,
dialog: who live their lives by the strict
dialog: code of ethics known as bushido --
dialog: the “Way of the Warrior”. To these
dialog: loyal knights, their duty to their
dialog: lord comes above all else...even
dialog: their own lives.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: A samurai who should ever lose or
dialog: fail his master, suffers the
dialog: greatest shame in all Japanese
text: society. They become ronin.
text: Masterless drifters. Men without
dialog: honor. To be ronin is to be
dialog: banished from every city, to be
dialog: despised by Japanese society, to
dialog: know humiliation without end.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And yet...to know the story of the
dialog: 47 Ronin...is to know the story of
dialog: all Japan.
speaker_heading: SUPER:
dialog: The following is based on a true story...
speaker_heading: NOW OPEN ON:
scene_heading: EXT. THE PROVINCE OF AKO - DAY - ESTABLISHING
text: The small and peaceful “jewel” of western Honshu...
text: Jade-green hillocks terraced with rice paddies. Stands of
text: ruby-red cherry blossom trees overlooking a sapphire slash of
text: river. And crowning it all stands the magnificent AKO CASTLE
text: -- a six-tiered architectural poem written in wood and stone.
dialog: We can’t help but to sense the harmony of this place.
speaker_heading: SUPER:
dialog: Ako Castle.
dialog: Western Honshu, 1701 A.D.
text: Suddenly a PRIMAL YELL shatters the scene.
speaker_heading: OISHI (VO)
speaker_heading: READY!
text: SFX: The DEADLY RASP of ONE HUNDRED SWORDS drawn in unison.
speaker_heading: OISHI (VO) (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: KESA!
text: Instantly -- SCHUNK-SHUNKK-SCHUNKK! The sound of a hundred
text: swords CUTTING through a hundred bodies. A great percussion
text: of limbs thumping to the ground, which TAKES US TO:
scene_heading: A FOREST OF EMERALD-GREEN BAMBOO TREES
dialog: Each five inches thick and tough as iron. So many, we can’t
text: see ten feet into the forest when --
speaker_heading: OISHI (0S)
scene_heading: NORTH FRONT! READY!
text: SFX: A company of men turning in unison.
speaker_heading: OISHI (0S)
speaker_heading: MISU-GAESHI!
text: On command, a hundred razor-sharp KATANAS flash diagonally up
text: through frame, SHEARING through the bamboo as easily as a
text: knife slices tofu. But before the trees can fall, the swords
text: slice back, lightning fast -- SHWOPP! -- cleaving them a
dialog: second time horizontally!
text: The pieces of bamboo tumble away...REVEALING an ARMY OF
text: SAMURAI WARRIORS. Behind them, shouting the orders, is their
text: commander, and chief samurai of the Asano Clan, OISHI
scene_heading: KURANOSUKE.
text: Oishi is in his mid-forties. A proud, stubborn throwback to
dialog: the great warriors of times past.
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: EAST FRONT! READY!
text: As the hundred warriors pivot with machine precision, PULL
text: BACK TO REVEAL that we are not in a forest at all, but
text: actually a CASTLE COURTYARD.
dialog: What we thought to be a bamboo jungle, our new angle now
text: reveals are simply a multitude of TARGETS; Oishi is drilling
text: them at tameshigiri -- test-cutting with their swords.
text: Oishi calls out another strike. Swords flash, bamboo falls.
text: And as the music RISES, we CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - 6TH FLOOR - WOMEN’S APARTMENTS
text: A beautiful young woman, MIKA (19), stands at the window
text: watching the soldiers practice below, her gaze falling on one
dialog: in particular.
dialog: Everything about MINORU (late-20's) is different. Of half-
text: European/half-Japanese descent, he is relegated to a lower
text: caste and practices away from the others. While the others
text: wear samurai armor, Minoru practices in peasant pants and
text: without a shirt, revealing a sheen of washboard muscle. And
text: rather than a steel sword, he practices with a bokken -- a
text: wooden blade -- and thin air as his target.
dialog: But despite his lower status -- perhaps even because of it --
dialog: Minoru has dedicated himself more seriously to the sword than
text: any around him. His moves have a fluidity and speed
dialog: unequalled by anyone else we’ve seen.
text: Suddenly, the ricepaper door behind Mika slides open and she
text: jumps with a start. The young daimyo of Ako castle, LORD
text: ASANO (36), enters the room.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Mika-chan.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: Father.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I thought you would be practicing
dialog: your dance.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: I was, I just got caught up in
dialog: the...
dialog: (awkward beat)
dialog: ...the beauty of the day.
text: Asano puts his hands on his daughter’s shoulders.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: This is important, Mika-chan. Of
dialog: all the provinces we have been
dialog: honored to host the Shogun and must
dialog: make every effort --
text: (glances out the window at
dialog: the warriors practicing)
dialog: -- despite the view.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: (blushes )
dialog: Of course, father.
text: He kisses her forehead and, as he moves off, is rewarded to
text: the first few footsteps and flutters of her FAN as she begins
text: to practice the dance of The Shrine Maiden's Ghost.
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - VARIOUS
text: TRACK with Asano as he descends through the castle. With a
text: visit from the Shogun imminent, the place is a beehive of
text: activity: paper lanterns being hung, flowers being arranged
text: in dramatic displays, children practicing the farmer’s folk
dialog: song “Teru-Teru-Bozu"”.
text: Asano offers a kind word or a gentle command to almost
text: everyone he passes.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: (to a lantern hanger)
dialog: Beautiful, Yasu.
dialog: (to a child singing)
dialog: Excellent. Very good.
text: The child beams with pride. As Asano passes through the
text: kitchen, we overhear the MASTER CHEF speaking to his
text: APPRENTICE in the b.g.
speaker_heading: MASTER CHEF
text: ...finish cleaning the pheasants,
dialog: then make sure that all the knives
dialog: are locked away well before the
text: Shogun arrives.
speaker_heading: APPRENTICE
dialog: Of course, Master, but why..?
speaker_heading: MASTER CHEF
dialog: Shogunate law. To draw an edged
dialog: blade while the Shogun is in
text: residence, even a chef’s knife,
dialog: carries a mandatory sentence of
dialog: death.
text: The Apprentice blanches. Then turns and shouts at the
dialog: kitchen staff.
speaker_heading: APPRENTICE
dialog: All blades away now! NOW, I SAID!!
text: Asano moves on, a smile wrinkling the corner of his mouth.
text: It’s clear that Ako castle is Camelot at its height -- the
dialog: people of the province living happy, contented lives -- and
dialog: Asano is its Arthur; noble, just and kind.
scene_heading: EXT. AKO CASTLE - COURTYARD - MOMENTS LATER
text: The young lord enters the training grounds. Oishi and his
text: samurai instantly sheathe their weapons and bow.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: My Lord.
text: Asano calls out to Minoru.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Bring my horse. And another for
dialog: the swordmaster.
text: Minoru takes off for the stables like a shot. Asano then
text: turns to the massed samurai.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
text: Training is finished for the day.
dialog: I need your captain. You men are
dialog: dismissed.
text: As the men move off to their posts, Minoru arrives with the
text: horses. As the two men mount up, Minoru speaks to Oishi.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Do you need someone to accompany
dialog: you?
text: Oishi looks down at Minoru. It pains him to say this:
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You know it wouldn’t be
dialog: appropriate.
text: Minoru bows his head.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Of course not. Thank you for
dialog: considering.
dialog: Oishi wants to say more, perhaps a word of comfort, but Lord
text: Asano turns his mount and begins to ride off.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Come, Oishi.
dialog: And Oishi must follow his young master.
text: The moment they’re gone, Minoru’s icy control melts. He
text: grabs up a sword and, with a roar of rage, attacks the
text: tameshigiri targets with a STUNNING MARTIAL DISPLAY.
text: A blur of movement, he cuts a swath through the field of
text: targets CHOPPING and SLICING, severing DOZENS of lengths of
text: bamboo -- then cutting them each into TWO, THREE, FOUR
text: smaller pieces before they can hit the ground.
text: It’s a lethal DANCE OF DEATH that grows FASTER AND FASTER
text: until he wheels around to give the target behind him a FINAL
scene_heading: DECAPITATING CHOP --
text: -- and finds MIKA standing right there.
text: Minoru’s blade whirls into his sheath faster she can blink.
text: Bows his head and AVERTS his eyes from the Lord’s daughter.
text: For an awkward moment, the two stand there, hidden from
text: everyone else’s view in the heart of the bamboo field. Then
text: Mika reaches out and gently lifts his chin with a finger,
text: intentionally raising Minoru’s eyes to look into her own.
text: The act is more intimate than a kiss.
text: After a moment, Minoru remembers his place and pulls away.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: We cannot -——
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: What we “cannot” do is deny our
dialog: feelings.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Mika...
dialog: (serious)
dialog: It can never be.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: Silly, boy. Do you care for life
dialog: so much to cease living it?
dialog: (she caresses his face)
dialog: Deny me if you can, my sweet
dialog: Minoru, but I warn you, you'll find
dialog: my love a stronger opponent than
dialog: your doubt.
text: She smiles and begins to kiss him.
text: And before long, it is he who is kissing her.
text: With all his heart.
scene_heading: EXT. AKO CASTLE - BEYOND THE MAIN GATE - SAME TIME
text: Asano and Oishi ride along the road leading away from the
dialog: castle.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Where are we going?
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I wanted to personally verify that
dialog: the roads are presentable for the
dialog: arrival of the Shogun.
text: Oishi waits a beat, then --
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: So where are we really going?
text: Asano smiles.
scene_heading: EXT. AKO COUNTRYSIDE - DAY
dialog: A land of mythic beauty...
text: Asano hops about and shouts excitedly as he tries to land a
text: fish on the grassy banks of the Seto inland sea.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Come, my beauty! Don’t tease!
text: And with a whoop he lands the fish -- a nice-looking RED SEA
text: BREAM. Its scales glimmer with ruby iridescence in the sun.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Will you not look at this Goddess!
text: Asano whispers a few words of praise to the wriggling fish,
text: then releases it back into the water.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Will you never keep one of those?
dialog: You go to such effort to catch
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I know I caught it. It knows I
dialog: caught it. That’s enough for me.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Is this what happens when you get
dialog: promoted from warrior to statesman?
dialog: You become sentimental about the
dialog: lives of fish?
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I prefer to think of it as
text: enlightened.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: It is foolishness.
text: Asano mock arches an eyebrow at the older swordsman. But
dialog: Oishi is serious.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: And it’s dangerous.
dialog: (beat)
text: Sentiment is a deception, Takumi.
dialog: An imbalance in the Way of things.
dialog: It’s choosing to look at life as
dialog: how you’d wish it, rather than how
dialog: it truly is.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: And you get all this from releasing
dialog: a fish?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: All life is about balance. About
dialog: order. I’m certain the fish would
dialog: rather not be caught, but even it
dialog: knows its duty is to give its life
dialog: for its lord.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: In a fight, it is a matter of death
dialog: to lose one’s balance. Political
dialog: life is no different.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Fine. Next time I’1ll eat the fish.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: It’s not about the damned fish!
text: The Shogun arrives in a matter of
dialog: days and here we are, dipping our
text: toes in the lake.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
text: The castle is prepared.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Yes, but are you?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: They call this visit a celebration,
dialog: but it is an inspection, Takumi.
dialog: Don’t delude yourself. I believe
dialog: Lord Kira selected your province to
dialog: try and convince the Shogun that
dialog: your lands aren’t being used
dialog: wisely. Do not underestimate him.
text: He has the Shogun’s ear and an
dialog: ambition not to be trifled with.
dialog: The lands of the last two daimyo to
dialog: have displeased the Shogun have
dialog: gone to Lord Kira.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Lord Kira may have his ear, but
dialog: like us, the Shogun is a samurai of
dialog: the old ways.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO (CONT'D)
dialog: (picks up his fishing
dialog: pole)
dialog: Now, if you’ll excuse me...
text: Oishi throws up his hands.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I give up. Talking to you is like
text: talking to a geisha.
text: A twinkle of mirth glitters in Asano’s eye. He rises.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Is that what you do with geisha?
dialog: No wonder you’re so frustrated --
text: But as they turn, they are surprised to find a band of
text: BRIGANDS atop the bank. A half-dozen murderous sellswords,
text: armed to the teeth: swords, yari spears, even a heavy
text: wheellock arquebus.
speaker_heading: BRIGAND LEADER
dialog: We’ll take the horses.
text: It is impossible to tell when Oishi’s sword is drawn, it
text: happens so fast. But Asano places a calming hand on his
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: No.
text: Oishi looks the brigands over, disgusted.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Ronin.
text: He practically spits the word.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Come now. Just because they are
dialog: masterless samurai, doesn’t mean
dialog: they are honorless samurai.
text: He turns back to the grim-faced thugs.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Do you know who I am?
speaker_heading: BRIGAND LEADER
dialog: Someone who’s going to see what his
text: guts look like dancing on the
dialog: ground if you don’t hand over the
dialog: horses.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: You're very insulting.
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: BRIGAND LEADER
dialog: And you're very stupid.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I didn’t mean to me.
dialog: (points to Oishi)
dialog: You're insulting him. Talking so
text: brashly and thinking only a half-
dialog: dozen men is enough to protect you.
dialog: (tsk, tsk)
dialog: Very arrogant.
speaker_heading: BRIGAND LEADER
dialog: Kill him.
text: Asano shrugs and turns to Oishi as the thugs close in.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
text: Diplomacy fails.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: In this instance, I can’t say I’m
dialog: too sorry.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Leave one alive for questioning.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: If I must.
text: And as the ronin close in, intent on killing the young lord,
text: Oishi takes a moment to look around. It seems as though he’s
text: taking in his final seconds of life. But really he’s --
speaker_heading: OISHI’S POV
text: -- formulating a plan. He sees them coming and MENTALLY
text: DISSECTS THE SCENE. From a WIDE ANGLE, we RACK IN on
text: particular geographic features: the POSITION OF THE SUN, a
text: TANGLE OF ROOTS. Then on the WEAPONS EACH MAN CARRIES,
text: noting each in VFX of its effective lethal range.
text: And in the blink of an eye, Oishi’s got his plan.
speaker_heading: THE BATTLE
text: Oishi wades in. In the BRIGANDS’ POV, it’s lightning fast.
text: In OISHI'S, it’s all in SLOW MOTION.
text: As the first attacker (BRIGAND #1) charges in with a spear,
text: Oishi moves sideways, putting his back to the sun.
text: POV SPEARMAN: With the sun shining in his eyes, Oishi
text: appears in SILHOUETTE.
dialog: 11.
text: On reflex, the attacker uses Oishi’s shadow to BLOCK the
dialog: bright sun -- which is exactly what Oishi counted on. With
text: explosive speed, Oishi CRABS LEFT, momentarily BLINDING the
text: spearman and STEPPING IN with a DIAGONAL UPWARD STRIKE.
text: Like the tameshigiri targets he was training his men on,
text: Brigand #1 is CUT COMPLETELY IN TWO on a diagonal bias.
text: Without a pause, Oishi snatches the falling man’s spear and
text: RAMS it into Brigand #2’s eye, killing him instantly.
text: BRIGANDS 3, 4 and 5 charge into the gap, but in a surgical
text: display of skill and ferocity, Oishi performs a happo giri
text: ("the cut of eight directions”) CLEAVING them clean through
text: the torso, then further BISECTING their upper-half from skull
dialog: to waist.
text: Like so much bamboo, the bodies FALL APART IN THREE PIECES.
dialog: It’s like nothing we've ever seen before.
text: Now Oishi charges on the survivors. The tide of battle turns
text: and the brigands quick-step back...right into the TANGLE OF
text: ROOTS. They TRIP and go down hard.
text: Brigand #6 raises his musket to get off a shot, but Oishi
text: strikes. SEVERS the arquebus’ barrel -- but his sword
text: SHATTERS to half its length in the process.
text: No matter. Even with jagged stub of blade left, Oishi is the
text: deadliest thing out there. He JABS his ragged blade into the
text: musketeer’s throat, then WHEELS on a stunned axeman and
text: performs “The Hourglass” -- a four-stroke zig-zagging cut
text: that ends with the man’s body EXPLODING APART IN SIX PIECES!
text: Now only the Brigand Leader is left, laying on the ground,
text: screaming in panic.
text: Oishi flicks blood off his shattered blade and approaches.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: They’ve forgotten how to make a
dialog: decent blade.
speaker_heading: BRIGAND LEADER
dialog: (hysterical)
dialog: .-h..he said to keep one alive...
text: But Oishi’s blade lashes out and CUTS OFF the Brigand
text: Leader’s sword arm.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Unfortunate for you.
text: Suddenly Asano CRIES OUT from behind.
text: Oishi whips around in panic, gore-covered sword ready to
dialog: strike --!!
dialog: 12.
text: Only to find Asano capering around at the water’s edge again,
text: bamboo fishing rod bowed, another fish on the line.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Come now, my beauty! My little
dialog: Empress of the Waves!
text: Oishi shakes his head. And as he jams his broken katana into
dialog: its sheath, we --
scene_heading: SMASH CUT TO:
scene_heading: THE BEAUTIFUL SEA BREAM
text: On a cutting board. Then -- CHOP!
text: As the fish’s head is slid aside and a knife begins delicate
dialog: work, WIDEN TO REVEAL we are:
scene_heading: INT. OISHI’S HOME - KITCHEN - SUNSET
text: A humble dwelling, as opposed to the majesty of Ako castle.
dialog: Clean. Simple. Comfortable.
text: Oishi’s wife, HISAE (early 40's) stands at the board; a
text: natural beauty with a smile that belies a deep inner-
dialog: strength. The kind of woman every man wants to marry.
text: Humming a folksong, her fingers nimbly turn the fish into
text: sashimi while she stares out the window at her husband and
text: their 16-year-old son, CHIKARA, sparring with wooden swords
text: in the yard.
text: She smiles contentedly.
scene_heading: EXT. OISHI’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: The swords CLACK with the rhythm of war until Oishi senses an
text: opening and slaps Chikara on the leg with his bokken.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You switched to a left-handed
dialog: stance. Try again.
text: But time and again, Chikara falls back into defending with
text: his left and gets struck by his father’s sword. Hard. Blows
dialog: meant to be remembered and learned from.
text: Tears of frustration rise in the boy’s eyes. Oishi sees this
text: and changes tacks. Removes his obi from his kimono.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Here. Let’s try this...
dialog: 13.
text: Oishi begins to tie his son’s left hand down to his side.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: I don’t understand. Why all this?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Because every time you’re hit with
dialog: strength, you switch to your left
dialog: hand, and when you do that, you
dialog: leave your flank exposed to right
dialog: handed samurai --
text: Oishi cinches the knot down hard to emphasize the point.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: -- which is everyone.
dialog: (ruffles his son’s hair)
dialog: It’s for your own good.
text: The two go back to practicing until Hisae comes outside.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: Enough practice, Oishi. You've
dialog: been out here for hours. He’s a
text: growing boy. He needs to eat as
text: much as he needs to practice.
text: Oishi relents with a smile.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: All right. Practice is over.
text: He unties Chikara’s left hand.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (grins)
dialog: .--but you will be eating with your
dialog: right.
text: As they move to walk inside, a RIDER comes galloping down the
text: footpath at full-speed. Stops only inches from Oishi.
text: Oishi’s second-in-command -- and best friend -- HANJO (late
text: 50's) dismounts the panting beast.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You're going to kill that horse,
dialog: Hanjo.
speaker_heading: HANJO
text: An envoy from the Shogun has
dialog: arrived at the castle.
text: Oishi stops dead.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: So early?
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: Lord Asano requests your presence
dialog: to receive him.
text: Like a flipped switch, Oishi goes into command mode.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Gather the men. Have them ready
dialog: for presentation in an hour.
text: Chikara looks up at his father, hopefully.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: No. You stay with your mother.
dialog: It’s kindly said, and stings all the more for it.
text: And with that, Oishi mounts up. As he rides off, Hisae turns
text: to her despondent son.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: He’s hard on you because he loves
dialog: you.
text: But Chikara shakes his head.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: He loves me...but I’1l never be
text: good enough in his eyes.
text: And Chikara walks off, leaving Hisae alone on the path,
text: staring after the two men in her life departing in very
dialog: separate directions...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - DAIMYO’S SHOIN - 7TH FLOOR - MOMENTS LATER
text: The private room where the castle Lord receives audience...
text: The paper walls and tatami mats are spotless. In fact, the
text: only bits of color come from the black and gray kimonos of
text: Lord Asano and Oishi, who kneel at the rear of the room.
text: Just then, the shoji doors slide open and LORD KIRA enters --
text: an explosion of pomposity and sumptuous silk. Rather than
text: the plain formal robes that Asano and Oishi wear, Lord Kira
text: floats along in the most GAUDILY ORNATE ROBE we’ve ever seen.
text: A dozen ATTENDANTS follow behind, wrangling Kira’s arm and
text: leg sleeves that trail twenty feet behind.
text: After countless precise steps, Lord Kira and his entourage
text: stop and a COURTIER steps forward.
dialog: Asano and
dialog: When Kira
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: COURTIER
text: The exalted Shogunate’s Master of
dialog: Protocol and most-honorable Lord of
dialog: the Ryogoku domain, Lord Kira
dialog: Kozukenosuke Yoshinaka.
dialog: Oishi bow.
text: speaks, we see his teeth are BLACKENED in the
text: trendy, effeminate style of court aristocrats.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Daimyo Asano Takumi no kami
dialog: Naganori... you may look upon me.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Fortune truly smiles upon us to
dialog: receive so august a member of the
dialog: Shogunate.
text: Asano waits for a return compliment, as is the custom... but
text: after a moment, it’s clear none will be forthcoming.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: We were surprised at your early
dialog: arrival --
text: Kira cuts him off.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: You should be grateful for my early
dialog: arrival. I went over the
dialog: presentations you have planned for
text: the Shogun. They were riddled with
dialog: errors in court protocol. I have
dialog: done my best to correct them,
dialog: thereby saving you from myriad
text: humiliations before the Shogun.
text: Asano again bows his head to the floor. Oishi is clearly
text: annoyed with Kira’s attitude.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Thank you, Lord Kira. In return,
dialog: the people of Ako and I wish to
dialog: offer you this token of
dialog: appreciation.
text: Asano claps two summoning sticks together and two retainers
text: enter the room bearing a lacquered CHEST. Kira waves
text: impatiently, and the chest is opened -- revealing a BOUNTY OF
scene_heading: GOLD COINS.
text: But Kira stares at the glittering fortune, unimpressed.
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Token...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: A token gift indeed.
text: Asano and Oishi are struck by the comment. Kira doesn’t
dialog: care.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: A true gift is what has been
dialog: bestowed upon you, Lord Asano.
dialog: Wasted, in truth.
text: Kira glances out the window at the countryside.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Only twenty percent of the land in
dialog: the entire country is capable of
dialog: producing crops. And yet here you
dialog: sit with your cherry blossom trees
dialog: and your grassy hills.
dialog: (beat )
dialog: A man could raise an army to dwarf
dialog: all others with fertile soil such
text: as this. An ambitious man.
text: Kira takes a handful of gold coins. Lets them slip
text: disdainfully through his fingers, unwanted as pennies.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Pity.
text: And in a flurry of silk and arrogance, Kira exits the room.
text: When he’s gone, Oishi rises, knuckles white on his sword.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I'd like to strike that smug head
text: from his shoulders.
text: But the young lord puts a calming hand on Oishi’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: The world is changing, my friend.
dialog: Courtiers like Kira are the new
text: samurai. Guns are replacing
dialog: swords. And the swords that remain
dialog: are mostly ornamental.
dialog: (indicates)
dialog: Like yours. There was a time when
dialog: it would've been unthinkable for
dialog: your blade to shatter against the
dialog: inferior ones of those ronin at the
dialog: sea. But that was when the art of
dialog: true swordmaking was still valued.
dialog: Still cared for.
dialog: (beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO (CONT'D)
dialog: Now the legendary koto blades are
text: long since forgotten. Now outward
dialog: expression takes precedence over
dialog: inner core.
text: Asano turns to the window and stares at the same countryside
dialog: Kira did moments before.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: It is not Kira that is the problem
dialog: in this age...but us.
text: Then, almost to himself --
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Because we remember.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - STOREHOUSE - NIGHT
text: Safely ensconced among barrels of sake and bolts of silk,
text: Mika and Minoru hold each other in the moonlight.
text: Gently, Mika traces his eyebrows with the tip of her finger.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: I like the shape of your eyes.
text: But he lowers his face, ashamed.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: They set me apart.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: Yes, but in a good way.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I look at your eyes and I see that
dialog: your father loved your mother.
dialog: Your face tells their story.
dialog: Clearly, and to the world.
text: Unashamed.
dialog: (looks him in the eye)
dialog: As someday I hope our children’s
dialog: will tell ours.
text: And as she smiles at him --
scene_heading: SFX: A LOW RUMBLING BEGINS
text: Barely audible at first, but GROWING. Soon, loose grains of
text: rice on the ground begin to VIBRATE and DANCE.
text: Minoru is the first to notice. Stops, listening.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: What is it?
text: Minoru doesn’t answer, but races to an arrowslit.
text: POV MINORU: The darkened hillside. Then the low clouds
text: begin to GLOW ORANGE from beneath as eight thousand torches
dialog: CREST THE RISE!
text: The Shogun’'s ARMY has arrived.
text: BACK TO SHOT: As Mika watches, Minoru races for the
text: storehouse door -- then catches himself. Stops. Races back.
text: Kisses her.
text: And races out to find Oishi.
scene_heading: EXT. AKO CASTLE - MAIN GATE - NIGHT
text: The mist-shrouded castle looks like something out of myth --
text: a pagoda of the gods alight with the glow of ten thousand
text: paper lanterns.
text: Asano and his Honor Guard, headed by Oishi, stand within the
text: castle’s enormous main gate as the Shogun’s company arrives.
text: Bearing the HERALDIC CHARGE OF THE TOKUGAWA CLAN, the great
text: sea of warriors passes through the ancient gate. MYTHIC-
text: LOOKING SAMURAI UNITS from the fifty provinces, each with its
dialog: own distinctive STANDARD or DEVICE:
text: -- Kyoto’s CRIMSON DEVIL SQUAD in their lacquered, BLOOD-RED
text: ARMOR...
text: -- The IRON BOARS of Hizen, with two-foot-long sharpened iron
text: TUSKS on their great helms...
text: -- The Izumi TIGERS in their enameled TIGER-STRIPE PLATE
text: ARMOR, bristling with STEEL CLAWS...
text: And more. Edo’s PHOENIX REGIMENT. Shima’s SCORPIONS.
text: Osaka’s WHITE CRANES. Five thousand mythic shapes filling
text: the courtyard like warriors from some dark god’s fever dream.
text: Suddenly, all at once, they STOP.
text: There’s a charged moment. Asano and Oishi exchange a glance.
text: Then, as if by telepathy, the armies SEPARATE, clearing a
text: path for a SHADOWY FIGURE to walk forward.
text: From a spiked chain wrapped about his fist, the Figure leads
text: four monstrous DOGS OF WAR. Snarling, snapping, they are
text: each as large as a bullock; muscles rippling, ready to kill.
dialog: 19.
text: But they’re nothing compared to the man on the other end of
dialog: the chain:
scene_heading: SHOGUN TOKUGAWA TSUNAYOSHI (54)
dialog: is easily the most intimidating figure we’ve ever seen. Born
text: in the Year of the Dog, his fearsome kabuto helm is rendered
text: in the shape of a great snarling DOG OF WAR.
text: Six feet of heavy, scarred-covered muscle, the Shogun is the
dialog: survivor of a hundred grim battles and has been hard-tempered
dialog: into the very image of control. Of Law.
text: As his dogs growl menacingly, the Shogun stalks up Asano and
text: stands there, weighing the young daimyo with his gaze.
text: It’s an uncomfortable moment. But Asano bows regally.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Shogun Tokugawa Tsunayoshi, the
dialog: people of Ako bid you welcome.
text: The fierce Shogun pins Asano with his gaze.
text: Then nods.
speaker_heading: COURT ANNOUNCER (VO)
dialog: The rules of the melee are simple.
text: If a warrior is struck, he is out.
speaker_heading: HARD CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. AKO’S OUTDOOR COMBAT ARENA -— DAY
text: The stands are full of various LORDS AND RETAINERS from the
text: Shogun’s entourage. In the crowd, FIND Lord Asano. Oishi
text: and his daughter sit to either side of him.
speaker_heading: COURT ANNOUNCER
text: The last warrior standing wins the
dialog: exhibition in the name of their
text: clan, and a boon from the Shogun.
text: The Announcer nods to the Shogun who sits like a grim statue.
text: Suddenly, an oily voice speaks behind Asano.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (OS)
dialog: I did not know your concubine was
dialog: so lovely, Lord Asano.
text: Asano turns to see the effete Kira staring at Mika.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: She is my daughter.
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: All the better.
dialog: (bows before Mika)
dialog: Your father forgets his manners. I
dialog: am Kira Kozukenosuke.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: Asano Mika.
text: Kira’s eyes crawl over her bowed form.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: We will become better acquainted,
dialog: you and I, Lady Asano.
text: Kira maintains his gaze. It feels like hands roaming over
text: her skin. Mika quickly becomes uncomfortable and just as
dialog: Asano rises to intervene --
text: The Master of Protocol moves on to take his seat beside the
dialog: Shogun.
scene_heading: EXT. COMBAT ARENA —- READY AREA - CONTINUOUS
text: Over fifty SAMURAI COMBATANTS are lined up to enter the ring,
text: each wearing the DISTINCTIVE ARMOR and CRESTS of their clans.
text: One by one, they enter as the Announcer calls their province.
text: TOWARD THE REAR OF THE LINE, Hanjo paces worriedly.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: Where in the Eighteen Hells is
dialog: Taro? Minoru, check his house!
text: Minoru sprints off to --
scene_heading: EXT. TARO’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Thatch roof and earthen walls. Minoru bursts --
speaker_heading: INSIDE
text: -- startling the COURTESAN who leaps up and tries to cover
text: her nakedness. TARO keeps on sleeping.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: (shaking him awake)
text: Taro, get up! The melee’s about to
dialog: start! TARO!
speaker_heading: TARO
dialog: (hungover )
dialog: What..? Huh? Oh yes, yes. Get my
dialog: armor.
dialog: 21.
text: Minoru turns and grabs up the heavy cuirass bearing the CREST
text: of House Asano -- two falcon feathers crossed over one
text: another -- but when he turns back, Taro is passed out again.
scene_heading: EXT. COMBAT ARENA - SAME TIME
text: The combat floor has filled with the samurai combatants. The
text: Announcer calls the last warrior.
speaker_heading: COURT ANNOUNCER
dialog: And finally, fighting on behalf of
dialog: our noble host. Clan Asano’s Torii
dialog: Taro!
text: But no one enters the arena. There’s a horribly awkward
text: pause. Asano and Oishi share a look.
text: IN THE READY AREA
text: Hanjo is sweating it... until Taro races up in his armor.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: Oh thank the gods! Get in there!
dialog: Get in there!!
text: But as he runs past, we get a glimpse under his kabuto helm
dialog: and see that it’s not Taro at all, but --
speaker_heading: MINORU
text: He enters the arena and takes his place among the sea of
text: samurai. So much MYTHOLOGICALLY-INSPIRED ARMOR, the
text: battlefield looks like someone has sprung the gates of hell.
text: Beneath his disguise, Minoru’s heart is racing, his breath
text: coming too fast, skin sheened in sweat.
text: And in that moment, he CLOSES HIS EYES and takes a breath.
text: Holds it until his mind is calmed...
speaker_heading: COURT ANNOUNCER
dialog: Begin!
text: And when his eyes FLASH OPEN, there’s steel in them, all fear
dialog: evaporated.
text: And the contest starts.
text: The combat floor ERUPTS in a motion. Bokken flashing faster
text: than the eye can follow. The SOUND of wood striking metal.
dialog: Leather. Flesh.
dialog: 22.
text: Minoru SWEEPS under the guard of a fighter with a MONSTROUS
text: LEVIATHAN FISH HELM, and STRIKES his abdomen. In an instant,
text: the man is out -- and so are half the other combatants.
text: But there’s no time to rest as a Noto HARE springs forward
text: and attacks with the jackrabbit speed his clan is known for.
text: Minoru loses his footing and TRIPS, making an easy target for
dialog: the Hare. He’s a sitting duck --
text: But when he catches sight of Mika in the stands, he refuses
text: to go down like this. As the Hare leaps to deliver the
text: eliminating blow, Minoru WHIRLS OUT OF THE WAY and RIPOSTES
text: with a clean shot to the man’s legs. The Rabbit cries out as
text: he crumples to the ground.
dialog: Other fighters close in --
text: But Minoru’s switch has been flipped. He picks up another
text: sword off the ground and DUAL-WIELDS -- one in each hand.
text: POV MINORU - as the field of battle swirls around him,
text: impossibly slow. As an IRON BOAR charges, Minoru easily
text: redirects with one sword and STRIKES the man’s helm with the
text: other, SNAPPING OFF AN IRON TUSK and sending him SPRAWLING
text: into the dirt.
text: BACK TO SHOT — as Minoru wades through the fray like a
text: killing machine, an ambidextrous engine of death, eliminating
text: fighter after fighter after fighter.
text: IN THE STANDS - a corpulent daimyo turns to Asano.
speaker_heading: CORPULENT DAIMYO
dialog: Your man is good.
text: Asano nods, but beside him, Oishi is beginning to suspect.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Not that good.
text: With Minoru coming on like a cyclone of swordwork, the
text: surviving samurai start joining forces to take him out.
dialog: It does no good.
text: THE SHOGUN watches the display -- Minoru taking on two
text: fighters simultaneously. Then three. The Shogun is
text: impressed. Kira grimaces, wishing the fighter was anyone but
dialog: Asano's.
text: OVERHEAD SHOT - the contest has separated into two distinct
text: maelstroms of battle across the arena from each other,
text: swirling in opposite directions.
dialog: 23.
text: IN MINORU’S FRAY - Every remaining fighter joins forces
text: against Minoru, six samurai against one. The rapid-fire
text: CLACKING OF BLADES sounds like dominoes in a blender.
dialog: And just when we think it can get no faster, Minoru takes it
text: up a level, INCREASING THE TEMPO and turning the attackers
dialog: into defenders.
text: Minoru establishes a RHYTHM to his double attacks, and once
text: the defenders settle into it -- he BREAKS it, exploding in an
text: UNHOLY ONSLAUGHT that takes them all out.
text: OVERHEAD SHOT - In the end, both battles resolve
text: simultaneously, leaving only two fighters standing. Minoru
text: on one end of the arena...and a warrior from nightmare on the
dialog: other.
text: Minoru’s opponent is a muscular giant, a foot taller than he
text: and clad in battle gear ripped from H.P. Lovecraft’s most
text: horrific delirium. His armor is composed of lacquered black
text: SCALES; his helm wrought into the shape of a DEMON OCTOPUS
text: wrapped around his head, eight long STEEL TENTACLES dangling
text: down his back.
speaker_heading: MIKA
text: turns worriedly to Asano.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: Father, who is that?
text: But before Asano can answer, Kira leans in.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: The victor from last year, my dear.
dialog: (smugly)
dialog: My fighter...
text: The audience is holding its breath. And at a nod from Kira,
text: his fighter marches on Minoru. Minoru waits for the
text: sonofabitch to get in range, then BLAZES INTO A WHIRLWIND
text: ATTACK WITH BOTH SWORDS!
text: But the Lovecraftian Samurai counters every single strike
text: easily and continues marching on Minoru, relentless as a
dialog: golem.
text: Recovering, Minoru executes a tricky three-way cut, but the
text: Knight WHIPS his head around and LASHES Minoru’s leg with his
text: steel tentacles, YANKING him from his feet.
text: In a heartbeat, the knight rushes forward and unleashes a
text: blow at full-strength at Minoru’s head. Minoru blocks with
dialog: both bokken --
text: And both of his swords explode into a thousand splinters!
dialog: 24.
text: The audience gasps. Only the handles of his obliterated
text: swords remain in Minoru’s hands. Realizing his defeat, he
text: rises and bows to the knight.
text: But the Octopus turns to Kira, who nods --
text: And the bastard STRIKES MINORU IN THE FACE with all his
text: might. WHAM! Minoru flies ten feet and crashes, sprawling,
text: into the ground. Again the audience GASPS and the entire
dialog: world STOPS...
text: But this time it’s because the helmet that has hidden
text: Minoru’s identity...lays twenty feet away in the dirt.
text: IN THE STANDS - Mika GASPS. Asano GAPES. Oishi lowers his
dialog: head.
text: LORD KIRA uses the thunder of the moment, pointing at Minoru.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: This is an outrage!
dialog: (looks to Asano)
dialog: Who is responsible for this?!
text: Asano begins to rise -- but Minoru prostrates himself before
dialog: the great warlord.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: This was my vanity. Lord Asano
dialog: knew nothing of this.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: How dare you wear the armor of a
dialog: samurai! You’re a halfbreed!
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: I cannot deny it.
dialog: (turns to the Shogun)
dialog: But my father was an honored
dialog: samurai. He fought alongside you
dialog: at Sekigahara, Lord Shogun. I only
dialog: wanted to display my skills before
dialog: you to honor his memory.
text: Mika’s heart skips a beat as Minoru stands at the center of
text: the ring. The Shogun’s stony eyes consider him. Then --
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: You have demonstrated great
dialog: ability...
text: Minoru’s eyes fill with pride.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: ...-but no matter what you
dialog: accomplish, a halfbreed will never
dialog: be worthy of being a samurai.
dialog: 25.
text: And the dream shatters.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: (to his men)
dialog: Strip him of his armor and have it
text: burned. It is tainted.
text: Instantly, the Shogun’s elite guard come forward and start
text: VIOLENTLY RIPPING the armor off his body. It’s brutal to
text: watch, a public beating, and Minoru offers no resistance.
text: The sheer intensity of the humiliation forces Mika to look
dialog: away.
text: When they are done, Minoru, bloodied, bows low before the
dialog: Shogun.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Forgive my arrogance.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: You are dismissed.
text: And as Minoru makes the long walk of shame out of the arena,
text: Asano turns to his daughter -- and is surprised to find her
text: eyes filled with TEARS. Almost as if she was WEEPING.
text: He watches her, genuinely confused by her emotion...until
text: REALIZATION hits. Asano’s jaw drops as it all clicks
text: together in his head. He looks again at Minoru; at his
dialog: daughter...
text: And realizes that they are lovers.
text: As Asano sits back, stunned, mind reeling -- RACK FOCUS
text: across the stands to Lord Kira, who has been watching the
dialog: whole exchange.
text: And he has realized it, too.
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. AKO CASTLE - HOURS LATER
text: The Shogun’s armies have bivouacked in the greensward around
text: the castle -- a city of tents billowing in the breeze, each
text: flying the PENNON and CREST of the unit housed within.
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - BANQUET HALL - NIGHT
text: A feast has died down and people are retiring for the night.
text: The Shogun rises to leave, sending a courtier to Asano’s
dialog: table.
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: COURTIER
dialog: The Shogun will now retire for the
dialog: evening.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Of course.
text: Asano turns to the Shogun across the room and bows low. The
text: Shogun’s face is an emotionless mask as he moves off.
text: When the Shogun is gone, Asano’s calm veneer cracks and his
text: eyes begin to search the room for something. Oishi clocks
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You are troubled. I take full
dialog: responsibility for Minoru’s actions
dialog: today --
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: It’s not that.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: What then?
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I have to speak to my daughter.
dialog: It’s urgent.
text: TRACK WITH Asano as he moves off through the castle.
text: As he nears the women’s chambers, Asano HEARS Mika’s voice
text: WHISPERING around a corner. Small sounds of passion.
text: Asano’'s face hardens and he rounds the corner to find Mika in
dialog: the embrace of:
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
speaker_heading: MINORU!
text: But as the man turns, it’s not Minoru at all -- rather LORD
dialog: KIRA. And the sounds Mika was making were not passion, but
speaker_heading: STRUGGLE.
text: Seeing Asano, Mika’s eyes plead for help.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: Father!
text: Asano is there in a heartbeat, wrenching Kira away and
text: HURLING him against the wall.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: What is the meaning of this?!
text: But Kira is a tower of fury.
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: HOW DARE YOU LAY YOUR HANDS UPON A
text: COURTIER OF THE SHOGUN!
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: (hysterical)
dialog: Father, he was --
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Hold your tongue if you wish to
dialog: keep it, girl!
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: That is enough!
text: Kira’s hand moves to his sword.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Don’t you dare.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: He was going to --
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: I said SHUT YOUR MOUTH!
text: And in a blur of motion, Kira DRAWS HIS SWORD at Mika and
text: Asano SLASHES OUT to parry the blow --
text: -- only to find that he’s been tricked.
text: Kira does not have a sword in his hands...but one of Mika’s
text: FANS severed in half by Asano’s gleaming blade.
text: ECU as the slashed half of the fan falls to the floor.
text: Though it’s light as a feather, the sound of it hitting the
text: wooden floor is like the toll of Doom’s bell.
text: BACK TO SHOT as Asano looks up...and sees Kira LEERING.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
text: Drawing a weapon while the Shogun
dialog: is in residence..
dialog: (ominous )
dialog: ..-is punished by death.
text: And as the enormity of what Asano’s just done hits home,
text: WIDEN TO REVEAL that several shocked onlookers stand in the
text: hall -- castle retainers and a growing number of the Shogun’s
text: samurai -- staring at Asano’s UNSHEATHED BLADE in horror.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Guards! Take him!
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: No!
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Mika... Mika-chan... Look at me.
dialog: (when she does)
dialog: It’s all right. Do you hear me?
text: The Shogun’s samurai advance threateningly. Asano sets his
text: sword on the ground.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: There is no need for that. I will
dialog: not resist.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: (as they seize him)
dialog: NO, LET HIM GO --!
text: Asano sees Oishi appear at the edge of the crowd.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: MY LORD --?!
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Oishi, take her away from here.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: FATHER! !
text: And as Asano is marched off, Oishi does as he was told.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - PREPARATION CHAMBER - NIGHT
text: Asano kneels in prayer at an altar of his ancestors. The
text: robes he wears are pristine white.
speaker_heading: OISHI (0.S.)
dialog: Let me see him, gods damn you, or
dialog: there will be two more funerals
dialog: this night.
text: The doors are opened and Oishi enters the chamber. Oishi
text: crosses the room to kneel beside Asano. Whispers.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I can get you out of here. I have
dialog: several horses readied --
text: But Asano holds up a hand, stopping him mid-sentence.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Would you have me run from honor?
dialog: Oishi searches for an answer that will stop this
text: madness...but finds none. Asano meet Oishi’s eyes.
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: You know I cannot. You taught me
dialog: too well, old friend. I broke the
dialog: law and must pay the price.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You drew out of defense of your
dialog: daughter! You were deliberately
dialog: tricked --
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I knew the law.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Over the generations, people may
dialog: come to question the honor of Lord
dialog: Kira, but never the integrity of
dialog: the Asano name.
text: The door opens and one of the Shogun’s COURTIERS enters.
speaker_heading: COURTIER
text: The Shogun awaits.
text: Asano nods and rises.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Oishi... I would be honored if you
dialog: would act as my second.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Don’t ask me to do that. I cannot--
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I trust no one else.
dialog: (then quietly, pleading)
dialog: Don't make me do this alone, Oishi.
dialog: I may appear calm, but fear
dialog: threatens to unman me. Without you
dialog: there, I don’t know if I can..if I
dialog: will be able to--
text: As emotion begins to edge into his voice, Oishi calms him.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You will not be alone. Never
dialog: alone. I will stand for you.
dialog: Always.
dialog: 
text: And slowly, the fear melts away from Asano and a flinty
text: resolve returns to his eyes.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: (taking Oishi’s hand)
dialog: Thank you...old friend.
dialog: 30.
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - CORRIDOR
text: The men are lead toward where the Shogun waits. In his white
text: robes, Asano looks like a ghost floating through the hall.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: Father -!!
text: Mika comes running and Asano embraces her. The guards
text: clearly want to continue on, but Asano raises a hand.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: A moment...
text: They grant it. Mika weeps into her father’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: This can’t be happening. This
dialog: isn’t true.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: (gently)
dialog: What is true...is that you have
dialog: been, and ever will be, the joy of
dialog: my life.
text: As she begins to weep, he kisses her forehead. Then, out of
text: everyone in the crowded corridor, Asano locks eyes with
dialog: Minoru.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Care for her.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: I wil--
text: But Asano grabs the hafu’s hand and repeats himself...this
text: time imparting a deeper meaning.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Care for her.
text: Minoru is rocked by the revelation. He knows about us.
text: Just then, a massive arm separates them, pushing Minoru and
text: Mika back. It’s Kira’s best fighter -- the LOVECRAFTIAN
text: SAMURAI that bested Minoru in the arena.
speaker_heading: LOVECRAFTIAN SAMURAI
dialog: Move.
text: His heavy hand grips Asano’s shoulder and forcefully leads
text: him away. Into the chamber where the young lord will end his
dialog: own life.
text: As he closes the door, Kira’s fighter looks back at
text: Mika...and grins, enjoying the moment.
dialog: 31.
text: The doors close behind him with a crushing finality.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: FATHER -!!
text: Mika races forward and yanks at the door, but it is barred.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: No!
text: As she pounds at it, Minoru appears beside her.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Mika...
text: He gently takes her hand.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Mika-chan...
text: And the endearment her father has used since the day of her
text: birth reaches her. She stops struggling.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: I‘1l take you to him.
text: And as grief overwhelms her...she allows herself to be led
dialog: away.
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - CEREMONIAL CHAMBER
text: Asano and Oishi enter. The Shogun sits at the far end of the
text: chamber with a grim-looking contingent of VERIFYING
text: OFFICIALS, including Kira, who's clearly enjoying the moment.
text: A small table sits in the center of the room. On it is a
scene_heading: RITUAL DAGGER.
text: Asano crosses the room with a calmness that belies the event
text: about to take place here and kneels at the table.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: (bowing to the Shogun)
dialog: I thank you for allowing me to end
dialog: my life with honor, with my own
dialog: hand, rather than the execution as
dialog: a criminal as I deserve.
text: The Shogun nods.
text: Asano closes his eyes, contemplating for a moment...
text: And then he takes up the dagger.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: EXT. AKO CASTLE - COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT
text: Minoru leads Mika to a MOONLIT HILLTOP outside the castle. A
text: gentle breeze stirs the branches of a lone CHERRY BLOSSOM
text: TREE that grows there.
text: Minoru sits Mika down.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: But where is my father?
text: Minoru moves to the tree...and plucks a sakura BLOSSOM.
text: Presses the delicate flower into her hands.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Here.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: The sakura is the most beautiful of
text: all flowers. It blooms for only
dialog: three days, intensely beautiful,
text: and falls at the height of its
text: glory rather than withering away.
dialog: (poignantly)
dialog: It is the flower of the samurai.
text: Mika stares at the tiny flower in her hand -- the poetic
dialog: representation of the life of her father -- and allows
text: herself to lose her grief in its beauty.
scene_heading: MATCH BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - CEREMONIAL CHAMBER - SAME TIME
text: Asano sets the dagger down.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: Oishi.
text: Oishi leans close, where only he can hear the trembling in
text: Asano’s voice.
speaker_heading: LORD ASANO
dialog: I fear I will shame myself. If I
dialog: should cry out --
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You will not.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You will not.
text: The strength and assuredness in Oishi’s voice flows into
text: Asano. With resolve, he again picks up the dagger.
text: MUSIC RISES and we INTERCUT with MIKA staring at the cherry
text: blossom in her hand. With ASANO opening his robes to expose
text: his abdomen.
dialog: 33.
text: With OISHI drawing his sword to stand behind his lord,
text: preparing cut off the head of his student -- his friend --
dialog: should the pain become too great.
text: And as the music reaches CRESCENDO, Asano PLUNGES the dagger
text: into his belly, CUTTING SIDEWAYS then UP, disemboweling
text: himself before the Shogun. The seconds stretch out. OISHI
text: is in turmoil as Asano remains utterly stoic. Glances up to
text: see KIRA with a slight smile curving his lips -- a memory
text: that burns itself in his brain forever.
text: ASANO holds on as long as he can, but as the suffering
text: overwhelms him and he begins to CRY OUT -- SCHWOP!
text: OISHI is there to strike down and preserve his dignity.
text: ASANO'S BODY topples forward, a pool of red blood spreading
text: across the white floor...
text: AND AT THAT EXACT MOMENT ON THE HILLTOP,
text: A breeze stirs the sakura tree and a thousand cherry blossoms
text: float down through the moonglow to embrace Mika in a rain of
dialog: otherworldly beauty...
speaker_heading: FADE TO:
scene_heading: INT. AKO CASTLE - ARMORY - LATER
text: Lord Asano’s entire army of three-hundred-and-fifty samurai
text: has amassed in the heart of the castle. An argument is going
text: on. Some are shouting for calm, most are GIRDING THEMSELVES
speaker_heading: FOR WAR.
speaker_heading: AGING SAMURAI
dialog: This is madness! The Shogun issued
dialog: a direct mandate: there are to be
dialog: no reprisals against Lord Kira!
text: A hot-tempered samurai, ISOGAI, straps on his sword.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: The Shogun be damned! Bushido says
dialog: we avenge our master at all costs!
text: On the far side of the room, OISHI stands, peering through a
text: SHOOTING HOLE, lost in thought.
text: Outside, the Shogunate’s samurai are massing before the
text: armory, Lord Kira’s men in the vanguard. Oishi’s forces are
text: desperately outnumbered. It will be a slaughter.
text: Reverently, Minoru steps up beside Oishi.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: What say you, Blademaster?
dialog: 34.
text: The question wakes Oishi from his thoughts. He turns from
text: the window. Then, quietly:
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We fight.
text: A great cheer goes up from the men. Minoru moves to a stand
text: holding many swords.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Which weapon shall you choose, my
dialog: Lord?
text: Oishi takes one last look out the window. Sees Kira grinning
text: like a demon.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Patience.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: (confused)
dialog: What..?
dialog: And Oishi issues the last order they would ever expect.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: There will be no more bloodshed
dialog: today. Set down your weapons.
text: As one, the samurai are staggered with disbelief.
speaker_heading: OLDER SAMURAI SAMURAI #2
dialog: You mistake us for cowards! We must avenge the death of
dialog: We are not afraid to die! our Lord!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Look outside. You will not
dialog: succeed.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Success or failure does not matter!
dialog: The only thing that is important is
dialog: that we uphold Honor by trying!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: You craven dog --!
text: With a shocking display of speed, Oishi reaches out and HURLS
text: the haughty young samurai to the floor. Oishi has his short
text: sword out and at the gasping man’s throat in an instant.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: It matters...because if we fail,
dialog: Kira lives and our Lord’s murder
dialog: will go unavenged. Put your honor
dialog: aside. I have a duty.
dialog: (pointedly)
dialog: As do you all.
dialog: 35.
text: Now Oishi pulls from his robes the dagger with which Asano
dialog: took his own life.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Because of Kira, our master took
dialog: his own life with this blade.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I will not rest until Kira does the
dialog: same.
text: As his words sink in, Oishi removes his blade from Isogai’s
text: throat and stands.
text: Hanjo, Oishi’s right-hand man, steps up.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: So what are you saying?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: A great warrior once told me, “If
dialog: the enemy thinks of the mountains,
dialog: attack like the sea; and if he
dialog: thinks of the sea, attack like the
dialog: mountains.”
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We wait.
text: Oishi scans the room, meeting each man’s eyes.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We wait until this day is but a
dialog: memory to them, until they believe
dialog: our spirit is broken and the danger
dialog: has passed... And when all their
dialog: suspicions have been quenched and
dialog: their guard has finally dropped, we
dialog: will gather as one --
text: In a blink, Oishi turns and buries the sword in a thick
dialog: wooden beam -- THUNKK!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: And then we will strike.
text: Oishi takes the dagger and draws the blade across his palm,
text: making a thin slice across his sword hand.
text: blade out to the others.
text: One by one, they all do the same.
dialog: Then holds the
dialog: 36.
dialog: The blood pact is complete. SMASH TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE - ARMORY - MOMENTS LATER
text: We hear a lockbar sliding... Then the great doors swing wide
text: to reveal OISHI, weaponless. He and his men exit and are
text: marshalled by a thousand Shogunate soldiers to be stood
dialog: before:
scene_heading: THE SHOGUN AND LORD KIRA
text: Forced to stand beside him, Mika watches with a soulless
text: stoicism as Lord Kira addresses the surrendered samurai.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Drop your weapons, all of you.
text: The sound of over three hundred swords striking the ground is
text: the sound of the death of an entire clan.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: Now remove your crest.
text: Oishi’s men look to one another in shock, reluctant to do so.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: REMOVE THEM!
text: As one, they turn to Oishi...but he does not meet their eyes.
text: Merely nods.
text: Across the gulf of soldiers, Mika meets Minoru’s eyes...and
text: cannot endure the shame she sees there. Tries to turn away,
text: but Kira reaches out and GRASPS her wrist, wrenching her
text: around so she must watch.
text: Minoru sees it and instantly reaches for his sword -- but
text: Oishi restrains him with a firm hand on his shoulder.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Patience.
text: And slowly, Minoru’s muscles unbunch...and he relents.
text: In utter shame, Oishi’s men drop their formal kimonos bearing
text: the crossed-feather crest of House Asano into the mud.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Your master is dead. House Asano
dialog: is no more. You have failed them
dialog: both.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You are no longer worthy of the
dialog: title “samurai”. From this moment
dialog: forward, you are ronin.
dialog: 37.
text: The word strikes Asano’s men like a slap to the face.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
text: Honorless. Reviled. Cowards.
dialog: (venomous )
dialog: You are banished from these lands.
dialog: Those of you still here by the ring
dialog: of the third bell will be hunted
text: down and executed.
text: With a nod from their Lord, Kira’s warriors SURGE IN and
text: begin driving Asano’s disgraced men from the castle grounds.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: Except you.
dialog: (indicates Oishi)
dialog: Arrest him.
text: Kira returns to his place beside the Shogun as a dozen men
text: knock Oishi brutally to the ground. Oishi offers no
text: resistance as they roughly begin binding his wrists.
text: The Shogun turns to leave, but stops before Kira.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: (re: Oishi)
dialog: He is not to be killed. He was a
dialog: hero at Nagoya.
text: Kira bows his assent as the Shogun strides away. When he’s
text: gone, he turns to the soldiers holding Oishi.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: He is not to be executed.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Break him instead.
text: The soldiers nod, and as Oishi is dragged away in chains --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. AKO CASTLE - RECEPTION HALL - LATER
text: Mika is brought before the Shogun and Lord Kira by soldiers.
text: The Shogun speaks in an imperial tone that brooks no
dialog: nonsense.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: Lord Kira wishes to shield you from
dialog: the shame of your House. He has
dialog: petitioned for your hand in
dialog: marriage.
text: Mika is taken aback for a moment... Turns to Kira, whose
text: face remains placid.
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN (CONT'D)
dialog: I have agreed.
text: But Mika is Asano’s daughter and made of sterner stuff.
text: Thinking quickly, she quells the rising horror and rallies.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: That is most generous, my
dialog: Lord...but as the Master of
dialog: Protocol must himself know,
dialog: tradition demands a period of
dialog: mourning for my father.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: (riled)
dialog: Such is not always the case.
text: But the Shogun has come to a decision.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: I will allow it. You are granted
dialog: one year to mourn. During that
dialog: time you will not be touched....
text: Mika revels in the small victory, until --
speaker_heading: SHOGUN (CONT'D)
dialog: ..-but will remain a guest of Lord
dialog: Kira’s, and he the steward of your
dialog: lands.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: But--
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: You are dismissed, Lady Asano.
text: There’s nothing more to be done. Trembling, with defeat
text: weighing heavily on her small frame, Mika bows to the Shogun,
dialog: and we --
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
speaker_heading: PITCH BLACK
dialog: Sounds of a struggle, then --
text: A heavy stone LID is opened twenty feet above us. In the
text: weak light, we can make out dank stone walls, rats scuttling
text: in the shadows. This is the “Ako Pit” -- the worst dungeon
dialog: in the province.
text: Up above, four of Kira’s Elite Guard BEAT Oishi within an
text: inch of his life, then HURL him down into the pit.
dialog: 39.
text: WHAM! Oishi’s body crashes to the stony floor and lays
text: still. Laughing, the guards start sliding the dungeon lid
text: closed, and as the dark moves in, so do the rats.
text: The sound of the pit door closing is the sound of despair --
speaker_heading: BOOOOM!
text: And the world is swallowed in darkness...
dialog: SLOW FADE UP ON:
scene_heading: EXT. AKO CASTLE - MORNING
text: A bright summer sun is in the sky.
dialog: SUPER: “Ten months later.”
text: The castle gate opens and Oishi -- gaunt, stooped -- is led
text: into the blinding sunshine for the first time in a year and
text: hurled into the mud.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: On your way, ronin!
text: Oishi cowers in the muck, confused. He is no longer the
dialog: strong, noble warrior we knew, but a broken wretch.
text: The Guard KICKS him in the ribs.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Ronin filth! You make me sick!
dialog: Out of my sight!
text: When the guard goes to kick him again, Oishi scrambles away
text: like a beaten dog. He’s still grovelling when the Guard
text: slams the gate in his face.
text: HIGH ABOVE, from the castle’s seventh floor balcony, Kira
text: watches Oishi weeping in the road. Deeply satisfied, he
text: turns to one of his trusted SPIES.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: (re: Oishi)
dialog: Have him watched. If he gives any
text: sign of rebellion, cut him down.
scene_heading: EXT. AKO VILLAGE - ROAD - DAY
text: Oishi limps into the village...to find that everything has
speaker_heading: CHANGED.
text: The land has been STRIPPED and the sakura trees have all been
text: CHOPPED DOWN. The once-beautiful hills and meadows have been
text: FURROWED into UGLY CROP FIELDS to feed Kira’s legions that
dialog: patrol the streets in number.
dialog: 40.
text: As Oishi enters the marketplace, people begin to point. To
text: whisper. Every mouth forming the despised word:
dialog: Ronin.
text: As he passes, villagers turn away, refusing to acknowledge
text: his now pathetic existence. The murmuring increases, until
text: someone shoves him from behind, knocking him into the dust.
text: Oishi turns skittishly to see a group of three VENDORS
text: looming over him. Men he once knew. Men who respected him.
speaker_heading: BURLY VENDOR
dialog: Cowardly scum! You don’t belong
dialog: here!
text: The man SPITS on him. Another KICKS him while he’s down.
text: The mob closes in, blows starting to really rain down when --
text: A HAND reaches in and clutches the collar of Oishi’s robe,
text: yanking him to his feet. It’s --
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
text: Oishi’s son turns on the crowd, wooden bokken in hand, and
text: the crowd backs a step from his burning gaze.
text: As the boy takes his father’s hand, Oishi looks at his son --
text: only one year older, but the eyes staring back at him are a
text: man’s eyes.
dialog: Unlike his own.
text: As the boy leads his father away from the jeering mob, RACK
text: FOCUS to Kira’s SPY, watching from a distance, satisfied that
dialog: Oishi is harmless...
scene_heading: EXT. SHANTY VILLAGE - DAY
text: Chikara leads Oishi to tinry rundown shack in the poorest
text: section of the village.
text: Oishi’s wife is on her knees out front, digging burdock root
text: from the tiny garden. Clearly times have been tough.
text: Oishi look at Chikara.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: When they took you away, they took
dialog: away everything.
text: As Oishi takes this in, Hisae looks up and sees them.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: Oishi...
dialog: 41.
text: Hisae stops like she’s been heartshot. Gasps. Trembling so
text: hard she can’t even rise.
text: And she cries, Oishi kneels by her side to comfort her.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. OISHI’S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Chikara lay asleep on the floor, curled near the warmth of
text: the brazier.
text: Quietly, Hisae tiptoes in and removes a gently bubbling
text: kettle from the fire. Carries it across the house to where --
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: waits. Hisae settles beside him, dipping two soft cloths in
dialog: the warmed water.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: All right.
text: Oishi removes his robe...and the visual shock of his INJURIES
text: steals her breath. Scars, scabs and bruises of every kind
text: crisscross his back: puncture wounds, lacerations, burn
text: marks; hard lumps where broken ribs have healed.
text: Hisae is frozen by the sight of so much pain.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (gently)
dialog: It’s all right, Hisae. My scars
dialog: are nothing compared to what you
dialog: must have endured as the wife of a
dialog: ronin.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: That’s all behind us now.
text: Blinking back tears, she begins to wash her husband's
dialog: tortured body, and we DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: SAME SHOT - LATER
text: Hisae is finishing cleaning his wounds.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: ...-Lady Asano is still being held
text: by Lord Kira. The end of her time
text: of her mourning draws near, and
dialog: Kira has arranged for them to be
dialog: wed that very day. I fear for what
dialog: will happen to her after.
dialog: 42.
text: Hisae wrings out her cloth, and Oishi begins to dress.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: What of my men?
text: Hisae hesitates, fearing this line of questioning.
speaker_heading: HISAE
text: Scattered to the winds. Some
dialog: fought. Others protested and were
dialog: cut down. Eventually all were
text: driven off.
dialog: (beat )
dialog: I heard Ryoichi now works a farm in
text: Matsumae. Ayame says he’s happy.
text: Hisae moves around to look in her husband's eyes.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: We could be happy. We have a
dialog: second chance, Oishi, we should
dialog: take it. We can leave the village
dialog: tomorrow and start a new life.
dialog: Watch our son become a man. Grow
dialog: old together. Is that not all we
dialog: need?
text: Her smile is heartbreaking. So filled with hope...
text: Oishi enfolds her in his arms, so she will not see the lie.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Yes...
text: She closes her eyes, burying her face in his chest and
text: holding him tight, never wanting to let go.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: Don't widow me to an ideal, Oishi.
text: But as we DOLLY AROUND we see the fire in Oishi’s eyes and
text: realize for the first time that this is not a broken man.
dialog: And never was.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT
text: Hisae wakes -- to find Oishi missing from bed. She rises
text: from the futon and makes her way to the window where she
text: spies her husband sitting atop a low hill in the pre-dawn
dialog: dark.
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: EXT. OISHI’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER
text: In the quiet dark, Oishi stares up at the stars, conflicted
text: emotions upon his face.
dialog: Then:
speaker_heading: HISAE (0.S.)
dialog: Some of the men went to find work
dialog: with the Dutch at Dejima.
text: Oishi turns to find his wife standing there, a silk-wrapped
text: BUNDLE in her hands.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: You'll find Hanjo there.
text: Oishi reaches out and crushes her to his chest.
text: After a moment she pulls away and hands him the bundle.
text: Oishi opens it...revealing the DAGGER Lord Asano used to take
dialog: his own life.
text: Oishi starts to say something, but she stops him.
speaker_heading: HISAE
dialog: I am the wife of a samurai.
dialog: Whatever your duties and
dialog: obligations, they are mine, too.
text: Oishi looks at his wife...his incredible wife...and realizes
text: she accepts what he has to do.
text: With no words strong enough to carry the emotion, Oishi takes
text: her in his arms again.
text: AND FROM THE WINDOW OF HIS ROOM
text: Chikara watches the silhouettes of his parents against the
text: moonlight...and knows that his father is leaving.
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINS OUTSIDE EDO - ESTABLISHING
text: Breathtaking in their beauty, yet...
text: Dominating the landscape from three thousand feet up the
text: steep snowy mountainside is Kira’s impregnable yamashiro --
text: CASTLE FORTRESS -- which looms over the world like a grim
dialog: stone threat.
dialog: 44,
scene_heading: INT. KIRA’S MOUNTAIN CASTLE - DAIMYO’S GREATHALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Mika stands alone at the window, a prisoner in a jail without
text: bars. She’s staring out at the world below, at freedom, when
text: Lord Kira enters the room behind her.
text: He moves close, but when she senses him, she turns and backs
text: away in fear.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: (disappointed)
dialog: All that you see from this window
dialog: could be yours. Why do you resist
dialog: me so?
text: Again, he approaches her slowly, like he would a timid
text: animal. Reaches out to stroke her face, but the moment his
text: black-lacquered fingernails touch her face, she SLAPS his
text: hand away defiantly.
text: Kira’s shock flashes to anger and he STRIKES her across the
text: face. And just as he rears back to strike her again --
text: Behind them, the door opens and Kira’s Spy enters.
speaker_heading: KIRA’S SPY
dialog: Lord Kira. I have word of the
dialog: ronin.
text: Kira turns on an emotional dime, his anger instantly replaced
text: by a mask of calm.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Tell me.
speaker_heading: KIRA’S SPY
dialog: Oishi is broken. I’ve watched
text: peasant farmers spit on him. Kick
dialog: him. Humiliate him. There’s not
text: an ounce of fight left in him.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: You sound disappointed.
speaker_heading: KIRA’S SPY
dialog: It’s just that... The stories I
dialog: have heard. He was such a great
dialog: warrior. To see him like this...
text: Kira strides to table in the center of the room holding
text: several BONSAI TREES.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: What do you know of bonsai trees?
text: The Spy is taken aback.
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: KIRA’S SPY
dialog: I know they are beautiful.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Yes, but only as beautiful as an
dialog: artist makes them.
text: Kira picks up one of the trees -- an ugly shrub. Then takes
text: up a pair of razor sharp shears.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Left on their own these trees grow
text: wild and out of control. It takes
dialog: the meticulous eye of an artist to
dialog: see, to understand, to recognize a
dialog: single branch that may mask the
text: beauty within. A branch that left
dialog: on its own would overtake the
dialog: whole. Not unlike ronin.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It is up to the artist to recognize
dialog: this blight, for it is not until he
dialog: clips that branch away --
text: Kira cruelly snips off a branch.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: -- that the beauty of what lies
text: beneath is revealed.
text: Kira turns and looks at Mika. Though he’s speaking of the
text: tree, it’s clear he’s speaking about her.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Now, it is up to the artist to
dialog: gently manipulate the remaining
dialog: branches. Not to cut, but to
dialog: coerce its shape. To coax it. To
dialog: train it.
text: Kira grabs a branch and bends it down, using a piece of twine
text: to tie it down. He considers it for a second, then sets the
text: tree aside. Takes another from the shelf.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
text: Slowly. Steadily. With increasing
dialog: pressure so that in time, with
dialog: patience, the branch eventually
text: ceases to resist the artist’s
dialog: desires...
text: Kira releases a branch that has been tied -- and it stays in
dialog: position.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: And the work is complete.
dialog: 46.
text: Kira considers the tree with a critical eye. Then turns to
text: Mika and does the same.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
text: In the end the tree succumbs. It
dialog: is a truth.
dialog: (pointedly)
dialog: And it is inevitable.
dialog: And off Mika's frightened expression, we --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. KIRA’S FORTRESS - LORD’S CHAMBERS - MOMENTS LATER
text: Kira enters and shuts the door behind him. A SHADOWY FIGURE
text: stands with his back to us at the edge of the balcony
text: overlooking the thousand foot drop below.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Thank you for waiting.
text: The figure nods almost imperceptibly. As Kira angles around,
text: we get a better look at the man. Tall, stacked with corded
text: muscle. Dressed in a traditional ninjutsu outfit so dark red
text: it is almost back. A mask across the lower half of his face
text: conceals his identity and leaves only his EYES exposed --
text: eyes that burn with an intelligence and remorselessness that
dialog: chills our blood.
text: The NINJA CLANLORD is quite possibly the most imposing figure
dialog: this side of the Shogun.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: I wish to hire your ninja clan to
dialog: deal with the ronin. Oishi in
dialog: particular.
text: The Clanlord’s voice is the unfathomable crack and rumble of
text: deep-earth coal being crushed to diamonds.
speaker_heading: NINJA CLANLORD
dialog: Did I not just overhear your spy
dialog: say he was broken?
text: There’s a smirk in his voice.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: I have not gotten to where I am
dialog: without taking precaution.
text: Kira tosses a heavy purse of gold kobans to him. Only the
text: Ninja Lord’s hand moves, snatching it out of the air like a
text: snake grabbing a bird in flight.
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: Will this cover your expense?
speaker_heading: NINJA CLANLORD
dialog: (weighing the bag)
dialog: For now.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: There can be no evidence. I need
dialog: you to make them disappear.
speaker_heading: NINJA CLANLORD
dialog: My Lord --
dialog: (mock bows )
dialog: That is what we do best.
text: And the Clanlord steps off the balcony, plummeting into the
dialog: abyss.
text: Kira rushes to the edge...but sees only the thousand foot
dialog: drop below.
text: The Clanlord has disappeared.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: AERIAL SHOT - NAGASAKI BAY - DAY
text: A bustling port city surrounds Nagasaki’s gorgeous harbor...
text: But floating in the middle of the Bay FIND:
speaker_heading: DEJIMA ISLAND
text: A small, ARTIFICIAL ISLAND built as a trading outpost for the
text: Dutch. The fan-shaped islet is kept separate from the
text: mainland by a LONG STONE BRIDGE -- Japan’s equivalent of the
dialog: proverbial “ten-foot-pole” to keep foreigners from ever
text: touching Japanese soil.
dialog: Despite looks from the locals --
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: crosses the quarter-mile span of stone and steps onto the
text: island. Speaks to the first man he finds, a Japanese LABORER
text: in ridiculous Western clothes.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I need to speak to the man in
dialog: charge.
text: The Laborer nods and motions for Oishi to follow.
dialog: 48.
text: Now TRACK WITH OISHI as he is led across the synthetic
text: island. Though a CLAUSTROPHOBIC MAZE of cargo crates and
text: livestock. Past laborers struggling to unload the two Dutch
text: East-India MERCHANT SHIPS moored there: the 18 sail
text: “Dolphijn” and the enormous “Rotterdam”.
text: POV - OISHI: scanning each worker's face as he passes,
text: searching for signs of his men. All the laborers are
text: Japanese, clad in the cornflower blue coats of the Dutch, and
text: to aman, they are gaunt, dejected, STRUNG OUT.
text: As they pass the open door of a warehouse, Oishi sees why.
text: The interior of one structure has been converted into an
text: OPIUM DEN. Inside, scores of Japanese workmen lay in a
text: stupor, inhaling their pay. They are slaves kept not in
text: chains of steel, but wisps of opium smoke.
text: Oishi notes HANJO and several other men are among them.
text: Reaching the office, Oishi is motioned to wait as his guide
text: disappears inside. A moment later, he reappears.
speaker_heading: GUIDE
dialog: The Kapitan will see you.
scene_heading: INT. DEJIMA - KAPITAN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: The room is dark and filled with the blue-gray haze of
text: tobacco smoke. Oishi nearly thinks he’s alone...until the
text: bowl of a pipe GLOWS CHERRY RED as someone in the shadows
text: takes a long draw.
text: We can almost make out the man’s features --huge and unreal--
text: but then the dark closes in once again.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: You look as though you have
dialog: travelled far.
text: The voice is harsh and startling as an anchor chain clanking.
text: The man fills two sake cups and pushes one forward.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: Here... Slake your thirst.
text: Oishi sips. The Kapitan downs his.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: So..you have come for work?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I have come to collect my men.
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: Your men?
dialog: (mulls this)
dialog: You are samurai, then? Under which
dialog: lord do you serve?
text: Oishi says no more. The Kapitan laughs, refilling his glass.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: Ah... So you are ronin. You
dialog: Japanese are a funny people.
dialog: Distorting honor until it is a
dialog: perversion beyond recognition.
text: Oishi ignores the slight and the Kapitan downs his drink.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: The problem is this: your men came
dialog: here willingly to work, but they’ve
dialog: accrued many debts during their
dialog: time here.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I will pay.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: How?
text: Oishi removes his sword from his belt and places it
text: reverently on the table.
text: The Kapitan’s hands reach out from the dark; monstrous grit-
text: crusted paws covered in ROPE SCARS and SAILOR TATTOOS. So
dialog: big, it’s hard to believe they’re human.
text: The Kapitan clicks the scabbard open to examine the blade --
text: a ceremonial work of art, razor sharp. He runs his thumb
text: along the edge until a DROP OF BLOOD trickles down the blade.
text: Then he slams the sword back in its sheath and sets it back
text: on the table.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: Done! In Rotterdam, we drink to a
dialog: deal.
text: The Kapitan fills both their glasses.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: Kampai.
text: Oishi downs his sake.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: And now you will get my men.
dialog: 50.
text: The room glows red as the Kapitan takes another draw on his
text: pipe, and this time we glimpse his EYES -- two cruel chips of
text: soulless blue sea ice.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: Will I?
text: Oishi rises...but suddenly feels UNSTEADY.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: You Japanese... The arrogance is
dialog: staggering. I mean, here you sit,
dialog: despised by your own people,
dialog: unwanted, unhireable...and yet you
dialog: presume to give me orders.
text: Oishi collapses forward as the world TILTS CRAZILY. And with
text: horror he realizes he’s been DRUGGED.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: You forget yourself, ronin. We may
dialog: not be allowed to step foot onto
dialog: Japanese soil without risking our
dialog: entire shipping operation, but the
dialog: blade cuts both ways. This is
dialog: Dutch land.
dialog: You can almost hear the bastard grinning.
text: Oishi goes for his sword -- but the table EXPLODES UP, thrown
text: across the room as easily as a toy.
text: Oishi stumbles back and watches in horror as the Kapitan
text: steps into the light. The man is enormous. An eight-foot
text: bearded hulk, stacked with the heavy, unnatural muscle only
dialog: the sea can give.
dialog: This is why they call the Dutch “barbarians”. The Kapitan
text: makes Conan look like a sissy kid brother.
text: Oishi’s sword lay at his feet. He moves for it, but the
text: Dutch giant’s hand snatches out and grips him by the collar.
text: Lifts him as easily as a child -- awesome strength -- then
text: HURLS him across the room!
text: WHAM! Oishi SMASHES against the wall and slams to the floor.
text: POV OISHI: As the Giant stomps toward him, the world turning
text: SURREAL from the drugs.
text: Oishi tries to crawl to his sword, but the Kapitan grabs him
text: by his topknot and SMASHES him -- CRRRAAAASH! -- into his
text: desk with enough force to SHATTER it to kindling.
text: And then the Dutchman lifts him up, CHOKING HIM to death.
text: Oishi struggles as the bastard laughs, and just as the lights
dialog: are about to go out forever --
dialog: 51.
text: OISHI’S FINGERS close on a WICKED SPLINTER from the shattered
text: desk -- ten inches long and deadly sharp -- and STABS it down
text: through his collar bone and DEEP into his trunk.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
speaker_heading: GRRAAAAAUGHH !
text: The barbarian captain roars in pain and HURLS him with enough
dialog: force to SNAP the wall boards.
text: Hearing his cry, another giant DUTCH OFFICER races in,
text: WHEELLOCK PISTOL out and ready to fire.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: Shoot him!
text: The Officer pulls the trigger, but in the blink of an eye,
text: Oishi grasps his sword and whips the blade out of its
text: scabbard -- AND RIGHT BETWEEN THE CAP AND THE POWDER!
text: The gun clicks harmlessly and, as the confused Officer
text: stares, trying to figure out what just happened, Oishi lashes
text: the blade up and BISECTS HIS ENORMOUS HEAD.
text: Making his move, Oishi staggers out of the room, the Kapitan
text: roaring behind him.
speaker_heading: KAPITAN
dialog: TO ARMS! TO ARMS!!
scene_heading: EXT. DEJIMA - CONTINUOUS
text: OISHI’'S POV: The drugs hit FULL-EFFECT and reality slips
text: into a WHORLING NIGHTMARE LANDSCAPE.
text: As GARGANTUAN DUTCHMEN come running to aid their Kapitan,
text: Oishi ducks into the labyrinth of cargo crates, making his
text: way toward where he last saw his men.
text: BACK IN THE KAPITAN’S OFFICE - the Dutch leader BUSTS OPEN
text: the ARMS CHEST and starts handing out weaponry to his men:
scene_heading: PISTOLS, CUTLASSES, CURTAL AXES...
speaker_heading: BACK TO OISHI
text: Making his way through the maze when --
text: Suddenly, TWO DUTCHMEN race around the corner. The one with
text: the pistol FIRES, but Oishi reacts instantly, whipping the
text: flat of his blade up as a narrow, VERTICAL SHIELD and bracing
text: with both hands as -- SPANGGG! -- the bullet RICOCHETS OFF!
dialog: 52.
text: As he tries to reload, Dutchman #2 ROARS DEFIANTLY and
text: CHARGES with a naval cutlass -- but as he swings, Oishi SLAPS
text: THE BLADE DOWN with the flat of his left hand and HACKS THE
text: MAN'S HEAD FROM HIS SHOULDERS with his right.
text: No time to reload, the Pistoleer flips the gun around to use
text: as a club. When he swings, Oishi HALF-STEPS BACK and the
text: butt of the pistol SWISHES PAST his face to OBLITERATE a
dialog: wooden crate!
text: Oishi then HALF-STEPS FORWARD and separates the titan’s arm
text: from the rest of his body.
text: Oishi continues on, arriving at --
speaker_heading: THE OPIUM DEN
text: A Dutch attendant rises -- but then falls back as his legs
text: are HEWN from his trunk.
text: Myth blends with reality as Oishi moves through, DRAGONS OF
text: SMOKE swirling around the room. Dozens of Japanese lay
text: everywhere in an opium stupor. Fallen samurai, ruined
dialog: geishas.
text: Oishi finds HANJO laying on the floor.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (shaking him)
dialog: Hanjo!
text: Hanjo opens his eyes, struggling to rise from his narcosis.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: Oishi... You came. They made
dialog: me... They made--
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I know. Where are the others?
text: Hanjo points to a BACK ROOM. But suddenly -- BLAM! -- a
text: pistol ball flips the collar of Oishi’s kimono, so close it
text: actually SINGES the silk.
text: Oishi turns on the GUNMAN standing in the doorway, then
text: springs forward and LANCES the man through the heart so fast
dialog: we almost miss it.
text: Then he’s back by Hanjo’s side.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We have to go. Now.
text: Oishi hefts Hanjo to his feet and races into the back room
text: just as the Kapitan and his men storm the den.
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: INT. OPIUM DEN - BACK ROOM
dialog: Lockdown for problem slaves...
text: With pistol balls thunking into the wood around them, Oishi
text: slams the heavy door closed behind them.
text: Instantly, two Dutchmen rise, one brandishing a pistol, but
text: before he can get off a shot, Oishi slices up, CHOPPING OFF
text: the man’s hand with the pistol -- which Hanjo GRABS OUT OF
text: MID-AIR and FIRES POINT BLANK into the face of giant #2.
text: Stopping #1’s screams with a nonchalant cut, Oishi turns to
text: find ten of his men secured to the wall by CHAINS around
dialog: their necks.
text: Oishi’s men can’t believe their eyes.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Blademaster. .?
text: Oishi CLEAVES the wood beam their chain runs through, FREEING
dialog: them all.
text: ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR
text: the Dutch giants BATTER at the wood as the Kapitan watches on
text: in a fury.
speaker_heading: BACK INSIDE
text: Oishi sees the wood grain in the door begin to separate.
text: There’s no escape. No time left.
text: One of the older ronin, OKUDA, kneels before Oishi.
speaker_heading: OKUDA
dialog: Let us at least die with honor.
text: And he exposes his neck for a clean strike. Oishi considers.
text: Then raises his sword high and CLEAVES DOWN!
text: But not through Okuda’s neck. Through the FLOORPLANKS to the
text: CRAWLSPACE below.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You have duty yet to fulfill,
dialog: samurai.
text: ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR
text: The Dutch use all their might and CRASH THROUGH THE DOOR --
text: just in time to see Oishi disappearing down the rabbit hole.
dialog: 54.
text: BOOM-BOOM-BOOM!! They unload a hellfire of pistols, but the
text: ronin are already gone.
scene_heading: EXT. OPIUM DEN - CONTINUOUS
text: A squealing wave of rats comes surging from beneath the
text: building, followed by Oishi and his men.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Run for the dock! Let nothing stop
dialog: you!
text: And as a swarm of Dutchmen race around the corner, Oishi
text: turns and dispatches them while the ronin run. Oishi is Jack
text: the Giant Killer, cutting down hulking barbarians and buying
text: time for his men -- until the Kapitan rages forward with
text: sixty armed men.
text: Then Oishi, too, turns and runs, cutting a rope that secures
text: a stack of cargo which comes TUMBLING DOWN, CRUSHING one of
text: their enemies and HAMPERING the pursuit.
scene_heading: EXT. DEJIMA - CONTINUOUS
text: Oishi and his men run, a hailstorm of lead ripping past as
text: they charge out onto the dock -- a quarter-mile of stone
text: standing between them and freedom.
text: BEHIND THEM, the Dutch begin to gain. Firing. Firing.
text: WITH OISHI AND HIS MEN RUNNING ACROSS THE DOCK - as bullets
text: start finding their marks. One ronin’s head EXPLODES.
text: Another is GUTSHOT and falls behind. Hanjo goes down with a
text: bullet in his thigh -- but Oishi is there, hefting him up and
text: RACING DOWN THE FINAL STRETCH.
text: THE DUTCH try to reload while they chase, but give up,
text: drawing KNIVES and CUTLASSES instead. Pouring on the steam.
text: GAINING UNTIL THE KAPITAN IS ONLY FEET AWAY --
text: And just as he hauls back to bury his cutlass in Oishi’s
dialog: skull --
text: Oishi DIVES, dragging Hanjo with him...onto Japanese soil.
text: The Dutch skid to a stop at the end of the dock, millimeters
text: from crossing the line.
text: Oishi stares up from the ground at his pursuers, breathing
text: hard, separated by an invisible wall. Safe.
text: The Kapitan stares hatefully at Oishi, a seething inferno of
text: impotent fury. With a roar, he reaches into his shoulder and
text: pulls out the wicked spike -- nearly a foot of bloody wood --
text: and casts it aside.
dialog: 55.
text: Then, as he and his men retreat back down the dock, Oishi
text: slumps exhausted to the ground, and we--
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: A SMALL CAMPFIRE
text: The survivors from Dejima have camped in a wooded spot for
text: the night. All of the men are sleeping, save for Hanjo, who
text: shivers mercilessly from opium withdrawl.
text: Oishi lifts a small bubbling pot from the fire.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Here. Drink this.
text: With trembling hands, Hanjo does.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: (ashamed)
dialog: Look at me...
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I do. In pride.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: What is there to be proud of? I am
dialog: weak. Even now I crave the opium,
dialog: Oishi.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: The opium craves itself. And that
dialog: will pass.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But the man I see before me was
dialog: willing to sacrifice all, to reduce
dialog: himself beyond what is endurable
dialog: without thought for himself, in the
dialog: hopes of one day returning honor to
dialog: his lord’s name.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No, the man I see before
dialog: me...humbles me by his example of
dialog: bushido.
text: Oishi bows his head and Hanjo lets the moment infuse him,
text: settle into the deep steel of his soul. Strengthen him.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: So how can I help?
speaker_heading: OISHI (VO)
dialog: These are the names of all the Ako
dialog: samurai.
speaker_heading: MATCH TO:
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: HILLTOP - DAWN
text: Oishi draws his tanto...and SLICES it through a LIST OF NAMES
text: he holds before him. He severs the paper into eight equal
text: portions, then hands one out to each man.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: All must be contacted.
text: The men bow. But only Hanjo does not have a list. He turns
text: to Oishi, empty handed.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: But what of me? I am able --
text: Oishi quiets him with a gesture, then withdraws SMALL SCROLL
text: from his robe. Presses it into Hanjo’s hands.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Find him.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS - THE GATHERING OF THE RONIN ACROSS JAPAN
text: As the SUN and MUSIC both RISE dramatically, Oishi and his
text: ronin strike off in all eight directions of the compass.
dialog: Now INTERCUT between:
text: -- ISOGAI traveling along a mountain path, seasonal rains
dialog: making for slow going.
text: -- OKUDA trekking through a land of hot springs
text: -- HANJO making his way along the coast to a seaport
scene_heading: village. SMASH TO:
text: -- EXT. A PEACEFUL RIVER. One of Asano’s older samurai,
text: HAZAMA (68) now sits in a boat as a peasant, using a pet
text: CORMORANT on a leash to catch sweetfish. When he rows in, he
text: is surprised to find Oishi waiting for him...
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: It is time.
scene_heading: -- INT. SUMO STABLE. Two beheamoth rikishi (wrestlers)
text: collide with a titanic clash. The larger of the two is
text: BASHO, one of Asano’s ronin. They struggle mightily...until
text: Basho sees ISOGAI watching in the doorway. Isogai flashes
text: Lord Asano’s FAMILY CREST and Basho ROARS, pitching his
text: opponent out of the ring with superhuman strength to end the
dialog: bout...
text: -- And as HANJO pays for passage aboard a ship to cross the
dialog: sea...
dialog: 57.
text: -- A DRUNKARD in a bar gulps down his sake...only to find
text: Asano'’s CREST at the bottom of his glass. He turns to look
text: and finds OKUDA beside him...
text: -- A BEGGAR squats at a bridge calling for alms when Asano’s
text: CREST clinks into his donation blanket. He touches it and
text: looks up...to see ISOGAI before him...
text: -- LABORERS straining to lift giant stones against a slope
text: for the foundation of a castle when BASHO appears. Three
text: familiar faces instantly drop what they’re doing and move to
dialog: him. ..
text: -- In China, HANJO speaks to a Mercenary Officer, who ties
text: Oishi’s scroll onto the leg of a hawk and urges the bird
dialog: skyward...
text: -- A MONK is in meditation outside his temple. When he
text: opens his eyes, he is surprised to see ASANO’S CREST before
dialog: him.
text: -- Ina sapling forest, a group of BRIGANDS spring from
text: concealment to rob a traveller...only to find the traveller
text: is HAZAMA bearing Asano’s CREST. The Brigand Chief, one of
text: Asano’s principal retainers, kneels and weeps at Hazama’s
dialog: feet.
text: -- Ina rice paddy, a FARMER and his WIFE are harvesting
text: knee-deep in muck when a shadow falls over them. It’s Oishi.
scene_heading: AERIAL SHOT - SKIMMING ABOVE CHINA
text: We’re on a visual rollercoaster ride FOLLOWING the falcon as
dialog: it navigates the wild air currents over Mongol China. We
text: wheel through the sail rigging of junks on the river, then
text: barely skim over the top of the Great Wall --
text: -- to REVEAL a MASSIVE DUST CLOUD where an EPIC BATTLE is
dialog: underway.
text: In no time, we fly into it. ARROWS fly past like a steel-
text: tipped rainstorm.
text: The falcon doesn’t care, dipping down into the carnage where
text: we see a company of MERCENARIES battling against the MONGOL
speaker_heading: HORDES.
text: We fly just overhead, the machinery of war turning men into
text: mincemeat, until the falcon spots what it’s looking for: the
text: STANDARD of the merc company.
text: Dodging crazily through sword swipes and speartips, the
text: falcon makes it to the STANDARD BEARER and lands on his
dialog: shoulder.
dialog: 58.
text: The man glances at SCROLL the falcon carries, then runs
dialog: forward to find --
speaker_heading: MINORU
text: at the heart of the hottest fighting. The man is a tireless
text: whirlwind of destruction, letting his two swords unleash all
dialog: the anger he’s ever felt over his ignoble birth, the loss of
text: Mika. He takes out one Mongol with an ankle-severing strike
text: known as Harvesting Rice, then two more in an acrobatic
dialog: maneuver called Mantis Catches the Fly.
text: At a momentary break in the battle, the Standard Bearer runs
dialog: up to Minoru.
speaker_heading: STANDARD BEARER
dialog: A message!
text: Minoru takes the scroll. Cracks the seal and reads the paper
dialog: within. It reads:
dialog: It is time.
dialog: It’s signed by Oishi.
text: As Minoru looks at the paper, BEHIND HIM a GIGANTIC
text: NEANDERTHAL MONGOL RISES UP!
text: Seeing him too late, the Standard Bearer panics as the Mongol
text: swings his GREAT DIRE AXE --
text: But Minoru turns and dispatches the giant with a casual
text: swipe. Then SHEATHES his swords.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: I am needed.
text: And Minoru begins to WALK AWAY.
speaker_heading: STANDARD BEARER
dialog: What?! Where do you think you’re
dialog: going?! Minoru!
text: And just like that, he walks away from the battle.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SENGAKUJI GRAVEYARD - NIGHT
text: A sea fog has rolled in from the coast, lending the moment a
text: serene, spiritual feel.
text: Oishi kneels before Lord Asano’s grave in prayer. The knife
text: with which young Asano took his own life sits with honor on a
text: small length of silk before him.
dialog: 59.
text: Quiet footsteps behind him bring him from meditation.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: Sir... The men have gathered.
text: But when Oishi opens his eyes, there is a curious look on
text: Hanjo’s face.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: There are less than expected.
scene_heading: EXT. SENGAKUJI TEMPLE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Oishi quickly makes his way down the foggy path toward the
text: temple. The glow of many lanterns blaze through the mist
dialog: ahead.
text: Oishi mounts the temple steps and ascends --
speaker_heading: INSIDE
text: And where he expects to find Asano’s three-hundred-and-fifty
text: loyal samurai warriors, fully-armed and ready to restore
dialog: their Lord’s name to glory --
text: He is shocked to find only forty-three...
text: Oishi stares at the men, a quarter of them in their fifties
text: and sixties. One of them, HORIBE, is even in his late
dialog: seventies.
text: And there isn’t a stitch of steel between them.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Where are the others?
text: Oishi stands momentarily dumbfounded. A man awaking from a
dialog: dream of heaven...only to find himself in hell.
text: Finally, an elderly warrior (CHUZAEMON) speaks up.
speaker_heading: CHUZAEMON
dialog: We were once 350 strong. Now look
dialog: at us.
speaker_heading: MURAMATSU KIMURA
dialog: We're only 45. You promised us honor, Oishi!
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: We should have fought! What good
dialog: are we now?
dialog: 60.
text: The moment turns quiet. Despairing.
text: Nearby, Sujo’s FALCON ruffles its feathers, sending a snow of
text: downy underfeathers to the temple floor.
text: Oishi steps forward.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: What good are we now?
text: Oishi extends his arm and takes the bird from Sujo. Removes
dialog: its hood.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Look at this falcon. Powerful.
text: Proud. Utterly without fear. His
dialog: skill at flying makes him the
text: unmatched hunter in the sky.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Yet despite the thousands of
text: feathers that cover the falcon’s
dialog: body...only twenty give it flight.
text: Oishi swings his arm, casting the falcon into the air where
text: it BEATS THE AIR POWERFULLY with its wings, SOARING back to
text: Sujo. It settles on his wrist with a proud, noble shriek.
text: There’s real power in the moment. Each man stares at the
text: bird...then turns back to Oishi, who meets every one of their
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You are the ones that came back.
dialog: You are the strongest, most loyal
dialog: samurai of the Asano clan. Will
dialog: you fight with me?
text: There is a beat as every man searches his soul, the decision
dialog: hanging in the balance until --
speaker_heading: VOICE (0S)
dialog: I will fight.
text: Everyone turns to see MINORU stride into the chamber. His
dialog: time in the mercenary company has hardened him. Honed him.
text: He is a serious warrior now.
text: The campaigneer meets the gaze of every man in the room,
dialog: challenging.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: I may not be samurai, but I owe
dialog: everything that I am to Lord
dialog: Asano...and I’m willing to give my
dialog: life if I can help you avenge his
dialog: death.
dialog: 61.
text: One by one, the others stand. The tide turns and soon
text: everyone has risen.
text: Oishi looks at the forty-six loyal men standing before him --
text: ranging in age from 24 to 77 -- all willing to die for what
dialog: they believe in.
dialog: It’s not nearly enough...
dialog: But they will have to make do.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Then we are forty-six united.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0S)
dialog: Forty-seven.
text: Oishi turns to see --
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
text: -- entering the ring of men. The sixteen-year-old moves to
text: stand before his father; a boy on the precipice of manhood.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: Asano was my Lord as well.
dialog: Oishi considers his son’s words...
text: Then suddenly HURLS a sword at him lightning fast! Chikara
text: CATCHES the blade by the hilt with ease.
text: In his RIGHT hand.
text: Oishi meets his son’s eyes with respect...and nods.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (with finality)
dialog: Then if the gods will it...we shall
dialog: fight as forty-seven.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SENGAKUJI TEMPLE - LATE NIGHT
text: Many of the men are still talking, catching up. Others
text: sleep. Oishi is sitting beside a small fire, contemplating
text: his son who dozes peacefully nearby, when Minoru quietly
text: walks over and sits down.
text: Minoru speaks quietly so as not to wake the boy.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: (re: Chikara)
text: He’s grown.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: So have you. You look like
dialog: Hachiman.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: I feel like him. Ancient.
text: Eternally exhausted.
text: Oishi looks at Minoru, genuine mirth touches his features.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: It is good to see you again,
dialog: Minoru.
text: The two fall into a peaceful silence. But it cannot last and
text: dissolves into more serious matters at hand.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Lady Asano?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (nods )
dialog: Alive.
text: Minoru reads between the lines.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: What aren’t you telling me?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: She is to be married to Kira on the
text: eve of the new moon.
dialog: We sense it takes every ounce of iron control Minoru has to
dialog: keep from going after her that very second.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Then how shall we proceed?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: To fight a war, an army needs two
text: things: fire in its belly and
dialog: steel in its hand... The first we
dialog: have.
dialog: (dramatic beat)
dialog: Now it’s time to get the latter.
text: And as the two men meet eyes, HARD CUT TO:
scene_heading: ECU - A JAPANESE WOODBLOCK
text: with an image carved in relief. Carefully, an ARTISAN coats
text: the surface with ink, then presses a large canvas against it,
text: creating an amazing WOODBLOCK PRINT of Mt. Fuji at sunrise as
text: seen from a busy marketplace at Edo.
dialog: 63.
text: Now TILT UP from the canvas to reveal the exact same
dialog: image...but this time it’s real. We are:
scene_heading: EXT. CITY MARKETPLACE - OUTSIDE EDO - DAY
text: The Artisan’s quarter. Metalsmiths’ Alley, specifically.
text: Chikara wanders through in wonder. Past Isogai who
text: critically examines a sword maker’s wares. Then on past
text: another stall where Minoru is doing the same -- until his eye
text: catches on something in particular.
text: Minoru lifts a smooth white cube from the table.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: How much for the block of ivory?
speaker_heading: VENDOR
dialog: Set it down, halfbreed. We don’t
dialog: sell to your kind.
text: But Minoru is used to this. Simply pulls his entire coin
text: belt and sets it down. Ten times what the thing is worth.
dialog: Everything he’s ever saved.
text: The vendor stares at the money...and his prejudice is
text: overcome by practical greed.
speaker_heading: VENDOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Take it and go. And don’t tell
dialog: anyone where you bought it!
text: Chikara continues on, to where he hears his father ahead.
speaker_heading: OISHI (0S)
dialog: And these are your best fighting
dialog: pieces?
text: Chikara joins his father at a swordsmith’s stall, where Oishi
text: is inspecting a regal-looking katana.
speaker_heading: SWORDMAKER
dialog: The highest quality in all Edo.
dialog: Officially recognized by the
dialog: Emperor.
text: Working the bellows in the rear of the stall, an elderly ONE-
text: ARMED AINU (an aboriginal Japanese) CHUCKLES at the
dialog: Swordmaker’s sales pitch. The guy is 80 if he’s a day and
text: has a beard to his navel.
text: The Swordmaker throws an irritated glance to shut him up, and
text: tries to continue.
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: SWORDMAKER (CONT’D)
dialog: Examine the detail of the
dialog: scrollwork. So delicate. So
dialog: beautiful --
text: In response, the Ainu blows his nose like a trumpet, using
text: his dirty beard as a Kleenex, and laughs like a madman.
text: The Swordmaker has had enough, hurling a handful of iron
text: tsuba at the toothless old man.
speaker_heading: SWORDMAKER (CONT’D)
dialog: I’1ll teach you to cackle, you
dialog: filthy dung monkey!
text: The Ainu skitters back into the shadows. As the Swordmaker
text: goes to chase him away, Chikara picks up the regal sword.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: These are the ones we are looking
dialog: for, right, Father? They are
text: beautiful blades.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: And nothing more.
text: Chikara is confused. Oishi takes the beautiful blade from
text: his hands and explains patiently. A good teacher. A great
dialog: father.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: The steel tells all. Ifa
text: swordmaker is lazy and folds the
dialog: metal only a handful of times, the
dialog: carbon doesn’t get distributed and
text: the iron remains soft.
text: Oishi presses on the sword edge with his thw --
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: Careful, Father!
text: -- but rather than cut him, the metal BENDS like butter. The
text: sight impresses Chikara...but affects Oishi in a deeper way.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: How many samurai have been sent to
dialog: their deaths with a weapon like
dialog: this in their hands?
dialog: (shakes his head sadly)
dialog: Terrible...
text: Oishi slides the blade back into its scabbard just as the
text: Swordmaker returns.
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: SWORDMAKER
dialog: I’m sorry about that foul creature.
dialog: Now, let us back to business --
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Clearly you are a master
dialog: swordmaker...but I’m afraid this is
dialog: far beyond what we could afford.
dialog: (bows humbly)
dialog: I thank you for your time.
speaker_heading: SWORDMAKER
dialog: Thank me in future by not wasting
dialog: it!
text: As Oishi continues down the line of stalls, Chikara’s
text: attention is drawn to a commotion down the alley.
text: Three brash samurai -- Noto HARES from their armor -- make
text: their way through the street, shouting drunkenly and sharply
text: slapping people aside with the flat of their blades.
speaker_heading: HARE LEADER
dialog: Move, you louts!
text: Merchants and customers scramble to get out of their way. As
text: they near the stall where Chikara stands, the leader of the
text: Hares turns to a pretty FRUIT VENDOR GIRL in her stall.
speaker_heading: HARE LEADER (CONT'D)
dialog: We are hungry. Have you any winter
dialog: melons?
speaker_heading: FRUIT VENDOR GIRL
dialog: No, my lords --
speaker_heading: NOTO HARE #1
dialog: Lies! She hides them here!
text: #1 suddenly grabs her and tears her silk robes open, exposing
text: her generous bosom.
speaker_heading: NOTO HARE #1 (CONT’D)
dialog: I ask you, are those not melons?!
text: The men laugh as she struggles to cover up, and #1 is giving
text: her breasts a rough squeeze when the HARE LEADER turns and
text: sees Chikara staring at him.
speaker_heading: HARE LEADER
dialog: Is there a problem, peasant?
text: Chikara hesitates. Knows he shouldn’t say anything, but --
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: Yes. There is.
dialog: 66.
text: The Hares stop and turn on Chikara, who doesn’t back an inch.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: Samurai are supposed to protect
dialog: their people, not prey upon them.
speaker_heading: NOTO HARE #2
dialog: How dare you speak so insolently to
dialog: your betters!
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: I see no betters before me.
text: There’s a dangerous moment. The Leader steps forward.
speaker_heading: HARE LEADER
dialog: The farmer's got a little pluck in
dialog: him.
dialog: (turns to Hare #2)
dialog: Cut it out.
text: Hare #2 draws his sword with relish, and as he goes to slap
dialog: Chikara with the flat of the blade --
text: And in that instant, Chikara’s instinct overrules all
text: rational thought. Completely on reflex, Chikara sidesteps
text: the blow and trap-locks the sword out of #2'’s hands. Before
text: the Hares can blink, the sword is now in Chikara’s hands and -
text: - WHAMMM!! -- he smashes #2 across the face with it.
text: Teeth go flying and #2 drops like a felled tree.
text: All this happens within a single heartbeat.
text: The Hares look at one another -- this is no simple farmer.
text: Now the Leader draws his weapons, two double daggers known as
text: RABBIT’S TEETH, and springs at Chikara, unleashing an INTENSE
text: FLURRY OF BLOWS.
text: Chikara stumbles back, surprised by the speed and ferocity of
text: the strikes. Chikara blocks, but quickly finds himself so
text: overwhelmed by the onslaught...
text: ...that he makes a fatal mistake and INSTINCTIVELY SWITCHES
text: HIS SWORD TO HIS DOMINANT LEFT HAND.
speaker_heading: THE HARE LEADER
text: sees opening and as he moves to deliver the death blow --
text: CLACKK! The Hare Leader’s dual blades are blocked by a
text: WALKING STICK.
dialog: 67.
text: The Leader whips around -- to confront a man standing before
text: him. OISHI. There’s a moment...then the Leader recognizes
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: HARE LEADER
dialog: Ronin..!
text: All around, thirty ears perk up at the word. Instantly,
text: Oishi and his men go for weapons, ready to fight -- but the
text: Hares do what they what they do best and TAKE OFF RUNNING to
dialog: alert their daimyo.
text: Oishi turns to his men.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: If they get away, our plans are
dialog: doomed.
text: Without another word, Hanjo and Isogai take off after Noto
text: Hare #1, while Oishi and Minoru follow the Hare Leader,
text: leaving Chikara alone in the dust.
speaker_heading: THE HARE LEADER
text: Trained as a runner since birth, the Leader sprints through
text: the maze of Edo streets, desperately fast, rounding corners,
text: leaping off walls, shoving anyone to the ground who gets in
dialog: his way.
text: MINORU does his best to stay on his heels, but the bastard’s
text: unbelievably fast.
text: OISHI quickly realizes he won’t be able to keep up, and uses
text: his brain instead of his feet, cutting down an adjacent
text: alleyway, hoping to get ahead of the chase while --
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
text: is in hot pursuit of Noto Hare #1. As nearly 60-year-old
text: Hanjo starts to wheeze and fall back, Isogai calls out --
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Don’t worry, old man, I’ve got it!
text: And Isogai takes off at speed, the entire hopes of the 47
text: ronin resting on his shoulders.
text: Hare #1 runs like a rabbit before the hounds. Were he not
dialog: drunk, he would certainly leave Isogai in the dust, but his
text: legs have lost their split-second timing and fleetness.
text: And Isogai is gaining.
dialog: 68.
text: Watching his pursuer over his shoulder more than the way
text: ahead, Hare #1 rounds a corner -- and finds himself in a dead
dialog: end alley.
dialog: But just when we think he’1ll stop, he doesn’t -- and runs
dialog: straight for the alley wall! With every ounce of speed he
text: can muster he LEAPS at the stones and REBOUNDS off them,
text: sailing over the head of Isogai and toward freedom --!!
text: But Isogai reaches up and grabs a foot as he passes -- and
text: SLAMS him down to the earth. WHAM!!
text: Now a desperate scrabble ensues, Hare #1 wielding his double
text: short swords like steel incisors. Isogai and he grapple on
text: the ground, but the Hare’s moves are blazingly fast and he’s
text: armored. Isogai’s attempts to harm him are thwarted by the
text: steel and slowly, the fight turns. Hare #1 gets the upper
text: hand, double blades poised above Isogai’s chest, and just as
text: he’s about to stab down --
text: TWO ELDERLY HANDS reach into frame, grip Hare #1’s helm and
text: WRENCH IT VIOLENTLY AROUND -- KRRRAAAACCKK! -- BREAKING his
dialog: neck.
text: Hare #1 drops, boneless as a doll, and Isogai looks up at his
text: savior. HANJO stands there.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: (pointedly)
dialog: Old man?
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: I’m never going to hear the end of
dialog: this, am I?
text: Hanjo just smiles and we SLAM BACK TO--
scene_heading: THE NOTO HARE LEADER
text: racing through the streets, Minoru hot on his heels. He
text: tries to lose his pursuer by taking a shortcut beneath a
dialog: building on stilts --
text: -- to find his only means of escape BLOCKED as OISHI’s shape
text: fills the exit. The Leader turns to double back, but now
text: Minoru blocks that way as well.
text: The Hare Leader's eyes flick back and forth wildly. He’s
text: trapped. And as Oishi and Minoru draw their weapons and
text: start closing in for the kill in perfect synchronicity, the
text: Leader sighs, knowing he’s well and truly fucked...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 69.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY MARKETPLACE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Chikara stands at the Fruit Vendor Girl’s stall making sure
dialog: she’s okay.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: Are you certain you are all right?
text: She refuses to make eye contact. A moment later, her FATHER
text: steps up and pushes Chikara away. Glares at him.
speaker_heading: GIRL’S FATHER
dialog: You aren't welcome here. Your kind
dialog: only brings trouble.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: I don’t understand. I came to your
dialog: aid --
speaker_heading: GIRL’S FATHER
dialog: You are ronin. You are a disgrace.
dialog: Nothing you do will ever change
dialog: that.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Now go.
text: Shocked, Chikara looks around...and sees the entire
text: marketplace FOCUSED on him. Looks of disdain. Anger.
dialog: Hatred.
dialog: And for the first time for Chikara, what it truly means to be
text: ronin hits home.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CITY - LATER
text: The five ronin have regathered. Minoru sits beneath a tree,
text: carving the block of ivory he bought. In the b.g., Hanjo and
text: Isogai dump the bodies of the slain Hares in the river.
text: Now PAN OVER TO REVEAL Chikara sitting on a rock, removed
dialog: from the group.
text: After a moment, Oishi approaches his son. Sits beside him.
text: Neither says a word, until finally --
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Listen, Chikara... The only
dialog: advantage we have against Kira, the
dialog: only possible chance, is by means
dialog: of surprise. They must continue to
dialog: think we are broken and not a
dialog: threat.
dialog: (beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: You weren’t thinking. You must
dialog: suppress your pride. There will be
dialog: a time to fight. This is not it.
text: Humiliated, Chikara looks up at his father.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: Do you wish me to go home?
text: Oishi considers...then shakes his head.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: No. We are only 47. We cannot
dialog: afford to lose a single blade...
text: Chikara bows his head in shame as Oishi rises and strides
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. RURAL ROAD - LATER
text: Minoru walks beside Chikara, who is drowning in a sea of self-
dialog: doubt.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: I am so...ashamed.
text: Minoru looks him in the eye. Man to man.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Then redeem yourself.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: But, I’m cursed. No matter how
dialog: hard I try to suppress it, my left
dialog: hand is dominant. If not for my
dialog: father intervening back there...
text: Chikara doesn’t finish the thought. It’s too terrible.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: You mustn’t dwell on what’s past.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: That’s easy for you to say. My
dialog: father respects you.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Perhaps...but the rest of the world
dialog: does not. And never will.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: My whole life I have known that I
dialog: can never be a samurai...but that
dialog: hasn’t prevented me from living as
dialog: though I could.
dialog: 71.
text: Chikara looks up at Minoru.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: You must take what you think holds
dialog: you back and find a way to turn it
dialog: into a strength.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: But how?
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: You are your father’s son. You’ll
dialog: figure it out.
text: There is kindness in Minoru’s look. And strength. It’s just
text: the salve for Chikara’s wounded pride. Minoru walks away,
dialog: and as Chikara processes what he’s said --
scene_heading: SFX: SOMEONE GIGGLES BEHIND CHIKARA.
text: Chikara turns to look...but sees no one there.
text: Chikara continues walking -- and stops short when the MAD
text: GIGGLING recommences. He spins around, and this time he sees
text: the ONE-ARMED AINU tottering after him, almost upon him.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: .-hee-hee...i know who you
dialog: are...hee-hee...I know what you’re
dialog: looking for...
text: As the toothless old vagabond nears him, Chikara backs away
text: in panic and trips, falling flat on his ass. The Ainu
text: descends on him, greasy beard falling in Chikara’s face.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU (CONT'D)
dialog: --.i know...iknowiknowiknow..
dialog: heeheeeheeeee...
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: Aaauughh!
text: In an instant, Oishi and the others are there. Hanjo uses
text: the point of his sword to back the Ainu away.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: Leave him be, old one!
text: But even then, the wizened creature can only giggle.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: I know who you are! Lord Asano’s
dialog: men! Lord Asano’s ronin come
dialog: looking for weapons.
text: Minoru and the others look to Oishi, concerned.
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Should I kill him?
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: Kill me? When I’m the only one in
dialog: the city who knows how to find good
dialog: blades, real blades, instead of
dialog: these...ornaments.
text: He spits out the last word with disgust.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Where?
text: The Ainu begins coughing theatrically, leaning heavily on his
dialog: walking staff.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: So dry out today, is it not? A man
dialog: can hardly...(cough, cough)...clear
text: his throat to speak. A little
dialog: drink would ease my--
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Answer him, you little beggar!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Isogai.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
text: The tavern is not far. Out of
dialog: town. Away from trouble. Away
dialog: from pesky little rabbits.
text: The Ainu indicates behind Oishi with his eyes. Oishi turns
text: and sees two Noto Hares walking down the road.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (turning back to the Ainu)
dialog: Lead us.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TAVERN - OUTSIDE THE CITY - LATER
text: Oishi’s men sit around as the One-Armed Ainu loudly finishes
text: a bowl of soup and uses his beard as a napkin. But when he
text: signals for a refill of his sake cup, Isogai explodes.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Why are we wasting our time?! He
dialog: knows nothing! He’s simply trying
dialog: to beg sake off us!
dialog: 73.
text: But before Isogai has finished his rant, the old man slides
text: his walking stick apart to reveal THE MOST BEAUTIFUL EXAMPLE
text: OF SWORDMAKING WE HAVE EVER SEEN.
text: Even Minoru, completely engrossed in carving his ivory block,
text: looks up in wonder.
text: In his hands, the Ainu holds a DOUBLE-EDGED KATANA, polished
text: mirror bright. Like liquid silver. A steel dream...
text: Words choke in Isogai’s throat. Oishi stares in open
text: astonishment at the quality.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Koto blade...
text: From the reverence in his tone, we can tell it’s the Holy
dialog: Grail of swordmaking.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: How. .?
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: The rest of Japan may have
dialog: forgotten the true art of
dialog: swordmaking...but the Ainu have
dialog: not.
text: And_ as the old man begins to tell the story, PUSH IN on the
text: coals in the brazier on the table and --
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: A RIVER OF FLOWING LAVA
dialog: -- snaking beneath the earth. We are:
scene_heading: INT. MT. FUJI
text: -- where we FOLLOW the lava flow through a maze of VOLCANIC
text: TUNNELS formed of solidified molten rock. Orange light
text: suffuses the tunnels, making them glow. From somewhere
text: ahead, and the sound of SMITHS’ HAMMERS can be heard.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU (VO)
text: Frustrated at the deterioration of
dialog: the swordmaking art, the
dialog: descendants of legendary swordmaker
text: Amakuni retreated into the lava
text: tunnels beneath Mt. Fuji to
dialog: rediscover their ancestor’s lost
dialog: techniques.
dialog: 74.
text: Now we round a bend in the tunnel and enter Hell’s Foundry --
text: an awesome chamber of stalactites and stalagmites where an
text: army of ONI (fierce Japanese demons) work iron into steel
text: using bubbling calderas of lava as their furnace.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU (VO) (CONT'D)
dialog: Down there in the dark, they used
text: the earth as their forge. With no
dialog: sun to tell the time, the
dialog: swordmakers worked relentlessly,
dialog: day and night, caring only for
text: their craft, their bodies changing,
text: becoming muscled from the hammer,
text: their skin baked red as kiln bricks
text: from the unending heat, their eyes
text: seared milky white from staring at
text: the glow of molten metal.
text: CLOSE IN on the largest of the Oni as he pulls a GIGANTIC
text: BLADE from a lava pot. It glows cherry red as he places it
text: on an iron deposit and raises a MASSIVE HAMMER to shape it--
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU (VO) (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But all that mattered was the
dialog: sword.
text: The Oni SMASHES the hammer down with the force of a god.
text: CLAAAANGG! An EXPLOSION OF SPARKS burst from the metal, and
dialog: we --
scene_heading: MATCH BACK TO:
scene_heading: THE BRAZIER (INT. TAVERN) - CONTINUOUS
text: -- as the Ainu pokes the coals and sparks fly.
text: The tale has spellbound Oishi’s men. All except Isogai, who
text: rolls his eyes at the theatrics.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: The price for the blades is two-
dialog: fold. The first is your silence.
dialog: If the Emperor were to discover the
dialog: swordmakers, he would claim them
dialog: and the art would be lost forever.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: And what is the second?
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
text: Gold. Fifty kobans apiece.
text: Everyone reacts. Shocked. Outraged. Isogai physically
text: stumbles back from the figure.
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: MINORU HANJO
dialog: What?! Are you joking?!
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: I have heard enough! The man is
dialog: clearly a thief, Oishi! No one
dialog: makes koto blades anymore, the
text: secrets are gone. The blade is too
dialog: pretty. It would never stand up in
dialog: battle battle. It’s a fake!
text: At that, the Ainu rises.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: If it is a fake, then strike me
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Watch your words, old man. I’m
dialog: tempted to do just that!
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: Then strike at me.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: If you do not, then I will.
dialog: (beat )
dialog: Strike me!
text: When Isogai hesitates, the Ainu moves lightning fast,
text: snatching up his sword with his lone arm and ATTACKING!
text: Isogai reacts on decades of hard-drilled instinct, parrying
text: the blow -- CRAAANG! -- then CHOPPING the Ainu across the
text: middle, cleaving him in two!
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: You should not have struck at me,
dialog: old man. I regret that I had to
dialog: kill you.
text: But the Ainu doesn’t fall. And instead, starts to laugh.
speaker_heading: ONE-ARMED AINU
dialog: And I regret that you are in error.
dialog: You’ve done me no harm.
text: At this, the Ainu straightens and we see he’s completely
text: unharmed. Isogai gapes in awe...until he sees his blade
text: laying on the ground, SHATTERED. He’s been standing there
text: like an idiot, holding only the handle of his sword.
text: And the Ainu’s sword is untouched. Not a nick on it.
dialog: Nothing.
text: Oishi turns to him. And smiles.
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We'll take 47.
scene_heading: EXT. TAVERN - WIDE SHOT - LATER
text: As the group leaves the inn, Oishi SENSES someone or
text: something watching them from the dark forest.
text: Oishi turns. Scans the woods. But when he finds nothing, he
text: turns back and continues on his way.
text: It is only when Oishi is gone that a SHAPE moves from it’s
text: hiding place -- perched high in the shadows of a tree with
text: metal climbing claws on hands and feet. The most feared and
dialog: loathed type of mercenary in all of Japan.
text: The NINJA bounds impossibly from treetop to treetop, stalking
dialog: its prey...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNT FUJI - ESTABLISHING
text: The world’s most-recognizable stratovolcano stands
text: dramatically against the horizon, a THICK COLUMN OF ASH AND
text: SMOKE rising from its snowy cone.
text: At the base of the mountain --
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: -- leads a half-dozen of his ronin and a complement of
text: BEARERS pulling wagons through the bamboo forest known as the
text: “Sea of Trees”. Soon, a clearing reveals a STRUCTURE ON
text: STILTS built up against the side of the mountain.
text: Sitting abandoned for several years, the Lotus Peak looks
text: more like a haunted house than a tea room.
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED TEAHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Shrouded in cobwebs, dust and deep shadows...
text: The tea hall is a single greatroom, filled with shoji walls
dialog: that could subdivide the space into numerous private tea
dialog: rooms.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: I think we’ve been had.
text: Oishi says nothing, moving forward through the darkened
text: space. The others follow. And as they do...
dialog: 77.
text: We NOTICE the maze of shoji walls begin to SILENTLY SHIFT
text: around them. Unnoticed by Oishi’s men, the ricepaper walls
text: SLIDE into place, SEPARATING the group into smaller and
text: smaller factions. And just as the trap is about to spring --
text: OISHI notices a BROKEN COBWEB. And then another. And as his
text: eyes track a SERIES OF BROKEN COBWEBS up the walls and into
text: the shadows, realization hits --
dialog: Someone has scaled the walls! Someone is in here with us!
speaker_heading: OISHI
speaker_heading: SHINOBI!
text: Oishi whips his sword out and up before his face just as a
text: NINJA strikes from the ceiling shadows like a cobra, spitting
text: a SPRAY OF GREEN POISON in his face.
text: ECU AS THE POISON SPRAY hits the flat of Oishi’s blade and is
text: DEFLECTED into two separate streams away from Oishi’s nose
dialog: and_ mouth!
text: Oishi wheels away -- just in time to see a small clay BALL
text: with a LIT FUSE tossed among the samurai. BOOOOM!!
text: The Thunderclap goes off like a cannon, DEAFENING SOUND and
text: BLINDING LIGHT that reveals THE WALLS ARE CRAWLING WITH
speaker_heading: NINJA!
text: [SFX NOTE: As a result of the grenade, the only sound in the
text: following scene is the TINNY RINGING of Oishi’s ears.]
text: As the samurai try to shake off the effects of the blast, the
text: Ninja STRIKE. Smouldering flames illuminate glimpses of HOOK
text: AND CHAIN grabbing people under their chins and YANKING them
text: up into the darkness. Ninja MATERIALIZING from the shadows
text: and striking with SHURIKKEN, DISK HARPOONS, TIGER CLAWS.
text: ONE BEARER tries stay out of range of a ninja with a spear --
text: but realizes too late when it guts him from across the room
dialog: that the SPEAR IS EXTENDABLE!
text: It’s like the ambush out of Aliens. The ninja materialize
text: from the dark, attack with inhuman ferocity, then disappear
text: back into shadow.
text: THE BEARERS panic, dying in droves, while --
text: OISHI’'S MEN master their fear and battle for their lives.
text: Suddenly, a chain wraps around Oishi’s sword and RIPS IT AWAY
text: into the dark as another ninja attacks with ninja-to, the
text: distinctive ninja straight sword.
dialog: 78.
text: Reacting without thought, Oishi STEPS INTO THE ATTACK and
text: SLAPS THE BLADE ASIDE with the flat of his hand -- then grabs
text: the sword’s guard with his fingers and YANKS it out of the
text: ninja’s hands, dispatching him with a move called Flowing
dialog: Water.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Ronin, to me!
text: MINORU divides one dark warrior into four equal parts, then
text: turns -- as a NINJA POISONER rises from the dark before him!
text: The Poisoner spits like a snake, but Minoru is faster,
text: whipping his sword across the man’s neck -- and a GUSH OF
text: PURPLISH TOXIN rushes down the poisoner’s chest from his
dialog: gaping throat!
text: One by one OISHI AND HIS MEN fight their way to each other.
text: Battle back to back against the dark tide of assassins.
dialog: But the Ninja have numbers and surprise, forcing our heroes
dialog: into --
text: THE DEPTHS OF THE TEAHOUSE
text: -- where there are no windows. No doors.
dialog: And no hope for escape.
text: Oishi and his men fight like lions, battling against the
text: crush of assailants, but soon find their backs against the
text: teahouse’s rear wall. Nowhere else to go.
text: Razor-sharp spear points MATERIALIZE from the dark, followed
text: by the ninja warriors who carry them.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Come then, you faceless cowards.
dialog: (whips blood off his
dialog: sword
dialog: My blade still thirsts.
text: The Ninja spearmen CHARGE. Oishi GRABS a spear thrust at his
text: chest, stopping it from impaling him, but the kinetic force
text: behind the charge is enough to DRIVE HIM BACK into the wall --
text: -- AND THROUGH IT! Wood cracks and splinters as Oishi and
text: his men are propelled through the false rear wall of the
dialog: teahouse and into --
speaker_heading: A VOLCANIC TUNNEL
text: -- illuminated by pools of molten lava bubbling up through
dialog: the earth.
dialog: 79.
text: SFX: The demonic percussion of hammers on anvils resounds
text: from the dark ahead.
text: The ninja onslaught drives them toward it. Around a bend in
dialog: the tunnel and into --
speaker_heading: HELL'S FORGE
text: The secret Ainu swordworks within Mount Fuji.
text: Calderas of molten rock act as FORGES. Steam vents as
text: BELLOWS. Raw iron deposits as ANVILS.
text: Instantly, twenty monstrous OGRES look up from their
text: metalwork. Milky eyes glaring. Rotted teeth snarling.
text: Impossible muscles rippling beneath red, baked skin.
text: There is a terrible frozen moment, then -- CRRRRAAAASSHH!! --
text: an ENORMOUS HAMMER turns a chunk of volcanic rock to fine
dialog: dust an inch from Oishi’s face!
text: Oishi leaps back as a SCAR-FACED OGRE charges from the
text: shadows impossibly fast, BELLOWING, and strikes again.
text: Oishi blocks the blow with his sword -- which SHATTERS as if
text: it were made of glass.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Gods...
text: And as the inhuman beast strikes again --
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: As WAVES OF OGRES AND NINJAS crash against Oishi’s men,
text: crushing them in nightmarish battle. The ronin fight for
text: their lives in an impossible, terrifying three-way-battle!
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: is driven back by the Scar-Faced Ogre’s relentless assault.
text: Hammerblow after hammerblow whooshes past his face with
text: enough force to whip his hair wildly about his face.
text: But just as the Ogre lunges to strike again, Oishi reverses
text: his footwork and steps in to perform a move known as Dog
text: Steals Bone and DISARMS the brute, sending his hammer
text: thudding to the floor.
text: Defenseless, the Ogre freezes and Oishi STRIKES! But as
dialog: Ako'’s swordmaster swings --
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: pow (7 ot§ at Ogre)
text: Oishi shoves the monster down and THRUSTS his sword an inch
text: above its head -- to SKEWER a NINJA about to cleave the Ogre
dialog: in half!
dialog: 
text: Then Oishi darts off, running into the heart of the battle.
text: THE SCAR-FACED OGRE watches him go, realization dawning
text: across his brutish face the man could’ve killed him. That
dialog: the ronin are not enemies. But the ninja...
text: Scar-Face picks up his hammer and BELLOWS in his savage
text: tongue at his Ainu brethren.
speaker_heading: ALL AROUND
text: the Ogres immediately CEASE battling Oishi’s ronin...and turn
text: their fury on the ninja.
text: HANJO can’t believe it when the monster he’s fighting
text: suddenly turns and stands beside him to face two ninja with
text: chain and sickle.
text: BASHO is getting cut repeatedly by a quick little ninja
text: wielding two daggers when -- WHAM! -- a TITANIC MALLET
text: hammers the little bastard’s head down into his chest cavity.
text: The Ogre responsible steps from the dark and hands Basho an
dialog: extra mallet.
text: ISOGAI dispatches three ninja and turns in time to see a
text: nearby Ogre get his arm HACKED OFF AT THE ELBOW by a NAGINATA
text: NINJA. But the Ogre isn’t done fighting. Instead, it shoves
text: its bleeding stump deep into a red-hot brazier of coals,
text: cauterizing the wound, then ROARS and dispatches the Naginata
dialog: wielder.
speaker_heading: ISOGAI
dialog: Now that he didn’t expect!
text: But just then, a fresh wave of ninja enter the caves, led by
text: a familiar face -- the fearsome Ninja Clanlord -- who
text: dispatches three ogres with terrifying ease.
dialog: Seeing them coming --
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: tosses his broken sword aside and pulls an unfinished one
text: from the heat of an Ainu forge. The blade is amazingly
text: beautiful, GLOWING RED HOT like something out of legend.
dialog: 81.
text: When a ninja slashes at him, Oishi reflexively blocks with
text: the burning blade -- and SHATTERS the ninja’s weapon.
text: As the ninja tries to draw another weapon, Oishi QUENCHES the
text: molten blade in his belly. ssssSsssss! The ninja falls, his
text: clothes BURSTING INTO FLAME wherever the blade touches.
text: Oishi looks at the makers mark on the sword.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Koto blade...
text: Oishi grabs two more from the kiln and hurls them toward --
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Minoru!
speaker_heading: MINORU
text: dispatches two ninja with his shattered swords, only nubs of
text: blade left, and as a half-dozen more close in -- SSSSsss!
text: SSSSsssss! -- two red-hot blades thunk into the backs of two
text: of his assailants, impaling them and igniting their clothes.
text: Minoru wastes no time, snatching the glowing swords from the
text: backs of the fallen and whirling on his attackers like a
text: blazing cyclone.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
text: is fighting one ninja, when he suddenly finds himself
text: surrounded by a dozen more. The situation is about to turn
dialog: deadly when --
text: A HUGE HAND clamps down on his neck from behind and YANKS HIM
dialog: BACKWARDS. Another ninja?!
text: No. It’s the Scar-Faced Ogre. He’s dragged Chikara back to
text: the edge of a LAKE OF LAVA. There’s nowhere for them to go.
text: But as the ninja surge forward to kill them, Scar-Face raises
text: his mallet high and SWINGS --
text: But not at the Ninja. AT THE LAVA!
text: FWOOOSH! The hammer sends a SHEET OF LAVA at the attacking
text: ninja who scream and burn. Instantly, Chikara and Scar-Face
text: charge forward, slashing and bashing the ninja down.
scene_heading: INT. AINU SWORDWORKS - ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Now all of Oishi’s men begin grabbing up koto blades out of
text: kilns, out of forges. And the battlegrounds becomes alight:
text: flaming swords against shadowy ninja.
dialog: 82.
text: And the tides begin to turn.
text: OISHI fights with the precision and grace of his rank,
text: shattering ninja weapons setting fire to ninja with every
text: stroke of his legendary blade.
text: Quickly, the ninja are overcome, slain to a man, except for
dialog: the --
speaker_heading: NINJA CLANLORD
text: -- who sidesteps a battle with SMOKE BOMBS and races off
text: through the caves.
text: But Oishi and Minoru are already in pursuit, chasing the
text: Ninja Lord through a series of steam-filled tunnels and into--
scene_heading: A STALACTITE-FILLED CHAMBER
text: -- where a hundred bubbling pools of lava dot the cave floor.
text: Oishi and Minoru catch the Ninja Lord and the fight is on:
text: the ronin’s glowing swords working in tandem against the
text: Ninja Lord’s terrible chain and claw.
text: The tempo of the battle gets faster and faster, until their
text: moves are simply a blur.
text: And that’s when the Clanlord takes it up a notch.
text: Suddenly, Oishi and Minoru’s concentrated attacks are
text: outpaced by the Ninja Lord’s IMPOSSIBLE SPEED and, for the
text: first time ever, Oishi finds himself OUTSKILLED and on the
dialog: defensive.
text: The Clan Lord unleashes a flurry of chainwork that finds the
text: holes in Oishi’s blocks, in Minoru’s ripostes, slashing them,
text: bashing them, forcing them back to the edge of a CALDERA OF
text: LAVA where Oishi and Minoru fight, teetering for balance at
text: the edge of the molten pool...
text: Seeing his opportunity, the Clan Lord SMILES. But just as he
dialog: moves to force them in --
text: The Scar-Faced Ogre appears from the dark and SMASHES THE
text: ASSASSIN CLANLORD WITH HIS MIGHTY SLEDGEHAMMER, SENDING THE
text: BASTARD NINJA SCREAMING INTO THE LAVA!
text: Oishi and Minoru look at one another, then at the Ainu....and
text: exhale for the first time in minutes, knowing how very close
dialog: they came.
speaker_heading: FADE TO:
dialog: 83.
scene_heading: INT. AINU SWORDWORKS - LATER
text: The Ainu “Ogres” clean-up, dragging the bodies of the slain
text: ninja and tossing them into the lava pools, while--
scene_heading: EXT. ABANDONED TEAHOUSE - MT. FUJI - SUNSET
text: -- the ronin finish securing their carts now filled with
dialog: legendary weapons.
text: With Mt. Fuji pointing heavenward in the plum-colored sky
text: behind them, Oishi bows deeply before the Scar-Faced Ogre,
text: clearly the Ainu leader. Minoru and Chikara do the same.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Thank you, noble one.
text: The Scar-Faced Ogre returns the bow, then looks Oishi in the
text: eye. Speaks with a voice like the grumbling of deep caverns.
dialog: Something he hasn’t done in years.
speaker_heading: SCAR-FACED OGRE
dialog: May you..be strong and
dialog: diligent...in your deeds.
text: And with a final bow, the ronin depart, and we --
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. JAPANESE COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHTFALL - A WEEK LATER
text: A campsite has been set up. All 47 ronin have regathered.
text: It is clear they have been travelling hard, for all sleep on
text: the ground, utterly exhausted.
dialog: Except for two.
text: While the others sleep, Minoru and Chikara, practice
text: swordwork by the light of the campfire. Minoru instructs him
text: in several maneuvers, counterbalancing his left-handedness
text: with a knife in his right hand. And as the two practice
text: maneuvers again and again, Chikara getting better with each
dialog: try --
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: AERIAL SHOT - HIGH IN THE JAPANESE MOUNTAINS - DAY
text: An ESTABLISHING SHOT of a landscape of snowcapped peaks and
dialog: black pine...
text: And dominating all from three thousand feet up the steep
text: snowy mountainside, FIND Kira’s impregnable YAMASHIRO (castle
text: fortress) looming over the world like a grim stone threat.
dialog: 84.
dialog: Even from our aerial shot, we can see that wedding
text: preparations are underway below. Cheerful silks being
text: arranged. Red lanterns being hung. Excessive pomp and
text: circumstance that is the hallmark of the Master of Protocol.
dialog: But even while all these festivities are being prepared, in
dialog: another part of the castle, the emotional climate is very
dialog: different.
scene_heading: EXT. KIRA’S FORTRESS - BALCONY
text: Mika and Lord Kira sit in heavy robes, staring out at a frost-
text: rimed koi pond in a winter garden below. Candles float on
text: the surface, the fish move sluggishly below.
text: It’s majestic and beautiful, but somehow very sad.
text: They sit in silence, the only sound the quiet movements of a
text: SCRAWNY BOY fanning a brazier to keep them warm while he
text: himself shivers in his thin kimono. Then --
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: (reciting)
text: Spring departs.
text: Birds cry.
text: Fishes' eyes are filled with tears.
dialog: (to Mika)
dialog: Are you familiar with the works of
dialog: Basho?
text: But Mika is more concerned about the shivering boy.
speaker_heading: MIKA
text: The child is cold.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Is this so?
dialog: (turns to the boy)
dialog: Are you cold, boy? Do you wish for
dialog: me to send you away?
text: It’s not a threat. Not quite. The boy shakes his head.
speaker_heading: SCRAWNY BOY
dialog: (teeth chattering)
dialog: No, my Lord. I am warm.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: You see, Lady Asano? You are
dialog: mistaken.
text: Kira pours thick green tea into earthenware raku tea bowls
text: for the both of them, then rises to stare out at the view.
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: As you are about a great many
dialog: things...
text: With his back momentarily turned away, Mika seizes the
text: opportunity and slips a SMALL SACHET OF POWDER from the
text: sleeve of her robe. Pours the contents into Kira’s drink.
text: She conceals the sachet just in time as Kira turns around and
text: picks up his tea cup. He lifts it to his lips and is about
dialog: to drink --
text: -- when he NOTICES Mika watching him with interest. It’s the
text: first time she’s done so. Kira instantly becomes suspicious.
text: Realizing her mistake, Mika looks calmly away...but it’s too
text: late. Kira notices several GRANULES on the table by his cup.
text: Kira’s eyes narrow.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: But perhaps I spoke too soon. The
text: child does look cold.
text: Kira takes his tea cup -- and offers it to the boy.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: Here, boy. Warm yourself. Drink
dialog: this.
text: The boy is hesitant, then takes the cup with trembling hands,
text: savoring the warmth. Mika watches the boy. Kira watches
text: her. And just as the boy tilts the cup to his lips --
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: No!
text: -- Mika breaks and SLAPS the cup out of his hands, shattering
text: it against the ground.
text: Kira looms over her as she crumples to the ground, weeping.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: How like your father you are...
dialog: Rash. And a fool.
text: Kira leans down and takes her face in his hands.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: And so close to meeting his same
dialog: fate. You play at games where you
dialog: do not fully comprehend the stakes.
dialog: But I promise you this: when we
dialog: are wed --
dialog: (venomous )
dialog: I will teach them to you.
dialog: 86.
text: Lord Kira strides away, leaving Mika empty and devastated on
text: the balcony, staring helplessly out at the foothills beyond
text: her reach below.
text: And as she does, PUSH IN and VFX SKIM miles down the
dialog: mountainside to --
scene_heading: EXT. FOOTHILLS - JAPANESE COUNTRYSIDE - SAME TIME
text: -- where Oishi, Minoru and a dozen others belly-crawl through
text: the long grass to reach a vantage point at the top of a rise.
text: Far above them, Kira’s castle fortress clutches the
text: mountaintop like some sinister stone spider.
text: The ronin stare at it, calculating.
speaker_heading: OKUDA
dialog: We should attack tonight. It will
dialog: be a long climb, but our thirst for
dialog: justice will fuel us --
text: Oishi shakes his head.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Attacking Kira’s stronghold would
text: be a futile gesture. The walls are
text: impregnable and he garrisons a
text: thousand soldiers inside.
dialog: (beat )
dialog: No. Any attempt on his fortress
dialog: would be doomed to failure.
speaker_heading: OKUDA
dialog: Then what have we travelled all
dialog: this way for? To wait for Kira to
dialog: march down the hill and present
dialog: himself to us.
dialog: (imitating Kira)
dialog: Why, hello, Oishi. Here’s my neck.
dialog: Strike swiftly please.
text: A ironic smirk crinkles Oishi’s eyes.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: That is exactly what we are going
dialog: to do.
text: Okuda and the others are confused. So Oishi directs their
text: gaze, not up at Kira’s fortress...but down at his fiefdom in
text: the valley below.
text: At the foot of the mountain sits Kira’s jinaimachi -- or
dialog: temple town -- comprised of various community buildings and
text: farms that all bear Lord Kira’s FAMILY CREST: a red octopus
text: against a golden field.
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: Lady Asano’s period of mourning
text: comes to an end in two days. In
dialog: honor of their union, Kira has
dialog: ordered the entire realm to pay a
text: tribute at the Founder’s Temple.
text: Oishi points at the two-story wooden structure in the center
text: of the rural village. Sohei, or warrior monks, move about
text: the temple in their distinctive robes the color of dried
dialog: blood.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: And Kira himself will be there to
dialog: collect the prize.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Greed ever diminishes wisdom...
text: Oishi turns back to his men, determined.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: And the very impulse that drove him
dialog: to betray our lord, is the same
dialog: weapon we will use against him.
text: And off Oishi’s words, Minoru turns and looks up at the
text: castle. Stares as if searching for Mika.
text: Almost as if the two are connected, and he is returning her
dialog: earlier gaze...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: AN ORNATE PALANQUIN
text: So massive and gaudy, it can only belong to one man.
text: Thirty men bear the garish litter toward the center of town,
text: escorted by a ring of two hundred heavily-armed soldiers.
text: When they reach the Temple, Lord Kira steps out in a bombast
text: of silk and blackened teeth.
text: As he steps inside, PULL BACK TO REVEAL we are:
scene_heading: EXT. KIRA’S TEMPLE TOWN - THE NEXT MORNING
text: Abuzz with activity, centering on the Founder’s Temple.
text: Thousands of merchants, townsfolk and farmers come from all
text: across the land bearing their wedding tributes in the form of
dialog: rice, livestock, textiles or coin.
text: Soldiers and monks herd everyone into an orderly line that
text: extends hundreds of yards out of the temple.
dialog: 88.
text: At the edge of town, NOTICE a LONE FARMER entering the
text: village, carrying his offering of two bolts of silk. As the
text: farmer gets closer and we get a peek beneath his broad hat,
text: we realize it’s OISHI in disguise.
text: As Oishi nears the temple, he blends in with the crowd,
text: subtly glances around, taking everything in.
text: Formulating a battle plan...
speaker_heading: POV OISHI
text: Noting the positions of the soldiers around the temple...
text: The MATCHLOCK MUSKETS they carry...
text: The four CANNONS stationed beside the temple and, as a
text: soldier exits, a small magazine room where BARRELS OF
text: GUNPOWDER (marked with the Dutch East India crest) are
dialog: stored...
dialog: BACK TO SHOT
text: as Oishi is goaded by the soldiers into the long line of
text: farmers to make his offering and meekly complies.
text: Once there, he looks around and SPOTS familiar faces
text: interspersed throughout the crowd.
text: HANJO disguised as a beet-farmer. ISOGAI disguised as an
text: artist. BASHO as a workman.
text: As a cart filled with wedding gifts rumbles past on its way
text: up the mountain, MINORU, disguised as a peasant, maneuvers
text: close enough to SLIP IN A SMALL WRAPPED PACKAGE of his own.
text: The line moves forward and soon Oishi finds himself at the
text: temple steps. Above the doorway hangs an immense painting of
text: the temple’s founder, Lord Kira. Below that is a smaller,
text: almost stingy one of the Supreme Buddha.
text: Oishi stops for a moment, struck by the mind-boggling vanity
dialog: of it all.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0S)
dialog: YOU THERE!
text: Suddenly -- WAAAAP! -- Oishi is struck across the shoulders
text: by a sword scabbard. An IMPOSING SOLDIER looms before him.
text: Oishi tries to keep his face downcast as the Soldier studies
dialog: him, but --
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: IMPOSING SOLDIER
dialog: Look at me.
dialog: (when Oishi doesn’t)
dialog: LOOK AT ME!
dialog: Oishi does. And just as we’re sure he’s about to be caught --
speaker_heading: IMPOSING SOLDIER (CONT'D)
dialog: Keep the line moving.
text: Oishi is as surprised as we are. Nods readily and shuffles
text: away, ignoring the Soldier’s muttered curse of --
speaker_heading: IMPOSING SOLDIER (CONT'D)
dialog: Brainless peasants.
text: -- as he moves off into:
scene_heading: INT. FOUNDER'S TEMPLE - CONTINUOUS
text: Prayer candles and incense dominate the interior of the two-
text: storied hondo -- or main hall -- filled with townsfolk.
text: LORD KIRA sits in a chair befitting his status, behind a
text: screen of gossamer silk to prevent the gaze of peasants from
text: sullying him. It is from there he surveys his offerings.
text: Oishi watches as a PIG FARMER approaches the screen and hands
text: over five piglets in a cart. An ACOLYTE records the
text: information in the official roll. Kira never says a word.
text: Kira’s functionary, the temple’s CHIEF MONK, does all the
dialog: interacting with the lesser peoples.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK
dialog: Next.
text: As the Soldier escorts the farmer away, the Chief Monk turns
text: his gaze on Oishi.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: Step forward.
text: Oishi steps before the screen shrouding Kira’s visage.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: Name and offering?
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: Two bolts of silk, Holy One.
text: The Chief Monk tries to take the bolts, but Oishi holds fast
text: to them. The Monk sighs and turns to the Acolyte.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK
dialog: Note that they are exceedingly poor
text: specimens. Moth eaten.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: The cheapest sort.
dialog: (turns back to Oishi)
dialog: Is this insult all you bring your
dialog: liege lord?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: No, there is more...but I fear your
dialog: master will enjoy it even less.
text: The Chief Monk begins to grow suspicious.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK
dialog: Who are you? State your name!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: With pleasure.
text: Oishi turns to the screen, eyes steely.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: My name is Oishi Kuranosuke --
dialog: (the silhouette reacts)
dialog: -- and the tribute I bring is the
dialog: vengeance of Lord Asano Naganori.
text: Realizing the danger the warrior monk goes for a weapon, but
text: in one swift move Oishi draws a sword concealed within the
text: bolt of silk -- so sharp that it SLICES through the thousand
text: layers of fabric as it is drawn out -- and SMASHES the monk
text: in the head with the steel butt of the blade.
text: The Chief Monk DROPS like rag doll.
text: Faster than anyone can react, Oishi slices through veiled
text: screen -- SCHRRIIIP! -- and is about to hack Kira down when--
text: Oishi STOPS DEAD.
text: The man cowering before him is not Kira...but an effeminate
dialog: AIDE acting as his double. And as the implications of this
dialog: sink in--
scene_heading: SFX: THE DISTINCTIVE CLICKS OF TWO DOZEN MUSKET SEAR LOCKS
text: BEING COCKED ECHOES AROUND THE ROOM.
text: Oishi looks up to see Kira RIFLE AND BOWMEN ringing the
text: balcony above, all with their weapons trained on him. And
text: below, every one of the warrior monks holds an exotic weapon
text: in hand -- WHIP CHAINS, TIGER HOOKS, IRON FANS.
text: The room goes deathly still, everyone holding their breath.
text: In the silence that follows, only one sound can be heard.
text: LAUGHTER. Oishi turns to see the Chief Monk, laughing
text: through blood-stained teeth.
dialog: gl.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK
dialog: We knew you would come.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: How. .?
text: HEAVY FOOTSTEPS resound from an alcove...and like a demon
text: returned fresh from hell, the NINJA CLANLORD steps from the
text: shadows. Pulls down his mask to reveal half his face has
text: become a MELTED, SCARIFIED HORROR from the lava beneath Mt.
dialog: Fuji.
dialog: It’s the last person on earth Oishi wants to see.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK
text: Kira is safe in his fortress,
dialog: ronin. Unlike you.
dialog: (to his musketeers above)
dialog: Kill him.
text: The crowd swiftly moves away from Oishi as the musketeers
text: draw a bead, and just as they are about to fire --
text: One of the musketeers heads just SLIDES OFF HIS SHOULDERS and
text: TOPPLES to the floor below.
text: Another’s arm simply SEPARATES at the shoulder, dropping his
text: musket.
text: An archer SCREAMS as two feet of shining steel protrude
text: through his chest, lancing his heart.
text: Still another is CLEAVED IN ‘TWAIN, from crown to root, and
text: falls apart in two symmetrical pieces -- revealing Minoru
text: standing behind him.
text: As other ronin go to work on the rest and blood and body
text: parts rain down, the crowd ERUPTS IN CHAOS. Utter mayhem
text: ensues as two hundred villagers run in every direction.
dialog: Instantly --
speaker_heading: THE NINJA CLANLORD
text: turns to look back -- and discovers Oishi gone. Blended back
text: into the crowd.
text: Around him, soldiers and warrior monks begin to drop as the
text: ronin attack like ghosts, materializing to slit a throat,
text: then vanishing back into the crowd.
text: In the pandemonium, it’s impossible to tell harmless villager
text: from foe. To the Chief Monk, there is only one solution.
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MONK
text: LOCK THE DOORS! KILL EVERYONE
text: INSIDE! LET NO RONIN ESCAPE!
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE
text: a dozen of Kira’s men begin to swing the massive temple doors
dialog: shut.
speaker_heading: INSIDE
text: Muskets THUNDER. Arrows FLY. And Oishi sees their only
text: chance of escape closing. The doors are so colossal that
dialog: once they’re shut, there will be no opening them.
text: Amid the chaos, Oishi spots the sumo-sized Basho in the
dialog: crowd.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: BASHO! THE DOOR!
text: The giant looks up and responds instantly, surging forward
text: and bowling a path through the crowd to reach the tremendous
text: doors a heartbeat before closing.
text: He hits them like a force of nature, driving the dozen men
text: trying to close them back a foot, their boots skidding loudly
text: across the stone floor.
dialog: But that’s where the forward momentum stops and the war of
text: strength begins. OUTSIDE, more men pile on the doors, trying
text: to force them shut, while INSIDE Basho strains mightily
dialog: against their combined efforts.
scene_heading: KIRA’S SOLDIERS AND WARRIOR MONKS
dialog: lash out at anyone within reach -- men, women, children --
text: but find their weapons BLOCKED by ronin swords that appear
text: from nowhere, protecting the innocents then striking their
text: own lethal return blow.
text: An arrow about to take a child’s life is SEVERED IN MID-AIR
text: by Minoru’s saving sword -- and before the cleaved arrow can
text: fall to the ground, Minoru snatches it out of the sky and
text: stabs it into the face of an attacking warrior monk.
text: OISHI defends against three warrior monks, SHATTERING all
text: three of their weapons with a single angry strike.
dialog: But as much damage as they’re doing, the ronin are
text: desperately outnumbered and are starting to take heavy
dialog: casualties.
dialog: 93.
text: ISOGAI and others take a hail of musket balls through the
text: shoulders, legs, arms.
text: HANJO barely slips aside from an iron fan slice chop meant to
text: brain him and loses his left ear for the effort.
text: MINORU ducks away from a decapitating swipe of a RAZOR-SHARP
text: WHIP CHAIN and we PUSH INTO A SLOW-MO ECU as the tip of the
text: enemy’s steel whip NICKS HIS NECK, drawing only a single drop
dialog: of blood.
text: And though he fells one opponent after another, OISHI’s back
text: is RAKED OPEN by dual tiger hooks.
dialog: They have to get out.
speaker_heading: OISHI
speaker_heading: BASHO!
scene_heading: ACROSS THE ROOM
text: Basho is a human pincushion of arrows, an easy target for
text: archers who do everything in their power to drop him.
text: But for all the arrows sticking out of his back, Basho
dialog: struggles titanically against--
text: THE NOW TWENTY SOLDIERS ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE
text: who, in unison, try to force the doors closed enough for the
text: six soldiers waiting to drop the heavy WOODEN LOCK BAR --
text: thick as the trunk of a great tree -- in place. It’s a war
text: of millimeters as the men try to force the lock bar in
text: place...but Basho holds the doors just a hair too wide for it
dialog: to fit.
scene_heading: INT. TEMPLE - CONTINUOUS
text: Another arrow buries itself in Basho’s back and he loses
dialog: valuable ground.
text: OISHI sees his men taking heavy damage and calls out again to
dialog: their only hope.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: BASHO! !!
dialog: And just as --
scene_heading: THE SOLDIERS OUTSIDE
dialog: slide the lock bar in place --
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: BASHO
text: hears his master’s voice and digs deep to the titan within
text: and SURGES FORWARD WITH EVERY LAST OUNCE OF SUPERHUMAN
dialog: STRENGTH --!!
text: AND SHATTERS THE BAR TO SPLINTERS, SENDING THE SOLDIERS
text: TUMBLING AND FORCING THE DOORS OPEN WIDE!
text: Instantly, the panicking crowd races through the opening, the
text: 47 ronin blending in with them.
speaker_heading: THE NINJA CLANLORD
text: races out of the temple with his soldiers and sohei -- and is
text: confronted by the sight of thousands of taxpayers racing away
text: from the temple in every conceivable direction.
text: Trying to find the ronin among the stampeding crowd would be
text: like trying to find a needle in a haystack...in the heart of
text: a raging typhoon.
text: Though suffering staggering injuries, Oishi and his men have
dialog: gotten away...
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: A RED SILKEN CLOTH
text: Then a dozen ORACLE BONES are cast across it.
text: The turtle shell fragments tumble and come to rest, and two
text: tiny hands ENTER FRAME and begin to search by feel for the
dialog: ones that have landed with their inscribed Kanji characters
text: facing up.
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL we are -——
scene_heading: INT. KIRA’S MOUNTAIN CASTLE - THE LORD’S QUARTERS - LATER
text: Lord Kira waits impatiently for his fortune to be read by the
text: court PROPHETS -- a pair of ten-year-old children. The
text: divinators are fraternal twins, a boy and a girl.
text: It’s the boy whose hands feel the shells.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Well..?
text: When the boy looks up, we see his milky eyes and know that he
text: is BLIND. He looks to his sister and she stares into his
text: eyes. No words pass between them.
dialog: Then --
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: GIRL PROPHET
dialog: He says you will travel great
dialog: distances. That a hundred thousand
dialog: shall prostrate themselves before
dialog: you as you pass. That even the
dialog: Shogun will bow before you in awe.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: And how shall this honor occur?
text: The boy casts again and turns to his sister.
speaker_heading: GIRL PROPHET
dialog: He says two feathers shall lift you
dialog: up. And on that day, you will live
dialog: in the minds of your countrymen
dialog: forever.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Hmm. I am glad of pleasant news
dialog: for a change.
text: They are interrupted by a knock at the door.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: Enter.
text: A MESSENGER enters. Bows deeply. Kira doesn’t even turn to
dialog: acknowledge him.
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: The ronin appeared, exactly as you
dialog: said they would, my lord.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Yes? And how large was their
dialog: force?
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: Several dozen men, I am told.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: That is all?
dialog: (scoffs)
dialog: Pathetic...
text: The Messenger waits as Kira falls silent.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: I wish to see the bodies.
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: There..are none, my lord.
text: Now Kira turns.
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: None?
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
text: They ran. Fought free of the trap
dialog: and scattered to the wi--
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Oishi ran?
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: Yes, lord.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Ronin...
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: It should not, but cowardice such
dialog: as that surprises even me. Their
dialog: master was a fool, but even he had
dialog: enough propriety to take his life
dialog: when shamed.
text: Kira rises and makes his way to the balcony overlooking the
text: bonsai garden below. Gazes out.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: A Lord is the spine of his people.
dialog: Do you see now what happens when
dialog: that spine is broken? When samurai
dialog: have no master? Disgraceful!
dialog: (then)
dialog: Marshall the troops.
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: Which divisions, my lord?
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: All of them.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Scour the countryside. Let none of
dialog: Oishi’s men get away. I want these
text: ronin hunted down like the gutless
dialog: dogs they are.
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: And the wedding, Lord?
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: What of it?
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: In light of the danger, it’s been
dialog: suggested we postpone it.
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: The only danger is to Lady Asano.
dialog: In their excitement, many accidents
dialog: have fallen on brides on their
dialog: wedding night.
dialog: (malicious)
dialog: The moment I wed her, I will become
dialog: a widower...and the true legal
dialog: ruler of Asano lands in more than
dialog: name only.
dialog: (grim beat)
text: No. The wedding goes on.
text: As the Messenger bows and exits, we PRELAP A MAN CRYING OUT
dialog: IN AGONY, and --
speaker_heading: HARD CUT TO:
text: A DEEP AND TERRIBLE SWORD WOUND
text: HANDS trying to hold the skin together, trying to stop the
text: gushing blood. The victim is one of Oishi’s ronin. The man
text: trying to staunch the flow (SHIOTA) is another.
speaker_heading: SHIOTA
dialog: It won’t stop!
speaker_heading: VOICE (OS)
text: Hold him down.
text: It’s Minoru. As they hold him, Minoru takes his sword from
text: the coals of a brazier. The blade GLOWS ORANGE with heat and
text: SIZZLES as he presses it to the wound.
text: The injured ronin shrieks...but when the sword is taken away,
text: the laceration has been CAUTERIZED.
text: Now WIDEN TO REVEAL the rest of the scene. It’s a horror
text: show of post-battle triage. BASHO having the arrows cut from
text: his back. OKUDA having his cheek stitched together from a
text: cut you can see his teeth through. ISOGAI grunting as thick
text: fingers pull a musketball from his shoulder. We are:
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED FARMHOUSE - NIGHT
text: Where the ronin are licking their wounds from their narrow
dialog: escape.
text: IN THE BACK ROOM
text: Oishi watches the scene in despair. Minoru enters and stands
text: beside him.
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: The soldiers have passed. We'll be
dialog: safe for a few hours, but they’1l
dialog: be coming back.
text: It’s a quiet, tragic moment as they stare at the men. Then --
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I have miscalculated. My pride has
dialog: brought us to this.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Perhaps we should have acted the
dialog: night of Asano’s death. We were
dialog: vastly outnumbered, but at least we
dialog: would have died valiantly. With
dialog: honor. Now we are only ronin...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ...and we have failed our lord.
text: Minoru has never seen this side of Oishi, and it scares hima
dialog: little.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: What are you saying?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We all go our separate ways.
text: Scatter to the wind.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: We run?
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We live. For as long as we can.
dialog: Maybe there will be another day.
dialog: The one advantage we had was the
dialog: element of total surprise, and it
text: is gone.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Is it?
text: Oishi looks at him...and amazingly, the man is grinning.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: A great warrior once said, “If the
dialog: enemy thinks of the mountains,
dialog: attack like the sea; and if he
dialog: think of the sea, attack like the
dialog: mountains.”
text: Minoru turns then...and Oishi follows his gaze to the snowy
text: peaks looming above Kira’s fortress.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: They expect us to run. Shouldn’t
dialog: we attack?
dialog: 99.
text: Oishi slowly smiles at his own words coming back to him. A
text: spark has been rekindled in his eyes.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Gather the men.
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ABANDONED FARMHOUSE - NIGHT
text: As the MUSIC RISES, the 47 Ronin don the same formal attire
dialog: they wore when they first greeted the Shogun -- the
scene_heading: TRADITIONAL UNIFORM OF THE ASANO CLAN.
text: It is the first time they have worn the Asano CREST since
text: their disgrace. Etched in moonlight, they look like a battle
dialog: force stepped from myth.
text: Oishi looks them all over with pride.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: While the result may be uncertain,
dialog: by dawn they will know the courage
dialog: of the Asano Clan!
text: The men unleash a cheer that can be heard by the gods.
dialog: They're ready.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. KIRA’S FORTRESS - FORMAL CHAMBER - NIGHT
text: The room is filled with a sea of colorfully-wrapped WEDDING
speaker_heading: PRESENTS.
text: Mika sits among them, despondent. Hopeless. Reality setting
dialog: in. There is no getting out of this. This is her future.
text: Overcome by frustration, Mika hurls a table of gifts aside.
text: As the brightly-colored boxes cascade to the ground,
text: a kaiken -- or SMALL BRIDAL SWORD symbolically given for good
text: luck -- spills out of one of the packages.
text: Mika picks up the ceremonial blade, her hands begin to
dialog: tremble. Maybe there is a way out of this... Mika closes
text: her eyes and exhales, trying to calm herself -- then raises
text: the knife to her own jugular.
text: With the clock running down on the Shogun’s decree, Mika
text: gives in to hopelessness and steels herself for this last
dialog: statement of defiance against Kira. To die among their
dialog: wedding gifts.
dialog: 100.
text: TEARS begin to run down her cheeks. And just as she cries
text: out and makes the move to slash her own throat --
text: Mika’s eyes fall on something she recognizes among the sea of
text: presents. A gift wrapped in a swatch of silk BEARING HER
scene_heading: FAMILY CREST.
text: Mika gasps and drops the knife as she races to pick up the
text: package. Unwraps it the reveal a block of ivory delicately
text: carved into the shape of a single beautiful SAKURA BLOSSOM.
text: Mika begins to cry, but now in joy.
text: Minoru is here. He is coming for her.
text: As hope grows in her eyes, filling her with renewed strength,
text: and Mika laughs for the first time in a year --
scene_heading: SFX: CRUMP-CRUMP-CRUMP! SOUNDS OF SNOW-MUFFLED EXPLOSIONS
dialog: ROCK THE CASTLE!
text: Startled, Mika races to the balcony, where a SLITHERING NOISE
text: begins to fill the air, GROWING LOUDER with every passing
text: second. Like a titanic snake sliding down the mountain.
scene_heading: INT. KIRA’S CHAMBERS - SAME TIME
text: Kira is asleep in his opulent bed...when a sound so deep and
text: powerful begins to VIBRATE the wall stones in their mortar.
text: Softly at first, but then violently enough to wake him in a
dialog: panic.
text: Kira races a window...where he sees a LINE OF TORCHES along a
text: path to the top of the mountain begin to WINK OUT as
text: something swallows them, one by one, descending toward the
dialog: castle.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: What in hell --?
scene_heading: EXT. KIRA’S MOUNTAIN CASTLE - PARAPET WALK - CONTINUOUS
text: Kira’s GUARDS stand frozen atop the outer defensive wall,
text: staring out at the terrible darkness racing down the
text: mountain, heading straight for them. The noise is DEAFENING.
text: And as they watch in horror, the cause of the disturbance
text: blasts into the pool of light around the castle --
text: A MILLION CUBIC FEET OF ICE roars down the mountain, right at
text: Kira’s castle! The avalanche speeds downward in a solid
text: mass, like a vengeful tectonic plate sliding downhill,
text: OBLITERATING everything in its path.
text: A YOUNG GUARD is paralyzed by the sight.
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: YOUNG GUARD
dialog: Gods...
text: A shout Guard #1 jolts him back to motion.
speaker_heading: PARAPET GUARD #1
dialog: THE ALARM, YOU FOOL! THE ALARM!
text: The Young Guard runs through the chaos of the walk to reach a
text: MASSIVE BELL in the tower. But just as he grabs the rope to
dialog: swing the log clapper --
speaker_heading: PARAPET GUARD #1 (CONT'D)
scene_heading: FIND COVER!! FIND CO--
text: WHAAAAAAAMMMM! The entire castle SHUDDERS as the avalanche
text: COLLIDES into the wall and --
text: WHOOOOOOOOOOSH!! The snow sweeps across the parapet walk
text: like the Wrath of God, sending everyone screaming into the
dialog: abyss.
text: IN THE ALARM TOWER ALONG THE REAR WALL
text: The Young Guard swings the clapper -- GONNGGGG! -- but the
text: sound is swallowed as the avalanche reaches the tower and --
text: CRACKKK! -- tears the entire structure away from the wall
text: like the hand of frost giant child dissatisfied with his toy
dialog: castle.
text: The Young Guard screams as the tower shears from its
text: foundation and we TRACK WITH HIM as it tumbles all the way
text: down the cliff.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - CONTINUOUS
text: Kira’s elite samurai race from their barracks by the
text: hundreds, each wearing the Lovecraftian armor of House
text: Yoshinaka. Their bodies covered in lacquered black scales
text: and their kabuto helms wrought into the shape of the DEMON
text: OCTOPUS that is his sigil, eight bladed STEEL TENTACLES
text: dangling down their backs.
text: They reach the breech in the wall, but can see nothing
text: through the thick clouds of swirling ice crystals.
text: Then SHAPES appear in the dense fog.
text: OCTOPUS SAMURAI #1 is the first to recognize the danger.
speaker_heading: OCTOPUS SAMURAI #1
speaker_heading: RONIN!
text: Oishi steps through the mist.
dialog: 102.
text: The Octopus rushes him, but Oishi SIDESTEPS and grabs the
text: steel tentacles dangling from the Octopus’ helm. YANKS down,
text: exposing a gap beneath his chin, and thrusts his sword with
text: all his pent up rage -- SKEWERING straight through the
text: warrior’s brain AND the top of his ornate helm.
text: With a savage twist, Oishi splits the man’s face and helm and
text: WRENCHES his sword free.
text: Oishi stands there, chest heaving, splattered in blood...and
text: gives the WARCRY he’s been waiting to give since the night of
text: his master’s death.
speaker_heading: OISHI
scene_heading: FOR LORD ASANO!
text: And the two armies race at one another to begin the greatest
text: swordfight in history: Oishi’s ronin against a thousand
dialog: elite samurai.
text: And as the entire castle’s defenses surge at the invaders --
scene_heading: EXT. A QUIET SECTION OF THE PARAPET WALK - CASTLE FRONT
text: Now that the defenders are rushing toward the other side of
text: the castle, a half-dozen scaling hooks sail over this
text: abandoned section of perimeter wall and -- CLINK-CLINK! --
dialog: latch on!
text: Moments later, OKUDA, HAZAMA, two other burly ronin and
text: CHIKARA clamber up to the walk.
speaker_heading: DOWN BELOW
text: a DARK SHAPE stomps into the courtyard. The NINJA CLANLORD
text: surveys the battle -- and spots OKUDA and his force heading
text: for the CANNON atop the rampart wall.
text: The Clanlord grits his melted jaw so hard, we can hear the
text: muscles creak.
text: AT THE REAR OF THE CASTLE
text: In the midst of battle, Oishi looks up and sees Chikara and
text: the others racing across the wall...and below them, a SQUAD
text: OF NINJA spider-climbing the walls.
text: Oishi calls out, trying to warn his son --
speaker_heading: OISHI
speaker_heading: CHIKARA!
text: -- but he can’t hear him over the din of battle.
dialog: 103.
text: Then -- swish! --a sword swipe brings his focus back to the
dialog: battle.
scene_heading: POV OISHI - FORMULATING A BATTLE PLAN
text: As he did against the Brigands at the beginning of the film.
text: As Kira’s octopodian army closes in, Oishi MENTALLY DISSECTS
text: THE SCENE. From a WIDE ANGLE, we RACK IN on the courtyard’s
text: particular geographic features: a three-foot thick INNER
dialog: GATE that prevents them from reaching the castle proper, the
text: MAZE OF OUTBUILDINGS on this side of that gate, the SLIGHT
text: RISE of a particular path weaving between them. Then on the
text: WEAPONS HIS OPPONENTS CARRY, noting in VFX their effective
dialog: lethal range and the most immediate threat -- a LINE OF
text: SPEARMEN charging them.
text: Faster than thought, Oishi has his plan and puts it into
dialog: action.
speaker_heading: OISHI
speaker_heading: FORMATION!
text: Instantly, the ronin form up in a particular configuration,
text: and as the enemy spearmen close in as a wave --
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: KESA!
text: Oishi’s samurai react in unison, MIRRORING the training we
text: saw them practicing on bamboo targets at the start of the
text: film. The ANGLES and CAMERA SHOTS are identical, except this
text: time it’s not bamboo they chop, but their opponents’ SPEARS.
text: SCHUNK-SHUNKK-SCHUNKK! Forty of Kira’s spears are reaped
text: like wheat. Then -- SCHUNK-SHUNKK-SCHUNKK! -- so are the men
dialog: that hold them.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
scene_heading: NORTH FRONT! MISU-GAESHT!
text: Koto blades flash diagonally up, CLEAVING through fresh ranks
text: of Kira’s spearmen, shattering their enemies’ arms and armor
text: with a quality of weapons and skill Kira’s fighters cannot
dialog: match.
text: Then Oishi charges forward, leading his men into the maze of
text: structures where the narrow walls reduce the advantage of
dialog: numbers Kira’s army has.
dialog: At a particular stretch --
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
text: WE HOLD HERE UNTIL THEY GET THE
speaker_heading: GATE OPEN!
dialog: 104.
text: And as Kira’s army closes on both sides and the ronin defend
text: on two fronts: Oishi and the remaining ronin on the right
text: side, and Minoru almost single-handedly holding the left --
scene_heading: ATOP THE WALL - OKUDA AND HIS FORCE
text: have almost reached the cannon...when the DREAD NINJA
text: CLANLORD and his minions mount the parapet walk between them
dialog: and it.
text: The HISS of them drawing their EXOTIC WEAPONS and adopting
text: their FIERCE READY STANCE freezes the blood in the ronin’s
dialog: veins.
text: As the Ninja move forward, Okuda’s men try their best to
text: engage them -- but are quickly beaten back, intimidated.
text: That’s when Okuda’s men break and BACK AWAY.
text: Chikara retreats with them...until he looks down and sees
text: Kira’s legions pushing the ronin back in the courtyard.
text: Closing in on his friends. On his father.
text: And when Oishi looks up at him and they meet eyes, resolve
text: floods back into Chikara veins.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: (stopping)
dialog: No! We can’t! If we don’t open
dialog: that gate, they die!
text: But none step forward.
dialog: Except Hazama.
speaker_heading: HAZAMA
dialog: I’m with you, boy.
text: Alone, the oldest and the youngest of the ronin share a
text: look...then charge forward like tigers.
text: As Hazama engages several ninja, CHIKARA draws his sword and
text: charges the Clanlord. As he nears, he gives a powerful
text: kirioroshi downward cut -- but the Clanlord easily turns the
text: blade and delivers an arm crushing overhead chop.
speaker_heading: CLAAAAANGGG! !
text: Chikara staggers under the force of the blow, and before he
dialog: can recover the Clanlord CHOPS again! And again.
text: CLAAAANGGG! CLAAAANGGG! !
speaker_heading: DOWN BELOW
text: The sheer weight of numbers against them SQUEEZES Oishi’s
text: force closer and closer together like a vice.
dialog: 105.
text: Bodies of the enemy pile up, but still they clamber over in
text: an endless tide.
text: Hanjo turns to Oishi.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: We can’t hold.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We must.
speaker_heading: ABOVE - CHIKARA
text: Chikara scrambles back beneath the Clanlord’s relentless
text: assault. The Assassin Lord strikes FASTER AND FASTER, and as
text: a mighty koshi giri cut bounds off his blade with the force
text: of a sledgehammer -- Chikara winces and reflexively SWITCHES
text: HIS SWORD FROM HIS RIGHT HAND TO HIS LEFT.
speaker_heading: MATCH TO:
scene_heading: OISHI - DOWN BELOW
text: spies his son making the fatal mistake against all his
dialog: training.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: No...
scene_heading: THE NINJA CLANLORD’S
text: mouth twists into a half-melted smile, recognizing the
text: opening. And as he raises his blade for the final coup de
dialog: grace --
text: That’s when Chikara STRIKES WITH A DAGGER THAT HAS BEEN
text: HIDDEN IN HIS RIGHT HAND, pulling off one of the maneuvers
dialog: Minoru taught him!
text: Like lightning, Chikara STABS the Clanlord in the leg,
text: causing the assassin’s death blow to swing wide.
text: And before the Ninja Clanlord can react, Chikara rises
text: up...and with his DOMINANT LEFT HAND, swings his blade and
text: SEVERS THE BASTARD’S HEAD FROM HIS SHOULDERS!
scene_heading: BELOW - ON THE VERGE OF BEING OVERWHELMED
text: Oishi watches with surprise and pride as his son KICKS the
text: legendary Clanlord from the wall.
text: There is a moment -- a perfect moment -- where Chikara and he
dialog: meet eyes.
dialog: 106.
text: Then with a warcry, Oishi throws himself back into the fight
text: with renewed energy, driving Kira’s hordes back one last
dialog: time!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: HOUSE ASANO! !
dialog: BACK ATOP THE WALL
text: Seeing their leader tumble off the wall like a swath of
text: night, the remaining ninja show fear for the first time and
dialog: hesitate...and it is their undoing.
text: Okuda and the others race back, and it is only a matter of
text: moments before the ronin dispatch them in similar fashion.
text: Chikara and Hazama then lead the men to the CANNON and, using
text: all their strength, TURN IT to face the INNER GATE. IGNITE
dialog: the fuse and --
text: KA-BOOOM! The cannon ball SMASHES a man-sized hole through
text: the gate and SHREDS the few defenders on the other side in a
text: BLAST OF SPLINTERS!
text: Instantly, the Hazama and Okuda reload the cannon from a pile
text: of ANTI-INFANTRY CHAIN SHOT stored nearby, reposition the
dialog: cannon and -- BOOOOM!
text: VFX: we FOLLOW the chain shot as it flies and CLEARS A BLOODY
text: PATH through Kira’s samurai from Oishi’s main force to the
text: BLAST HOLE in the inner gate.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: recognizes his chance and --
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: RONIN, TO ME!
text: -- CHARGES through the GORE PATH before the parted red sea
dialog: can crash back together.
text: Oishi and his ronin race across the courtyard and duck
text: through the blast hole in the gate -- then turn and plug the
text: gap with their swords.
text: Kira’s legions try to carve their way through, but the gap in
text: the heavy door only allows them through one at a time. The
text: result is a samurai blender -- Kira’s men rushing through
text: only to meet their bloody fates at the angry blades of the 47
text: ronin. Stalemate. Kira’s overwhelming strength of their
text: numbers has been temporarily neutralized.
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: OISHI (CONT'D)
dialog: This is where we hold. There is no
dialog: further retreat.
dialog: (turns to look at castle)
dialog: Hanjo. Minoru. Isogai. With me.
text: And as they turn and stride for the castle --
scene_heading: INT. FORMAL CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS
text: Mika sees the battle below. And more importantly --
speaker_heading: MIKA
speaker_heading: MINORU! !
dialog: BACK TO SHOT
text: As they mount the keep steps, Minoru and Oishi hear her.
text: Look up to spot her in the fourth story window.
text: Minoru and she meet eyes, and there is a CONNECTION there
dialog: greater than all other forces in the universe.
text: Oishi recognizes it. Turns to him.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Find her.
text: Minoru nods, thankful, and races off into the castle. God
dialog: help anyone in his way.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE - RECEPTION AREA - CONTINUOUS
text: A statue of a DEMON OCTOPUS dominates the room. Panicking
text: servants scream and scatter as Oishi, Hanjo and Isogai.
text: Oishi grabs a COOK as he races by.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Where is your Lord?
text: The man babbles, so Oishi knocks him down and puts his sword
text: to his throat. The Cook points in the right direction.
text: But as Oishi begins to move that way --
text: SIX WARRIORS race from the hall in full cephalopdian armor.
text: Hanjo and Isogai move as one to intercept the threat.
speaker_heading: HANJO
dialog: Go.
dialog: 108.
dialog: And Oishi does.
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE - THE WAR AT THE INNER GATE - CONTINUOUS
text: The ronin struggle to hold back immense waves of warriors.
text: The bodies of Kira’s samurai are piling high. Blood churns
text: the ground to red mud.
text: Kira’s soldiers work as a unit try to push through en masse,
text: but Basho uses his inhuman strength to hold them back.
dialog: It’s questionable how long they can hold.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE - STAIRS - CONTINUOUS
text: Minoru bounds the stairs three at a time. Kira’s samurai pop
text: from shadows -- and fall to the ground in a various
text: assortment of bloody, quivering parts.
dialog: Nothing is going to stop him.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: MIKA?
speaker_heading: MIKA (OS)
dialog: HERE! !
text: And like a magnet drawn to true north, he exits the stairs
text: and reaches the room where Mika is held.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Mika?
speaker_heading: MIKA (OS)
dialog: Minoru!
text: He BASHES the lock, and when he pushes open the door Mika
text: flies into his arms. She’s been strong and brave for so long
text: -- a perfect samurai daughter -- but now that Minoru holds
text: her, the dam breaks and she allows herself to be human, and a
text: woman, and sobs.
text: Minoru just holds her. Never going to let go.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: moves through the castle on the hunt. Hysteria has set in
text: and swarms of servants run in every direction -- but like
text: magic, they all move out of Oishi’s way as he strides past.
text: Then, ahead, through the crowd, Oishi spots a flash of
text: pretentious silk.
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: KIRA!!
text: KIRA wheels and sees Oishi...and the Lord of the castle turns
text: and run in utter panic. Oishi charges forward like a lion
dialog: after prey.
scene_heading: INT. MIKA’S CHAMBER - SAME TIME
text: Minoru finally pulls away from Mika.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: We have to go.
text: Taking her hand, he leads her down the hall toward the
text: stairs...when someone strides out at the end of the hall,
text: blocking their path.
text: The LOVECRAFTIAN SAMURAI. Kira’s fiercest warrior. The
dialog: demon that bested Minoru in the competition at Asano’s
text: castle. The bastard that lead Mika’s father to her doom.
text: His voice is the basso of funeral drums.
speaker_heading: LOVECRAFTIAN SAMURAI
dialog: I bested you before, halfbreed.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Kneel and I shall make it quick.
text: Minoru gently pushes Mika back from what’s about to occur.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: But this time I fight for more than
dialog: honor.
text: The two square off. This is a battle that had to happen.
dialog: And this time it won’t cease at first blood.
dialog: This time we will get to see how it truly ends.
speaker_heading: LOVECRAFTIAN SAMURAI
dialog: So be it.
text: And with slashing swords and steel tentacles, the Gods of War
dialog: explode into combat!
speaker_heading: SMASH TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE - PARAPET WALK
text: Chikara watches as a massive division of Kira’s men split
text: away from the group assaulting the gate -- and begin racing
text: up the rampart steps.
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: They’re after the cannon!
speaker_heading: HAZAMA
dialog: If they get it, they’ll breech the
dialog: gate.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: (to Okuda and the others)
dialog: Hold them back!
text: And as Okuda’s force races to meet the octopus-armored
text: samurai, Chikara and Hazama position the cannon at the
text: rampart stairs and -- BOOOOM!
text: Samurai bodies fly and fall as the stairs collapse.
text: Then Chikara and Hazama charge into the fray.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE - CORRIDOR MAZE - SAME TIME
text: Oishi is following Kira’s terrified flutter of silk through
text: the labyrinth of hardwood corridors, gaining, when --
speaker_heading: OISHI
speaker_heading: AUGHH!
text: -- a yari SPEAR flashes out through a hole in the wall and
text: IMPALES him through the shoulder.
text: Then ——- SHUNKK! Another spear flashes out from a hole in the
text: opposite wall and LANCES him through the leg.
text: With a yell, Oishi then SLASHES DOWN then UP, freeing himself
text: by severing the spears that pins him.
text: Now, Oishi turns and looks about him...
text: .-+-and sees 200 other SPEAR HOLES lining the walls. Kira has
text: led him into a trap -- a HALL OF DEATH.
text: At the end of the hall, Kira watches smugly as Oishi realizes
dialog: his predicament.
text: But Oishi is samurai...and doesn’t fear death.
text: Samurai training pulsing through him like a live wire, Oishi
text: continues to move toward Kira. Cautiously. Listening...
text: And the second he hears wood sliding on wood --
text: Oishi turns performing a whirlwind cut known as Sparrows
text: Flying and -- SHUNKK! SHUNKK-SHUNKK!! -- HACKS DOWN three
text: more spears darting out at him!
dialog: 111.
text: As the speartips clatter to the floor, Oishi meets Kira’s
text: eyes...and smiles.
text: Kira’s face falls. And Oishi CHARGES. SHUNK-SHUNK-SHUNK-
text: SHUNK! Waves of spears flash out, but Oishi’s sword whips
text: around him at blinding speed, his amazing bladework turning
text: the hallway into an EXPLOSION OF SPLINTERS as he races
text: through to the end and after Kira.
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE - OUTSIDE MIKA’S CHAMBERS - SAME TIME
text: Mika watches in horror as Minoru and the Lovecraftian Samurai
text: hack and slash at each other in the mother of all battles.
text: Minoru’s sword versus the demon fighter’s blade and whipping
text: tentacles.
text: The fight is a blur, but like their previous fight in the
text: arena, we again watch helpless as the TIDE SLOWLY TURNS
dialog: against Minoru.
text: The Lovecraftian Samurai repeatedly WHIPS OUT his heavy steel
text: dreadlocks to trap Minoru’s sword and strike down into his
text: shoulder. His back. His arm.
text: But the worst happens when Minoru goes to defend a lightning
text: fast attack -- that the Lovecraftian Samurai suddenly
text: REVERSES, COMPLETELY SEVERING Minoru’s little and ring
dialog: fingers from his right hand!
speaker_heading: MINORU
speaker_heading: GAAAAGHH !
text: The koto blade falls from Minoru’s grasp to clatter to the
text: floor. And in that instant, the Lovecraftian warrior SLINGS
text: his head around and LASHES his tentacles around Minoru’s
dialog: throat, YANKS the ronin close and --
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: No!
scene_heading: -- STABS Minoru COMPLETELY THROUGH HIS CHEST!
text: Mika screams as she sees the bloody blade EXPLODE from
text: Minoru’s back.
text: The demon samurai yanks the blade out, then HURLS Minoru to
text: the ground like trash. Stomps on his chest and readies his
text: blade for the final, life-ending thrust.
text: Minoru lays there gasping, all the fight bleeding out of him
text: onto the floor with his life’s blood.
speaker_heading: LOVECRAFTIAN SAMURAI
dialog: Your father should have done this
dialog: the moment you came out of the
text: womb, halfbreed whelp.
dialog: 112.
text: And just as the Lovecraftian Samurai pulls back to strike --
text: We see Mika RISE behind him, Minoru’s sword held high! With
dialog: righteous fire, she CHOPS DOWN!
text: VFX - SLOW MOTION: But as the sword nears, the samurai
text: SENSES the threat and wheels around, the blow missing him by
text: the width of a strand of silk.
text: The sword clangs off the ground, and the demon samurai
text: SMASHES MIKA DOWN with a vicious steel-gauntleted backhand.
text: Mika crumples to the ground, and seeing that --
speaker_heading: MINORU’S
text: -- switch is flipped. With a cry of rage, he rises from the
text: dead, ignoring the pain to snatch up his sword and throw
text: himself into one final all-consuming attack.
text: The Lovecraftian Samurai tries to counter with his tentacles
text: -- but Minoru SEVERS THEM WITH A SINGLE MIGHTY BLOW!
text: The samurai staggers back in shock, unbelieving, severed
text: tentacles clinking to the floor around him.
text: And that’s when Minoru finishes it. Sword whirling like a
text: helicopter blade, Minoru VIVISECTS THE BASTARD INTO NEAT
scene_heading: LITTLE SIX-INCH HORIZONTAL SLICES FROM HEAD TO FOOT!
text: Mika stares until Minoru turns her away from the gruesome
dialog: sight.
speaker_heading: MINORU
dialog: Let's go.
text: And as he leads her away, HARD CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE - THE WAR AT THE INNER GATE
text: The ronin still hold the portal...but they’re taking ghastly
dialog: injuries and --
text: SFX: THE SPLINTERING OF WOOD!
text: Under the weight of the onslaught, the gate is beginning to
dialog: FRACTURE, while --
scene_heading: INT. CASTLE - CORRIDORS - SAME TIME
text: Oishi ignores his injuries and TRACKS Kira to:
dialog: 113.
scene_heading: THE WOMEN’S APARTMENTS
text: Leaving a trail of blood behind him, Oishi enters...and SPIES
text: Kira hiding among the women and children.
text: Oishi strides to him like a wraith of vengeance. Grabs the
text: coward by the collar of his robes and drags him across the
dialog: room.
text: Kira scrabbles at the floor as Oishi drags him away.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: No! Please--! NOOOOOO!!
text: Oishi dumps him in the center of the room.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: I beg of you! I beg of you--!
text: Oishi’s response is a lump of metal dropped at his feet. The
text: KNIFE Asano committed seppuku with.
text: Oishi’s voice is a study in calm and control.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: You recognize it.
dialog: It’s not a question.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: .-w-what could I have done? He
dialog: violated the law!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: And you have violated the honor of
dialog: your House.
dialog: (slides the knife closer)
dialog: Redeem it.
text: Kira looks at the knife...and begins to cry. His tears ruin
text: his perfect powder-whitened face. His blackened teeth. His
text: regal robes.
dialog: It’s pathetic.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: Have you no mercy?
text: Oishi’s cold, hard stare says it all -- no.
text: Eventually, with a trembling hand, Kira picks up the knife.
text: Sniffs and wipes his eyes with the sleeves of his robe.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: You will tell them I died with
dialog: honor?
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I will tell them the truth.
text: Kira nods. Readies himself. Exhales and --
text: SCRAMBLES backwards to grab a CHILD as shield, placing the
text: dagger to the young girl’s throat. Kira shrieks at Oishi in
text: a shrill, panicky voice.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: You get away from me or I will kill
dialog: this girl!
text: But Oishi isn’t buying into it. Like a machine, he steps
text: forward and gives Kira a resounding open-handed SLAP across
text: the face. Then again.
dialog: It’s not a beating for a man.
text: As Kira sits stunned by the insult, the little girl runs
dialog: away.
text: Oishi then seizes Kira’s knife hand in an iron-hard grip.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Coward... Know now the depth of my
dialog: Lord’s bravery and honor.
text: And with that, Oishi forces Kira’s hands to slit his own
text: belly, committing SEPPUKU.
text: Kira’s eyes widen in shock and pain ...and something else.
text: As Oishi forces the tyrant to cut himself open, Kira looks
text: down and NOTICES Lord Asano’s FAMILY CREST on the sleeves of
text: Oishi’s robes: two HAWK FEATHERS, crossed over one another.
speaker_heading: LORD KIRA
dialog: ...two feathers....
text: And with horrific realization, the twins’ prophesy comes
text: clear in Kira’s mind. Kira tries to laugh, but grunts in
dialog: agony instead.
dialog: And dies.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CASTLE - THE WAR AT THE INNER GATE
text: The legions of Kira’s samurai make a final massive surge and
text: the gate GIVES WAY! The ronin back away as the nightmare
text: army FLOODS THROUGH. There is no hope now.
text: The octopus-legions unleash a BLOOD-THIRSTY VICTORY CRY, and
text: as they CHARGE forward to utterly obliterate the ronin --
dialog: 115.
text: Mysteriously, Kira’s warriors SLOW. Then STOP. Staring in a
text: daze at the ronin only twenty feet from them.
text: The ronin are confused by the sudden cease in battle, then
text: realize the warriors are not staring at them, but behind them
dialog: at:
speaker_heading: OISHI
text: who steps out of the castle...KIRA’S HEAD held by its hair in
text: Oishi’s right hand.
text: And, unknowingly fulfilling the prophesy, Oishi raises the
text: head of the vanquished despot for all to see -- the “two
text: feathers” of Asano’s crest on his sleeve “lifting Kira up to
text: live in the minds of his countrymen forever”.
text: Utter stillness and silence descend on the castle.
text: It’s a moment frozen in time, Oishi standing there...
dialog: But this ultimate act of loyalty, of bravery, of bushido,
text: resonates with Kira’s defense force...and one by one, they
text: drop to their knees.
text: And PROSTRATE themselves before the 47 ronin.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. KIRA’S MOUNTAIN CASTLE - MINUTES LATER
text: The stronghold’s monstrous front gates groan apart, and the
text: 47 ronin walk out. Though none of them have died, most bear
text: mortal or nearly mortal wounds that they will soon succumb
dialog: to.
dialog: But there is one final job to do first.
text: So huddling together, helping each other, Oishi’s exhausted,
text: injured, ragtag band of fighters exit the fortress all of
dialog: them were certain they would never escape alive.
text: Behind them, the entire castle remains kowtowed in reverence.
text: And as the music RISES, it sweeps us into a MONTAGE of:
scene_heading: THEIR JOURNEY HOME
text: -- The ronin descending the mountain. Oishi walks in the
text: lead, Kira’s head dangling from his hand like a lantern of
dialog: truth.
dialog: 116.
text: -- Reaching the foothills, they pass a farmer turning his
text: field. The man stops dumbfounded when he sees the head.
text: Bows. Then races away to tell the village the tale.
text: -- Word travels quickly, and the inhabitants of Kira’s
text: village are all waiting when the ronin crest the rise. The
text: peasants approach Oishi’s men as they pass. The men mutter
text: words of thanks. The women openly weep. The children touch
text: these new heroes in awe.
text: Even the warrior monks in their blood-red robes bow in
text: reverence as the ronin pass.
dialog: -- And so it goes, all the way across the countryside.
text: Moved by their tale, villagers line the roads in greater and
text: greater numbers to watch Oishi and his men pass. Giving them
text: offerings of food. Water. Helping them walk.
text: -- Chikara stumbles, and a hand reaches out to lift him up.
text: It is the FRUIT VENDOR and his DAUGHTER who scolded him in
text: Edo. They help him up, then bow down in reverence. This
text: gesture of respect gives Chikara the strength to continue on.
text: -- When they reach Ako, they are surrounded by familiar
text: faces. Shamed faces. The BURLY VENDOR who spit on Oishi
text: beseeches him for forgiveness.
speaker_heading: BURLY VENDOR
dialog: I’m sorry. I’m so sorry. I didn’t
dialog: know... How could I know?
text: Others appeal to Hazama, Basho, Isogai for having thought
text: them honorless.
text: Oishi’s wife, too, is in the crowd. She and Oishi and
text: Chikara meet eyes.
text: But the 47 ronin do not stop, and do not reach the end of
dialog: their pilgrimage until they arrive at:
scene_heading: EXT. SENGAKUJI TEMPLE - DAWN
dialog: The gravesite of Lord Asano...
text: As they enter the sacred place, Mika goes to Hisae, who hugs
text: her tight as her mother would. And as Mika begins to weep
text: with weariness and relief, PAN AROUND to watch the ronin
dialog: doing what they have literally moved mountains to do.
text: Oishi reverently washes Kira’s in the cool water from the
text: temple well. Then places the tyrant’s head and the dagger
text: with which Asano and Kira both took their lives atop his
text: master’s grave.
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Rest now, my lord. You are
dialog: avenged.
text: As if in response, a wind soughs through the ancient trees,
dialog: bringing warmth. Peace. And --
scene_heading: SFX: THE SOUND OF HOOFBEATS. HORSES. LOTS OF THEM.
text: Oishi and the ronin turn to the staggering sight of SHOGUN
text: TOKUGAWA TSUNAYOSHI atop an WARHORSE of mythical proportions.
text: He is backed by the Shogun’s ARMORED CAVALRY -- two hundred
text: horses the size of tanks, encased in spiked and bladed steel.
dialog: There will be no escape from this place.
text: The Shogun’s pinch-faced ADJUTANT steps forward.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: Oishi Kuranosuke!!
text: Oishi rises calmly and regards the man.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: You and your men stand accused of
dialog: treason and the butchery of the
dialog: Shogun’s envoy and Master of
dialog: Protocol, Lord Kira Yoshinaka.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: It was not butchery, my Lord.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: Is that not his head there!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: No... What lays atop that grave is
dialog: Justice.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: He was your superior!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: He was corrupt.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: My men and I followed the Code of
dialog: bushido and honored our master by
text: avenging Lord Kira’s treachery.
dialog: The Code demanded it. Justice
dialog: demanded it. We could do nothing
dialog: else.
text: A murmur rolls through the crowd. Agreement. The Adjutant
text: senses the support of the crowd. Doesn’t like it.
dialog: 118.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: And in doing so, you defied a
dialog: direct command from the Shogun
dialog: forbidding you from exacting
dialog: revenge!
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (nods )
dialog: This is so.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: The penalty is Death.
dialog: (turns to his men)
dialog: Cut these criminals down.
text: But instantly the crowd PROTESTS, surging forward, placing
text: themselves between the soldiers and Oishi’s men, shouting to
dialog: forestall the sentence.
text: The Adjutant is taken aback by the reaction. The soldiers
dialog: are taken aback.
text: The Shogun watches impassively from atop his horse.
text: With kindness and thanks, Oishi and his men gently extract
dialog: themselves from the safety of the villagers...and step
dialog: forward to meet their fate.
text: The Adjutant knows this is his chance. Turns to his men.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: Kill them.
text: But now even the soldiers hesitate, unwilling to mow down
dialog: such courage and honor. Such utter exemplification of the
dialog: bushido code.
text: The Adjutant loses it.
scene_heading: SHOGUN’S ADJUTANT
dialog: I GAVE YOU AN ORDER! BY THE GODS,
dialog: YOU WILL DO AS I COMMAND OR I WILL
dialog: SEE YOU ALL HANGED --
text: And just as the situation is about to spin out of control --
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: Stop.
text: The Shogun’s voice is the deep basso rumble of the Word of
text: God, cutting through all existence. In the instant silence,
text: the Adjutant goes prone. The soldiers and the crowd stand
dialog: terrified.
text: The Shogun steps off his horse like a deity of war descending
text: to earth and strides toward Oishi.
dialog: 119.
text: As he nears, Oishi draws his sword -- and, instantly, fifty
text: ashigaru infantrymen spring forward drawing their own blades!
text: But all for naught. Oishi lays his weapon at the Shogun’s
dialog: feet.
text: Then humbly, Oishi bows before the warlord ruler of all
dialog: Japan.
text: The giant removes his iconic snarling dog great helm. And
dialog: speaks.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: You've put me in an awkward
dialog: position, Oishi Kuranosuke. Just
dialog: as your Lord did.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Never was that my intention.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: And yet the result is the same.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You are criminals. You defied my
dialog: order, for which I need to make a
dialog: harsh example of you -- but you
dialog: exemplified bushido in a time that
dialog: has forgotten the meaning of the
dialog: word. And the reason for it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That must be honored and never
dialog: forgotten.
text: Oishi considers the Shogun’s words. Then:
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: We acted, knowing the penalty was
dialog: death. We are samurai and accepted
dialog: that. And as samurai, we must meet
dialog: our punishment. To excuse us of
dialog: this duty would steal the honor
dialog: from all we have done...and make us
dialog: ronin in a way Lord Kira never
dialog: could.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: This is our fate. We have accepted
dialog: it. Strike us down.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: The country would never forgive me
dialog: for shaming you so...and I could
dialog: never forgive myself.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Then let it be our choice. Allow
dialog: us the honor of a samurai death, to
dialog: die as our Lord and be buried at
dialog: his side.
dialog: 120.
text: Heart heavy with regret, the Shogun acknowledges the wisdom --
dialog: and the right -- of this.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: I will grant you an honorable
dialog: death...under one condition:
dialog: (as Oishi looks to him)
dialog: That your bloodline continues,
dialog: Oishi Kuranosuke. Your son shall
dialog: live so that the heritage of such
dialog: an honorable man will not be
dialog: thinned from Japan’s future.
text: Oishi is moved by the gesture. Meets the Shogun’s eyes, man
dialog: to man.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: Thank you.
scene_heading: INT. SENGAKUJI TEMPLE - A SMALL SHOJI SCREEN ROOM - LATER
text: Hisae helps her husband into the pristine white robes in
text: preparation for his seppuku.
text: She’s fussing with tying the obi knot just so and getting
text: increasingly frustrated -- when she simply drops her hands
text: and begins to cry.
text: Oishi holds her tenderly. Tilts her face up to look into his
text: wife’s tear-filled eyes.
text: And he kisses her. Tragically. Passionately. Perfectly.
text: When they part, Oishi turns to see Chikara standing at the
text: door struggling to hold the stoicism of a samurai to make his
text: father proud, yet betrayed by the tears rising in his eyes.
text: No words are needed here. Oishi moves to him and wraps him
text: into a fierce father’s hug.
text: And as the tears begin to fall, Oishi holds him tight and
text: whispers into his ear.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I am so proud of you, Chikara. So
dialog: proud of you...
text: Then pulls back and looks into his eyes.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: I know you will carry on the family
dialog: name with honor.
speaker_heading: CHIKARA
dialog: I love you, father.
dialog: 121.
speaker_heading: OISHI
dialog: (hugs him again)
dialog: We will meet again along the Path.
dialog: Do you understand?
text: Chikara nods.
scene_heading: INT. SENGAKUJI TEMPLE - HALL
text: The ronin exit their preparation rooms and enter the hall.
text: The sight of so many white robes is disconcerting. Ghosts
dialog: haunting a hall. As --
speaker_heading: MINORU
text: -- steps out, Mika rushes to him, tears running down her
dialog: face.
text: In front of everyone, defying tradition and prejudice, she
text: hugs and kisses him. For in this moment, nothing else
text: matters...save for the words she needs him to hear.
speaker_heading: MIKA
dialog: You will live in my heart forever.
text: From the corner of the room, a SOLDIER speaks.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: It is time.
text: The men line up. Oishi steps from his room with one last
text: look at his wife and son, takes his place at the head of the
text: line and begins to leading his men outside.
text: One by one they pass through the temple portal, but as Minoru
dialog: reaches the threshold:
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: You.
text: The line stopped. Minoru steps out of line to stand before
text: the towering military giant.
text: The moment is reminiscent of when the Shogun called him out
text: at the combat challenge in Ako.
text: The Shogun considers Minoru for a moment. He says nothing.
text: His stern face inscrutable. Then --
speaker_heading: SHOGUN
dialog: I remember your father. He served
dialog: by my side. He was a great
dialog: warrior.
dialog: (beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: SHOGUN (CONT'D)
dialog: As is his son. You honor the
dialog: family name...samurai.
text: And to Minoru’s utter astonishment, the Shogun BOWS to him.
text: No longer a halfbreed in his eyes...but a samurai.
text: Minoru is moved as nothing else on earth could possibly do.
scene_heading: EXT. SENGAKUJI TEMPLE - MAGIC HOUR
text: Oishi’s SAMURAI (no longer ronin) walk out to the temple
dialog: steps and sit seiza.
text: The scene is epic. 46 white-robed figures kneeling at the
text: foot of the immense temple steps. A crowd gathered around
text: them. Soldiers. The Shogun presiding over all.
text: And as the music swells, capturing the poignancy of the
dialog: moment -- the tragedy and the honor; the faces of the
text: villagers and their loved ones watching on -- the samurai
text: draw their daggers.
text: They hold for a moment, daggers before them -- and that is
dialog: how we will remember them, for, as they thrust, we PAN UP to
text: the branches of CHERRY BLOSSOM TREE sheltering the temple...
text: Where a wind blows, warm and peaceful, and as a drift of
text: intensely beautiful SAKURA BLOSSOMS wipe frame...
text: A TITLE CARD rises:
dialog: As a result of the actions of the 47 Ronin,
dialog: Kira's lands were dispossessed and the
dialog: province of Ako returned to House Asano by
dialog: order of the Shogunate.
dialog: Oishi's son, Chikara lived a long life,
text: bearing three sons and a daughter. At his
dialog: death, at the age of 78, he was buried
text: alongside his father and his comrades at Lord
text: Asano's tomb as the 47th ronin.
dialog: To this day, every December 14th - the
dialog: anniversary of the attack on Lord Kira's
dialog: stronghold - thousands of people across Japan,
text: and the world, still gather at Sengakuji
dialog: Temple to pay tribute to the 47 ronin and
dialog: their example of bravery, loyalty and
text: unfaltering honor.
dialog: This film is dedicated to the memory of the 47
dialog: Ronin:
dialog: 123.
scene_heading: OISHI KURANOSUKE YOSHIO
speaker_heading: OISHI CHIKARA YOSHIKANE
scene_heading: YOSHIDA CHUZAEMON KANETORA
scene_heading: HARA SOEMON MOTOTATSU
scene_heading: KATAOKA GOEMON TAKAFUSA
scene_heading: MASE KYUIDAEFU MASAAKI
scene_heading: ONODERA JUNAI HIDEKAZU
speaker_heading: HAZAMA KIHEI MITSUNOBU
scene_heading: ISOGAI JUROZAEMON MASAHISA
scene_heading: HORIBE YAHEI KANAMARU
scene_heading: CHIKAMATSU KANROKU YUKISHIGE
scene_heading: TOMI MORISUKE EMON MASAO
scene_heading: USHIODA MATANOJO TAKAATSU
scene_heading: HAYAMIZU TOZAEMON MISUTORA
scene_heading: AKAUE GENZOSHIGETAKA
scene_heading: OKUDA MAGODAIU SHIGEMORI
scene_heading: YADA GOROEMON SUKETAKE
scene_heading: OISHI SEZAEMON NOBUKIYO
scene_heading: HORIBE YASUBE TAKEYASU
scene_heading: NAKAMURA KANSUKE MASATATSU
scene_heading: SUGAYA HANOJO MASATOSHI
scene_heading: FUWA KAZUEMON MASATANE
scene_heading: KIMURA OKAEMON SADAYUKI
speaker_heading: SEMBA SABUROE MISUTADA
scene_heading: OKANO KINEIMON KANEHIDE
scene_heading: KAIGA YAZAEMON TOMONOBU
speaker_heading: OTAKA GENGO TADAO
scene_heading: OKAJIMA YASOEMON TSUNETATSU
scene_heading: YOSHIDA SAWAEMON TANESADA
scene_heading: TAKEBAYASHI TADSHICKI TAKASHIGE
scene_heading: KURAHASHI DENSUKE TAKEYUKI
scene_heading: HAZAMA SHINROKU MITSUKAZE
scene_heading: MURAMATSU KIHEI HIDENAO
scene_heading: SUGINO TOSEIJI TSUGUFUSA
scene_heading: KATSUTA SHIZAEMON TAKEAKI
scene_heading: MAEBARA ISUEK MUNEFUSA
scene_heading: ONODERA KOEMON HIDETOMI
speaker_heading: HAZAMA JUJIRO MITSUOKI
scene_heading: OKUDA SADAEMON YUKITAKA
scene_heading: YATOUEMON SHIKI NORIKANE
scene_heading: MURAMATSU SANDAIFU TAKANAO
scene_heading: MASE MAGOKURO MASATATSU
scene_heading: KAYANO WASUKE TSUNENARI
scene_heading: YOKOKAWA KANBEI MUNETOSHI
scene_heading: MIMURA JIROZAEMON KANETSUNE
speaker_heading: KANZAKI YOGORO
text: FADE TO BLACK.
dialog: 
