dialog: A Christmas Carol
scene_heading: INT. THE STUDY - NIGHT
text: Huge gold lettering on the binding of a book. Quite unexpectedly, it reads:
speaker_heading: GREAT EXPECTATIONS
text: Beside it on a shelf are other books: OLIVER TWIST, DAVID COPPERFIELD, and,
text: of course, A CHRISTMAS CAROL. A small hand reaches for this last and pulls
text: it off the shelf. A sober-faced, young GIRL, maybe ten years old, clutches
text: the book to her bosom and intently carries it out of the room and into:
scene_heading: INT. THE SITTING-ROOM
text: A cheerily-lit sitting-room in London, England, one Christmas Eve in the
text: 1860s. The girl carries the book to a corner of the room where a man sits
text: before a large picture window revealing a snow covered street under a night
text: sky. Handsome, in his late twenties, with a pleasant voice, obviously a
text: favorite uncle -- he is surrounded by a noisy circle of children and young
text: adults. He is to be the NARRATOR of the story. They are pestering him for
text: something and he is waving them off.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: I don't know why you should want to hear
dialog: this story again. You must have heard it
text: a dozen times by now.
scene_heading: THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
text: A hundred.
speaker_heading: THE ADOLESCENT WHO
text: WISHED HE WAS AN ADULT
dialog: A thousand. But it's good for a laugh.
scene_heading: THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
dialog: And it's your story as much as it is
dialog: anyone's. Isn't it?
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (genuine modesty)
dialog: Maybe it is. But I'm not sure I'm
dialog: necessarily the right one to tell it.
scene_heading: THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
dialog: Aw, that's not true. Grandmother says
dialog: you're the only one who knows how to tell
dialog: it right.
text: The others, particularly the younger children, murmur agreement. The ten year
text: old girl presses through the little crowd with the book in her hand.
text: THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL
dialog: Please. We want to hear it from you.
text: She hands the Narrator the book. He smiles at it and sets it in his lap
text: unopened as the ten year old girl sits at his feet. Slowly, some of the
text: others begin to sit down too.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (off the book)
dialog: Oh, now, you know, I don't really need this.
text: The Narrator, staring at the book, is suddenly lost in thought and talks as
text: much to himself as to the others.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: I've been telling this story every Christmas
dialog: now for oh, I don't know how many years.
dialog: Since I was a boy. And I know it by heart.
dialog: It always begins the same way.
text: A pause.
text: THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL
dialog: (very quietly)
dialog: How does it begin?
text: The Narrator abruptly looks up. Everyone is now seated. They stare at him
text: expectantly. And without any warning, he begins.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
text: Old Marley was as dead as a door-nail.
dialog: This must be distinctly understood or
dialog: nothing wonderful can come of the story
dialog: I am going to relate. So, remember, Old
text: Marley was as dead as a door-nail. The
dialog: registrar of his burial was signed by
dialog: Ebenezer Scrooge. And Scrooge's name was
dialog: good on the London Exchange for anything
text: he chose to put his hand to.
text: As he speaks, the view of the street through the window behind him blurs and
text: resolves itself into a view of the London Exchange.
scene_heading: INT. THE LONDON EXCHANGE - DAY
text: Late afternoon on Christmas Eve, in the year 1843. The Exchange is packed
text: with well-dressed businessmen who hurry up and down, and chink the money in
text: their pockets, and converse in groups, and look at their watches, and trifle
dialog: thoughtfully with their great gold seals; and so forth. Among their number
text: is a FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN who chats with a RED-FACED MAN WITH A
text: PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE. Also present is a man with a sharp and bitter face
text: -- and as bald as Patrick Stewart, give or take a hair. This is EBENEZER
text: SCROOGE. Scrooge is bundling up his coat and heading for the exit when the
text: fat man makes eye contact with him.
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: Ah, Mister Scrooge...
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Your servant, sir.
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: Are you off home to keep Christmas?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I am not in the habit of keeping Christmas,
dialog: sir.
scene_heading: RED-FACED MAN WITH A
scene_heading: PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
dialog: Then why are you leaving so early?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Christmas has a habit of keeping men from
dialog: doing business.
scene_heading: RED-FACED MAN WITH A
scene_heading: PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
dialog: Come, it's in the nature of things that ants
text: toil and grasshoppers sing and play, Mister
dialog: Scrooge.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: An ant is what it is and a grasshopper is what
dialog: it is and Christmas, sir, is a humbug. Good
dialog: day.
text: The two men laugh at Scrooge as he exits the Exchange.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LONDON EXCHANGE
text: Moments later, on the massive stone steps just outside the Exchange, a
text: shivering, POORLY-DRESSED MAN sees Scrooge walking toward him. Scrooge pays
text: him no heed and walks past. The man follows and clutches at Scrooge's
text: sleeve. The two men descend the steps together.
scene_heading: POORLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: Mister Scrooge, sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Who are you?
scene_heading: POORLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: Samuel Wilson, sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Oh, yes. You owe me a little matter of
dialog: twenty-odd pounds, I believe. Well, if you
dialog: want to pay it, come to my place of business.
dialog: I don't conduct my affairs in the teeth of
text: inclement weather.
scene_heading: POORLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: I-I can't pay you, sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I'm not surprised.
scene_heading: POORLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: Not unless you give me more time.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Did I ask you for more time to lend you
dialog: the money?
scene_heading: POORLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: Oh, no, sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Then why should you ask for more time to
dialog: pay it back?
scene_heading: POORLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: I can't take my wife to a debtors’ prison.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Then leave her behind. Why should she go
dialog: to a debtors' prison anyway? She didn't
dialog: borrow the twenty pounds. You did. What
dialog: has your wife got to do with it? For that
dialog: matter, what have I got to do with it? Good
dialog: afternoon.
text: Scrooge tries to walk off but the man clutches at his sleeve.
scene_heading: POORLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: But, Mister Scrooge. It's Christmas!
text: Scrooge shakes the man off.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Christmas has even less to do with it, my
dialog: dear sir, than your wife has or I have.
dialog: You'd still owe me twenty pounds that
dialog: you're not in the position to repay if it
dialog: was the middle of a heat wave on August
dialog: Bank holiday. Good afternoon.
text: Scrooge stalks away as the stunned man stands and stares at him.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. A LONDON STREET
text: Outside Scrooge's counting-house. Cold, bleak, biting weather. People in
text: the street go wheezing up and down, beating their hands upon their breasts,
text: and stamping their feet upon the pavement stones to warm them. The city
text: clocks strike three, but it's quite dark already. Candles flare in the
text: windows of the neighbouring offices, like ruddy smears upon the palpable
text: brown air. The fog comes pouring in at every chink and keyhole, and is so
text: dense that although the street is narrow, the houses opposite are mere
text: phantoms. The sign above the counting-house door reads:
speaker_heading: SCROOGE & MARLEY
text: A tall man -- whom we will come to know as Scrooge's nephew, FRED -- rapidly
text: walks up to the door, opens it, and enters.
scene_heading: INT. COUNTING-HOUSE
text: Scrooge's clerk, BOB CRATCHIT, sits in a dismal little cell, a sort of tank
text: copying letters. There's a very small fire, so small that it looks like
text: there's only one lump of coal. The clerk puts on his white comforter, trying
text: -- and failing -- to warm himself at the candle. Fred appears, all in a glow;
text: his face ruddy and handsome; his eyes sparkle, and his breath smokes in the
text: cold. He grins at Bob Cratchit who raises an eyebrow, surprised to see him.
text: Fred crosses to the doorway of an adjacent office in which someone sits,
text: hunched over a desk, busily writing.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: A merry Christmas, uncle! God save you!
text: The person at the desk spins around, glaring at the intruder. It's Scrooge.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Bah! Humbug!
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Christmas a humbug, uncle? You don't mean
dialog: that, I am sure.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I do. Merry Christmas! What right have you
dialog: to be merry? What reason have you to be
dialog: merry? You're poor enough.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Come, then. What right have you to be
dialog: dismal? What reason have you to be morose?
dialog: You're rich enough.
text: Scrooge has no better answer ready.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Bah! Humbug.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Don't be cross, uncle.
text: Fred enters the office and crosses to a gothic window in the wall from which
text: is visible the ancient tower of a church.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: What else can I be when I live in such a
dialog: world of fools as this Merry Christmas! Out
dialog: upon merry Christmas. What's Christmas time
dialog: to you but a time for paying bills without
dialog: money; a time for finding yourself a year
text: older, but not an hour richer; a time for
dialog: balancing your books and having every item
dialog: in ‘em through a round dozen of months
dialog: presented dead against you?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: If I could work my will, every idiot who
text: goes about with "Merry Christmas" on his
dialog: lips, should be boiled with his own pudding,
text: and buried with a stake of holly through
dialog: his heart. He should!
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Uncle!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Nephew!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Keep Christmas in your own way, and let me
dialog: keep it in mine.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Keep it! But you don't keep it.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Let me leave it alone, then. Much good may
dialog: it do you! Much good it has ever done you!
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: (casually)
dialog: There are many things from which I might
dialog: have derived good, by which I have not
dialog: profited, I dare say. Christmas among the
dialog: rest. But I am sure I have always thought
dialog: of Christmas time, when it has come round
dialog: -- apart from the veneration due to its
dialog: sacred name and origin, if anything
dialog: belonging to it can be apart from that --
dialog: as a good time: a kind, forgiving,
dialog: charitable, pleasant time: the only time
dialog: I know of, in the long calendar of the year,
dialog: when men and women seem by one consent to
dialog: open their shut-up hearts freely, and to
dialog: think of people below them as if they really
dialog: were fellow-passengers to the grave, and not
text: another race of creatures bound on other
dialog: journeys. And therefore, uncle, though it
dialog: has never put a scrap of gold or silver in
dialog: my pocket, I believe that it has done me
dialog: good, and will do me good; and I say, God
dialog: bless it!
text: Bob Cratchit, still in the tank, involuntarily applauds. Becoming immediately
text: sensible of the impropriety, he quickly pokes the fire, and extinguishes the
text: last frail spark.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to Bob Cratchit)
dialog: Let me hear another sound from you and
dialog: you'll keep your Christmas by losing your
dialog: job.
dialog: (to his nephew)
dialog: You're quite a powerful speaker, sir. I
dialog: wonder you don't go into Parliament.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Don't be angry, uncle. Come! Dine with
dialog: us to-morrow.
dialog: (a long pause)
dialog: Will you come see us?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Oh, I'll see you all right... I'll see
dialog: you in hell.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: (astonished)
dialog: But why? Why?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Why did you get married?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Because I fell in love.
text: Scrooge looks at him as if falling in love was the only thing in the world
dialog: more ridiculous than a merry Christmas.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Because you fell in love! Good afternoon!
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Uncle, you never came to see me before that
dialog: happened. Why give it as a reason for not
dialog: coming now?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Good afternoon.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: I want nothing from you; I ask nothing of
dialog: you; why can't we be friends?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Good afternoon.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: I am sorry, with all my heart, to find you
dialog: so resolute. We have never had any quarrel,
dialog: to which I have been a party. But I have made
dialog: the trial in homage to Christmas, and I'll
dialog: keep my Christmas humour to the last. So a
dialog: Merry Christmas, uncle!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Good afternoon.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: And a Happy New Year!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Good afternoon.
text: Fred leaves the room with a wry grin. On his way out the front door and
text: buttoning his coat, he exchanges greetings with Bob Cratchit.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: How is Mrs Cratchit and all the small,
dialog: assorted Cratchits?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Very good, sir.
speaker_heading: FRED
text: All champing at the bit waiting for
dialog: Christmas to begin, eh?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Oh, yes, sir. All very eager.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: And the little lame boy. Which one is he?
dialog: Tim?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Tim, sir.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: That's right. How is he?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: We're in high hopes he's getting better, sir.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Good. A merry Christmas to you.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Same to you, sir, I'm sure.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Thank you.
text: Bob Cratchit watches Fred exit, then glances at Scrooge's office, surprised
text: to find Scrooge glaring at him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: And you! Fifteen shillings a week, and a
text: wife and family, talking about a merry
dialog: Christmas. I'll retire to Bedlam.
text: Bob Cratchit watches Scrooge shake his head and return to his desk.
scene_heading: INT. COUNTING-HOUSE
text: Not long after, TWO PORTLY GENTLEMEN, pleasant to behold, stand, with their
text: hats off, in Scrooge's office. They hold books and papers in their hands,
text: and bow to him. The 1st Gentleman glances at a list.
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: Scrooge and Marley's, I believe.
dialog: (cheerfully)
dialog: Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr
dialog: Scrooge, or Mr Marley?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (melodramatically)
dialog: Mr Marley has been dead these seven years.
dialog: He died seven years ago, this very night.
text: The two gentlemen exchange glances while Scrooge grins malevolently at them.
text: The first gentleman hands his credentials to Scrooge.
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: (to Scrooge)
dialog: We have no doubt his liberality is well
text: represented by his surviving partner.
text: At the ominous word "liberality", Scrooge frowns, shakes his head, and hands
text: the credentials back. The 2nd Gentleman takes pen in hand.
speaker_heading: 2ND GENTLEMAN
dialog: At this festive season of the year, Mr
dialog: Scrooge, it is more than usually desirable
dialog: that we should make some slight provision
dialog: for the Poor and destitute, who suffer greatly
text: at the present time. Many thousands are in
dialog: want of common necessities; hundreds of
dialog: thousands are in want of common comforts,
dialog: sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Are there no prisons?
text: The gentleman lays down his pen.
speaker_heading: 2ND GENTLEMAN
dialog: Plenty of prisons.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: And the Union workhouses? Are they still
dialog: in operation?
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: They are. Still. I wish I could say they
dialog: were not.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: The Treadmill and the Poor Law are in full
dialog: vigour, then?
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: Both very busy, sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Oh! I was afraid, from what you said at
dialog: first, that something had occurred to
dialog: stop them in their useful course. I'm
dialog: very glad to hear it.
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: Under the impression that they scarcely
dialog: furnish Christian cheer of mind or body to
dialog: the multitude, a few of us are attempting to
dialog: raise a fund to buy the Poor some meat and
dialog: drink, and means of warmth. What shall I
dialog: put you down for?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Nothing!
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: You wish to be anonymous?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I wish to be left alone. Since you ask me
dialog: what I wish, gentlemen, that is my answer.
dialog: I don't make merry myself at Christmas and
dialog: I can't afford to make idle people merry.
dialog: I help to support the establishments I have
dialog: mentioned: they cost enough: and those who
dialog: are badly off must go there.
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: Many can't go there; and many would rather
dialog: die.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: If they would rather die, they had better
dialog: do it, and decrease the surplus population.
dialog: Besides -- excuse me -- I don't know that.
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: But you might know it.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: It's not my business. It's enough for a
dialog: man to understand his own business, and not
dialog: to interfere with other people's. Mine
dialog: occupies me constantly. Good afternoon,
dialog: gentlemen!
text: Scrooge returns to his paperwork as the gentlemen exchange astonished looks.
text: EXT.
scene_heading: STREETS OF LONDON - NIGHT
text: The fog and darkness have thickened. People run about with flaring torches,
dialog: proffering their services to go before horses in carriages, and conduct them
text: on their way. At the corner, some labourers repair gas-pipes, and have
text: lighted a great fire in an iron basket, round which a party of ragged men
text: and boys gather: warming their hands and winking their eyes before the blaze
text: in rapture. The water-plug being left in solitude, its overflowings have
text: sullenly congealed, and turned into misanthropic ice. The brightness of the
text: shops where holly sprigs and berries crackle in the lamp-heat of the windows,
text: make pale faces ruddy as they pass. A lean woman emerges from the butchers!
text: with a package of meat.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTING-HOUSE
text: A small BOY nervously approaches Scrooge's window to regale him with a
text: Christmas carol: but at the first sound of "God bless you, merry gentleman!
text: May nothing you dismay!" Scrooge seizes a ruler with such energy of action
text: that the singer flees in terror.
scene_heading: INT. COUNTING-HOUSE
text: The moment the boy has fled, Scrooge's threatening countenance relaxes and
text: he grins, rather pleased with himself.
text: Scrooge glances at the church tower, nearly invisible in the fog, as its
text: clock STRIKES the hour, with tremulous vibrations afterwards as if its teeth
text: were chattering in its frozen head. Time to shut up the counting-house.
text: With an ill-will, Scrooge dismounts from his stool, and nods to Bob Cratchit,
text: who instantly snuffs his candle out, and puts on his hat.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You'll want all day tomorrow, I suppose?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: If quite convenient, Sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: It's not convenient, and it's not fair.
dialog: If I was to stop half-a-crown for it,
dialog: you'd think yourself ill-used, I'll be
dialog: bound?
text: Bob Cratchit smiles faintly.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: And yet, you don't think me ill-used,
dialog: when I pay a day's wages for no work.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: It's only once a year, Mr Scrooge.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
text: A poor excuse for picking a man's pocket
dialog: every twenty-fifth of December,
text: Scrooge buttons his great-coat to the chin.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: But I suppose you must have the whole day.
dialog: Be here all the earlier next morning!
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: I will. I promise.
text: Scrooge walks out into the street with a growl. Bob Cratchit closes the
text: office in a twinkling.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON STREET
text: A coatless, shivering Bob Cratchit locks the front door and rushes off with
text: the long ends of his white comforter dangling below his waist.
scene_heading: INT. TAVERN
text: Scrooge eats a melancholy dinner in a melancholy tavern; the newspapers he
text: has just read lie in a stack on his table; he studies his banker's-book.
scene_heading: EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING
text: A dark and threatening building. Nobody lives in it but Scrooge, the other
text: rooms are all let out as offices. The yard is so dark that Scrooge gropes
text: with his hands through the fog and frost to the black old doorway of the
text: house on which is a fairly large knocker. Scrooge puts his key in the lock
text: of the door and glances at the knocker. Without its undergoing any
text: intermediate process of change, the knocker is no longer a knocker, but
text: Marley's face. Scrooge gasps.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Marley?
text: Marley's face. Not in impenetrable shadow as the other objects in the yard
text: are, but with a dismal light about it, like a bad lobster in a dark cellar.
text: Not angry or ferocious, the face looks at Scrooge as Marley used to look:
text: with ghostly spectacles turned up upon its ghostly forehead; the hair
text: curiously stirred, as if by breath or hot-air; eyes wide open but perfectly
text: motionless. That, and its livid colour, make it horrible; but its horror
text: seems to be in spite of the face and beyond its control, rather than a part
text: of its own expression. As Scrooge lets go of the key and stares fixedly at
text: this phenomenon, it becomes a knocker again. Startled, Scrooge puts his hand
text: upon the key, turns it sturdily, walks in, and lights his candle.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY HALL
text: Scrooge pauses to look cautiously behind the door, as if he half expects to
text: see Marley's pigtail sticking out into the hall. But there's nothing on the
text: back of the door, except the screws and nuts that hold the knocker on.
text: Scrooge closes the door with a bang. The sound echoes through the house like
text: thunder. He fastens the door, walks across the hall, and up the stairs,
text: slowly, trimming his candle as he goes.
scene_heading: INT. THE STAIRS
text: A grand old flight of stairs, very wide, very dark. Scrooge peers up into
text: the darkness and, for a moment, he thinks he sees a something that looks like
text: a hearse going on before him in the gloom. He pauses, blinks, shakes his
text: head, then continues, muttering to himself.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S ROOMS - MONTAGE
text: A suspicious, slightly unnerved Scrooge walks through his gloomy suite of
dialog: rooms -- sitting-room, lumber-room, bed-room -- to be sure that everything's
text: all right. In the sitting-room, he finds nobody under the table, nobody
text: under the sofa; a small fire in the grate; spoon and basin ready; and a
text: little saucepan of gruel (Scrooge has a cold in his head) upon the hob.
text: Lumber-room as usual. Old fire-guard, old shoes, two fish-baskets, washing-
text: stand on three legs, and a poker.
text: Bed-room as usual. Nobody under the bed; nobody in the closet. Suddenly, he
text: sees a ghostly white shape in the darkness on the opposite side of the room.
text: Scrooge tenses up for a moment until he realizes it's only his
text: dressing-gown, hung up in a suspicious attitude against the wall.
text: Quite satisfied, he closes his door, and locks himself in; in fact, he
text: double-locks himself in, not his custom. Secured against surprise, he returns
text: to the bed-room, takes off his cravat and starts to put on his dressing-gown,
text: slippers, and night-cap.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
text: Having changed clothes, Scrooge sits down before the fire to take his gruel.
text: It's a very low fire and Scrooge sits close to it. The fireplace is an old
text: one, built by some Dutch merchant long ago, and paved all round with quaint
text: Dutch tiles, designed to illustrate the Scriptures. Cains and Abels,
text: Pharaoh's daughters, Queens of Sheba, Angelic messengers descending through
text: the air on clouds like feather-beds, Abrahams, Belshazzars, Apostles putting
text: off to sea in butter-boats, hundreds of figures. Scrooge takes a mouthful
text: of gruel and glances at the fireplace. FLASH CUT of every tile adorned with
text: Marley's face as it was on the door-knocker. Scrooge blinks -- and sees that
text: the tiles have returned to normal.
text: Scrooge rises and paces the room, feeling unsettled. After several turns, and
text: more than a few nervous glances at the fireplace, he sits down again. As he
text: throws his head back in the chair, his glance happens to rest upon a bell, a
text: disused bell, that hangs in the room. As he looks, the bell begins to swing.
text: It swings so softly at the outset that it scarcely makes a sound; but soon it
text: rings out loudly, and for the next twenty seconds, so does every bell in the
text: house. Throughout, an uneasy look slowly crosses Scrooge's face.
text: All at once, the bells cease. Scrooge relaxes, but only for a moment: a
text: clanking noise comes from deep down below, as if some person were dragging a
text: heavy chain over the casks in the wine-merchant's cellar. The sound of a
text: downstairs door flying open with a booming sound, and then the clanking
text: noise much louder, on the floors below; then coming up the stairs; then
text: coming straight towards his door. Scrooge starts talking to himself.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: It's humbug still! I won't believe it.
text: The colour leaves Scrooge's face though, when, without a pause, the source of
text: the noise comes on through the heavy door, and passes into the room before
text: Scrooge's very eyes. Upon its coming in, the dying flame leaps up in the
text: fire-place and falls again.
text: The same face: the very same. JACOB MARLEY'S GHOST in his pigtail, usual
text: waistcoat, tights, and boots; the tassels on the latter bristling, like his
text: pigtail, and his coat-skirts, and the hair upon his head. A wrapper, a folded
text: kerchief is bound about Marley's head and chin. A long chain is clasped
text: about his middle, wound about him like a tail; and made of cash-boxes, keys,
text: padlocks, ledgers, deeds, and heavy purses wrought in steel. Marley's body
text: is transparent so that Scrooge, observing him closely, can look through his
text: waistcoat and see the two buttons on his coat behind. Scrooge feels the need
text: to crack a joke to keep down his terror.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (softly)
dialog: I'd often heard it said that you had no
dialog: heart, Marley, but I never believed it
dialog: until now.
text: Scrooge stares into the ghost's death-cold eyes and reverts to his cold and
dialog: caustic self.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: How now! What do you want with me?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Much!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Ask me who I was.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Who were you then?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: In life I was your partner, Jacob Marley.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (doubt fully)
dialog: Can you -- can you sit down?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: I can.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Do it, then.
text: Marley sits down on the opposite side of the fireplace, as if he were quite
text: used to it. Scrooge stares at the ghost's fixed, glazed eyes as it sits
text: perfectly motionless though its hair, and skirts, and tassels, still quiver
text: as if by the hot vapour from an oven.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: You don't believe in me.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I don't.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: What evidence would you have of my reality
dialog: beyond that of your senses?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Why do you doubt your senses?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Because a little thing affects them. A
dialog: slight disorder of the stomach makes them
dialog: cheat. You may be an undigested bit of beef,
text: a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a
text: fragment of an underdone potato. There's
dialog: more of gravy than of grave about you,
dialog: whatever you are! You see this toothpick?
text: Scrooge holds up a toothpick. The ghost's eyes do not move.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: I do.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You are not looking at it.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: But I see it, notwithstanding.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Well! I have but to swallow this, and be for
dialog: the rest of my days persecuted by a legion
dialog: of goblins, all of my own creation. Humbug,
dialog: I tell you; humbug!
text: At this, the spirit raises a frightful cry, and shakes its chain with such a
text: dismal and appalling noise, that Scrooge holds on tight to his chair, to save
text: himself from falling in a swoon. Marley starts taking off the bandage round
text: its head, as if it were too warm to wear in-doors. When Marley's lower jaw
text: drops down to his breast, Scrooge falls on his knees, and clasps his hands
text: before his face.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Mercy! Dreadful apparition, why do you
dialog: trouble me?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Man of the worldly mind! Do you believe
dialog: in me or not?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I do. I must. But why do spirits walk the
dialog: earth, and why do they come to me?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: It is required of every man that the spirit
dialog: within him should walk abroad among his
dialog: fellow-men, and travel far and wide; and if
dialog: that spirit goes not go forth in life, it is
text: condemned to do so after death. It is
dialog: doomed to wander through the world -- oh,
dialog: woe is me! -- and witness what it cannot
dialog: share, but might have shared on earth, and
dialog: turned to happiness!
text: Again Marley raises a cry, and shakes his chain, and wrings his shadowy
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You are fettered. Tell me why?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: I wear the chain I forged in life. I made
dialog: it link by link, and yard by yard; I girded
dialog: it on of my own free will, and of my own
dialog: free will I wore it. Is its pattern strange
dialog: to you?
text: Scrooge trembles more and more.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Or would you know the weight and length of
dialog: the strong coil you bear yourself? It was
dialog: full as heavy and as long as this, seven
dialog: Christmas Eves ago. You have laboured on
dialog: it, since. It is a ponderous chain!
text: Scrooge glances about him on the floor, in the expectation of finding himself
text: surrounded by some fifty or sixty fathoms of iron cable: but he sees nothing.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Jacob. Old Jacob Marley, tell me more.
dialog: Speak comfort to me, Jacob.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: I have none to give. It comes from other
text: regions, Ebenezer Scrooge, and is conveyed
dialog: by other ministers, to other kinds of men.
dialog: Nor can I tell you what I would. A very
dialog: little more, is all permitted to me. I
dialog: cannot rest, I cannot stay, I cannot
dialog: linger anywhere. My spirit never walked
dialog: beyond our counting-house -- mark me! --
dialog: in life my spirit never roved beyond the
dialog: narrow limits of our money-changing hole;
dialog: and weary journeys lie before me!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You must have been very slow about it,
dialog: Jacob.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Slow!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Seven years dead. And travelling all the
dialog: time?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: The whole time. No rest, no peace.
text: Incessant torture of remorse.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You travel fast?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
text: On the wings of the wind.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You might have got over a great quantity
dialog: of ground in seven years.
text: Marley screams another cry, and clanks his chain hideously.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Oh! captive, bound, and double-ironed!
dialog: Not to know, that ages of incessant
dialog: labour by immortal creatures, for this
dialog: earth must pass into eternity before the
dialog: good of which it is susceptible is all
dialog: developed. Not to know that any Christian
text: spirit working kindly in its little sphere,
dialog: whatever it may be, will find its mortal
dialog: life too short for its vast means of
dialog: usefulness. Not to know that no space of
dialog: regret can make amends for one life's
dialog: opportunities misused! Yet such was I!
dialog: Oh! such was I!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: But you were always a good man of business,
dialog: Jacob.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Business! Mankind was my business. The
dialog: common welfare was my business; charity,
dialog: mercy, forbearance, and benevolence, were,
dialog: all, my business. The dealings of my trade
dialog: were but a drop of water in the comprehensive
dialog: ocean of my business!
text: Marley holds up his chain at arm's length, as if that were the cause of all
text: his unavailing grief, and flings it heavily to the floor again.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: At this time of the year, I suffer most.
dialog: Why did I walk through crowds of
text: fellow-beings with my eyes turned down,
dialog: and never raise them to that blessed Star
dialog: which led the Wise Men to a poor abode?
dialog: Were there no poor homes to which its light
dialog: would have conducted me!
text: Scrooge shivers.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Hear me! My time is nearly gone.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I will. But don't be hard upon me! Don't
dialog: be flowery, Jacob!
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: How it is that I appear before you in a
dialog: shape that you can see, I may not tell.
dialog: I have sat invisible beside you many and
dialog: many a day.
text: Scrooge shivers at this, and wipes the perspiration from his brow.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: That is no light part of my penance. I am
dialog: here to-night to warn you, that you have yet
dialog: a chance and hope of escaping my fate. A
dialog: chance and hope of my procuring, Ebenezer.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You were always a good friend to me.
dialog: Thank'ee!
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: You will be haunted ... by Three Spirits.
text: Scrooge's jaw drops almost as low as Marley's had done.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Is that the chance and hope you mentioned,
dialog: Jacob?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: It is.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I -- I think I'd rather not.
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Without their visits, you cannot hope to
dialog: shun the path I tread. Expect the first
text: to-morrow, when the bell tolls One.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Couldn't I take 'em all at once, and have
dialog: it over, Jacob?
speaker_heading: MARLEY
dialog: Expect the second on the next night at the
dialog: same hour. The third upon the next night
dialog: when the last stroke of Twelve has ceased
dialog: to vibrate. Look to see me no more; and look
dialog: that, for your own sake, you remember what
dialog: has passed between us.
text: Scrooge ventures to raise his eyes again, and finds his supernatural visitor
text: confronting him in an erect attitude, with its chain wound over and about its
text: arm. Marley takes his wrapper and wraps it round its head, as before.
text: Scrooge winces at the clicking sound Marley's teeth make, when his jaws are
text: brought together by the bandage. Marley walks backward from him; and with
text: every step, the nearby window raises itself a little, so that when the ghost
text: reaches it, it's wide open. He beckons Scrooge to approach, which he does.
text: When they get within two paces of each other, Marley holds up his hand,
text: warning him to come no nearer. Scrooge stops, not so much in obedience, as in
text: surprise and fear: for on the raising of the hand, he becomes sensible of
text: confused noises in the air; incoherent sounds of lamentation and regret;
text: wailings inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory. Marley, after listening
text: for a moment, joins in the mournful dirge; and floats out the window into the
text: bleak, dark night. Scrooge follows to the window: desperate in his
text: curiosity. He looks out.
scene_heading: EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING
text: The foggy air is filled with phantoms, wandering hither and thither in
text: restless haste, and moaning as they go. Every one of them wears chains like
dialog: Marley's; some few (they might be guilty governments) are linked together;
dialog: none are free. Many had been personally known to Scrooge in their lives. One
text: old ghost, in a white waistcoat, with a monstrous iron safe attached to its
text: ankle, cries piteously at being unable to assist a WRETCHED WOMAN with an
text: infant, whom it sees below, upon a neighboring door-step. The misery with
dialog: them all is, clearly, that they sought to interfere, for good, in human
dialog: matters, and have lost the power for ever. Whether these creatures fade into
text: the mist, or the mist enshrouds them, is unclear. But they and their spirit
text: voices fade together; and the night becomes as it had been when Scrooge
dialog: walked home.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
text: Scrooge closes the window, and examines the door by which the Ghost had
text: entered. It's still double-locked, as he had locked it with his own hands --
text: the bolts are undisturbed. He tries to say "Humbug!" but stops at the first
dialog: syllable.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
text: Scrooge closes his bed-room door and crosses to his bed. Without undressing,
text: he gets in, and falls asleep instantly. The light from the fire in the
text: sitting-room is visible under the closed bed-room door.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
text: Scrooge awakes in darkness, some time later. The fire has gone out in the
text: sitting-room. As the chimes of a neighbouring church strike twelve, Scrooge
text: counts with his fingers.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Twelve? It was past two when I went to bed.
text: Scrooge scrambles out of bed, and gropes his way to the window. He rubs the
text: frost off with the sleeve of his dressing-gown but all he can make out is
text: that it's very foggy and very quiet.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Hmmph! Clock must be wrong. Icicle must
dialog: have got into the works.
text: Scrooge lights a candle and sits on the edge of his bed, looking at his
text: bedside alarm clock. It reads twelve.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Twelve! Why, it isn't possible. I can't
dialog: have slept through a whole day and far
dialog: into another night.
text: He picks up the clock and checks it, then seems to remember something.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (voice over)
dialog: Now, of course, the Ghost had warned Mr
dialog: Scrooge that a spirit would visit him
dialog: when the bell tolled one ...
text: Scrooge appears to make a decision of some kind and begins to fiddle with his
dialog: clock.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (voice over)
dialog: ... So he resolved to lie awake until the
dialog: hour was past; and, considering that he
dialog: could no more go to sleep than go to Heaven,
dialog: this was perhaps the wisest decision he
dialog: could make. Naturally, he didn't want to
dialog: be caught dozing off, so he made sure to
text: set the alarm on his clock to go off
dialog: precisely at one.
text: Scrooge sets the alarm, draws open all the bed-curtains so he may keep a
text: sharp look-out on the room, and sits up in bed -- waiting for his visitor.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
text: About an hour later. Scrooge, warily sitting up in bed, watches the clock
text: tick to one. The tinny alarm bell goes off. Scrooge looks around the room.
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Bah!
text: He sighs -- whether in relief or disappointment or embarrassment, it's hard
text: to tell -- blows out the candle, glances at the door where, the fire having
text: gone out, no light shines through from the sitting-room. Scrooge draws all
text: the bed-curtains shut, curls up under the covers, and with a peaceful,
text: satisfied look on his face, shuts his eyes.
text: A long pause.
text: The church bell sounds with a deep, dull, hollow, melancholy ONE. Scrooge's
text: eyes pop open and a wave of dread passes over his face. A wickedly bright
text: light flashes up in the room, and the curtains of Scrooge's bed are instantly
text: drawn aside. Scrooge, starting up into a half-recumbent attitude, finds
text: himself face to face with the unearthly visitor who drew them:
text: It's a weird, impressive figure -- like a child: yet not so like a child as
text: like an old man, viewed through some supernatural medium, which gives him the
text: appearance of having receded from the view, and being diminished to a child's
text: proportions. Its hair, which hangs about its neck and down its back, is white
text: as if with age; and yet the face has not a wrinkle in it, and the tenderest
text: bloom is on the skin. The arms are very long and muscular; the hands the
text: same, as if its hold were of uncommon strength. Its legs and feet, most
text: delicately formed, are, like those upper members, bare. It wears a tunic of
text: the purest white. Round its waist is bound a lustrous belt, with a beautiful
text: sheen. It holds a branch of fresh green holly in its hand; and, in singular
text: contradiction of that wintry emblem, has its dress trimmed with summer
text: flowers. From the crown of its head there springs a bright clear jet of
dialog: light, by which all this is visible; and which is doubtless why it uses, in
text: its duller moments, a great extinguisher for a cap, which it now holds under
dialog: its arm.
text: Its belt sparkles and glitters now in one part and now in another. And it is
text: continuously morphing: what is light one instant, at another time is dark, so
text: the figure itself fluctuates in its distinctness -- being now a thing with
text: one arm, now with one leg, now with twenty legs, now a pair of legs without a
text: head, now a head without a body -- of which dissolving parts, no outline is
text: visible in the dense gloom wherein they melt away and then re-form, distinct
dialog: and clear as ever.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Are you the Spirit, sir, whose coming was
dialog: foretold to me?
speaker_heading: THE GHOST
dialog: I am!
text: The voice is soft and gentle. Singularly low, as if instead of being so close
text: beside Scrooge, it's at a distance.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Who, and what are you?
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: I am the Ghost of Christmas Past.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Long past?
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: No. Your past.
text: Scrooge winces and blinks at the light coming from the Ghost's crown.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I wonder if you might, er, put a hat on.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: What! Would you so soon put out, with
dialog: worldly hands, the light I give? Is it not
dialog: enough that you are one of those whose
dialog: passions made this cap, and force me through
dialog: whole trains of years to wear it low upon
dialog: my brow!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I didn't mean to offend. Er, what business
dialog: brings you here?
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Your welfare!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Well, I'm much obliged, but I wonder if a
dialog: good night's sleep wouldn't be more conducive
dialog: to that end.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Your reclamation, then. Take heed!
text: The Ghost puts out its strong hand as it speaks, and clasps him gently by the
dialog: arm.
text: Scrooge rises,
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Rise! and walk with me!
text: but finding that the Ghost leads him toward the window, clasps
text: his robe in supplication.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
text: It's the middle of the night; it's below
dialog: freezing; I'm wearing slippers, a
dialog: dressing-gown, and a nightcap; I'm mortal.
dialog: And I'm liable to fall.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Bear but a touch of my hand there ...
text: The Ghost points to its heart.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: -+. and you shall be upheld in more than
dialog: this!
text: Scrooge touches the Ghost's heart and they pass through the wall.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY
text: Scrooge and the Ghost stand on an open, sunlit country road, with fields on
text: either hand. It's a clear, cold, winter day, with snow upon the ground.
text: Scrooge looks about and clasps his hands together.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Good Heaven! I was bred in this place. I
dialog: was a boy here!
text: The Ghost gazes upon him mildly.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Your lip is trembling. And what is that
dialog: upon your cheek?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (an unusual catching in his voice)
text: It's a pimple.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I beg you, Spirit, lead me where you would.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: You recollect the way?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Remember it! I could walk it blindfold.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Strange to have forgotten it for so many
dialog: years! Let us go on.
text: They walk along the road; Scrooge points out every gate, and post, and tree;
text: A little market-town appears in the distance, with a bridge, a church, and a
text: winding river. Some shaggy ponies, with boys upon their backs, trot down the
text: road towards Scrooge and the Ghost. The boys call to other boys in country
text: gigs and carts, driven by farmers. All are in great spirits, and shout to
dialog: each other.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: (to Scrooge)
dialog: These are but shadows of the things that
dialog: have been. They have no consciousness of
dialog: us.
text: The jocund travellers approach; and as they pass by, Scrooge's cold eye
text: glistens. He hears them wish each other Merry Christmas, as they part at
text: cross-roads and bye-ways, for their several homes.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
text: The school is not quite deserted. A
text: solitary child, neglected by his friends,
text: is left there still.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (grim again)
dialog: I know it.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOLHOUSE
text: Scrooge and the Ghost leave the high-road and approach a mansion of dull red
text: brick, with a little weathercock-surmounted cupola, on the roof, and a bell
text: hanging in it. It's a large house, but one of broken fortunes; for the
text: spacious offices are little used, their walls are damp and mossy, their
text: windows broken, and their gates decayed. Fowls cluck and strut in the
text: stables; and the coach-houses and sheds are over-run with grass. The Ghost
text: and Scrooge cross to a door at the back of the house. It opens before them,
dialog: and discloses:
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOLROOM
text: A long, bare, melancholy room, made barer still by lines of plain deal forms
text: and desks. At one of these, a lonely boy reads near a feeble fire; Scrooge
text: sits down upon a form, and weeps to see his poor forgotten self as he used to
text: be. The Ghost joins him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Poor boy!
text: Scrooge dries his eyes with his cuff, then mutters, puts his hand in his
text: pocket, and looks about him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I wish ... but it's too late now.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: What is the matter?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
text: Nothing. Nothing. There was a boy singing a
dialog: Christmas carol at my window last night. I
dialog: should like to have given him something:
dialog: that's all.
text: The Ghost smiles thoughtfully, and waves its hand.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Let us see another Christmas!
text: Scrooge's younger self suddenly morphs into an older boy, and the room
text: becomes a little darker and more dirty. The panels shrink, the windows crack;
text: fragments of plaster fall out of the ceiling; But his former self is still
text: alone: all the other boys have gone home again for the holidays.
text: Young Scrooge is not reading now, but walking up and down despairingly.
text: Scrooge looks at the Ghost, and with a mournful shaking of his head, glances
text: anxiously towards the door. It opens; and a little girl, much younger than
text: the boy, stands at the threshold, looking in. It's Scrooge's sister FAN. The
text: elder Scrooge is amazed to see her.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Fan...
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: Ebenezer.
text: Fan steps toward him, arms outstretched as if to give him a hug and he
text: responds. But as she darts forward, her body passes through his -- for she
text: is but a shadow -- and puts her arms about the neck of the younger Scrooge,
text: and kisses him. Though disappointed, the elder Scrooge turns to watch the
text: youngsters embrace.
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: Dear, dear brother. I have come to bring
dialog: you home, dear brother!
text: She claps her tiny hands, and bends down to laugh.
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: (sings)
dialog: To bring you home, home, home!
speaker_heading: YOUNG SCROOGE
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: Home, little Fan?
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: Yes! Home, for good and all. Home, for ever
dialog: and ever. Father is so much kinder than he
dialog: used to be, that home's like Heaven!
speaker_heading: YOUNG SCROOGE
dialog: For you, perhaps. But not for me. He
dialog: doesn't know me or even what I look like.
dialog: Same as I hardly know you, now that you're
dialog: quite a woman.
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: He spoke so gently to me one dear night when
dialog: I was going to bed, that I was not afraid to
dialog: ask him once more if you might come home; and
dialog: he said Yes, you should; and sent me in a coach
dialog: to bring you. And you're to be a man! And are
dialog: never to come back here; but first, we're to be
dialog: together all the Christmas long, and have the
dialog: merriest time in all the world.
speaker_heading: YOUNG SCROOGE
dialog: You are quite a woman, little Fan!
text: She claps her hands and laughs, and tries to touch his head; but being too
text: little, laughs again, and stands on tiptoe to embrace him. Then she begins to
text: drag him, in her childish eagerness, towards the door; and he, nothing loth
text: to go, accompanies her.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOLHOUSE
text: Young Scrooge's trunk is tied on to the top of a coach, not long after. Young
text: Scrooge and Fan bid an old schoolmaster good-bye, get in, and drive gaily
text: down the country road: the quick wheels dash the hoar-frost and snow from off
text: the dark leaves of the evergreens like spray.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD
text: The Elder Scrooge and the Ghost stand at the road-side and watch the coach go
text: by, its two passengers laughing and talking.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Always a delicate creature, whom a breath
text: might have withered. But she had a large
dialog: heart!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: So she had.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: She died a woman. And had, as I think,
dialog: children.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: One child.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: True. Your nephew!
text: Scrooge seems uneasy in his mind.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (briefly)
dialog: Yes.
text: The Ghost casually peers over Scrooge shoulder and when Scrooge turns ‘round
text: to follow his gaze, he is startled to see:
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
text: A busy thoroughfare of a city, where shadowy pedestrians pass and shadowy
text: carts and coaches battle for the way. The dressing of the shops shows that
text: here too it's Christmas time again; but it's evening, and the streets are
text: lighted up. Scrooge and the Ghost stand near a warehouse door to which the
dialog: Ghost points.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Know it?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Know it! I apprenticed here!
text: The Ghost, using a half dozen arms that fade in and out of view, gestures
dialog: “After you" and Scrooge enters.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE
text: At sight of an old GENTLEMEN in a Welch wig, sitting behind such a high desk,
dialog: that if he were two inches taller he would knock his head against the
text: ceiling, Scrooge lets out a gasp and turns to the Ghost behind him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Why, it's old Fezziwig! Bless his heart;
dialog: it's Fezziwig alive again!
text: Old Fezziwig lays down his pen, and looks up at the clock, which points to
text: the hour of seven. He rubs his hands; adjusts his capacious waistcoat;
text: laughs, and calls out in a comfortable, oily, rich, fat, jovial voice.
speaker_heading: FEZZIWIG
dialog: Yo ho, there! Ebenezer! Dick!
text: Immediately, EBENEZER -- Scrooge's younger self, now a grown man -- comes
text: briskly in, accompanied by his fellow-'prentice, DICK.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to the Ghost)
dialog: Dick Wilkins, to be sure! Bless me, yes.
dialog: There he is. He was very much attached to me,
dialog: was Dick. Poor Dick! Dear, dear!
speaker_heading: FEZZIWIG
dialog: Yo ho, my boys! No more work to-night.
dialog: Christmas Eve, Dick. Christmas, Ebenezer!
dialog: Let's have the shutters up...
text: (claps his hands, sharply)
dialog: ... before a man can say, Jack Robinson!
text: Dick and Ebenezer charge into the street with the shutters -- one, two, three
dialog: -- have them up in their places -- four, five, six -- bar 'em and pin 'em --
text: seven, eight, nine -- and come back before the count of twelve, panting like
text: race-horses. Fezziwig skips down from the high desk, with wonderful agility.
speaker_heading: FEZZIWIG
dialog: Hilli-ho! Clear away, my lads, and let's
dialog: have lots of room here! Hilli-ho, Dick!
dialog: Chirrup, Ebenezer!
scene_heading: FEZZIWIG CHRISTMAS MONTAGE
text: In a minute, Dick and Ebenezer have every movable packed off, the floor swept
text: and watered, the lamps trimmed, fuel heaped on the fire; and the warehouse is
text: as snug, and warm, and dry, and bright a ball-room.
text: A fiddler with a music-book enters, goes up to the lofty desk, tunes his
text: instrument and starts to play. MRS. FEZZIWIG, one vast substantial smile,
text: enters. Three MISS FEZZIWIGS, beaming and lovable, enter. Six young followers
text: whose hearts they broke, enter. All the young men and women employed in the
text: business enter, one after another; some shyly, some boldly, some gracefully,
text: some awkwardly, some pushing, some pulling -- twenty couple at once; hands
text: half round and back again the other way; down the middle and up again; round
text: and round in various stages of affectionate grouping; as the dance ends, old
text: Fezziwig, clapping his hands, crying out, “Well done!" The fiddler buries
dialog: his
text: face in a pot of porter and then pops up again, refreshed, to keep playing.
text: Throughout, Scrooge and the Ghost watch. Or, rather, the Ghost watches and
text: Scrooge lives and re-lives every moment. He points out the guests to the
text: Ghost and talks about them animatedly, though we can't hear him over all the
text: noise. Eventually, he ditches the Ghost like a bad blind date and follows
text: his younger self ‘round the room, listening in on conversations and laughing
text: along with various jokes.
text: More dancing. Also eating: cake, negus, a great piece of Cold Roast, a great
text: piece of Cold Boiled, mince-pies, and plenty of beer. The fiddler strikes up
text: "Sir Roger de Coverley." Old Fezziwig dances with Mrs. Fezziwig -- an
dialog: impressive display: advance and retire, hold hands with your partner, bow and
dialog: curtsey; corkscrew; thread-the-needle, and back again to your place. Young
text: Ebenezer, too, dances up a storm as his elder self looks on in amazement.
text: The clock strikes eleven as the party winds down. Mr and Mrs Fezziwig take
text: their stations, one on either side of the door, and shake hands with every
dialog: person individually as he or she goes out, wishes him or her a Merry
text: Christmas. When everyone has gone but the two 'prentices, they do the same to
text: them; Suddenly, all is very quiet as the young men are left to clean up.
text: Scrooge remembers the Ghost, and becomes conscious that it's looking full
text: upon him, while the light upon its head burns very clear.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: A small matter to make these silly folks so
text: full of gratitude.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Small!
text: The Spirit signs to him to listen to the two apprentices. We overhear a
text: snatch of the conversation as they tidy the room.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: What a sweet old man is Mr Fezziwig!
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: The sweetest! Didja see him dancin' with
dialog: the Missus -- and the look on his face?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Oh, yes!
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: He was in Heaven -- and fully deserved to
dialog: be.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: And where the devil did he find that
dialog: fiddler?
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: Oh, wasn't he marvelous? Nothing's too good
dialog: for Fezziwig. I'd say this year's party was
dialog: finer than the last -- if such a thing is
dialog: possible.
text: As the boys head into another room, the Ghost turns to Scrooge.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Fezziwig spent but a few pounds of your
dialog: mortal money: three or four perhaps. Is that
dialog: so much that he deserves this praise?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: It isn't that. It isn't that, Spirit. He
dialog: has the power to render us happy or unhappy;
dialog: to make our service light or burdensome; a
dialog: pleasure or a toil. Say that his power lies
dialog: in words and looks; in things so slight and
dialog: insignificant that it is impossible to add
dialog: and count 'em up: what then? The happiness
dialog: he gives, is quite as great as if it cost
dialog: a fortune.
text: The Ghost raises an eyebrow at this, and Scrooge stops.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: What is the matter?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Nothing particular.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: Something, I think?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: No. No. I should like to be able to say a
dialog: word or two to my clerk just now. That's all.
text: Suddenly, the room darkens as young Ebenezer re-enters and turns down the
dialog: lamps.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: My time grows short.
text: The room continues to darken until the scene fades to black.
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVEYARD - DAY
text: The black hole of a freshly dug grave -- on a frosty green cemetery lawn
text: under a sunny blue sky. Nearby is Ebenezer, older now, a man in the prime of
text: life, but without the harsh and rigid lines of later years: merely a few
text: signs of care and avarice. An eager, greedy, restless motion afflicts his
text: eye. He sits on a bench under a shady tree watching a fair young girl ina
text: mourning-dress placing flowers by a tombstone -- her tears sparkle in the
text: light that shines out of the Ghost of Christmas Past, who stands on the
text: opposite side of the ‘stone. An astonished Scrooge stands beside the Ghost,
text: staring at her, his face just inches from hers.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Belle ...
text: He reaches out to touch her, but she abruptly turns and crosses to his
text: younger self, going from sunshine to shade. BELLE joins Ebenezer on the
text: bench and takes up what appears to be an ongoing conversation.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: It matters little, to you, very little.
dialog: Another idol has displaced me; and if it
dialog: can cheer and comfort you in time to come,
dialog: as I would have tried to do, I have no
dialog: just cause to grieve.
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: What Idol has displaced you?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: A golden one.
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: (tries to be reasonable)
dialog: This is the even-handed dealing of the
dialog: world! There is nothing on which it is so
dialog: hard as poverty; and there is nothing it
dialog: professes to condemn with such severity
dialog: as the pursuit of wealth!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: You fear the world too much. All your
dialog: other hopes have merged into the hope of
dialog: being beyond the chance of its sordid
dialog: reproach. I have seen your nobler
text: aspirations fall off one by one, until
dialog: the master-passion, Gain, engrosses you.
dialog: Have I not?
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: What then? Even if I have grown so much
dialog: wiser, what then? I am not changed towards
dialog: you.
text: Belle shakes her head.
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: Am I?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Our engagement is an old one. It was made
dialog: when we were both poor and content to be
dialog: so, until, in good season, we could improve
dialog: our worldly fortune by our patient industry.
dialog: You are changed. When it was made, you were
dialog: another man.
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: (impatiently)
dialog: I was a boy. 'Tis true, I am not now what I
dialog: was then.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I am. That which promised happiness when
dialog: we were one in heart, is fraught with
dialog: misery now that we are two. How often and
dialog: how keenly I have thought of this, I will
dialog: not say. It is enough that I have thought
dialog: of it, and can release you from our
dialog: engagement.
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: Have I ever sought release?
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: In words? No. Never.
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: In what, then?
speaker_heading: BELLE
text: In a changed nature; in an altered spirit;
text: in another atmosphere of life; another Hope
dialog: as its great end. In everything that made
dialog: my love of any worth or value in your sight.
dialog: If this had never been between us, tell me,
dialog: would you seek me out and try to win me now?
dialog: Ah, no!
text: He seems to yield to the justice of this supposition, in spite of himself.
speaker_heading: EBENEZER
dialog: You think not.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: I would gladly think otherwise if I could,
dialog: Heaven knows! When I have learned a Truth
dialog: like this, I know how strong and
dialog: irresistible it must be. But if you were
dialog: free to-day, to-morrow, yesterday, can
dialog: even I believe that you would choose a
dialog: dowerless girl -- you who, in your very
dialog: confidence with her, weigh everything by
dialog: Gain: or, choosing her, if for a moment
dialog: you were false enough to your one guiding
dialog: principle to do so, do I not know that
dialog: your repentance and regret would surely
dialog: follow? I do; and I release you from our
dialog: engagement. With a full heart, for the love
dialog: of him you once were.
text: A pause. He is about to speak; but with her head turned from him, she
dialog: resumes.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: You may -- the memory of what is past half
dialog: makes me hope you will -- have pain in this.
dialog: A very, very brief time, and you will dismiss
text: the recollection of it, gladly, as an
dialog: unprofitable dream, from which it happened
dialog: well that you awoke. May you be happy in the
dialog: life you have chosen!
text: Abruptly, she rises and leaves him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Spirit! Show me no more! Conduct me home. Why
dialog: do you delight to torture me?
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: One shadow more!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: No more! No more. I don't wish to see it.
dialog: Show me no more!
text: But the relentless Ghost pinions his arms, and turns him 'round to observe:
scene_heading: INT. BELLE'S SITTING-ROOM - NIGHT
text: A room, not very large or handsome, but full of comfort and Christmas
text: decorations. All is quiet. Falling snow is visible out the windows. Near
text: the fireplace, sits a beautiful young girl, nearly identical to Belle. Belle
text: herself, now a comely matron, is also by the fire -- sitting opposite her
text: daughter. Scrooge gazes upon them in awe, particularly the daughter.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (voice over)
dialog: I suspect it must have staggered Mr Scrooge
dialog: to see these women, especially the younger
dialog: one, because had he played his cards
dialog: differently, a woman such as she might well
dialog: have called him father, and been like a
dialog: spring-time for him in the haggard winter
dialog: of his life.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Of course, he might well have had more than
dialog: one child ...
text: Nearly a dozen children explode into the room, making a tumultuous noise, but
text: no one seems to care; on the contrary, the mother and daughter laugh
text: heartily, and enjoy it very much; and the latter mingles with them and gets
text: clobbered ruthlessly. They stream around a startled Scrooge, running, jumping
text: and playing with enormous energy.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (voice over)
dialog: -.. Oh, what would I not have given to be
dialog: one of those children! Though I never could
dialog: have been so rude, no, no! I wouldn't for
dialog: the wealth of all the world have behaved so
dialog: wildly, God bless my soul!
text: Upon a knocking at the door, the children stampede immediately, and the
text: daughter is borne towards it in the centre of the flushed and boisterous
text: group, just in time to greet their father, who comes home laden with
text: Christmas toys and presents. Shouting and struggling, the kids swarm their
text: father, BELLE'S HUSBAND: scaling him, with chairs for ladders, to dive into
text: his pockets, despoil him of brown-paper parcels, hold on tight by his cravat,
text: hug him round the neck, pummel his back, and kick his legs in irrepressible
text: affection! They shout with wonder and delight at each package they receive.
text: Belle has risen from her chair to watch the proceedings and happens to stand
text: next to Scrooge who watches her and her family closely, no doubt pondering
dialog: what might have been.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. BELLE'S SITTING-ROOM
text: Later that evening. Gift-wrapping litters the floor. The children have gone
text: to bed and all is quiet again. Scrooge and the Ghost look on as Belle's
text: husband, having his eldest daughter leaning fondly on him, sits down with her
text: and her mother at the fireside; The husband turns to his wife with a smile.
speaker_heading: BELLE'S HUSBAND
dialog: Belle, I saw an old friend of yours this
dialog: afternoon.
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: Who was it?
speaker_heading: BELLE'S HUSBAND
dialog: Guess!
speaker_heading: BELLE
dialog: How can I? Tut, don't I know. Ebenezer
dialog: Scrooge.
speaker_heading: BELLE'S HUSBAND
text: Scrooge it was. I passed his office window;
dialog: and as it was not shut up, and he had a
dialog: candle inside, I could scarcely help seeing
text: him. His partner lies upon the point of
dialog: death, I hear; and there he sat alone. Quite
dialog: alone in the world, I do believe.
text: Scrooge, sitting beside the Ghost on the far side of the room, shuts his eyes
text: and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: spirit! Remove me from this place.
text: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
dialog: I told you these were shadows of the things
dialog: that have been. That they are what they are,
dialog: do not blame me!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Remove me! I cannot bear it!
text: Scrooge turns upon the Ghost, and sees that it looks at him with an oddly
text: morphing face, in which there momentarily appear fragments of all the faces
text: it has shown him: his younger selves, Fan, the Fezziwigs, Dick Wilkins,
text: Belle, etc. Terrified, Scrooge physically attacks the Ghost.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Leave me! Take me back. Haunt me no longer!
text: The Ghost offers no visible resistance of its own but remains undisturbed by
text: Scrooge's attack, the light from its head burns high and bright; Scrooge
text: seizes the extinguisher-cap from under its arm and presses it down upon the
text: Ghost's head. The Ghost seems to shrink beneath it, so that the extinguisher
text: covers its whole form; but though Scrooge presses it down with all his force,
text: he can't hide the light, which streams from under it, in an unbroken flood
text: upon the ground. In a last great effort, he throws the whole of his body atop
text: the cap and the light goes out. Blackness.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
text: The room is dark -- no light shines under the bed-room door from the sitting-
text: room. Scrooge -- in roughly the same position we last saw him -- lies in his
text: bed atop his pillow. In the middle of a prodigiously tough snore, Scrooge
text: awakens with a start and sits up in bed. He lights his candle and looks
text: around. His bedside clock reads five minutes to one.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (voice over)
text: Now, Marley's Ghost had warned Scrooge that
dialog: a second spirit would haunt him at the
dialog: stroke of one. I don't mind telling you
dialog: that Scrooge was now prepared for a good
text: broad field of strange appearances, and
text: that nothing between a baby and a rhinoceros
dialog: would have astonished him very much. By this
dialog: time, he was ready for almost anything ...
text: From the church clock, the chimes strike one. Scrooge steels himself.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (voice over)
dialog: ... But, you see, he was not by any means
dialog: ready for nothing ...
text: And nothing is exactly what happens. After a lengthy pause, Scrooge checks
text: his clock, sighs and, with a last look around, blows out the candle and lies
text: down on the bed. Suddenly, he bolts straight up -- staring at his bed-room
text: door. Light is again streaming in from the sitting-room. Scrooge gets up
text: softly and shuffles in his slippers to the door. His hand is on the lock
text: when a voice from the sitting-room calls out.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Scroooocoge? Come in, Scrooge!
text: A trembling Scrooge opens the door and enters:
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
text: It's his own room, but it's undergone a transformation. The walls and ceiling
text: are so hung with living green, that it looks a perfect grove; from every part
text: of which, bright gleaming berries glisten. Crisp leaves of holly, mistletoe,
text: and ivy reflect back the light like so many little mirrors; and a mighty
text: blaze roars in the fire-place. Heaped up on the floor, to form a kind of
text: throne, are turkeys, geese, game, poultry, brawn, great joints of meat,
text: sucking-pigs, long wreaths of sausages, mince-pies, plum-puddings, barrels of
text: oysters, red-hot chestnuts, cherry-cheeked apples, juicy oranges, luscious
text: pears, immense twelfth-cakes, and seething bowls of punch, that make the
text: chamber dim with their delicious steam. In easy state upon this couch, there
text: sits a jolly Giant, glorious to see: who carries a glowing torch, in shape
text: not unlike Plenty's horn, and holds it up, high up, to shed its light on
text: Scrooge, as he comes peeping round the door.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: Come in! Come in and know me better, man!
text: Scrooge enters timidly. The Spirit's eyes are clear and kind, but Scrooge
text: does not look at them.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: I am the Ghost of Christmas Present! Look
dialog: upon me!
text: Scrooge does so. The ghost wears a simple green robe, or mantle, bordered
text: with white fur, hanging so loosely on the figure, that its capacious breast
text: is bare, as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any artifice. Its
text: feet, observable beneath the ample folds of the garment, are also bare; and
text: on its head it wears no other covering than a holly wreath, set here and
text: there with shining icicles. Its dark brown curls are long and free: free as
text: its genial face, its sparkling eye, its open hand, its cheery voice, its
text: unconstrained demeanour, and its joyful air. Girded round its middle is an
text: antique scabbard; but with no sword in it, and the ancient sheath is eaten up
dialog: with rust.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: You have never seen the like of me before?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Never.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: Have never walked forth with my elder
dialog: brothers born in these later years?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I don't think I have. I am afraid I have
dialog: not. Have you had many brothers, Spirit?
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: Approximately eighteen hundred and
dialog: forty-two.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: A tremendous family to provide for!
text: The Ghost of Christmas Present smiles and rises.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: spirit, conduct me where you will. I went
dialog: forth last night on compulsion, and I learnt
dialog: a lesson which is working now. To-night, if
dialog: you have aught to teach me, let me profit by
dialog: it.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: Touch my robe!
text: Scrooge does as he's told, and holds it fast. Holly, mistletoe, red berries,
text: ivy, turkeys, geese, game, poultry, brawn, meat, pigs, sausages, oysters,
text: pies, puddings, fruit, and punch, all vanish instantly. So does the room, the
text: fire, the ruddy glow, the hour of night...
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET - DAY
text: Scrooge and the Spirit wander the city streets on Christmas morning, where
text: the severe weather causes the people to make a rough, but brisk and not
text: unpleasant kind of music, in scraping the snow from the pavement in front of
text: their dwellings, and from the tops of their houses. Scrooge and the Spirit
text: see that the corner poulterer's shop is still open, and in its window hang
text: two Prize Turkeys. One is the size of a boy, the other a little smaller.
text: Happy crowds pour forth into the streets on their way to church, dressed in
text: their Sunday best. Scrooge and the Spirit press on into Camden Town.
scene_heading: EXT. BOB CRATCHIT'S HOME
text: On the threshold of the door, Scrooge watches as the Spirit smiles and stops
text: to bless Bob Cratchit's four-roomed house with an unspoken prayer.
scene_heading: INT. BOB CRATCHIT'S HOME
text: MRS CRATCHIT, Bob Cratchit's wife, dressed out but poorly in a twice-turned
text: gown, but brave in ribbons, which are cheap and make a goodly show for
text: sixpence; and she lays the table-cloth, assisted by BELINDA, second of her
text: daughters, also brave in ribbons; while the adolescent Master PETER Cratchit
text: plunges a fork into the saucepan of potatoes, then into his mouth. Two
text: smaller Cratchits, boy and girl, come tearing in, screaming something
text: incomprehensible; and basking in luxurious thoughts of sage-and-onion, these
text: young Cratchits dance about the table. The eldest, Peter Cratchit, blows the
text: fire, until the slow potatoes, bubbling up, knock loudly at the saucepan-lid.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: What has ever got your precious father then.
dialog: And your brother, Tiny Tim! And Martha warn't
dialog: as late last Christmas Day by half-an-hour!
text: As if on cue, MARTHA, the eldest daughter, enters.
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: Here's Martha, mother!
text: THE TWO SMALL CRATCHITS
dialog: Here's Martha, mother! Hurrah! There's such
dialog: a goose, Martha!
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: Why, bless your heart alive, my dear, how
dialog: late you are!
text: Mrs Cratchit, kisses Martha, and takes off her shawl and bonnet for her with
text: officious zeal.
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: We'd a deal of work to finish up last night
dialog: and had to clear away this morning, mother!
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: Well! Never mind so long as you are come.
dialog: Sit ye down before the fire, my dear, and
dialog: have a warm, Lord bless ye!
text: THE TWO SMALL CRATCHITS
dialog: No, no! There's father coming. Hide,
dialog: Martha, hide!
text: So Martha hides herself, and, to Scrooge's surprise -- for until now, he
dialog: hadn't a clue as to whose house this was -- in comes little Bob Cratchit, the
text: father, with at least three feet of comforter hanging down before him; and
text: his threadbare clothes darned up and brushed, to look seasonable; and TINY
text: TIM upon his shoulder. He sets Tim down gently. Alas for Tiny Tim, he bears
text: a little crutch, and has his limbs supported by an iron frame. He limps
text: badly, favoring his right leg. Bob looks around.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Why, where's our Martha?
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: Not coming.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (heartbroken)
dialog: Not coming! Not coming upon Christmas Day!
text: Martha doesn't like to see him disappointed, even if it were only in joke; so
text: she comes out prematurely from behind the closet door, and runs into his
text: arms, while the two young Cratchits help Tiny Tim to the wash-house, that he
text: might hear the pudding singing in the copper. Bob hugs Martha to his heart's
text: content until she breaks away to tend to the supper. Husband and wife are
text: alone for a moment.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: And how did little Tim behave in church?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: As good as gold, and better. Somehow he
text: gets thoughtful, sitting by himself so
dialog: much, and thinks the strangest things
dialog: you ever heard. He told me, coming home,
dialog: that he hoped the people in church saw
dialog: him, because he was a cripple, and it
dialog: might be pleasant to them to remember
dialog: upon Christmas Day, who made lame beggars
text: walk, and blind men see.
dialog: (a long pause)
dialog: He's growing stronger and heartier every
dialog: day, isn't he?
text: The look that crosses Mrs Cratchit's face is not encouraging.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Yes, dear. He is.
text: With his active little crutch, Tiny Tim returns, escorted by his brother and
dialog: sister to his stool before the fire;
text: THE TWO SMALL CRATCHITS
dialog: The goose is cooked! The goose is cooked!
scene_heading: CHRISTMAS DINNER MONTAGE
text: Bob Cratchit turns up his cuffs and compounds some hot mixture in a jug with
text: gin and lemons, and stirs it round and round and puts it on the hob to
text: simmer; Peter, and the two ubiquitous young Cratchits fetch the goose and
text: carry it to the table. Mrs Cratchit pours the gravy, hissing hot; Peter
text: mashed the potatoes with incredible vigour; Miss Belinda sweetens up the
text: apple-sauce; Martha dusts the hot plates; Bob takes Tiny Tim beside him in a
text: tiny corner at the table; the two young Cratchits set chairs for everybody,
text: not forgetting themselves. At last, the table is set -- goose, apple-sauce
text: and mashed potatoes.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to the Spirit, matter-of-fact)
dialog: Hmmph. Not much of a goose.
speaker_heading: TINY TIM
dialog: Bless us, 0 Lord! and these Thy gifts,
dialog: which we are about to receive from Thy
dialog: bounty, through Christ our Lord. Amen.
text: A breathless pause, as Mrs Cratchit, looking slowly all along the carving-
text: knife, prepares to plunge it in the breast; but when she does, and when the
text: long expected gush of stuffing issues forth, one murmur of delight arises all
text: round the table, and even Tiny Tim, excited by the two young Cratchits, beats
text: on the table with the handle of his knife, and feebly cries "Hurrah!" In a
text: moment, everyone's mouth is full.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (to Mrs Cratchit)
dialog: I don't believe there ever was such a goose
dialog: cooked. So tender.
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: (to Mrs Cratchit)
dialog: And delicious.
text: ONE OF THE SMALL CRATCHITS
dialog: (to Mrs Cratchit)
dialog: And big.
speaker_heading: MRS CRATCHIT
dialog: (wryly)
dialog: And cheap.
speaker_heading: TINY TIM
dialog: (to Mrs Cratchit)
dialog: It's lovely, Mother. This a goose we shall
dialog: remember for as long as we live.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: Thank you, Tim.
text: After a DISSOLVE, Miss Belinda changes the plates. Mrs Cratchit is visibly
dialog: nervous.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
text: I can't stand to look at the pudding.
dialog: Suppose it should not be done enough?
dialog: Suppose it should break in turning out?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (mock horror)
dialog: Suppose somebody should have got over
text: the wall of the back-yard, and stolen it,
dialog: while we were eating the goose?
text: Bob's mouth makes a perfect O and his eyebrows almost leave his head. The
text: two small Cratchits become livid and start yelling at him. Everyone roars
text: with laughter at this, even Mrs Cratchit. Belinda bursts into the room
text: accompanied by a great deal of steam and, in an instant, the pudding is out
text: of the copper like a speckled cannon-ball, hard and firm, blazing in half of
text: half-a-quartern of ignited brandy, and bedight with Christmas holly stuck
text: into the top. Everyone oohs and aahhhs as Mrs Cratchit blushes and smiles
dialog: proudly.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Oh, a wonderful pudding!
text: Bob Cratchit holds up a glass to propose a toast.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: A Merry Christmas to us all, my dears.
dialog: God bless us!
text: Which all the family re-echoes.
speaker_heading: TINY TIM
dialog: God bless us every one!
text: The family drinks and gets to work on the pudding. Tim sits very close to
text: his father's side upon his little stool. Bob holds Tim's withered little hand
text: in his, as if he wished to keep him by his side, and dreaded that he might be
text: taken from him. Scrooge watches them with fascination -- it's a side of
text: Cratchit he's never thought of. Without taking his eyes off them, he nods to
dialog: the Spirit.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Spirit ... tell me if Tiny Tim will live.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
text: I see a vacant seat in the poor chimney-
text: corner, and a crutch without an owner,
dialog: carefully preserved. If these shadows
text: remain unaltered by the Future, the child
dialog: will die.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: No, no. Oh, no, kind Spirit! say he will
dialog: be spared.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: If these shadows remain unaltered by the
dialog: Future, none other of my race will find him
dialog: here. What then?
dialog: (assuming Scrooge's voice)
dialog: If he be like to die, he had better do it,
dialog: and decrease the surplus population.
text: Overcome with penitence and grief, Scrooge hangs his head to hear his own
text: words quoted.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: Man, if man you be in heart, not adamant,
dialog: forbear that wicked cant until you have
dialog: discovered What the surplus is, and Where
dialog: it is. Will you decide what men shall live,
dialog: what men shall die? It may be, that in the
dialog: sight of Heaven, you are more worthless and
dialog: less fit to live than millions like this
dialog: poor man's child. Oh God! to hear the
text: Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too
dialog: much life among his hungry brothers in the
dialog: dust!
text: Scrooge bends before the Spirit's rebuke, and trembling, casts his eyes upon
dialog: the ground.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Mr Scrooge!
text: Scrooge looks up, startled to hear someone call his name. Bob Cratchit holds
text: a glass up to him, making a toast.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: I'll give you Mr Scrooge, the Founder of
dialog: the Feast!
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: (blushes)
dialog: The Founder of the Feast indeed! I wish I
dialog: had him here. I'd give him a piece of my
dialog: mind to feast upon, and I hope he'd have
dialog: a good appetite for it.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (gently chiding)
dialog: My dear, the children; Christmas Day.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: It should be Christmas Day, I am sure, on
dialog: which one drinks the health of such an
text: odious, stingy, hard, unfeeling man as Mr
dialog: Scrooge. You know he is, Robert! Nobody
dialog: knows it better than you do, poor fellow!
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: My dear, have some charity. It's Christmas
dialog: Day.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: I'll drink his health for your sake and the
dialog: Day's, not for his. Long life to him. A
dialog: merry Christmas and a happy new year! He'll
dialog: be very merry and very happy, I have no
dialog: doubt !
text: The children drink the toast after her, the first time they show no
text: heartiness. Tiny Tim drinks last of all, not caring. Scrooge sees he is the
text: Ogre of the family and turns away from them, toward the window where the
text: evening sun sets.
scene_heading: EXT. MOOR - SUNSET
text: Scrooge and the Spirit stand on a bleak and desert moor, where monstrous
text: masses of rude stone are cast about, as though it were the burial-place of
text: giants; where nothing grows but moss and furze, and coarse, rank grass. Down
text: in the west the setting sun leaves a streak of fiery red, which glares upon
text: the desolation for an instant, like a sullen eye, and frowning lower, lower,
text: lower yet, was lost in the thick gloom of darkest night.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: What place is this?
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
text: A place where Miners live, who labour in
dialog: the bowels of the earth. But they know me.
dialog: See!
text: A light shines from the window of a hut, and swiftly Scrooge and the Spirit
text: advance towards it. Passing through the wall of mud and stone, they find:
scene_heading: INT. HUT - NIGHT
text: A cheerful FAMILY assembled round a glowing fire. An old, old man and woman,
dialog: with their children and their children's children, and another generation
text: beyond that, all decked out gaily in their holiday attire. The old man, in a
text: quiet but fervent voice, sings them a Christmas song, and they all join in
text: the chorus. The Spirit gestures to Scrooge to hold his robe, and the two
text: rise up through the roof of the hut and high into:
scene_heading: EXT. THE NIGHT SKY
text: They fly above the moor, speeding out to sea. To Scrooge's horror, looking
text: back, he sees the last of the land, a frightful range of rocks, behind them;
scene_heading: EXT. THE OCEAN
text: The Spirit and Scrooge: two rapidly moving silhouettes skimming the ocean's
dialog: surface.
scene_heading: EXT. LIGHTHOUSE
text: Built upon a dismal reef of sunken rocks, some league or so from shore, on
text: which the waters chafe and dash, there stands a solitary lighthouse. Great
text: heaps of sea-weed cling to its base, and storm-birds -- born of the wind one
text: might suppose, as sea-weed of the water -- rise and fall about it, like the
text: waves they skim.
scene_heading: INT. LIGHTHOUSE
text: Two LIGHTHOUSE KEEPERS have made a fire, that through the loophole in the
text: thick stone wall sheds out a ray of brightness on the awful sea. Joining
text: their horny hands over the rough table at which they sat, they toast each
text: other a Merry Christmas in their can of grog; and one of them -- the elder,
text: with his face all damaged and scarred with hard weather, as the figure-head
text: of an old ship might be -- strikes up the song heard in the miners’ hut. Just
text: outside their window, a hundred ten feet in the air, Scrooge and the Spirit
text: watch. The Spirit gives Scrooge a tug -- and off they fly.
scene_heading: EXT. SHIP MONTAGE - DAY
text: As the sun rises on a distant horizon, Scrooge and the Spirit observe: the
text: helmsman at the wheel as a fellow sailor quietly wishes him a Merry
text: Christmas; the look-out in the bow as he hums a carol; two officers on watch
text: exchanging gifts; dark, ghostly figures in their several stations; but every
text: man among them, lost in thought. In the galley, an illiterate sailor dictates
text: a letter to a friend.
speaker_heading: SAILOR
dialog: (dictates)
dialog: My dearest, dearest Emily. The holiday
dialog: season finds my thoughts turning ever more
dialog: to you...
dialog: (to the friend)
dialog: How's that, so far?
text: The friend merely looks at him and shrugs.
speaker_heading: SAILOR
dialog: (dictates)
dialog: I should like to have been home this
dialog: Christmas, but I am afraid I have been
dialog: shanghaied ....
text: From behind him, Scrooge hears a long, hearty -- and familiar -- laugh.
text: After a moment, he recognises it.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Fred?
text: He turns toward the laugh, suddenly finding himself in:
scene_heading: INT. HIS NEPHEW'S SITTING-ROOM - NIGHT
text: A bright, dry, gleaming room in a finely-appointed house. The Spirit,
text: standing smiling by Scrooge's side, looks at Scrooge's nephew with approving
text: affability. Scrooge's nephew Fred laughs: holding his sides, rolling his
text: head, and twisting his face into the most extravagant contortions: Scrooge's
text: NIECE, by marriage, laughs as heartily as he. And their assembled friends
text: being not a bit behindhand, roar out lustily.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: He said that Christmas was a humbug, as I
dialog: live! He believed it too!
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: More shame for him, Fred!
text: Scrooge's niece is exceedingly pretty. With a dimpled, surprised-looking,
text: capital face; a ripe little mouth, that seems made to be kissed -- as no
text: doubt it often is; She is seated in a large chair with a footstool, in a snug
text: corner right by the door -- and never leaves this position.
scene_heading: ONE OF THE GUESTS
dialog: I should very much like to meet your uncle,
dialog: Fred. The droll way in which you portray
dialog: him makes me curious.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: He's a comical old fellow, that's the truth:
dialog: and not so pleasant as he might be. However,
dialog: his offences carry their own punishment, and
dialog: I have nothing to say against him.
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: I'm sure he is very rich, Fred. At least you
dialog: always tell me so.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: What of that, my dear? His wealth is of no
dialog: use to him. He don't do any good with it.
dialog: He don't make himself comfortable with it.
dialog: He hasn't the satisfaction of thinking --
dialog: ha, ha, ha! -- that he is ever going to
dialog: benefit Us with it.
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: I have no patience with him.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER WOMAN
dialog: Nor I.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Oh, I have! I am sorry for him; I couldn't
dialog: be angry with him if I tried. Who suffers
dialog: by his ill whims? Himself, always. Here,
dialog: he takes it into his head to dislike us,
dialog: and he won't come and dine with us. What's
dialog: the consequence? He don't lose much of a
dialog: dinner.
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: Indeed, I think he loses a very good dinner.
dialog: Really, Fred, I think you're being awfully
dialog: charitable.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: If that's so, it may be because my mother,
dialog: God rest her saintly soul, was very fond
dialog: of him. She loved him.
text: The Spirit glances at Scrooge who tries to appear unmoved.
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: But do go on, Fred.
dialog: (to the guests)
text: He never finishes what he begins to say.
dialog: He is such a ridiculous fellow!
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: I was only going to say, that the
dialog: consequence of his taking a dislike to us,
dialog: and not making merry with us, is, as I
dialog: think, that he loses some pleasant moments,
dialog: which could do him no harm. I am sure he
dialog: loses pleasanter companions than he can find
text: in his own thoughts, either in his mouldy
dialog: old office, or his dusty chambers. I mean
dialog: to give him the same chance every year,
dialog: whether he likes it or not, for I pity him.
text: He may rail at Christmas till he dies, but
dialog: he can't help thinking better of it -- I
dialog: defy him -- if he finds me going there, in
dialog: good temper, year after year, and saying
dialog: Uncle Scrooge, how are you? If it only puts
text: him in the vein to leave his poor clerk
dialog: fifty pounds, that's something; and I think
dialog: I shook him yesterday.
text: Before Fred finishes, one of the female guests has begun to play a simple
text: little tune upon the harp; and the others choose partners and take to dancing
text: about the room. There might be twenty people there, young and old, but they
text: all dance. The rhythm is infectious and Scrooge keeps time with his feet,
text: enjoying himself in a quiet way. The Spirit seems greatly pleased to find him
dialog: in this mood.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. HIS NEPHEW'S SITTING-ROOM
text: Later that evening. Everyone is seated. Scrooge's niece is in her usual
text: chair by the door. Scrooge and the Spirit -- whose hair has by now greyed
text: considerably -- stand nearby. One of the guests, TOPPER, stands in the
text: center of the room trying to keep everyone's attention.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: Now, then, it's a Game called Yes and No.
dialog: (to Fred)
dialog: Since you're the host, you'll go first.
text: But Fred is reluctant and waves him off. The others jeer at him to take part
text: and he forces himself to rise.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to the Spirit)
dialog: I think we should at least stay until the
text: guests have departed.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: (to Topper)
dialog: Oh, dear. What do I have to do?
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: I'm afraid that cannot be done.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Here is a new game. One half hour, Spirit,
dialog: only one!
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: (to Fred)
dialog: You think of something, anything, and the
dialog: rest of us must find out what it is; But you
dialog: may only answer our questions ‘yes’ or 'no',
dialog: as the case may be.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Ah, all right. Well .... Oh, I've got it.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: You've thought of something?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Yes. Fire away.
dialog: NOT TOO BRIGHT GUEST
dialog: Is it animal, vegetable, or mineral?
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: (to the guest)
dialog: No, no, no. It has to be a question he can
dialog: answer 'yes' or 'no'.
dialog: (to Fred)
dialog: Are you thinking of an animal?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: (grins)
dialog: Yes.
dialog: NOT TOO BRIGHT GUEST
dialog: Living or dead?
text: Everyone giggles at the Not Too Bright Guest. Topper sits down.
speaker_heading: SOMEONE ELSE
dialog: Is it living?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER GUEST
dialog: A wild animal?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Well ...
speaker_heading: SOMEONE ELSE
dialog: Can it be found in London?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Yes. I'm afraid so.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER GUEST
dialog: Does it live in a menagerie?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: No! Wouldn't go near it.
speaker_heading: THE PLUMP SISTER
dialog: Is it a horse?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: Is it an ass?
text: At this, Fred roars with laughter; and is so inexpressibly tickled,
text: doubles over and stamps his foot.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Is it a cow?
text: The Spirit gives Scrooge a look as if to say: "They can't hear you..
text: Scrooge scowls as if to say: "Shut up. I'm having fun."
speaker_heading: SOMEONE ELSE
dialog: Does it walk the streets?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: that he
dialog: -" and
dialog: Is it some kind of rat?
speaker_heading: FRED
text: (laughs, clutches his sides)
dialog: No! Maybe a pack-rat.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: Wait! Is it a man?
text: Fred bites his lip to keep from laughing and nods, Yes.
speaker_heading: THE PLUMP SISTER
dialog: I have found it out! I know what it is, Fred!
dialog: I know what it is!
speaker_heading: SEVERAL GUESTS
speaker_heading: (ad-lib)
dialog: What is it? What?
speaker_heading: THE PLUMP SISTER
dialog: It's your Uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge!
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Yes!
text: Everybody, even the Spirit, roars with laughter, except Scrooge, who is
text: stunned -- and a trifle humiliated. The niece, right beside Scrooge, grins
text: mischievously and wags a finger at Fred.
speaker_heading: NIECE
dialog: That's not fair! When I asked 'Is it an
dialog: ass?', you should have answered 'yes!'!
text: Everybody roars even louder at this, except Scrooge, who is now completely
text: humiliated. Fred picks up his glass of wine.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: He has given us plenty of merriment, I am
dialog: sure, and it would be ungrateful not to
dialog: drink his health. I say, 'Uncle Scrooge!'"
speaker_heading: SEVERAL GUESTS
speaker_heading: (ad-lib)
dialog: Well! Uncle Scrooge. Here's to '
dialog: im!
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to
dialog: the old man, whatever he is! He wouldn't
dialog: take it from me, but may he have it,
dialog: nevertheless. Uncle Scrooge!
text: The Ghost and Scrooge exchange glances. The niece drinks and sets down her
text: empty glass.
scene_heading: INT. CHARITY WARD
text: Where someone else sets down an empty glass: a wretched woman with an infant
text: -- the one Scrooge saw from his window during the visit of Marley's Ghost --
text: one of many destitute people, wrapped in blankets, lying on cots in the
text: crowded room. Scrooge watches as a young BOY comes around to pick up her
text: glass. Others like him attend to a multitude of the sick and the poor.
speaker_heading: WRETCHED WOMAN
dialog: Thank you. Thank you, so much.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Do you feel rested now?
speaker_heading: WRETCHED WOMAN
dialog: I do. Bless your dear gentle heart. You know,
dialog: my dear, I-I'm very grateful for all you're
dialog: doing. If I'd've known you people were here,
dialog: I'd've come sooner. And brought friends.
dialog: There are a lot of people I know who could
dialog: use your help-- Tell me, why-why aren't
dialog: there more places like this?
text: The boy doesn't quite know how to respond.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I don't know.
text: He can only smile weakly, touch her arm, and move on. He walks past a couple
text: of familiar faces: the two portly gentlemen who paid a visit to Scrooge the
text: day before seeking a charitable donation. They stand off to one side
text: surveying the scene with mixed emotions.
speaker_heading: 2ND GENTLEMAN
dialog: Quite a turn-out.
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: More than expected.
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: We haven't enough funds to last until next
dialog: week.
speaker_heading: 2ND GENTLEMAN
dialog: Something will turn up, I'm sure.
text: Scrooge observes the Ist Gentleman pulling a fancy watch from his pocket and
text: staring at it. The 2nd Gentleman looks him over sympathetically.
speaker_heading: 2ND GENTLEMAN
dialog: It's been long day. Thinking about going
dialog: home to the family?
dialog: The lst Gentleman shakes his head, No.
speaker_heading: 1ST GENTLEMAN
dialog: (wryly)
text: Thinking about selling a watch.
text: The watch reads but a few minutes before midnight.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: EXT. THE SHADOW OF A CHURCH TOWER
text: The church clock reads but a few minutes before midnight. Scrooge and the
text: Spirit stand below it. While Scrooge remains unaltered in his outward form,
text: the Ghost has grown older, clearly older, its hair whitened with age. Scrooge
text: squints at the Spirit as they stand together.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Your hair is grey. Are spirits' lives so
dialog: short?
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: My life is very brief. It ends to-night.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: To-night!
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: To-night at midnight.
text: Scrooge's gaze goes from the clock to the Spirit's robe.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Forgive me if I am not justified in what I
dialog: ask, but I see something strange, and not
dialog: belonging to yourself, protruding from your
dialog: skirts. Is it a foot or a claw?
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: It might well be a claw, for all the flesh
dialog: there is upon it. Look here.
text: From the foldings of its robe, it brings two children; wretched, abject,
text: frightful, hideous, miserable. They kneel down at its feet, and cling upon
text: the outside of its garment.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: Oh, Man! look here. Look, look, down here!
text: A boy and girl. Yellow, meagre, ragged, scowling, wolfish; but prostrate,
dialog: too, in their humility. Where graceful youth should have filled their
text: features out, and touched them with its freshest tints, a stale and
text: shrivelled hand, like that of age, has pinched, and twisted them, and pulled
text: them into shreds.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: spirit! are they yours?
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: They are Man's. And they cling to me,
text: appealing from their fathers. This boy is
dialog: Ignorance. This girl is Want. Beware them
dialog: both, and all of their degree, but most of
dialog: all beware this boy, for on his brow I see
dialog: that written which is Doom, unless the
dialog: writing be erased. Deny it!
text: The Spirit stretches out its hand towards the city.
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: Slander those who tell it ye! Admit it for
dialog: your factious purposes, and make it worse!
dialog: And bide the end!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Have they no refuge or resource?
scene_heading: THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
dialog: (assuming Scrooge's voice)
dialog: Are there no prisons? Are there no
dialog: workhouses?
text: Scrooge winces at this. The church bell strikes twelve. Scrooge looks about
text: him. The Spirit is gone. Another, a solemn Phantom, draped and hooded,
text: comes, like a mist along the ground, towards him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to himself)
text: Midnight. The last of the spirits.
text: The Phantom slowly, gravely, silently approaches. Scrooge bends down upon his
text: knee; for in the very air through which this Phantom moves it seems to
text: scatter gloom and mystery. It is shrouded in a deep black garment, which
text: conceals its head, its face, its form, and leaves nothing of it visible save
text: one outstretched hand. But for this it would be difficult to detach its
text: figure from the night, and separate it from the darkness by which it is
text: surrounded. It is tall and stately and its mysterious presence fills Scrooge
text: with a solemn dread. The Phantom neither speaks nor moves.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I am in the presence of the Ghost of
dialog: Christmas Yet To Come?
text: The Phantom answers not, but points onward with its hand.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You are about to show me shadows of the
dialog: things that have not happened, but will
dialog: happen in the time before us. Is that so,
dialog: Spirit?
text: The upper portion of the garment contracts for an instant in its folds, as if
text: the Phantom had nodded its head.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Ghost of the Future! I fear you more than any
dialog: spectre I have seen. But as I know your purpose
dialog: is to do me good, and as I hope to live to be
dialog: another man from what I was, I am prepared to
dialog: bear you company, and do it with a thankful
dialog: heart. Will you not speak to me?
text: It gives him no reply. The hand points straight before them.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Lead on! Lead on! The night is waning fast,
dialog: and it is precious time to me, I know. Lead
dialog: on, Spirit!
text: The Phantom moves away as it had come towards him. Scrooge follows in its
text: shadow, which seems to bear him up and carry him along.
scene_heading: INT. THE LONDON EXCHANGE - DAY
text: They scarcely seem to enter the Exchange; for the Exchange rather seems to
text: spring up about them, and encompass them of its own act. They stand amongst
text: the businessmen; The Phantom stops and points to one little knot of men.
text: Scrooge peers at them. Among them are the fat man and the red-faced man he
dialog: had spoken to the day before.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Yes, I know these gentlemen. Business
dialog: associates.
text: The Phantom continues to point. Scrooge takes the hint and advances to
dialog: listen to their talk.
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: No, I don't know much about it, either way.
dialog: I only know he's dead.
speaker_heading: 2nd MAN
dialog: When did he die?
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: Last night, I believe.
speaker_heading: 3rd MAN
dialog: Why, what was the matter with him? I thought
dialog: he'd never die.
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: (yawns)
dialog: God knows.
scene_heading: RED-FACED MAN WITH A
scene_heading: PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
dialog: What has he done with his money?
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: I haven't heard. Left it to his Company,
dialog: perhaps. He hasn't left it to me. That's all
dialog: I know.
text: Everyone laughs.
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: It's likely to be a very cheap funeral, for
dialog: upon my life I don't know of anybody to go
dialog: Another laugh.
dialog: to it. Suppose we make up a party and
dialog: volunteer?
scene_heading: RED-FACED MAN WITH A
scene_heading: PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
dialog: I don't mind going if a lunch is provided.
dialog: But I must be fed, if I make one.
text: FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
dialog: Well, I am the most disinterested among you,
dialog: after all, for I never wear black gloves,
dialog: and I never eat lunch. But I'll offer to go,
dialog: if anybody else will. When I come to think
dialog: of it, I'm not at all sure that I wasn't his
dialog: most particular friend; for we used to stop
dialog: and speak whenever we met. Bye, bye!
text: The men stroll away, and mix with other groups. Scrooge looks towards the
text: Spirit for an explanation. The Phantom glides on into another street.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON EXCHANGE
text: The Phantom's finger points to two middle-aged men meeting on the massive
text: stone steps.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to the Phantom)
dialog: I know these men, perfectly. Men of
dialog: business: very wealthy, and of great
dialog: importance. I've made a point always of
dialog: standing well in their esteem ina
dialog: business point of view, that is; strictly
dialog: business.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: lst BUSINESSMAN
dialog: How are you?
speaker_heading: 2nd BUSINESSMAN
dialog: How are you?
speaker_heading: 1st BUSINESSMAN
dialog: Well! Old Scratch has got his own at last,
dialog: hey?
speaker_heading: 2nd BUSINESSMAN
dialog: So I am told. Cold, isn't it?
speaker_heading: lst BUSINESSMAN
dialog: Seasonable for Christmas time. You're not
dialog: a skaiter, I suppose?
speaker_heading: 2nd BUSINESSMAN
dialog: No. No. Something else to think of. Good
dialog: morning!
text: The two men part. A puzzled Scrooge follows the Phantom through the streets.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET
text: A busy street corner. Scrooge peers curiously at the Phantom.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I am rather surprised that you should
dialog: attach importance to conversations
dialog: apparently so trivial.
text: No response from the Phantom.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: They must have some hidden purpose, or
dialog: else you wouldn't be showing them to me.
dialog: Is that right?
dialog: No response.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: They could scarcely have any bearing on
dialog: the death of Jacob, my old partner, for
dialog: his death was in the Past, and this is
dialog: the Future.
text: Scrooge looks around at the multitudes of pedestrians pouring past him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I can't help but notice that this is my
text: accustomed corner, and I see by the clock
dialog: that this is my usual time of day for being
dialog: here... but I see no likeness of myself.
text: Caught up in what he's saying, Scrooge fails to see the Phantom move off.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Not that I'm surprised, you understand.
dialog: You see, I've been revolving in my mind a,
dialog: ex, change of life. And I should like to
dialog: think... that is, I rather hope... that my
dialog: not being here is the result of my having
dialog: carried out some, ah, resolutions regarding --
text: Scrooge suddenly notices that the Phantom has moved on down the street and
text: hurriedly follows it.
scene_heading: EXT. BAD PART OF TOWN - DUSK
text: Scrooge trails the Phantom, looking over this neighborhood, near sunset. The
text: ways are foul and narrow; the shops and houses wretched; the people half-
text: naked, drunken, slipshod, ugly. Alleys and archways, like so many cesspools,
text: disgorge their offences of smell, and dirt, and life, upon the straggling
text: streets; and the whole quarter reeks with crime, with filth, and misery.
scene_heading: INT. SHOP - NIGHT
text: A low-browed, beetling shop, below a pent-house roof, where iron, old rags,
text: bottles, bones, and greasy offal, are bought. Upon the floor within, are
text: piled up heaps of rusty keys, nails, chains, hinges, files, scales, weights,
dialog: and refuse iron of all kinds. Secrets that few would like to scrutinise are
text: bred and hidden in mountains of unseemly rags, masses of corrupted fat, and
text: sepulchres of bones. Sitting in among the wares he deals in, by a charcoal
text: stove, made of old bricks, is a grey-haired rascal, nearly seventy years of
text: age who smokes his pipe in all the luxury of calm retirement. This is OLD
dialog: JOE.
text: Scrooge and the Phantom come into his presence, just as a CHARWOMAN with a
text: heavy bundle slinks into the shop. But she has scarcely entered, when another
text: woman, a LAUNDRESS, similarly laden, comes in too; and she is closely
text: followed by a man in faded black, an UNDERTAKER, who is no less startled by
text: the sight of them, than they had been upon the recognition of each other.
text: After a short period of blank astonishment, in which Old Joe joins them, they
text: all three burst into a laugh.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: (to all)
dialog: Let the charwoman alone to be the first!
dialog: Let the laundress alone to be the second;
dialog: and let the undertaker's man alone to be
dialog: the third.
dialog: (to Old Joe)
dialog: Look here, old Joe, here's a chance! If we
dialog: haven't all three met here without meaning
dialog: it!
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: You couldn't have met in a better place.
dialog: Come into the parlour. You were made free
dialog: of it long ago, you know; and the other two
dialog: ain't strangers. Stop till I shut the door
dialog: of the shop.
text: He shuts the door which creaks badly.
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: Ah! There ain't such a rusty bit of metal
dialog: in the place as its own hinges, I believe;
dialog: and I'm sure there's no such old bones here,
dialog: as mine. Ha, ha! We're all suitable to our
dialog: calling, we're well matched. Come into the
dialog: parlour. Come into the parlour.
dialog: They follow him into:
scene_heading: INT. THE PARLOUR
text: A space behind a screen of rags. Old Joe rakes the fire together with an old
text: stair-rod, and having trimmed his smoky lamp, with the stem of his pipe, puts
text: it in his mouth again. While he does this, the charwoman throws her bundle on
text: the floor, and sits down in a flaunting manner on a stool; crossing her
text: elbows on her knees, and looking with a bold defiance at the other two.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: What odds then! What odds, Mrs Dilber?
dialog: Every person has a right to take care of
dialog: themselves. He always did!
speaker_heading: LAUNDRESS
dialog: That's true, indeed! No man more so.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Why then, don't stand staring as if you
dialog: was afraid, woman; who's the wiser? We're
dialog: not going to pick holes in each other's
dialog: coats, I suppose?
speaker_heading: LAUNDRESS
dialog: No, indeed!
speaker_heading: UNDERTAKER
dialog: We should hope not.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: very well, then! That's enough. Who's the
dialog: worse for the loss of a few things like
dialog: these? Not a dead man, I suppose.
speaker_heading: LAUNDRESS
dialog: No, indeed!
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: If he wanted to keep 'em after he was
dialog: dead, a wicked old screw, why wasn't he
dialog: natural in his lifetime? If he had been,
dialog: he'd have had somebody to look after him
dialog: when he was struck with Death, instead of
text: lying gasping out his last there, alone
dialog: by himself.
speaker_heading: LAUNDRESS
dialog: It's the truest word that ever was spoke.
dialog: It's a judgment on him.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: I wish it was a little heavier judgment,
dialog: and it should have been, you may depend
dialog: upon it, if I could have laid my hands on
dialog: anything else.
dialog: (turns to Old Joe)
dialog: Open that bundle, old Joe, and let me know
dialog: the value of it. Speak out plain. I'm not
dialog: afraid to be the first, nor afraid for them
dialog: to see it. We know pretty well that we were
dialog: helping ourselves, before we met here, I
dialog: believe. It's no sin. Open the bundle, Joe.
text: But the undertaker mounts the breach first and produces his plunder of which
text: there's not much: a seal or two, a pencil-case, a pair of sleeve-buttons,
text: and a brooch of no great value. Old Joe examines and appraises them and then
text: chalks up his asking price for each, upon the wall, and adds them up into a
dialog: total.
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: (to the undertaker)
dialog: That's your account, and I wouldn't give
dialog: another sixpence, if I was to be boiled for
dialog: not doing it. Who's next?
text: The laundress is next. Sheets and towels, a little wearing apparel, two old-
text: fashioned silver teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a few boots. Old Joe
text: chalks her account on the wall in the same manner. As he does, Scrooge turns
text: to the Phantom beside him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: This is disgusting. I can't look at this.
dialog: Haven't you anything better to show me?
text: Scrooge turns his back on the group and stares at the wall.
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: I always give too much to ladies. It's a
dialog: weakness of mine, and that's the way I ruin
dialog: myself. That's your account. If you asked
dialog: me for another penny, and made it an open
dialog: question, I'd repent of being so liberal
text: and knock off half-a-crown.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: And now undo my bundle, Joe.
text: Joe goes down on his knees for the greater convenience of opening her bundle,
text: and having unfastened a great many knots, drags out a large and heavy roll of
text: some dark stuff. It's Scrooge's bed-curtains.
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: What do you call this? Bed-curtains?
text: The charwoman laughs and leans forward on her crossed arms.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Ah! Bed-curtains!
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: You don't mean to say you took them down,
dialog: rings and all, with him lying there?
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Yes I do. Why not?
text: Scrooge, still with his back to the scene, listens to this dialogue in
dialog: horror.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Huh! Rings and all!
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: You were born to make your fortune, and
dialog: you'll certainly do it.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: (coolly)
dialog: I certainly shan't hold my hand, when I can
dialog: get anything in it by reaching it out, for
dialog: the sake of such a man as he was, I promise
dialog: you.
text: Old Joe pulls out some more material.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Joe, don't drop that oil upon the blankets,
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: His blankets?
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Whose else's do you think? He isn't likely
dialog: to take cold without 'em, I dare say.
text: Old Joe stops and looks up.
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: I hope he didn't die of anything catching?
dialog: Eh?
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Don't you be afraid of that. I ain't so
dialog: fond of his company that I'd loiter about
dialog: him for such things, if he did. Ah! you
dialog: may look through that shirt till your eyes
dialog: ache; but you won't find a hole in it, nor
dialog: a threadbare place. It's the best he had,
dialog: and a fine one too. They'd have wasted it,
dialog: if it hadn't been for me.
speaker_heading: OLD JOE
dialog: What do you call wasting of it?
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Putting it on him to be buried in, to be
dialog: sure. Somebody was fool enough to do it,
dialog: but I took it off again. If calico ain't
dialog: good enough for such a purpose, it isn't
dialog: good enough for anything. It's quite as
text: becoming to the body. He can't look uglier
dialog: than he did in that one.
text: As they sit grouped about their spoil, in the scanty light afforded by Old
text: Joe's lamp, the three watch old Joe put the various items out of sight and
text: produce a flannel bag with money in it. He doles out payment to each.
text: Scrooge turns to watch.
speaker_heading: CHARWOMAN
dialog: Ha, ha! This is the end of it, you see! He
dialog: frightened every one away from him when he
dialog: was alive, to profit us when he was dead!
dialog: Ha, ha, ha!
text: A sickened Scrooge turns to the Phantom.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: spirit! I see, I see. The case of this
dialog: unhappy man might be my own. My life tends
dialog: that way, now. That is the lesson I am to
dialog: draw from this poor man's fate, is it not?
text: The Phantom, as if in anger at Scrooge's stupidity, violently lashes out --
text: spreading its dark robe over Scrooge, momentarily blinding him -- then whips
text: the robe away to reveal:
scene_heading: INT. DARK ROOM
text: Scrooge finds himself in a dark room, almost touching a bed: a bare,
text: uncurtained bed.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Merciful Heaven, what is this?
text: The room is very dark, too dark to be observed with any accuracy, though
text: Scrooge glances ‘round it, anxious to know what kind of room it was. A pale
text: light, rising in the outer air, falls straight upon the bed; and on it,
text: plundered and bereft, unwatched, unwept, uncared for, is the body of a man.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (voice over)
dialog: Oh cold, cold, rigid, dreadful Death, set
dialog: up thine altar here, and dress it with such
dialog: terrors as thou hast at thy command: for
dialog: this is thy dominion! But of the loved,
dialog: revered, and honoured head, thou canst not
dialog: turn one hair to thy dread purposes, or make
dialog: one feature odious. It is not that the hand
dialog: is heavy and will fall down when released;
dialog: it is not that the heart and pulse are still;
dialog: but that the hand was open, generous, and true;
dialog: the heart brave, warm, and tender; and the
dialog: pulse a man's. Strike, Shadow, strike! And
text: see his good deeds springing from the wound,
dialog: to sow the world with life immortal.
text: Under the voice over: Scrooge glances towards the Phantom. Its steady hand
text: points to the covered head. Scrooge hesitantly approaches the dead man and
text: attempts to uncover its face. But he cannot bring himself to do so. His
text: hand shakes and he backs away. A cat meows somewhere in the dark. Scrooge,
text: his face dripping with sweat, turns to the Phantom.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Spirit! This is a fearful place. In leaving
dialog: it, I shall not leave its lesson, trust me.
dialog: Let us go!
text: Still the Phantom points with an unmoved finger to the head.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I understand you and I would look at this
dialog: dead man's face, if I could. But I have
dialog: not the power, Spirit. I have not the power.
text: The Phantom seems to look upon him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: If there is any person in the town, who
dialog: feels emotion caused by this man's death,
dialog: show that person to me, Spirit, I beseech
dialog: you!
text: The light that falls from above instantly flashes, momentarily blinding
text: Scrooge. When his eyes clear:
scene_heading: INT. BRIGHT ROOM - DAY
text: Scrooge stands in a room by daylight, where a mother and her children sit.
text: The children play quietly. The mother looks out the window; glances at the
text: clock, and tries, but in vain, to work with her needle. At the sound of a
text: knock, she hurries to the door, and meets her husband; a man whose face,
text: though young, is careworn and depressed. There is a remarkable expression in
text: it now; a kind of serious delight of which he feels ashamed, and which he
text: struggles to repress.
speaker_heading: SHE
dialog: Tell me the news.
text: He appears embarrassed how to answer.
speaker_heading: SHE
dialog: Is it good ... or bad?
speaker_heading: HE
dialog: Bad.
speaker_heading: SHE
dialog: We are quite ruined?
speaker_heading: HE
dialog: No. There is hope yet, Caroline.
speaker_heading: SHE
text: If he relents, there is. Nothing is past
dialog: hope, if such a miracle has happened.
speaker_heading: HE
text: He is past relenting. He is dead.
text: After a long moment, the news sinks in.
speaker_heading: SHE
dialog: (genuinely)
dialog: I am thankful in my soul to hear that.
dialog: (a little less convincingly)
dialog: May God forgive me for having said such a
dialog: thing.
text: She clasps her hands together in joy.
speaker_heading: HE
dialog: When I tried to see him and obtain a
dialog: week's delay, his charwoman told me he was
dialog: ill; and what I thought was a mere excuse
dialog: to avoid me, turns out to have been quite
dialog: true. He was not only very ill, but dying,
dialog: then.
speaker_heading: SHE
dialog: To whom will our debt be transferred?
speaker_heading: HE
dialog: I don't know. But before that time we shall
dialog: be ready with the money; and even though we
dialog: were not, it would be a bad fortune indeed
dialog: to find so merciless a creditor in his
dialog: successor. We may sleep to-night with light
dialog: hearts, Caroline!
text: Their hearts are clearly lighter. The children's faces, hushed and clustered
text: round to hear what they so little understood, are brighter; Standing in the
text: sunlight, next to a window, Scrooge slowly turns to the Phantom.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: So... it's a happier house for this man's
dialog: death! Is that the only emotion you can
dialog: show me -- pleasure?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But then I don't suppose one can find much
dialog: tenderness connected with a death?
text: The Phantom reaches up and pulls down the window-shade, blocking the sun,
text: darkening the room. The Phantom releases the shade and it snaps up and out
text: of view to reveal a night sky and the reflection of a lit fireplace in the
text: glass. Scrooge looks at the glass a moment before turning to see where he
dialog: is.
scene_heading: INT. BOB CRATCHIT'S HOME - NIGHT
text: Mrs. Cratchit and the children sit round the fire. Quiet. Very quiet. The
text: noisy little Cratchits are as still as statues in one corner, and sit looking
text: up at Peter, who has a book before him. The mother and her daughters sew.
speaker_heading: PETER
dialog: (reads aloud)
dialog: ... He shall cover thee with his feathers,
dialog: and under his wings shalt thou trust: his
dialog: truth shall be thy shield and buckler.
dialog: Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by
dialog: night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day;
dialog: Nor for the pestilence that walketh in
text: Peter looks up
dialog: hand up to her
dialog: darkness; nor for the destruction that
dialog: wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall fall
dialog: at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right
dialog: hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.
dialog: Because thou hast made the Lord, which is
dialog: my refuge, even the most High, thy
dialog: habitation; There shall no evil befall
dialog: thee, neither shall any plague come nigh
dialog: thy dwelling. For he shall give his angels
dialog: charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy
dialog: ways. Because he hath set his love upon
dialog: me, therefore will I deliver him: I will
dialog: set him on high, because he hath known my
dialog: name. He shall call upon me, and I will
dialog: answer him: I will be with him in trouble;
dialog: I will deliver him, and honour him....
text: to see Mrs Cratchit lay her work upon the table and put her
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: PETER
dialog: Shall I stop reading?
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: No, no. It's only the colour. It hurts my
dialog: eyes.
text: Scrooge is puzzled by this: he peers intently at the group. Black is the
text: colour of the material in the women's hands. Mrs. Cratchit regains her
dialog: composure.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: They're better now again. It makes them weak
dialog: by candle-light; and I wouldn't show weak
dialog: eyes to your father when he comes home, for
text: the world. It must be near his time.
speaker_heading: PETER
dialog: Past it rather. But I think he has walked a
dialog: little slower than he used to these last
dialog: few evenings, mother.
text: Peter shuts his Bible. They are very quiet again. A long pause, and then Mrs
text: Cratchit speaks in a steady, cheerful voice, that only faulters once.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: I have known him walk with -- I have known
text: him walk with Tiny Tim upon his shoulder,
dialog: very fast indeed.
speaker_heading: PETER
dialog: And so have I. Often.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: But he was very light to carry, and his
dialog: father loved him so, that it was no trouble:
dialog: no trouble.
text: A noise stirs her.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: And there is your father at the door!
text: Bob in his comforter comes in -- alone. As the family greets him with his cup
text: of tea in an unusually subdued fashion, it finally dawns on Scrooge what has
dialog: happened.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Oh, my God...
text: The Phantom makes no move. Scrooge watches as the Cratchit family draws
text: about the fire; Peter tries to read silently to himself; the girls and mother
text: return to their sewing; Bob sips his tea.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (pleasantly)
dialog: I ran into Mr. Scrooge's nephew in the
dialog: street today. He thought I looked a little
dialog: -- just a little down, you know -- and he
dialog: inquired as to what had happened to distress
dialog: me. On which, for he is the pleasantest-spoken
dialog: gentleman you ever heard, I told him. "I am
dialog: heartily sorry for it, Mr Cratchit," he said,
dialog: “and heartily sorry for your good wife."
dialog: (pause)
dialog: By the bye, how he ever knew that, I don't
dialog: know.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: Knew what?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: Why, that you were a good wife.
text: Mrs. Cratchit smiles.
speaker_heading: PETER
dialog: Everybody knows that.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: I hope they do. “Heartily sorry," he said,
dialog: “for your good wife. If I can be of service
dialog: to you in any way, be sure to let me know"
dialog: -- and he handed me his card. Now, it wasn't
dialog: for the sake of anything he might be able to
dialog: do for us, so much as for his kind way, that
dialog: this was quite delightful. It really seemed
dialog: as if he had known our Tiny Tim, and felt
dialog: with us.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: I'm sure he's a good soul.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: You would be surer of it, if you saw and
dialog: spoke to him. I shouldn't be at all surprised
dialog: if he got Peter a better situation.
scene_heading: MRS. CRATCHIT
dialog: Hear that, Peter?
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: And then, Peter will be keeping company with
text: someone, and setting up for himself.
speaker_heading: PETER
dialog: (grins)
dialog: Get along with you!
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (to Peter)
dialog: It's just as likely as not, one of these
dialog: days; though there's plenty of time for
dialog: that.
dialog: (to all)
dialog: But however and whenever we part from one
dialog: another, I am sure we shall none of us
dialog: forget poor Tiny Tim -- shall we? -- or
dialog: this first parting that there was among
dialog: us?
speaker_heading: THE CHILDREN
speaker_heading: (ad-lib)
dialog: Never, father! No. Of course not.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: And I know... I know that when we recollect
dialog: how patient and how mild he was; although
dialog: he was a little, little child; we shall not
dialog: quarrel easily among ourselves, and forget
dialog: poor Tiny Tim in doing it.
speaker_heading: THE CHILDREN
speaker_heading: (ad-lib)
dialog: No, never, father! That's right.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (at the point of tears)
dialog: I am very happy. I am very happy.
text: Mrs Cratchit kisses him, his daughters kiss him, the two young Cratchits kiss
text: him, and Peter shakes his hand. Bob abruptly leaves the room, and goes
text: upstairs. The family members look at one another with concern.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS ROOM
text: A bedroom, cheerfully lit, and hung with Christmas decorations. Bob enters
text: hesitantly and sits down in a chair close to the bed. After he composes
text: himself with an unspoken prayer, he leans over and kisses the face of Tiny
text: Tim, whose body we now see stretched out, lifeless, on the bed. Bob breaks
text: down all at once.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: (nearly inaudible)
dialog: My little, little child. My little child.
text: Scrooge watches grimly from the far side of the room. The Phantom stands
text: beside him. Scrooge shuts his eyes.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to the Phantom)
dialog: Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying
dialog: dead.
text: When Scrooge opens his eyes...
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON STREET
text: Scrooge and the Phantom are halfway between Scrooge's counting-house and the
text: church tower opposite it. The Phantom leads Scrooge toward the church. But
text: Scrooge, seeing the counting-house, grasps the Phantom's robe.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Wait. That is where my place of occupation
dialog: is, and has been for a length of time. Let
dialog: me behold what I shall be, in days to come.
text: The Phantom stops; the hand points elsewhere.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: My office is yonder. Why do you point away?
text: The inexorable finger undergoes no change.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Just wait a moment, please.
text: Scrooge rushes off.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTING-HOUSE
text: Scrooge nervously hastens to the window of his office, and looks in. It's an
text: office still, but not his. The furniture is not the same, and the figure in
text: the chair is not himself.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON STREET
text: The Phantom points as before. Scrooge joins the Phantom once again, confused,
text: and accompanies it until they reach an iron gate. He pauses to look round
text: before entering.
scene_heading: EXT. THE CHURCH YARD
text: A row of gravestones. Walled in by houses; overrun by grass and weeds. The
text: Phantom stands among the graves, and points down to One. Scrooge advances
text: towards it, trembling. Then stops.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Before I draw nearer to that stone to which
dialog: you point, answer me one question. Are these
dialog: the shadows of the things that Will be, or
dialog: are they shadows of things that May be, only?
text: Still the Phantom points downward to the grave by which it stands.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Men's courses will foreshadow certain ends,
dialog: to which, if persevered in, they must lead.
dialog: But if the courses be departed from, the
dialog: ends will change. Say it is thus with what
dialog: you show me!
text: The Phantom is immovable as ever. Scrooge creeps toward the grave, trembling;
text: and following the finger, reads upon the stone of the neglected grave his own
text: name, Ebenezer Scrooge. Scrooge falls to his knees.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Am I that man who lay upon the bed?
text: The finger points from the grave to Scrooge, and back again.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: No, Spirit! Oh no, no!
text: The finger still is there. Scrooge scrambles to his feet and clutches the
text: Phantom's robe.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Spirit! Hear me! I am not the man I was.
dialog: I will not be the man I must have been but
dialog: for this intervention. Why show me this,
dialog: if I am past all hope?
text: For the first time, the hand appears to shake. Scrooge falls down before it,
text: sobbing violently, his face wet with tears.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Good Spirit. Your nature intercedes for
dialog: me, and pities me. Assure me that I yet may
dialog: change these shadows you have shown me, by
dialog: an altered life!
text: The kind hand trembles.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I will honour Christmas in my heart, and
dialog: try to keep it all the year. I will live
dialog: in the Past, the Present, and the Future.
dialog: The Spirits of all Three shall strive within
dialog: me. I will not shut out the lessons that they
dialog: teach. Oh, tell me I may sponge away the
dialog: writing on this stone!
text: In his agony, as he catches the spectral hand, Scrooge sees an alteration in
text: the Phantom's hood and dress. It shrinks, collapses, and dwindles down into a
dialog: bedpost.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
text: Yes! and the bedpost is his own. Scrooge lets go of the post and scrambles
text: out of bed, falling to his knees. He is out of his mind, babbling like a
dialog: lunatic.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I will live in the Past, the Present, and
dialog: the Future! The Spirits of all Three shall
dialog: strive within me. Oh Jacob Marley! Heaven,
dialog: and the Christmas Time be praised for this!
dialog: I say it on my knees, old Jacob; on my
dialog: knees!
text: Scrooge folds a bed-curtain over his arm.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
text: They are not torn down. They are not torn
dialog: down, rings and all. They are here: I am
dialog: here: the shadows of the things that would
dialog: have been, may be dispelled. They will be.
dialog: I know they will!
text: Scrooge's hands are busy with his garments all this time: turning them inside
text: out, putting them on upside down, tearing them, mislaying them, etc. He
text: laughs and cries in the same breath, stumbling out of the bed-room.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
text: Scrooge stands there: perfectly winded.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I don't know what to do! I am as light as
dialog: a feather, I am as happy as an angel, I am
dialog: as merry as a school-boy. I am as giddy as
dialog: a drunken man. A merry Christmas to every-
dialog: body! A happy New Year to all the world!
dialog: Hallo here! Whoop! Hallo!
text: Scrooge starts off again, going round the fire-place.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: There's the saucepan that the gruel was in!
dialog: There's the door, by which the Ghost of
dialog: Jacob Marley entered! There's the corner
dialog: where the Ghost of Christmas Present, sat!
dialog: There's the window where I saw the wandering
dialog: Spirits! It's all right, it's all true,
dialog: it all happened. Ha ha ha!
dialog: Really, for a man who has been out of practice for so many years, it's a
text: splendid laugh, a most illustrious laugh. The father of a long, long line of
text: brilliant laughs.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I don't know what day of the month it is!
dialog: I don't know how long I've been among the
dialog: spirits. I don't know anything. I'm quite
dialog: a baby. Never mind. I don't care. I'd
dialog: rather be a baby. Hallo! Whoop! Hallo
dialog: here!
text: He pauses as the church bell rings out the hour. Scrooge starts babbling
text: along with it.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
text: Clash, clang, hammer, ding, dong, bell!
text: Bell, dong, ding, hammer, clang, clash!
dialog: Oh, glorious, glorious!
text: He runs to the window, hurls it open, and looks out.
scene_heading: EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING - DAY
text: Not a trace of fog or darkness. Golden sunlight; Heavenly blue sky; merry
text: bells. Not too many people on the street.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Oh, glorious. Glorious!
text: Scrooge spots a BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES, loitering on the sidewalk below.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: What's to-day?
scene_heading: BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES
dialog: Eh?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: What's to-day, my fine fellow?
scene_heading: BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES
dialog: To-day? Why, Christmas Day.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: It's Christmas Day! I haven't missed it.
dialog: The Spirits have done it all in one night.
dialog: They can do anything they like. Of course
dialog: they can. Of course they can.
dialog: (to the boy)
dialog: Hallo, my fine fellow!
scene_heading: BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES
dialog: Hallo!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Do you know the Poulterer's, in the next
dialog: street but one, at the corner?
scene_heading: BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES
dialog: I should hope I did.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: An intelligent boy! A remarkable boy!
dialog: (to the boy)
dialog: Do you know whether they've sold the prize
dialog: Turkey that was hanging up there? Not the
dialog: little prize Turkey; the big one?
scene_heading: BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES
dialog: What, the one as big as me?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: What a delightful boy! It's a pleasure to
dialog: talk to him.
dialog: (to the boy)
dialog: Yes, my buck!
scene_heading: BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES
text: It's hanging there now.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Is it? Go and buy it.
text: The boy stares in disbelief for a moment, then thumbs his nose at Scrooge in
dialog: disgust.
scene_heading: BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES
dialog: Walk-er!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: No, no, I am in earnest. Go and buy it,
dialog: and tell ‘em to bring it here, that I may
dialog: give them the directions where to take it.
dialog: Come back with the man, and I'll give you
dialog: a shilling. Come back with him in less than
dialog: five minutes, and I'll give you
dialog: half-a-crown!
text: The boy takes off running down the street.
scene_heading: INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
text: Scrooge rubs his hands and laughs. He writes Bob Cratchit's address on a slip
text: of paper with an unsteady hand.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I'll send it to Bob Cratchit's! He sha'n't
dialog: know who sends it. It's twice the size of
dialog: Tiny Tim. Joe Miller never made such a joke
dialog: as sending it to Bob's will be!
scene_heading: EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING
text: Moments later, Scrooge opens the street door, ready for the coming of the
text: poulterer's man. As he stands there, with the slip of paper in his hand, the
text: knocker catches his eye. He pats it with his hand.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: I shall love it, as long as I live! I
dialog: scarcely ever looked at it before. What an
dialog: honest expression it has in its face! It's
dialog: a wonderful knocker!
text: The boy and the POULTERER'S MAN arrive with a gigantic turkey.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to the knocker)
dialog: Here's the Turkey.
dialog: (to the turkey-bearers)
dialog: Hallo! Whoop! How are you! Merry Christmas!
text: Scrooge inspects the turkey -- it never could have stood upon its legs, that
text: bird. It would have snapped 'em short off in a minute, like sticks of
dialog: sealing-wax.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Why, it's impossible to carry that to Camden
dialog: Town. You must have a cab.
text: Scrooge chuckles as he says this, and we go into a
scene_heading: CHRISTMAS DAY MONTAGE
text: Scrooge chuckles as he pays for the Turkey, chuckles as he pays for the cab,
text: chuckles as he recompenses the boy, chuckles as he sits down breathless in
text: his sitting-room chair again, and chuckles till he cries.
text: Scrooge shaves at his wash-basin. His hand shakes very much; partly because
text: he is laughing and dancing with joy. At one point, he nicks himself and
text: laughs even harder.
text: Out in the street, Scrooge is dressed in his Sunday best. By this time,
text: crowds pour forth, as he had seen them with the Ghost of Christmas Present;
text: Walking with his hands behind him, Scrooge regards every one with a delighted
text: smile. He looks so irresistibly pleasant that three or four good-humoured
text: fellows say, "Good morning, sir! A merry Christmas to you!" Scrooge reacts
text: as if these are the sweetest sounds he's ever heard and returns the greeting.
text: Farther down the street, Scrooge suddenly tenses up. Coming on towards him
text: he sees the portly gentleman, who had walked into his counting-house the day
text: before, and said, "Scrooge and Marley's, I believe?" Scrooge slows down for a
text: moment, then resolves himself to what he must do. He quickens his pace and
text: takes the gentleman by both his hands.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: My dear sir. How do you do? I hope you
dialog: succeeded yesterday. It was very kind of
dialog: you. A merry Christmas to you, sir!
speaker_heading: lst GENTLEMAN
dialog: Mr Scrooge?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Yes. That is my name, and I fear it may
dialog: not be pleasant to you. Allow me to ask your
dialog: pardon. And will you have the goodness --
text: Scrooge whispers in his ear. The gentleman reacts as if his breath were gone.
speaker_heading: 1st GENTLEMAN
dialog: Lord bless me! My dear Mr Scrooge, are
dialog: you serious?
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: If you please. Not a farthing less. A great
dialog: many back-payments are included in it, I
dialog: assure you. Will you do me that favour?
speaker_heading: lst GENTLEMAN
dialog: (shakes Scrooge's hand)
dialog: My dear sir. I don't know what to say to
dialog: such munificence.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Don't say anything, please. Come and see me.
dialog: Will you come and see me?
speaker_heading: 1st GENTLEMAN
dialog: I will!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Thank ‘ee. I am much obliged to you. I
dialog: thank you fifty times. Bless you!
scene_heading: CHRISTMAS DAY MONTAGE CONTINUES
text: Several views of Scrooge in church. It's been years since his last visit and
text: he looks around nervously upon entering. During the singing of a hymn,
text: everyone knows the words by heart, save Scrooge -- who rapidly thumbs
text: through a hymn-book, until the little boy sitting on his right hands him his
text: own hymn-book opened to the correct page, whereupon Scrooge nods to him in
text: thanks. Later, Scrooge pulls out a huge wad of bills and puts entirely too
text: much money in the collection plate before handing it to the astonished woman
text: on his left -- and upon seeing her startled look, he hastily removes a few
text: more bills from the wad and places them in the plate with an impish grin.
text: Scrooge walks about the streets, watches the people hurrying to and fro, pats
text: children on the head, questions beggars, looks down into the kitchens of
text: houses, up into the windows: and finds that all these things yield him
dialog: pleasure.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT
text: In a nice part of town. Scrooge paces uncertainly outside. He slowly
text: approaches the front door but at the last moment, he returns to the sidewalk.
text: Finally, he takes a deep breath, finds the courage to go up and knock, and
text: makes a dash for it. He knocks and stands there, tight-lipped and shaking
text: nervously. No answer. He begins to leave. A maid opens the door.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Is your master at home, my dear?
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Where is he, my love?
speaker_heading: MAID
text: He's in the sitting-room, sir, along with
dialog: mistress. I'll show you in, if you please.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE
text: The maid leads Scrooge to the closed sitting-room door.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Thank ‘ee. He knows me. I'll go just in,
dialog: my dear.
text: Scrooge crosses to the sitting-room and tenses up as he puts his hand on the
text: doorknob. The maid sees this and watches Scrooge curiously. Scrooge looks up
text: to see her staring at him. From his face, it's clear to her that he is
text: scared to enter and she gives him a reassuring nod and smile. Scrooge
text: returns the smile and, taking a deep breath, he turns the doorknob gently and
text: sidles his face in, round the door.
scene_heading: INT. HIS NEPHEW'S SITTING-ROOM
text: Scrooge sees his nephew Fred surrounded by his party guests -- all laughing a
text: long, hearty laugh, exactly as Scrooge had heard it when with the Spirit.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: He said that Christmas was a humbug, as I
dialog: live! He believed it too!
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Fred!
text: Scrooge flings the door open and startles his niece who is, as before,
text: sitting in the chair in the corner right by the door. Scrooge is at once
text: apologetic and turns to her.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Oh, I'm so sorry. I forgot you were there.
text: She doesn't know quite what to make of that. Scrooge's back is momentarily
text: turned toward his nephew who gazes on him in disbelief.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Why bless my soul! Who's that?
text: Scrooge turns around to face his astonished nephew, then nervously threads
text: his way through the guests to confront him.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: It's I. Your uncle Scrooge.
text: An awkward pause ensues as everyone merely stares at Scrooge -- a skunk at a
text: garden party. He realizes he must try to break the ice.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (flawlessly imitates The Plump Sister)
dialog: It's your Uncle Scro-o-o0-o-oge!
text: Scrooge flashes a happy grin. The guests stare at him in confusion. He
text: grows immediately sober.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (to Fred)
dialog: I have come as you asked. Will you let me in, Fred?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Let you in! I --
text: Fred bursts out laughing again and shakes Scrooge's hand so hard, it's a
text: mercy he doesn't take his arm off. Fred is still laughing as some of the
text: other guests crowd around Scrooge, greeting him, patting him on the back,
text: bringing him a drink. Some of the others move away from him and whisper
dialog: among themselves: Surely this isn't the Uncle Scrooge!
scene_heading: ONE OF THE GUESTS
dialog: (to Scrooge)
dialog: You know, I have always wanted to meet you,
dialog: Mr. Scrooge. The droll way in which your
dialog: nephew portrays you has made me curious.
dialog: I say, have you met Mister...?
text: One of the female guests has begun to play a simple little tune upon the
text: harp; and the others choose partners and take to dancing about the room.
text: There might be twenty people there, young and old, but they all dance.
text: Including, for the first time in years, Ebenezer Scrooge.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. COUNTING-HOUSE - DAY
text: The day after Christmas. Bright sunshine pours into Scrooge's office. All
text: is quiet save for the ticking of the clock -- which reads 9:18. Scrooge sits
text: behind his desk, grinning like a madman, with his door wide open so that he
text: might see Bob Cratchit come into his tank-like office. Bob bursts in, his
text: hat and comforter already off. He jumps on his stool in a jiffy, driving away
text: with his pen, as if he were trying to overtake nine o'clock. Meanwhile,
text: trying to suppress a grin, Scrooge manages an approximation of his old
dialog: caustic personality.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Cratchit! You're late! What do you mean by
dialog: coming here at this time of day?
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: I am very sorry, sir. I am behind my time.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: You are? Yes. I think you are. Step this
dialog: way, if you please.
text: Bob reluctantly leaves the Tank and joins Scrooge in the office.
speaker_heading: BOB CRATCHIT
dialog: It's only once a year, sir. It shall not
dialog: be repeated. I was making rather merry
dialog: yesterday, sir.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: Now, I'll tell you what, my friend. I am
dialog: not going to stand this sort of thing any
dialog: longer. And therefore ...
text: Scrooge leaps from his chair, and gives Bob such a dig in the waistcoat that
text: he staggers back into the Tank again.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: ... and therefore I am about to raise your
dialog: salary!
text: Bob gasps, trembles, and inches away from Scrooge, picking up a nearby ruler
dialog: to use in self-defense.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: A merry Christmas, Bob! A merrier Christmas,
dialog: Bob, my good fellow, than I have given you
dialog: for many a year!
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: I'm going to raise your salary. And if
dialog: you'll let me, I'd like to try to help your
dialog: family.
text: An incredulous Bob stares at Scrooge for a long, long moment.
speaker_heading: SCROOGE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Well, let's discuss it this afternoon, over
dialog: a Christmas bowl of smoking bishop, Bob!
dialog: Make up the fires, and buy another
dialog: coal-scuttle before you dot another i, Bob
dialog: Cratchit.
text: Scrooge grins at a still uncertain Bob Cratchit. The distant sound of
text: carolers singing an appropriate hymn grows louder.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. SITTING-ROOM - NIGHT
text: The Narrator looks down at the book in his lap, a quiet smile on his face.
text: Outside his window, a small group of carolers slowly approach continuing the
text: hymn. The young people circled around the Narrator seem edgy and
text: dissatisfied.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: And that's the story.
scene_heading: THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
dialog: How much of that was true?
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: Well, I was there for some of it. And I
dialog: heard about some of it.
dialog: (winks)
dialog: And I made up the rest.
text: The children laugh.
scene_heading: THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
dialog: Yeah, but did old man Scrooge really keep
dialog: his word?
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: Yes. In fact, he was better than his word.
dialog: He did everything he said he would, and
dialog: much more.
text: THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL
dialog: (concerned)
dialog: What happened to Tiny Tim? Did he --?
dialog: Did he --?
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (reassuring)
dialog: No. Tiny Tim did not die. And Scrooge was
text: like a second father to him.
text: (a faraway look in his eye)
dialog: He became as good a friend, as good a
dialog: teacher, and as good a man, as any person
dialog: could hope to know.
text: The girl seems reassured.
scene_heading: THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Oh, come on. People just don't change like
dialog: that overnight.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: In fact, a lot of people laughed at him
dialog: when he changed, but he let them laugh,
dialog: and didn't pay any attention to it; I think
dialog: he was smart enough to know that nothing
dialog: good ever happens in this world that people
dialog: won't laugh at it -- at first. And that
dialog: it's better to make people laugh than make
dialog: them do some other things I can think of.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: His own heart laughed: and I think that was
dialog: good enough for him.
speaker_heading: THE ADOLESCENT WHO
text: WISHED HE WAS AN ADULT
dialog: And do you mean to say that he had no
dialog: further intercourse with Spirits?
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: Ah, well...
dialog: (mischievous grin)
dialog: After that, he adopted the principle of
dialog: abstinence and no Spirits ever visited him
dialog: again, as far as he knew.
text: The Narrator glances around at his audience but there are no more questions.
text: He decides to add a final word.
speaker_heading: NARRATOR
dialog: Well... It was always said of Mr. Scrooge
dialog: that if anyone knew how to keep Christmas
dialog: well, it was him. If only that could truly
dialog: be said of us. Of all of us. Merry
dialog: Christmas.
text: The Narrator returns the book to the ten year old girl.
text: THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL
dialog: (quietly, to herself)
dialog: ... and may God Bless Us, Every One.
text: The Narrator smiles. Outside, the caroling has gotten steadily louder. A
text: tapping sound causes everyone to turn to the window, where the carolers
text: beckon to them. Everyone in the room hollers ("Hey!" "Look who's here!
text: They rise and rush to the front door -- except for the ten year old girl who
text: lingers to help the Narrator to his feet. He thanks her and, hand in hand,
text: they follow the others to the door. For the first time, we see he carries a
dialog: 
text: cane. And limps, favoring his right leg. Could this be Tiny Tim all grown
text: up? They join the little crowd just outside the door -- carolers and
dialog: children -- in singing "God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen" or some such thing.
scene_heading: EXT. THE FRONT DOORSTEP
text: As they sing, their breath visible in the cold night air, we PAN UP and AWAY
dialog: to find
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP
text: A spectral figure leaning over the edge of the roof, peering down, smiling at
text: the music. It is MARLEY'S GHOST, a look of peace and satisfaction on its no
text: longer glassy face. Marley turns to reveal another ghost right beside him --
text: Scrooge's. To the surprise of both, the chain ‘round Marley's body jerks to
text: life and begins to unspool rapidly, falling away from him as if there were a
text: ship's anchor at the end of it. In a moment, the chain is gone and Marley is
text: free. He clutches his waist and looks himself over. And then beams at
text: Scrooge gratefully. Scrooge grins, then realizes something. Suddenly, he
text: reaches up with his left hand and removes the wrapper that keeps Marley's jaw
text: in place. The jaw does not drop. Marley clicks his teeth together a few
text: times to test them, then breaks into a broad smile. He mouths a "Thank you"
text: to Scrooge. The two ghosts shake hands. Scrooge looks down at the wrapper
text: in his hand and, with a flourish, tosses it over the edge. The two ghosts
text: take flight, into a night sky teeming with free spirits, as the group below
text: finishes singing... a Christmas carol.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
text: A long, silent pause.
text: FADE IN on what appears to be the FLOOR of Scrooge's room upon which rests
text: the extinguisher cap last seen covering the Ghost of Christmas Past. The cap
text: tips over and the ghost appears from under it in a dazzling burst of light.
text: The ghost's FACE fills the screen and, after a wink, it begins to morph into
text: the faces of all the featured actors. As each actor's face appears, their
text: credit is superimposed beneath them. The final image is of Tiny Tim in
text: Scrooge's arms, giving the old man a hug.
speaker_heading: TINY TIM
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: May God bless us, every one.
text: The image blurs and spirals away under the extinguisher cap and suddenly all
text: is dark.
speaker_heading: END CREDITS
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
dialog: 
