scene_heading: A DRY WHITE SEASON
dialog: Rewrite by
speaker_heading: EUZHAN PALCY
dialog: May 1987
dialog: Revised First Draft
speaker_heading: FOR EDUCATIONAL
scene_heading: PURPOSES ONLY
text: "IN THE WHOLE WORLD
dialog: THERE IS NOT A SINGLE
text: POOR DEVIL WHO IS LYNCHED,
scene_heading: NOT ONE MISERABLE MAN
text: WHO IS TORTURED IN WHOM
dialog: I TOO, I AM NOT MURDERED
dialog: AND DEGRADED."
dialog: Aime Cesaire
speaker_heading: PRE-TITLE:
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SECONDARY SCHOOL FOR BOYS - DAY
dialog: Dan Pienaar school is a typical Johannesburg Afrikaan
text: school. The students are mainly from middle-class
text: families. School athletics are in progress. The stu-
text: dents, in their smart school uniforms, are cheering
text: enthusiastically a relay race on the immaculately-kept
dialog: sports ground.
text: GORDON NGUBENE, a 47-years-old African laborer is work-
text: ing in the school garden. A few feet away is his 15-
text: years-old son JONATHAN leaning against a wall watching
dialog: the games.
text: BEN DU TOIT, a 50-year-old Afrikaaner history teacher, is
text: enthusiastically cheering his son JOHAN, a 15-years-old,
text: who is leading neck-and-neck with another boy in the last
text: leg of the race. The excitement increases as they
text: approach the tape. Ben is beside himself, egging his son
text: with shouts. The young teacher, VIVIERS, standing next
text: to Ben, is shouting "come on Johan," and slapping the
text: father on the back.
text: Johan breasts the tape just ahead of the other boy. The
text: ground is invaded by boys running to congratulate Johan.
text: Ben hurries towards his happy but exhausted son; the proud
text: father pushing his way through the animated boys. As he
text: reaches Johan he pats him on the back.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: This was your best race.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (excited)
dialog: I beat him, Papa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (proudly)
dialog: You did son. Come on, shower.
text: They walk happily towards the school buildings in conver-
text: sation, Johan being slapped on the back by friends. Ben
text: stops to talk to Gordon who jumps to his feet.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'll be expecting you. There
dialog: isn't much to do, only weeding
text: the marigolds and watering the
text: lawn and flowers.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 2.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We'll be there, Mr. Ben'sir,
dialog: Jonathan come to help me.
text: Ben hadn't seen Jonathan. He turns to him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And how's the algebra? Still
dialog: giving you trouble?
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: (with respect)
dialog: Just a little, Mr. Ben'sir.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Me too.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (straightening himself)
dialog: He's working hard, Mr. Ben'sir,
dialog: and your money will not be
dialog: wasted. Emily and me will always
dialog: thank you.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (as he leaves)
dialog: See you both later.
text: Gordon returns to his work a little distance further. A
text: group of students are laughing and pushing each other
text: boisterously. As they near Jonathan, two nudge each
text: other and giggle. Then, one of them trips Jonathan. He
text: falls to the ground and jumps up aggressively, about to
text: attack the boy. Gordon shouts "Jonathan."
text: The headmaster, MRS. CLOETE, aged 65 years, has observed
text: the incident, but takes no action.
text: Jonathan stands panting with rage. He suddenly strides
text: away towards the gate in a rage.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (shouting angrily)
dialog: U ya phi?
dialog: (Where are you going?)
text: Jonathan turns to look at his father and continues to
dialog: walk off.
speaker_heading: TITLES.
scene_heading: EXT. SOWETO BEER HALL - AFTERNOON
text: The beer hall is a large complex with a drinking area
text: with long rows of low benches.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 3.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Men sit drinking African beer in one-half and one gallon
text: plastics containers. The place buzzes with noise.
text: Several people are touting wares for sale.
text: Suddenly a group of about twenty youths walks into the
text: drinking area, obviously to cause trouble. The LEADER
text: starts to address the clients.
speaker_heading: LEADER
dialog: Your children are starving and you
dialog: are drinking. We demand freedom
dialog: and our fathers are drunk. We ask
dialog: you to boycott these beer halls.
dialog: Revolution and drink don't work
dialog: together!
text: A large MAN WITH SIDEBURNS, obviously drunk, stands up, a
text: stick in his hand.
scene_heading: MAN WITH SIDEBURNS
dialog: Since when do children talk like
dialog: this to their fathers? They need
text: thrashing.
text: The man and several others advance on the boys. The boys
text: run into the serving area, close the doors and start
text: breaking up the place. Two police Land Rovers SCREECH to
text: a halt outside. The boys run out through a side en-
text: trance. They are chased by the police who are black.
text: Jonathan and his best friend Wellington, also 15 years,
text: are walking towards the beer hall when the boys come
text: running out chased by the police. It is prudent for
text: them to run down the street. The boys and police are
text: bearing down on them. Their escape is cut off by the
text: apperance of another police Land Rover. Two policemen,
text: two blacks and two whites join in the capture. Jonathan,
text: Wellington and about ten of the boys are arrested.
text: As they are hundled into the vehicle, they protest their
text: innocence without success and are driven away.
scene_heading: INT. SOWETO POLICE STATION - CHARGE OFFICE - AFTERNOON
text: The charge office is sparcely furnished with a long bench
text: along a wall. There is a reception counter with Sgt:
text: Van Zyl in charge. The boys are lined up against a wall.
text: The sergeant stands with a tall blond man with a scar on
text: his chin, CAPTAIN STOLZ.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 4.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The sergeant reads out a name and looks at Stolz; if he
text: nods the boy stands aside. After this ritual, the ones
text: that Stolz has chosen are marched to a waiting police van
text: and driven away. The others are taken to the cells at
dialog: the police station, these include Jonathan and
dialog: Wellington.
scene_heading: EXT. DUTCH REFORM CHURCH - DAY
text: The MUSIC STOPS. The doors open. The 40 years-old-
text: minister Bester comes to the door, then stands and greets
text: his parishioners as they file out of the church.
text: Amongst them, Ben Du Toit -- his wife, SUSAN, a clean-
text: cut, immaculate, "toe-the-line" beauty and his son, Johan
text: -- the blond, blue-eyed, tanned and torsoed fourteen-
text: year-old every father dreams of. Susan greets friends
text: and acquaintances, pausing to chat... mostly formalities.
text: Johan, his eyes on a girl his age. She is with her
text: father, Mr. Cloete, the headmaster -- she smiles at Johan
text: from a distance; he waves awkwardly as she drives off
text: with her parents.
text: SUZETTE his daughter, sophisticated -- groomed. She
text: takes her baby from the black nanny waiting in the car,
text: carries the child to the group chatting with CHRIS, her
text: husband. She shows it off proudly. Ben is chatting,
text: concerned, to a WOMAN. She looks drawn and worried.
speaker_heading: MRS. COETZEE (WOMAN)
dialog: He won't come to church. He lies
dialog: in bed all day, listening to his
text: headphones.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I wondered why he wasn't at
dialog: school. Would it help if I came
dialog: to see him? He's always seemed a
dialog: good kid to me.
scene_heading: MRS. COETZEE
dialog: Oh, would you?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Of course. I'll phone and we can
dialog: fix a time.
text: Mrs. Coetzee smiles her gratitude.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Ben! Ben!
text: She's waving impatiently at him. He crosses back to her.
text: Suzette's BABY is HOWLING.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 5.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She rocks it back and forth, holding it at arm's length.
text: The BABY SCREAMS. The nanny comes forward -- Suzette
text: hands it over.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
text: Mrs. Coetzee. She looked worried.
speaker_heading: BEN
text: She's having trouble with her boy.
dialog: He won't come to school.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: So you said you'd have a word with
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yes!
text: She smiles and walks him to the car affectionately.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - BARBECUE - DAY
dialog: The Du Toit family.
text: Susan is bringing out the salads. Chris, her son-in-law,
text: is at the barbecue, stinging his eyes. Ben is bouncing
text: his grandson, little Hennie, in a small, portable pool.
text: The black nanny sits in attendance in the shade, a towel
dialog: at the ready. The good life...
text: ... Suddenly disturbed by... Gordon and Jonathan standing
text: uncertain at the far side of the garden; Gordon's hat
text: pressed flat against his chest, Jonathan defiant.
text: Susan looks up -- as do each in turn -- curious at the
text: intrusion... then the black nanny -- and finally Ben.
text: After a moment, Ben walks up to Gordon.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Gordon! What are you doing here?
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - DAY
text: Six cuts, like six knife gashes, revealed on the blood-
text: stained buttocks of Gordon's son, who stands in painful,
text: truculent embarrassment.
text: Ben is shocked by the severity of the canning.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That's not why I'm complaining,
dialog: Mister Ben, sir. If he did wrong,
dialog: I'd beat him myself. But he
dialog: didn't.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 6.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He did nothing and they wouldn't
dialog: listen. They wouldn't believe
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'm sorry, Gordon. But there
dialog: must be a reason.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He says he wasn't doing anything
dialog: wrong, Mister Ben, sir. And I
dialog: believe him, I know my son! It's
dialog: an injustice!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What about the court? Didn't he
dialog: state his case?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What does he know about court?
text: Before he knew, it was all over.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I don't think there is anything we
dialog: can do about it now.
text: Outside, peering through the half-opened door, is Johan,
text: shocked at what he sees. Ben tapes Jonathan on the head,
text: he pulls up his shorts painfully, yet fiercely, anxious
text: to cover himself up again.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We can get a lawyer to appeal.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: A lawyer? That won't heal
text: Jonathan's buttocks.
text: Susan appears at the door.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Ben!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'll be out in a minute.
text: She nods, ushering Johan away from the door back outside.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You don't understand, Mister Ben,
dialog: sir. I don't want him to have a
dialog: police record.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 7.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: It will be there for the rest of
dialog: his life and make it difficult for
dialog: him to get a job in the future.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Don't worry, Gordon. I'm sure
dialog: there'll be no record, it's such
dialog: a minor case. Please don't worry.
text: Ben calls Johan from the outside.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Johan, get some iodine from the
text: cupboard.
text: Johan rushes in the house.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm not worried about the wounds.
dialog: They'll heal in time, Mister Ben,
dialog: sir. It's the wounds here.
dialog: (slaps his chest)
dialog: I worry about. Injustice... it
text: festers.
text: Johan comes back with a small bottle of medicine.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to Gordon)
dialog: Rub it on the wounds and it will
dialog: help.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S GATE - DAY
text: Ben watches the black man and his son trudge down the
text: long drive, the father's arm on the son's shouldre. At
text: the foot of the drive the nose of an exotic Soweto cab
text: can be seen waiting... a large butterfly painted on the
dialog: hood.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S GARDEN - DAY
text: Ben takes his place at the table. Susan brings a piece
text: of boerwors and a mug of beer.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Trouble?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Jonathan has been caned, by the
dialog: police.
text: She places the boerwors and the beer before him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 8.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: He probably deserved it.
scene_heading: EXT. SOWETO SCHOOL - SOWETO UPRISING - MORNING
text: School grounds of the Orlando Secondary School. Students
text: are milling around in high spirits. One group is putting
text: finishing touches to a banner reading: "no to aparhteid
dialog: education."
text: There are two other banners being carried around the
text: school yard, followed by the younger children. They
dialog: read:
dialog: "No to the Oppressor's language"
dialog: "Bantu education is slave
dialog: education."
text: A BOY, one of the eldest, aged about 18 years calls for
text: silence. The STUDENTS immediately obey.
speaker_heading: STUDENT LEADER (BOY)
dialog: You all know why we are going to
dialog: march.
text: The crowd shouts:
speaker_heading: STUDENTS
dialog: 'No to Bantu education'
dialog: 'No to apartheid'
dialog: 'Freedom Now'...
speaker_heading: STUDENT LEADER
dialog: There must be discipline. We
dialog: start marching from here and we'll
text: join up with the others at the
dialog: main road. Please take care of
dialog: the younger ones. Let's go.
text: The Students start marching led by one of the banners,
text: singing a freedom song.
text: Amongst them is Jonathan and Wellington. They are sing-
text: ing. The march turns round one of the streets.
speaker_heading: CROSSROAD
text: Several groups of students marchers converge to join the
text: march that has already started, including Jonathan's
text: group. There are several banners condeming Bantu
dialog: education, apartheid, etc.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 9.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: Examples: "EQUAL EDUCATION NOW"
dialog: "ONE MAN ONE VOTE"
text: "FREE OUT LEADERS"
text: "NO TO THE AFRIKAANS LANGUAGE"
text: There are chants of slogans as they march:
speaker_heading: STUDENTS
dialog: 'If we learn Afrikaans vorster
dialog: must learn Zulu.' 'Bantu
dialog: education! Stinks! Stinks!
dialog: Stinks!' 'Equal education! Now!
dialog: Now! Now!'
text: They also start singing a freedom song.
text: FURTHER UP STREET
text: Three police Jeeps block the route of the march. A
text: little distance behind are police troops carriers
text: ('hippos'). About six police-dog-handlers in camouflage
text: uniforms stand across the road waiting for the march to
dialog: approach.
text: As the march gets closer the students' singing increases
dialog: in volume.
text: The Soweto police COMMANDANT steps forward with a loud-
text: speaker in hand. He confronts the lead of the march. He
text: signals for them to stop. The dogs are straining at their
text: leashes and their handlers taunt the leading group.
speaker_heading: COMMANDANT
dialog: Now listen to me, this is an
dialog: illegal demonstration. I order
dialog: you to disperse immediately.
text: The Students start singing the African national anthem
dialog: 'Nkosi Sikelele.'
text: Children of 8, 9, 10 years singing lustily with their
text: fists clenched as everyone else.
text: Jonathan and Wellington singing.
text: Camouflauged police scrambling out of Jeeps with guns and
text: tear gas grenades. They stand with the rifles pointing
text: at the marchers. The singing continues.
text: The Commandant confers with a junior officer who hurries
text: to the group of policemen and gives them instructions.
text: The ones carrying tear gas move towards front. The
text: police start donning gas masks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: COMMANDANT
dialog: This is the last warning.
dialog: Disperse immediately or I will
dialog: take action.
text: A voice in the crowd shouts "Banutu education..."
text: The crowd shouts back "Stinks, Stinks, Stinks."
text: The Commandant gives a hand signal.
text: Tear gas canisters are thrown into the crowd, the dog-
text: handlers attack. There is panic with Students running in
text: all directions, several choking.
text: Some of the students start throwing stones at the police,
text: hitting one in the face; he is helped away by a black
dialog: policeman.
text: Without warning, SHOOTING STARTS.
text: Children drop, wounded; friends trying to help the dying
text: and seriously wounded, others helped away.
text: Some boys appear with dustbin lids as protection and they
text: pelt the police with stones.
text: The police in the 'hippos' are jumping off and pursuing
text: Students, some SHOOTING.
text: Woman grabs two of the running children age about 9/10
text: and hustles them into house.
text: Jonathan and Wellington are running with a group. In the
text: distance the sound of an AMBULANCE SIREN. A Jeep cuts
text: off their escape, they turn back running as SHOTS are
text: FIRED towards them, a little girl drops, shot in the
text: back. Jonathan shouts to Wellington who is ahead of him.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Wellington! Wellington!
text: Wellington looks back, sees Jonathan trying to help the
text: little girl. He runs back to help. Another girl, aged
text: about 17 years, is also trying to help.
text: Two policemen suddenly appear from behind a house, they
dialog: are about 18 years old.
text: The girl straightens up and confronts the two policemen
text: shouting hysterically.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Shoot me! Come on, shoot me!
dialog: Shoot me!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She slumps to the ground crying.
text: Jonathan, Wellington and the Girl are hustled into a
text: crowded van amid punches and kicks from the police. The
text: van drives off leaving the injured Girl on the road,
text: neighbors run to assist the Girl.
text: As the van is passing, see a burning car, in the distance
text: a building on fire; another AMBULANCE SIREN.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
scene_heading: A) EXT. AFRIKAANER SCHOOL
text: B) The screams, the laughter of white kids playing at
text: their school, massed in conviviality, Johan one.
text: C) Behind, aboard a mower, motors Gordon, in the blue
text: overall of a groundsman, intent in his task.
dialog: OVER this white pacifist content, hear...
text: ... GUNSHOTS, SCREAMS, TERROR.
scene_heading: D) EXT. SOWETO - AFTERNOON
text: The carnage, the dead, the wounded. The stunned
dialog: bewilderment of blacks and police alike... even the
text: latter unnerved by their own brutality.
scene_heading: END MONTAGE.
scene_heading: EXT. JOHANNESBURG SUBURB - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Soweto train rushing through suburb of Johannesburg.
text: REVERSE SHOT FROM train.
scene_heading: INT. SOWETO TRAIN CARRIAGE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The third-class carriage is crowded with African
text: commuters returning to Soweto. The passengers represent
dialog: all the social and economic strata of Soweto: laborers,
text: factory workers, domestic servants, clerk secretaries,
text: the unemployed, etc. In the carriage, Gordon, returning
text: from work, standing.
text: A LARGE middle-aged WOMAN is standing in the crowded
text: aisle at one end of the carriage. She suddenly shouts:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: LARGE WOMAN
dialog: (to man in front of
dialog: her)
dialog: Careful with your bag. Can't you
dialog: see where it's touching?
speaker_heading: MAN #1
dialog: (standing half-way
dialog: down carriage)
dialog: Can I see where it's touching?
speaker_heading: LARGE WOMAN
dialog: Men of today only like looking.
text: Laughter in the carriage. Gordon is also enjoying the
dialog: joke.
speaker_heading: MAN #2
dialog: (standing by a door)
dialog: It's the electricity.
scene_heading: MAN IN KHAKI UNIFORM
dialog: What has electricity to do with
dialog: it?
text: A few voices also ask same question.
speaker_heading: MAN #2
dialog: Today with the electricity they
dialog: say:
dialog: (in an affected
dialog: voice)
dialog: 'Darling let's not switch off
dialog: the light.'
text: Laughter and voice saying "that's true."
speaker_heading: WOMAN #1
dialog: (standing very near
dialog: Gordon)
dialog: I hope you have electricity with
dialog: those thick glasses of yours.
dialog: With your eyes you couldn't find
dialog: anything.
text: More laughter.
speaker_heading: MAN #3
dialog: Tell us, does your wife also wear
dialog: thick glasses?
speaker_heading: MAN #2
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: You should know, she's your
dialog: sister.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: There is more laughter.
text: Suddenly a MAN jumps on his seat waving his arms -- he's
text: about 40 years old -- in BLUE OVERALLS. He cannot take
dialog: it any more.
scene_heading: MAN IN BLUE OVERALLS
dialog: Quiet! Thulani! Thulani!
text: The noise goes down.
scene_heading: MAN IN BLUE OVERALLS
dialog: They are killing our children
dialog: and you are making jokes...
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: They say hundreds of children have
text: died and Soweto is burning.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - GORDON AND WOMAN
dialog: talking about the information.
scene_heading: SMARTLY-DRESSED MAN
dialog: The white people, they will pay,
dialog: and soon.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: 'They will pay, they will pay.' Since
dialog: when have they been killing us, putting
dialog: us in jails, starving our children to
dialog: death, taking our land? Hundreds of
dialog: years. And what have you men done?
dialog: Only talk, talk, talk. You are not
dialog: men. Sis. (Shit.)
text: The conversations in the carriage become muted and serious.
text: The train enters Soweto, there is smoke hanging over sev-
text: eral parts of the township, and official buildings are on
dialog: fire.
text: Suddenly, the passengers are gripped by the seriousness of
dialog: the situation.
text: There are snatches of conversation such as:
dialog: "That's the superintendent's office
dialog: on fire."
dialog: "I hope the children are home."
dialog: "We have to dodge bullets tonight."
dialog: "Vorster must hang for this."
dialog: "I hope the world hears about this."
dialog: 14.
scene_heading: INT. GORDON'S HOUSE - EVENING
dialog: Silence.
text: A small three-room Soweto brick house -- The living room
text: is modestly furnished.
text: EMILY, Gordon's 40-year-old wife, is sitting on a narrow
text: iron bedstead against the wall, clutching her youngest
text: 2-year-old son -- Her mind is preoccupied. Sitting next
text: to her is a ten-year-old daughter.
text: Gordon is sitting on a chair at the table with his second
text: eldest son, Robert -- aged 14 years -- standing by the
text: side of the table -- sitting on an old easy chair is a
text: Soweto resident with his 15-year-old DAUGHTER standing
text: beside him.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (to girl)
dialog: Are you sure it was Jonathan
dialog: they took away?
text: The girl glances at her father. He coaxes her to talk.
speaker_heading: GIRL (DAUGHTER)
dialog: Yes, baba, with Wellington.
scene_heading: INT. SOWETO POLICE STATION - DAY
text: Black parents, waiting. At the counter with Gordon, a
text: large black man, STANLEY, a friend -- his big easy smile
text: is working hard on a white policeman, the station SERGEANT
text: VAN ZYL, about to run out of patience.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: No, no, I understand, Baas, but is
dialog: that all the names? There's no
dialog: other list somewhere?
scene_heading: SERGEANT VAN ZYL
dialog: I'm telling you. He's not in
dialog: custody. Have you tried the
dialog: hospital? Have you tried the
dialog: mortuary?
text: Gordon sucks in his breath audibly.
scene_heading: SERGEANT VAN ZYL
dialog: I'm only suggesting the
dialog: possibilities.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: But, what about John Voster
dialog: Square?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: SERGEANT VAN ZYL
dialog: Look, I've tried to help you.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Thank you.
text: Stanley walks up to a WOMAN.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: You're here too, sis Paulina, who
dialog: are you looking for?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: They picked up my girl -- 13-year-
dialog: old girl!
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (comforting her)
dialog: We are all searching.
text: The policeman calls her -- she hurries to the counter.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BARAGWANATH MORTUARY - DAY
text: A white-uniformed assistant leads a line of African
text: parents, reeking of sadness, into a cool room where metal
text: drawers open from the walls.
text: Stanley and JULIUS their black lawyer -- the two men seem
dialog: to be very well-known, people shake hands with them,
dialog: salute them --
text: Gordon and Emily's sadness is tinged with anger -- they
text: have dignity, defiance, bowed with grief as they are.
text: Stanley's large hand is placed gently on Emily's shoulder
text: as they examine the dead faces before them.
text: They belong to children, some in torn, dirty clothes,
text: others naked, some mutilated, others whole and seemingly
text: unharmed, as if asleep, until the small, neat hole in
text: temple or chest and the small crust of blood is brought
dialog: to our attention.
text: A woman behind them starts to scream. They look around
text: to see her holding onto a drawer, her legs buckling.
text: Another woman pulls her close to grieve with her. The
text: assistant approaches them and after a soft exchange he
text: writes a name on a tag and ties it onto the body. The
dialog: woman can't, won't leave her dead child. Her friend has
text: to pull her away.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The crowd parts to let them through. Other women reach
text: out to touch her.
text: Gordon looks into the last drawer, Jonathan is not there.
text: They make their way out past the other parents and a group
text: of mourning women sitting.
scene_heading: EXT. MORTUARY - DAY
text: Gordon, Emily and their friends cross to Stanley's great
dialog: white elderly Dodge, this "etembalami" with the big butter-
dialog: fly. For, amongst other things, he is the owner and
text: driver of a pirate taxi.
text: They get in. Stanley pauses -- looks across at a small
text: red VW Beetle parked nearby, waiting. He shakes his
text: head -- the VW flashes its lights and drives off.
scene_heading: INT. STANLEY'S TAXI - DAY
text: Inside they sit in silence... recovering from the ordeal.
text: Only Emily silently whispers "Thank God, thank God."
dialog: After a while...
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: What now?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He is our son... we must find him.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: I'll make more inquiries -- John
dialog: Vorster Square -- the special
dialog: branch -- but I don't hold out
dialog: much hope.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You're a lawyer, Julius!
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: A black lawyer! Those Boers...
dialog: the bastards'll kick him around
text: till they lose him.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What about the Baas? If he asks,
dialog: they will give him an answer.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (bitterly)
dialog: When the boy was flogged he didn't
dialog: help. Why should he help him now?
dialog: 17.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S GARDEN - MORNING
text: Gordon is at work already -- 8 AM -- mowing the lawn.
text: He's intense, unsmiling, burdened as he goes about his
dialog: task, expertly.
text: Sounds of BEN and JOHAN LAUGHING coming from inside.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S DEN - MORNING
text: Ben and Johan, in robes, their hair still wet from their
text: showers, having an imaginary boxing match. Johan has
text: Ben on the ropes, backs him out of the house.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S GARDEN
text: Ben adjusts the sash of his robe and takes the offensive
text: towards Johan, as he sees Gordon.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Hi, Gordon.
text: No response. Ben does a double-take and stops playing.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to Johan)
dialog: Hold it, champ.
text: He crosses the yard to Gordon, fluffing his hair dry,
text: Johan follows behind.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Gordon, you okay?
text: No response again. Gordon continues to work. Ben and
text: Johan exchange puzzled looks.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Isn't this Jonathan's day to help
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How is he, recovering?
text: Gordon stops, switches OFF the MACHINE, stands not looking
dialog: at Ben.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I don't know, Mister Ben, sir --
dialog: the police took him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Again?
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: They arrested many. They even
dialog: deny they've got him. He's
dialog: disappeared...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Disappeared? He's a child -- why
dialog: didn't you tell me?
text: Gordon just looks at him, sadly, patiently.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Okay! I'll see what I can find
dialog: out.
text: Ben walks off with Johan as Gordon STARTS the MOWER.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - MORNING
text: Ben is talking on the phone.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Our gardener, yes. Probably
text: nothing, but he's worried.
scene_heading: INT. LAWYER'S OFFICE - DAY
dialog: Sumptuous lawyer's offices, Johannesburg. They're lush-
text: carpeted. A black woman cleaner is finishing off her
text: early-morning chores, packing up as white staff are be-
text: ginning to arrive. They're fresh, shining, attractive
text: -- whipping the covers off typewriters.
text: A young black girl, smart, well-groomed, is carrying a
text: tray of coffee, desk to desk. FOLLOW her as she
text: approaches her employer's open office door.
text: We hear his voice -- see him on the phone in the b.g.
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: ... And when was this?
text: He nods, makes notes. He's in shirtsleeves. At his post
text: early, ready for action.
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: Ngubene -- Jonathan Ngubene.
scene_heading: INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY
text: The coffee girl enters, places a cup on Lewinson's desk,
text: and retreats.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: I'll get on to them straight away...
dialog: Not at all -- I think better this
dialog: time of morning -- after lunch,
dialog: man, I'm a zombie.
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Sure -- let you know straight away
dialog: -- love to, Susan... Cheers!
dialog: (puts down phone;
dialog: presses his intercom)
dialog: Freda! Open an account... Du Toit.
dialog: Benjamin Du Toit... Subject...
dialog: Jonathan Ngubene.
scene_heading: MONTAGE - SEARCH FOR JONATHAN
speaker_heading: A) TYPEWRITER
text: -- CHATTERING out -- on Lewinson's headed note paper:
dialog: To the Commissioner of Police
dialog: Police Headquarters
dialog: John Vorster Square
dialog: Dear Sir,
dialog: On behalf of our client, Gordon Ngubene,
dialog: we are anxious to discover the whereabouts
dialog: of his son...
scene_heading: B) INT. POLICE HQ. (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - INTERROGATION
speaker_heading: ROOM
text: Wellington, Jonathan's friend, is sitting alone in
text: fear. Through the wall he can hear MOANING -- SCREAMS.
text: He closes his eyes tight as if to shut out what he
dialog: is hearing.
scene_heading: C) POLICE TYPEWRITER
text: -- CHATTERING out -- on police headquarters note paper:
dialog: To Lewinson &amp; Partners Solicitors
dialog: Dear Sirs,
dialog: With reference to your enquiry concerning
dialog: Jonathan Ngubene, we suggest you take the matter
text: up directly with the particular officer in
dialog: charge...
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: D) HOSPITAL (JOHANNESBURG)
text: Young black nurse carrying bedding -- corridor --
text: startled by moaning, screaming figure of black boy,
text: being hustled on trolley into private ward. Boy is
text: deposited on bed as policeman is posted outside.
speaker_heading: E) TYPEWRITER
dialog: -- Lewinson's headed paper:
dialog: ... the whereabouts of Jonathan Ngubene, aged
dialog: 15, who was apparently detained by you...
scene_heading: F) 2ND POLICE TYPEWRITER
dialog: -- Second heading:
text: The type keys hesitate, tremble, for a considerable
text: number of seconds, on and on, as if deliberately de-
dialog: laying or uncertain how to answer.
speaker_heading: G) MATRON
text: confronted by Gordon and Emily. She shakes her
text: head vigorously, denying all knowledge, shows them the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: F) FINALLY:
dialog: Dear Sirs,
dialog: With reference to your enquiry seeking the
dialog: whereabouts of Jonathan Ngubene, we are sorry
dialog: to inform you we have no record of anyone of
dialog: that name...
scene_heading: I) HOSPITAL - WHITE SUPERINTENDENT FACING JULIUS
speaker_heading: SUPERINTENDENT
dialog: It's preposterous. I would have
dialog: known -- of such a case... I
dialog: mean... in my hospital. You
dialog: people! You're always raking
dialog: up trouble!
speaker_heading: J) STANLEY
text: At the back of police headquarters, John Vorster Square.
text: An elderly black cleaner, emptying garbage, is being
text: shown Jonathan's photograph. He looks -- and nods --
text: pointing down as meaning the basement.
scene_heading: K) CLOSE ON STANLEY'S FACE
scene_heading: END MONTAGE.
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY
text: He is with a client. He pushes a button on the intercom.
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: ... Freda -- I said no calls...
dialog: Oh... Right... put them through.
dialog: Hallo! Yes! How are you?...
dialog: that is correct.
text: He listens -- his face slowly becoming solemn --
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: Very well. Thank you for finally
dialog: letting us know.
text: He replaces the receiver... looks at it for a long second
text: ... before lifting his eyes to the client.
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: (to client)
dialog: Sorry.
text: He dials a number.
scene_heading: INT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - STAFF ROOM - DAY
text: Tea break for the teachers, Ben among them. He is enjoy-
text: ing a laugh with his colleagues -- maybe in Afrikaans --
dialog: we should hear the language here where we need not com-
text: prehend. An African serves the tea.
text: There's a KNOCK -- a monitor comes in and talks to Ben
text: who follows him outside.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL - DAY
text: Ben at the phone.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Hello, Dan... No... it's all
dialog: right...
scene_heading: INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: I'm sorry. They have just
dialog: officially informed me. The boy
dialog: was never in detention. He died
dialog: ... the day of the riots and
dialog: as nobody came to claim the corpse
dialog: he was buried a month ago.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL - DAY
text: Ben at the phone.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Thanks a lot, Dan... I'll tell
dialog: Gordon. 'Bye.
text: Ben hangs up and stays there... thinking... until the
text: BELL snaps him out of his thoughts.
scene_heading: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - PLAYING FIELDS - DAY
dialog: The playing fields, not of Eton but as good as...
text: ... Cries and whistles rise through the still, warm air
text: from a game of schoolboy rugby being played below us by
text: immaculately-fitted teams.
text: On another part of the field Gordon's lawnmower off to
text: the side -- two figures pace -- slowly -- one white, one
dialog: black --
text: A VOICE overlays all this... strange... ironically
dialog: African.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Mister Ben, sir. If it was me,
dialog: all right. And if it was Emily,
dialog: all right. We are not young. But
dialog: he's out child. My time and your
text: time, it's passing. But the time
dialog: of our children is coming. And
dialog: now if they kill our children --
dialog: if we let them -- what is it that
dialog: we lived for?
speaker_heading: BEN
text: (places a hand on
dialog: Gordon's shoulder --
dialog: comforting)
dialog: What can we do, Gordon? You or
dialog: I... We can't change it.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That day, Mr. Ben, sir, when they
dialog: whipped Jonathan, you also said we
dialog: can do nothing. But if we had...
dialog: if someone heard what we had to say
dialog: this would not have happened.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It's a terrible thing, Gordon --
dialog: God knows I'm sorry. But you have
dialog: other children to live for... I'll
dialog: help them too with their schooling.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: How did he die, Mister Ben, sir?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I told you, Gordon... He died on
dialog: the day of the riots.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That's what they say. But I got
dialog: to know for certain. How can I
dialog: have peace? I must know how my
dialog: son died and where they buried
dialog: him.
text: The game on the next pitch finishes with a pierce of the
text: whistle. The kids run off past Ben and Gordon. Gordon
text: climbs onto the small lawn mower and STARTS the ENGINE.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Gordon. The police -- if they've
dialog: said...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I don't care what they say. He is
dialog: my child. God is my witness today:
dialog: I cannot stop before I know what
dialog: happened and where he lies. His
dialog: body belongs to Emily and me.
text: And drives away -- chugging across the field... leaving
text: Ben -- helpless -- behind him -- watching.
dialog: From his:
speaker_heading: OFFICE WINDOW
text: in the school behind -- a worried headmaster watches.
text: We hear his voice over.
speaker_heading: CLOETE (V.O.)
dialog: ... This business of Gordon's son.
dialog: Be careful, Ben. These are not
dialog: normal times -- one has to make
dialog: allowances.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAR PARK
text: The car park. He and Ben are getting into their cars at
text: the end of the day.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Don't worry! I'm no crusader.
dialog: I've known Gordon a long time,
dialog: that's all.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: I understand -- it's your
dialog: Christian duty to your neighbor.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Something like that -- yes.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: Just don't get too close.
dialog: Teachers must stay out of
dialog: politics. Love to Susan!
text: And drives off, leaving Ben watching him, shaking his
text: head at the man's obtuseness.
scene_heading: EXT. NGUBENE HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Emily is watering a tiny vegetable plot in the yard, with
text: a bucket and a pierced tin.
text: Robert is playing nearby with the youngest child.
text: Robert sees Gordon walking slowly to their house and says
dialog: playfully to the baby:
speaker_heading: ROBERT
dialog: Look who's coming? It's baba!
text: Emily turns to look. She immediately realizes that some-
text: thing is wrong. She drops the tin and walks a few steps
text: toward the gate.
text: Gordon sees her and stops.
text: Emily starts to break down.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, no... oh no, Lord.
text: Gordon hurries to embrace her.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (sobbing and repeating)
dialog: Please don't tell me...
text: Gordon starts to lead her to the house.
text: Margaret, Emily's neighbor, comes, hurries, helps her,
text: comforts her, escorting them to the house.
dialog: 25.
scene_heading: EXT. SOWETO MAIN ROAD - DAY
text: Stanley and Gordon are driving along Soweto main road.
text: A 10-years-old BOY stops the car.
scene_heading: INT. STANLEY'S CAR - DAY
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: (to Stanley)
dialog: Baba, I heard you're looking for
dialog: Wellington. He's out, Baba.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Where is he? Where is he?
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: He's with some boys at Dube's
dialog: shop.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Thank you very much. You've
dialog: worked like a man.
dialog: (turning to Gordon)
dialog: Let's go.
text: Stanley turns the car round and drives off at speed.
scene_heading: EXT. DUBE'S SHOP - DAY
text: Wellington and a few pals are standing outside the shop
text: -- they greet Stanley as they see the car -- Stanley
text: shouts back greeting.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Take it easy, boys. Hey
dialog: Wellington!
text: Wellington comes to the car. He's limping, wearing
dialog: sunglasses.
text: As he's approaching the car, Stanley opens the back door
dialog: for him.
text: He enters and removes the glasses.
text: Stanley notices a deep scar from the forehead to the
dialog: cheek.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: What happened... Don't tell me...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Did they do that to you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Wellington has a nervous arm-twitch... and nods to the
dialog: question.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (anxiously)
dialog: I want to know what happened to
dialog: Jonathan.
speaker_heading: WELLINGTON
dialog: Isn't he out yet?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I last saw him weeks ago.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: Jonathan is dead.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I have to know how he died.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S DINING ROOM
text: Sizette and Chris with the family at dinner. Suzette is
text: passed the Rand Daily Mail newspaper by Chris, folded at
text: an article headlined: "WHAT REALLY HAPPENED TO JONATHAN
text: NGUBENE?" by Melanie Bruwer.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Isn't that tragic? Jonathan was
dialog: such a nice boy. Even played with
dialog: my Johan when they were small,
dialog: God.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And he was such a nice boy, well-
dialog: mannered.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: You said he was very bright at
dialog: school.
text: Chris helps himself to more. Suzette looks at the paper.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Well, this kind of journalism
dialog: doesn't help the situation. Look
dialog: at her face? What does she look
dialog: like?
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: The Rand Daily Mail always
text: exaggerates.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She passes the paper to Ben. He looks at Melanie's pic-
text: ture: she looks 30 years old, long black hair, large
text: dark eyes with a fierce, unsettling, uncompromising stare,
text: a small nose and a generous and sensual mouth.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Looks quite attractive to me.
text: Chris and Johan laugh.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (he surveys the
dialog: article; then with
dialog: a serious tone)
dialog: '... Is only the latest in scores
dialog: of black youths who have
dialog: disappeared whilst in police
dialog: custody.'
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: What does she expect? They're out
dialog: of control. Give then an inch and
dialog: they take a hundred miles. It's
dialog: in their nature. The only
dialog: language they understand is force.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Chris, Jonathan was fifteen, like
dialog: me. Would you use force on me?
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: You're not a terrorist. If you
dialog: were -- like an increasing number
dialog: of them, you'd deserve it. Look,
dialog: every time you pick up the
dialog: newspaper...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (interrupts; focusing
dialog: on the paper)
dialog: My God, one hundred shot! They
dialog: didn't have to kill them.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: This bloody Bruwer woman reports
dialog: one hundred shot, but the radio
dialog: said only twenty and the police
dialog: were attacked first.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: I thought the idea was to give
dialog: them their own areas, banstustans.
dialog: Let them live with their own kind.
dialog: No chance of conflict then.
dialog: Everybody's happy.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: And who would do the work?
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Pardon?
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: The work, who'd do it?
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: You for a start. Come on! Help
dialog: me clear these dishes.
text: As Johan stands, to clear the table. He turns to his
text: father with a smile, and shrugs -- an irritated Suzette
text: joins them.
scene_heading: INT. GORDON'S HOUSE (SOWETO) - NIGHT
text: The small dark room is crowded. The one oil lamp -- on
text: the table -- At the table sits Gordon... his glasses on
text: the end of his nose.
text: Emily is sitting by the stove. Robert stands beside her
text: chair, watching, listening.
text: The youngsters are sleeping in opposite directions on the
dialog: iron bed.
text: Wellington is sitting beside Gordon at the table. There
text: is something wild in his manner. He looks everywhere as
text: if he is scared of being attacked unawares.
text: The black cleaner from John Vorster Sq. stands near the
text: table. Gordon is reading aloud from a handwritten
dialog: document.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: 'On the second day of our detention
dialog: at John Vorster Square we were
text: taken to one of the top floors.
dialog: We were ordered to undress and
dialog: they started to beat us with fists
text: and sjamboks. This for a long
dialog: time.'
text: Wellington nods and gets more paranoid. The black cleaner
text: puts an understanding hand on his shoulder.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: 'On one day me and Jonathan...'
text: Gordon pauses... steadies himself... pushes his glasses
text: up his nose... clears his throat...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: '... We were asked questions for
dialog: the whole day and night by Capt.
dialog: Stolz and different policemen --
dialog: they never stopped. They tried to
dialog: force us to say we were the
dialog: leaders at our school, that we
dialog: were working for the A.N.C. and
dialog: got money from overseas. Capt.
dialog: Stolz wanted to know the names of
dialog: the students committee and where
dialog: he can find Toni Mtimkulu --
dialog: Everytime they asked question,
dialog: they beat us. It was bad beating.'
text: Wellington nods again. Emily closes her eyes to shut out
text: the image.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: 'We told them we had done nothing
dialog: and didn't know about all the
dialog: things they are asking us; on two
text: occasion they put a wet bag over
dialog: my head and I -- couldn't breathe
dialog: -- I thought I was going to die.
dialog: One day I heard Jonathan being
text: beaten. He was screaming and
text: crying, and then a noise like
text: tables and chairs being knocked
text: down, and Capt. Stolz shouting
dialog: "you bastard, get up, do you hear
dialog: me?" Ngubene, don't pretend here,
dialog: get up." Then the next day I
dialog: heard he had gone to hospital and
dialog: I never saw him again.'
text: There's a long silence. Gordon closes his eyes and
text: struggles with his grief. Emily sobs, Robert looks on
text: in anger. Then, finally, Gordon offers a pen to
text: Wellington, who is about to sign the foot of the state-
dialog: ment, when...
text: ... Suddenly there is the sound of a TRUCK APPROACHING.
text: Wellington rushes to the front window and peers outside;
text: then panics, fear in his eyes, he runs into a bedroom and
text: jumps through the window.
text: Everyone in the room is bewildered.
text: The front door bursts open. Emily sits impassively look-
text: ing at the five policemen (two whites and three Africans).
text: The youngest child startled from his sleep starts to cry.
text: Emily goes to the bed and picks the child up and returns
text: to her chair.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT VENTER
dialog: Stay right where you are.
text: He notices the papers on the table and picks them up. He
text: looks at them and realizes their importance.
text: Capt. Stolz walks into the room and surveys the room and
text: its occupants. Lieutenant Venter hands him the papers.
text: He goes through them, nodding to himself as he reads
text: silently. He folds them neatly and puts them into his
text: inside jacket pocket. He walks up to Gordon.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (to Gordon)
dialog: On your feet! So, you must be
dialog: Gordon Ngubene?
text: Gordon doesn't answer.
text: He turns to the cleaner who automatically stands.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: We know each other, don't we?
text: Calmly, he paces round the room looking around, then when
text: he reaches the bed where the 10-years-old girl is watch-
text: ing terrified, he pulls off the blankets, yanks the girl
text: off the bed by her arm and frantically searches the bed.
text: The child cries. Robert the brother goes to his sister
text: and hugs her as he glares at Stolz with anger and hatred.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (turning to Venter)
text: Gert, in daardie kammer.
dialog: (Gert, that room)
dialog: (turning to the other
dialog: one)
dialog: Jaimie, in die ander.
dialog: (Jamie, the other room)
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT VENTER
dialog: Niks, Kaptein.
dialog: (Nothing, Captain)
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Take the bastards away.
text: The other policeman appears from the other bedrooms empty-
text: handed. Gordon and the cleaner are roughly handled as
text: they are handcuffed by the African Security Police.
text: Over his shoulder Gordon manages to give Emily one last
text: look, as he's hustled out of the house.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Emily sits motionless, anger in her face. She can hear
text: the sound of the CARS DRIVING AWAY.
text: Margaret (her neighbor) appears at the door.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT
text: Behind Ben's house, are the servants' quarters attached
text: to the garage.
text: Ben has adapted what would have been a maid's room into
text: his study and the adjoining room into a do-it-yourself
dialog: workshop.
text: The study has photographs of Ben's past as a provincial
text: rugby player, of his family, school staff and TRECHIKOFF
dialog: reproduction.
text: On a cupboard are trophies of individual sports at
dialog: university.
text: He works off a plain desk on which is a handsome pipe-
text: rack with several pipes. His indulgence is a comfortable
dialog: easy chair.
text: Ben's study, containing only the figure of Ben. He's
text: hunched over his desk, looking blankly at the newspaper.
text: His shirt is unbuttoned, his jacket slung across his
text: chair. He draws heavily on his pipe, wreathing his
text: head with smoke in the beam of the single desk light.
text: He sits in his chair:
text: Gordon's voice rises in his thoughts.
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: That day, Mister Ben, sir, when
dialog: they whipped Jonathan, you also
dialog: said we can do nothing. God as my
dialog: witness today: I must know what
dialog: happened and where he lies. His
dialog: body belongs to Emily and me.
text: He mutters -- more a prayer than a curse.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Jeezus -- Jeezus -- Jeezus Christ.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Good night, Papa!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Johan is entering, knocking on the half-open door. He's
text: in his pajamas and dressing gown, ready for bed. Ben
text: looks up at him. Johan kisses his father who suddenly
text: clasp his son hard, clinging to him for dear life.
text: The boy throws his arms around his dad's neck.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Oh, Papa!
text: Susan appears at the door with a cup of coffee. She's
text: had a bath -- her hair is wet -- and she's in her
dialog: housecoat.
text: Ben and Johan don't notice her approach.
text: She watches sympathetically for a moment, then...
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Coffee! Come on, Johan. Time for
dialog: bed.
text: Johan pulls back from his father's arms.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yes, son. Go and get some sleep.
text: The boy nods and leaves.
text: As Susan rests the cup of coffee on the desk before Ben.
text: She notices the Rand Daily Mail.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: I'm proud of you, Ben... what
dialog: you've done for that family. But
dialog: darling, you shouldn't take these
dialog: things to heart so much. What
dialog: more can you do about it?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I don't know. I'm just tired, I
dialog: suppose.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (stroking his hair
dialog: gently)
dialog: Come, come to bed.
text: Her housecoat has fallen open. He lifts his face to hers
text: and kisses her.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I will, in a minute. I'll just put
text: the thoughts of Standar Six away.
dialog: They mustn't be lost to posterity.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She chuckles, satisfied, leaving him.
text: He picks up his cup and drinks. He thinks again for a
text: moment. Then he removes a photocopied letter from an
dialog: envelope and reads:
speaker_heading: OFFICE VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: '... Seeking the whereabouts of a
dialog: certain Jonathan Ngubene, regret to
dialog: inform you we have no record of
dialog: anyone of that name...'
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM - DAY
text: Afrikaan boys in uniform hunching over their desks
dialog: writing... On the blackboard: the date and history test:
dialog: What year did the first white man arrive in South
dialog: Africa?
dialog: When was the Battle of Blood River?
dialog: Who was the Zulu chief who was defeated at the battle
dialog: of Isanadlawana?
dialog: Who was the president of the first Afrikander
dialog: Republic?
dialog: Give the route of the Voortrekkers from the cape?
text: Ben walks through the aisles and from time to time oppor-
text: tunities to glance at the window at Gordon's motionless
text: tractor sitting in the field.
text: He turns back and notices a boy focusing on the ceiling.
text: His pen in his mouth, trying desperately to find the
text: answers. Ben has a smile, then crosses to him, bends down
text: and strikes a similar pose.
text: The class breaks up into laughter.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (slapping the student's
dialog: back)
dialog: All right, time up! Hand in your
dialog: test.
text: Moans from the students.
scene_heading: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - VERANDA - DAY
text: Ben appears on the other side of the veranda. He is in
text: Cloete's company -- the little big man... grey hair...
text: 65 years old. The headmaster.
text: They stop in before Ben's colleague, Vivier, passing,
text: shakes hands with him. A woman arrives and waits. Cloete
text: says something to Ben, then laughs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ben smiles and Cloete goes into the office.
text: The woman approaches Ben... talks to him... they both turn
dialog: back to see...
text: ... Emily standing there, a soaking headscarf tied native-
text: style around her head.
text: Ben thanks the woman and crosses the yard.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What's happened, Emily?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: I'm sorry, Baas... but it's
dialog: Gordon.
scene_heading: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - DAY
text: ... Stanley is waiting in his car. His sunglasses on his
dialog: nose...
text: ... The SCHOOL BELL RINGS to give the end of the tea inter-
text: val. Ben walks out with Emily to Stanley's car. Stanley
text: gets out, they stare at each other. Finally Stanley
text: breaks the silence.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (putting out his hand)
dialog: How's it? I'm Stanley! I heard
dialog: about you!
text: Ben feels a little uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: This is Stanley Makhaya... He
dialog: helps us all the time.
text: Stanley opens the door to Emily.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Don't worry too much, Emily, I'm
dialog: sure Gordon will be home in a few
dialog: days.
text: Stanley slaps the door with a big laugh. He gets into the
text: car and drives away.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON BEN
text: perplexed.
dialog: 35.
scene_heading: INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - JOHN VORSTER SQUARE - DAY
text: Gordon stands facing the wall, his arm raised. He has
text: wetted his trousers.
text: Captain Stolz is pacing behind him. Lieutenant Venter,
text: sitting on the edge of the desk, is smoking.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Come on, Kaffir, talk!
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Please, I've done nothing. All I
dialog: tried to do was to find...
text: Stolz interrupts him with a blow to his face. As Gordon
text: drops his hands, the officer shouts to him.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT VENTER
dialog: Up with those bloody arms!
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: We don't like gramophone records
dialog: here! Now who has been giving
dialog: you informations?
text: Gordon doesn't answer.
text: The Lieutenant walks slowly to him, calmly removes his
text: fag-end of cigarette from his lips and stubs it on
text: Gordon's neck.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT VENTER
dialog: (very calmly)
dialog: Why don't you answer the Captain,
dialog: han?
text: He walks back to his place.
text: Captain Stolz opens the door and shouts:
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Johannes! The bag!
text: Gordon has a look of terror.
text: Immediately a black security policeman walks in with a
dialog: bag.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: All right.
text: Johannes goes to wet the bag in a bucket in a corner.
text: Lieutenant Venter grabs Gordon, throws him onto a chair
text: and handcuffs his hands behind the chair.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Stolz is supervising.
text: The Lieutenant places the wet bag over Gordon's head and
dialog: ties it.
text: Gordon starts groaning and wriggling.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY
text: Under the gaze of a uniformed POLICEMAN in a bulletproof
text: glass cage, Ben fills in a slip, then hands it to the
text: Policeman, who then makes a phone call.
text: Whilst waiting, Ben notices a video surveillance camera.
text: Just then, a 20-year-old African girl, Afro-style hair,
text: is brought in held on both sides by two white policemen.
text: She is taken into a lift.
text: Ben watches them enter the lift and follows the progress
text: of lift to the 10th floor.
text: The Policeman stamps the slip and gives it to Ben.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: Somebody will meet you on second
dialog: floor.
text: Ben enters a lift.
scene_heading: INT. INTERROGATION ROOM (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY
text: Gordon's still sitting on the chair, slumped -- Johannes
text: removes the handcuffs as the Lieutenant removes the wet
dialog: bag.
text: Gordon is breathing heavily and semi-conscious.
text: Suddenly Captain Stolz punches him heavily on the face.
text: Gordon drops on the floor with blood gushing from his nose
text: and mouth. Captain Stolz grabs him by his collar.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (hysterically)
dialog: Come on you bloody black bastard.
dialog: Who has been telling you lies?
text: The PHONE RINGS. Stolz drops Gordon and walks to answer.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: I'll be down immediately, Colonel.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 37.
scene_heading: INT. VILJOEN'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Behind the large desk, Colonel VILJEON replaces the tele-
text: phone receiver; there is a KNOCK on the door -- and a young
text: policeman ushers in Ben. Colonel Viljoen stands and ex-
text: tends a hand.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Come in, Mr. Du Toit, come in.
dialog: How do you do?
text: They shake. He's a large, friendly man, ruddy face, gray
dialog: crew cut.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Nice to meet you, Colonel Viljoen.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: I used to watch you play for the
dialog: Transvaal. You were one of the
dialog: great wing forwards.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: Long time ago.
text: There's a KNOCK on the door.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Come in.
text: The door opens revealing Captain Stolz.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Captain Stolz, Mr. Du Toit.
text: Captain Stolz nods correctly, unsmiling, comfortably
text: dressed, English-style. He shakes hands with Ben. Then
text: walks toward the window and stands there.
text: As he's watching Ben, he begins to clean out his pipe with
text: a silver penknife;
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: (to Ben)
dialog: Do sit down.
text: Ben sinks into a low leather chair before the desk. Be-
text: hind him he can feel Stolz's eyes.
text: Viljoen peers through his half-moons at the letter in
text: front of him. The pipe scraping continues behind Ben's
dialog: ear.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: All right now, Gordon Ngubene.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Well... to put it simply, Colonel...
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I'm always grateful for that.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I thought there might have been
dialog: some kind of misunderstanding I
dialog: could help straighten out.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Like what?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know him, Colonel. He works
dialog: at my school. He's done work for
dialog: me too.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: And you feel you know him enough
dialog: to vouch for him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yes, after so many years... 10
dialog: years. Gordon's not the type to
dialog: get himself in trouble. He's an
dialog: honest, hard-working, church-
dialog: going man.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Ha! You'd be surprised how many
dialog: honest, decent, church-going men
dialog: we come across during a working
dialog: day.
text: He leans back comfortably in his chair.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: It's routine, Mr. Du Toit -- a
text: routine enquiry. Cleaning up
dialog: these townships we must leave no
text: stone unturned.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I appreciate that -- but Gordon
dialog: would never...
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Not an easy task either -- the
dialog: press screaming blue murder --
dialog: especially the English.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: VILJOEN (CONT'D)
dialog: And they'll be the first to squeal
dialog: if the Reds took over, make no
text: mistake. Rushing back overseas
dialog: clutching their bloody British
dialog: passports. Have you any idea what
dialog: will happen here if we don't
dialog: follow every lead? We have a
dialog: duty -- obligation. You have your
dialog: job -- we have ours.
text: Ben hastens to reassure him.
text: He looks directly at Ben, frank, open, trustworthy.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Colonel -- believe me, I'm with
dialog: you all the way. But in this
dialog: case -- I'm sure that in your
dialog: worthy pursuit of the guilty you
dialog: have, unwittingly, involved the
dialog: innocent. After all, we're all
dialog: human. We all make mistakes
dialog: sometimes.
text: Viljoen laughs again.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: We are indeed, Mr. Du Toit -- we
dialog: are indeed. Though there's many
dialog: who might need persuading as to
dialog: that fact.
dialog: Then... authority.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Mr. Du Toit. While you're here,
dialog: would you mind if I asked you a
dialog: few questions about Ngubene?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (genuinely)
dialog: Colonel, I'd welcome it.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Good!
text: There's another pause. The Colonel takes out a fountain
text: pen -- unscrews it -- and arranges a sheet before him
dialog: before speaking.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Shall we start with his son?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Jonathan.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: The eldest.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yes. He died some time ago.
text: Viljoen doesn't react.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: What do you know about Gordon's
dialog: activities since Jonathan's death?
text: The noise stops behind.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Nothing, Colonel.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Did Gordon ever discuss the death
dialog: with you?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Of course he did -- he was upset.
text: The Colonel pauses.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: But he accepted the truth?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: He is a religious man... in the
dialog: end he would have resigned himself
dialog: to it.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Would have? You mean he didn't?
dialog: Was he angry? Rebellious?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Come on, Colonel! If one of your
dialog: kids died...
dialog: (nods to family picture
dialog: on desk)
dialog: ... and nobody would tell you how
dialog: it happened or where his body is
dialog: buried, wouldn't you be upset?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: We told him how his son died, Mr.
dialog: Du Toit.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ben turns back, surprised.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: You have a son, Mr. Du Toit?
text: The Colonel looks up at him... the first sign of steel in
text: his eyes... then back to the papers.
text: The noise starts again behind Ben.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Does he burn and destroy --
dialog: everything he can lay his hands
dialog: on?... No -- and neither does
dialog: mine. That's what I can't
dialog: understand... after everything
dialog: the government does for them.
dialog: (looks straight at Ben)
dialog: Think about it, Mr. Du Toit.
dialog: We're for you, not against you.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (irritably)
dialog: I've never doubted it, Colonel.
dialog: It's you who appear to be doubting
dialog: me. These questions. You're
dialog: making me feel like a criminal.
text: There's a moment's pause -- then a burst of laughter.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr. Du Toit... I'm
dialog: sorry. It's force of habit. Once
dialog: a policeman, always a policeman,
dialog: eh?
text: More laughter -- Ben joins in. Viljoen stands, signalling
text: an end to the meeting.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S CAR - DAY
text: Johan is sitting, waiting, in the parked car... the RADIO
text: ON. He's bored.
scene_heading: INT. COLONEL'S OFFICE
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: ... As soon as we're satisfied
dialog: he's innocent, he will be released.
dialog: We know what we're doing, Mr. Du
dialog: Toit. You want your wife and that
dialog: boy of yours to sleep safe tonight,
dialog: don't you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ben nods, smiles, makes for the door, turns.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: One last favor, Colonel?
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Fire away!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Gordon's wife -- she's very
dialog: worried. May she bring him some
text: food and a change of clothes while
dialog: he's still here?
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: No problem! Thank you for your
dialog: help...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Thank you. I'll rely on you, then.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Will you find your way out?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I think so. And thanks. I feel
text: much happier now.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Good! And give my regards to
dialog: your father-in-law -- tell him
dialog: we'll have a drink sometime --
dialog: maybe go to a game.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I will. Goodbye.
text: And the door shuts behind him.
text: There's silence for a moment... Viljoen staring at the
text: closed door -- Stolz looks expectantly at him.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: (pointing up)
dialog: Is the little bird singing yet?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: I'm working on it.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Good.
text: Stolz leaves, shutting the door behind him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: EXT. JON VORSTER SQUARE
text: Ben opening his car. Johan is sitting in the front seat.
text: As Ben gets into the car, he glances at the John Vorster
dialog: Square building.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S CAR - DAY
text: Ben is motoring through and out of Johannesburg. Johan
text: is silent beside him, impatient.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I talked to them. Gordon will be
dialog: released soon. The colonel was
dialog: very understanding.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Did you see Gordon?
text: Ben suddenly realizes that he didn't ask to see Gordon.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (embarrassed)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Did they say anything about
dialog: Jonathan?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No, but... Johan, he is dead. We
dialog: can't do anything for him. Don't
dialog: mention this visit to your mother.
dialog: Okay?
scene_heading: INT. DU TOIT KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Suzette and Susan in the kitchen arranging the dessert
text: tray. The kitchen is surprisingly neat. LAUGHTER is
text: coming from the dining room.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: What extra-mural interest?
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Champion of political detainees!
text: Ben comes in to open extra bottles of wine, hears Susan's
dialog: line.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
text: (laughing, turns to
dialog: Ben)
dialog: Is that right, Papa?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That's right, Suzette. But, only
dialog: one detainee: 'Gordon!'
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Our Gordon?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (disbelieving)
dialog: My God. What on earth for?
text: Susan leaves the kitchen without a word, with the dessert
text: plates on the tray to the dining room.
scene_heading: INT. DU TOIT HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Susan reaches VIVIERS and the minister DOMINEE BESTER,
text: with their dessert plates. The candles have burned down
text: amid the detritus of dinner: glasses disarranged and
text: dirty, the cloth spotted with food and wine and ashes.
text: In addition to Viviers, dateless, and Bester and his
text: wife, the school's headmaster, Cloete and his wife.
scene_heading: INT. DU TOIT HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Ben hastily uncorking a bottle of wine while talking to
dialog: Suzette.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: It must be a mistake, Papa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Of course it is. I went down
dialog: there, told them. They're looking
dialog: into it.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Went down where?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: John Vorster Square.
text: Suzette giggles, amazed.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: You old devil you. Does Ma know?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No. And you're not going to tell
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: A pause. She looks at him.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Be careful. I don't want my
dialog: favorite Papa in trouble, Gordon
dialog: or no Gordon.
text: She ruffles his hair, smiles, kisses him. They go back
text: into the dining room.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: More wine? Viviers?
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: Not for me, Oom Ben. I'm drunk
dialog: enough.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Mrs. Cloete?
speaker_heading: MRS. CLOETE
dialog: Please!
text: Ben serves her.
text: Susan passes to fetch milk jug and sugar basin from the
text: chine cupboard.
speaker_heading: MRS. CLOETE
dialog: (to Mrs. Bester)
dialog: Oh, I saw those sheets you liked,
text: Sally, on sale at Bloom's.
speaker_heading: MRS. BESTER
dialog: Will you be free on Wednesday
dialog: afternoon? I have one or two
dialog: other things to buy.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Susan enters the kitchen. As she is about to place the
text: jug and basin on the table next to the tray with cups of
text: the same set, there is a knock at the door.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (turning to the door)
dialog: Come in.
text: The door opens and Stanley steps in.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Who are you? What do you want?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Ben and guests hear Susan.
text: Ben jumps up, hurries to the door. Viviers starts to
dialog: follow.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Ben stops at the door, sees Stanley, turns to Viviers.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It's all right.
text: Viviers returns to his seat as Ben shuts the door behind
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Oh, it's you... hum... Stanley,
dialog: isn't it?
dialog: (to Susan)
dialog: That's all right, darling.
text: Ben leads Stanley out of the kitchen, closing the door
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON SUSAN
dialog: intrigued.
scene_heading: INT. LEWINSON'S HOME - NIGHT
text: Lewinson is at the phone, behind him his wife, too, is
text: entertaining guests for dinner.
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: A Friday night, man! I'm no
dialog: doctor, I'm not on standby all the
dialog: bloody time. Can't they wait 'til
dialog: Monday?
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Dan! I'm standing here with
text: Gordon's clothing in my hand.
dialog: It's bloodstained...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN (CONT'D)
text: There are broken teeth in the
dialog: pocket. Monday may be too late!
dialog: (pause)
dialog: The lawyer has been banned.
text: Stanley is waiting, his great hand on his hips, the other
text: one on Emily's shoulder. She is sitting on a chair.
text: Obviously, Stanley doesn't expect a positive response.
scene_heading: INT. LEWINSON HOME - NIGHT
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: (interested)
dialog: Do you mean Julius Nqakula?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Too bad, he's a good lawyer. Why
dialog: are you getting so involved, Ben?
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'm just trying to help Gordon.
dialog: ... You represented many cases,
dialog: tell me, does this happen often?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: But Gordon's not political.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Okay, Dan, I'm sorry for
dialog: disturbing your weekend.
text: Ben replaces the phone. Turns to Emily and Stanley.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: He agrees to see you tomorrow and
dialog: will apply to the supreme court
dialog: for an interdict to stop any
dialog: assaults on Gordon. And, we'll
dialog: find out what's going on.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: You're all right, Lanie.
text: Ben can just hear Emily's soft voice.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Thank you, Baas.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Come on, sisi. Tomorrow it'll all
dialog: be first-class again.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: INT. DU TOIT LOUNGE - NIGHT
text: Laughter again. Ben has rejoined the party in the
text: lounge. The women are together talking, laughing and the
dialog: men on their own.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: More coffee, anyone?
dialog: General assent.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: The security police don't arrest
dialog: people for nothing, Ben. Leave
dialog: it alone.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: They could make a mistake.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: Blacks lead double lives. One
dialog: you see and one you don't. These
dialog: people surprise you all the time.
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: (joking)
dialog: That's what I like about them.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: We're not concerned with 'blacks.'
dialog: We're talking about GORDON. A
dialog: good man and very loyal.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (serving coffee to
dialog: Cloete)
dialog: And a hard worker too.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: A hard worker? I had to get rid
dialog: of him.
text: Susan doesn't react. She leaves to join the womens'
dialog: group.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: I fired him a few days before he
dialog: was arrested for staying away from
dialog: work for days. And for the sake
dialog: of the school I say good riddance.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What do you mean 'good riddance'?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: I have a responsibility for the
dialog: children. These are troubled
dialog: times, Ben, we can't trust the
dialog: natives any more.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: You have to be extra careful about
dialog: any influences, Oom Ben. Even
dialog: their churches are breeding
dialog: grounds for all sorts of evil
dialog: ideas.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Gordon's not subversive and
dialog: definitely not a Communist.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: Then he's got nothing to worry
dialog: about!
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: Except his three teeth. Our
dialog: government mustn't allow such
dialog: things to happen. After all, it's
dialog: a Christian government.
dialog: (turning to Bester)
dialog: What do you say, Dominee?
text: Bester doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (irritably)
dialog: I'm not talking about the
dialog: government! I believe in our
dialog: government, damn it...
text: His sharp tone surprises everybody. He quiets.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: ... Look, I know the police often
dialog: know more than we do. I'm not
dialog: questioning that. I'm as loyal as
dialog: the next man. But I do know
dialog: Gordon Ngubene... there is
dialog: something wrong.
text: There's a moment's embarrassed silence, broken by Suzette's
text: entrance with a tray of glasses and a bottle of brandy.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (putting the tray in
dialog: front of Ben)
dialog: Anything else, Papa?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ben starts pouring, and offers the first glass to Bester.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Dominee?
text: Bester shakes his hand.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: Nee Dankie.
text: Ben hands the glass to Viviers.
text: Immediately Viviers raises his glass and laughingly says:
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: Oom, Ben, may your problems be
dialog: small ones!
scene_heading: INT. INTERROGATION ROOM (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY
text: Gordon is undoing his trousers.
text: Venter roughly drops the trousers and pushing him to the
dialog: floor.
text: He handcuffs him while Johannes pulls off the trousers
text: and underpants, and manacles his ankles.
text: Johannes fetches a rod.
text: Venter goes to a cupboard, pulls out two electric wires
text: with electrodes attachments and places them on the desk.
text: All the preparation is done with practiced efficiency.
text: From the adjoining room there are angry shouts of a
dialog: woman.
text: Venter and Johannes place the rod between Gordon's elbow-
text: joints and the back of his knees. The door opens.
text: Gordon has a look of terror on his face.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN STOLZ (O.S.)
dialog: Sorry I'm late.
text: Captain Stolz enters carrying a thickish file under his
text: arms, goes straight to the desk and sits down.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN STOLZ
text: Johnannes, the table.
text: Johannes moves the table in line with the desk.
text: Lieutenant Venter and Johannes lift the trussed Gordon
text: and the ends of the rod between the desk and table.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT VENTER
dialog: You're a heavy shitface. Too much
dialog: mealie porridge!
text: Captain Stolz holds Gordon by the head and swings him like
text: a pendulum.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: How do you feel today? Ready to
dialog: fly?
text: Very calmly Captain Stolz pulls out some papers from the
dialog: file.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (pointing one sheet
dialog: of paper)
dialog: Yes, Mister Ngubene, we know about
dialog: this Wellington... and...
dialog: (pointing another
dialog: affidavit)
dialog: ... We know about him... and him
dialog: ... Now, we want the names of the
dialog: others. And today you're going
dialog: to tell us.
text: The WOMAN in the next room SHOUTING louder than before --
dialog: that one is a real and tough activist --
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Bloody woman.
dialog: (to Johannes)
dialog: Water!
text: As Johannes is fetching the bucket of water. Venter goes
text: to the cupboard and stays there.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT VENTER
dialog: 'Samson' is ready, Captain, shall
dialog: I switch him on?
text: Johannes empties the bucket over Gordon. Stolz attaches
text: the terminal to Gordon's earlobes.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (to Venter)
dialog: Okay. Gert!
text: Gordon is given a short burst of electric shock.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (reacts)
dialog: Hai!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: That was a small taste of 'Samson.'
dialog: We have a whole day...
text: A knock at the door.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: ... Kom!
text: A black policeman in uniform. JOHNSON SEROKE, enters
text: with a letter in his hand.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: A letter for you, Captain.
text: Stolz goes to take the letter and turns to place it on
text: his desk. He notices Seroke still standing.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: What are you bloody-well waiting
dialog: for?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: No reply, Captain?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Get out of here.
text: Seroke leaves.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (to Gordon)
dialog: Now about these affidavits who
dialog: told you to collect them? The
dialog: A.N.C.? Who recruited you?
text: Gordon mumbles something.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: What?
text: He bends forward to hear, and Gordon's swollen, puffy
text: eyes hold his gaze.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I don't know anything about the
dialog: A.N.C.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: You've had your chance. Now
dialog: you're going to shit.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STOLZ (CONT'D)
dialog: (to lieutenant in
dialog: Afrikaans)
dialog: Reg gert. (Okay, Gert)
text: Gordon suddenly shakes violently and shouts repeatedly.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Hai! Hai! Hai!
scene_heading: INT. DUTCH REFORM CHURCH - MORNING
text: Dominee Bester is preaching from the pulpit.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: God created the whole human race
dialog: so that they could occupy the
dialog: entire earth. He decreed how
dialog: long each nation should flourish,
dialog: and what the boundaries of each
dialog: territory should be. Our task is
dialog: to preserve that creative diversity.
text: Behind him, in his deacon's black tails, Ben listens with
text: clasped hands. On the opposite side, another man is lis-
text: tening, standing in the love of his family, Cloete.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: Brothers and sisters, like our
dialog: forebears, the Voortrekkers, who
dialog: trekked into the wilderness
dialog: preserve the Afrikanere way of
dialog: life given to them by God. Today,
dialog: we also live in times of great
dialog: danger. Let not fear overcome
dialog: you! Cling to the ways of justice
dialog: and truth preserved by our leaders.
dialog: So shall God be honored...
speaker_heading: BEN'S POV
text: The faces of his friends scattered among the pews, Suzette
text: and Susan listening intently, Johan beside her visibly
text: bored, his eyes wandering to the Cloete's daughter at
text: the end of the pew.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: ... So shall the Afrikaner people
dialog: flourish.
text: The organ plays the opening notes to a hymn, the congre-
text: gation rises and sings.
dialog: 54.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S GARAGE - DAY
text: Ben's garage/workshop -- the door is open. Ben and Johan
text: are together building a strong desk for Johan.
text: The RADIO offers MUSIC to keep them company. Susan is
text: confronting Ben.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Why didn't you tell me you'd been
dialog: down to John Vorster Square?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What difference would it have
dialog: made?
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: I'm your wife, damn it!
text: She turns the RADIO DOWN, irritably.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I didn't want to upset you.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Upset me? It upsets me when you
dialog: share your bloody secrets with a
dialog: child!
text: Johan is embarrassed. Ben glances at him. Johan shrugs
text: and shakes his head "not me." Ben planes on.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Ben! Ben! Look at me for God
dialog: sakes!
dialog: (turns to Johan)
dialog: Johan uit met jou!
text: Johan leaves.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (posing down the
dialog: plane)
dialog: Now what?
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: We have a good life. We may not
dialog: have everything we might have had
dialog: if...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (interrupts)
dialog: ... If I'd been more ambitious.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (looking at him)
dialog: Ben, what's happening?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Sometimes it seems to me I don't
dialog: know you.
text: Ben looks at her. Her tone is panic, urgent. She looks
text: afraid. He crosses over to her, takes her in his arms.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What's happening -- it's something
dialog: I've never had to face -- deal
dialog: with -- before.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: He's the gardener for God's sake,
dialog: not one of the family.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Be patient with me... When Gordon
dialog: is free you'll have me all to
dialog: yourself again... promise.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
text: (nuzzling into his
dialog: chest)
dialog: Ben. We're growing old.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Nonsense. One's as old as he
dialog: feels. I feel young and very
dialog: attractive. I can still do my
dialog: duty.
text: She smiles up at him, chuckles, and then they kiss.
text: Johan interrupts.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Papa.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
text: (smiling indulgently at
dialog: Johan's interruption)
scene_heading: _______________________________
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Stanley's here, Papa.
text: Johan leaves.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Oh, bloody hell!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Susan exclaims in angry frustration and flees.
text: Stanley appears at the garage door. He stands.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: Gordon's dead.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What?
text: The news leaves Ben speechless. Stanley continues in
text: flat, emotionless tones.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: The bastards say he committed
dialog: suicide... hanged himself.
text: Ben, recovering from the shock.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Suicide... is that what they told
dialog: Emily -- poor woman...
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: They didn't tell her. She heard
text: it on the radio like the rest of
dialog: us. I contacted Lewinson
text: immediately. He then rung the
dialog: police to ask why Emily wasn't
dialog: informed. Would you believe it,
dialog: they said they were sorry, and they
dialog: didn't know where to contact her.
text: Ben walks slowly out of the garage in deep thoughts --
text: Stanley follows him.
scene_heading: EXT. GARAGE - DAY
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (almost to himself)
dialog: God! I never thought Gordon could
dialog: commit suicide.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Did you understand me? I said,
dialog: they said he committed suicide.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How do we know?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Gordon wasn't a coward.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yes, but...
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (interrupts aggressively)
dialog: What do you mean 'but'? What
dialog: about Timol who they said had
text: jumped from a top-floor window?
dialog: What about Ngudle? What about
dialog: Mosala? Joyi? Malele? They all
dialog: died in that John Vorster Square.
dialog: All suicide, eh?
text: Ben stares at him. There is something like a strange
text: silence between them. Ben is confused and Stanley is
text: staring at him. Ben breaks this embarrassing mood.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Anything I can do to help?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: He's got brothers.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Brothers?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: I'm his brother, man, we all are!
dialog: We'll take care of everything.
dialog: (with pride)
dialog: That's the African way.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Stanley, I'd like to see Gordon.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Don't look for trouble, man. You
dialog: know there are riots all over
dialog: Soweto. You're out of it. Why
dialog: don't you stay out?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Don't you understand? I've got to go.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (with a mischievous
dialog: smile)
dialog: You got to go? Of course, Lanie... the
dialog: last farewell. But we have to be careful.
scene_heading: INT. STANLEY'S CAR - DAY
text: Stanley drives sportingly as he talks to Ben, seated in
dialog: the back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: We expected it.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How can you talk like that!?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: A guy gets picked up by the S.B...
dialog: he's part of history, man.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You mean you had no hope, you
dialog: didn't believe he'd be released?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Hope's a white word, Lanie... It's
dialog: not hope we need.
text: There's silence for a moment.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Well, thank God Emily has you to
dialog: lean on, Stanley.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Emily is like my sister... We go
dialog: back many years.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Do you belong to the xhosa tribe too?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: I am an African. That's all!
dialog: (looking through the
dialog: rear mirror)
dialog: Comprende?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I am an African too!
text: Stanley turns abruptly.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I was fourteen before I wore shoes
dialog: -- except for church... I grew up
dialog: on a plaas miles from any town...
dialog: watching sheep and...
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (interrupts)
dialog: Bullshit! Next you'll have me
dialog: believing we grew up in the same
dialog: country, same laws, same freedom,
dialog: same everything!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: He laughs.
scene_heading: EXT. SOWETO BORDER - DAY
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (like a tour guide)
dialog: We are now about to leave the
text: white jungle and entering the land
dialog: of love and glory.
text: The car approaches a huge perimeter notice:
text: "YOU ARE NOW ENTERING SOWETO TOWNSHIP. NO PERSON WITHOUT
text: THE NECESSARY PERMIT IS ALLOWED..."
text: Ben is driven into a different world; children playing in
text: dirty streets, in wrecks of cars, open spaces devoid of
text: vegetables, smoke from large rubbish dumps, burnt-out
text: skeletons of buses, beer halls and buildings. Clusters
text: of policemen in battle dress patrolling in the distance.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: So this is Soweto.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (like an actor, with
dialog: big expansive gesture)
dialog: Land of love and glory, Lanie!
dialog: (turning suddenly
dialog: to Ben)
dialog: But watch out for the police and
dialog: army. They're patrolling all the
dialog: time.
text: The car follows an isolated broken stretch of tarred road
text: hill cluttered with rusty tins, cardboard containers,
dialog: bottles.
scene_heading: EXT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY
text: A group of young children playing under the blinding sun
text: in a muddy ditch, notice the big painted butterfly on the
text: hood of Stanley's car.
text: They wave and scream at Stanley in their language and he
text: screams back at them.
text: Two little girls start running, heading toward the car.
text: Stanley notices the red VW parked in a corner. He man-
text: euvers and parks his car nearby.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (opening door)
dialog: Hurry up, Lanie.
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: BEN'S POV
text: A modern funeral parlor with its name painted on the side:
scene_heading: "MOROKA FUNERAL DIRECTOR (PTY) LTD."
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Stanley notices the two little girls with dusty smiling
text: faces, standing there waiting for him.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (checking his pants'
dialog: pockets)
dialog: No sweets today. I'm sorry,
dialog: babies.
text: The children give Stanley a coy disbelieving look as they
text: watch him go with the "white man."
speaker_heading: CHILDREN'S POV
text: On the doorstep of the funeral parlor: Stanley and Ben
text: run into a young woman coming out with a shoulder bag
text: and a camera.
text: The young woman and Stanley exchange a quick, friendly
text: greeting -- it's MELANIE BRUWER, the Rand Daily reporter
dialog: -- and keep moving.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Ben turns back for a moment. Her face seems familiar to
dialog: him. He would like to talk to her, but there is no time.
text: Stanley is already inside.
scene_heading: INT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY
text: Ben and Stanley follow the proprietor who is expensively-
text: dressed in a dark suit. Gordon's coffin stands as one of
text: many in the room.
text: Inside the casket, brass fittings, white satin, lies
text: Gordon, incongruous, ludicrous in a black Sunday suit.
text: His hands are crossed on his chest like the claws of a
text: bird and his face, barely recognizable, is gray, the left
text: side distorted, blackish purple.
text: There are rough stitches of the postmortem across his
text: skull and a scar on his lips.
text: Stanley speaks in an African language to the undertaker.
text: The man opens Gordon's shirt and reveals the bruised and
text: battered chest.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Stanley observes Ben who looks at the wounds with horror.
text: Then another command from Stanley and the undertaker
text: opens the shirt to the waist. Ben's ashen. Stanley
text: thanks the man and turns to leave. Ben remains a minute.
text: He shuts his eyes tightly. Now he saw it. Now he must
dialog: believe it. He must accept that this battered corpse is
dialog: Gordon.
text: As he follows Stanley, he thanks the undertaker.
scene_heading: EXT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY
text: Outside the "sunlight," the children's laughter and
text: Stanley, hands in pockets, waiting for Ben by the car.
text: The same two little girls approach Stanley who gives them
text: some coins -- they run off happily.
text: Ben is coming outside blinking in the glaring sunlight.
text: Stanley glares at Ben, who is pale, shaken and silent.
text: They get into the car in silence.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (turning to Ben)
dialog: 'The living close the eyes of the
text: dead. The dead open the eyes of
dialog: the living.'
text: Stanley starts the car.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Please, take me to Emily.
text: Stanley looks at him.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Look, we'd took one hell of a
dialog: chance to get here, let's not push
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I really have to see her, Stanley.
text: Stanley drives off.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (determined; looking
text: through rearview
dialog: mirror)
dialog: I said don't push it. I have to
dialog: keep you alive. What's more the
text: house is full of mourners.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: They drive in silence... then:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: What are your thoughts now?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (aggressively)
dialog: Come on. I know you came to see
dialog: the body. What do you think now?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (exposed)
dialog: I... I cannot think. I'm
dialog: confused.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: You either believe what you saw
dialog: or maybe you still prefer the
dialog: government version.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: For Christ sake, just get off my
dialog: back, Stanley.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Okay. It was a simple question.
text: Stanley turns his RADIO ON and BANTU MUSIC invades the
text: car as it speeds away in a cloud of dust.
scene_heading: EXT. WHITE SUBURB STREET - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The big brassy Dodge is threading its way through the
text: leafy calm of the white suburb.
text: The "Bantu" MUSIC is STILL PLAYING on the radio under
text: Stanley's animated conversation with Ben.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: You know, Lanie, when you run a
dialog: taxi, especially a pirate taxi
dialog: like me, you have eyes and ears
dialog: everywhere. Even when a policeman
dialog: farts in his bed you know. People
dialog: want a reference book, a permit to
dialog: stay in Soweto, a house, anything,
dialog: we taxi drivers know the routes.
dialog: I'll tell you something...
text: A news bulletin in African language interrupts the music.
text: Stanley listens.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Shit!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: Dr. Hassiem has been picked up.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Who's he?
text: Stanley silently pulls up along the curb and comes to
text: rest at Ben's gate.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - ENTRANCE - LATE EVENING
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Dr. Hassiem is the doctor we got
dialog: to represent Emily at Gordon's
dialog: autopsy. We wanted the truth.
text: Ben suddenly realizes the significances.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: He would have testified. Bloody
dialog: hell!
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: A smart move by your Boer
dialog: brothers. They have silenced
dialog: Hassiem.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: His report has to be important.
dialog: We can only use what we have.
dialog: Therefore, Lewinson must get a
dialog: very good advocate.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: If only we could get hold of this
dialog: Hassiem's report.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: What's the use? It's one big game
dialog: and we blacks are merely
dialog: spectators. Hey Lanie, can one be
text: a spectator as he's being kicked
dialog: around?
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It's not a question of being
text: spectators. The courts are
dialog: impartial, the law is what
dialog: matters.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (quite seriously)
dialog: That's what you all say. I have
dialog: to move man. Your neighbors!
dialog: Now, be careful. They will put
dialog: their marks on you!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Who?
text: Stanley takes an empty cigarette packet from his pocket,
text: he writes on it.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: You'll find out!
dialog: (handing the packet
dialog: to Ben)
dialog: In case you need me. Don't give
dialog: your name -- just say 'Lanie'
dialog: phoned -- right?
text: Ben gets out of the car.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Now tomorrow at ten...
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Sharp! At our smart liberal
dialog: friend's office, yeh!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Good night.
text: Stanley drives vigorously away.
text: Ben walks slowly and thoughtfully towards his house. He
text: notices Susan watching him through the window.
text: He slumps on a chair on the veranda as Susan comes out of
text: the house followed by Johan -- they both stand slightly
text: worried at his moroseness.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I went to Soweto and saw Gordon's
dialog: body. They have lied to me, my
dialog: own people -- they killed him! I
text: saw the body.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Johan looks horrified.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Ben, you're not a doctor. His
dialog: death was announced officially.
dialog: They wouldn't say anything unless
dialog: they were certain of their facts.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (more animated)
dialog: Facts? There's a doctor who
dialog: participated at the autopsy. A
dialog: Doctor Hassiem and he...
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (interrupts)
dialog: You mean the Indian doctor who's
dialog: been arrested?
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: It was in the five o'clock news,
dialog: Papa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That's him, he represented Emily
text: at the autopsy.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (suddenly desperate)
dialog: Ben, I'm sorry about Gordon's
dialog: death, but please for all our
dialog: sakes, forget about this whole
dialog: thing. Let's get back to a normal
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Can I have a drink?
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: A brandy?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You always know what I need.
text: Johan hurries into the house.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (pleading)
dialog: Please, Ben, I'm frightened.
text: She turns and walks into the house, leaving Ben.
dialog: 66.
scene_heading: EXT. SOWETO CEMETERY - MORNING
text: The large Soweto cemetery has scores of graves ready for
text: burials. The chief mourners, Emily, Robert, his sister,
text: Margaret, four relatives and Stanley are standing on
text: either side of the PRIEST. Gordon's coffin is in the
text: grave; several wreaths are on the side of the grave.
text: There are about fifteen hundred mourners, and half are
text: youths. There are several local reporters and overseas
dialog: television reporters.
text: The police are in attendance in large numbers at the edge
text: of the crowd, some in battle dress and some with dogs.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Before I conclude, I have to say
dialog: we are tired of making this
dialog: journey every day, sometimes twice
dialog: in one day, burying our children,
dialog: and those, like our departed
dialog: brother, Ngubene who were merely
dialog: seeking the truth; and those who
dialog: have been denounced by traitors
dialog: amongst us; and those who have
dialog: been brutally killed for no
dialog: reason, yes I shall say it, by the
dialog: police. Let those who rule this
dialog: land of ours listen to the word
dialog: of God; let them listen to our
dialog: peaceful and just demands; let
dialog: them be humble and go down on
dialog: their knees and seek forgiveness,
dialog: then listen to God.
text: The crowd roars: "Amanda! Amanda!"
text: The Priest starts a short hymn and the crowd joins in.
text: At the end of the hymn.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: We will have a few words from Mr.
dialog: Pilani our father and leader.
text: The crowd starts singing a freedom song with arms raised.
text: The funeral has now become a political demonstration.
text: Mr. Pilani, who is a dignified, educated 70-years-old,
text: walks slowly and waits beside the chief mourners. He
text: is handed a loudspeaker.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: A SENIOR POLICE OFFICER threads his way through the
text: crowd, a loud hailer in his hand. As he reaches the
text: grave he turns. The crowd is quiet. He says something
text: to the Priest then addresses the crowd.
speaker_heading: SENIOR OFFICER
dialog: The funeral is over. I order
dialog: everyone to go home. This is not
dialog: a political rally. I repeat,
dialog: disperse.
text: As though by signal the police start attacking the
text: mourners with truncheons and dogs. There is pandemon-
text: ium, women screaming, people falling into graves or
text: covering in them.
text: The Priest and Stanley lead Emily and the family away
text: in the opposite direction.
text: The press and television are recording the scene. The
text: police start throwing tear gas canisters. There is no
text: confrontation, the crowd is fleeing in all directions.
text: One television cameraman is purposely pushed into a grave
text: by a very young policeman, his round recordist is pulled
text: up into the adjourning grave by the connecting cord.
text: Melanie stands on a tombstone watching and making notes.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S LOUNGE - NIGHT
text: Ben, Susan watching the main evening news bulletin on TV.
text: On the screen a sequence of rioting.
speaker_heading: COMMENTARY (V.O.)
dialog: Despite repeated warnings young
dialog: blacks attacked the police with
text: rocks and petrol bombs. Five
dialog: policemen were injured.
text: Susan briefly glances at Ben.
speaker_heading: COMMENTARY (V.O.)
dialog: Several arrests were made. One
text: youth was killed and five wounded.
text: Follows the newscaster and then reports:
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
dialog: This morning there was a serious
dialog: disturbance at the funeral of
dialog: Gordon Ngubene.
text: Susan leaves the room.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER
text: The detainee who committed suicide
text: by hanging himself at John Vorster
text: Square. An overseas television
text: cameraman broke an arm during the
dialog: disturbance. It's been reported
dialog: that several people had been
text: killed by a car-bomb in Belfast
dialog: Northern Island...
text: Ben turns OFF the TV and stays in his thoughts.
scene_heading: EXT. JOHANNESBURG - STREET - AFTERNOON
text: Stanley and Ben are driving in the outskirts of
dialog: Johannesburg.
scene_heading: EXT. APPROACHES OF SOWETO - AFTERNOON
text: Stanley drives seemingly alone at very high speeds, which
text: he maintains through the streets of Soweto... using his
text: horn to scatter people out of his way, to the anger and
dialog: indulgence of others.
text: The CAR SCREECHES to a halt outside Emily's house.
text: Stanley gets out of the car and greets the startled
text: neighbors... and acknowledges the friendly shouts of
dialog: children.
text: Stanley looks around, then goes back to the car, opens
text: the back door, leans and says something. Suddenly, to
text: everyone's astonishment, Ben crawls out of the car;
text: Stanley hustles him into Emily's house.
text: Stanley waves at the people, a sign of assurance, then
text: closes the door behind him.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON
text: Ben stands awkwardly for a moment, taking in the room and
text: the people in it. He then walks over to Emily who is
text: standing at the table. He goes to shake her hand.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How are you, Emily?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Well, thank you, Mr. Ben, sir.
dialog: Eh, that's father Masonwane, our
dialog: priest, and that's Margaret from
text: next door.
text: Ben nods at them. Stanley sits himself down.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: (raising his hand in
dialog: greeting)
dialog: Mfundisi...
dialog: (priest)
dialog: ... Sisi!
dialog: (sister)
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (to Ben)
dialog: Please sit down. Take this chair,
text: the other one is broken.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (apologetically)
dialog: I didn't mean to disturb you.
dialog: I've come to talk to you.
speaker_heading: EMILY
text: (as she sits on the
dialog: broken chair)
dialog: Yes, it's good. What I want to
dialog: know is why did they kill him. He
dialog: didn't do them nothing. You know,
dialog: Mr. Ben, sir, I washed his whole
dialog: body for he was my husband. And
dialog: I know a man who killed himself,
text: he doesn't look like that.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Master, you must understand she's
text: still raw inside.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'm sure.
text: Robert walks in, looks at Ben and walks into his bedroom
text: to fetch something, then as he's about to go out:
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Robert, where are you manners
dialog: today? Don't you greet visitors?
text: Robert stops momentarily and looks at Ben with hostility
text: and hurries out of the room banging the door.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm sorry for his rudeness.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: (to Ben)
dialog: You have to understand what's
dialog: happening to our children today,
dialog: they're like wasps when you burn
dialog: their nest.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: That's right. Our children are
dialog: saying 'that's enough!' Things
dialog: have to change in this country.
dialog: They accuse us of being cowards.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Emily, I have really come to
dialog: assure you that I will do all I
dialog: can to help you find out what
dialog: really happened to Jonathan and
dialog: your husband -- we cannot bring
dialog: them back to life, but we can make
dialog: sure that this sort of thing won't
dialog: ever happen again.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: You mean well, sir, but it's
dialog: better to forgive. If we keep the
dialog: pain alive then hate and
dialog: bitterness will remain with us.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: The air must be cleared. So we
dialog: can breathe again.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: The air can only be cleared if we
dialog: forget about yesterday's thunder.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Mr. Ben is right. It's not that I
dialog: want to go on with this thing
dialog: because it's a bad thing that
dialog: Jonathan died, that Gordon died
dialog: that's hard enough to bear, but
dialog: I can forgive it. But they
dialog: covered Gordon's name with dirt
dialog: and we must clean it up, else
dialog: he'll never have peace in his
dialog: grave.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (to Ben)
dialog: You must understand for us,
dialog: suicide is a coward's way out, how
dialog: do they say, it's a 'cop out.'
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Gordon wasn't a coward and we'll
dialog: prove that. We have a very good
dialog: advocate for the inquest. His
dialog: name is De Villiers. I have
dialog: confidence in him and the truth
dialog: will come out.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: The truth must be known. They
dialog: killed my husband who wouldn't
dialog: hurt a fly and they killed
dialog: Jonathan who was only a child...
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Those people who did it are sinful
dialog: people who don't know what they're
dialog: doing.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: He! Mfundisi, what are you saying
dialog: now? You mean...
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: We must help them. That's the
dialog: only way. They need our help, not
dialog: hate, but love.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: I pity them and I ask the Lord to
dialog: help me so I can learn to love
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: If that's what you preach in your
dialog: church you will soon be starving.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: They covered his name with dirt.
speaker_heading: PRIEST
dialog: Aren't you afraid sis Emily?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No. In the end one grows tired of
dialog: being afraid.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Amen!
text: Ben has been listening to the discussion with interest,
text: this being the first time he has heard Africans talking
dialog: seriously about their problems.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Emily, Stanley and I will do all
dialog: we can. As I said we have a good
dialog: advocate. Everyone involved with
dialog: Gordon's death will be questioned
dialog: and all that's known regarding
dialog: what happened in John Vorster
dialog: Square will come out.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: How can anything come out of that
dialog: John Vorster Square? Who there
dialog: will say: 'Yes, we killed the
dialog: boy and Gordon?'
speaker_heading: BEN
text: Lawyers ask questions.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: And don't policemen lie?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Thank you, Mr. Ben, sir for what
dialog: you're doing.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (standing)
dialog: I'm pleased I came.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (to Ben as he goes to
dialog: the door)
dialog: Wait, let me check the situation.
text: He opens the door and walks out.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON
text: A small group of youngsters are there, hands thrust into
text: their pockets, hanging around in a stony silence.
text: Robert is standing by the door.
text: Stanley calls one of them and talks to him -- the boys
dialog: look around and say something.
text: As Stanley goes back to the door, passing Robert, he
text: ruffles his hair.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (to Robert)
dialog: Take it easy.
dialog: (then to Ben)
dialog: It's okey, dokey, but hurry.
text: Ben hurries out of the room. The children stare at him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (as they go to the
dialog: car)
dialog: Do I...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (interrupts)
dialog: Yes, on the floor man.
text: Stanley opens the back door for Ben. Who crouches on
dialog: the floor.
text: Some of the boys snicker and one bursts out laughing.
text: As Stanley gets into the car he shouts at them:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Okay. Kids, time to go home. Be
dialog: careful.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: (shouting back)
dialog: Sure 'bra' Stanley. Take it easy.
text: Stanley drives off at speed.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF SOWETO - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Stanley is driving, they have left Soweto. Ben still on
dialog: the floor.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Are we still in Soweto?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Why don't you look for yourself?
text: Ben rises and sees that they're at least a mile out. He
text: is not amused.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (sitting up)
dialog: What the hell are you playing at?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: (as he bursts into
dialog: loud laugh)
dialog: Precautions, Lanie.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (exposing)
dialog: Don't call me Lanie! What does
dialog: that mean anyway?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (still laughing)
dialog: You will not understand, Lanie.
text: They drive off.
dialog: 74.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Susan and Ben are in bed. Susan is in Ben's arms, she is
text: relaxed and loving.
text: Ben talks quietly and calmly.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I think I am without awareness.
dialog: I have always cared about people,
dialog: call it a social conscience. But
dialog: my visit to Gordon's house made me
dialog: experience another dimension of
dialog: human conditions.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: The poverty, ja...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No, I expected that. But
dialog: listening to them talk made me
dialog: realize that I did not know the
dialog: blacks. Now I question my
dialog: attitudes, my concerns as Ben, and
dialog: complacence as a white person.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Ben, I know your anxiety about the
dialog: inquest. All will be cleared up,
dialog: in a legal way, and you'll be back
dialog: to your normal self. Now let's
text: turn off the lights.
text: Susan kisses Ben tenderly.
scene_heading: INT. COURT ROOM - FIRST DAY OF INQUEST - DAY
text: The inquest of Gordon Ngubene... conducted by MAGISTRATE
text: KLOPPER. In the witness box is DR. JANSEN, the state
text: pathologist, giving evidence. Advocate DE VILLIERS is
dialog: cross examining.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Dr. Jansen, you are a state
dialog: pathologist of many years
dialog: standing and I have no doubt a
dialog: well-qualified pathologist.
dialog: Could you now please tell us
dialog: what caused the death of the
dialog: deceased?
speaker_heading: DR. JANSEN
dialog: I found that death had been caused
dialog: by the application of force to
text: the neck, consistent with
dialog: hanging.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: There's a vigorous reaction to this around the court,
dialog: which gives us a chance to discover the crowd:
text: In the white section of the public gallery are Ben and
dialog: about eight other whites.
text: The black section is filled to capacity with a few stand-
text: ing. In the front row is sitting Stanley next to
text: Margaret. At the entrance, a white policeman.
text: In the press section are several reporters; amongst them
dialog: Melanie Bruwer the Rand Daily Mail reporter.
text: Colonel Viljoen and several policemen are sitting around
dialog: the court.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: You are sure about the hanging?
dialog: This pressure on the neck, could
dialog: it also have been exerted in other
dialog: ways?
speaker_heading: DR. JANSEN
dialog: It could, but it is not for me
dialog: to speculate.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Of course not, Doctor. The list
dialog: of injuries found on the body was
text: horrifyingly long; bruises,
text: swellings, abrasions, broken rib,
dialog: lacerations, etc. How long before
dialog: death do you estimate he received
dialog: these injuries?
speaker_heading: DR. JANSEN
dialog: I couldn't say exactly.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
text: Roughly.
speaker_heading: DR. JANSEN
dialog: Some were fourteen to twenty days
dialog: old, others three to four days and
text: others even more recent.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Even more recent. I see. I
dialog: understand you had a Dr. Hassiem
text: present at the autopsy.
speaker_heading: DR. JANSEN
dialog: That's correct.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: There were two reports, ours and
dialog: his. Did they tally?
speaker_heading: DR. JANSEN
dialog: Yes, it was. In most respects.
dialog: ON Stanley listening.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Isn't it normal practice to have
dialog: one report? Why did Dr. Hassiem
dialog: decide to draw up a separate
dialog: report? If he really co-signed
dialog: yours.
speaker_heading: DR. JANSEN
dialog: That's for him to answer!
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: I would very much like to, Dr.
dialog: Jansen, but he's been detained --
dialog: you know of course that he
dialog: represented the Ngubene family.
dialog: Thank you.
text: There's a murmur around the court... Ben looks across at
text: Viljoen who returns his gaze -- smiling.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: DR. HERZOG
text: the police physician, giving evidence.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Dr. Herzog, did you examine the
dialog: deceased?
speaker_heading: DR. HERZOG
dialog: Yes, one day Captain Stolz called
dialog: me in. The man had toothache.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: (aggressive)
dialog: That's all?
speaker_heading: DR. HERZOG
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: As far as I could tell -- yes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: DE VILIERS
dialog: You didn't examine him thoroughly?
speaker_heading: DR. HERZOG
dialog: Why should I? The man was
dialog: perfectly healthy, just
dialog: complaining of toothache. I
text: extracted three decayed teeth, and
dialog: gave him aspirin for the pain...
dialog: that's all.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Did the captain or anyone else
dialog: assist you during the examination?
speaker_heading: DR. HERZOG
dialog: (hesitates)
dialog: I... I cannot remember.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: (more aggressive and
dialog: accusing)
dialog: Dr. Herzog, tell us. Have you
dialog: been intimidated by the Security
dialog: Police or did you deliberately
dialog: cooperate with them in playing
dialog: their disgusting little game of
dialog: hide-and-seek?
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: (jumping up from his
dialog: seat)
dialog: I protest, Your Worship.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: Advocate De Villiers, will you
dialog: refrain from insinuations?
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Thank you, Doctor Herzog... I'm
dialog: sure Gordon Ngubene was extremely
dialog: grateful!
text: Herzog's face is impassive.
text: ON crowd reacting.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: Advocate Louw?
text: During the hubbub De Villiers and the state advocate
text: trade places. The courtroom is quiet.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: Thank you, Your Worship. I'd
dialog: like to call Captain Stolz.
text: There's a buzz from the spectators as Captain Stolz walks
text: up to the witness stand. He's given a Bible.
text: ON Ben -- watches him.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - STOLZ
text: In witness box, swearing in Afrikaans.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: You're a police officer stationed
dialog: at John Vorster Square?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: That's right, Your Worship.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: You arrested Gordon Ngubene.
dialog: Could you describe what happened?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Acting on information we had
dialog: received, I went to the house of
text: the deceased, accompanied by
dialog: Lieutenant Venter, Lieutenant
dialog: Botha, and three native members
dialog: of the security force. This was
dialog: about 10 P.M. I informed Ngubene
dialog: that he was under arrest under
dialog: Article 6 of the Terrorism Act.
dialog: He then became violent and resisted
dialog: arrest. A certain force had to be
text: applied to restrain him.
dialog: ON Stanley listening.
dialog: ON Ben listening.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: We found several incriminating
dialog: documents. These pointed to his
dialog: involvement with the A.N.C. and
dialog: activities endangering the
dialog: security of the state.
dialog: 79.
text: ON Ben looking at Stolz, and shaking his head, bewildered.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: Was the deceased ever assaulted to
dialog: your knowledge?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Never. He was always treated with
dialog: courtesy and correctness. But,
dialog: one time we had cause to use force
dialog: against him. It was the day before
text: his death. The deceased suddenly
dialog: showed signs of aggression. He
text: tried to jump through the open
dialog: window of my office. He was
dialog: acting like a mad man. It took
dialog: six of my men to restrain him,
text: and he had to be manacled hand
dialog: and foot, for his own safety.
dialog: But once he calmed down, he was
dialog: ready to make a statement about
text: his activities. The next morning
dialog: we found him dead in his cell.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: Is the statement in evidence?
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: No, Your Worship. It can't be
dialog: disclosed in court without
dialog: damaging our investigation, but
dialog: I would like to offer into
dialog: evidence a suicide note written
text: by the deceased.
text: Louw, taking it from his file on the table.
text: Stanley and Margaret listening.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: 'Dear Captain. I prefer to die
dialog: rather than betray any more of
dialog: my friends. Amandla! Gordon
dialog: Ngubene.'
text: He hands it to the court clerk. There's uproar at this.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: Thank you, Your Worship.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: Advocate De Villiers?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ben is disgusted. He looks about the court, as if seeking
text: allies. His eyes meet Melanie's -- just for a second
text: there's recognition -- then he returns to De Villiers.
text: Advocate De Villiers cross-examining Captain Stolz.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Thank you, Your Worship. Captain
dialog: Stolz, you said you treated the
dialog: deceased always with courtesy and
dialog: correctness, then how do you
dialog: account for the injuries found on
dialog: the body?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Sometimes detainees deliberately
dialog: injure themselves for propaganda
dialog: purposes.
text: The gallery screams its objections. Stanley leans forward
text: and grins across the partition at Ben. The Magistrate
text: warns the crowd. Finally the gallery quiets down.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: You say he tried to jump out of
dialog: the open window... Are there no
dialog: bars to prevent such an act?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: They had been removed for repair.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: And why did he wish to jump out?
dialog: Because you were torturing him?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: He wasn't tortured.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Perhaps it was the toothache then.
dialog: No reaction from Stolz.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: You said you seized incriminating
dialog: documents at the deceased's home;
dialog: can you produce them to see how
dialog: subversive he was?
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: (to Magistrate)
dialog: Those documents cannot be
dialog: introduced as evidence, Your
dialog: Worship, in view of the fact that
text: state security is involved.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The Magistrate makes a note.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: I put it to you, Captain -- that
dialog: the only subversive activities
dialog: the deceased had been involved in
dialog: were his efforts to establish
dialog: what happened to his son,
dialog: Jonathan, allegedly shot during
text: a riot, although several witnesses
dialog: are prepared to testify that he
dialog: died in detention one month later.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: (jumping up)
dialog: I protest...
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: This would support my case that an
dialog: innocent man has died in your hands
dialog: under highly questionable
dialog: circumstances.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: If it please Your Worship... this
dialog: unwarranted slur on the integrity
dialog: of the special branch is
dialog: unacceptable... and based, I may
dialog: say, on allegations which are in
dialog: any case irrelevant to the present
dialog: inquest.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: I agree.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: (turning on Louw)
dialog: If the police are really interested
dialog: in retaining an unsullied
dialog: reputation, they should not object
text: to the real facts being presented.
dialog: Thank you, Captain.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: The real facts are being presented
dialog: -- as the following affadivits
text: prove. They are all by detainees
dialog: -- who testify that they had all
text: seen the deceased intermittently
dialog: from the time of his detention --
dialog: to the time of his death -- and on
dialog: all occasions he was in good
dialog: health.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: As the documents are passed to the Magistrate, they are
text: scorned by De Villiers. Imperviously he requests:
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: I trust the signatories of these
dialog: ... documents... are available to
dialog: corroborate their evidence in
dialog: person.
scene_heading: STRAIGHT ON ARCHIBALD CHIGORIMBO
text: Detainee in the witness box. He swears in Zulu.
text: De Villiers holds his signed affidavit.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Mr. Archibald, when did you first
dialog: meet Gordon Ngubene?
speaker_heading: ARCHIBALD
dialog: (looking at black
dialog: crowd, then to De
dialog: Villiers)
dialog: I never saw Gordon Ngubene.
text: A sudden stillness in the court.
dialog: ON Ben.
dialog: ON Stanley.
dialog: ON Melanie.
dialog: ON Louw.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Are you saying that you didn't
dialog: sign this statement?
speaker_heading: ARCHIBALD
dialog: ... I never met Mr. Ngubene...
dialog: they forced me to sign. Captain
dialog: Stolz, he hit me many times with
dialog: a rubber hose... he said he would
dialog: kill me 'less I signed... this...
dialog: this is what he did to me.
text: He pulls up his shirt -- his back is covered in bruises.
text: The crowd cannot restrain itself any longer. Ben is
text: aghast by what he sees.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Thank you, Mr. Archibald.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: Advocate Louw?
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: No thank you, Your Worship.
text: As Archibald leaves the witness stand, held by a special
text: branch officer, he raises his fist in salute and shouts
text: to the crowd: "AMANDLA." The crowd responds: "Ngawethu."
text: Ben looks at Archibald. He is very impressed by this
text: strength in the prisoner's eyes.
text: An officer of the court shouts at the crowd: "silte in
dialog: die koort" (silence in court) -- bailiffs collar a few of
text: the loudest protesters and pull them with brutality
text: out of the courtroom.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: (to town, wearily)
dialog: May we put up the second
dialog: signatory?
text: Louw confers hurriedly with the prosecution officers, then
text: turns back to the court.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: Your Worship -- the other three
dialog: signatories cannot appear for
dialog: reasons of state security.
text: He sits down, bland, examining his papers.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Your Worship, I'd like to recall
dialog: Captain Stolz.
text: As Captain Stolz returns to the stand he crosses Archibald
text: being handcuffed by the S.B. officer.
text: Ben watches him passing by the detainee, straight, im-
text: passive without a look to him.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Captain, you're still under oath
dialog: -- you took Archibald's statement.
dialog: Was it voluntary? I'm sure you'll
dialog: say it was, then how did he come
dialog: by the injuries on his back?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
text: He fell down the stairs a few
dialog: days ago.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Fell down the stairs. You should
dialog: do something about those stairs,
dialog: Captain, so many people fall on
dialog: them. Thank you.
text: The crowd laughs.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (to the Magistrate)
dialog: Your Worship, may I be excused? I
dialog: have to escort detainee Archibal
text: back to John Vorster Square.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: You may, Captain, and thank you.
dialog: (to the crowd)
dialog: I think this's a good moment to
dialog: adjourn -- we'll reconvene at two
dialog: thirty.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTROOM - DAY
text: Emily, Margaret, Stanley and a man, are sitting outside
text: the court eating fish and chips.
text: There are various Africans sitting around for their lunch
dialog: break.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAFE NEAR COURT - DAY
text: Ben and Dan Lewinson having a light lunch in a nearby
dialog: cafe.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (buoyant)
dialog: De Villiers is making mincemeat
dialog: of them.
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: He's very good. His cross-
dialog: examination has got them rattled.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It's obvious to anybody! The
dialog: evidence is clear!
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Did you see Archibal's back? He
dialog: didn't have to tell the truth.
text: Dan Lewinson's dry laugh catches in his throat.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: That's what Stolz is saying to
text: him right now in his torture room.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM - AFTERNOON
text: Advocate De Villiers and a dignified Emily in the witness
dialog: stand.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Captain Stolz lied. My husband
dialog: never fight the police when he
dialog: was arrested. They were rough
text: with him, pushing him and
dialog: threatening.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: When your husband's clothes were
dialog: given to you, in what condition
dialog: were they?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: There was blood on them and in
dialog: the back pocket I found three
text: broken teeth.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Now Mrs. Ngubene, you have seen
dialog: the note that's said to have been
dialog: written by your husband. Do you
dialog: recognize the writing?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (firmly)
dialog: That's not how my husband writes.
dialog: (strongly)
dialog: He never wrote that letter, they
dialog: lie.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Thank you, Mrs. Ngubene.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: Advocte Louw?
text: He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (facing the
dialog: Magistrate and in
dialog: firm voice)
dialog: They killed my husband and son.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: ON Ben, satisfied.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: (to a policeman next
dialog: to Viljoen)
dialog: Will you take the woman out?
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: I'd like to call my last witness.
dialog: Grace Nkosi.
text: Grace's name is called. She is an attractive 20-years-
text: old girl. As she passes by Ben, he watches her with
text: concern; her face looks familiar. Of course he remembers
text: having seen her at John Vorster Square the first time he
dialog: went there to meet the colonel. GRACE NKOSI is the
text: African girl the two security officers were lifted to the
text: ten flour. He recognizes her.
text: Grace Nkosi in the witness stand.
text: She swears in Xhosa.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Were you ever detained?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Yes sir, at John Vorster Square.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: For how long?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Six months.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Can you tell us what happened to
dialog: you during that time?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I was interrogated by many special
dialog: policemen, but mainly Captain Stolz
dialog: and the one they call Venter. As
dialog: they were searching somebody I
dialog: know, they wanted me to tell them
dialog: where that person was hidden. As
dialog: I refuse to cooperate they beat me
text: with a sjambok. After some time
dialog: I fell and they kicked me in the
text: face and stomach.
text: ON Ben obviously shocked.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GRACE
text: I spot blood and they try to make
dialog: me lick it. Then Captain Stolz
text: threw a wet towel and started
dialog: twisting it around my neck...
dialog: (she illustrates)
dialog: ... until I lost consciousness.
dialog: They did this several time and
dialog: the last one Captain Stolz said
dialog: 'come on meid, speak up, or do
dialog: you want to die like Gordon
dialog: Ngubene?' A few days later I was
dialog: released.
text: ON Melanie taking notes.
speaker_heading: DE VILLIERS
dialog: Thank you, Miss Grace. That's
dialog: all, Your Worship.
speaker_heading: LOUW
dialog: (rising and looking
dialog: at Grace for some
dialog: seconds)
dialog: You made that up. Say you made it
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: It's the truth. I have nothing
dialog: more to say.
text: Louw sits down.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: We shall adjourn until tomorrow
dialog: morning. I'll hear the arguments
dialog: and give the verdict.
text: The crowd stands and starts to leave the courtroom.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM - MORNING (SECOND DAY)
text: A silent black crowd; Emily, Margaret, Stanley anxiously
text: awaiting the verdict. Today the public gallery is more
dialog: crowded than before.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: I wish to thank both advocates for
dialog: conducting this case without
dialog: rancour and in the best traditions
dialog: of the South African legal
dialog: profession.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: ON Ben's face. ON Dan Lewinson's face. ON Viljoen and
text: Stolz's faces.
speaker_heading: MAGISTRATE
dialog: I have listened to all the
dialog: evidence and the arguments. To
dialog: begin with I have to say that
dialog: there was no conclusive evidence
dialog: offered to prove beyond doubt that
dialog: members of the Security Police had
dialog: been guilty of assault or any
dialog: irregular conduct on the deceased.
dialog: There were indications that
dialog: Ngubene was aggressive and on more
dialog: than one occasion had to be
text: restrained with force. There was
dialog: sufficient evidence to conclude
dialog: that death had been caused by a
dialog: trauma following pressure applied
text: to the neck, consistent with
dialog: hanging. Consequently, I find
dialog: that Gordon Ngubene committed
dialog: suicide by hanging himself and
dialog: that on available evidence his
dialog: death cannot be attributed to any
dialog: act or omission or amounting to
dialog: a criminal offense on the part of
dialog: any person.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Viljoen and Stolz smiling, shaking hands with Advocate
text: Louw in congratulations.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FOYER OF COURTROOM - DAY
text: The predominantly black crowd obviously dissatisfied with
text: the verdict, discussing it as it moves slowly towards the
text: main entrance.
text: In the crowd Stanley, Margaret and Emily controlled,
text: dignified but obviously pained.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: BEN
text: totally depressed, walking up to Emily.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (to Ben over noise
dialog: of the discussion)
dialog: Don't worry, man. There's another
dialog: day!
text: Ben leans towards Emily.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'm sorry, Emily.
text: Several press photographers are taking pictures osten-
dialog: sibly of Emily the widow.
text: Stanley gently guides Emily out of the building.
text: Ben, who is following, is besieged by the insistent
text: reporters, shouting:
speaker_heading: REPORTERS
dialog: 'Mister Du Toit, how do you know
dialog: Mrs. Ngubene?' 'Mister Du Toit, can
dialog: you answer, is it true, he was a
dialog: terrorist?'
text: Ben tries to get through.
speaker_heading: REPORTERS
dialog: Mister Du Toit, what do you think
dialog: of the verdict? Do you believe
dialog: the police?
text: Melanie appears, grabs Ben and pushes him away through
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Hang on, Melanie, I'm coming with
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (shouts back)
dialog: Fuck off.
text: The press is still pursuing them.
text: As Ben and Melanie reach Melanie's car:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My car is over there.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (opening the car)
dialog: Never mind your car. Let's get
text: away from these vultures.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: They get into the car and as they drive away, Melanie
text: introduces herself.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: By the way, I'm Melanie Bruwer.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Obviously of the Rand Daily Mail.
dialog: I read your article about
dialog: Jonathan.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Ten out of ten, Mr. Du Toit. I
dialog: know about you too.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: You do?
text: Melanie smiles.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: We have a mutual friend. One
dialog: Stanley.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I remember. The mortuary in
dialog: Soweto...
dialog: (pause)
text: ... The ambiguous Stanley.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Stanley? No. Just careful. A
text: big black rough uncut diamond.
dialog: Don't be fooled by his happy-go-
dialog: lucky attitude. There's much more
dialog: to him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: He couldn't have given you a
dialog: glowing report of me.
dialog: (suddenly aggressive)
dialog: I'm sorry, but where are we going?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: I thought a cooling drink at my
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (on the defensive)
dialog: Mrs. Bruwer, I'm not...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (interrupts)
dialog: I promise you. I'm not after an
dialog: interview or anything like that.
text: She smiles.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I really must go home.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Please, Mr. Du Toit, and you'll
dialog: meet my darling father.
text: She smiles again. A disarming smile.
scene_heading: EXT. MELANIE'S HOME - DAY
text: Melanie drives into the yard. The house is an old
text: Colonial style house amidst flowers, bushes and trees, a
dialog: controlled wild garden.
text: A figure is bent over a beehive. A large brimmed old hat
text: with a net hides his head and features.
text: Melanie stops the car in the driveway.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (pointing from the
dialog: car)
text: There he is by the eucalyptus
dialog: tree, on the left. That's old
dialog: Bruwer.
text: They get out of the car and walk towards him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How long have you lived here?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Oh, about twenty-one years. I
dialog: love this house.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: (without looking up)
dialog: Is that you, Melanie?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Of course, Dad. I want you to
text: meet a friend.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: Does anyone have a friend
dialog: nowadays?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: He straightens up and throws the net over his head and
text: studies Ben. MR. BRUWER is seventy years old; an
text: interesting face with a goatee beard.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Mr. Du toit, Dad.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: Do you like bees?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I have nothing against them.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (to Ben)
dialog: Be careful, I can see philosophy
dialog: coming.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: You shut up.
dialog: (to Ben)
dialog: Let me tell you about bees, and
dialog: for that matter ants: a bee has
dialog: a completely altruistic sense of
dialog: purpose -- based on the common
dialog: good. A course from which he
dialog: cannot be deflected. Greed,
dialog: ambition, they mean nothing to
dialog: him. He lives solely to serve
dialog: his fellow bee.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: What about individuality, Dad?
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: There's the rub, my girl. There's
dialog: the rub. One of these days I'll
dialog: ask the bees. I'm sure they have
dialog: the answer. Now, you two run
dialog: along!
text: He replaces his net and continues with the hive.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: A drink, Dad?
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: I've been peeing too much this
dialog: morning.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
text: (as they walk toward
dialog: the house)
dialog: That's my Daddy.
text: Melanie and Ben enter the house.
scene_heading: INT. MELANIE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: The Bruwer living room is a profusion of piles of papers,
text: of books on shelves, on tables, on the floor, paintings
dialog: -- records, African sculptures.
text: On the floor tangled lengths of flex leading from a
text: record player to two voluminous speakers.
text: A settee, a chess set. The furniture is old and well-
text: used, dominated by a large leather club chair -- two
text: big cats sleeping on it. It's civilized pandemonium.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (gesturing to the
dialog: room)
dialog: Now you see in what environment I
dialog: was spawned.
text: Ben looks at the shelves and smiles.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Please sit down, on that chair.
dialog: (pointing to club
dialog: chair)
dialog: That's Dad's. Drink?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Please. A...
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (interrupts, mischievous)
dialog: A brandy?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (looking at her
dialog: surprised, then
dialog: smiling)
dialog: No thanks, a beer will be fine.
text: Melanie goes into the kitchen leaving Ben. He cannot
dialog: forget what he heard and what he saw in the court!
text: She returns barefooted, with two beer mugs, and hands one
dialog: to Ben.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: The mugs are the few things that
dialog: Dad brought from Germany. He
dialog: studied philosophy in Tubingen
dialog: and Berlin before the last war.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I thought they were German?
text: Melanie sits, her legs propped up on the settee, hugging
text: her knees.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Mr. Du Toit, tell...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (interrupts)
dialog: Please, call me Ben.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: All right, Ben, tell me, why are
dialog: you so depressed? You really
dialog: expect a different verdict?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (disgruntled)
dialog: Why do you ask? Can you understand
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Of course I understand it. What
dialog: could they have. I'm not cynical.
dialog: I'm only trying to be realistic.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Tell me, Miss Bruwer...
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Ben and Melanie, that's fair.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Tell me, do you believe in the
dialog: notion of justice?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (lighting a cigarette)
dialog: I'll never stop believing. But in
dialog: this country I've learned it's
dialog: pointless to look for it in
dialog: certain situations.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What use is a system if justice
dialog: does not apply to all situations?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Exactly. And you cannot fight
dialog: for justice unless you know
dialog: injustice very well. You've got
dialog: to know your enemy first.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That's a tall order: 'know
dialog: injustice... know the enemy.'
dialog: it seems I have a long haul
dialog: ahead of me.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Not at all, Ben. You have already
dialog: taken the first steps.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Welcome to South Africa!
text: She smiles.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Susan is sitting at the dressing table. She is applying
text: cleansing cream to her face. She is relaxed. Ben is
text: getting ready for bed.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Did you enjoy the 'bobotie?' When
dialog: I heard the verdict on the news I
dialog: knew you'd be upset.
dialog: (softer)
dialog: I wanted to make you something
dialog: special.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (thoughtful)
dialog: Thank you, darling.
text: A pause. Susan starts to remove the cream.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: I'm glad it's all over. You take
dialog: things to heart too much.
text: Ben comes and stands behind Susan -- looking at her through
dialog: the mirror.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (trying to keep control
dialog: of himself)
dialog: They killed Gordon -- first they
dialog: kill Jonathan, and then him. How
dialog: can they get away with it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (soothingly)
dialog: Now come on, Ben. Gordon's death
dialog: upset me, too. But the Magistrate
dialog: had all the facts. He must know
dialog: what he's doing, he's had years of
dialog: experience. The case has run its
dialog: course, and nobody can do anything
dialog: more about it! It's all over and
dialog: done with.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (looking at her)
dialog: I'm not so sure about that, Susan!
text: Susan swivels around and faces Ben.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: I'm damned well sure! It's over,
dialog: Ben! You better get that into
dialog: your head.
text: Ben just stares at her with seething anger. She stands up
text: and starts being hysterical.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
text: A teacher, always a bloody teacher.
dialog: You never moved yourself for us.
dialog: But for the blacks, oh yes. Whose
dialog: side are you on, Ben? And I'm sick
dialog: and tired of those natives coming
dialog: here. Why don't you bloody well
dialog: go and live in Soweto?
text: Ben strides out of the room.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (following and shouting)
dialog: Now where are you going?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (without looking)
dialog: Soweto!
text: Then shuts the door behind him.
text: Susan stands stupefied. There's the sound of the SPARE
speaker_heading: ROOM DOOR.
scene_heading: INT. SPARE ROOM - NIGHT
text: Ben is standing in the middle of the room, in the dark.
text: On the wall behind him is a young Suzette's picture.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: After a few seconds, Ben moves slowly to the bed and sits
text: on it still in deep thought.
dialog: SLOW MOVE TO a:
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP ON BEN
dialog: And:
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. NEWSPAPER AND CONFECTIONARY SHOP - MORNING
text: It's a Saturday morning.
text: A shopping center in a white suburb. Ben goes into a
dialog: newspaper shop.
text: There are two children buying sweets and a woman leaving.
text: The PROPRIETOR is an Afrikaner in his middle age.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: More meneer Van de Merwe.
dialog: (Morning Mister Van de Merwe.)
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: (in offhand manner)
dialog: More meneer du Toit.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Our boys gave the Eastern province
text: a thrashing.
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: Yes.
text: Ben realizes that the man is not his usual conversational
dialog: self.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Is anything wrong?
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: No.
text: Ben goes to pick up an Afrikaans newspaper and the Rand
dialog: Daily Mail.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (walking up to counter)
dialog: And a packet of tobacco and pipe
dialog: cleaners.
text: The man gets them and takes a note from Ben and gives him
text: his change. By then a man is waiting.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: See you tomorrow.
text: As he walks out the other man turns around to watch him.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - MORNING
text: Ben walks out of the shop. The newspaper under his arm.
text: A group of three middle-aged women turn to look at him.
text: Ben didn't see them. A little further on, he meets Mrs.
text: Coetzee. He tries to greet her but she walks straight by.
text: Further on, he notices two men obviously talking about
text: him. Then a couple of boys on bikes snigger as they
text: pass him. He begins to wonder what's it all about, and
text: spontaneously checks his clothes.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - VERANDA - MORNING
text: Susan and Suzette sit there. Suzette's holding a news-
text: paper -- the Ossewa -- Susan's thoughtful, her face is red
text: and discomposed -- obviously she had cried. The PHONE
text: RINGS but they deliberately ignore it.
text: Ben appears with the newspapers under his arm, sees
text: Suzette's sports car and hurries to join them.
text: Suzette doesn't even give him a chance to kiss her.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (jumping up and showing
dialog: the cover of Ossewa)
dialog: Now, Papa, this is going too
dialog: far! How could you?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: How's that, Suzette?
text: Ben takes the newspaper and looks at the cover. A picture
text: of himself and Emily outside the courtroom. The two faces
dialog: are close together with the notes:
dialog: "EMILY NGUBENE, wife of native who
text: died in detention, comforted by a
dialog: friend of family, Mr. BEN DU TOIT."
dialog: And in parenthesis "see page two."
text: He throws the Ossewa on a chair and checks into the Rand
text: Daily Mail. Inside there is a long article with Emily's
text: picture, titled "the Face of Grief."
text: Ben folds up the newspapers, and shakes his head. He
text: suddenly realizes why the people reacted like that outside.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: You didn't stop to think of the family.
dialog: Poor mother, how can she face anyone?
dialog: And tomorrow is Sunday!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Now listen...
text: Johan steps into the veranda.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: What's everybody yelling about?
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: You listen, Papa, just tell me, why?
text: Recognizing his father in the photo, Johan has picked up
text: the newspaper from the chair.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Do you really think I specially
dialog: arranged for the photographers to
dialog: take that picture? And what's
dialog: more it's distorted.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: What's distorted about it? Your
text: face is practically touching that
dialog: meid's face, like you were about
text: to kiss her.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (disgruntled)
dialog: Suzette, pull yourself together!
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Today the whole country has seen that
dialog: photograph. We, your children, are
dialog: going to suffer. At this very moment
dialog: Chris is negotiating with the Provincial
dialog: Council. Would you like to see them
dialog: cancel it? You have no feeling, Papa!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: Suzette!
text: She leaves in rage.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (conciliating)
dialog: What's Papa done, anyway? If
dialog: something happened to him,
dialog: wouldn't you be upset?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (standing up)
dialog: Not enough, Johan, to throw myself
text: into the garden boy's arms.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That goes without saying.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (trying to joke)
dialog: There must be easier ways of
dialog: getting your name in the paper.
text: Before she can stop herself, Susan slaps him across the
text: face, although not hard. Johan leaves without a word.
text: She clutches her hand, shocked at having it against him.
text: The PHONE starts to RING. Susan runs out sobbing.
text: Ben looks at her then walks into the living room to pick
dialog: up the phone.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - MORNING
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Who?... I don't know you and have
dialog: nothing to say to you... No thank
dialog: you for your advice!
text: He puts the phone down. The PHONE RINGS again. Ben picks
text: it up and waits.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It's you, Viviers... I appreciate
dialog: it... of course... Not yet... Any
dialog: thank you. Tot siens.
text: He replaces the receiver and is about to light his pipe
text: when the PHONE RINGS again.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Morning, Mr. Cloete... I'd like
dialog: to say...
dialog: (impatiently)
dialog: ... Mr. Cloete, may I ask what on
dialog: earth has the picture to do with
dialog: politics?... I'm sorry Mr. Cloete,
dialog: I have to go.
text: He replaces the telephone and walks out of the house.
text: The PHONE KEEPS RINGING.
dialog: 101.
scene_heading: EXT. BESTER'S FARM - COUNTRY - DAY
text: The farm is a typical transvaal farm covering thousands of
text: acres. In the distance there's a range of mountains.
text: Several cattle are grazing, herded by a poorly-clad African
text: and his son, aged 8 years.
text: Bester and Ben are leaning on the wooden fence of the
text: cattle kraal with calves penned in.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: Everything was examined in depth
dialog: in court.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Did you read the papers, Dominee?
dialog: Were you happy with what came to
dialog: light? And is it the Magistrate's
dialog: work to pretend that the facts
dialog: which came to light didn't exist?
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: Was it really facts, Ben?
text: Just then the African "HERDBOY" walks up to them taking
text: off his lattered greasy hat.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: Ja? What is it Tom?
speaker_heading: TOM (HERDBOY)
dialog: Does the Baas want me to bring the
dialog: bull now?
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: Later, Tom.
speaker_heading: TOM (HERDBOY)
dialog: Dankie, Baas.
text: Tom hurries away.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: I bought a bull last week.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know, Gordon. What they said about
dialog: him, that he was plotting against
dialog: the government -- is a downright
dialog: lie. He was only doing what I
dialog: would have done as a father;
text: searching for his son.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: No one but God can see what's in
dialog: our hearts.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BESTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Isn't it presumptuous to pretend
dialog: we can speak for someone else?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Have you no faith in your fellow
dialog: men, Dominee? Don't you love your
dialog: neighbor?
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: (confronting Ben)
dialog: Wait a minute, instead of
dialog: criticizing blindly, don't you
dialog: think we have reason to be proud
dialog: of the judiciary we have? suppose
dialog: this had been Russia; what do you
dialog: think would have happened then?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What's the use of reaching a
dialog: court when a handful of people
dialog: have all the power to decide what
dialog: is going to be said in that court
dialog: and by whom? The one man they
dialog: allowed to speak for himself, that
dialog: young Archibald Chigorimbo, didn't
dialog: he immediately deny everything
dialog: they forced him to say in his
dialog: statement? And the girl who
dialog: spoke of her own torture?
scene_heading: CUSTOMER PAGE 99 MISSING
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That did not refer to our
dialog: situation in this South Africa.
dialog: Do you know what I believe in,
dialog: Dominee, that once in one's life,
dialog: just once, one should have enough
dialog: faith in something to risk
dialog: everything for it.
speaker_heading: BESTER
dialog: One can gain the world and still
dialog: lose one's soul. Tea must be
dialog: ready.
text: Bester and Ben walk towards the house still in
dialog: conversation.
dialog: 103.
scene_heading: INT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - MORNING
text: The staff is having coffee during morning break in the
text: staff room. The room has several easy chairs, a table with
text: the morning newspapers on it. The walls have pictures of
dialog: South African scenes.
dialog: There are several conversations in Afrikaans. This is the
text: first morning since the photograph.
text: Ben walks into the staff room. The conversations stop.
text: Everyone looks at him with hostility. The teachers all
text: place their cups on the table and quietly file out of
dialog: the room.
text: Ben pours himself a cup of coffee; as he takes his first
text: sip, Cloete looks in, sees him. He walks in.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: I hope you don't mind us talking
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I don't mind, Mr. Cloete.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: I'll come to the point. You can't
dialog: imagine how shocked I was by that
text: scandalous photograph in the
dialog: Ossewa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: The woman lost her husband, she
text: was shattered with grief.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: A Kaffir woman, Du Toit.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: I can't see that it makes any
dialog: difference.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: Have you gone color blind then?
dialog: And what about the apartheid laws?
dialog: Our first responsibility as
dialog: teachers is the reputation of the
dialog: school, the pupils entrusted to
dialog: us. We have to be an example to
dialog: them in and out of this school
dialog: yard.
text: Ben looks at him calmly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: I thought I had warned you about
dialog: involving yourself with Kaffirs.
dialog: Obviously you didn't heed my
dialog: advice. That's all I have to say
dialog: for now.
text: Cloete walks out of the room.
text: Viviers hurries into the room, he is late for his
dialog: coffee.
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: 'Morning, Oom Ben.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (acknowledging
dialog: greeting)
dialog: Viviers.
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: (pouring coffee)
dialog: Private coffee with Cloete?
text: Ben picks up the copy of the Ossewa with the photograph
text: and shows it to Viviers.
scene_heading: EXT. MELANIE'S HOME - DAY
text: Ben stops the car in the Bruwer driveway. From the
text: driving seat he searches the garden for Bruwer.
text: He walks up to the front door and knocks, but there's no
text: reply. He goes 'round to the back and finds the old man
text: on his knees weeding his vegetable garden.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Good afternoon, Professor.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: Melanie isn't home. You are...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Ben Du Toit. You have a nice
dialog: vegetable garden.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: You mean the area or the produce?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Both. What plants are these?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: What's the world coming to? It's
dialog: herbs, can't you see? Thyme
dialog: there, oregano over there, feunel
dialog: next to the tomatoes, sage here
text: and rosemary somewhere. Poor
dialog: plants, they re not in their ideal
dialog: soil or climate. Next time, I'll
dialog: bring some soil from the mountain
dialog: of Zeus. Perhaps the old man's
dialog: holiness will do the trick.
text: He throws down the small weeding-fork.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: Come, you are just the person to
dialog: sample my greengage wine. I don't
dialog: suppose you've ever tasted it?
dialog: I'm sure I'm the only person in
dialog: the country making greengage wine.
text: He leads Ben to the two old chairs by the back wall. He
text: enters the kitchen and returns with a bottle of greengage
text: wine and two glasses.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: (as he pours)
dialog: The first bottle this year, and
dialog: you don't have to tell me if you
dialog: like it or not. Tell me, did you
dialog: ever study philosophy?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Not really. I've read a few
dialog: books.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: (taking a sip)
dialog: Not bad, in fact quite good. Now
dialog: where was I... Oh, I was going to
dialog: say after decades of philosophy, I
dialog: find myself being forced back to
dialog: the earth. Do you know, Ben, we're
dialog: all living in the spell of
dialog: abstractions. Hitler, apartheid,
dialog: the great American dream, the lot?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What about Jesus?
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: Misunderstood.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BRUWER (CONT'D)
dialog: (referring to the
dialog: wine)
dialog: You don't have to finish it.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (lying)
dialog: It's quite nice.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: Melanie has told me a little about
dialog: you. It's not an easy road you
dialog: have chosen.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I feel I have no choice.
text: Bruwer farts loudly, Ben is taken aback, but the
text: Professor continues.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: Of course you have a choice.
dialog: Damn it. One always has a choice.
dialog: Only thank God you made the choice
dialog: you did. But all I want to say
dialog: is, keep your eyes open, young
dialog: man.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That's encouraging.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: We are both Boers, Ben. We know
dialog: how hard our people worked to get
dialog: a toehold on this land; it was a
dialog: good life. Now look at the mess.
dialog: It's all systems and no God!
dialog: Sooner or later people start
dialog: believing in their way of life as
dialog: an absolute: unmutable,
dialog: fundamental, a precondition. Saw
dialog: it, with my own eyes in Germany,
text: a nation running after an idea.
dialog: Sieg heil, sieg heil. I left
dialog: there thirty years ago because I
dialog: couldn't take it any longer. And
dialog: now I see it happening in my own
dialog: country, step by step.
dialog: Terrifyingly predictable. This
dialog: sickness of the great abstraction.
text: He farts and sips his greengage wine.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ben is so fascinated by the old man's conversation he
text: didn't react. He is learning form his old Afrikaner.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What you say is very interesting
dialog: and important.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: Take for example the way the
dialog: government is handling the
text: electorate; like a bloody donkey.
text: Carrot in front and kick at the
text: backside. The carrot is
dialog: apartheid, Dogma. The kick is
dialog: quite simply, fear. Black peril,
dialog: red peril, whatever name you want
dialog: to give it.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Fear can be a wonderful ally, Ben.
dialog: I talk too much, I always do with
dialog: younger people, they don't fall
dialog: asleep to me.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: We Afrikaners have to stop to turn
text: a blind eye and look around us and
dialog: at ourselves.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: You are right. We still have
dialog: time. History should teach us
dialog: about those who regarded
dialog: themselves as the chosen people.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (standing up
dialog: comforted)
dialog: Professor Bruwer, may I say I have
dialog: needed to hear somebody say some
dialog: of the things you said. I still
dialog: have hope for our country.
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: If you lose that you have lost
dialog: everything. I'll get back to the
dialog: earth.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (shaking hands)
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BRUWER
dialog: I'll tell that hot-head daughter
dialog: of mine that you came to see her.
text: Ben takes his leave.
scene_heading: INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Ben and Dan Lewinson are sitting opposite, cups of
text: coffee in front of them.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: There is absolutely no doubt that
text: they were killed in custody.
dialog: Those responsible must be
dialog: punished, whoever they are, or
dialog: whatever their rank.
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: The problem is laying our hands on
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Tell me, Dan, we lost at the
dialog: inquest, what next?
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: The family can file a civil claim.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What does that entail?
speaker_heading: LEWINSON
dialog: To put it briefly, it means we
dialog: have to have witnesses, affidavits
dialog: and any information relating to
dialog: the arrest and death of Gordon.
dialog: We also need similar information
dialog: on Jonathan. You see Ben, for
dialog: example, Stolz figures in both
dialog: cases. That's one link at least.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know what I have to do.
scene_heading: EXT. ROADSIDE CAFE - AFTERNOON
text: It's lunch time and the working population of Jo'burg
text: has paused for lunch. Ben and Melanie are sitting at a
text: table outside. The cafe is on the outskirts of a very
text: affluent part of Johannesburg.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: I didn't think you would want to
dialog: have anything to do with me after
dialog: that crap in the Ossewa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Why? You didn't write it.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: I'm a journalist, perhaps tarred
text: with the same brush.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: So what happened? I can imagine.
dialog: The family, the dominee,
dialog: colleagues, neighbors...
speaker_heading: BEN
text: A distorted photograph and a few
dialog: poisoned words and meneer Du Toit
dialog: is a leper. That's why I called
dialog: on you the other day, I needed to
dialog: talk to somebody rational.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Thanks for the compliment. But
dialog: remember, you're an Afrikaner,
dialog: you're one of them. In their eyes
dialog: they regard you as the worst kind
dialog: of traitor.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You are an Afrikaner too, and your
dialog: articles, in a liberal English
dialog: paper?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: My mother was a foreigner, I'm not
dialog: pure, wragte Afrikaner. They
dialog: don't expect the same loyalty from
dialog: me that they demand from you.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What kind of loyalty? Blind
dialog: loyalty. Until the deaths of
dialog: Jonathan and Gordon, I gave all
dialog: the loyalty I could give, laager
dialog: loyalty. You know, Melanie, we
dialog: Afrikaners have always lived in
dialog: our laager, we have not seen
dialog: what's beyond the mountains.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Has it ever occurred to you that
dialog: the Volk may be scared to leave the
dialog: laager? That's the downfall of
dialog: this country. So, where do you go
dialog: from here?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: We carry on. There has to be
dialog: justice.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Justice.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: We lost at the inquest, so we
dialog: pursue them in a civil action. I
dialog: consulted the attorney Dan
dialog: Lewinson.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: We know each other well.
scene_heading: CUSTOMER PAGE #'S 107 - 110 MISSING
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Mr. Du Toit, if you knew what
dialog: we're working with every day of
dialog: our lives, and what we're up
dialog: against, you would understand
dialog: why we have to be so thorough.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: However you go about it.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: I can understand you're upset
dialog: about having your house searched
dialog: ... but...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I wasn't thinking about myself.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: What are you talking about then,
dialog: Mr. Du Toit?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My thoughts, Captain, I'm sure,
dialog: are an open book to you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 111.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Stolz picks up a book of Picasso's Peace Paintings,
text: starts leafing through it carefully, scrutinizing each
dialog: page.
text: He puts the Picasso book carefully back in the place he
dialog: took it from.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: An interesting book -- Picasso --
dialog: Not one I'm familiar with.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Not on your list of banned books,
dialog: Captain?
text: Stolz doesn't react...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: The search continues in the living room. Susan is
text: standing pale, rigid, shocked.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Mr. Du Toit. If you're keeping
dialog: anything from us, we can turn this
dialog: whole house upside down if we want
dialog: to. We have all the time in the
dialog: world.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (throwing Ben a
dialog: warning daggers
dialog: look)
dialog: I'm afraid I don't understand.
dialog: Nothing from Stolz.
text: One of the men starts to roll up the carpet to look under
dialog: it.
text: Susan has to move out of his way.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (gently to Susan)
dialog: Why don't you go upstairs?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: I'm afraid she has to stay where
dialog: we can see her -- in case she
dialog: wanted to warn someone.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: My father's an M.P.! Warn who?
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - DAY
text: All four tires of Ben's car have been slashed to ribbons.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S GARAGE - DAY
text: Ben and Johan are there.
text: Ben takes a file from under a toolbox and measures it
text: carefully against the drawer base. Then, he selects a
text: piece of wood approximately the size of the drawer and
dialog: tries it for size.
dialog: We should be in no doubt that's he's constructing a
dialog: hiding place.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - AFTERNOON
text: Susan is preparing a roast. There's music from a trans-
text: istor RADIO. Susan is startled by a voice, her father's
text: (Ben's FATHER-IN-LAW). She turns OFF, the RADIO.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: Roast beef, I hope it's like your
dialog: mother's.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (happy)
dialog: Papa!
text: He is aged about 70 years, thick set. She rushes to him
text: and he hugs her tightly and practically lifts her off the
text: floor. She kisses him.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Where's Mama?
text: She disentangles herself and goes to the living room as
text: excited as a child, the mother is standing by two cases,
text: smiling.
text: Susan hugs her.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Mama!
text: She holds her mother at arm's length inspecting her.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
text: The perfume and a new hairstyle.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Your father insisted that I don't
dialog: disgrace you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (hugging her again)
dialog: I expected you a little later.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: She insisted we start early.
dialog: Where is Ben?
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (walking in with golf
dialog: club bag)
dialog: In the study. I'll get him.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: Have you put on weight, Susan?
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Please don't say that, Papa.
text: Ben walks in.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Sorry. Didn't hear you arrive.
text: He shakes hands with Father-In-Law.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: How are you, Ben?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Fine.
text: He goes to MOTHER-IN-LAW. He kisses her on the cheek.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And how are you, Ma?
speaker_heading: MOTHER-IN-LAW (MOTHER)
dialog: Well, Ben, still have trouble with
dialog: my feet.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Why doesn't everyone sit down?
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: I'll prepare some tea. I baked a
dialog: cake.
text: She goes to the kitchen.
scene_heading: EXT. LOCAL GOLF COURSE - SUNSET
text: Ben and Father-In-Law are having a drink after a round of
text: golf, outside the club house.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: I'm getting tired of the trek to
dialog: Cape Town and then back to
dialog: Pretoria. If I had my way,
dialog: Parliament and government would
dialog: be in the same city. There's
dialog: nothing wrong with Pretoria.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I thought you'd prefer Cape Town;
text: the sea and Table Mountain.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: That's for holidays. Anyway, Ben,
dialog: one of the reasons for this visit
dialog: was that I wanted to have a
dialog: discussion with you.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What about?
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: It's that photograph in the
dialog: papers. Ben, a thing like that
dialog: could be an embarrassment for
dialog: someone who is a member of
dialog: Parliament. It's a grievous day
dialog: when one's family's behavior
text: comes between him and his duty
dialog: to the fatherland.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Are you blaming me for trying to
dialog: help those people?
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: I've been doing that all my life,
dialog: be they black or white. But no
dialog: member of our family has been seen
dialog: with a Kaffir woman before, Ben.
text: Father signals the African waiter for more drinks.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I am glad you mentioned it, Father.
dialog: Because I'd like to discuss the
dialog: whole thing with you. First,
dialog: there's the matter of Gordon
dialog: Ngubene himself.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: What about him? I thought the
dialog: case was closed.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: The inquest didn't clear up half
dialog: of what happened.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: Oh, really?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: We have no irrefutable evidence
dialog: yet, but we have enough to
dialog: indicate that something serious is
text: being covered up.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: You're jumping to conclusions,
dialog: Ben.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know what I'm talking about.
text: The black waiter places the drinks on the table.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: All right, Ben, I'm listening.
dialog: Perhaps I can use my influence.
dialog: But you'll have to convince me
dialog: first.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: If they have really nothing to
dialog: hide, why is the special branch
text: going out of its way to intimidate
dialog: me.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: (practically choking)
dialog: What's this about special branch?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: They raided the house; they are
dialog: tapping my phone, and I have been
text: threatened by one of the officers.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: I'm sorry, Ben, I'd rather not
dialog: have anything to do with this sort
dialog: of thing.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Why?
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: If the special branch are involved
dialog: they must have good reasons.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It's exactly what I said, Father,
dialog: when Jonathan first got into
dialog: trouble. Of course, they have
dialog: good reasons: hushing up how
dialog: Gordon died and how his son died!
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Ben, how could you side with the
dialog: enemies of your people?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You mean you're prepared to sit
dialog: back and allow an injustice to be
dialog: done.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: (his face grows
dialog: purple)
dialog: It's you, Ben, who talk about
dialog: injustice? A man who teaches
dialog: history at school? Did you forget
dialog: what our people have suffered
dialog: under the English oppressors?
dialog: Now that we have at along last
dialog: come to power in our own land.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Now we're free to do to others
dialog: what they used to do to us. What
dialog: will you do if you were a black
dialog: man in this country today, Father?
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: Don't you realize what the
dialog: government is doing for the blacks?
dialog: It's a slow process, Ben. One of
dialog: these days the whole bloody lot of
dialog: them will be free and independent
dialog: in their own parts of the land, the
dialog: bantoustans -- what can be more
dialog: just than that? But they're not
dialog: ready yet.
text: The waiter returns -- Father-in-law pays the bill, and as
text: he rises to leave, he puts a paternal arm on Ben's
dialog: shoulder.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: We have nothing to be ashamed of
dialog: before the eyes of the world, my
dialog: boy.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (standing, his golf
dialog: bag in his hand)
dialog: We don't? I'm not sure we're
dialog: going to survive.
text: They walk away.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: Don't underestimate us, Ben. Our
dialog: power of survival. We are
dialog: Afrikaners!
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - EVENING
text: Stanley is parked in a street corner in the last white
text: suburb on the way to Soweto. Ben pulls up in his car
text: behind Stanley's. He walks over to Stanley's car and
text: enters the back. Stanley smiles as he points at his
dialog: watch.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: African time.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'm sorry.
text: They drive off towards Soweto.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Doesn't matter, Lanie -- as long
dialog: we are on time for the revolution.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: The special branch searched my
dialog: house four days ago.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: The S.B. searches your house?
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: Did they take anything?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: A few journals, letters -- nothing
dialog: much. Just wanted to scare me,
dialog: that's all.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Don't be so sure. They may think
dialog: you're onto something big.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: They're not that stupid.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Stanley laughs.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: 'Lanie' -- don't you believe it --
dialog: nothing's as stupid as the old S.B.
dialog: If they decide it's a bomb they're
dialog: looking for, you can shove a turd
dialog: in their face and they'll swear
dialog: to God it's a bomb.
text: He laughs... making Ben smile.
text: A pause.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: And did they?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Scare you?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No. They tried too hard.
text: Stanley laughs again.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Hallelujah!
dialog: (offers his huge
dialog: hand)
dialog: Shake, man. Join the club.
text: Ben accepts the handshake.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Susan sitting on an armchair, sewing. She is aware of a
text: car stopping opposite the house. Then several young
dialog: voices shout:
dialog: "Kaffir lover"
dialog: "Kaffer boetie"
dialog: "Red Communist"
text: The car drives off at speed.
text: Susan sits petrified.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 119.
scene_heading: INT. STANLEY'S CAR - NIGHT
text: Ben and Stanley driving in Soweto.
text: It's a different city by night. The dark seems to soften
text: the violence of the confrontation, hiding the details
text: which, by day, assault and insult the eyes. There are
text: several GUNSHOTS in the distance. The only light comes
text: from the small, square windows of the innumerable houses.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Did you hear that, Lanie? More
dialog: kids dying?
text: Ben says nothing.
text: Further on there's a group of people outside a house. As
text: they pass they hear HYMN SINGING from the house.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What's happening? What's the
dialog: singing?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: A wake for a child; eight months
text: old. She was sleeping and they
text: threw tear gas into it.
text: They drive on.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Ben, Stanley and Emily are sitting 'round the table. Ben
text: has pulled the lamp closer to read one of two notes from
text: Gordon -- one is written on ruled paper, the other a
text: square of toilet paper. The notes have been smuggled out
text: of John Vorster Square.
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: (shakily)
dialog: 'My dear wife, you must not worry
dialog: about me. I miss you and the
dialog: children. You must look after
dialog: them in the fear of the Lord. I'm
dialog: hungry, and I don't know what they
dialog: want from me. But I think I'll
dialog: be home some day. I think
dialog: about...'
text: They are interrupted by a KNOCK at the door. Emily
text: snatches the notes and stuffs them into her bosom.
text: Everyone is tense as Emily slowly walks up to the door.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 120.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She opens it and a man with a hat and dressed as a min-
text: ister walks in. Before anyone can say anything, Stanley
text: bursts out in a loud laugh. The man is slightly built,
text: aged 40 years. He is JULIUS NQAKULA.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: On your knees, everyone, prayers
dialog: time.
text: Ben is perplexed. Emily closes the door and locks it.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Hey man, you should have been a
dialog: mfundisi holiness oozer...
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: (removing this hat)
dialog: Okay, Stanley. It's stupid, but
dialog: one is forced to do these things.
text: He walks up to Ben and offers him his hand.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: I'm Julius Nqakula... I'm banned
text: and also under house arrest.
dialog: That's why I have this ridiculous
text: garb on.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I understand.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: He's one of the most solid
dialog: lawyers we have; they've
dialog: immobilized him, that's the right
dialog: word isn't it?
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Stanley has told me about you. I
dialog: appreciate the risk you are taking
dialog: by coming here to meet me. I was
dialog: reading the notes Gordon smuggled
text: out of John Vorster Square...
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: May I have a glance at them?
text: Emily produces the notes. Julius takes them. He starts
text: reading the toilet paper, which is harder to read.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 121.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: (speaking with great
dialog: difficulty)
dialog: 'My dear wife. I am still in these
dialog: conditions... worse... and too
dialog: much pain. They don't want to
dialog: believe me. You must try to help
dialog: me. They won't stop. You must
dialog: care for the children. I don't
dialog: know anymore if I will come home
dialog: alive. They're very --
dialog: (a word mumbled)
dialog: -- but God will provide. I love
dialog: you and I miss you very much. Try
dialog: to help me because...'
text: The voice breaks off.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: (to Emily)
dialog: When did you get the letters?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: The first one two days after they
dialog: took him away. And the other one
dialog: came later.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: But, Emily, why didn't you tell me
dialog: long ago?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I had given my word to the man
dialog: -- who brought them to me --
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Emily, I have to meet the man.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: He said he didn't want anybody to
dialog: know who he is. I cannot make
dialog: trouble for him in his work.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: He has to be persuaded. He is very
dialog: important to us.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (to Julius)
dialog: You as a lawyer will understand.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: We intend starting a civil suit
dialog: against the police, to do that it
dialog: is necessary to have as many
dialog: affidavits as we can from people
dialog: who have any information about
dialog: Gordon since he was arrested.
dialog: And this man is vital and so is
dialog: the Indian doctor.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: You mean Dr. Hassiem. How are you
dialog: going to do that? You know of
dialog: course that he is detained.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know, with luck they may release
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: With luck.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: But, Emily, this man is important,
dialog: please try to tell him we will
dialog: protect his identity. No one will
dialog: know. Nothing will be done without
dialog: his approval. I only want to talk
dialog: to him.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: Why don't you leave it to Stanley
dialog: and I? What do you say, Stanley?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: May I call you Julius, I'm not
dialog: very good with some African names.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Nqakula, that's a hell of a name.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: Please call me Julius.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: This case must be reopened and we
dialog: must win. We have to dig up
dialog: everything. We need your
dialog: cooperation, Julius.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: Where do I start? Don't forget
dialog: my restrictions.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: They did not ban you so you could
dialog: sit on your backside and have a
dialog: Soweto holiday.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You could help with the affidavits.
dialog: Lewinson the lawyer has stressed
dialog: their importance.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: We know each other. He's a good
dialog: lawyer for this kind of case. Of
dialog: course I'll do what I can. My
dialog: commitment forces me.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'm glad.
speaker_heading: JULIUS
dialog: How are you planning to safeguard
dialog: the documents? Stanley told me
dialog: you have already had a said by
dialog: the S.B.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I wouldn't worry. I have a secure
dialog: place.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Let's hope so.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'll make some tea.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Not for me, Sis -- too strong for
dialog: me. No whisky?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: In my house? You know better
dialog: than that, Stanley.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Tea then...
dialog: (turning to Julius)
dialog: ... and God forgive me --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 124.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S GARAGE - EVENING
text: Ben is standing by the workbench, the new drawer he and
text: Johan built for the toolbox, open before him.
text: He's rereading Gordon's letters to Emily.
text: Sound of approaching FOOTSTEPS. Ben quickly puts the
text: letters into the drawer and shuts it.
text: Susan appears at the door -- she looks ten years older.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: Ben, it's Johan. You'd better
dialog: come.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - EVENING
text: Johan sits, Ben crouched before him. The boy's shirt is
text: torn, his eyes swollen, his lip cut. He looks at the
text: floor. Susan hovers.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: He won't tell me why it happened
text: Ben holds his son's arms, gently.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Johan. Was it because of me?
text: He doesn't answer for a moment. Then he nods.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: You see! It's gone too far, Ben.
dialog: You've got to stop it...
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (shouting at his
dialog: mother)
dialog: I don't care! It doesn't hurt me!
text: Susan stares at him, at Ben, turns abruptly, walks out of
text: the room. Johan looks at his father.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: It was my friends, Dad. They're
dialog: so stupid... They won't listen.
dialog: They don't even want to know what
dialog: you're trying to do.
text: He's crying.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Are you sure you know?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Yes. I know.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Does it worry you?
text: Johan looks at his father through his tears.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Don't stop, Dad. You mustn't
dialog: give up now!
text: Ben hugs his son.
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
text: The Gordon Ngubene name-cleaning team on the move.
speaker_heading: A) BEN
text: in a phone box dialing a number.
speaker_heading: B) PHONE
text: RINGING, RINGING, on a desk full of scattered
text: files and papers. By the phone a photograph of a six-
text: year-old Indian girl.
scene_heading: C) CLOSE ON NURSE
text: Sound of the PHONE, a young nurse's frightened face as
text: she remembers peering in at a young boy, struggling
text: and moaning... Policemen closing the door...
speaker_heading: D) CLOSE ON
text: her hand signing the affidavit and handing
text: it to a man's hand.
speaker_heading: E) CLOSE ON
text: Ben in the phone box hanging up the phone
dialog: with rage.
speaker_heading: F) CLOSE ON
text: a young black man's face listening to Julius's
dialog: voice:
speaker_heading: JULIUS (V.O.)
dialog: ... And on the morning of the
dialog: autopsy, as I was cleaning the
dialog: mortuary, Captain Stolz gave me a
dialog: bundle of Ngubene's and ordered
dialog: me to burn them.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 126.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The young man nods.
speaker_heading: G) BEN
text: having a look on the two affidavits before hiding
text: them into the drawer of the stool box.
text: SHOTS. Three! Loud, sharp, terrifying.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - LATE EVENING
text: The WINDOW, a LAMP and a MIRROR SHATTER -- Susan screams,
text: standing, her hands -- clamped over her ears -- eyes
text: tight shut -- hysterical -- the TELEVISION CHATTERS on
dialog: an Afrikaans' play.
text: Ben bursts in, holds her tight, as she screams into his
dialog: chest.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (hysterical)
dialog: Call the police, Ben, call the police!
text: Johan's voice comes from his room.
speaker_heading: JOHAN (O.S.)
dialog: Papa! Papa!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (calling)
dialog: It's okay, son... we're all right.
dialog: Everything's okay!
speaker_heading: JOHAN (O.S.)
dialog: What's happened?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: It's okay, stay there, please!!
text: Gently, he leads Susan who is sobbing now, out of the
dialog: room.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - LATE EVENING
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (in disbelief)
dialog: My God. They were trying to kill us.
text: She's seated at the kitchen table. Ben has poured her a
text: brandy which she cups in her hands.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: They were trying to scare us, that's
dialog: all.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Her fear turns into anger.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Oh, is that all... What the hell
dialog: more do you want to happen...
dialog: we're ordinary people for God's
dialog: sake -- and you've pitched us into
dialog: this -- this nightmare. I can't
dialog: take any more, Ben... I can't take
dialog: any more!!
text: She drops her head and sobs.
text: Ben sits beside her, and takes her hands to comfort her.
text: Susan puts her head on his shoulder.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (in a quiet pleading
dialog: voice)
dialog: Please, Ben, stop. Just stop...
dialog: please.
text: Ben is obviously moved.
text: He squeezes her hands, then takes her in his arms.
scene_heading: INT. VILJOEN'S OFFICE - DAY
text: The colonel, amiable, cool, behind his desk. A dishev-
text: elled Ben, pitched angrily forward in his chair.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Now you must be exaggerating,
dialog: Mr. Du Toit.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My house has been searched. My
dialog: phone is tapped. My mail is
dialog: opened. And last night three
dialog: shots were fired through my window
dialog: -- close to killing my wife.
text: Viljoen reacts.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Mr. Du Toit, if shots were fired
dialog: into your premises, we will
dialog: investigate.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: All I want to know, Colonel, is
dialog: why don't you leave me in peace?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 128.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Now wait, wait a minute, Mr. Du
dialog: Toit, you're not trying to blame
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Tell me, Colonel, why is it so
dialog: important to you people to stop
dialog: my enquiries about Gordon Ngubene?
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Is that what you are doing?
dialog: (he pauses)
dialog: Well, now. If you possess any
dialog: information that may be of use to
dialog: us, I trust you won't hesitate to
dialog: discuss it with me.
text: He leans forward towards Ben, his tone darkening.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Because if there are facts you are
dialog: deliberately hiding from us, Mr.
dialog: Du Toit -- If you give us reason
dialog: to believe that you may be
dialog: involved in activities that may be
dialog: dangerous to both yourself and us
dialog: -- then I can foresee some
dialog: problems.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Is that a threat, Colonel?
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
text: (smiling and sitting
dialog: back)
dialog: Let's call it a warning. A
dialog: friendly warning. For God's sake,
dialog: open your eyes, Mr. Du Toit!
dialog: Don't you see you're being used!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: By the Communists, I suppose.
text: Ben gets up to go. The colonel doesn't rise to see him
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Goodbye, Colonel.
dialog: (at the door,
dialog: turning back)
dialog: I'm sure.
text: He leaves. The colonel immediately picks up the phone.
dialog: 129.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING
text: A 40-year-old African woman walks up to Ben's kitchen
text: door. She knocks.
text: Ben opens the door in pyjamas and dressing-gown. She
text: hands him a note and leaves.
text: Ben reads the note and goes back into the house.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET IN VREDEDORP - MORNING
dialog: Vrededorp is a colored section of Johannesburg. It's
text: rundown area vacated by whites. There are children play-
text: ing in the street. Some unemployed men are sitting on
text: old chairs outside a doorway; a vendor is serving two
text: women from his milk churn.
text: Ben drives into the street searching for an address. He
text: stops outside a house. As he gets out of the car the
text: children and everyone stop to look at him with interest.
text: He walks up to a door and knocks.
text: A COLORED WOMAN appears as the door opens. She is young
text: and obviously educated.
speaker_heading: COLORED WOMAN
dialog: Mr. Du Toit?
text: Ben nods, hesitatingly.
speaker_heading: COLORED WOMAN
dialog: Please, come in.
text: Ben walks into the living/dining room. It's a very tidy
text: room with a three piece sitting room suite, a sideboard
text: with a clock on it. At one end of the room is the dining
text: area. The floor is linoleum and covered with a rug in
dialog: the middle.
text: Stanley is lounging on a settee, beer in hand. On the
text: chair next to him a black man in a brown striped suit,
text: drinks orange squash. Thirtyish, pleasant face but very
text: tense. He rises as Ben walks in.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (rising and shaking
dialog: hands with Ben)
dialog: How's it? No trouble finding this
dialog: place? You met Sadie. She's one
dialog: of us.
text: Ben nods to her.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 130.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: And this is Johnson Seroke. The
dialog: man of the letters.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (nodding in greeting)
dialog: Johnson.
speaker_heading: SADIE (COLORED WOMAN)
dialog: Please sit down, Mr. Du Toit. A
dialog: beer, tea or orange squash?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: A beer would be nice.
text: Sadie goes to a cupboard and brings out a bottle of beer
text: and a glass. She opens the beer and hands it to Ben.
text: She disappears into the bedroom with a curtain at the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: You know they call this place
dialog: Vrededorp, but we baptize it
dialog: Malay Camp. Your first time in
dialog: Malay Camp, Lanie?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I've driven through here many
dialog: times.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: The main road, eh?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Ja.
text: The woman re-enters.
speaker_heading: SADIE
dialog: You'll excuse me. Stanley, you
dialog: know what to do with the key.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Sure, Sadie. And thank you. Can
dialog: I help myself to another beer?
speaker_heading: SADIE
dialog: You know it is. Goodbye, Mr. Du
dialog: Toit, and you, be careful.
dialog: To the Seroke.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 131.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: (trying to smile)
dialog: Okay, Sadie.
text: Sadie leaves.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: That woman can die for you. We
dialog: mustn't be long, Johnson has to
dialog: be back on duty.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Alright, let's get on with it.
dialog: Stanley tells me, you work at
dialog: John Vorster Square.
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: I had no choice, they transferred
dialog: me there.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yet you smuggled out letters to
dialog: Emily?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: (pulling the fingers
dialog: of his left hand one
dialog: by one cracking the
dialog: joints over and over)
dialog: What do you do if a man asks you,
dialog: and he's in trouble?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: If they find out he'd be in very
dialog: big trouble.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know that. Tell me, what do you
dialog: know about Gordon?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: Very little.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You did talk to him from time to
dialog: time?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: He gave me the letters.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: When was the last time you saw
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 132.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: Just before he died.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Did you attend any of the
dialog: interrogations?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: No. I'm not a member of the
dialog: Special Branch. But once I had to
dialog: deliver a letter to Capt. Stolz,
dialog: Gordon was there.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (concerned)
dialog: How were they interrogating him?
text: Seroke hesitates and looks at Stanley.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: It's okay. Tell him what you told
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (anxious)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
text: They were using the pole.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: The pole, what's that?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (demonstrating)
dialog: They handcuff you and manacle your
text: feet then they put a pole between
dialog: your arms and the back of your
dialog: knees. Then you're like a chicken
dialog: ready for the oven. They hang you
text: between two tables. Then they do
dialog: what they like with you. The S.B.
dialog: call it the aeroplane.
text: Ben is horrified.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I see. Who were in that room?
dialog: Stolz...
speaker_heading: SEROKE
text: Lieutenant Venter and a black S.B.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 133.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You are sure?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: He's sure.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: It's very interesting. When was
dialog: the last time you saw him?
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: I saw them take the body away to
text: the cells. He was limp.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You did! Johnson, why do you stay
dialog: with the police? You don't really
dialog: belong there.
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: It's a job. And how can I go
dialog: away? I love my family.
text: He jumps up and faces Ben with a look of anger and panic.
speaker_heading: SEROKE
dialog: They must never know I told you
dialog: anything. Right?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I understand. I promise.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: This is strictly between the
dialog: three of us. Don't worry, man.
text: Seroke shakes hands with them as he's leaving.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (slapping his back)
dialog: Take it easy.
text: Stanley goes to the cupboard for another beer.
speaker_heading: STANLEY (O.S.)
dialog: A beer, Lanie?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: No, thank you. You know, Stanley,
dialog: after what happened the other
dialog: night I was about to give this
dialog: whole thing up.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 134.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (intrigued)
dialog: What happened, man?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My wife nearly got killed. Three
text: shots were fired into the house.
dialog: What right have I to expose my
dialog: family to harassment and actual
dialog: physical danger? That's what I
dialog: asked myself.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Three bloody shots and you crawl
dialog: on your hands and knees to people
dialog: like Stolz, and say 'I give up.'
dialog: What is the beginning for you is a
dialog: version of what we suffer all our
dialog: bloody life. Shit, I thought you
dialog: had more guts than this, man!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I didn't say I'm giving up.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: But you thought about it.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Johnson has revived my
dialog: determination.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: It's a hell of a time, Lanie, but
dialog: we'll survive. You and me. I
dialog: tell you!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You think we may still win in the
dialog: end, Stanley?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Of course not, Lanie -- but we
dialog: needn't lose either -- what
dialog: matters is to stick around.
text: Ben nods.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: By the way, man, I'm off on a trip
dialog: -- Botswana -- thought I'd tell
dialog: you in case you get worried.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Why are you going there?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 135.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Business. Tell you next week.
dialog: Now for the bad news I've been
dialog: saving to the last.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: Julius has been arrested. He
dialog: broke his banning order and
dialog: visited his sister. You know what
dialog: that means? At least a year's
dialog: imprisonment.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: A year in jail just for visiting
dialog: his sister?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: That's the chance he took. And
dialog: he'll be the last to complain.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Don't you think the real reason
dialog: for this arrest was that they
dialog: found out he was helping us?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: So what? Lanie, you're not
dialog: getting guilt complexes now, are
dialog: you? That's a luxury only
dialog: liberals can afford. Julius will
dialog: be back, man. All refreshed by a
text: spell in the deep-freeze.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How can we shrug off a man we've
dialog: been working with?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Who said we're shrugging him off?
dialog: Best way of remembering a man,
text: Lanie, is to carry on fighting.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - DAY
text: Ben's study is in chaos.
text: The books have been plucked from the shelves and the
text: contents of his drawers emptied on the floor.
text: Ben standing in the middle of the room surveying the
text: vandalism.
dialog: 136.
scene_heading: INT. BRUWER KITCHEN - AFTERNOON
text: This is a medium-sized kitchen with two doors leading
text: from it, one to the dining room and the other to the
text: living room. It has not changed since it was furnished
dialog: twenty years ago, the only modern appliances being the
text: electric stove and a modern mixer on the working table.
text: Ben is leaning against the wall next to the door leading
text: to the living room, drinking coffee.
text: Melanie, bare-feet, her long black hair tied up in a
text: ribbon, is washing up. She looks younger and fragile
dialog: with this hair-style.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: What about you?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I mean not married...
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: And living in this chaos with my
dialog: eccentric father? I love him and
dialog: we get on perfectly. We have
dialog: been together since I was a year
dialog: old. My mother could not adapt
dialog: to South Africa. She went back
dialog: to London and we've never heard
dialog: from her since.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Being a professor and bringing up
dialog: a child, how did he manage that?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Dorothy, dear Dorothy, she was a
dialog: fantastic mother. In fact she had
dialog: two families, me and her three
dialog: children in Alexandra township.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And this little girl grew up to be
dialog: a tough journalist. Why a
dialog: journalist?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Sometimes I ask myself the same
dialog: question.
text: She leans against the sink and picks up her mug of
dialog: coffee.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 137.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Alright. I'll tell you. I was
text: brought up in a sheltered way, not
dialog: that Dad was possessive, not
dialog: openly anyway. I think he'd just
dialog: seen enough of the mess the world
dialog: was in, to want to protect me as
dialog: much as he could. Then, I went
dialog: to university. I don't know what
dialog: you'll think... being a teacher.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Then I married my ex-teacher.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Oh. He must have been young.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Fifteen years difference. He too
dialog: protected me like Dad. Then one
dialog: day I visited Dorothy in Alexandra
text: and saw her home and the appalling
dialog: conditions in that township. I
text: was shocked, Ben, and ashamed.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Go on.
text: Melanie pours him another mug of coffee and starts to
dialog: wipe up.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: That made me think that I was a
dialog: parasite, something white and
dialog: maggot-like... just a thing... a
dialog: sweet and ineffectual thing. I
text: felt more and more claustrophobic.
dialog: Poor Brian, who loved and pampered
dialog: me. Had no idea what was
dialog: happening. I left him for a whole
dialog: year and we divorced.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And then you became a journalist?
text: Melanie goes to the living room, as she passes Ben she
text: touches his arm and continues talking.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE (O.S.)
dialog: I thought it would force me, or
dialog: help me, to expose myself. To
dialog: force me to see and to take
dialog: notice of what was happening
dialog: around me.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Did it work?
text: She returns to the kitchen with a cigarette.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: I wish I could give you a straight
dialog: answer. What did help me was my
dialog: wanderings in Africa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How did you manage that on a
dialog: South African passport? We South
dialog: Africans are white devils in
dialog: Africa.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: My mother was English, remember?
dialog: So I get a British passport. It
text: comes in handy even for the paper.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You really are your father's
dialog: daughter!
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: I wonder what he's doing right
text: now. Most likely standing on a
text: rock, looking through his old
text: binoculars at springbok or a lion
dialog: or whatever.
text: One of the two large CATS approaches them, tail in the
text: air, and goes to Melanie, drubbing against her legs,
text: PURRING luxuriously. She picks it up into her arms.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How often does he go on these trips
dialog: to the veldt?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: It depends --
dialog: (approaching Ben with
dialog: cat)
dialog: -- Bonjour, Ben. I'm Porto and my
dialog: friend is Bello!
text: Ben smiles and starts to caress Porto in Melanie's arms.
dialog: 139.
scene_heading: EXT. SOWETO - EMILY'S HOUSE - MID-MORNING
text: Parked outside the house is a municipality truck already
text: half-laden with Emily's furniture and possessions. Four
text: Africans in khaki overalls are loading the truck -- super-
text: vising the eviction of Emily are a white Soweto official,
text: Captain Stolz and Lt. Venter. In the b.g., a hundred yards
text: away is a "hippo" with black and white armed policemen.
text: Behind the truck are two police Land Rovers.
text: Emily is sitting outside on one of her chairs as neighbors
text: walk up to her to comfort her and say their goodbyes. Her
text: daughter is carrying the youngest child and standing next
text: to Emily -- several children are watching. A woman in
text: the crowd starts singing a freedom song: "UMZIMA
text: LOMTHWALO" ("THIS BURDEN IS HEAVY"). The song is taken up
text: by the other women.
text: Venter tries to stop them and disperse them. Stolz
text: signals to him to leave them alone. One of the Africans
text: then walks up to her for the chair. She refuses to get
text: off the chair. The man looks at the white official as
text: though to ask "what do I do." The official looks at
text: Stolz. Venter walks up to Emily and, about to pull her
text: off the chair.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Don't you touch me!
text: Venter pulls back. The women start to ululate. Emily
text: rises majestically, takes the youngest in her arms and
text: walks slowly to the truck followed by her daughter.
text: People cluster around her, singing with rage and shaking
text: her hand. Stolz observes the scene, impassive.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: Come back! Buya!
speaker_heading: CROWD
dialog: (shouts)
dialog: Buya! Buya!
text: Emily and the children are helped onto the back of the
text: truck which drives away preceded by the police "hippo" and
text: escorted from the rear by the Land Rovers. The crowd
text: continues singing.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - MORNING
text: Ben is leaving his home. This is a Saturday morning. Two
text: men are sitting in a car a few yards from the entrance to
text: the house. Ben doesn't pay attention to them. When he
text: is about twenty yards past, one of the men, Jaimie -- who
dialog: was present when Gordon was arrested -- gets out of the
text: car and follows Ben. Ben stops at a corner for a car and
text: again the FOOTSTEPS stop.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 140.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: He turns furtively and sees the man, stopped, turning his
text: head. Ben decides to turn the corner, and listens to the
text: FOOTSTEPS. The man is still following. Ben then decides
text: to turn right back to have a good look at the man. They
text: pass each other and Ben takes a good look at him and turns
text: back onto the streets to the local shops. The man decides
dialog: not to follow.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT
text: Ben and Stanley sit. Ben on his desk. Stanley in an
text: armchair with a drink. They look perplexed.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: She's a widow, man. That's what
text: happens in Soweto when a woman
text: loses her man. They throw her out
text: of the house and out of the city.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: Zululand! The whole thing smells
dialog: of being an excuse to send her
text: hundreds of miles from the case.
dialog: And how will they live there?...
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Shit! I was about to find her a
dialog: place, but I had to go to look
dialog: for Robert.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: So, that's why you went to
dialog: Botswana for.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Sis Emily asked me but it was no
dialog: use. His mind was made up. He
dialog: was going to join Wellington in
dialog: Zambia.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Couldn't you stop him? He's a
dialog: little boy, Stanley!
text: Stanley gulps down his whisky and stands up.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (focusing Ben in the
dialog: eyes)
dialog: He'll be back in a few years. And
dialog: he won't be throwing stones!
text: Then, puts the empty glass on the desk.
dialog: 141.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. STANLEY'S HOUSE - EVENING
text: Stanley peers through the curtains: he sees a car parked
text: outside the house. In it Jaimie and another S.B. They
text: are watching the house. Stanley quietly opens the door
text: and walks outside.
scene_heading: EXT. STANLEY'S HOUSE - EVENING
text: Stanley walks past his car and approaches the policeman.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (using his usual
dialog: humor)
dialog: Good evening. I'd like to invite
dialog: you into my humble home, but it's
text: full of terrorists.
text: The two policemen get out of their car, obviously angry.
speaker_heading: JAIMIE
text: (pointing at Stanley's
dialog: car)
dialog: Open the boot! You cheeky bastard!
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Okay, with pleasure.
text: They search and find nothing.
speaker_heading: JAIMIE
dialog: Open the door and remove the seat.
text: Stanley executes the order. Jaimie and the OTHER POLICE-
text: MAN peer in, their eyes sweeping the car.
speaker_heading: OTHER POLICEMAN
dialog: Now, your pass, bliksem.
text: Stanley produces his passbook and hands it to the Police-
text: man who inspects the pages laboriously, then throws the
text: book to the ground. Stanley doesn't pick it up and just
text: watches the man.
speaker_heading: JAIMIE
dialog: You watch your bloody step! Right?
text: They return to their car and drive off. Stanley looks at
text: them thoughtfully, then picks up his book.
scene_heading: EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - MORNING
text: All the students are in classes. Cloete walks out of a
text: classroom and sees Capt. Stolz walking towards the build-
text: ing. Cloete stops to wait for him. They shake hands and
text: walk to Cloete's office talking affably. They enter
dialog: office.
dialog: 142.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Ben and Susan in bed, asleep. The PHONE RINGS... waking
text: them both. Ben answers. There's no one there. He puts
text: it down. The RINGING STARTS AGAIN. Ben puts the re-
dialog: ceiver down.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: Ben, please stop whilst there's
dialog: time. Please, Ben.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (focusing on ceiling)
dialog: It's impossible to stop now, Susan.
dialog: I believe I'm right in what I'm
dialog: doing. If I stop now I'll go mad.
speaker_heading: SUSAN
dialog: (despaired)
dialog: Whatever the price you pay for it?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (painfully)
dialog: I have got to.
text: Susan shuts her eyes tight and turns her back on him to
text: hide her tears.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. CLOETE'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: It's a functional office. Picture of the South African
text: president (1976) John Vorster, on the wall. Various staff
text: pictures... Ben, summoned by Cloete, sits.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: Think of your heritage, man. My
dialog: God -- think of your wife, your
text: family, friends, neighbors.
dialog: What's going to happened to them --
dialog: all of us -- if we can't depend on
dialog: our own kind? We're
dialog: educationalists -- teachers. We
dialog: are building for the future.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Without simple justice we don't
dialog: deserve a future.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: We're Boers, man -- Afrikaners.
dialog: We are your nation. What's justice
dialog: for us is justice -- period!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 143.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CLOETE (CONT'D)
dialog: Traitors like you are threatening
dialog: centuries of Afrikaner sacrifice.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That last remark was slanderous --
dialog: I'm simply being faithful to the
dialog: truth.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: Slanderous? My God, man, you
dialog: slander a whole people.
text: He walks silently through the office then continues.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: You have given me no alternative.
dialog: I have to abide by the regulations
dialog: of the Department of Education --
dialog: so I have made my report.
dialog: And there will have to be a formal
dialog: inquiry. But until such time...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (rising)
dialog: It won't be necessary, Mr. Cloete.
dialog: I'll send you my resignation.
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: Thank you for making things much
dialog: easier.
text: Ben stares at him for a moment, then turns to leave. As
text: he reaches the door, Cloete says:
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: And it would be better if Johan
dialog: left too.
text: Ben turns to stare at him, amazed.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Are you serious?
speaker_heading: CLOETE
dialog: He's a Kaffir-lover too, isn't
dialog: he?
text: The color drains from Ben's face. Then he steps forward,
text: slaps Cloete thunderously across the face, hurling him
text: back into his chair, and strides out, leaving the door
dialog: ajar.
dialog: 144.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL YARD - LATE AFTERNOON
text: It's the end of the school day. The yard is practically
text: deserted. Only Viviers waiting for Ben under the veranda.
text: Ben appears.
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: Oom Ben, I was waiting for you.
dialog: I have something interesting to
dialog: tell you.
speaker_heading: BEN
text: (striding on towards
dialog: his car)
dialog: Later, Viviers.
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: (keeping up)
dialog: But, Oom Ben, it's about the
dialog: S.B. they came to question me.
dialog: Before they started questioning
dialog: me I told them they were wasting
dialog: their time.
text: Ben doesn't react.
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: They asked if I was cooperating
dialog: with you. What I knew about the
dialog: A.N.C. Can you imagine that! They
dialog: then said: 'Mr. Viviers you come
dialog: from a good Afrikaans family and
dialog: it's important that you realize
dialog: that communists are looking for
dialog: people like you and before you
dialog: know where you are they're using
dialog: you! And, Oom Ben...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (reaching the car;
dialog: interrupting him)
dialog: I'm sorry, Viviers. I never
dialog: wanted you to get involved.
dialog: (getting into his
dialog: car)
dialog: I have just resigned.
speaker_heading: VIVIERS
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: What...?
text: Ben drives away.
dialog: 145.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S DINING ROOM - AFTERNOON
text: Christmas day lunch. Assembled around the table are
text: Ben's Father-in-law, his wife Helen, Suzette and Chris,
text: her husband, Johan, Ben and Susan. They're all wearing
text: paper hats from Christmas crackers. On the table is a
text: large piece of roast lamb, ox tongue, a large turkey and
text: assorted vegetables.
text: Ben is at the head of the table adjacent to the door lead-
text: ing to the kitchen, the Father-in-law is sitting by his
text: side facing the door.
text: Ben is in the middle of carving the turkey, plates are
text: being passed to him.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Was last year's turkey as big as
dialog: this, Papa?
speaker_heading: BEN
text: About the same size.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Do you remember the turkey I had
dialog: for Easter? You said it was as
dialog: big as a baby ostrich, Papa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I don't remember that, Suzette.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: You know, Johan, when I was a boy
dialog: in the Karoo, we used to fry
dialog: ostrich eggs. You know how big
dialog: they are?
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: As big as this table.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to Father-in-law)
dialog: I think he deserves the parson's
dialog: nose for that remark.
text: They laugh. Susan laughs. She does her best to compose.
text: Suddenly... a KNOCK at the outside kitchen door. As Ben
text: turns towards the door it opens and...
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - AFTERNOON
text: ... Stanley erupts into the kitchen like a great black
text: bull in white suit and white shoes. A scarlet tie is
text: matched by a huge handkerchief hanging from his pocket.
text: He is a little drunk.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 146.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (obviously surprised
dialog: by this family
dialog: scene)
dialog: Oh!
text: (then grinning and
dialog: laughing thunderously)
dialog: Merry Christmas, everyone!
text: There's deadly quiet -- not even the clink of a spoon --
text: as the Du Toits look on aghast.
text: Slowly, as if in a dream, Ben rises and goes to Stanley
text: who spots him.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: 'Lanie'... compliments of the
dialog: season, old mate.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Stanley. What are you doing here?
text: Before Stanley answers, the Father-in-law gets up from his
text: chair and goes to the kitchen.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: Who's this Kaffir, Ben?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: Why don't you tell the Boer who
dialog: this Kaffir is?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Shut up, Stanley.
dialog: (to Father-in-law)
dialog: That's all right. I'll...
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: (quivering with rage)
dialog: A Kaffir calling me a Boer?
text: Chris hurries into the kitchen ready for a fight.
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: Ben, did you hear that? Call the
dialog: police, Ben!
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to Father-in-law)
dialog: Please, go to the table.
dialog: (to Stanley)
dialog: Stanley, wait outside.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 147.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (fuming)
dialog: Who are these people, anyway?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Stanley, this is still my house.
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: Let me throw him out.
text: Ben steps between them and pushes Chris back into the
dialog: dining room.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Let him try, leave him, Lanie.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to Father-in-law)
dialog: Please leave me with him. I'll
dialog: explain everything later.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: Nothing has changed in this house.
dialog: Mother, let's go!
text: He strides into the dining room.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - AFTERNOON
text: Susan sits with her eyes tight shut -- trying to shut out
text: the horror of it all. As the Father-in-law goes into
text: the living room, he pulls back his wife's chair and helps
text: her to her feet.
scene_heading: FATHER-IN-LAW
dialog: (to his wife)
dialog: Let's leave this house. I've been
dialog: sworn at by a Kaffir and Ben
dialog: protects him.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (following)
dialog: Chris!
text: Chris follows. Susan also. From the living room, she
text: calls Johan who is left alone at the table, perplexed.
text: Johan goes to his mother.
text: There's a general rush for the door and, without warning,
text: the room is empty. Only the TIN ANGELS TINKLE merrily
text: around their candles.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 148.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - AFTERNOON
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (with cascading
dialog: laughter)
dialog: Lanie! Ever in your fucking life
dialog: seen such a stampede, hah?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Maybe you think it's funny,
dialog: Stanley, but I don't. Do you
dialog: realize what you've done?
dialog: (he sighs deeply)
dialog: Come into the dining room.
text: Stanley follows Ben slowly, swaying.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (chuckling)
dialog: Jeez, who was that old cunt with
text: the potbelly and black suit, looks
dialog: like an undertaker?
scene_heading: INT. DINING-ROOM - AFTERNOON
text: Ben sits on his chair.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My father-in-law.
dialog: (deliberately)
dialog: M.P.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (sitting beside Ben)
dialog: You joking!
dialog: (he laughs)
dialog: Shit! I fucked it all up for you.
dialog: Sorry, man.
text: He laughs again. Ben cannot take it anymore.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Now pull yourself together,
dialog: Stanley. It's not funny at all!
dialog: What's the matter with you today?
dialog: You're drunk and making an idiot
dialog: of yourself. Say what you've come
dialog: to say. Otherwise, go to hell!
text: Stanley's laughter changes into a broad grin. He sur-
text: veys the table and takes a bit of turkey from a plate
text: and starts to eat it quietly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 149.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (after a pause)
dialog: Right. Dead right. Put the
text: Kaffir in his place.
text: Ben grabs him by the shoulders and starts to shake him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Bloody hell! Stanley, what's
dialog: wrong with you?
text: Stanley shoves Ben off, and glares at him, bloodshot eyes
text: breathing heavily.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: Emily is dead.
text: Ben stares at him in stunned disbelief.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Emily dead? How? When?
text: Stanley doesn't answer - he cries.
text: Ben grabs him by the shoulders and shakes him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What happened, Stanley? Oh, my
dialog: God. Please tell me.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (between two sobs)
dialog: A broken heart. All they said.
text: Ben's hand still on Stanley's shoulder, he sits slowly
text: beside him, shaken, his face ravaged by the news.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: God.
text: Through the window, he sees Suzette and Chris carrying
text: suitcases, back down the path to his in-laws' car;
text: Father-In-Law shepherding his wife and an ashen, dazed
text: Susan, helping them into the car.
text: As they leave see Johan leaning against the dining room
text: door, watching his father and Stanley.
scene_heading: INT. BRUWER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATE EVENING
text: A very tense Ben is sitting on Professor Bruwer's chair.
text: Melanie is curled up on the old settee.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 150.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: They don't know what you've got
dialog: and you're a danger to them. I
dialog: know there's a point of no return,
dialog: but with our system, one has to
dialog: plot the route with care.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That's the main reason for coming
dialog: here tonight. Melanie, I need
dialog: your help. Without Emily, we can't
dialog: pursue our civil suit. The only
dialog: thing left open to us is to expose
dialog: them through the press, and the
dialog: media here and abroad.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: And your safety also, Ben, lies in
dialog: the press.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: That way the world will know the
dialog: brutality and power of our
dialog: security services; here questions
dialog: can be asked in Parliament. And
dialog: the white public can appreciate
dialog: the implications of the fascist
dialog: laws of this country.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You know, Melanie, I'm discovering
dialog: that the enemy is not in Soweto.
dialog: The enemy is ourselves. Our
dialog: bigotry, our laws, our system. We
dialog: have our own fight and it's just
dialog: beginning.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: We better win before the blacks
dialog: have won.
text: Ben and Melanie laugh.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Now, before going to the press, I
dialog: have to have all the documents. I
dialog: must have two vital affidavits;
text: Dr. Hassiem's, he's detained and
dialog: Jonathan's friend, Wellington has
dialog: fled to Zambia.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Zambia? I'm going to Rhodesia...
dialog: I can go to Zambia.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 151.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Could you?
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: And I can use my British passport.
dialog: I know my way around Lusaka.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That would be very useful.
text: Melanie jumps off the settee.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
text: This calls for a drink. Gin and
dialog: tonic?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Please.
text: As Melanie walks away, Ben looks at her with admiration
text: and tenderness... her dress swinging around her legs...
text: her bare feet soundless on the floor... the quiet grace
dialog: of her movement.
text: On the way to the kitchen to get the drinks, Melanie goes
dialog: to the record player. There's a record already on the
text: turntable.
text: Suddenly as if rising from a dream, Ben murmurs:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Melanie. Be careful.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (as she plays the
dialog: record and
dialog: flippantly)
dialog: Of course, Ben.
text: She goes into the kitchen.
text: As Melanie hums to herself to the BLUES MUSIC, in the
text: kitchen, Ben walks over to the window and furtively
text: glances out, to assure himself that nobody is watching.
text: He takes then a book on a pile next to the settee and
text: pages slowly through it.
text: Melanie returns with two glasses, still in her happy
text: mood. She places Ben's glass on the side table next to
text: the settee, takes the book from him and makes him sit
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 152.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Cheers!
text: Ben raises his glass and touches it with hers.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Do be careful. I wouldn't want
dialog: you hurt.
text: She reaches for his hand.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (with gentleness)
dialog: Don't worry.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And hurry back.
text: A new track starts on the RECORD.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: (excited)
dialog: That's my favorite, Ben.
text: Jumping up and taking Ben's glass and placing it on the
text: side table, she pulls him to his feet.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I can't dance.
speaker_heading: MELANIE
dialog: Rugger player?
text: They laugh as they start to dance to the slow BLUES
text: MUSIC. The laughing subsides as they hold each other
text: closer. The dancing starts to lose the beat of the
text: music. They look into each other's eyes and Ben envel-
text: ops her tenderly in his arms hugging her as close as
dialog: possible against him.
text: They stop dancing. Ben kisses her. A long, warm and
text: tender kiss.
scene_heading: INT. MELANIE'S BEDROOM
text: Ben and Melanie in bed.
text: He is kissing her and fondling her passionately. During
text: the love play, Ben reaches for the lightswitch of the
text: bedside lamp, and knocks it over. They make love.
dialog: 153.
scene_heading: INT. LOCAL SUPERMARKET - MORNING
text: Ben is shopping at the local supermarket. He is pushing
text: a trolley. As he places some groceries into his trolley,
text: he notices a man standing near the check-out counters.
text: The man is similar built as Jamie and similar hairstyle.
text: He's reading a newspaper, his face concealed.
text: Ben drops the package he was inspecting, back on the
text: shelf and pushes his trolley towards the man to try and
text: see his face.
text: The man moves away. Ben follows him and has decided to
text: confront him. Man picks up a pack of ham.
text: Ben is about to remonstrate with him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Listen, you...
text: Just then a LADY and her daughter hurry to the man, push-
text: ing a trolley. Man turns to look at Ben.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Darling, put that down, it's not
dialog: good for your cholesterol.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to the man)
dialog: I'm sorry, my mistake.
text: He pushes his trolley away embarrassed.
scene_heading: EXT. SUZETTE'S HOUSE - SWIMMING POOL - DAY
text: The immaculate blue of the pool. Johan hurls himself out
text: of the water, flops down at the side.
text: Suzette and Ben nearby, sitting in the sun.
text: Pieter at the barbecue, sizzling thick steaks.
text: A servant in white uniform soundlessly laying the table
text: on the patio behind him.
text: The nanny with the baby in the shade.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: -- How's she doing?
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Better... She's waiting for you to
dialog: ask her to come home.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I doubt it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 154.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: She turns to Ben, squinting in the sun.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Papa, I don't want to interfere...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Then don't.
text: A pause.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: I know this is going to sound
dialog: strange coming from me... I mean
dialog: I haven't exactly been supportive
dialog: for the past months... I can't say
dialog: I agree with what you've done but
dialog: I respect you for what you are...
dialog: ON Johan listening.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: I'm just... destroyed by what's
dialog: happening to us as a family.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Suzette...
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (interrupts, squeezing
dialog: his arm.)
dialog: Please, Papa, for Mom's sake...
dialog: For all of our sakes... Let's
dialog: try and patch it up.
text: Ben smiles sadly at her... Suzette understands. Johan
text: looks at them.
speaker_heading: MIX TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SUZETTE'S HOUSE - LATER
text: Ben and Johan in the car. Suzette leans in through the
text: driver's window.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Let me know if there's anything I
dialog: can do to help.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Thanks. I'm glad you understand.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 155.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: I don't want to worry about you.
dialog: That search, this vandalism, those
dialog: shots... they're really after the
dialog: evidence you've been accumulating
dialog: ... Can I look after them for you,
dialog: Papa?
text: Ben smiles.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You don't have to worry. They'll
dialog: never find them.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Where on earth do you keep them?
text: ON Johan looking at Suzette then at Ben with concern.
scene_heading: EXT. INDIAN TOWNSHIP - DAY
text: Ben has parked his car in a street corner of the upmarket
text: section of the Asian township. He peers around him, then
text: walks away.
text: Ben knocks at a door.
text: The door is opened cautiously by DR. HASSIEM, a tall,
text: handsome Indian, aged 35 years. His clothes are casual
text: but expensive. His six-year-old daughter, large dark
text: eyes, is clinging to his leg. We recognize the little
text: girl of the photograph near the telephone, from earlier.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Dr. Hassiem? I'm Ben Du Toit.
dialog: I'm a friend of Gordon Ngubene's...
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: (raising his hands)
text: The inquest is over, Mr. Du Toit.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Not for me, Doctor. I've got to
dialog: know what happened to Gordon.
text: Dr. Hassiem looks shaky, nervous.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: I only came home yesterday. After
dialog: three months in detention and now
dialog: I'm banned and confined to the
dialog: house. There's nothing I can do
dialog: for you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 156.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The little girl still clinging to his leg, watching Ben.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know it may be painful to you,
dialog: Doctor, but I need to talk to you.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: How can I be sure you weren't
dialog: actually sent by them?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Ask Emily. Doctor, we are in the
dialog: process of filing a civil claim.
dialog: And your help is vital.
text: Hassiem gives Ben a long look. He picks up his daughter
text: and opens the door fully.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: Come in.
text: Ben walks into the large living room, tastefully
dialog: furnished.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: Sit down.
text: Ben is still looking 'round at the opulence. He sits in
text: a chair.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Thank you for inviting me in.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: (the little girl on
dialog: his knees)
dialog: What do you want to know?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Just one thing, Doctor. Why did
dialog: you sign the State Pathologist's
dialog: report on the autopsy if you drew
dialog: up your own report as well?
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: (disconcerted)
dialog: What makes you think I signed Dr.
dialog: Jansen's report.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: The report produced in court had
dialog: both your signatures on it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 157.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: Impossible.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What did you write in your report?
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: Dr. Jansen and I didn't disagree
dialog: on the facts. After all we
dialog: examined the same body in the same
dialog: time. But just on the
dialog: interpretation. For example, if
dialog: Gordon, had really been hanged,
dialog: the marks on his throat would have
text: been concentrated on the front.
dialog: (he touches his
dialog: larynx)
dialog: But in this case, the bruises
text: were more obvious on the sides.
text: Pause. Ben nods, silent.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: Something else really upset me,
dialog: perhaps it isn't important.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What was it?
text: Dr. Hassiem puts down his daughter.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: (leaning forward)
dialog: You see, through a misunderstanding
dialog: I arrived at the morgue too early
dialog: for the autopsy. There wasn't a
dialog: soul around except a young African
dialog: attendant. When I told him I'd
dialog: come for the autopsy, he let me in.
text: The body was on the table dressed.
text: I noticed blood on the clothes.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And then?
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: As I examined the clothes more
text: closely, a police-officer came in
dialog: and said I wasn't allowed in the
text: morgue before Dr. Jansen arrived.
dialog: When I returned with Dr. Jansen,
text: half an hour later, the body was
text: naked.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 158.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Doctor, we've already got the
text: African attendant's affidavit. He
dialog: testified that Capt. Stolz ordered
text: him to burn the clothes.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Did you mention what you said in
dialog: your report?
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: Of course. I found it most odd.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Doctor Hassiem would you be
dialog: prepared to put that in writing?
text: Dr. Hassiem thinks it over for a while then:
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: Please excuse me for a minute.
text: Ben watches him leave the room, the little girl following
text: him. He gets up from the chair, walks to the window,
text: glances through it, then steps to look at some family
text: photographs on the mantlepiece. Amongst them a photograph
text: of Dr. Hassiem before "Big Ben." Dr. Hassiem returns
text: with a file, the daughter still following.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: (opening the file)
dialog: This is my report. I only have
dialog: one copy.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (astounded)
dialog: You have a copy of the report?
text: Hassiem grins.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: I know how to hide things from the
dialog: S.B., Mr. Du Toit.
text: Ben congratulates him by a deep laughter.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HASSIEM'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Ben and Dr. Hassiem working as a team, tape the type-
text: written sheets of the report among a Rand Daily Mail
text: newspaper pages at the back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 159.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: On Dr. Hassiem's desk we recognize next to the phone, the
text: little girl's photograph.
speaker_heading: DR. HASSIEM
dialog: I hope you have as secure a place
dialog: as I have.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (with an accomplice
dialog: smile)
dialog: I think so.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING IN CONSTRUCTION - LATE AFTERNOON
text: A multi-storied building half-built. Stanley standing on
text: the fourth floor watching Ben's arrival.
text: Ben searches for Stanley who draws Ben's attention;
text: beckons him up. Ben indicates they meet halfway.
text: He joins Stanley who's sitting on a pile of bricks.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (with expansive
dialog: gesture)
dialog: Take a pew, man.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (sitting and
dialog: excited)
dialog: We have it, Stanley!
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Have what?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Hassiem's report. You know what
dialog: that means, Stanley? Melanie
dialog: arrives in two days. We'll have
dialog: all the evidence. Everything is
dialog: in place. We'll get them yet,
dialog: especially Stolz.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: That's fantastic, man.
text: Stanley produces from his jacket pocket a newspaper --
text: Rand Daily Mail. He opens it on a certain page with the
text: picture of an African in police uniform, and hands it to
dialog: Ben.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: God! It's Johnson Seroke.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 160.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
text: Late at night. A knock on the
text: door. He opened and five shots,
text: point-blank range. Face, chest,
dialog: stomach.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (reading)
dialog: 'A police spokesman when questioned
dialog: said: "It's not the first time that
dialog: a black member of the police has
dialog: lost his life in the service of
dialog: his country, fighting terrorism."
dialog: (folding paper in
dialog: disgust)
dialog: Bloody bastards! They killed him.
dialog: Stolz must have thought he knew
dialog: too much.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: What's the score? The nurse is
dialog: detained; the mortuary attendant
text: has disappeared; the police van
dialog: driver who brought Jonathan to
text: hospital is detained. Julius is
text: in jail, and now Johnson dead.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Who's next on their secret list,
dialog: I wonder? How much longer must
dialog: the list grow of those who pay the
dialog: price of our efforts to clear
dialog: Gordon's name.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Hey! Are you going soft, Lanie?
dialog: We must keep going even more so
dialog: now. And for every bloke who's
dialog: going to die of bloody natural
dialog: causes in their hands. And for
dialog: our children's future.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I know. If I can no longer
dialog: believe that right is on my side,
dialog: if I can no longer believe in
dialog: imperative to go on, what will
dialog: become of me, Stanley?
text: Ben looks at Johnson's picture again and shakes his head.
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - DAY
text: A 8x10 black and white photograph on Ben's desk.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 161.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: On the photograph a naked man and a girl on a bed and a
text: bedside lamp on its side. The man is Ben and the girl
dialog: is Melanie.
text: Stolz in sports jacket, standing next to the desk is
text: speaking... patronizing.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: We're all made of flesh and
dialog: blood, Mr. Du Toit -- we've all
dialog: got our flaws. And if a man likes
dialog: to sample the grass on the other
dialog: side of the fence, well, that's
dialog: his own business. But it would
dialog: be unpleasant if people found out
dialog: about it, especially if he's a
dialog: teacher.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You mean, if I cooperate, if I
dialog: stop digging, embarrassing you,
dialog: threatening you... these
dialog: photographs will disappear.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Let's just say I may be able to
dialog: use my influence to make sure that
dialog: a private indiscretion isn't used
dialog: against you.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Suppose I refuse?
text: Stolz looks past Ben.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Is this your son?
text: Ben whirls around to see Johan at the door. He shoots,
text: puts himself between the photograph and his son obviously
text: surprised to find Capt. Stolz there.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Johan, leave us alone, please.
text: Johan walks away.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Don't you think this business
dialog: has gone long enough?
text: Ben, struggling to maintain his composure.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 162.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: That's for you people to decide.
dialog: Isn't it? I won't be blackmailed,
dialog: Captain -- not even by you.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Mind if I smoke?
text: Ben answers by a gesture.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (after lighting his
dialog: cigarette)
dialog: Now be honest. Has all the
dialog: evidence you've been collecting
dialog: in connection with Gordon Ngubene
dialog: brought you closer to the truth
dialog: you are looking for?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yes, I think so and there's more
dialog: to come.
text: A pause.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: I really hoped we could talk
dialog: man-to-man.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It's not possible, Captain. Not
dialog: between you and me.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: It's high time, Mr. Du Toit, we
dialog: allowed the dead to rest in peace.
dialog: I'm offering you a chance.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You mean my very last chance?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: One never knows. It may not be
dialog: important to you, but we have to
dialog: survive.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: If we can only survive through
dialog: murder and torture, then we have
dialog: forfeited our right to exist.
text: Slowly and deliberately Stolz stubs out his cigarette
text: in the ashtray.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 163.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Is that your final answer?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Before you go. I'll tell this,
dialog: Captain. I have a pretty good
dialog: idea of what I will eventually
dialog: uncover. I mean the truth.
dialog: And I won't allow anyone or
dialog: anything to come between me and
dialog: that truth.
text: Ben walks up to the door to see him out. There's no
text: response from Stolz. He calmly takes a small card out of
text: his pocket and rests it on Ben's desk.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Here's my card -- my private line.
dialog: If you should change your mind...
dialog: Let's say before the end of the
dialog: week?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Goodbye, Captain, and don't forgt
text: the photograph.
text: Stolz picks up the photograph and puts it into his
dialog: briefcase.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: (leaving)
dialog: Be careful, Mr. Du Toit. There
dialog: are people who can make things
dialog: very difficult for you.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: They are wasting their time. They
dialog: just can't hurt me anymore. I
dialog: trust you'll give them the message,
dialog: Captain.
text: He walks out. Ben follows him 'round the garage and
text: watches him get into his car and drive away.
text: Johan joins his father.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (mischievous)
dialog: A brandy, Papa?
speaker_heading: BEN
text: (smiling back, ruffling
dialog: his hair)
dialog: A gin and tonic would be fine.
dialog: 164.
scene_heading: INT. JAN SMUTS AIRPORT - DAY
text: Ben and Johan are standing in the public enclosure on the
text: top floor of the airport building. Ben is unshaved, he
text: looks tired, but happy. There is the usual bustle of
text: airport staff for the steps and luggage, two-thirds of
text: the staff being black.
text: Passengers emerge from the plane Melanie amongst them.
text: Some waving to friends and relatives on the public en-
text: closure. Melanie stops momentarily and looks up at the
text: enclosure. She sees Ben and Johan and waves at them.
text: They wave back and Ben indicates they'll be waiting for
text: her below. She walks off as they happily await her after
dialog: the ususal formalities.
scene_heading: INT. JAN SMUTS AIRPORT - DAY
text: Ben and Johan are waiting outside the arrivals exit.
text: Several passengers stream out, some being met. Eventually
text: there is a trickle of passengers. An INDIAN WOMAN is one
text: of the last to come out. Ben approaches her.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Excuse me, I'm waiting for a lady
dialog: with a red dress. Are there still,
dialog: many people to come?
speaker_heading: INDIAN WOMAN
text: I did see her. She was ahead of
dialog: me. Maybe she's still in there.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Thank you.
text: Just then an OFFICIAL walks out of the door. Ben hurries
dialog: to him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Excuse me.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: Can I help you?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I'm waiting for a passenger, Miss
dialog: Bruwer. She's taking a rather
dialog: long time to be cleared.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: What did you say her name was?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Melanie Bruwer.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: I'll go and check.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 165.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: The Official hurries back.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Is there any other exit, Papa?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No. They have to collect their
text: luggage and pass through customs.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (joking)
text: Maybe she can't find her bag.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (smilng back)
dialog: That's possble.
text: Just then Stolz appears through the door. He slowly
text: walks up to Ben and Johan. Ben becomes apprehensive.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Afternoon, Meneer Du Toit. Johan,
dialog: isn't it?
text: Ruffling his hair; Johan pulling away and glaring at him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What now, Captain?
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: Word came to me that you were
dialog: asking after your very good friend,
dialog: Miss Bruwer. You know, subersives
dialog: come in all guises and can be
dialog: very resourceful. Now let's take
dialog: your friend, she has been using
dialog: her privilege as a journalist to
dialog: endanger the security of this
dialog: country. But you know something
dialog: else? She has been secretly
text: holding a British passport. A
dialog: South African passport and a
dialog: British pasport. Now you tell me,
dialog: where is her patriotism? Her
dialog: allegiance? The minister telexed
dialog: to the immigration officers here
dialog: declaring her an undesirable
dialog: immigrant. So she is being put
text: on the first available plane to
dialog: London. This must be heart-
dialog: breaking for you. Good afternoon,
dialog: Meneer Du Toit, Johan.
text: Stolz walks back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 166.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Let's go home, Johan.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: I don't understand, Papa...
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (striding)
dialog: I'll explain later.
text: They hurry out of the building in silence.
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Ben and Johan arriving at the house. An unsympathetic
text: small crowd is there waiting... They react, murmuring
text: in Afrikaans, watching them with hostility as Ben and
text: Johan get out of the car and discover the chaos. The
text: wreckage. The garage and Ben's study have been bombed.
text: Johan leaves Ben and rushes to the house. The crowd
text: starts to disperse.
text: The entire tools cupboard has been methodically ripped
text: apart and the contents strewn on the garage floor.
text: Everything is half-burnt... charred... Ben has sunk onto
text: the stool in total defeat. There's silence.
text: Then Johan appears at the door. He hands Ben a large
text: envelope -- in it, the file with all the papers. Ben looks
text: up at Johan.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (very proud)
dialog: I took it out. Hide it in my
dialog: secret place.
text: Ben grabs his son, hugs him and holds on for dear life.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Thank you, son. You did a man's
dialog: job.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S STUDY - DAY
text: Ben is sitting at the kitchen table.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 167.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Before him, scattered on the table: the affidavits he
dialog: collected, the Hassiem report, cuttings of articles by
dialog: Melanie in the Rand Daily Mail about Jonathan, newspaper
text: pictures of Gordon, of Seroke, of himself with Emily, the
text: half-burnt "peace painting" of Picasso, half-burnt photo
text: of Ben with Suzette, a staff photograph, Ben amongst it,
text: and a charred trophy.
text: Ben starts putting material relevent to his inquiries
text: into a large brown envelope.
text: Johan enters kitchen with a large envelope and hands it
text: to his father.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: Somebody has dropped it through the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: JOHAN
dialog: (leaving)
dialog: I'm nearly ready, Papa.
text: Ben examines the unstamped envelope with his address,
text: with curiosity then opens it.
text: The contents is Wellington's affidavit.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (happy)
dialog: Wellington's affidavit!
text: He looks inside the envelope, expecting a personal note.
dialog: There's none.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Good old Melanie!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. JOHAN'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Johan is packing his sport kit and few clothes into a
dialog: bag.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY
text: Ben and Johan are walking towards the entrance, Johan
text: wheeling his bike. Ben hugs his son.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 168.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Johan gets on the bike and rides out.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - DAY
text: Ben is pouring coffee. He looks tired and tensed. The
text: PHONE RINGS in the living room. He hurries to answer it.
dialog: Who knows, could be Melanie from the airport!
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Ben picks up the phone. A menacing male voice says:
speaker_heading: MALE (V.O.)
dialog: Meneer du Toit, tonight we're
dialog: coming to kill you.
text: Ben replaces the receiver obviously shaken. He becomes
text: aware of FOOTSTEPS approaching the kitchen. Ben is
dialog: terrified.
text: A KNOCK at the door and the door swings open: it's
dialog: Stanley.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (anxious)
dialog: What's happened, man?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (obviously still
dialog: scared)
dialog: It's you. It was a bomb.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: And the papers?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Don't worry. Safe. Thanks to
dialog: Johan. Incidentally, I have
dialog: Wellington's affidavit. Melanie
text: found him. She's being deported.
dialog: The official reason is that she
dialog: possessed a British passport. I
dialog: don't know how she managed to
dialog: smuggle the envelope to me.
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Man, it's all happening!
text: Stanley walks out, glances at the devastated study. He
text: reenters the kitchen and slams on a chair. He takes a
text: packet of "Lucky Strike" from his pocket and offers it
dialog: to Ben
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 169.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: Like a joint?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No, thanks.
text: Stanley lights a cigarette and surveys the table. He
text: picks up the half-burnt Picasso book, gives it a brief
text: glance, and tosses it back on the table and starts to
dialog: chuckle.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: What's so funny?
speaker_heading: STANLEY
dialog: (still chuckling)
dialog: They drop the bomb on you!
text: Ben walks up to him puts his hand on his shoulder.
text: There's an understanding trace of a smile on his face.
scene_heading: INT. CAFE - DAY
text: Ben sitting in a cafe smoking his pipe. A waiter serves
text: him a glass of beer, for which he pays.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. JOHANNESBURG STREET - DAY
text: It's raining. Stanley driving in the rain on the same
dialog: road as Johan.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE - PASSENGERS' POV FROM PARKED CAR - DAY
text: Suzette's sports car pulls up outside the cafe where Ben
text: is waiting.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAFE - DAY
text: Ben rises as Suzette joins him at his table. They kiss
text: and she sits opposite him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (looking at her
dialog: straight in
dialog: the eyes)
dialog: How are you, Suzette?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 170.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (in a soft voice)
dialog: Okay, Papa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Would you like a drink?
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: No, thanks.
text: Without taking his eyes off her, he takes a brown envelope
text: from a chair and pushes it slowly towards the uncomfor-
dialog: table Suzette.
text: She picks up the envelope.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (rising)
dialog: I have to go, Papa.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (looking out)
dialog: I know.
text: Suzette awkwardly kisses him on the cheek.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Look after them.
text: Suzette looks at him for a moment and hurries to her car.
text: As Suzette leaves, Ben turns back into the room, his
text: eyes glassy with tears.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CAFE - DAY
text: Suzette gets into her car and drives off. The parked
text: car follows. The two cars turn at the next corner.
scene_heading: EXT. QUIET STREET
text: The two cars approach following each other. As the second
text: car overtakes, he draws Suzette's attention with his HORN
text: and signals her to pull up.
text: As she gets out of her car holding the brown envelope,
text: Capt. Stolz gets out of the other side.
text: Suzette walks over to the passenger: Colonel Viljoen.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I see you got the goodies.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 171.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: (happily)
dialog: I was on my way to your office,
dialog: Colonel.
speaker_heading: STOLZ
dialog: We thought we'd save you the
dialog: trouble, Mrs. Klopper.
text: She hands Viljoen the envelope.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: Here it is, Colonel.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Thank you. This country needs
dialog: more people like you.
speaker_heading: SUZETTE
dialog: I must hurry, Colonel. Goodbye.
text: She drives off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAPTAIN STOLZ'S CAR - DAY
text: Stolz gets into the car as Colonel Viljoen starts open-
text: ing the brown envelope.
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: Now let's see what we've got.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. RAND DAILY MAIL BUILDING - DAY
text: Stanley is parked near the building. He's drumming on
text: the steering wheel to the rhythm of AFRICAN MUSIC from
text: his car RADIO.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. STOLZ'S CAR - DAY
text: Viljoen has just finished opening the brown envelope.
text: He pulls out the half-burnt Picasso book and Captain
text: Stolz's card which he gave to Ben. On the card is
dialog: written:
dialog: "APARTHEID MUST GO"
speaker_heading: TOT SIENS
dialog: (goodbye)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: Ben Du Toit
speaker_heading: VILJOEN
dialog: The bastard!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. RAND DAILY MAIL BUILDING - DAY
text: Johan hurries out of the building and is about to get on
text: his bike. His attention is drawn by Stanley's familiar
speaker_heading: HOOTER.
text: Johan turns, sees Stanley, and with a grin makes thumbs-
text: up sign which happy Stanley returns with his large thumb.
text: Johan cycles away followed by Stanley.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAFE - DAY
text: Ben looks at his watch. He goes to the cash desk and
text: pays. He walks slowly out of the cafe. Stands at the
text: door to find his car keys; the rain has emptied the
text: street. Ben turns up his collar and waits for a break
text: in the traffic.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Captain Stolz alone in the car. He drives around the
text: corner into the cafe street.
text: Just then, Ben is hurrying across the road to his car.
text: Captain Stolz sees him, accelerates and hits Ben, hurling
text: him high into the air. And speeds away.
text: People rush to Ben's side... crowd quietly gathers.
scene_heading: FREEZE FRAME and...
text: SLOW DISSOLVE TO BLACK:
dialog: 
