dialog: A Goofy Movie
dialog: screenplay by
dialog: Jymn Magon
dialog: screenplay presented by
dialog: ®
dialog: scriproupe tt”
dialog: http: //www.scriptdude.com
scene_heading: TITLE SCREEN
text: "A Movie" appears in a formal typeface while a bold fanfare
text: pl ays in the background, suddenly the characteristic red
text: pol ygon | ogo appears and the letters GOOFY fly on the screen,
text: knocki ng the formal title askew and acconpanied by the
text: tradenark "Goofy" scream The orchestra responds wth a soft,
dialog: condescendi ng chord.
scene_heading: EXT. WHEAT FI ELD
text: The movie logo scrolls upward off the blue background, and
text: soft clouds follow - smoothing the transition. The canera
text: continues to pan downward until it comes to rest on a vast,
text: gol den wheat field. The wheat is bl owng gently in a wnd.
text: The orchestra continues wth soft, majestic music that fits
text: the wheat field scenery.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE (V. 0.)
dialog: Me- ax...
text: MAX pops into view very close to the camera, | ooking
dialog: di sori ent ed.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Me- ax...
text: The calls continue and Max | ooks into the screen, squinting.
text: Roxanne appears in the distance, sitting on a pillar. Max
text: begins pushing his way through the wheat, making his way to
dialog: Roxanne.
text: Finally, he emerges in a clearing beneath the pedestal Roxanne
text: is sitting on.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Roxanne?
text: She turns to himand bl ows on the dandelion she is hol ding,
text: and they brush against Max's face. Max chuckles. She j unps
text: off the pedestal and floats gracefully down toward Max. He
text: reaches out to catch her, but loses his balance, and both
text: tunble lightly to the ground. They lie on the ground briefly,
text: watching the clouds and laughing. Then, turning to each other,
text: they exchange neaningful glances. Slowy, as the music builds
text: to a climax, they drawcloser to kiss, but just as they are
text: about to, Roxanne recoils in fear. The background changes
text: froma pristine wheat field to a nightmarish tangle of thorns,
text: and the nusic changes accor di ngl y.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sur pri sed)
dialog: What ?
text: Max | ooks down to find that his two front teeth have becone
text: huge. Max stiffens and watches in horror as his feet grow
text: equally huge, bursting through his shoes. Roxanne backs away,
text: terrified. Standing, Max's hands burst through his gl oves,
text: finger by finger, growng large and exaggerated. Max's entire
text: body grows, dwarfing Roxanne and the surrounding | andscape.
text: His face changes, stretching and flattening, sinilar to
text: Goof y's. Finally the nusic builds and the camera pulls back
text: to reveal Max, now | ooking exactly like Goofy, standing in
text: the remains of his torn clothing. Max grabs his throat, but
text: is unable to stifle a harsh, terrible Goofy-laugh as the
text: music peaks.
scene_heading: INT. MAX' S BEDROOM
text: The music ends abruptly as Max wakes up, screaning, and sits
text: up straight in bed. He gasps repeatedly, but slowy cal ns
text: down. He feels his teeth wth his fingers, then sighs in
text: relief. Just as he starts to relax, the phone rings loudly -
text: startling him He grabs the phone and funbles it, dropping
text: the receiver to the floor. He dives after it, and answers it
text: at floor level.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hel | 0?
dialog: (clearing throat and
dialog: repeati ng)
dialog: Hello
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Max? Where the heck are you, man?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: PJ?
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: You should have been here an hour
dialog: ago!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What ? Hold on...
dialog: (whacks clock, which
dialog: reveals actual time)
dialog: Qh no!
text: Nex leaps frombed, leaving the receiver on the ni ght st and.
text: He grabs his pants fromthe back of a chair and attenpts to
dialog: put themon quickly.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: (from receiver on
dialog: ni ght st and)
dialog: Look, maybe we should just call the
dialog: whole thing off...
text: Max struggles wth his pants, and grabs the receiver.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: No way, man. It's now or never... whoa!
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: WII you'd better get a move on...I'I1
dialog: meet you at ny I|ocker.
text: Max hangs up the phone, and his pants fall to the floor.
text: Suddenly, Goofy bursts in the door wapped in atovel, wth
text: another on his head.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Mornin’, son!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( embarrassed)
dialog: Dad!
text: Max reaches dow, and pulls his pants up in a huff.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Oops! Sorry...1 forgot...
text: Goofy backs out of the roomand closes the door behind him
text: I medi ately he knocks on the door and wthout waiting for an
text: answer, opens it again and repeats:
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Mornin’, son!...came to see if you
dialog: had any... dirty...clothes...
text: Max is running around the room trying to gather his things
text: as quickly as possible. The roomis cluttered, wth clothes
text: and various itens scattered everywhere.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qh...there they are, help yourself.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (looking di sdai nf ull y
dialog: at the mess)
dialog: Nex, | thought we talked about this...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Look, I'msorry, Dad. I'll take care
dialog: of it later.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: What's the big rush?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I'mrunning late.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WII, | can drop you off on the way
dialog: to work.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That's okay Dad, |...1 need the
dialog: exer ci se.
text: Max pulls his shirt over his head, and continues grabbing
text: his things. Goofy begins vacuuning the floor of Max's room
text: sucking up clothes and everything else in his path. Max is
text: about to leave when Goofy accidentally sucks up the head of
text: Max's life-size cardboard Powerline cutout. Max screams,
text: grabs the figure by its feet, and attenpts to pull it out.
text: Finally, after westling wth it for a monent, Max stonps
text: the power swtch wth his foot and the vacuum shuts off -
text: releasing the figure. He stands it up and sees that its head
text: is bent and its nose is twsted into a curl.
dialog: (sadl y)
dialog: Dad! You ruined it...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Sorry about that....who was he,
dialog: anyway?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: It's only Powerline, Dad...the bi ggest
text: rock star on the planet.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh... not bigger than Xavier Cougat,
dialog: the manbo ki ng!
text: Goofy grabs Max and starts dancing around the room wth Max
text: flailing to escape.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Everybody manbo! Manbo, manbo,
dialog: manbo. ..
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Dad!...Come on, there's no tine for
dialog: thi st... What if the neighbors see
dialog: us?
scene_heading: EXT. GOOFY'S FRONT YARD
text: Max escapes and heads out the door, leaving Goofy to his big
text: finish. Qnce outside, Goofy, clad in his towels, catches Max
text: and hands hima brown paper bag.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Maxie, wait up! You forgot your
dialog: lunch...have a good day.
text: To Max's chagrin, Goofy kisses himon the cheek - just as a
text: group of his classmates skateboard by. They laugh at him
text: Nex waves back, enbarrassed and stonps toward the gate to
text: leave. As he leaves, an electric guitar riff begins the "After
dialog: Today" song.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: They' ve been | aughing since | can
dialog: remenber, but they're not gonna | augh
dialog: anynore. No nore "Maxie the Geek" no
dialog: more "Goof of the week" like before.
text: Max gets to the gate at the end of his yard and pushes it,
dialog: but it won't open.
text: After another unsuccessful attenpt, he backs up to get a
text: running start and junps over the gate. Once on the si dewal k,
text: he slips on marbles which sone children were playing wth.
dialog: GRL: No nore algebra tests till September.
text: Nex, slipping on the marbles, bunps into the girl and her
dialog: boyf ri end.
text: BOYFRI END: No nore I ookin' at losers like him
text: Her boyfriend grabs Max and tosses hi m asi de.
speaker_heading: KI D1
dialog: No nore havin' ta cheat.
speaker_heading: KI D2
dialog: No nore nystery neat.
text: Ki d2 grabs Max's lunch as he walks by.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBAN STREET
text: Several other students on their way to school fling j ockstraps
text: at each other and passersby, one of themhits Max in the
text: face.
speaker_heading: KI D3
dialog: No nore gym
speaker_heading: KI D4
dialog: No nore gym
speaker_heading: KI DS
dialog: No nore gym
speaker_heading: KI D6
dialog: (yell ing)
dialog: No nore gym
speaker_heading: CHAD’ S G RLFRI END
dialog: Gonna nove to the mall.
speaker_heading: CHAD
text: Gonna live in the pool.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Gonna talk to Roxanne and not feel
dialog: like a fool, ‘cause...
text: Chad's girlfriend punches Max in the arm A group of students
text: on skateboards follow themup the street as they walk away.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: After today I|'mgonna be cruisin’.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: After today she'll be nine.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: After today ny brains wll be
dialog: snoozin’.
text: Max pops up behind several l|adies on bus stop bench, startling
dialog: them
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: If | don't faint, I'll be fine.
speaker_heading: TWN GRLS
dialog: I've got forty more ninutes of Hone
dialog: Econoni cs.
speaker_heading: TWN GUYS
dialog: Then dow wth the textbooks.
speaker_heading: NERDY KI DS
dialog: And up wth the conics.
text: Max runs through a flock of pigeons, scaring them away.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: Just think of all the time I've been
dialog: losin’, finding the right thing to
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: say. But things WII be going ny
dialog: way, after today...
text: Nex, in front of the nusic store, stops and waves at Roxanne
text: passing by. She doesn't see himand continues on. Max | ooks
text: turns away sadly, and | ooks into the music store and sees
text: Stacey and another girl looking starstruck at the Powerline
dialog: i spl ay.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: She | ooked right through ne, and who
dialog: could blane her. | need a new ne,
dialog: plus some positive proof that I'm
dialog: not just a goof, and...
text: A school bus passes by, wth filled wth students incl udi ng
text: Bobby and sone cheer! eaders.
speaker_heading: CHORUS
dialog: After today I|'mgonna be cruisin’.
speaker_heading: GRUNGE Gi RLS
dialog: No nore pep rallies to cut - bl eah!
speaker_heading: CHORUS
dialog: After today ny brains wll be
dialog: snoozin’.
speaker_heading: BUS DRI VER
dialog: I"’mgonna sit on ny butt.
text: Everyone piles out of the bus, the cheerleaders bouncing all
text: the way, and the grunge girls | ooking equally disgusted wth
text: the proceeding. Max, running to class, slides dow a bani ster
text: and bunps into Principal Mazur, knocking his toupee askew
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I've got less than an hour, and when
dialog: this is ended, I'll either be
dialog: famous...
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: QO you'll be suspended!
scene_heading: EXT. STADI UM
text: Max runs into the stadiumand onto the track, flips over a
text: hurdle and continues past a group of heavy girls doing
dialog: exercises and | ooking exhaust ed.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Just think of all the time I've been
dialog: losing, waiting until | could say...
text: The graduates, in caps and gowns, toss their caps in the
text: air. Several kids junp out of cars, one of themslanning the
text: door on the puckered lips of their nother. The band and
text: cheerleaders are practicing formations in the field. The
text: drum raj or tosses her baton in the air and catches it in her
dialog: teeth.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Gonna be on ny ow, kiss the parents
dialog: good-bye, gonna party from now to
dialog: the end of July, things wll be going
dialog: ny wy after today...
text: Max runs up to the top of the bleachers and enjoys feeling
text: the wnd bl owng in his face. The school bell rings,
text: attracting everyone's attention - the band and cheer! eaders,
text: the j ockstrap flinging kids, Chad and his girlfriend, who
text: were kissing, and Max.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | wsh that this was the day... after
dialog: today.
text: Just after finishing the line, Max starts down the bleachers
text: and trips. He falls, flailing and screaning, to the bottom
text: of the bleachers and lands on his face. A group of students
text: including Chad and his girlfriend gather around him | aughing
text: as he reaches to pick up his books. The crowd disperses, and
text: Roxanne approaches to help himpick up his books. When Max
text: sees who she is, he stands up, f|! abbergasted.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Are you all right?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah... yeah, I|'mokay, | just -
text: Max babbl es incoherently and Roxanne gives himan
text: under standing snile. Then both start to giggle.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: ( babbl i ng)
dialog: Uh...um..well, |...ah...
dialog: ( chuckl es)
dialog: .um..h- yuk!
dialog: ( Goof y | augh)
text: Max, absolutely nortified wth the silly laugh, covers his
text: nouth, gasping, and starts to back away. Roxanne gives hima
text: curious glance, and he turns and runs away. Part of the way
text: to the stadi umexit, he runs into some garbage cans and trips.
text: Recovering, he runs out the exit, screaning - | eaving Roxanne
text: standing by herself.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY
text: Now inside the school, Max berates himself while wal king
text: down the hall.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | can't believe | did that! Arrgh!
text: She finally says "hi" to me, and
dialog: what do | do? | joke! "Hyuk"... She
dialog: probably thinks I'ma big spazz.
text: Max approaches PJ, who is digging through his | ocker.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Where have you been, buddy?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hi Peej...did you get the canera?
text: PJ, looking very nervous, pulls a cancorder out of his | ocker.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: (ner vous! y)
dialog: Look, Max...if my Dad catches ne
dialog: wth this, he'll kill me! Are you
dialog: sure you gotta do this?
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Roxanne doesn't even notice ne... but
dialog: after today...
text: A bright light suddenly envelops them Squinting, they | ook
text: toward the source and see a cart full of audio/video
text: equi prent. A 1950s style guitar riff plays. Bobby, standing
text: beside it, is drinking froma fountain through a straw
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Bobby!
text: Max and PJ approach the cart and join Bobby in the room
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Wow This is all for us?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: (finishing his drink)
scene_heading: Nnmmm .. sl ur page. . .
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qh, this is gonna be great, man!
text: Mex starts to pull the cart out of the room but Bobby stops
dialog: him
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Dude... need fundage, bro...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qh, your fee... yeah, yeah...ri ght
dialog: here.
text: Max hands Bobby a brown paper bag, which Bobby opens
dialog: anxi ousl y.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Cheddar! Oww
dialog: (howing like a wolf)
dialog: Cheddar whi zzi e!
text: Bobby shakes the can up and holding it in the air, squirts a
text: bunch of it into his mouth. Max and PJ react wth nauseous
text: looks. Bobby stops spraying and starts licking it off of his
text: lips. He coughs and thunps his chest, coughing sone of the
text: cheese onto Max and Pu.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Mim ..Spre'y scunshus. [It's pretty
dialog: scr unpt i ous]
text: Bobby, suddenly appearing behind Max and PJ who are trying
text: to wpe the cheese off of their clothes, grabs them both
text: around the shoulders, forcing Max and PJ to snile.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Let's do it, ladies!
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL AUDI TORI UM
text: Stacey stands behind the podi umin an auditorium packed wth
text: rowly students, giving themthe standard end- of - school
dialog: retrospective speech.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: As student body president, | just
dialog: want to say, like "yay" to all of us
dialog: for a really neat year.
speaker_heading: NERDY KI D
dialog: (mocki ng chant)
dialog: Yo Stacey! Talk to me, talk to ne,
dialog: talk to ne, baby!
text: Stacey shoots the kid a disdainful | ook.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: And finally, | hope you can all attend
dialog: ny totally amazing end- of - school
dialog: party next Saturday to watch the
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: Powerline concert live on pay-per-
dialog: vi ew.
text: Everyone cheers | oudl y.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: Thank you, thank you very nuch...and
dialog: now, Wthout further adieu, Principal
dialog: Mazur.
text: The cheering continues as Principal Mazur, offstage, is fixing
text: his tie and putting on his biggest snile. He walks into the
text: spotlight, which follows himtoward the podium Inmedi ately,
text: all the cheering ceases, leaving only the sound of crickets
text: chirping. He reaches the podium and begins his speech.
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: Thank you, Stacey...and G norni ng,
dialog: boys and girls. You know, every year
dialog: on the last day of school, | have
text: several youngsters approach me and
dialog: say, "Principal Mazur, what can ve
dialog: do to not waste our summer vacation?
dialog: W don't want to waste our free tine
dialog: sleeping, or visiting friends"...
text: Everyone looks at each other and yawns. Chad | eans forward
text: in his seat to talk to Roxanne.
speaker_heading: CHAD
dialog: Say, uh, Roxanne... about Stacey's
dialog: party...
text: The canera zi p- zooms to Max, who is backstage and dressed in
text: a Powerline costume. He is poking his head out from behi nd
text: the curtain, and he sees Chad talking to Roxanne. Closing
text: the curtal n, he zips up his costune and turns toward Bobby
dialog: an .
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Are you...uh...how are you doin’
dialog: dow there, Bobby?
text: Bobby, wearing a welder's helmet, is using an acetylene torch
text: to connect piles of cables and equipment. A video nonitor
text: beside himis flashing a variety of images. He lifts the
text: hel met and shoots Max and PJ a half sarcastic, half joking
dialog: gl ance.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Don't give ne that attitude,
dialog: guys...I'mdoing it all for you.
dialog: 12.
text: He puts the helmet back on and continues. The scene shifts
text: to PJ, who is walking while | ooking into the canvorder's
dialog: vi ew i nder.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: (ner vous! y)
dialog: This is nuts. | don't know why I let
dialog: you guys talk ne into this. If my
dialog: dad finds out, he's gonna nuke ny
dialog: entire existence... aahh!
text: PJ isn't watching where he is going, and he trips on sone
text: cables that are lying on the stage. He falls, alluding to
text: things to cone, and briefly appears behind Mazur before the
text: cur tai n settles back into position. Max grabs him and hel ps
dialog: i m up.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | hope this works...
text: Qn stage, Mazur continues his speech. The spotlight suddenly
text: goes out, leaving himsurprised and in the dark.
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: ...How about "science sl umber
dialog: parties"! -- huh?
text: Backstage, Max dons his Powerline visor and gives the others
text: a "thunbs up”.
text: Bobby, at the control panel, gives a thunbs up. PJ, turning
text: on the cancorder, gives a nervous thunbs up. Bobby presses a
text: button and a fast pop-rock beat begins playing. The curtain
text: begins to rise, revealing a large video projection screen.
text: Mazur starts to speak, but Bobby presses a button backstage -
text: dropping himthrough a trapdoor.
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: What ?...Hey!...1'mnot gonna just -
dialog: aaaaaaahhhhhhh!
text: Max, in a Powerline pose, appears on the screen wth an
text: ani mated atom behind himand scan lines zipping up and down
text: the screen. The audience gasps and | ooks pleasantly surprised;
text: Bobby | aughs heartily. The video display changes colors and
text: images dynanically as "Stand Qut" begins.
text: The action is still occurring on the video nonitor as special
text: effects footage of Max, wth PJ running the canera.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (li p- synching Powerline)
dialog: Sone people settle for the typical
dialog: things, living all their lives waiting
dialog: in the wngs. It ain't a question of
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: if, just a matter of time, before |
text: move to the front of the line. Once
dialog: you're watching every nove that |
dialog: make, you're gonna believe that |
dialog: got what it takes to stand out, above
dialog: the crowd even if | gotta shout out
dialog: loud. 'Til mine is the only face
dialog: you'll see, gonna stand out till you
dialog: notice me.
text: The scene changes to reveal the audience's positive reactions,
text: incl uding Roxanne's. The canera angle rotates around PJ and
text: through his legs, as he continues to film Max. Max gets caught
text: in the cables Iying on the floor and trips. He falls,
text: screaning, and rips through the screen, rolling out onto the
text: stage and leaving the monitor displaying static. He stands
text: up and is notionless for a monent, as he looks at the crow
text: in the auditorium The image of the crow is reflected off
text: of his visor as he | ooks nervously around the room He | ooks
text: at PJ and Bobby, who are standing offstage; they | augh and
text: give himthe "thunbs- up". Max looks back toward the crowd,
text: and the reflection on his visor pans fromthe image of Bobby
text: and PJ to Roxanne - who is shyly sniling at the unknow
text: performer. Reassured, Max heads straight for her.
text: Bobby, offstage, decides to provide sone visual flair by
text: spraying a foggy mist onto the stage.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: A little smok-age! Oww
dialog: (howing like a wolf
text: Max strides across the stage, moonwal ki ng.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (li p-synchi ng Power! i ne)
speaker_heading: POWERLI NE
dialog: ( spoken)
dialog: If | could make you stop and take a
dialog: look at me instead of just...
scene_heading: POMERLI NE W TH CHORUS
dialog: Wi kin’ by.
text: He lip-synchs the followng lines directly to Roxanne. Her
text: face reflects off Max's visor.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (li p-synchi ng Power! i ne)
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: ( spoken)
dialog: There's nothing that | wouldn't do,
dialog: if it was getting you to notice...
scene_heading: POWERLI NE W TH CHORUS
dialog: I'malive.
text: PJ craws onstage, hidden by the smoke, and hooks Max onto a
dialog: cable.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (li p- synching Powerline)
dialog: All I need is every chance, a second
dialog: thought, a second glance to prove |
dialog: got whatever it takes...
dialog: ( spoken)
dialog: It's a piece of cake.
text: Bobby and PJ lift Max off the stage and he flies around the
dialog: audi tori um during the follow ng chorus, nuch to everyone's
dialog: exci tenent.
speaker_heading: CHAD' S G RLFRI END
dialog: Who's that guy?!
text: He grabs a basketball froma tall kid and dunks it in the
text: basket as he flies by.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (li p-synchi ng Powerline)
dialog: To stand out, above the crowd) even
dialog: if | gotta shout out loud. ‘Til nine
dialog: is the only face you'll see gonna
dialog: stand out...
text: Nex flies toward Roxanne, who is waiting wth an outstretched
text: hand. They almost touch, but the cable he's on stops short,
text: pulling him backwards into spin as the nusic sl ows dow and
text: stops. He swngs toward a disgruntled Principal Mazur, who
text: stops himand takes off his visor.
speaker_heading: OFFSCREEN KI D
dialog: It's the Goof boy!
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: (gasps) .
text: Everyone | ooks in shock at Max, except
text: Roxanne who sniles appreci ati vel y.
text: Bobby (wth PJ in sort of a headlock), still offstage, realize
dialog: their fate.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: W' re bust - ed!
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: INT. PHOTO CENTER IN DEPARTNENT STORE
text: The scene changes wth a canera flash to a close up of Goofy
text: making a funny face and squeezing a rubber ducky. The angle
text: changes and we see a small, bald baby on the verge of tears.
text: phe is bei ng phot ographed by Goofy, who is attenpting to get
dialog: er to smile.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Coochy- coochy- goo- goo! Cone
text: on...smile! Sniley-wley!...B b-b-b-
text: b- b- b- b- b... Oh cone on, Kinmie... give
dialog: me a big -
text: Goof y squeezes a rubber ducky, making the typical squeaky
text: noise in an attenpt to get her to smile. As he squeezes it,
text: the squeaker pops out of the toy and into his mouth - getting
text: caught in his throat. Gasping, Goofy makes the squeaky noise
text: repeatedly. This anuses the little girl, and she begins | augh-
text: ing. Seeing his chance, Goofy steps behind the canera and
text: takes the picture of the little girl - wth the red-eye glow
text: intact. As he continues, Pete enters the scene. Goofy makes
text: the squeaky sound, which annoys Pete. Goofy | ooks at him and
dialog: makes an i nqui siti ve- soundi ng squeak.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Stop goofin' around!
text: Pete slaps Goofy on the back of the head, dislodging the
text: squeaker. Finished, Goofy picks up the little girl and returns
text: her to her mother - continually making baby noises to anuse
dialog: the child.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qkay Kinnie, back to nonmny, now B-b-
dialog: b- b- b-b...
dialog: (baby tal k)
dialog: You're such a cute little girlie... you
dialog: come back and see ne...
speaker_heading: Ki MV E'S NOM
dialog: Qh, you have such a way Wth children.
text: Goofy blushes as the nother | eaves.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: ( nocki ng)
dialog: “You have such a wy wth
dialog: chil dren"... pah!
text: Pete approaches Goofy, who is attending to the next custoner.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qkay now... who's next over he-
dialog: 16.
text: Pete knocks Goofy out of the way.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Step aside, Goof. Let a pro show you
dialog: how it's done...
text: Pete bends down and talks to the little girl. She kicks him
text: in the shin, runs around himseveral times, up his back, and
text: junps on his head.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qh hello, precious...ow...oof!...
dialog: (to the nother)
dialog: You |ucky wonan...
text: Pete follows the little girl, who is hiding behind the photo
text: stand, and ducks back and forth several tines attenpting to
text: catch her. Finally, he reaches over the stand and grabs her
dialog: roughl y.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Cone on here, honey...it's picture
dialog: time...she's so cute...
speaker_heading: LITTLE G RL
dialog: Peek- a- boo!. . . oof !
text: The girl continues to struggle as Goofy and Pete talk.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Gawsh, Pete... you sure are good
dialog: wth kids...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qh yeah...they love me. Why, PJ...he's
dialog: been begging ne to take himon
dialog: vacation this summer.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Really? Where are you going?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Canpi ng! Nothing like the great
dialog: out doors to strengthen the bond
dialog: bet ween a father and a son.
text: Pete attaches Velcro pads to the table and the girl's diaper,
text: then Velcroes her to the table. She attenpts, unsuccessfully,
dialog: to get up.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, Max would never go for anything
dialog: like that.
text: Goofy placates the little girl wth a stuffed animal.
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: | don't know, Goof. Sonethin's wong
dialog: when a kid won't spend time wth his
dialog: parents. For all you know he's running
dialog: around wth sone gang, and stealin'
dialog: stuff, and causin’ riots...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, Max is a good kid...he'd never
dialog: get mi xed up into sonething like
dialog: that.
scene_heading: INT. PRINCI PAL MAZUR S OFFI CE
text: Wth a loud crash reniniscent of a jail door slanning, the
text: scene shifts to an overhead view of Max and Bobby waiting in
text: the Principal's office. Mss Maples, the secretary, sits
text: across the roomfromthem typing and humming the Hungarian
text: death march. Max is | ooking terrified, and Bobby is sl ouchi ng
text: across the chairs - facing the wall.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I'ma failure, a conplete loser... ny
dialog: one chance to impress Roxanne and |
dialog: blewit...
text: After a few monents, Bobby nunbles and turns to Max, hol ding
text: a small sculpture made of squeeze cheese.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Hom... Max, look...it's the | eaning
text: tower of cheese-a.
text: He squishes the entire creation into his mouth nessily and
text: eats it. After a monent PJ emerges, | ooking shell-shocked.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Qh, man...My Dad is gonna smash ne
dialog: like a bug!
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: (cheer f ul | y/ j oki ngl y)
dialog: Hey, PJ! Deten-tion! Ha ha ha!
speaker_heading: MAZUR (V. ©.)
dialog: Robert Zi mrerooski...
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: ( concer ned)
dialog: Unm.. okay ...1' mconing...
dialog: ( qui etl y)
dialog: Mex... here... guard this wth your
dialog: life, dude...
dialog: 18.
text: Bobby hands Max the can of squeeze cheese and pushes a
text: cartload of audio/ video equi pment into Mazur's office, while
text: his signature guitar music plays in the backgr ound.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: (confi dent! y)
dialog: Hey! Me-za-ur! What's up, bro?
text: Bobby begins talking to Mazur, and shuts the door. Max puts
text: his head in his hands and sits notionlessl y. Roxanne and
text: Stacey enter the room wth Stacey chattering at a fast pace.
text: They approach the desk to get sone papers.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: ...and then the air conditioning
dialog: went on the fritz, so! figured wth
dialog: all those kids in the house the place
dialog: would be like a sauna; so I' mall
dialog: freaked out, but then | thought,
dialog: like, "use it", so my theme's gonna
dialog: be ‘Powerline goes rainforest'. Too
dialog: nuch?... Roxanne, are you |i st ening?
text: Roxanne notices Max sitting on the chair, and she gazes at
text: him Stacey notices that she's lost her attention and sees
dialog: why.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: ( know ngl y)
text: QOhhhh....tsk, tsk, tsk.
text: She pushes Roxanne toward Max.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Stacey, no...I! don't wanna -
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: Talk to him
text: Roxanne walks over toward Max, but wth his head dom, he
text: doesn't notice her.
text: She clears her throat several times, but to no avail.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Ahem. . Ahem
text: She turns back to Stacey and gives her a ‘now what?’ gl ance.
text: Stacey notions her to conti nue.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: Tap him
text: Roxanne approaches Max and taps himon the shoul der.
dialog: 19.
text: Startled, Max quickly sits upright and knocks Roxanne's books
text: to the floor. Realizing what he's done, he begins apol ogi zi ng
text: as she begins to gather them
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Gosh, I'msorry...
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: It's okay.
text: He bends down to help her and they si nul taneously reach for
text: the same book and touch each others' hands accidentally. Max
text: pulls his away, embarrassed.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Um..| liked your dance.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah. ... yeah?! Uh, yeah, it's from
dialog: Powerline's new vi deo.
dialog: Both stand up si nul taneous! y.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: | know, he...he's totally a genius.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah, he's doing a concert next week
dialog: in LA
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
text: Qh yeah! Stacey is showng it at her
dialog: party.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Uh, Roxanne...1! was, uh, sorta kinda
dialog: thinking that maybe I'd, um ask you
dialog: to go Wth ne, that is, to
dialog: the...party...of course, if you don't
dialog: want to, I'd conpletel y under st and!
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: WII, | was sorta, kinda thinking
dialog: that...1'd love to!
text: Max and Roxanne both start to fluster.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah?
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Yeah!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Good!
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Geat!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Terrific!
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Wonder f ul !
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: All right...
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Okay...
text: Stacey approaches to extract Roxanne.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: Cone on Roxanne, we don't want to
dialog: bel abor the moment, now do we?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: WII, I'd better be going...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( confi dent! y)
dialog: I"11, uh, call you later.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Okay. . . bye.
text: Roxanne backs away slowy, shyly and backs into the wall
text: beside the office door. After leaving, she walks down the
dialog: hall wth Stacey.
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: See? That wasn't so bad....I told
dialog: you men were easy to deal wth...
text: Back in the principal's office, Max waves shyly at Roxanne
text: as she leaves then junps up in the air and begins yelling.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (gl eef ul I y)
dialog: Yes!! She said YES!!! Hoo hoo hoo!
dialog: Everybody manbo!
text: Max begins dancing around the room out of sheer joy, wth
text: manbo nusic playing in the background.
dialog: 21.
text: After several noments, he grabs Mss Maples and involves her
text: in his dance...while she is still sitting in her chair.
text: Shortly, Mazur and Bobby appear at the office door. Bobby
text: smiles and encourages Max.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Yeah! Dance wth her... groove wth
dialog: her...
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Mss Meples!
text: Nezur orders Mss Maples to call Goofy, even while she is
text: still careening back and forth in Max's manbo.
speaker_heading: M SS NAPLES
dialog: (cheer full y)
dialog: Yes sirrrrr!
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Get that boy's father on the phone!
speaker_heading: M SS NAPLES
dialog: (cheer full y)
dialog: Right away sirrrr!
scene_heading: INT. PRI NC PAL MAZUR’ S | NNER OFFI CE
text: Mazur stands in his office, wth his paddle collection behind
text: him looking through the slits of light penetrating his
text: mini blinds at Max.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hel | 0?
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: Uh yes, M. Goof... This is Principal
dialog: Nezur. I'mcalling in regard to your
dialog: son, Maxi nillian.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Nax? Oh ny gawsh, is he hurt?
speaker_heading: NAZUR
text: No, M. Goof...he's in TROUBLE!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Trouble? What kind of trouble?
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: (angrily)
text: Dressed like a gang rnenber...
dialog: 22.
text: Goofy gasps in shock and staggers backward.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Gang nenber ??
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: ... your son caused the entire student
text: body to break into a riotous frenzy!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Ri ot ?? Oh, couldn't be ny -
speaker_heading: NAZUR
dialog: If | were you, M. Goof, I'd seriously
dialog: re-eval uate the way you're raising
dialog: your child, before he ends up IN THE
speaker_heading: ELECTRIC CHAI R!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: The electric chair! ?
text: Nezur hangs up and Goofy drops his phone. He slunps into a
text: nearby chair.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: What am! gonna do?
scene_heading: INT. PHOTO CENTER IN DEPARTNENT STORE
text: Goofy sits shell shocked in the chair for a moment. Suddenly,
text: a bright blue light illuninates himand pans across the room -
text: acconpanied by an announcenent on the PA system
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER ( V. Q )
text: Blue light special on aisle
dialog: three... blue light special on aisle
dialog: three.
text: Goofy rises slowy, and walks toward the rotating blue beam
text: of light. It crosses his face repeatedly and scans across
text: the room Goofy approaches the sale table. Q the table is
text: an assortment of small children's toys that look like a boy
text: fishing. He bounces the toy's spring-!oaded head. Suddenl y
text: Goof y's face brightens as he gets an idea.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Lake Destiny...
text: Now excited, Goofy runs back toward the Photo Department and
text: tells Pete his plans.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qkay, kiddo...now, snile!
text: Goofy sticks his head in front of the camera Pete is using.
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Lake Destiny | daho!
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Lake who-de wha! ?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: You were right, Pete...nothing like
dialog: the great outdoors to strengthen the
dialog: bond bet ween father and son. You
dialog: said so yourself...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: WII, yeah...but....
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: I'mgoin' fishing! I'mgoin' fishing
dialog: wth ny boy!
text: Wthout waiting for Pete's response, Goofy runs off, carrying
text: the toy. Pete shakes his head in confusion and | ooks back
text: through the lens.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Yeah... okay, preci ous...give ne a
dialog: big sni-
text: The little girl he was photographing is gone, only her diaper
text: remains. She runs dom the aisle in pursuit of Goofy.
speaker_heading: LITTLE G@ RL
dialog: Ha haha ha! Fishie! Fishie! Fi shie!
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT OF SCHOOL
text: Everything is absolutely still in a wde shot of the school's
text: front doors. Suddenly, the school bell rings and the doors
text: expl ode open and crowds of students pile out at high speed.
text: Anong themis Bobby and a nunber of recurring characters;
text: the focus is on Max as he walks away fromthe school. A nunber
text: of people approach him including some who had ridiculed him
dialog: earlier.
speaker_heading: KID 1
dialog: Cool concert, | ad!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (i ncredul ous)
dialog: What ?
speaker_heading: KID 2
dialog: You wailed, bud!
dialog: 24.
text: Max, incredulous, continues to take it all in. Chad's
text: girlfriend approaches him but Stacey quickly shoves her
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: CHAD’ S G RLFRI END
dialog: Hey, Max...wicked dance...
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: Forget it, girl...he's Roxanne’ s.
text: Suddenl y PJ runs up behind Max and junps on his shoul ders.
text: Max strains against the load as PJ conplinents himon the
dialog: day's events.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Way to go, Max! | just heard about
dialog: you and Roxanne...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oof! Peej !
text: Max dunps himon to the ground. PJ begins a chant for him
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: (i ncreasi ngl y | oud)
dialog: See...1| told you our plan would
text: work... Max!... Max!... Max!... Max!...
dialog: Max!...
text: Bobby, hanging froma statue, continues the cheer.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
scene_heading: Max- i - num... Max-i - mu- unl
speaker_heading: CHEERLEADERS
dialog: Max!... Max!... Max!...
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Max!... Max!... Max!...
text: At this point, music builds in volume and segues into the
text: middle of "Stand Out" as Max leaves the school yard.
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: All | need is every chance, a second
dialog: thought, a second glance to prove |
dialog: got whatever it takes.
text: Max runs past a school bus, slapping hands wth people on the
text: sidewalk and in the windows. He then dons his ball cap and
text: Powerline visor.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (li p- synchi ng)
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( spoken)
dialog: It's a piece of cake...
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: To stand out, yeah yeah...
dialog: (repeats and di gresses)
dialog: ... till mine is the only face you'll
dialog: see, gonna stand out so you'll notice
dialog: ne...
text: Nex nmoonwal ks past the bus stop ladies seen in "After Today",
text: spins around the bus stop sign and junps - slapping the | eaves
text: in a nearby tree. En route home, he runs through a nunber of
text: yards. Max runs under kids on a swngset, then swngs from
text: their tire. He flies over a sunbather and bounces off her
text: di ving board, landing on a Slip ‘n' Slide and grabbing a
text: skateboard. He skateboards over over a fence, then through a
text: construction site, doing | oops inside a large pipe. He exits
text: the pipe and lands on a truck labeled "Starving House Pets
text: Mbvi ng and Storage". He skates off the truck, under the sofa
text: being noved, and directly into the house's kitchen. He zips
text: by a baby, and grabs its fork. He dismounts the skateboard
text: and sonersaults across the street to his house as the nusic
text: fades and finishes. He enters the gate to his yard, and passes
text: Goofy - who is packing the car for a trip.
scene_heading: EXT. GOOFY'S FRONT YARD
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Goi ng somewhere, Pop?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Sure are, pal -erooni e!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Cool! WII, have a good time, Dad.
dialog: If you're gonna be gone nore than a
dialog: nonth, drop ne a line.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: But Max, this isn't just MW
dialog: vacation...it's a vacation wth ne
dialog: and ny best buddy!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qh, Donald Duck?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: No, silly! Wth you!
text: The canera does a zip-zoomtoward Max, centering on his
text: shocked face. He collapses, falling backwards. Fading from
text: black, we see an upward-! ooking view of Goofy coning into
text: focus. He slaps Max's face lightly to rouse him
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Are you okay, Maxie?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Wha- what did you say?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: That's right! A vacation, son! W'll
dialog: spend sone real quality time together!
text: Goofy picks himup and hugs him
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | think I’ mgonna be sick.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hey, got a present for ya!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No!...Dad!...Stop!...What are you-
text: Goofy grabs Max. After a flurry of hands, flying cl othes,
text: and protests from Max, Goofy steps back to reveal Max dressed
text: in an fishing hat, hip waders and an inflatable vest. After
text: a beat, Goofy's hand appears and pulls the string on the
text: vest. As the canera pulls back quickly, the vest inflates
text: rapidly - puffing up to full size - leaving Max | ooking like
text: a large balloon. Goofy looks at him pleased wth the gifts.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: You look just like | did at your
dialog: age.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( exasper at ed)
dialog: Please don't say that, Dad.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Wait, | saved the best for last.
text: Goof y produces a dusty old rectangular box. He bl ows cl ouds
text: of dust off the surface.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: It's been handed dow from goof to
dialog: goof to goof, and now..it's yours,
dialog: son.
text: Goofy opens the box to reveal an old fishing rod inside.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: A stick?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: No, silly, a fishin’ pole!
dialog: 27.
text: Goofy twrls the line in the air.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Fi shing? We're going FI SHI NG! ?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Yep, just like ny Dad and ne did...two
dialog: best buddies fishing on Lake
dialog: Destiny...away fromit all...
text: Goofy walks toward the car.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | don't wanna be "away fromit all",
dialog: Dad...1 LIKE ..."it all".
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hey, look, Maxie...we're usin’ the
dialog: same map ne and ny Dad used. W'l!
dialog: take the sane route, make the sane
text: stops, see the sane sights...
text: Enchanted, maj esti c- sounding nusic begins playing as Goofy
text: opens an old, dusty map and spreads it across the hood of
text: the car. Max, still puffed up, waddles over. The map has a
text: tangle of criss-crossing, looping, wld lines drawn on
text: it...eventually leading to Lake Destiny, Idaho. At the bottom
dialog: is a list of names ending wth Walter Goofy and Benj anin
text: Goofy, which are both crossed out, and beneath themis
text: scrawed "All Goofs". Max is shocked.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Agh! But that trip would take WEEKS,
dialog: Dad!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Exactly! Gettin’ there's half the
dialog: fun!
text: Max pushes the nap asi de.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Put the map away, Dad...it's not
dialog: gonna happen...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Careful, son! You'll winkle ny
dialog: past...and our future...
dialog: (myst eri ousl y)
dialog: What the map says, Max, ve wll
dialog: follow..
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That's very... "nystical" and
dialog: everything, Dad...but, uh,
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: seriously.... there's this party |
dialog: have to go to and, it's really
dialog: inportant -
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Aw...there wll be plenty of tine
dialog: for parties when you're older,
dialog: | Maxie...why, when | was your age,
dialog: I'd never even been invited to a
dialog: party, and look at me now
text: Goofy strikes a proud pose.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: Geat, Dad...
text: Goof y opens the car door in hopes of persuading Max to get
dialog: in.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hop in, Maxie.
text: Max shuts the door.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No.
text: Goofy is uncertain howto proceed. He thinks a nonent, and
text: his face brightens wth an idea. He then frowns sadly and
text: proceeds to try to make Mx feel guilty.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, all right, then... guess I'll
dialog: just have to go - all alone, that's
dialog: all...just sit in the boat - all
dialog: alone...and talk to nyself - all
dialog: al one...
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: ( unmoved)
dialog: I guess so...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, come on! Hop in!
text: Goofy opens the car door again hoping to persuade him Max
text: refuses repeatedly and shuts the door each time Goofy opens
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No, Dad...
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Just hop right in there!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Cone on, Maxie...go for it!
text: At this point, Goofy is out of ideas, conpletely frustrated.
text: He grabs Max, who is still immobile in the inflatable vest,
text: and shoves theminto the car. He ties himdow wth the
text: seatbelt, acconpanied by a barrage of protests from Max.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: W're ready for takeoff!
text: Goof y shuts Max in as he struggles wth the restraints, runs
text: around the car and gets in the driver's side. He gets ready
text: to start the car.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Set for adventure, Maxie?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( exasper at ed)
dialog: Why are you DONG this to me, Dad! ?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (fri ght ened)
dialog: "Cause | don't want you to end upin
dialog: the electric chair!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Electric chair? What are you-
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: I'mnot givin’ up on ya,
dialog: son...together we're gonna work this
dialog: out .
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Wrk this out! ? But Dad!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: No buts about it, Maxie boy... your
dialog: old pop knows best.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: But...
text: Max is speechless. As Goofy starts the car to leave, he
text: resigns himself to the situation. He looks gloonily at the
dialog: fishing pole.
dialog: 30.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBAN STREET
text: Goof y backs out of the driveway and runs over part of his
text: fence, crushing it.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
text: G bye house!...g' bye mai! box!...g' bye
dialog: pile of broken wood!
text: They head down the road, and are only several blocks from
text: their house when Max renenbers his date wth Roxanne.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Good- bye hopes, good-bye dreans,
dialog: good- bye Roxanne. . . Roxanne!
dialog: (agi t at ed)
dialog: Dad, I've got to stop sonewere first,
dialog: | have to talk to someone...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WIl...
text: Max grabs the wheel of the car, turning it to the right. The
text: car careens around the turn, leaning sideways. Bouncing off
text: of other vehicles and severing a fire hydrant, the car finally
text: pulls to the side of the road. Max gets out and heads up the
text: wal kway in Roxanne's front yard.
scene_heading: EXT. ROXANNE' S PORCH
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Now make it quick, Maxie boy... we've
dialog: got to put sone road behind us.
text: Max mutters to hinself, frustrated.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You get to cancel your first date in
dialog: less than an hour...nmust be sone
dialog: kind of lame-o record.
text: Max arrives at the front door and rings the bell. After a
text: short pause, a large, hulking man appears in the door in an
text: undershirt and boxer shorts. He grunts. Frightened, Max takes
text: a step backwards.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (ner vousl y)
dialog: Hhi!...ls Roxanne home? M nane is
dialog: Nex...
text: The large man grunts angrily at Max.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Does Roxanne live here?...Does she
dialog: even live on this bl ock?...
text: Max starts to leave when Roxanne appears in the door besi de
dialog: the man.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Wait! It's okay Daddy, Maxis a
dialog: friend fromschool. Go on, go
dialog: on... good Daddy...
dialog: ( embarrassed)
dialog: Hey, Max...
text: Roxanne | ooks enbarrassed and ushers her father back into
dialog: the house.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (i ncoher ent )
dialog: He- uh... huh...
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (ner vousl y)
dialog: Do you, uh, want to have a seat?
text: Max and Roxanne walk to the other side of the porch to talk.
text: Once there, Max lifts Roxanne onto the banister by her hips.
text: Her father, watching through the mail slot, grunts angrily
text: at them This startles Max, and he quickly puts his hands
text: behind his back and grins innocently. Roxanne chides her
dialog: father.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Daddy!
text: Once he leaves, Max hops onto the banister beside Roxanne
text: and they continue their conver sati on.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: | promise he'll be better behaved
dialog: when you pick me up for the party.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah, that's, uh, sorta why | cane
dialog: by...
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: I'mreally looking forward to it,
dialog: Mex.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( dej ect edl y)
dialog: Yeah...1...was...too...
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Was?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You see, ny Dad's on this stupid
dialog: "father-son" kick...
dialog: (sadl y)
dialog: Qh... don't worry about it Max, it's
dialog: just a dunb party...
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: No, it's not! Roxanne, | really
dialog: wanted to go wth you!
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: No, |...Max, | understand...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: But ny Dad surprised me...! don't
dialog: even want to go, but | have no choice.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: ( di sappoi nt ed)
dialog: I'msure | can find soneone else...
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: ( shocked)
dialog: S-soreone el se?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: I'll...just...talk to you later...
text: Roxanne begins wal king toward her front door, to go inside.
text: She is almost to the door, and Max panics. He doesn't want
text: Roxanne to go to the party wth someone else, so he blurts
text: out a lie.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Um..uh... Roxanne... my Dad
dialog: i .uh...my Dad is taking me to the
dialog: Powerline concert in LA!...ugh...
dialog: (incr edul ous)
dialog: Your Dad's taking you clear across
dialog: the country just to see a concert?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (realizing what he's
dialog: sai d)
dialog: Um..you see, uh...my Dad knew, uh -
dialog: KNOWS - knows Powerline! They used
dialog: to play together...l-in a band! Yeah!
dialog: 33.
text: Goofy beeps the car horn and yells to Max.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Cone on, son! Let's get this show on
dialog: the road!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (del i ber atel y)
dialog: Just a ninute...you
dialog: party... animal... you.
text: Goofy grins sheepi shl y.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: You're really serious...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Absol utel y...so, uh... you aren't
dialog: still thinking of going wth soneone
dialog: else, are you?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: WIl, | guess -
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Because | was hoping | could, uh,
dialog: wave to you onstage, when ve join
dialog: Powerline for the final number.
dialog: This is incredible!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: WII, | wouldn't miss our date for
dialog: anything that wasn't incredible,
dialog: Roxanne.
text: Roxanne kisses Max on the cheek. He stunbles backward, then
text: starts to walk toward the car.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Have a great time at the concert,
dialog: Nex...
text: Max nunbles sonething, still dazed, and stunbles sl owy toward
text: the car. He is almost there when Roxanne shouts from here
dialog: por ch.
dialog: I'll see you on TV!
text: The gravity of his situation hits himand he quickly sobers
dialog: up.
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (to hi msel f)
dialog: I" min deep sl udge.
text: Max gets in the car and hangs his head out the wndow Goofy
text: starts the car and drives away.
scene_heading: EXT. Hi GHVWAY
text: The heavy nusic of the previous scene segues to a cheerful,
text: bouncy tune and we see Goofy's car zipping along a hi ghway
text: anong other cars. Then the view changes to that of a cancorder
text: viewinder jerkily panning around the interior of the car
text: and toward Max as Goofy begins his vacation vi deo.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Day One! WII, here we are, out on
text: the open road; retracing the steps
dialog: of ny boyhood... and heeeeere's
dialog: Maxie!... A hyuk!...Say hi, Max!
text: Goof y pans the canera toward Max, who is | ooking sadly out
text: the wndow When pronpted, Max looks briefly at the canera,
text: then quickly turns away.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WII, how about a wave?
text: Max puts his hand over the lens, but Goofy remains undaunted.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: Not now, Dad.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: What a kidder!....Hnmm..
text: Goof y |ooks at Max thoughtfully and begins to get frustrated
text: when he cones up wth an idea. He checks his pockets and
text: finds a hastily scrawed list of games that he had played
dialog: wth his father as a child. Some of the items include story
text: telling, road bingo, twenty questions and simon says. He
text: begins to read the list, and excitedly asks Max to play when
text: he picks one.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Fun ganes | used to play wth ny
dialog: Dad... road bingo...twenty que- oh!...
dialog: Hey Maxie, uh, let's play a gane?
dialog: You think of a nane, and I'll try to
dialog: guess who it is! Uh, man or woman?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( unent husi asti cal I y)
dialog: Man...
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Man? Hnnm..that's a toughie... Wilt
dialog: Di sney!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ri ght...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Ooh, I' mgood at this...now uh,
dialog: I'll think of one... hnmm..
text: Goof y's thought is interrupted but | oud and raucous rock
text: guitar music.
text: Surprised, he looks at Max, who is busy playing "air guitar”
text: wth his hands and listening to the nusic.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (shouting over the
dialog: nusi c)
dialog: Qh! You want to sing a song, huh? Ne
dialog: and ny Dad used to sing this one all
dialog: the tine!
text: Goofy grabs an ei ght-track cassette fromhis rack, puts it
text: in the car's tape deck, starts it playing , and sings (poorly)
text: along Wth it. Max looks at Goofy in disbelief.
scene_heading: RECORDED NUSI C AND GOOFY
dialog: (song: "Hi gh Hopes")
dialog: Hi gh hopes, he's got high hopes,
dialog: he's got high apple pie in the sky
dialog: hopes -
text: Max, having heard enough, turns back to the radio and
text: continues his air guitar playing - interrupting Goofy's song.
text: After several monents, Goofy turns the tape back on and
text: continues singing...angering Max.
scene_heading: RECORDED MUSIC AND GOOFY
dialog: oops there goes another rubber tree -
text: Max turns his music back on, followed by Goofy playing his.
text: Their conflict escalates, and they swtch songs faster and
text: faster, both getting continually angrier.
scene_heading: RECORDED NUSI C AND GOOFY
dialog: ...0ops there goes ano-...oops there
text: goes-... OOPS... OOps. . .
text: Finally, they both jamtheir buttons simultaneously and the
text: stereo mangles the tape, then bl ows up in a puff of smoke.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Qh great, Dad...now we don't have
dialog: ANY nusi c!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Oh, Maxie...it's not so bad! W'll
dialog: just have to entertain oursel ves.
text: Max sighs and resunes | ooking out the wndow Goofy begins
text: to get frustrated as they sit in silence, wth cars passing
text: quietly. He looks around for something to do, then notices
text: the car keys rattling against his Disney | ogo keychain in an
text: interesting rhythm He I ooks in the side-view nirror and
text: sees that the tailpipe has joined in - puffing and backfiring
text: in time. Sone rattling pots and pans in their | uggage
text: contribute, and Goofy begins whi stl ing.
text: Nex |ooks at him bored, as they nerge onto the hi ghwey -
text: passing a sign | abeled "Qpen Road" - and Goofy begins the
text: "Qpen Road" song.
text: Trying to liven himup, Goofy playfully pokes at Max, nusses
text: up his hair, and grabs himin a hug-like hold - but he doesn't
text: pay attention to where he's going, and the car swerves Wildly.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Do you need a break from nodern
dialog: livin'? Do you long to shed your
dialog: weary load? If your nerves are raw,
dialog: and your brain is fried, just grab a
text: friend and take a ride together upon
text: the open road.
text: Max pries Goofy's arms off his neck, and returns to his
text: original position, exasperated.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: All in all, I'd rather have detention.
dialog: All in all, I'd rather eat a toad.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Yuck!
text: Goofy nearly hits a tractor-trailer, then zips across | anes
text: of traffic. He hits the guard rail, sending out a shower of
text: sparks and setting the car on two wheels. While partially
text: airborne, Max's side of the car passes over a notorcycle
text: wth sidecar. They then get back on course as they pass rows
text: of snoking factories.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: And the old man drives like such a
dialog: klutz, that I|'mabout to hurl ny
text: guts directly upon the open road.
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: There's nothin’ can upset me, cause
dialog: now we're on our way. Our trusty map
dialog: will guide us straight and true.
text: Now passing oi! rigs, Goofy begins reading the map and
text: steering wth his feet. Max looks into the clouds and i magi nes
text: one is Roxanne. His vision is interrupted as Goofy begins
text: running over construction cones and head straight for a
text: construction scaffold. Max screans and covers his eyes as
text: they pl ow into the lower rungs of the scaffold and knock it
text: over. Goofy doesn't notice anything. He puts the map away
text: and continues dri ving.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Roxanne please don't forget ne; |
dialog: wil return someday, though | may be
dialog: in traction when | do.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
text: Ne and Mex relaxing like the old
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: This is worse than dragon breath and
dialog: acne.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
text: In a buddy- buddy kind of mode.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: I'mso nad 1 think | may expl ode.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: When | see that highway, | could
dialog: cry.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Y' know, that's funny - so could |.
scene_heading: GOOFY AND MAX
text: Just being out on the open road.
text: As they pass a pickup truck, Goofy notices that it is carrying
text: a man playing a piano. Three country singers pop out of the
dialog: pi ano and sing.
speaker_heading: COUNTRY SI NGERS
dialog: Howly boys, is this the way to
dialog: Nashvi | 1 e?
text: Goofy waves to the singers, but nearly hits a towtruck. The
text: driver blows the horn at him
dialog: 38.
scene_heading: TOW TRUCK DRI VER
dialog: Watch it Mack, or you'll be gettin’
dialog: t owed.
text: A prison transport, carrying a prisoner in stripes and chains.
text: Goof y | ooks worried and imagines Max in the same outfit. He
text: qui ckl y accelerates to pass the transport.
speaker_heading: PRI SONER
dialog: I'min no hurry to arrive, cause
dialog: I'll be turning sixty-five the next
dialog: time | see the open road.
text: Goof y and Max approach a small convertible wth a small driver
text: and his huge wife.
speaker_heading: NAN
dialog: Just a week of rest and rel axati on.
speaker_heading: W FE
dialog: Yeah!
speaker_heading: NAN
text: And the odd romantic epi sode.
dialog: Very odd!
text: Off to the side of the road, we see Mckey MNbuse and Donald
text: Duck wth backpacks and | uggage. Donald | ooks angry.
scene_heading: M CKEY MOUSE
dialog: And it's Californ-i-a or bust.
text: An old lady driving in a brightly painted sports car full of
text: cats begins driving wldly past Goofy and Max, swerving
text: through lanes of traffic.
speaker_heading: QLD WOMAN
dialog: Look out you dirt bags, eat ny
dialog: dust... from now on, I' mon the open
dialog: road.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: It's me and little Maxie, ny pi psqueak
dialog: pi oneer.
text: A "woody" station wagon full of nuns passes.
speaker_heading: NUNS
dialog: They're partners forever westward ho -
speaker_heading: YEE HAW
text: On the other side, a limousine passes wth a glitter-gl oved
text: hand poking out the novonr oof.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Could someone call a taxi and get ne
dialog: out of here...to Beverly Hills 90210?
text: A variety of vehicles surround them Sone include a fire
text: truck covered wth firemen, a convertible driven by a bride
text: while the groom parachutes in, a zoo transport wagon, a fl ower
text: truck, a balloon truck, a gangster car wth a person tied up
text: in the trunk, a hearse wth a singing corpse coning out of
text: the coffin in the back.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Everyday, another new adventure,
dialog: every mle, another new zip code...and
dialog: the cares we had...
speaker_heading: CORPSE
dialog: Are gone for good.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: And I'd go Wth themif | could.
text: The other cars are joined by a notorcycle, a tractor trailer
text: and others. Many of the riders are now dancing on the roofs
text: of their vehicles, including the corpse, the nuns, the
text: firemen, and several wngwalkers on a biplane that flies by.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: I've got no strings on ne, I'mfeeling
dialog: fancy free, how wonderful to be...on
text: the open road.
text: Goof y's car, now alone, zips under a bridge and knocks off
text: sone of its luggage as they disappear into the sunset. The
text: scene changes to the next day. They are still driving ona
text: rural interstate. Goofy is again reading the map while
text: driving, and he slowy edges into the onconing lane. Max,
text: not paying attention, suddenly realizes what is happening
text: when he hears a horn blaring.
text: At first he is too petrified to speak or nove, but at the
text: last minute he screams and grabs the wheel, swerving the car
text: into its own lane - and barely avoiding a collision Wtha
text: tractor-trailer.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ...a break fromnodern livin'...doo
dialog: doo dum dum...grab a friend...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: AAHH!!...Dad! You're gonna get us
text: KILLED!! (gasp) (pant)... Why don't
dialog: you just give me the map?
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, no thanks, son...navigatin's a
dialog: big responsi bility!
dialog: Max gives hima dirty | ook.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Besides, you wouldn't want to spoil
dialog: the big surprise! I'mtaking you
dialog: somepl ace pretty special !
scene_heading: EXT. LESTER S POSSUM PARK PARKI NG LOT
text: Twangy country nusic plays as Goofy pulls into the parking
text: lot of Lester's Possum Park, a run-down tourist trap. The
text: entrance is shaped like a huge possum head wWth an open nouth
text: and big teeth. A nother is dragging a terrified little girl
text: into it. Max is nortified at the sight of it.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Gaw'sh, it's even better than |
dialog: remenber ed...
speaker_heading: LITTLE G RL
dialog: No, Mommy! | don't wanna go! Wahhhhhh!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah, fun...tell you what, I' mj ust
dialog: gonna wait right here in the car.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: A-hyuk! Ya party pooper! Cone on!
dialog: This is gonna be fun!
text: Goofy grabs Max and drags him out of the car.
scene_heading: INT. LESTER S POSSUM PARK THEATER
text: An old man in front of the worn stage curtain introduces the
text: show to the audience - who are sitting on a variety of broken
text: benches and other obj ects.
speaker_heading: ENCEE
dialog: (in an old voice)
dialog: WII howdy-there, folks...Lester's
dialog: is proud to present the Possum Posse
dialog: Janboree...here it is.
text: The audience appl auds enthusiastically. Goofy dashes in wth
text: Max noping behind him
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Just in tine...
dialog: 41.
text: The curtain opens to reveal a cheaply desi gned and pai nt ed
text: set and an extraordinarily unimpressive nechanical "Lester",
text: which performs the nusical nunber.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Howly, folks! Who's your favorite
dialog: possun?
speaker_heading: AUDI ENCE
dialog: Lester! Lester! Lester!
text: Coot y runs back to Max, who was lagging behind, and grabs
dialog: i m
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Got us a seat right up front!
text: The Lester character introduces the others, each of which
text: pops out of their own hole. The Mbrdicai character fizzles
text: and sparks before working correctly.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Let me introduce you to the posse:
dialog: Here's Beauford, Beulah and Mprdi cai !
speaker_heading: MORDI CAl
dialog: Hey, Lester...ready for yodelin' ?
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Sure am Beauford!
text: Country nusic begins playing and the nechanical "posse" begi ns
text: bounci ng up and dow and "playing" their instruments.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Now gather “round, my possum
dialog: pals...join the jamboree. Cone hoot
dialog: “n' how ‘n' holler fromthe hearth...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: This is pathetic!
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: ...And every chicken, pig and goat'!!
text: help by yelpin' out a yodel here at
text: Lester's Possum Park.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: ( yodel i ng)
text: Max | ooks down the bench he's on and sees the little girl
text: that was dragged in earlier. She sniles a big, toothless
text: smile at himand he grins sheepishly back.
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
text: Yodel ay- hee. . . yodel - odel - ode- I ay. . .
speaker_heading: LESTER
text: Lester's Possum Park.
text: The yodeling continues, and the little girls laughs nore and
text: gives Max still bigger toothless sniles. Max finds all this
text: very unnerving. He rolls his eyes at Goofy and resigns hi mel f
dialog: to pouti ng.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Don't you wanna be, a hangin’ froma
dialog: tree, we're mighty glad to see you
dialog: and the parkin's al ways free - here
text: at Lester's po-po- po...
text: The machine gets stuck and the encee whacks it with his fist,
text: making it finish the show Max puts his head in his hands in
text: resi gnati on.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSI DE POSSUM THEATER
text: As soon as the show ends, the whole crowd expl odes out of
text: the theater. Trailing themis Goofy, funbling wth his
text: cancorder. He gets it working and points it at the door,
text: ready to film Max. He turns around and sees the souvenir
text: st and. He decides to get something for him Max approaches
dialog: sl ow y.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hey! That's the ticket!...I'Il be
dialog: right back, ny little possum pal...
text: Goofy walks away, toward the stand. Max is left alone to
text: nope when a big costune-character approaches.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: W life's a living-
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Hello, little buddy!...Who's your
dialog: favorite possun?
text: Max doesn't want to be bothered, and is not happy to see
text: him He begins to walk away when the character becomes nore
text: insistent.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Don't TOUCH ne.
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Awww. ... why such a | ong
text: face?... you're so sad... boo-hoo...1
dialog: know You need a big hug from Lester!
text: Nex knows what he's going to do, and starts to warn him-
text: but it's too late.
text: Lester grabs him picks himoff the ground, and squeezes him
text: tightly. This infuriates Max.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: Don't even think about -
dialog: (grunt )
dialog: ...unh... ugh...
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: See?...now you feel all good inside!
text: Max slaps the character in the face, and its head spins around
text: and faces the wong way. Disoriented, he stunbles off into
text: the background, where a group of little kids tackles himto
text: the ground and drags himaway in a swarm
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Beat it, doofus!
text: Max watches contentedly, sniling to hinself, as the kids
text: drag Lester off. He turns around to see Goofy coning toward
text: himwth a hat shaped like a road-killed possum Max protests,
text: but Goofy puts the hat on himanyway. After this, Goofy spies
text: the photograph stand - which is offering guests pictures
text: posing beside live possums. The little girl seen earlier is
dialog: having hers taken, and crying | oudl y.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oh no, no Dad, not that! Please!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Here you go, sport!... What say we
dialog: get our picture taken?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You have GOT to be ki ddi ng...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Oh, all right...but you're missing
dialog: out !
text: Goofy walks toward the stand to have his picture taken. Max
text: begins to turn away when he hears | oud | aughter. He | ooks
text: back in shock.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ugh.
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: . Huh?
dialog: Goof y is hanging upsi de- down wth the possums to have his
text: picture taken, nuch to the anusenent of the crow. Much to
text: Max's chagrin, Goofy yells to him
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hi-ya, son!
text: An obnoxi ous kid standing near Max points at and nocks Goofy.
speaker_heading: OBNOXI OUS KI D
dialog: Hey everyone, check out the dork!
text: The photographer prepares to take the picture while Goofy
text: continues to hang.
speaker_heading: PHOTOGRAPHER
dialog: Say "sassafrass"!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Sass- ee-frass!
text: Goof y and the possums pose and snile. The photographer takes
text: the picture, but just after the flash fades, the branch they
text: were hanging on falls - catapult- ing one of the possums
text: through the air. Goofy lands on his head while the possum
text: smacks into Max's face. After looking directly at Max for a
text: norent, the possum decides to hide - in Max's shirt. Max
text: starts junping around widly, trying to get rid of the possum
text: The band takes this as their cue to play dance nusic, and
text: begins to do so. Goofy also thinks Max is dancing, and rushes
dialog: to join him
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Aabh!... Unh!...Get out!...oof!... Get
dialog: it out!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: That's the spirit, Maxie!
text: Max resol ves the situation by pulling his pants dow and
text: extricating the possum Just as he pulls his pants up again,
text: Goofy grabs himby the armand begins spinning and danci ng
text: him around in a conical country-style dance. All Max sees is
text: a flurry of laughing faces.
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Dad!...No!...Dad!...DAD!... This is
dialog: enbar rassi ng!
dialog: 45.
text: The nusic ends, and Goofy props Max up on his knee as a
text: finale. The crowd applauds Ioudly, still laughing. Max glares
dialog: furiously at all of them
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Ta-da! A hyuk!
text: The obnoxious kid pops out of the crowd to make fun of them
speaker_heading: OBNOXI OUS KI D
dialog: It's dork and dork junior! Ha ha ha!
text: The crowd) continues to | augh | oudl y. Max walks away form
text: Goofy, looks angrily at the people, and throws the possum
text: hat down on the ground in disgust. He shoves his way out of
text: the crowd, knocking a | aughing kid to the ground in the
text: process. He stonps out of the park and returns to their car.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSI DE LESTER’ S POSSUM PARK
text: Max attenpts to open the car's door, but it is locked. He
text: hits the wndowin frustration. Rain begins to fall as he
text: walks out of the parking lot. Goofy emerges fromthe park
text: entrance and sees Max leaving. Standing along the roadsi de
text: and trying to hitchhike a ride, a car passes and soaks Max
text: when it hits a puddle. He shakes the water off angrily. Goofy
text: runs toward him
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Aar gh!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Max! Hey, what the heck're you tryin’
dialog: to do?
text: Goof y puts his hand on Max's shoulder, but Max jerks away.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Trying to get away from you!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (sur pri sed)
dialog: Me? Wwhat did | do?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Forget it.
text: Max walks back toward the car, and Goofy follows him
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: | thought we wes havin’ fun!... What's
dialog: the matter?
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Nothing. Let's just go!...Come on!
text: Goofy walks up and unlocks the car door for Max, then heads
text: around to the driver's side. Max gets in and shuts the door;
text: Goofy joins himafter a monent. Sadly, he hands Max the possum
dialog: hat.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, you dropped your hat...
text: The sight of the hat pushes Max over the edge. He screams;
text: and ina fit of rage, he tears at the hat, and throws it
text: against the wndow and windshield.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (f uri ous! y)
dialog: Aahh! This is the STUPI DEST
dialog: vacation!... You DRAG ne from hone,
dialog: you jamne in this DUMB car, then
text: drive a MLLION niles away, to see
dialog: sone stupid RAT show... Call me when
text: the trip's over.
text: Nex rolls down the wndow and throws out the possum hat that
text: Goof y had bought him Goofy hangs his head, crushed. He starts
text: the car and backs out accidentally running over the hat. He
text: looks back briefly, then pulls out into the storny night. As
text: they drive away, the camera pans dow to show a close up of
text: the battered hat, acconpanied by mournful nusic.
scene_heading: EXT. Pl NE FOREST
text: The scene opens wth an overhead view of Goofy pitching a
text: tent in a makeshift canpsite. The canera pans left to show
text: Max sitting on a rock at the edge of a creek, absent- ni ndedl y
text: stirring the water wth a stick and watching sone fish. He
text: swrls the water and, in his imagination, Roxanne's face
text: appears in the ripples. He sniles halfheartedl y. Suddenl y,
text: Goof y approaches in the water and his feet destroy the
text: illusion. Max looks up at him
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (carefull y)
dialog: Hey, Max... you wanna get in sone
dialog: fishin’ practice? Just a couple a
dialog: days ‘til we get to Lake Destiny...
text: Max gets up and begins to walk away - leaving a line in the
text: dirt as he drags his stick.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Maybe later...
dialog: 47.
text: Goofy turns away, depressed, and leaves the creekside. Max
text: throws his stick into the water.
scene_heading: EXT. GOOFY'S CANPSI TE
text: Goofy is putting sone materials in the tent, and his head is
text: inside when the ground begins to runble and shake. Suddenl y,
text: the dark shadow of a large machine passes over him The
text: vehicle straddles Goofy and the tent. Several large, cl anping
text: feet jaminto the ground viciously around the tent. A large
text: spinning bl ade on a long armfells rows of trees. A satellite
text: dish pops out of the machine's roof, scanning the sky. A
text: large platformflips dom fromits side, revealing a patio
text: table and chair set. A spa and niniature basketball! court
text: pop out. A swnming pool, conplete wth water, and a bowing
text: lane wth balls also emerge before the noise ceases. A wde
text: shot reveals that the contraption is a huge RV. Max cones
text: out not the woods to see what is going on and is awed by the
dialog: si ght.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Whoa! Now THAT's canpi ng!
text: Goofy pulls his head out of the tent - still not noticing
text: the RV that is now situated over him
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Did you say sonething, Max?
text: Just as he finishes his phrase, the big metal door wngs
text: down and lands on his head wth a resounding clang. A thick
text: nist billows out, surrounding a shadow but faniliar figure.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Ow... Pete?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (sur pri sed)
dialog: Goof y? Oh, well what a serendi pi ty-
dialog: doo- dah!... Who'd a thunk it, huh?
text: Max brightens up wth the prospect of seeing his best friend.
dialog: Is PJ here?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qh yeah, I'msure he's loafin' around
dialog: here somewhere...
scene_heading: INT. PETE'S RV
text: “Stand Qut" is playing | oudly inside the RV while PJ is
text: cleaning. He is singing and dancing around the roomas he
text: buffs the floor and dusts.
dialog: 48.
text: Max pokes his head in the RV door, and after a bit of surprise
text: initially, he sniles at PJ's silly routine.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (to hi msel f)
dialog: What a goob.
text: Max enters the RV and approaches the mammoth stereo, straining
text: against the volume of the sound. He shuts the music off, but
text: PJ doesn't notice...and continues his song for a bit before
text: he notices Max.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: (si ngi ng)
dialog: ...even if you gotta shout out | oud,
dialog: no matter what the look it's Max
dialog: - Max!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: He- he- hey!
text: PJ and Max performa long and invol ved handshake while saying
dialog: hel lo.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Wow Small wilderness, dude!... Didn't
dialog: expect to run into you!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (j oki ng)
dialog: Apparently not!
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: (j oki ng)
dialog: You're just jealous, man...cause you
dialog: ain't got the noves!
text: Max turns around and adnires the entertainnent center and
text: fish tank. He scares the octopus inside the tank, and it
text: sw ms away in a cloud of ink.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah, you can keep "the noves"... but
dialog: | wouldn't nind having this
dialog: Rv!... Whoa!
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Aw, come on. You're the star!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sur pri sed)
dialog: W what ?
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Gi ng to the Powerline concert?
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Oh, it's unbelievable, man.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Who told you about that?
text: PJ punches Max lightly on the arm
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Hey, cone on, everybody in town knows
dialog: about it, Max...you are gonna be
dialog: famous, buddy...
dialog: (j oki ng)
dialog: Especi all y wth Roxaaaanne...
text: Nex walks away dejectedly, and leans on the door frame of
dialog: the RV.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: There's, uh, only one person who
dialog: doesn't know about it yet, Peej...
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Who?
dialog: My, Dad.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWLING LANE ON ROOF OF RV
text: Goofy watches as Pete bows on his rooftop lane as they talk.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: So tell me, Goof...
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: ...is that kid of yours still givin’
dialog: you guff?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, | don't know what's wrong... Just
dialog: seems like everything | try only
dialog: drives Max further away... maybe |
dialog: oughta just back off...| don’t know
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Wong, Goof...look - if you keep ‘em
dialog: under your thunb, they'll never end
dialog: up in the gutter!
text: Pete rolls his ball down the lane as he finishes the phrase.
text: The ball strikes the pins and knocks themall dow - except
text: one. Pete | ooks surprised.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Too bad, Pete...al most...
dialog: 50.
text: Pete looks angrily at Goofy, and decides to prove his point.
text: He bellows at PJ.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Almost? Ha! Watch this.... PJ!!!
text: PJ rushes to Pete, and stands at attention - as if in the
dialog: nilitary.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: (frantically)
dialog: Yes, sir! Coning, sir! Yes sir!
text: Pete points dow the lane at the remaining pin. PJ knows
text: what he's supposed to do. He runs down and kicks the pin
text: over. He looks back at Pete, pleased wth himself. Pete
text: immedi ately begins to celebrate his "victory" by dancing
text: around and chanting.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Wo- hoo! Strike-o-la! Hee-hee ha- ha!
dialog: Thank you, thank you! Yes! And the
dialog: crowd goes wild!
text: Goof y and Max stand speechless in amazenent at the spectacle.
text: As PJ rushes back toward Pete, Pete fakes a high-five wth
text: him and laughs cruelly. PJ looks dej ect ed.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Hi gh-five, son!...Psyche! Ha ha ha!
dialog: Say, Goof... why don't you two stay
dialog: for dinner?
text: PJ's face brightens and Max sniles.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Cool !
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, no thanks, Pete...uh, Max and |
dialog: have sone fish to catch!
text: Goof y puts his hand on Max's shoulder and nusses his hair as
text: he says this. Max gets angry and flings Goofy's hands asi de.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Aw, Dad! W can do it tonvrrow..so,
dialog: uh, what are we havin' ?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ( sur pri sed)
dialog: But Max! | thought -
text: Pete el bows Goofy and quietly gives him "advice".
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: ( qui etl y)
dialog: Ahemi Under your thunb, Goof...
text: Goofy thinks for a monent and his face hardens. He sets his
text: jaw and confronts Max.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (sternly)
dialog: Maxi ni Ili an!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (surprised and annoyed)
dialog: What ?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (sternly)
dialog: Get your gear, little man! W're
dialog: going fishin’!
text: Max frowns and sets his jaw, challenging Goofy. Goofy responds
dialog: wth authority.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (1 oudl y)
dialog: And | mean NOW
text: Max turns away and leaves, defeated.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (to hi msel f)
dialog: Ar gh!
text: Goof y | ooks triumphantly at Pete, and they wnk and exchange
dialog: thunbs- ups.
text: Goofy strides off.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODLAND LAKE
text: The water of a quiet streamis disturbed when Goofy pushes
text: an unwlling Max out into the stream- both of themin waders.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Dad, | don't even know how to fish!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, cone on! That never st opped
dialog: ne!...Let me show you a little fanily
dialog: secret - handed down through about
dialog: twelve or thirteen Goof generations
dialog: ...The Perfect Cast.
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: The Perfect what?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: The Perfect Cast! My Dad taught it
dialog: to me when |! was about your
dialog: age...okay, now... watch carefully!
text: Max watches, unimpressed, as Goofy shakes his body around to
text: loosen up and denonstrates the cast.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: You gotta be | oooooose,
dialog: rel aaaaxed... you put your feet apart,
dialog: then...ten o'clock, two o'clock,
dialog: quarter to three, touchate, twist,
dialog: over, pot-o-dew, I'ma little tea
dialog: pot, and the wind up!...
text: Goof y swings the pole backward to wd up for the cast, and
text: he inadvertently hooks a steak on Pete's nearby barbecue
text: grill. He makes the cast and snatches it away. Pete, who was
text: | ooking the other way, looks back to his steak and is
text: surprised to find it gone.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ... AND LET * ER FLY!
text: Goofy swings the pole, and sends the steak flying. He | ooks
text: proudly at Max, who is still frowning inperi ousl y.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: The Perfect Cast...
text: The steak overshoots the water and | ands on the opposite
text: side. After a monent, a shadow covers it, followed by an
text: approaching pair of large feet.
text: The canera pans upward to show Bigfoot eating a tree branch.
text: He smells the steak, |ooks down and spies it. Goofy doesn't
text: realize what is going on, and he continues his denonstrati on.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ...and now, we reel ‘er in!
text: Bi gf oot |ooks at the branch, the steak and back again. He
text: deci des the steak looks better, and throws the stick away.
text: He prepares to eat the steak when a tug fromthe line sends
text: it hopping a bit. After recoiling in fear, he gets angry and
text: attenpts to catch the treat - which is now speeding away as
text: Goofy reels in his line. Bigfoot, roaring, makes several
text: unsuccessful attenpts to catch the steak and is eventually
text: dragged underwater. Goofy is still fighting the line, thinking
text: he's caught a fish.
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Whoa! Quick, get the canera!
text: Mex retrieves the camera and hands it to Goofy, who begins
text: filning - thinking he's going to filma large fish he's
dialog: caught .
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Must be over three pounds! | don't
dialog: want to niss this!
text: Goof y pans the cancvorder upwards and sees Bi gf oot through
text: the viewinder, who is holding a fishin his nouth. Goofy
text: looks at himin amazenent. Max, however, realizes the trouble
dialog: they're in.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (i neredul ous! y)
dialog: Look, Max!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (scr eani ng)
text: Uh. . . da- da- Dad! ? 1 T'S BI GFOOOOOT!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Could you back up a bit M. Foot?
dialog: You're out of focus.
text: Bi gf oot roars angrily, and Goofy and Max flee, and Goofy
text: sw ngs the pole in the process. The steak on the end of the
text: line is yanked out of Bigfoot's nouth and flies through the
text: air. It hits Pete in the face, and he pulls it off angrily.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: What's the idea - Bl GFOOT!
text: He looks in their direction and sees Bigfoot chasing them
text: toward him Pete grabs the grill and runs back toward the RV
text: in fear. He tosses the grill inside and sl ans the door behind
text: him All the RVs attachnents and appendages are jerked inside
text: quickly and it zoons away, leaving behind Goofy and Max's
text: tent, and a few puddles of water fromthe pool. Goofy is
text: still taping Bigfoot, watching himthrough the viewinder as
text: he runs. Tripping over the tent, he drops the camera. It
text: continues to filmthemas they attenpt to get into the car.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Behold, the legendary Bi gf oot... fabled
dialog: but sel dom- aaahhhhhhhh!
dialog: Ow... ow... oof!... ow
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Dad! Quick! He's coni ng!
dialog: 54.
text: The car is locked, so they both get into the car through the
text: sunroof. Goofy frantically tries to close it behind them
text: and succeeds just before Bigfoot reaches them Frustrated,
text: Bi gf oot jumps onto the car's roof and rocks it back and forth
text: a fewtimes. He sees their canping equi pment and decides to
text: investigate, leaving themalone. Max and Goofy watch from
text: the car, laying low
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | can't believe it! Bigfoot!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: And | got the only video!
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: We're gonna be fanous!
text: As Max finishes his statenent, Bigfoot finds the canera and
text: gleefully pulls the videocassette apart.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( di sgust ed)
dialog: Let's just get outta here.
text: Goof y checks his pockets for the car keys. Coning up enpty
text: handed, they | ook at Bigfoot - who is holding the keys,
text: sniling. He tosses them away into the forest. Goofy gets
text: di scouraged and Max gets angrier still. Bigfoot continues to
text: dig through their baggage, wearing a pair of Max's underwear
text: on his head. Some tine later, Max and Goofy are still in
text: the car - waiting.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Is he gone yet?
text: Suddenl y, two sock- wearing hands appear in front of the
text: windshield. Bigfoot perforns a primtive puppet show, then
text: laughs riotously at the performance.
speaker_heading: BI GFOOT
text: Ne- ne- ne- ne... grrrrr...grunble... me-
dialog: ne- me... ha ha ha ha!
text: Goof y responds to Max's questi on.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Nope... still here...
text: Bi gf oot runs back to the baggage, sending a shower of clothes
text: and other items across the car's hood while Goofy and Max
text: talk. A grunbling noise is heard.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Gee, Max...is that Bigfoot or your
dialog: st omach?
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Man, I'm starving!
text: A can of soup lands on their hood and | ands on end right in
dialog: front of them
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: A-hyuk! Alphabet soup, conin' up!
text: Goofy rolls down the wndow to reach the soup. In the process
text: he makes a small noise, which Bigfoot hears. Looking up,
text: alarned, Bigfoot is crushing a can of whipped creamin his
text: mouth. When he sees that Goofy and Max are vulnerable, he
text: begins running toward them roaring. Terrified, they try to
dialog: get their can of soup inside even faster.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Dad!...DAD!...stop playing around,
dialog: he's coni ng!
text: Just before he reaches them Goofy manages to roll the wndow
text: up, and Bigfoot bounces off the car - landing on his back.
text: As he sits up, a headphone radio that had been sent fl ying
text: lands on his head. Disco nusic begins playing, and Bi gf oot
text: reacts wth fear. After a few nonents, he begins to enj oy
text: the music, | aughing and noving wth the beat.
scene_heading: INT. GOOFY'S CAR
text: The cigarette lighter in Goofy's apartment pops, and he
text: removes it. He balances the can of soup on top of the lighter.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WIl...it's nice to knowthis thing's
dialog: good for sonethin'!
text: Waiting for the soup to finish, Goofy and Max sit, | ooking
text: away fromone another wthout speaking. Suddenly, Bi gf oot
text: appears in the wndow behind themin the distance. He dances
text: to "Stayin' Alive" behind their heads, but they don't notice
text: him After he's gone, silence returns. Max and Goofy | ook at
text: one another si nultaneously, the they both | ook away,
text: embarrassed. Mbre unconfor- table silent moments pass when
text: Goof y begins chuckling wthout warning.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
text: Hnm hnm hnm .. ha- ha- ha- ha! MAX What's
dialog: so funny?
text: Goof y poi nts to the can of soup warning on the dashboard.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hi Dad Soup!
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (curi ous)
dialog: h?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, don't tell me you don't renenber
dialog: Hi Dad Soup?
text: Max looks at himwith a blank | ook.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, come on! Sure you do! You used
dialog: to spell things out using the letters,
dialog: like uh, "Hi Dad" or "Maxie" or -
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (j oki ngl y)
dialog: " Anbi dext rous"?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Yeah, that's - huh? Naw..little
dialog: words like, uh...
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: “Hasta la vista"?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Like "Bye-bye!"
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: -or "I pledge allegiance”...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: -or "I love you-"
text: Goofy stops himself short and looks surprised at what he's
text: said. A soft, sad oboe piece begins. Max | ooks equally sad,
text: and they both turn away fromone another. Max, trying to
text: fill the silence inquires about their meal.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Uhhh. ..is it *s-soup* yet?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, almost forgot...
text: Goof y picks up the can and opens it by puncturing the lid
text: wth his big front teeth.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Whoa! Where'd you learn to do that?
text: Max picks up a Styrofoamcup and Goofy fills it wth soup.
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Your granddad taught me that, when
dialog: we went to Yosenite...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You two did a lot together, huh?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (sadl y)
dialog: Yup...
text: Max looks sadly into his soup. Both of thembegin at speak
text: at once, but neither hears the other and they both cut
text: thensel ves off.
speaker_heading: MAX/ GOOFY
dialog: (si mul t aneousl y)
dialog: Dad... / Max...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Unm..uhh....how s the soup?
text: Max drinks sone of the soup and answers him He wpes his
text: nouth, but some of the soup remains on his face.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Not bad...! mean, uh... (ahen)
text: Goof y sees the soup and sniles.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What ?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Nothin’.
text: The silence is interrupted by grunts from Bigfoot as the car
text: lurches back and forth. Bigfoot climbs onto the roof and
text: lays down to sleep.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WIl, we night as well get sone
dialog: shuteye...1 don't think we're goin’
dialog: anywhere toni ght...
text: Goof y | ays down on the seat and curls up to sleep. Max Wpes
text: the soup off his mouth and | ooks dow into the cup
text: inquisitively, swrling the soup around.
text: After a few nonents, Goofy is roused by a tap to his shoulder,
text: and Max hands himthe cup of soup. Goofy | ooks down into the
text: cup, in which the letters now spell "Hi Dad". Deeply noved,
text: he looks back at Max, who is lying dow, nearly asleep.
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ( whi sper i ng)
dialog: Hi Maxie...
text: After a brief establishing shot of the exterior of the car
text: wth Bigfoot on top to indicate the passage of time, Goofy
text: is seen sitting upright in the front seat of the car - snoring
text: loudly. Bigfoot is also snoring loudly on the roof. Max,
text: however is staring into space wth bloodshot eyes, unable to
text: sleep. He sits up in the seat and funbles through the bag
text: beside him Pulling out a postcard fromLester's Possum Park,
text: he finds a pencil and decides to wite to Roxanne.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (voice over of writing)
dialog: Dear Roxanne...couldn't sleep -
text: His thought is interrupted by a particularly loud snore by
dialog: Goof y and Bi gf oot together.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (voice over of writing)
dialog: So | thought I'd drop you a line.
dialog: Dad and | are having a great time!
dialog: W're only days away fromLA, and |
dialog: can hardly wait for the...big...
dialog: concert...ugh...
text: He begins to rethink his letter, when Goofy yawns and talks
text: in his sleep.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Hi dad
dialog: (yawn)
dialog: Soup, pl ease...
text: Max sniles, touched...and decides to do the right thing.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (voice over of writing)
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: Dear Roxanne, sorry | lied...1I' mnot
dialog: really going to the Powerline concert.
dialog: You may never want to see ne again...
text: Realizing what he's saying, Max stops.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qh, man! I'mdead no natter what |
dialog: do!
text: Frustrated, he sits back in the seat and kicks the dashboard.
text: The gl ove conpartrment pops open and Goofy's map springs out
text: into Max's lap.
dialog: 59.
text: He looks at Goofy to be sure he's still asleep, then begins
text: tracing the path on the nap wth his finger. He notices that
text: their course meets a junction that leads to Los Angeles. A
text: pencil rolls out onto the map, stopping in front of him Max
text: picks up the pencil and debates what to do. He nervously
text: begins erasing the part of the line that leads to Lake
text: Destiny, I daho...watching Goofy to see if he's waking up. He
text: begins draw ng a new course on the nap when the pencil breaks.
text: The soft sound seens deafening to Max in the silence. Goofy
text: begins to stir. Frantic, Max grabs the broken point and
text: continues to draw Goofy begins to wake up as Max quickly
text: conpletes the line and returns the map to the glove
text: conpartrent. He sits back in his seat innocently as Goofy
text: rouses and looks at Max sleepily.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (sl eepi | y)
dialog: How many cups of sugar does it take
dialog: to get to the noon?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (ner vousl y)
dialog: Uhh...three and a half?
text: Having not actually been awake, Goofy flops back into the
text: seat and begins snoring again. Max sinks into his seat,
text: relieved. He looks at the postcard he had witten and tears
text: it up. Holding the pieces out the wndow, he lets the wnd
text: carry themaway. Froma distance, we see the pieces fl ying;
text: one lands in a tree near the canera - it clearly reads "Il
dialog: lied".
scene_heading: EXT. TRUCK STOP
text: A landscape covered wth tractor trailer rigs is distingui shed
text: only by a set of small buildings wth large signs reading
text: “Diner”, and "Eat and Get Gas".
text: Soft country music plays to set the atmosphere.
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK STOP
text: In the truck stop, the first viewis a reflection of the
text: diner's interior ona bell. In the reflection sone of the
text: patrons, including Elvis, can be seen.
text: The image is disturbed when the cook rings the bell.
speaker_heading: COOK
dialog: Pick up!
speaker_heading: Wl TRESS
dialog: Hold your horses!
dialog: 60.
text: The view pans back as the waitress collects the neals and
text: heads out through the crowded diner full of chattering people.
text: She arrives at Goofy and Max's table wth their food.
speaker_heading: Wl TRESS
dialog: Short stack?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Ri ght here!
speaker_heading: Wl TRESS
dialog: Here you go, hon...
text: She turns to Max to hand himhis food, but he is preoccupied
text: and doesn't hear her.
speaker_heading: Wal TRESS
text: Eggs... eggs... EGS...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qh! Oh yeah, yeah, right
dialog: here...sorry...
speaker_heading: Wl TRESS
dialog: Here you go, cutie...
text: The waitress sits his food in front of himand he | ooks dow
text: at it. The eggs and bacon are forning a sniley face. Goofy
text: begins eating his pancakes when he notices Max absently
text: picking at his food. He thinks for a nmonent then | ooks at
text: the map - and decides what to do.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Max, | think we need to talk about
dialog: this...
text: Max, thinking he's been caught in the act, stutters nervousl y.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Seens to me you need to start takin’
dialog: some responsi bility around here...
text: Goofy stands up at his seat, taps his water glass and draws
text: everyone's attention. Max shrinks into his seat, enbarrassed.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Excuse me, uh, can! have your
dialog: attention, please? I, Goofy, hereby
dialog: dub ny son, Maxinillian, official
dialog: navi gator and head whi ch- way-er of
dialog: this here road trip.
dialog: 61.
text: Goof y hands Max the nmap, cerenoni ously. The other people in
dialog: the diner appl aud and cheer | oudl y.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (incr edul ous)
dialog: Seri ous! y?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: I'mnot even lookin’ at the map
dialog: anynore. As a matter of fact, you
dialog: can pick all the stops fromhere to
dialog: Lake Destiny. | trust you
dialog: whol eheartedl y, son.
text: Nex looks back at Goofy sheepishly. Goofy raises his mug of
text: coffee for a toast, and Max joins himwth his water
text: gl ass... gingerly.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: To the open road!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: To the... open...road...
text: A piano slide leads into a jazz/pop tune that provides the
text: background nusic for a nusic montage. They clink their cups
text: together, then the car is seen leaving the diner.
speaker_heading: NUSI C MONTAGE (descriptions of segments)
text: An overhead view of the creased map shows Goofy's car driving
text: around on it surrealistically, wth clouds overhead casting
text: shadows on the map as they head toward their destination.
text: Goofy attenpts to ride a jet ski, plunging into the water
text: and shooting out again. He loses control and runs it aground.
text: Proceeding up the beach, he slides past people sunbathing
text: and through a row of cabanas. He emerges on the other side
text: dressed in a variety of wonen's clothing.
text: A close up of the car's front wheel follows, and the wheel
text: bl ows out. Max and Goofy attenpt to change the tire ina
text: series of segnents that are intersper- sed through the
text: montage. Here, they both reach for the spare tire si mlt-
text: aneously, and hit their heads together. Recoiling, Max rubs
text: his head, and Goofy gets the tire.
text: Nex and Goofy ride a roller coaster side by side. Max enjoys
text: himself immensely, but Goofy gets sick. Energing fromthe
text: restroom(labeled wth a symbol that | ooks like hin), hol ding
text: his stomach gingerly, Goofy is greeted by Max, who cheerfully
text: offers hima tray of junk foods - hot dogs, french fries,
text: nachos and soft drinks. Upon seeing the food, Goofy grabs
text: his mouth and races back into the restroomto throw up again.
dialog: 62.
text: A monster truck crushes the roofs of a rowof small cars
text: while Max and Goofy | ook on at a monster truck rally. Max,
text: swinging a giant foam"nunber one" finger, notices that Goofy
text: is holding his head in an attenpt to block out the noise.
text: Another "driving across the USA" map sequence shows them
text: getting closer to their destination.
text: Nex uncovers Goofy's eyes, in order to surprise himwth
text: their current stop. Goofy opens his eyes to see the Wrld's
text: Largest House of Yarn. Excited, he yells "Oh Boy!", grabs
text: Max by the arm and drags himalong to see the house.
text: Nex and Goofy are watching a nine on a street corner. The
text: mime is perforning the standard "pulling on a rope" routine,
text: appearing to pull on an overhead rope. Goofy nudges Max and
text: winks at him He approaches the nine, pretending he's
text: followng an imaginary wall. He makes a scissors notion wth
text: his fingers, and the nine gestures as if he's holding his
text: rope out to be cut. Goofy sniles and makes a cutting notion
dialog: where the rope would be and the nine sniles back for a nonent
text: bef ore a piano falls and lands on him Goofy and Max turn
text: around and begin whistling innocently as they slip away.
text: Another map sequence establishes themas being closer still
dialog: to Lake Destiny.
text: Returning to the tire changing sequence, Goofy is in the
text: backgr ound punping air into the newtire while Max struggles,
text: trying to remove the blow tire.
text: He slips, and the tire wench flies through the air like a
text: boonerang. Goofy ducks, and it just misses his head.
text: Returning, the wench hits the jack supporting the car. The
text: car falls, propelling the old tire off at high speed.
text: It hits Goofy in the chest just as he's lifting the newtire.
text: He sends the newtire flying, and it lands on the car's axle -
text: just as the car is on it's way dow froma bounce. Max and
dialog: Goof y exchange pl eased gl ances.
text: Goofy is holding a canera at arms length, in an attenpt to
text: take a picture of himself and Max standing in a cave. He is
text: oblivious to the many eyes behind him watching. He takes
text: the picture, and the flash disturbs the bats. They fly toward
text: them Goofy and Max run out the opening to the cave; the
text: sign above it reads "Carl's Butt Caverns."
text: A batter at a baseball game the Goofy and Max are attending
text: hits the ball. It heads for them and Max readies hi nsel f
text: and his glove in hopes of catching it. He stands up to catch
text: the ball, but funbles it. Goofy makes a dive to catch it and
text: he ends up going over the edge of the bal cony.
dialog: 63.
text: He falls, but manages to catch himself on a string of
text: streamers. As the streaners stretch, he falls right through
text: the dugout roof, where he is suspended nonentarily. He hands
text: the ball to the player sitting there on the bench, and he
text: signs it. The streamers spring back, flinging Goofy back to
text: his seat - Max catches himand they exchange pl eased gl ances.
text: A close up of the car's wheel shows the new tire is al most
text: conpl etely in place. Max and Goofy are alternately turning
text: the wench. When they finish, they slap hands in a high five.
text: The music comes to a close when the car is seen driving off
text: into the sunset, but instead it turns into the parking | ot
dialog: of the Neptune I nn.
scene_heading: INT. GOOFY AND MAX'S HOTEL ROOM
text: After a brief establishing shot of Goofy and Max carrying
text: their luggage through the door, they energe in their room
text: It is lit in an eerie green light that befits the nautical
text: thene. The waterbeds are transparent wth fish swmming
text: inside, and the rest of the decor is sinilar.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Caw sh!
text: Max sees the waterbed and junps on it. The water sloshes him
text: back and forth. Goofy looks at and feels the material the
text: furniture is made of.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Who- ho- hoa! Check out the bed!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Check out the dresser... coral !
text: Qn the wall there is a night light shaped like Ariel, which
text: both Goofy and Max adnire.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Nice Il anp!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Cassy choice, there, navi gator.
text: The quiet is broken by a loud pounding at the door fol! owed
text: by yelling. Goofy and Max begin to approach the door gingerly.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: This is the Police! We've got the
dialog: pl ace surrounded, see? You Goof's
dialog: come out wth your hands up!
text: Pete breaks the door open and pretends to fire a machine gun
text: at them he knocks Goofy and Max backwards onto the floor.
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: B- b- b- b- b- bang! Ha ha ha! You
dialog: shoul d' ve seen the | ook on your face!
text: Goofy looks at Max, and tries to pretend that he wasn't
text: frightened, but Max doesn't believe it.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Ah- hyuk! You really had him fool ed,
dialog: Pete.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ne!? You j unped out of your skin!
text: Goof y and Max begin shoving and punching each other playfully.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Nuh-uh! I's just pretending for your
dialog: sake!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qh, right, sure...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Did too!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Did not!
text: Goofy grabs Max and begins nussing up his hair, both | augh.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qh ho, ain't this sweet...
text: Pete tries to "Wse Goofy up" by making himdistrust Max. He
text: grabs Goofy by the armand quietly gives him"advice".
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: ( qui etl y)
dialog: Don't let himfool you wth that
dialog: buddy- buddy act, now.."under your
dialog: thunb"...
text: He releases Goofy, who is | ooking nore and nore concerned.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: So! Since we're all bein’ pal sy-
dialog: walsy here, how about lettin’ ne
dialog: hook up the RV?
text: Pete grabs Goofy around the shoul ders again.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (rel uct antl y)
dialog: Wil...
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qh, it's just a tiny little extension
dialog: cord, you'll hardly even notice it.
text: Goofy relents, so Pete calls PJ to bring the hookup.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, okay.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Geat!...PuJ!!
text: PJ appears in the doorway, straining under the weight of a
text: huge, nultipart tube. Pete points himtoward the room
text: instructing himto hook it up. Goofy and Max stand speechl ess
text: and wide-eyed at the sight.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Hey, Goof...why don't you order us a
dialog: pizza, this might take a while.
scene_heading: INT. GOOFY AND MAX'S HOTEL ROOM
text: The scene switches to an exterior shot of the inn to indicate
text: the passage of time. The we see the interior of the room
text: again. Max and PJ are sitting on the bed and the floor,
text: respectively, talking. Goofy enters in a swrsuit and carrying
text: a pizza for themto eat.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: No, you m-
dialog: (gasp)
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Here you go, kids...I'm gonna go
dialog: check out the hot tub.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Qh, okay, sir.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Alri ght.
text: Goofy leaves the roomas Max and PJ start eating.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: | can't believe you, man. Whatever
dialog: made you think your Dad would fall
dialog: for a stupid idea like that?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It wasn't stupid!
dialog: 66.
text: While they are talking, Pete begins to enter the roomto
text: talk to them He hears what they're talking about and deci des
text: to stay outside and eavesdrop on their conversation.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Cone on, it was really stupid!
dialog: Changi ng the map! ?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: 1-1 didn't know what | was doing,
dialog: alright? I-I-1 was...1 was PANICKED!
dialog: I...
scene_heading: EXT. HOT TUB
text: The hot tub is surrounded by a high fence topped wth fl aning
text: torches and various plants. Goofy eases himself into the
text: steany water. A soft green glow sinilar to the one in the
text: room shines fromin the water. He begins to relax, and sinks
text: under the surface of the water. After a few nonents, a large
text: figure appears above him He sits up and sees Pete standing
text: over himina small, tight, pink swnoesuit.
speaker_heading: PETE
text: Takin’ a break fromthe "MIV"
dialog: generation, huh? Heh heh...1 can't
dialog: blame ya...
text: Pete gets in the water, and nuch of it splashes out over the
dialog: edges.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: People are always puttin’ too nuch
dialog: water in these things...so, unm.. you
dialog: and your son seemto be, uh, gettin’
dialog: along just hunky-dorey, huh?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Yeah! It's been great! You know,
dialog: it's funny, but none of your
dialog: techni ques worked for me. The harder
dialog: | tried, the worse it got. Qnce |
text: eased up, things just clicked.
text: Goofy gets up and noves toward Pete. He sits on the stairs
text: near the handrail and begins to relax, sinking back into the
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qh, that's swell...so, uh, no probl ens
dialog: then, huh?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Not a one.
dialog: 67.
text: Goof y begins to relax again, but Pete grabs his attention by
dialog: telling himabout the nap.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: | just hate to be the bearer of bad
dialog: news, but...uh...
text: Goofy sits back up again, nervousl y.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (curi ous)
dialog: What is it, Pete?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Your kid's dupin' ya.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (ner vousl y)
dialog: Whaddya nean?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: WII, | head the little mutant tellin’
dialog: PJ that he change the map so
dialog: that... you're headin’ straight for
dialog: LA, pal.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ( shocked)
dialog: Wat ?
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Qh, you tried, Goofy...he's just a
dialog: bad kid, that's all.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (cal ni y)
dialog: | don't believe you.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Wat ! ?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: | don't believe you, Pete.
text: Goofy gets out of the hot tub and begins heading toward the
dialog: room
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: WII hey, don't take ny word for it -
dialog: check your map.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: | don't need to check the map...1
dialog: trust ny son.
dialog: 68.
text: He begins to turn away, but decides to tell Pete what he
dialog: thi nks.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: You know, naybe Max isn't all the
dialog: things that you think a son should
dialog: be, but...he loves ne.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Hey...my son RESPECTS ne...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ( qui etl y)
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: Check the map, Goof...
scene_heading: INT. GOOFY'S CAR
text: Goofy walks away fromthe hot tub slowy. He approaches the
text: car and their room and gets in the car. As he opens the
text: door, the green gl ow nonentarily succunbs to the bri ght,
text: white light fromthe car's dome light. He shuts it again and
text: the green glowreturns. He sits in the driver's seat and
text: begins reaching for the glove conpartment to check the nap.
text: He decides not to do it and hits the steering wheel in
text: frustration. As he does this, the gl ove conpartnent pops
text: Open, revealing the map.
scene_heading: INT. GOOFY AND MAX'S HOTEL ROOM
text: After a brief shot of the exterior of the Neptune Inn, we
text: see Max and PJ still watching TV when Goofy walks in | ooking
text: shell-shocked. Max turns around and greets himcheerfully
dialog: and unknow ngl y.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hi Dad!
text: The only sound to be heard is the voice of Powerline on TV.
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: ...even if | gotta shout out | oud...
text: Unnerved, Max tries to improve the situation.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Sorry about the mess...1-I'I1l clean
dialog: it up...
text: Nex looks at PJ and shrugs, confused. Goofy is still silent
text: as he turns the lights off and lays down in bed.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: | think I'd better go...
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: See ya, Peej!
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: Don't forget... "Powerline"!
dialog: Shhhhhhhh!
scene_heading: INT. GOOFY'S CAR
text: Goof y and Max are driving dow the road in silence. Goofy
text: still has the same shocked expression on his face. Goofy
dialog: deci des to give Max a chance to make the right choice, and
text: hopes to avoid a confrontation. They exchange unconf ort able
text: ooks.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WII, here you go, navi gator...just
dialog: follow ny route on the map, son.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Qkay, uh, unm..uh...
text: Max looks nervously at the map, then up at the signs
text: indicating the upconing junction, which are zi pping overhead.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Here comes our junction...
text: Max still munbles, undecided as they careen toward the center
text: divider on the hi ghway.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Okay, Max...nowthis is it: left or
dialog: ri ght ?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Unm .. ubh. . .
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Core on, Max!!
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Aaaaaahhhhh!.... LEFT! !
text: Goofy I|urches the car to the left, and hits the center divider
text: in the process.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: . Uh, how’ bout a song, Dad?
text: Goofy sinks | ower and lower - getting angrier and angrier -
text: as Max continues to try to pretend nothing's happening.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Uh, a gane? A gane! Yeah! Yeah, a
dialog: gane! Okay, uh...man or woman? Man?
dialog: Man... okay, uh... Walt Disney!
text: Finally, Goofy snaps. He veers off the road into a scenic
text: lookout point and stops the car. He opens the door and
text: struggles to get out while wearing a seat belt. He releases
text: it and storms away, and begins | ooking out over the edge.
text: Max deci des to try to make amends and approaches Goofy.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: Dad, uh, listen...about ny
dialog: di rections...
text: Goofy turns away twice, refusing to acknow edge him
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Can you listen to me? | gotta tell
dialog: you something, Dad!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Why bother? |'m probably too stupid
dialog: to understand, anyway, ri ght?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( di sgust ed)
dialog: Forget it!
text: Max walks back to the car, kicks the tire angrily, then leans
text: against the rear bunper. After a monent, the car rolls out
text: from behind himand he falls to the ground wth a thud. He
text: looks back to see what happened and realizes that the car is
text: rolling away.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sur pri sed)
dialog: Oof!...Hh-hey! The car!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: What ? Now you wanna drive, too?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No, Dad! The car! Look!
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: The car!
text: Both of thembegin running after the car, frantically.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: What'd you do now, Max?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | didn't do anything, Dad! | only
dialog: touched it!
text: The car passes under a | ow hanging rock formation, and all
text: their luggage is knocked off of the roof. A skateboard flies
text: off and lands on the road in front of Goofy - who
text: inadvertently steps on it. Max junps on the back of the board
text: and rides wth him They zip back and forth, trying to get
text: around the side of the car.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh, ohhhh... whoa! You | ocked it!
text: Goofy grabs onto the driver's side of the car and tries to
text: open the door, but it's | ocked.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: | locked it!? It's your door, you
dialog: locked it!
text: Max leaves Goofy hanging on and manages to get to the
text: passenger side door. He opens it and gets in the car. He
text: unl ocks the driver's side door and it opens, swinging Goofy
text: out over the canyon. Max pulls the door shut again, and opens
text: the window for Goofy to get through.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WII, you distracted ne!...whoa!!
text: Max pulls Goofy into the car up to his waist, and he | oses
text: his pants.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You shoul d' ve put the brake on!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Why don't you just put it on yourself!
text: Goofy grabs the brake lever and pulls it to stop the car,
text: but it breaks off in his hand.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: See? You ruin everything...
text: The car slides out on the guide rail and hangs over the
dialog: canyon.
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WII, you ruined the vacation!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | ruined it!?
text: The guide rail lets loose and the car gets | aunched into the
text: air. It bounces off of several rock formations while Max
text: continues to argue wth Goofy, bouncing them both around the
text: car's interior.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | never...wanted to go...on this
dialog: st upi d. . . vacat i oo0d00000000n!
text: The car bounces off the last rock formation, then plunnets a
text: long way before landing in the river below
scene_heading: EXT. CAR IN CHURNI NG RI VER
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( gasp)
dialog: Now | ook where you got us, Dad!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Were *I* got us! ?
text: They both struggle to get back on the car. Goofy boosts Max
text: up onto its roof.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You should've let ne stay at hone!
text: Max hel ps pull Goofy onto the roof.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Why? So you'd end up in prison?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Prison? What are you talking about ?
text: The car bounces and spins wildly through a series of rapids.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Your principal called me! You even
dialog: lied to ne!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | had to! You were ruining ny life!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: | was only tryin’ to take ny boy
dialog: fishin’, okay?
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: I'm NOT your little boy anynvre!
dialog: I've grown up! I've got ny ow life
dialog: now,
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: | KNOWthat! | just wanted to be
dialog: part of it!
text: The car slides over a small waterfall into calmwater. The
text: car stops bobbing and the sun begins shining on them
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: You're ny son, Max...no matter how
dialog: big you get, you'll always be ny
dialog: son...
text: Goofy and Max sit wth their backs to each other in silence
text: as the car continues to float gently through the canyon.
text: Bi rds fly overhead and soft nusic begins. Max breaks the
dialog: silence.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: There are times you drive ne, shall
dialog: we say, bananas...and your mind is
dialog: nissing, no offense, a screw
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: None taken.
text: The car floats into a cavern wth blue ripples reflecting
text: onto its ceiling fromthe water.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Still whatever mess | land in, who
dialog: is always under st andi n' ? Nobody el se
dialog: but you...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Qh your nvodi ness is now and then
dialog: bew Il derin'...and your values nay
dialog: be, so to speak, askew...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Gesunhei t!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Thanks!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Who deserves a hero's trophy, as ve
dialog: face each catastrophe? Nobody else
dialog: but you...
text: The car exits the cavern into a slow, Wde part of the river.
dialog: 74,
speaker_heading: GOOFY & NAX
dialog: Nobody else but you, it's just our
dialog: luck, we're stuck together. Nobody
dialog: else but you, it's crazy enough to
dialog: believe we'll come through.
text: They both take off their shoes and splash the water wth
text: their feet.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So your j okes are all, let's face
dialog: it, prehistoric.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: And your nusic sounds like monkeys
text: in a zoo.
speaker_heading: GOOFY & NAX
dialog: But when life become di stressin',
dialog: who will | be SOS' n?
text: A small fish grabs Max's toe and he lifts it out of the water
text: nonentarily. Goofy lifts up his foot to find that a huge,
text: ugl y fish has swallowed it. He quickly shakes it off and
text: sends it fl ying.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: If you're having trouble guessi ng,
dialog: here's a clue... Though he seens
text: intoxicated, he's just highly
dialog: ani mated... and he's nobody else but...
text: The car drifts into a whirlpool, and they get drawn under as
dialog: they sing.
speaker_heading: GOOFY & NAX
dialog: Nobody else but you, we've turned
text: into a true blue duo. Hard tines,
dialog: we've had a few..like we're thrown
text: in the drink, like we're tossed out
dialog: of town, but when | start to sink,
dialog: hey I'd rather go dow...
text: The car resurfaces wth a splash and bobs up and dow.
speaker_heading: GOOFY & NAX
dialog: Wth nobody else, but Y-OU!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: ( smooch)
dialog: Aw, Dad!
dialog: 75.
scene_heading: EXT. CAR IN CALM RI VER
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Anyway, | figure she's never gonna
dialog: want to talk to ne again...nuch less
dialog: go out Wth ne...
dialog: (si gh)
dialog: ...What a dunb lie, huh?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Well whaddya know... ny Maxie, in
dialog: love! Huh... Gosh, you're really
dialog: grown' up. Happened so fast, | guess
dialog: | sorta mssed It.
text: The water around the car becones increasingly choppy and the
text: light fades.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WIlp, | think the only thing for us
dialog: to do nowis to get you up onstage
dialog: wth this Powerline feller...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Heh...uh, how are we gonna do that?
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Now you just leave that up to me...
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: No, Dad, really...1-1 think we should,
dialog: you know, just forget it.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Now how cone you al ways think I'm
dialog: gonna |ead you into some sort of
dialog: cal anit y?
text: Max |ooks downstream and does a doubl etake. The water is
text: vani shing over a waterfall, and the car is heading directly
dialog: for it.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Uh, uh, D- D-Dad...
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: What's wong now?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Look! !
speaker_heading: GOOFY
text: Hyuk! A waterfall... WATERFALL! ?! ?
dialog: 76.
scene_heading: EXT. CAR IN RAPI DS
text: The car spins and sloshes, and Goofy falls off. Max continues
dialog: to hold on.
speaker_heading: GOOFY & NAX
dialog: (fri ght ened)
text: Max is quickly carried downstream on the car, leaving Goofy
dialog: behi nd.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Daaaaaaad!
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Mex!
text: The current slams Goofy against a rock and he grabs onto it.
text: Sone of their luggage floats by, including the fishing rod's
text: case, which hits himin the back of the head. Goofy gets the
text: fishing rod out and runs dowstreamon the rocks. He runs
text: out on a log, in hopes of being able to get Max wth the
dialog: pole.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Gab a hold, Max!
text: Goofy holds out the end of the pole. Max dives for it but
text: misses, landing back in the water wth the car. Goofy stands
text: hel plessl y as Max continues to float toward the falls.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Aah!...whoa!...
dialog: (gasp)
dialog: ...aaahhh! !
text: Goofy casts the line and snags the front bumper on the car.
text: The wei ght of the car pulls Goofy in. He flies dowstream
text: and hits some rocks which he uses for leverage. Finally the
text: wei ght of the car overpowers himand it goes over the falls.
text: Max gets caught in a tarp and falls wth it. Suddenly the
text: tarp unfolds and begins supporting Max in the air using the
text: updraft fromthe falls.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (terrified)
dialog: Dad!
text: Goofy, still in the water, is unable to stop himself. As he
text: goes over the falls, he extends the pole toward Max. Max
text: grabs the pole, and they both swng downward - still supported
text: by the updraft on the tarp. They smile at each other
text: nonentarily. Suddenly, the cork handgrip on the fishing pole
text: slides off and Goofy plummets into the nist bel ow
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (falling)
text: Nex looks at the end of the pole and thinks about The Perfect
text: Cast. Wthout hesitation he attenpts to performit.
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: (hur ri edl y)
dialog: Ten o'clock, two o'clock, quarter to
dialog: three, touchate, twst, I'ma little
dialog: tea pot and FLY!
text: Max sends the line flying after Goofy.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (falling)
dialog: !
text: The line is still loose and continuing to drop. Max's face
text: falls when he realizes it hasn't caught. Suddenly the line
text: becones taut and Max gets pulled dowwerd wth the added
text: weight. He begins to reel it in furiously. Goofy emerges
text: fromthe nist suspended by the hook.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Aah!... aaahh!
dialog: (grunt )
dialog: Haha! !
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: (senti mentally)
dialog: The Perfect Cast...
text: Max and Goofy grab one another firmy and hug. Both have
text: tears in their eyes.
text: As they enbrace, Goofy's map lands on his head. He lifts it
text: up and | ooks at it.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Boy, this has been one crazy
dialog: vacation...
text: He tosses the map away, and it is carried off into the wnd.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: And it's not over yet...
scene_heading: EXT. STADIUM IN LOS ANGELES
text: The scene opens wth a helicopter shot of the stadium where
text: the concert is being held. Their care searchlights beani ng
text: all around and a blinp circling.
dialog: 78.
text: People are crowding in past the turnstiles and filling the
text: parking lot.
scene_heading: INT. BACKSTAGE
text: The backstage crewis unl oading equi pnent into the stadium
text: Max and Goofy have hidden in sone of the instrument cases,
text: and they are carried into the loading area. When the door
text: closes, they energe.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: o whi sper i ng)
text: Goofy grabs Max by the armand pulls himalong. Max frees
text: himself and stops, worried.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Oof! W made it!... Cone on,
dialog: Mex...let's get you onstage...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Uhh... maybe this isn't such a good
dialog: i dea.
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE ( V. ©.)
dialog: Yeah, yeah!
text: Two attractive dancers walk in front of Max, and he has a
text: change of heart. He watches them walk by, and loses sight of
dialog: Goof y.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Uh, then again... Dad?... Dad?
text: Onstage, the lights dimas a giant sphere is lifted up.
text: Electricity arcs all around the sphere and it expl odes,
text: leaving only Powerline in its place. He stands up and begins
dialog: the song.
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: Got nyself a notion, one | know that
dialog: you'll understand. To set the world
text: in motion, by reaching out for each
dialog: other's hand. Maybe we'll di scover
dialog: what we should have know all al ong.
dialog: Qne way or another together's where
dialog: we both bel ong...
text: Still backstage, Max is looking for Goofy when he sees
text: Powerline and the dancers performing onstage, and stops to
text: watch. A guard spies himand tries to catch him but Max
text: dives through the guard's legs and runs away.
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Dad?
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: What are you doin’ here?...Hey!
text: Goof y is | ooking for Max when he accidentally | ooks into the
text: dressing roomof a very heavy background singer. She screans
text: and punches himback out the door. He falls backwards into
text: some of the stage equipment and gets tangl ed.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Max?. . . Max?
speaker_heading: LADY
dialog: Eeeeeeek!
text: Powerline and the dancers continue their performance onstage.
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: If we listen to each other's hearts,
dialog: we'll find we're never too far apart,
dialog: and maybe love is the reason why for
dialog: the first time ever we're seeing it
dialog: 121. Love is always seeing it
dialog: 121...121 we're seeing it, seeing
dialog: it...121...
scene_heading: INT. STACEY’ S HOUSE
text: The camera closes in on Powerline's face, then pulls back
text: again as a TV image in Stacey's house. Her party is in full
text: swng, wth everyone watching the concert. Everyone is
text: watching for Max, but Bobby doubts that he'll show up. Stacey
text: tries to reassure Roxanne, but her concerned | ook belies her
dialog: wor ds.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: That Goof kid ain't there!
speaker_heading: STACEY
dialog: Don't worry, he'll be there...
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: Love is always seeing it 12I...12I
text: we're seeing it, seeing it...12I...
scene_heading: INT. BACKSTAGE
text: The guard in pursuit of Max makes a lunge and nisses. Max
text: grabs onto a lighting scaffold that is being lifted into
text: position. Goofy, trapped inside another of the pyrotechnic
text: spheres, is being lifted onto the stage. The sphere arcs and
text: expl odes like Powerline's, and Goofy is sent flying onto the
dialog: 80.
text: stage. He lands onstage beside Powerline wth the tip of his
text: hair still flaming. Powerline gives hima curious | ook.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Excuse me... Max? Ooh! Aaaaahhh!
text: Max is nortified, but has a brainstorm
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hey Dad! Dad! Do the Perfect Cast!
text: Goof y hears himand begins perforning the notions of The
text: Perfect Cast, much to the anmazenent of Powerline and the
text: audience. Powerline continues the song and Goofy dances wth
dialog: him
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: If you're ever lonely - stop, you
dialog: don't have to be; after all it's
dialog: only a beat away from you to ne.
speaker_heading: SI NGERS
dialog: Take a | ook inside and see.
text: The guard climbs on the scaffolding to catch Max. Max bunps
text: one of the lights, and the beam gets in the guard's eyes. He
text: falls backwards, and his wei ght is too much for it. The
text: scaffolding breaks loose, Max grabs a rope, the guard grabs
text: Max by the legs, and they both swng downward.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Whoa! Whoaaaaahhhh!
text: The guard flies into one of the large nonitors, smashing it
text: in a wld shower of sparks and light. Max swngs back, and
text: ends up sliding onto the stage. He cones to rest directly
dialog: bet ween Goofy and Powerline. They both | ook surprised
text: nonentarily, then Max begins to dance and they join him
speaker_heading: POMERLI NE
dialog: If we listen to each other's hearts,
dialog: we'll find we're never too far apart,
dialog: and maybe I ove is the reason why for
dialog: the first time ever we're seeing it
dialog: 121...seeing it 121...seeing it
dialog: 121...for the first time ever,
dialog: 121...for the first tine...
dialog: (repeat and di gress)
scene_heading: INT. STACEY' S HOUSE
text: Everyone at Stacey's party watches excitedly as Max dances
text: onscreen. Roxanne sniles gleefully.
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Yeah! Max is on the tu-ube! That's
dialog: Max! | know him
scene_heading: INT. PETE'S RV
text: PJ is scrubbing the floor of the RV near the television when
text: he sees Max. Pete walks by drinking a beer and hears PJ
text: yell. He looks at the screen and spits his drink all over it
text: out of shock. PJ keeps watching Max through the fizz running
text: down the screen while Pete coughs and chokes.
speaker_heading: PJ
dialog: He did it!
scene_heading: INT. STACEY’ S HOUSE
text: Bobby, Stacey and Roxanne are dancing wth the music - as is
dialog: everyone else.
text: Bobby sprays his cheese at Stacey and Roxanne, and bunps
text: into soneone. He drops his squeeze cheese and bends to pick
text: it up. At the sane time, Stacey reaches for it and touches
text: his hand. They | ook into each other's eyes and snile.
scene_heading: BOBBY & STACEY
dialog: Ha ha ha!
scene_heading: INT. ONSTAGE
text: The song ends to a round of applause. The applause sl owy
text: fades into the next scene, back on Roxanne's street.
scene_heading: INT. GOOFY'S CAR
text: The car is approaching Roxanne's house slowy. It is dented,
text: crushed, snoking, and has no doors.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: You're doin' the right thing, son.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah, | know... but she'll probably
dialog: never talk to ne again.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: WIl, if she doesn't, maybe she's
dialog: just not the one for you.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That's what I|'mafraid of...
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: EXT. ROXANNE' S FRONT PORCH
text: Max rings the doorbell and is met by Roxanne's father wearing
text: a bath tovel.
scene_heading: ROXANNE' S FATHER
dialog: Q@rrreerecv....
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: Uh, hi! °‘Menber ne?
text: Not at all happy wth seeing Max, he slans the door in Max's
text: face. Roxanne cones to the door and opens it again.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (exci t edl y)
dialog: Daddy!... Max? | saw you on TV! You
dialog: were great!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sadl y)
dialog: Yeah?...1 mean no, no...! mean
dialog: |... Roxanne, | lied to you. | don't
dialog: even KNOW Power! i ne.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: What are you talking about? A billion
dialog: people saw you dance wth him
speaker_heading: NAX
dialog: Yeah, well...1-1 never met
dialog: him..before the concert, that is.
text: Max walks over to the banister and picks a flower froma
text: nearby bush.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: ( di smayed)
dialog: You nean that story about Powerline
dialog: and your Dad...why would you make up
dialog: sonet hing like that?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: | don't know..! guess | just... wanted
dialog: you to like ne.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: | already liked you, Max...fromthe
dialog: very first time | heard you I augh..."A
dialog: hyuk"... heh...
text: Max hangs his head, enbarrassed.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: So, you wanna do sonethi ng toni ght ?
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Definitely! Oh! Oh, no, | can't, |
dialog: can't...
text: Roxanne shoots hima di sdainful | ook.
dialog: doubt i
dialog: Saoueti nd
dialog: Wha
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: WII, I'mkinda doin’ sonething wth
dialog: ny Dad. Honest! How about t onorr ow?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Deal !
text: Roxanne extends her armto shake hands, and Max surprises
text: her wth a quick kiss. Both giggle.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ( smooch)
dialog: Hohn . .
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Heh heh...
text: Max acci dentally | aughs like Goofy again, and covers his
text: mouth in enbarrassnent.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ae h- h- h- hyuk!
text: Their conversation is interrupted by | oud bangs fromthe
text: street. Goofy is attenpting to put the front bunper of the
text: car back in place while hunning "Open Road". He grins back
text: at themand gestures hunorously at the car.
text: Wthout warning, the car explodes, leaving only Goofy's shoes
text: and socks behind as he sails through the air.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Do do dooo...do do do doo... ah- ho-
dialog: hoooey!
text: Roxanne and Max cringe sinultaneousl y as Goofy crashes through
text: the roof on Roxanne's porch.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: A- h- h- hyuk!
text: Max sniles and introduces them
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Roxanne...I'd like you to neet ny
dialog: Dad.
text: Roxanne sniles and Goofy kisses her hand.
speaker_heading: GOOFY
dialog: Enchante, Madenoi sel le
dialog: (smack)
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: Hee hee hee...
text: They all giggle as the camera pans up past the house, the
text: trees and into the cl ouds.
text: The screen goes black abruptly as "I 21" begins and the credits
dialog: roll.
dialog: 
