speaker_heading: A GOOD YEAR
dialog: screenplay by
dialog: Marc Klein
dialog: Based on the novel by Peter Mayle
dialog: White: 05/09/05
dialog: Blue: 05/09/05
dialog: Pink: 07/09/05~
dialog: Green: 19/08/05
dialog: 09/19/2005 1.
scene_heading: EXT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - LATE AFTERNOON i
text: A rustic Provencal farmhouse, surrounded by rows of well-kept
text: vines. Up above, the sky is a sparkling jewelbox of stars,
text: Down below, all ig quiet, except for the chirrup of the
dialog: cigales...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. FARMHOUSE - GARDEN - SAME 2 :
text: A gorgeous trellis of jasmine and honeysuckle is lit by a :
text: pair of flickering candles. Beneath it, MAX SKINNER, age 12, !
text: sits alone, puffing a cigar while staring at a cheas board, ;
text: pondering his next move. An old vadio broadcasts in
dialog: French...
speaker_heading: FRENCH DJ
dialog: La prochaine chanson est exécutée
dialog: ce soir par Josphine Baker...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (practicing French)
dialog: La pro-shane.,.shan-sone...est ex-6-
dialog: cu-tée...
dialog: Josephine Baker’s “Breezin’ Along With the Breeze" comes
text: on...as Max’s eyes drift across the garden--
scene_heading: MAX’S POV - ENTRANCE TO THE WINE CELLAR
text: A shaft of light spills out from the cellar. Downstairs, we
text: can HEAR wine bottles being moved and RATTLED.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Max taps his ash. His eyes anxiously dart between the
text: chessboard and the cellar entrance. Pinally, with the ease
text: of an experienced con artist, Max slides his bishop one
text: Square forward,,,just as he hears footsteps climbing the
text: stairs. Max quickly crosses his arms, resuming his pose of
text: deep contemplation.
speaker_heading: THE WINE CELLAR
text: Emerging from the cellar ig Max’s UNCLE HENRY, early-50's,
text: Uncle Henry is a sermonizing eccentric, with warm, knowing
text: eyes, and the countenance of a man who hasn’t worked very
text: hard for a very long time. He wears a pair of pajamas -~
text: shirt-top opened, revealing a round Buddha belly. He puffs
text: on a cigar, as he crosses the lawn, swinging a bottle of
dialog: red...
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Max my boy -- seeing that it’s your
dialog: last night here, I thought it only
dialog: appropriate that we open something
dialog: extra special...
dialog: 1A,
dialog: 09/19/2005 2.
text: He presents the wine with the flourish of a waiter,
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Tempier Bandol. 1969. The kind of
dialog: wine that’1l pickle even the
dialog: toughest of men... I once saw a
dialog: Castilian prizefighter collapse
text: into a heap after drinking just a
dialog: single glass. Of course, my knee
text: landing squarely on his testicles
dialog: may have been partly to biame.
text: He begins opening the bottle.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: What was I talking about before?
speaker_heading: . MAX
dialog: Blue suits.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Blue suits?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You said the importance of a good
dialog: blue suit can never be overstated.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Quite right. A blue suit is the
dialog: most versatile of accoutrements...
dialog: But even more important than the
dialog: suit itself is the tailor who fits
dialog: it for you. Take note, Max: once
dialog: you find a good tailor, you're not
dialog: to give his name away -- not even
text: under the threat of bodily harm.
text: Uncle Henry pours a glass for himself. One for Max. Then
text: spills a little water into Max‘’s glass, just to soften it a
text: bit. He takes a seat.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Now where were we? Whose turn is
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Mine.
text: Uncle Henry suspiciously studies the board. He quickly
text: suspects that Max has moved his bishop.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 2A,
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Max, have I told you why I enjoy
dialog: making wine so much?
dialog: 09/19/2005 3.
speaker_heading: MAX :
dialog: You don’t make the wine, Uncle |
dialog: Henry, that guy Duflot does,
dialog: 
text: Max points out to the vineyard:..where -- far off -- a lone
text: PIGURE rides a tractor across the land...
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: You’re starting to sound like a
dialog: communist, Max. In France, it’s
dialog: always the landowner that makes the
dialog: wine, even if all he does is
text: supervise with binoculars from the
dialog: comfort of his study...
dialog: (swirls his wine)
dialog: Now then -- I enjoy making wine
dialog: because this sublime nectar is,
text: quite simply, incapable of lying.
dialog: You see Max, all the work we do
dialog: here at La Siroque -- all the
dialog: Planting, all the harvesting, all
dialog: the fermenting -- it’s nothing more
dialog: than the art of bottling truth,
dialog: Par example: if perchance one year
dialog: it rains too much, the wine will
dialog: tell you that very easily, by the
dialog: depth of it’s color...
dialog: (holds the wine up toa
dialog: candle)
dialog: And if it rains too little, itll
dialog: tell you that too...in it’s aroma
dialog: and bouquet...
dialog: (sniffs the wine)
dialog: Pick too early, pick too late, it i
dialog: Matters not -- the wine will always }
dialog: whisper into your mouth with i
dialog: complete, unabashed honesty, every :
dialog: time you take a sip... i
dialog: (takes a sip)
dialog: Abhh... Delightful.
dialog: (then; serious)
dialog: So Max-a-million...now that you
dialog: know why I love wine so much, do
dialog: you have something you want to tell
dialog: mée...?
dialog: i
dialog: i
text: Max looks at his Uncle, poker-faced. Then down at the chess
dialog: board.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yes. I do.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Well..,what is it?
text: Max gulps his wine.
dialog: Then, moves his
dialog: 09/19/2005
dialog: bishop--
dialog: 3A.
dialog: 08/19/2005 4.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Checkmate.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON - LAWTON BROTHERS OFFICE BUILDING - MORNING 3
text: A three-story glass and concrete box at the top end of
text: Threadneedle Street. A title reads:
scene_heading: MANY VINTAGES LATER...
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS - BOND TRADING BULLPEN - MORNING 4
text: A platoon of young, Saville Row-draped BOND TRADERS git at
text: their desks -- uncharacteristically quiet. They wear the
text: faces of soldiers who are about to enter battle. KENNY, an
text: overly-eager Australian trader, 20’s, eyes his computer,
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: 115.10, Max. Feels like we oughta
dialog: Move now.
text: Kenny glances across the bullpen to his boss, the team’s
text: Managing Director. It’s MAX SKINNER, almost 40. Max is a
text: handsome, self-absorbed, rascal of a man whose desire to win
text: knows no limits. He gits with his feet up on his desk,
text: wearing an exquisitely tailored blue suit, reading the
dialog: Financial Times.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Not yet, Alf.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Boss, why do you keep calling me
dialog: Alf?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Because you're an Aggressive Little
dialog: P-er, Kenny. And as your boss, and
dialog: genetic superior, I can call you
dialog: what I like. Now let the price
dialog: come to you...not the other way
dialog: around,
text: A phone RINGS. Max’s assistant answers. She is GEMMA
text: TAYLOR, mid-20's, a bright and attractive Englishwoman with a
text: playful, oftentimes abusive, wit.
dialog: 09/19/2005 4a.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Max Skinner’s desk,
dialog: (beat) La
dialog: One moment please.
dialog: (to Max)
dialog: It's Kimberly.
dialog: 
dialog: 03/19/2005 5.
text: Max gives her the “thumbs down”,
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: (into phone) .
dialog: Sorry Kimberly, Mr. Skinner isn’t
text: here. He and his fiancee are at
dialog: their wedding rehearsal today...
dialog: 115.40?
text: The team snaps into gear and awaits Max's signal. Max
text: watches the price of the bond on his screen...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Okay people...just remember: we’ re
dialog: net here for the dental Plan. At
dialog: my signal, unleash hell...
text: Max stands. Walks to the window. Stares across the City to
text: a sleek, Girkin building: Lustig Bank.. his competitor.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: 115.50.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That's it! Gol
scene_heading: INT. STOCK EXCHANGE - cITy aA
text: Lets of men respond immediately...frantic tick tack business,
scene_heading: INT, LONDON - LUSTIG BANK - BOND TRADING FLOOR - SAME 5
text: Tt’s a slow summer morning. Not much activity. CAMERA MOVES
text: IN on...AMIS RADFORD, 40's -- a Scrappy Hast Ender with a
text: neck thicker than a Redwood tree. He glances at his computer
text: screen, bewildered,
speaker_heading: AMIS
dialog: That miserable sod. Skinner's
dialog: dumping bonds onto the European
dialog: market.
speaker_heading: TRADER
dialog: He can’t do that -- there's a
dialog: gentleman’s agreement on the MTS
dialog: exchange.
dialog: 09/19/2005 5a.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: AMIS :
dialog: A gentleman's agreement pre-
dialog: Supposes there's a gentleman
dialog: involved.
dialog: 09/19/2005 6.
speaker_heading: TRADER #1
dialog: Amis, he's put out three billion in
dialog: Sell orders! Prices are crashing!
speaker_heading: AMIS
dialog: Get off your arses People -- we've
dialog: got. to cover our positions!
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS 6
text: Every BOND FLOOR in London ig in chaos, as TRADERS shout and
text: frantically try to stem their losses...
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS -. a BIT LATER 7
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Where we at?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Down two big figures, 113.501
scene_heading: INT. LUSTIG BANK - SAME ‘ 8
text: Headset on, Amis stares out the window, across the City to
text: the Lawton Brothers skyscraper. . ‘muttering to himself...
speaker_heading: AMIS
dialog: This whole thing doesn't make any
dialog: sense. Unless...
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS - SAME 9
text: Max watches the bond price hit 112.50, then leaps out of his
dialog: chair--~
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Start buying! Everything you can
dialog: get your hands on! Go! Go! Gol
text: The bullpen erupts into chaos. The CAMERA CLOSES in on Max,
text: who flashes a satisfied, devious grin...
dialog: 09/19/2005 6A. :
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LUSTIG BANK - SAME 9A *
speaker_heading: AMIS i
dialog: (panicked)
dialog: Mother Mary, that filthy bugger |
dialog: forced down prices, now he’s gonna L
dialog: buy everything back on the cheap!
dialog: 10
dialog: 09/19/2005 7.
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS - SaMR 9B
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: You’ve gone too far this time, Max,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (braggart)
dialog: Gemma, when they hang me, make sure
dialog: they bury me face down so I know
dialog: which way I'm headed...
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS “CIRCUS CLUB’ - MINUTES LATER io
text: The place is filled with plasma screens that broadcast
dialog: business reports from all over the world, as well ag health
text: food counters. The gang from Lawton Brothers serenades its
text: leader, soft’ drinks swinging in the air, as Max eracks some
text: “illegal” bottles of bubbly into plastic cups.
speaker_heading: GANG
dialog: “ -- for he’s a jelly good fell-
dialog: ohhh! Which nobody can deny!"
text: ~> then, with the tiniest of voices --
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: I can!
text: Applause, cheers and {much to Max’s consternation) calls for
text: “Speech! Speech!" Max steps atop a chair,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Were you not entertained!? WERE!
dialog: YOU! NOT! ENTERTAINED!
text: The mob cheers. Max settles them with aplomb.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Well. Today, I think we proved
dialog: that old adage correct: “Winning
dialog: isn’t everything, ..
speaker_heading: ALL IN UNISON
dialog: ++-IT’S THE ONLY THING!”
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Great work today, everybody!
dialog: Really. Thank you for it!
text: Max applauds his team...and makes brief eye contact with a
text: TWENTYSOMETHING BEAUTY across the space.
dialog: 
dialog: 104
speaker_heading: 10B
dialog: 09/19/2005 8.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Our competitors will say that what
dialog: we did today exploited a loophole.
dialog: That we “crossed a line” and broke
dialog: a “sacred covenant of trust” within
dialog: the bond trading fraternity. Well,
dialog: to them I respectfully say:
dialog: (as erudite as possible)
dialog: “Ha ~- hal"
text: Big cheers. It’s good to be Max Skinner.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL FLAT - BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT 10a
text: Post-coitus. The Twentysomething Beauty lies naked on the
text: bed, snoring, her sumptuous body tangled within the sheets.
text: Max, gripping hia clothes in a ball, creeps out of the
text: apartment, checking his hair in the mirror before he leaves.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR - NIGHT . 10B
text: In the back, Max, bleary-eyed, watches a mini-TV as he’s
text: chauffeured home.
speaker_heading: CNN NEWS ANCHOR
dialog: (London markets)
dialog: +-.and while not technically
dialog: illegal, Lawton Brothers’ actions
dialog: this morning represented an
dialog: unprecedented breach of financial
dialog: etiquette. Cries of ‘foul play’
dialog: were loud and widespread...with
dialog: talks of some kind of inguiry...
text: Max frowns, dismissive, clicks off.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON STREETS - WET - DAWN il
text: A sleek apartment building sits on the edge of the Thames,
text: shrouded in a gloomy soup of drizzle and fog. Max's Town Car
text: glides up in front.
scene_heading: INT. MAX’S APARTMENT BUILDING - WEE HouRS - MOMENTS LATER 12
text: A DOORMAN opens the door as Max enters, briefcase in tow.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 ga,
speaker_heading: DOORMAN
dialog: Good morning, Mr. Skinner...
dialog: (handing Max his mail) co
dialog: And congratulations.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Thank you, Bert.
speaker_heading: DOORMAN
dialog: You mighta tipped me off, Mr.
dialog: Skinner.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Buy on the rumor, Bert...sell on
dialog: the now.
text: As the elevator doors shut.
speaker_heading: DOORMAN
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Tosser!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Wanker!
scene_heading: 13 INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAWN
dialog: 13
text: The flat is sleek, modern, expensively appointed, Walls of
text: glass give the impression that the place is literally
text: floating in the foggy, dawn sky. Gekko’s “Greed ig Good”
text: quote is framed on canvas, dominating the largest wall..
text: Max skims through his mail. It's mostly junk, but there's
text: one intriguing envelope with a French stamp.
text: At a wet bar, Max pours himself a tumbler of scotch, decanter
text: in one hand, Appraising the letter: CABINET AUZET, NOTAIRES,
scene_heading: RUE DES REMPARTS, 84160, GORDES,
text: Max opens the letter. --his reaction is to walk through to the
text: living room a little crestfallen.
scene_heading: 4 INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME - DAWN
dialog: 14
text: At his window, he stares out across the Thames, grief in his
text: eyes. He downs his scotch,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: {quiet)
dialog: Ah, hell.. -Henry.
text: Along the river, the lights go out, signaling a new morning,
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 10.
scene_heading: INT. MAX’S OFFICE - THR FOLLOWING DAY 15
dialog: 
text: A massive fish tank. Max leans against it, reading the
text: morning’s Financial Times, whose headline blares: “LAWTON
text: SCORES BIG IN DAWN RAID.” Kenny arrives in the frame, i
text: handing Max a shot of espresso, waving Max’s morning i
dialog: messages... :
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Ready for the fan mail?
dialog: (Max nods)
text: “Bastard.” “Bastard.” “Burn in
dialog: hell.” “Rot in hell.” "Die."
dialog: “Congratulations, you're my hero.”
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Who was that from?
speaker_heading: KENNY :
dialog: Your attorney. i
text: Max looks up. Gemma taps on glass from inside Max's office.
scene_heading: INT. MAX’S OFFICE - SAME 16 /
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: I just got off the phone with
dialog: Auzet, the notaire handling your
dialog: Uncle Henry's estate.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (blanking) i
dialog: Oh! The one whe sent me the
dialog: letter,
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Seems your uncle hadn’t updated his
dialog: will in over twenty years. Which
dialog: is why, in typical French fashion,
dialog: it took them a month to notify you,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So? Ig there going to be a reading
dialog: o£ the will or do we just
dialog: “download” that sort of thing these
dialog: days?
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: That's the point, Max: there is no
dialog: legal will.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 09/19/2005 10a.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GEMMA (cont 'd)
dialog: You‘re his closest blood relative,
dialog: SO you get everything.
dialog: 09/19/2005 12.
dialog: (disinterested) :
dialog: What -~ his clothes and LPs? —_
speaker_heading: GEMMA |
dialog: (following) :
dialog: The house, you git. You get his i
dialog: houge.
text: As Max digesta that, Kenny enters behind her.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (touched marginally)
dialog: The old farmhouse? The pool and
dialog: vineyard and everything?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: (intrusively)
dialog: A place like that must be worth a
dialog: pretty penny these days, eh?
dialog: 
text: Max look at him, annoyed at the intrugion.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: I booked you a flight and made an
dialog: appointment with Auzet for three
dialog: tomorrow afternoon. Just a few * :
dialog: papers to sign. *
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Right...Wait! What, no! I'm not
dialog: going to France tomorrow, Gem. I’m
dialog: the toast of the town, I need to j
dialog: take a few victory laps around the :
dialog: city.
dialog: (waving his phone messages
dialog: proudly as evidence)
dialog: See -- everybody hates me.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Goon; Max. We'll take good care
dialog: of the place while you’re gone. No
dialog: worries,
text: Max inspects the ambitious little shit beside him, then hands +
dialog: him his expresso-- . *
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Go, there must be animals you can
dialog: kick somewhere -- go, get
dialog: your...back waxed.
text: He shuts the door behind him. Gemma faces him.
dialog: 09/19/2005 11a.
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: Tell me something, Max: did you
dialog: care for him?
dialog: 09/19/2005 12.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Your uncle, of course,
dialog: Max has to give this pause,
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: When was the last time you spoke?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ages ago.
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Don‘t know really. I think it had
dialog: something to do with my becoming an
dialog: asshole,
scene_heading: EXT. EVENING - BERKELEY SQUARE - DRIZZLE 16A
text: Max strides with hig umbrella, under the trees.
scene_heading: INT. HIP RESTAURANT - CORNER BOOTH - NIGHT 17
text: Swarms of Notting Hill lovelies fill the restaurant. Max
text: enters, and skillfully wades his way through the crowd of
text: admiring women, kissing many, whispering to others...
text: Meanwhile, CHARLIE WILLIS, mid-30’s, real estate broker,
text: casts furtive glances at his WAITRESS’s pert bosom while she
text: pours him a taste of red wine.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: locks lovely, thank you,
dialog: (another glance at them)
dialog: Really, really lovely.
text: Max slides into the booth, and watches, amused, as Charlie
text: begins a pretentious “tasting” ritual. .
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: First, the pleasure of the eyes; by
dialog: way of an inspection of the
dialog: polyphenolics..,
text: He tilts the glass to observe its color.
dialog: +
dialog: +e ee
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 12aa,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE *
text: Magnificent hues of brick red
dialog: indicating a mature Bordeaux, *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 12a.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: It's a Burgundy.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (covering)
dialog: Slip of the tongue... Next, the
dialog: retro-nasal cavity...
text: He swirls the wine gently, then dips his nose into the glass.
text: He inhales, but accidentally snortg up some wine, and he
text: coughs and chokes for 4 moment ,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Marvelous,,.
dialog: (cough)
dialog: ++.bouquet. Alluring nose of...
dialog: (cough, cough)
dialog: +.-honey and spice...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It’s coming out of your ears,
dialog: Charlie,
text: Charlie trills, then swallows the wine, eyes leaden with
text: resplendent joy.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Mmmm...
dialog: (to Waitress)
dialog: That‘ll do nicely. You can let it
dialog: breathe for a while. ee
dialog: (catches himself)
dialog: No, wait, we can do better than
dialog: that -- you can let it...regain
dialog: it’s composure,
dialog: While I regain mine.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: {to Max)
dialog: Wine for you, sir?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: A Rémy-Martin, a double, please,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: {to her, with one final
dialog: glance, which Max clocks)
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: * %
dialog: te ee
dialog: Ree ee ng
dialog: + ee
dialog: * +
dialog: A RH th ee
dialog: *
dialog: Max grabs
dialog: 09/19/2005 13.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Charlie, you should try and keep
dialog: your eyes more...up. Makes her
dialog: think you have serious intentions.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (following her ass as it
text: struts away)
dialog: Oh, but T do, Max, I do...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So, mate...what do you think I'il
dialog: get for it?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (af fronted)
dialog: Max, barely a day since you learned
dialog: your long-lost Uncle croaked, and
dialog: still, the only thing on your mind
dialog: is money.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: The very Uncle You speak of once
dialog: taught me that every man needs an
dialog: “f-you million” in the bank. I’ve
dialog: simply decided that I want to say
dialog: “f-you"” more than once. Several
dialog: times, in fact,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: At least furnish me the
dialog: Particulars. an estate agent needs
dialog: something he can sink his teeth
dialog: into.
text: a hunk of bread. Starts nibbling.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Tt‘s been a while since I've been
dialog: there, mind you... But I think
dialog: there were about a half dozen
dialog: bedrooms. aA decent-sized kitchen.
dialog: A pool. A tennis court. Oh yeah,
dialog: there's also the vineyard. about
dialog: eleven hectares,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Bloody hell, Max. Sounds like an
dialog: estate to me. A Chateau.
speaker_heading: . MAX
dialog: Yeah? What's a chateau goin’ for
dialog: these days?
dialog: 
scene_heading: 09/19/2005 413A.
text: Charlie muses over the image of a Provencal palace, as he
text: sniffs his wine.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: i8
dialog: 20
dialog: 09/19/2005 14.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: A few “f-you's.” Maybe more.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (delighted)
dialog: Bless that old sod!
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: T won’t cut my commission,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I didn’t ask you to.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: In that case...
dialog: (holds up his glass)
dialog: ---here’s to f-ing you.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: OMITTED 18
scene_heading: EXT. MARIGNANE AIRPORT - DAY 19
text: Max emerges from the terminal to be overwhelmed by sunlight.
text: He squints, then takes out his Treo to check e-mail, never
text: pausing to regard the cloudless miles of sky above.
scene_heading: AT A CAR RENTAL LOT - MARSEILLE - SUNSHINE 20
text: Max, passport in his mouth and carrying a briefcase, prowls
text: the stalls, Checking the number on his rental key against the
text: Space numbers beneath Sporty Peugeots and Renaults. at last,
text: he comes to his car: a tiny, lime-green smart Car. He thinks
text: about the hassle of changing vehicles. . -half turns back, then
dialog: settles for it,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (squeezing: in)
dialog: Dammit, Gemma!
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - FREEWAY N7 - DAY 21
text: Max’s Smart Car scoots along the freeway passing magnificent
dialog: landscape.
dialog: 
dialog: 08/19/2005 14a,
speaker_heading: . INSIDE
text: Max doesn’t notice outside, he's struggling with the GPS as
dialog: it repeats itself,
dialog: 
dialog: 22
dialog: 99/19/2005 15.
speaker_heading: GPS VOICE {0.8.)
dialog: Bonjour et bienvenue, Ca c’est la
dialog: Systeme dy Position globale.
text: Max stabs at the control Panel in frustration.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: English, Please!
scene_heading: EXT. BEAUTIFUL ROAD WITH MAJESTIC TREES ~ pay 22
text: Max's car toddles around the bend.
speaker_heading: INSIDE
text: Max drives, Eyes on road. Ear to Phone.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (into Phone)
dialog: Kenny, [ want the current 10 year
dialog: yield, f want an update on the
dialog: figures for hon-farm Payrolls. ang
dialog: T want you out of my chair,
scene_heading: INT. LONDON - LAWTON BROTHERS - SAME 23
text: Kenny sits there, in Max's chair, feet on the desk, He hangs
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: How’d he know that?
text: Glances roung the room for hidden cameras...
dialog: 
dialog: 250
dialog: 99/18/2005 16.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - MOVING
dialog: 24
text: Max passes a French, testosterone bicycle Club who all grin
text: and jeer at the little car. Max fingers them through the
text: roof as he goes by...
speaker_heading: MAX
scene_heading: LANCE ARMSTRONG !
dialog: ‘They all finger back, etc..,
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH TECH FLOWER STALL - nay
text: London, Raining. Gemma is buying tulips with a friend,
text: Phone rings.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.8.)
dialog: Admit it. This ds because I didn't
dialog: bang you on your birthday.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: I swear on my life Max they didn't
dialog: have any other cars,
dialog: (winks to her friend)
dialog: So where are we?
scene_heading: EXT. PROVENCE PANORAMA - Day
dialog: 25
dialog: Her
dialog: 26
text: Beautiful Patchwork vista of Menerbes. A small green speck
text: stops at a crossroads, otherwise there is no movement in the
dialog: landscape,
text: V.0., then cut into Max,
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Below the Luberon with Saint-Pong
text: to the north. The sign Says Saint-
dialog: Pons to the South. And the GPS has
text: a slight stutter.
speaker_heading: GPS VOICE (0.8,)
dialog: ++ -@vancez...avancez..,
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON - SAME
text: Gemma Studying her Treo.
dialog: 27
dialog: 09/19/2005 16A.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Turn left. That’ll put you back on
dialog: the N7. If you really motor you'll
dialog: still make your appointment...
dialog: 09/19/2005 17. :
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WIDE SHOT - PROVENCE - SAME 28
text: Max makes the turn....following her directions...
scene_heading: 29 EXT. LONDON ~ TRENDY CAFE - MINUTES LATER , 29
text: Gemma’s sitting under an awning having a fag and cappuccino
text: when her phone rings.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Mission control?
scene_heading: 30 BACK IN FRANCE - BEAUTIFUL DIRT ROAD - TREE AND VINEYARD ANID
scene_heading: CASTLE ~- PARADISE
text: Max stands outside his car, surveying his problem.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.8.)
dialog: (agitated)
dialog: Gemma. Please call the notaire and |
dialog: have her leave the keys underneath * :
text: the big stone beside the entrance. * i
dialog: We'll have to reschedule for first
dialog: thing tomorrow morning.
scene_heading: EXT. TRENDY CAFE - SAME 30A :
speaker_heading: GEMMA L
dialog: Copy that. Max, where are you? !
dialog: What's that noise?
scene_heading: 30B EXT. ROAD - SAME 30B
text: His head turns to see--
dialog: Your replacement.
text: A BRAYING DONKEY BLOCKING HIS PATH.
scene_heading: 31 EXT. PROVENCE - RURAL ROAD ~ LATE AFTERNOON 31
text: Max, now seriously irritated...
speaker_heading: GPS VOICE
dialog: «.-avancez...avancez,..tournez a
dialog: droite a 100 metres...
dialog: 03/19/2005 LTA.
text: Max passes a driveway with twin pillars. A faded bronze
text: plaque: ‘CHATEAU LA SIROQUE.’ He stops, backs up the car, }
text: and stares at the sign. This is it. : L
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 32Cc
dialog: 33
dialog: 09/19/2005 18.
scene_heading: EXT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE ESTATE - LATE AFTERNOON 32
text: Max pulls up in front of a sprawling house. A little run-
text: down and in need of a coat of paint but nevertheless
text: familiar. He turns off his motor. Steps out, and feels like
text: the only human being for miles. It’s very, very quiet.
text: He locks the Smart Car. CRUNCH, CRUNCH, CRUNCH, CRUNCH...
text: He walks past the table where he and his Uncle used to play
text: chess. He touches it as he passes. i
scene_heading: ~- WE VIEW MAX FROM AFAR, OVER SOMEONE’S SHOULDER. Max's
dialog: being spied on, by --
text: -- FRANCIS DUFLOT, sweat~stained and sunburned, years of toil
text: etched in his face. He sits on an idling tractor which is
text: dripping with fresh, blue pesticide. Cell phone to his ear.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Tl est arrive...
scene_heading: EXT. COTTAGE - FAR END OF THE VINEYARD - ESTABLISHING 32A
text: Smoke drifta from the chimney...
scene_heading: INT. COTTAGE - SAME 32B
text: Standing above the hot stove, also staring out at the
text: bastide, is LUDIVINE DUFLOT, 40’s. She’s on the phone with
dialog: her husband... .
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: (warning)
dialog: Be nice, Francis. Don’t go with a
text: face like a boot, go with a smile.
scene_heading: EXT. BASTIDE ~ DRIVEWAY 32Cc
text: Max crosses the gravel driveway. Lifts the stone beside the * |
text: entrance and unearths a pair of huge brass keys. * :
scene_heading: INT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - ENTRY - LATE AFTERNOON 33 :
text: A key rattles in the door -- CLICK -- Magic hour sunlight
text: spills in, framing Max in the doorway. He breathes a wave of
text: nostalgia. The old, familiar smell.
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: 09/19/2005 19.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Halloo? ‘Allo?
dialog: (then; experimentally)
dialog: Uncle Henry? L
text: Of course, no answer, He passes a picture of Henry and his
text: younger self barefoot, crushing grapes and laughing.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER 34
text: Max stands in a kitchen with a cast-iron range and a big ;
text: wooden plank table. From.a.bowl, Max plucks a ripe tomato; L
dialog: someone's been keeping up the place.
scene_heading: EXT, CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - GARDEN - SAME 35
text: Max, without tie and jacket, takes in the air, not savoring
text: it so much as detecting a change from London. He bites into i
text: the tomato...SQUIRT!...unaware that he has stained his white i
dialog: shirt.
speaker_heading: AT THE POOL
text: Drained, with a layer of leaves and slime coating the bottom,
text: a diving board balances on rusted springs. Walking out onto
text: the board and Max gives a little bounce. Its gives a
text: THUDDER. HE jumps again. THUDDER THUD. Grins.
text: Max's POV: a derelict tennia court is raised on a bank above
text: the old pool, The THUD of the board transforma into a tennis
text: game's plop-thwang, plop-thwang, plop-thwang...distant
dialog: arguments, protests, etc.
scene_heading: EXT. TENNIS COURT - SECONDS LATER 36 |
text: It’s a weedy clay court, surrounded by a rusted fence. The i}
text: court is covered with leaves from a tree that’s been planted 4
text: on the edge. The tree spreads dappled shadows across the
text: court, In the distance, Max steps through the rotting gate
text: and takes in the scene, a surge of nostalgia bubbling up...
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY VOICE
dialog: Match point, Max!
text: WE ARE NOW IN A FLASHBACK...
dialog: 09/19/2005 19a.
text: MAX'S POV - ON HIS LEFT AT THE FAR END 37
text: UNCLE HENRY -- wearing too-tight Dunlop shorts and a pair of .
text: ratty sandals -- stands holding a tennis racket in one hand,
text: and a glass of white wine in the other.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 20.
scene_heading: MAX'S POV - ON HIS LEFT
text: YOUNG MAX -- wearing a headband and wristbands and looking
text: like a pint-sized version of dohn McEnroe, bad tempered.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: It's too dark to play Uncle Henry!
dialog: I can’t see!
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Nonsense, Max, at your age I could
text: spot a hyena on-the veldt at three
text: quarters of a mile.
text: Uncle Henry lines up his serve. THWACK! Dead-center. Max
text: lunges for the ball as if his life depended on it, but misses
dialog: anyway.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Ace! Game, set, match!
text: Uncle Henry dances in the “end zone” in celebration. Pissed,
text: Young Max slams his racket to the court...and walks toward
text: the service box to examine the line.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: YOU CAN’T BE SERIOUS!
text: Uncle Henry continues to gloat...without mercy.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: You don’t have to rub it in!
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: The veal question, Max, is why you
dialog: aren’t celebrating.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: Because I lost.
text: Uncle Henry pours himself a refill from a day cooler on the
dialog: court . :
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Max...a man should acknowledge his
dialog: losses as gracefully as he
dialog: celebrates his victories...
dialog: (goading)
dialog: Now give us a jig...for your old
dialog: Uncle's sake...
dialog: 09/19/2005 20a.
text: Following orders, Young Max makes a half-hearted attempt to |
dialog: dance around the court. . —
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 38
dialog: 09/19/2005 21.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Try harder, Max-a-million! Focus!
dialog: Arms up in triumph!
dialog: (not happy with his
dialog: performance)
dialog: Dance boy -~ don’t shimmy like an
dialog: Ttalian!
text: Young Max raises his arms, but he’s just not feeling it...and
text: abruptly stops.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: This is stupid.
text: Uncle Henry crosses the court and tussles the hoy’s hair.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Someday, Max, you'll come to see
dialog: that a man learns nothing from
dialog: winning. The act of losing,
dialog: however, can elicit great
dialog: wisdom...not the least of which is
dialog: how much more enjoyable it is to
dialog: win... It is essential to lose now
dialog: and then... The trick is not to
dialog: make a habit of it...
scene_heading: THE PRESENT.
scene_heading: EXT. VINEYARD - LATER 38
text: Max walking through the vineyard. Kneelgs down. Notices that
text: there are roses at the head of each row. Stoops down, scoops
text: up some dirt, and sniffs it. Makes a face. Ugh.
speaker_heading: OFFSCREEN VOICE
dialog: Chickenshit...
text: Duflot appears from out of the vines...trailed by his blue
dialog: dog Tati.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: It ig the only thing for them,
text: Before Max can react, Duflot kisses him three times on the
text: cheeks, then bearhugs him. Duflot's a real sweaty guy with a
text: persistent swarm of gnats whirling around him.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Monsieur Duflot? My God,
dialog: you’ve...uh...matured.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 21a.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
text: Clest vrai. The floods of ‘78.
dialog: The Mistral of ‘86. Fanleaf
dialog: disease in '93.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 22.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT (cont'd)
dialog: With each vintage I have corked
dialog: away another year of my youth. But
dialog: still, I have my wife Ludivine, and
dialog: my dog Tati, who is loyal,
dialog: affectionate, and...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ..-blue....
text: Max stares down at the blue terrier. BARK! BARK!
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: {gestures; c’est la vie)
dialog: I expect you are-hungry, no? My
dialog: wife is tonight roasting a lamb--
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Thank you, but no. I am tired, and
dialog: don’t have much of an appetite...
dialog: since I learned about Henry.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: {tear in his eye)
dialog: In the last few years, his sight
dialog: was failing. But I attended ta
dialog: things for him. We became very
dialog: close, you know?.. Almost like
dialog: father and son.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (cynical)
dialog: I’m happy that someone was here to
dialog: take care of him.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Bon! Ludivine will come in the
dialog: morning...with croissants...she
dialog: will resume her duties.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: If you insist. Well... Bon nuit,
dialog: Duflot. .
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: A demain.
text: Max heads back to the house. He feels like he’s being
text: watched, so he stops, turns, and sure enough, Duflot is
text: watching him...only his head is showing.
text: Duflot gestures with a smile, then disappears like a ghost in
dialog: the gloaming, as we...
dialog: 40
speaker_heading: 40A
dialog: 09/19/2005 23.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 39
text: Max finds a bottle of ‘La Siroque’ on the table, with a note
text: from Ludivine that reads: “Bienvenu.” Also a small plate of
text: goat cheese. He pulls the cork, pours a glass. Takes a
dialog: 
text: sniff.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ah...La Siroque,
scene_heading: INT. UNCLE HENRY’S STUDY - MINUTES LATER 40 |
text: Max spies an old record player with a stack of 45’s balancing
text: in position on the silver spindle. Henry’s final playlist!
text: Max turns the player on, lines up the records...and lets the
text: first record drop... Noel Coward's voice CRACKLES:
speaker_heading: NOEL COWARD
dialog: “...a room with a view, and you,
dialog: and no one to hurry us...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (singing the rest)
dialog: ...MO one to worry us...”
text: Max peruses photos of Henry. Inspects a wall overstuffed i
text: with books (Greene, Maughm, Waugh, Wodehouse}. Then, raises i
text: the glass, affectionately, to a photograph of. Uncle Henry |
text: grinning back at him. :
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Here’s to you Henry. For devoting
dialog: your life to the vines, and :
dialog: bottling the truth... '
text: Take a sip. Runs the wine around his palate, Nods in \
dialog: recognition.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Well, that was honest...
text: He opens a window and spits it out.
scene_heading: INT. UNCLE HENRY’S BEDROOM - LATER 40K
text: Max stands in only his socks and boxers, scrubbing the tomato
text: stain out of his dress shirt. Outside, there is a chorus of
text: hearty ribbiting. He remembers and smiles to himself.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (affectionately)
text: Frogs.
dialog: 09/19/2005 23A.
dialog: 41
dialog: 42
dialog: £3
dialog: 09/19/2005 24.
text: Max keeps scrubbing, enjoying the moment more than even he
dialog: knows...
scene_heading: INT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - STAIRWELI, - MORNING 41
text: Sunlight streams through a window. Max appears at the top of
text: the stairs, in his uncle’s weathered bathrobe, barefoot. He
text: yawns, squints at the daylight.
scene_heading: INT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - KITCHEN 42
text: An opened refrigerator offers Max little. He scours in
dialog: particular for one item, without luck:
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Coffee, coffee, coffee... Shite.
text: Max, breakfast under his arm: a litre of milk and a hunk of
text: cheese...shuffles towards the door as...
text: ~- MADAME DUFLOT enters, stout in purple sweats and a bird’s
text: nest of orange hair, carrying a vacuum cleaner and bucket.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Madame Duflot.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Ah, Maxie, Maxie, Maxie!
text: She kisses him three times on the cheeks. Ruffles his hair.
text: fakes him in. He has grown since she last saw him... Madame
text: Duflot proceeds begins to playful scold Max -- far assuming
dialog: she would not bring him breakfast, for wearing that bathrobe
dialog: when there’s a perfectly good one she laid out for him, for
text: drinking milk out of the bottle, etcetera, etcetera. She
text: snaps the milk and cheese out of his hands and shoos him
text: outside. Max doesn’t understand a word.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: (shooing him out)
dialog: Attendez dans le jardin! Je vous
dialog: apporte le petit dejeuner! (Mr.
dialog: Max, go to the garden! I will
dialog: bring his breakfast!)
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN - AT THE CHESS TABLE - MOMENTS LATER 43
text: Max sits in the garden, beneath the trellis, tapping away on
text: his Treo, Suddenly, he’s startled by -- SLAM! -- Madame
text: Duflot drops a tray of breakfast on the table.
dialog: 
dialog: 44
dialog: 09/19/2005 25.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Bon appetit,
text: Coffee. Croissants. Jam. Butter. ‘Then, she marches back
text: into the house, muttering to herself in French. Max takes a
text: sip of coffee. That’s great coffee. Dips the croissant in
dialog: jam. Delicious. The moment is perfect. Magic!
text: RING-VIBRATE! His Treo goes off.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Morning, Gemma,
speaker_heading: GEMMA (0.8.)
dialog: Enjoying yourself?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: As bereavements go?
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS OFFICE - DAY 44
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: This‘ll cheer you up, You've been
text: busted. Morning FT, Headline.
scene_heading: “LAWTON BOND TRADE UNDER
scene_heading: INVESTIGATION.”
speaker_heading: MAX (0,S.)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: (Yeading)
dialog: “The FSA today launched an official
dialog: inquiry into recent Lawton Brothers
dialog: trade activity...”
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: Relax...I already cleared the deal
dialog: through legal. They gave me the ga
dialog: ahead. This is just a PR show to
dialog: assuage Lustig Bank.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Pepper doesn’t think go..
text: Max stops dead.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: (ripple of fear)
dialog: Nigel?
dialog: 09/19/2005 26.
dialog: Sir Nigel. He wants a sit down
dialog: with you. 5 o‘clock this
dialog: afternoon.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.8,)
dialog: (because that means this
dialog: is serious)
dialog: What time’s my meeting with the
dialog: notaire?
speaker_heading: GEMMA
text: A little over an-hour from now.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.8.)
dialog: My time or your time?
text: Gemma shakes her head. Oh shit, she forgot.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Oops.
speaker_heading: OMITTED
scene_heading: EXT. BASTIDE - DRIVEWAY - LATER
text: Max pulls on his jacket and climbs into the Smart Car,
text: rings, it’s Charlie.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (0.8.)
dialog: So how's La Maison? Is it
dialog: smashing?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (eyeing it)
dialog: To be honest, Charlie, it’s a
dialog: little bit shabby.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON TOWNHOUSE - pay
text: Charlie has stepped outside from an open house
speaker_heading: . CHARLIE
dialog: We don't say shabby, Max. We say
text: “filled with the patina of a bygone
dialog: era.” What about the plonk?
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: Phone
dialog: 47
dialog: to call Max.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 26a,
speaker_heading: MAX (0,.S.)
text: Bouquet of wet dog. Hits the
text: palate like a razor blade, with the
text: finishing hints of awful.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 48
dialog: 09/19/2005 27,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: One thing we’re going to need for
dialog: sure is an oenologue. Test the
dialog: vines, take soil samples, things of
dialog: that sort. Ask around, there must
dialog: be a couple not far from you. Oh --
dialog: and few sexy snaps wouldn't hurt
dialog: either...you know, to get the
text: Punters clamoring...
scene_heading: ON THE SAME ROAD - FAR AHEAD OF MAX 48
text: FANNY, 308, the most beautiful woman in Provence, is eyeling
text: along -- leather jacket, skirt hitched up and blissfully
text: unaware of the Englishman hurtling up the road.
scene_heading: INSIDE MAK'S SMART CAR
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (0.8.)
dialog: There’s an e-mail address to send
dialog: them to...
text: Max holds his PALM ONE TREO in front of him, switches it the
text: an 6-mail screen...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Okay. Shoot.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
scene_heading: PROVENCELIST INGS@BROADBENTPROPERTIE
speaker_heading: S.ENG .
text: On his lap, Max starts typing the address into his Treo.
text: Fumbles it into the Opposite footwell.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hold on. Shite.
text: Through the windscreen, Panny appears ahead... She spots
text: Max's car speeding toward her. She swerves to avoid it...and
text: flies off the road and into an irrigation ditch.
scene_heading: INSIDE SMART CAR
text: Max grabs the Treo and finishes entering the address,
text: oblivious to everything.
dialog: /
dialog: |
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 27a.
speaker_heading: 30° OMITTED 49-50
dialog: i
dialog: 
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 09/19/2005 28,
scene_heading: EXT, VILLAGE STREET - DAY 51
text: Max parks his Smart Car in the square. The town is a little
text: gem. However, Max doesn’t notice a thing...he heads straight
dialog: to the Notaire’s office...
scene_heading: INT. NOTAIRE’S OFFICE - RECEPTION - MORNING 52
text: Max enters. Up front, a waiting area is filled with a thick
text: cloud of cigarette smoke. The SECRETAIRE sits behind a desk,
text: chain smoking. In back,-a-closed door leada to Maitre
text: Auzet’s office.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Qui?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Auzet?
scene_heading: INT. NOTAIRE’S OFFICE - DAY 53
text: A pair of shapely tattooed ankles. PAN UP. WNATHALIE AUZET,
text: 408, attractively austere: grey suit, glasses, Louise Brooks
text: bobcut. She sits behind her desk, downloading him...
speaker_heading: NATHALIE
dialog: You see Monsieur, most wine-making
dialog: regions in France exist threugh an
dialog: arrangement known as metayage...
text: (noticing he’s fixating on
dialog: her tatoos)
dialog: Mr. Skinner?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hmmm?
dialog: (snaps out)
dialog: Sorry.
text: Max signs the paperwork in front of him.
speaker_heading: NATHALIE
dialog: in the arrangement, the vigneron
dialog: makes the wine, the estate owner
dialog: maintains the Property. C’est
dialog: simple. The proceeds of the wine
dialog: are then shared equally. This is
dialog: how your uncle and Monsieur Duflot
dialog: worked for over thirty years.
dialog: Naturally Monsieur Duflot will be
dialog: anxious as to your intentions.
dialog: 09/19/2005 29.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (businesslike)
dialog: I_can speed this all up. I have no
dialog: Plans to become a vintner.
speaker_heading: NATHALIE
dialog: Bon, let Monsieur Duflot make the
dialog: wine, and you enjoy the estate on *
dialog: the weekends.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I don’t think you quite understand,
dialog: Ms. Auzet. My life-is in London.
dialog: And I don’t do weekends. I plan on
dialog: selling La Siroque as soon as
dialog: possible.
text: She looks up. Removes her glasses.
speaker_heading: NATHALIE
dialog: Henri would approve of this?
text: Max smiles a little to himself.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Tell me, how well did you know my
dialog: Uncle?
text: Auzet gives a tiny cough. Max smirks to himself. He thought
dialog: go.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So then...as you know...the chateau
dialog: Was Uncle Henry's passion. But
dialog: it’s not mine. I'm sure he would
dialog: understand. ~
speaker_heading: NATHALIE
dialog: And what of Monsieur Duflot? He
dialog: and his wife have been on the
dialog: estate for thirty years. If not
dialog: dealt with properly, you. could be --
dialog: how do you say -- caught between a
dialog: “rock and a stone?”
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Charming... But I fail to see the
dialog: complications... I can assure you,
dialog: upon settlement, I will be very
dialog: generous with Mr. Duflot...as
dialog: always in a case such as this, it’s
dialog: just a matter of finding the right
dialog: number...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 09/19/2005 29a.
speaker_heading: MAX (cont 'd)
dialog: {shifting}
dialog: Now on an entirely different note,
dialog: I wonder if you might help me find
dialog: an. ..oenologue?
dialog: 54
dialog: 09/19/2005 30.
speaker_heading: AUZET
dialog: On this, I will have to get back to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: In that case, if there’s nothing
dialog: else, I’ve got a plane to catch...
text: Max grabs the paperwork, gets up and heads for the door.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Thank you again, Ms. Auzet. Under
dialog: normal circumstances I'd have asked
dialog: you to lunch. Your tattoos alone
dialog: beg a thousand questions.
speaker_heading: AUZET
dialog: But for you Mr. Skinner, the answer
dialog: will always be the game.
scene_heading: INT, CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - BEDROOM - DAY 54
text: Max hurriedly packs his carry-on, pauses to consider taking
text: the photograph of himself and Uncle Henry stomping grapes.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 55
scene_heading: EXT, CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - FRONT - DAY 56
text: Jacket on, Max exits, briefcase in hand. Duflot ig waiting
text: for him, blocking the path to his car.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: You are selling La Siroque? There
dialog: has been a mistake, I think.
speaker_heading: MAX
text: News travels fast.
text: He moves toward his car...
speaker_heading: DUPLOT
dialog: But your uncle. He meant for you
dialog: to have it, not sell it.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Tf he meant that, he might have
dialog: taken the time to say so ina
dialog: Proper will. But he didn’t,
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 31,
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: You know, Henri was not English the
dialog: way you are! He was a man of |
dialog: secrets, Aman of passions. He
dialog: did not write things down. :
text: For a moment, this resonates with Max. Max opens the door i
text: and chucks his attache onto the front seat.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: You would take me away from my
dialog: vines? |
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: They’re my vines, Duflot. /
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: I live in them! I breathe in them!
dialog: They tear my hands!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Listen, Duflot...
dialog: (gentle touch)
dialog: Prancis. When I’ve sold the
dialog: Property, I intend to make you a
dialog: handsome settlement...
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Money?! You think it’s money that :
dialog: I want?! :
dialog: Max is truly baffled. :
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Do you know what it is, monsieur,
dialog: to love something more than your
dialog: own life? To submit your days and
dialog: nights to the fickle will of
dialog: nature? I haven't but a handful of
text: vintages left. Soon, my body and
dialog: spirit will be defeated by the ;
dialog: terroir. And you would dare come :
dialog: here and take away my last few
dialog: chances of immortality! ?
text: Max is now in the car. He pauses, reflecting. Closes the
dialog: door,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Afraid so.
dialog: 
text: He starts the car.
dialog: 09/19/2005 31a.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I'll be in touch.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 32.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT i
dialog: (calls out after him) eo
dialog: This is not over! No! Ou ona la |
dialog: terre, on a la guerre! (Where
dialog: there is land, there is war.)
text: He stomps away into the fields as Max starts the car. His
text: PHONE RING-VIBRATES as he pulls out. He answers:
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Leaving now.
dialog: GEMMA..{Q +8.)
dialog: Good. Sir Nigel is making a
dialog: special trip. Everything all
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No, it was just... Nothing,
speaker_heading: GEMMA (0.S.) : , i
dialog: Did you get the photog for Charlie?
speaker_heading: MAX |
dialog: Dammit ! -
text: Max hangs up, slams on the-brakes,
scene_heading: EXT, CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - GARDEN - DAY 57
text: The heavy frame of the fEront door. CLICK. A Panorama of the
text: vineyard. CLICK. The tennis court. CLICK,
text: Max levels. his Treo (which serves as a digital camera too)
text: for a shot of the house from the garden, but he’s too close.
text: He circles the perimeter of the pool to line it up again when
text: his phone RINGS AGAIN.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: GEMMA (0.3.)}
dialog: Get in the car!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (re: his camera-phone)
dialog: Get off my camera, Gemma!
text: He hangs up and steps up on the diving board to line up a
text: shot. He walks out farther on the board to get a better
text: angie, then -- CLICK! CRACK! THE DIVING BOARD SNAPS. HIS
text: PHONE GOES FLYING.
text: Max plummets from sight.
dialog: 09/19/2005
text: WE PUSH DOWN TO DISCOVER --
dialog: 32A.
dialog: 58
dialog: 09/19/2005 33.
text: IN THE POOL - Max rolls over on mud and leaves, wincing, gets
text: to his feet. Realizing he’s okay, he laughs at himself and
text: shakes off the pain. As he looks around, his face drops. No
text: Shallow end. Smooth steep walls.
text: Max leaps for the lip of the pool, Misses by inches. Tries
dialog: again. No dice. Stuck. Muddy.
text: Propping the broken diving board againat the wall he
text: precariously edges up it, as he reaches for the top -- SLAP!
text: His makeshift ramp skids from under him, sending him flying.
text: Defeated, festooned in mud, his cell phone is RING-VIBRATING:
text: moving it closer’ to the edge of the pool.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oh, please -- come to papa.
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS OFFICE - DAY 58
text: Through glass-walls of the boardroom, Gemma watches Sir Nigel
text: Pepper, a 50-something silverback barrow boy in Armani.
text: Arriving. She catches his eye. Smiles. He flexes his jaw.
text: Gemma dials fast.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Where are you, you tosser?
scene_heading: EXT. CHATEAU LA STROQUE ~ IN THE POOL 59
text: Max POV: The phone rings vibrating/moving. Out of sight.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Baargh! Call back! ¢'mon Gemma !
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY 60
text: Fanny chugs along in her 2CV, mangled bike on the top.
text: Passing Chateau La Siroque, she clocks a lime-green Smart Car
text: in the drive. Skids to a halt.
scene_heading: EXT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - A BIT LATER 61
text: Fanny raps on the front doar. Pissed... Waits. No response.
text: Distant expletives coming from the back..,
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 33a.
scene_heading: EXT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - GARDEN 62 |
text: Panny circles the house, tracing Max's voice. To the pool.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 34.
speaker_heading: WHERE SHE FINDS
text: a mud-caked Neanderthal, busily constructing a ramp out of
text: mud and a broken diving board. He retreats, muttering, then
text: with all his might sprints at the construction, bellowing,
text: plants one foot upon it, pulverizing it. He barks his
text: shoulder on the wall and lands, submerged in the gunk. He
text: spots he is not alone.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Qu’est-ce que vous faites?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It’s okay. I’m the pool man, I
dialog: always do this on Thursdays...
dialog: Just routine maintenance.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Ah. You are a ‘ros beef?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oui. Anglais, stupide.
text: A soft breeze flutters her dress, and Max covertly moves to
text: get a peek of her shapely legs...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: This is all rather wonderful
dialog: chatting like this...and you are a
dialog: vision, but...any chance of a rope
dialog: of a ladder?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Is that your car out front?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yes, sorry -- I am temporarily the
text: custodian of the lime-green
text: rollerskate. It's a hired car.
dialog: Not for gale. Sorry. Look, I/m in
dialog: ahole. Literally. And I want to
dialog: get out.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Can you swim?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Not in a foot of shit.
dialog: 09/19/2005 34a.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: 
dialog: Bon.
text: She disappears from his view. :
dialog: |
dialog: |
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 2a
dialog: 09/19/2005 35,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (To himsel£)
dialog: Hello? ‘Allo?
text: After a few moments wondering, Max hears a gurgling rumble.
text: inquisitive, he stares at the spout. Bugs begin to leap out
text: frantically. dust in time he moves -- a TORRENTIAL FLOOD OF
text: WATER bursts from a spout along the inside of the pool. Max
text: dodges as he realizes: Fanny has turned.on the valve pump.
text: Misses the second exploding spout. The third hits him the
text: shoulder, which turns his face in the fourth. The force
text: sends him horizontal into the mud.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Holy crap!
text: MAX IS GIVEN A FOUR-WAY YELLOW CHLORINE ENEMA. HE FIGHTS TO
scene_heading: STAY ALIVE.
scene_heading: EXT, LONDON AIRPORT 624
text: Max’s DRIVER stands as the last “arrival” passengers dribble
text: out...He dials his cell phone.
speaker_heading: cuT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS OFFICE 62B
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: (in command)
dialog: Right. Right. Roger that.
text: POV Gemma. Glamorous board room, Sir Nigel Pepper is
text: sitting in the boardroom waiting with the Financial Times.
text: Gemma approaches gingerly and enters.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. POOL - LATER 63
text: Water up to Max's elbows. He Carefully takes off his watch
text: while holding his shoes out of the water. After putting hig
text: watch inside, Max throws his shoes up above, saving them
text: almost certain ruin. Up above, his cellphone ring-vibrates
text: again: caught on a slight rise in the pool's lip.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yes, Gemma, I know, I know,
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 
dialog: i
dialog: i
dialog: i
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: LATER, and the sun is dipping in the sky.
text: now, floating on the water. His mood has
text: into the pinwheel of colors in the sky.
dialog: 09/19/2005 35a.
text: Max is on his bak
text: shifted. He stares
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 09/19/2005 36.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: ‘Why do you like the desert,
dialog: Colonel Lawrence?’
dialog: (in flawless O'Toole)
dialog: ‘I like it because it’s clean,’
speaker_heading: - CUT TO:
text: DESERTED POOL. No Max. Has he drowned? ‘Suddenly, from the
dialog: 65
text: depths, Max launches: reaching full stretch... .he misses the
text: lip by a centimeter. Dives down, launches again: got it! His
text: fingers strain and he. hauls, ravaged and soaking but free.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON TAXT - DUSK
text: Ring... Gemma picks up the phone.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: You better be in prigon.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: Tell him I’m sorry, I can explain.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Sorry’s no good. He's gone. Off
text: on one of his retreats for a week.
scene_heading: INT, /EXT. CHATEAU LA SITROQUE - BACK TERRACE DOOR - NIGHT
text: Max, dripping, stripping off his wet things.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Shit. When's the first flight out
dialog: tomorrow... ?
speaker_heading: GEMMA {(0.S.)
dialog: Max, there’s no rush anymore. The
dialog: last thing Sir Nigel did on his way
dialog: out Was suspend you ‘til he gets
dialog: back. .
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: GEMMA (0.S.)
dialog: Max. He was really angry. You've
dialog: made him a lot of enemies, Max.
dialog: Why didn’t you pick up the phone?
text: Max's face goes white.
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 69
speaker_heading: 69a
dialog: 09/19/2005 37.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What does he expect me to do for a
dialog: week?
speaker_heading: GEMMA (0.S.)
dialog: Take a holiday.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Christ he didn’t say that did he?
speaker_heading: GEMMA (0.S,)
dialog: No, I just did.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: If anyone calls, do not tell them
dialog: I’m on holiday! That's worse than
dialog: dying. Suspended or not, I’m not
dialog: gonna stop trading!
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL...
text: Max, in his underpants, standing in a puddle, surveying hig
text: vineyard. Armani in a sodden heap,
scene_heading: INT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 68
text: Max takes a couple of Sleeping pills. He opens the window.
text: On the sill, he notices a heap of moldy lavender sitting ina
text: cheap plastic dish. It looks disgusting. He makes a face
text: and tosses it into the trash. Gets into bed,
scene_heading: THREE HOURS LATER
text: Max is sitting up in bed. Very much not sleeping. The frogs
text: outside are in fine voice. Ribbit-ribbit, ribbit-ribbit..,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Frogs...
scene_heading: EXT. CHATEAU LA SIROQUE - EARLY MORNING 69
text: The vineyard at daybreak.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - SAME 69
text: Madame Duflot is dutifully washing Max’s suit by hand, suds
text: and all. Pulls it out. Rings it out.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 38.
scene_heading: INT. UNCLE HENRY'S BEDROOM - LATER 70 —
text: Max’s eyes slowly flutter open. He gets up and walks to the
text: shutters, but when he throws them open, & FRENZIED SWARM of
text: scorpions EXPLODES from the sill!
dialog: Holy shit!
scene_heading: TOA INT. STAIRWELL - SAME 70A
text: Madame Duflot is climbing the steps with Max’s pressed suit
text: when she hears his screams. She rushes up...
scene_heading: 70B INT, UNCLE HENRY’S BEDROOM - SAME 70B
text: Max grabs a shoe and frantically pounds anything that moves,
text: Madame Duflet bursts in and sees the scorpions. She uses the
text: suit to help him kill the bugs.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT i
dialog: Lavande!? Lavande!? :
text: Madame Duflot joins in, and thrashes the scorpions with Max's
text: newly-cleaned suit. Then, she fishes the plastic dish of
text: moldy lavender out of the trash...and pompously waves in
text: front of Max's face.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT f
dialog: Lavande!} :
text: She firmly places it back on the window sill.
scene_heading: 700 INT. UNCLE HENRY’S BEDROOM - LATER 70C
text: "Max digs through Uncle Henry’s clothes closet. It’s filled
text: an assortment of styles, spanning the decades.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 71 INT. KITCHEN - MORNING 71
text: ‘Max enters. He’g wearing an unoffending pair of his Uncle’s
text: trousers (loose waist, cuffs under his heels, school tie as a
text: belt). Rummages through the fridge. Grabs a day-old
text: croissant. Cup of coffee.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE’S VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Back in blighty mon ami?...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 71B
dialog: 7ie
speaker_heading: 71D
dialog: 09/19/2005 39,
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - MORNING TIA
text: Max, on the phone, eats. Intercut with Charlie (in London)
text: as Max wanders around the house,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: On the contrary, Charlie, I’ve
dialog: decided to stay for a couple of
dialog: days. You know, smell the lavender
dialog: and relax.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT PLAT IN FULHAM - SAME 71B
text: Charlie stands in his kitchen in a paisley dressing gown,
text: scooping Nescafe from a jumbo-sized tin. The Financial Times
text: sits on his counter,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: “Relax?!” So it is true. You are
dialog: getting sacked!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I’m not getting sacked, Charlie.
dialog: I’m. ..exploring options with a view
dialog: to realizing thée-full potential of
dialog: my inheritance.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE’S VOICE
dialog: In that case, how long before your
dialog: inheritance is ready to view?
scene_heading: INT. TOP CORRIDOR - MORNING 71¢c
text: Max sees two chickens strutting about. Sees a patch in the
dialog: ceiling that needs a Major repair.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It’s cogmetica stuff mostly. Just
dialog: needs a scrub and a coat of paint.
dialog: So shall we say, first viewing’s in
dialog: two or three days...?
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME 71D
text: Max stops. Three days? Shit, He pulls at the flimsy
text: curtains. It showers him with dust, dead wasps, etc.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You sure?
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 40.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No problem at all, Charlie.
text: Max wanders down the hall and opens the cellar door...
scene_heading: 718 INT. CELLAR STAIRCASE - SAME TLE
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oh. One last thing. The wine they
dialog: make here... It is not, repeat not
dialog: first class.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE’S VOICE
dialog: How bad can it be?
text: Max rummaging through bottles on dusty shelves,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Just gives you a blinding headache
dialog: and makes you angry. Best make
dialog: sure the buyers don’t know shite
dialog: about wine,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE’S VOICE :
dialog: Not a problem, old chap. Just make
dialog: sure she’s mateh-fit in 72 hours.
text: Max examines with interest bottles labelled with grease |
dialog: pencil: Le Coin Perdu. i
scene_heading: 72 INT. GARAGE - DAY ‘ 72
text: .In a messy garage, Max digs among the junk. A few old
text: paintpots. Murky turpe. Finally he locates a paintbrush,
text: sitting in a tin of paint. Max jerks the brush out, seeing
text: it’s stuck in a chunk of congealed paint. He grabs the
text: turpentine and drops the paintbrush in it...then, spies a *
text: tire sticking out from beneath a sheet...
text: Max crosses the garage and whips off the sheet, revealing a
text: fire truck red Heritage Springer.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You dirty old bugger.
dialog: 
scene_heading: TOR EXT. DRIVEWAY ~ LATER 728
text: Max inspects the bike. Checks for oi1 and gas, drive shaft.
text: Tries to turn it over, it won’t start. Battery’s gone flat.
text: He heads to the garage for an extension cord...to recharge.
speaker_heading: 72C
dialog: 09/19/2005 41.
scene_heading: INT. GARAGE - SECONDS LATER 723
text: Max passes the turpentine...and discovers his paintbrush is
dialog: gone.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What the hell..?
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSIDE LE CAVE - DAY 72C
text: Duflot sits in the sunshine, leisurely sharing his lunch with
text: Tati. On his head, a traditional black beret. Max
text: approaches, game-face on. There, on the ground beneath his
text: feet. The paintbrush.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: The paintbrush. I was about to use
dialog: it. You took it. Why?
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: C’est moi. It is my paintbrush.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That‘s the only paintbrush in the
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
text: There is a hardware store in Apt.
dialog: They sell paintbrushes.
dialog: (sips his coffee.)
dialog: But, voila, it is closed today.
text: Max refuses to be beaten. Gets his wallet out.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ok. This is fun. 1/11 give
dialog: you...20 Euros for it.
text: Duflot doesn’t react.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No? Fifty.
dialog: (No reaction)
dialog: Fine. I’11 give you a hundred
dialog: euros for the brush.
text: Impasse. Duflot munches his breakfast.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 41A.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (leveling)
dialog: What do you want, Duflot? i
dialog: Duflot stands. :
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OT)
dialog: 09/19/2005 42.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: When you sell I stay vigneron. 1
dialog: keep my vines. Une contracte.
text: Max doesn’t blink. He regards his opponent.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You want to stay with your vines?
dialog: Fine. You help me fix up the
dialog: place. Do the gardens, paint the
dialog: house, help me with the pool. 72
dialog: hours of hard labor. You help me
dialog: construct this.lie, and I -- if at
dialog: ail possible -- will attempt to
dialog: convince the new owner of the worth
dialog: and value of your services and your
dialog: immortal harvests.
text: Stares at Max. Studies him. Duflot spits into his palm, and
text: extends it to shake.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
text: A Frenchman’s hand is his word.
text: Max spits a bigger hock into his own palm.
speaker_heading: MAX
text: An Englishman's word is his bond.
text: They shake, spit merging.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Concorde.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Deal.
text: Max walks off...wiping the spit on his pant leg...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Frog Toaspot.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: English prick.
scene_heading: BEGIN REPAIR MONTAGE
scene_heading: EXT. BASTIDE - BACK GARDEN ~ NEXT MORNING 72D
text: Cigarette dangling from his mouth, Duflot is pruning an
text: overgrown hedge with a vine sickle.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 42a.
text: A broken chair comes flying out of a top window, crashing to
text: the ground, just missing him. Max sticks his head out,
text: holding back a smile,
dialog: i
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 72F
speaker_heading: 726
speaker_heading: 72H
speaker_heading: 721
dialog: 09/19/2005 43.
scene_heading: EXT. POOL - NEXT MORNING 72E
text: Duflot, up to his shins in slime, scoops up leaves and mud,
text: and dumps them into a bucket. Madame Duflot pulls the bucket
text: by rope, and unloads the crap into a wheelbarrow. PAPA
text: DUFLOT, 80's, watches this procedure, somnambulant.
scene_heading: INT. HENRY’S BEDROOM - DAY 72F
text: Max shoves the heavy bed across the floor to caver a huge
text: moldy patch. Behind-it he-finds a single stiletto shoe. He
text: smiles. Places it on the mantel as if it was a museum piece.
scene_heading: INT. SERVANTS QUARTERS - LATER 72G
text: The walls are exposed with old, rickety wood. Ants are
text: crawling everywhere. Max sprays with insecticide.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 72H
text: Max is throwing a load of broken tennis rackets into black
text: sacks. He pulls the basket they. were in away from the wall.
text: He stops. On the wall behind them is painted cricket stumps.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Oh wow.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - RAINY DAY 7ar
text: Young Max comes running down the corridor to bowl, releasing
text: the ball and clearing a wall shelf of about five vases,
text: halfway down the corridor. They SMASH to the ground.
text: Henry, smoking, is padded up in full cricket whites at the
text: other end in front of the stumps.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: (loud; calmly)
dialog: Wide...
text: THE PRESENT, Max does a perfect “D,K. lillee off-cutter.”
text: Hits the center stump.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Howz that!
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 73
dialog: 09/19/2005 44,
scene_heading: INT. TOP OF STAIRCASE - DAY 725
text: Max, balancing precariously on a step ladder, is busy rolling
text: whitewash over crumbling, damp plaster. Duflot passes below
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: It will not last a month,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That’s someone else's problem.
text: He slaps on another coat.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT (0.S.)
dialog: Monsieur Max!
scene_heading: “MAX'S POV - DOWN THE AIRSHAFT
text: Madame Duflot stares up, looking uneasy.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: There is...a person,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: A person?
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: (mot ioning)
text: At the door.
scene_heading: INT. CHATEAU LE SIROQUE - ENTRYWAY 73
text: Max opens the front door. Standing there: a pretty BLONDE
text: GIRL, 21, with a backpack. She’s wearing shorts, flip-flops,
text: and a San Francisco Giants baseball hat.
speaker_heading: BLONDE GIRL
dialog: {perfect French)
dialog: Bonjour. Je recherche le
dialog: Propriétaire du domaine. (Good
dialog: morning. I am looking for the
dialog: owner of the estate.)
text: She amiles, flashing her blindingly white teeth.
speaker_heading: : MAX
dialog: The only country that issues teeth
dialog: like that is America.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 44a,
speaker_heading: BLONDE GIRL
dialog: Oh, you speak English?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Like a native.
dialog: 09/19/2005 45.
speaker_heading: BLONDE GIRL
dialog: My name’s Christie Roberts...I'm
text: looking for Mr. Skinner.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: And you have found him.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: Impossible, you're way too young,
speaker_heading: MAX .
dialog: (sexual innuendo)
dialog: Funny, I was just thinking the same
dialog: about you.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: I meant too young to be my Dad.
dialog: Henry Skinner’s my father.
text: Clearly off of Max's doubt and mistrust, Christie fishes into
text: her knapsack, unearths a photo, and hands it to Max--
scene_heading: INSERT - PHOTO ON GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE
text: A late 50's Uncle Henry poses-with Christie's Mother, 20's,
text: gorgeous, who wears a sexy, Jennifer Beals, hang-off-the-
dialog: shoulder sweatshirt,
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT (0.8.)
dialog: She has Henri’s nose!
text: Max turns -- Madame Duflot is looking over his shoulder at
text: the photo. Max steps out onto the landing, closes the door
text: behind him, shutting off Madame Duflot.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That‘’s your Mum?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (proudly)
dialog: In all her Flashdance-glory...
dialog: (excited)
dialog: So is he around?
text: Max stops...only now does he realize she doesn’t know.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You don’t know?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Know what?
speaker_heading: 7A
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oh. Right.
dialog: (pinches his nose)
dialog: Uh. Look,
text: He sighs, looks at her for some time.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Sorry I've forgotten your name.
speaker_heading: : CHRISTIE
dialog: It’s Christie.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Christie. Look Christie...
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Oh my God. He's dead, isn't he?
text: Max stops. Slightly impressed at her intuition.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: A month ago.
text: Christie is crestfallen. Eyes welling up.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Cup of tea?
scene_heading: EXT, BASTIDE - MINUTES LATER
dialog: 74
text: Christie sits at the chess table, recovering. PAN WITH MAX
text: as he emerges from the house with two cups of tea and a few
dialog: sandwiches.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So... California?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (sadly)
dialog: Mom was a tour guide in Napa
dialog: Valley. That’s where she met
dialog: Henry. He took the tour one day
text: and charmed her pants off.
dialog: Literally.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 47.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE (cont 'd)
dialog: By the time she realized she was
dialog: pregnant, Henry was long gone...so
dialog: she never told him...then waited i
dialog: until last week -- my 21st birthday :
dialog: ~~ to come clean with me.
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Totally unbelievable...to come this
text: far only to find out he's.. -gone.
text: As Christie's eyes well up again-~-
speaker_heading: MAX :
dialog: I think I’11 get something |
dialog: stronger, :
scene_heading: 75 EXT. MAX’S POV FROM ABOVE - MINUTES LATER 75 ‘
text: Christie sits alone, sipping a Campari, eating a sandwich. |
scene_heading: T5A INT. UNCLE HENRY’S STUDY - TERRCAE - SaME 715A
text: Max spies on her from above, on his celiphone, quietly
text: conspiring with Charlie in London.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (0.8.) '
dialog: This is more than a wrinkle, Max. i
dialog: What if the girl turns out to be :
dialog: legit?
speaker_heading: MAX /
text: She bowls up a couple of weeks
dialog: after he carks it? It’s too sweet :
dialog: Charlie. I’m not buying it. i
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You need some legal advice, mate.
dialog: And you need it fast, before the
text: little nymph cuts loose and makes a
dialog: mess of Chateau Skinner.
scene_heading: 76 EXT. BASTIDE ~ CHESS TABLE - MINUTES LATER 76
text: Max rejoins Christie, who's admiring the estate...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (looks at watch)
dialog: Listen, Christie, I've just got to
dialog: pop into town.
text: She stuffs the rest of the sandwich in her mouth.
dialog: 09/19/2005 47~A,
speaker_heading: CBRISTIE
dialog: (gamely; standing)
dialog: No prob. I booked a youth hostel :
dialog: in town...just in case the old man
dialog: was schitzo.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 48.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE (cont'd)
dialog: You mind dropping me? I’ve really
dialog: gotta get out of these clothes.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Why not get out of your clothes
dialog: here? We’ve got tons of space...
dialog: Rooms to spare. Clean up. Have
dialog: yourself a shower. I’11 be back in
dialog: no time...
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Madame Dulfot! A guest!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Wow, you sure?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Of course.
text: Max flashes a deliciously fake grin,as Madame Duflot charges
dialog: out to take care of Christie.
scene_heading: INT. MAITRE AUZET'S OFFICE - A BIT LATER 77
dialog: 
text: Max paces the office, apoplectic. aAuzet sits behind her
text: desk, studying the photo of Henry and Christie's Mom.
dialog: But she never even met my Uncle! * |
speaker_heading: AUZET
dialog: Under French Law, there is no
dialog: difference between legitimate and
dialog: illegitimate children when it comes
dialog: to their right to inherit. In
dialog: theory, the girl would be entitled
dialog: to sole ownership of the estate.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Ridiculous! She could be an
dialog: imposter.
speaker_heading: AUZET
dialog: That is precisely why she would be
dialog: required to produce some form of
dialog: documentation -- a photo or even
dialog: correspondence. If this is deemed
dialog: sufficient evidence, a DNA test
dialog: would then be ordered to establish
dialog: paternity.
speaker_heading: HO Ok Oe
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Dig the old boy up?! Bollocks you
dialog: will!
dialog: 
dialog: 78
dialog: 09/19/2005 49.
speaker_heading: AUZET
dialog: Mr. Skinner, your Uncle Henri was
dialog: cremated.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (off the hook; relieved)
dialog: That‘s right... Great.
speaker_heading: AUZET
dialog: However...viable samples can be
dialog: obtained from an old hairbrush, or
dialog: even a licked stamp.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (scheming)
dialog: Suppose I was to sell the
dialog: place...before she filed a claim?
speaker_heading: AUZET
dialog: Legally, she could invalidate a
dialog: sale, even after the transfer of
dialog: title.
dialog: (Max, at wits end)
dialog: But this is all asauming the girl
dialog: wishes to make a claim, Perhaps
dialog: her intentions are harmless? My
dialog: advice is to treat her with the
dialog: utmost respect and hope she’ll be
dialog: on her way... French courte have a
dialog: way of favoring the lesser dog;
dialog: don’t make her one.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Courts?
scene_heading: EXT, MAIN STREET - DAY 78
text: Max walks back to the Smart Car, he pulls out into the main
text: street. The streets bustle with foot and bike traffic. Max
text: stops and starts. Gets stuck on a narrow street.
text: Through the half obscured windscreen he spots Fanny as she
text: walks practically over him carrying a tray. She serves a
text: table, then crosses back behind him to serve some tables
text: across the street.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Hell-bitch...!
scene_heading: MOVING WITH FANNY
dialog: Hoe te
speaker_heading: ee RO ER RR OR
speaker_heading: + oF
dialog: 09/19/2005 49an.
text: As she breezes back ingide the restaurant car horns honk
text: behind Max and he has to move on,
dialog: 
scene_heading: MOVING WITH MAX
dialog: 09/19/2005 49a,
text: As he parks his midget car in the worlds smallest space. He
text: jogs back to her restaurant. Wo sign of her, Then...she
text: emerges, carrying a tray and water jug. Max puffs up his
text: chest and marches toward her.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Joan of Arc.
text: She turns. An iridescent Provencal beauty. He’s bowled
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Ah Jacques Cousteau.
dialog: 
dialog: 79
dialog: 09/19/2005 50.
text: She walke straight past him, almost pushing him out the way.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You tried to drown me,
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: And you tried to run me over with
dialog: your little car!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What are you talking about..? What
dialog: do you mean I tried to run you
dialog: over?
speaker_heading: PANNY
dialog: Down the road from La Siroque! You
dialog: were driving your midget Car on
dialog: your phone -~ and, I believe, had
dialog: your head stuck very far up your
dialog: ass! Look at the damage you have
dialog: caused me...1
text: She pivots and YANKS UP HER SKIRT on one side, revealing: an
text: ENORMOUS BLACK-AND-BLUE BRUISE adorning the most gorgeous
text: cheek since Eve. Max is a deer caught in headlights, along
text: with the rest of the male patrons of the cafe.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (skirt down, at him again)
dialog: Faites attention fou! You try to
dialog: kill me, I try to kill you. Eh
dialog: bien, c'est fini.
text: She turns on her heel and marches back inside, unaware that
text: her skirt is stuck in her underwear. Max watches her,
text: transfixed. A small car crashes gently into a car in front.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: My God. She’s fantastic.
scene_heading: EXT, GARDEN - LATER . 79
text: Max stares at the pool which is crystal clear now, half-
text: filled, water shimmering. Papa Duflot calmly skims the pool.
text: Beyond him, Max sees Duflot, wearing a white visor, on higher
text: ground, pulling a roller on the tennis court. Things are
dialog: looking good.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE (0.8.)
dialog: Hey Max!
text: Max looks up.
dialog: *
dialog: *
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 51.
scene_heading: MAX’S POV - THIRD FLOOR 80
text: Christie hangs out the window. Hair wet, barely clothed, she
text: must have just gotten out of the shower.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (earnest )
dialog: Max, I can’t thank you enough for
dialog: inviting me to stay... Look at the
dialog: view, it’s like Cezanne country!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (dryly)
dialog: It is Cezanne country.
text: Christie notices a dish of moldy lavender on the sill
text: Gross. She tosses it out the window.
speaker_heading: HARD CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 81-84 OMITTED
scene_heading: EXT, TENNIS COURT - MINUTES LATER 85
text: The court’s looking good. Duflot huffs and puffs with the
text: roller. Max reflexively picks up an old brush and whisks the
text: dust off the ancient plastic lines,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (cool)
dialog: Duflot...? This afternoon...in
dialog: town...there was a--
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Her name is Fanny Chenal.
text: Max is stunned. How does Duflot even know what he's talking
text: about? Max continues to brush. Duflot continues to roll on
text: the other side...at a distance...
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Many times I have seen this same
dialog: look on your Uncle’s face.
text: Max is impressed by Dulfot’s insight.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: But you deserve special credit.
dialog: 81~84
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 5iaa.
dialog: Oh? Why?
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 Sia.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT * i
dialog: You are now the town hero for * —
text: making her show her derriere. *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: Bloody hell, news travels fast. *
text: Dulfot carries on rolling. *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 52.
dialog: 
text: Now Max is rifling through an old box that has eroquet *
text: -mallets and tennis rackets in it. Max comes forward with two
text: ancient racquets, and balls. He stops in his tracks, as a- *
text: memory has come flooding back to him. *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: She grew up here, didn’t she? * A
speaker_heading: DUFLOT * \
dialog: Who? . *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: Fanny, *
speaker_heading: DUFLOT *
dialog: I believe so, yes. *
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Is she.,..er...otherwise spoken for? *
text: Duflot is now winding up the net. Max places the racket
text: against the net measuring the height, motioning when to stop.
speaker_heading: ‘DUFLOT :
dialog: She was. Once! A football player * :
dialog: for Lyon. He wags shit...just like *
dialog: his left foot. And treated her
dialog: badly. Since then, it is rumored
dialog: that she will let no man near her
dialog: heart.
text: They are now facing each other across the net...
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Max, recall what Proust said:
dialog: ‘Leave pretty women to men without
dialog: imagination,’
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I’m a banker, Duflot. I have no
dialog: imagination.
text: Max lobs a racket to Duflot, which Dufilot catches. Max
text: points to his shirt. Fred Perry insignia.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Fred Perry.
text: Duflot smiles like a crocodile and tips his white visor. .
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Henri Lacoste.
dialog: 87
dialog: 09/19/2005 52a.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 86
speaker_heading: HARD CUT TO:
scene_heading: TENNIS COURT - WIDE SHOT 87
text: Max and Duflot face off at opposite ends of the court. The
text: game begins. We witness a strenuous, comical, violent,
text: dangerous, xenophobic game of tennis, culminating in Max's
dialog: match point,
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 88
dialog: ao
dialog: 90
dialog: 09/19/2005 53.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Match point, mate.
text: Duflot silent, awaiting the serve. THWACK! Max delivers an
text: ace, leaving Duflot standing. They stare in silence. Max
dialog: and Duflot appraise each other -- do we detect a moment of
text: camaraderie? The moment. is broken by Papa’s slow hand-clap,
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Bon.
text: Duflot walks off, with a sharp command--
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
speaker_heading: PAPA! TATI!
text: All follow, leaving Max, sweaty, bloody, and enjoying the
dialog: moment .
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT 88
text: Max showers off.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
speaker_heading: MONSIEUR MAX!
text: (Max is startled by a
dialog: dinner gong)
dialog: Diner!
speaker_heading: OMITTED 89
scene_heading: INT, DINING ROOM - MINUTES LATER 390
text: Max enters and finds a table set for two, shimmering beneath
text: candlelight. A Billie Holiday record plays.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Madame Duflot, she’s my Cousin.
dialog: (backpedaling)
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Ach! Half the aristocrats in
dialog: France have liaisons with their
dialog: cousins!
text: Madame Duflot leaves for the day. A gnarly meal awaits Max:
text: congealed foie gras, cold escargot, and worst of all -- an
text: opened bottle of La Siroque wine.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 53A. i
scene_heading: INT. WINE CAVE - EVENING 91
dialog: 
text: Max scans the rack of wine...so many choices. Nothing seems
text: to strike his fancy...until he hones in on one of the
text: unlabeled bottles of Le Coin Perdu. He snaps it up...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SIA
dialog: 09/19/2005 54.
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY'S VOICE
dialog: Psst... Max~-a-million. Up here.
scene_heading: MAX’S POV ~ ABOVE HIM
text: A ladder leads up to some scaffolding, which runs along the
text: tops of the three cement vate that ferment the wine.
text: WE ARE NOW IN A FLASHBACK. MAX CLIMBS UP THE LADDER, 91A
text: FOLLOWING RIGHT BEHIND HIS YOUNGER SELF... HE WATCHES YOUNG
scene_heading: MAX TAKE HIS PLACE NEXT TO UNCLE HENRY, WHO STANDS, ARMS
text: AKIMBO, STARING DOWN INTO THE MACERATING VAT OF WINE...
text: UNCLE HENRY WEARS A STRAW HAT, WITH A RING OF BURNING CANDLES
text: ATTACHED TO IT. THE FLICKERING, FIERY GLOW OSCILLATES
text: THROUGHOUT THE CAVE...
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Tell me Max, what do you see down
dialog: there?
scene_heading: YOUNG MAX’S POV - INTO VAT
text: Filled to the rim with bubbling, fermenting red wine.
speaker_heading: YOUNG -MAX
dialog: Fervere.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Are you speaking in tongues, boy?
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: (confident)
dialog: Fervere. It's a Latin term. It
dialog: Means “to boil.” The native yeasts
dialog: in your cellar are converting the
dialog: sugar inside the grapes to alcohol,
dialog: The release of carbon dioxide gas
dialog: is what causes the bubbling effect.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: I must be suffering from dementia,
dialog: I don’t recall ever having taught
dialog: you that,
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: You didn't. That Deflot guy
dialog: explained it to me.
dialog: 
dialog: t
dialog: 09/19/2005 54a.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Well done. Proves the adage that
dialog: wisdom can be found in the most
dialog: unlikely places.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 55.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY (cont'd)
text: To watch Duflot on bended knee,
dialog: doing something as simple ag
dialog: weeding his soil... there's a
dialog: magnificent poetry in his devotion
dialog: to each and every grape. Perhaps
dialog: he‘1l inspire you to find devotion
dialog: in what you do for a living
dialog: someday?
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: i want be a professional poker
dialog: player when I grow up. Ora
dialog: comedian,
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Max, ask me what the most important
dialog: part of comedy is.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: What’s the most important part--
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: {cutting in)
dialog: ~-Timing.
text: PRESENT, Max chuckles, as the reverie fades away.
scene_heading: INT. BASTIDE - KITCHEN - MINUTES LATER 92
text: Max enters. Christie is sitting at the dining room table,
text: already stuffing her face with food. She's changed into
text: comfy clothes -- boxer shorts, tank top, slippers.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (re: estate wine)
dialog: Have you tasted Dad‘’s wine?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It’s bloody awful.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: So you know?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: To be fair, I’m a cognac drinker by
dialog: trade.
text: He pops the cork of the Le Coin. Pours himself and Christie
text: a taster. Max takes a sip.
dialog: Not bad.
speaker_heading: oF
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 55aAa.
text: Christie swirls, sniffs, sips, trills, and swallows. /
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 55a,
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Mmmm. Formidable...
dialog: (tastes again)
dialog: It's extraordinary. Like a
dialog: Bordeaux... only velvet rather than
dialog: wool...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Look who knows a thing or two about
dialog: wine...
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 56.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: In Napa, we’re known to gargle and
dialog: spit on occasion...
text: She studies the bottle... as she checks out the food, close
dialog: up. Ugh!
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Is this made here..,on the estate?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: If it’s good, it can’t be.
text: She grabs the Le Coin Perdu bottle and holds it up next to
text: the La Siroque bottle. They are shaped differently.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Different bottles...
dialog: {holds up the corks)
dialog: Same corks...
dialog: (tastes he Coin)
dialog: Completely different taste...
dialog: A little mystery, isn’t it?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yes, well, Henry was a bit of a
dialog: mystery himself.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: How so?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: He loved England but lived in
dialog: France. He loved women but never
dialog: married. He loved adventure and
dialog: yet all my memories of him are
dialog: within a hundred steps of this very
dialog: spot.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Are they good memories?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No... They're grand...
dialog: (nostalgic)
dialog: Henry used to say: “Max, there's
dialog: nowhere else in the world where you
dialog: can keep busy doing so little and
dialog: enjoy it so much.”
text: Max looks at his watch.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Listen Christie, I've just got
text: pop back into town.
dialog: 09/19/2005 5é6aa,.
dialog: to
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 56a,
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Second time in one day. Sounds to
dialog: me like you’ve found yourself a
dialog: girl.
text: Max smiles. She’s a sharp one. Christie scoops up a plate of
text: food and absconds the bottle of Le Coin Perdu.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (re: the bottle)
dialog: For research... Bonsoir, cuz.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Bonsoir, Christie,
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
dialog: 09/19/2005 57.
text: Christie heads upstairs. Max can’t help himself; hia eyes
dialog: follow her ass.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - MOVING - MINUTES LATER 93
text: On the phone with Charlie.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (0.8.)
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: MAX'S VOICE
dialog: Quick question, mate: is it illegal
dialog: to shag your own cousin?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Only if she’s ugly.
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN SQUARE - NIGHT 94
text: Darkened doorway. Is Max smoking a cigarette? MOVE CLOSER.
text: No, it’s a lollipop. He’s lurking.
scene_heading: MAX’S POV ~ ACROSS THE STREET
text: The cafe. Max spies an overflow of people waiting outside.
text: He tosses the lolly to the ground.
scene_heading: EXT. RENAISSANCE CAFE - SAME 95
text: The place is packed and frantically busy. Fanny buzzes
text: around the restaurant, placating diners who haven't received
text: their entrees yet, then assuaging patrons who haven’t been
text: seated yet... She has to brush past Max.,
dialog: 09/19/2005 58.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Your food must be terrific because
dialog: the service is shite,
text: She looks back.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Please, monsieur, I am too busy to
dialog: ignore you.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: {as she passes)
dialog: Where are all your waiters?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Look, I have my hands full without
dialog: fun and games with you, comprends?
text: McDonald's is in Avignon. Cod and
dialog: Chips in Marseille.
text: She rushes back to a complaining diner, and Max can see:
text: she's helplessly swamped.
scene_heading: IN THE KITCHEN
text: Fanny tries to keep up with her orders but her Cook’s Helper
text: accidently drops a plate... CRASH! Merde! Fanny takes what's
dialog: ready out to see --
scene_heading: THE DINING ROOM
text: -~ Max, with his jacket off and shirtsleeves rolled up,
text: taking orders from patrons. Of course, he doesn’t understand
text: a word anyone’s saying, but he doesn’t let that deter him.
dialog: Fanny approaches:
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Relax. I’ve done this before.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Where?
text: He stops.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I worked my way through University
dialog: in London’s Finest restaurants.
text: A desperate chef rings a service bell and balances two
text: beautifully presented confections on top of a bouef en
text: eroute. She has no choice. She grabs both plates and
text: thrusts them into Max's hands.
dialog: 
dialog: 96
dialog: 09/19/2005 59.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Okay, you can serve. But if there
dialog: are any complaints, remember: in
dialog: France, the customer is always
dialog: wrong... Table six.
text: And off they go, in different directions, commencing:
text: A MONTAGE of Max's waiting tables. ‘Turns out he wasn’t
dialog: lying. He’s absolutely brilliant. His impression of a
text: French waiter proves to be infallible, except for the slight
dialog: shortcoming of his inability to speak the language.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (as one diner points to
dialog: possible entrees)
dialog: ++-Mon,..non...non,..oui, c’est
dialog: magnifique...
dialog: {te another)
dialog: ++ -4vec?...c%est tout?...
speaker_heading: AMERICAN MAN
dialog: (clicks fingers)
dialog: Garcon! We're ready to order!
text: Max arrives to greet an AMERICAN COUPLE.
speaker_heading: AMERICAN MAN
dialog: My wife’ll have the Nicoise salad,
dialog: only she wants it with lo-cal Ranch
dialog: dressing, and toss in some bacon
dialog: bits and croutons. I’1] have the
dialog: lamb chops. Well done. No butter.
dialog: Side of freedom fries--
text: Max snaps the menus from their hands.
speaker_heading: MAX
text: McDonald's is in Avignon. Cod and
dialog: Chips in Marseille.
text: Fanny watches from afar, amused.
scene_heading: INT, RENAISSANCE CAFE - LATER 96
text: The last customer has left, the restaurant velaid for
text: tomorrow, Fanny divides the gratuity between her staff -- a
text: pile. for the cook's helper, a pile for the busboy. Max is
text: sitting outside, watching her. Employees file out, passing
text: Max, complimenting his work. Thumbs up. Accolades.
text: Fanny comes out.
speaker_heading: eR ee
dialog: She moves
dialog: 09/19/2005 60.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Here are your tips... Thank you
dialog: for your help. You're fired.
text: off to stack chairs...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: My vigneron says that you grew up
dialog: here, in Gordes?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Monsieur Duflot is mistaken. I
dialog: only visited Gordes.during the
dialog: summers, with my mother.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You know, I spent all my summers
dialog: here too. And I feel we may have
dialog: met at some point?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Tf we did, I hope I was unbearable.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Look, I know it’s late but I was
dialog: thinking, maybe there was someplace
dialog: I could spend my hard-earned tips
dialog: on a drink or two, to say sorry.
text: (she looks at him,
dialog: sternly)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Are you asking me on a date?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No. No. Just a drink. I mean I'd
dialog: like to prove I’m not just a maniac
dialog: who goes around running people
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: I’m not interested.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Because I don’t like you.
dialog: + *
dialog: eee
speaker_heading: ee OF
dialog: %
text: She goes back in. Max is impressed,
text: of leftover red wine from beneath the
dialog: sit things out.
dialog: 09/19/2005 60aA.
text: Produces a half-bottle
dialog: table, and decides to
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 60a.
scene_heading: EXT. RENAISSANCE CAFE - HOURS LATER ~- DARK 97
text: Max is patient. He waits outside for Fanny to finally close
text: up. She emerges, surprised to see him, but also unable to
text: suppress a smile. She heads to her car, which is parked on
dialog: the street...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Exactly what is it about me that
dialog: you don’t like?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: The fact that you asked,
text: She gets in. Starts the ear, then, lowers her window..,
speaker_heading: FANNY
text: Saturday night. 8:00 at the Grand
dialog: Chateau. Don’t be late.
text: Max smiles...and watches her pull out.
dialog: * *
speaker_heading: ek F
dialog: et
dialog: :
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 98B
dialog: 09/19/2005 61.
scene_heading: EXT. BASTIDE - NEXT MORNING 98
text: The estate looks like a Cezanne canvas: another gorgeous
text: morning. Madame Duflot sweeps the courtyard. Suddenly, we
text: HEAR Christie SCREAMING from her room:
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE (0.8)
dialog: Omigod: Help! Scorpions!
text: Max charges into the room.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Lavande! Lavdande|
text: Using his shoe, he stamps out the scorpions. He fishes out
text: the lavender dish from her garbage and slams it on the window
dialog: sill.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Lavande!
scene_heading: INT. UNCLE HENRY'S STUDY - LATER 9BA
text: Max sits at his Uncle’s desk, carefully examining the
dialog: estate’s accounting records, -which are exceptionally neat,
text: and all written in deep, green ink. Behind him, the record
text: player spins a Harry Nilsson 45. Madame Duflot ig on her
text: knees, scouring the floor.
text: Max throws some papers off the desk into a bin. He stops.
text: He picks up a RED WATERMAN FOUNTAIN PEN and rolig it in his
text: palm. He unscrews the pot of green ink and smells it. He
text: smiles. Remembering.
text: FLASHBACK. Uncle Henry on the couch, glass of wine on higsB
text: stomach. At the desk is Young Max, gripping the SAME PEN,
text: writing in Henry's checkbook, forging his handwriting.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: Pay to the order of...Francois
dialog: Hupert, plumber.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: How much?
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: 87 francs.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Sign!
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 61A.
text: Using Uncle Henry’s real signature as a guide, Young Max
text: flips it upside down, and copies the scrawl...
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 62.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
scene_heading: H-e-n-r-y...S-k-i-n-n-e-r.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Who else, who else...?
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: (rummaging through bills)
dialog: The mechanic?
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: (standing to pour wine)
dialog: Not a sou to that grease monkey !
text: The jag's still coughing up like
dialog: your Aunt Midge.
text: Uncle Henry leans over admiring the young forger’s handiwork.
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: You're a genius Maximillian. You
dialog: could be me.
scene_heading: INT. UNCLE HENRY'S STUDY - PRESENT , 39
text: Max puts the pen back, wistfully.
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: You could be me.
text: The next record drops. Needle hits the grooves. Edmundo
text: Ross. A rumba. Madame Duflot starts to subtly swing to the
text: music. From behind, it looks like the song is evoking an
text: intense, emotional memory.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (catching her eye)
dialog: Do you ever miss my Uncle, Madame
dialog: Duflot?
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: He was an excellent dancer.
text: Max smiles. He thought so.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Mr. Max? You will come to our
dialog: home.,.manger...ce soir.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oh, I don’t know if that’s such a
dialog: good idea, Madame Duflot--
dialog: 
dialog: 160
dialog: 09/19/2005 63.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Bon. It is settled. I must
dialog: prepare for your visite.
text: Madame Duflot exits in a frantic rush.
scene_heading: EXT. VINEYARD - MORNING 100
text: Christie sips coffee and wanders the vineyard. She reaches a
text: wall of brush that marks the end of the property-line. Then
text: notices a small, arch-like opening...and walks through it,
text: finding herself beneath a canopy of dense trees. She advances
text: toward a burst of light that floods through the outlet on the
dialog: other side of the grove...
text: Christie finally emerges into the blinding whiteness. When
text: her eyes adjust, she sees she’s standing on yet another
text: hectare of vines. Oddly, these vines aren't growing in dark
text: soil, but are planted in gleaming white, limestone rocks.
text: It’s otherworldly. -She kneels, and scoops up a wilted bunch
text: of embryonic grapes from the soil. Inspects them..,as she
dialog: atrolls up to--
speaker_heading: A SMALL SHED
text: Upon which a very old pony is tethered. Christie picks up
text: some grass, which he feeds on, lazily.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT (0.S.)}
dialog: He is called...Syrah.
text: Christie turna. Duflot steps out of the vines.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (in flawless French)
dialog: Named after a grape? How
dialog: appropriate.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Ah, vous parlez francais?
text: Christie nods. He takes her hand. Now in Engligh--
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Francis Duflot, vigneron.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Christie Roberts, illegitimate
dialog: daughter.
dialog: 
dialog: b
dialog: 09/19/2005 63A.
text: Duflot studies the pretty, young girl’s face. The loss of
text: Henry comes rushing back -- if only for a wounded moment...
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 64.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT :
dialog: The resemblance to Henry is |
dialog: unmistakable... i
dialog: (looks more closely)
dialog: The noge!
text: Christie touches her nose, starting to get self-conscious.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: You knew him well?
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: For twenty-three years I toiled i
dialog: side-by-side with your father. i
dialog: Even now...
dialog: (points up to heaven;
dialog: smiles)
dialog: ..-he works from there...
dialog: points to the soil)
dialog: -.-and I from here.
text: She strokes the pony.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Syrah was born the year I planted
dialog: the vines...but now they are both
text: sad and tired.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: I’ve noticed. Many of them are
dialog: withered...
dialog: (glancing around)
dialog: ...except here.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (re: the hectare)
dialog: Tei? It is catastrophic! Nothing
text: but rocks and grief.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (points; naively)
dialog: They're limestones. They absorb
text: sunlight, then radiate heat at
dialog: night to keep the vines warm.
dialog: 
text: O£E his look of surprise.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (grinning disarmingly)
dialog: I‘m a wine brat. Spent my summers
text: working at a vineyard in
dialog: California.
dialog: 09/19/2005 65.
speaker_heading: DUPLOT
dialog: They do not make wine in :
dialog: California, they make Hawaiian mo
dialog: Punch.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Mondavi might argue that one.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT :
dialog: Perhaps Henry’s daughter would be |
dialog: interested in a personal tour of , i
dialog: the vines?
dialog: (puts his.arm around her)
dialog: If we are lucky, his spirit will
dialog: join us...
dialog: 
text: Touched, Christie assents. Still curious about the hectare, i
text: she motiong into the limestone hectare, but Duflot gently i
text: tugs her back--
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: {in French}
dialog: Suivez-moi, This way...
text: Duflot guides her back through the brush.. -away from the
text: hectare, She throws a backwards glance: why does she get the
dialog: feeling he’s hiding something?
scene_heading: 101 INT. UNCLE HENRY’S BEDROOM - DUSK 101
text: Django Reinhart'’s “Time on My Hands” spills from the house.
scene_heading: 102 EXT. VINEYARD - DUSK 102
text: Dressed in Henry's best (70’s-era flared pants), Max ambles
text: through the vines, en route to Duflot's cottage. Along the
text: way, he plucks some wild roses from the vineyard to make a
text: clean dozen... His Treo vibrates:
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What's happening, Charlie?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (0.8.)
dialog: The photos worked like a charm,
dialog: mate, Offers are flying in like
dialog: crazy. It’s time for me to be on-
dialog: site. I booked a flight and should
dialog: be in tomorrow afternoon.
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Terrific. 1I'11 alert the staff.
dialog: 104
dialog: 106
dialog: 09/19/2005 66.
scene_heading: EXT. DUFLOT'S COTTAGE - EVENING 103
text: For a peasant, Duflot is doing rather well for himself. His
text: home is a Provencal hacienda, made of pinkish concrete. In
text: front is a meticulously landscaped flower garden, and enough
text: decorative ironwork to open a showroom.
text: Duflot awaits on his porch, dressed in black trousers, a
text: black shirt, and a big amile. France’s answer to Johnny
text: Cash. As Max crosses the front garden -- BLING! -- a gaggle
text: of plastic swans FLASH ON, lighting Max's path...
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Monsieur Max! Bienvenu! We must
dialog: have an apero. Allez, allez... .
dialog: And of course, no French greeting is complete without three
dialog: kisses on the cheeks. Kias, kiss, kiss.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 104 *
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - SECONDS LATER 105
text: And then through the kitchen...where Madame Duflot is hard at
text: work on dinner...but not so hard at work that she can’t greet
dialog: Max with three kissegs--
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Maxie, Maxie, Maxie...welcome!
text: Max hands her the roges.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Ah, merci! Tres jolie!
scene_heading: EXT. TERRACE - EVENING 106
text: Finally, Duflot leads Max out to a small tiled terrace, with
text: a stunning view of the vineyard and the Luberon Valley.
text: Surprise -- Christie’s here too, standing by the rail,
text: sipping a Pastis. She looks gorgeous, her hair swept up and
text: a grown-up dress kissing her body, On a trolley, is a mess
text: of appetizers, including a thick earthenware terrine of
text: thrush pate, with the bird's beak protruding from the dark
dialog: meat.
dialog: eee
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 67.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: I hope you do not mind, I took the
dialog: liberty of inviting Henri’s
dialog: daughter to join us...
text: Max is slightly annoyed by how Duflot so easily accepts
dialog: Christie as the real thing.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (moves off)
dialog: Un moment. I will get you a
dialog: Pastis.
text: Christie comes over. She’s eating some pate on a cracker.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Bonjour cuz.
dialog: Kiss, kiss, kiss.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I see you've managed to ingratiate
dialog: yourself with the help.
dialog: (re: sexy dress)
dialog: Where’d you get the Halston?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Dad‘s closet...and actually it’s a
dialog: Mary Quant.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (none the wiser; re; the
dialog: woman who left the dress
dialog: behind)
dialog: I wonder what. she wore home.
speaker_heading: TIME cur
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 68.
scene_heading: EXT. DINING VERANDA - LATER 107
text: All are now buzzed from Pastis. Ags Max and Christie sit,
text: Duflot makes a tour of the table, pouring everyone a glass of
text: La Siroque wine, while introducing the next phase of dinner.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: A simple meal...after a day's work
dialog: in the fields..
dialog: (points to each dish)
dialog: Caviar d’aubergine... Cold puree
dialog: of eggplant... Headless larks...
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Headless? Where are the heads? We
dialog: didn’t, like, eat them already, did
dialog: we?
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: +..and finally...civet of wild boar
text: ‘a la Provence, marinated in red
dialog: wine and blood pressed from the
text: carcass.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Why would one have it any other
dialog: way?
text: Duflot tries to pour wine for Papa, but Papa rudely refuses
text: in an unintelligible language, covering his glass with his
text: hand, which gets drenched. He abruptly gets up and walks to
dialog: the kitchen.
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 69.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: (Laughing)
dialog: Papa only speaks Provencal; the
text: language of Mistral.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: {ladling the black
dialog: casserole into plates)
dialog: Very few still understand it. It
dialog: is now practiced exclusively by
text: poets and sodomites.
text: Papa returns to the table .with.another bottle of red -- Le
text: Coin Perdu, and a corkscrew. But before he can undo the
text: cork, Duflot rises as if to scold an idiot child.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Non, Papa! Non}
speaker_heading: PAPA
dialog: Le Coin, Le Coin!
text: Both Max and Christie notice how Duflot fights to stop the
dialog: bottle from being opened. But Papa’s a tough old bugger --
text: and the fight devolves into a wrestling match...
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (struggling and
dialog: explaining) .
dialog: Le Coin Perdu...a local vin de
dialog: garage.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Vin de garage?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (clarifying)
dialog: It’s a garage wine. Like a
dialog: boutique wine. Small vineyards,
dialog: small production, seriously big
dialog: prices.
text: Duflot finally wrests the wine away...as Papa mumbles to
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
text: It is overrated.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: It didn’t say that on the Web.
dialog: (to Max)
dialog: Turns out Le Coin Perdu is a bit of
dialog: a Provencal legend.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: oF
dialog: +e Ok RF
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 69aA.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE (cont'd)
dialog: It changes hands among collectors, *
dialog: and still, nobody has any idea *
dialog: where it’s grown, or who makes it. *
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 108
dialog: 09/19/2005 69A.
text: Duflot locks the bottle in a cabinet.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: It is time for fromage.
speaker_heading: TIME CUT
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - LATER 108
text: Everyone is swollen, drunk, and loud...there’s the cheese
dialog: plate... And great wedges of tarte aux pommes., And diamond-
text: shaped, almond biscuits... -Christie looks anaesthetized.
text: Duflot makes another tour of the table, pouring glasses of a
text: pale, oily liquid...fuel for Max's irritation.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: What is it?
dialog: }
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 70.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Marc de Provence. I made it
dialog: myself.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: (to Christie)
dialog: it is your father’s recipe!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (fueled; irritated and
dialog: jealous)
dialog: Tell us Madame Duflot: what is it
dialog: that makes you.s@-sure she is
dialog: Henry‘’s child?
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: (gesturing)
dialog: But of course, the nose.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Besides that?
text: An awkward silence as Madame Duflot can’t answer. Christie
text: is irritated at being discussed like this.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Come on, there’must be something,
dialog: anything -- besides that lovely
dialog: snout -- that can help corroborate
dialog: her claim...?
dialog: {to all)
dialog: I mean, did Henry ever discuss
dialog: California? Or a woman in
dialog: California? Any drunken moments of
dialog: candor where he mentioned
dialog: offspring? I mean, seriously, the
dialog: last person Henry would breed with
dialog: is an American.
text: Duflot shrugs, interrupting.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (serious observation)
dialog: Sadly, in this moment, I see more
dialog: of Henry in the girl than I do in
dialog: you.
text: All eyes turn to Christie, who somehow barely maintains her
text: dignity. Max now openly jealous. She stands, as if about to
text: make an important announcement, and holds onto the table for
dialog: balance.
speaker_heading: ee eR RE
dialog: *
dialog: Ree
dialog: 03/19/2005
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (hurt)
dialog: Max, all I care about is learning
dialog: about my father...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: 70aA.
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE (cont'd)
dialog: This is my chance to find out who
dialog: made me...and I don’t give a rat's
dialog: ass if you believe who I am or
dialog: not...
dialog: 70a.
dialog: 109
dialog: And with that:
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Monsieur and Madame Duifot. Thank
dialog: you for a lovely evening.
speaker_heading: MADAME DUFLOT
dialog: Papa will walk you back.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: 09/19/2005 71.
dialog: No, merci. The vines will guide me
dialog: home.
text: Christie exits...leaving a silence. Duflot looks to Max:
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (friendly)
dialog: Max, it is time to talk business.
dialog: You and I. Cigars.
scene_heading: EXT. TERRACE - .SECONDS LATER
dialog: x
dialog: 109
text: Max and Duflot have returned to the terrace with Marc and
text: Montecristos. Papa is somnambulant in the background. *
speaker_heading: / MAX
dialog: Partnership? You must be barking
dialog: mad.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
text: (offers a glass; as if an
dialog: answer)
dialog: More mara?
text: Max shakes his head.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Duflot, I looked at the books this
text: morning. Cashflow reports.
dialog: Capital expenditures. Net income.
dialog: This place hasn't showed a profit
dialog: in a decade -- and it baffles me
dialog: how Henry managed to afford
text: Lamborgini tractors and red
dialog: Harley’ s.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (shrugs: e’est la vie; but
dialog: uncomfortable)
dialog: Henry...he was tres inventif, he
dialog: always found a way.
dialog: 09/19/2005 71A.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: 8000 bottles per hectare,
dialog: multiplied by 11 hectares, divided
dialog: by your wholesale price per case,
dialog: with a 30% sell-back ratio, leading
dialog: to a pre-tax loss of approximately
dialog: $23,000 euros a year...for ten
dialog: years. Inventive, very.
dialog: Believable, no.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (uncomfortable with Max's
dialog: diligence)
dialog: It is true that we have experienced
dialog: some difficult years.
dialog: But that is not the point, Max...
dialog: Your Uncle...he was someone
dialog: special. Un gentilhomme. For me,
dialog: to start again, with someone new?
dialog: Non. My heart will not take this
dialog: change.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: My stomach won't take anything
dialog: below true market value.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Max -- I am prepared to invest
dialog: everything I have to replant the
dialog: vineyard. "I offer you 50,000 a
dialog: year...without breaking a finger.
speaker_heading: Ae eH
dialog: eee HH ee
speaker_heading: * FOF
dialog: eee
dialog: 
dialog: 110
dialog: Lil
dialog: 09/19/2005 72.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Duflot, I’m a banker. There's no
dialog: indication in those records that
dialog: this vineyard can support that kind
dialog: of money... Not to mention, my
dialog: estate agent is coming down
dialog: tomorrow afternoon to present me
dialog: with offers. Probably nothing less
dialog: than two to three million euros.
dialog: Two mil is life-changing, 50K,
dialog: before tax, is loose change...
text: Max senses Duflot’s desperation.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (soothing)
dialog: Francis...I’ve already given you my
dialog: word that I'd press the new owners
dialog: to accept you as an essential part
dialog: of the whole deal. I’m sorry...
dialog: (rising)
dialog: Thank you for dinner. Bonsoir...
text: Max gets up. Exits. Duflot, defeated. Papa is looking off
text: in the darkness to the vines, as if he is listening to them
text: talk... Papa burps.
speaker_heading: PAPA
dialog: Asshole.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Yes, he is.
speaker_heading: PAPA
dialog: Not him. You.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 110
scene_heading: EXT. LIMESTONE HECTARE - NIGHT - MOVING WITH MAX 111
text: Max stumbles home through the vineyard, plastered. He
text: suddenly finds himself walking over rocky terrain...and
dialog: stops to take it in, He's never seen this part of the
text: vineyard, and beneath the moonlight, he tries his.best to
text: absorb the lunar-like terrain... Then, he sees Christie,
text: wandering (and limping) in the wrong direction, one shoe in
text: her hand.
dialog: * ob ee
dialog: ee ee
dialog: *
dialog: tee
dialog: 112
dialog: 09/19/2005 73.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What the hell are you doing?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Lost my shoe.
text: Max considers leaving her there, but then thinks better.
scene_heading: EXT. VINEYARD - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER . 112
text: Christie piggybacks on Max, holding onto her dangling
text: espadrille, which swings with Max’s every inebriated step.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (upset)
dialog: Max? Why can’t Henry be my Dad?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Because now that he’s back in my
dialog: life, I don’t want to share him.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: So you really don’t believe me,
dialog: then?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Christie...my Uncle put the kama in
dialog: sutra. Which is a long way of
dialog: saying he was a womanizer. And by
dialog: the looks of that photo, your old
dialog: lady had some fun in her salad
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: : CHRISTIE
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: Are you saying she was loose?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No-- No, I'm saying that Henry
dialog: was.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Max, I know your parents died when
dialog: you were young. Ludivine told me.
dialog: My Mom was an only child and I grew
dialog: up without a Dad too. Doesn’t it
dialog: matter to you that I might be the
dialog: only blood relative you have?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yes, it does matter. That’s why I
dialog: want to be sure.
speaker_heading: ee eR RO RF ee eR ER Oe
dialog: **
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Christie grabs a few grapes as she passes
text: at them.
dialog: 09/19/2005 73aA.
text: by a vine. Looks
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: in this part of the vineyard...
text: He’s pruning the vines...
dialog: (points)
dialog: See ali the dead grapes on the
dialog: ground? It’s way too much work for
dialog: a shitty table wine... Max, I
dialog: think that Duflot guy’s up to
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: MAX
text: That‘’s patently obvious.
dialog: 730.
speaker_heading: ee RO
dialog: ee
dialog: 09/19/2005 74.
scene_heading: INT. BASTIDE - FOOT OF THE STAIRS - LATER 113
text: On her feet now, Max guides Christie to the foot of the
text: stairs. She stops him by flirtatiously taking his hand. She
dialog: *
text: takes off her other shoe. *
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (mimicking Madame Duflot *
dialog: as if she heard) *
dialog: You know Max, half the aristocrats
dialog: in France have liaisons with their
dialog: cousins.
text: Her eyes slightly droopy, Christie sways in...as if to kiss *
text: Max... Max considers this opportunity. But before he can *
text: reciprocate, Christie's body language changes...and she goes *
text: limp...fast asleep in his arms. *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: Now you're starting to act like *
dialog: Henry's daughter. *
text: Max scoops her up and heads up the stairs...
scene_heading: INT. CHRISTIE’S BEDROOM -- SAME 114
text: Max has tucked her in. Studies her face, looking for signs
text: of Henry in her. Max can’t help himself. The booze has
text: opened him up. He brushes the hair away from her eyes...
speaker_heading: MAX .
dialog: This was my room when I was a boy.
dialog: (looks areund)
dialog: God, I loved being here with him...
dialog: No bedtime, no chores, and best of
dialog: all, no squabbling adults... I *
dialog: never told him, but those summers
dialog: saved my childhood.
text: As he heads for the door--
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Thanks a million, Max-a-million.
text: Max stops. Frozen. Can’t speak. No one ever called him
dialog: that, except...Uncle Henry.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
dialog: j
dialog: |
dialog: 
dialog: 116
dialog: 117
dialog: 09/19/2005 75.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT COURT - NEXT MORNING Lis
text: Max lies on the bench, going through more of the estate's *
text: accounting records. His Treo rings. He sits up and *
dialog: answers... *
scene_heading: InT. LUSTIG BANK - DAY 116
text: Amis, Max's nemesis is on the phone.
speaker_heading: AMIS
dialog: Max, my boy, so sorry to hear
dialog: you're out.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT COURT - CONTINUOUS 117
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: {now alert)
dialog: Afraid your intel’s wrong Amis --
dialog: but then again, you always were at
text: the back end of the conga... By the
dialog: way, I forgot to thank you for your
dialog: generous contribution to my
dialog: retirement fund.
speaker_heading: AMIS
dialog: You've crossed the line one too
dialog: many times, Skinner. And as far as
dialog: LB's concerned, it’s open season on
dialog: you and yours.
text: Amis hangs up, leaving Max just a little bit tweaked...
text: Just ag...a smart BMW coasts down the driveway toward the
text: house. Max walks toward the car... Seconds later, an
text: ELEGANT MAN, 50's, emerges. He has a quaffed grey goatee and
text: wears a silk ascot and blue blazer with gold buttons.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Can I help you?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Ah, oui, anglais... I am Jean-
dialog: Marie Brunier.
dialog: No reaction from Max.
dialog: a
dialog: 09/19/2005 76.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: I was contacted by Nathalie
dialog: Auzet...to test the vines.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: The cenologue?!
scene_heading: MONTAGE SEQUENCE...
scene_heading: 118 INT. CAVE - DAY
dialog: 118
text: Jean-Marie uses a syringe to suck out some wine from one of
text: the oaking barrels. He tastes, then spits onto the cellar
text: floor. Max watches closely. His Treo rings.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Gemma. Long time!
scene_heading: 118A INT. LONDON - LAWTON BROTHERS - SAME
text: Gemma is on her headset--
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: Max, I've just had a vision of you
text: serving Kenny a latte at Starbucks.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Getting comfortable in my absence,
dialog: is he?
scene_heading: ANGLE ON - KENNY
text: As he orders Max’s team around like he’s now the boss.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Now hear this: we're not here for
dialog: the dental plan!
scene_heading: 118B INT. CAVE - SAME
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: He’s even taking credit for your
dialog: trade this week...telling everyone
dialog: in the office that he was the one
dialog: who gave you the idea.
speaker_heading: 118A
speaker_heading: 118B
dialog: xe
dialog: *
dialog: ke ee
dialog: tne
dialog: 119
dialog: 120
dialog: 121°
scene_heading: 09/19/2005 7é6A.
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: Gemma, if he wasn’t a backstabbing *
dialog: runt, I would have never hired him. *
speaker_heading: GEMMA, *
dialog: But Max-- *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: A tout a l’‘heure, Gemma, *
dialog: Hangs up. *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: (to Jean-Marie) *
dialog: Well? *
text: He spits wine out of his mouth, nearly hitting Max. *
speaker_heading: JEAN-MARIE
dialog: Piquette. (Awful.)
scene_heading: EXT, VINEYARD - DAY 119
text: Jean-Marie inspects the leaves on the vines. Rips a few off,
text: studies their coloring, smelis them.
speaker_heading: JEAN-MARIE
dialog: Maladie. (Disease.)
scene_heading: EXT. VINEYARD - DAY 120
text: Jean-Marie walks down a row of vines, pulling off a single
dialog: grape from each one...until he has collected a hundred. He
text: places them all into a plastic bag, mashes the grapes with
text: his hand, and tastes the mushy liquid -- pits, skins and
text: all... He then scrapes some of the mush into a
text: Refractometer...which looks like a telescope. He holds the
text: mush up to the light to analyze it.
speaker_heading: JEAN-MARIE
dialog: Pas terrible.
scene_heading: EXT. VINEYARD - DAY 121
text: Jean-Marie scoops up some soil.,.rubs it in his hands, spits
text: into hig hand and creates a clay-like substance.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JEAN-MARTE
dialog: Fiente.
dialog: (then translating)
dialog: Chickenshit.
dialog: 09/19/2005 7e6AA.
dialog: eran
dialog: 122
dialog: 123
dialog: 09/19/2005 77.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT ~ ON MAX
text: As his eyes drift to the wall of trees that Christie
dialog: mentioned the night before...
scene_heading: EXT. CANOPIED TREE PATH - SECONDS LATER 122
text: Max leads Jean-Marie through the darkened tree corridor...
scene_heading: EXT, LIMESTONE HECTARE - DAY 123
text: Max surveys the patch. Wow. It looks amazing. Jean-Marie
text: finishes inspecting the vines and comes to Max.
speaker_heading: JEAN-MARIE
dialog: (arregant to have his time
dialog: wasted)
dialog: More like a quarry than a
dialog: vineyard...
dialog: (kicks some stones)
dialog: One might as well try to grow
dialog: asparagus in the Sahara...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Looks very well-kept to me...
dialog: (points to grapes)
dialog: Why are all those grape bunches on
dialog: the ground?
speaker_heading: JEAN -MARIE
dialog: Vendage vert. You cut off two of
dialog: every three bunches so what’s left
dialog: gets all the nourishment.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: If the land here’s so bad, why go
dialog: through all that trouble?
speaker_heading: JEAN-MARIE
text: Perhaps a peasant’s last attempt to
dialog: salvage what he could? It is like
dialog: taking one’s time while cooking Le
dialog: Mac. The end result will always be
dialog: Le Mac.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So then what’s the verdict?
dialog: pen
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: _ JEAN-MARTE
dialog: (officioug)
dialog: The soil is devoid of even the most
dialog: basic minerales. The vines
dialog: themselves are far too degraded to
dialog: produce a respectable grape...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: “TTA.
dialog: 124
dialog: 12s
dialog: 09/19/2005 78.
speaker_heading: JEAN-MARIE (cont'd)
dialog: In summary, it is my professional
dialog: opinion that -- despite your
text: vigneron’s admirable attempt
dialog: efforts -- this terroir is beyond
dialog: help... Frankly, you might
dialog: consider growing potatoes or
dialog: squash?
dialog: (then)
dialog: I will have my office fax the
dialog: report to Miss Auzet's office this
dialog: afternoon,...
text: Jean-Marie walks off. Max, beaten, speechless.
scene_heading: EXT. VINEYARD - MINUTES LATER 124
text: Max drifts back to the bastide, and sees papers and letters
dialog: blowing along the ground--
scene_heading: MAX'S POV - AT THE POOL
text: Christie lying on her stomach on a chaise lounge, suntanning,
text: fast asleep. Beside her are a few old shoe boxes. She was
text: going through Henry’s letters, photos, etc... But the breeze
text: has swept some of them from the boxes. A few are even
text: floating in the pool...
scene_heading: EXT. POOL - SECONDS LATER 125
text: Max angrily slaps wet papers onto Christie’s back, waking
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: MAX
text: Wakey, wakey, beach Bunny.
dialog: (she opens her eyes)
dialog: What do you think you’re doing?
dialog: That’s Henry’s private stuff.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Did you know that Dad mixed a
dialog: martini for Winston Churchill?
dialog: He also danced a waltz with Amelia
dialog: Earhart...in 1975!
text: Max snaps the diary out of her hand,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Christie -- do you want to know
dialog: about the real Henry Skinner, not
dialog: the one manufactured by your
dialog: overactive imagination?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: sO OF
dialog: *
speaker_heading: eR RH
dialog: 
scene_heading: 09/19/2005 778A.
speaker_heading: MAX (cont'd)
dialog: Henry Skinner was a man so afraid :
dialog: of committing to the real world, . '
dialog: that he retreated to a worthless i
text: chateau to drink and shag his way
text: to a lonely end.
text: Max is immediately upset with himself for saying this.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Everything I need to know about my_
text: Dad is right here...right in front
dialog: of me...
text: (sweeps her hand across
dialog: the estate)
dialog: And if this place meant as much to
dialog: him as I think it did, then you're
dialog: worse than I thought for even
dialog: thinking about selling it...
dialog: (then; standing)
dialog: I‘il leave tomorrow.
dialog: 
dialog: ee
text: Christie huffs into the house, her back reddening from too
dialog: much sun...
dialog: xe
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 79.
scene_heading: EXT. POOL - LATER 126
text: Max, miserable, is collecting the photos and papers. He
text: notices a few stray ones have made their way to the pool. He
text: grabs the skimmer and scoops them up. One of them has
text: familiar handwriting...his. He spreads the wet letter on the
text: flat flagstone and reads...
speaker_heading: MAX (V.O.)
dialog: “Henry. Hope you’re doing your
dialog: stretches for another summer of
dialog: tennis and rumba. Bad news -- I’m
dialog: stuck here at the bank. No
dialog: holidays for interns. I got the
dialog: watch, Henry. That really wags too
dialog: much. 1946 Patek Phillipe. Only.
dialog: the best! It certainly puts me way
dialog: ahead of the Jones’ around here.
dialog: I’ve moved up from being the coffee
dialog: boy. My sense of humor is not
dialog: appreciated, so I just keep my
dialog: mouth shut. I’m going to have to
dialog: streamline my attitudes and sharpen
dialog: my claws if I’m going to get ahead.
dialog: For all the pressure, it’s still a
dialog: dark and I’m all-about that. Maybe
dialog: next summer? Keep the Cohibas
dialog: moist. Max-a-1/4-a million.”
text: Then, Max comes upon a photo...and double-takes. He looks
text: clogely: It’s duplicate of Christie’s photo! Shit! He flips
text: the photo around.
dialog: ee ee ee
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 127
dialog: 09/19/2005 80.
text: Scribbled in green ink in his Uncle’s writing it says:
dialog: “Alison Roberts. The San Francisco Treat.”
scene_heading: INT. UNCLE HENRY’S STUDY - MINUTES LATER 126A
text: Max compares the duplicate photo side-by-side with the one
dialog: that Christie brought. They are a perfect match... He is
text: stunned. Max's Treo rings.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Charlie...?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE'S VOICE
dialog: How’s it going, old boy? Working
dialog: hard on the house?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (covering)
text: At it since daybreak. True sense
dialog: of accomplishment.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Really? I hate to think of you
text: toiling down there all alone.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: We're English, Charlie. We were
dialog: born to rule and sacrifice. Where
dialog: are you?
text: Max looks out the window and sees Charlie standing in the
text: center of the garden, taking everything in. He’s dressed in
text: a double-breasted blazer, pale grey flannels, and a Panama
dialog: Hat. .
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (loudly)
scene_heading: MAX, TAKE MY ORIGINAL ESTIMATE AND
dialog: SHOVE IT UP MY ARSE! IF I CAN’T
dialog: GET YOU FIVE MILLION I’M IN THE
speaker_heading: WRONG SPORT!
text: Max violently gestures to Charlie to keep his voice down!
text: Christie may be eavesdropping -- and she is...from her attic
dialog: window.
scene_heading: EXT. POOL ~ A LITTLE BIT LATER 127.
text: Max and Charlie sit at the chess table. Max hag obviously
dialog: downloaded Charlie on the oenoloque’s assessment.
dialog: *
dialog: Hl
dialog: |
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 g8oaA.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: It's a disaster. Your frog wine
dialog: man may well have knocked an “f-
dialog: you” off our sale price.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (business mode)
dialog: Best approach now is to dump the
dialog: thing as fast as we can, for as
dialog: much as we can... But don’t
dialog: forget, Duflot's included.
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: BOA.
dialog: 
dialog: 12k
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I'll do my best...provided, of
dialog: course, that you cover my travel
dialog: expenses...and a nominal per diem,
dialog: say, 100 Euros a day.
text: Smiling, Charlie's in a “win-win.”
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You tight-fisted jockey.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Now then...what’s on the agenda?
dialog: Steak frites? Bottle of Ricard?
dialog: An evening game of bridge?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Real men don’t play bridge,
dialog: Charlie. They don’t play bridge
dialog: and they don’t dregs like Richard
dialog: Attenborough.
dialog: (points to his outfit)
dialog: Loosen up for God’s sake.
text: Max gets up.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Where are you going?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Obligatory! Cultural activity with
dialog: an old friend,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (disappointed)
dialog: So that’s it, then? You're
dialog: abandoning your best mate here, all
dialog: alone?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Who said you were my best mate?
dialog: And who said you were alone?
text: Max points upstairs to Christie’s room, where her dregs
dialog: in breeze,
text: drying. Off Charlie’s look of unease...
scene_heading: EXT. VILLAGE - EVENING
text: Lote of cars are parked in all conceivable places: on
dialog: sidewalks,
text: in driveways, on patios.
dialog: 81.
dialog: flaps
dialog: 128
dialog: 
dialog: /
dialog: |
dialog: |
dialog: 
dialog: Max maneuvers his Un
text: “massive, dense, plei
dialog: Unele’s concoctions.
dialog: bottle of Le Coin Pe
dialog: the Grand Chateau, a
dialog: 03/19/2005 81aa.
text: cle’s motorcycle and parks it beneath a
text: n tree. He looks dapper, in one of his
text: He climbs off the bike, pulls out a
text: rdu from the pannier, and heads toward
text: s he dials a number...
speaker_heading: eet RE
scene_heading: INT. LONDON - LAWTON BROTHERS - SAME
text: Kenny’s cellphone rings. He answers.
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: 81A.
dialog: 129
dialog: 09/19/2005 82.
dialog: i;
dialog: |
dialog: |
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S,)
dialog: Kenny, it’s your role model.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Max? We thought you were dead...
dialog: Why are you calling me on my
dialog: mobile?
dialog: 
scene_heading: 130 EXT. STREET - SAME 130 * :
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Keep your voice down, and whatever i
dialog: you do, don’t look like something
dialog: big’s about to go down... I want
dialog: you to start selling 20-year gilts
text: short at 99.10.
speaker_heading: KENNY .
dialog: Jesus, Max, that’s risky as
dialog: hell...we could seriously piss off i
dialog: the markets-- ‘
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Monday’s auction is going to trade |
dialog: like a turd. You want to hunt with |
dialog: the dogs or sit on the porch with 1
dialog: the pups? Do as I say, and keep my i
dialog: fingerprints off it. Clear? Are, |
dialog: we, Clear? :
dialog: Alright, Max.
text: Kenny hangs up and quickly jumps on the squawk box.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Yeah, it's Kenny over at Lawton...
scene_heading: 131 INT. LUSTIG BANK - AMIS’ OFFICE - DAY 131
text: As a TRADER ducks his head in to inform Amis:
speaker_heading: TRADER
dialog: Someone's shorting Monday’s gilt
dialog: issue.
speaker_heading: AMIS
dialog: (foaming.at the mouth)
dialog: Skinner! Not this time, you
dialog: Miserable sad!
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: 82A.
dialog: 
dialog: 133
dialog: 134
dialog: 09/19/2005 83.
scene_heading: INT. BASTIDE - KITCHEN - EVENING 132
text: Charlie, now in hig monogrammed slippers, faces dinner alone.
text: He sits at the table, eating pate, salad, etc... He takes a
text: sip of La Siroque wine. Makes a face.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Good God, that’s awful. Tastes
text: like a gendarme’s socks.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE (0.8.)
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: Anyone there? Hello?
text: Charlie hopes the cries will go away, but they don’t.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Anyone! Please!
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE - SECONDS LATER 133
text: Charlie climbs the stairs, tentatively. Christie peeks
dialog: down...
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Who’ re you?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (£rozen)
dialog: Ch-- Cha-- Char-- Max’s friend.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Okay, listen “Max’s friend,” I need
dialog: you to get up here and tell me what
dialog: my back looks like...
scene_heading: INT. CHRISTIE’S ROOM - SECONDS LATER 134
text: Christie is lying on the bed, barebacked, face down, a
text: washcloth covering her butt... Her back is completely
text: toasted. Charlie hovers above, nervously.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Max didn’t say that...you were...
dialog: American.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: California. Born and bred.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 3A.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE i
dialog: Really? I absolutely adore :
dialog: Californians. Ask anyone... _ 7
dialog: (then; to her back) :
speaker_heading: (MORE) . :
dialog: t
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 84,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (cont 'd)
dialog: Well, luv, right now, your back is
text: approximately the color of a ripe
text: pomegranate.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Bummer. Okay, you better check the
dialog: medicine cabinets for some aloe...
dialog: And if there isn’t any, some
text: aspirin and a big bucket of ice’1l
dialog: do.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Righty ho! On the job--1
dialog: 
dialog: Charlie moves to leave--
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
text: (holding her hand out
dialog: without turning over) i
dialog: By the way, I’m Christie. i
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (reaching to shake)
dialog: How do you do, Christie. i'm
dialog: Charlie.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Love your accent.
scene_heading: 135 INT. STAIRCASE - SAME 135
text: As he quickly goes down the sStairs--
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Love your bum.
speaker_heading: 136 OMITTED 136 *
speaker_heading: 137 OMITTED 137 *
scene_heading: 138 EXT. CHATEAU - EVENING 138
text: A lush, grassy field...with old trees anchored to the ground
text: by thick, entangled roots. A flowing water garden ripples
text: beneath the reflection of the dipping summer sun. Ornate
text: candelabras light the area with a flickering glow.
dialog: 09/19/2005 85.
text: it’s a posh crowd, buzzing with talk and laughter. Couples
text: jay on blankets, picnicking with wine and food, surrounding a
text: black Steinway piano, a violin, a cello, and a bass.
text: An enormous, iridescent movie screen, attached to trees by
text: invisible wires, appears to levitate above the ground.
text: Max threads his way through the crowd. Suddenly. There. in
text: a slip of a dress and a Sparkling array of jewelry -- looking
text: captivating...is Fanny. He takes her in. ».as she unpacks a
text: delicate display of food onto a white cloth on the grass.
text: Max is enchanted.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (emiling)
dialog: Have I mentioned you're a vision?
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: FANNY
text: Oui. From the bottom of the pool,
dialog: when you were peeking up my skirt.
text: They kiss three times ag Max laughs.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (re: food)
dialog: Why don’t you let me serve?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: {a warning)
dialog: I've already fired you once this
dialog: week. Sit,
text: Max follows orders and sits. He gets to work opening the
dialog: bottle of Le Coin Perdu.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: he Coin Perdu? I’ve never actually
text: seen a bottle.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You've heard of it?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: It's very expensive... Are you
dialog: trying to seduce me, Max?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: IT hadn‘’t thought of it.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: There's something you should know
dialog: about me, Max... I’m very, very
dialog: choosy.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Well I’m very, very honored.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (challenging)
dialog: i’m also very very suspicious. Very
dialog: very irrational, and I have a very,
dialog: very short temper.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Don’t promise me an evening of
dialog: suspicion and irrational anger if
dialog: you can’t deliver. I've been hurt
dialog: that way before.
speaker_heading: £ FRE eH
dialog: *
speaker_heading: tte HOH
speaker_heading: eR Ee
dialog: omnes
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 86~.
speaker_heading: _ FANNY
dialog: I’m also extremely jealous and slow
dialog: to forgive. Just so you know.
text: She serves him canapes.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Well, this promises to be a lovely
dialog: evening.
text: A QUARTET and a PIANIST enter to APPLAUSE. A silent movie
text: begins projecting. They begin to play...
dialog: |
speaker_heading: L
dialog: 
dialog: 140
dialog: 141
dialog: 09/19/2005 87.
scene_heading: EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT 139
text: A storm is approaching. Lightning cuts through the dark sky,
text: violently fracturing it into jagged pieces. Thunder RUMBLES
dialog: through the valley...
scene_heading: INT. CHRISTIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT - OUTSIDE IT RAINS 140
text: Charlie anxiously slides an ice cube over Christie’s back:
text: She‘s shivering from the cold. They’ re bonding...
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Oh, forget Paris. The whole city
dialog: is closed for the summer -- you'd
dialog: be lucky to find the subway open,
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: I gotta go somewhere next.
dialog: {musing}
dialog: Maybe Venice?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Sinking, is the rumor. Plus, one
dialog: false step and you’re in a canal,
text: being run over-by gondolas...
dialog: (hard sell)
dialog: Now London, on the other hand, has
dialog: it all...including your own
dialog: personal tour guide... Moi,
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Uh, Charlie.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Yes, luv?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Hands off my ass.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (sputtering)
dialog: Oh~- Terribly sorry--
scene_heading: EXT. CHATEAU - COURTYARD - NIGHT 141
text: Max and Fanny are swept up in the music... Nature complies
text: with art, and it begins to rain.
dialog: 
dialog: f
dialog: 142
dialog: 09/19/2005 88.
text: This is no ordinary rain, though. In seconds, it’s a
text: torrential assault from the heavens. Workers scramble to
text: cover the piano with a tarp, as people scatter to find
text: shelter in the chateau.,.or in their nearby cars.
scene_heading: EXT. TREE - NIGHT 142
text: Max and Fanny rush to Max’s motorcycle, which is parked
text: beneath the tree, The tree’s leaves are dense enough to
dialog: shield them from most of the rain... .
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Tell me, Max...why did you lose
dialog: touch with Henri?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: How do you know we lost touch?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Oh, he often expressed great
dialog: sadness; as though all he taught
dialog: you had been lost.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You knew him?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: As a woman living here, it was
dialog: impossible not to know him.
text: Max assumes the worst.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (anxious)
dialog: You and he didn’t...rumba--?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: No.
dialog: Max, relieved,
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (just joking)
dialog: But of course I tried.
text: Max chuckles.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Henry was the only person I’ve ever
dialog: loved...
dialog: (melancholy)
dialog: And I couldn’t even find the time
text: to send the old bugger a postcard.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAX (cont'd)
dialog: For the life of me, I can’t work
dialog: out why I stopped coming here,
dialog: love this place.
dialog: (nostalgic)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 09/19/2005
dialog: I
speaker_heading: 88aaA.
speaker_heading: Ob Ob
dialog: 09/19/2005 88a.
speaker_heading: MAX (cont 'd)
dialog: Henry used to say: “Max-a-million,
dialog: there’s nowhere else in the world
dialog: where you can keep busy doing so
dialog: little and enjoy it so much...”
speaker_heading: ee eH
text: Fanny, bemused, watching him.
dialog: *
dialog: i
dialog: !
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005
speaker_heading: PANNY
dialog: You always wore your hair like it
dialog: is now, didn’t you?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: That’s right.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: And when you were little, you wore
text: short pants and t-shirts with
dialog: orange and brown stripes?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (hopeful)
dialog: Yes!
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (then)
dialog: No, I don’t remember you.
text: Max kisses Fanny.
speaker_heading: OMITTED
dialog: 89.
dialog: 143
dialog: 90.
dialog: 03/19/2005
dialog: 144
speaker_heading: OMITTED
dialog: 146
speaker_heading: 1A7
dialog: 09/19/2005 91.
scene_heading: INT. MAX'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 145
text: Max and Fanny tearing off their clothes, unable to keep their
text: hands off each other.. -falling onto the bed, a tangle of
dialog: damp, naked bodies...as we...
text: FADE TO BLACK.
scene_heading: EXT. LA SIROQUE - NEXT MORNING 146
text: The rain has stopped. Drip, drip, drip...the estate dries
text: itself off in the rising sun...
scene_heading: INT. UNCLE HENRY’S BEDROOM - SAME 147
text: Max is fast asleep. Fanny is tiptoeing out of the bedroom,
text: clothes in her hands. Suddenly, we HEAR Charlie SCREAMING
dialog: from his room:
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (0.S.)
text: FOR THE LOVE OF GOD! SCORPIONS!
text: Max wakes...catching Fanny halfway to the door.-
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (embarrassed)
dialog: I must go to work.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Isn’t that usually the bloke’s
dialog: line?
text: Fanny caught, sits on the edge of the bed. Max senses that *
dialog: something is off. *
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Max, do you know the reason I spent
dialog: the night with you?
speaker_heading: MAX :
dialog: Devastating sexual technique?
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: No... It is because once you have *
dialog: done what you came here to do, you *
dialog: will not return. For us, there can
dialog: be no future...there is safety in *
dialog: that, n’est-ce pas? *
dialog: 09/19/2005 91a.
text: Max studies Fanny: obviously she’s had some hurtful cataclysm
text: in her romantic past.
dialog: 
dialog: :
dialog: 09/19/2005 92.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Nothing's preventing us from moving *
dialog: your cafe to Notting Hill. God
dialog: knows London could use a decent
dialog: bistro.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: How typical. fo assume that I live
dialog: in Provence because I have no
dialog: choice.
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: I only meant-- *
dialog: (stops himsel£) *
dialog: Fanny... This place...it doesn’t
dialog: fit my life.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: No Max, it is your life that
dialog: doesn’t fit this place.
dialog: (she kisses him) *
dialog: Au revoir.
text: She exits..,leaving Max in a state of anxious turmoil,
scene_heading: EXT. TENNIS COURT - MORNING 147A
text: Max sits on a wooden bench on the sidelines, depressed,
text: contemplative. Charlie wanders onto the court, hair wet, in
text: @ robe, holding a stack of documents.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Where’s your diving board?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (notices the contracts) *
dialog: How'd we do?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I‘d be lying if I said the *
dialog: cenologue’s report didn’t hurt us. *
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I think I’m in love with her,
dialog: Charlie,
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I don't blame you, mate, she’s a
dialog: goddess -- even if she as your
dialog: cousin.
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 93.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Not Christie, you twat, Fanny.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Charlie, I've been thinking. Maybe
dialog: I shouldn’t--
text: Charlie snaps into crisis-mode, knowing full well where Max
dialog: is headed...
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Max, right now you've got the scent
dialog: of eau du French girl on your
dialog: body... But after a cold shower...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: .t could use it as my pied-a-
dialog: terre...a vacation getaway.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Do you remember what happened when
dialog: your mentor took his first vacation
dialog: in fifteen years?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I stole his job.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Max Skinner doesn’t do weekends,
dialog: and he doesn’t do vacations. He
dialog: makes money. So do what you do
dialog: best Max...
text: He plops the contract on Max's lap. A gust of white
text: Pissenlit flowers swirls around Max and Charlie. ..looking
text: like the Provencal version of a snow storm...
text: Without even looking at it, Max signs the contract.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (relieved)
dialog: You’1l stay to sort the new
dialog: owners...?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: As long as you're payin’, I’m
dialog: stayin’.
text: Max stands. Then remembers:
speaker_heading: tee OF
dialog: * OF
speaker_heading: ee RK
speaker_heading: eee EH
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: }
dialog: :
dialog: i
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What about Duflot?
dialog: keep him on.
dialog: Make gure
dialog: 09/19/2005
dialog: they
dialog: 93A.
dialog: 148
speaker_heading: 148A
dialog: 09/19/2005 94.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Itried. They said no.
dialog: Damn, Max was hoping to avoid a messy ending...
scene_heading: EXT. LIMESTONE HECTARE - pay 148
text: Max wanders past Syrah...to a lonely place in the VINEYARD,
text: where he stops...
text: WE ARE NOW IN A FLASHBACK... YOUNG DUFLOT (20°S) is on 148A
text: bended knee, weeding the soil. Young Max spies on him from
text: behind the vines...and can hear him sing the lilting aria
dialog: “Flower Song” from Carmen.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: La fleur que tu m'avais jetée.
dialog: Dans ma prison m'était restée.
text: Uncle Henry appears...and kneels beside to Max.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: Why's he singing to them, Uncle
dialog: Henry?
speaker_heading: UNCLE -HENRY
dialog: Max, the terroir needs more than
dialog: sun and rain...more even than the
dialog: loving hand of a winemaker... It
dialog: needs harmony. It needs balance.
text: Henry stands up and young Max follows. They start to walk
text: side-by-side,..row by row...
speaker_heading: _ HENRY
dialog: You see, Max, balance in wine is as
dialog: elusive as balance in life... In
dialog: life, it requires a heart that can
dialog: listen. Notice, Max, the first
dialog: four letters of heart are h-e-a-
dialog: Xv... Take note: since a balanced
dialog: wine can only be produced by a
dialog: balanced vine -- it stands to
dialog: reason that a balanced life can
dialog: only be produced by a balanced man.
dialog: It is therefore your charge, boy,
dialog: to find that which brings harmony
dialog: to your terroir, take hold of it,
dialog: and never...ever...let it go...
text: WE ARE BACK THE PRESENT... . 149
dialog: 
text: Max is now upon Duflot,
dialog: weeding the soil...
dialog: 09/19/2005
text: who is on hig hands and knees,
dialog: 940,
dialog: 09/19/2005 95.
speaker_heading: DUFLOT . *
dialog: My whole life, people laughed at me
dialog: for singing to my vines... I
dialog: explained that, someday, the vines
dialog: would sing back...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Here, they finally have...
dialog: (standing; razor sharp
dialog: 
dialog: eyes) ,
dialog: You don’t know what you are doing. *
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (passionately) * :
dialog: Toi. Le Coin Perdu. * i
text: Duflot takes a bunch of grapes from the vines and crushes * i
text: them in his fists, juice spilling all over him... * :
speaker_heading: MAX * i
dialog: That's impossible. The oenologue * i
dialog: said-- * |
speaker_heading: DUFLOT * '
dialog: The oenclogue was paid to say that! * '
dialog: Max, paralyzed. . *
speaker_heading: DUFLOT *
dialog: We thought that if you believed La *
dialog: Siroque had no value, you would * |
dialog: leave things as they were. Status * '
dialog: quo. * :
speaker_heading: MAX * :
dialog: We? * :
speaker_heading: DUFLOT * i
dialog: These vines -- they are illegal. *
dialog: Your Uncle and I needed someone who *
dialog: could help find loopholes to slip *
dialog: through. A notaire... *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: (dawning on him) *
dialog: Auzet?! *
speaker_heading: DUPLOT *
dialog: She is a clever woman. Over time *
dialog: she became the negociant for Henry *
dialog: and myself. *
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 09/19/2005 95aa,
speaker_heading: DUFLOT (cont'd)
dialog: And now she is my partner... She *
dialog: was merely trying to Protect our
dialog: secret, *
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 958,
text: Max, aghast.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Why didn't you tell me about this?
dialog: Why didn’t you trust me!
dialog: ee
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Max, would you trust you?
dialog: (ouch; that hurt)
dialog: Your Uncle always intended to leave
dialog: the estate to you...but he worried
dialog: about what you had become, “My
dialog: nephew is selfish," he used to
dialog: say.” “How can I give la Siroque
dialog: to a man who can’t even appreciate
dialog: the simple pleasures of life?" So
dialog: it was never written. Alas, fate
text: snatched him before he could decide
dialog: what to do...
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: eRe RR Ee RH
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (more or less devastated)
dialog: »..and I've sold it.
dialog: * ee
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: (philesophic)
dialog: Then you have done the very thing
dialog: your Uncle feared you would do.
dialog: You have sold his spirit to the
dialog: highest bidder, Max. And betrayed
dialog: the only man who ever cared for
dialog: you...
speaker_heading: eX Ht Ee
dialog: *
text: Duflot picks up a stone--
speaker_heading: DUFLOT *
dialog: Here, Max. Here was Henry's f-
dialog: you money...
dialog: *
text: ~-and lobs it at Max, who catches it.
speaker_heading: 149A
dialog: 09/19/2005 96.
text: Abruptly, Duflot walks off... THE CAMERA CLOSES IN ON
text: MAX...who stands among the vines. A gentle breeze blows
text: across the vineyard, fluttering the leaves...
scene_heading: INT/EXT. SMART CAR - MOVING - DAY 149A
text: Max drives, and notices Christie walking along the side of
text: the road, her knapsack on her back. Max lowers the window,
text: and slows down.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Where you headed?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Not exactly sure.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: At your age, that‘s the best
dialog: destination...
dialog: (then)
dialog: How ‘bout a lift?
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (re: small car)
dialog: Where would I sit, the glove
dialog: compartment?
text: Max smiles.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: I‘d rather walk.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Here~-
text: Max holds out the copy of “Death in Venice.”
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You never finished.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: It's your book, Max, you keep it,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I want you to have it... Come on.
dialog: The ending may surprise you.
text: She takes the book, stuffs it into her bag...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Christie?
dialog: ee ek Oe
dialog: +e tH
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 96aaz.
text: A long silence...
dialog: 
dialog: 151
dialog: 152
dialog: 09/19/2005 96a,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You do have his nose...
text: They hold eyes on each other.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Au revoir...
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: (touched)
dialog: Au revoir, cuz.
text: Max pulls out.
scene_heading: REVERSE SHOT - ON CHRISTIE
text: We are moving away from Christie...and as she recedes, we
dialog: begin to hear...
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE
dialog: Dear Max,..I know it’s been many
dialog: years since we last spoke, but T
dialog: find myself in a bit of a jam and
dialog: i’m afraid I need your help...
speaker_heading: OMITTED 150
scene_heading: INT. MARIGNANE AIRPORT - DAY 151
text: Max striding through the terminal toward the check-in
dialog: counter.
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE
dialog: The thing is, Max old boy, I’m
dialog: dying... I know this because Dr.
dialog: Khan, my physician, hag stopped
dialog: talking about my health and begun
dialog: discussing the weather...
scene_heading: EXT. LIMESTONE HECTARE - DAY 152
text: Duflot wanders through the vines beneath a parasol, deflated.
text: Tati follows, dejected.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: Ree eH
speaker_heading: et eR et
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 96AA. |
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY'S VOICE
dialog: Convinced that Death, like all *
dialog: tradesmen, would be unable to find *
dialog: my front door... *
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 153
dialog: 154
dialog: 155
dialog: 156
dialog: 157
dialog: 09/19/2005 97.
text: Madame Duflot appears from the vines and takes her husband's
text: arm, trying to console him.
speaker_heading: OMITTED . 153 *
scene_heading: EXT. MARIGNANE AIRPORT - RUNWAY - DAY 154
text: A jet speeds down the runaway...
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY'S VOICE
dialog: ...and having always believed wills *
dialog: to be written invitations to the
text: reaper, I find myself impelled to
dialog: impress ‘upon your kindness...
text: ++,and takes off into the cloudless sky.
scene_heading: EXT. AVIGNON TRAIN STATION - DAY 155
text: Christie geta out of a sputtering Renault, and waves goodbye *
dialog: to the people who dropped her off. (Obvioualy she hitched *
dialog: a ride.) *
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE
dialog: I have a daughter... ‘Her name is
dialog: Christie Roberts. Sadly, we have
dialog: never met...
scene_heading: INT. RENAISSANCE CAFE - DAY 156
text: Dinner rush. For a moment, Fanny looks over to where Max was
text: the other night, helping her as a waiter. A Moment of
dialog: regret...
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE
dialog: Her mother’s name was Alligon.
dialog: She was a tour guide at a tiny
dialog: vineyard in Northern California.
scene_heading: INT. TGV SPEED TRAIN - SAME 157 *
text: The train is just pulling out of the station. Christie
text: wobbles up the aisle, finds an open seat, and places her bag
text: on the rack above her. She reaches into her bag and pulls
text: out her book, “Death in Venice.? Something falls out, An
text: envelope, with her name on it.
dialog: ee Re
dialog: 158
dialog: 159
dialog: 166
dialog: 09/19/2005 98,
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY'’S VOICE
dialog: Max, I should like you to find
dialog: her... And to thig end I should
dialog: like to leave her what ig
dialog: rightfully hers...
scene_heading: INT. HEATHROW - DAY 158
text: A DRIVER holds a card that reads “Skinner.” Max exits with a
text: crowd of people...and motions to the Driver...
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE
dialog: I hope this decision doesn’t hurt
dialog: your feelingg -- and as successful
dialog: as you are -- you don’t need it. .f
dialog: hope you understand,
scene_heading: EXT. LA SIROQUE - DAY 159
text: A crumbling mess of beauty, glistening beneath the magic hour
text: light. Charlie, dressed in a erisp suit, greets a MIDDLE-
text: AGED FRENCH COUPLE, who climb out of a silver Mercedes. The
dialog: new owners.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Delighted to meet you, Mr. and Mrs.
dialog: Bouffard...
dialog: the shakes)
dialog: Unfortunately, there’s been a
dialog: slight, how shall fr Say, wrinkle
dialog: with the sale.
speaker_heading: MR, BOUFFARD
dialog: What gort of wrinkle?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: The American sort,
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY'S VOICE
dialog: Because for me, even in it’s
dialog: Present state, La Siroque is a
dialog: Place of magic...
scene_heading: INT. TGV SPEED TRAIN - SAME 160
text: The train rips through the French countryside, Christie
text: opens the envelope. Inside, she finds both photos, as well
text: as Uncle Henry’s letter to Max -- which is written in green
text: ink, in a flowing Italianate, She begins to read...
dialog: + %
speaker_heading: tee RR
dialog: *
dialog: +e ke
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 ° 98a,
dialog: 
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE :
dialog: And it is my heartfelt wish that i
dialog: Christie should share in that :
dialog: magic...
scene_heading: 161 INT. MAX‘S FLAT - DUSK 161
text: Max enters the austerity of his hip flat. Puts his keys on a
text: steel counter. Removes Henry’s sandals, still covered with
text: Provencal dust and drops them in the trash.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
dialog: 09/19/2005 99.
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE
dialog: I like to think of her there...
dialog: After all...ghe and La Siroque are
dialog: all I leave behind...
text: Then, as an afterthought, he takes them out.
scene_heading: INT. TGV SPEED TRAIN - DAY - MOVING 162
text: Christie finishes Uncle Henry's letter, overcome with
dialog: emotion... :
scene_heading: UNCLE HENRY’S VOICE
dialog: Your loving Uncle...
dialog: (Max signs)
dialog: Henry Skinner...
speaker_heading: OMITTED 163
dialog: 09/19/2005 100-102.
scene_heading: INT. LAWTON BROTHERS - MORNING 164
text: Max strides through the bullpen. Is acknowledged by the
dialog: other Traders. .
speaker_heading: BROKER 1
dialog: Genghis! Back from the dead!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Lose the Christmas tie Justin, you
text: look like a bloody accountant.
speaker_heading: BROKER 2
dialog: Welcome back boss.
text: Max offers a high five and pulls out, leaving him hanging.
speaker_heading: KENNY (0.S.)
dialog: You wanker!
text: Max turns -- there’s Kenny, carrying his cubicle belongings
text: in a cardboard box: he’s been canned. He’s escorted out by
text: two SECURITY GUARDS.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Kenneth! Nice haircut! Don't tell
dialog: me you've been fired in my absence!
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: You set me up, you sod! Your short
dialog: order... Did my nuts in in lees
dialog: than an hour. Lost us six million
dialog: quid, you bastard.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (innocently)
dialog: That’s unfortunate Kenny, but I was
dialog: on suspension, how could it have
dialog: anything to do with me?
text: Gemma falls into stride with him.
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: Good holiday? You look different.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Very relaxing thank you, Gemma.
dialog: Bring me everything I need to read
dialog: to get mé up to date. And a double-
dialog: espresso.
dialog: 165
dialog: 09/19/2005 103.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: On your desk in five...
dialog: (with trepidation)
dialog: Sir Nigel is waiting for you.
text: Max stiffens. She looks genuinely worried.
scene_heading: INT. SIR NIGEL’S OFFICE - DAY : 165
text: A massive white and glass space of plasma screen data flow
text: and sharp edges. Max walks acrosa the expanse of floor to
text: Sir Nigel. He's on the .pkone, speaking in fluent German.
text: Completely ignores Max. Max stands there. A power game.
text: On the wall behind Sir Nigel he sees a Van Gogh of a rolling
text: Provengal landscape. Exquisite swirls of color and texture.
text: Sir Nigel hangs up, and peruses some papers without looking
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: Van Gogh.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I hope you’ve got a good leck on
dialog: the door, Sir.
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: Don’t be soft. Its not real. Real
dialog: one's in my vault. It’s a copy.
dialog: How much? Guess? Go on.
dialog: (before he can)
dialog: Two hundred grand. For a knock
dialog: off. Sit.
text: Max follows orders.
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: Art's a passion Max. You gotta
dialog: have passions. I have. For tons
dialog: of things. Horses, sports cars,
dialog: money...
speaker_heading: MAX -
dialog: Are those passione or vices?
text: Sir Nigel explodes.
dialog: 
dialog: 166
dialog: 09/19/2005 104,
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: HAVE I FINISHED TALKING?! When
dialog: I’ve finished talking, that’s when
dialog: you talk, and it better be good!
text: Nigel bangs his desk.
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: While you were off on your little
dialog: holiday, I’ve been through a
dialog: shitstorm!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Sir, I appreciate my actions may
dialog: have caused--
text: Sir Nigel holds up his hand, stopping him~-~
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: I've always liked you Max. You're
dialog: _ one of the ballsiest traders in the
dialog: Square Mile. That’s why you're
dialog: here. If it was up to me I
dialog: wouldn't do this, this is straight
dialog: from thé Brothers. You've just got
dialog: to learn there's consequences to
dialog: your sort of behavior. Sorry. But
dialog: there it is.
text: He slides an envelope across the table.
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: You've got one hour.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - DOWNSTAIRS - MINUTES LATER 166
text: Max rides the escalator downstairs. Gemma awaits, biting her
text: lip. As he arrives--
speaker_heading: GEMMA.
dialog: Shall I pack my Smurfs?
text: Max doesn’t answer. Gemma follows him. She‘s concerned,
dialog: this is worse than she thought,
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Shit Max... What happened?
text: He hands her the envelope, unopened. Walks off.
dialog: 
dialog: 168°
speaker_heading: 168A
dialog: 09/19/2005 105.
scene_heading: INT, MAX'S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER 167
text: Max sits in his chair, feet up on his window sill, studying
text: the enemy bank’s skyscraper...
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK:
speaker_heading: OMITTED 168
scene_heading: EXT. LA SIROQUE - POOL ~..DUSK - FLASHBACK 168A
text: Young Max is wading in the pool. Uncle Henry, in swimming
text: trunks and terry bathrobe, appears above him--
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Max...would you mind entertaining
dialog: Ms. Chenal’s daughter while I give
dialog: her mother a tour of the estate?
text: Uncle Henry smiles lasciviously at MS. CHENAL, 40's, who
text: pushes FANNY, 10, forward to meet Max. Even at this age,
text: she's gorgeous and a bit dangerous. Max turns red with
dialog: typical adolescent embarrassment.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX
dialog: But IT really want to finish the
dialog: last chapter of “Death in Venice.”
speaker_heading: UNCLE HENRY
dialog: Given the book’s title, I don’t
dialog: expect you'll be surprised by the
dialog: ending, Max.
dialog: {to Mother; as they go)
dialog: Come now, Ms. Chenal, there are
dialog: Many attractions here at La .
dialog: Siroque, beginning with the view,
dialog: which, fortuitously, is best
dialog: appreciated from my bedroom...
text: Uncle Henry and Ms. Chenal’s shuffle off...leaving Max alone
dialog: with Fanny...
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Je m’apelle Fanny. Et toi?
text: Max can barely answer, his face crimson with discomfort.
dialog: *
dialog: eee
dialog: a ee
dialog: aby
speaker_heading: eee Ree eR
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 1o5aa.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAX * i
dialog: (eyes down) :
dialog: Er... Je...m’apelle...Max. * L
dialog: *
dialog: :
dialog: 
dialog: 169
dialog: 09/19/2005 105A.
text: With fearless abandon, Fanny slips off her shorts, and in
text: only panties and a tank top, dives into the pool. She swims
text: underwater, and pops up, right across from Max, her blue eyes
text: sparkling in the dipping summer sun. ‘Then, for no apparent
text: reason, she gives Max his first kiss, then whispers in his
dialog: ear.
scene_heading: INT. MAX'S OFFICE - SAME - PRESENT 169
text: Gemma stands at the door, holding the envelope, and the
dialog: check which was inside.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: That's a lot of zeros.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Or partnership. My choice.
speaker_heading: GEMMA
dialog: Listen to mummy: Max, partner,
dialog: you're made for life. Sir Nigel
dialog: didn’t make partner till he was
text: fifty-three. And look at him.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yeah. Look at him.
speaker_heading: GEMMA,
dialog: Well, what the hell are you gonna
dialog: do?
speaker_heading: eee EH
dialog: 09/19/2005 106.
scene_heading: INT. SIR NIGEL’S OFFICE - LATER . 170
text: Max stares at the painting. The colors swirl over the
text: landscape like a blazing Provencal heat haze.
text: The door opens: Nigel enters with an heir of benevolence.
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: What's it to be? Money or yoke?
text: Max ignores him studying. the painting.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: When do you look at it?
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: What?
text: Max studies the painting.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: The real one. I mean...do you go
dialog: down to the vault and stand there
dialog: in front of it. Is that it, Nige?.
speaker_heading: SIR NIGEL
dialog: What’s your point Skinner? Have
dialog: you made your decision?
text: Sir Nigel turns to look at the painting.
speaker_heading: HARD CUT TO:
dialog: 172
dialog: 09/19/2005 107.
scene_heading: INT. RENAISSANCE CAFE - DAY 2721
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - THE VAN GOGH PAINTING
text: Hanging on the cafe wall, But for some reason, it looks
dialog: different than before... Different frame, maybe? Fanny
text: passes it by, unaware, carrying food...
scene_heading: EXT. RENAISSANCE CAFE ~ DAY 172
text: People git outside, Fanny.comes out with some plates as a
text: Vespa tears past. She shouts after the rider, for nearly
text: knocking her over.
text: Flustered, Fanny comes to a table to take an order,
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Bonjour. Vous desirez quelque-
dialog: chose? (Have you decided?)
text: A menu lowers. It’s Max,
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I think so.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (recovering) *
dialog: Sure you don’t need more time?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No. I think I know what I want,
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: You’re sure?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Pretty sure.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: So. What is it to be?
text: He looks at Fanny for a long time.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: How's the soup?
speaker_heading: FANNY
text: The soup is finished.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Like my job. *
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 107aA.
text: Fanny lowers her pad, surprised. *
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 107A.
dialog: (chen) * |
dialog: The fish. * /
speaker_heading: FANNY *
dialog: We've run out. *
speaker_heading: MAX *
dialog: That’s like me...with excuses. *
dialog: i
dialog: i
dialog: 
dialog: 173
dialog: 09/19/2005 108.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Don’t waste my time. Choose
dialog: something we have.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: IT would like a lifetime spent. with
text: a suspicious irrational goddess.
dialog: Some short tempered-jealousy on the
dialog: side, I'd also like a bottle of
dialog: wine that tastes like you...and a
dialog: glass that’s never empty. .
text: He kisses her.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Forgive my lips.. -they find joy in
dialog: the most unusual Places.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: You remember what I whispered to
dialog: you...when we were kids in the
dialog: pool?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It appears that you do too.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Bien sux. But it was not until
dialog: just now that I recognized you,
dialog: Max.
dialog: They kiss as we...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. LA SIROQUE - A FEW WEEKS LATER 173
text: It's a wonderful September day. A cloudless, sunny sky, with
text: a soft breeze fanning through the valley...
dialog: * %
dialog: sk ee Re ee
dialog: hee
dialog: *
dialog: 175
dialog: 176
dialog: 09/19/2005 09.
scene_heading: EXT. PRONT VINEYARD - SAME 174
text: Vendage! A crew of GYPSY PICKERS carry straw baskets filled
text: with grapes, clipping the grapes off the vines. Tati darts
text: through their legs, chasing a rabbit...
scene_heading: EXT, BASTIDE - DAY . 175
text: Max sits on the edge of the wall, watching the pickers do
text: their work, shirt-top opened. He looks a helluva lot like
text: Henry... From inside the-house, he can begin to hear THE
text: SOUND OF SCREAMING...
scene_heading: EXT. BASTIDE ~ SAME 176
text: Max sits on the step, listening to Christie and Duflot in the
text: middie of a titanic, knock-down, drag-out row in the hall.
text: They are bellowing in French, holding some vines. They seem
dialog: to be fighting over how high, or low, to cut the stems...
text: Dulfot appears in front of Max--
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: Max! Thank God .you are here! I
dialog: will not work for this madperson!
dialog: Jamais! Jamais!
text: Duflot steps over to Max, and whispers, conspiratorially:
speaker_heading: DUFLOT
dialog: But I love this woman!
text: Duflot storms off as Christie appears and gives him the
text: finger. Tati barks at Dulfot, and stays with Christie. She
dialog: turns to Max--
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: I can’t deal with this asshole,
dialog: Max! He‘s gotta remember who the
dialog: owner is -- me!
dialog: (frustration)
dialog: The French! What's with their
dialog: attitude? This morning I’m on the
dialog: phone for two hours with the wine
dialog: authorities. They’re total
dialog: crooks...
speaker_heading: . MAX
dialog: Want me to soften them up?
dialog: +e
speaker_heading: tee Ee
dialog: 4
dialog: 
dialog: 177
dialog: 09/19/2005 110.
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: You're hired. *
dialog: *
text: Max continues to sit in the sunshine as Christie turns to go,
text: then pauses. An afterthought:
dialog: *
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE *
dialog: Oh, by the way, Max, you were *
dialog: running low on green ink, so I *
dialog: bought you some more... *
text: Paperwork’s up in Dad's study. *
text: He and Christie lock eyes. *
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE *
dialog: You never know...you may need to *
dialog: write a letter or something. *
text: Then, turns to jog after Duflot. *
speaker_heading: CHRISTIE
dialog: Tati!
dialog: (calling out) *
dialog: Duflot, wait! *
text: She heads out after Duflot and Tati follows. As, Max’s Treo *
text: cings. He heads outside...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So. How's the sale going?
scene_heading: INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - SAME 177
text: Charlie is in Max’s apartment. A couple of large Hip Hoppers
text: are checking it out (like Ali G). Gemma is there too, aloof
dialog: but patient.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
text: Plats in this bracket shift in a
dialog: blink. I’m confident of 1.8. Maybe
dialog: even 1.9...
speaker_heading: GEMMA.
dialog: (to hip hepper who’s feet
dialog: are now on the coffee
dialog: table)
dialog: Feet. off, Jamal.
text: Jamal complies, politely. Gemma sits down next to him, *
dialog: marginally flirtatious. *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 1loaa;
speaker_heading: GEMMA, *
dialog: So, you’re an actual rapper? *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 110A.
scene_heading: EXT, BASTIDE - SAME 178
text: Max watches as Fanny and Madame Duflot periodically enter the +*
text: frame...placing lunch on the table, adjusting flowers, *
dialog: uncorking wine, etc... *
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Bullshit Charlie. £ paid 1.3 two
dialog: Years ago, and I’ve put two hundred j
dialog: thou into it. You get me a twenty i
dialog: five percent yield or 1 get myself
dialog: another estateoagent .
dialog: 
scene_heading: 173 INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - SAME 179
text: Charlie smiles warmly. Same old Max.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You realize, of course, you'll |
dialog: never last down there, i
dialog: 
dialog: 180
dialog: 09/19/2005 lil.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: You takin’ odds on that?
scene_heading: EXT. BASTIDE - SAME 180
speaker_heading: CHARLIE (0.S.)
dialog: And as impossible as it may seem...
text: Max watches Fanny sway back towards him, her beauty all the
text: more perfect in this moment... She gives him a glass of
text: Rose, tussling his hair,.and.disappears back inside.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: --.the very things you find sexy
dialog: and unique now will soon become the
dialog: dread of your day-to-day
dialog: existence...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Is that a fact?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: And then, after months of eating,
text: drinking, sleeping, and bonking,
dialog: what have you got to look forward
dialog: to? Boredom!
text: Fanny reappears carrying plates of food, hips swinging back
text: to the lunch table...
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Max, you're my best mate and I’m
dialog: telling you: you won‘t last!
text: He sips the wine.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Mmmm. A good year.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: We'll see, Charlie. We’ll see.
text: Max hangs up. Fanny gestures to him to come to the table.
dialog: He does.
text: At a distance, Christie is walking back toward them with
text: Tati. Duflot seems to be following, as Madame Duflot comes
text: out with a giant dish of antipasti.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: Okay. That tree. It is not a tree
dialog: anymore. It’s an arbre.,
dialog: *
dialog: 
dialog: 09/19/2005 112. i
speaker_heading: MAX i
dialog: Arbre. :
speaker_heading: FANNY |
dialog: See that bird. C’est L’ Oiseau. i
speaker_heading: MAX :
dialog: L/ Oiseau. '
text: Tati runs past.
speaker_heading: FANNY
dialog: That blue dog. C’est un chien
dialog: bieu,
dialog: Chien bleu.
text: As they continue, the CAMERA drifts away from them...taking
text: in the garden, and the tennis court, and the pool, and then
text: the vineyard, and then finally, La Siroque...just a tiny
dialog: piece of terroir in a very big world.
speaker_heading: FIN
dialog: 
dialog: 
