text: A MONSTER CALLS
dialog: Written by
dialog: Patrick Ness
dialog: Based on the novel "A Monster Calls" by Patrick Ness,
dialog: Inspired by an idea from Siobhan Dowd
speaker_heading: 25 September 2014
dialog: Michelle Kass Associates
dialog: 85 Charing Cross Road
speaker_heading: London WC2H OAA
dialog: 020 7439 1624
text: Sounds fade up
text: Nightmare sounds, wind, roaring screaming.
text: Sounds increase, climax, then stop suddenly as:
dialog: cut to:
scene_heading: InT. conoR’S BEDROOM - night - conTINUOUS 1
text: Conor (12, small, on the border of puberty) sits up in bed,
text: frightened, sweaty, panting.
text: He looks at the clock. 11.58.
text: It’s a messy but homey bedroom. Posters at the borders of
text: manhood on the wall: rugby teams but also cartoons. Old
text: stuffed toys in corners; framed PHOTOS of Conor and his MUM;
text: of Conor and friend LILY in a school play; a laptop; handheld
text: games; scattered DRAWINGS he’s made. Conor lays back down to
dialog: sleep but:
text: A heavy COUGHING from offscreen. Conor listens, concerned.
text: The coughing doesn’t come again. He sits up.
scene_heading: InT. conor’s hallway/ MUM’S BEDROOM - night - conTINUOUS
text: Conor pads quietly down the hallway until he gets to his
text: Mum’s bedroom door. It’s open slightly. He looks in.
text: In the moonlight, Mum is asleep, alone in her bed. Her head
text: is obscured by pillows.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Mum, are you asleep?
dialog: Mum
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Are you sure?
dialog: Mum
dialog: (opens one eye to him)
dialog: Yes, I'm sure.
dialog: 2
text: 2A InT. mum’s bedroom - night - conTINUOUS
text: Conor quietly slips into the bed.
dialog: Mum
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Shush. You're asleep.
dialog: Mum
dialog: Conor...
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Just five minutes, I promise...
text: Mum puts his arm around Conor who instantly fells
dialog: asleep.
text: CuT TO:
dialog: 2A
speaker_heading: 4NEW
text: InT. mum’s bedroom - the next morning 4NEW
text: Conor is VERY deep asleep, having obviously stayed there all
text: night. His mum is asleep, too, gently snoring.
text: In the dawn light we now see a LINE OF MEDICINE BOTTLES on
text: Mum’s DRESSER. A wig on its stand on the dressing table.
text: Conor wakes, sits up. Mum doesn’t wake. He pulls the covers
text: over her. He doesn’t glance at the medicine bottles. They're
text: obviously part of his daily life.
text: Very slowly making sure he is not making any noise, Conor
text: gets up and heads out into the day by himself.
scene_heading: INT. conOR’S BEDROOM - MomenTS LATER 8
text: Conor begins what is obviously a familiar routine.
text: He puts on his school uniform, trying for the untucked
text: rebellious look that he’s still just slightly too young for.
dialog: (he tries to make his hair look cool in the mirror and puts
text: it up but he looks funny and puts it down again, etc).
text: He opens a drawer. No clean socks left.
dialog: 8A
scene_heading: EXT. CONOR'S BACKGARDEN - MOMENTS LATER 8A
text: Conor gets out to the backgarden to where the clothes are
dialog: hanging to look for a clean pair of socks but all the clothes
text: are wet. He takes a wet pair of socks and goes back into the
dialog: house.
scene_heading: INT. CONOR’S Kitchen - MomenTS LATER
text: Conor stuffs the WASHING MACHINE with LAUNDRY, over-filling
text: it, but shutting it all in the door.
dialog: 10
scene_heading: InT. conor’S BEDROOM - momeNTS LATER 10
text: Conor pulls the duvet over his bed so it’s made, if quite
text: messy. (Clumsily hiding the wrinkles of the duvet under the
dialog: cushions)
dialog: 11
dialog: 10.
text: Int. conor’s house upstairs hallway - momENTS LATER 11
text: Conor looks at his Mum’s bedroom (the door is closed) and
text: then over the top of the stairs. Down in the kitchen, we can
text: hear the faint sounds of a WOMAN on her phone. This is
text: GRANDMA (mid-50s, crisp, professional, VERY ungrandmotherly).
text: Conor only sees the top of her head as she exits, still in
text: her coat, still on her phone, scolding someone sternly. We
text: don't see her face in these scenes. She also is clearly
text: making an attempt to keep her voice down.
speaker_heading: GrANDMA
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Because I’ve got three showings
dialog: today, that’s why. I’m not
dialog: responsible for your sick
dialog: Weimaraner-
text: He steps back so she won’t see him. We only catch a glimpse
text: of her as she leaves.
text: He waits a beat, then starts down the stairs, but she re-
text: enters, carrying bags of groceries, still on the phone. Conor
text: freezes. Grandma stops in the hall, angry at something that’s
dialog: been said.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: How dare you throw that in my face?
dialog: Do you have any idea what-?
dialog: (beat, listens, gathers
dialog: self, still angry,
dialog: whispers fiercely)
dialog: Now, you listen to me, Marcus, I
dialog: know full well you’ve covered for
dialog: me-
text: Storms into kitchen. We hear her still talking. Conor waits,
text: nervous. She exits the kitchen again, still whispering.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Fine. Fine. I’1ll call her myself.
dialog: (hangs up)
dialog: Lazy bastard.
text: She exits again. Conor waits a beat, then goes downstairs.
dialog: 11.
text: 11A InT. conor’s downstairs hallway - seconDS LATER 11A
text: Conor, deeply curious, heads towards the kitchen. Then he
text: HEARS THE FRONT DOOR again and steps quickly into-
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: 12 InT. conor’s sittING ROOM - conTINUOUS 12
text: ...-where he hides behind the door. His Grandma, on the phone
text: again, enters, looking for a pen and paper.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: If you do my afternoons today, I
dialog: can take your open house on
dialog: Saturday.
dialog: (rolls eyes)
dialog: Of course, I'll give you your
dialog: commission...
text: She looks around the warmly messy sitting room, lifting
text: things, and looking for and finding a bit of paper. She keeps
text: looking.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Pen, pen, pen... This house-
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yes, I’m here right now.
dialog: (almost snapping)
dialog: She’s fine.
text: Conor watches, waiting to be discovered, but his grandma
text: never even turns around. She finds a pen.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (into phone, coldly,
dialog: finding it hard to say
dialog: thanks )
dialog: Yes. Thank you. I... appreciate it.
text: Hangs up as the caller is mid-sentence. Leaves. By sound,
text: Conor follows her movements into the kitchen, out again and
text: out of the house. He waits until her car starts before he
dialog: feels safe to move again.
dialog: 13
dialog: 13.
scene_heading: InT. conor’s kitCHEN - momentS LATER 13
text: On the counter, there are now BAGS OF GROCERIES and a closed
text: CARDBOARD BOX with a POST-IT NOTE on it. Conor reads it,
text: doesn’t react.
text: Opens the groceries. They’re FULL OF MEDICINAL-LOOKING HEALTH
text: FOOD. Conor makes a face.
text: CuT TO:
text: Conor prepares himself breakfast. The toast is burnt. Conor
text: scratches the burnt stuff off with a knife. The black dust
text: falls on the white plate. He makes a couple of strokes on the
text: dust with his finger and creates a drawing.
dialog: 14
dialog: 14.
scene_heading: InT. conOR’S KITCHEN - MomenTS LATER 14
dialog: Conor throws away his leftovers (there’s a lot he didn’t
text: eat), and washes the breakfast dishes on the sink. He stays
text: there for a moment absentminded staring out the window.
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: 14A EXT. CHURCHYARD HILLTOP/ CONOR’S HOUSE- MomenTS LATER 14A
text: CONOR’S POV - A yew tree stands in the churchyard at the top
text: of the hill in front of the house.
dialog: 15
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: Int. conoR’S KITCHEN - mornING - MomenTS LATER 15
text: He finishes packing his school bag with books and papers.
text: Looks at the clock again. There is something he needs to
dialog: check.
text: He opens a drawer of the kitchen table and slams it shut
text: making a loud dry noise. He waits there.
speaker_heading: MUM (0.S.)
dialog: (faint)
dialog: Con? Is everything alright?
dialog: Finally.
dialog: Conor
dialog: Yes Mum! It slipped from my hands!
dialog: I gotta go or iI'll be late!
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Ok! Rush!
dialog: 15B
dialog: 17.
scene_heading: Int. conoR’S KITCHEN - mornING - MomenTS LATER 15B
text: CONOR’S MUM leans against the kitchen counter with a cup of
text: tea, scarf tied around her head. She’s clearly undergoing
text: CHEMO-THERAPY: thin, pale, bald. Exhausted, but facing it
text: well. Conor SWEEPS up the glass.
dialog: Mum
dialog: You've had breakfast?
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: Yes, mum.
text: She gives him a look. She may be ill, but she’s still Mum.
speaker_heading: Conor (CONT'D)
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: Toast, cereal and juice.
dialog: (mum sees no sign)
dialog: I washed the dishes.
dialog: Mum
dialog: (quietly, looking at the
dialog: clean kitchen)
dialog: There's washing going too.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Yes Mum.
text: Mum reaches for the BROOM..
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: I’m sorry I wasn’t up.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: It’s okay.
dialog: Mum
dialog: You know, it’s just this new round
dialog: of-
dialog: Conor
dialog: It’s okay.
text: Mum is surprised at strength of his interruption, but she
text: lets it pass. She turns to the groceries and the box.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: (caught)
dialog: Your grandma’s coming to stay with
dialog: us tomorrow for a few days.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Aw, mum. We don’t need her here-
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: You know how I get at this point in
dialog: the treatments-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: We've been okay every time before-
dialog: Mum
dialog: You shouldn’t have to make yourself
dialog: breakfast every morning-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I'm fine-
speaker_heading: MUM
speaker_heading: CONOR.
dialog: Frases Conor complaining
text: Beat, as it’s Conor’s turn to be shocked at the interruption.
text: Mum, exhausted, smiles again.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: Only a few days, I promise. That’s
dialog: all I can take, too. Like living
dialog: with your boss.
dialog: (laughs )
dialog: She's going to bring me a box full
dialog: of wigs she got somewhere, if you
dialog: can believe it. Be lucky if I don’t
dialog: end up looking like a zombie Lady
dialog: Gaga.
text: Conor is relaxing, the atmosphere improving. Mum regards him
text: for a moment, then ruffles his hair.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: (fake serious)
dialog: Now, tell me you haven’t shrunk my
dialog: favourite wool jumpers?
text: Conor laughs shyly.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: Go on, go.
dialog: (as he crosses to his bag)
dialog: Stop dragging your feet!
text: He picks them up comically, like a clown. As Conor puts his
text: rucksack on, Mum leans against the counter, looking out the
text: window.
dialog: 19.
scene_heading: 16-16A EXT. CONOR’S HOUSE DRIVEWAY/ STREETS - later 16-16A
text: Conor walks to school, rucksack on his back. It’s a bit of a
text: journey, and he pulls his coat tight against the cold.
dialog: 16B
dialog: 20.
scene_heading: Ext. SHOP ROAD - moRNING 16B
text: He’s deep in thought, but he’s distracted by one SHOP WINDOW
text: (the ART SHOP where his paper bag was from). Inside the
text: window are a set of art pencils that he obviously craves.
text: He’s about to walk on but he sees someone down the street. He
text: steps into the doorway to hide while he watches:
text: A girl, LILY, 12, thick glasses, the friend from the photo in
text: his bedroom. She’s harmless, goofy, charming, but Conor holds
text: back so she won’t see him.
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: 17 Ext. SCHOOL OUTSIDE - momENTS LATER 17
dialog: Establish. Conor & Lily are in the first year of secondary,
dialog: so they’re the tiniest students among giants.
dialog: 18
dialog: 22.
scene_heading: ExT. ALLEY/ SPORTS FIELD - later 18
text: C/U on Conor falling, as if pushed, hitting the concrete
text: path. Still down, he puts his hand to his lip. It comes away
text: bloody.
text: Behind him, we see HARRY, 13, blond wonder boy, calmly
text: vicious bully, flanked by ANTON and SULLY, both 13. Harry is
text: straightening his leg, clearly having tripped Conor.
dialog: Harry
dialog: Careful there, O’Malley. You might
dialog: fall.
text: The minions laugh. Conor is resigned. This isn’t new. He
text: reaches for his bag and starts to get up, but a perfectly
text: timed trip from Harry sends him falling again.
speaker_heading: HARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Always off in your own little
dialog: dreamworld. What’s there that’s so
dialog: interesting, O'Malley?
text: The minions keep laughing. Conor starts to rise again.
text: There’s blood on his lip.
dialog: sully
dialog: (joyous)
dialog: He’s bleeding!
text: anton
dialog: He’1l have to get his slaphead
dialog: mother to kiss it for him!
text: Silence, as the group absorbs this crossing of the line.
text: Conor's face hardens, but before he can respond, Lily bounces
text: back into the scene.
dialog: Lily
dialog: You leave him alone! [Cowards!
dialog: There’s three of you and one of
dialog: him! I’m not scared of you! You're
dialog: pathetic! ]
text: Conor winces, and Harry’s minions are already laughing. Not
text: Harry, though, who never stops looking at Conor.
speaker_heading: SuLLY
dialog: Your puppy’s here to save you,
dialog: O'Malley!
text: Outraged, Lily - who is, in fact, a little puppy-ish - pushes
text: Sully hard. Surprised, he falls backwards over a shrubbery.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: I'm just making it a fair fight!
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: MISS KWAN (0.S.)
dialog: LILY EVANS!
text: Everyone freezes as Head of Year MISS KWAN (late 30s, British-
text: Chinese descent, stern but fair) storms over.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: They started it, Miss!
speaker_heading: MisS KWAN
dialog: I don’t want to hear it.
dialog: (to Sully, now rising)
dialog: Are you hurt, Sullivan?
text: Sully, seeing an opening, fakes injury. Badly.
dialog: Sully
dialog: I might need to go home, Miss.
speaker_heading: MISS KWAN
dialog: Don’t milk it.
dialog: (to Lily)
dialog: My office, Lily.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: But, Miss, they were-
speaker_heading: MISS KWAN
dialog: Now.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: They were making fun of Conor’s
dialog: mother!
text: Everyone freezes. A dangerous silence.
speaker_heading: Miss KWAN
dialog: Is this true, Conor?
text: Conor looks from Anton to Sully, and on to Lily, her face
text: burning with injustice, but then to Harry, who is as calm and
text: firmly fixed on Conor as ever.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: (eyes on Harry)
dialog: No, Miss. I just fell. They were
dialog: helping me up.
text: Lily looks like she’s been slapped.
speaker_heading: MISS KWAN
dialog: Get to your forms.
dialog: (to Lily)
dialog: Not you.
text: Miss Kwan drags an aghast Lily away. Conor watches them go.
text: When he turns back, Harry is holding out Conor's bag for him.
dialog: Harry
dialog: Well done, O’Malley.
text: Beat. Conor takes the bag and makes his way inside.
dialog: 24.
dialog: 19
dialog: 25.
dialog: Int. Physical Social and Education class - lATER 19
text: A Powerpoint display at the front of the class reads: “THE
text: MIRACLE OF BIRTH”. MR CLARK, 40s, wry, kind, perhaps a bit
text: soft, steps up next to it.
dialog: Mr Clark
dialog: Brace yourselves.
text: Conor sits at the back, an empty desk next to him. He looks
dialog: very drowsy.
speaker_heading: MR Clark (CONT'D)
dialog: We've been studying this all week.
dialog: You've seen the diagrams, heard the
dialog: descriptions. You think you’re
dialog: ready to watch the real thing.
text: He gives a you-have-no-idea-what-you’re-in-for chuckle and
text: clicks to start a hilariously graphic CHILDBIRTH DOCUMENTARY
dialog: on the Powerpoint.
text: The sounds from the documentary ("The cervix fully dilates to
text: 10 centimeters and the baby's head crowns when the widest
text: part of it reaches the vaginal opening”, complete with sounds
text: of a mother in labour) fade as we focus on Conor, looking
text: exhausted, falling asleep propping up his face with his hand.
text: He’s sitting under the A/C vent and the sound of it starts to
text: merge with a WIND sound, that eventually rises to the
text: SOUNDTRACK of the NIGHTMARE we heard over the TITLES. We
text: close on Conor, the soundtrack rising to a FAINT SCREAMING
dialog: ("Conor!").
dialog: Mr Clark (CONT'D)
dialog: Conor?
text: Conor jumps as Mr Clark is right next to him. He waits to see
text: if he’s in trouble. But Mr Clark looks overly sympathetic.
speaker_heading: MR Clark (CONT'D)
dialog: You all right there? You look
dialog: tired.
dialog: (beat, nothing from Conor)
dialog: You know, if you ever wanted to
dialog: talk-
text: He’s interrupted by a labour-scream from the video and an
text: accompanying SHOUT OF HORROR from the class who can’t believe
text: what they’re seeing ("As soon as the baby's head comes out,
dialog: the doctor will suction amniotic fluid, blood, and mucus from
text: they baby’s nose and mouth”). Mr Clark looks up with an
text: amused smile, gives Conor a last look, and keeps patrolling
text: the classroom.
text: Conor sees Harry a few seats over. Harry’s watched the
text: exchange and looks as if he’s sussing Conor out, somehow.
dialog: 26.
text: As the sounds of childbirth and the accompanying trauma of
dialog: the class continue ("The umbilical cord will eventually fall
dialog: off due to a combination of putrefaction and mummification”),
text: Lily enters from the front, eyes swollen from crying. She
text: sits next to Conor in the empty desk. He doesn’t acknowledge
text: her, despite her furious gaze.
text: Wounded, she looks up at the video and is comically horrified
text: by what she sees.
text: Mr Clark reaches the front of the classroom as the sounds of
dialog: childbirth reach their exhausted conclusion (“And mother’s
text: happy ordeal is finally over...”). Mr Clark clicks off the
text: Powerpoint and turns to the class.
dialog: Mr Clark (CONT'D)
dialog: Any questions?
dialog: Apart from Conor, Lily and Harry, every single traumatised
text: hand in the classroom shoots into the air.
dialog: 20
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: EXT. BIN street - that afternoon 20
text: Conor walks home by himself, lost in thought.
speaker_heading: LiLY (0.S.)
dialog: Hey! Wait! Conor, wait!
text: She catches up to him. He ignores her.
speaker_heading: Lily (CONT'D)
dialog: Why did you do that today? Why
dialog: didn’t you tell Miss Kwan what
dialog: really happened?
dialog: Conor
dialog: Why did you butt in when it was
dialog: none of your business?
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: I was trying to help you.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I don’t need your help.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: (visibly hurt)
dialog: My mum keeps asking why you don’t
dialog: come over anymore.
text: Conor says nothing.
speaker_heading: Lily (CONT'D)
dialog: (now genuinely distressed)
dialog: What the heck is wrong with you?
dialog: I've got detention all week now.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: That’s not my problem.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: But it’s your fault.
text: Conor turns on her in fury. She steps back, frightened.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: It’s your fault. It’s all your
dialog: fault.
text: He takes off walking again, leaving her behind.
speaker_heading: LiLY
dialog: (calling after him)
dialog: We used to be friends!
text: Conor carries on down the street, fast at first then slowing
text: as he nears his house. He looks back to see if Lily is still
text: there, half-hoping she will be. She isn’t.
dialog: 21
dialog: 28.
scene_heading: InT. conor’s sitting room - momentS LATER 21
text: Conor enters, not too happy. Mum is waiting there, cardboard
text: box open. Conor looks wary at an OLD-FASHIONED SUPER 8 FILM
text: PROJECTOR. Canisters of FILM sit next to it. Mum is nervous,
text: excited.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: What is it?
dialog: 22
dialog: 29.
scene_heading: INT. conor’s sitting room - momENTS LATER 22
dialog: Conor and Mum set up the projector. Neither of them really
text: know how to do it, so they figure it out together, threading
dialog: the film, getting it wrong, eventually getting it right.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: Your granddad’s old film projector.
speaker_heading: CoNOR
dialog: You mean... like a video player?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (laughs )
dialog: No, this is a relic, a proper
dialog: dinosaur.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: What are we supposed to do with it?
dialog: Mum
dialog: I wish you could have met him. Even
dialog: your grandma softened up around
text: him. By the way, she is coming to
dialog: stay with us tomorrow for a few
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Aw, mum. We don’t need her here-
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: You know how I get at this point in
dialog: the treatments-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: We've been okay every time before-
dialog: Mum
dialog: You shouldn’t have to make yourself
dialog: breakfast every morning-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I'm fine-
speaker_heading: MUM
speaker_heading: CONOR.
text: Conor's a bit shocked at the strength of the interruption.
text: Mum is, too. Exhausted, she smiles again.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: Only a few days, I promise. That’s
dialog: all I can take, too. Like living
dialog: with your boss.
text: She laughs. Conor tries to, too.
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: Can we just enjoy the movie? I got
dialog: it for us.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: (picking up film canister)
dialog: What are we watching?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: King Kong. Oldie but a goodie.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Are we really going to watch
dialog: something though? You always fall
dialog: asleep.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I won’t fall asleep. I promise.
dialog: (stepping back)
dialog: Right. I think we got it.
text: Black & White TITLES come up for KING KONG.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (moans )
dialog: You didn’t say it was black and
dialog: white.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (mischievous )
dialog: Be happy it’s not a silent movie.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Mum.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Shush.
text: Conor nestles in to watch, unhappy.
dialog: 23
dialog: 31.
text: InT. conor’s sitting room - later 23
text: It’s dark outside now. Conor, despite himself, is still
text: watching. We can see leftovers of the pizza they ordered. He
text: looks over. His mum is asleep against the arm of the settee.
text: He reaches over and covers her with a blanket and keeps
text: watching it.
text: But it’s the sequence where KONG is on the Empire State
text: Building. BI-PLANES ATTACK and KONG falls-
text: Conor is surprisingly shocked by this, obviously triggering
text: some memory. He watches as Kong falls and falls and falls...
text: Then with a burst of WHITE, the reel finishes, leaving Conor
text: watching a blank white space. We zoom in on the white and
dialog: dissolve to:
dialog: 24
dialog: 32.
text: Int. conor’s BEDROOM/HALLWAY - that night 24
text: A white sketchpad sheet. A hand comes in to draw. Conor at
text: his desk. It’s RAINING heavily outside now, and his window is
text: covered with condensation. His clock reads 11.34.
text: He draws KONG on the skyscraper. It’s good. He FLIPS THE
text: PAPER OVER and draws BI-PLANES on the back. He holds it up to
text: the desklamp. He flicks the light on and off, making the
text: planes appear and disappear, like they’re firing shots (Sound
dialog: Effect: “Ratatatatatata” leading us to sound of nightmare).
text: Then he draws Kong falling. He gets lost in it, and the sound
text: of the NIGHTMARE rises again. This time, we even see flashes
dialog: of it:
dialog: 24A
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: NIGHTMARE 24A
text: --FLASH OF TWO PAIRS OF HANDS locked in a ferocious grip,
text: as if one is trying to keep the other from falling.
text: Conor keeps drawing, almost furiously.
dialog: 24B
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: NIGHTMARE 24B
text: --FLASH OF VIOLENT MOTION, dark and burning.
text: Conor keeps drawing, as the soundtrack intensifies. He
text: doesn’t notice a breeze tousling his hair or the pencils
text: rolling across the desk again.
dialog: 24C
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: NIGHTMARE 24C
text: --FLASH OF A DISTANT FIGURE ON A CLIFF’S EDGE, calling
dialog: out, “CONOR!!”
text: Soundtrack ceases as he sits back and blinks at the
text: sketchpad. He’s drawn a GAPING HOLE OF BLACKNESS that looks
text: as if it might swallow the whole world. A face - possibly
text: HIMSELF - stands at the edge of it, looking back up to us.
text: He suddenly hears hurried footsteps in the hall. They rush
text: past his room to the toilet. We hear his mum being brutally
text: sick. Conor waits. She vomits again.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (calling to her)
dialog: Do you need any help?
speaker_heading: Mum (0.S.)
dialog: (beat, forced cheer)
dialog: No, sweetheart!
text: Beat, then water running. Footsteps. He covers the nightmare
text: with the Kong drawing and quickly moves back to his bed. She
text: opens his door.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: You okay?
dialog: Mum
dialog: I’m kind of used to it by now.
dialog: Sorry I dozed off during the film.
dialog: You should be asleep, too.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: I was. I am.
text: She sees his desklamp still on. She goes over and picks up
text: the sketchpad, including the nightmare drawing. Conor is
text: alarmed. Mum sits down on the bed next to him and looks
dialog: through his Kong sketches.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: This is good, Conor. Such a sad
dialog: ending.
dialog: Conor
dialog: (troubled)
dialog: Why did they kill King Kong?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: People don't like what they don“t
dialog: understand. They get scared.
dialog: Conor
dialog: Her boyfriend was a jerk.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Yeah, he's pretty bad.
dialog: Conor
dialog: King Kong should have squashed him.
dialog: Broken him into a million pieces.
dialog: (makes squashing motion)
dialog: Boom!
text: She smiles and turns to the nightmare finally, a little
text: scared by the hole and the face he’s drawn, but she looks
text: closer. It has very realistic eyes. She’s very surprised and
text: impressed.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: What is this? Is that you?
dialog: Conor
dialog: No, Mum.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Looks like you.
text: Conor shrugs.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: It's very good. Really, REALLY
dialog: good. The strokes of the pen... And
dialog: I love the reflection in the
dialog: eyes... Life is in the eyes, you
dialog: know.
dialog: (gentle beat)
dialog: What's it of? What's this scene?
dialog: Conor
dialog: (shrugs )
dialog: Nothing. Just... I made it up.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Well, doesn't matter where it comes
dialog: from if it's true. That's what
dialog: artists do. They say the truth.
text: Conor smiles. Suddenly the mother realizes what time it is.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: Gosh, it's late, isn't it? Time for
dialog: us both to be asleep.
text: She bops him playfully on the head with the sketchpad.
dialog: 37.
scene_heading: InT. conOR’S BEDROOM - night - conTINUOUS 3
text: Conor is back on his bed in the dark bedroom. He can“t get
text: back to sleep. He sits up and looks at his small DRAWING DESK
text: in the corner.
dialog: 3A
dialog: 38.
scene_heading: EXT. churchyard hilltop - night - continuous 3A
text: A YEW TREE, huge, ancient, ominous looms on the hill
text: overlooking Conor’s house. Its needle-like leaves are sharp
text: in the moonlight, red berries clustered throughout its
text: branches. It sits in a small churchyard on a hilltop, a
text: graveyard stretching down the hill in front of it.
text: Down below, Conor’s bedroom desk light comes on.
dialog: 3B
dialog: 39.
scene_heading: InT. conOR’S BEDROOM - niGHT - conTINUOUS 3B
text: Conor takes out drawing pencils and sharpens them. He takes
text: out an inexpensive SKETCHPAD out of a PAPER BAG from an art
text: store. Tired but awake, he flips through the earlier sketches
dialog: - fantastical things, superheroes, etc, they’re very good -
text: and finds a blank page.
text: He taps the pencil to his teeth, wondering what to draw. His
text: clock ticks over to 12.07, and as if on cue:
speaker_heading: monster (0.S.)
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Conor.
text: A monstrous voice, deep, old as the earth itself. Conor looks
text: immediately to the door. Did he actually hear that?
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: Mum?
text: But it’s not coming from the door. He looks out his closed
text: window. It dramatically frames the hilltop with the yew tree.
text: Conor decides to draw it, making a frame on his page for the
text: window. A pencil starts to roll across the desk.
text: Conor sees it, looks back up to the window: the YEW TREE IS
dialog: NO LONGER THERE.
text: Conor is astonished, confused. Conor stands and looks out the
text: window. It’s shut but a breeze tousles his hair.
dialog: 3c
dialog: 40.
text: The yew tree is now standing farther down the hill. 3c
text: Conor stares in disbelief. As he watches, the tree begins to
text: change. It shifts and splits, twisting slowly, incredibly,
text: into the shape of a TOWERING MAN:
text: --two muscular arms made from branches twining together.
text: --a second leg placed down beside the trunk.
text: --the uppermost branches gathering into a great and terrible
text: face with huge, monstrous eyes.
text: Conor watches, amazed, but not overly afraid...
text: THE MONSTER, huge and impressive, strides across the rail
text: line, over Conor’s back fence and stands up in front of him.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Conor O'Malley.
text: The voice echoes and booms. The Monster suddenly FALLS
text: against the house, its hands on either side of Conor’s
text: window, lowering its head to peer inside.
dialog: 41.
text: The Monster pushes against the house. It creaks under the 3D
dialog: Monster's weight.
speaker_heading: MonstER (CONT'D)
dialog: I have come to get you, Conor
dialog: O'Malley.
dialog: Conor
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So come and get me then.
dialog: Monster
dialog: What did you say?
text: Conor crosses his arms.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I said, come and get me then.
text: The monster roars terrifyingly. Conor hides at one side of
text: his desk and puts his hands over his ears at the sheer volume
text: of the Monster’s voice.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: (taunting)
dialog: Why don’t you run, Conor O'Malley?
dialog: Why don’t you run for your mother?
text: Conor looks surprisingly defiant at this. He stands and
text: closes his bedroom door, as if to protect his mum.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (surprisingly defiant)
dialog: You leave her alone! I’m not afraid
dialog: of you!
text: A beat, as the monster, impossibly, looks surprised-
text: And disappears.
speaker_heading: 3E
dialog: 42.
text: Then it ROARS and PUNCHES an enormous fist through Conor's 3E
text: window, taking out a large section of the wall.
text: Conor at last tries to run, but the monster is too fast,
text: grabbing him up and pulling him out of his bedroom...
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: 3F I/E CONOR’S BEDROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS 3F
text: ...-lifting him high into the night. The Monster roars again,
dialog: still terrifying.
dialog: 44,
dialog: 3G In the Monster’s grasp, Conor can barely breathe, but he 3G
text: looks surprisingly defiant. The Monster stops, perplexed.
text: The Monster gets an angry look.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You will be. Before the end. I will
dialog: visit you again on further nights
dialog: Conor O'Malley. And I will shake
dialog: your walls until you wake. And then
dialog: I will tell you three stories. And
dialog: when I have finished my stories,
dialog: you will tell me a forth and it
dialog: will be the truth. Your truth.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (scared now)
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: This truth that you hide.
dialog: (glowers )
dialog: The truth you draw, Conor O'Malley.
dialog: The truth you dream.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No. No way-
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: For this is why you called me.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Called you? I didn’t call you-
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You will tell me the fourth tale.
dialog: You will tell me the truth.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: And if I don’t?
text: Its mouth ROARS impossibly wide, and hundreds of branches
text: emerge from it like tentacles trying to reach Conor’s face.
text: Cut TO:
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 45.
dialog: 4A
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 46.
dialog: 4A
dialog: 4B
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: Int. Conor’S BEDROOM - dawn 4B
text: As credits end, zoom out from the drawing and Conor rips it
text: up. He empties the bag of sketchpad/supplies and starts
dialog: filling it with berries.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - MORNING - later 5
text: CONOR pokes his head around the door into his kitchen.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Mum?
text: It’s empty. Good. He drags the PAPER BAG FROM THE ART STORE
text: to the BIN and shoves it deep inside. It opens a little; we
text: see that it’s full of YEW TREE BERRIES. Conor covers it with
dialog: other rubbish.
speaker_heading: 5A
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: 5A
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 50.
dialog: 51.
scene_heading: ExT. conOR’S HOUSE DRIVEWAY - MomenTS LATER
text: Conor drags the wheelie bin to the curb to leave it for the
text: dustmen, wipes his hands, looks back to the house.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Right.
dialog: 25
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 52.
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 53.
dialog: 26
dialog: 27
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 54.
dialog: 27
dialog: 55.
scene_heading: 27 NEW INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON 27 NEW
text: Conor enters his room and throws his rucksack to the floor.
text: He removes his clothes and checks out the bruises on his
text: chest and stomach.
text: He changes his clothes and looks out the window.
dialog: 28
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: EXT. conor’s bacK GARDEN - the next morning 28
text: The rain has stopped. It’s a cold, clear day. Conor warily
text: walks across his back garden to an OLD IRON GATE in the back
text: fence.
dialog: 57.
scene_heading: 28B EXT. HILL GATES - MORNING 28B
dialog: 28A
dialog: 58.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN TRACKS - MORNING 28A
text: This LEADS ON TO THE RAILWAY LINE,
text: but a LOCK on the GATE has long since broken. The gate is
text: slouched open.
text: Conor approaches, all the time watching the tree on the
text: hilltop. He gets to the gate, stepping slightly through, hand
text: on the open half.
text: A WIND rustles the top of the yew tree. It also RUSTLES
text: CONOR’S HAIR. Do we hear a whisper? Is a voice saying,
dialog: “Conor...”
text: Conor pulls the gate shut firmly, still watching the tree.
text: The wind dies.
speaker_heading: Mum (0.S.)
dialog: Conor?
text: He turns at the call from his mum.
dialog: 29
dialog: 59.
scene_heading: InT. conor’S KITCHEN/sittinG ROOM - the NEXT DAY 29
text: Conor enters through the kitchen and sees his GRANDMA (mid-
text: 50s, crisp, professional, VERY ungrandmotherly) standing with
text: her back turned to him in the sitting room. Mum, red scarf
text: tied around her head, sits on the couch looking into a box.
text: She glances up and sees Conor, causing GRANDMA to turn.
dialog: Grandma
dialog: (crisp, not entirely
dialog: friendly)
dialog: Ah, there’s the little man.
dialog: Mum
dialog: (still looking in box)
dialog: Jesus, Ma, let him have a childhood
dialog: first.
dialog: (pulls out a terrible wig)
dialog: Where did you say you got these?
dialog: GrandMA
dialog: Clearance of a very nice old
dialog: people’s home. They’re turning it
dialog: into flats and I’1l be the agent.
text: Mum gives Conor a look of comical horror Grandma can’t see.
text: Conor smiles. Grandma looks to see if she’s being made fun
text: of, but Mum’s face immediately goes serious again.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: They’re clean.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Thanks, Ma.
text: Conor shares one last conspiratorial look with his Mum.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: They’11 be warmer than those
dialog: scarves. It’s not exactly summer
dialog: anymore. In case you haven’t
text: noticed.
dialog: Mum
dialog: (quietly defiant)
dialog: I like my scarves.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA
dialog: (to Conor)
dialog: Your mother needs some tea. Green,
dialog: no sugar. I take mine black.
text: Conor looks at his Mum at this command. She rolls her eyes
text: and nods. As he leaves, Grandma turns back to Mum.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Now then, Elisabeth, my girl. What
dialog: are we going to do with you?
dialog: 30
dialog: 60.
scene_heading: InT. conor’s kITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER 30
text: Conor waits for the kettle. He looks out the window, where
text: the yew tree sits innocently atop the hill. He hears raised
text: voices from the sitting room.
dialog: 61.
scene_heading: 30A EXT. CHURCHYARD HILLTOP / CONOR’S HOUSE - MORNING 30A
text: He stares HARD at the tree while his mum and grandma
text: argue and the kettle whistle gains in intensity.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (0o.S.)
dialog: ...-this has gone on far too long,
dialog: these things need to be discussed-
speaker_heading: Mum (0.S.)
dialog: Ma, I know what I’m doing-
speaker_heading: GRANDMA (o.S.)
dialog: Yes, all those marvelous impulsive
dialog: decisions that never affect your
dialog: life at all-
speaker_heading: MUM (0.S.)
dialog: Says the woman who schedules her
dialog: toilet breaks. Seriously, Ma? We’re
dialog: having this conversation now?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA (o.S.)
dialog: I'm sorry, I’m sorry, I just-
speaker_heading: MUM (0.S.)
dialog: Go help Conor with the tea or I
dialog: will literally go insane.
text: Kettle whistle sound stops as Grandma enters kitchen. She
text: regards Conor, hands on hips.
speaker_heading: GranDMA
dialog: (beat, all business, voice
dialog: low so mum can’t listen)
dialog: You and I need to have a talk.
text: Conor stiffens. This isn’t the first time for this.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I'm making tea.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Conor-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I'm making tea.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA
dialog: (snapping)
dialog: We have to-
dialog: (beat, gathers herself)
dialog: I’m not your enemy, Conor. I’m here
dialog: to help your mother.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I know why you’re here.
text: He grabs a cloth and starts furiously wiping the counter.
text: Grandma snatches the cloth out of his hand. To his surprise,
text: he sees that her hands are shaking.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: I’m here because 12-year-old boys
dialog: shouldn't be wiping down counters
dialog: without being asked to first.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Were you going to do it?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Less of your cheek-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: She's always sick after the
dialog: treatments. She’ll be better
dialog: tomorrow. And then you can go home.
text: Grandma doesn’t answer, just rubs her face, then her arms,
text: keeping strong emotions in check. This is a woman whose
dialog: daughter may be dying, after all.
text: Conor is so unsettled, he grabs another cloth and starts on
text: the counter again.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (barely controlled)
dialog: She'll seem better tomorrow. But
dialog: she won't be.
text: Conor doesn’t like this at all.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Yes, she will. “You go through the
dialog: rough stuff but it’s for a good
dialog: reason.” That’s what she says.
text: Grandma clearly wants to say much more but can’t or won't.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: You need to talk to her about this.
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: She needs to talk about this with
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Talk to me about what?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (beat)
dialog: About you coming to live with me.
text: There, the die is cast. Conor is furious.
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I’m never coming to live with you.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Conor, listen to me, if your mother-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: There’s no if. She’ll feel better
dialog: and then you can leave-
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Conor-
text: A panicked call from the sitting room.
speaker_heading: Mum (0.S.)
dialog: (distressed)
dialog: Ma? Mum?
text: A look of heartbreaking terror crosses Grandma's face, as she
text: bolts, almost comically fast, out of the kitchen to her
text: daughter. Conor follows, glancing out the window, where the
dialog: tree is still a tree-
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: 31 InT. conor’S SITTING ROOM - conTINUOUS 31
text: Conor enters the sitting room. Grandma is helping Mum up from
text: the floor, Mum is in serious pain.
dialog: Mum
dialog: (gestures to mantel)
dialog: I need the Oromorph-
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (looking)
dialog: Which one?
text: Conor steps forward, points.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: That one. For the stabbing pains.
text: Quick, grim beat for Grandma and Mum that Conor knows this,
text: then Grandma grabs a LIQUID PAINKILLER from the mantelpiece
text: and starts to dose her daughter.
text: Mum pants as she swallows it, trying to catch her breath,
text: ride out the pain. Grandma rubs her back.
speaker_heading: GranDMA
dialog: It’s okay, darling, it’s okay, shh,
dialog: shh, shh.
text: Grandma looks up at Conor, her face set and unreadable.
dialog: 32
dialog: 65.
text: InT. conor’s sitting room - that evening 32
text: Grandma sets a meal, heavy on the celery, down in front of
text: Conor and his Mum, who looks much more tired. They eat on
text: trays in the sitting room.
dialog: Mum
text: A tray where joy goes to die.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA
dialog: It’s good for you.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: When in history has that ever
dialog: worked?
text: Grandma’s not listening. She’s looking back at the projector.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Are you just going to leave that
text: hunk of junk in the middle of the
dialog: sitting room?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: It’s not a hunk of junk. Dad loved
dialog: it.
text: Grandma snorts, a little dismissively.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: But all those classics. King Kong,
dialog: Frankenstein-
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: When exactly do you think I was
dialog: born? I was 18 years old when Star
dialog: Wars came out. I have about as much
dialog: interest in boring old films as
dialog: Conor probably does.
dialog: (to Conor)
dialog: Right?
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: King Kong was pretty good.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (shaking her head, to Mum)
dialog: You and your father. Always chasing
dialog: butterflies.
dialog: Mum
dialog: Yeah, well, you were always there
dialog: to remind us we had chores to do.
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (stung)
dialog: And made sure there was food on the
dialog: table.
text: Mum holds up limp celery, giggling with Conor. Grandma sees.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Shall I just make you ice cream
dialog: sundaes that you’ll throw back up?
dialog: (grabs pizza box, still
dialog: there from before)
dialog: Or order pizza that’1l make sure
dialog: you've only got empty calories to
dialog: face more chemo with?
dialog: Mum
dialog: What’s wrong with food that makes
dialog: me happy? Can’t you let me enjoy
dialog: life a bit?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: Yes! I want you to enjoy it for a
dialog: long, long time.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (warning her about Conor)
dialog: Ma-
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Why is it so bad that I’d like you
dialog: to take care of yourself?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I don’t know, is it so hard to
dialog: remember I’m a grown woman and can
dialog: make those decisions for myself?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (shaking her head)
dialog: The irony of it. No one wants to be
dialog: like their parents, but we all
dialog: expect our kids to be exactly like
dialog: us.
dialog: (almost to herself)
dialog: No wonder it’s always so hard.
dialog: Mum
dialog: (mumbles )
dialog: Daddy liked pizza.
text: This really hurts. Grandma stands, gathering the trays, even
dialog: if they aren’t finished.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: (regretful)
dialog: Ma, I’m-
dialog: 67.
text: Grandma disappears into the kitchen. Mum looks at Conor and
text: sighs.
dialog: 33
dialog: 68.
text: InT. conor’s hallWAY/CONOR’S BEDROOM - that night 33
text: Conor stands outside his own bedroom as his grandma hands him
text: his blankets. Her bag is partially unpacked on his own bed.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Just don’t touch anything.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA
dialog: Trust me, I’1l be doing my very
dialog: best not to.
text: She hands him a last pillow.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Our conversation isn’t over, young
dialog: man.
text: She gives him a “to be continued” look and shuts the door.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Oh, yes, it is.
text: Fade to bLACK.
dialog: 69.
text: Sounds fade up
text: Nightmare sounds, wind, roaring screaming, rising again in
dialog: crescendo to:
dialog: 34
dialog: 70.
scene_heading: InT. conor’S SITTING ROOM - that night 34
text: Conor sits up, sweating, panting again. The sitting room is
text: dark. Conor calms himself where he sleeps on the settee.
text: He looks around the dim, untidy room. We can see plenty of
dialog: get well cards on the shelves, plus tumbles of smart
dialog: chicklit, his mum’s CD collection (90s rave, Massive Attack,
dialog: Blur), some of her drawings.
text: Conor glances impatiently at the clock display on the DVD
text: player. It clicks over from 12.06 to 12.07.
text: A breeze tousles Conor’s hair. He listens for the Monster.
dialog: And listens.
dialog: And listens.
text: Nothing. The clock ticks over to 12.08. He sees a pen rolling
text: across the top of the DVD player. Other things, including his
text: shoe, start rolling towards the kitchen.
text: Conor gets to his feet, blanket wrapped around him. He goes
dialog: into...
dialog: 35
dialog: 71.
scene_heading: Int. conor’S KITCHEN - conTINUOUS 35
text: ...the kitchen. The kitchen roll and a cup from the table are
text: rolling towards the door outside. It rattles, too. Conor
text: opens it.
dialog: 72.
scene_heading: 35A INT./EXT. CONOR’S KITCHEN /BACK GARDEN - NIGHT 35A
text: The Monster is waiting for him.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: What took you so long?
dialog: 73.
scene_heading: 35B ExT. conOR’S BACK GARDEN - continuous 35B
text: Conor exits into his back garden. The Monster towers over him
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: MonsteR
dialog: It is time for me to tell you the
dialog: first tale.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: What good does that do me? I don’t
dialog: need a story-
dialog: (looks up to his bedroom)
dialog: I need a bus ticket for my grandma.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: (more strongly)
dialog: It is time for me to tell you the
dialog: first tale-
text: Conor turns away.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Where do you think you’re going? I
dialog: will be listened to! I have been
dialog: alive as long as this land and you
dialog: will-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (turns back, angry)
dialog: What do you know about anything?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: I know about you, Conor O“Malley.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No, you don’t. If you did, you'd
dialog: know I don’t have time to listen to
dialog: stupid stories from a stupid tree
dialog: that isn’t even real.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Were the leaves on your floor real?
dialog: Were the berries?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Who cares if they were! They were
dialog: berries. Ohhh, so scary, save me
dialog: from the berries!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: How strange. The words you say tell
dialog: me you are scared of the berries
dialog: but your actions suggests
dialog: otherwise.
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: You're as old as the land and
dialog: you’ve never heard of sarcasm?
text: The monster doesn’t know how to answer that.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: (giving up)
dialog: Never mind... I saw you when I was
dialog: talking to my grandma, and I
dialog: thought...
speaker_heading: MonsteR
dialog: You thought I came to topple your
dialog: enemies. Slay your dragons.
text: Conor frowns. This is obviously true.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Or at least help me with my
dialog: grandmother. But all you want to do
dialog: is tell me stupid stories.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Stories of how I toppled enemies.
dialog: Stories of how I slew dragons.
text: The Monster leans down until its face is close to Conor's.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT’D)
dialog: Let me tell you a tale of when I
dialog: came walking. Let me tell you of
dialog: the end of a wicked queen and how I
dialog: made sure she was never seen again.
text: The Monster looks up to Conor’s bedroom, where grandma
text: sleeps. Conor follows his gaze.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Go on then.
text: The Monster grins his evil grin. The Monster puts his hands
text: on the ground. Branches, leaves, twigs start to twine around
text: Conor. A branch with leaves covers Conor's eyes.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: What do you see?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Nothing. There are leaves in the
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Use your imagination. What do you
dialog: see?
dialog: 36
dialog: 75.
text: BlaCKNESS, conor’s vision - conTINUOUS 36
text: We cut to blackness, what Conor is seeing. There’s nothing.
text: Then there’s a small light.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I see a spark.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Yes? And?
text: The spark seems reflected on water.
speaker_heading: CONOR
text: No, it’s water. It’s watercolour.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Keep looking.
text: A world starts to appear: the light on the water becomes the
text: sun reflected on a brook. Pull out to see that - though the
text: world is an abstract, water-colour-like landscape, we can
text: recognise the hilltop behind Conor’s house with a younger,
text: smaller yew tree on it.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Whoa.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Whoa, indeed.
text: We zoom up to...
dialog: 76.
scene_heading: 37 EXT. First Tale Hilltop - DAY 37
text: ..+.the water-colour hilltop itself, turning to look down at
text: an empty valley below. All the modern houses and roads are
text: gone, but there’s a small VILLAGE and a looming CASTLE. The
text: abstract style remains for the entire tale.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: Long ago, before this was a town
dialog: with roads and trains and cars, it
dialog: was a kingdom.
speaker_heading: ConOR (V.0O.)
dialog: Here? We don’t even have a Tesco.
text: We race down the hill, over the village and towards the
text: Castle, swooping over moats and turrets before finding a
text: window, rushing through it and.
dialog: 38
scene_heading: InT. first tale castle hallway - conTINUOUS
text: ..-down a hallway, passing maids and servants and the
dialog: business of a castle before stopping in the...
dialog: 77.
dialog: 38
dialog: 78.
text: 39 InT. first tale throne room - conTINUOUS 39
text: .-throne room, where a KING sits on a throne.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: It was a happy kingdom, with a wise
dialog: king who had won peace for his
dialog: people. But peace had come at a
dialog: price.
dialog: 79.
text: 40 Ext. first tale battlefield 1 - day - conTINUOUS 40
text: A battlefield of armies fighting.
dialog: Monster (v.O.)
dialog: The king had lost all three of his
dialog: sons in battle. To giants.
text: A FIRST SON of the king is killed by a giant.
dialog: 4l
dialog: 80.
scene_heading: ExT. first tale battlefield 2 - day - contINUOUS 41
text: A different battlefield in a different place.
dialog: Monster (v.O.)
dialog: To dragons.
text: A SECOND SON of the king is killed by a dragon.
dialog: 42
dialog: 81.
text: ExT. first tale battlefield 3 - day - continuous 42
text: A final battlefield, one army fighting another led by a
dialog: terrible wizard.
dialog: Monster (v.O.)
dialog: To armies of men led by great
dialog: wizards.
text: The battle commences, hard-fought and chaotic.
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: 42a EXT. conor’s baCK GARDEN - conTINUOUS 42a
text: Conor grabs at the leaves covering his eyes.
dialog: Conor
dialog: This is all sounding pretty fairy
dialog: tale-ish.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You wouldn't say that if you heard
text: the screams of a man killed by a
dialog: spear.
dialog: 83.
dialog: 42B ExT. first tale battlefield 3 - day - continuous 42B
text: A THIRD SON of the king is run through with a spear. The
text: screams are terrible. We return to...
dialog: 43
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: InT. first tale THRONE ROOM - day - conTINUOUS 43
text: The King sits forlorn on his throne again.
speaker_heading: MonstER (V.O.)
dialog: The king’s sole remaining heir was
dialog: his orphaned grandson.
text: ANGLE ON: the toddler PRINCE, playing with a wooden toy
text: dragon. The King watches him affectionately. Pan to reveal a
text: QUEEN, sitting to the King’s right.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.O.) (cont’d)
dialog: The King had taken a wife in
dialog: peacetime, his first having died of
dialog: heartbreak at the loss of all her
dialog: sons.
text: The KING leaps from his throne to play with the PRINCE. The
text: QUEEN watches, detached.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (v.O.) (cont’d) (CONT'D)
dialog: And if the new Queen’s tongue was a
dialog: bit sharp, she was at least young
dialog: and fair and made the King happy.
text: We pull back out the hallway we came in and into:
dialog: 44
dialog: 85.
scene_heading: Ext. first tale countryside - day - contINUOUS 44
text: The young prince runs playfully through the countryside, the
text: King in pursuit. These images continue as the Prince ages:
dialog: the Prince with a dog, the Prince hunting his first stag, the
text: Prince winning his first joust as a 17-year-old.
dialog: Monster (V.O.)
dialog: The Prince grew until he was nearly
dialog: aman, winning the love of the
dialog: kingdom for his gallantry and good
dialog: heart. But one day, the old king
dialog: fell ill.
text: In the audience for the joust, the king suddenly collapses.
dialog: 45
dialog: 86.
scene_heading: InT. first tale THRONE ROOM - day - contINUOUS 45
text: The King, now in a sickbed tended by the Queen.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: Rumour began to spread that he was
dialog: being poisoned by his wife. That
dialog: she was an evil witch, bent on
dialog: taking the throne for herself.
dialog: The Queen gives the King medicine. Or is it poison?
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.O.) (cont’d)
dialog: But the King loved her and even
dialog: with his dying breath, he begged
dialog: his subjects not to blame her.
text: The King has his dying breath. We rush back out of the throne
dialog: room to...
dialog: 46
dialog: 87.
scene_heading: ExT. first tale COUNTRYSIDE - DAY - conTINUOUS 46
text: ...the Kingdom, in mourning, shadowy rain coming down. We
text: find the Prince, looking up at the castle.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: The Prince was too young to take
dialog: his place yet as King. The Queen
dialog: would rule as Regent for another
dialog: year. The future was uncertain.
text: The FARMER'S DAUGHTER approaches the Prince. He greets her
dialog: with a flower.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: The Prince, meanwhile, had given
dialog: away his heart-
speaker_heading: Conor (V.0O.)
dialog: (groaning)
dialog: I knew it. There’s always some
dialog: stupid prince falling in stupid
dialog: love, ruining everything-
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: (louder)
dialog: The Prince, meanwhile, had given
dialog: away his heart-
text: The Prince sweeps the Farmer’s Daughter up in romance,
text: running flirtatiously through orchards, exchanging love
dialog: letters, parting with sweet sorrow...
dialog: Monster (v.0.) (cont’d)
dialog: She was beautiful and smart and
dialog: though only a farmer’s daughter,
dialog: the kingdom smiled on the match.
text: We rush back up to the castle, through the hallway and into:
dialog: 88.
scene_heading: 47 InT. first TALE THRONE ROOM - DAY - conTINUOUS 47
text: The Queen, sitting on her throne, dispensing queenliness.
speaker_heading: MonstER (v.0.)
dialog: The Queen, however, had other
dialog: ideas. She was rather enjoying
dialog: being Queen. And what better way to
dialog: remain so than to marry the prince
dialog: herself?
speaker_heading: ConOR (V.0.)
dialog: WHAT?! That’s disgusting! She was
dialog: his grandmother!
dialog: Queen on throne, offering this objectionable plan to Prince.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: Step-grandmother, no relation, and
dialog: still a young, beautiful woman
dialog: herself, don’t forget. The Prince,
dialog: however, didn’t like the idea
dialog: either.
text: We rush out of the castle and into...
dialog: 48
dialog: 89.
scene_heading: ExT. first TALE COUNTRYSIDE - night - contINUOUS 48
text: ...a stormy night. The Prince saddles a horse and helps up
dialog: the Farmer’s Daughter.
dialog: Monster (V.O.)
dialog: He took the farmer’s daughter and
dialog: they rode away into the night-
text: They ride through the storm, before taking shelter on...
dialog: 49
dialog: 90.
scene_heading: ExT. first TALE HILLTOP - night - conTINUOUS 49
text: ...the hilltop where the yew tree stands. The Prince and the
text: Farmer’s Daughter shelter at the base, under blankets.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: Stopping only to shelter themselves
text: under the branches of a yew tree.
dialog: They slept.
dialog: Sleeping is pretty clearly not what they’re doing under the
dialog: blanket.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Yeah, I don’t think they’re
dialog: sleeping.
speaker_heading: MonsteR (V.O.)
dialog: They slept. Eventually.
text: The Prince and the Farmer’s Daughter sleep. The image stills
dialog: as time passes and...
dialog: 50
dialog: gl.
scene_heading: ExT. first TALE HILLTOP - DAY - contINUOUS 50
text: ...the sun comes up. The Prince wakes.
speaker_heading: MonstER (V.O.)
text: The next morning, the Prince woke.
dialog: “Arise, my beloved,” he said.
text: The Prince mirrors the Monster’s words.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.) (cont’d)
dialog: But the farmer’s daughter did not
dialog: stir.
text: The Farmer's Daughter slumps. CLOSE ON: The Prince’s bloodied
text: hand.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.) (CONT’D)
dialog: Which was when the Prince noticed
text: the blood.
speaker_heading: ConOR (V.0O.)
dialog: Blood?
text: The Prince stands. Blood everywhere.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: Someone had killed his beloved in
dialog: the night and made him look like
dialog: the murderer. “The Queen!” he
dialog: cried. “The Queen is responsible
dialog: for this treachery!”
text: The Prince mirrors the Monster’s words. Men approach from a
text: distance.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.) (cont’d)
text: He saw men approaching and knew
dialog: they'd been sent to arrest him.
dialog: Conor (v.0O.)
dialog: And the queen would be able to rule
dialog: on her own! I hope this story ends
dialog: with you ripping her head off.
text: The Prince looks around in panic.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (v.O.)
dialog: There was nowhere for the Prince to
dialog: run. His horse had been chased
text: away. He turned to the only place
dialog: he could look for help.
text: The Prince looks up at the yew tree.
speaker_heading: ConOR (V.O.)
dialog: You?
dialog: 92.
text: The Prince talks to the tree. We don’t hear what he says. The
dialog: tree remains a tree.
speaker_heading: ConOR (v.0O.) (cont'd)
dialog: What did he say?
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.O.)
dialog: He said enough to bring me walking.
text: We rush away from hilltop and down into...
dialog: 51
dialog: 93.
scene_heading: ExT. first TALE COUNTRYSIDE - DAY - conTINUOUS 51
text: ...the Prince racing through the countryside.
speaker_heading: MonsTER (V.O.)
dialog: He ran through the villages. “The
dialog: Queen has murdered my bride! The
dialog: Queen must be stopped!”
text: Behind the Prince, the Monster comes, terrifying, huge.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.O.) (cont’d)
dialog: The people were quick to rally to
dialog: the Prince when they saw the great
text: Green Man behind him, high as the
dialog: hills, coming for vengeance.
text: The Prince leads the villagers to a storming of the castle,
text: the Monster behind them. It tears down the castle walls.
text: Flames rise, turrets tumble, until we ANGLE ON: the terrified
text: Queen screaming in the Monster’s upraised hand.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: The Queen was never seen again.
dialog: 94.
scene_heading: 52-52A ExT. conOR’S BACK GARDEN - niGHT - conTINUOUS 52-52A
text: Conor pushes away the leaves and looks up to the Monster.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Good! She deserved it!
text: He turns to the upstairs bedroom where his Grandma sleeps.
speaker_heading: ConoR (CONT'D)
dialog: I don’t suppose you can help me
dialog: with her? I mean, I don’t want you
dialog: to burn her at the stake or
dialog: anything-
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: The story is not yet finished.
text: Conor turns to the Monster, confused.
speaker_heading: CoNOR
dialog: But you said the Queen was never
dialog: seen again.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Indeed.
text: The Monster puts the leaves back over Conor’s eyes. We rush
dialog: back into...
dialog: 53
dialog: 95.
scene_heading: EXT. First TALE HILLTOP - DAY - conTINUOUS 53
text: ..+.the Castle burns in the background as the Monster, still
text: holding the Queen, walks away from it.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: I carried her far enough away so
dialog: that her people would never find
dialog: her-
text: The Queen looks quite safe in the Monster's hands.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (v.O.) (cont’d)
dialog: To a village by the sea, where she
dialog: began a new life.
dialog: 96.
scene_heading: 54 ExT. conor’S BaCK GARDEN - nighT - conTINUOUS 54
text: Conor is outraged, pushes the leaves away again.
dialog: Conor
dialog: But she killed the Farmer's
dialog: Daughter! How can you save a
dialog: murderer?
text: He tries to step back from the Monster in dawning fright.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: You really are a monster.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: I never said she killed the
dialog: farmer's daughter. I only said that
dialog: the Prince said it was so.
text: The Monster twists some branches into a frame. Conor watches
text: it like a television. We move through the frame into:
dialog: 55
dialog: 97.
scene_heading: ExT. first TALE HILLTOP - nigHT - conTINUOUS 55
text: The Prince and the Farmer’s Daughter, sleeping, as before.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: The Prince never fell asleep that
dialog: night.
text: The Prince rises and looks down at the Farmer's Daughter. He
text: goes to his tied-up horse and retrieves something, setting
text: the horse free in the process.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: But waiting for the Farmer Daughter
dialog: to be lost in her dreams and then
dialog: began his real plan.
text: CLOSE ON: A KNIFE glinting in the Prince’s hand as he
text: approaches the sleeping Farmer’s Daughter.
speaker_heading: Conor (V.O.)
dialog: NO!
text: We rush back from the hilltop to...
dialog: 98.
text: 56 ExT. conor’s back GARDEN - nighT - conTINUOUS 56
text: Conor watches in shock as the scene fades on the hilltop, the
text: Monster lowering his hands.
dialog: Conor
dialog: You said he was surprised when he
dialog: woke up!
speaker_heading: MonstER
dialog: He was merely acting out a
dialog: pantomime should anyone be
text: watching.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: But... but you said he asked you
dialog: for help and you gave it!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: I only said he told me enough to
dialog: make me come walking. I never said
dialog: I came to help him.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: What did he say then?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: He said it was for the good of the
dialog: kingdom. That the queen was, in
dialog: fact, a witch, too powerful to
dialog: topple on his own, so he killed the
dialog: Farmer’s Daughter to get the fury
text: of the people behind him. Just as
dialog: the King’s sons had died in battle,
dialog: the Farmer's Daughter had given her
dialog: life to a greater good.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: That’s a load of crap!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: The justifications of men who kill
dialog: should always be heard with
dialog: scepticism.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Did he ever get caught?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: He became a much beloved king who
dialog: ruled happily until the end of his
dialog: long days.
text: Conor unhappily considers all this.
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: So the good prince was a murderer
dialog: and the evil queen wasn’t a witch
dialog: after all?
text: The Monster begins to rumble, louder and louder, until we
text: realise it’s laughing, a laugh that shakes the earth,
text: spooking owls from their perches, causing leaves to fall.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: (calming some)
dialog: No, the Queen most certainly was a
dialog: witch and could well have been on
dialog: her way to great evil. Who can say?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Why’d you save her then?
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Because what she was not, was a
dialog: murderer. She hadn’t poisoned the
dialog: king. He had merely grown old.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I don’t get it. Who’s the good guy
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: There is not always a good guy. Nor
dialog: is there always a bad one. Most
dialog: people are somewhere inbetween.
speaker_heading: CoNOR
dialog: That's a terrible story. And a
dialog: cheat.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It’s a true story. Many things that
dialog: are true feel like a cheat.
dialog: Kingdoms get the princes they
dialog: deserve, farmer's daughters die for
dialog: no reason, and sometimes witches
dialog: merit saving. Quite often,
dialog: actually. You'd be surprised.
text: Conor glances unhappily up to his bedroom window again.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: So how is that supposed to save me
dialog: from her?
speaker_heading: MONSTER (0.S.)
dialog: It is not her you need saving from.
text: Conor turns back to the Monster, but he’s gone. On the
text: hilltop, the yew tree is back in place, as if nothing had
dialog: happened. Which is annoying.
dialog: 57
dialog: 100.
scene_heading: ExT. pavement CONVERSATION WITH LILY - the nexT DAY 57
text: Conor walks to school, rucksack on his back, stopping to look
text: at the PENCIL CASE again. He starts walking as Lily catches
text: up to him. She doesn’t say anything at first, just waits for
text: his response. Gets none.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: I forgive you.
text: Conor says nothing, just walks on.
speaker_heading: LiLY (CONT'D)
dialog: I forgive you for getting me in
dialog: trouble, okay?
dialog: Conor
dialog: You got yourself in trouble.
dialog: Lily
dialog: (ignoring this)
dialog: And I forgive you for all the
dialog: things you said, too.
text: Conor remains silent. Lily is defiant, but hopeful.
speaker_heading: LiLY (CONT'D)
dialog: Aren’t you going to say you’re
dialog: sorry back?
text: Conor stops, and his anger backs Lily into a nearby wall.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: I’m not sorry, and I don’t forgive
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: My mum said we need to make
dialog: allowances for you, but I just
dialog: think you're acting like a jerk-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I was doing just fine before you
dialog: screwed everything up.
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: (baffled)
dialog: Me?!
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No one knew, Lily. No one. And then
dialog: your mum tells you and then guess
dialog: what? Suddenly everybody knows-
speaker_heading: LILY
dialog: About your mum-?
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (over)
dialog: -and now they all treat me like I’m
dialog: the sick one or that I’m not really
dialog: there or...
text: He stops, choked up, angry about it. He takes off again,
text: leaving Lily behind.
dialog: 58
dialog: 102.
text: InT. Physical Social and Education CLASS - day - later 58
text: Mr. Clark is patrolling the classroom. Total silence, all
dialog: pupils concentrated on their papers.
speaker_heading: MR. CLARK
dialog: 10 more minutes to hand in your
dialog: exams.
text: The kids are doing a test. Conor at the end of the classroom,
text: has his headphones on and is drawing on the exam paper. Mr.
text: Clark sees him. Conor looks up as if sensing him. Beat. Mr.
text: Clark approaches Conor but when it looks like he is going to
text: tell him off he turns his back to him and heads back to the
text: front of the room. Harry has watched the whole exchange.
dialog: 103.
text: 59 InT. School CORRIDOR FIRST FLOOR - day - lateR 59
text: Conor moving from one classroom to another. Alone. He gets a
text: few confused looks from others, but no one speaks to him.
dialog: 60
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 104.
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOLYARD - DAY - latER 61
text: Conor stands by himself again. He looks around until he sees
text: Harry, Anton and Sully come out of a door together. He seems
text: almost to relax. Then, surprisingly, he heads over in their
text: direction.
dialog: 62
dialog: 106.
scene_heading: ExT. SCHOOLYARD - DAY - moments laTER 62
text: Conor falls to the pavement again. He gets to one knee, a
text: tear in his trousers. SULLY and ANTON are laughing. HARRY, as
text: usual, stares with odd focus at Conor.
speaker_heading: SULLY
dialog: Seriously, O’Malley. All this
dialog: falling!
dialog: Anton
dialog: You drunk or something?
text: Conor sees classmates filing back into the building, Lily
text: among them. She looks at him. Then looks away.
speaker_heading: HarRY
dialog: O'Malley isn’t drunk, no. He just
dialog: likes playing with us. Why is that,
dialog: O'Malley?
text: Sully reaches for the rising Conor to cause more mischief.
speaker_heading: HarrY (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t touch him.
speaker_heading: SuLLY
dialog: Don’t touch him? But it’s such a
dialog: punchable face-
text: Sully steps towards Conor. Conor clinches A FIST-
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: (firmly)
dialog: I said, don’t touch him.
text: Sully immediately steps back.
speaker_heading: Harry (CONT’D)
dialog: O'Malley and I have an
dialog: understanding. I’m the only one who
text: touches him. Isn’t that right?
text: Conor says nothing, but this does seem to be the agreement.
speaker_heading: AnTON
dialog: Harry, come on-
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: No, you see, there’s something I
dialog: want to find out.
text: Harry steps closer. Conor doesn’t back away.
text: Harry raises a fist as if to strike Conor. Again, Conor
text: doesn’t flinch, just waits for the punch.
text: Beat. Harry drops his fist.
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: HARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Yeah. That’s what I thought.
text: Then he swings a fast, vicious punch to Conor which we don’t
dialog: see connect-
text: Cut TO:
text: 63 InT. conor’s house front hallway - later
dialog: 108.
dialog: 63
text: Conor enters, home from school, some bruising on his face,
text: but hasn’t even shut the door before Grandma is on him.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (brusque, businesslike)
dialog: Good, you’re home. Your mum’s
dialog: upstairs. She wants to talk to you.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: What-
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (putting a phone to her
dialog: ear)
dialog: Your father’s flying in on Sunday.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Dad's coming? From America?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (unhappy )
dialog: Yes, and I get to arrange it. Lucky
dialog: me. Go. Your mum’s waiting.
text: Grandma exits to the sitting room.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Why is my dad coming?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (closing door behind her)
dialog: And pack a bag. You're coming to
dialog: stay with me for a few days.
text: Then she’s gone. Conor stands for a moment,
text: shellshocked.
dialog: 64
dialog: 109.
scene_heading: InT. conor’s hallway/MUM’S BEDROOM - momENTS LATER 64
text: Conor approaches the door to his mum’s bedroom. He’s badly
text: disconcerted. He puts his hand on the knob but waits for a
text: moment. He takes a deep breath, opens the door-
text: BOOM! Inside is entirely taken over by the NIGHTMARE:
text: blackness, roaring and screaming, a horrible deafening noise
text: churning the blackness, a voice calling “Conor!” in terror-
text: Conor calls out and slams the door.
speaker_heading: Mum (0.S.)
dialog: (from Conor’s room)
dialog: Conor? I’m in here.
text: Conor breathes heavy for a moment. He opens his mum’s door a
text: crack. It’s normal. He closes it and goes to his own bedroom.
dialog: 65
dialog: 110.
scene_heading: InT. conor’S BEDROOM - DAY - conTINUOUS 65
text: His mum, in a TERRIBLE TINA TURNER-ESQUE WIG, lies on his
text: bed, looking out at the yew tree, SKETCHING ON CONOR’S
speaker_heading: SKETCHPAD.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: Hi, sweetheart. Come sit.
text: He sits down next to her on the bed. She’s sketching the yew
text: tree. The drawing is half-finished, but really excellent.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: (w/o turning)
dialog: Yew trees are amazing, you know.
dialog: Live for thousands of years. And
dialog: they’re always planted in
dialog: churchyards because the-
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (finishes, heard it a
dialog: thousand times)
dialog: -berries are poisonous so they have
dialog: to be kept away from cows and
dialog: stuff.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: No, that’s just the official
dialog: version. The real reason is that
dialog: yew trees dig their roots down into
dialog: the graves and take all the things
dialog: the dead wish they could have said
dialog: and spread them into the world
text: through their leaves.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (skeptical)
dialog: Uh-huh.
text: Mum turns and smiles at him, exhausted, setting down the half-
text: finished sketch. Conor gives a horrified look at the wig on
text: her head. She laughs.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I know. Tina Turner. If she was
dialog: from Sheffield.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I don’t really know who that is.
dialog: 65A
dialog: 111.
scene_heading: Ext. ChurCHYARD HILLTOP / conor’s house - day 65A
text: Mum tugs the wig off, laughing, tying a scarf on her head.
text: They both look at the tree.
text: Mum starts stroking his hair.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Why am I going to stay with
dialog: Grandma? Are you going back to
dialog: hospital?
dialog: Mum
dialog: (sighs lovingly)
dialog: We’ve been here before, sweetheart.
dialog: I feel really bad and I go in and
dialog: they take care of it.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Then why is dad coming?
text: Mum pauses in the hair stroking, but picks right back up.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Aren’t you excited?
speaker_heading: CONOR
text: Grandma doesn’t seem too happy.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (snorts)
dialog: Well, you know how she feels about
dialog: your father. Don’t listen to her.
text: Beat, silence. Conor braces himself.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: There's something else, isn’t
dialog: there?
text: Mum quickly, forcefully, cuts off his worry.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: Look at me, son.
dialog: He does.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: The latest treatment’s not doing
dialog: what it’s supposed to. So they’re
dialog: going to adjust it, try something
dialog: else. That’s all.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: That’s all?
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: That’s all. There’s lots more they
dialog: can do. It’s normal. Don’t worry.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: You're sure?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I’m sure.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Because... You could tell me, you
dialog: know.
dialog: And here’s the moment, where she could tell him everything.
dialog: But she can’t, not yet.
dialog: She leans
text: shoulder.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I remember when you were a little
dialog: baby, and it was just the two of
dialog: us. And you'd get, like, a fever or
dialog: something. I used to get so scared.
dialog: I was really, really young - only
dialog: six years older than you, if you
dialog: can believe it - and this was a
dialog: time when things werent going so
dialog: great. Your dad was gone and I
dialog: wasn“t speaking to your Grandma.
dialog: And I kept thinking, What if I get
dialog: this wrong? It“d be the middle of
dialog: the night and I wouldn“t know what
dialog: to do, I°d have no one to ask, no
dialog: one to lean on. And do you know
dialog: what I'd always do? I’d look into
dialog: your eyes, into your little baby
dialog: eyes, and I'd say, “We’re a team,
dialog: me and you. We’re in this
dialog: together.” And I’d still be scared,
dialog: but it didn’t matter so much
dialog: anymore. Because you were counting
dialog: on me, and that was the only thing
dialog: that mattered.
dialog: (rubs his head)
dialog: Still is.
text: up, puts an arm around him, her head on his
text: They both look out at the tree.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: I‘ll bet that old tree will keep an
dialog: eye on the house for us while
dialog: you’re at your grandma’s.
text: Conor's expression is priceless. His mum grabs him and turns
text: him to her, faux-serious.
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: But for God’s sake, whatever you
dialog: do, don’t touch your grandmother’s
dialog: clock.
text: Cut TO:
dialog: 114.
scene_heading: 66-66A EXT./InT. Grandma's DRIVEWAY/sitting room - days later 66-66A
text: The face of Grandma's prize grandfather clock. It’s against
text: the wall of a pristine sitting room, every surface clean and
text: museum-like, including glass display cases with figurines,
text: low bookcases, porcelain knickknacks. The polar opposite of
text: Conor's warmly untidy house. Conor leans on the doorframe.
text: Grandma very carefully SETS HER WRISTWATCH by the clock (not
dialog: vice versa).
speaker_heading: GranDMA
dialog: (looking at clock)
dialog: I’ve got a house to show. I’m
dialog: trusting you here alone until your
text: dad shows up.
dialog: Conor
dialog: I’m not five years old.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (ignores this, finishes
dialog: with watch)
dialog: This is the correct time. Not the
dialog: one on your computer, or even the
dialog: one on the news. Right here. I
dialog: almost got this on Antiques
dialog: Roadshow once. It belong to my
dialog: mother - your grear-grandmother.
dialog: Perfect time keeping for over a
dialog: hundred years.
text: Conor rolls his eyes. A VERY old story. She brushes past him:
dialog: 67
dialog: 115.
text: Int. grandma’s front hallway - conTINUOUS 67
text: She glides smoothly to a mirror, checking how she looks. On
dialog: the wall, we might notice some pictures of her and her
dialog: family, including one of her with CONOR’S GRANDFATHER, played
dialog: by the same actor as the Monster.
dialog: GrandMA
dialog: Pick up your rucksack, please.
dialog: Don’t want your father to think I’m
dialog: keeping you in a pigsty.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: Not much chance of that.
text: His Grandma opens a front closet, puts on a coat.
dialog: GrandMA
dialog: Now, Conor, when you go to the
dialog: hospital, your father may not
dialog: notice how tired your mum’s been
dialog: getting, okay? So we’re going to
dialog: have to make sure he doesn’t
text: overstay his welcome.
text: Final check in the mirror.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Not that that’s historically been a
dialog: problem.
text: She gives one last appraising look at Conor.
speaker_heading: Grandma (CONT'D)
dialog: If you get hungry before your dad
dialog: gets here, there’s steamed broccoli
dialog: in the fridge. No eggs. You’ve
dialog: already had eggs twice this week.
dialog: (frowns, sighs)
dialog: Be good.
text: And lets herself out.
dialog: 68
dialog: 116.
scene_heading: InT. granDMA’S Kitchen - moments LATER
text: Montage as Conor looks around his Grandma’s house for
text: something to do. First in her spotless kitchen, cupboards
dialog: full of nothing a boy might like to eat.
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: 117.
text: InT. grandma's kiTCHEN - momENTS LATER
text: Conor now stands on the counter-top, digging deep into a
text: cupboard. He finds a packet of cookies.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Get in.
dialog: 69
dialog: 70
dialog: 118.
text: InT. grandma’s TV room - momentS LATER 70
text: Conor in a sterile TV room, eating the cookies. Only dull
dialog: channels (BBC, Living) are available. Every channel he wants
text: to watch blocked by a PIN code.
dialog: 71
dialog: 119.
scene_heading: InT. grandma’s guEST ROOM - momENTS LATER 71
text: Conor opens the door to his temporary bedroom. His suitcase
text: is open, clothes removed, but the room is bright white,
text: pictures of sailboats on the wall. It could be a hotel room.
dialog: 72
dialog: 120.
scene_heading: EXT. grandma’s back garden - momentS LATER 72
text: Conor steps out into his Grandma’s back garden which has no
text: green space at all, just stone paths, sheds and an office
dialog: she’s had built in the back.
text: No hilltop on the horizon. No tree to be seen anywhere.
text: 73
dialog: 121.
text: InT. grandma's CORRIDOR, upstairs - momenTS LATER 73
text: Conor climbs the steep steps up to the door of Grandma’s loft
text: conversion. It’s locked. He can’t believe it.
text: He tries to look through the keyhole, but can only see
text: glimpses of a room inside.
text: Then Conor JUMPS at the sound of the DOORBELL. He hurries
text: down the stairs to...
dialog: 74
dialog: 122.
scene_heading: InT. granDMA’S FRONT HALLWAY - conTINUOUS 74
text: ...-the front door. He opens it on: HIS DAD, late thirties,
text: handsome, slightly too boyish for his own good.
text: Conor’s gives him a genuinely free smile.
dialog: 75
dialog: 123.
text: InT. CHINESE Restaurant - later that EVENING 75
text: Conor and his Dad sit at a table, waiting for their food. Dad
text: has a glass of RED WINE, Conor a clear soft drink. Dad isn’t
text: quite sure how to talk to this son he doesn’t see very often.
text: His accent is HALF-IRISH/HALF-AMERICAN.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: How you hanging in there, champ?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: “Champ”?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Sorry. America is almost a whole
dialog: different language.
text: Dad fidgets with his wine glass. Conor drums lightly with his
dialog: chopsticks.
dialog: Dad (CONT'D)
dialog: Your mom seemed pretty good
dialog: tonight. A real fighter, that one.
text: Conor shrugs.
speaker_heading: DAD (CONT'D)
dialog: You look tired, Con. How are you
dialog: holding up?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: That's like the eight hundredth
dialog: time you've asked me that.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I'm fine. Mum’s on this new
dialog: medicine. It'll make her better.
dialog: Why is everyone acting like
dialog: she’s...
text: He stops. Takes a drink.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: “Everyone”?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Grandma. Wants me to come live with
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: You mean when your mum-
dialog: 124.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: If.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (takes the correction)
dialog: If your mum...
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: But that’s not going to happen.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Still. You’re going to need to be
dialog: brave for her. You’re going to need
dialog: to be real, real brave.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: You talk like American television.
text: Dad takes this in good humour.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Your sister’s doing well. Almost
text: sitting up by herself.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Half-sister.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: I can’t wait for you to meet her.
dialog: I've been talking to your grandma
dialog: about getting you out to LA.
text: Conor looks up surprised and with nascent hope.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: You want me to come to LA?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Absolutely! Would you like that? I
dialog: was thinking maybe over Christmas,
dialog: so we can get you back in time for
dialog: school...
text: Dad smiles, pleased he’s connected. Then he blows it.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (suspicious)
dialog: But... you mean... just for a
dialog: visit, then.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Yeah, it'll be great...
text: Beat as he realizes that’s not what Conor was hoping for.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I don’t want to live with Grandma.
dialog: It’s an old lady’s house.
dialog: (MORE )
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: CONOR (CONT'D)
dialog: You can’t touch anything or sit
dialog: anywhere and you can’t leave a mess
dialog: for even two seconds.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: We can talk to her about that. I’m
dialog: sure there are plenty of ways to
dialog: make you comfortable-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I don’t want to be comfortable! I
dialog: want my own room in my own house.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (wincing)
dialog: You wouldn’t have that in America.
dialog: We barely have room for the three
dialog: of us. Besides, your school is
dialog: here, your life is here. It’d be
dialog: unfair to take you out of it.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Unfair to who?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (sighing)
dialog: This is what I meant. When I said
dialog: you were going to have to be brave.
dialog: conor
dialog: (pouring cold water)
dialog: Can we talk about the visit when
dialog: mum gets better?
text: Dad, resigned, can’t find the strength to talk to Conor
dialog: honestly. Gives in.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Of course, champ. That’s exactly
dialog: what we'll do.
text: A WAITRESS sets their meals down in front of them. Neither of
text: them make a move to eat.
dialog: 76
dialog: 126.
text: ExT. Grandma’s House - later that EVENING 76
text: Conor and his Dad pull up outside his Grandma’s house in his
dialog: father’s rental car.
dialog: Dad
dialog: Doesn't look like your Grandma's
dialog: home yet.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: She sometimes goes back to the
dialog: hospital after I go to bed. The
text: nurses let her sleep in a chair.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Your Grandma may not like me much,
dialog: but that doesn’t mean she’s a bad
dialog: lady.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: She says you’re all start and no
dialog: finish.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (laughs, wounded)
dialog: That might be true.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: How long are you here for?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: As long as I can.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: How much is that?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (sighing)
dialog: We don’t have a ton of money. And
dialog: Americans don’t get much holiday.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: You’re not American.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: But I live there now. You’re the
dialog: one who made fun of my accent all
dialog: night.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Why did you come then?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Because your Mum asked me to.
dialog: as seriousness of this is absorbed.
dialog: Dad (CONT'D)
dialog: I’1l come back, though. You know,
dialog: when I need to. And you'll visit us
dialog: at Christmas!
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: In your cramped house, where
dialog: there’s no room for me.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Conor-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (again)
dialog: Why did you come?
text: Dad doesn’t answer. Reaches out to put a hand
text: shoulder, but Conor avoids it and gets out of
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (through open door)
dialog: Conor, wait. I’1l see you tomorrow,
dialog: yeah? There’s still plenty of time.
dialog: 127.
dialog: on Conor's
text: the car.
text: Conor doesn’t really believe this. He shuts the car door.
dialog: 77
dialog: 128.
scene_heading: INT. GRANDMA'S SITTING ROOM - EVENING - MOMENTS LATER 77
text: We hear Conor come in the front door. He enters the sitting
text: room, slumping down unhappily on the settee.
text: He takes off his coat, but ends up fighting with the sleeve.
text: He stands, getting frustrated, eventually throwing the coat
text: to the floor. He stands there, breathing, on the verge of
text: letting all his bottled up anger go.
text: Almost absentmindedly, he kicks his rucksack (set against the
text: settee). It spills open, dumping his sketchpad, which opens
text: at a drawing of the swallowing hole and the face looking
text: back. Enraged, he tears the picture out and rips it in two,
text: throwing the pieces into the sitting room.
text: He’s still angry, and it’s growing, not abating. It feels
text: strangely good. He flexes his fists, anger still fizzing.
text: Suddenly, BONG! BONG! The precious CLOCK starts striking the
dialog: 9 o'clock hour.
text: Conor approaches it. It chimes away, the pendulum swinging.
text: Still edgy, Conor grabs it mid-swing. The bongs continue, but
text: the clock makes a groaning sound.
text: Holding the pendulum in place, Conor starts pushing the dials
text: of the clock around. They resist at first, but he pushes them
text: harder and faster, until they’re spinning around the face.
text: The BONGs groan alarmingly as he passes each hour, but he
text: keeps going, faster and faster, until-
text: SNAP! The second hand breaks in two in his grip.
text: Oh, no. Conor comes to his senses, realises what he’s done.
text: The clock is broken, really broken, frozen in place.
text: He’s doomed, and so horrified he doesn’t register that the
dialog: now non-moving hands have stopped at 12.07.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (0.S.)
dialog: As destruction goes, this is
dialog: remarkably pitiful.
text: Conor turns and sees that somehow, impossibly, the Monster is
text: in his Grandma’s sitting room. It fills up all available
text: space, folding its massive form into every corner, its head
text: bumping the ceiling.
text: Conor looks back at the clock, frantic now.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Now, I have come to tell you the
dialog: second tale.
text: Conor makes an exasperated sound. He’s got bigger things to
dialog: worry about.
dialog: 129.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Is it as bad as the last one?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It ends in proper destruction, if
dialog: that’s what you mean.
text: This has Conor’s attention, somewhat, but he shakes his head.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: No, I can’t, I-
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: It’s about a man who thought only
dialog: of himself. A man who wasn’t
dialog: generous like he should have been.
text: The Monster leans forward.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: A man who gets punished very badly
dialog: indeed.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (intrigued, skeptical)
dialog: Stories aren’t real, though. They
dialog: don't help anything.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Stories are wild creatures, Conor
dialog: O'Malley. When you let them loose,
dialog: who knows what havoc they might
dialog: wreak?
dialog: Another beat, until:
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I'm listening.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Good.
text: The Monster’s branches surround Conor again, leaves covering
dialog: his eyes and we’re-
dialog: 78
dialog: 130.
scene_heading: ExT. Second Tale landscape - daY - continuous 78
text: ...flying over far more colourful landscape than before, but
text: this time it’s GREEN and VERDANT and more realistic, like an
text: oil painting.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: One hundred and fifty years ago the
dialog: world was becoming industrialized.
text: The green ends as we plunge through the trees into “industry”
text: on the valley floor: black factories belching smoke and
text: fumes, scraggly silhouettes of crows and trodden-down
text: workers, fish jumping in polluted rivers.
dialog: Monster (v.O.)
dialog: But there was still green, if you
dialog: knew where to look.
text: We come out the other side to a surprisingly quiet GREEN
text: HILLSIDE. We turn and see that Conor and the Monster are now
text: standing in the landscape, their figures realistic, not
text: stylised, as the Monster draws Conor’s attention to:
text: ANGLE ON: The APOTHECARY, walking up the hillside. A more
text: realistic figure than the first tale, but still stylized.
dialog: Monster (V.O.)
dialog: His name is not important. The
dialog: villagers only ever called him The
dialog: Apothecary.
dialog: Conor (V.0.)
dialog: The what?
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: The Apothecary.
speaker_heading: CONOR (V.O.)
dialog: The what?
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: An old-fashioned named for
dialog: pharmacist or chemist.
speaker_heading: CONOR (v.0.)
dialog: Oh. Why didn’t you just say?
text: The Apothecary digs up roots and picks leaves and herbs.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (v.O.)
dialog: The Apothecary dealt in the old
dialog: ways of medicine. Herbs and roots.
dialog: Concoctions brewed from berries and
dialog: leaves.
dialog: 131.
speaker_heading: CONOR (v.0.)
dialog: Dad’s new wife does that. She owns
text: a shop that sells crystals.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: It is not remotely the same.
text: The Apothecary reaches the edge of a wood and sees it
dialog: drastically cut back for the industry below.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: The Apothecary had dedicated his
dialog: life to healing. But the world was
dialog: changing. He grew resentful and
dialog: unforgiving.
dialog: 79
dialog: 132.
scene_heading: ExT. second tale village - day - conTINUOUS 79
text: The Apothecary peddles his wares to various villagers. We get
text: a sense of bad-tempers and bitterness.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (v.O.)
dialog: People in the valley stopped
dialog: seeking him out, preferring modern
dialog: medicine. Which only made him more
dialog: bitter.
text: The Apothecary, doors slamming against him, slouches off
text: alone. We pull back across the valley to...
dialog: 80
dialog: 133.
scene_heading: EXT. second tale HILLTOP fringe - DAY - conTINUOUS 80
text: ...the same hilltop as behind Conor’s house, but this time
text: there is a parsonage beside the yew tree, and the beginnings
text: of a church being built. Conor and the Monster stand off to
text: one side, in the landscape again.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: In the Apothecary’s village, there
dialog: also lived a parson-
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: This is the hill where you live.
dialog: (on the 2nd yew tree)
dialog: That’s you.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Yes. On the parsonage grounds there
dialog: also grew a yew tree.
text: Two small figures run out playfully from the parsonage,
text: chasing each other, running up a path away from us towards
text: the yew tree in the graveyard.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT’D)
dialog: The parson had two daughters, who
dialog: were the light of his life.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I’ll bet he had room for them in
dialog: his house...
text: We move forward and CLOSE ON:
dialog: 134.
scene_heading: 81 ExT. secOND TALE HILLTOP - DAY - conTINUOUS 81
text: The Apothecary, watching the yew tree intently.
dialog: Monster (V.O.)
dialog: Now, the Apothecary wanted the
dialog: parson’s yew tree very badly.
dialog: Conor (v.0O.)
dialog: He did? Why?
dialog: Monster (v.O.)
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: The yew tree is the most important
dialog: of all the healing trees. Its
dialog: berries, its bark, they burn and
dialog: twist with life. It can cure almost
dialog: any ailment, if mixed by the right
dialog: apothecary, of course.
speaker_heading: ConOR (v.0.)
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: Really?
text: The Apothecary looks enviously at the tree.
speaker_heading: MonSTEr (V.O.)
dialog: In order to use the tree, though,
dialog: the Apothecary would have to cut it
dialog: down, and this the Parson would not
dialog: allow.
text: The PARSON comes out warningly; the Apothecary leaves.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: The Parson was not an unkind man.
dialog: He wanted the best for his
dialog: congregation, wanted to take them
dialog: out of the dark ages of
dialog: superstition and witchery.
text: We zoom in on the Parson figure and he’s suddenly...
dialog: 82
dialog: 135.
scene_heading: InT. second tale pulpit - daY - conTINUOUS 82
dialog: .+-preaching to his congregation.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: He preached against the
dialog: Apothecary’s use of the old ways,
dialog: and the Apothecary’s foul temper
dialog: and greed made certain those
dialog: sermons fell on eager ears.
text: We pull out from the pulpit, through a celebratory
text: congregation, out of the CHURCH to...
dialog: 83
dialog: 136.
dialog: ExT. second tale countryside - day - continuous
text: .-.-The Apothecary slinking away. We keep pulling back to:
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
scene_heading: ExT. seCOND TALE HILLTOP - night - conTINUOUS
text: The parsonage is now a drab and grey place.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: But then the parson’s daughters
dialog: were struck by a terrible sickness.
text: Figures move in the windows of the parsonage.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: Nothing the parson did helped. No
dialog: prayer, no cure from the more
dialog: modern doctors, nothing made them
dialog: better. There was no choice but to
dialog: approach the Apothecary.
text: The Parson steps sadly out onto his doorstep.
dialog: 137.
text: Night passes.
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
speaker_heading: ExT.
dialog: The
dialog: the
dialog: The
dialog: The
dialog: The
dialog: The
dialog: The
dialog: 138.
text: seconD TALE apothecary’s hovel - night - conTINUOUS 85
text: Parson is on his knees before the Apothecary, in front of
text: Apothecary’s hovel.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: “Will you not help my daughters?”
dialog: the Parson begged. “Will you not
dialog: save two innocent girls?”
text: Apothecary stands over the Parson haughtily.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: “Why should I?” said the
dialog: Apothecary. “You have driven away
dialog: my business with your preachings,
dialog: and you have refused me the yew
dialog: tree, my best source of healing.”
text: Apothecary walks away. The Parson chases him.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: “You may have the yew tree,” said
dialog: the Parson. “I will preach sermons
dialog: in your favour. I will do anything
dialog: if you would only save my
dialog: daughters.”
text: Apothecary stops, surprised.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
dialog: “You would give up everything you
dialog: believed in?” said the Apothecary.
dialog: “If it would save them,” said the
dialog: Parson, “I would give up
dialog: everything.”
text: Apothecary turns and enters his house.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (v.O.)
dialog: “Then there is nothing I can do to
dialog: help you,” said the Apothecary.
text: Apothecary’s door closes on the Parson.
speaker_heading: ConOR (v.0.)
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: What?
text: We pull back from the Apothecary’s hovel to...
dialog: 139.
scene_heading: 86 ExT. seconD TALE HILLTOP (TBC YARD) - day - conTINUOUS 86
text: ...the parsonage, where the Parson and his wife stand over
dialog: two new graves.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (v.0.)
dialog: The very next day, both of the
dialog: parson’s daughters died.
speaker_heading: ConOR (V.O.)
dialog: WHAT?
speaker_heading: MONSTER (V.O.)
dialog: And that night, I came walking.
dialog: 140.
text: 87 ExT. second tale hilltop fringe (STUDIO) - night - continudis
text: Conor and the Monster still watching the tale.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Good! He deserves all the
dialog: punishment he gets!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Indeed. It was shortly after
dialog: midnight that I tore the Parson's
dialog: home from its very foundations.
text: The Monster shockingly STEPS INTO THE TALE, becoming sytlized
text: along with it. Conor watches him walk down the path to the
dialog: Parson’s house.
speaker_heading: CoNOR
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: The Parson?!
text: The Monster starts destroying the parsonage, tearing off its
text: roof and flinging it down the hill, sending the PARSON and
text: HIS WIFE fleeing in terror.
text: Conor is outraged.
speaker_heading: ConoR (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing?
text: The Monster knocks down a wall.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: When times were easy, the Parson
dialog: nearly destroyed the Apothecary
dialog: with his belifs. But when his
dialog: daughters were sick, he was willing
dialog: to sacrifice every belief to save
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: So? So would everybody! What did
dialog: you expect him to do?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: I would have expected him to give
dialog: the Apothecary the yew tree when he
dialog: first asked.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: You'd have let yourself be killed?
text: The Monster destroys another bit of the parsonage.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It would have saved many lives,
dialog: including the Parson’s daughters.
dialog: 141.
dialog: Conor
dialog: But the Apothecary was evil!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: He was greedy and rude, but he was
dialog: still a healer. The Parson? What
dialog: was he? A man who thought he
dialog: believed, but was actually too weak
dialog: to hold on to anything worth
dialog: believing in.
text: The Monster topples a chimney.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT’D)
dialog: Belief is half of all healing.
dialog: Belief in the cure, belief in the
dialog: future that awaits.
dialog: (to Conor)
dialog: Your belief is valuable, so you
dialog: must be careful where you put it.
dialog: And in whom.
text: Beat, as the Monster gets a mischievous look.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Tell me, Conor O’Malley. What shall
dialog: I destroy next?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (beat, bewildered)
dialog: What?
text: The Monster kicks down a wall.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It is most satisfying, I assure
dialog: you. Come on! Tell me!
text: Conor hesitates, still unsure.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: What should I destroy? I await your
dialog: command.
text: Conor hesitates again.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Snap the chimney!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: The chimney!
text: The Monster unhesitatingly knocks over what remains of the
text: fireplace. Conor steps closer. That felt interesting.
speaker_heading: MoNSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Next!
dialog: 142.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Throw away their beds.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: The beds!
text: The Monster reaches into the house and flings the beds nearly
text: to the horizon. Conor begins to feel liberated.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Smash their furniture!
text: The Monster stomps on the parsonage’s furniture.
speaker_heading: CONOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Break their windows!
text: The Monster doesn’t, but steps back and gestures to the
text: window as if in invitation.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Windows? Break them yourself, come
dialog: on!
text: Conor gets an excited smile and picks up a large fallen
text: branch and RUNS DOWN THE PATH TO THE PARSONAGE, turning into
text: a STYLIZED VERSION OF HIMSELF, joining the destruction.
text: We remain VERY CLOSE on Conor as he smashes one window and
text: then another, his face blazing with excitement and fury.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Harder! Harder, Conor O’Malley!
dialog: Come on! That’s it! That’s it! Yes!
dialog: Hard as steel, Conor O'Malley!
dialog: Feels good, doesn’t it? Again!
text: But the lights are slowly changing, darkening as he continues
text: smashing, the landscape and Conor becoming less stylized.
text: Until he takes one last ferocious swing, flinging the branch
text: away with a cry, spinning around...
dialog: 88
dialog: 143.
scene_heading: InT. granDMA’S SITTING ROOM - nighT - conTINUOUS 88
text: .--he’s back in his Grandma’s sitting room.
text: Where he’s destroyed nearly everything. The settee is in
text: pieces, the side tables broken, the glass display cabinets
text: shattered, papers strewn from the bookcase.
text: Worst is the CLOCK. Knocked over and broken into pieces
text: almost beyond recognition.
text: Conor is ankle-deep in rubble.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Oh, no. No, no, no.
text: And then, almost before he can compute it, there’s worse: his
text: Grandma's car pulls up outside.
text: He freezes. The lights from her car shine behind the sitting
text: room curtains, then turn off. He hears her door open.
text: There’s nowhere for him to run, not a single thing he can do
text: except follow the sound of her coming up the front steps,
text: turning her key in the lock, coming in through the front
text: door, down the hallway and-
text: She enters her sitting room. Before she registers anything,
text: her unguarded face is serious and worried.
text: But then she looks up.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: What-
text: She looks slowly around the room, her face in ever-growing
text: horror, her mouth open. She leans down and picks up a piece
text: of her beloved clock.
text: We wait for the apocalypse. But then her face changes. She
text: puts a palm over her mouth as if to try and stop sound from
text: coming out. Then she slaps a second hand over it.
text: But she can’t help it. A horrible, anguished keening escapes
text: from her. And again. This is much worse than her being angry.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (wary)
dialog: Grandma?
text: Grandma takes her hands away from her mouth and she screams.
text: It’s wordless and furious. She screams again, stepping into
text: the sitting room. Conor thinks she might going to attack him
text: and surprisingly, puts up his fists, ready to fight-
text: But she heads for the one last remaining display cabinet,
text: puts her hands behind it and takes one, two, three pushes to
text: send it crashing to the ground.
dialog: 144.
text: She leans forward, gasping, ragged, her face broken with
text: anguish.
text: Then she leaves the sitting room without another word.
text: Conor stands there, beyond shocked.
dialog: 145.
text: 89-89A InT. grandma’s DRIVEWAY/upstairs - momenTS LATER 89-89A
text: Conor slowly approaches his Grandma’s loft (the locked one).
text: The light is on underneath the door. He can hear her in
text: there, weeping. He stays outside, not knowing what to do.
dialog: 90
dialog: 146.
text: InT. grandma’s guest room - the next morning 90
text: Conor lies awake in bed. It’s the morning after. It looks
text: like he hasn't slept. He hears footsteps around the house,
text: then the front door slamming. He gets up.
dialog: 91
dialog: 147.
text: InT. grandma's stairwell - momentS LATER 91
text: Conor comes slowly down the stairway, but the house seems to
text: be empty. He glances in the sitting room. Someone has made a
text: futile effort to clean it a bit. He heads into:
dialog: 148.
dialog: 92 InT. grandma's kitchen - conTINUOUS 92
text: Where to his astonishment, Dad is cooking breakfast.
dialog: Dad
dialog: I know you like ‘em scrambled.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: What are you doing here?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: What do you think?
text: He motions for Conor to sit at the table, then dishes up two
text: plates, sets one in front of Conor and sits down himself.
text: They eat in silence, Conor just playing at his food.
dialog: Dad (CONT'D)
dialog: That was quite a mess you made.
text: Conor says nothing.
speaker_heading: DAD (CONT'D)
dialog: She called me this morning. Very,
dialog: very early.
dialog: (beat, it’s not what we
dialog: expect)
dialog: Your mum’s taken a turn, Conor.
dialog: Your Grandma's gone to hospital.
text: Conor looks up.
speaker_heading: DAD (CONT'D)
dialog: We agreed I would drop you off at
dialog: school-
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: School!? I want to see mum!
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: It’s no place for a kid right now,
dialog: Conor. We’ll see how the day goes
dialog: and maybe we can visit for a little
dialog: while this afternoon.
text: Conor looks down at his breakfast, no longer hungry.
speaker_heading: DaD (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, remember what I said about you
dialog: being brave? Well, now’s the time
dialog: you have to do it, Con.
dialog: (nods to sitting room,
dialog: thoughtful)
dialog: I can see how upset you are.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I didn’t mean to. I don’t know what
dialog: happened.
dialog: 149.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Worse things happen at sea.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: What do you mean? Aren’t you going
dialog: to punish me?
speaker_heading: DaD
dialog: (sighing)
dialog: What could possibly be the point of
dialog: that, Con?
text: Conor looks surprised, perhaps even displeased. Dad watches
text: him look distraught.
dialog: Dad (CONT'D)
dialog: You know what? Maybe you don’t have
dialog: to go to school today.
dialog: 93
dialog: 150.
scene_heading: EXT. football pitch (AMUSEMENT PARK) - day - later 93
text: Conor and his Dad kick a football around, serious at first,
text: but then Conor starts to lighten up at his father’s teasing.
text: They laugh at their mistakes, cheer good moves. It’s a
text: montage of joy, a glimpse of the boy Conor actually is. Dad
text: is quite boyish, too. Dad scores a goal and celebrates like a
text: kid, hands over head, while Conor laughs.
text: Dad watches this closely, like he’s just realized that the
text: boy smiling before him is his son.
dialog: 94
dialog: 151.
scene_heading: EXT. carpark (AMUSEMENT PARK) - day - later 94
text: Conor sits in his Dad’s car while Dad is on a mobile phone
text: outside. We can’t hear Dad, but he doesn’t look very happy.
text: He hangs up, frustrated, gets back in the car.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: Is mum okay?
speaker_heading: DaD
dialog: (blinks)
dialog: That was your stepmom back in LA.
dialog: And yeah, everything’s fine. Now,
dialog: we've got some cleaning up to do.
text: Conor doesn’t believe him as they pull away.
dialog: 95
dialog: 152.
scene_heading: InT. graNDMA’S SITTING ROOM - lATER 95
dialog: Conor and Dad put broken things into bin liners.
dialog: Dad
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: Gotta say, Champ, this is really
dialog: just amazingly thorough.
text: Conor doesn’t answer, just puts more trash in a bin liner. He
text: sees something, picks it up. It’s the torn image of his
text: nightmare drawing. He’s mesmerised by it.
speaker_heading: Dad (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Ooh, buried treasure.
text: Conor turns to his father. He’s holding some old homemade
text: DVDs. He reads through the labels.
speaker_heading: DAD (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s all those old home movies your
dialog: mum used to send to me of you when
dialog: I moved away. Guess your grandma
dialog: got copies, too.
text: He carefully sets them on the mantelpiece.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (shy)
dialog: Why did you move away?
text: Dad sighs.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: You have no idea how young we were,
dialog: Con. We had all these dreams, big,
dialog: foolish ones that your grandma
dialog: didn’t approve of. And then... we
dialog: changed.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (beat, taking the blame)
dialog: Because mum got pregnant with me.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (comforting)
dialog: Hey, hey, hey. You were only ever
dialog: good news. Your mum never regretted
dialog: having you. I know that for a fact.
dialog: (rueful smile)
dialog: Because she’s always saying how
dialog: much she regretted marrying me.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Why did she marry you then?
dialog: 153.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: My devilish good looks. No, we had
dialog: a lot in common. Our lives, our
dialog: future. Your mum was amazing. Still
dialog: is.
dialog: (sighing)
dialog: But we grew apart. Your Grandma was
dialog: kind of supporting us then and
dialog: insisting we be more practical and
dialog: I... I was maybe less amazing than
dialog: I should have been. We were just so
dialog: young. Too young.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: You didn’t get happily ever after.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: That's life, though. Most of us
dialog: just get messily ever after.
text: Dad sees Conor’s torn drawing and picks it up, impressed.
dialog: Dad (CONT'D)
dialog: Even I’m happy you take after her.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Shall we go see how things are at
dialog: the hospital?
dialog: 154.
scene_heading: 96-96A EXT./InT. hospitaL corridor - later 96-96A
text: Conor sits in the waiting area outside his Mum’s hospital
text: room. GRANDMA sits in a chair, pointedly away from Conor, not
text: looking at him. He doesn’t approach her.
text: The hospital room DOOR opens and a LAWYER steps out, putting
dialog: away some papers that Conor’s parents have clearly just
text: signed. DAD sees the Lawyer out the door, holds up a “one
text: second” finger to Conor. Closes the door.
text: Grandma stands as the Lawyer approaches. They clearly have
text: business together. Conor watches them go. Then he hears
text: voices arguing within the hospital room.
speaker_heading: MuM (0.S.)
dialog: (muffled)
dialog: Bad show, Callum. Again.
dialog: Dad (0.S.)
dialog: (muffled)
dialog: You're changing the argument,
dialog: Lizzie-
text: His curiosity getting the best of him, Conor rises, pushes
text: the door open and...
dialog: 97-97A
dialog: 155.
scene_heading: InT. hosPITAL ROOM DOOR/ HOSPITAL ROOM - contINUOUS 97-97A
text: ...they see Conor and stop, looking at him guiltily.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: Hey there.
text: The room is filled with get-well cards and flowers. The anger
text: on his Mum’s face is quickly hidden behind an exhausted
text: smile. She’s clearly much sicker and weaker. Her voice is
dialog: heavier, as with a chest infection.
text: Conor pauses before entering, suspicious. He holds out the
text: coffee to his Dad, who takes it.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: Why is everyone yelling?
text: Mum gives Dad a look like “you tell him”.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: I’ve got some bad news, Con. I have
dialog: to fly back tomorrow.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: The day after tomorrow? Why?
dialog: Dad
dialog: Remember when your step-mum called?
dialog: The baby’s sick. Probably nothing
dialog: serious, but Stephanie went a bit
dialog: crazy and took her to hospital...
text: He falters.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Are you coming back?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (firmly)
dialog: Yes. Yes, I am. Sunday after next,
dialog: so not even two weeks.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Your grandma's paying for the
dialog: ticket. Which is... fun.
text: Mum laughs, despite herself. She makes eyes for Dad to leave.
speaker_heading: DaD (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m going to see about finding some
dialog: food. You want anything, sport?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I want you to stop calling me
dialog: “sport”.
text: Dad laughs. Mum laughs, too, then coughs. It sounds ugly. Dad
text: makes his exit to let them talk.
dialog: 156.
text: Mum pats the bed for him to sit. Conor does. She ruffles his
text: hair. He notices the tubes and bruises on her arm.
dialog: Mum
dialog: I know. Not my favourite way to
dialog: spend a day either.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Are you okay? What happened this
dialog: morning?
dialog: Mum
dialog: I had a bit of a bad reaction,
dialog: sweetheart. Not what they were
dialog: hoping for.
dialog: Here it is. Here’s the bad news. But once again-
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: (forced brightness)
dialog: But there’s one more thing they’re
dialog: going to try, a medicine that’s had
dialog: some good results.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: Why didn’t they try it before?
dialog: Mum
dialog: Well, this is something you take
dialog: when the normal stuff hasn’t worked
dialog: the way they want it to.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (carefully)
dialog: Does that mean it’s too late?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (quickly, firmly)
dialog: No, Conor. Don’t think that. It’s
dialog: not too late. It’s never too late.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Are you sure?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I believe every word I say.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: “Belief is half of healing.”
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Well, yeah, I suppose it is.
text: Beat, as perhaps something important’s been left unsaid. Mum
text: plays with his hair again.
dialog: 157.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, and here’s something. You know
dialog: that tree behind our house I’m
dialog: always prattling on about?
text: Conor freezes, comically. Mum coughs, again ugly, leans back
text: on the bed.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, if you can believe it, this
dialog: drug is actually made from trees
dialog: like that.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: It is?
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: Yeah, I know. All this time, we
dialog: could have just chopped the damn
dialog: thing down.
dialog: (laughs )
dialog: Well, not that one. That one’s
dialog: almost like a friend.
text: Conor's face shows a growing revelation. Could this be the
text: reason? Is it too much to hope for? He looks up at the room
text: clock. It’s 4.15. Clockface morphs into...
dialog: 98
dialog: 158.
scene_heading: InT. graNDMA’S guest ROOM - that night 98
text: ...another, smaller clock on the wall of Grandma’s guest
text: room. Conor watches it with enormous IMPATIENCE. It ticks
dialog: through 12.06 and 45 seconds. 12.06 and 55 seconds.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: Come on, come on.
text: Click, 12.07. Conor THROWS back the blankets and RUNS out of
dialog: bed.
dialog: 99-100
dialog: 159.
scene_heading: ExT. grandMA’S BACK GARDEN - seconds later 99-100
text: Conor RUNS out into his Grandma’s back garden.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (demanding)
dialog: Where are you?
speaker_heading: MonSTER (0.S.)
dialog: I am here.
text: With a breeze tousling Conor’s hair, the Monster steps from
text: the darkness over his Grandma's office in one easy motion. He
text: stands above Conor, huge as ever.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: So can you do it? Can you make her
dialog: better?
text: The Monster sighs and in what we can see is an extraordinary
text: action, SITS DOWN, all its weight on the roof of Grandma’s
text: office. The wood moans. Conor winces, but it holds.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It is not up to me.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Why not? You said the yew tree was
dialog: a tree of healing.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It is. If your mother can be
dialog: healed, the yew tree will do it.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Is that a yes?
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: You still don’t know why you called
dialog: me. It’s not as if I do this every
dialog: day, Conor O'Malley.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I didn’t call you. And even if I
dialog: did, it was obviously for my mum.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Was it?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Why else? To listen to idiotic
dialog: stories that make no sense?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It is not time yet for the Third
dialog: Tale. But soon.
dialog: (MORE )
dialog: 160.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: And after that, you will tell me
dialog: your story, Conor O’Malley. You
dialog: will tell me your truth.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: For God's sake, not this again-
text: The Monster leans suddenly forward.
speaker_heading: MOnSTER
dialog: You know of what I speak.
text: Conor looks up as the SOUNDS FROM HIS NIGHTMARE start. The
text: camera spins around him as the scene melts away. The walls of
text: the garden grow blacker, the sounds of screaming start to
text: rise, dust and debris flying around him.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: No! No, not this!
text: The wind rising. The distant SCREAMING is heard ("Conor!”)-
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: No! Please!
text: The garden is suddenly as it was before. Conor is shaken.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s not my truth. That’s just a
dialog: nightmare.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Nevertheless, this is what will
dialog: happen after the third tale.
text: The Monster stands. Grandma's office groans in relief.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I want to know what’s going to
dialog: happen with my mum.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Do you not know already?
text: The Monster steps back over Grandma’s office. It’s leaving.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Wait!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You waste the precious time that is
dialog: given you!
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: If you’re a tree of healing, then I
dialog: need you to heal!
dialog: 161.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: And so I shall.
text: A huge MURMURATION OF STARLINGS appears over the horizon and
text: surround the Monster. With a last look, the Monster LEAKS
text: AWAY into them, flying away.
text: Conor holds up his hands to block the flutter of wings, then
text: all is quiet.
dialog: 162.
scene_heading: 101-101AInT. grandma's stairway/ TV ROOM - moments latER 101-101A
text: Conor has re-entered the house to go back to bed. He pauses
text: on the stairway because he HEARS A TV ON - and what might be
text: his own voice on it.
text: Outside his Grandma’s TV room, the TV noises are louder,
text: including his own muffled voice and his mum’s. He puts his
text: ear against the wood to try and hear. He thinks about going
text: in, but is too afraid to disturb Grandma.
dialog: 163.
dialog: 102 InT. grandma's car/GRANDMA’S STREET - morning 102
text: Door slamming as Conor gets in his Grandma’s car to be driven
text: to school. He’s looking at his mum’s HALF-FINISHED DRAWING OF
text: THE HILLTOP that she left in his sketchpad. Grandma notices
text: it, too. Car doesn’t move. Conor looks up.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Grandma?
speaker_heading: GraNDMA
dialog: (coming out of a fog)
dialog: What? Oh, yes.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Where were we going again?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: To school.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Yes, that’s right.
text: She puts the car in gear. They pull out in silence.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Grandma? Your seatbelt?
text: She absentmindedly buckles it. Conor is concerned.
dialog: 164.
scene_heading: 102A Int. Grandma's sitting room / kitchen - DAY 102A
text: From the kitchen, Conor observes his grandma in the sitting
text: room as she wonders amid the destruction.
dialog: 165.
scene_heading: 103 ExT. schooL ENTRANCE /GRANDMA'S YARD - momentS LATER 103
text: Grandma drops Conor off. He walks away, watching her go with
text: a concerned, confused look.
dialog: 104
dialog: 166.
dialog: InT. physical social and education class - later 104
text: Conor sits at his desk, ignoring the lesson again, disturbed
text: about his Grandma. He sees HARRY studying him. They exchange
text: a look, but no words. He ignores LILY.
dialog: 167.
scene_heading: 105-105AINT./EXT. granDMA’S GUESTROOM/ BACK GARDEN - niGHT 105-105A
text: Conor sits in the dark in a lawn chair, wrapped in a blanket.
text: He checks the clock on his phone. It switches from 12.07 to
dialog: 12.08. No monster.
text: Suddenly, a LIGHT comes on from the house, REFLECTING on the
text: back garden. Conor turns and looks up. His Grandma is in the
text: locked room.
dialog: 106
dialog: 168.
scene_heading: InT. grandma’s CORRIDOR/ UPSTAIRS - night 106
text: Conor waits down the hallway, “spying” on his Grandma,
text: watching the light come out of the loft room. He hides behind
text: a corner of his bedroom door. His Grandma leaves the room,
text: her arms full of papers. Conor ducks into the darkness of his
text: room as she passes.
text: A paper drifts down to the floor as she does. Looking out
text: from the crack of his dark bedroom door, he can see that it’s
text: a DRAWING OF HIS OWN.
text: What’s she doing with that? He makes to reach out and take
text: it, but Grandma is there first, picking it up and walking to
text: the TV ROOM with it. She shuts this door behind her.
dialog: 169.
text: 106A Conor watches her, confused. Conor goes to the TV ROOM DdG®A
text: again and listens, hearing his own voice again.
text: This time he OPENS THE DOOR QUIETLY.
dialog: 107
dialog: 170.
scene_heading: int. grandma’s tV ROOM - momENTS LATER 107
text: Conor stops by the open door of the TV room. His Grandma, her
text: back to him, is watching TV. We can see the PILE OF HOMEMADE
text: DVDs his father found sitting next to the television. One is
text: open.
dialog: 107A
dialog: 171.
dialog: Ext. Amusement park / roller coaster - day 107A
text: Onscreen, Conor is astonished to see himself, filming
text: him and his MUM, LOOKING HEALTHY AND VIBRANT getting into a
text: ROLLER COASTER car. They giggle, up to something. The seat
text: restraints close.
dialog: Mum (on VIDEO)
dialog: (Shh, here they come.)
text: Onscreen - The image disappears as Conor hides his phone. We
text: hear their seats being checked by an attendant. Conor raises
text: the phone again. They look around to make sure they won’t get
text: caught, smiling like fiends.
speaker_heading: MUM (ON VIDEO) (CONT’D)
dialog: (If you drop that, it’1ll leave a
dialog: permanent mark across your face.)
speaker_heading: CONOR (on VIDEO)
dialog: (Nah, it’1l probably hit you
dialog: first.)
text: Onscreen - Mum slaps his arm playfully
text: In the doorway, Conor watches, transfixed, as does his
text: Grandma, still unaware of his presence.
text: Onscreen - They both laugh in surprise as the car lurches
text: forward and starts up a steep incline.
dialog: Mum (on VIDEO)
dialog: (You know what I’m thinking?)
dialog: Conor (on VIDEO)
dialog: (What?)
speaker_heading: MUM (on VIDEO)
dialog: (We shouldn’t have had all that
dialog: Indian food for lunch.)
text: On the chair, Grandma gives a snort of private laughter.
text: Onscreen - Conor makes a fake vomiting sound. His mum makes
text: one, too, until it becomes a competition and dissolves into
text: laughter. Then they’re nearly at the top.
dialog: Mum (on VIDEO) (CONT’D)
dialog: (Ready? Here we go.)
speaker_heading: ConOR (on VIDEO)
dialog: (Here we go.)
text: Onscreen - They look into the camera. At the last second, Mum
text: grabs Conor’s arm lovingly, then they plunge over the top.
dialog: 172.
text: The scene seems to end, but there’s a weird splice on the DVD
text: that surprises Conor but not Grandma, she’s seen this before.
text: It cuts to an even older video.
dialog: 107B
dialog: 173.
dialog: Int. Conor’s sitting room (kitchen) - day 107B
text: Onscreen - we cut in mid-scene. MUM’S HAND is making a
text: big scribble on a big piece of paper, overlapping itself with
text: lots of empty spaces. She turns the camera to a MUCH YOUNGER
text: CONOR, 5 or 6 YEARS OLD. He holds a coloured pencil.
text: In the room, Conor is surprised.
dialog: Mum (o.S.)(on video)
dialog: (Okay, remember? Just look hard.
dialog: Colour in what you see.)
text: Onscreen, LITTLE CONOR approaches the drawing with his
text: pencil, looking at the scribble.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ConoR (on VIDEO)
dialog: (I see a gremlin.)
dialog: Mum (On VIDEO)
dialog: (Well, go ahead, draw it in.)
text: In the room, Grandma is rapt, moved.
text: Onscreen - Little Conor looks back at his mum, unsure.
speaker_heading: MUM (o0.S.) (on video) (CONT’D)
dialog: (Like this.)
text: Onscreen - Mum sets down the camera so it stays filming them.
text: A YOUNGER, HEALTHIER MUM goes to a smaller part of the
text: scribble and colours in shapes that make a LITTLE MOUSE WITH
text: WHISKERS. She turns to Conor. With a firm expression, he
text: starts to colour in squares.
text: In the room, Conor watches closely, as rapt as Grandma.
text: Onscreen - There’s a clumsy edit and Mum is filming again on
text: a picture of a GREMLIN. The eyes have a reflection in them.
speaker_heading: MUM (on VIDEO) (CONT’D)
dialog: (That’s really good, Conor.
dialog: Especially the eyes.)
dialog: (points to eyes)
dialog: (Life is in the eyes and if you can
dialog: catch that...)
text: In the room, Conor is stunned at these repeated words of his
text: mother, “life is in the eyes.” Grandma puts a hand over her
text: mouth to hold in her emotion.
text: Onscreen - Mum turns the camera to take a selfie of her and
text: LITTLE CONOR, on their eyes.
speaker_heading: MUM (On VIDEO) (CONT’D)
dialog: (You'll see when we watch. You’11
dialog: see our eyes.)
dialog: 174.
text: Onscreen - Little Conor sticks out his tongue. Mum laughs and
text: does, too. They laugh and she films the Gremlin again.
dialog: Mum (on VIDEO) (CONT’D)
dialog: (My wee little artist.)
text: The video ends frozen on the Gremlin’s eyes. Conor breathes
text: out, and his Grandma hears him. She turns to look at him.
text: But it’s loving. Silently, they both go back to watching the
text: frozen image of the Gremlin’s eyes.
dialog: 175.
scene_heading: 108-108AEXT/INT. grandma’s DRIVEWAY/ guest room - next mornirig)8-108A
text: Conor looks out his bedroom window. See his DAD pull up.
dialog: 176.
dialog: 109 Omitted 109
dialog: 177.
scene_heading: EXT. pier - DAY 110
text: Conor and his dad walk along an old pier under the cloudy
dialog: sky.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: I'll be back. I will, I promise.
text: Conor says nothing.
dialog: Dad (CONT'D)
dialog: And you'll come for Christmas in
dialog: LA! That’1l be fun-
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I don’t want to leave Mum on her
dialog: own for Christmas.
text: Dad stops walking. Conor looks up at him. It’s almost a
dialog: challenge to contradict him.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Conor-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: She's going to get better. They’re
dialog: giving her this new medicine and
dialog: she'll come home. It’s the whole
dialog: reason. It has to be.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Reason for what?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: So you just go back to LA, go back
dialog: to your other family-
dialog: Dad
dialog: Conor, this new medicine your mum's
dialog: taking-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: It’s going to make her well.
text: Beat, as Dad makes the important decision.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: No, Conor. It probably isn’t.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Yes, it is.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: It’s a last ditch effort, son.
dialog: She's too weak. She keeps getting
dialog: infections-
dialog: 178.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: It’ll heal her. I know it. I’m
dialog: telling you, it’s the whole reason
dialog: it came-
speaker_heading: DaD
dialog: Reason what came? What are you
dialog: talking about?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (hastily, clinging
dialog: desperately to hope)
dialog: The monster! It comes every night.
text: It’s a tree that turns into a
dialog: monster at 12.07-
dialog: dad
dialog: Conor... What?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: At first I thought it was a dream
dialog: but there’s always berries and
dialog: leaves and stuff when I wake up-
dialog: dad
dialog: Conor.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (even louder)
dialog: And I’ve got one story to go and
dialog: then I’ve got to tell my own and I
dialog: think that’s when it’s going to
dialog: heal her-
dialog: dad
dialog: Conor, stop this!
text: Conor finally stops. Looks, upset, at his father. Dad puts
text: hands on Conor’s shoulders to talk to him, gently.
dialog: Dad (CONT'D)
dialog: I don’t know what this dream is,
dialog: Conor, but that’s all it is. A
dialog: dream. I’m sorry. You shouldn’t
dialog: have to face this, but not every
dialog: story has a happy ending.
text: Conor starts at this. He knows not every story does.
speaker_heading: DAD (CONT'D)
dialog: This is what I meant when I said
dialog: you were going to have to be brave.
text: Long pause.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (like he’s realising
dialog: something)
dialog: (MORE )
speaker_heading: CONOR (CONT'D)
dialog: You've never seen a monster, have
dialog: you?
text: Dad stares back, concerned.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Oh, I’ve seen plenty.
dialog: 179.
dialog: 180.
text: 111 ExT. grandma’s driveway - morning 111
text: Conor's Dad hugs him goodbye.
speaker_heading: DaD
dialog: I‘ll be back as soon as I can.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: What if it’s not fast enough?
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: We'll Skype. And I’m only ever a
dialog: phone call away.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I hope your baby is okay.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Your half-sister. And thank you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Conor, listen, I-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: You don’t have to.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: (confused)
dialog: I don’t have to what?
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (shrugs )
dialog: Just... you don’t have to.
text: Dad has no answer. His son is giving him permission to leave
text: him behind. He hugs Conor, but doesn’t contradict him.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Back as soon as I can.
text: Conor makes a sad little wave at him, then turns his back to
dialog: go inside.
text: Fade to bLACK.
dialog: 181.
dialog: Nightmare
text: The nightmare sounds rise again, screaming, yelling,
dialog: crescendo to-
text: CuT TO:
text: MUSIC RISES. A montage of days passing:
dialog: 182.
scene_heading: 112-112AInt./EXT. GranDMA’S SITTING ROOM/DRIVEWAY - day 112-112A
text: Conor, almost angrily, packs away all the rubbish bags he and
dialog: his father have collected, stuffing them into the bin
dialog: outside.
dialog: 113
dialog: 183.
scene_heading: InT. hospital room - day 113
text: Conor sits in a corner chair while, out of focus, FRIENDS OF
dialog: HIS MUM visit her. Lily’s mum is one of them, and she’s
text: there, too. Conor ignores her, playing on his phone instead.
dialog: 114
dialog: 184.
scene_heading: InT. SHOP ROAD - DAY 114
text: Conor stops by the shop window again, but the case of
text: coloured pencils has been replaced by something else. He
text: sighs and walks on.
dialog: 185.
scene_heading: InT. phySICAL SOCIAL AND EDUCATION CLASS - dAY 115
text: Conor sits at his desk, drawing on his SKETCHPAD and ignoring
text: the lesson. Ms. Kwan lectures about BULLYING on the
text: Powerpoint (along with, ironically, a sign that reads “This
dialog: school operates a zero-tolerance anti-bullying policy”).
text: Classmates’ hands (including Lily, next to Conor) are in the
text: air.
text: Ms. Kwan walks by Conor’s desk. She and Conor exchange a
text: look, and we see Ms.Kwan decide to let Conor keep drawing.
dialog: Conor's become untouchable. Which is worse than ever. Harry
text: catches his eye. Conor looks away.
dialog: 186.
scene_heading: InT. hoSPITAL ROOM - daY 116
text: Conor is at the door to the room. His Mum, helped by a FEMALE
text: NURSE, is in distress. Fear in her eyes, his Mum gestures
dialog: angrily for Grandma to get Conor out of the room. Grandma
text: does. She’s stern, though, not spiteful.
dialog: 117
dialog: Omitted
dialog: 187.
dialog: 188.
scene_heading: 118 EXT. grandMA’S driveWAY - momENTS LATER 118
text: Conor drags the wheelie bin to the curb among several plastic
text: bags waiting to be pick up by the dustmen.
dialog: 189.
scene_heading: 119 InT. grandMA’S SITTING ROOM - DAY 119
text: Conor in the middle of the now-empty sitting room. It seems
text: MUCH bigger.
dialog: 190.
scene_heading: 120 InT. school BLUE HALLWAY - dAY 120
text: Conor walks against the flow of students, alone. They leave
text: an area around him, as if they can’t see him at all.
dialog: 121
dialog: 191.
scene_heading: InT. phySICAL SOCIAL AND EDUCATION CLASS - latER 121
text: Conor sits at his desk again. We finally sees what he’s
text: drawn. It’s a FLIP-ANIMATION on the corner of his textbook.
text: He flips the pages to animate it: It’s a drawing of him
text: falling into a huge black hole.
speaker_heading: MUSIC FINISHES
dialog: 122
dialog: 192.
scene_heading: InT. scHOOL CAFETERIA - DAY 122
text: Conor sits alone, not eating the food in front of him,
text: withdrawn into himself. In the background, we might notice
text: that the digital clock reads 12.04.
text: SLAP! From across the table, two hands smash down on either
text: side of his tray, knocking his orange juice into his lap.
text: Conor stands, lap covered in juice, and looks up into the
text: laughing faces of Anton and Sully, either side of Harry's
text: usual eerie stare.
dialog: Sully
dialog: O’Malley’s wet himself!
text: Anton flicks some spilled juice onto Conor.
speaker_heading: ANTON
dialog: You missed some!
text: They laugh, but then notice that Harry and Conor are doing
text: that uncomfortable staring thing again. The laughter dies.
speaker_heading: HARRY
dialog: I think I’ve finally figured you
dialog: out, O'Malley. After all this time.
text: Harry steps forward. Conor braces himself.
speaker_heading: HARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Here is the very worst thing I can
dialog: do to you.
speaker_heading: SuLLY
dialog: You’re in for it now.
speaker_heading: AnTON
dialog: Kick his ass.
text: But Harry just holds out his hand to shake. Surprised, Conor
text: shakes it.
speaker_heading: HarRY
dialog: Goodbye, O’Malley. I no longer see
dialog: you.
text: He lets go of Conor’s hand and turns his back to leave. After
text: a confused beat, Anton and Sully do the same.
text: Conor watches them go, growing more and more upset, a breeze
text: tousling his hair...
text: «+.as the bullies pass in front of the digital clock, it
text: ticks over to 12.07.
dialog: 193.
text: ANGLE ON: Conor, as the The Monster now stands behind him,
text: stretching up to the tall ceiling of the cafeteria. It kneels
text: down and speaks into his ear.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: It is time for the third tale.
text: Without looking back, Conor starts to walk after Harry. The
text: Monster matches him, step for step.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT’D)
dialog: There was once an invisible man,
dialog: who had grown tired of being
text: unseen.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: It was not that he was actually
dialog: invisible. It was just that people
dialog: had become used to not seeing him.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (to Harry)
dialog: Hey!
text: Conor quickens his step. The Monster keeps up.
text: Conor catches up to Harry and grabs him by the shoulder,
text: twisting him around. Harry pretends to not see him, pretend-
text: blaming a laughing Sully for grabbing him.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: One day, the invisible man couldn't
dialog: stand it anymore. He kept
dialog: wondering: if no one sees you, are
dialog: you really there at all?
text: Conor watches the three bullies walking away again.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (to Monster w/o turning)
dialog: What did the invisible man do?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: He called for a monster...
text: Conor raises his fists. Behind him, the Monster does the
dialog: same.
text: Conor runs after Harry, the Monster following.
text: ANGLE ON: Harry, Sully and Anton turn in amusement, but their
text: faces change to fright. Are they seeing the Monster or just
text: Conor? Sully and Anton bolt, leaving Harry.
text: ANGLE ON: Conor, runs at him, yelling his rage. He raises a
text: fist. The Monster raises a fist behind him in mirror. They
text: both swing forward.
dialog: 123
dialog: 194.
scene_heading: InT. SCHOOL/HIGH SCHOOL DIRECTRESS'S OFFICE - Later 123
text: Conor flexes his fists in his lap. They’re bloody and
text: bruised. MISS KWAN is there, but we stay tight on Conor.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS (0.S.)
dialog: I don’t even know what to say to
dialog: you, Conor. You sent him to
dialog: hospital. His parents are
dialog: threatening to sue.
text: Conor looks up, briefly.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS (CONT ’D)
dialog: But I explained that he’d been
dialog: bullying you and that your
dialog: circumstances were... special.
text: Conor winces at the word, looks at his battered fingers.
dialog: 123A
dialog: 195.
scene_heading: Int. School caFETERIA - day 123A
text: FLASH: of eyes of the cafeteria, watching Conor beat
dialog: Harry.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS
dialog: They backed down.
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: But that’s not the point!
text: Conor jumps. Still doesn’t look at her. We hear her sigh.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: It wasn’t me.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS
dialog: What was that?
text: Finally glances up to her, very briefly then down again.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: It wasn’t me. It was the Monster.
dialog: 196.
scene_heading: 123B Int. SchoOL CAFETERIA - DAY 123B
text: FLASH: Conor beating Harry, the Monster echoing his
text: actions behind him.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS
dialog: The Monster.
dialog: (leaning forward)
dialog: Conor, an entire dining hall saw
dialog: you hitting him. Saw you beating
dialog: him very badly.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Heard you yelling about not being
dialog: invisible.
text: Conor winces again and looks down at his fists.
dialog: 197.
scene_heading: 123C Int. scHOOL CAFETERIA - DAY 123C
text: FLASH: Conor yelling “I am NOT invisible! I’m NOT!” as
text: he hits Harry.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS
dialog: I understand how angry you must be.
dialog: I mean, I haven’t even been able to
dialog: track down a parent or guardian for
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: My dad’s gone back to America. My
text: Grandma turns her phone on silent
dialog: so it won’t wake up my Mum.
text: Miss Kwan sits back. It’s an impossible situation.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS
dialog: If you want to be seen, Conor, this
dialog: is not the way. School rules
dialog: dictate immediate exclusion.
text: Conor shuts his eyes in anticipation. Here it comes. We sense
dialog: that, in fact, he wants it.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS (CONT'D)
dialog: But how could I do that-
text: Conor opens his eyes, surprised.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS (CONT'D)
dialog: -and call myself any kind of
dialog: teacher?
text: He looks up at her in disbelief and crushing disappointment.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS (CONT'D)
dialog: Go back to class. We will talk
dialog: about this one day, Conor. But not
dialog: today.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: You’re not punishing me?
text: She mirrors the words his father spoke earlier.
speaker_heading: DIRECTRESS
dialog: What could possibly be the point?
dialog: 198.
scene_heading: 124 InT. school corridor/ DOWNSTAIRS - momentS LATER 124
text: Conor, shellshocked, walks back to class. He passes a
text: STUDENT, who gives him an elaborately wide berth.
dialog: 125
dialog: 199.
scene_heading: InT. Physical Social and Education CLASS - momENTS LATER 125
text: Mr Clark is in mid-flow about EMOTIONAL WELL-BEING but
text: everyone, including him, stops when Conor opens the door.
text: Conor pauses for a moment, then walks through the silence,
text: all eyes on him, past Harry’s empty desk and back to his own,
text: next to LILY. He sits, defeated, as Mr Clark faintly
text: continues his lesson.
text: A small scraping sound. Conor looks down.
text: CONOR’S POV - Lily’s finger tentatively pushes a NOTE onto
text: his desk.
text: Conor looks at her. She’s face-forward to Mr Clark, but wants
text: him to take the note. He takes it. He looks at her again. She
text: turns to look him in the eyes.
text: But before he can open it, the classroom door opens again. A
text: SECRETARY enters with a note. Conor and Lily watch as she
text: crosses to Mr Clark and they read it together.
text: They both look up, right at Conor.
dialog: 126
dialog: 200.
scene_heading: InT. hosPITAL CORRIDOR FIRST FLOOR - day 126
text: Conor's Grandma leads him to his Mum’s hospital room. He
text: makes to enter, but stops when she doesn’t follow him in.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Aren’t you coming?
text: Grandma struggles with herself, knowing what awaits him. She
text: finally just puts her hands on his shoulders and squeezes
text: them brusquely. Her version of a hug.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA
dialog: I’ll be... I’11 be around. Okay?
text: She nods, still struggling with herself. Then abruptly walks
text: away. Conor watches her go. Then opens the door.
dialog: 127
dialog: 201.
scene_heading: InT. hoSPITAL ROOM - DAY - conTINUOUS 127
text: Mum’s bed is in the sitting position. She looks very bad,
text: breathing tube in her nose, but she smiles when she sees him.
text: She holds up a long, straight-haired, yet purple wig.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: (voice thin)
dialog: I suppose even drag queens get old.
text: But Conor doesn’t laugh. He realises fully what’s about to
dialog: happen.
text: Mum pats the mattress like before. But Conor pointedly sits
text: in the chair by her bed instead. She nods that this is okay,
text: too. He stares at the floor.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: What did you do to your hands?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (surprisingly angry)
dialog: This is the talk, isn’t it?
dialog: Everybody always wants to have a
dialog: talk lately.
text: Mum readies herself, smiles again.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I wanted to see you. And you know
dialog: how the morphine sends me off to
dialog: Cloud Cuckoo Land sometimes-—
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Why did Grandma get me out of
dialog: school?
dialog: Mum
dialog: Look at me, son.
text: He refuses at first, but finally does, arms crossed tight
text: against himself. Here it is. There’s no going back.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: I spoke to the doctor this morning.
dialog: The new treatment isn’t working,
dialog: sweetheart.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: The one from the yew tree?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: How can it not be working?
text: Beat, as Mum swallows, tries to smile for him.
dialog: 202.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: Things have just moved really fast.
dialog: Faster than they thought.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (as if to himself)
dialog: But how can it not be working?
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I know. I had big hopes for our own
dialog: personal yew tree.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: But it didn’t help.
text: Mum shakes her head slightly.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: So what happens now? What’s the
dialog: next treatment?
text: Mum doesn’t answer. Which is an answer in itself. Conor looks
text: back at the floor and says the final thing out loud.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: There aren’t any more treatments.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: (quietly crying now)
dialog: I’m sorry, son. I’ve never been
dialog: more sorry about anything in my
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: You said it would work. You
dialog: believed it would work.
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: You lied. You’ve been lying this
dialog: whole time.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: I think, maybe, deep in your heart,
dialog: you've always known, though.
dialog: Haven’t you?
text: She reaches for him, but he won’t take her hand.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s okay that you’re angry,
dialog: sweetheart. It really, really is.
dialog: (rueful laugh)
dialog: I’m pretty angry, too, to tell you
dialog: the truth. But Conor? Are you
dialog: listening, Conor?
dialog: 203.
text: Conor, still looking away, eventually nods.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: One day, if you look back and you
dialog: feel bad for being so angry that
dialog: you couldn’t even speak to me, then
dialog: you have to know that it was okay.
dialog: That I knew. I know everything you
dialog: need to tell me without you having
dialog: to say it out loud.
text: Conor still can’t look at her. She starts crying harder, but
text: pushes through it.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: And honestly, son, you be as angry
dialog: as you need to be. Don’t let anyone
dialog: tell you otherwise. Not your
dialog: father, not your grandma, no one.
dialog: And if you need to break things,
dialog: then by God, you break them good
dialog: and hard. And I'll be right there.
dialog: You might not see me, but I’1l be
dialog: right there, breaking ‘em right
dialog: along with you.
dialog: Conor can hardly bear it.
speaker_heading: MUM (CONT'D)
dialog: I need to know that you heard me,
dialog: sweetheart. I need to know, okay?
dialog: Okay?
text: Without looking at her, Conor finally nods his agreement. The
text: final acknowledgement that she’s going to die.
text: Mum breathes out in exhausted relief.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m so sorry. I’m going to have to
dialog: take some more painkillers.
text: Obviously in pain, she presses the morphine button. She
text: reaches for Conor again. After a beat he finally takes her
text: hand.
speaker_heading: MuM (CONT'D)
dialog: (quietly weeping)
dialog: I wish I had a hundred years. A
dialog: hundred years I could give to you.
text: Conor holds his mother’s hand and looks at the floor, as she
text: drifts to drug-induced sleep. There’s nothing more to say.
dialog: 128
dialog: 204.
scene_heading: InT. hoSPITAL ROOM - later 128
text: Conor's Mum is asleep. The light outside has grown dimmer.
text: Conor sits, alone, in the chair, hunched down low. Grandma
text: enters, a worried look on her face. How did it go?
text: Conor looks up at her, his eyes red, with grief, with rage.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: I want to go home.
speaker_heading: GrANDMA
dialog: Conor-
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: My home. The one with the yew tree.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: (not unkind)
dialog: Conor, no, not tonight. You’re
dialog: going to want to be here.
text: Conor understands what she means as Grandma sits on the other
text: side of the bed, taking her daughter’s hand. Conor stands.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I’m going to get something to eat.
text: Grandma nods and Conor leaves...
dialog: 129
dialog: 205.
scene_heading: InT. hoSPITAL CORRIDOR - conTINUOUS 129
text: .--but as we follow him out of the room, he starts walking
text: down the corridor, then faster, then faster, until he’s
text: finally RUNNING AS FAST AS HE CAN-
dialog: 206.
scene_heading: 130 ExT. hospital entrance conTINUOUS 130
text: «+.OUT OF THE HOSPITAL.
dialog: 207.
scene_heading: 131-131AEXT. PAVEMENT/ LONG PAVEMENT - CONTINUOUS 131-131A
text: Conor keeps on running.
dialog: 132
dialog: 208.
scene_heading: EXT. conor’s house driveway - momenTS LATER 132
text: Evening is coming on. Conor, still running, approaches his
text: own house. Out of breath, tired, but still going, we follow
text: him in one continuous shot as he opens his front door and
dialog: goes into...
dialog: 209.
scene_heading: 132A InT. conOR’S HOUSE FRONT HALLWAY - conTINUOUS 132A
text: ..-where he doesn’t even shut the door behind him and
text: continues through...
dialog: 210.
dialog: 132B Omitted 132B
dialog: 211.
scene_heading: 132C InT. conOR’S KITCHEN - conTINUOUS 132C
text: ...-increasing his pace, he goes to the back door and heads
dialog: out into...
speaker_heading: 132D
dialog: 212.
scene_heading: EXT. conOR’S BACK GARDEN — conTINUOUS 132D
text: ...running now, across the garden, where we can see the
text: hilltop and yew tree ahead of him. He goes through the back
text: gate, it opens with a groan of metal, and Conor...
dialog: 213.
scene_heading: 132E ExT. Train Tracks (FX ZONE) - conTINUOUS 132E
text: ...crosses the train tracks...
dialog: 214.
scene_heading: 132F EXT. HILL GATES - CONTINUOUS 132F
text: ...to a torn opening in the fence on the other side. He ducks
text: under it and we follow him...
speaker_heading: 132G
dialog: 215.
scene_heading: EXT. CHURCHYARD hiLLTOP - conTINUOUS 132G
text: ...-into the graveyard that stretches down the hill. The yew
text: tree is up top, but still just a tree. Conor runs furiously
dialog: now...
text: Up the hill, dodging through the tombstones...
text: The tree getting closer and closer...
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: WAKE UP!
text: Still in the continuous shot, he reaches the tree and starts
text: pounding and kicking it.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: I said, WAKE UP! I don’t care what
dialog: time it is! WAKE UP!
text: Kicks it again. And again.
text: And the tree steps out of the way, causing Conor to fall. We
text: pull up higher and higher, in the Monster's POV, seeing Conor
text: on the ground. Continuous shot ends.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You will do yourself harm if you
dialog: keep that up.
text: Conor gets angrily to his feet. It’s nearly night now.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: It didn’t work! You said the yew
dialog: tree would make her better, but it
dialog: didn’t!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: I said if she could be healed, the
dialog: yew tree would do it. It seems she
dialog: could not.
text: Conor attacks the monster again, pounding it with his fists.
text: He pulls off one of the Monster’s small branches.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Fix her! Make her better!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Ow!
dialog: Conor-
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (still attacking)
dialog: What’s the use of you if you can’t?
dialog: Just stupid stories and getting me
dialog: into trouble and everyone treat me
dialog: like I’ve got a disease-
dialog: 216.
text: The Monster kneels down, hands on either side of Conor.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You were the one who called me,
dialog: Conor O'Malley. You were the one
dialog: with the answers to these
dialog: questions.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: If I called you, it was to save
dialog: her! It was to heal her!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: I did not come to heal her. I came
dialog: to heal you.
text: Beat, as Conor takes in the impact of this.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Me? I don’t need... My mum’s the
dialog: one who...
text: But the weight of the Monster's words are too much.
dialog: Beat,
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Ahhhhhh!
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Help me.
text: as the Monster takes in a breath.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: It is time... for the fourth tale.
text: Conor’s eyes widen in horror, but before he can speak, the
dialog: world has changed:
text: 133
dialog: 217.
scene_heading: ExT. the fourth tale nightmare - AFTERNOON - contINUOUS 133
text: Conor and the Monster are on a dark, barren stretch of
text: ground. An evil place, in the blackest night. The sounds from
text: Conor’s nightmare rise again - the blowing wind, the faint
text: rumblings.
text: The Monster stands over Conor, but is dangerous-looking and
text: sinister, the branches from its body are unraveling beyond it
text: in gnarls, its eyes changed to a merciless blankness.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: No! Please! Get me out of here!
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: (scarier than ever)
dialog: There will be no more delays. It is
dialog: time for you to tell the fourth
dialog: tale.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I don’t know any tales! I have to
dialog: get back to my Mum!
text: The Monster looks past Conor.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: But she is already here.
text: Conor turns to look. Far across the clearing stands his
text: mother. She is frail and thin, but not bald, dressed in
text: flowing white cloth. She turns and smiles at him, but so
text: vulnerable. She’s been the figure in the nightmare all along.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No! Mum! Get out of here!
dialog: Mum
dialog: I'm fine, darling. There’s nothing
dialog: to worry about.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Mum, run! Please, run!
dialog: Mum
dialog: But there’s nothing to worry!
text: But there’s a terrible sound, a distant ROARING, as of
text: something impossibly big.
speaker_heading: Mum (CONT'D)
dialog: (troubled)
dialog: Conor?
text: OVERHEAD SHOT - high above, we see Conor and the Monster,
dialog: distant from Mum.
dialog: 218.
text: Behind her, in a large circle she stands on the edge of, the
text: GROUND BEGINS TO COLLAPSE AWAY, almost like a whirlpool,
text: whipping everything into it, along with blackness and dust.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Mum! MUM!
text: He starts to run for her. The ground continues to collapse
text: around her until-
dialog: Mum
dialog: Conor!
text: It collapses right BELOW HER, dropping her into the gaping,
text: swirling hole. She grabs on to the edge-
dialog: But can’t hold on-
text: Until Conor reaches her, grabbing onto her, holding her
dialog: there.
text: Here it is. Conor’s WORST NIGHTMARE. The thing he is most
text: afraid of in the world. The winds shrieking and howling
text: around them, swirling into the hole.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: NO MUM!!
text: The nightmare is in full flow. The screaming, the roaring,
text: the wind, all because he’s holding on to his mother, trying
text: to prevent her from falling.
dialog: Mum
dialog: Don’t let go, Conor! Don’t let me
dialog: go!
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (struggling)
dialog: I won’t! I promise.
text: The wind grows worse; the whirlpool effect starts to pull
text: cars and telephone poles into the hole.
text: Conor’s Mum starts to slip from Conor’s grasp.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: No!
text: Conor turns to our original Monster, still not moving.
speaker_heading: CONOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Help me! I can’t hold on to her!
speaker_heading: MuM
dialog: Conor! I’m slipping!
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: NO MUM!
dialog: 219.
text: But it’s getting too much. She’s too heavy. The Monster
text: approaches, unraveled and huge and terrifying.
speaker_heading: MOnSTER
dialog: Here is the fourth tale.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Shut up! Help me!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Here is the truth of Conor
dialog: O'Malley.
text: Conor’s Mum is screaming, slipping.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No! Help me!
text: She's pulling away from his hands, from his fingers. He's
dialog: trying, trying-
dialog: Mum
dialog: Conor!
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: NO! Mum—
text: But she falls.
text: The hole takes her and she falls, falls, falls away, her
text: white dress a light in the darkness. Conor watches her fall-
text: He turns back to the Monster anguished, the swirling darkness
text: behind him. THIS IS THE IMAGE HE DREW ON HIS SKETCHPAD.
text: The blackness and furious winds abate, until there’s only
dialog: quiet.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: (angry, frightened)
dialog: This is when I wake up. This is
dialog: when I always wake up.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: The tale is not yet told.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Get me out of here. I need to see
dialog: my mum!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: She is no longer here, Conor. You
dialog: let her go.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: This is just a nightmare. This
dialog: isn’t the truth.
dialog: 220.
text: The Monster leans forward, scaring Conor into falling back.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It is the truth. You let her go.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: She fell. I couldn’t hold on to her
dialog: any more.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: You let her go.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: She fell!
text: The Monster leans over him, as terrifying as it’s ever been.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: You must speak the truth or you
dialog: will never leave this place.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Let me go!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Speak the truth!
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: What truth?! I don’t know what you
dialog: mean!
text: The Monster’s face surges down close to his, punching its
text: hands either side of Conor, causing the ground to CRACK all
text: around him.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You do know.
text: A sudden quiet. Conor does know. He’s always known.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: No. I can’t.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You must.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I can't.
text: There’s a sudden note of kindness in the Monster’s voice.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You can. You let her go!
text: Conor begins to cry.
dialog: 221.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Please-
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You let her go, Conor O'Malley.
dialog: Didn't you?
text: Conor squeezes his eyes shut tight.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: You could have held on for longer,
dialog: but you let the nightmare take her.
dialog: Didn't you?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: YES! You allowed her to fall.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You must tell me the fourth tale,
dialog: Conor O'Malley. You must!
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: It’ll kill me if I do!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It will kill you if you do not!
text: The Monster pounds the ground again, terrifying. More cracks
text: form, until Conor’s trapped on a broken shelf above the hole,
text: teetering above it.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT’D)
dialog: You let her go. Before it’s too
dialog: late! Tell me WHY!
text: Beat, as Conor struggles.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: No-
text: The ground collapses more, the shelf teeters.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: (pleading)
dialog: Speak the truth!
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Speak the truth Conor O'Malley!
dialog: 222.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: SPEAK THE TRUTH!
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: wooooo!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: SPEAK THE TRUTH BOY!
dialog: Until, finally...
dialog: Conor can’t fight it any longer...
dialog: He speaks the truth.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I want it to be over! I can’t stand
dialog: knowing that she’ll go! I want it
dialog: to be finished! I let her fall! I
dialog: let her die!
text: He collapses to the ground. The shelf gives way beneath him,
dialog: and he falls-
text: Screaming into the hole-
text: The Monster disappearing above him-
dialog: Until-
text: WHOOMP! He hits something, landing on it.
text: It’s the MONSTER’S OUTSTRETCHED HAND. It has caught him. It
text: lifts him gently up out of the hole and deposits him:
dialog: 134
dialog: 223.
scene_heading: ExT. POST NIGHTMARE (hilLTOP) - SUNSET - momentS LATER 134
text: Back on the ground on the hilltop behind his house. The
text: Monster stands above him. Conor sits up, his face beyond sad,
text: helpless tears coming.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Why didn’t it kill me? I deserve
dialog: punishment. I deserve the worst.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Do you?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I’ve known forever she wasn’t going
dialog: to make it. She said she was
dialog: getting better all the time because
dialog: that’s what I wanted to hear. And I
dialog: believed her.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Except I didn’t.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: And I started to think how much I
dialog: wanted it to be over. I couldn’t
dialog: stand how alone it made me feel.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: A part of you wished it would end.
dialog: Even if it meant losing her.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: I let her go. I could have held on,
dialog: but I always let her go.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: And that, is your truth, Conor
dialog: O'Malley.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I didn’t mean it, though! And now
dialog: it’s for real! Now she’s going to
dialog: die and it’s all my fault!
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: And that, is not the truth at all.
text: Conor gives into grief. The Monster gently takes him up in
text: two huge hands, making a comforting bed out of them.
speaker_heading: MONSTER (CONT’D)
dialog: You were merely wishing for an end
dialog: of pain. Your own pain. It is the
dialog: most human wish there is.
dialog: 224.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I didn’t mean it.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You did, but you also did not.
text: Conor looks up at the big face in front of him.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: How can both be true?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: How can a prince be a murderer and
dialog: a saviour? How can an apothecary be
dialog: evil-tempered but right-thinking?
dialog: How can invisible men make
dialog: themselves more lonely by being
dialog: seen?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (shrugs, exhausted)
dialog: I don’t know. Your stories never
dialog: made any sense to me.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Because humans are complicated
dialog: beasts. You believe comforting lies
dialog: while knowing full well the painful
dialog: truths that make those lies
dialog: necessary. It is a wonder you can
dialog: survive at all.
text: Conor isn’t sure he buys this, as much as he might want to.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: In the end, Conor, it is not
dialog: important what you think, it is
dialog: only important what you do.
text: Long beat as Conor considers this.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: So what do I do?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: What you did just now. You speak
dialog: the truth.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: That’s all?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: You think it’s easy? You were
dialog: willing to die rather than speak
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: Because what I thought was so wrong-
dialog: 225.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: It was not wrong. It was only a
dialog: thought. One among millions.
text: Conor takes a long breath, he’s exhausted. In fact, he’s
text: fighting to keep his eyes open.
speaker_heading: CONOR
dialog: I’m so tired. So tired of all of
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Then sleep. There’s time.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Are you sure? I need to get back to
dialog: my mum.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: You will. I promise you.
text: Conor considers this.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Will you be there?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Yes. It will be the final steps of
dialog: my walking.
text: Conor nestles into the monster’s hands.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: How does the fourth story end?
speaker_heading: MONSTER
dialog: Shhh... Sleep...
text: But he hears no answer as he can no longer fight off sleep.
text: 135
dialog: 226.
scene_heading: ExT. CHURCHYARD HILLTOP - niGHT - laTER 135
text: Conor is asleep on the hilltop. The Monster is now just a
text: tree, but there’s still a suggestion that it’s cradling him.
text: Conor’s phone buzzes in his pocket but he doesn’t wake. We
text: hear a car pull up and a door open.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (0o.S.)
dialog: (faintly)
dialog: Oh, thank God!
text: Conor blinks himself awake. He looks up.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Conor! CONOR!
text: He sees his Grandma running towards him from where she’s left
text: her car (lights on, engine running, door open) by the church
text: next to the graveyard. She’s putting away her phone,
text: obviously the one who’s been calling him.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: CONOR!
text: He stands, bracing himself, but when she reaches him she
text: grabs him in a hug so vigorous they almost tumble over.
text: She releases him and, being who she is, starts shouting.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Where have you BEEN? I’ve been out
dialog: of my MIND trying to find you!
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: There was something I needed to-
text: But she’s already dragging him towards the car.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA
dialog: No time! We have to go now!
text: She sprints off away from him, back to the car, and what this
text: means sinks in for Conor. He races after her.
dialog: 136
dialog: 227.
scene_heading: InT/ext. grandma’s car/city streets TO TRAIN CROSSING - nilgitt
dialog: - moments LATER
text: Grandma drives at extremely high speed, cutting corners,
text: running red lights. It would be funny if it weren’t so
text: desperate. Conor sits in the passenger seat, shy of how much
text: she’s both crying and trying to control herself.
text: She turns another corner and he grabs his seatbelt. But he
text: notices something sticking out of his pocket. LILY’S NOTE. He
text: takes it out and unfolds a comically high number of times.
dialog: It’s just three lines:
dialog: --“I miss being your friend.”
dialog: --"You’re not invisible.”
dialog: --“I see you.”
text: The “I” is underlined a comic number of times, too. It’s
dialog: heart-breaking.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: Grandma-
dialog: GrandMA
dialog: Don’t. Just don’t.
dialog: 228.
text: 136A They fly over a bump. Conor puts the note back in his podksa
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: I’m sorry. About the sitting room.
dialog: And everything.
text: She laughs a thick, sad laugh.
speaker_heading: GranDMA
dialog: It doesn’t matter. It doesn’t
dialog: matter.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: It doesn’t?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Of course it doesn’t.
text: She starts to really cry, so just lets herself.
dialog: 229.
text: 136B She turns a corner to a train crossing, the barriers firnB6B
text: coming down. No way to drive around it. She stops, hitting
text: the steering wheel in frustration.
speaker_heading: GraNDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You know, Conor? You and me? Not
dialog: the most natural fit, are we?
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: No. I guess not.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: I guess not either. But we’re going
dialog: to have to learn.
speaker_heading: ConoR
dialog: I know.
text: Grandma makes a little sobbing noise.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: You do know, don’t you? Of course
dialog: you do. But you know what,
dialog: grandson? We have something in
dialog: common.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: We do?
speaker_heading: GRANDMA
dialog: Oh, yes.
text: We hear the train horn in the distance. Grandma looks at him.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Your mum. That’s what we have in
dialog: common.
text: Conor doesn’t answer, but he knows what she means. This is
text: their peace talk, and he agrees to it. He nods.
text: She reaches forward, grabs his hand, squeezing it tight. The
text: train blasts past them in a brutal hurry.
text: It’s a short train, ending quickly. The barriers rise.
speaker_heading: GranDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Hang on.
text: She peels off into the night.
dialog: 230.
scene_heading: 137-137AEXT./Int. hoSPITAL ENTRANCE/ CORRIDOR - nighT - momENTS/-ISTER
text: Grandma and Conor race down the corridor, Grandma in the
text: lead. They reach his Mum’s hospital room and...
dialog: 138
dialog: 231.
scene_heading: InT. hoSPITAL ROOM DOOR - niGHt - conTINUOUS 138
text: ..-burst inside, Grandma with a terrible question on her
text: face. The fight is clearly almost over for his Mum. The room
text: is lit only by a small light above her bed. The Female Nurse
text: stands by it, checking an IV.
speaker_heading: NuRSE
dialog: (to Grandma)
dialog: It’s okay. You’re in time.
text: Grandma makes a cry of relief, covering her mouth with her
text: hands.
speaker_heading: Nurse (CONT'D)
dialog: I see you found him.
text: Grandma goes to the opposite side, sits down and takes her
text: daughter’s hand, kissing it and rocking back and forth.
text: The Nurse leaves, acknowledging Conor. Conor stands in the
text: darkness by the doorway, not knowing what to do.
dialog: Mum
dialog: (slurring)
dialog: Ma?
speaker_heading: GranDMA
dialog: I’m here, darling. I’m here.
dialog: Conor's here, too.
speaker_heading: MUM
dialog: (eyes still closed)
dialog: Is he?
text: Grandma looks at Conor, urging him to say something.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: I'm here, mum.
text: Eyes still shut, Conor’s Mum reaches out a hand for him to
text: take. Just like he held it on the cliff face.
text: There is movement behind Conor, a familiar shadow appearing.
text: Somehow the Monster fits in the room.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Here is the end of the tale.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (to Monster)
dialog: What do I do?
text: The Monster puts two hands on Conor’s shoulders, gently
text: pushing him towards his mum’s bed.
text: Conor looks at the clock as he goes. It reads 11.58. Moments
dialog: before 12.07.
dialog: 232.
speaker_heading: ConOR (CONT'D)
dialog: 12.07. Is that...?
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: I'm afraid.
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: Of course you are afraid. It will
dialog: be hard. It will be more than hard.
dialog: But you will make it through, Conor
dialog: O'Malley.
text: They reach the bed, where his Mum’s hand is still
text: outstretched. Conor’s eyes begin to water.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (whispering, to Monster)
dialog: You'll stay? You’ll stay until...
speaker_heading: MonSTER
dialog: I will be right here.
text: The moment is here. Conor takes his mother’s hand.
text: She opens her eyes, but she sees him there. Really sees him.
dialog: Does she even see the Monster behind him?
text: Conor can see the light reflected in her eyes, where the
dialog: “life” is.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (CONT'D)
dialog: Now all that is left is for you to
dialog: speak the simplest truth of all.
text: And, at last, Conor can finally tell her the real truth.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (simply, quietly)
dialog: I don’t want you to go.
dialog: Mum
dialog: (at the end)
dialog: I know, my love. I know.
text: Conor’s tears begin to spill now, in a quiet way.
speaker_heading: ConOR
dialog: (again)
dialog: I don’t want you to go.
text: And there’s nothing more to say. He leans forward onto her
text: bed, and slips an arm around her, holding on to her.
text: The mother closes her eyes finally. We pull back, Conor holds
dialog: his mother, the Monster supporting him, his Grandma across
text: the bed, holding his Mum's hand.
text: DissoLVE TO:
dialog: 139
dialog: 233.
scene_heading: INT. hoSPITAL ROOM - niGHT - momeNTS LATER 139
text: .»-a slow approach towards the clock on the hospital room
text: wall. As the second hand slowly sweeps from 12.06.40 to
text: 12.06.45, we hear Conor’s earlier question to the Monster.
speaker_heading: ConOR (v.0.)
dialog: How does the fourth story end?
text: And this time, we hear the Monster’s response.
speaker_heading: MonSTER (V.O.)
text: It ends with the boy holding on
dialog: tight to his mother. And by doing
text: so, he can finally let her go.
text: We dissolve gently to black before the second hand's sweep
dialog: reaches 12.07.
text: Fade TO BLACK.
dialog: Then fade up on:
dialog: 140
dialog: 234.
text: inT. grandma’s front HALLWAY - dawn 140
text: It’s the morning after. Dawn light comes in through the
text: windows. A clock reads 7am. Conor and Grandma enter, wearing
text: the same clothes as the night before. They’re spent,
dialog: exhausted.
text: They climb the stairs, together in their grief.
dialog: 141
dialog: 235.
scene_heading: INT. grandma’s CORRIDOR/ UPSTAIRS - conTINUOUS 141
text: Conor heads to the Guest Bedroom but:
speaker_heading: GranDMA
dialog: No.
text: He stops. She nods to the loft conversion that’s always been
text: locked.
speaker_heading: GRANDMA (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s your room now. I’ve been
dialog: making it ready.
text: She nods him on his way, watching him go to the end of the
text: corridor, climbing the steep stairs.
text: He looks back once at her to make sure it’s okay. She smiles
text: at him, so sadly.
text: He tries the door. For the first time, it’s unlocked. He
text: looks to his Grandma for one last check. She nods again and
text: lets him go.
dialog: 142
dialog: 236.
scene_heading: InT. GRANDMA’S lofT room - conTINUOUS 142
text: It’s a bedroom in the top of the house, complete with slanted
text: ceiling and big window, letting in a ton of morning light.
text: Clearly his mother’s. But the projector is there, too, and
dialog: the canisters for King Kong.
text: There is also the CASE OF PENCILS he’d been eyeing in the
text: shop window, newly purchased by Grandma.
text: Conor steps inside. Drawings cover the walls, there are
text: shelves of SKETCHPADS in rows, and at the far end, a DESK,
dialog: just like the one in Conor’s room.
text: On it is Conor’s torn drawing of the nightmare from the
text: sitting room.
text: Conor approaches it and picks it up. Underneath is a
text: SKETCHPAD, an old one. There’s a note on top from his
dialog: Grandma. “This belonged to your mum.”
text: On the cover are the words “Lizzie’S SKETCHPAD, AGE 12 (and a
dialog: half).”
text: Conor opens it. We recognise his mum's style of art. He turns
text: the pages past images of trees, birds, friends and then-
text: Drawing after drawing of the STORIES AND IMAGES WE'VE SEEN:
dialog: the Prince, the Farmer's Daughter, the Apothecary, the Parson
dialog: and-
text: The Monster. Pages and pages of the Monster. Conor stops on
text: one, a good one, the Monster looking ominous, powerful.
text: On the desk, pencils start to ROLL slightly towards the
dialog: sketchpad.
text: ANGLE ON: Conor looking at the page, a small BREEZE stirring
text: his hair, the slightest hint of a private smile curling up.
text: We pull back, giving him his privacy and we:
text: FADE TO BLACK.
dialog: 237.
text: Credits
text: 
