dialog: 
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S - NIGHT - EXTREMELY CLOSE ON
text: a moving wall of muscled skin, tinged blue by moonlight.
text: Four claw-like scratches are raked across this landscape in
text: bright red. Throaty, guttural MOANS drift up from somewhere.
dialog: Are we in heaven? Or hell.
speaker_heading: TIGHT SHOTS ON
text: A delicate hand caressing a muscled bishop.
text: A woman's leg entwined around a man's.
text: A cascade of red hair falling across an unshaven cheek.
text: Two faces pressed tightly together in a kiss.
text: The faces belong to ALICE and DAN, and as their moans build
dialog: to a crescendo we realize it isn't pain we're hearing but the
dialog: opposite. Afterwards...
speaker_heading: ALICE'S HANDS
text: gently rove Dan's back, tenderly caressing the scratches
dialog: they've just made.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: her relaxed, happy face gazes up from the pillow. She turns
text: and smiles at Dan.
text: Dan sleepily smiles back, then gently reaches out to caress
text: her shoulder. Their eyes hold for a moment. Alice leans
text: over and kisses him.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm going to take a shower.
text: Dan nods and closes his eyes, still smiling. Alice climbs
text: from bed. FOLLOW HER.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BATHROOM - NIGHT - ON SHOWER DRAIN
text: Water pours down into the drain from the shower. TIGHT on
text: Alice's HEAD AND SHOULDERS as she steps INTO FRAME and stands
text: under the cascading water.
speaker_heading: IN THE SHOWER
text: The hot water streams down onto Alice's face. She scrubs
text: herself clean. The water beats down on her shoulders and
text: back. She rinses her hair. Shakes her wet head.
speaker_heading: THE DRAIN
text: gives an odd gurgle, like something had backed up the
dialog: plumbing.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: glances down. Nothing. Turns back the jets of water. The
text: pressure builds up a little. She turns it down.
speaker_heading: THE DRAIN
text: the gurgles again. The water starts to back up, rising
text: around Alice's feet.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: She notices. Leans down, perturbed, as the water reaches her
text: ankles and tries to clear the drain. No success. The water
text: continues to back up.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh great. The drain monster strikes
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: stands back up now, a little apprehensive. As the water
text: rises to her knees, the pressure from the shower jet suddenly
text: DOUBLES! Gallons of water now BLAST into the shower. Alice
text: tries to turn it off but the handles come off in her hands!
text: She tries to open the shower door. IT WON'T BUDGE! She's
text: trapped and now the water is climbing to her neck! Frantic,
text: Alice POUNDS on the glass!
speaker_heading: THE SHOWER
text: Completely full. Alice stands inside, completely under
text: water, slamming her fists against the door, in desperation.
dialog: Suddenly...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR OF DOORS - NIGHT
text: the door opens. But it is no longer Alice's glass shower
text: door. It's one of the heavy doors in the asylum. As it
text: opens toward CAMERA, Alice stumbles out of the STATIC WALL OF
text: WATER into a dark room. The door closes behind her and melts
text: into the wall.
text: Alice looks around. She is in a dark empty corridor. Two
text: doors flank both ends of the hallway. One opens.
text: Alice tries to peer beyond it. Darkness. Slowly, she gets
text: to her feet and steps through it...
speaker_heading: ANOTHER DOOR
text: further on, opens, beckoning her forward. And another door
text: beyond that. And another. Cautiously, Alice moves down this
dialog: corridor of invitations until...
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM - TIGHT ON ALICE
text: as she steps through the last door. Shadows and light play
text: across her face. She looks around. What she sees sends fear
text: into her eyes. This is where Amanda Krueger was raped. The
dialog: asylum.
speaker_heading: PULL BACK
text: slowly down the length of this nightmarish room. Fingers of
text: lights stab up from crusting floor grates and reach through
text: the thick, murky air toward a dark cathedral ceiling, who's
text: beams appear to be made from the bones of some unearthly
dialog: creature.
scene_heading: CAMERA CONTINUES BACK
text: revealing beds and mattresses crowded along the walls. Old.
text: Filthy. Some torn to pieces. We can make out the figures of
text: men lying in them. And others milling around. These are
text: AMANDA'S HUNDRED MANIACS. All dressed in the garb of 1940's
text: mental patients. Some pace aimlessly. Devoid of sanity and
text: purpose. Others sit, lost in their own private hells. No
text: one has noticed Alice. Yet. At the end of the room...
text: CAMERA CRANES UP, CONTINUING BACK
text: revealing a staircase that leads to a huge IRON DOOR. Two
text: ORDERLIES hover on the landing before it, gazing into the dim
text: scene below. One of them pokes his finger into the dark,
text: silently counting. The other is eager to go.
speaker_heading: ORDERLY #1
dialog: Come on, will ya.
speaker_heading: ORDERLY #2
dialog: Shut up, you'll make me lose count...
dialog: eighty-two, eighty-three...
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: looks down at herself. Now she is dressed in an old
text: fashioned nurse's uniform. White and starched. There is a
text: name tag over her left breast. It reads: AMANDA KRUEGER.
text: Alice barely has time to react when she hears the first
dialog: orderly impatiently say...
speaker_heading: ORDERLY #1
dialog: Close enough. Let's call it a hundred
dialog: and call it a day.
text: We hear the SOUND of RUSTY HINGES as the heavy door starts to
text: swing closed. Alice looks up. Starts moving toward it.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No...WAIT!
speaker_heading: ON THE DOOR
text: As it slams closed with a resounding CLANG. We hear the
text: SOUND of heavy bolts being thrown in place.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: whirls around. WHIP PAN with her as she discovers that the
text: door she came through is no longer there.
text: She turns back to the room, frightened. Starts moving for
text: the bolted steel door at the far end. As she hurries
text: forward, the maniacs notice her. All heads turn. Horrible
text: faces peer at her from everywhere. Some of the men move
text: toward the center of the room, blocking her way.
text: Alice stops. There is no way past them to the door. She
text: turns. The maniacs move in on her from all directions.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: Freddy's hundred fathers. A drooling, macabre parade of
text: human beings. Hands grope toward her. Hideous faces leer.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: watches, terrified.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: This is looking less like an insane asylum in the 1940's and
dialog: more like a nightmare scene of London's 16th century Bedlam!
text: The maniacs converge on her. One pushes his way through the
dialog: others. (we recognize him as Robert Englund, sans Freddy
text: make-up.) As he reaches toward her...
text: HIGH SHOT, LOOKING DOWN
text: as CAMERA begins to descend, pushing in, moving closer, the
text: maniacs surround her. As they begin to drag her down, Alice
text: turns her face up toward CAMERA. PUSH IN EXTREMELY CLOSE as
dialog: she SCREAMS!
speaker_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING
text: Alice lunges up from bed INTO FRAME. SCREAMING. Dan
text: immediately sits up beside her, concerned. A hand rests on
text: her shoulder, between them. Alice realizes where she is.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Jesus...
speaker_heading: CAMERA TRACKS AROUND
text: until Alice's profile blocks Dan's face. The following line
text: begins OFF SCREEN, during the CAMERA TRACK.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: What's the matter hon? Bad dream?
text: Suddenly ENGLUND's leering face pushes into FOREGROUND FRAME,
text: beside Alice. It's his hand on her shoulder and we realize
text: that he spoke the line, not Dan. She turns, startled, then
speaker_heading: SCREAMS.
text: Englund rolls on top of her, pinning her to the mattress.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ENGLUND
text: grinning down at her, his tongue snaking out his mouth.
speaker_heading: ENGLUND
dialog: There's no such thing as safe sex.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: pushes him away with every ounce of her strength. She starts
dialog: to sit up...
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S - EARLY MORNING
text: Alice sits up, terrified! Looks around in panic. Realizes
text: she's alone in bed. Where's Dan? She reflexively glances
text: toward her open bedroom window. Its curtain gently billows
text: with the morning breeze. Dan has gone home.
text: Alice tries to collect herself. The dream is over. But we
text: can tell by her face that she is far from all right. She
text: pulls on a robe and shakily climbs from bed.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BATHROOM - EARLY MORNING
text: Alice moves toward the shower. Pauses before it. Takes a
text: breath and opens the door. Looks inside. Normal enough.
text: Turns on the water. Watches apprehensively as it pours
text: serenely down the drain. She'd really rather not, but Alice
text: reluctantly starts to remove her robe...
speaker_heading: DAN (O.S.)
dialog: ...we stand naked and defenseless before
dialog: an ever more unimaginable horror
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SPRINGWOOD HIGH - DAY
text: CLOSE ON SPRAY OF WATER FROM A LARGE FOUNTAIN
text: PAN DOWN from the water to a statue in the fountain's center.
text: And from the statue down to Dan, dressed in a graduation cap
text: and gown. He's perched on the statue's pedestal, his arm
text: draped irreverently across the stone man's shoulder, grinning
text: as he speaks.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: ...college. High school was only the
dialog: beginning for some of us. Don't forget:
dialog: S.A.T. stands for Sadistic, Anti-human,
dialog: Torture.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Laughter from a sea of fellow graduates who are gathered
text: round the base of the fountain, outnumbered by their less
text: amused parents. Beyond them, we glimpse even more caps and
text: gowns milling with roving bands of adults.
speaker_heading: DAN (cont'd)
dialog: Most of us have just this one summer to
dialog: live... and by live I mean...paaarty!
text: The kids sends up a cheer as Dan throws his cap into the air
text: and leaps off the fountain. He floats DOWN through a seas of
text: ASCENDING caps, disappearing into the crown of students.
text: PAN OVER TO GRETA AND HER MOTHER
text: standing at the edge of the group. Greta is living proof of
dialog: what God can create when he's having a good day. She's
dialog: beautiful. and fashion model-thin. Her only flaw might be
text: the hint of neuroses in her perfection.
text: Her mother, RACINE GIBSON, a once beautiful woman now
text: expanding into middle age, raises a disapproving eyebrow
text: toward Dan and the boisterous kids around them.
speaker_heading: RACINE GIBSON
dialog: How colorful. Who is he?
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Dan Jordan. Captain of our football
dialog: team.
speaker_heading: RACINE GIBSON
dialog: (with distaste)
dialog: Charming...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GRETA
text: a head TALLER than everyone around her as she suddenly
text: squeals with delight, recognizing...
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Alice! Yvonne!
text: Through the swirling crowd we see Alice standing with YVONNE,
text: a very grounded black girl. Her father stands with them.
text: Alice is a little glum, but Yvonne breaks into a wide grin as
text: they both turn toward Greta.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Hey, girl!
text: Yvonne gives Alice a little tug and they hurry toward Greta.
speaker_heading: THE THREE GIRLS
text: Yvonne and Greta throw their arms around one another and send
text: up shrill noises of girlish delight. Then Yvonne breaks into
dialog: the girls RAP.
speaker_heading: YVONNE (cont'd)
dialog: I'm the Y, the V-O-N-N-E, and wherever I
dialog: am, that's the place to be.
speaker_heading: ALL THREE
dialog: Yvonne!
dialog: Alice isn't getting into the spirit of things. Yvonne tries
text: to inject a little enthusiasm into her.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (to Alice)
dialog: C'mon, honey!
text: Alice joins in, trying to be cheerful.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm the A-L-I-C-E. Blond hair on my
text: head, blue eyes to see.
speaker_heading: ALL THREE
dialog: Greta!
speaker_heading: GREAT
dialog: The G-R-E-T-A and my mom says I'll be in
dialog: magazines one day!
speaker_heading: ALL THREE
dialog: We're the three together, and together
dialog: we'll be. The Y, the A, don't forget the
dialog: G!
text: The all three put their hands together in an overhead SLAP.
text: Greta and Yvonne break into laughter. Alice halfheartedly
text: joins them, about a step behind their good spirits.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (to Alice, good naturedly)
dialog: Hey, what's wrong with you -- let's see a
dialog: smile.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Had kind of a long night.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (grins knowingly)
dialog: Dan keeping you up again? Put a lock on
dialog: that window, girl.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: No, the Dan part was nice...
text: Greta playfully tugs at her gown, interrupting them.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: These things are wild...
dialog: (striking pose)
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Makes you look like a nun--
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (trying to cheer up)
dialog: Yeah - kick the habit! Break those vows!
text: They laugh. Greta feigns hormonal desperation.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Find me a man!
text: MARK, good-looking, though considerably off-the-wall, STEPS
text: INTO SHOT holding a SMALL SKETCHPAD and a LARGE, EXCESSIVE
text: LOLLIPOP. He speaks to her as though he were a fashion
dialog: photographer.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: No, it's all wrong. Sell it! More teeth
text: and raise the arms a bit.
text: Greta drops the pose and addresses the heavens.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: Maybe I should spell it for you.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (playfully)
dialog: Maybe God's trying to tell you something.
text: Mark smiles at Greta, as he puts away his sketchbook.
dialog: They're old friends and this is a familiar game.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Yeah, when are you gonna come to your
dialog: senses?
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Next life. Oh, what's that?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: My undying love. Have some.
text: Yvonne and Alice laugh.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Give up, Mark, it's hopeless.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: (with a grin)
dialog: I think I'm starting to wear her down.
dialog: (to Greta)
dialog: Have some anyway.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: (aghast)
dialog: That must never pass these lips.
speaker_heading: RACINE GIBSON
dialog: Greta, that's not what a cover girl puts
text: in her body.
text: Past her shoulder, Greta indicates Mrs. Gibson, glaring
text: disapprovingly. Mark gets conspiratorial.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Meet me later. Milkshakes. Cherry pie.
dialog: Banana splits. And no mom!
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Pimples, heartburn, cellulite... and no
dialog: modeling career.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Not to mention the heartbreak of
dialog: psoriasis.
speaker_heading: ALL LAUGH.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Greta, come on. One burger with me?
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: One with you and I'm off to comic book
dialog: land. We're high school graduates now.
dialog: Time to grow up.
text: Dismisses his sketchbook.
speaker_heading: GRETA (cont'd)
dialog: And speaking of grown-ups... Daddy's
dialog: here, superhero.
text: All turn as Mark's father, MR. GREY, approaches. Mr. Grey
text: steps into shot. A rugged, blue collar type, he glances at
text: the girls then at Mark. His hearty cheerfulness contains a
dialog: note of reproach.
speaker_heading: MR. GREY
dialog: Hey Rembrandt!. No wonder I couldn't
dialog: find you. I thought you'd be hanging out
dialog: with the guys.
text: Mark becomes uncomfortable in this big man's presence.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Oh, hi, Dad. I thought the guys could
dialog: hang out with themselves.
text: They offer up a trio of hellos. Alice turns to Mark.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Did you bring your sketchbook to the
dialog: ceremony. I'd love to see what you did
dialog: to D.W.
speaker_heading: MR. GREY
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: D.W. Yates. The Principal.
text: He looks to Mark, who goes sheepish, then fesses up.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Uh, Dickweed, sir.
text: Mark's dad isn't too amused.
speaker_heading: MR. GREY
dialog: Uh huh... I hope you had time to finish
dialog: those cross-sections I asked for.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Can we get into that later, Dad?
text: There is an awkward beat as everyone falls quiet.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Good to see you again, Mr. Grey.
dialog: (begs off)
dialog: I've got to go find Dan.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Yeah, before they revoke his diploma.
text: As Alice turns away, the cheerful face she put on dissolves
text: and we see that underneath she's still on the edge.
text: FOLLOW ALICE through the crowd. Suddenly, a DARK SHAPE looms
text: up behind her, lifting her in a bear hug. Alice jumps,
text: startled. As the big arms twirl her around she comes face to
text: face with Dan. He smiles.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hi, beautiful.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Jesus! Don't do that!
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Sorry, babe.
text: He sets her down, his feelings hurt. Alice recovers.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Me too. Give me a kiss.
text: He plants one on her lips. Then...
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Got a present for you.
text: He reaches into a pocket beneath his gown. Grins as he hands
text: her two AIRPLANE TICKETS tied with a ribbon. She tries to be
text: enthusiastic, but doesn't come off.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: The tickets.
speaker_heading: DAN
text: They're coach seats, but the plane lands
dialog: in Paris. It's gonna be a helluva
dialog: summer, hon!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I know.
text: Dan's well-acquainted with Alice's moods. He turns to her
dialog: with a lover's required patience.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Okay, babe. What's the matter?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Nothing...it's just...I didn't see my
dialog: father at the ceremony.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: He'll show up. C'mon, what's really
dialog: wrong?
text: Alice hesitates.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I had one of those dreams last night.
text: Dan's face grows concerned.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: About him?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No. Well, not exactly...it's that...I
dialog: felt like I wasn't in control. For the
dialog: first time since...all that. I'm scared.
text: Dan gives her a reassuring hug.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: You stopped it didn't you? It was
dialog: probably just a regular bad dream.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah...I guess.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: You don't dream him up, he can't hurt
dialog: you. Or me. Or us. Remember...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You're right.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: There you go.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Love you.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Me too.
text: Suddenly, MR. JORDAN, Dan's robust middle-aged father,
text: approaches through the crowd, excited.
speaker_heading: MR. JORDAN
dialog: Dan, this is Coach Ostrow...
text: Dan's father drags a gruff-looking, crew-cutted man INTO
text: SHOT. Dan's mother brings up the rear.
speaker_heading: MR. JORDAN (cont'd)
dialog: (conspiratorially to Dan)
dialog: He's interviewing this week.
dialog: (to coach)
dialog: Coach, you're looking at the stat's
dialog: finest quarterback. You know what they
dialog: say = this boy feels the need for speed.
speaker_heading: OSTROW
dialog: So I've hear.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Dad, summer's just starting --
text: Mr. Jordan starts to lead Dan away.
speaker_heading: MR. JORDAN
dialog: We're talking about your future.
text: Mrs. Jordan shoots a less than friendly look at Alice.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: Excuse us, dear.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's okay, Dan
text: Dan and his parents move away with the coach. Alice stares
text: after them as they disappear into the crowd. Turns away...
speaker_heading: AT THE FOUNTAIN
text: A wall of people moves away and Alice finds herself among
text: Yvonne, Greta and Mark again. Mark is answering Greta.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: That club sucks, they card everybody.
dialog: Let's just party at your place.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: You know my mother -- get real. What
dialog: about Alice's?
text: Alice shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: My dad's got this thing about drinking in
dialog: the house.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Well we gotta do something!
text: Yvonne shares an amused look with Alice, then steps in takes
dialog: control.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: All right kids, I tell you what we're
dialog: gonna do. I've got swimming practice
dialog: until six-thirty today...
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: (trying to follow)
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: That means they're gonna give me the key
dialog: to the pool so I can lock up when I'm
dialog: done.
text: Mark's face lights up. He goes off like a joy bomb.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Pool party! I dig it! Babes in wet T-
dialog: shirts. No -- topless! Fucking heaven!
text: The three girls look at each other, annoyed. Then break out
text: in mischievous grins.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: The Y, the A...
speaker_heading: GRETA & YVONNE
dialog: Don't forget the G!
text: On cue, the girls all give Mark a SHOVE! He falls back, arms
text: flailing, and lands on his ass in the middle of the fountain!
text: Everyone nearby LAUGHS. Mark looks up at the girls,
dialog: innocent.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: What'd I say?
text: The girls help pull a chagrined Mark from the fountain.
text: Suddenly, Alice frowns, remembering something.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh, damn! I have to work tonight.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Tell Dan to bring you after.
dialog: (to Mark)
dialog: C'mon, let's get you mopped up.
speaker_heading: MR. GREY
dialog: Mark! Picture time. Come get
text: immortalized. Parents and brats.
dialog: All groan.
speaker_heading: RACINE GIBSON
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Greta! Photo opportunity, dear!
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Damn. They caught me, too. Guess I'd
dialog: better go gnash my thousand-dollar teeth
dialog: for the paparazzi.
text: Alice glances at her watch. Looks around for someone. Can't
text: find him. She looks a little more unhappy. As Mark, Greta,
dialog: and Yvonne prepare to go...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: you guys go ahead. I'll catch up with you
dialog: later.
speaker_heading: NEAR THE TREES
text: Alice trudges along, staring at the ground, unhappy.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Congratulations, Alice. You looked
dialog: beautiful up there. I'm so proud of
dialog: you...gee, thanks Dad.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: You do look beautiful.
text: Alice looks up, surprised. Her father stands before her,
text: near a tree. She smiles. Her father tentatively smiles
text: back; a gruff man, uncomfortable with emotional displays.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I was afraid you weren't coming.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: I watched from behind the stands. Didn't
dialog: want to embarrass you, ya know. "The
dialog: drunk showed up", that kind of thing...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's in the past. Unless you've
dialog: stopped going to the meetings.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: No. A deal's a deal.
text: He produces a wrapped present from behind his back.
text: Hesitates, awkward, then hands it at her. Alice's face
text: lights up as she stares at the package.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD (cont'd)
dialog: Well, go on. Open it.
text: She gleefully rips the paper off and opens the box. It's a
text: camera. She smiles, delighted and surprised.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Dad!
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: It's the model you've been saving up for.
dialog: I wanted you to have it for your trip.
text: Alice stares lovingly at him.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't give a damn what they might
dialog: think. You're terrific.
text: She gives him a kiss on the cheek. He tries to take it in
text: stride. She ponders him a second longer. Then takes his arm
text: and begins to lead him toward the foundation.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: Where are we going?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: To take a picture.
text: ANGLE ON PARENTS AND KIDS
text: lining up for a group photo. Alice and her father ENTER
text: SHOT. Alice hands her camera to someone just OFF SCREEN. We
text: see them all taking places, changing their minds, moving next
text: to someone else. Mark's father puts a big arm around Greta's
text: mother. Beams, unaware of the horror and distaste that just
text: leapt onto Racine's face.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT - LATER
text: Parents and off spring are moving toward their cars. CAMERA
text: PANS across the crowd to...
speaker_heading: ALICE AND DAN
text: hugging. Her father stands a few feet away.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Call me when your shift ends.
text: Alice nods. Dan shakes her father's hand.
speaker_heading: DAN (cont'd)
dialog: Goodbye, sir. I'll have her home by
dialog: August.
text: Alice's father frowns.
speaker_heading: DAN (cont'd)
dialog: Just kidding.
text: Dan smiles at Alice and heads off. Alice hands her gown and
text: flowers to her father as he opens the car door.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Thanks for everything, Dad.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: You sure you don't want a ride to work?
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: It's just across the park.
text: He climbs into the car. Smiles his gruff smile.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: Okay, angel. Have fun tonight.
text: Alice waves goodbye as he starts the car.
scene_heading: EXT. SPRINGWOOD - DUSK
text: Alice walks down an empty street. Perhaps too empty to be
text: right. There is a faint SING-SONG NOISE, but it's not yet
dialog: discernible as anything.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: gives a faint look of ominous recognition.
speaker_heading: ON THE STREET
text: Alice passes the entrance to the park.
scene_heading: INT. PARK - ALICE'S POV
text: Groups of kids are playing on the swings, in the sandbox, on
text: the slide. The SING-SONG continues.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: sees something.
scene_heading: ALICE'S POV - PAST THE OTHER CHILDREN
text: The ELM STREET CHILDREN play their ominous rope games... The
text: SING-SONG becomes identifiable now. It's the Elm Street
dialog: Children's Anthem... "three four, better shut the door..."
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: Her face hardens with resolve.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No. This isn't going to happen.
text: She closes her eyes tight. Then opens them again.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: Worse now. All the normal children are gone. Only the Elm
text: Street Kids remain...playing their endless games.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: grows more determined. Heads into the park. CAMERA STAYS
text: WITH HER as she moves with increasing speed.
scene_heading: THE ELM STREET CHILDREN
text: always managing to somehow stay one turn ahead of her.
speaker_heading: THE PARK
text: itself has taken on a foreboding darkness. The trees cast
text: oddly elongated shadows.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: has left the path. She moves rapidly now through branches
text: that tear at her clothing and her face. Soon she is running
text: blindly in the direction of the ever present VOICES. She
text: breaks through some bushes and finds herself in a...
speaker_heading: CLEARING
text: An open green in the center of the park. She is all alone...
text: and the effect, even to the color of the grass at her feet,
text: is dreamlike. The VOICES have ceased.
scene_heading: ALICE'S POV - IN A 360 PAN
text: There is nothing but the green common with the trees and
dialog: brush all around it...
text: But from somewhere nearby, she hears the chanting VOICES
dialog: they've added a new couplet.
speaker_heading: VOICES
dialog: Nine ten, Freddy's back again...
text: CAMERA CONTINUES IN A SECOND 360
text: And now, where there was foliage a moment ago we see a set of
text: GOTHIC STEPS, framing a SILHOUETTED NUN.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: stares with intrigue as the children's voices fade.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON THE STEPS - LOOKING DOWN
text: past stone GARGOYLES in the FOREGROUND. The nun hurries up
text: the steps toward CAMERA, her face obscured by her habit's
text: veil. As the nun moves PAST CAMERA we see Alice, at the
text: bottom of the steps, hurrying after her.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Wait!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON ASYLUM DOORS
text: at the top of the steps as the nun moves inside.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON STEPS - FROM INSIDE DOOR
text: Alice runs up, INTO SHOT. Stops. Glances up at something
text: high above her.
text: ON THE ASYLUM TOWER
text: rising toward the sky. Immense and imposing. Three windows
text: set in a row at the very top, are it's only features.
text: REVERSE ANGEL - LOOKING DOWN AT THE STEPS
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CONVENT - NIGHT
text: Completely deserted. Alice moves slowly down a seemingly
text: endless corridor. She passes a deserted reception area, then
text: an empty nurses station. Open doors lead into frightening
text: pits of darkness all along the hallway.
text: INTERCUT Alice's pensive watchful face with the shadowy
dialog: ominous world through which she is walking. We just know
dialog: that something really nasty is going to happen. As she
text: passes an open doorway, she hears a strange, animal SOUND
text: form the room within. She pauses, looks inside, then recoils
text: with shock as she sees a sheep, it's mouth all bloody,
text: standing with it's lamb, near the carcass of a large, dead
text: snake. Suddenly she hears the sound of rusty wheels and
text: whirls around to see:
scene_heading: A FREDDYESQUE BABY STROLLER
text: black, ominous looking, rusting, rolls slowly down the
text: corridor toward Alice from behind. As it moves toward
dialog: CAMERA, PAN WITH IT TO...
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: as she backs against the wall watching the evil pram roll
text: past. Then Alice notices something beyond it, far down the
text: corridor. CAMERA follows her gaze to...
speaker_heading: THE NUN
text: hurrying SOUNDLESSLY through a doorway. We only catch a
text: glimpse of her as she disappears from view.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: reacts. Runs past the stroller towards the nun.
text: THE WHITE OF A NUN'S HABIT SWIRLS OUT OF CAMERA to reveal
dialog: staircase.
text: SHOOTING FROM OVERHEAD as Alice moves INTO FRAME and starts
text: up the staircase.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: Moving up. There is a SQUEAKY ECHO OF WHEELS OFF-SCREEN.
scene_heading: ON ALICE FROM BELOW
text: as she turns to look down.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: as she looks back up the stairs. She takes one step forward
dialog: and...
speaker_heading: WHAM!!
text: She's yanked down OUT OF FRAME!
scene_heading: A SET OF DOUBLE DOORS
text: BANGS open. Alice lies on a gurney, her head tilted back to
text: face the CAMERA mounted behind her head. The gurney races
text: down a corridor, pushed by a dirty, unshaven, orderly.
dialog: BANG!!
text: She is pushed through another set of doors into
scene_heading: INT. DELIVERY ROOM
text: WHITE HABITED NURSES, AIDES, and DOCTORS all crowd around and
text: peer down at her.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: looks around, horrified and confused.
speaker_heading: A DOCTOR
text: leans down toward her.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: There's nothing to be afraid of. Just do
dialog: exactly what I say.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: sits bolt upright on the gurney.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No!!!!!
speaker_heading: HER POV PANNING
text: The crowd of spectators...orderlies, nurses and doctors, have
text: all backed away and now crowd the walls of the room. STOP ON
text: ALICE AMONG THEM AND TRACK INTO CLOSE UP. (Alice is still in
dialog: hospital gown.)
speaker_heading: ALICE (IN THE SPECTATORS)
text: Her eyes lock with...
speaker_heading: AMANDA KRUEGER'S
text: who is now the one on the gurney, about to give birth.
speaker_heading: AMANDA
dialog: Help me...why is this happening again?
dialog: Please! Don't let him do this...
text: A painful contraction wracks her body.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: tries to understand the meaning of her words.
speaker_heading: AMANDA
text: is now lost in the agony of Freddy's birth.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Don't panic, sister. We've got a breach
dialog: birth here. It's backwards. I'm going to
dialog: have to turn it around. Okay.
dialog: Deep breath. Here we go. I need you to
dialog: push...now! Push!
dialog: The birth proceeds.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR (cont'd)
dialog: Holy shit!! What is it?!
speaker_heading: A NUN
text: stands, holding something in swaddling (which obscures the
text: thing from her view. She addresses her answer to Amanda.)
speaker_heading: NUN
dialog: This is still one of God's creatures, you
dialog: know. Take solace in that.
speaker_heading: AMANDA
text: struggles upright on the operating table. She is drenched in
text: sweat and clearly terrified. She stares directly into the
text: eyes of the nun holding the swaddled bundle.
speaker_heading: AMANDA
dialog: That is no creature of God!
speaker_heading: THE NUN
text: gazes at Amanda, shocked by her words. She starts to speak.
text: Suddenly, the swaddled bundle begins to kick and beat
text: furiously. The nun fights to keep hold of it, but the bundle
text: struggles free from her grasp and falls under the gurney. In
text: a second, it scuttles into the shadows.
text: We hear a horrible BRAYING SOUND.
speaker_heading: THE ORDERLIES
text: involuntarily step back, staring at the thing on the floor.
text: Then general panic sets in.
speaker_heading: AMANDA (cont'd)
dialog: Stop it! Give it to me!
text: A few orderlies scramble to close the doors. Some bolt
text: through them, racing to get away from the thing on the floor.
text: Bedlam reigns as people shout and rush around.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: watches, transfixed. Then...
speaker_heading: BABY FREDDY'S POV
text: streaking towards Alice. He scuttled between her legs and
text: out through the double doors.
speaker_heading: AMANDA (0.S. cont'd)
dialog: Don't let it get away!
speaker_heading: THE DOUBLE DOORS
text: swing closed. PAN to Alice, as she gets back to her feet and
dialog: turns.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: The delivery room is empty.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: turns back to the doors. She moves slowly and deliberately.
scene_heading: THE DOORS - ALICE'S POV
text: CAMERA moves toward them.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: scared but determined. She stops in front of them.
speaker_heading: THE DOORS
dialog: HOLD LONG ENOUGH so that we're dead sure something evil is
text: going to jump right into Alice's face.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: takes a deep breath and reaches out to open the doors!
text: Nothing awful grabs her. Her expression changes to one of
text: horrified recognition.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH - OVER ALICE'S SHOULDER
dialog: where Freddy "died" in Nightmare Four. That horrible BRAYING
text: SOUND comes from somewhere nearby. TRACK WITH HER as she
text: starts into the church. CRANE UP OVER HER to reveal the
text: church in all its horrid glory, full of Freddyized church
text: artifacts. There is no sign of the "baby."
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: moving past row after row of pews. There are SLIMY, GULPING
text: NOISES now, SOUNDS even more unspeakably unpleasant that the
dialog: thing's BRAYING.
text: The SOUNDS echo in a way that tells Alice nothing about where
dialog: they're coming from. The thing could be anywhere.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: ain't to happy about that!
speaker_heading: NEAR THE ALTAR
text: Freddy's fetid remains lie in a crumpled heap. We recognize
text: bits of striped sweater. A claw catches a stray bit of light
text: from somewhere. In the distance, Alice moves slowly forward.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: stops for a moment...staring at the place she thought she
dialog: left her nightmare forever.
text: There is a SLITHERING SOUND from the steps leading to the
dialog: altar!
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: watches in horror.
scene_heading: THE FETAL MONSTER - ALICE'S POV
text: now we see this "baby". It's shape is vaguely human, but
text: with the gleaming skin of a flayed goat. It seems to grow as
text: it moves. The thing slithers toward the decaying remains of
text: Freddy's signature outfit. All the while, its shape is
text: becoming more loathsomely human...
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: Her eyes widen as she realizes what is about to happen.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You can't make me bring you BACK!
speaker_heading: THE THING
text: begins to crawl in through on of Freddy's pants legs.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: runs toward the altar.
text: There is an EAR-SPLITTING NOISE OF WOOD BEING RIPPED AWAY.
speaker_heading: THE ALTAR
text: rise from the floor. The floorboards begin to tilt up toward
text: Alice as they are torn from their foundation.
text: The angle of the rising floor throws Alice back. She looks
text: at the altar.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: It continues to rise, preventing her from reaching it.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: can only desperately, impotently try to crawl "uphill"
text: through the dust and smoke towards the impending
text: resurrection, powerless to prevent it.
speaker_heading: WE INTERCUT
text: Alice's struggle to reach Freddy before he is "resurrected"
dialog: with...
text: SPLINTERING WOOD; SHATTERING GLASS; the RISING ALTAR.
text: CLOSE SHOTS of bits and pieces of Freddy's metamorphosis seen
text: through the growing dust of the crumbling church, as that
dialog: embryonic thing GROWS...into clothes...into the glove...into
dialog: the body.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: struggles, but there is no way she can even reach the altar,
dialog: and God knows what she could do even if she did get there.
speaker_heading: ONE FINAL CLOSE UP
text: of Freddy's mid-section, stretching fully into shape. And
dialog: then, suddenly...
text: The floor falls back into its level position with a dust
text: raising THUD. Alice hits the ground. HARD.
text: SILENCE. And dust. Then.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: raises herself up off the floor. Looks around.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: Nothing but dust and smoke, back-lit by light streaming in
text: through the broken stained glass windows.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: in BACKGROUND, through the smoke as...in EXTREME FOREGROUND
text: CLOSE-UP, the charred remains of a hand, reconstructing
text: itself, reaches down and slips into the glove.
speaker_heading: ON ALICE
text: as she hears the GHASTLY SCRAPING SOUND of Freddy's claws.
speaker_heading: THE ALTAR - ALICE'S POV
text: Nothing but the settling dust...and somewhere behind it, a
text: figure silhouetted in the shadows.
speaker_heading: FREDDY EMERGES
text: standing in front of the pulpit with his arms raised in an
text: ultimate mockery of the resurrection.
text: He looks even a little more grotesque than usual. Misshapen,
text: like the Crooked Man. His arms and legs aren't quite the
text: same length. The joints are twisted so that nothing in his
text: body seems aligned. Nevertheless, he smiles at Alice, and
dialog: his smile's more malevolent then ever.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: It's a boy.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: backs away from him, frightened...and angry. Freddy's not in
text: a very good mood, either. The two circle each other, keeping
dialog: their distance.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You can't come back! I locked the door
dialog: on you!
text: Freddy laughs, a dry rasping cackle. Takes a step closer to
text: her. Terrified, Alice reflexively strikes out. But Freddy
text: vanishes. His chilling laugh echoes around the church walls.
text: Alice follows that laughter with her frightened eyes,
text: searching for him. Suddenly...
text: Freddy appears right behind her. He slips his arm around her
text: waist and caresses her tummy with his clawed hand.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: But I found the key!
text: Alice almost jumps out of her skin. She spins around to see
text: Freddy throw his head back and CACKLE...then a shaft of light
text: comes through the rear doors of the church. Freddy turns
text: toward it. His laughter abruptly dies.
text: Alice faces the doors too.
speaker_heading: AMANDA KRUEGER
text: in her nun's habit, gazes at them from a room beyond the
text: doors. She is RIMLIT, caught in the light streaming from
text: THREE WINDOWS behind her. She points an accusing finger at
text: Freddy. (Amanda speaks in the austere voice of a young
text: woman, though it is the same actress playing Amanda
dialog: throughout.)
speaker_heading: AMANDA
dialog: Your birth was a curse on humanity. But
dialog: the more evil that was in me is no more.
dialog: I will not allow this to happen again.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: makes a sound of PURE HATRED as he glares at his mother.
text: He's almost beside himself with rage as...
speaker_heading: AMANDA
text: turns to Alice.
speaker_heading: AMANDA (cont'd)
dialog: Bring him home.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: starts to move towards Amanda. Picks up her pace as she
dialog: goes.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Home? How? Where?
speaker_heading: ON AMANDA AND ALICE
text: as Alice now RUNS toward her.
speaker_heading: AMANDA
dialog: Rid yourself of...
text: But just as Alice is about to reach the doors, they SLAM
text: CLOSED in her face.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No!
text: Alice struggles to get the big doors open. When she does,
text: she hurries through only to find herself...
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN - NIGHT
text: ...walking through the diner's front door. (She's back in
text: her street clothes.) The place is empty. Too empty. We're
text: certain that Alice is still in her nightmare. She looks
text: around. Puzzled. Completely freaked out. She feels the
text: counter and furniture, checking out the "reality" of the
dialog: place.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: (near shout)
dialog: Alice! Where've you been?
text: Alice damn near jumps out of her skin. Spins around! It's
text: ANNE, a classmate and co-worker of Alice's. She's pretty
text: pissed off. Relieved, Alice starts to break down. She's
text: obviously disturbed and frightened.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Anne! Oh god, I'm glad it's you. It was
dialog: terrible.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: You're hours late.
text: She throws her apron at Alice. WHIP PAN with the apron to
text: Alice. She's genuinely stunned.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Hours? Last thing I remember was
dialog: crossing the park...
text: She looks at the clock. It's after midnight. Anne angrily
text: gathers her things.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: The party'll be history by the time I get
dialog: there... Great!
text: Alice just stands there, stunned. Anne shakes her head and
text: moves toward the door.
speaker_heading: ANNE (cont'd)
dialog: I wish I could get a prescription for
dialog: whatever you're on.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (not hearing)
dialog: ...what?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: I said thanks a lot, Alice. For nada!
text: The door slams as Anne goes out. Alice reaches for the
dialog: telephone.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT
text: A raucous pool party in full swing. People are splashing
text: around in the water. Some dive from pool's edge to
text: cannonball their friends. Laughter. Chatter. And the blare
text: of loud ROCK MUSIC fills the air. Suddenly...
scene_heading: A GIRL'S BLOODCURDLING SCREAM
text: rises above the cacophony. People scatter to get the hell
dialog: out of the way as...
speaker_heading: YVONNE
text: leaping off the high-dive, plunges like a graceful comet
text: toward the water's surface. Strikes the water where everyone
dialog: else used to be.
text: She comes to the surface and swims to the pool's edge amid
text: applause from the others. As she climbs from the water,
text: FOLLOW HER through the swirling crowd of partying teens to
speaker_heading: DAN AND MARK
text: Dan sleepily lies in a lounge chair. An unopened bottle of
text: champagne, decked with a ribbon, rests beside him. Mark is
text: busy sketching in his book -- a "big hunk" with his arms
text: around two "babes". He takes a sip of beer.
text: Greta sits next to them in a gorgeous bikini. She reaches
text: into an ice chest and hands Dan a beer.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: So what did your dad say about you and
dialog: Alice going to Europe?
text: Dan passes the beer to Mark, who lines it up next to the one
dialog: he's already got.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Not much. He mostly screamed. Thinks
dialog: I'm throwing my life away.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Who's throwing their life away?
text: Yvonne towels off herself as she tries to catch up on the
dialog: conversation.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Dan. And he's taking Alice with him --
dialog: pretty good dive Yvonne. You've been
dialog: practicing.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Two hours a day, six days a week.
text: Greta offers a beer to Yvonne.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Have another one, sounds like you need
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Naah, I'm done. Got to be on shift in a
dialog: couple hours.
dialog: (gesturing to pool)
dialog: Aren't you going in?
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Nah. It's getting too cold for me, and
dialog: my wonderful mother will kill me if I
dialog: screw up my hair. She's got some model
dialog: agency guy coming to dinner tomorrow
dialog: night.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Don't you ever get tired of your mom
dialog: trying to run your life?
text: The others turn toward him. Mark and Greta know just what
text: Dan means. Yvonne shrugs, matter of factly.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Don't let 'em.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Sure, no problem.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: He's right. Sometimes I feel like I'm
dialog: living with Melicertes.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Oh, he was this ancient guy I read about
dialog: who like, killed his kids 'cause they
dialog: didn't want to run the kingdom the way he
dialog: thought they should.
text: Greta stares at him, blown away.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: You're weird, you know that?
text: There is a beat, as all ponder this in silence. Then Mark
text: breaks their reverie. Grabs Dan's champagne.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Screw 'em. Open the champagne. Let's
dialog: have a party.
text: Dan grabs the bottle away.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hands off squirrel. That's for me and
dialog: Alice...for later.
text: Behind them we hear the SOUND of a glass breaking O.S.,
text: followed by a loud OUCH! They turn toward the sound.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON POOL'S EDGE
text: One of their classmates clutches his foot in pain, then pulls
text: a piece of broken glass out. BLOOD pours out of the wound.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON MARK, DAN, GRETA AND YVONNE
text: Everyone cringes. But Mark really reacts. He turns PALE.
text: Closing his eyes tight.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Oh man! I could've gone all night
dialog: without looking at that.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: I don't believe this... All that gore you
dialog: paint in the comics and you're squeamish?
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Just a little blood, guy.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Red ink I can handle by the bucket load.
dialog: The real stuff makes me... you know.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (joking)
dialog: Vomit?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Faint.
text: Dan shakes his head at Mark's sensitivity. He closes his
text: eyes and leans back on the lounge chair as a JOCK approaches
text: the group. Greta pats Mark on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: You can look now, it's safe.
text: Mark opens his eyes as the Jock leans toward them.
speaker_heading: JOCK
dialog: Yo, Dan. Telephone.
text: Dan nods. Sets the bottle down and begins to head away.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: I'll be right back -- and don't mess with
dialog: the bottle.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: We'll guard it with our lives.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN - NIGHT
text: Alice talks on the telephone - trying to remain calm.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It was him.
dialog: (she pauses)
dialog: I was awake when it happened. Do you
dialog: understand what I'm saying? He must have
dialog: dreamt himself up...Jesus, Dan...I'm
dialog: scared.
text: She listens. Seems to feel a little relief.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: I will...just hurry, okay?
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT
text: Mark sits next to Greta, showing her his sketchbook. Yvonne
text: is stretched out in Dan's lounge chair. Dan hurriedly
text: approaches and yanks his jacket from the back of the chair,
text: pulling Yvonne up a couple inches.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Somebody die?
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Nah. I just gotta go.
text: Mark turns to Greta with a knowing grin.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: Alice beckons.
text: Dan starts to hurry away. Mark calls to him.
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
dialog: Hey, Romeo. You forgot the secret
dialog: ingredient.
text: Dan stops. Mark hefts the champagne. Dan grabs it, almost
text: in afterthought and rushes away.
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
text: There he goes, the fast man on three
dialog: legs.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT
text: Dan's truck speeds along a deserted stretch of road.
speaker_heading: IN THE TRUCK
text: Dan is at the wheel. He looks intense, worried about Alice.
text: He's also very tired. The VOICE of an abrasive TALK RADIO DJ
text: fills the cab. We listen to him while Dan fights to keep his
text: eyes open.
speaker_heading: D.J. (O.S.)
dialog: Right, lady...and Elvis killed Marilyn
dialog: 'cause the Kennedy's put fluoride in his
dialog: water. WHAT'S THE MATTER, LADY...DID YOU
dialog: GO OFF YOUR MEDICATION?!
text: He hangs up on her. PUSH IN CLOSER and CLOSER on Dan as this
text: conversation continues.
speaker_heading: D.J. (O.S. cont'd)
dialog: Jesus...is there anyone out there with a
dialog: functioning brain that wants to talk to
dialog: me?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Line two...you're on the air.
text: Dan's eyes close for a second. There is an eerie BUZZ and
text: STATIC from the radio.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN (O.S.)
dialog: I'm calling about my wayward ex-son
dialog: Daniel, who has just acted like on
dialog: ungrateful, unmanageable Dickweed, ever
dialog: since he was seduced by this bimbo, slut-
dialog: whore, Alice...
text: Dan's eyes open and he stares in shock at the radio which has
text: transformed itself into a rusting antique.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Mom...?
text: Then another voice comes to him through the radio.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (O.S.)
dialog: If I were you lady, I'd kill the
dialog: ungrateful piggy!
speaker_heading: THE RADIO
text: changes from "talk show" to a BLARINGLY LOUD HEAVY METAL
dialog: STATION. Les's brilliant speed metal masterpiece "Fast Track
dialog: To Hell" fills the car.
speaker_heading: DAN
text: stares down at the radio. His confusion has given way to
dialog: fear.
speaker_heading: THE SEAT BELTS
text: snake out to impossible length, wrapping around his arms.
text: Dan manages to keep his right hand free, but the belts wind
text: around the rest of his body, pinning his left arm uselessly
text: to his chest.
speaker_heading: THE TRUCK
text: crosses over onto the center divider, out of control.
text: CLOSE ON GAS AND BRAKE PEDALS
text: Dan tries to hit the brakes. But as his foot comes off the
text: accelerator, the BRAKE PEDAL snakes around and slams down on
text: top of his foot, pushing the accelerator to the floor.
speaker_heading: DAN
text: winces in pain. Wrenches his left arm free of the belts and
text: grabs the wheel. Desperately reaches with his right for the
text: GEAR SHIFT, which ducks away from his groping hand like a
text: darting cobra.
speaker_heading: THE TRUCK
text: lurches across the center divider and charges into the
dialog: oncoming traffic!
speaker_heading: DAN
text: hunts wildly for the elusive gear shift. Hears a LOUD POP
text: from inside the cab. He looks over...
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: is now sitting in the passenger seat, clutching Dan's bottle
text: of champagne. His side of the truck is now "Freddyized". He
text: takes a huge gulp of champagne. Then...spits it out. It
text: hits the dash, SIZZLING like ACID. More of it runs down his
text: arm and shoulder. It's smoking, too. He turns to Dan.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Bad year.
speaker_heading: DAN
text: some of the drops hit him, burning his chest and arms. Dan
speaker_heading: SCREAMS!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: His striped jersey begins to smoke as the shoulder socket
text: melts away. Freddy grins. Turns to Dan.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Better buckle up.
scene_heading: LOW ANGLE ON FREDDY
text: as he reaches with his left arm and RIPS his right arm off.
text: Then he welds the smoking socket onto the doorjam above the
text: corner of the passenger window... and pulls his on his CLAW.
text: His arm STRETCHES like an extending seatbelt. He hooks his
text: claw into a "Freddy buckle" at his waist.
speaker_heading: DAN
text: has been watching all this in horror. Suddenly...he hears a
text: loud HONK. WHIP PAN with Dan to his POV through the
text: windshield as the BRIGHT LIGHTS of an approaching truck WHITE
speaker_heading: OUT OF FRAME.
scene_heading: TRACKING TOWARDS DAN
text: as he looks down at the gear shift lever.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON HIS HAND
text: slamming the lever into REVERSE.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON DAN'S TRUCK TIRE
text: skidding on the pavement. Burning rubber. Starting to melt
dialog: as the brakes lock!
speaker_heading: DAN
text: is slammed headfirst through the windshield. Shattering
text: glass EXPLODES all around him, as Dan flies over the hood!
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT
scene_heading: CLOSE ON CEMENT AT POOL'S EDGE
text: Dan slams down INTO SHOT, bouncing on the hard ground. His
text: lounge chair tumbles after him. Dan's entire body is
text: lacerated with small cuts, his hair is singed and what's left
text: of his clothes are tattered, smoking shreds.
text: He manages to untangle himself from the overturned chair and
text: get to his feet. Somewhere a telephone is RINGING. That's
dialog: what must have awakened him in time to save his life.
text: Dan looks around, dazed. The pool is empty. The party has
text: broken up. Dan turns toward the ringing phone.
text: Behind him is a glassed in cubicle/office. The ringing phone
text: sits on a desk inside. Dan tries the door. Locked. Then
text: suddenly comes to his senses in recognition.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Alice!....
text: Dan turns, and charges toward the parking lot.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPUS PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: DAN'S TRUCK in the FOREGROUND. Beside it sits a gleaming
text: MOTORCYCLE. Dan comes running INTO SHOT, searching himself
dialog: for his keys. Can't find them.
text: He tries to open the truck's door. Locked. He slams the
text: hand against it in frustration. Then notices the Yamaha
dialog: 1200.
text: Its key is snugly in the ignition slot, like an invitation.
text: Dan hops on the bike. Turns the key, and kick-starts the
text: monster. The engine jumps to life.
text: AT THE PARKING LOT EXIT
text: From across the lot we see Dan and bike charging toward us.
text: He roars PAST CAMERA and screeches onto the street.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Dan guns the bike's motor and races toward the Crave-Inn.
dialog: Suddenly...
speaker_heading: THE ENGINE
text: gives a terrific GROWL. The bike's front end comes off the
text: ground as the bike goes into a wheelie, then accelerates down
text: the street at an outrageous speed.
speaker_heading: DAN
text: frantically dodges several cars, swerving into the oncoming
text: lane to pass one, then careening back to avoid a pair of
text: looming headlights. Dan looks down at the instrument panel.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON PANEL
text: All the gauges are RED LINED.
speaker_heading: DAN'S FACE
text: begins to distort with the G-FORCE of this impossible ride.
text: The bike just keeps increasing speed.
scene_heading: THE INSTRUMENT PANEL
text: goes out of control. The gauges swing erratically. They
text: begin to speed up dizzyingly, then...
speaker_heading: THE PANEL EXPLODES!
text: Its cover flies away in shards revealing a frenzied
text: collection of MOVING WIRES and BLINKING LIGHTS beneath.
text: The wires and lights begin to ungulate in an evolution of
text: patterns. Soon we realize a FACE is beginning to form out of
text: this tangled, sparking mess.
speaker_heading: THE BIKE
text: is moving so fast now the other cares are only passing blurs.
text: Dan slaloms through them at an impossible rate.
scene_heading: THE INSTRUMENT PANEL
text: continues to metamorphasize. Wires spark and leap as they
text: wind in and around each other. Lights at the top move toward
text: the center to form two eyes.
text: Shards of sparking metal marshal themselves into two rows of
dialog: electric teeth.
text: Other wires form cheekbones, lips, and the sickeningly
text: recognizable scar patterns of Freddy's skin.
dialog: And that's just what we're looking at...
speaker_heading: CYBERNETIC FREDDY!
text: His electric eyes stare up at Dan's frightened face with the
text: glee of anticipation. He speaks with Mr. Jordan's voice.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Time to feel the need for speed,
dialog: Dickweed!
speaker_heading: DAN
text: stares down at the face in horror. Then he sees something
dialog: really bad...
speaker_heading: DAN'S POV
text: his right hand clutches the handlebar/throttle. Cables feed
text: out from the brake and throttle grip and PLUNGE INTO HIS HAND
text: with a smoking SIZZLE, attaching him to the machinery. His
text: skin begins to undulate and BUBBLE UP.
speaker_heading: WHIP PAN
text: To Dan's left hand. Cables have melded with his bubbling
dialog: flesh there, too.
speaker_heading: CAMERA CRANES DOWN
text: across the side of the bike, where the gas tank is starting
text: to transform into a hideous living creature/machine.
text: Distended ribs protrude. The gas tank/torso begins to
text: undulate as it breathes...
speaker_heading: CAMERA CONTINUES DOWN
text: toward the cylinders, which stretch and begin to breathe,
text: then comes to rest between them and the whirring spokes of
dialog: the front wheel. Then...
speaker_heading: CAMERA PANS UP
text: and we see Dan from below the handlebars. Through the
text: tatters of his shredded clothes we see more cracking,
text: bubbling skin. His face is wracked with torture and
text: something beyond even horror. Suddenly...
speaker_heading: THE HANDLEBARS
text: now joined completely to Dan's hands, THRUST DOWNWARD,
text: slamming his chest to the body of the bike. Dan stares into
text: Freddy's robotic face, now an inch from his own.
speaker_heading: CAMERA TRACKS
text: from left to right, passing beneath the breathing cylinders.
text: The highway blurs below us. The CAMERA emerges on the left
text: side of the bike, looking back toward Dan's left leg.
speaker_heading: THE EXHAUST PIPE
text: is merging with Dan's leg. Growing into it, as Dan's skin
text: continues to bubble, and billow up, then peel off...
dialog: TILT UP TO DAN'S FACE
text: and now we realize that Dan has become a MACHINE/MAN, like a
text: butterfly emerging from its cocoon.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON DAN'S FACE
text: Only his eyes remain human. Dan struggles, continuing to
text: meld with the machine. He opens his mouth, forcing the
text: metallic skin to crack around the edges, and begins A LONG
text: HIDEOUS SCREAM.
scene_heading: CAMERA RAPIDLY PULLS BACK
text: to reveal a FULL SHOT of the FREDDY BIKE hurtling down the
text: street that has become nothing more than an abstract blur of
text: movement and light. Dan's SCREAM continues to build, forming
dialog: into a plea of terror...
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: AAAALICE!!!!
scene_heading: FREDDY'S FACE/INSTRUMENT PANEL
text: PUSH IN on Freddy's leering grin.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Don't dream and drive!
scene_heading: EXTREMELY CLOSE ON DAN'S EYES
text: looking down at Freddy.
text: A bright light washes over Dan's eyes; We hear an
text: EARSPLITTING DIESEL HORN! Dan looks up INTO CAMERA. Squints
dialog: against the light.
scene_heading: DAN'S POV FROM INSIDE DAN'S TRUCK
text: A MASSIVE DIESEL SEMI TRUCK hurtles toward CAMERA like a
dialog: juggernaut.
text: PULL BACK to reveal that the POV is now from inside Dan's
text: truck, staring out the windshield at the twin beams of an
dialog: APPROACHING SEMI!
text: CAMERA TILTS DOWN to Dan's unattended steering wheel...
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - FAST TRACK
text: through the windshield, IN SLOW MOTION. Dan frantically
dialog: tries to return his now human hands to the wheel...too late!
speaker_heading: DAN'S POV
text: the semi's BRIGHT CHROME RADIATOR FILLS THE SCREEN!
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN - NIGHT
scene_heading: CLOSE ON A HOT GRILL
text: as a HAMBURGER PATTY is dropped into it. The meat begins to
text: SIZZLE. A RADIO plays.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: she is pouring a late night CUSTOMER a cup of coffee.
text: Suddenly...the restaurant SOUNDS distort. She hears Dan's
text: VOICE calling her name. Alice snaps to as the coffee cup
text: she's filling overflows. She drops the pot of coffee. The
text: entire wall behind her changes to
scene_heading: AN EXTREME CLOSE-UP OF DAN'S RUSTED, NIGHTMARE FACE -
dialog: SCREAMING HER NAME!
text: Alice turns. Runs toward the wall.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Dan...
text: DAN'S HIDEOUS FACE PULLS AWAY as his DISTORTED, GROTESQUE
text: BODY goes flying backwards down a long MEMBRANOUS TUNNEL away
dialog: from Alice.
text: He disappears into the depths just as Alice reaches the wall.
text: She stretches out her hand...and the wall returns to reality.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: is wracked with a SPASM and PAIN! She clutches her stomach
text: and doubles over, as though she'd been kicked. She fights
text: the pain away. Then gets up and runs wildly to the street.
scene_heading: EXT. CRAVE INN - NIGHT
text: Alice charges out of the diner. Behind her, far down the
text: street, we can make out the silhouette of a JACK-KNIFED SEMI,
text: back-lit by the flames and smoke of DAN'S BURNING TRUCK! We
text: hear the BLARE of a jammed horn.
text: A SERIES OF JUMPCUTS BETWEEN Alice's face and her POV END
text: CLOSE ON HER FACE as she SCREAMS.
text: CAMERA TURNS WITH HER and FOLLOWS HER as she runs panicked,
text: toward it. The BLARING horn grows LOUDER.
text: As she nears the semi, the driver's door swings violently
text: open! A figure LURCHES from the cab. Grabs her as she moves
text: past. The momentum swings them both around.
speaker_heading: THE TRUCK DRIVER
text: his bloody face is lit by the burning wreck of Dan's truck.
text: His eyes are glazed and shocked. He SCREAMS madly into
text: Alice's face.
speaker_heading: TRUCK DRIVER
dialog: He came flying out of nowhere! Like he
dialog: was a fucking rocket! I didn't even see
dialog: him...
text: We hear a WALL of approaching SIRENS. Alice's tear-stained
text: face is strobed in a flashing red light as she looks past the
text: semi driver to see Dan's mangled body enmeshed in the
text: wreckage. As she tries to get to him his eyes snap open and
text: he looks straight at her.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: It was him!
text: Blood wells from his gaping wounds as he chokes and dies.
text: Her eyes begin to lose focus. In a moment...Alice collapses,
text: falling OUT OF FRAME...leaving only the black of the night
dialog: sky.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: BLACK. Then... Alice's rim-lit profile moves into frame.
text: Track around to reveal Yvonne working in the background.
dialog: Continue tracking to reveal that we're in an unlit hospital
text: room. What little light there is comes from the glass
text: observation window in the background.
text: Through the window we can see Alice's father conferring with
text: a DOCTOR, Dan's parents and TWO POLICE OFFICERS. Beyond them
text: we see traffic in the corridor. Alice's eyes open suddenly.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: It was him.
text: Yvonne hears her and comes over, leaning into frame.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: You're alright...It's okay, honey. I'm
dialog: right here.
text: Alice stares at Yvonne. Things are far from alright.
speaker_heading: YVONNE (cont'd)
dialog: Alice, Dan's been in an accident...
text: Alice shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (in a monotone)
dialog: It was no accident. It was Krueger. He
dialog: used to get in through my dreams, but not
dialog: anymore. He's found some other way.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Alice, it's no dream. I'm sorry...Dan's
dialog: dead.
text: Alice stares at her as her eyes fill with tears as she
text: remembers. As she starts crying she clutches Yvonne in a
text: desperate embrace. At the sound of her crying, Dr. Moore and
text: her father leave Dan's parents and approach Yvonne and Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: I'm so sorry, honey...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Daddy, he's coming back...Krueger's
dialog: coming back. Make them understand.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (looking at Dr. Moore
dialog: nervously)
dialog: Calm down. Take it easy. You're hitting
dialog: shock.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: Alice. The police found fragments of a
dialog: champagne bottle...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Dan didn't drink. You know that. It was
dialog: probably for me - to celebrate our trip.
text: Her father looks away, helpless. Dr. Moore turns to him and
text: speaks in a confidential, professionally calm voice.
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE
dialog: These sorts of outbursts aren't entirely
dialog: uncommon. Many women have them in the
dialog: first few weeks. Especially if they've
dialog: suffered a traumatic shock.
dialog: (to Alice)
dialog: But don't worry young lady, you're going
dialog: to be fine.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (getting increasingly
dialog: hysterical)
dialog: I won't be fine and neither will any of
dialog: my friends. We've got to do something.
dialog: Dan's already dead...Don't you see? He's
text: back and he's just getting started.
dialog: (as she remembers what Moore
dialog: just said)
dialog: What do you mean? What's he talking
dialog: about? What's wrong with me?
text: Yvonne speaks up, trying to be comforting.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Nothing.
text: She and Alice hold eyes for a beat. Everyone is silent.
speaker_heading: YVONNE (cont'd)
dialog: You're just a little pregnant.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: Stunned. She lies back, closing her eyes tightly. A tear
text: forms at the edge of one and spills down her cheek.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD (O.S.)
dialog: The doctor wants to keep you here
dialog: overnight...
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE (O.S.)
dialog: Just for routine observation. To make
dialog: sure you're as comfortable as possible.
text: Alice hasn't been listening. We hold on her troubled face as
text: she opens her eyes again, the full ramifications sinking in.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Dan's baby...
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL OBSERVATION ROOM - DAWN
text: Alice lies in bed, apparently asleep. The camera pans slowly
text: around the room. It is eerie in here now with the long
text: shadows of hospital equipment thrown across the walls by the
text: dimmed hallway lights.
text: The camera continues slowly, deliberately to move around the
text: room until we are on the OPEN doorway. STOP.
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: a boy of about six or seven years stands there, watching
text: Alice. He's frail. Other worldly. Not ghost-like, but
text: possessing a strange, transcendent quality.
text: He wears a white hospital robe and stands without moving,
text: just staring at Alice with a transfixed smile of happiness.
text: Alice's gaze at the ceiling slowly moves toward the child, as
text: though she were willed by some force to notice him.
text: She's startled at first by his presence. Then she realizes
text: he's only a boy. Even if he is a little odd.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Hey...wake up.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (tentative)
dialog: Huh?
text: They gaze at one another for a beat. They each seem to be
text: transfixed by each other.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Hi there.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: My name is Jacob.
text: She smiles. She waits. He just watches. He stands there in
dialog: the way that little kids have of feeling no need to fill a
text: silence with conversation.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Shouldn't you be in your room, Jacob?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: It's lonely in there, in my room.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: My name is...
dialog: He cuts her off with:
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I'm sorry your boyfriend got killed.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: How did you know that?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I could tell you were sad. I just wanted
dialog: to see if you were all right.
text: He smiles kind of shyly and turns. Alice calls after him.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Jacob. Wait. Don't go.
text: But he has already disappeared down the dark corridor. HOLD
text: ON Alice's troubled face.
scene_heading: EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY
text: Alice and Yvonne walk out of the building.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Have you visited the little boy on my
dialog: floor? Jacob, the one who looks kind of
dialog: sad?
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: There aren't any little boys on your
dialog: floor.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He must've wandered up from the
dialog: children's ward. I just wondered what
dialog: was wrong with him.
text: Yvonne shakes her head.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: We don't have a children's ward.
text: Alice stops. Puzzled.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: But he was wearing a hospital robe.
text: Yvonne looks at Alice with a mixture of impatience and
dialog: compassion.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: I don't know what to tell you.
text: Alice takes this in. Thinks about it. Yvonne looks a little
text: more concerned about Alice's state of mind.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Did everyone call everyone?
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (hesitant)
dialog: They're waiting for us...but let's keep
dialog: this dream stuff between you and me.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: pacing and speaking animatedly. CAMERA tracks with her.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Amanda Krueger was a part of a religious
dialog: order that ran that asylum. She was
dialog: raped and had the baby there in the
dialog: 1940's. That baby grew up to be Freddy
dialog: Krueger who murdered twenty or thirty
dialog: kids right here on Elm Street.
text: Mark, sitting at Greta's feet. He glances up from his
text: sketchbook, intrigued. Track back with Alice to...
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: He got caught but the courts cut him
text: loose on a technicality.
dialog: The parents of the murdered kids formed a
text: posse and killed him. Torched him.
text: Track to Greta. Hold on her disbelieving face. She lights
dialog: up a cigarette.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Cover girls couldn't smoke.
text: She blows smoke in his face.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But that was just the beginning. He
dialog: keeps on killing...only now he kills
dialog: people in their dreams, their nightmares.
dialog: And he uses my dreams to get to his
dialog: victims.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON GRETA AND YVONNE
text: exchanging dubious, concerned-for-Alice looks. Mark seems
text: incredulous. Keeps on sketching.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: I've got to write some of this down.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's why it's my fault Dan's dead.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Stop saying that, it's bullshit.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: I want to talk about the baby.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Yeah, congratulations...I guess.
text: Alice angrily cuts them off.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's not what we're here for!
text: There is a beat, then...
speaker_heading: YVONNE
text: Look. Dan's parents were pushing him.
text: Pushing him hard. He was bitching about
dialog: it at the party last night. He was under
dialog: pressure. We all are.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Pushy parents can make you more than a
dialog: bit crazy.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What's that got to do with it?
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: When Dan died you weren't even asleep.
dialog: You said so. End of story.
text: Alice glares at them, adamant.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Than he must have found another way.
text: Greta looks down at Mark's drawing: sees his comic book
text: sketch of the one-hundred maniacs.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Christ, Mark! Mister compassion.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Listen! This isn't a goddamn joke! He
dialog: gets in through my dreams -- somehow. I
dialog: thought I could control it, but
dialog: something's changed, and I don't know
dialog: what he'll do next.
text: Everyone stares at her. Not knowing what to say.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Look, we all liked Dan. And we love
dialog: you...
text: Great stands. Puts her hands on Alice's shoulders.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Bottom line, Alice. Anybody,
dialog: supernatural or not, that wants to hurt
dialog: you - he'll have to go through us first.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: All of us. Right?
text: Greta nods in agreement.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's what I'm afraid of.
dialog: Hold on Alice, then...
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Alice removes a couple of frozen microwave dinners from the
text: refrigerator and sets them on the counter.
text: While she does so, the CAMERA TRACKS around and as she leans
text: on the counter, we push in to reveal she is lost in thought,
text: tears forming in her eyes.
text: Her father comes in carrying a bag of groceries - healthy
dialog: stuff: veggies, chicken, fruit, Rye Crisp, juices. As he
text: comes in, Alice covers up her tears and turns away to put the
text: dinners in the oven. He obviously has something to say to
text: her in mind and the two of them talk simultaneously.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: How was the meeting?
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: Sobering...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Very funny.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: (unpacking groceries)
dialog: Alice...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Since when are you such a smart shopper?
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: Since my little girl became a mom...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You disappointed in me?
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: No, I'm not. I sort of hope it's a boy.
dialog: Be nice to have a boy playing in the
dialog: house again.
text: Alice looks at him, then hugs him. A beat. Her father
text: gently pries her away. Manages a little smile.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD (cont'd)
dialog: Just don't make a habit of it.
text: Alice smiles back. Reaches for the can opener.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: C'mon. Let's do salad.
scene_heading: INT. GRETA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON GRETA
text: from behind, sitting on the edge of her bed. All around her,
text: propped up on pillows, and covering her dresser and chairs,
text: are SEVERAL DOLLS. Some of which are clearly wind-up with
text: keys in their backs. Everything from Barbies to European
text: porcelain. Her mother's shrill voice comes from down the
text: hall as we hear her try to open Greta's locked bedroom door.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON (O.S.)
dialog: Greta...
text: CAMERA SLOWLY TRACKS until we are facing Greta and we see
text: that she is holding one of the delicate china dolls in her
text: hands. She stares at it, lost in thought. Her eyes move to
text: something at her feet.
speaker_heading: DOWN ANGLE
text: An 8X10 blow-up of the snapshot taken on graduation day lies
text: on the floor. In the center is Dan, surrounded by his
dialog: parents and friends.
speaker_heading: GRETA
text: contemplates the picture. Her eyes well up. A tear begins a
text: slow track down her cheek.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON (O.S. cont'd)
dialog: Our guests are waiting, dear.
dialog: Appearances, you know, let's not make
dialog: them impatient.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Flash 'em your boobs. The sight of all
dialog: that plastic ought to stun 'em for a
dialog: while.
dialog: (then calling out)
dialog: Coming Mother!
text: Greta pulls herself together. Wipes her eyes. Sets up the
text: china doll on the bedstand next to the photo. Gets up.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CHINA DOLL
text: in FOREGROUND as Greta moves to her bedroom door in
text: BACKGROUND and EXITS. As the door closes, the precariously
text: perched doll teeters then gently tumbles out of shot.
scene_heading: ON THE YEARBOOK - EXTREME SLOW MOTION
text: As the doll floats INTO SHOT, falling towards the photograph,
dialog: cracking apart on impact...
scene_heading: INT. GRETA'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON HANDS
text: opening a bottle of wine. The cork comes out with a muffled
text: pop and the hand begins to pour.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON (O.S.)
dialog: It's true, people are always mistaking us
dialog: for sisters.
speaker_heading: RACINE GIBSON
text: sits at the head of a massive table, hosting one of her
text: expensively catered dinner parties. Though she doesn't look
text: in the least like Greta's sister, the other guests nod and
text: titter politely.
text: The house is decorated in "modern pretentiousness" and the
text: guests match the spirit of the room. Greta sits at the
text: opposite end of the table from her mother, wearing a
text: beautiful white dress.
text: One of the guests turns from Greta to her mother.
speaker_heading: GUEST
dialog: Greta certainly has the perfect body for
dialog: modeling. You know, Eileen Ford's a
dialog: friend of mine.
dialog: (to Greta)
dialog: I told her about you. She's very
dialog: interested
text: Greta doesn't respond. Her mother's delighted.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: Greta, you're being offered the chance of
dialog: a lifetime! I think you should show a
dialog: little gratitude.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: One of my friends died yesterday, mother.
dialog: DO you mind if I take a few hours off to
dialog: remember him?
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: But we're having a party, dear.
text: She glares at her mother. A half-drunk TRENDY GUEST speaks.
speaker_heading: TRENDY GUEST
dialog: I read about him. Drunk or something,
dialog: wasn't he?
text: Mrs. Gibson cuts her off, trying to damage-control Greta's
dialog: association with someone her guests might disapprove of.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: He was just a friend of Greta's, not
dialog: someone special, not someone she was
dialog: seeing, you understand. Really just an
dialog: acquaintance...
text: Another guest speaks up, a THIRTYSOMETHING TYPE.
scene_heading: THIRTYSOMETHING GUEST
dialog: Sad. It reminds me of Fitzgerald.
dialog: Although in his stories, it's general the
dialog: women who have pointless, violent deaths.
text: Greta tires to ignore him. The other guests jump in with
dialog: their own literary allusions and comparisons. Greta CLOSES
text: HER EYES to shut them out. For a second she seems to nod.
text: Catches herself. Looks up as...
text: FREDERICK, the caterer, steps forward and offers her
text: selections from a tray of food. We don't see his face, but a
text: sliver of a GREEN AND RED STRIPED JERSEY peaks out from above
text: his starched tuxedo collar. Greta shakes her head no.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: No thank you. I'm not hungry.
text: Frederick steps away. The other guests strangely cease
text: conversing mid-sentence and turn to her. Greta's mother
text: notices with alarm. Faces her daughter.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: Aren't you eating?
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: I don't really feel up to it.
text: The other guests begin to eat voraciously.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: Really, dear. You ought to try
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: You're the one who's always slapping my
dialog: hand about weight-watching.
text: Her mother glances nervously at the other guests. Her voice
text: takes on a shrill edge.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: But that's why we diet, dear. So we can
dialog: eat at social events and not upset the
dialog: other guests.
speaker_heading: FREDERICK INTRUDES
speaker_heading: FREDERICK
dialog: Madam, if I may...
text: He wheels in a trolley with a sterling silver chafing dish on
text: it. He turns to Greta and pushes in the tray to the hideous
text: baby chair, which Greta's chair has become, pinning her in
dialog: place.
text: The guests continue chowing down, while Mom beams
text: approvingly. Greta stiffens into a parody of too-straight
dialog: posture.
text: Frederick removes the lid of the sterling silver chafing dish
text: with a flourish, revealing a perfect, miniature doll-like
dialog: replica of Greta.
text: With a flourish, he proceeds to slit it open, filleting it in
text: front of Greta's horrified eyes with one of the blades on
text: Freddy's clawed hand.
text: Frederick has now become Freddy, transforming from the normal
dialog: Robert Englund to Freddy Krueger.
text: At the end of the blades on Freddy's claw, a sharpened silver
dialog: spoon now exists.
text: He scoops into the dissected doll and begins to feed Greta,
text: forcing some of the mush into her mouth. Greta resists,
text: turning her head to spit it out.
text: Freddy jerks her head back to the front.
speaker_heading: GRETA'S POV
text: as her head is snapped back. Another claw/spoonful of mush
text: in her face.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: You are what you eat.
text: The table guests laugh and feast on in the background.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: Nothing but the best for Greta!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: (with another spoonful)
dialog: Second helping.
text: The guests laugh as Greta struggles helplessly, moaning and
text: groaning her objections.
speaker_heading: MRS. GIBSON
dialog: Don't talk with your mouth full, dear.
speaker_heading: GRETA
text: stares at the claws/scoop wide-eyed as they force the MUSH
text: into her mouth.
speaker_heading: GRETA'S POV
text: as Freddy shoves another spoonful.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Don't forget dessert.
speaker_heading: GUEST
dialog: A rare delicacy.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: to reveal what Freddy is feeding her. He stands over Greta
text: scooping his claws into her TORSO as though it were made of
text: ice cream, and delivering the stuff back up to her mouth.
speaker_heading: GRETA
text: screams in horror as she realizes what she's eating.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT
scene_heading: OVER ALICE'S SHOULDER
text: As she steps to the refrigerator and grasps the door handle,
text: we get a glimpse of something foreboding a split second
text: before she opens the door...a Freddy magnet above the handle
text: that says DIE BITCH.
text: Alice pulls the door open. PUSH IN past her to the groceries
dialog: inside. a real Freddy food feast of graveyard leftovers --
text: flies swarm when Alice opens the door. Maggots, rot and
text: cobwebs. Dripping fetid garbage. Then suddenly...
text: Greta's hideously mutated face SHOOTS INTO CLOSE UP from
text: RIGHT FRAME! Her cheeks have been horribly distended. Food
text: spills from her mouth as she tries to scream.
scene_heading: OVER GRETA'S SHOULDER
text: who we can now see is impossibly coming out in the open
text: refrigerator door. Her arms desperately reach out towards
text: Alice who stands frozen, FACING CAMERA, in open-mouthed
dialog: shock.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Greta!
text: Then Alice leaps into action. She grabs Greta's hands and
text: begins to pull with all her might. But she can't get Greta
dialog: out!
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Dad!
speaker_heading: PULL BACK FAST
text: away from the struggle, through the kitchen door, into the
text: living room and further back still until Alice's father
text: appears in LEFT FOREGROUND, sitting in his easy chair,
text: reading the newspaper.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Dad! Help!
scene_heading: POV FROM INSIDE THE REFRIGERATOR
text: looking past the mounds of disgusting stuff to Alice and
text: Greta. Suddenly, FREDDY'S CLAW comes INTO FOREGROUND SHOT.
speaker_heading: ALICE AND GRETA
text: Alice has managed to pull Greta a couple inches further from
text: the open door when Freddy LUNGES out of the refrigerator!
text: With lightning speed he grabs Greta's arm and YANKS the door
dialog: closed with a WHAM!
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: No!
scene_heading: DOWN ANGLE ON ALICE
text: as she quickly yanks the fridge open again and
text: sees...Nothing! Everything is back to normal. No sign of
dialog: Greta or Freddy.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: staring into the fridge with amazement and fear.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: closes the door and rushes to the telephone on the wall.
scene_heading: INT. GRETA'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT
scene_heading: IN THE DREAM - FREDDY AND GRETA
text: Freddy shoves another clawful of stuff into Greta's mouth.
text: She starts to CHOKE.
text: Freddy pulls Greta to him. Hugs her, patting her back, like
text: a parent burping an infant. He's almost cradling her as she
text: continues to choke the life out of herself.
text: Freddy's "patting" becomes harder. Greta jolts under each
dialog: slap on the back...
text: IN THE DINNER PARTY - ON GRETA - FROM BELOW, SHOOTING UP
text: She starts to choke. Her face goes blue. She stands.
speaker_heading: THE GUESTS
text: stare at her in shocked amazement.
speaker_heading: GRETA
text: stands, arms out, leaning forward as though suspended, as if
text: Freddy were still "burping" her. Then she pitches forward,
text: face first into her plate.
speaker_heading: GRETA'S MOTHER
text: looks down in shock at her obviously dead daughter.
speaker_heading: GRETA'S MOTHER
dialog: Greta?...
scene_heading: EXT. GREY'S CONSTRUCTION - NIGHT
text: A big industrial shop. Mark's father's business and their
text: home. Rain falls on the cement drive, glistening in the
text: light that spills from beneath the big, half open delivery
text: door. Across the door we see: GREY & SON CONSTRUCTION.
text: The "& SON" has been recently added. Alice and Yvonne, still
text: in her nurse's uniform, approach.
scene_heading: INT. GREY'S CONSTRUCTION - NIGHT
text: A huge warehouse and commercial shop. Rows of scaffolding,
text: filled with prefab door and wall units, recede into the
dialog: darkness.
text: A glass partitioned office fills a corner near the door. We
text: can see Mark's father moving around inside of it. Alice and
text: Yvonne enter and move toward the office door.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON THE OFFICE DOOR
text: Alice and Yvonne peer inside. Mr. Grey, dressed in workman's
text: clothes, is stoically trying to repair a broken name-plate.
dialog: We can tell that one of the two desks in here was intended
text: for Mark. Alice looks around, concerned.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mr. Grey...is Mark around?
text: He looks up, very upset. Nods. Angrily gestures toward the
text: labyrinth of racks.
speaker_heading: MR. GREY
dialog: Back there somewhere.
text: IN THE RACKS OF THE SCAFFOLDING
text: The rays of a single worklight high on the back of the wall
text: stab like fingers through the maze of scaffolding.
text: Silhouetted against them, Mark slowly glides between the
text: racks on a skateboard, a solitary and forlorn figure.
text: Alice and Yvonne enter shot, backs to CAMERA, watching him.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (tentatively)
dialog: Mark, are you okay?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Yeah. I'm just aces.
text: Looks like he's not. Mark ignores them as Alice and Yvonne
text: move closer. He's a tightly wound coil, ready to snap.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I want to talk to both you guys about
dialog: Greta. And...
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: (snapping)
dialog: I'm very fucking sorry, but Greta is dead
dialog: today. Could we interest you in someone
dialog: else?
text: Alice steps closer to him, her empathy allowing her to ignore
text: his tone of voice.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: It was just an accident. Like with Dan.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No accident. I tried to warn all of you
dialog: about Krueger.
text: Yvonne shakes her head. Not wishing Alice to indulge her
dialog: fantasies.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Please, Alice...
text: But Alice's words have left an effect on Mark. He brings his
text: skateboard to a halt. Gives her a direct look.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: I thought about that.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: She must've fallen asleep at the table...
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Stop it, Alice. Just stop it. Stick to
dialog: the facts.
text: Mark glances at her.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Too bad.
text: He goes back to Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: I don't understand what's happening.
dialog: Krueger has to use my dreams, but he got
dialog: to Dan and Greta while I was awake.
dialog: How's he doing it?
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: Why don't you two stick to reality.
text: Mark turns his displaced anger on her full force.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Why don't you shut up and let her talk!
dialog: Two of us died in the last two days, does
dialog: that strike you as particularly normal?!
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Mark...
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: I'm not finished - I loved Greta. A lot.
dialog: And if maybe, just maybe, someone or some
dialog: thing killed her, I'd like to hear about
dialog: it!
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: I can't listen to this.
text: She starts to turn away. Mark gets angry again. Shouts.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Then get out!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mark!
text: Hurt, Yvonne starts to get up. Turns for the stairs. Mark
text: realizes he's being a jerk. Punches his fist against the
text: scaffolding in frustration. Calms himself down.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Aww,shit...Yvonne, wait a minute, will
dialog: ya.
text: She stops. Turns.
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
dialog: I'm an asshole. I know I'm not dealing
dialog: with this very well and it's not your
dialog: fault. I'm sorry.
text: Yvonne gives him a little hug. Tries to smile.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: It's okay.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Stick around, please?
text: Yvonne brushes Mark's hair from his face like a big sister.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Wish I could, but I'm on night shift
dialog: again...gotta go.
text: Mark nods. Tries to smile. Alice steps up to them. Puts a
text: comforting hand on Mark's shoulder.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I can stay for awhile if you want.
scene_heading: INT. MARK'S ROOM - LATER
text: A combination studio and storage space for the world's
text: largest collection of comics. The entire loft is a network
text: of scaffolding. Shelves for his comics, fantasy posters, and
text: sci-fi memorabilia. Stuffed in among them are tons of books
dialog: on mythology and the occult.
speaker_heading: MARK (O.S.)
dialog: Do you think I'm an idiot...for being in
dialog: love with her?
speaker_heading: ALICE (O.S.)
dialog: Nobody thinks that.
text: Tacked to the walls and scaffolding, are dozens of drawings.
text: Works in progress of Mark's super hero comic book creation.
text: As the CAMERA pans across the sketches, we see the evolution
dialog: of this character. Several names have been tried and crossed
text: out as Mark's conception has continued to bloom.
text: CONTINUE TO PAN until we come to a SIX FOOT POSTER of the
text: character in final incarnation as...THE PHANTOM PROWLER.
speaker_heading: MARK (O.S.)
dialog: I mean, I know I didn't stand a chance in
dialog: hell, but...
text: PAN PAST THE PROWLER to Alice and Mark, sitting near his
text: drawing table. She sits next to him, a comforting arm around
dialog: his shoulder.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: She cared a lot about you.
text: Mark nods. Thinks.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Maybe it was her mother who killed her,
dialog: with all that Polly Perfect shit.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It wasn't her mother. The only reason
dialog: we're still here is that none of us has
dialog: slept since the grad party.
text: Mark looks at Alice. Sees the certainty on her face.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Tell me some more about this Krueger guy.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Why don't I go make some coffee. There's
dialog: a lot to tell.
scene_heading: INT. MARK'S ROOM - LATER
text: Alice is coming back into the room with two steaming mugs.
text: She looks around. No Mark.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mark?...
text: She starts forward, looking around for him.
speaker_heading: IN THE BED
text: Mark has fallen asleep.
speaker_heading: BELOW
text: Alice can't see him. She approaches the drawing table.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: approaching the table.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: sets the coffee down and sees something that stops her cold.
scene_heading: THE TABLE - ALICE'S POV
text: The sketch of Greta begins to move, reassembling itself into
text: a drawing of the ELM STREET HOUSE. Mark stands on the porch,
dialog: opening the door...
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: realizes what's happening. Reaches her hand toward the page.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Mark! No!
text: But he goes inside.
text: Alice quickly picks up one of Mark's colored felt tip pens
text: and draws a stick figure of herself next to the Elm Street
text: house. She writes "Alice" above the figure then throws down
text: the pen and closes her eyes, concentrating.
text: PUSH IN on Alice, eyes closed, using all her will... (The
text: BACKGROUND distorts as Alice goes into the dream.) PULL BACK
dialog: from Alice's face and now we see that we're
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET HOUSE
text: Alice goes inside.
scene_heading: INT. ELM STREET HOUSE, LIVING ROOM
text: Alice rushes inside. Comes to a halt as she sees
speaker_heading: A HUGE, GAPING HOLE
text: in the floor, with jagged "paper" edges, like something out
text: of Mark's cartoons. Mark desperately clings to one of the
text: edges, which slowly begins to tear...
text: Alice rushes over. Through the hole, she sees what Mark is
text: about to drop into...the pulsating FETAL CANAL!
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: as she kneels and stretches her hand toward Mark.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON MARK
text: He looks up at Alice, noticing her for the first time, and
text: maybe not sure if she's really there. He hesitates. The
text: paper tears some more. He's about to fall!
speaker_heading: ALICE (O.S.)
dialog: Take it!
text: Terrified, retches a bloody hand toward Alice, straining to
dialog: reach her fingertips...
scene_heading: FETAL CANAL POV - LOOKING UP
text: Mark's legs dangle above, slipping lower as the paper
dialog: continues to tear...
scene_heading: MARK AND ALICE - DOWN ANGLE
text: Alice gets down on her belly, trying to reach closer to Mark,
text: who keeps slowly slipping further into the hole.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON THEIR HANDS
text: fingertips quivering a millimeter apart, then touching, then
text: moving toward each other's palms until their hands firmly
dialog: grip!
scene_heading: FETAL CANAL POV - LOOKING UP
text: Alice begins to pull Mark up, away from CAMERA
scene_heading: ALICE AND MARK - SIDE ANGLE
text: As Alice struggles to pull Mark from the yawning mouth of the
text: canal, it begins to close around him, trying to suck him back
text: in. With a final tug, Alice yanks Mark out, and the canal
text: closes, leaving no trace on the now normal floor.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Let's get out of here!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON FRONT DOOR
text: As Alice races INTO SHOT toward the door. Mark follows close
text: behind. As Alice flings the door open, Mark comes to a halt,
text: BACK TO CAMERA, noticing something on his hands. BLOOD. He
text: stares in horror...
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: C'mon, Mark!
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON MARK
text: hands raised before his face. His eyes are opened in shock.
text: Then they start to unfocus as he begins to wobble. In the
text: next second he is FALLING OUT OF FRAME.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Alice watches as Mark feints himself AWAKE. As he's about to
text: hit the floor, he dissolves away. Alice starts to turn back
text: to the door when something OUT OF FRAME catches her eye.
text: CAMERA PANS TO RIGHT until we see... JACOB standing at a
text: window, staring forlornly into the street.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: freezes. Stares at this odd child with a mixture of
dialog: compassion and wariness.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Jacob...?
speaker_heading: JACOB AND ALICE
text: Alice approaches, keeping a little distance between them.
text: Jacob turns. He's paler now. Sickly. As he recognizes
text: Alice, he looks even a little sadder.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Oh...hello...
text: He goes back to the window. Alice takes on a tone of
text: instinctive motherly concern.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (tentative)
dialog: Hi, you don't look very well. Are you
dialog: feeling all right?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (still at the window)
dialog: Been having bad dreams.
text: Alice ponders that.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Is this where you live, Jacob?
text: He shakes his head no.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Just waiting for someone...
dialog: (then)
dialog: It's sad about Greta.
text: Alice stares at him, intrigued.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Is that who you're waiting for?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: No...
text: Alice takes another step forward.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't think this is a nice place for
dialog: you to be. Maybe we should go find your
dialog: Mom.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: She doesn't want me around
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh...I'm sure that's not true. I'll bet
dialog: she's very worried about you. I would
dialog: be.
text: Jacob turns to her. His face full of hurt and accusation.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: No you're not. You don't even care about
dialog: being a mom. How come you don't think
dialog: about me?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Who said I...wait, what?
text: his lonely eyes begin to well up.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I like you...I want to stay with you.
dialog: Why don't you want me? Is there
dialog: something wrong with me?
text: Alice stares at him, stunned as the realization hits her.
text: She takes a step closer, almost within reach of him.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Who says I don't like you?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: My friend, with the funny hand.
dialog: Alice doesn't like the implications of that at all. She
text: reaches out to lead Jacob away.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Come on, honey. We're getting out of
dialog: here.
text: But he pulls away, drawn by something in the shadows near the
dialog: stairs.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I have to go now, he wants me again.
text: Jacob scurries up the stairs into the shadows.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No! Jacob!...
text: She runs after him, charging up the stairs and finding
dialog: herself
scene_heading: INT. MARK'S LOFT - MORNING
text: Alice climbs up the last stair and steps into the loft.
text: Looks around, SURPRISED; she's back in reality.
text: Mark sits up in his bed. Stares at the cuts in hands with
text: amazement, and dawning realization.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Holy...shit...he's really real...isn't
dialog: he?
text: Mark looks up at Alice, who's more concerned than ever.
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He's doing something to my baby. I know
text: it -- he's trying to hurt Jacob.
text: Mark looks confused.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Who's Jacob?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: My baby!
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: What, you named it already?
text: Alice freezes. Realizing...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah. I think he already has a name...
text: Then, she hurriedly begins to gather her things.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: I've got to get away from here.
text: Someplace where Krueger can't find him.
text: She bolts for the stairs. Mark restrains her.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Whoa, slow down. How're you gonna hide
dialog: from a guy like that, leave the planet?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't know!
text: Alice is on the verge of tears. Mark puts his hands on her
text: shoulders, trying to emotionally steady her.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Look, if you're worried about your baby,
dialog: call Yvonne, have the doctor check him
dialog: out.
text: Alice nods, getting a hold of herself. Mark hands her the
text: telephone. Then grabs his jacket.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Where are you going?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: I'm going to see what else I can find out
dialog: about Mr. Fred Krueger
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
text: Alice hurries down the near deserted corridor. Yvonne rushes
text: to keep up beside her. She looks concerned.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: You had me scared on the phone. What's
dialog: wrong with the baby?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I think Krueger's trying to do something
dialog: to it.
text: Yvonne suddenly pulls Alice to a halt, dismayed.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Oh, Alice...no. Honey, I love you but
dialog: you're going to have to get a hold of
dialog: yourself...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mark knows I'm not crazy. Ask him to
dialog: show you his hands.
text: Alice starts off again. Yvonne really looks worried now.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: I really think you need to calm down now,
dialog: okay?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I just can't figure out how he's getting
dialog: in when I'm awake...
text: Suddenly a thought strikes her. She wheels on Yvonne.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Do unborn babies dream?
text: Yvonne hesitates, afraid her answer might feed Alice's
dialog: fantasies.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Yeah...they do, but...do us both a
dialog: favor...don't mention any of this to Dr.
dialog: Moore.
scene_heading: INT. DR. MOORE'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Yvonne adjusts the ULTRA SOUND MONITOR. Dr. Moore finishes
text: his pre-examination of Alice. He is extremely irritated.
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE
dialog: Developing fetuses can spend up to
dialog: seventy-percent of their day in what we
dialog: call dream state. More as they mature.
text: Yvonne shoots a frustrated look at Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Would I be able to sense them?
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE
dialog: (annoyed)
dialog: Is that why you're here? To see if your
dialog: baby's having nightmares?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We're here to find out everything we can,
dialog: aren't we?
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE
dialog: Frankly, I've found nothing about you
dialog: that would indicate the necessity of
dialog: ultra-sound at this stage of your
dialog: pregnancy.
text: Dr. Moore throws a dark look at Yvonne.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I just want to make sure my baby's all
dialog: right.
text: Yvonne hands the ultra-sound device to Dr. Moore. He runs
text: the device over Alice's baby.
scene_heading: THE ULTRA-SOUND MONITOR
text: The screen comes on with a BLIP. A barely distinguishable
text: black and white image appears...
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE (O.S.)
dialog: The heart seems strong. Let's hear it.
text: Yvonne flicks a switch and a steady RHYTHMIC BEAT begins on
text: the TRACK, coming from a speaker above the monitor.
text: Alice watches the screen, fascinated. Suddenly... The
text: picture begins to shift and distort with electronic spasms.
text: The SOUND of the baby's heartbeat begins to grow LOUDER and
speaker_heading: SURREAL.
text: Alice turns apprehensively to Yvonne and Dr. Moore, who are
dialog: oblivious to any of this. Then...
text: The wall behind Alice starts to PULSATE...become FLESHLIKE.
text: It ripples blue-red with veins. Then...a gaping hole opens
text: and we are staring into the fetal canal!
speaker_heading: WHOOSH!
text: Alice is sucked through the opening!
scene_heading: AN IRIDESCENT BEAM OF LIGHT (ALICE)
text: flies through a landscape of pulsing blood vessels and living
text: tissue. We are inside Alice's body.
speaker_heading: AN ENORMOUS VALVE
text: stretches open and the beam of "light" shoots through it,
text: then drops down OUT OF FRAME. Hold a beat.
text: Then Alice floats up INTO FRAME...a translucent figure,
text: ethereal. She is caught in a GLOW OF LIGHT. WE TURN WITH
dialog: HER to see...
speaker_heading: HER UNBORN BABY
text: glowing with innocence. Floating...umbilical chord in the
speaker_heading: FOREGROUND.
speaker_heading: ON ALICE
text: as she approaches the child. She's fascinated...enchanted.
text: Until she sees something beyond the baby, a face, protruding
text: from the uterine wall.
speaker_heading: FREDDY KRUEGER
text: smiling at Alice.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Hi. See a family resemblance?
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: reacts in fear as she sees...
speaker_heading: THE UMBILICAL CHORD
text: beginning to bulge as something forces its way through it
text: toward her baby.
text: The bulge moves down the chord, then a second one enters from
text: the wall...both "things" travel toward the fetus' belly like
text: golf balls moving through a python. Then...
text: WHOOSH, WHOOSH, they shoot into the fetus.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S
text: fear turns to utter horror as she sees...
speaker_heading: THE FETUS
text: its skin has turned translucent and we see the tiny, "as in
text: hideous death" souls of DAN and GRETA in the child's belly.
speaker_heading: ON THE SOULS
dialog: screaming in terror!
speaker_heading: FREDDY'S HUGE FACE
text: leering in twisted pleasure.
speaker_heading: THE BABY'S FACE
text: begins to slowly transform into a mask of fear and pain. Its
text: eyes begin to flutter.
speaker_heading: ON FREDDY
text: As he realizes the child is on the verge of awakening. He
text: grimaces in anger and frustration.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: screams at Freddy.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Don't touch him!
speaker_heading: THE CHILD
text: begins to turn toward Alice as it nears consciousness. Its
text: eyes open, staring in wonder for just a second, then...
speaker_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DR. MOORE'S OFFICE
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: eyes open wide in terror. She looks around, panicked.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What's he doing to my baby?
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE
text: leans INTO SHOT, removing the testing device.
speaker_heading: DR. MOORE
dialog: Your baby is perfectly healthy... a
dialog: little large for so early on, but as
dialog: normal as any I've seen.
dialog: HOLD ON ALICE. She's got knowledge Dr. Moore hasn't got.
text: She turns to Yvonne.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He's taking their souls...Their spirits
dialog: to make the baby...like him.
text: Yvonne shoots a look at Dr. Moore. She realizes she'd better
dialog: get Alice out of there before he has her committed. Yvonne
text: moves to Alice.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Come on, sweety. I'll take you home.
dialog: You'll feel better after you get some
dialog: real sleep.
text: Yvonne manages to guide Alice from the room. Dr. Moore
text: watches them leave. Then he checks something in Alice's
text: file. Picks up the telephone and dials a number.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Alice ENTERS, carrying two mugs of coffee and speaking in a
text: frantic rush. Yvonne follows behind, a look of deep concern
text: on her face.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: ...Dan was there. Greta, too. Krueger
dialog: killed them! And now he's feeding them
dialog: to Jacob!
text: She hands one of the cups to Yvonne, who tries to get her
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Alice...
text: Yvonne sets her mug down and gently places her hands on
text: Alice's shoulders, adopting a very reasonable tone.
speaker_heading: YVONNE (cont'd)
dialog: Alice, I want you to stop and listen to
dialog: yourself. Do you know how you sound?
text: Alice nods. Calmly replies.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Completely insane. But I'm not
dialog: (pause)
dialog: And if you're my friend you'll try to
dialog: believe me a little.
text: Yvonne looks into Alice's eyes. We see that she really cares
text: about her, and that Alice is starting to scare her.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: I am your friend, and I'm worried sick
dialog: about you. But, you're like a locked
dialog: safe. You've gotta start dealing with
dialog: reality.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: Krueger is reality.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (voice rising)
dialog: And so is your baby. You've got more
dialog: than just yourself to think of now!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (getting angry)
dialog: What do you think I'm doing?
dialog: (pauses)
dialog: Look. Whether you believe it or not,
text: Krueger is back. He's after the baby and
dialog: if I don't try to do something about it,
dialog: who will??
text: Suddenly the door is pushed open and Mark enters carrying a
text: folder stuffed with xeroxed newspaper clippings. He looks
dialog: from Alice to Yvonne and back.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (continuing the discussion)
dialog: All I know is that you are not doing
dialog: yourself or the baby any good by acting
dialog: like a crazy woman. Why don't you take
dialog: off - leave Springwood and cool out
dialog: somewhere for a while?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Goddamn it, Yvonne! You don't just run
dialog: away from this guy! He finds you in your
dialog: dreams.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: (looking at Yvonne)
dialog: He sure found a few others before us.
text: Yvonne looks at him with frustration.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: You, too?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: He invited me to his house last night.
text: Yvonne ruefully shakes her head. Tries the calm approach.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: Look...we're all tired. None of us had
dialog: any sleep since Friday night...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's the only reason you're alive...
text: Yvonne abandons the calm approach. Wheels on Alice.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: No it's not!
text: She turns for the door. Mark shoves the folder towards her.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Yvonne, look through this stuff. She's
dialog: not crazy!
text: Yvonne knocks the folder from Mark's hand, scattering its
text: contents everywhere. Then she storms out, slamming the door
text: behind her. The xeroxed clippings float to the floor. Mark
text: glances at Alice.
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
dialog: You okay?
text: Alice nods. They start picking up the scattered clippings.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I found out how Krueger's been doing it
dialog: while I'm awake. He's using Jacob's
dialog: dreams. We've got to stop him.
text: Mark looks up at her.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: You know there is...one way.
text: Alice looks up at him, intrigued.
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
dialog: Have you thought about not having the
dialog: baby? I mean, no baby, no baby's dreams.
text: Alice thinks about it, very hard. Finally shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I couldn't do that, Mark. He's my last
dialog: link with Dan...No, I want him.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: (nods, smiling)
dialog: Then we'll find another way.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: leans down again and continues picking up the clippings.
text: One, bearing a photo of Amanda Krueger, lies in FOREGROUND.
text: She picks it up, stares at it, pondering.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I've seen her...
text: Her father's voice floats up from downstairs.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD (O.S.)
dialog: Alice, can you come down a minute?
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S LIVING ROOM
text: Alice comes down the stairs. Her father is sitting in the
text: living room with Dan's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jordan.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh, hi...
text: Mrs. Jordan smiles at Alice a little too sweetly. We see the
text: strain of her son's death in her eyes.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: Alice...Mr. Jordan and I wanted to see
dialog: how you were feeling. Come, sit down.
text: Alice hesitates, this is the last thing she needs right now.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: This isn't really a good time. Maybe if
dialog: you could come back...
text: Mrs. Jordan nervously cuts him off.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: Frankly, dear, we wondered what you
dialog: intend to do with our baby?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What I what? Well, I've thought about
dialog: it. I plan to keep him.
text: Mrs. Jordan glances at her husband. He uncomfortably shifts
text: in his chair, then reluctantly speaks up.
speaker_heading: MR. JORDAN
dialog: We're concerned that this all might be a
dialog: little too much for you...I mean, being
dialog: single and, well everything...
text: His voice trails off. His wife frowns at his lack of
text: fortitude. She jumps in.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: What Mr. Jordan means is that we're aware
dialog: of the burden that raising a child would
dialog: place you.
text: Alice continues to stare at her, not quite sure where this is
text: going. Mark quietly appears on the stairs behind her holding
text: the folder of clippings.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN (cont'd)
dialog: We're offering to help...adopt it and
dialog: raise it as though it were --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Look, I appreciate what you're offering,
dialog: but no. He is my responsibility.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: (getting adamant)
dialog: And ours. It's our grandchild.
text: Mr. Jordan, clearly uncomfortable, tries to cut her off.
speaker_heading: MR. JORDAN
dialog: Doris, maybe this wasn't such a good --
text: She ignores him, getting more forceful.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: In your present condition, Alice, we're
dialog: worried about your ability --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What are you talking about? My
dialog: "condition"?...
text: Alice's father gives Mrs. Jordan a dark look. Surprised.
speaker_heading: MR. JORDAN
dialog: We had a call from Dr. Moore. He said
dialog: Alice was hysterical. That she's been
dialog: having paranoid delusions and...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You don't understand...
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: We know you've been through a lot but
dialog: there's more than your feelings at stake
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You're not taking my baby!
text: Mrs. Jordan stands, losing her composure.
speaker_heading: MRS. JORDAN
dialog: The courts may not agree with you.
text: Alice's father stands. Turns an angry gaze on Mrs. Jordan.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: But I do. I've heard enough of this
dialog: crap. You think you can just walk into
dialog: my house and start threatening my
dialog: daughter?
speaker_heading: SWIRLING JACUZZI
text: As Yvonne approaches. She steps up to the side and gingerly
text: stretches out her foot to test the water.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON SURFACE OF WATER
text: frothing and bubbling ominously. Yvonne's toe glides down
text: INTO FRAME, hovers, then dips into the swirling white water.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON YVONNE
text: smiling happily.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON SURFACE OF JACUZZI
text: as Yvonne lowers herself into the luxurious water. We're
dialog: sure any second something is going to rise up and eat
text: her...But nothing happens...yet. She sinks in up to her
text: neck, purring like a kitten. Her eye lids grow heavy. Start
text: to slide closed. She quickly opens them. Starts to rise
dialog: up...
scene_heading: INT. CAMPUS POOL - WIDE SHOT - DAY
text: No one in sight. Yvonne ENTERS, wet from the jacuzzi.
text: Tosses her towel on a chair and heads for the high dive.
scene_heading: THE LADDER - LOW ANGLE
text: Yvonne climbs INTO SHOT, going up the ladder.
scene_heading: ON THE BOARD - OVERHEAD
text: She stretches, then starts walking out on the board. Water
text: shimmers in the pool thirty feet below her.
scene_heading: OVER YVONNE'S SHOULDER
text: as she moves out onto the board. CAMERA TRACKS DOWN level
text: with the back of her head.
speaker_heading: THE END OF THE BOARD
text: from below, looking back and up at Yvonne as the board
text: strangely begins to tremble.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON YVONNE
text: reacting as the trembling increases.
speaker_heading: THE ENTIRE BOARD
text: begins to shake violently, whipping back and forth. Yvonne
dialog: fights to keep her balance.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
text: reaches for the rail. It comes off in her hand!
scene_heading: LOOKING OVER YVONNE'S SHOULDER
text: at the end of the board. Rust runs back from the end like a
text: wave breaking on the shore. Then the board begins to split
text: and crack, forming into four pieces. Freddy's claws!
speaker_heading: THE BOARD (SIDE ANGLE)
text: The claws at the end of the board begin to roll up and move
text: toward Yvonne. She steps back.
scene_heading: LOOKING OVER YVONNE'S SHOULDER
text: as she retreats from the approaching claws. Suddenly, a
text: jagged "thumb", formed from the rear of the board, rolls INTO
text: SHOT, trapping her. She is literally in the palm of Freddy's
dialog: hand!
scene_heading: FREDDY'S CLAW - FROM BELOW
text: rolling up around Yvonne.
scene_heading: FREDDY'S CLAW - SIDE ANGLE
text: Holding a terrified Yvonne in its palm, and about to close
text: over her. She has only a second to act.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
text: leaps from the claw.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON YVONNE - SLOW MOTION
text: as she moves down THROUGH FRAME, tumbling out of control.
scene_heading: THE POOL - YVONNE'S POV
text: about seventy-feet below and getting closer every second as
dialog: CAMERA races for it!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON YVONNE - SLOW MOTION
text: she begins to regain her equilibrium. Straightens out,
text: starts moving into a diving position.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE ON YVONNE
text: Now in perfect diving form, she gracefully slices through the
dialog: air like a knife...
scene_heading: CLOSE ON YVONNE'S FACE
text: suddenly filling with horror. She SCREAMS as she sees
scene_heading: THE POOL - FROM ABOVE
text: which was FULL a second ago, is now EMPTY, save for a small
text: puddle in the center.
text: CLOSE ON THE BOTTOM OF THE POOL
text: Yvonne hits the puddle! Water splashes up and...she keeps
dialog: going, right through the concrete!
speaker_heading: BLACK LIMBO
text: suddenly Yvonne breaks through the void in a crash of
text: shattering glass. Fragments and shards SPARKLE and GLIMMER
text: as she plummets past CAMERA!
scene_heading: INT. FREDDY JACUZZI
text: A small room with rusted and decaying lockers along the
text: walls, like something forgotten in an ancient gym. The
text: entire floor is a NIGHTMARE JACUZZI, churning with BLOOD!
text: Eerie red light, coming from beneath the swirling surface,
text: plays over the crusted walls. Suddenly...
text: Yvonne dives down INTO SHOT, plunges through the surface of
text: the BOILING BLOOD then disappears!
scene_heading: INT. MARK'S ROOM - NIGHT
scene_heading: CLOSE ON GRAINY B&W PHOTO OF AMANDA KRUEGER
text: Frozen in time. Staring from her nun's habit, eyes filled
text: with infinite sadness and despair. She's standing on the
text: grounds of the asylum, its tower looming behind her.
speaker_heading: ALICE (O.S.)
dialog: They think I'm nuts.
speaker_heading: MARK (O.S.)
dialog: That's their problem.
text: The photo is yanked down out of frame, WHIP PAN to Alice
text: looking up from the photo towards Mark, across the room. We
text: are in Mark's loft. He's scanning one of the copied
dialog: newspaper articles.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No, it's our problem, Mark. If I don't
dialog: deal with this, they really might try to
dialog: take Jacob.
dialog: (she looks at the photo again)
dialog: You said she committed suicide?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: That's what the newspapers thought. She
dialog: spent the rest of her life in the asylum.
dialog: After Krueger's trial she flipped out and
dialog: hung herself, so they thought.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Meaning?
text: Mark shakes his head, grinning at the creepiness of it.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: They couldn't prove it. No body! Nuns
dialog: bumping themselves off is bad for
dialog: business.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But I've seen her grave.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: Empty plot. Memorial stone. Vacant.
dialog: They never did put her under. Cool, huh?
text: He hands her the clipping. Alice scans it. We see the
text: obituary with the headline: A VICTIM OF THE EVIL WITHIN US
scene_heading: ALL. SPECIAL TOMBSTONE TO MEMORIALIZE NUN.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Poor woman...
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: No shit.
text: Alice puts down the article. Glances at Mark who has gone
text: over to a shelf of books, searching through them for a
dialog: particular volume.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't understand.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: (still hunting)
dialog: She killed herself. Her soul's gonna be
dialog: in torment.
text: Alice frowns, this is news to her.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Where'd you hear that?
text: Mark finds what he's looking for. A huge volume with a
text: crumbling leather cover. He pulls it out and sets it on his
text: drawing table with a THUD.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: In here...somewhere.
text: Alice looks down at the book. It's RLA Frakes' EARLY
text: CHRISTIAN MYTHOLOGY. Mark opens it. Moves his desk lamp
text: closer. Thumbs for a page. Finds it. Reads.
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
dialog: Transmigration. Soul of the sinner.
dialog: Yeah, trapped in it's earthly resting
dialog: place.
dialog: (grins at Alice)
dialog: The pictures are totally cool.
text: Alice gives him a frown, then goes back to Amanda's photo;
text: the nun and the asylum tower.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (thinking out loud)
dialog: In the dream...she was trying to stop
dialog: him...she started to tell me how, then
dialog: the door slammed.
dialog: (thinks, then realizes)
dialog: He must have done it.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON PHOTO - TIGHT ON AMANDA'S FACE
text: Following Alice's gaze, CAMERA PANS UP from Amanda's face, to
text: the ASYLUM TOWER behind her.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: pondering the tower.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: There's no other way.
speaker_heading: ALICE AND MARK
text: She puts down the photo and faces Mark.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: I want you to stay awake and watch me.
dialog: Okay?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: No problem...what are you going to do?
text: PUSH IN on Alice's face.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm going to find out how to deal with
dialog: this guy for once and for all.
text: Alice turns and steps out of frame.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON MARK
text: still perusing the volume, his back to Alice. Suddenly,
text: FREDDY'S CLAW shoots out from the DESK LAMP and SLAMS the
dialog: book closed!
speaker_heading: MARK
text: jumps, stunned. He blinks, did that really happen? Then he
text: grabs his mug of coffee and takes a long drink.
scene_heading: PUSH FOCUS FULL SCREEN
text: to drawing of Mark's comic book creation, THE PHANTOM
text: PROWLER. Suddenly...
text: A HUGE HAND holding a PENCIL comes INTO FRAME, and continues
text: the sketch. SLOWLY TILT UP TO
speaker_heading: MARK'S TIRED FACE
text: filled with an artist's concentration. He glances OFF
text: SCREEN, and CAMERA slowly follows his gaze to
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: asleep in his bed. TRACK IN CLOSE on her face until the dark
text: wall behind her becomes the corridor in the asylum. She
text: opens her eyes and sits up. CAMERA FOLLOWS HER as she stands
text: and moves down the corridor.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Amanda!
text: Alice moves down the corridor, away from CAMERA, searching
text: for Amanda. Comes to a corner. Turns down it.
scene_heading: INT. MARK'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: CLOSE ON a spread of PHANTOM PROWLER sketches lying on the
text: floor. CAMERA TRACKS across them, following a TRAIL OF
text: SKETCHES that lead to the far side of the room where we find
text: Mark, lying on the floor at the base of a rack of comic laden
text: shelves, propped up on one elbow, bored, flicking through yet
dialog: another comic.
text: TRACK AROUND MARK to reveal Alice still asleep on the bed.
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM CORRIDOR
text: A long, arched, Gothic corridor, lit by pools of light. At
text: the far end, we see a staircase, silhouetted by a
text: rainspattered window behind it. The stairs lead up into the
dialog: shadows.
speaker_heading: ALICE (O.S.)
dialog: Amanda! I need to talk to you!
text: ALICE walks past CAMERA INTO SHOT and pauses. Sees the
text: staircase, starts hurrying for it.
speaker_heading: AT THE STAIRCASE
text: Alice glances toward the top. Instead of leading to a
text: doorway, the stairs dead-end against a BRICK WALL. She
text: climbs the stairs to the bricked up doorway at the top.
text: Laying her head on the wall, pressing her hands to it, she
dialog: murmurs.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Found you!
text: Suddenly, from behind...
speaker_heading: FREDDY (O.S.)
dialog: Where you goin', piglet?
text: Alice turns toward the voice.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: The party's just starting.
speaker_heading: ON ALICE
text: She starts rolling across the wall. As we pull back, the
text: camera turns on it's axis to reveal that Freddy has adjusted
text: things. The set is now tilted on a different axis Alice is
text: rolling away from the camera, down the staircase, but on the
dialog: wall, not the stairs.
text: Suddenly, a RUSTING METAL DOOR is revealed in the wall down
text: which she rolls. She rolls into it and crash lands in the
dialog: nightmare jacuzzi room.
text: Freddy slowly rises from the boiling jacuzzi, until he stands
text: on the surface of the pool, grinning smugly.
text: Alice climbs to her feet, warily.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: plunges his arm beneath the surface and yanks Yvonne up by
text: the hair! She sputters and chokes, gasping for air. Freddy
dialog: laughs...
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Look what I found.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: is taken by surprise. Steels herself.
speaker_heading: AT THE STAIRCASE
text: Alice glances toward the top. Instead of leading to a
text: doorway, the stairs dead-end against a BRICK WALL. She
text: climbs the stairs to the bricked up doorway at the top.
text: Laying her head on the wall, pressing her hands to it, she
dialog: murmurs...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Found you!
text: Suddenly, a door slams. Alice, startled, looks. But before
text: she can react, she is swept off her feet.
text: Alice starts rolling across the wall. As we pull back, the
text: camera turns on it's axis to reveal that Freddy has adjusted
text: things. The set is now tilted on a different axis and Alice
text: is rolling away from the camera, down the staircase, but on
dialog: the wall, not the stairs.
text: Suddenly, a RUSTING METAL DOOR is revealed in the wall down
text: which she rolls. She rolls into it and into the bloody
text: jacuzzi room. She grabs a hanging chain, but can't hang on.
text: She drops into the murky water. She slowly turns with utter
dialog: distaste.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Where you goin', piglet? The party's
dialog: just starting.
text: Alice, startled, quickly regains her composure.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I know exactly what you're up to,
dialog: Krueger!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Gee, Alice, I thought I was up
dialog: to...Yvonne!
text: He plunges his arm beneath the surface and yanks Yvonne up by
text: the hair. She sputters and chokes, gasping for air. Freddy
text: laughs. Alice is taken by surprise. She steels herself.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Let her go.
text: Freddy cackles and dunks Yvonne savagely.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Going once. Going twice.
speaker_heading: FREDDY AND YVONNE
text: he hoists her closer, until their faces are an inch apart.
text: he licks Yvonne's cheek. She doesn't know whether to scream
text: or throw up. Then Freddy slowly runs a CLAW across her
text: breasts, leaving a thin trail of blood.
text: Alice circles Freddy until she is on the opposite side from
dialog: Yvonne.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm the A, the L , the i,c,e. We're
dialog: three together...
text: Yvonne's eyes swivel to Alice in recognition. As Alice
text: speaks, she grabs a jacuzzi/pool instrument (a skimmer, a
dialog: harpoon-shaped window hook)...
speaker_heading: ALICE AND YVONNE
dialog: And that's the way it's gonna be!
text: and as they speak, she flails Freddy across the stomach,
text: while Yvonne executes a backflip (as previously seen in her
text: diving sequence) out of Freddy's grasp and on to dry land.
text: Freddy staggers back and disappears into the jacuzzi.
text: Alice and Yvonne run back into the asylum and SLAM the door
text: behind them on the now empty jacuzzi.
text: We cut back inside the jacuzzi to see Freddy's hand emerge
text: and pull under his still-bobbing hat.
speaker_heading: YVONNE AND ALICE
text: sprawled on the corridor floor where they landed. Yvonne
text: turns to Alice, they throw their arms around each other.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Are you alright?
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: (nods, collecting herself)
dialog: Yeah...So that's him. And you're not
dialog: crazy.
text: Alice and Yvonne share a weary, rueful smile. Alice pulls
text: Yvonne to her feet.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We've got to find Amanda. She's the key.
scene_heading: INT. MARK'S ROOM - LATER
text: Mark lays on the floor, still propped up on one elbow,
text: reading the comic. Bored, he pushes it away. Notices on
text: nearby which he hasn't seen before. Pulls it over
speaker_heading: THE COMIC'S COVER
text: has something very familiar on it...Freddy's claw, in mid-
text: scratch, as though it were tearing the cover open. Written
text: across the top in dripping letters is the title: NIGHTMARE ON
dialog: YOUR STREET.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: intrigued, rolls hover on his stomach and opens the comic
text: with both hands. His expression changes as he sees
speaker_heading: IN THE COMIC
text: drawn in black and white, a comic book style representation
dialog: of Greta's death sequence!
speaker_heading: MARK
text: begins to flip back through the comic book. INTERCUT his
dialog: horrified reactions with
speaker_heading: THE COMIC BOOK
text: the B&W illustrations depict the other mayhem that Freddy has
dialog: already caused. Dan's death and Yvonne's dive.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: You shitty son of a bitch!
text: There is a drawing of him, lying on the floor, reading a
text: comic book. The drawing is followed by several BLANK FRAMES.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: stares a moment, touches the first empty frame, then he TURNS
text: A LINE DRAWING and begins to UNRAVEL into the COMIC BOOK!
speaker_heading: BLACK AND WHITE
text: a whirlwind of black and white comics swirl round and round,
text: slowly abating to reveal
speaker_heading: MARK
text: in COLOR, backed against a wall of BLACK AND WHITE Freddyized
dialog: scaffolding. (Mark will be the only thing in color
text: throughout the sequence.) He looks around, amazed.
text: PULL BACK to reveal he's standing in a corner made by two
text: walls of scaffolding. They tower above him, rusting,
text: decrepit, held together at odd angles -- a nightmarish cross
text: between Mark's comic-stuffed racks and the ones in his
dialog: father's workshop.
text: Mark looks around, frightened. Starts climbing his way up
text: and out. Freezes when he hears...RIP!
text: Mark looks through the scaffolding and sees
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: on the other side, ripping through the scaffolding supports
text: as though they were made of paper, cutting his way to Mark
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Time to cut another character out of the
dialog: story!
speaker_heading: MARK
text: eyes going wide. He jumps down. Turns around. Sees the
text: towering walls of scaffolding stretching ahead of him to
text: seeming infinity. He races away.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON MARK
text: running away from CAMERA down an enormous CANYON OF
scene_heading: FREDDYIZED RACKS.
scene_heading: THE CANYON OF RACKS - DOWN ANGLE
text: Looking down from far above we see Mark frantically racing
text: through the canyon. Freddy steps into the canyon behind him.
text: Long shadows stretch out before them.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: slides to a halt as he comes face to face with A DEAD END.
text: No way out. He turns as he hears FREDDY'S CACKLE.
scene_heading: BLACK AND WHITE FREDDY
text: laughs as he reaches out and grabs the scaffolding on either
text: side of him. His fingers and claws plunge through the paper
text: racks. Freddy cackles with laughter, then starts racing like
dialog: a missile toward Mark!
scene_heading: BLACK AND WHITE FREDDY - SIDE ANGLE
text: TRACKING with Freddy as he rushes down the aisle, riding a
text: SKATEBOARD, ripping and tearing through the rack supports.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON MARK
text: at the dead end. CAMERA RACES right toward him! He raises
text: his arms against the impending collision.
speaker_heading: THROUGH MARK'S HANDS
text: as we see BLACK AND WHITE FREDDY's leering face loom right
text: into CAMERA about to CRASH right into MARK! Then
speaker_heading: ON MARK
text: Freddy's gone! Mark lowers his arms, amazed and relieved.
text: But his relief evaporates as CAMERA QUICKLY TRACKS AROUND and
text: we see the scaffolding begin to collapse from the far end of
text: the canyon forward, falling like dominoes toward us
scene_heading: ON MARK - DOWN ANGLE
text: as ton after ton of scaffolding and shelves crash down around
text: him, trapping him at the dead end corner.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: looks at all the destruction around him. Suddenly, SPLAT!
text: Something red drips onto him from above. He looks up.
text: ON THE SCAFFOLDING BEHIND MARK - LOW ANGLE
text: The shelves that were stuffed with comics a second ago have
text: become a WALL OF DOLLS; everything from BARBIES to RAGGEDY
speaker_heading: ANNS.
text: Then, about halfway up, B&W FREDDY steps into view, dragging
text: a GRETA DOLL IN A HIGH CHAIR with him. (They are the same
text: size as the other dolls around them.)
text: Greta's porcelain face and stomach bear large cracks, through
text: which an evil, soupy, RED goop oozes out. She stares
text: imploringly at Mark. Speaks through cracked lips.
speaker_heading: GRETA
dialog: Mark...help me...!
speaker_heading: MARK
text: stares up at her, horrified.
speaker_heading: FREDDY AND GRETA
text: Freddy teasingly scoops his clawed finger into Greta's torso.
text: Lovingly licks her red goop off the end of his claw.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Is she delicious or am I crazy? Try a
dialog: bite.
text: He laughs. Then gives her a shove. The high chair tilts
text: forward, then topples off the scaffolding.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: screams in frustration and rage.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: No!
scene_heading: CLOSE ON MARK'S SNEAKERS
text: as they step back OUT OF SHOT. Greta, now a tiny porcelain
text: doll, smashes to the floor, exploding into fragments.
speaker_heading: MARK
text: stares down at the shattered fragments of tiny Greta.
text: Outrage begins to crawl across his features.
scene_heading: BLACK AND WHITE FREDDY
text: leaps off the scaffolding to Mark, below.
speaker_heading: ON MARK'S BACK
text: shaking with anger and rage. Freddy drops down into the
text: foreground behind him. Chortles smugly as he raises his
dialog: claws for the kill.
text: Suddenly, Mark whirls around, and as he does he is no longer
dialog: Mark, but
speaker_heading: THE PHANTOM PROWLER (IN COLOR)
speaker_heading: MARK (cont'd)
dialog: Payback time, you scarfaced limpdick.
text: He glares menacingly at Freddy as he raises two FUTURISTIC
text: PISTOLS. Aims point blank into Krueger's chest and starts
dialog: blasting away!
scene_heading: BLACK AND WHITE FREDDY
text: eyes open in wide surprise. Wads of CONFETTI fly out of the
text: holes being hammered into him. The impact knocks Freddy to
dialog: the ground.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON PHANTOM PROWLER
text: Gun smoking, he advances on Black and White Freddy who lies
text: unmoving in FOREGROUND. Suddenly...WHOOSH!
scene_heading: BLACK AND WHITE FREDDY
text: leaps to his feet! He is now transformed into SUPER FREDDY,
text: a bulked up, rippling muscle Freddy Krueger. He stands with
text: his hands on his hips, like a comic book hero.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Faster than a bastard maniac!
speaker_heading: THE PHANTOM PROWLER
text: quickly raises his gun again. FIRES!
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: More powerful than a loco madman...it's -
text: laughs as bullets bounce off him.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: (poses)
dialog: ME!
text: Then he whips his clawed hand up, swiping out toward CAMERA!
scene_heading: CLOSE ON MARK'S BACK
text: as Freddy's claws RIP and TEAR through it. The tears wide
dialog: and grow until we are looking right through him at...
dialog: Freddy's hideous face!
text: PULL BACK to reveal the now PAPER Mark. As Freddy continues
text: to slash him to shreds, the COLOR begins to DRAIN OUT of Mark
text: and RUN ONTO THE FLOOR.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT - FREDDY'S CLAWS CUTTING PAPER
text: MOVE THROUGH A SERIES OF SHOTS
text: of Black and White Freddy cutting Mark to shreds. His mouth
text: open in SOUNDLESS SCREAMS.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Told ya comic books were bad for ya.
scene_heading: FLUTTERING PIECES OF PAPER
text: fill the air. They float down. FOLLOW THEM as they move
text: together towards the open comic book on the floor of Mark's
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON COMIC BOOK
text: the pieces of paper reassemble, filling the empty frames of
text: the book with the illustrated version of Mark's death.
text: PULL BACK from the comic and we see Mark lying on the floor
text: next to it, CRUSHED TO DEATH beneath a section of his
text: collapsed shelving. The COLOR that drained from the PHANTOM
text: PROWLER is now a growing pool of Mark's own blood.
text: CAMERA CONTINUES TO PULL BACK and we see the rest of his room
text: is unharmed, except for a single set of shelves near Mark
dialog: that teeter dangerously.
text: In the BACKGROUND, Alice lies on the bed still sleeping. But
text: as we continue back, we see that Mark's room is now part of
text: the Asylum corridor. We can hear Alice's voice, speaking to
text: Yvonne OFF SCREEN.
speaker_heading: ALICE (O.S.)
text: In the dream, she was standing in a room.
text: CONTINUE PULLING BACK as Alice's VOICE grows LOUDER.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: ...it must be here in the asylum.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: You think that's the place she's buried?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: If they actually bothered to bury her.
text: KEEP PULLING BACK UNTIL CAMERA REVEALS...
speaker_heading: ALICE AND YVONNE
text: standing in FOREGROUND in the corridor. We see the back of
text: Alice's head as she looks at Yvonne. Before she can answer,
text: the CRASH of Mark's teetering bookshelves cause them to turn
text: back toward the scene of the carnage. Mark's lifeless body
text: lies beneath all the scaffolding. Alice clutches her belly
dialog: in pain.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: NOOO!!!
text: Alice sees herself on the bed in Mark's room. Alice on the
text: bed becomes awake. At that moment, both she and Yvonne
text: VANISH from the corridor, yanked out of the dream.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPUS SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT
text: Yvonne's eyes snap OPEN as she comes awake with a start. She
text: quickly glances around, realizes where she is, then hurriedly
dialog: rises from the water
scene_heading: EXT. GREY'S CONSTRUCTION - NIGHT
text: Police cars are parked out in front, their twirling lights
text: strobing the scene RED and BLUE as a small crowd of onlookers
text: gather to watch Mark, in body bag, being wheeled into a
text: waiting coroner's van.
speaker_heading: ALICE AND HER FATHER
text: emerge from the big commercial door. He has his arm around
text: her, nodding to plain clothes cop who follows them out.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Nothing in the room was up to code. It's
dialog: a miracle you both weren't killed.
text: Alice's red-rimmed eyes flash with momentary anger. She
dialog: realizes something.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No, he won't hurt me. He needs me alive.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Who?
text: Alice just shakes her head, knowing he wouldn't understand.
speaker_heading: COP (cont'd)
dialog: (to Alice's father)
dialog: Take her home. She probably needs some
dialog: rest.
text: The cop turns away. Alice's father nods, starts leading her
text: toward the street.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON STREET
text: as Yvonne's car rapidly pulls to the curb.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: sees her. Shrugs free of her father's arm and runs toward
dialog: the street
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yvonne!
speaker_heading: ALICE AND YVONNE
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: I know what Krueger's doing. Every time
text: someone dies, he gets closer to
dialog: finishing!
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Jacob. We've got to get to Amanda before
dialog: it's too late.
text: Alice leads Yvonne back to her car. They start to climb in.
scene_heading: INT. YVONNE'S CAR
text: Yvonne jumps behind the wheel. Alice gets into the passenger
text: side, her door still open. Beyond it, we see her father
dialog: approaching.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: But how are we gonna --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We've got to go to the asylum and find
dialog: her body. Mark said her soul's trapped
dialog: with it -- that's why she can't come to
dialog: me. It must be!
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: (approaching)
dialog: Alice!
scene_heading: ALICE AND HER FATHER - AT THE CAR DOOR
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I've got to go.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: (adamant)
dialog: No! I won't have you running around in
dialog: the middle of the night. You're coming
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But Dad --
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: Now.
text: Alice reluctantly nods. Turns to Yvonne.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Find Amanda. And hurry.
text: Alice's father pulls her from Yvonne's car. HOLD ON Yvonne a
text: BEAT, watching her go. Then she starts the engine. Slams
text: the car into gear with determined purpose.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Alice and her father ENTER. She's frustrated and angry. He
text: gives her a stern paternal look.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: Now I want you to go upstairs and get
dialog: some sleep.
text: Alice thinks. Then nods, suddenly giving in.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You're right. That's exactly what I need
dialog: to do.
text: Her father is taken aback. He grins.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S DAD
dialog: It is...
text: Alice kisses him on the cheek, then heads for the stairs.
scene_heading: EXT. REAR ASYLUM - PRE-DAWN
speaker_heading: EXTREME WIDE SHOT
text: with the STEPS in FOREGROUND. HEADLIGHTS sweep over them
text: revealing that they are overgrown with weeds and cluttered
dialog: with trash.
scene_heading: EXT. REAR ASYLUM - PRE-DAWN
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON GARGOYLE
text: its face smashed and eroded by years of neglect and
text: vandalism. TRACK LEFT to see Yvonne's car at the bottom of
text: the steps. Yvonne closes the trunk, then starts up the
text: steps, TOWARD CAMERA, carrying a flashlight and some tools.
scene_heading: ON THE ASYLUM DOORS
text: boarded up. Yvonne steps INTO SHOT, pausing before them.
text: She looks up at something high above her.
scene_heading: THE TOWER - LOW ANGLE
text: rising high into the first rays of dawn. The paling sky is
text: reflected in the three windows at the top.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
text: stares at it, realizing something. She turns back to the
text: doors and climbs in through a gap in the boards.
scene_heading: INT. REAL ASYLUM CORRIDOR - PRE-DAWN
text: Early morning light flows in through the windows,
text: illuminating the corridor, revealing years of neglect.
text: GRAFFITI adorns the peeling walls. LEAVES and BROKEN BOTTLES
text: are strewn across the floor, even a few empty cardboard
text: BOXES, the makeshift homes of transients, rest among the
dialog: clutter.
text: YVONNE walks INTO SHOT, TOWARD CAMERA, shining her flashlight
text: around, moving cautiously until she passes CAMERA and we...
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM CORRIDOR - REVERSE ANGLE
text: The dream version of the corridor. Alice walks PAST CAMERA
text: INTO SHOT. She shouts for Freddy.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Come on out, Krueger! The game's over.
dialog: I know what you're up to.
speaker_heading: CLOSER ON ALICE
text: she wears a look of grim determination as she taunts Freddy.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: I was too strong for you. So you picked
dialog: on Jacob, you bastard!
speaker_heading: ANOTHER CORRIDOR
text: Alice comes around the corner, stalking INTO SHOT. She looks
text: around for Krueger, shouting as she heads for the STAIRS TO
text: THE TOWER ROOM at the end of the corridor.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: You're trying to tailor make him so you
dialog: can live through his dreams for the rest
dialog: of his life.
text: Alice halts. Glares around the walls and doors.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Well I won't let you! You hear me,
dialog: Krueger!
text: Nothing. Alice starts up the stairs that lead to the brick
dialog: wall.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: If you won't talk to me, maybe you'd like
dialog: to talk to Amanda.
speaker_heading: TOP OF THE STAIRS
text: Alice stands before the wall. Lays both her hands against
dialog: the bricks.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Amanda!
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Sister Amanda Krueger!
scene_heading: INT. REAL ASYLUM CORRIDOR - PRE-DAWN
text: Yvonne stands at the top of the stairs facing the same brick
text: wall in the real asylum. She hefts a pick, and SWINGS AT THE
text: BRICKS. There is a LOUD THUNK!
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM - TIGHT ON ALICE
text: AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS. The THUNK echoes eerily, as though
text: from a long way off. Suddenly we hear Freddy's CRY OF RAGE
text: from OFF SCREEN. Alice whips around!
speaker_heading: FREDDY - FLASH CUTS
text: charging toward her down the corridor. Flashes of LIGHT
text: (BANG!) kick him further along, CLOSER TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: rushes down the stairs, and runs toward the next corridor in
text: front of her. Charges around the corner.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON ALICE
text: she charges toward the open metal door to the room of ONE
text: HUNDRED MANIACS. Their insane moans drift out into the
text: corridor. Alice throws a taunt back to Freddy.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Come on you fucking coward!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: races around the same corner. Alice is no longer there.
text: Freddy slides to a halt as he recognizes the doorway that
text: leads to the HUNDRED MANIACS. Their MOANS rise, growing
text: LOUDER as Freddy stands before the gaping doorway transfixed
text: by fear. He doesn't hear...
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: CAMERA rushes towards Freddy's backside. We hear the SOUND
text: of SQUEAKING, RUSTY WHEELS. Then a VOICE building to a high
dialog: pitched SCREAM!
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: screams as she charges toward Freddy with the black, nasty
text: FREDDY STROLLER. She hits him from behind!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: SCREAMS as he's impaled on SPIKES protruding from the front
dialog: of the stroller!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON ALICE AND FREDDY
text: Alice charges with the stroller toward CAMERA like a
text: juggernaut from hell. Freddy struggles to free himself, arms
text: and legs flailing wildly.
text: AT THE DOOR TO THE MANIACS
text: Alice gives the stroller a MIGHT SHOVE!
speaker_heading: FREDDY AND STROLLER
text: fly through the open doorway. Bounce against the rial at the
text: top of the landing.
scene_heading: OVER ALICE'S SHOULDER
text: as Freddy FLIES down the stairs, separating from the
dialog: stroller.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
text: tumbles TOWARD CAMERA, screaming!
speaker_heading: BOTTOM OF STAIRS
text: Freddy looks around in horror as his fathers surround him and
text: literally begin to tear him to pieces. Freddy SCREAMS!
text: ALICE gazes down in victory.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Goodnight, asshole.
scene_heading: ON FREDDY AND THE MANIACS
text: They tear him apart. An arm flies here. A leg there. As
text: each limb hits the floor, it turns into a scuttling mass of
text: GREEN AND RED striped SPIDERS.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: closes her eyes, relieved, but not really wanting to see
text: this. As Freddy's O.S. screams recede, HOLD ON ALICE
text: Suddenly, one of the striped spiders drops onto Alice's coat
text: from above. She screams and jumps back, as others land and
text: begin scuttling up her sleeves. With a scream of revulsion
text: she tears off her jacket and begins stamping on it.
speaker_heading: JACOB (O.S.)
dialog: Mommy, meet my friend...
text: Alice turns and looks back through the doorway to see
scene_heading: THE ASYLUM CORRIDOR - THE ESCHER MAZE
text: Now an Escheresque, expressionistic landscape. A puzzle
text: world made up of bits of Freddy's boiler room, the asylum
text: corridors and TOWER, the Elm Street house interior, the
text: abandoned church, etc. It's an insane, logic-defying world
text: where water runs uphill and stairs and doors stand at
text: impossible angles to one another. Across everything,
text: Freddy's boiler, on a huge PENDULUM, swings back and forth,
dialog: counting cadence.
speaker_heading: JACOB AND FREDDY
text: stand in a far doorway before a flight of stairs. Freddy has
text: been transformed. He and Jacob now both have the same
text: ETHEREAL GLOW. Freddy grins, sardonically.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Just what I really needed. Thank you.
dialog: It's a whole new me. Like it?
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: dread rising inside her, leaves the asylum and steps into
dialog: Escherland.
speaker_heading: THE BOILER PENDULUM
text: swings across CAMERA, WIPING FRAME to
scene_heading: CLOSE ON FREDDY AND JACOB
text: He takes Jacob's hand. Laughs, savoring the irony.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Kid's got my profile!
scene_heading: INT. REAL ASYLUM CORRIDOR
text: Yvonne swings again with the pick, knocking another brick
text: loose. Through the holes that she's made we can see the
text: rotting boards on a door.
scene_heading: INT. ESCHER MAZE
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: as she steps through the door and moves into the maze.
text: CAMERA follows her, then stops as Alice moves past. PAN with
text: Alice as she looks up at Freddy and her son. Jacob looks
text: apprehensive.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Mommy...?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Come on downstairs. He won't hurt you.
dialog: He needs us both.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: I've got you both.
text: Freddy makes a threatening, teasing motion.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Which half would you like?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Come on, Jacob. Time to go home.
speaker_heading: THE BOILER PENDULUM
text: arcs across FRAME.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON FREDDY AND JACOB - LOW ANGLE
text: Jacob looks up at him. Hesitates. Then RUNS DOWN THE STAIRS
text: toward CAMERA. Freddy quickly turns and charges UP THE
speaker_heading: STAIRS.
scene_heading: WIDE ANGLE ON ESCHER MAZE
text: Alice is a small figure near her door in the BACKGROUND.
text: Jacob races toward her, away from CAMERA. Freddy, upside
text: down, rushes across TOP OF FRAME, trying to head Jacob off.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON JACOB
text: running toward CAMERA. Suddenly, Freddy pops INTO FRAME,
text: upside down, right behind him!
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE ON JACOB
text: Terrified. Running toward us for all he's worth! CAMERA
text: TILTS UP to Freddy taking a swipe at him with his CLAWS!
speaker_heading: SIDE ANGLE ON JACOB (CRAVE-INN)
text: He's almost to his mother when...he hears an OFF SCREEN voice
dialog: that stops him in his tracks
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Jacob...
speaker_heading: JACOB TURNS
speaker_heading: WIDER ANGLE
text: Back of Alice's head in FOREGROUND watching as Jacob turns
dialog: and looks back at Dan!
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE (ESCHER MAZE)
text: Her eyes open wide. The man she loves, the man she thought
dialog: she'd never see again, is right before her. We see the
text: confusion and longing in her face...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Dan?...
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON DAN (CRAVE-INN)
text: wearing a warm, reassuring smile as he moves toward CAMERA.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: It's all right, Jacob... Come to Daddy.
scene_heading: ANGLE THROUGH GLASS FLOOR (CRAVE-INN)
text: looking up as Dan WALKS ACROSS THE LENS toward Jacob, his
text: arms outstretched to the boy.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON JACOB
text: Hesitating. Unsure. Dan ENTERS FRAME. His hand moving
dialog: toward Jacob...
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON ALICE
text: She fights back confusion and realizes
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: He's not your father!
text: TIGHT ON DAN'S OUTSTRETCHED HAND
text: suddenly BONE LIKE CLAWS emerge from DAN's FINGERTIPS!
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: turns and runs!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Kids! Always a disappointment.
text: FREDDY/DAN snarls, enraged and charges after Jacob.
scene_heading: INT. ESCHER MAZE
text: Jacob runs for Alice, who picks him up in her arms as he
text: reaches her. As she sees Freddy approach, she turns and
dialog: runs.
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM BASEMENT
text: Alice finds herself at the end of the staircase which she has
text: run down. She stands in the vast, impossibly large crypt
text: beneath the asylum. Huge, ancient columns inscribed with
text: hieroglyphic and indented with the faces of dead souls
text: support the roof far above.
text: One staircase leads to the asylum through which the souls of
text: the maniacs can be heard and another, apparently, leads to
text: the real world: Alice's bathroom.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: as she puts Jacob down and turns to face Freddy. But he's
text: nowhere to be seen. Alice whirls around looking for him.
speaker_heading: ON JACOB
text: his brow furrowed in thought.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Where is he?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (pauses before answering)
dialog: He's inside you, where he hides.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: looks at him in amazement.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: It's where he hides out. Inside. That's
dialog: how he found me.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: a look of horrified realization crosses her face.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But how...?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: He says it's easy. Especially with sad
dialog: people. With closed-off people.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: stares at Jacob thoughtfully. A look of determination dawns
text: on her face.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: All right, Krueger. This time it's for
dialog: keeps.
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM BASEMENT
text: Suddenly, Alice gets a new look of horror in her eyes as her
text: face begins to distort. The back of Freddy's head begins to
text: emerge though Alice's face. It keeps coming until his entire
text: neck and head pulls itself out and stares at her.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Come on, Alice. Now we can really get to
dialog: know each other.
text: Alice stares at him in disgust and terror. Grabs his head
text: and shouts at the top of her lungs.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: NO!!!
text: The struggle begins. Freddy shoots an arm out from behind
text: her shoulder and tries to grab Alice in a headlock. He's
text: trying to take over from the inside out!
text: Freddy's leg pushes its way out through her calf. His other
text: arm snakes out from her torso. Tries to choke her. She
text: screams out in desperation and rage.
scene_heading: INT. REAL ASYLUM CORRIDOR
scene_heading: CLOSE ON INSIDE OF DOOR
text: as a brick tumbles loose and falls TOWARD CAMERA. Yvonne's
text: face appears, peering into the gloom.
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM BASEMENT
text: Alice drops to her knees, falling through frame until her
text: face fills the screen in an open-mouthed scream of anguish
dialog: and pain.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Get out! Get out!!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON ALICE
text: bathed in a stream of light from the shattered church window
text: above her. We hear Freddy's laugh coming from inside her.
scene_heading: INT. REAL ASYLUM - STAIRS
text: Yvonne furiously picks and pries away at the bricks, trying
text: to widen the hole she's made at the bottom of the door. She
text: gets down on her hands and knees before the hole she's made
text: in the bricks. She pushes against the cracked and rotting
dialog: boards of the door. They won't give...
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM BASEMENT
text: Alice and Freddy locked in combat.
scene_heading: INT. REAL ASYLUM - STAIRS
text: Yvonne throws herself at the boards of the door. They split
text: under the impact and she flies into the room. She gets to
text: her knees and stares in awe at
speaker_heading: SISTER AMANDA
text: kneeling on the dust covered floor, her back to Yvonne.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
text: gets to her feet and cautiously approaches.
scene_heading: ON AMANDA - FROM BEHIND
text: as Yvonne warily steps INTO SHOT, her hand slowly stretching
text: out toward the nun's back. As Yvonne is about to lay her
text: hand on Armada's shoulder
scene_heading: YVONNE AND AMANDA - SIDE ANGLE
text: Amanda begins turning. Cut to WIDE SHOT outside Amanda's
text: open door. Everything EXPLODES TOWARDS CAMERA - including
speaker_heading: YVONNE.
scene_heading: INT. ASYLUM BASEMENT
speaker_heading: ON JACOB
text: crying as he watches Alice, who is obviously losing the fight
text: with Freddy. Amanda's voice, close by, suddenly cuts through
text: the sound of the struggle.
speaker_heading: AMANDA (O.S.)
dialog: Jacob! Alice will not triumph.
text: Jacob looks up and around, puzzled. Amanda is nowhere to be
text: seen. Again, he hears her voice as if she were standing
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: AMANDA (O.S. cont'd)
dialog: Only you can help her now, Jacob.
text: With a snarl of anger, as if dismissing the thought, Jacob
text: bounds up the bridge toward the struggling couple.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Hey! Leave her. She's no fun anymore.
dialog: I want to go home now.
text: Freddy looks at Jacob. He sees a different boy, now. A
text: nasty evil expression on his face.
speaker_heading: CLOSE-UP - JACOB
text: his face begins to change. Subtly at first, then not as he
dialog: is becoming more like Freddy.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: (in his Freddy's child voice)
dialog: Let's go, I want to learn stuff from you.
dialog: (a Freddy leer crosses his
dialog: face)
dialog: Will you teach me?
text: Freddy at first looks suspicious, then smiles and extricates
text: himself from Alice who is looking at Jacob in horror. Freddy
text: gives her an obscene kiss as he separates from her. She
text: sinks to the ground exhausted and beaten.
text: Freddy approaches Jacob who smiles evilly. Suddenly Freddy
text: stops. He snarls as he sees something behind Jacob.
text: Jacob turns and sees Amanda, far above, silhouetted in the
text: doorway to the asylum.
speaker_heading: AMANDA
dialog: Now, Jacob! Unleash the power he has
dialog: given you!
text: Jacob turns back and looks at Freddy.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (Freddyized)
dialog: Fuck you, Krueger
text: As he speaks, his mouth grows larger, impossibly large. A
text: violent wind appears to be rushing from him.
text: Finally with a roar, the decrepit souls of DAN, GRETA and
text: MARK rush from him and hurl themselves upon Freddy. The
text: ectoplasmic trio strike Freddy full in the chest, ripping
text: through him and emerging from his back. As they doe so, they
text: pull him backwards towards Amanda.
speaker_heading: ON JACOB
text: as the last of the souls leave him, his face returns to
text: normal and he falls out of frame, apparently dissolving as he
dialog: does so.
speaker_heading: ON FREDDY
text: howling in anguish as he is dragged back.
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP
text: Freddy's feet being dragged.
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP
text: Freddy's back bulging as the souls drag him along.
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP
text: Freddy's sleeves as the hands begin to disappear inwards.
speaker_heading: AMANDA
dialog: Come home, my son. All of us are waiting
dialog: for you now.
text: Suddenly, with a sickening wrench, the Freddy fetus is ripped
text: out of his back.
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP
text: Freddy's clothes falling to the floor in a heap.
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP
text: The Freddy Fetus emerging from a steaming pile of ectoplasm,
text: malevolently glaring at Amanda.
speaker_heading: ON ALICE
text: As she sees the new BABY JACOB emerging from his pile of
text: clothes on the floor, she rushes to him and picks him up,
text: cradling him tenderly in her arms.
speaker_heading: ON AMANDA
text: who seizes the Freddy Fetus and holds it to her.
speaker_heading: AMANDA (cont'd)
dialog: I forgive you, my son.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT
text: as the two mothers simultaneously merge with their off-
dialog: spring.
text: Amanda shudders in silent agony as she accepts her son back
dialog: inside her.
text: As Alice receives Jacob, an optical effect surrounds them as
text: he is absorbed. The effect coalesces into a single column of
text: light which drives upwards, finally fading as the souls of
text: Dan, Mark and Greta take their leave.
text: Alice looks across at Amanda and starts towards her,
text: instinctively. Amanda is now silhouetted again in the
text: doorway to the room of the maniacs.
speaker_heading: AMANDA (cont'd)
dialog: Don't come near. Take your son and
dialog: leave.
speaker_heading: ON AMANDA
text: Sadly she turns to leave. We think the fight is over, when
text: suddenly, grotesquely appearing from her back, Freddy's arm
text: shoots out. Amanda gasps and clutches the doorway. As a
text: look of determination crosses her face, the arm is sucked
text: back inside.
text: A muffled howl of anguish echoes around as she steps through
text: the doorway into the room of 100 maniacs. The SOUND of the
text: maniacs rises to a crescendo.
speaker_heading: A SERIES OF DOORS
text: starting with the one in front of Amanda, slam shut, one
text: after the next until the final door - right in front of Alice
text: SLAMS CLOSED BLOCKING HER OFF FOREVER FROM AMANDA!
text: We hear the echo of that final SLAM, then SILENCE.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: stands there, staring at the last door. The SOUNDS OF A
text: CRYING INFANT COME UP ON THE TRACK
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - DAY
text: Bucolic. Sunny. Serene. A picnic table rests beneath the
text: shade of a tree in MIDDLE FOREGROUND. Beyond it, children
text: romp and play. The infant's CRYING grows LOUDER as
text: A BABY'S ARM moves into EXTREME FOREGROUND and stops. Two
text: female arms reach in and lift a CRYING, cherubic infant.
text: Follow the arms up to Alice, as she tenderly cradles JACOB.
text: Yvonne steps INTO SHOT admiring the baby.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: You do good work, Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: So did Dan.
text: CAMERA TRACKS as they move to the picnic table. Alice gently
text: shushes and rocks Jacob, who quiets down.
speaker_heading: YVONNE
dialog: He sure loves to stay awake.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's okay. He's got the rest of his
dialog: life to catch up on his sleep.
text: Jacob closes his eyes, safely ensconced in his mother's arms,
text: and drifts off to sleep.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Sweet dreams, Jacob Daniel.
scene_heading: SLOWLY DOLLY BACK - SLOW MOTION
text: as a JUMP ROPE held by someone OFF SCREEN arcs over the top
text: of CAMERA moving down through the frame with a WHOOSH. And
dialog: again, WHOOSH. And again...
text: Then the back of a CHILD'S HEAD, very white and soft focused,
text: bobs INTO BOTTOM FRAME as the rope comes down over the lens
dialog: one more time and we
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
scene_heading: (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
scene_heading: m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
dialog: })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');
speaker_heading: ga('create', 'UA-67290913-1', 'auto');
dialog: ga('send', 'pageview');
dialog: 
