dialog: 
speaker_heading: A BLACK SCREEN
text: As the MAIN TITLES begin, two sounds are heard. The first is
text: the low, moaning WIND. The second is a slow SCREECHING.
dialog: It's the kind of noise that makes you grit your teeth.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET - DAY
text: GRAY SURFACE FILLS THE SCREEN. At first it's hard to
text: recognize this rough, indistinct surface. But when a CHILD'S
text: HAND drags a piece of colored chalk ACROSS THE FRAME, we
text: realize that we're seeing a very close view of a CONCRETE
speaker_heading: WALKWAY.
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET - DAY
text: A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS FOLLOW THE MOVEMENTS of the tiny hand
text: as it proceeds to lay out an intricate CHALK DRAWING on the
dialog: walkway.
dialog: For a while, we are too close to identify the image that is
text: being created. But as THE CAMERA PULLS BACK, we see a
text: youthful artist's representation of a two story HOUSE.
text: The CAMERA TILTS UP, revealing a LITTLE GIRL in white dress.
text: She's holding a handful of colored chalk. Behind her sits
text: the ELM STREET HOUSE.
dialog: As the TITLES END, we...
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET - DAY
text: The trees lining this residential street are bare, and they
text: sway in the breeze that's blowing their dead leaves across
dialog: the sidewalk.
text: KRISTEN, a beautiful, but pensive-looking blonde teenager, is
text: walking slowly towards the ominous house. Although her face
text: shows signs of fear, she is moving with resolve.
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET HOUSE - DAY
text: Kristen stops and looks down at the angelic little girl who
text: has been creating the childish drawing of Freddy's house.
text: Kneeling down beside her, Kristen takes a closer look at the
text: colorful chalk sketch.
text: It has an almost exaggerated cheerfulness. And although
text: awkwardly rendered, it makes the house look new, and the yard
text: well-tended. The idyllic sidewalk illustration looks nothing
text: like its subject, which has peeling paint, boarded-up
text: windows, and is horribly run-down.
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: Hello...
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Do you live here?
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
dialog: (sadly)
dialog: Nobody lives here.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Where's Freddy?
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
dialog: (giggles strangely)
dialog: He's not home.
text: Just then, the child lifts her hand away from the picture.
text: What Kristen sees makes her gasp. A crudely drawn, but
text: easily recognizable image of FREDDY KRUEGER is visible behind
text: one of the windows.
text: There is a CRACK of LIGHTNING, and drops of rain start to
text: sprinkle down on to the girl and her drawing.
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Kristen glances up at the sky. Rain trickles onto her face.
text: Then after a second, she looks back down at the sidewalk.
text: THE LITTLE GIRL IS GONE. Kristen scans the area, but the
text: child is nowhere to be seen.
text: Rain is splashing down on the chalk illustration. Not only is
text: the image washing away, but as the colors blend together,
text: they form a liquid that looks just like BLOOD.
text: Kristen hears a CREAKING NOISE coming from the direction of
text: the house. She turns and stares at the menacing structure.
text: The front door is SLOWLY OPENING. Somehow Kristen seems
text: unsurprised by this. And as though drawn by an
text: uncontrollable urge, she turns toward the house. With
text: thunder and lightning crashing above her, she walks
text: deliberately toward the open door.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRANCE HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: As soon as Kristen enters the house, she hears VOICES behind
text: her. It's CHILDREN SINGING a strange nursery rhyme.
speaker_heading: CHILDREN'S VOICES (O.S.)
dialog: One two, Freddy's coming for you...
text: Kristen spins around and looks back through the open door.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHT - KRISTEN'S POV
text: standing out in the yard that was empty a moment before are a
text: dozen very young CHILDREN. Dressed in their Sunday best,
text: they are staring at Kristen as they continue to sing:
speaker_heading: CHILDREN
dialog: Three four, better lock the door...
scene_heading: INT. ENTRANCE HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: The front door SLAMS SHUT with a bang. Kristen's determined
text: expression dissolves, and she reaches back for the doorknob.
text: It turns without resistance and the door opens with ease.
text: Kristen rushes through the doorway, but instead of finding
text: herself outside, she is in...
scene_heading: INT. A DUPLICATE ENTRANCE HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Kristen's eyes widen as she compares her surroundings with
text: the dusty, decaying room that is visible on the other side of
text: the still-open door. They are exactly the same.
text: Before she can take another step, the door slams shut again.
text: And this time when she tries to open it, it's locked solid.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: Calm and cool, I'm calm and cool...
text: She moves down the hall, finds an open door, steps through
scene_heading: INT. DARK ELM STREET LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Kristen walks in, the old floorboards creaking under her
text: feet. She looks at the walls. They are lined with eerie
text: paintings of children playing in graveyards. Rainwater drips
text: down from the ceiling.
text: When FLASHES OF LIGHTNING illuminate the room, Kristen
text: catches sights of an old and dusty couch in one corner. A
text: couch with a distinctive RED AND GREEN STRIPED LINING.
text: Another bolt FLASHES. Kristen is horrified to see,
text: silhouetted on one of the walls, the shadow of a hand with
text: long, knife-like fingers.
text: So frightened that she can barely breathe, Kristen turns to
text: the LARGE WINDOW across the room.
text: ANOTHER FLASH lights up the dark room, and Kristen relaxes.
text: It isn't Freddy outside the window. It's only a tree branch.
text: Relieved, Kristen starts over toward the window. But before
text: she reaches it, there is a sudden, massive CLAP OF THUNDER,
text: and the entire window EXPLODES into the room.
text: A huge gust of WIND roars in through the shattered window,
text: and blows Kristen off her feet.
scene_heading: INT. FREDDY'S BOILER ROOM - NIGHT
text: Kristen tumbles down a set of heavy metal chute that has just
text: appeared out of nowhere, and lands on the concrete floor of a
text: very large, dark Boiler Room. She scrambles to her feet and
text: looks around, terrified like a trapped animal.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (under her breath)
dialog: He's not here, he's dead. He's not here,
dialog: he's dead. He's...
text: Just then, Kristen hears the unmistakable SOUND of Freddy's
text: knives scraping against a nearby metal surface.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: (crying out)
dialog: No!! Kincaide! Joey! Help me!!
scene_heading: INT. KINCAID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Kincaid is sitting at his desk, his head drooped down over an
text: open copy of an illustrated sports magazine. A harmless-
text: looking MONGREL is sleeping at his feet.
text: Suddenly, Kincaid's chair BEGINS TO SHAKE. He lifts his head
text: in surprise just as he suddenly flies from the chair and
text: sails through the air, straight towards a wall in his room.
text: But instead of piling into the solid surface, Kincaid sails
text: right through it and DISAPPEARS into the void.
scene_heading: INT. BOILER ROOM - NIGHT
text: Kincaid falls into the Boiler Room, crashing through a pile
text: of rusty pipes and boilers. As soon as he catches his
text: breath, he looks up and sees Kristen. He quickly jumps to
text: his feet and starts to yell at his friend.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Awww shit, Kristen, not again....
text: Kristen motions for Kincaid to LISTEN as the SCREECHING
dialog: continues.
text: Kincaid, unimpressed, shows Kristen that it's merely the
text: metal arature of a boiler attachment SCRAPING against a
dialog: railing.
speaker_heading: KINCAID (cont'd)
dialog: You are one spooked chick...
text: Before Kincaid can say another word, Kristen holds up her
text: hand. FOOTSTEPS are echoing out of the shadows behind them.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Shh...
text: They both spin around just as a FIGURE lurches toward them.
text: Kincaid gasps, and Kristen screams. But a moment later thy
text: each let out big sighs. It's JOEY. Kincaid covers his fear
dialog: with cool nonchalance.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: Joey, thank God!! I thought...
speaker_heading: JOEY
dialog: Thought what? Of dragging us in here?
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Yeah, cut it out. You're puttin' a dent
dialog: in my beauty sleep.
text: They both glare at Kristen. They're pissed.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (in a halting voice)
dialog: It's Freddy... He's here. I heard him.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Chill out, Kristen...Freddy's dead,
dialog: buried, and consecrated. We won,
dialog: remember?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (shaking her head)
dialog: He's back... to get us.
speaker_heading: JOEY
dialog: Now way, Kincaid's right, Fred Krueger is
dialog: history, c'mere...
text: He leads her around the Boiler Room. He makes her touch
text: pipes, and then positions her in front of the large furnace.
speaker_heading: JOEY (cont'd)
dialog: Look... The pipes are cold, the boiler is
dialog: cold... see for yourself.
text: He swings open the iron door on the furnace. Kristen moves
text: close to look in the black void. There isn't even the glow
text: of an ember inside. She turns away.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I don't know...
text: ALL AT ONCE, a howling BEAST leaps out of the furnace. It's
text: Kincaid's dog. Kristen has managed to pull it into her dream
dialog: with its master.
text: The terrified animal clamps its jaws around Kristen's arm,
text: and knocks the screaming girl down to the floor.
scene_heading: INT. JOEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Joey wakes up with a start, and tries to re-orient himself.
text: His sudden movements cause his waterbed to slosh back and
dialog: forth like crazy.
scene_heading: INT. KINCAID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Kincaid jerks his head up off his desk, and glances around
text: his room with an expression of relief. Then he hears a
text: WHIMPERING sound and looks down.
text: His dog is staring up at him with uncomprehending eyes.
text: There is BLOOD around the animal's mouth.
scene_heading: INT. KRISTEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Kristen throws her covers off and jumps up out of bed. She's
text: breathing hard and her arm is BLEEDING. Grabbing a T-shirt
text: off a chair, Kristen wraps it around the wound.
text: She sits back down on her bed. She looks really scared.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. ALICE'S HOUSE - DAY
text: The morning sun is rising behind the broad-limbed trees that
text: shade a collection of unassuming homes. It's a peaceful
dialog: neighborhood. Just the kind that Freddy used to like.
text: A girl pulls up in front of one house. She's driving a VW
dialog: Rabbit Convertible.
text: It's Kristen. She wears a long sleeve shirt, but a bulge
text: reveals where her arm is bandaged.
scene_heading: EXT. ALICE AND RICK'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Kristen quickly walks to the side door of a modest house.
text: After ringing the bell, she glances out at the sidewalk. When
text: Kristen turns back, a STERN-LOOKING MAN is standing in the
text: open doorway. Although probably not much over forty, DENNIS
text: JOHNSON'S face shows a lot of wear; too much scotch, too much
text: work. He's dressed for work and is preparing to leave, but
text: his hangover is self-evident.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: How are you, Mr. Johnson?
text: Johnson ignores her.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: That's nice.
text: Johnson turns away. His daughter ALICE shows up at the door,
text: slinking warily by her father. In a definite contrast to
dialog: Kristen's easy beauty, Alice is not especially well put
dialog: together. And yet there's something about this shy-looking
dialog: girl that suggests that she might be incredibly attractive if
dialog: she had any confidence.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (low)
dialog: Hi, Kristen...Rick'll be out any second.
text: Kristen looks in the doorway at Johnson who is holding a
text: tomato-juice and spices hangover delight. Kristen makes a
text: face. Alice turns as Johnson looks up.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: (to Alice)
dialog: You going out dressed like that?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: What's wrong with me this time?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (embarrassed)
dialog: Uhh, I'll just wait outside.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: No, it's okay. Maybe you can help her.
text: Johnson pours a shot of Vodka into his morning concoction and
text: SLAMS the door shut, leaving the two girls alone on the front
text: porch. Kristen is about to console Alice when they HEAR a
text: RUSTLING sound above them. RICK, Alice's brother, is
text: shimmying out of an upper floor window.
text: He reaches for a nearby tree, and with surprising grace he
text: maneuvers to the ground and lands smiling in front of the
text: girls. He gives Kristen a quick kiss.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Something wrong with the stairs?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Avoid-all-contact-day.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: When dad's popping aspiring like popcorn,
dialog: it's avoid-all-contact-day.
text: Johnson suddenly reopens the door and reaches for the morning
text: newspaper. He stares at the kids.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Waiting for a limo?
text: Rick grabs his father's face and gives him a big, noisy kiss
text: on the cheek.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: (mock Ricky Ricardo)
dialog: Okay, honey. I'm off to the club!
text: The girls chuckle as Johnson becomes embarrassed and SLAMS
text: the door on the kids.
scene_heading: EXT. SPRINGWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - DAY
dialog: Springwood High doesn't look particularly inviting, but how
text: many high schools do? STUDENTS are arriving on foot, on
text: bikes, and in a variety of motor vehicles.
text: Kristen, Rick and Alice pull up in Kristen's VW Rabbit
text: Convertible and park. They step onto the sidewalk and cross
text: along beside the STUDENT PARKING LOT. They stop beside an
text: ATTRACTIVE GIRL who is leaning against a car, listening to
text: the blasting radio inside.
text: The girl, DEBBIE STEVENS, is one well put together item. A
dialog: tough but smart girl from the wrong side of the tracks,
text: trying to compensate for her roots with defensive spunk,
dialog: sexy, and she knows it.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Alright, anybody have trig this semester?
text: Alice, Rick and Kristen shake their heads 'no'.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: I had a conflict. Homework or Dynasty.
dialog: Dynasty won.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: A sad story. Those soaps'll kill ya.
text: Alice's attention drifts to a tough PICK-UP that is pulling
text: up not far from them. A handsome, dark-haired TEENAGER, DAN,
text: climbs out of the car.
text: Debbie eyes him too.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: (appreciative)
dialog: There's Dan Jordan. Mmmmm, we're talkin'
dialog: major league fox.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL -DAY (DAYDREAM)
dialog: Begin DAYDREAM.
text: JUMP CUT to Dan standing directly in front of Alice. She's
text: in a more confident, seductive pose. She looks him up and
text: down and flashes a Lauren Bacall smile.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mmmmmm, you know, you are one major
dialog: league fox.
text: She puts a hand on Dan's waist. He grows nervous and
text: awkward, as if he's the shy one now.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: (stammers)
dialog: T-T-Thanks Alice...
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL - DAY (BACK TO REALITY)
speaker_heading: RICK (O.S.)
dialog: Earth to Alice...
text: Alice snaps out of it. Dan is suddenly back where he was,
text: walking away with a group of his friends.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: You spacing again?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (hush-hush)
dialog: Rick, please.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Alright, I think I see salvation...
text: A battered and sputtering VESPA SCOOTER is zipping towards
text: them through the parking lot. The BLACK GIRL riding the
text: scooter looks a bit nerdy, with thick glasses and short hair,
text: but makes up for it with a hip sense of style. Her scooter
text: has been souped up with a few home-made gadgets and
dialog: attachments.
text: As soon as SHEILA KOPECKY reaches them, she hops off her
text: bike, and unstraps the pile of books and papers from the
text: back. Tons of SMOKE pour out the back of it.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE (cont'd)
dialog: (bats smoke away)
dialog: How can you ride that health hazard?
dialog: It's no wonder you have asthma.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Asthma is an inherited condition. If you
dialog: read a book now and then, you might know
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Speaking of books, isn't trig your
dialog: favorite?
text: Sheila stares at Debbie a beat.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Dynasty again, huh? Girl, get a VCR.
text: Sheila pulls out her asthma inhaler and sticks it in her
text: mouth. She takes a few puffs. A cocky, obnoxious BLACK JOCK
text: walks by and comments to Sheila.
speaker_heading: JOCK
dialog: Yo, baby, you're sucking on the wrong
dialog: nozzle.
text: Sheila is embarrassed and falls short of managing a retort,
text: Debbie steps in between Sheila and the jock and does it for
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Hey, needledick. I bet you're the only
dialog: male in this school suffering from penis
dialog: envy.
text: The jock stares in confusion, not quite understanding the
text: insult. Our group cracks up and pats Debbie on the shoulders
text: as the jock walks off.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Alright, I owe you one.
text: Debbie suddenly stops laughing and lets out a disgusted GASP.
text: A huge ROACH is crawling around her books. She shakes the
text: book until the bug falls off, then grinds it under her foot,
text: a little too enthusiastically.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Supergirl, I think it's dead.
text: The group gets their stuff together and heads for class.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY
text: STUDENTS are moving through the hallway that cuts through the
dialog: center of Springwood High.
text: Kristen is standing against one wall, spinning the dial on
text: her locker. Rick can be seen a dozen lockers down from her.
text: Kristen gets the locker open, grabs a couple of her books,
text: then slams it shut. But as the locker door swings away, it
text: SUDDENLY REVEALS the faces of Kincaid and Joey just inches
text: from Kristen. They startle the hell out of her.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Hi...guys.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Hi guys?!? Hi guys?!?! That's all you
dialog: got to say after last night?
text: Kristen studies her two angry friends for a moment, then
text: speaks up in a firm voice.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I'm telling you, he's coming back!
text: He tries to move around, but bumps his head on something low.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Yo open this sucker up!!
text: He pounds on the metal above. It moves just enough to reveal
text: a thin crack of blue light. He continues to mutter to
text: himself in confusion.
text: He pounds a few more times, starting to panic, when the metal
text: above his head finally pops open.
scene_heading: EXT. JUNKYARD - NIGHT
text: Kincaid sticks his head out of the trunk of a wrecked car and
text: looks around. He's in an ominous auto graveyard.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: This ain't my dreamland. KRISTEN. IF
dialog: YOU HERE I'M GONNA POUND YOUR ASS!!
text: Kincaid looks around. No one's to be seen.
speaker_heading: KINCAID (cont'd)
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Kristen!! Hey, Kristen!!
dialog: (beat, then sheepishly)
dialog: Kristen?
text: He collects himself and puts on a badass walking gait. When
text: he hears a low GROWLING, Kincaid looks down. A few feet away
text: from him is his dog. It has an odd expression on its face.
speaker_heading: KINCAID (cont'd)
dialog: Jason?
dialog: (relaxes, becomes sympathetic)
dialog: Listen little sister, we know you got
dialog: this talent for bringing folks into your
dialog: dreams, but we don't need it anymore.
dialog: Time to live like regular people.
speaker_heading: JOEY
dialog: Let it rest. 'Sides, who knows, you might
dialog: stir him back up if you keep going in.
dialog: Kincaid and I'll help, we're still a
dialog: team, and we ALL have better things to
dialog: dream about.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: You got that right, signed and sealed.
dialog: Kristen wants to believe, but she can't, because:
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Then what about this?
text: Kristen pulls up her sleeve, and reveals the blood-stained
text: bandage on her forearm.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: That don't mean dick. My dog's like me.
text: Drag him into a crazy dream and he gets
dialog: wild.
text: The guys see Rick approaching.
speaker_heading: KINCAID (cont'd)
dialog: (jokingly, trying to change the
dialog: subject)
dialog: Here comes your boyfriend. Can't he give
dialog: you a good night's sleep?
text: Rick arrives in time to hear Kincaid's comment.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: We don't kiss and tell. How 'bout you
dialog: guys?
text: Kincaide starts to mount a comeback, but Joey pulls him away.
text: Kristen watches them disappear into the crowd.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: Those guys are kind of spooky.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Then you must think I'm a total freak.
text: Rick ponders this.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: I go back and forth.
text: Kristen is not amused.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: Lighten up. No one died.
text: Rick strokes her cheek. Kristen forces a weak smile.
scene_heading: INT. KINCAID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Kincaid is getting into bed. His night time attire consists
text: of a T-shirt and a pair of sweat pants.
text: As the sleepy young man settles between the sheets, a FORCE
text: begins to slowly open the door behind him. It SQUEAKS as it
text: inches open. Kincaid is on alert. After a few moments of
text: suspense, Kincaid's mangy dog shoves the door the rest of the
text: way open, and trots into the room.
text: The mutt hops up onto the bed and circles a couple of times.
text: When it finally lies down, Kincaid shoves it over a bit.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Come on, Jason, move over.
text: The dog and his master adjust their positions, then Kincaid
text: reaches over and turns off the light.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON KINCAID
text: His eyes slowly shut. The room is still. But suddenly a
text: SCREECHING SOUND wakes him.
scene_heading: INT. CAR TRUNK - NIGHT
text: Kincaid opens his eyes. It's too dark for him to see much,
text: so he reaches for the light on his bedstand. But instead of
text: finding a lamp, his hand slams against a metal surface.
scene_heading: EXT. CAR BOX CANYON - NIGHT
text: The dog is furiously digging below the back of an imposing-
text: looking OLD CADILLAC. Some strange instinct seems to have
dialog: overpowered the animal.
text: The boy rushes forward and tries to stop his dog. But it's
text: no longer acting like a friendly pet, and it turns and snarls
text: at him viciously.
text: Kincaid stops and stares in disbelief as the dog lifts its
text: leg and PISSES FIRE onto the spot where it's been digging.
text: A FLAMING STREAM runs along the ground, and a moment later,
text: the earth RUMBLES and starts to CRACK OPEN along this line of
text: fire. Shafts of light erupt out of the crack.
text: Its job complete, the dog howls and runs off into the night.
text: Kincaid watches it disappear between the stacks of cars, then
text: steps forward and looks down into the SMOLDERING PIT.
scene_heading: EXT. FREDDY'S GRAVE - NIGHT
text: Down at the bottom of this freshly formed crevice, a pile of
text: BONES is forming itself into a HUMAN SKELETON. They click
text: together like a machine gun put together by an experienced
dialog: soldier.
text: And as if that isn't creepy enough, a body is quickly
text: REGENERATING.
text: FLESH appears on the bones. Cartilage knits the joints, and
text: muscle swells within the OOZING TISSUE that is forming all
text: over the body. It's the antithesis of decomposition.
text: When BURNED SKIN forms over the flesh, and clothes reverse
dialog: their rot and cover the skin, there is no longer any doubt
dialog: who's rebirth we are witnessing.
scene_heading: EXT. CAR BOX CANYON - NIGHT
text: Kincaid watches in horror as the sinister figure rises from
text: the grave. FREDDY'S BACK.
text: Freddy raises his right hand, and with a flick of his wrist,
text: extends the long shiny BLADES at the ends of the fingers
dialog: (like switch blades.).
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: You shouldn't've buried me...I'm not
dialog: dead.
text: Kincaid doesn't hesitate for another second. Before Freddy
text: even starts to move toward him, the terrified dreamer turns
text: and runs. He finds the opening where he entered, and madly
text: squeezes himself back through it.
scene_heading: EXT. LABYRINTH OF CARS - NIGHT
text: Kincaid starts to weave his way through the maze of piled-up
dialog: cars.
text: He turns a corner and pauses to catch his breath. He looks
text: around. There's no sign of Freddy. Breathing hard, he turns
text: around at the piles of cars around him. The expression on
text: his face tells us he's got an idea.
speaker_heading: ON FREDDY
text: He round the corner and stops, there's no Kincaid. He looks
text: around, confused. He HEARS the SQUEAK of metal.
speaker_heading: ON KINCAID
text: Who's on top of a pile of cars. He's straining with his
text: super dream-strength to push the top car off the pile. He
dialog: succeeds.
text: The car topples down onto Freddy, squashing him flat. A
text: victorious Kincaid jumps down onto the roof, then hood of the
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: KINCAID
dialog: Take that, mutha-fucker!
text: Kincaide jumps to the ground. As soon as he lands, the cars
text: around him go wild. HORNS HONK, lights flash, windshield
dialog: wipers wipe.
text: Suddenly before Kincaid can react, cars start to pile in
text: around him. He spins around to watch as he is quickly boxed
text: in by piles of cars which come crashing in.
text: Kincaid is boxed in like a trapped mouse. The HORNS on the
text: cars around him HONK and headlights flash at him.
text: There is no way out. He's completely trapped in a space not
text: much larger than a single car.
text: Suddenly, Kincaid hears a SCRAPING NOISE right behind him.
text: Freddy's claws are SCRAPING a windshield.
text: He spins around, and finds FREDDY standing just inches away,
text: with his knives raised.
text: Freddy brings his blades down and jams them into Kincaid's
dialog: chest.
speaker_heading: KINCAID (cont'd)
dialog: (gurgling)
dialog: Kiss my ass, I'll see you in hell...
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Tell them Freddy sent ya!! HAHAHAHA!
text: Freddy pushes the knives farther and farther into Kincaid.
text: The tips of the sharp blades POP out of the center of
text: Kincaid's back. ONE AT A TIME, ACCENTED BY CRUEL SOUND FX.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: One down...two to go...hahahah!
scene_heading: INT. KINCAID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Kincaid's eyes shoot open and he clutches his chest in agony.
text: His dog wakes and nuzzles up to his dying master, but the boy
text: is oblivious to the dog's tender attention.
text: With his final breath, Kincaid tries unsuccessfully to call
dialog: out Kristen's name.
scene_heading: INT. KRISTEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Kristen is sitting in bed with her knees drawn to her chest.
text: Holding her breath, she's listening. The room is silent. It
text: must have been the wind tickling the chimes outside her
dialog: window that drew her attention.
text: She sighs, and reaches for the can of hi-caf Cola that's
text: sitting beside her.
text: She takes a final swig, then tosses the can in the waste
text: basket, where it joins a number of other empties.
text: Kristen rummages through the drawer in her nightstand, and
text: grabs some cigarettes and matches. She gets out of bed,
text: crosses to the window, and slides it open.
text: She slumps into the chair beside the window, and lights a
text: match by striking it against her thumbnail. Very cool. She
text: lights the cigarette and takes a deep drag.
scene_heading: EXT. ALICE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Alice can be seen by the kitchen window. A sliver of light
text: creeps out of the garage, along with a THUMPING NOISE.
scene_heading: INT. GARAGE - NIGHT
text: Rick is involved in a series of interesting exercises. He's
text: kicking and sparring with a suspended bodybag, doing martial
text: arts spins between returns. He wears an oriental bandana
text: around his forehead.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Alice is standing at the sink in front of the kitchen window,
text: finishing up a stack of dishes. She looks up when headlights
text: sweep across her face.
scene_heading: EXT. ALICE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: A car is swerving into the driveway. It makes an awkward
text: approach, and knocks over a garbage can that's positioned
text: well off to one side.
scene_heading: INT. GARAGE - NIGHT
text: Rick stops his exercises and steps away from the opening
text: electric door. The car jerks into the garage, and Johnson
text: climbs out. As he walks uneasily to the house, he takes a
text: quick nip from the bottle he's brought home. Johnson becomes
text: self conscious when he sees his sone watching him.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: First one of the day, scout's honor.
text: He shuffles by Rick.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Johnson comes in and crosses to Alice. Rick follows as far
text: as the doorway but holds his position there.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: I'm late, I know, damn contracts...Let's
dialog: eat.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We waited a long time.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: But we gave up. As usual.
text: Alice takes a salad bowl out of the fridge and places it in
text: front of her father as he sits down at the table. Johnson
text: stares at the salad in disbelief.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: You call this vegetation a meal after a
dialog: ten hour work day? What the hell am I?
dialog: A rabbit? Christ, Alice, can't you try
dialog: to think a little more?!
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (DAYDREAM)
text: Begin daydream. Alice suddenly SMASHES the salad off the
text: table. She turns angrily on her father.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah, I can think! I can think of how
dialog: sick I am watching you drink your life
dialog: away and taking it out on me!
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (BACK TO REALITY)
text: End daydream. Alice's father is staring at her. The salad
text: is back on the table. All is as it was.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Do I speak in foreign tongues? Alice,
dialog: I'm talking to you. Are you awake or
dialog: what?
text: Alice doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Dad, don't start.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Start what? Telling the little
dialog: daydreamer to wake up? It's long
text: overdue.
text: Johnson gets up and heads out.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON (cont'd)
dialog: Hell with this.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON (cont'd)
dialog: Aggravation I don't need.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice stands before a mirror that is virtually covered with
text: photos. She seems lost in though and doesn't see Rick step
text: into the room.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Don't you think it kind of defeats the
dialog: purpose?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: The mirror. You can't see yourself in
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't want to.
text: Alice takes a picture from the mirror, an old black and white
text: of two little children, herself and Rick much younger with a
text: woman. A picture of happier times. Crossing to sit on her
dialog: bed...
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Do you ever wonder how things would be if
dialog: Mom were alive?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: (teasing)
dialog: Yeah. She'd be half as strict as you.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But she wouldn't let Dad treat me like
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Look, you gotta stand up for yourself.
dialog: Learn to fight back.
text: Rick does a spin and karate kicks high into the air.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: It's all in here.
dialog: (tapping his head)
dialog: See yourself fighting. And your body
dialog: obeys.
text: Kicking high again.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: Come here.
text: He pulls her up.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Rick...I can't.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Never say can't. Just do what I do.
text: He spins, stops. She spins - sort of. He kicks. She kicks.
text: Suddenly her shoe flies off, she hits the floor as her shoe
text: lands in the fish tank. They both die laughing.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: Alice-son, you must have balance!
scene_heading: EXT. JOEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Establishing shot of house.
scene_heading: INT. JOEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Posters of rock groups and girls line the walls. The camera
text: pans them slowly, tilting down past a particularly
text: provocative poster of a sexy bikinied babe. CAMERA reaches
text: the LED display of a stereo's VU meter, which is hitting all
text: the red peaks. But we can barely hear any music.
text: The CAMERA FOLLOWS a headphone cord away from the stereo,
text: passes some gorgeous pin-up POSTERS on the wall, and then
text: finally reveals Joey stretched out on his waterbed. He has
text: his TV hooked up to his stereo and is watching MTV, which he
text: HEARS through the headphones.
text: They're rocking out to a tune that spills out of his
text: headphones. He's also flipping through the latest issue of
text: Rolling Stone. His eyes slowly shut.
text: The magazine drops to his chest.
text: ALL AT ONCE, a rocking motion starts to make Joey rock back
text: and forth. Something is causing waves within the waterbed.
text: Joey snaps to. He notices that the girl in the slutty poster
text: has vanished, leaving only her photographed background. Joey
text: has no time to be puzzled, however as he rolls over and pulls
text: back the sheets on the bed...
text: To Joey's surprise and delight, a beautiful NAKED GIRL is
text: staring up at him from INSIDE HIS WATERBED.
text: Not just any girl, but the GIRL FROM THE POSTER. Her hair is
text: floating around her face, and she's pressing her body up
text: against the inside of the clear plastic. Her voice can't be
text: heard, but it looks like she's mouthing Joey's name.
speaker_heading: JOEY
dialog: What a great bed!!
text: Entranced, Joey spreads his arms out over the girl and tires
text: to hug her. He's in heaven. She starts to slowly drift away
text: from him, DROPPING DOWN into the water until her features are
dialog: no longer clear.
text: SUDDENLY, the swimming figure bobs back up to the surface of
text: the bed. But it's no longer a beautiful girl. IT'S FREDDY.
text: Our old pal smiles up at Joey and the blades of his knives
text: push against the surface of the vinyl mattress.
text: Joey cries out, but before he has time to react, Freddy's
text: arms rip up through the plastic and grab a hold of the boy.
text: As water gushes all over, Freddy's demonic face pops up
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: How's this for a wet dream?
speaker_heading: JOEY
dialog: Noooo!!!! Kristen! Help!
text: Freddy pulls Joey back down beneath the surface of the bed
text: and holds him under. Joey thrashes, but its hopeless.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (O.S.)
dialog: Two down. One to go. Hahahaha!
text: CAMERA moves back around the room to the LED meter, watching
text: as it dies down to nothing.
scene_heading: INT. KRISTEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Kristen is sitting on her window seat, finishing off another
text: cigarette. She blows smoke out the window, then uses the
text: butt to light a fresh cigarette.
scene_heading: INT. JOEY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Joey's MOTHER comes in to say goodnight.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Joey, are you asleep already? Joey?
text: She gets to the bed.
speaker_heading: MOM (cont'd)
dialog: C'mon, give your mother a kiss.
text: She pulls down the covers to reveal Joey in the bed. She
dialog: screams.
text: Joey is floating motionless INSIDE THE WATERBED. His face
text: pressed up against the unbroken vinyl surface, his hair is
text: billowing back in the still-swirling current, and his eyes
text: are open in an eerie death stare.
scene_heading: INT. KRISTEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: A gentle breeze is blowing in the window and Kristen closes
text: her eyes for a few seconds as she lets the fresh air wash
text: across her tired face.
text: Suddenly the wind dies away and the soft sound of the
text: tinkling chime ABRUPTLY STOPS. Kristen opens her eyes and
text: stares out the window. The night air is absolutely still.
text: The leaves have stopped fluttering and the wind chime hangs
text: motionless in the tree.
text: She hears someone calling her, so she gets up and goes out.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT
text: Kristen comes out and starts to walk slowly away from the
text: door. She is listening to the FAINT SOUND that is wafting
text: through the air, but she isn't really sure just what it is.
text: As Kristen steps away from the house, the CAMERA MOVES with
text: her in a CONTINUOUS SHOT. So when she turns and heads back,
text: the CAMERA is still following her. And what Kristen sees
text: makes her scream.
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Her home is now gone. Standing in its place is the decaying
text: ELM STREET HOUSE. Kristen spins around.
scene_heading: INT. WEIRD THIN SPACE BETWEEN WALLS WITH CHAIN CURTAIN
text: She's in a long, weird, thin space between the walls. She
text: passes through a chain curtain and moves further in, the
text: corridor is filled with WAILING and STRANGE SOUNDS.
scene_heading: INT. WEIRD THIN SPACE BETWEEN WALLS WITH CHAIN CURTAIN
text: Kristen tries to navigate through the thin space. She
text: SCREAMS and starts running as arms begin bursting out of the
text: sides of the corridor. She ducks as they grab for her.
text: They're Freddy-arms, each one weilding his deadly claw.
text: The arms force her down the next segment of the corridor. As
text: she looks ahead she sees she's been led straight to Freddy.
speaker_heading: He LAUGHS.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I knew you'd be back.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: And then there were none...
text: Freddy charges towards her. She turns and runs, but suddenly
text: Freddy is right in front of her. She stops cold and
dialog: concentrates.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Kincaid! Joey!
text: There's no answer. No response.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Elm Street's last brat.
text: Freddy steps forward and raises his blades. He's about to
text: strike. Trapped, Kristen raises her hands in a final futile
dialog: attempt at self-defense.
text: But before Freddy can swing his deadly blades down at her,
text: Kristen's outstretched arm suddenly BURSTS INTO FLAME. She
dialog: screams and then we CUT TO
scene_heading: INT. KRISTEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Freddy's "last brat" line ECHOES a few times before FADING
text: out as Kristen comes awake.
text: Kristen jumps out of the chair as FLAMES shoot out of her
text: wastebasket. Her cigarette has started a small fire. She
text: grabs her can of soda and pours the rest out onto the fire,
text: putting it out. She nurtures a small burn on her hand.
text: She turns to the window and cries out under her breath:
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Joey! Kincaid!
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL STEPS - MORNING
text: It's right before school starts, the grounds are deserted
text: save for Kristen. She sits alone on the steps, rocking
text: herself slightly. She's looked better. She's nervous and
dialog: agitated.
text: She reaches into her pocket and withdraws a cigarette. She
text: takes out a match, ignites it by striking it against her
text: thumbnail, and lights the cig. After a deep inhale she blows
text: smoke into the morning air.
text: Alice appears.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Here you are. Where were you this
dialog: morning? Rick's looking all over for
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (very anxious)
dialog: Have you seen Joey and Kincaid! God, I
dialog: can't find them. I can't find them
dialog: anywhere.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm sure they're around.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (afraid)
dialog: Yeah, I'm not so sure.
text: Alice sits beside Kristen. Kristen looks at her. Each girl
text: has bags under their eyes.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: We have matching luggage again.
text: Alice looks at Kristen, puzzled. She doesn't get it.
text: Kristen smiles and puts her finger on the bags under one of
text: Alice's eyes.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: The bags under your eyes. Nightmares?
dialog: Alice nods "yes".
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: God I hate dreaming.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I love to dream, I just hate ones about
dialog: my dad.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: You could do worse.
text: Kristen stamps out her cigarette.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: How do you deal with your nightmares?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: My mom taught me when I was little. Did
dialog: you ever hear of the dream master?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Sounds like a game show host to me.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No really, it's a fable. The 'guardian
dialog: of good' dreams. It was like my teddy
dialog: bear when I was growing up.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Great, you wouldn't happen to know his
dialog: phone number?
text: Alice laughs.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: So what do you do now?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I daydream. you have to dream about some
dialog: place fun. Remember you're in control.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: How'd you learn so much about dreams?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: When they're all you have, you kinda
dialog: become an expert.
text: Kristen gives Alice a sympathetic look. The two girls sit in
text: silence for a moment.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I used to bring people into my dreams.
dialog: Alice doesn't know what to make of this.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You what?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: When I used to have nightmares. I
dialog: brought my friends in to help me. Until
dialog: they all started dying.
text: Kristen notices that Alice isn't getting what she's talking
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: Never mind. It's too complicated. Let's
dialog: get in before your brother starts a
dialog: search party.
scene_heading: INT. BRYSON'S CLASSROOM - DAY
text: A teacher, a young hip man named BRYSON writes on the board
text: as the final stragglers come in. Kristen and Alice enter,
text: meeting Rick who's there already.
text: Kristen takes on look at the roomful of STUDENTS and all the
text: blood drains from her face. She isn't looking at the
text: students who are there. She is staring at TWO EMPTY SEATS.
text: Kristen starts to tremble a MURMURING begins deep inside her
text: and builds to a tortured CRY as she shakes her head "no".
text: Kristen starts to back away. Her knees are getting weak.
text: The other students are mesmerized by the outburst. Some of
text: them are glancing over at the empty seats.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Oh God! He killed them!
text: Rick takes hold of her arm, but she's really losing it now,
text: and she pulls herself away from him with all her strength.
text: The momentum of this violent move throws her off balance and
text: she falls back, slamming against the door. She strikes her
text: head, slumps to the floor, knocked out.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL NURSE'S OFFICE - DAY
text: A SCHOOL NURSE is passing an ampule of smelling salts under
text: Kristen's nose. She shakes her head, then opens her eyes.
text: The Nurse leans down over her and smiles.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Feeling better now?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (groggy)
dialog: Yeah. I guess so... What happened?
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: You had a nasty bump.
text: As Kristen's sense of focus returns, she looks up at the
text: Nurse with an expression of extreme urgency.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I gotta get out of here.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: You just stay put. You need rest.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: You don't get it, he's after me...
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Don't worry, honey
text: The woman turns and sets down the smelling salts. Her back
text: begins to bleed, blood soaks through her white uniform,
text: saturating the fabric, Kristen's eyes widen in horror. When
text: she turns back an instant later, she's no longer the Nurse.
text: Now standing above Kristen is FREDDY.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: I need to draw some blood...
text: Kristen lets out a scream.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL NURSE'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Kristen's eyes suddenly SNAP OPEN. The Nurse is passing an
text: ampule of smelling salts under the girl's nose. The woman
text: leans down over her and smiles.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Feeling better now?
text: Kristen doesn't say a word.
text: ROCK AND ROLL MUSIC builds on the soundtrack as we...
scene_heading: EXT. DINER - DAY
text: MUSIC is blasting as CARS pull up and KIDS make their way
speaker_heading: into the CRAVE INN.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN - DAY
text: CU of jukebox. PULL BACK as Dan and his buddy walk fro the
text: jukebox to their table. Dan passes by the counter and
text: glances at Alice.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hi, you seen Rick around?
text: Alice is surprised and almost drops an order. She shakes her
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: You're his sister, right?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Rick stayed later after school with
dialog: Kristen. She wasn't feeling very well.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Tell him I was looking for him, okay?
dialog: (his eyes smile)
dialog: I'm Dan.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (looking down)
dialog: I know. Uh...Alice.
text: Dan is already walking away toward his table. Alice picks up
text: an order and watches Dan walk away. Debbie, who is also a
text: waitress, steps in.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Sorry, Alice. You're shift's over. My
dialog: table now.
text: Debbie walks to Dan's table. Sheila catches Alice off-guard.
text: (They both watch Debbie talking to Dan.)
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: (mimicking Debbie)
dialog: Hi, handsome. Care for some buns?
text: Alice turns to see Sheila in front of her with a check. They
dialog: both laugh.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You in a hurry?
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: I gotta get to the library before it
text: closes. Killer physics test.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I know. I hardly have any time to study.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Maybe you shouldn't be working here so
dialog: much. You don't want to get stuck
dialog: waiting tables for the rest of your life.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I know.
text: Debbie returns from Dan's table.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: He's so cute. I wonder where he works
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Please save us, Deb. There IS life after
dialog: exercise.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: One of these days I'll fix you up with a
dialog: real guy. Teach you to get your
dialog: priorities straight.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I think Sheila's more interested in
text: dissecting bodies than just admiring
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Give her time. Beauty is skin deep.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Deb, you're hopeless. Later in life
dialog: you'll appreciate my motto: mind over
dialog: matter.
text: Sheila gathers her books. Alice starts cleaning the table
text: nearby as Rick and Kristen walk in. They startle Alice.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: (urgently)
dialog: Alice, you think you can leave?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Kincaid and Joey died last night.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What?
text: Over at the next table, Dan sees Rick.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Hey, Rick!
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: (to the girls)
dialog: Excuse me, ladies. I'll just be a
dialog: moment.
text: Rick takes off for the table. Alice and Kristen huddle
dialog: closer.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Kristen, what happened?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: You'll hear all kinds of stories.
dialog: They'll tell you it was murder, but it
dialog: wasn't.
text: Alice tries to comfort Kristen who is now crying.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: How could I let him get them? Kincaid,
dialog: the badass motherfucker with the heart of
dialog: gold. And Joey, shy, sweet Joey. So shy
dialog: and so oversexed.
text: Kristen smiles through her tears. Good memories.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: We were a team.
text: Alice is speechless. Suddenly Kristen turns hard.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: (steely)
dialog: I'm gonna get that sonofabitch.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Who?
text: Kristen doesn't seem to hear her.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Rick! C'mon! We gotta go now!
text: Rick comes over with Dan who looks concerned.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: Before it's too late.
scene_heading: INT. RICK'S CAR - DAY
text: Dan's seated in the backseat. He looks slightly silly
text: sitting next to the shy Alice, who's desperately trying not
text: to make eye contact with him. She sneaks little peeks.
text: Debbie is seated in back on the other side of Dan. She's
text: trying very hard to make eye contact with Dan. Rick's in
dialog: front with Kristen.
text: A conversation is in progress. Kristen is finishing up a
dialog: story.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Now you know who and what Freddy really
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: I though Freddy was just an old town
dialog: story.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: It's no story. It happened. Freddy's
dialog: real and he's back.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hey, c'mon! Everybody has nightmares.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: You don't know what nightmares are. You
dialog: play by Freddy's rules. Wake up or die.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Nice neighborhood.
text: Everyone in the car has been leaning in towards Kristen,
text: engrossed in her story. Rick grows uncomfortable with the
text: crowding, as if he had a strong aversion to tight spaces
dialog: which we would like to telegraph for later exploitation.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Hey, c'mon! Give me some room! I hate
dialog: tight spaces.
text: Those in the back seat back off. Kristen speaks up.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: We're here.
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Rick's car and Dan's truck pull up in front of the boarded
text: up, run down house. They get out of their respective cars
text: and meet on the front of the walkway, surrounded by a weed
text: infested front lawn.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: So, why the haunted house?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Kids died there.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: (whispers to Dan)
dialog: I'll tell you later.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: It's no just a house. It's his home.
dialog: He's waiting there for me...to dream.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: It's okay, babe. We're with you.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I told you you can't help. This isn't a
dialog: normal nightmare. I'm doomed.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: I don't get it.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: (whispers pulling him aside)
dialog: Let me talk to you.
text: Alice takes Kristen aside. Continue scene with Dan and Rick.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: So what's up? What'd I miss?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: She told us the story of Freddy. It's a
dialog: town legend. He was a child killer who
dialog: was freed on a technicality.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: So?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: It pissed off a lot of parents.
dialog: According to Kristen, they hunted him
text: down; roasted him alive.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Nice neighborhood.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Now it gets weird. She says he comes
dialog: back in dreams. If he kills you there,
dialog: you're dead for real.
dialog: On Kristen and Alice.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I'm beginning to feel like an endangered
dialog: species.
text: Alice is staring at the house. She suddenly speaks, almost
dialog: to herself.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: "Now I lay me down to sleep..."
text: Kristen glances over at Alice who notices Kristen's
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: The dream master. I think I remember the
dialog: rhyme. "The master of dreams, my soul
dialog: I'll keep..."
text: She falters, stops.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Sorry, I forgot the rest.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: It's okay. It's only a prayer, no good
dialog: to Freddy's realm.
text: A car's HONKING commands the kids' attention. ELAINE,
text: Kristen's mom, pulls up. She shouts at Kristen from the car.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Kristen! Get the hell away form that
dialog: house and get in this car. Andele!
text: Rick, Debbie and Dan walk over to Kristen and Alice. Kristen
text: starts to head for the car. Rick puts a hand on her
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Don't go if you don't want to. I can
dialog: take care of you.
text: Elaine impatiently HONKS the HORN again.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: I better go.
text: Rick leans in and gently kisses her.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: I'll call you tonight. We'll get through
dialog: this.
text: They are near the curb, Alice stops as something on the
text: walkway catches her attention. There are traces of a chalk
text: drawing on the concrete. Alice bends down and runs a finger
text: across its surface.
speaker_heading: RICK (O.S. cont'd)
dialog: Alice?
text: She looks up to Dan and Rick. She starts to join them.
text: Before she goes, she turns and looks back down. The drawing
text: is gone. She stares at the walkway a beat before joining
dialog: Dan, Rick and Debbie.
scene_heading: INT. KRISTEN'S DINING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
dialog: Elaine is silently watching her daughter eat. You could cut
text: the tension with a knife. Finally, Elaine speaks up.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Something the matter with the cuisine?
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Well Mom, I'll tell ya, when two of your
dialog: friends die the same day, you let me know
dialog: what it does to your appetite.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: You're just tired. Don't think I haven't
dialog: noticed your not sleeping. That has to
dialog: stop, honey.
text: Kristen quickly stands, but she's dizzy. She grabs a hold of
text: the table to steady herself, then sits back down again.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (concerned)
dialog: What's wrong with me?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Your distraught. It'll help...
text: There's a straightened tone in her mother's voice that is
text: making Kristen's eyes open wide. She's starting to
dialog: understand what's happening.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Oh, God...No...What'd you do?
text: Kristen grabs her glass, and pours the last of her milk out
text: onto the table. There's a grainy sediment remaining in the
text: bottom of the glass.
text: When Kristen stands again, she's unsteady on her feet. She
text: tries to brace herself on the back of her chair with one
text: hand, and when she does this, she loses her grip on the empty
text: milk glass and it falls and shatters on the floor.
text: With a wobbling gait, Kristen lurches away from the table.
text: Kristen stumbles around, grabs her mother's purse and dumps
text: its contents on the counter. Fumbling around, she finds a
text: half-full container of prescription capsules. She turns and
text: throws it at Elaine. Pills fly everywhere.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I'm sorry honey, but...
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Sorry!! Sorry that you and your tennis
dialog: pals torched this guy who's now after me.
dialog: In case you haven't been keeping score,
dialog: it's his fucking banquet, and I'm the
dialog: LAST COURSE!!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Honey, we went over this in therapy.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Mother, you've just murdered me. Take
dialog: that to your goddamn therapy...
scene_heading: ON DESERTED BEACH
text: Wearing club med beach wear, Kristen is lying on a towel on a
text: beach that runs along the edge of a broad lake. The sun is
text: high and the sky is blue.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: (softly to herself)
dialog: Thanks, Alice.
text: She slowly glances around the beach. Down near the water, a
text: LITTLE GIRL is building a SAND CASTLE.
text: When the child turns and looks at her, Kirsten sees that it's
text: the same little girl that she saw drawing a picture on the
dialog: sidewalk.
dialog: JUST OFF THE SHORE
text: The glassy surface of the water is unexpectedly broken by FIN-
text: LIKE OBJECTS that rise up and slice through the surf. At
text: first it looks like a shark, but as it gets closer, we can
text: clearly see that it is FOUR BLADES in ascending height.
speaker_heading: ON THE BEACH
text: Kristen looks back at the Sand Castle, but the little girl is
text: gone. She does not notice the fins.
text: MOVING WITH THE FINS
text: They turn and head straight for shore, directly in line with
text: the Sand Castle and Kristen beyond it. When they reach the
text: shore, they continue straight on, cutting THROUGH THE SAND
text: now instead of the water.
speaker_heading: ON THE BEACH
text: The knife-like fins move through the sand and enter the front
text: of the Elm Street Sand Castle. At this point, the sand
text: castle CHANGES INTO A SAND CASTLE OF THE ELM STREET HOUSE,
text: then EXPLODES, revealing:
text: Freddy, squinting against the harsh sunlight. Freddy pops on
text: a pair of Ray-Bans. He smiles as he steps forward and stands
text: over Kristen, his backlit form is towering above her.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Time to turn, or else you'll burn!
text: Kristen is sunken halfway into the sand, preventing escape.
text: Freddy raises his claw as if to attack Kristen and the shadow
text: of the claw BURNS BLISTERS onto her otherwise pale skin.
text: Freddy saunters over, unaffected by the quicksand. He
text: watches the girl struggle and laughs when her screaming mouth
text: fills with sand as she SINKS BELOW THE SURFACE
scene_heading: INT. ELM STREET HOUSE - UPSIDE DOWN DINING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Kristen appears, hanging upside down on all fours on the
text: ceiling of the room. She's disoriented. She starts to get
text: some kind of bearing and starts crawling towards a wall.
text: She makes it and struggles to reach a door. She crawls down
text: the wall and manages to open the door. She flings herself
dialog: through it.
text: Kristen is horrified to discover that she is back in the
text: boiler room. The place is really strange now. There's a fire
dialog: and steam all around
text: She realizes she's standing on a catwalk high above the room.
text: She looks around and sees that Freddy is standing in front of
text: a furnace, watching her with a grin on his face.
text: With a defiant cry, Kristen runs at Freddy. She does a
text: series of cartwheels and throws herself at her tormentor,
text: crashing into him.
text: Caught off guard, Freddy stumbles backwards and falls onto
text: the grating.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Do it til ya dizzy...hahahahaha!
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: We beat you before!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: But you're all alone!
text: Freddy advances on the terrified girl.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Hey, Kristen! Why don't you call in some
dialog: help?
text: Freddy closes in. Kristen struggles not to drag anyone in.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Never...I'm the last.
text: Freddy's almost on top of her.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Reach out and touch someone.
text: Freddy raises his claw to slash Kristen. She panics and on a
dialog: reflex, calls for:
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: ALICE!!
text: Suddenly, Alice comes crashing down ON TOP of them. Kristen
text: is enraged.
dialog: But Freddy is happy.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: How sweet! Fresh meat!
text: Kristen suddenly SLAPS Alice HARD across the face.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: Come on!! Wake up and get OUT!! It was
dialog: a mistake, oh God I'm sorry.
text: Nothing happens, Kristen starts to back up, taking Alice with
text: her. Freddy pulls open his shirt and reveals the TORTURED
text: FACES of the souls of his previous victims.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN (cont'd)
dialog: (stepping forward)
dialog: Leave her alone!!!
text: Freddy grabs Kristen, and as Alice reacts in utter horror, he
text: throws her into a nearby wall in which appears a burning sea
dialog: of flames.
text: Kristen writhes as she burns.
text: As the flames finish off the doomed girl, a BLAST OF ENERGY
text: shoots out of the steaming furnace and slams into Freddy.
text: His body crackles, he arches his back and seems to grow as he
text: CONTORTS and PULSATES.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: NOW, NO ONE SLEEPS! AHHHH!
text: He starts to advance on the terrified Alice. As Kristen
text: roasts to a fiery death, she calls out to Alice.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: (pained)
dialog: You'll need my power...
text: A second bolt of energy flies from Kristen's body inside the
text: furnace and SLAMS into Alice, causing her to glow and shake.
text: Freddy closes in for the kill and is about to slice into
dialog: Alice.
text: KRISTEN'S SMOLDERING FACE pushes out and emerges onto
text: Freddy's chest.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice sits bolt upright in bed, screaming. She takes a few
text: breathes, gets her bearings then walks towards her vanity.
text: She stares at the mirror.
text: One of the pictures on it is new. It's a snapshot of a
text: beaming Freddy and a terrified Kristen down in the boiler
text: room. Freddy smiles for the camera. Alice stares at it.
text: She turns it over.
text: There's an inscription on the back. It reads FREDDY AND
text: KRISTEN, HELL, 1988. The picture suddenly BURSTS into flames
text: and disintegrates, startling Alice. She looks back at the
text: mirror. The hole the picture has left on the reflective
text: surface allows Alice to see a portion of her face. Her
text: reflection is subtly altered, more enhanced.
text: Rick bursts in.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: You alright?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (barely a whisper)
dialog: Kristen...
text: She grabs him and pulls him out of the room.
scene_heading: EXT. KRISTEN'S HOUSE - STREET - NIGHT
text: Rick and Alice pull up to Kristen's house and get out of
text: Rick's car.
scene_heading: EXT. KRISTIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The dancing orange of flames can be seen in Kristen's
text: upstairs bedroom window.
text: Rick and Alice charge into the house.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Kristen!
scene_heading: INT. KRISTEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Rick, Alice and Elaine enter the room. The bed is in a blaze
text: of FLAMES. The last of Kristen is just a CHARRED ARM.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL - DAY
text: Rick is sitting on a bench wearing dark sunglasses. The
text: oriental bandana ties tightly around his forehead. He's in
text: mourning. Seated around him are Alice, who's dressed a bit
text: like Kristen, Debbie and Dan. Silence surrounds them. Each
text: is respectful of Rick's mood.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hey man, we're all sorry...
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: She knew she was gonna die.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: You mean it was like, suicide?
text: Dan cuts in, not letting Debbie finish her sentence.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: I thought it was an accident. Smoking in
dialog: bed.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It was no suicide. It was not an
dialog: accident. It was Freddy, and he's coming
text: back for seconds, thirds, and fourths.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Come on, Freddy's not real. She couldn't
dialog: have been serious?
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: I mean, you can't really believe that.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I was there in the dream. He took her.
dialog: It was awful. It was awful...
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: "In her dream"?
text: Alice gets up and abruptly walks away from the bench. Rick
text: takes off his glasses and watches his sister go.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Something's very wrong here.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: For a minute she...well, reminded me of
dialog: Kristen.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Weren't they close?
dialog: A beat.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Not that close.
scene_heading: INT. GIRL'S RESTROOM - DAY
text: Alice stares at her reflection for a few moments. She studies
text: it. She leans in real close to the mirror's surface.
text: She takes out a cigarette, sticks it in her mouth and lights
text: it by striking a match against her thumbnail, eerily
dialog: reminiscent of Kristen.
text: She takes a drag and COUGHS violently. She quickly stamps it
text: out. She looks into the mirror.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't smoke.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Kristen, what did you do to me?
text: Sheila enters the restroom, heads for a faucet next to Alice,
text: and immediately splashes her face with cold water. Alice
text: watches her. She gets a look at Sheila's tired face.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Ohhhhbaby, I am dead on my feet.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We have matching luggage.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: What?
text: Again, reminiscent of Kristen, Alice points to a spot under
text: Sheila's eye.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You've been up all night?
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: That obvious, huh?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Then you saw him, too?
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Saw who? I was up all night cramming for
dialog: this physics test, and I was putting this
dialog: little baby together. Look...
text: Sheila reaches into her purse and withdraws a small, neat
text: looking gadget, not unlike a joy buzzer, only this means
text: business. She squeezes it and it emits a HIGH-PITCHED WHINE.
speaker_heading: SHEILA (cont'd)
dialog: You know how Debbie's afraid of bugs? I
dialog: made this for her. Ultra high sound
dialog: waves. Makes 'em run screaming their
dialog: antenna off.
text: Sheila collects herself and starts to leave.
speaker_heading: SHEILA (cont'd)
dialog: See ya in class.
text: She exits, leaving Alice alone in the rest room.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICS CLASSROOM - DAY
text: The STUDENTS are sitting at their desks, waiting for the
text: dreaded exam. Sheila starts to wheeze a little, but she
text: takes a hit off of her aspirator, and that settles her down.
text: She looks exhausted.
text: While the TEACHER places test papers face down in front of
text: each of the students, Sheila checks out her CLASSMATES.
text: Alice and Rick are there, and so is Dan.
text: When the teacher finally gets to Sheila, he drops the test in
text: front of her, giving her a little slap on the back.
text: The teacher glances up at the clock above the blackboard,
text: then turns to the students.
speaker_heading: TEACHER
dialog: Alright...you have forty minutes. Good
dialog: luck and go to it.
text: Test papers are turned over. The examination has begun.
dialog: Concentration, scribbling, thinking, cheating, satisfaction,
text: and despair. It's all there.
text: Sheila is staring at her paper. She holds her eyes open
text: wide. They slowly shut, for a second. She recovers and
text: opens her eyes wide again. She stares back at the paper.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICS CLASSROOM - DAY (DREAM BEGINS)
speaker_heading: ON THE TEST
text: The equations dance about on the page like acrobats. Sheila
text: blinks in confusion, yet they still move. She takes a look
text: around. All the other students are working, including Alice.
text: Sheila's pen is poised over her paper, her eyes get heavy,
text: her head droops forward, but she again snaps to with a start.
text: She shakes her head and looks down at her test. Sheila puts
text: her pencil to paper and tries to fill in an answer, but no
text: writing appears on the paper.
text: Blinking again, the equations on the page start to dance.
text: Slowly the letters start to form words again. They spell out
text: LEARNING IS FUN WITH FREDDY.
text: Sheila shakes her head and looks around. Then she looks down
text: at her page where a drop of blood splatters. Her pen is
dialog: leaking blood.
text: Alice, awake, turns and notices Sheila's troubles. No one
text: else in the classroom reacts.
text: Sheila tries to clean the blood with her hand, making an even
text: bigger mess. Then HER HAND PUSHES RIGHT INTO THE DESK. She
text: struggles to free it, but she's pulled even further.
text: Suddenly she pulls it free, looks around, relieved. The
text: tension mounts, then suddenly a mechanical beastie type claw-
text: thing jumps out of the desk and grabs hold of Sheila's arm.
text: She yells.
text: Alice turns and sees Sheila struggling. Alice starts to rise
text: when a bar shoots out across her lap and straps her in. She
text: struggles to help Sheila. But all the other students are
text: calmly involved in the test.
text: Sheila looks forward at the teacher's desk. Freddy sits at
text: the table, peeling an apple with a claw.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: School's out.
text: Finally Sheila pulls her arm free, but the bar slips around
text: her waist, entrapping her.
text: Freddy heads down the aisle.
text: Sheila's breathing all but stops. She tries to scream, but
text: can only choke and wheeze.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Suck me sideways...Save your breath.
text: Freddy yanks Sheila to him and kisses her hard on the mouth
text: and begins to suck, literally drawing the air from her lungs.
text: The Freddy-created-vacuum is intense. Sheila's ribs are
text: drawn into themselves and CRACK IN HALF. Her body is
text: imploding as her insides, life essence, is sucked completely
dialog: dry.
text: Young skin now cracked and peeling brown. The rind you throw
text: away. Freddy lets go of Sheila's shell and it drops to the
text: desk with a dusty THUD.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Sorry, you fail.
text: Freddy turns to the terrified Alice. He walks over,
text: screeching his talons on the blackboard.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICS CLASSROOM - DAY (BACK TO REALITY)
text: Suddenly, Freddy is gone and Sheila is lying across her desk,
text: choking for air, while the teacher and students gather
text: around. Alice fumbles with Sheila's inhalator, forcing it
dialog: into her mouth, but
text: Sheila's head just droops to one side. Dead.
text: Alice is suddenly hit by a JOLT. She recovers after a shaky
dialog: moment.
text: Sheila's home-made zapper falls out of one pocket and falls
text: on the floor. Alice quickly scoops it up.
text: Rick, Dan and Debbie surround her. Alice starts to freak.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Didn't you see it? He was here.
text: They all stare at her strangely. Rick leads her carefully
text: from the classroom, supporting her exhausted body. The other
text: students file out.
speaker_heading: STUDENT
dialog: The test wasn't that bad...
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL - DAY
text: School's been let out for the day and dozens of STUDENTS are
text: standing around the parking lot, watching the paramedics lift
text: a nylon sheet-covered body into a waiting ambulance.
text: Sheila's friends watch in silence as the vehicle pulls away.
text: A BURP OF SIREN to part the crowd of teens.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: (fighting tears)
dialog: Asthma attack...what 17-year old has a
dialog: fatal asthma attack? She was gonna be a
dialog: doctor.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It was Freddy.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Enough of that crap.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I saw it. It was my dream. I brought
dialog: Sheila in...
text: A horrible realization dawns on Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Oh God, I brought her in, like Kristen
dialog: did with me...
text: Rick tries to help, touches.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: C'mon...
text: Alice breaks free, leaves.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No, don't! I gave Sheila to him and now
dialog: she's dead!
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Kristen's story really got to her.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: I'm not so sure it's a story. I mean,
dialog: look around, we're dropping off like
dialog: flies here.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice empties her pockets on her vanity table. She comes up
text: with Sheila's gadget. She begins to tinker with it, she
text: hefts it, sizes it up. She sets it down and looks up at the
dialog: mirror.
text: She hesitantly reaches out and pulls another photo off the
text: mirror, revealing more of her reflection.
text: It's a picture of her and Sheila, she puts it down. Alice's
text: image is prettier, stronger.
text: She HEARS A NOISE from downstairs and leaves her room to
dialog: investigate.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (DREAM)
text: Alice enters the kitchen.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Rick?
text: Alice flicks on the lights. She gasps. Her father is
text: sitting at the table. He looks up at her, smiles warmly.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Hi. I heard about what happened at the
dialog: school. I guess I haven't been very much
dialog: of a father through this.
dialog: Alice shrugs.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's not your fault.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Nah, I've been using that excuse since
dialog: your mother died.
text: He crosses to the fridge, opens the door, and bends down to
text: take a look. The door blocks Alice's and our view of him.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON (cont'd)
dialog: But I promise honey, I'll make things
dialog: better for you...
text: The fridge door SLAMS shut, revealing Johnson.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON (cont'd)
dialog: Now if I could only kick the habit.
text: He's holding an oversized martini glass. His face looks like
text: the worst case of alcoholic deterioration. Blood seeps from
text: burst blood vessels in his eyes, his nose is red and lined
dialog: and warped.
text: He's wearing Freddy's sweater. He takes a swig off the huge
text: Vodka bottle. He vomits up blood as he speaks.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON (cont'd)
dialog: (Freddy's voice)
dialog: Where's dinner?
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice bolts awake in bed, sweaty and short of breath. Rick
text: bursts in and hits the light.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: I heard you screaming. Was it a bad one?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It was bad.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Doesn't the dream master work for you
dialog: anymore?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I can't find him.
text: Rick notices Sheila's gadget on the vanity. It looks like
text: it's been taken apart and modified. It looks nastier. He
text: picks it up.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Hey, since when do you play Thomas
dialog: Edison? This looks like Sheila's.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It is...was. It's a zapper, it might help
dialog: me stay awake.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Yeah, or turn you into toast.
text: Alice goes and takes it from him. She hangs it on the mirror
text: frame by its wires.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I can't go back to sleep again.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: I haven't slept much either. Since
dialog: Kristen...
text: Alice looks sympathetically at her brother.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I miss her, too. She gave me her ability
dialog: but I don't know how to use it. I can
dialog: bring people into my dream, but I can't
dialog: protect them.
text: Alice looks straight at her brother.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Freddy lives in my dreams, Rick. Like he
dialog: did with Kristen. My dreams, the one
dialog: thing I had to myself.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: We'll figure it out.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Figure it out?!?! I'll be insane before
dialog: I figure it out. The only thing I'm sure
dialog: of is that I can't go to sleep. Not
dialog: while he's using me.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Then we'll stay up together.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN - NIGHT
text: Alice is standing behind the diner's counter. Adding up the
text: night's receipts near the cash register. Her waitress
text: uniform is spotted with stains, evidence of a hard day.
text: She finishes up the receipts and closes the cash register.
text: She then pours coffee grounds into a cup of black coffee as
text: if it were sugar. She stirs it halfheartedly and drinks it
dialog: down.
text: Dan suddenly walks in and heads for the counter, about to
text: place an order to go. He sees that it's Alice behind the
text: counter, and is surprised.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hey, how ya doin'?
text: Alice looks up. From the look of her, she's not doing that
text: well. Dan is taken a bit aback by her appearance.
speaker_heading: DAN (cont'd)
dialog: Haven't seen you around lately.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I've been working double shifts.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Extra money, huh?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Look, you know why, you just don't
dialog: believe me.
text: Dan looks around and leans in to her.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: No offense, or anything, but it's kind of
dialog: hard to swallow.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: The story is, the deaths you can't argue
dialog: with.
text: Alice's eyes well up. She begins to come unraveled.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: I don't know what to do. I can't stop
dialog: it. Why doesn't he just kill me?
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: How long have you been awake?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Three days.
text: Dan lets this sink in. Alice becomes embarrassed and self-
text: conscious under Dan's scrutiny.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Don't you understand? Every time I
dialog: sleep, someone might die.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Alright, let's assume this whole thing is
dialog: true. Why does Freddy all of a sudden
dialog: need you?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Kristen was the last child left of the
dialog: people who killed Freddy. Maybe Freddy
dialog: can't get to new kids without someone
dialog: like me. Someone to bring them to him.
text: Dan and Alice are both silent for a moment. They look at
text: each other. Dan reads the mix of emotions on Alice's face:
text: guilt, shame, anger, exhaustion. He's about to say something
text: when a sudden voice calls out. Dan's date, a pretty and
text: polished CHEERLEADER TYPE, appears at the door.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Danny, we're going to be late for the
dialog: drive-in!
text: Dan is embarrassed, so is Alice, who's also jealous.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I have to get back.
text: Alice hurries off to the kitchen as Dan watches in
dialog: frustration.
scene_heading: INT. BOYS' LOCKER ROOM - DAY
text: Dan and a BUDDY are suiting up for practice.
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: Ninety-three days until summer.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: What's the matter man, getting tired?
speaker_heading: BUDDY
dialog: No, I'm getting worried. Let's see if we
dialog: survive until summer. It's been open
dialog: season this semester. Pretty weird
dialog: stuff.
text: Dan and his buddy spot Rick entering and sit down on one of
dialog: the benches.
speaker_heading: BUDDY (cont'd)
dialog: Speaking of weird, you gotta feel for
dialog: that guy. Dead girlfriend and a basket
dialog: case sister.
text: Dan angrily reacts to this. He shoves the buddy up against
dialog: the lockers.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hey! Learn to shut up, asshole!
text: Dan heads for Rick. He sits down next to him.
speaker_heading: DAN (cont'd)
dialog: You look wasted.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Been up with Alice.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: How she doing? I ran into her last
dialog: night.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: She's blaming herself for Sheila. I know
dialog: how it feels. I've been thinking about
dialog: Kristen. Maybe I could've stopped it, if
dialog: I'd listened.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: About Freddy?
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: What else? You ever look over this
dialog: town's history? Not a safe place to be a
dialog: teenager. Anyway, if I'm next, watch
dialog: your back.
text: Dan smiles at the gallows humor.
text: The coach bellows into the locker room.
speaker_heading: COACH (O.S.)
dialog: Hey you bozos, up and out! NOW!!
text: As Dan and the other boys head out to PE class, Rick detours
dialog: to...
scene_heading: INT. LOCKER ROOM TOILET AREA - DAY
text: Rick heads to a stall.
scene_heading: INT. LECTURER'S CLASSROOM - DAY
text: Alice is struggling to stay awake in a back row of the class.
text: At the front, a typical high school lecturer drones on in
text: boring monotone.
text: We hear the words from Alice's point of view as they distort
text: as she gets closer and closer to falling asleep.
speaker_heading: LECTURER
dialog: Every society, dating back to the
dialog: ancients, has had theories regarding
dialog: dreams, what they mean, how to control
dialog: them. Aristotle believed that during
dialog: sleep you soul roams free. What it sees
dialog: are dreams. Skilled dreamers control
dialog: what they see. There is a theory that
dialog: there are two gates your soul can enter,
dialog: one a positive gate, the other a
dialog: negative. The dreammaster guards the
dialog: positive gate and protects its sleeping
dialog: host. There are fewer theories about the
dialog: negative gate...
scene_heading: INT. TOILET STALL - DAY
text: Rick sits on the toilet. He looks up in surprise when the
text: door begins to rattle. A bunch of girls in cheerleading
text: costume suddenly barge in. They look down at Rick and laugh
text: as he struggles to pull up his trousers.
text: Suddenly the room begins to shake. Rick looks around and
text: sees the room transform into an elevator. Buttons push out
text: of the walls and the doors change.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR - DAY
text: One of the girls pushes button #13. The elevator shoots up.
text: Rick is astonished. The doors open and the girls shove out.
text: Rick can see Alice among the girls. She is pushing forward,
text: trying to go help him. She disappears in the crowd. Rick
dialog: looks around at:
scene_heading: INT. HELLISH BATHROOM - NIGHT
text: Rick looks ahead into the hellish bathroom. In front of him
text: he sees the familiar back of Kristen. She leans over the
text: sink, looking in the mirror. The mirror image speaks to him.
speaker_heading: KRISTEN
dialog: C'mon, Rick. Make me laugh.
text: Rick steps forward to go to Kristen. She turns, revealing
text: her face is a burned horrific mess. Kristen laughs evilly.
text: Rick reels back into the elevator.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR - DAY
text: The doors slam shut in Rick's face. Suddenly the elevator is
text: rocketed downward. Rick holds on for his life. The buttons
text: sequence faster and faster until they are a blurry glow.
text: Through the elevator speaker comes Freddy's voice.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (V.O.)
dialog: Going down. Women's wear, lingerie,
dialog: cutlery, butcher knives. China...
text: The elevator comes to sudden halt, Rick is thrown to the
text: ground by the impact. He gets up and looks around as the
text: door opens into:
scene_heading: INT. CHINESE LIVING AREA - DAY
text: A pristine clean Chinese room (a la living quarters in
dialog: Chinese Ghost Story) - tatami mattes, white and colored
text: screens, open, light and airy. Rick steps out tentatively.
text: He scans the room suspiciously, then more calmly.
text: Suddenly, out of nowhere, Rick is hurtled backward as if
text: kicked by an invisible opponent.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: What the...
text: Freddy's voice is heard.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (O.S.)
dialog: A true warrior, Rick-san, needs no eyes.
text: Rick is kicked again and floored. He stands, now angry. He
text: flails around at the air, then is hit again.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Come out and fight me, you chicken shit.
text: Freddy's laugh is heard.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (O.S.)
dialog: Ninja warriors have calm. Find your
dialog: balance, Rick.
text: Rick is hit again and thrown back against a screen which
text: breaks. He stands up slowly, with ultimate concentration. He
text: turns quickly as if with radar. Suddenly he kicks back at the
text: air and connects. A resounding thump is heard. He
text: progresses forward in a series of karate moves all of which
text: connect soundly and quickly with the invisible force.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Too wimpy to show yourself, Krueger?
dialog: Well, how's this for balance?
text: With extra strength, Rick kicks out in the air. He connects
text: hard and suddenly Freddy's glove appears out of thin air and
text: lands on the floor as if kicked off by Rick's power.
text: Rick stops and stares at the glove on the ground. He laughs
text: victoriously.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: Hahaha. You superhero. How you gonna
dialog: get me without your weapon? You're dead
dialog: meat.
text: Rick looks down as Freddy's laugh resounds through the room.
text: Suddenly the glove jumps up in the air and goes straight for
text: Rick, reaming him in the stomach. Rick falls over - dead.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Hari-kari to you and your balance, boy.
dialog: Sayonara, Rick-san.
scene_heading: INT. LECTURER'S CLASSROOM - DAY
text: Alice wakes up with a jolt. She's HIT by an incredible force
text: and her entire seat shakes off its bolts. Students next to
text: her back away.
text: She SMASHES her desk top with her fist, sending bits of wood
text: and metal flying. She lets out a soul-crushing CRY.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Nooooo!!!!
text: The windows in the hall SHATTER. Alice runs out of the hall.
scene_heading: INT. LOCKER ROOM TOILET AREA - DAY
text: The coach ENTERS the room and calls out.
speaker_heading: COACH
dialog: Hey, Johnson! Let's go!!
text: THE CAMERA TRACKS past the Coach to the empty stalls,
text: stopping as we see Rick's twisted hand lifeless on the tile
dialog: floor.
scene_heading: EXT. ON THE ELM STREET GRAVES - DAY
text: Dan is walking by a series of graves. They bear the names of
scene_heading: NANCY THOMPSON, DONALD THOMPSON, ROLAND KINCAID, JOSEPH
text: PETERSON and finally, KRISTEN PARKER.
text: Dan stands before the graves of Freddy's victims. A wind
text: RUSTLES the leaves in the trees above his head.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: And then there were none.
scene_heading: EXT. ELM STREET CEMETERY - DAY
text: Yet another funeral is taking place in Springwood. Mourners
text: gather around the grave site. Johnson stands before the
text: grave, disheveled, unshaven, a wreck. There are a few teens,
dialog: classmates of Rick.
text: Alice and Debbie stand off to the side. Alice is clutching
text: Rick's oriental bandana tightly in one hand. Debbie is
text: sobbing softly. Alice is cold blue steel. She's wearing
text: Rick's dark sunglasses.
scene_heading: EXT. RICK'S GRAVE - DAY (DAYDREAM)
text: Begin Daydream. Rick hops out of his coffin with athletic
text: ease. He's dressed in his best suit. He looks very happy.
text: He strolls over to Alice, who takes off her sunglasses and
text: stares at him. No one else notices.
speaker_heading: RICK
dialog: Great goof, huh? They think I'm dead. I
dialog: love it!
text: Alice starts to gently cry. Rick reaches out and wipes a
dialog: tear away.
speaker_heading: RICK (cont'd)
dialog: Hey, you know I wouldn't leave you all
dialog: alone. This was just to fool Freddy.
dialog: I'm here.
text: Alice stares at him, longingly. Finally she shakes her head
dialog: 'no'.
speaker_heading: DAN (O.S.)
dialog: Alice...Alice?
text: The sound of Dan's VOICE BREAKS THE DAYDREAM. Alice blinks
text: twice before she realizes that Dan is really talking to her.
speaker_heading: DAN (cont'd)
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Not really.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Is there something we can do?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't think so. I guess this is my own
dialog: war.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: No it isn't. We all gotta survive.
text: She pumps up.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE (cont'd)
dialog: I don't spend hours working out to let
dialog: some damn nightstalker beat me.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You don't really get it. He's not a
dialog: nightstalker. It'll take more than bench
text: presses to beat him.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Why can't we just talk to the
dialog: authorities?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah, right. Let's trade death by Freddy
dialog: for life in a rubber room. Adults won't
dialog: see it. They can't.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Then what else can we do?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Try what other kids did. Keep each other
dialog: awake. We'll meet at Debbie's tonight.
dialog: At least if we don't sleep he can't get
dialog: us.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: I know just the guy.
text: Dan shrugs and leaves with her.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice hangs Rick's oriental bandana on the mirror, next to
text: Sheila's gadget. She places Debbie's studded bracelet on the
text: vanity table. Alice looks at herself in the mirror.
text: Something catches her eye.
text: She takes another picture off the mirror's surface. It's a
text: picture of her and Rick. She looks up, she can see more of
dialog: herself. She's quite beautiful now, and there's a surety and
text: strength in her eyes. She stares at her reflection.
text: She's brought Rick's nun-chucks up from the garage. She
text: begins to go through some moves with them. Slowly at first,
text: she builds to a blinding speed. She watches herself in the
dialog: mirror.
text: Alice GASPS and drops the sticks. She walks to the mirror,
text: and places a hand on it.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (scared)
dialog: What's happening to me?
scene_heading: INT. DEN - NIGHT
text: Johnson is slumped in a chair watching a soundless TV. As
text: Alice ENTERS, dressed to leave, he rises to stop her.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: No, you're not leaving this house.
text: He stands in front of her, slightly menacing.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Get out of my way you pathetic lush.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Honey, I may be a drunk, but I want you
dialog: here. We're all we have...
text: Alice softens.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Dad, please...
text: Johnson lapses into a drunken monologue.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Nope, gonna watch you, didn't watch him,
dialog: lost him, won't lose you...you're stayin'
dialog: in...
text: Alice waits a moment, then reaches out and puts a hand on her
text: father's face. She holds it there a second.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON (cont'd)
dialog: You're becoming beautiful, I never
dialog: noticed before...
text: Johnson clumsily backs up and pours another drink. Alice
text: heads back upstairs.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT (STREET #2)
text: Dan waits for Alice, he's leaning up against a street lamp.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: All the towns in America, I had to move
dialog: to the Bermuda triangle.
scene_heading: INT. DEBBIE'S ATTIC - NIGHT
text: The room has been outfitted to serve as her gym. It is
text: equipped with free weights, and a weight bench.
text: Debbie greets, dressed in sweats, yawns. Looks at her watch.
text: She looks tired.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice is seated on her bed, she's staring at her mirror. She
text: gets up and crosses to the window. She opens it and climbs
dialog: out.
scene_heading: EXT. ALICE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Alice climbs out of the window and maneuvers down to the
dialog: street in a duplication of the moves we saw earlier from
dialog: Rick.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT
text: Alice reaches Dan's corner, he's gone. She looks around, no
text: one in sight. Frustrated, she walks off and turns a corner.
scene_heading: EXT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT
text: Alice turns the corner and in an abrupt, sudden change of
text: setting she finds herself in the middle of a run down, seedy
dialog: urban street.
text: It's empty, just blackened store fronts. Alice spies the
text: glowing marquee of a movie theater at the end of the street.
scene_heading: EXT. BOX OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Alice reaches the B.O. She takes a ticket from the attendant
text: and wanders in.
scene_heading: INT. BALCONY - NIGHT
text: Alice takes a seat in the fifth row. She has a box of
text: popcorn and a soda. There are other patrons scattered about
text: the balcony. We can't see their faces.
text: Alice settles in. She starts to watch the movie. She scoops
text: a mouthful of popcorn.
scene_heading: INT. ON THE MOVIE SCREEN - NIGHT (STOCK FOOTAGE OF REEFER
speaker_heading: MADNESS)
text: Stoned patrons campily cavort and dance to the diner's
text: jukebox in a scene from REEFER MADNESS.
scene_heading: INT. MOVIE THEATER - BALCONY - NIGHT
text: Alice sips her drink, adjusts herself. Something about the
text: film is making her uncomfortable.
scene_heading: INT. ON THE MOVIE SCREEN - NIGHT
dialog: But it's not as we know it from earlier scenes. It's the
text: CRAVE-INN of the future. A beaten-down forgotten mutt of a
text: place. All peeling paint and flapping canvas awning.
text: We watch as the lights in the diner SWITCH ON and a wind
text: kicks up, blowing tumbleweeds and newspapers across the front
dialog: of the diner.
text: Suddenly, the front doors are blown off their hinges and wind
text: picks up. It whistles as the air becomes thick with dust and
dialog: debris.
scene_heading: INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT
text: As the wind whips over Alice, her popcorn scatters like a
text: white rain. Her drink is pulled out of her hand by the
dialog: wind's force.
scene_heading: INT. ON THE MOVIE SCREEN - NIGHT
text: Now hurricanes speeds are pounding the diner, the wind
dialog: getting stronger and stronger as...
scene_heading: INT. MOVIE THEATER - BALCONY - NIGHT
text: Alice is standing, fighting the wind that's pulling her to
text: the edge of the balcony. She tries to grab her seat, clawing
text: fingers ripping into seatbacks, only to slip away.
text: Alice is lifted off her feet and sucked right over the
text: balcony by the wind.
text: She just manages to grab the balcony's edge and hold on, legs
text: swinging free, trying to crawl back up...
text: The wind beating her back.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Noooooo!
text: suddenly, one of Alice's shoes is pulled right off her foot
text: and FLIES ACROSS THE AUDITORIUM into
scene_heading: INT. ON THE MOVIE SCREEN - NIGHT
text: As Alice's shoe hits the movie screen and PASSES THROUGH. We
text: see it roll across the floor of the diner.
scene_heading: INT. MOVIE THEATER - BALCONY - NIGHT
text: The wind is stronger still and Alice is struggling to
text: maintain her grip on the balcony.
text: The other patrons just sit in their seats, watching.
text: Alice manages to hoist herself up just a bit in order to see
text: the faces of the others in the theater.
text: They're all blank looking pasty-faced people with death-like
dialog: visages.
text: Alice SCREAMS as a gust of wind rips her from the balcony and
text: sends her FLYING ACROSS THE AUDITORIUM, passing through the
dialog: movie screen.
scene_heading: EXT. CRAVE INN - DAY
text: Alice tumbles into the shot, landing in front of the diner's
text: exterior. Wind and debris blow, boards fly off the structure
text: as she struggles to her face.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN - DAY (DREAM)
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV OF
scene_heading: INT. MOVIE THEATRE - NIGHT
text: Alice makes her way into the diner. She looks back. The
text: movie screen is behind her and beyond it is the auditorium.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN DINER - DAY (DREAM)
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV OF
scene_heading: INT. MOVIE THEATER - BALCONY - NIGHT
text: She sees her zombie-like theater PATRONS, their death-like
text: faces displaying emotionless vacuums as they clap.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN DINER - DAY
text: Alice turns and looks around the diner. It's in just as bad
text: shape inside as it was out. It may be open for business, but
text: there are no customers to be seen. A single WAITRESS is
text: standing behind the barren counter.
text: Alice walks across to the counter, and settles onto a stool.
text: The waitress steps over, and slides a tattered menu in front
text: of her. Alice studies the woman for a moment. Something
text: about her is familiar. It makes the girl uneasy.
text: In her sixties, the waitress looks like she's worked every
text: day of her life. Her hair is streaked with gray, and there
text: are deep pockets under her eyes. She seems to be the kind of
text: person whose life has passed her completely by.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: What'll it be?
text: Alice doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS (cont'd)
dialog: (impatiently)
dialog: C'mon, honey. I don't want to be here
dialog: forever.
text: Alice notes the waitress' name badge: ALICE
text: The waitress turns and heads down to the end of the counter.
text: As the woman walks away, Alice swivels on her stool to watch
dialog: her go.
text: Alice is startled to discover that another PATRON is now
text: sitting next to her. IT'S FREDDY.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: If the food don't kill ya, the service
dialog: will, hahaha!
text: The waitress brings over a piping hot pizza. She places it
text: in front of Freddy.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN DINER - DAY
speaker_heading: ON THE PIZZA
dialog: It has large pepperonis, only they're not pepperonis, they're
text: faces. Screaming miniature faces. The faces of Kristen,
dialog: Sheila and Rick.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Ahhhh! The usual!
text: Alice reacts in horror to the death-pizza. The faces cry out
text: to her. Their voices are high and squeaky, as you'd expect
dialog: miniature voices to be. The effect would be comical if it
dialog: wasn't so torturous.
speaker_heading: FACES
dialog: Free us, Alice! Free us!!
text: Freddy tears the Rick face off the pizza and pops it in his
text: mouth. Alice gets up to run but Freddy grabs her by the
dialog: throat.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: I love SOUL FOOD! Bring me more!!
text: Alice tries not to, but a WHOOSH tells us that she's dragged
text: someone in. Alice looks back towards the movie theater.
text: It's gone. What we see is Debbie's attic.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN DINER - DAY (DREAM)
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: Debbie's attic. Debbie is dozing on her weight bench.
scene_heading: INT. CRAVE INN - DAY
text: Freddy CACKLES triumphantly. He turns to Alice.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Your shift is over.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: The sudden HONKING of a passing car HORN awakens Alice. She
text: sits for a moment in confusion before clearing her head.
text: She rushes out, using the window as before.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Debbie opens her eyes. She rubs them tiredly then looks
text: around and reaches for the bar bell.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT
text: Dan's waiting with his truck on the corner. Alice comes
dialog: running up.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: C'mon, we have to hurry. I'm driving.
text: She hops into the driver's seat and starts it up. Dan has no
text: time to object. He hops in and they SCREECH off.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Debbie's working up a real sweat, pressing a good sized bar
text: bell. Up and down, several repetitions. She's listening to
text: a portable stereo, which is plugged into the wall.
text: Her hands almost slip.
text: But Debbie catches herself and continues to press.
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: Alice is driving like a demon. Dan straps on the seatbelt.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He's going after Debbie, I gotta stop
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Hey, you're not alone. We have to stop
dialog: him, I'm with you.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You just feel sorry for me.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Cut that shit out. Maybe before, but not
dialog: now. I want to help you. I'm on your
dialog: side.
scene_heading: EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - NIGHT
text: The truck barrels down the street, shaking with the speed.
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: As long as your driving doesn't kill us.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's okay, we're just about there.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
dialog: As Debbie extends the weights we can SEE FREDDY KRUEGER'S
text: REFLECTION in the steel barbells. Debbie brings the weights
dialog: down and up again and
text: Freddy is gone.
text: Debbie slips the barbell into the resting place so she can
text: catch her breath. She cracks her knuckles. Suddenly, we see
text: one of Freddy's claws out the stereo box.
text: Debbie reacts with puzzlement.
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: Alice turns a corner, heading for the house.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Here we are.
scene_heading: EXT. DEBBIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The truck is about to pull into Debbie's driveway. Before it
dialog: can, we SMASH CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT
text: Alice and Dan are right back where they started from. Dan
text: waits by the truck, Alice runs up.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: C'mon, we have to hurry. I'm driving.
text: Dan hops in and they take off. They don't know they're
dialog: experiencing special Freddy-deja vu.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Debbie CRACKS the knuckles on the other hand and goes to grab
text: the weight. AS she reaches up, FREDDY'S HANDS are already
dialog: there.
text: Freddy starts to force the bell down on Debbie's throat and
text: she begins to struggle against it.
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: (straining)
dialog: I don't believe in you...
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: I believe in you...
text: Straining hard to keep the weight from crushing her...
text: Freddy laughs as he exerts more pressure and Debbie can only
text: close her eyes and SCREAM in pain as her ELBOWS SNAP in two.
text: Cracked in half, bone tearing through the flesh and muscle.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: No pain, no gain!
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: Alice is driving like a lunatic. All is as it was before.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He's going after Debbie. I gotta stop
dialog: him.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Debbie forces herself to her feet, broken arms hanging limp
text: at her side.
text: Insect like claws emerge out of the breaks in her arms. Her
text: human flesh flops to the floor. She ducks as Freddy heaves
text: the barbell into the mirrors in the attic.
text: He starts advancing on her, claws CLICKING.
text: Debbie looks up to Freddy with a pathetic
speaker_heading: DEBBIE
dialog: Give me back my BODY!!!
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: Alice turns a corner, heading for a house.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Here we are...
scene_heading: EXT. DEBBIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Once again, as she's about to pull into Debbie's driveway, we
text: suddenly SMASH CUT TO
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT
text: Once again, Dan waits by his truck, Alice runs up.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: C'mon, we have to hurry. I'm driving.
text: Dan hops in, as before. They SCREECH OFF.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC - NIGHT
text: Debbie, now even more insect-like, runs toward a small door
text: at the other side of the attic.
scene_heading: INT. GROWING ATTIC - NIGHT
text: But the door SEEMS TO GROW LARGER AND LARGER the closer
dialog: Debbie gets to it!
text: As we see Debbie, she's tiny.
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: Alice drives like a lunatic.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He's going after Debbie. I gotta stop
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: You know, I get the weirdest feeling
dialog: we've been through this before.
text: Alice throws him a puzzled, confused look. It may be dawning
dialog: on them.
scene_heading: INT. ROACH MOTEL - NIGHT
text: The room is now a strange white space, flat and dull. Debbie
text: tries to make her way across but her feet start sticking to
text: the gooey floor.
dialog: Like the thickest glue.
text: Debbie struggles to free herself, but as she pulls, she falls
text: over, her face sticking to the goo. It RIPS her flesh to
text: reveal an insect face. A roach trapped.
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: For the third time, Alice is turning the corner headed
text: towards Debbie's driveway.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Here we are.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Something's wrong here. It feels like...
scene_heading: EXT. DEBBIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Alice is about to pull in, then BAM, SMASH CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT
text: You guessed it. Dan waits as Alice comes running up.
speaker_heading: ALICE AND DAN
dialog: (simultaneously)
dialog: C'mon, we have to hurry. I'm driving.
text: Alice stares at Dan.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh God, I'm still asleep. He's got us
dialog: going in circles.
text: They hop in and take off.
scene_heading: INT. ROACH MOTEL -NIGHT
text: Debbie, now more roach than girl, sees another struggling
text: roach in the corner. Debbie painfully turns towards the
text: doorway and sees FREDDY'S HUGE EYE PEERING IN.
scene_heading: INT. ROACH MOTEL -NIGHT
text: Debbie SCREAMS at the huge FREDDY eye. Freddy stands,
text: laughing, a "roach motel" bug trap in his hand.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: You can check in, but you can't check
dialog: out!
text: Freddy crushes the trap with a disgusting sound.
scene_heading: EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - NIGHT
text: Dan's pickup truck is racing along.
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: Alice is suddenly hit with a violent shock.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: What the hell was that?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (barely whisper)
dialog: Debbie. She's gone. I've...collected
dialog: her, like the others.
text: A sudden, blinding brightness hits the truck.
text: There are a pair of incredibly bright headlights coming
text: straight at them. The lights grow brighter still until they
text: are impossibly bright. They burn off to reveal.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ALICE'S POV
text: Freddy standing defiantly in the middle of the road, laughing
text: maniacally at Dan's on-coming truck.
scene_heading: INT. DAN'S TRUCK - NIGHT
text: Alice SLAMS the gas to the floor, murder on her mind.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Alright, asleep or awake, I'm gonna punch
dialog: his ticket in.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - NIGHT
text: In the dream, the truck bears down on Freddy, smoke drifts
text: off the tires.
text: We see Alice sneer as the truck passes right through Freddy
text: and SMASHES into a void, an invisible brick wall.
text: The truck's front end gets totaled. Bits of metal and glass
text: fly through the air as the truck crumples, as if it has hit
text: solid stone.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD, REAL WORLD - NIGHT
text: Dan's truck is wrapped around a large tree. Axles and grill
text: work twisted out of place. A spurt of red smears the inside
dialog: windshield.
text: Alice manages to force open her door and just step out of the
dialog: truck...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh Dan, I'm sorry. GOD, I'M SORRY!!!
scene_heading: INT. AMBULANCE - NIGHT
text: The doors swing open and two young PARAMEDICS lift Dan inside
text: on a stretcher. His leg has been bandaged with gauze, but
text: it's bleeding badly. His MOANING tells us he's conscious.
text: Alice climbs in and notices one of the paramedics filling the
text: hypo. He checks it for air bubbles.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What's that do?
text: The paramedic turns toward Dan.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: Relaxes your boyfriend.
text: Alice jerks the paramedic's arm away.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Put the needle down.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: Sorry doctor, rules is rules.
text: Alice smacks the hypo out of the paramedic's hands. It
text: SHATTERS against the wall of the ambulance.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (pure Dirty Harry)
dialog: He stays awake, those are my rules,
dialog: understand?
text: The paramedic backs off a bit. He looks at Alice with
text: suspicion. Alice relents a bit.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: He's allergic, okay?
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: Shoulda said so in the first place.
dialog: 
text: Alice leans in close to Dan, brushes his hair back with her
dialog: fingers.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Don't let them put you to sleep.
scene_heading: INT. EMERGENCY ROOM WAITING AREA - NIGHT
text: An intern and a nurse are trying to put Dan to sleep, but
text: he's fighting them back. At least making it difficult.
text: Alice stands by watching as THE DOCTOR, JOHNSON and DAN'S
text: PARENTS run into the ER. Alice charges the doctor.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: When do you operate? When does he hit
dialog: surgery?
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: From the looks of him, probably 15
dialog: minutes.
text: The doctor turns his attention to Dan, who's strapped to a
text: gurney. They start to wheel him away.
text: Alice checks her watch. It's a quarter to 10. She has 15
text: minutes before Dan is forced to sleep.
text: Alice starts after Dan, but Johnson grabs her by the arms and
text: holds her back.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Let it be, Alice. They'll help him.
text: Johnson reaches in his pocket for his car keys.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: They're gonna kill him.
text: Alice snatches the keys from her father and runs for the
text: swinging EXIT doors.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Alice, dammit, get back here.
scene_heading: EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: Alice jumps in her father's car and cranks it over; burning
text: rubber to back out of the parking lot.
text: Alice drops the car in gear and takes off at top speed, but
text: she SIDESWIPES ANOTHER CAR which is parked next to her.
text: Sparks, metal against metal.
text: Alice BLASTS through the hospital lift-gate before SKIDDING
text: into traffic and screaming away into the darkness.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Dan is being wheeled on a gurney. He's struggling to stay
dialog: awake.
scene_heading: EXT. INTERSECTION - NIGHT
text: Alice barrels through a light and fishtails around a corner.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - NIGHT
text: Alice grips the wheel. The speedometer is straining. She
text: looks at the dashboard clock.
speaker_heading: ON THE CLOCK
text: Eight minutes to 10. She has eight minutes left to do
dialog: something.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT
text: A NURSE and an ORDERLY lift Dan onto the operating table.
text: The room is being quickly prepped; checking instruments.
text: Doctors scrubbing up.
text: Activity all around.
scene_heading: EXT. ALICE'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Alice SCREECHES to a halt in front of her house. She bursts
text: out of the car and runs into the house.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT
text: As the nurses lay out the instruments, Dan is still groggy.
text: The operating room clock tells us Alice has 5 minutes left.
scene_heading: INT. DEN - NIGHT
text: As Alice runs through, she passes a gun rack mounted on the
text: wall. She doubles back to it. She regards it.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Couldn't hurt.
text: She opens it and grabs a mean looking mother of a pump-
text: shotgun and a box of shells.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT
text: We see the oxygen and anesthesia hoses put into place and the
dialog: gauges register pressure.
text: The ANESTHESIOLOGIST preps the mask for Dan's face. Dan
text: watches, protesting weakly.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: I'll take the pain...no gas...no
dialog: gas...have to stay up.
text: He fades out.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice throws the gun and the shells on the bed. She opens a
text: bottle of sleeping pills and pops more than enough for a trip
dialog: on Freddy express.
text: She starts to load the gun, inserting each shell with vicious
text: precision. She cocks it.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: This ends. Now.
text: She walks over to the mirror on the vanity table. Her eyes
text: travel over the tokens she's collected form her friends.
text: She starts to power up. She takes Sheila's gadget, which
text: she's improved, and hangs it around her neck. She takes
text: Debbie's studded bracelet and SNAPS it around her wrist.
text: Lastly, she takes Rick's oriental bandana and ties it like
text: Amazonian around her forearm. She hoists the gun. She likes
text: her reflection in the mirror. Something's very different.
text: The pills are starting to take effect. Alice grabs her
dialog: forehead.
text: She looks back at the mirror. She's strong, confidant, ready
dialog: to accept her destiny.
text: With forceful determination, she tears the rest of the
text: pictures off her mirror. What she sees makes her GASP.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ON THE REFLECTION
dialog: It's Alice alright, but everything's turbo-charged. She's
text: leaner, meaner, her clothes are tighter, more battle-like.
text: Everything's accented. The gadget around her neck is now a
text: super high-tech amulet. The bracelet has spikes instead of
text: studs and seems to be made of shining titanium.
dialog: This is no high school girl. This is no dream warrior. This
dialog: is the dream master, ancient guardian of the gate of good
text: dreams. Alice speaks to her reflection.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Now I lay me down to sleep.
text: The reflection speaks back.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S REFLECTION
dialog: The master of dreams, my soul I'll keep.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: In the reflection of my mind's eye.
speaker_heading: ALICE'S REFLECTION
dialog: Evil sees itself and it shall DIE!!!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Fuckin' A.
text: Alice looks at the shotgun, which remains the same in the
text: reflection. Next to her supernatural image, it doesn't seem
text: an impressive weapon.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: Save it for Rambo.
text: She tosses the gun aside and notices the clock on her vanity
text: table. It's 15 seconds to ten.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Suddenly, Dan starts to choke
text: He opens his eyes and sees the doctor standing over him.
text: It's FREDDY in surgical greens, razor-fingers at the ready.
text: Dan pulls the mask from his face and cries out.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Freddy!!!
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: It ain't Dr. Seuss! Hahahaha!
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: No, Alice! Alice!!!
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice HEARS Dan's distant cry.
speaker_heading: DAN (O.S.)
dialog: Alice!!!
text: The reflection of the Alice as the dream master has been
text: replaced by the image of the operating room. Alice can see
dialog: Freddy menacing Dan.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Get away from him you SONOFABITCH!!!
text: Alice goes diving headfirst into the mirror. It sucks her
dialog: in.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: Alice rolls onto the floor. She now has the image of the
text: DREAM MASTER from her mirror, complete with all the regalia.
dialog: She's one pissed superhero.
text: She looks around. Freddy's gone.
text: Alice helps Dan off the table, since we're in the dream, his
text: injury is healed. He gets an eyeful of Alice's spectacular
dialog: new appearance.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: (astonished)
dialog: You look great!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Save it for later. Come on!
text: Alice and Dan turn around and run for the doors. Just as
text: they get to them, Freddy throws them open from the other
dialog: side.
text: On instinct, Dan leaps in front of Alice to confront Freddy.
text: He grabs Dan's fist, holds his arms out and slashes Dan.
text: Once, twice, across the chest. Blood spurts but it's only
dialog: superficial damage.
text: Alice grabs the sharper of the the surgical instruments and
text: turns on Freddy.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: I'll mail your guts back to hell!!!
text: Alice starts to hurl the instruments at Freddy Kung Fu style,
dialog: with blurring speed and accuracy. Rick would be proud.
text: Alice nails Freddy once, a dozen times in the space of a few
text: seconds. Freddy doubles over, sharp instruments sticking out
text: of every part of him. Alice advances on him and delivers a
text: massive, sharp kick to Freddy's balls. Freddy makes a SOUND
dialog: that banshees would flee from.
text: Alice grabs Dan and the two plunge through the doors.
scene_heading: INT. KALEIDOSCOPE HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Dan and Alice run into the hallway. But it's no hallway,
text: it's a huge, rotating cylinder. It looks like a hallway, but
text: it's spinning. Dan and Alice immediately become dizzy.
text: At the end of the hallway, there's a large, wall-to-wall
text: sheet of colorful lights. It gives the impression that Dan
text: and Alice are trapped within a huge kaleidoscope.
text: They careen down the hallway and go crashing through the
text: colorful lights, which turn out to be stained glass.
text: Dan and Alice CRASH through a stained glass window without
text: the gurney and land with such tremendous force that even
text: after hitting the floor they don't stop. They skid along the
text: floor, out of control.
text: Keeping Dan's hand in one hand, Alice reaches out and SLAMS
text: her spiked bracelet into the floor. The spikes dig in and
text: serve as her break. They SCREECH across the floor, smoke
text: rises from the grooves they make. Alice digs in deeper and
text: they manage to come to a stop in a pile of broken stained
dialog: glass.
text: They stand up, just as Freddy appears.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: Welcome to wonderland, Alice! Hahahaha!
text: Dan leaps at Freddy. Freddy slashes him across the chest,
text: superficially, but there's plenty of blood.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Nooo!!!
scene_heading: INT. OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT
text: The doctors are working on Dan. Suddenly, blood starts to
text: spurt wildly from his chest.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Christ, he's hemorrhaging badly! Close
dialog: it off and bring him out of it! Hurry!
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH - NIGHT
text: Suddenly, the familiar VOICES of the Elm Street CHILDREN
text: begin to chant. They're standing in the choir box.
speaker_heading: CHILDREN
dialog: One two, Freddy's coming for you. Three
dialog: four, better lock your door...
text: Alice rushes to Dan's side. He starts to flicker, like a BAD
text: TV, then he starts to fade.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: No! Dammit, Alicceeeee.....
text: She reaches for him, but he's gone, his echo remains for a
dialog: moment.
scene_heading: INT. RECOVERY ROOM - NIGHT
text: Dan's beginning to regain consciousness. The doctor stands
text: over him.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Relax, son. It was rough, but we pulled
dialog: you out.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: (urgent)
dialog: Put me back under. Please! Put me back!
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: What the hell?? Just a while ago you
dialog: were screaming not to be put under.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Well I changed my mind!!!
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH - NIGHT
text: Alice crouches into a fighting position (a la Rick) as
text: Krueger advances, finger-blades flashing.
text: Alice leaps and delivers a perfect kick to Freddy's face,
text: knocking him back.
text: Alice lands on her feet as Freddy lunges for her!
text: Alice jumps over a church pew as Freddy slashes at the air!
text: Alice whirls and kicks Freddy again and again and again.
text: Just pounding him.
text: But Freddy laughs at the blows.
speaker_heading: FREDDY
dialog: (contemptuous)
dialog: You think you got what it takes, I been
dialog: guarding my gate forever, hahaha!
text: Freddy grabs Alice by the ankle and whirls her around like a
text: rag doll and tosses her away.
text: Alice is thrown the length of the church and CRASHES into the
text: confessional booth; splintered wood and cracking bones.
text: Alice sinks heavy among the debris. She doesn't move.
text: Freddy advances on her. Going in for the kill. Just when
text: he's close enough, Alice springs up. She was playing possum.
text: She reaches out and PUNCHES a hole in the wall behind the
text: debris of the confessional. She pulls out several crackling
text: electric cables. She looks bizarre and powerful framed for a
text: moment in the blue light of the sparkling electricity.
text: She rips off the gadget from around her neck and aims it at
text: Freddy. Freddy LAUGHS at her and it.
text: Alice shoves on of the electric cables into the center of the
text: gadget. It HUMS and BUILDS and GLOWS until a LOUD,
text: incredibly powerful LASER BOLT shoots out of it and hits
text: Freddy square in the chest.
text: A stunned Freddy looks at his mid-section. Quite frankly,
text: it's missing. There's only a gaping, smoking hole through
text: which Alice can see the rest of the church.
text: Alice throws the smoking gadget and cable to the floor. She
text: has no time to savor her temporary victory however.
text: Freddy's playing fill in the blanks with himself. The
text: charred hole in his mid-section begins to fill in. In a
text: matter of seconds, he's whole again.
text: He laughs and starts to advance on Alice. Frustrated, she
text: grabs a huge cross which she handles easily, then charges
dialog: him.
text: Freddy raises the cross. On one pass, she tears open
text: Freddy's sweater, revealing the faces of the souls trapped
text: within Freddy. She gags at the sight.
text: Freddy seizes the moment and grabs the cross. He tosses it
dialog: away.
text: Freddy SMACKS Alice across the face. He grabs the back of
text: her head and throws her over him, across the church and into
text: the altar. He advances on her.
speaker_heading: FREDDY (cont'd)
dialog: I am eternal...
text: Alice is looking pretty bloody. She tries to fend off Freddy
text: but he smashes her into the opposite wall. She crumples in
text: pain beneath the broken stained glass window she came in
dialog: through.
text: Freddy's coming for her. His tongue wiggling like a demented
text: Wile E. Coyote about to grab the Road Runner.
text: The kids in the choirs SING OUT.
speaker_heading: CHILDREN
dialog: For in the reflection of my mind's eye...
text: The sun rises behind the window the children are standing in
text: front of. The light hits the wall and works it's way to
text: Alice and the floor. Freddy steps into it as he advances.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (remembering)
dialog: Let evil see itself...
text: Alice looks down and sees a large piece of stained glass.
text: She sees her reflection in it, unbruised, pretty, the true
text: her. She scoops it up and holds it in front of Freddy.
text: The chorus of ghostly kids complete the rhyme with Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE AND KIDS
dialog: And it SHALL DIE!
text: Freddy's about to slice into Alice, he raises his arm.
text: Light hits Freddy off the glass, like a BLAST. He looks at
text: Alice and sees himself, reflected in the glass. He SCREAMS.
text: We PUSH IN on Freddy's SCREAMING reflection, right into his
dialog: mouth.
scene_heading: INT. FREDDY'S BODY - NIGHT
text: We ZOOM down into Freddy's innards which are made up of
text: struggling dead kids. The souls, all trapped and hanging
text: inside Freddy's body, start to break free as they SCREAM and
speaker_heading: CRY.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH - NIGHT
text: We travel through, then emerge out of FREDDY'S EYE. We PULL
text: BACK to reveal that Freddy's entire body is pulsing and
text: ripping from within.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: LET THEM OUT!!!!
text: The trapped souls begin TEARING THROUGH FREDDY'S BODY; flesh
text: and blood erupting in all directions.
text: Freddy's sweater stretches and rips apart. Freddy doubles
text: over as his HEAD BULGES. All the tiny bodies inside him
text: surge upwards. A tiny hand smashes through one eye.
text: Finally, Freddy's head EXPLODES and the freed souls pour out.
text: The force SHATTERS the glass in Alice's hands. She
text: straightens up and watches as the souls swoop around her
text: before ZOOMING out the broken window.
speaker_heading: ALICE (cont'd)
dialog: You're dead...
text: All's quiet except for a steady wind that blows the shell of
text: Freddy Krueger and his hat down the church aisle.
text: And out the door. The double doors SLAM SHUT.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH - NIGHT
text: Alice stands alone. She's no longer dressed like dream
text: master. Having fulfilled her mission, she's now just normal
text: Alice again, but retains the newfound beauty and confidence.
text: Alice stands frozen for a moment, then regards her quiet
dialog: surroundings.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Rest in hell.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - DAY
text: Dan and Alice are walking through the park, arms around each
dialog: other. From the look of their healing bruises, it's some
dialog: weeks later...
text: FADE TO BLACK.
dialog: (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
scene_heading: (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
scene_heading: m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
dialog: })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');
speaker_heading: ga('create', 'UA-67290913-1', 'auto');
dialog: ga('send', 'pageview');
dialog: 
