scene_heading: A PERFECT WORLD
dialog: Written by
speaker_heading: JOHN LEE HANCOCK
dialog: December 1992 Draft
speaker_heading: FOR EDUCATIONAL
scene_heading: PURPOSES ONLY
text: 1 MUSIC UP. It's a tad eerie. If a Zydeco band died in a 1
dialog: bus crash this is the kind of music they'd play in heaven.
speaker_heading: FADE IN ON:
speaker_heading: WHITE SCREEN
text: which transforms to a milky white and eventually into a
text: bright high noon sun. A large black bird flies in circles
text: overhead. As it wipes the sun a bright flare causes...
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PAIR OF EYES
text: to squint, then adjust to the light and finally open. They
text: look tired, but content, maybe even relaxed.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - MAN
text: the owner of the eyes. Though we only see from his shoulders
text: to the top of his head, we can tell he's lying in a field.
text: His arm is propped behind his head as a pillow and he appears
text: to be resting comfortably. MUFFLED VOICES and WHISPERS fill
text: the air but they seem to come from another place. The man
text: doesn't notice them. His name is BUTCH.
text: A gust of wind blows Butch's hair a bit and a piece of straw
text: wipes across his forehead. Then, oddly enough, it is followed
text: by a dollar bill, which rests against his cheek, then skitters
text: across his face. It is followed by another and another, a
text: five, a ten, a single. Butch pays no attention. He's in
dialog: another world.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 2 EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - MADISONVILLE, TX. - DUSK 2
scene_heading: SUPERSCRIPT: OCTOBER, 1963.
text: A small country town. Normally quiet at this hour, the
text: street is tonight alive with trick or treaters dressed as
text: witches, goblins and superheroes making their annual door to
text: door rounds.
scene_heading: 3 EXT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT 3
text: GLADYS PERRY, 30 going on 45 due to single motherhood and
dialog: having worked two fulltime minimum wage jobs the past ten
text: years, looks out the window with disgust and pulls the
dialog: curtains closed.
scene_heading: 4 INT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT 4
text: Gladys retreats from the sparsly decorated living room to the
text: predictably drab linoleum kitchen. At the table, hands on
text: their laps, sit her children, NAOMI and RUTH, twin girls aged
text: 10, and PHILLIP, a quiet boy of 8.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 2.
speaker_heading: 4 CONTINUED: 4
text: Gladys sets a casserole on the table and goes to the frig for
text: a container of milk. The children WHISPER to one another...
speaker_heading: NAOMI
text: Judy Baumer is going as a twirler.
speaker_heading: RUTH
dialog: But she's so fat. I'd go as Cinderella...
dialog: or Peter Pan.
speaker_heading: NAOMI
text: Peter Pan's a boy. Tinker Bell's a girl.
dialog: Phillip could go as Peter Pan... 'cept
dialog: you gotta' fly.
text: Phillip smiles a bit at the notion.
speaker_heading: RUTH
text: Phillip could go as a bump on a log.
text: The girls giggle and Phillip frowns.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Why can't we go just once?
speaker_heading: NAOMI
dialog: Caus' we jus' can't, ok?
text: Gladys sets milk and butter on the table and stares directly
text: at her son.
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: Our personal beliefs lift us to a higher
dialog: place. 'Sides, Halloween is nothing but
dialog: the Devil's work.
text: The DOORBELL RINGS. The kids gulp as Gladys turns and heads
dialog: for the door.
scene_heading: 5 EXT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT 5
text: MR. HUGHES, a 35-year-old family man is playing chaperone to
text: prepubescent versions of SUPERMAN, TINKERBELL, and a DANCING
speaker_heading: SKELETON.
speaker_heading: KIDS
dialog: (in unison)
dialog: Trick or treat!!!
text: Gladys simply stares at the children before looking to Mr.
dialog: Hughes.
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: I'm sorry but we don't take no part in
dialog: Halloween.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 3.
speaker_heading: 5 CONTINUED: 5
speaker_heading: MR. HUGHES
dialog: Excuse me?
text: Phillip arrives at his mother's apron. He stares at the kids
text: with relish. In the near window, Ruth and Naomi steal a look
text: through the window.
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: We're Jehovah's Witness.
text: Superman locks eyes with Phillip.
speaker_heading: SUPERMAN
dialog: Hey, Phillip Perry.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Hey, Billy Reeves.
speaker_heading: SUPERMAN
dialog: How'd ya' know it was me?
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: Go eat your supper, Phillip.
speaker_heading: MR. HUGHES
dialog: Come on, kids. Let's go to the next
dialog: house. Sorry for the bother.
text: Gladys closes the door firmly and locks it.
scene_heading: 6 EXT. HUNTSVILLE STATE PRISON - NIGHT 6
text: A green Impala pulls up to the main entrance and stops. A
text: GUARD steps from his office to greet the driver, LARRY, a
text: pudgy 55-year-old prison employee wearing a loud plaid jacket.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Evenin', Larry. Forget somethin'?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Goin' to Austin tomorrow. Gonna' take
dialog: some work with me.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Work, work, work. When you and me gonna'
dialog: go out and grab a cold one?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Sooner the better.
text: The gate opens and the Impala passes.
dialog: 4.
scene_heading: 7 INT. CELL - NIGHT 7
text: BUTCH HAYNES, a 38-year-old inmate who reeks with knowledge
text: procured from the wrong side of the tracks, but whose sad,
text: tired eyes bemoan a maximum of regret, stands on the top of a
text: cell bunk chipping at the ceiling.
text: JERRY PUGH, 29, rail thin, a punk who constantly licks his
text: lips, keeps watch at the door. An OLD TIMER sits on his bunk
text: and watches both with a cautious eye.
text: Butch chips through to something.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Damn if the old man ain't right.
text: Jerry smiles, turns and grabs the old man by the shirt.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: And this goes to the roof?
speaker_heading: OLD TIMER
dialog: Used to... afore they walled it over.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: If it don't I'm gonna' rip your tongue out.
speaker_heading: OLD TIMER
dialog: Get yer' damn hands off me!
text: Jerry laughs and joins Butch, who is already well on his way
text: to bending open a slot in a corrugated metal air shaft hidden
text: behind the wall.
scene_heading: 8 EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT 8
text: Superman and Dancing Skeleton, no longer with adult super-
text: vision, fill water balloons at an outdoor water spigot.
speaker_heading: SUPERMAN
dialog: Make 'em small so you can heave 'em.
scene_heading: 9 INT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT 9
text: An assembly line at the kitchen sink as the twins wash and
text: Phillip dries the evening dishes. Gladys sits at the kitchen
text: table, reading religious pamphlets and keeping a watchful eye
text: over the process.
text: Several THUDS resound through the house.
speaker_heading: PHYLLIS
dialog: What in the world?
text: Phillip jumps down off his stool and races into the living
dialog: room.
dialog: 5.
scene_heading: 10 EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 10
text: Superman lofts a BALLOON and grabs another as the first hits
text: the door of the Perry house and SPLATTERS.
speaker_heading: SUPERMAN
dialog: Bombs away!
text: Dancing Skeleton does his best Warren Spahn and tosses a wet
text: fastball at the door.
speaker_heading: SKELETON
dialog: Here's your trick!
text: At the window, Phillip, his nose pressed to the pane, stares
text: expressionless at the onslaught. He barely flinches as a
text: BALLOON SPLATS only inches away. Gladys arrives and pulls
text: the curtains shut once more.
scene_heading: 11A EXT. PRISON - NIGHT 11A
text: Butch kicks the top off a ventilator shaft and rolls onto the
text: roof. Jerry follows as Butch shimmies to the wall.
text: At the edge, Butch and Jerry survey the yard as a searchlight
text: routinely bathes the walls in a circle of light.
scene_heading: 11B THEIR POV - GREEN IMPALA 11B
text: parked almost directly below them, next to the Administration
dialog: office of the prison.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: You'n'me must be livin' right, Butchie boy!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Let's get something straight. I don't
dialog: like you. As soon as we're on our way,
dialog: that's it.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Who said I liked you?
text: Butch slides down and hangs from the ledge before dropping on
text: the roof of the building below.
scene_heading: 12 INT. ADMIN OFFICE - NIGHT 12
text: A SOFT THUD causes a Guard to look up, but only momentarily as
text: he spots Larry departing, files in hand, waving goodbye.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Have a safe trip now, Larry.
dialog: 6.
scene_heading: 13 EXT. YARD - NIGHT 13
text: Just as Larry reaches the Impala, Butch and Jerry leap down
text: and land on him. The spotlight showers them in a flash of
text: light as it passes by.
text: Butch cups his hand over Larry's mouth while Jerry reaches
text: into his jacket -- Bingo -- a shiny .38.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Larry)
dialog: Keep yer' mouth shut.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: (to Larry)
dialog: Gawd I'd love to blow yer' head off.
scene_heading: 14 EXT. PRISON GATE - NIGHT 14
text: Larry, driving with his eyes straight ahead, stops at the gate
text: and waves a palm at the Guard, who opens without hesitation.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: 'Night, Larry.
scene_heading: 15 INT. CAR - FLOORBOARD - NIGHT 15
text: stuffed and hidden half on the floor and half under the mats
dialog: are Jerry and Butch.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: 'Night, Larry.
speaker_heading: 16 OMITTED 16
scene_heading: 16A INT. SMALL, WELL-LIT DINER - NIGHT 16A
text: A weathered finger drops a quarter in a jukebox.
speaker_heading: MAN (O.S.)
dialog: B-5. Haven't heard that one in awhile.
text: The woman, MAE, 45, a dog-tired waitress, punches in the
text: numbers and returns to her post behind the counter. A
text: lonesome HANK WILLIAMS tune pours forth.
speaker_heading: MAE
dialog: Not since last night. How's the pie?
text: RED GARNETT, 60, a grizzled but handsome Texas Ranger, sits
text: at the counter slowly chewing.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Kinda rubbery. It was better yesterday.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 7.
scene_heading: 16A CONTINUED: 16A
speaker_heading: MAE
dialog: Same pie as yesterday. Not much call
dialog: for rhubarb. Sell one slice a day.
text: In the background we hear a SIREN. Red turns and watches a
text: police patrol car whiz past, lights on.
speaker_heading: MAE
dialog: Yer off duty. Tell me, if I stopped bakin'
dialog: 'em would you still come by every night?
text: Red, preoccupied, takes another rubbery bite.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I don't know.
text: Mae smiles and turns her back to Red as she cleans the grill.
speaker_heading: MAE
dialog: Naw, Red Garnett, you don't come in here
dialog: for the coffee and pie. You come in here
dialog: for the company. To see me.
text: Another patrol car races past. Red's eyes follow it.
scene_heading: 16B ANGLE ON MAE 16B
speaker_heading: MAE
dialog: Now that I've said that, I'll go one better.
dialog: What say I cook you dinner at my place
dialog: sometime? Steaks, baked taters, cold beer,
dialog: the works. Well?... I'm askin' you out.
text: She turns to face Red but he's gone. A coupla dollars lie
text: next to the half-eaten pie. All she can do is sigh.
scene_heading: 16C INT./EXT. PATROL CAR - NIGHT 16C
text: Red pulls up in front of a small house in a residential
text: section of town. Police cars are everywhere and several
text: officers are behind their vehicles, guns pointed at the house.
text: Red steps out of the car and is greeted by a POLICE SERGEANT,
text: about the same age as Red.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Long time, no see. What are you doin'
dialog: here, Chief?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Couldn't sleep. Whattaya got?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 8.
speaker_heading: 16C CONTINUED: 16C
text: They walk. Red arrives at a truck with a 10 gallon coffee
text: urn roped to the tailgate. He grabs a paper cup and pours.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
text: Guy holdin' his family hostage. She kicked
dialog: him out, served him divorce papers, he came
text: back drunk and pulled a .38. Fired two shots
dialog: but we don't think anybody's hit. Actually
dialog: you might know the guy from your sheriff
dialog: days. Hayden Webb. Been on suspension for
dialog: awhile. Ring any bells?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yeah. Lemme talk to him.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: No can do. Police jurisdiction.
text: Red tastes the coffee -- cold. He spits it out, pours the
text: contents of the cup on the ground and walks toward the front
text: yard. Sergeant follows.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: And how are you guys doin'?
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: We got specific rules to follow in these
dialog: kinda situations, Red.
dialog: (gives in)
text: He won't talk. Jus' keeps yellin', crying
text: and waving his gun around.
text: Red moves forward into the yard.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: At least use the megaphone, you stubborn
dialog: jackass!
text: But Red ignores and arrives at the front door. He knocks.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Hayden, this is Red Garnett. We worked together
dialog: a few years back. Mind if I come in?
text: The YELLING inside STOPS and the door opens a crack. HAYDEN,
text: 35, distraught, peers out.
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: 'Evenin', Chief.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Leave it to the P.D. They got a three-
dialog: ring circus out there and not one cup
dialog: of hot coffee. You mind?
text: Hayden mulls it over, then opens the door.
dialog: 9.
scene_heading: 16D INT. WEBB HOUSE - NIGHT 16D
text: On the couch sits Hayden's wife, JULIE, cradling her two kids,
text: an infant and an 8-year-old boy. Julie sobs. Her eye and
text: temple are bruised purple.
text: Red slowly enters, nods to Julie, takes off his hat and sets
text: it on a lampstand. Hayden has moved away from Red against
text: the wall. He holds the gun out at no one in particular.
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
text: Julie, put a pot of coffee on.
text: She slowly gets up and moves to the kitchen, still weeping.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Appreciate it. Jus' what is it you want,
dialog: Hayden?
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: I dunno... I want my job. I want my family.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: What'd they suspend you for?
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: I answer a call in South Austin. Girl
dialog: gettin' raped, that's the word. I bust
dialog: in the door, this lowlife is beatin' the
dialog: shit outta her with a tire iron. 'Help me,
text: help me,' she says. I take the guy down.
text: He bites me. I break his arm. Case closed,
dialog: right? No. She was his wife and they both
dialog: sue me and the department. The guy's about
dialog: to kill her and she sues me 'cause now he
dialog: can't pump gas. They have chump change in
dialog: the bank but they got the best lawyer in
dialog: town. Three months I'm goin' crazy. No
dialog: pay. Then my wife leaves me and I get
dialog: served divorce papers by John Reese -- a
dialog: sheriff's man. You know how embarrassin'
dialog: that is? What's happenin', Chief? I
dialog: mean, everybody's got a fuckin' lawyer!
text: Julie emerges from the kitchen and retakes her seat.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You love her? Love the kids?
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Then why do you hit me!
text: Hayden grips the quivering revolver tight and points it
text: at her. Red calms the situation...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 10.
scene_heading: 16D CONTINUED: 16D
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You don't wanna shoot her.
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: I swear to God I think I do.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Naw, Hayden, I don't think so. I think you
dialog: love her. You know what else I think? That
dialog: you'd like a way out of this whole mess...
dialog: That's where I come in.
scene_heading: 16E EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 16E
text: Sergeant and other cops stand around and watch the house.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Well, I'll be damned.
speaker_heading: NEW ANGLE
text: The front door opens and Julie emerges with her two kids.
text: She takes a few cautious steps, then runs to the police.
scene_heading: 16F INT. HOUSE - NIGHT 16F
text: Red sits on the coffee table, unloading Hayden's gun. He
text: opens the cylinder and drops the shells to the floor.
text: A calmer Hayden exits the kitchen with Red's coffee. Red
text: accepts it, takes a sip.
speaker_heading: RED
text: Hits the spot.
text: Hayden starts to sob a bit. Red hands over a handkerchief
text: which Hayden accepts.
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: No cuffs, huh, Chief?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Okay. You ready?
text: Hayden nods, they stand. Red picks up his hat, sticks it
text: on his head, opens the door and holds it for...
text: Hayden, transfixed by the multitude of lights outside. He
text: gulps.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: We'll walk out together, okay?
text: Hayden steps back, looks at Red, then reaches behind his
text: back, underneath his shirt and pulls out a .22 pistol.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: 16F CONTINUED: 16F
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: Any good officer has a back-up.
text: Red holds his palms out and takes a step toward Hayden.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Lemme have it, Hayden.
text: Hayden points the gun at Red, freezing him.
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: Was I a good officer, Chief?
text: Red nods.
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: Was I a good deputy? The kinda man you
dialog: could depend on to do what's right?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yeah.
text: Hayden smiles.
speaker_heading: HAYDEN
dialog: Thank you.
text: Then he turns the GUN on himself, swallows the barrel and
text: BLOWS his brains out.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 16G EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT (LATER) 16G
text: Hayden's dead, covered body is carried out the door. Julie
text: screams and sobs, still holding her crying children.
text: Red, looking pretty shook up, slowly exits the house. He
text: stops and looks at Julie and the kids. His eyes lock with
text: the little boy's.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Got a call, Chief Garnett. They're
dialog: lookin' for ya downtown.
text: Red slowly walks away. The little boy's eyes follow him.
scene_heading: 17 INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - NIGHT 17
text: It's a small town version of a 7-11, kept open by an owner
text: anxious to cash in on the later night munchies of beer
dialog: drinkers. Good idea. Bad luck.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: 17 CONTINUED: 17
text: Jerry skims through a girly magazine, turning the pages with
dialog: the gun.
text: Butch, wearing Larry's plaid jacket, jimmies open the cash
text: register. He looks to the floor then to...
text: Jerry, who catches Butch's gaze, holds it, looks down at the
text: floor, then, smiling, looks back to Butch. He returns to
dialog: the skin mag.
text: Butch holds his stare at Jerry then, in one move, grabs a wad
text: of cash and hops over the counter and out of the store.
text: Jerry notices Butch leaving, grabs a handful of assorted
text: Brach's candies and hurries after.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Hey, wait up!
text: Jerry's feet scurry through a pool of blood and past a
text: quivering hand.
scene_heading: 18 INT. D.P.S. - TEXAS RANGERS HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT 18
text: It's very late, after midnight, and only a handful of people,
text: half of whom are cleanup crews, shuffle through the offices.
text: A light from an office at the end of the hall catches our
text: eye. A MUFFLED VOICE over the phone...
speaker_heading: RED (V.O.)
dialog: I understan' your concern, Johnny.
scene_heading: 19 INT. RED'S OFFICE - NIGHT 19
text: Red, behind a huge ranchstyle desk covered with files and
text: paper, sips coffee with one hand, works a buffalo nickel
text: through magician's paces with the other and balances the
text: phone receiver in the crook of his neck.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Cons are creatures o' habit. Like old
dialog: coyotes, they'll crawl back into familiar
dialog: holes. Uh huh... Yeah... Sure yer' right.
dialog: Listen you go back to bed and I'll call you
dialog: in the A.M. with an update. I'll have the
dialog: files by then. Say hullo to the Mrs..
text: Red sighs, puts the PHONE back in the hook and stares at
text: it until it RINGS again.
scene_heading: 20 INT. PERRY HOUSE - NIGHT (JUST BEFORE DAWN) 20
text: The CLANGING wind up alarm CLOCK reads 5:30 and Gladys opens
text: her eyes and gently quiets it with a touch. She groans and
text: rises, not happy but used to the daily ritual required of her.
dialog: 13.
scene_heading: 21 INT. PERRY LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 21
text: As the kitchen light comes on we see that the couch has been
text: opened up to a bed in which all three children sleep. The
text: twins sleep soundly but Phillip tosses and turns away from
dialog: the light.
scene_heading: 22 EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT 22
text: The Impala creeps through the previously seen neighborhood
text: without its lights.
scene_heading: 23 INT. IMPALA - NIGHT 23
text: Butch drives while Jerry scours the block.
speaker_heading: JERRY
text: There's a Buick.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Don't want a Buick. Want a Ford.
speaker_heading: JERRY
text: Ford's leak oil. A car's a car.
text: Butch puts on the brakes and brings the car to a stop.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Then take the Buick.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Soon as we cross state line I'll do just
dialog: that.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm tired of riding around. I'll check
dialog: down the block... for a Ford!
text: Jerry gets out, slams the door, lights a cigarette and walks
dialog: away.
text: Butch waits a few seconds, quietly turns the key one notch
text: and checks the gas ggauge. It reads almost empty. He taps
text: it with his finger but it doesn't budge. He sighs, looks up
dialog: and sees...
speaker_heading: JERRY
text: as he checks one locked car, then feeling eyes on his back,
text: turns, looks at Butch, grins and disappears around a corner.
text: BUTCH discreetly exits the car himself, carefully closing the
text: door without a sound.
scene_heading: 24 INT. PERRY KITCHEN - NIGHT 24
text: Gladys steps into a slip and snaps her bra while cracking eggs
text: into a skillet. By rote she salts, stirs, and pops bread into
dialog: the toaster.
dialog: 14.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. PERRY BACKYARD - SOMEONE'S POV - NIGHT 25
text: FROM BEHIND a fence, THROUGH the opened, screened windows we
dialog: see Gladys at work.
text: Phillip enters, dressed in cotton briefs and a T-shirt, drags
text: a chair from the kitchen table by the window and assists his
text: mother by buttering the toast.
scene_heading: POV MOVES CLOSER.
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: Thank you, Phillip. Go wake up your
dialog: sisters.
text: Phillip dutifully steps down and returns to the living room.
text: Gladys works to adjust her slip, then grabs plates and
text: silverware and takes them to the table.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: I take mine fried.
scene_heading: 26 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 26
text: Gladys gasps at Jerry's face pressed against the screen, but
text: controls herself when he brandishes the pistol. He motions
text: for her to open the back door. She does. He slides into the
text: room and sits down at the table.
scene_heading: 27 EXT. ON STREET - NIGHT 27
text: A Ford sits in a driveway. In the far b.g. a back porch light
text: glares. Butch ENTERS FRAME, looks at the light, turns to the
text: Ford and starts to jimmie the lock. No luck. He rises and
text: looks to the light.
scene_heading: 28 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 28
text: Jerry stuffs a piece of toast in his mouth, grins at Gladys
text: and makes a motion to the counter.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: A lil' on the bland side. Gimme' that
dialog: ketchup.
text: She picks up a bottle of Heinz and inches toward him. When
text: she gets close, he grabs her and forces her onto his lap. He
text: holds the gun to her throat and whispers in her ear.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Don't got a man around here, do ya'?
scene_heading: 29A INT. NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT 29A
text: MR. CUMMINGS, 70, puts on his glasses and peers through the
dialog: window.
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: 29B HIS POV - PERRY KITCHEN 29B
text: Gladys sits on Jerry's lap, thanks to .38 caliber coercion.
text: The convict's hands move freely over the frightened woman's
dialog: body.
scene_heading: 30 INT. PERRY KITCHEN - NIGHT 30
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Feed me, sweet thing.
text: Her shaking hands raise a forkful of eggs to his lips. He
text: licks them once then gobbles with gusto.
text: Phillip enters the room and stops dead in his tracks.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Well lookie here, you do got a man!
text: Jerry smiles at Phillip while he kisses and licks Glady's neck.
text: At once, Phillip darts across the room at Jerry, who backhands
text: the boy with his gunhand, sending Phillip sprawling.
text: Butch blasts through the door in an instant. With a swift
text: kick to the head, Jerry is knocked senseless onto the floor
text: against the cabinets.
text: The gun slides across the floor and lands at Phillip's feet.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: (holding his ear)
dialog: I'm bleedin'! You happy?
text: Butch gives Jerry an icy stare and kneels down to eye level
text: with Phillip. Butch looks at the gun and then at Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What's your name, boy?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (scared shitless)
dialog: Ph... Phillip...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well, okay Phillip. Reach down and pick
dialog: up that pistola.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Give it to me.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Jerry)
dialog: Shut yer' mouth.
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Pick it up and bring it over here.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: 30 CONTINUED: 30
text: Phillip reaches down and slowly picks up the gun by the handle.
text: He takes one step toward Butch, then another. Gladys,
text: petrified, sobs.
text: Phillip arrives armslength from Butch.
scene_heading: CLOSEUPS - PHILLIP AND BUTCH
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Now say 'stick 'em up.'
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (hesitant)
dialog: Stick 'em up...
text: Butch laughs and then a NOISE from outside brings him back
text: to reality. He grabs the gun and spins to see...
speaker_heading: MR. CUMMINGS
text: Standing outside the screen door, gun leveled. Before the old
text: man can utter a syllable, Butch grabs Phillip and points the
text: gun straight at Cummings. Jerry jumps up and grabs Gladys.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Put the gun down, old timer. You couldn't
dialog: hit me anyway. Probably shoot the boy.
text: The PHONE RINGS.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Leave it be.
text: The twins wiping sleep from their eyes, wander into the room.
speaker_heading: NAOMI
dialog: Mama?...
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: It's all right, honey.
text: PHONE continues to RING. Cummings can't decide what to do
text: with the gun he's pointing at Butch.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: You deaf?!!!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: Set it on the ground.
text: Cummings reluctantly obeys.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: We gotta' get the hell outta'here!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 17.
scene_heading: 30 CONTINUED: (2) 30
text: PHONE still RINGS...
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Shut up!
text: In one fluid move he rips the phone from the wall. The
text: silence is deafening.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: (re: Gladys)
dialog: I vote we bring her with us.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: How we gonna' get outta' here without a
dialog: hostage, tell me that? The whole goddam
text: neighborhood's awake.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: We'll take the boy.
text: Silence. Gladys can't believe her ears. Then...
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: Nooooo!!!
text: Jerry tosses Gladys aside. She collapses onto the floor.
text: The TWINS instantly start to CRY.
text: Phillip winds up and hits Butch as hard as he can. Butch picks
text: him up, directs Cummings into the kitchen with the gun and nods
dialog: for Jerry to lead.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You'll get him back. I swear it.
scene_heading: 31 EXT. FRONT YARD - DAWN 31
text: Butch, carrying Phillip, and Jerry emerge from the back of
text: the house and race back to the Impala.
speaker_heading: GLADYS (O.S.)
dialog: Phillip!!!!...
text: Butch flips Jerry the gun, tosses Phillip into the passenger
text: seat, leaps over the hood and into the driver's seat. The
text: CAR STARTS and SQUEALS away.
text: Neighbors, aroused by the noise, exit their homes clad in
text: robes, nighties and curlers.
dialog: 18.
scene_heading: 32 INT. CAR - DAWN 32
text: Jerry FIRES a SHOT over their heads, sending them to the deck
text: or scurrying for safety.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Ain't you folks ever heard of sleepin'
dialog: in?!!
scene_heading: 33 EXT. PERRY YARD - DAWN 33
text: Cummings races from behind the house with the SHOTGUN,
text: levels it and FIRES a BLAST...
text: A nearby station wagon WINDOW SHATTERS. Rising from their
text: cover position, its owners look at Cummings with disgust.
speaker_heading: OWNER
dialog: Nice shootin', Fred.
scene_heading: 34 INT. RED'S OFFICE - DAY 34
text: Garnett, still in the same clothes, rests the phone receiver
text: in his ear while he shuffles through the files before him.
text: Red's deputy and boy friday, TOM ADLER, 40, lank, thinning
text: hair, with a face as soft as Red's is hard, warms up Red's
text: coffee with a jolt from the Chief's favorite plaid Thermos.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yes, Johnny, I do understand that...
text: The jabbering on the other end of the phone line continues
text: as Red's eyes squint to read the files.
speaker_heading: INSERT - FILES
text: The first is Jerry's, complete with a grinning mug shot in the
text: upper right hand corner. There are several pages in the file,
text: but Red's fingers quickly peruse the top rap sheet before
dialog: turning to...
scene_heading: INSERT - SECOND FILE
text: It's Butch's and again Red's fingers start to move down the
text: page then they stop and move to the photo of Butch at the top
dialog: of the page.
speaker_heading: RED'S FACE
text: A hint of recognition. The jabbering continues...
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHOTO OF BUTCH
text: A little younger than now. A younger con with the grim facade
text: of a man facing hard time.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 19.
scene_heading: 34 CONTINUED: 34
speaker_heading: RED
text: keeps staring at the photo, oblivious to the phone conversa-
dialog: tion he's "not having".
speaker_heading: PHONE VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Red? Red, you there?
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (a whisper)
dialog: Red?....
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Adler)
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (a whisper)
dialog: He's talkin' to ya'.
speaker_heading: PHONE VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Have you heard a word I've said?!
dialog: Red comes to...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yeah, Johnny. Jus' thinkin' is all....
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (another whisper)
text: Press has been waiting almost an hour, Red.
text: Red nods then notices someone at the door and motions her
text: in... SALLY GERBER, 28, cute in a plain, no nonsense way,
text: with giant curls accenting her round face in step with the
text: latest hair fashions, enters the room, closes the door behind
text: her. She's nervous as hell but trying to hide it.
text: Red motions her to have a seat while he finishes his call.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yeah.... Clear as a bell... Mi' sabe.
text: Red hangs up the phone, takes a draw on the coffee mug and
text: looks again at the file. He seems lost in time.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: What'd he say?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (distracted)
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 20.
scene_heading: 34 CONTINUED: (2) 34
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: The Guvner', Red.
text: Red closes the file.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Reminded me it's an election year.
text: Red turns his attention to Sally.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You drink before noon?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Uh... no.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Good. Last one I had was on a liquid diet.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Last what?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Secretary.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (remembering)
dialog: Penny Munroe.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I believe you have me confused. I'm here
dialog: from Huntsville. Assigned by Governor
dialog: Connally.
text: Red is confused. He turns a blank expression to Adler.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Adler... what is this?
text: Adler searches the messy desk for something.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Rings a bell, Red. Believ' they sent us
dialog: something about her this mornin'...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Who sent?...
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: ... Guvner', Red.
text: Adler finds the telex message sheet he's looking for and hands
dialog: it to Red.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: 34 CONTINUED: (3) 34
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: ... Here it is.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (introducing)
dialog: Uh, I'm Sally Gerber. Criminologist
dialog: with the State Prison System.
text: Sally offers her hand. Red, perusing the telex, ignores but
text: Adler shakes somewhat reluctantly, not sure if he's supposed
dialog: to like her or not.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Tom Adler. Deputy. State Police...
dialog: System.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: It's a relatively new procedure but I
dialog: was assigned by Governor Connally...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (reading from telex)
dialog: ... 'to work with State law enforcement
dialog: officials in all affairs where penal
dialog: matters coincide with those of the State
dialog: Police.' It don't say nuthin' about...
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: ... It includes parole and work release
dialog: programs as well as penal escape situations.
text: The office PHONE BUZZES. Adler picks it up.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: On our way, Marge.
text: Adler hangs up the phone.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Gettin' antsy, Red. You scheduled it.
text: Adler hangs up, grabs Red's tie and coat from a brass rung on
text: the wall and hands them over. Red puts down the telex, stares
text: at Sally and reluctantly attempts to make himself presentable.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: The idea is that an understanding of the
dialog: particular behavioral case histories
dialog: should, in parole situations, help the
dialog: subject to avoid habitual traps and, in
dialog: penal escape situations could, conversely,
dialog: identify those self-same traps as an aide
text: to apprehension.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 22.
scene_heading: 34 CONTINUED: (4) 34
text: Adler stares at Sally then turns to Red with a "never heard
text: the like" look of amazement on his face.
text: Red, roguishly handsome in his tan, western cut blazer, clip
text: on tie and ten gallon hat, makes his way to the door. But,
text: before he exits...
speaker_heading: RED
text: In the first place, Miss Gerber.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Sally, please.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: In the first place, Sally, it ain't a
dialog: 'penal escape situation.' It's a manhunt.
text: Fancy words in a circle don't help much.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: And what does?
speaker_heading: RED
text: A nose like a Blue Tick, a medulla with an
dialog: antenna and one helluva lot of coffee.
text: And with that he's out the door.
scene_heading: 35 INT. PRESS ROOM - DAY 35
text: A throng of photogs and news writers stuff the undersized
text: room. The clamor settles when Red enters and steps behind
text: the lectern.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Listen up, I'll only say it once. At
dialog: approximately ten o'clock last night two
dialog: inmates over to Huntsville, Robert 'Butch'
dialog: Haynes and Jerry David Pugh, escaped through
text: an air shaft, grabbed a prison employee's
text: car and got out through the main gate. At
dialog: approximately 1 A.M. we believe they robbed
text: a market outside of Cut-n-Shoot and killed
text: the store's owner.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: Is the prison employee with them?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Was when they left the prison.
text: Sally and Adler enter the room and stand beside the lectern
text: observing. Red notices them.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: 35 CONTINUED: 35
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2
dialog: What's the rap sheet on these guys like?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Long as Christmas eve to a kid. Haynes was
dialog: doin' 40 for armed robbery and Pugh was
dialog: ridin' 20 hisself for manslaughter and
dialog: assorted parole vios.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #3
dialog: Is there any indication of...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: ... Lemme' finish, Billy. This mornin'
dialog: another hostage was taken... from a private
text: home in Madisonville. A boy, age 8.
text: Grabbed him out of bed.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: Any sex offenses on Haynes or Pugh?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yer' askin' if they're preverts. Well,
dialog: one is.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #4
dialog: You got inter-agency cooperation on this?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Texas Rangers as the criminal investigation
dialog: arm of the D.P.S. share responsibility with
text: the F.B.I. due to the kid being taken. But
dialog: I doubt they're out of bed yet.
text: A few chuckles.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #3
dialog: Red, how do you plan to apprehend the
dialog: escapees?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Officially I can only say we have a full
dialog: manhunt team on their trail and we'll
dialog: proceed with due haste.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #3
dialog: And unofficially?
text: Red hesitates a moment, something's bothering him, then blurts
dialog: out...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Unoffically? I'm gonna' hunt 'em like
dialog: the rabid dogs they are.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 24.
scene_heading: 35 CONTINUED: (2) 35
text: Every hand in the place shoots up and Ad Lib questions fly
text: like bullets.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: That's all I've got but I'd like to
dialog: introduce ya' to Miss Sally Gerber.
dialog: She's straight from the Governor's
dialog: office. Knows all about psychological
dialog: profiles and the like. You probably
dialog: have some questions for her.
text: Red steps back and to one side. Sally is taken aback but then
text: warms to the idea and steps to the podium for her first press
text: conference, ready to take on the tough questions, to show off
dialog: a bit, but....
text: There are no questions. In fact there is utter silence as
text: every raised hand drops. Eyes stare.
text: Red sighs and starts to walk away.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Look, fellas, I got work to do.
text: And he heads out the door, followed by Sally's eyes and every
text: reporter's in the room, who commence once again to yell out
text: questions and mob after the Chief. Every reporter, that is,
dialog: except one.
text: He's near the back of the room and he smiles and raises his
dialog: hand.
text: Sally, unsure what to do, looks to him...
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You have a question?
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Yes I do.
text: Sally smiles a bit then puts on her serious face awaiting...
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: You doin' anything tonight?
text: Sally, steamed, glares at the guy and stomps out of the
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: I'm serious!
scene_heading: 36 INT. IMPALA - DAY 36
text: Butch is driving with Phillip in the front seat beside him,
text: still in his underwear. Jerry, in the backseat, leers at
text: Butch, aims out the window and FIRES ONCE.
dialog: 25.
scene_heading: 37 EXT. FIELD NEAR ROAD - DAY 37
text: An aluminum water tank spews a violent leak.
scene_heading: 38 INT./EXT. CAR - DAY 38
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: We got a handful of caps and yer'
dialog: shootin' water tanks. He's a smart
dialog: guy, huh, Phillip?
text: Phillip doesn't move or change expression. Jerry smiles,
text: almost to himself, and FIRES TWICE more for the hell of it.
text: The ROOF of the Impala EXPLODES with two holes as the car
text: speeds off down the highway.
scene_heading: 39 EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY 39
text: Red is finishing up with several reporters near the door to
text: the parking lot. Adler jumps in, holds up his hands.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: All right, that's it, boys. Chief's got
dialog: work to do.
text: Red and Adler move through the parking lot to SAUNDERS, 50, an
text: aide to the Governor. Saunder's seconds are a PHOTOGRAPHER,
text: young and energetic, and SUTTLE, 35, dark-haired, with a
dialog: cowlick.
text: Saunders shakes Red's hand and they turn to gaze upon...
scene_heading: '60-STYLE AIRSTREAM MOBILE HOME
text: parked in the middle of the lot hitched to the back of a new
text: Chevy truck. The Airstream is painted in state colors and
text: sports banners, decals and logos.
scene_heading: 40 EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY 40
text: Saunders follows Red as he walks around the showpiece,
text: occasionally kicking a tire or two.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: So whattaya' think?
text: Saunders motions for the Photographer to come closer and take
text: pictures. He moves in next to Red and poses as the camera
text: clicks.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: We are very proud of this baby. Governor
dialog: Connally special ordered it so state
dialog: officials and dignitaries can ride in the
dialog: parade in Dallas. You know President
dialog: Kennedy's comin'?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 26.
scene_heading: 40 CONTINUED: 40
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: So I hear.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: Latest technology, oversized engine,
dialog: complete kitchen and sleeping quarters,
text: gun racks, frig, stove, the works. Even
dialog: got a hot line phone straight to the
dialog: Governor's office.
text: Red stops circling and nods to Adler, who scurries away.
speaker_heading: RED
text: Fine piece of machinery.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: What's more, as soon as it gets back from
dialog: Dallas it will be at your requisitioned
dialog: disposal. Perfect for lots of situations
text: -- a headquarters on wheels.
text: Red smiles, walks up to one of the Lone Star decals and rips
dialog: it off.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: We'll take it.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: Uh, Chief?....
text: Red rips off another decal. Adler and a few others start to
text: load equipment, guns and files into the motor home. In
text: addition they cart out unecessary items: mattresses, etc.
text: and stack them in a pile outside the motor home.
text: The Photographer continues to snap photos.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: Whattaya' doin', Red?!
dialog: (to Photographer)
dialog: Stop takin' pictures!
text: Red does away with the parade banner. Saunders follows behind
text: and tries to reinstate the decal.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: It's jus' not possible, Red. The Governor's
dialog: gonna' ride it in a campaign parade tomorrow.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Guvner' hisself told me this manhunt was
dialog: top priority.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: 40 CONTINUED: (2) 40
text: Adler moves through the door to the RV carrying Red's favorite
text: desk chair. He's followed by BOBBY LEE, 20's, cocksure,
text: wearing a plain khaki uniform and boots.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (to Saunders)
dialog: S'cuse me.
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: This here's Bobby Lee. He's a specialist
text: with the Feds. They want him to tag along.
text: Red stares hard at Bobby Lee, then nods. Bobby Lee steps
text: into the Airstream.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: Please, Red, ya' gotta' believe me...
text: Red spots Suttle, 35, bright-eyed, with a cowlick, sitting at
text: the wheel of the Chevy truck.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
text: Dick Suttle, the driver.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Not anymore. Bradley.
text: BRADLEY, 35, glasses, moves to the truck and gets in.
text: Suttle shrugs and steps out.
text: Saunders stops Suttle and turns to Red.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: This man stays with the vehicle wherever
dialog: it goes, Red!
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Suttle)
dialog: You know how to operate the gadgets?
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Yessir.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Suttle)
dialog: Grab a seat.
text: Suttle sets himself in the passenger seat of the truck.
text: Sally emerges from the building, ticked off, carrying an
text: armload of file boxes, and makes a beeline for Red.
text: Saunders gently touches Red's shoulders; a final plea.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 28.
scene_heading: 40 CONTINUED: (3) 40
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: Please Red, I'm beggin'. I mean, what am
dialog: I suppose to tell the Governor?
text: Sally arrives but before she can spit out a word...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Tell John that Miss Gerber here checked
dialog: me out on it.
text: Red whistles and the ENGINE REVS. Red closes the door as the
text: motor home pulls away. Saunders runs beside the passenger
text: side window and yells in to Suttle, who stares out the window.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: Not a scratch, you hear me, Suttle?
dialog: Not a scratch!
text: Saunders stops, breathing hard, next to Sally. She's
text: pissed and overloaded with files.
speaker_heading: AIRSTREAM
text: about 20 yards down the way, comes to a stop. A second later
text: the door opens and the steps pop out.
text: Sally walks toward the bus but when she arrives at the door...
text: ... LAUGHTER filters out of the Airstream. The Airstream
text: moves another 20 feet then stops.
text: Sally waits a full five seconds, then she blows the hair out
text: of her eyes and, against her better judgment, moves cautiously
text: forward, the file boxes getting heavier by the minute. Again,
dialog: when she gets close...
text: ...the Airstream moves. Sally, boiling mad as her coiffure
text: wilts in the Texas sun, stops, and tosses down the file box
dialog: in anger.
text: The Airstream stops. LAUGHTER from inside and a few AD LIBS,
text: i.e. -- "Okay, Okay." More LAUGHTER. Red steps out the door,
text: turns his gaze back inside and the laughter and comments stop
text: on a dime. Smiling slightly he turns to Sally, moves straight
text: for the file box, picks it up and walks back to the Airstream.
text: When he arrives at the steps he turns, looks to Sally, who
text: stews and holds her ground.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You comin' or not?
text: She hesitates only a moment before walking straight to Red,
text: grabbing back her file box and entering in front of him.
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: 41 OMITTED 41
scene_heading: 42 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 42
text: Sally enters, balancing the boxes, and glares at the faces
text: surrounding her. A smiling Red, a grinning Adler messily
text: gorging on a cinnamon roll, a nervous KAISER, the radio man,
text: and, in the corner, a nasty smirk from Bobby Lee.
text: When the Airstream takes off again, she loses her balance and
text: drops one of the boxes. Adler and Suttle jump forward to help
text: but she gives them the evil eye.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I've got it.
text: She kneels down to pick it up and feels eyes on her. She
text: looks up to the men staring at...
text: Her skirt, raised a bit, exposing a thigh.
text: She calmly stands and looks to Adler, a piece of cinnamon roll
text: dangling on his chin.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You've got shit on your face.
text: Red can't help but smile as Adler wipes at his face.
scene_heading: 43 EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY 43
text: The IMPALA BLASTS along, kicking up dust and dispersing crows
text: as it heads into a one light township. It slows, however,
text: before the main part of town and slides to a stop near a pay
dialog: phone booth.
scene_heading: 44 INT./EXT. IMPALA - DAY 44
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Why the hell we stoppin'?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You said you had a cousin near here.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: So?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: So give him a call. See if we can shack
dialog: there til' things cool down.
text: Jerry thinks it over, leans forward and, in one quick swipe,
text: grabs the keys from the ignition. Then he laughs and crawls
text: out on his way to the phone booth.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: 44 CONTINUED: 44
text: In the b.g. we see Jerry strut to the phone booth and pore
text: through a thin directory. Phillip steals a glance at Butch,
text: who watches his rear view mirror and grits his teeth.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Why'd he take the keys?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: So I won't leave him.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (a tad hopeful)
dialog: Would you leave him?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Oh yeah.
text: In the b.g. Jerry rips the 20 page phone book in half and
text: returns to the car, half pleased with himself. He tosses
text: the keys to Butch, who starts the car and drives off.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Musta' moved. Prolly' couldn't have heard
dialog: 'em anyway. Goddam ear's still bleedin'.
dialog: You ever try that shit again...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You were in the middle of threatenin' me.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: (from the movies)
dialog: Ain't a threat. It's a fact.
text: Butch reaches over, takes Phillip's hand and places it on the
text: steering wheel.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Here kid, take the wheel.
text: Phillip, scared at the prospect, nevertheless does his best
text: to see over the dash and keep the wheel straight. Butch
text: turns back over the seat to confront Jerry.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: In two seconds I'm gonna' break your nose.
dialog: That's a threat...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 31.
scene_heading: 44 CONTINUED: (2) 44
text: Before Jerry has time to snicker Butch hits him full in the
text: face and grabs the gun. Blood spurts from Jerry's nose and
text: the injured man cups his hands over the wound.
text: Butch spins and retakes the wheel from a frightened Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: ... And that's a fact.
text: Instead of expressing outrage, Jerry slinks back down in the
text: seat wearing a look of pure hatred.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: I'm gonna' kill you for that.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: And that's a threat. Beginnin' to
dialog: understand the difference?
text: Somethin' catches Butch's eye and he turns and slows down and
dialog: turns into...
scene_heading: 45 EXT. RURAL STORE - DAY 45
text: The Impala brakes to a dusty stop near the front of the store,
text: which is bordered by a giant hay field.
scene_heading: 46 INT. IMPALA - DAY 46
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Okay, Phillip, listen up. I'm gonna'
dialog: run in here and get some smokes.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Get beer.
text: Butch hands Phillip the revolver.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Here, hold it like this.... And point it
text: right between his eyes.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: What the hell?...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: If he so much as moves you pull the trigger
dialog: ... right here... Put your finger on it.
text: Jerry snickers and then laughs maniacally. Butch reaches
text: over and cocks the pistol. Jerry's guffaws stop on a dime.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Yer' a fuckin' crazy man.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: 46 CONTINUED: 46
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: And that's a fact. I believe yer
dialog: gettin' the hang of this.
text: Butch steps out of the car and heads for the market.
scene_heading: 47 INT. STORE - DAY 47
text: Butch enters. A short fat man with a fishing cap is sweeping
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: How-do. Where's yer' sodees?
speaker_heading: MAN
text: Hot in the first aisle. Cold in the
text: back, in the cooler.
scene_heading: 48 INT. IMPALA - DAY 48
text: Phillip's slightly shaking hands hold the pistol pointed
text: directly at Jerry's head.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: You ever shot a gun before, boy?
text: No answer. Phillip steals a glance at the store, anxious for
dialog: Butch to return.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Powww!!!... It'll knock you on your ass.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Be quiet, mister.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Naw. You ain't never shot no gun before.
text: Livin' in a house with three split tails...
dialog: no Daddy around. You'll prolly' grow up
dialog: queer, you know that?
text: A bead of sweat rolls down Phillip's cheek.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Now I'm gonna' lean up here real slow,
dialog: okay? So we can talk.
text: Jerry raises his hands, palms up and slowly leans forward in
text: the back seat. Phillip's hand quivers but he doesn't pull
dialog: the trigger.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: There we go. Now we can have a 'man to
dialog: man.' You are a man, ain't ya'?
dialog: 33.
scene_heading: 49 INT. STORE - DAY 49
text: Butch dumps a six pack of RC Colas, a handful of Moon Pies,
text: a handful of beef jerky and some gum on the counter.
scene_heading: 50 INT. IMPALA - DAY 50
text: Jerry's chin is on the front seat now and his arms are draped
text: over it.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Those are cute little underwears you got
dialog: there, boy. Say does your mama sew yer'
dialog: name in 'em, initials or anything?
text: Jerry's hand slowly reaches down to the white briefs. He
text: places one finger in the front elastic waistband and slowly
text: pulls it open.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Whatcha' got in there?
text: Jerry sneaks a peek.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Kinda' puny, ain't it?
text: Phillip, diverted, looks down. In a flash Jerry grabs the
dialog: gun.
speaker_heading: JERRY
text: The hand is quicker than the eye.
text: Jerry flicks open the revolver, spins it -- empty slots.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: (re: Butch)
dialog: That sonofabitch. Hell's bells, no
dialog: shells.
scene_heading: 51 INT. STORE - DAY 51
text: The Old Man puts down his broom and ambles to the register.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: This be all for ya'?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: This and a carton of Chesterfields.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Are those .38 shells? Gimme a box.
text: The Old Man puts the cigs and shells on the counter and starts
text: to tally the bill on a notepad.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: 51 CONTINUED: 51
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: With deposit comes to four dollars eighty.
text: Butch reaches in his pocket and extracts the wad stolen from
text: the convenience store. The Old Man takes note. Butch
text: selects a five and places it on the counter.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: Land's sake. What line of work you in?
text: The Old Man bags the goods, but Butch takes the shells and
text: puts them in his coat pocket.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Used cars. Buy 'em, fix 'em up. Sold a
dialog: Cadillac down in Madisonville this mornin'.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: Don't say.
scene_heading: 52 INT. IMPALA - DAY 52
text: Jerry puts his gun hand around Phillip's neck and pulls the
text: sobbing boy closer. Jerry rests his face on Phillip's neck.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Come over a little closer.
text: As Jerry groans, Phillip seizes the moment and bites Jerry
text: hard on the ear. Jerry screams and drops the gun, which
text: Phillip picks up and carries with him as he scurries out of
text: the car and into the hay field.
text: Jerry, in pain, now with both ears bleeding, crawls out of
text: the back seat and gives chase.
scene_heading: 53 EXT. FIELD - DAY 53
text: Phillip, still sobbing, runs for his life in the hay, which
text: is a full foot taller than he.
speaker_heading: JERRY
text: no longer stumbling, now grinning maniacally, gives chase,
text: whistling as if calling for a lost puppy.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: I'm gonna' find you boy. You best come here.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: gun in hand, stumbles, falls, gets up, keeps running. He falls
text: again and crawls to a stop. He wipes his tears and balls up
text: on the ground trying to make himself invisible.
dialog: 35.
scene_heading: 54 EXT. STORE - DAY 54
text: Butch exits with a grocery sack. When he sees the car doors
text: open he dumps the groceries in the front seat and looks to
dialog: the field.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The hay rustles as Jerry moves through the field.
scene_heading: 55 EXT. FIELD - DAY 55
text: Jerry, crouching, moves through the field -- eyes peeled for
dialog: any sign of Phillip.
text: Phillip lies still. He hears the hay rustling near him and
text: he looks up, squares his body and points the revolver at...
text: Butch, who spots him, motions for him to stay put and holds
text: out his hand for the gun. Phillip hands it over and watches
text: while Butch reaches into the plaid jacket pocket, extracts a
text: few shells and loads the .38.
speaker_heading: JERRY
text: a little frustrated now, but still moving forward.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: (a whisper)
dialog: Hey boy. Hey boy. You better hope I
dialog: don't find ya'.
text: He spots something -- a dash of color -- and begins to crawl
text: faster. He parts a thick batch of hay and looks up into the
text: gun barrel and eyes of ...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: squatted down, who levels the revolver and closes one eye.
text: Jerry laughs.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: Whatcha' gonna' do? Hit me with it?
text: Butch reaches into the coat pocket with his free hand and
text: shows a shell or two. Jerry's grin drops.
speaker_heading: JERRY
dialog: (pleading)
dialog: Me'n you are friends!!!!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Thick as theives.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: hears a GUNSHOT and runs for his life back toward the store.
dialog: 36.
scene_heading: 56 EXT. PARKED IMPALA - DAY 56
text: Phillip runs to the car and hides behind the tire opposite the
text: store and field. In the b.g. we see Butch emerge from the
text: field and walk toward the car.
text: The Old Man, who also heard the shot, emerges from the store
text: with a baseball bat. Butch arrives at the car, spots the Old
text: Man and levels the revolver at him. Phillip is relieved when
text: he hears Butch's voice instead of Jerry's.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Old Man)
dialog: You got a phone?
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: Naw.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Then go inside and lie down til' we're gone.
text: The Old Man meekly does so. Butch goes to the car door, opens
text: it and motions to a frozen stiff Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well... Get in.
scene_heading: 57 EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 57
text: The truck and Airstream barrel down the highway.
scene_heading: 58 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 58
text: The place is a functioning mobile headquarters now. Adler on
text: the short wave and tacking up a map, Bobby Lee still in his
text: corner, Red and Sally sitting across from one another at the
dialog: "kitchen table".
text: In the rear section of the Airstream Red's chair and a mini
dialog: office for the Chief have been put together.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Got a spot on 'em. A store right outside
text: of Benhur. About 20 miles from here.
text: Adler sets down the mike, sticks a tack on the map and stands
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: All right. Push the roadblock on 288
text: north by 50 miles.
text: Kaiser calls in the instructions. (NOTE: Kaiser's radio
dialog: transmissions are not scripted but go on a lot of the time
dialog: we're in the Airstream. In addition, his and Adler's direc-
text: tions and missives to Bradley in the truck are not all
dialog: scripted.)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: 58 CONTINUED: 58
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Ya' figger' they're that far along?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Hell, I dunno'and neither do they. They're
dialog: jus' happy to be out. It's a high speed
dialog: Sunday drive to them.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Sunday drive. I like that. Never heard
dialog: you use that one before, Red.
text: Sally is watching Red and listening to all of this with a
text: troubled look on her face. Red notices...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Somethin' eatin' at you?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: It's... perhaps premature, but do you have
dialog: an auxiliary roadblock plan for when they
dialog: split up?
text: Everyone stares. No one ever questions Red.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: What makes you so sure they won't stay
dialog: together?
text: Sally hesitates. Red notices...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You got somethin' to say, spit it out.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Their situation is one of accommodation.
dialog: They won't be together long.
text: Silence. Sally continues.
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: Haynes and Pugh are opposites. Haynes is
text: a criminal's criminal -- armed robbery,
dialog: mano y mano confrontation. Pugh, on the
text: other hand, has a rap sheet littered with
dialog: molestation and petty crime. They'll
text: split sheets soon.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (still on attack)
dialog: What about the hostages? They gonna' flip
dialog: a coin to see who gets to keep who?
text: Red rises and walks to the sink. He rinses a spoon.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: 58 CONTINUED: (2) 58
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: It's happened before. Either way it's a
dialog: dilemma they'll address soon.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That's why we should address it now.
text: She looks to Red. He refuses to return her gaze.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: We don't have a dilemma. And neither do
dialog: they. They'll keep one hostage... and get
dialog: rid of one, if they haven't already.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Okay... which one?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: If there's a SNAFU, who's John Q. Public
dialog: more likely to give a rat's ass about --
text: an innocent boy or a goddam bureaucrat.
text: Red wipes the water off the spoon on his shirt and walks to
text: his office in the back. Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser chuckle
text: lightly at their boss's snubbing of the female upstart in
text: their midst. Sally's face glows a bright red.
scene_heading: 59 INT. MOTOR HOME - BACK OFFICE 59
text: Red sits in his office chair, pulls out the spoon and pours
text: Geritol from a bottle into his coffee. He doesn't even look
text: up when Sally enters, a stern look on her face.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: We need to talk, Chief Garnett.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Call me Red.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Red.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Why are you so hell-bent on embarassing me?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I'm hell-bent on one thing. You hang
dialog: around long enough you'll find that out.
text: Til' then a tough backside and a sense of
dialog: humor will get you through a lot.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I have a fine sense of humor, but the one
dialog: thing I won't do is be your straight man
dialog: so you can play hero to a bunch of morons
dialog: who think you're some kind of hillbilly
dialog: Sherlock Holmes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: 59 CONTINUED: 59
text: Red sips from the mug calmly then groans, his face contorted.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Awful. Arthur Godfrey says it keeps ya'
dialog: young, but I'm not sure it's worth it.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I'd like an answer.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: This yer' first time out of an office?
text: She refuses to answer.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Thought so. What'd ya' expect ya' signed
dialog: on for?
text: Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser all watch the discussion, smiles
text: on their faces. Sally abruptly closes the door.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You think I'm what? Some dumb schoolgirl
dialog: who wandered into the boy's locker room?
dialog: Well you're wrong. I don't mean to boast,
dialog: but I happen to be one of the two most
dialog: intelligent people involved in this fiasco.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Didn't ask that. Asked what you expected.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I expected to be allowed to do the job
dialog: assigned to me by the Governor.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I happen to like the Governor, hunt quail
dialog: together every year. But deep down he and
dialog: I know that win, lose or draw this is my
dialog: ship, not his.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: The Governor as chief executive officer
dialog: of this state bears ultimate responsibility
dialog: for...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: ... Bullshit. Responsibility lies with the
dialog: one that loses sleep; the one with the most
dialog: ulcers. This mess turns bloody -- and it
dialog: might -- all it's gonna cost the Governor
dialog: is a few votes! Me, I'm the one that's...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: 59 CONTINUED: (2) 59
text: Red catches himself about to get too personal. He takes
text: another swig of his coffee/geritol. Sally softens her stance.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You're the one that what?
dialog: But Red side-steps.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Tell ya' what. You think I'm makin' a
dialog: wrong turn you speak up. Might not agree,
dialog: but I'll listen. As far as stepped on
dialog: toes and wounded pride, I'll buy everyone
text: a drink when we head for home. Not until.
dialog: I got more to worry about.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That sound fair to you?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Well okay then.
text: Sally turns, about to leave.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: So who's the other one?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Other one?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: If yer' one brain, who's the other?
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: Haynes. He was tested in prison.
scene_heading: 60 INT. IMPALA - DAY 60
text: Butch drives and catches an occasional glance at Phillip who
text: sits quietly, but who, too, steals looks at his captor
text: between swigs of RC Cola.
text: He finishes off the bottle. Butch reaches in the sack for
text: another, pops the top on the dashboard and hands it to
dialog: Phillip.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Thankyew.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Are you gonna' shoot me?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: No. Me'n you are friends.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 41.
scene_heading: 60 CONTINUED: 60
text: Butch realizes that in Phillip's eyes he and Jerry were
dialog: probably friends.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: If I was choosin' a runnin' buddy, I'd
dialog: take you over him any day of the week.
scene_heading: 61 EXT. RURAL STORE - DAY 61
text: The RV slides to a stop in the gravel parking lot which is
text: full of state and local police. Red exits first, followed
text: by the others. A LOCAL SHERIFF walks up to greet.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: We got a positive I.D.?
speaker_heading: LOCAL SHERIFF
text: Yessir, with only the boy as hostage. But
dialog: not five minutes ago we found something else.
scene_heading: 62 EXT. HAY FIELD - DAY 62
text: PAN FROM a fingertip UP an arm and TO the face of Jerry Pugh.
text: A clean bullethole has left him with a third eye, a bloody
text: back and an entourage of late summer flies. We hear the
text: CLICK of a photographer's CAMERA.
text: BOOM UP TO Red, Local Sheriff and other bystanders.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Least now we know who's in charge.
scene_heading: 63 INT. IMPALA - DAY 63
text: Butch notices that Phillip is pretty somber as he tugs on
dialog: another RC.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Whattaya' thinkin' about?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Nuthin'.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: If I guess you tell me?
text: Phillip nods.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You thinkin' about yer mama?
text: Phillip sits still. That was it.
text: Butch brings the car to a stop. He points to the horizon.
dialog: Desolate.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: 63 CONTINUED: 63
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: I hear ya', Phillip, but look around. I
dialog: can't very well leave you here, can I?
scene_heading: 64 EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY 64
text: The Impala rests in the fork of a dirt road.
scene_heading: 65 INT. IMPALA - DAY 65
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Lemme' ask you somethin'. You right or
dialog: left handed?
text: Phillip meekly holds up his right hand. The car races
dialog: forward.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Then that's the way we'll go. You ever
dialog: ridden in a time machine before?
text: Phillip shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Sure you have. Whattaya' think this is?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: A car.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yer' lookin' at this thing bassackwards.
text: This is a 20th Century time machine.
dialog: I'm the captain and you're the navigator.
text: Butch points forward through the dash.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Out there... that's the future.
text: Butch taps on the rearview mirror.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Back there... that's the past. If life's
dialog: moving too slow and you wanna' project
dialog: yerself into the future you step here on
dialog: the gas. See?
text: He does so and the Impala surges forward.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: And if yer' enjoyin' the moment yer' in,
dialog: well hell, just step on the brake here
dialog: and you can slow it down.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: 65 CONTINUED: 65
text: Butch brings the car to a complete and dusty stop.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: This is the present, Phillip. Enjoy it
dialog: while it lasts.
text: Then he laughs uproariously and steps on the gas.
scene_heading: 66 EXT. ROAD - DAY 66
text: The Impala spins out, kicking dirt in all directions.
speaker_heading: BUTCH (V.O.)
dialog: Yessir. Time travelin' through Texas! We
dialog: got to find us a Ford. My daddy always
dialog: drove Fords, you know that?
scene_heading: 67 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 67
text: The Airstream sits in the parking lot of the store. Bradley
text: and Suttle sit up front in the truck.
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - DAY
text: Bradley turns the knob on an intercom speaker system next
text: to the radio.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: It's an intercom speaker system. You can
dialog: get and give instructions to and from the
text: rear of the vehicle.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: How's it work?
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: You push the power button but if you've
dialog: got the volume turned up...
text: Bradley pushes the power button. The SYSTEM SQUAWKS LOUDLY
text: and then CREAKS TINNILY. Speakers blown.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: ... you'll blow the speakers. Sheeeit...
scene_heading: INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY
text: Red cringes, his ears still ringing from the squawk, and turns
text: to stare at the front of the RV.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: 67 CONTINUED: 67
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - DAY
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: (quiet; to Suttle)
dialog: This thing's prolly' got a warranty.
dialog: You oughta' make a list of all the
dialog: things that are wrong.
scene_heading: INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY
text: Red shakes his head and stands in front of the map, placing
text: thumbtacks at crossroads indicated by the circle mark.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: That oughta' put his pecker in a sling,
dialog: huh, Red?
dialog: (remembers Sally)
dialog: Sorry, ma'am.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (ignoring Adler)
dialog: Shouldn't these be roadblocked as well?
text: She points to several other unmarked roads.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Sooner or later he'll get on a main road.
dialog: We don't got the manpower to roadblock
dialog: every farm to market.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: In a perfect world, Miss Gerber, we'd lock
dialog: arms and thrash the bush til' he turned up...
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: In a perfect world things like this wouldn't
dialog: happen in the first place.
text: Adler hears something on his headset, turns to Red.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Locals are heading out. Wanna' follow?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Let's sit tight. He'll turn up.
scene_heading: 68 EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY 68
text: The Impala travels slowly along the road until it edges to a
text: stop by the entrance to a small farmhouse with a truck and
text: car parked in a long dirt driveway. A farmer on a combine
text: works a small field.
dialog: 45.
scene_heading: 69 INT. PLYMOUTH - DAY 69
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Ok, Phillip, we're gonna do some car
dialog: shoppin'. You ever play cowboys n' Injuns?
dialog: See that Ford sedan? Now I want you to
dialog: sneak on over there like an Injun and take
text: a peek and see if the keys is in it.
text: Phillip hesitates.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Don't have to if you don't wanna... but
dialog: I'd appreciate it... You bein' the new
dialog: navigator and all.
text: Phillip thinks it over then opens the door and slips out.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Hey, Phillip, check for a radio, too.
scene_heading: 70 EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY 70
text: Phillip, still in his skivvies, legs cut up and muddied from
text: his escape from Jerry, sneaks up to the car and quietly peers
text: into the open window.
text: The keys dangle when his small hand touches them.
text: Phillip closes the door, looks around and then runs pell-mell
text: to the passenger window of the Impala.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: It's got keys and a radio. I checked.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Good man.
text: Phillip holds his crotch and stamps his feet.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Can we stop at a fillin' station.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Number one.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: This here's nature, Phillip. Pee in the
dialog: ditch.
text: Phillip scrambles to the ditch to relieve himself while Butch
text: steps out of the Impala, tosses the keys into the field and
text: walks toward the Ford.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 46.
scene_heading: 70 CONTINUED: 70
text: The FARMER stops his tractor and notices Butch and Phillip.
text: Phillip, despite his prior urgency, is having trouble coaxing
dialog: relief.
text: Butch slides into the Ford, pumps the gas pedal and turns the
text: key. The ENGINE GRUMBLES and DIES.
text: The Farmer is walking now, slowly and then at a trot as he
text: realizes what's happening.
text: Phillip finally starts to pee.
text: Butch cranks again and again but the Ford is flooded.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Start, you sonofabitch!
text: The Farmer runs faster, comes closer...
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Hey, that's my car! Hey!!!
text: Butch floors the gas to clear the flood and the ENGINE finally
text: STARTS. He throws it into reverse and peels out backwards
text: into the road beside the ditch where Phillip continues to
dialog: relieve himself.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Get in the car, Phillip!
text: The Farmer, only 30 yards or so away, is racing toward them
text: madder than a wet hen.
text: Phillip tries to hurry but the RC continues to run through
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Phillip! Get in the car!
text: Phillip pulls his underwear up and races to the car. He leaps
text: into the open passenger door at the same moment Butch steps on
text: the gas and the Farmer arrives and grabs onto the door as it
text: closes.
scene_heading: 71 INT. FORD - DAY 71
text: The CAR is SCREECHING down the road but the Farmer holds on
text: for dear life and auto. He claws at Phillip, who does his
text: best to fend off flailing hands and fingers.
text: Butch reaches under the seat for and grasps the pistol.
text: Phillip sees what's about to happen and bites the Farmer's
text: hand as hard as he can.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: 71 CONTINUED: 71
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Aaaaaayyyyyy!!!!
text: The Farmer releases his grip on the door and falls backward,
text: summersaulting into the adjacent ditch.
text: Butch places the gun back under the seat.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Goddam, boy, how many RC's did you drink
dialog: anyway?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Four.
text: Butch shakes his head and laughs.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: One thing's for sure. You got one helluva
text: set of chompers.
scene_heading: 72 INT. TRUCK - DAY 72
text: Sitting still. Bradley tries to light a cigarette with
text: the lighter but gets no heat.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: (to Suttle)
dialog: Lighter don't work. Put that on the list.
scene_heading: INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY
text: Bobby Lee sits alone in the back corner of the main room of
text: the RV. He just sits and stares, occasionally smiling
text: cynically at Sally.
text: Adler takes the latest info off the radio while the others
dialog: listen in.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (into radio)
text: Highway 16 north. Four miles south of
dialog: Desdemona. Got it.
dialog: (to Red)
text: Stole a vehicle.
text: Kaiser radios up front, the ENGINE STARTS and the Airstream
dialog: moves.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Adler)
dialog: What kinda' shape's it in?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: 72 CONTINUED: 72
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: The Ford he stole.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Owner told the locals they only drove it
dialog: to church, but it does have a bad emergency
dialog: brake.
dialog: (to Sally)
dialog: How'd ya' know it was a Ford?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: He likes Fords.
text: Adler looks at the map.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Looks like you was right, Red. He's off
text: the farm to market and onto a spur.
dialog: Whattaya' wanna' do?
speaker_heading: RED
text: Beef up the I-20 roadblock.
text: Adler gets more news through the headsets.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: What's that?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Red, the locals wanna' know if they're to
dialog: take a clean shot if they get one?
text: Red stares out the window for what seems like an eternity...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: No.
text: Adler looks quizzically at Red and pulls off the headphones...
speaker_heading: RADIO VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Come back...? Come back Mobile One.
dialog: Adler, are you there...?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Tell 'em what I said.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: Uh... no.
speaker_heading: RADIO VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Was that a negative?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 49.
scene_heading: 72 CONTINUED: (2) 72
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: No, er, yes. No means negative. Same
dialog: thing. Over.
text: Red sees Sally peering at him over the top of her file. He
text: glances around at the other sets of eyes.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I don't want some half-ass Sergeant York
text: taking pot shots with a deer rifle.
text: Adler puts the headphones back on.
text: Bobby Lee smirks a bit.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: It's the only thing to do. He's got the
text: child with him.
text: Red gives her a look that says, "Don't defend me".
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: (to Sally)
dialog: I suppose you figger' he'll jus' give up.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Maybe, maybe not.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: Well now there's a safe bet.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I'll give you a safe bet. The boy's
text: in better hands now than he was.
speaker_heading: RED
text: The third eye Pugh's sportin' on the way
text: to the morgue shouts otherwise.
text: Sally flashes Red a look back. Bobby Lee rises and moves
text: past Red on his way to the toilet.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: (casually)
dialog: Then why not shoot to kill.
text: Red just stares at Bobby Lee as the younger man moves slowly
text: past him to the toilet.
text: Adler on the radio...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 50.
scene_heading: 72 CONTINUED: (3) 72
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: They've forwarded the stolen vehicle license
dialog: to the roadblocks. You still wanna' go to
dialog: the farm?
text: Red pulls out a package of Red Man chewing tobacco and mulls
text: over the question while he slaps a wad into his cheek.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yeah. I gotta' hunch.
scene_heading: 73 INT. FORD - DAY 73
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You got blue eyes don'tcha', Phillip?
dialog: Never met a blue-eyed Phillip before.
dialog: Who you named after?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: My daddy.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You and your old man get along all right?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Yeahsir.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Toss the ball around, play grab-ass in the
dialog: yard, that sorta' thing?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Nawsir.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Why the hell not?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: He ain't around, really.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well he is or he ain't. When's the last
dialog: time you saw him?
text: Phillip shrugs.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Me'n you got a lot in common, Phillip.
dialog: The both of us got blue eyes, we both
dialog: like RC Cola and neither one of us has
dialog: an old man worth a damn.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: 73 CONTINUED: 73
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (a bit defensive)
dialog: My Mama says he'll prolly' come back.
dialog: Prolly' when I'm ten or so.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well... she's lyin' to ya' pure and
dialog: simple. He ain't never comin' back.
text: Disappointment registers on the boy's face.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Guys like us, Phillip, we gotta' be on
dialog: our own. Seek foolish destiny, that
dialog: sorta' thing.
scene_heading: 74 EXT. GAS STATION - DAY 74
text: The Ford pulls off the dusty road and into the lone pump in
text: this dilapidated petrol mirage. A BUCK TOOTH BOY, 15, in
text: overalls steps to the window.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: What can I do ya' for?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Tell him your name.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Phillip.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Fill-er-up it is.
text: The attendant starts to pump the gas.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: See there! All you gotta' do is say your
dialog: name and people are waiting on you hand
dialog: and foot. Like a goddam king or somethin'.
text: Phillip can't help but smile at the notion.
scene_heading: 75 EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY 75
text: Bradley and Suttle lean against the parked RV, chatting.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: You responsible for engine maintenance
dialog: on this thing?
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Uh, yeah. I'm the full time driver.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: 75 CONTINUED: 75
text: Bradley shakes his head. "Too bad".
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: What? Why?
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: You notice how it keeps wanting to slip a
dialog: bit goin' into second. Feels to me like
dialog: somebody's been a little heavy-footed with
dialog: the clutch.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'd take care of that if I was you.
text: PAN TO: an ambulance door opens and the Farmer, strapped in,
text: is rolled toward it as his wife, sobbing, attends to him.
text: Several local police scour the surrounding field, walking
text: four feet apart, looking for what they hope they won't find.
text: Red leans on the trunk of the Impala, chews and spits on the
text: ground. He sniffs the air. Unsavory. Adler strides up from
dialog: the field.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: No bodies this time, thank Gawd.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You got the keys to this thing?
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Uh... naw...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Get me a crowbar.
dialog: (to Sally)
dialog: You might wanna' wait in the boat.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: No thank you.
scene_heading: 76A INT. TRUNK - DAY 76A
text: But it's black as night. A CROWBAR CRANKS at the lock until
text: the trunk blasts open like a bottletop. A blast of light
text: gives way to the silhouetted faces of Red, Adler and Sally,
text: who turns and walks away in nauseous disgust.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Well....
scene_heading: THEIR POV - OPEN TRUNK
text: In it lies the crumpled, bent, bloody remains of Larry, the
text: prison employee, the original hostage.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: ... there's our bureaucrat.
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: 76B RED 76B
text: spits a chaw, turns and walks to the RV. Near the entrance
text: Sally is heaving.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to no one in particular)
dialog: It's sure nice to know the boy's in good
dialog: hands.
text: Sally straightens herself, ready to bite back, but Red's
text: face is soft. He offers a handkerchief. She takes it.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Gallows humor, Sally. Without it we'd
dialog: all be heavin'.
scene_heading: 77 EXT. SMALL TOWN (NOODLE, TEXAS) - DAY 77
text: The Ford slides down the Main Street and into a side alley
text: next to a Department Store.
scene_heading: 78 INT. FORD - DAY 78
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You ready to get out of those skivvies
dialog: and into some britches?
text: Phillip nods.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well all right then. But first we gotta'
text: come up with some A.K.A.'s, fake identities,
dialog: ya' know. Names to call each other when
dialog: we're around other folks.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Go ahead and think one up. Whatever name
dialog: you want.
text: Phillip is amused by the sport of it all.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Any name I want?
scene_heading: 79 EXT. STORE FRONT - ESTABLISHING - DAY 79
text: A small time Dry Goods store with a sign over the entrance
text: proclaiming: "FRIENDLY'S - The Friendliest Store in Texas!"
scene_heading: 80 INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 80
text: A small, well-organized country dry goods store with a dozen
text: or so aisles carrying everything from DDT to used boots.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: 80 CONTINUED: 80
text: A long counter at the front of the store is backed by a small
text: office with a large glass window that gives the Manager, MR.
text: WILLITS, 45, bespectacled, anal-retentive, a clear view of the
text: store. A nuclear family with two kids exits the store just as
text: Butch and Phillip enter. Butch holds the door open and smiles
text: at them. They say "thanks" but can't help but notice Phillip,
text: cowering behind Butch, still clad in his underwear. He hides
text: behind a nearby display which reads: Cast Your Vote For
dialog: Friendly's Friendliest Clerk!
text: A clerk, LUCY, 30, holding a handful of shoeboxes notices
text: their entrance. She's schoolmarmish with a smile that looks
text: like it's painted on.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Well, hello there and welcome to Friendly's.
dialog: Looks like the little fella' needs some pants.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: As a matter of fact. Shoes and new skivvies,
dialog: too. He'll tell you his size. Go with the
dialog: lady, Buzz.
text: Phillip, still in somewhat of a daze, doesn't recognize his
dialog: own "name".
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Buzz!
text: Phillip snaps to, cracks a smile at Butch and follows the lady
text: to the children's section of the store.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Buzz, what a cute name. Like a bee.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: walks past the cash register, gives the clerk behind the desk
text: a wink and proceeds to an aisle which features hardware, rope,
text: tape, nails, etc. He stoops and grabs a shank...
text: ... with his hands he grips the rope tight and jerks it taut.
speaker_heading: CHILDREN'S AISLE
text: Lucy is holding jeans up to Phillip's waist.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: It'd be easier if I knew your size, but
dialog: we'll get it right.
text: Phillip's eye catches something...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 55.
scene_heading: 80 CONTINUED: (2) 80
scene_heading: HALLOWEEN COSTUME DISPLAY
text: on a circular rack with shelves. Hanging prominantly is a
text: Casper the Friendly Ghost costume. Above it a sign reads:
text: "MARKED DOWN - Get the Jump on Next Year!"
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: mesmerized by the display.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: takes a roll of electrician's tape. He tears off a strip,
text: attaches it to the back or his hand and tugs. It holds tight.
speaker_heading: LUCY
text: kneeling, looking for sizes, selects a pair and turns to find
text: Phillip gone. She spins around and smiles when she sees...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: wearing the Casper mask.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Why look. It's a friendly ghost. Say 'Boo.'
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (unconvincingly)
dialog: Boo.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Not very scary but you'll have a whole
dialog: year to work on it if your Daddy lets
dialog: you have it. Good price, too. What'd
dialog: you go as this year?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: A bandit.
scene_heading: 81 EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 81
text: A local police car cruises slowly, spots the Ford parked in
text: the alley and comes to a halt.
scene_heading: 82 INT. POLICE CAR - DAY 82
text: The cop, TERRANCE, 25, who only started last month after he
text: flunked out of Texas A&amp;M, checks the plates against a notepad
text: on his dash.
speaker_heading: TERRANCE
dialog: (realizing his find)
dialog: Aw... shit...
scene_heading: 83 INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 83
text: Butch, with a handful of supplies, including the rope and
text: tape, makes his way to the register.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: 83 CONTINUED: 83
text: He's greeted there by PAULA, to whom he earlier winked. She's
text: 25, country cute, and wears a fake smile that rivals Lucy's.
text: Butch reaches for and tries on a pair of sunglasses.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Whattaya' think?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Look good.
text: He adds them to the pile of stuff.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Will that be all for you today?
text: Butch nods and hands over the goods.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You folks are about the grinninest bunch I
dialog: ever seen.
text: Paula laughs, then drops her grin, looks behind her to see
text: Mr. Willits is watching, and whispers...
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Old Man Willits holds a contest ever'
text: month. The friendliest clerk gets a
dialog: $20 bonus.
dialog: (beat)
text: There's a ballot box at the front.
speaker_heading: BEHIND GLASS
text: Mr. Willits adjusts his black and white TV and settles on a
text: local news broadcast.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
dialog: (on TV)
dialog: ... the hunt continues for Butch Haynes,
dialog: who escaped last night from the maximum
text: security unit over in Huntsville. Haynes,
text: six-one, 185 pounds, with brown hair is
dialog: considered armed and dangerous. He was
dialog: last seen...
speaker_heading: CHECKOUT COUNTER
text: Paula checks Butch's items as Lucy and Phillip emerge from an
text: aisle and drop a pair of jeans and sneakers onto the counter.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Here's the clothes, but Buzz has his
text: heart set on a Halloween costume for
text: next year. It is half off.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: 83 CONTINUED: (2) 83
speaker_heading: MR. WILLITS
text: pays more attention to Butch as the newscast continues.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
dialog: ... Haynes is believed to have an
text: 8-year-old boy with him as hostage.
scene_heading: CLOSEUPS - BUTCH AND WILLITS
text: Each checking out the other.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: We'll get it next time. Go get in the
dialog: car, son.
scene_heading: 84 EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 84
text: Terrance pulls his black and white to one end of Main Street
text: and parks it across the street, blocking it.
speaker_heading: TERRANCE
dialog: (into radio)
dialog: Okay, Pete, I'm all set down here. You?
speaker_heading: ANOTHER COP
text: PETE, 40, probably Terrance's uncle, slides his black and
text: white to the opposite end of the street and puts it in park.
speaker_heading: PETE
dialog: (into radio)
dialog: Copasetic. Let's just keep him tied
dialog: up til' the state boys get here.
scene_heading: 85 INT. RV - DAY 85
text: Adler takes the urgent message off the radio and turns to the
dialog: group...
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: They've got him penned down in Noodle,
text: north of Abilene.
scene_heading: 86 INT. FRIENDLY'S - AT COUNTER - DAY 86
text: Paula bags the items, including the jeans.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - WILLITS
text: staring straight at Butch.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: shakes his head at Willits -- "Don't even think about it".
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: 86 CONTINUED: 86
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: walks toward the front door but stops short when he sees,
text: once again, the Halloween display.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: pays Paula, then stuffs a $20 in her blouse.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You are truly the friendliest clerk I
dialog: ever met.
text: She blushes a "thank you" as Butch makes a hasty retreat to
text: the door.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (an afterthought)
dialog: Thank you for shopping Friendly's!
scene_heading: 87 EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 87
text: Butch exits the store, spots the blackandwhites, and slides
text: into the middle of a group of old-timers moving down the
text: sidewalk at a leisurely pace.
scene_heading: 88 INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 88
text: Phillip stands at the costume display, looks around, then
text: grabs a Casper costume carton, stuffs it under his T-shirt
text: and walks quickly to the door.
scene_heading: 89 EXT. SIDE ALLEY - DAY 89
text: Butch slides away from the Old Timers and into the Ford.
scene_heading: 90A INT. FORD - DAY 90A
text: Butch checks the back seat. No Phillip, no Buzz. He checks
text: the rear view mirror and sees...
scene_heading: 90B IN REAR-VIEW MIRROR 90B
text: Pete, his cherry top spinning, pulls in behind Butch, blocking
text: his entrance to the main street.
scene_heading: 91 EXT. SIDE ALLEY - DAY 91
text: Butch throws the Ford into reverse and steps on the gas.
text: Pete not expecxting this kind of pace, at least not from the
text: get-go, leaps into his back seat.
text: The Ford rams into the black and white pushing it backward
text: into a lightpole and a truck. The TRUCK'S OWNER, carrying
text: mulch from the feed store, watches as his truck slides
text: toward him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: 91 CONTINUED: 91
speaker_heading: TRUCK OWNER
dialog: Dammit, Pete!!!
scene_heading: 92 EXT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 92
text: Phillip steps out the door. He spots the crash and watches
dialog: as...
text: The Ford blasts back into the alley in a hail of dust.
scene_heading: 93 INT. FORD - DAY 93
text: Butch, driving like a maniac, turns into the back alley and
text: steps on it. All at once he mashes on the BRAKES and comes
text: to a SQUEALING stop.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The alley is a dead end.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Butch rips the CAR into reverse and SQUEALS all the way back
text: to the original side alley.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 94
text: Phillip stands frozen, scared, not knowing what to do but
text: keeping a look out on the street for the Ford.
scene_heading: 95 INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 95
text: Lucy and Paula peer from behind the counter at Phillip and
text: the fracas taking place in the street.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: I knew something was wrong from the get-go.
text: They spot Phillip standing a few feet in front of the door.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Look, he left his little boy.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: And look, the little rascal has... he's
dialog: no better than...
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: What?!...
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: He's got that Casper costume. He stole it!
scene_heading: 96 EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY 96
text: The FORD emerges from the side alley once more and SQUEALS
text: onto Main Street.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: 96 CONTINUED: 96
speaker_heading: TERRANCE
dialog: can't believe his eyes...
speaker_heading: HIS POV - FORD
text: is COMING STRAIGHT FOR him, hell bent on destruction and
text: picking up speed.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Terrance sticks his black and white in rapid reverse and backs
text: down the street at 40 mph.
speaker_heading: PETE (V.O.)
dialog: (on radio)
dialog: Get the hell outta' there. We can't
dialog: lose both vehicles!
scene_heading: TERRANCE'S POV - FORD
text: is GAINING ON him -- he can actually SEE Butch's grimaced face
text: -- when suddenly it goes into a dusty fishtail, does a 180,
text: and barrels in the OPPOSITE direction.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: antsy as hell, stuck, wondering how this whole thing is going
text: to play out. He's suddenly aware of the peering eyes behind
text: him. Lucy bangs on the glass.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Buzz! You little shit. Shoplifting is
dialog: a crime!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: checks his mirror, looks ahead, spots Phillip and blasts
text: straight for the front door of the store. He SKIDS to a halt
text: and stares right at Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Up to you, Buzz...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: He's frozen for a second, his knees knocking, teeth
text: chattering, the works. Lucy appears behind him and the
dialog: glass door...
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: You'll never get away with this, little
dialog: mister!
text: Phillip dashes to the Ford and makes a swimmer's starting
text: dive into the open passenger window.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 61.
scene_heading: 96 CONTINUED: (2) 96
text: Butch pulls his GUN and FIRES once into the glass door above
text: the clerk's heads.
scene_heading: 97 INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 97
text: The GLASS DOOR and surrounding WINDOWS SHATTER into a million
text: pieces, sending Lucy, Paula, makeup, pantyhose, grins and all
text: into a heap on the floor.
scene_heading: 98 EXT. STREET - DAY 98
text: The FORD SQUEALS out down the street. Pete crawls out from
text: behind the seat and ducks again just as...
text: ... the Ford sideswipes the black and white for good measure
text: and fishtails out of town.
text: Pete crawls over the back seat again as his radio SQUAWKS...
speaker_heading: TERRANCE (V.O.)
dialog: Pete?... Pete? You okay?...
scene_heading: 99 INT. FRIENDLY'S - DAY 99
text: Paula emerges from behind the counter and stares at Lucy, on
text: the ground amidst glass and mayhem.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Say what you want. I'm keepin' the twenty.
scene_heading: 100 EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY 100
text: Two young, country boys stand by the side of the road. One,
text: FRANK, tosses an egg from hand to hand while he watches the
text: horizon. The other, BILLY, approaches, crawling through a
text: barb wire fence dragging something behind him.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Hurry up. Someone's comin'.
speaker_heading: ON HORIZON
text: Sure enough, a hail of dust signals the approach of a vehicle
text: a mile or so away.
text: Billy crawls into the ditch next to Frank. We see what he's
text: dragged from the field -- a scarecrow with a floppy hat and
text: red bandana.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Stick it in the road. Hurry up.
text: Billy does so, propping the scarecrow into a sitting position
text: with a forked stick. Then he races back to the ditch and
text: slides in next to Frank to divide the eggs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: 100 CONTINUED: 100
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: We got seven eggs. I get four to throw
dialog: and you get three... since it was my idea.
text: Billy nods.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Here they come. Aim for windows and get
dialog: ready to run.
text: The car crests the hill, followed by another, and another and
text: a final one, all Highway Patrol, all with their lights on and
text: SIRENS WAILING.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Oh shit!
text: The cars don't even slow at the sight of the scarecrow, blast-
text: ing right through it, sending hay, hat, limbs and all, flying.
text: The scarecrow, or what's left of it, lands in a ditch next to
text: the boys. In unison they breathe a sigh of relief, look at
text: each other, drop the eggs and hightail it for home.
scene_heading: 101 INT. FORD - DAY 101
text: The car is parked in a field of some sort. Butch reaches in
text: the back seat for the bag of clothing.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Here, take them nasty skivvies off and
dialog: put on yer' jeans.
text: He spots Phillip's not so successful effort to hide the
dialog: costume box.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Whatya' got there?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: A ghost suit.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: From the store? You kyped it?
text: Phillip nods, expecting the worst.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well, hell, Phillip, put it on.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: You ain't mad?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Let's unnerstan' each other here.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: 101 CONTINUED: 101
speaker_heading: BUTCH (CONT'D)
dialog: Stealin's wrong, ok? But if there's
dialog: somethin' you need bad and you ain't got
dialog: the money, then it's okay to take a
dialog: loaner on the item. It's what ya' call
dialog: an exception to the rule.
text: Phillip tears into the box, rips out the costume, looks at it,
text: starts to take off his underwear then balks. Butch notices.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Nuthin'.
text: Butch notices Phillip's hands covering his crotch.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What? You don't wanna' get undressed,
dialog: is that it?
text: Phillip shrugs.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You embarrassed caus' I might see yer'
dialog: pecker?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: It's... puny.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: It's puny.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well hell, lemme' see.
text: Phillip still hesitates.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Go on. I'll shoot ya' straight.
text: Phillip gingerly pulls off his underwear. Butch smiles a
text: broad grin.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Hell no, Phillip, it's good size for a
dialog: boy yer' age!
text: Phillip, remasculated, smiles and starts to put on the
dialog: costume.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Here they come.
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: 102 EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY 102
text: The four Highway Patrol VEHICLES from before BLAST past at
text: 90+, sending stray dogs and roadrunners scurrying for cover.
text: CRANE DOWN to reveal the Ford off the same roadside, but
text: behind a burm in a field. As soon as the patrol cars pass,
text: Butch STARTS up the ENGINE and humps it to the road and off
text: in the opposite direction.
scene_heading: 103 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 103
text: Sally, deep in her files. She looks up from the file to...
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Bobby Lee who sits by himself, whittling away at a stick and
text: leering at her. Adler is at the map, holding the shortwave
text: mike and wearing the earphones. Behind him, Red stares out
dialog: the window.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Haynes bought tape, rope, and some clothes
dialog: for the boy.
text: Red comes to and turns to Adler. Sally smiles almost to her-
text: self. She was right -- Haynes is looking after the boy.
text: Everyone knows it, but no one says anything.
speaker_heading: ADLER
text: One puzzler though. They say the boy
dialog: could have gotten away but didn't.
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: Probably scared to death.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: That's not all. The kid stole a
dialog: Halloween outfit.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Holy Jeezus, they're a team.
speaker_heading: ADLER
text: With the pit stop in Noodle looks like
text: he's headed for the Panhandle.
text: Red sighs and groans. Unpleasant news but somehow he knew it.
text: He moves to the back room for another shot of Geritol.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: There's more roads than people in the
dialog: Panhandle.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: 103 CONTINUED: 103
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: How's that happen?
speaker_heading: KAISER
dialog: (over his shoulder)
dialog: Poor counties. They tend to half finish
text: roads then start on another one.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: But if anybody knows them backroads it's
dialog: Red.
text: Sally lifts her head, watches Red reenter the room, then
text: stares out the window.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Okay, so... I'm Robert Haynes. Called
dialog: Butch by everyone. I was born in
dialog: Amarillo, but grew up in the French
dialog: Quarter of New Orleans.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: What's she doin', Red?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I killed a man when I was eight.
text: Silence. Nobody seems willing to play along. Red turns
text: from the window to Sally.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: How'd ya' kill him?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Shot him with a pistol. There was always
dialog: one around the dance hall. That's what
dialog: they called it but it was a whorehouse.
dialog: We lived there.
text: Red moves away from the discussion and stands at the front
text: of the Airstream, staring out the front window.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: What'd the authorities do?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: The victim was wanted by the locals so
dialog: the whole thing got shoved under the
dialog: carpet Cajun-style.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: They didn't even stick him in juvy?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: 103 CONTINUED: (2) 103
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Put me in school. Three years behind
dialog: but I catch up.
speaker_heading: KAISER
dialog: Sounds like things are goin' okay' now?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: They were. For awhile. When I'm twelve
dialog: mom dies.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Delilah Jane Haynes hung herself in the
dialog: bathroom of the brothel. Could have saved
dialog: herself the trouble. Post-mortem check
text: uncovered last stage syphilis.
speaker_heading: KAISER
dialog: Where's yer' father?
text: Red's face tells us he's listening.
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: Nobody knows where he is now. Ditched
dialog: when I was six. He was a small-time felon.
dialog: Popped up again after Mom died -- he'd just
dialog: been paroled. Moved us back to Amarillo.
dialog: A year later I'm in trouble again.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Yeah? Kill somebody else?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Took a joyride in a Ford coupe that I
dialog: just couldn't resist.
speaker_heading: KAISER
dialog: Hell, that's no big deal.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Judge gave me four years in Gatesville,
dialog: toughest juvy farm in Texas.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: That's where the son-of-a-bitch learned
dialog: to be a criminal. Seen that before,
dialog: ain't we, Red?
text: Red doesn't answer. He seems in a faraway place.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: 103 CONTINUED: (3) 103
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: (smart ass)
dialog: So, Butch, why don't you tell us where
dialog: yer' goin', save us the trouble o'
dialog: huntin' you down?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Where I'm going isn't as important as
dialog: 'Why am I going there?'
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: (tired of the game)
dialog: Shit. 'Caus' I'm runnin' and they're chasin'
dialog: and I'd jus' as soon go north as south as
dialog: east as west. It's a fun lil' parlor game,
dialog: lady, but right now Butch Haynes don't
dialog: have the slightest idea where he's headed!
scene_heading: 104A INT. FORD - DAY 104A
text: Phillip, now fully-attired in his Casper outfit and mask, is
text: looking at a folded map while Butch drives.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: An inch is 24 miles. Hold yer' pointin'
dialog: finger along the line of the road. You
dialog: got three lines on your finger, don'tcha'?
dialog: Each one's an inch. So how many inches
dialog: to Childress?
text: Phillip holds one finger to the map, then another.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: One, two... six.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yer' a helluva' navigator, Phillip. A lot
dialog: smarter than Jerry. But I guess that's not
dialog: sayin' a lot.
text: Something catches Phillip's eye.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Lookie there!
scene_heading: 104B HIS POV - TRUCK AND AIRSTREAM 104B
text: coming TOWARD them on the highway.
scene_heading: 105 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 105
text: Bradley, driving, tinkers with a broken windowshade.
text: Suttle yawns, comes to, notices the broken windowshade and
text: gives Bradley a look. Bradley, caught, just smiles.
dialog: 68.
scene_heading: 106 INT. FORD - DAY 106
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (excited, too)
text: Seen one of them in a magazine. It's
dialog: called a motor home. They're new.
dialog: Kinda' like a house on wheels.
text: Butch HONKS the HORN TWICE and waits for a retort.
scene_heading: 107 INT. TRUCK - DAY 107
text: Bradley smiles, looks to Suttle, who nods an "okay." Johnson
text: sits on the HORN for TWO solid BLASTS.
scene_heading: 108 INT. FORD - DAY 108
text: Phillip laughs and waves.
scene_heading: 109 INT. TRUCK - DAY 109
text: Bradley and Suttle wave back.
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: staring out the window. She looks at the passing Ford.
speaker_heading: HER POV
text: Butch is hard to make out, but there's no mistaking the Casper
text: outfit Phillip wears with pride.
text: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You said the boy stole a Halloween costume...
dialog: What character?
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: I believe it was Casper... Casper the
text: friendly ghost.
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: That was them. They just passed us.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Turn this thing around!
text: Adler jumps on the radio to the truck.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: Turn it around! That was them!
scene_heading: 110 EXT. ROAD - SAME TIME 110
text: The Airstream slows to a grind, pulls off the narrow shoulder
text: and begins to make a wide U-turn.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: 110 CONTINUED: 110
speaker_heading: SUTTLE (V.O.)
dialog: We'll never make it. Stop!
text: It's a close fit but the Airstream just survives a brush with
text: a burm. The TRUCK PEELS away with Airstream in tow.
speaker_heading: 111 OMITTED 111
scene_heading: 111A INT. FORD - DAY 111A
text: Butch checks his rear-view mirror and gets a puzzled look on
text: his face.
scene_heading: IN REAR-VIEW MIRROR
text: The Airstream barreling fast behind -- catching up.
scene_heading: 111B INT. TRUCK - DAY 111B
text: Bradley presses the pedal to the floor. The ENGINE STRAINS.
text: Suttle nervously sneaks a peek at the speedometer.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: It's... it's not safe to go over 65 with
dialog: this much load!
text: The speedometer reaches 80. The ENGINE SCREAMS.
scene_heading: 111C INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 111C
text: The whole thing is shaking, twisting, bumping. All aboard try
dialog: and keep their balance.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: (to Adler)
dialog: Tell him to pull up next to 'em!
text: Bobby Lee opens a window and leans out.
scene_heading: 111D INT. FORD - REAR-VIEW MIRROR - DAY 111D
text: As Bobby Lee leans out the window of the Airstream some 50
text: yards back.
speaker_heading: NEW ANGLE
text: Phillip turns around backward in the seat to watch.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: They're goin' fast!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Phillip, you get in the back seat and
text: lie down on the floor.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: 111D CONTINUED: 111D
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Hell, I don't know. 'Caus' I said so!
scene_heading: 111E INT. TRUCK - DAY 111E
text: Suttle is scared to death while Bradley is loving every
text: minute. The ENGINE starts to STEAM.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Yer burnin' up the engine!
text: But Bradley pays no heed.
scene_heading: 111F INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 111F
text: Bobby Lee unholsters his pistol and leans back out the
text: window. Red spots him.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Holster that firearm and get yer ass
dialog: back inside!
text: Bobby Lee thinks it over, shakes his head in disgust and
text: holsters his piece.
scene_heading: 111G INT. FORD - DAY 111G
text: Butch spots an opening and...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Hold on, Phillip!
scene_heading: 111H EXT. ROAD - DAY 111H
text: The Ford makes a sharp veer off the road into a flat scrub
text: brush field. The car spins out a bit when it hits the dirt
text: sending forth a dust devil, then it regains its traction and
text: blasts ahead through the dust.
scene_heading: 111-I INT. TRUCK - DAY 111-I
text: Bradley spots the maneuver and starts to follow.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Don't!!!
scene_heading: 111J EXT. ROAD - DAY 111J
text: The truck, in an attempt to enter the field, misses the flat
text: spot, hits a burm with its front right tire and flies into
dialog: the air.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: 111J CONTINUED: 111J
text: The trailer hitch snaps as does the safety chain.
text: The truck lands hard and continues pell-mell through the
dialog: field.
text: The AIRSTREAM, sans truck, BLASTS forward along the road
dialog: at 50+ m.p.h.
scene_heading: 111K INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 111K
text: Bouncing like hell. Sally holds on for dear life, then
text: glances out the window and almost jumps out of her seat when
dialog: she sees...
speaker_heading: HER POV
text: The truck, 100 or so yards away, blasting through the field
text: toward the horizon.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Shit!!!!
speaker_heading: NEW ANGLE
text: Red spots the same but before he can cuss...
scene_heading: 111L EXT. ROAD - DAY 111L
text: The Airstream veers off the road and into the rocky field.
text: Trees, scrub brush and boulders are no deterrent for the
text: sleek silverfish which seems to be moving even faster than
dialog: before.
scene_heading: 111M INT. TRUCK - DAY 111M
text: Steam, smoke pouring from the engine. Suttle, covering his
text: eyes, sneaks a peek behind and screams when he sees no
text: Airstream behind them.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Ahhhh!! They're gone!!!
text: Bradley looks in the rear-view mirror, turns around and
text: screams, too. Without visual guidance...
scene_heading: 111N EXT. FIELD - DAY 111N
text: The TRUCK BLASTS into a mesquite tree, runs halfway up
text: the tree, then dies a horrible death.
scene_heading: 111-O INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 111-O
text: It's an anti-gravity room what with the files, coffee, maps
text: and bodies flying around.
dialog: 72.
scene_heading: 111P EXT. FIELD - DAY 111P
text: The Airstream, now losing a bit of steam, hits a burm, almost
text: topples and comes to a precarious stop in a dried-up watering
dialog: hole.
scene_heading: 111Q INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 111Q
text: Adler, still wearing the headphones, rises first and goes to
text: the radio to answer an incoming call.
text: Red groans. Sally crawls to her feet and offers Red a helping
text: hand, which he accepts.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Uh... Red?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: They wanna know if the boy looked
dialog: okay?
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: He was laughing and waving.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Don't tell 'em that.
scene_heading: 112 INT. GOVERNOR'S OFFICE (AUSTIN, TEXAS) - DAY 112
text: A large group of very serious advisors sit and stand in a
text: circle around the Governor's desk. Across from GOVERNOR
text: CONNALLY sits a nervous, near tears GLADYS PERRY. An AIDE
text: on the telephone, turns to the Governor.
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: They say the boy looked A-okay.
text: Governor Connally nods, sighs, and reaches hand across the
text: desk and touches Gladys's shoulder.
speaker_heading: GOVERNOR
dialog: He'll be fine, Mrs. Perry. This whole
dialog: nightmare will be over and done with very
dialog: soon and you'll be home with your boy. I
dialog: promise.
text: Gladys, distraught, nods. Governor Connally discreetly nods
text: to a photographer in the group while keeping his hand on
text: Gladys's shoulder. A CAMERA'S FLASH causes everyone to blink
dialog: in reaction.
text: The Governor shakes it off and continues...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: 112 CONTINUED: 112
speaker_heading: GOVERNOR
dialog: I want you to know that I personally okayed
text: the use of a brand-new high-tech mobile
text: home from which to conduct the manhunt.
text: It's an amazingly futuristic piece of law
text: enforcement equipment.
text: Another FLASH.
speaker_heading: 113 OMITTED 113
dialog: thru thru
dialog: 115 115
scene_heading: 115A EXT. FIELD - DAY 115A
text: The Airstream, the amazingly futuristic piece of law
text: enforcement equipment sits beat to hell and leaning to one
text: side in the dry pond bed. All the tires are flat and dents
text: and bruises abound. The door tries to open but is stuck.
text: Red applies a boot to it and the whole thing comes off its
text: hinges and flies to the ground. Red exits. He groans and
text: shakes his head when he spots...
text: Bradley and Suttle limping toward him across the field.
text: Red sighs and starts slowly walking in the direction Butch
dialog: and Phillip headed.
scene_heading: 115B INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 115B
text: Sally, her hair a bird's nest, does her best to collect her
text: files before she sits down, takes a deep breath and glances
text: out the window at Red in the distance.
scene_heading: 115C EXT. FIELD - CLOSEUP - RED - DAY 115C
text: Standing in the middle of the field, staring at the horizon.
text: He sticks a chaw in his mouth without diverting or blinking
text: his eyes.
scene_heading: 116 EXT. ROAD - CLOSEUP - BUTCH - DAY 116
text: Staring at the horizon.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Butch sits on the hood of the Ford, which is stopped on an
text: asphalt road which, a few feet farther, turns into dirt and
text: a few feet farther a dirt clod field.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: 116 CONTINUED: 116
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Started this road 20 years ago and it
dialog: still ain't finished.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Appears to me we got a decision to make.
text: Phillip, aka Casper, exits the car and, imitating Butch, leans
text: against the car.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: It's up to you, Phillip. We can backtrack
dialog: to the highway or we can try it on foot.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Where we goin'?
text: Butch reaches in his back pocket and pulls out a folded
text: postcard. He hands it over to Phillip.
speaker_heading: INSERT - CARD
text: It's at least 20 years old, crumpled. It unfolds to reveal a
text: beautiful green valley with a snow capped mountain behind it.
text: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: It's Alaska, Phillip. Last of the wild
dialog: frontier.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: It's pretty.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: It's beautiful!
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: You been there?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Naw. Just got the one postcard. But
dialog: anyhoo, back to our present dilemma. You
dialog: feel like a hike?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: How far?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Can't be more'n, oh, say, fifteen hundred
dialog: miles.
text: Phillip seems a tad apprehensive about the prospect.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: 116 CONTINUED: (2) 116
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yer' prolly' right. Go give our supplies
dialog: a check.
text: Phillip returns to the car and emerges with the paper bag once
text: full of soda, candy and jerky. Butch surveys the countryside.
scene_heading: HIS POV - PAN COUNTRYSIDE
text: Typical midwest Texas; flat, dusty, barren. A mile or so
text: away sits a home -- a small ranchhouse.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Phillip returns with the bag and pores through it.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: How's it look?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: A soda... some gum... half a Moon Pie.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Rations for one at best. Come on.
text: Butch strides straight into the rocky field. Phillip
text: lingers a moment, then sticks the half eaten moon pie in
text: his mouth and follows, hurrying to catch up.
speaker_heading: 117 OMITTED 117
dialog: thru thru
dialog: 122 122
scene_heading: 122A EXT. FIELD - AIRSTREAM - DAY 122A
text: Suttle limps around the broken-down silver junker, his hands
text: covering what his eyes can't bear to see.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: Now yer sure that gooseneck had a safety
dialog: chain?
text: Suttle turns and glares.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Yes!!!
speaker_heading: NEW ANGLE
text: Red walks slowly toward the slumping Airstream. A PHONE
text: RINGS from inside, then STOPS. Adler sticks his head out of
text: the door and calls to Red...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: 122A CONTINUED: 122A
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Governor's hot line, Red. Governor
dialog: insists that he have the mobile home
dialog: back for the parade tomorrow.
text: Red just stares at Adler, then sighs, removes his hat and
text: scratches his head.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (isn't it obvious?)
dialog: Tell 'em to come and get it.
scene_heading: 123 EXT. DUSTY FIELD - DAY 123
text: Butch continues his hell-bent brisk pace in the field of dirt
text: clods. It's all Phillip can do to keep up.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Where we goin'?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: We're goin' trick r' treatin', Phillip.
text: Phillip stops dead in his tracks. Butch, sensing that the boy
text: is no longer following, stops, spins and faces Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: We ain't allowed to trick r' treat.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: My mama don't allow it.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Trick r' treatin'? Why not?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Against our religion.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Against yer' religion. What kind of
dialog: foolishness is that?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Jehovah Witness.
text: Butch picks up a dirt clod and hurls it as far as he can. He
text: sighs and turns to Phillip.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: 123 CONTINUED: 123
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Now, I'm askin' you, Phillip. I ain't
dialog: askin' yer' mother and I ain't askin'
dialog: Jehovah. Do you wanna' go trick r'
dialog: treatin' or not?
scene_heading: 124 EXT. YARD OF FARMHOUSE 124
text: Butch and Phillip cross the dirt yard and make their way to
text: the door.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Ok, Phillip, all ya' gotta' do is knock
dialog: on the door and when they open it you say
dialog: 'trick or treat.' Got it?
text: They arrive at the door. Butch nods at Phillip who RINGS the
speaker_heading: BUZZER.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Now wait til' they come.
text: A FARM WIFE, 65 or so, like something from a Grant Wood, only
text: smiling, opens the door and looks out on the pair through the
text: screen door.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Now, Phillip.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Trick r' treat.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (FARM WIFE)
dialog: Well ain't you the cutest lil' ghost I
dialog: ever did see.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Say it again, Phillip.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Trick r' treat, ma'am.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Well, seein' that Halloween was yesterday,
dialog: I guess you'll have to trick me. You
dialog: missed the caramel popcorn balls I made
dialog: up special.
text: Butch smiles, pulls up his shirt and exposes the revolver
text: stuck in his pants.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (tune changed)
dialog: Wait right here.
text: Butch smiles and pats Phillip on the shoulder. His eyes are
dialog: drawn to...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: 124 CONTINUED: 124
scene_heading: HIS POV - TELEPHONE WIRE
text: which enters the house near the door. We PAN WITH the
text: telephone line FROM the house TO a nearby pole.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: The Woman returns with an armload of anything she could find
text: in the kitchen. Phillip gratefully opens his sack and watches
text: as the Woman drops in a loaf of bread, a jar of mustard,
dialog: candies, jams, butter and anything else she could find.
text: Empty-handed she reaches inside the door, opens her purse and
text: dumps her money -- a couple of dollars and lots of change into
text: the bag.
text: Phillip smiles.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Thankyew.
scene_heading: 125 EXT. YARD - DAY (SECONDS LATER) 125
text: Phillip, sack in hand, waves goodbye to the frightened old
text: Woman, who shuts her door and locks it.
text: Butch and Phillip make their way back across the yard.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Never underestimate the kindness of the
dialog: common man, Phillip.
text: Butch reaches up and grabs the phone line, yanks it loose and
text: tosses it aside.
scene_heading: 126 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 126
text: The Airstream is fast becoming a pig sty. Coke bottles,
text: coffee spills, overfull ashtrays, etc. are everywhere. Adler
text: holds the mike and stares at the thumbtacked map.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (into mike)
text: Spur 208 northbound. And 83 at Aspermont
text: coming and going.
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: That it?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yeah.
text: Adler moves to set down the mike and topples a cup of coffee.
text: It spills on the floor. Suttle grabs a towel to wipe it up
text: but realizing the futility of keeping the Airstream clean, he
text: simply throws it aside.
dialog: 79.
scene_heading: 127 INT. FORD - LATER - DAY 127
text: Butch drives while Phillip digs through the sack and comes
text: up with a jar of mustard.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You sure there's no meat in there? Spam
dialog: maybe, Vienna sausages, anything like that?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Nawsir.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well, I bet you can make us some mustard
dialog: sandwiches, can't ya'?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Yeahsir.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Well go to it.
text: Phillip breaks out the loaf of bread and lays out four
text: slices on the dashboard.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: How many?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Many as you want.
text: Phillip lays out six more slices. The dashboard is now
text: covered with bread. Phillip pulls out the mustard but has no
text: knife. Butch pulls out a stick of gum and hands it to
dialog: Phillip to spread with.
text: As they drive along they pass a large, happy family (Mom, Dad,
text: girl 5, boy 7) picnicking in the dip of a long hill alongside
text: the highway. From the look of their brand-new loaded down
text: station wagon they are on vacation.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: Mesmerized by the family.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: Ditto. He pulls his eyes back to the road, notices something.
scene_heading: 128 EXT. ROAD - DAY 128
text: Butch brings the car to a stop near the crest of the hill,
text: sets the emergency brake, grabs the first completed mustard
text: sandwich and gets out, leaving the Impala running.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: 128 CONTINUED: 128
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Be right back. Don't be stingy with
dialog: that mustard now.
text: Phillip nods and continues piling the yellow goop on each of
text: the slices of bread.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: walks ahead to the crest of the hill, the tallest hill in the
text: county. He takes in the 360 degree view. His eyes settle
dialog: on...
speaker_heading: LINE OF CARS
text: IDLING as they wait their turn to pass a roadblock at the
text: bottom of the hill.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: spreading even more mustard. Every so often he sneaks a peek
text: back at the picnicing family.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY BRAKE
text: slips a little, then gives all at once.
speaker_heading: FORD
text: starts to roll backwards.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Whooaaa! Butch! Butch!!!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: turns and sees the Ford rolling backwards, picking up steam
text: back down the hill.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Step on the brake! Put your foot on the
dialog: brake! The middle one!!
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: panicked, slides over and grabs the wheel. Of course, he is
text: too short to press on the brake and when he bends down...
speaker_heading: FORD
text: swerves off the road and onto the shoulder.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: 128 CONTINUED: (2) 128
speaker_heading: FAMILY
text: headed by BOB, 35, their Ward Cleaverish father, looks up to
dialog: see...
speaker_heading: FORD
text: barrelling backwards toward them, swerving to and fro and
text: followed by Butch shouting instructions.
speaker_heading: BOB (O.S.)
dialog: Everybody, run! Quick!
speaker_heading: BOB
text: makes a beeline for the station wagon.
speaker_heading: BOB'S WIFE
dialog: Forget the car, Bob!
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: Are you crazy. It's only got a 1000 miles
dialog: on it!
text: He jumps in the Driver's seat of the WAGON and frantically
dialog: REVS it just as...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: gains control of the wheel and steers the rapidly reversing
text: Ford around the Wagon.
speaker_heading: FORD
text: continues backwards to the bottom of the hill, but it has
text: enough steam built up to head backwards up the other incline
dialog: of the previous hill.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: comes to a heaving halt next to Bob, who is near heart attack
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Bad brakes.
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: That was close.
text: Bob gets out of the station wagon and stands next to Butch.
text: They watch for the Ford for a second, see that it's losing
text: momentum and smile at each other.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: 128 CONTINUED: (3) 128
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: Bob Fielder.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Edgar Poe.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: breathes a sigh of relief as the Ford loses momentum and comes
dialog: to a stop. But then, of course, ...
speaker_heading: FORD
text: like any car on a roller coaster, starts to move downhill,
text: slowly at first, but then picking up speed.
speaker_heading: BOB AND BUTCH
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: Had me scared silly. I've only had her
dialog: two months.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: She's a beaut, all right. Say, Bob, what
dialog: with my brake problem and all, I sure would
dialog: appreciate a lift. Me'n my boy live about
dialog: five miles up the road here. I can pick
dialog: up the car tomorrow.
text: They notice the Ford coming back down the hill and squint to
dialog: see...
speaker_heading: FORD
text: coming straight for them, gaining speed, with Casper the
text: friendly ghost behind the wheel.
speaker_heading: BUTCH AND BOB
text: chuck the small. Bob looks for a place to hide.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: Screaming at the top of his lungs.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: Staring straight ahead at Phillip.
text: Butch doesn't even flinch, standing his ground in the middle
text: of the road, staring straight into Phillip's oncoming face.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: The brake, Phillip! Step on the brake!
dialog: Hard!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: 128 CONTINUED: (4) 128
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: totally freaked, jumps down on the floorboard and pushes with
text: both hands on the brake. SQUEALING TIRES bring...
speaker_heading: FORD
text: to a SKIDDING halt inches from Butch's kneecaps.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: smiles at Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Helluva job, Phillip! Never had a doubt.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: Smiling back.
speaker_heading: BOB
text: crawls down from the luggage rack on top of his wagon and
text: smiles a sigh of relief.
scene_heading: 129 EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY 129
text: Two Highway Patrol officers check licenses and peek into cars
text: at the checkpoint. In the b.g. we see the red station wagon
dialog: in line.
scene_heading: 130 INT. STATION WAGON - DAY 130
text: It's full to the brim with the Family Bob plus two, Butch
text: and Phillip, who ride in the back with Bob's son. As the
text: car approaches the roadblock Butch grabs a blanket, reclines,
text: and hides behind a stuffed animal.
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: Sorry for the inconvenience, Edgar. The
dialog: kids like the back down like that so they
dialog: can play.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: No trouble at all, Bob.
scene_heading: 131 EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY 131
text: Bob brings his precious car to a gingerly stop. He pulls out
text: his license, shows it.
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: Why the roadblock, Officer?
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Escaped convict, sir. Just a precaution.
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: 132 EXT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 132
text: Bradley examines the gooseneck hitch. Bobby Lee sits on a
text: nearby rock, still whittling at his stick. It's starting to
dialog: resemble something.
scene_heading: 133 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 133
text: As in the old Westerns, it's quiet, too quiet. The inside of
text: the RV is pretty much trashed now -- the product of men
text: working in close contact. Sally stares at a file. The
text: silence is broken as Red spits tobacco juice into an empty
dialog: Coke bottle.
text: Sally peruses a file.
speaker_heading: INSERT - FILE
text: It's Butch's again. She's reading an addendum page with
text: JUVENILE COURT RECORD stamped at the top. A photo of 14-year-
text: old Butch is stapled in the corner.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Sally finds something very interesting. She looks up at Red.
text: He returns her stare.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: What?
scene_heading: 134 EXT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 134
text: Bobby Lee finishes his whittling, blows away shavings,
text: smiles at his creation, sets it on the rock, gets up and
text: walks away.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - HIS CREATION
text: A four inch long wooden replica of a high caliber shell.
scene_heading: 135 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 135
text: Adler is getting something on the shortwave.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: They've got two Highway Patrol cars they
dialog: can give to us now.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Tell 'em stand by. We got the best seat
dialog: in the house right here. Have the
text: southern roadblocks call in the dogs and
dialog: move north. Check every road, every farm
dialog: from San Angelo to Sweetwater.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: 135 CONTINUED: 135
text: Adler surveys the map and sticks in a few more thumbtacks.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: He knows he's hemmed in. I predict we'll
text: have him singing a different tune by
text: nightfall.
scene_heading: 136 EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 136
text: The red station wagon creeps along the highway to the
dialog: whistled strains of "Old MacDonald had a Farm."
scene_heading: 137 INT. STATION WAGON - DAY 137
text: Butch, truly "singing a different tune," whistles "Old
dialog: MacDonald." Bob joins in and soon the whole damn Family Bob
text: is whistling the tune.
text: Bob's daughter PATSY, 5, red hair, freckles, starts jumping
text: up and down on the back seat, singing and spilling her drink.
speaker_heading: BOB'S SON
dialog: You're spilling! You're spilling!
text: Bob and his Wife immediately turn around.
speaker_heading: WIFE
dialog: Patsy! Look at what you're doing?!
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: Ahhh noooo!
text: Bob's wife grabs Patsy by the arm and shakes her. Butch con-
text: tinues to whistle softly, almost eerily, but he's watching
dialog: closely.
speaker_heading: BOB'S WIFE
dialog: Look at what you did! It's all over
dialog: the seat of your father's new car!
text: The little girl starts to cry while Bob grabs at tissues
text: feverishly and hands them to his Wife who, leaning over the
text: seat is wiping hard at the stain. She grabs her daughter's
text: arm and shakes her, staring into her face.
text: Butch, directly behind the little girl, watches closely.
speaker_heading: BOB'S WIFE
dialog: What is wrong with you?! I told you twice
dialog: not to jump up and down! Didn't I!!
text: Patsy bawls harder than ever. Bob's Wife finishes wiping and
text: reseats herself in the front seat.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: 137 CONTINUED: 137
speaker_heading: BOB'S WIFE
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Damn that kid!
text: The little girl is crying harder than ever now. Bob reaches
text: back over the seat and tries to touch his daughter.
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: It's okay, sweetie. Daddy's not mad.
speaker_heading: BOB'S WIFE
dialog: So much for the new car smell.
text: The little girl muffles her tears.
text: Butch smiles sincerely then looks to the passing landscape.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: This will do fine right here, Bob. But I
dialog: do have one more favor to ask.
scene_heading: 138 EXT. ROAD - DAY (FIVE MINUTES LATER) 138
text: The entire Family Bob is standing along the roadside, their
text: luggage and belongings by their side. The looks on their
dialog: faces say it all -- Stranded.
text: Butch hands over the stuffed animal to Patsy, pats Bob Jr. on
text: the head and sticks out his hand to Bob.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Just a loaner, Bob. Not to worry. You'll
dialog: get her back.
text: Bob reluctantly shakes Butch's hand in an attempt to impress
dialog: upon Butch his most important concern of all...
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: Please, it's new. Hold it under 45... at
dialog: least for the next 500 miles.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You know I will, Bob.
text: Butch gives a snappy salute and is off to the wagon.
scene_heading: 139 INT. STATION WAGON - DAY 139
text: Butch STARTS the CAR and he and Phillip slowly pull away.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Wave, Phillip.
text: Phillip does so. Bob's kids wave back. Phillip starts to
dialog: giggle.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: 139 CONTINUED: 139
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: They look funny.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Maybe, but Bob did the right thing. What
dialog: if he'd put up a fight? I mighta' had to
dialog: shoot him, and where would that family be
dialog: then? Naw, Bob's a fine family man and
dialog: that's about the best thing a fella' can
dialog: hope to be.
text: Butch floors the wagon and the CAR SCREECHES rubber on the
dialog: highway.
speaker_heading: BOB
text: cringes as he watches his pride and joy rocket toward the
dialog: horizon.
scene_heading: 140 EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY (LATER) 140
text: The Highway Patrol continues to monitor cars one by one. One
text: of the Officers sees something and nudges his partner to look
dialog: at...
speaker_heading: FAMILY BOB
text: cresting the hill carrying their hats in their hands along
text: with their luggage and coolers.
scene_heading: 141 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 141
text: Adler drops his headphones and turns to Red.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: He got through! At Aspermont.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ADLER
text: Coerced a motorist.
text: Red sighs.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Well goddam, shout at Amarillo. Tell 'em
dialog: we got a notion he's headed their way.
text: Adler gets right to it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: 141 CONTINUED: 141
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (almost to himself)
dialog: Truth is I wish he'd cross the border so
dialog: we could turn this over to the feds.
dialog: Nobody in the room expected to hear this.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I got work to do back home.
text: Red rises and stretches, walks to the open door and stares out
text: at the late afternoon light.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I'm hungry. This thing got any food?
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Well, uh...
text: Adler jumps up and goes to the frig.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Got T-bones in the frig, Red!
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Uh, uh, those were stocked for the Governor.
dialog: I don't think that he would approve of...
text: Adler finds a plastic bag in the freezer and inspects it.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: -- And look, Red! Tater Tots! Those
dialog: kind you like!
text: Red turns and looks.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: That so?
scene_heading: 142 INT. STATION WAGON - DAY 142
text: Butch fiddles with the RADIO. He settles on a Spanish
text: station playing a BALLAD and ADJUSTS the VOLUME.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Can't find a Coonass Waltz to save my ass.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hey, Phillip, that stuff you told me 'bout
dialog: not trick r' treatin' causa' Jehovah... Was
dialog: you pullin' my leg?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Nawsir.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: 142 CONTINUED: 142
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What else ain't you suppose' to do?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: We don't get Christmas.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yer' shittin' me?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Nawsir. No birthdays, nor parties, neither.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You ain't never been to a carnival neither,
dialog: have ya'?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Nawsir.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Not even one?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Not even one.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Cotton candy?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Seen that once. It's red.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Pink.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Never ate none though.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Roller coasters?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Seen pictures.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You know, Phillip, you have a goddammed
dialog: red, white and blue American right to eat
text: cotton candy and ride roller coasters.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I do?
dialog: 90.
scene_heading: 143 EXT. STATION WAGON - EXTREME CLOSEUP - PHILLIP'S OPEN 143
speaker_heading: MOUTH - DAY
text: screaming. PULL BACK to reveal...
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: still screaming in glee, the wind blowing his crew-cut
text: straight up into the air.
text: PULL BACK FARTHER to reveal that Phillip is firmly tied to
text: the luggage rack of the station wagon, which is rocketing
text: across the winding plains of West Texas.
text: BOOM DOWN to reveal Butch, having almost as much fun as
text: Phillip, hooping and hollering as he steps on the gas and
text: weaves to and fro trying his damndest to hit every bump.
scene_heading: 144 EXT. PLAINS OF WEST TEXAS - LONG SHOT - DUSK 144
text: A Nehi Orange sun pours itself into the Grape-Ade Davis
text: Mountains. PAN ALONG the horizon PAST nothing but open spaces
text: ... Then a red neon sign, small and broken down, like the spit
text: grill diner it advertises.
text: The stolen station wagon sits alone beside the pressed dirt
text: parking lot of Dottie's Cafe.
scene_heading: 145 INT. DOTTIE'S CAFE - DUSK 145
text: A skinny, small town WAITRESS checks her face in a bathroom
text: mirror. She applies too much lipstick and pinches her cheeks
text: before exiting. We FOLLOW as she exits the kitchen bathroom
text: door, grabs two already prepared hamburger platter specials
text: from beside the grill and moves through a swinging door into
text: the diner. A counter, three booths, grease everywhere...
text: She sets the two plates in front of Butch and Phillip at a
dialog: booth.
text: Butch digs in but Phillip holds for a beat. Butch notices
text: and stops chewing while Phillip says "grace".
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (quiet as a mouse)
dialog: Thankyew, Father, for yer' 'boundiful'
dialog: nature and goodness.
text: Butch and the Waitress/cook share a smile.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Amen. Now dig in, Buzz.
dialog: (to Waitress)
dialog: Call him that caus' he eats like a buzzard.
text: If it's dead he'll swoop and chow.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: 145 CONTINUED: 145
text: She leans down to the table and flirts with her overdone eyes.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You Dottie?
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
text: Eileen. Dottie died. Her son runs the
dialog: place but... he ain't never here.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Never?
speaker_heading: EILEEN (WAITRESS)
text: He leaves at four. Not much traffic
dialog: after lunch.
text: She brazenly stares a hole through Butch as she lifts a slice
text: of pickle off his plate, places it in her mouth and slowly
text: chews.
text: Phillip, mouth full, takes note of the confusing spectacle.
text: Eileen turns to walk away.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: If you need me, I'll be right over here.
text: She slowly sashays away to behind the counter.
text: Butch watches her every step. Phillip chews and watches
text: Butch's eyes. Butch turns his head and catches Phillip
text: watching him.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Eat yer' food.
scene_heading: 146 EXT. FIELD - AIRSTREAM - DUSK 146
text: A SIRLOIN STEAK hits a grill beside a Tater Tot shiskabob and
text: SIZZLES to beat the band.
text: A homemade barbecue pit, built from nearby abundant rocks,
text: sits square in the middle of the highway with red flares set
text: up just in case a car did come by.
text: Red smiles and shakes a liberal dose of Lea and Perrins onto
text: the flesh. He's obviously a veteran of many back yard B-BQs
dialog: and this is definitely one.
text: We see Sally THROUGH the window. She's inside, still going
text: over her files. She gets up and walks into the back room to
dialog: look for something.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: 146 CONTINUED: 146
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
text: sitting outside, rises and slides into the Airstream while
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Red continues to cook with Adler and Bradley looking on.
scene_heading: 147 INT. AIRSTREAM - BACKROOM - DUSK 147
text: Sally turns on a nightlight and looks at herself in the
text: mirror. She splashes a little water on her face and is
dialog: startled when ...
text: Bobby Lee slides in behind her.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: Think yer' pretty smart now don'tcha'?
text: She doesn't back down, instead looking him straight in the
dialog: eye.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: Well yer' not smart but you are pretty.
text: Sally stares right at Bobby Lee then moves for the door. He
text: shifts his position and blocks her.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Excuse me.
text: Bobby Lee smiles a crooked-tooth grin, refusing to move.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: Work and pleasure should naturally go
dialog: together don't you think? Take me, I
dialog: enjoy my work.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I could give a shit.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: You got a mouth, don't ya?
speaker_heading: RED (O.S.)
dialog: How you take your steak, Sally?
text: Bobby Lee and Sally both look up to see Red standing in the
dialog: doorway.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: 147 CONTINUED: 147
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (relieved)
dialog: Uh.. rare.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: A woman after my own heart.
text: She takes this opportunity to slide between Red and Bobby Lee
text: on her way into the main room. As she goes...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I'll just wipe its ass, herd it through and
dialog: you can cut off a hunk. How'd that be?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Maybe medium-rare.
text: Bobby Lee and Red are left standing face to face.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I don't give a damn who you work for.
dialog: You're here for one reason and one
dialog: reason only.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: Anything else, Chief?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yeah. Yer' in my office.
text: The hot line PHONE RINGS...
text: Bobby Lee flinches first and moves back into the main room.
text: Red follows.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: That's the Governor's line, Red!
text: Red calmly walks past Sally who smiles a "thanks". He gives
text: her a one finger to the hat salute, walks to the phone,
text: reaches down and yanks out the cord. The RINGING STOPS.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Nuthin' as impolite as callin' at the
dialog: dinner hour.
scene_heading: 148 INT. DOTTIE'S CAFE - NIGHT 148
text: Phillip, at the booth, plays with the parsley on his empty
text: plate, which sits across from Butch's barely touched one. The
text: boy looks over his shoulder and sneaks a peek at Butch, who
text: sits at a barstool watching Eileen work behind the counter.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: 148 CONTINUED: 148
speaker_heading: AT COUNTER
text: Butch leans over and whispers something sexy into Eileen's
text: ear. She giggles and licks her lips.
text: Butch feels eyes on his back and looks at Phillip, who
text: immediately turns away from them. When Butch returns his
text: attention to Eileen she's moved a few feet away and is
text: refilling ketchup bottles.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Buzz, go ahead and chew on mine if you want.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: No thankyew.
text: Eileen slides back down toward Butch. She makes refilling
text: condiment bottles the sexiest pasttime since the hula hoop.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Very polite.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: I try hard but, ya' know, since his mama
dialog: died...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: -- My mama's not dead!
text: Butch, a tad annoyed, turns to Phillip and gives him a look.
text: Once again, when he turns back, Eileen has moved.
text: She's flirting with Butch, moving, bending, wiping her hands
text: on her hips. His eyes are focused on her every squirm.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (over his shoulder)
dialog: Okay now, Buzz, you go on out in the parking
dialog: lot and chunk some rocks or something.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Phillip reluctantly slides down off the stool and slowly walks
text: out the door. His eyes stay on Butch and Eileen, barely
text: concealing confusion mixed with a hint of jealousy.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: So is she dead or not?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (covering badly)
dialog: Well his biological mother is alive. Gave
dialog: him up for adoption to me and my wife. My
dialog: dead wife, that is. She is, was Phil, er
dialog: Buzz's stepmother, so she's his mom, was his
dialog: mom, stepmom, but... she's dead.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: 148 CONTINUED: (2) 148
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: I'm so sorry.
text: But she's not. In fact it seems to have turned her on even
dialog: more.
text: She puts her hand behind Butch's neck and slowly pulls him
text: close for gentle kiss.
scene_heading: 149 EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT 149
text: Phillip tosses a rock then turns to the diner. They're gone.
text: Phillip drops his handful of rocks and walks to the front
text: window of the diner.
scene_heading: PHILLIP'S POV - DINER
text: It is empty. He sees that the kitchen swinging door is still
text: swinging on its hinges.
scene_heading: 150 INT. DINER - ADJUNCT OFFICE - NIGHT 150
text: A one room addition office built onto the kitchen. It has a
text: desk against one wall, a few chairs, a fan -- pretty sparse.
text: Two large windows throw light from the outside neon sign onto
text: the room. A large lamp provides harsh light.
text: Eileen leads Butch by the hand into the room, closing the door
text: behind them. At once they are all over each other. Butch
text: lifts her up onto the desk and starts to kiss her face and
text: neck. Then, in an instant, he flips her over, pulls the
text: ribbon from her hair and unzips the back of her waitress
text: outfit to the waist. He kisses her neck, her back and
text: suddenly, passionately, he flips up her skirt and begins
text: kissing her voluptuous backside.
scene_heading: 151A EXT. DINER - NIGHT 151A
text: Phillip, a bit scared, moves around the side of the front of
text: the diner and sees something.
scene_heading: 151B PHILLIP'S POV - THROUGH WINDOW 151B
text: In profile Butch continues to kiss Eileen's buttocks. She
text: moans in ecstasy.
scene_heading: 151C BACK TO SCENE 151C
text: Phillip, like a pacifist at a prizefight, doesn't want to
text: watch but can't not watch. He moves down the wall to a
text: window positioned right at the desk. When he stops he's right
text: in front of the window, separated from Butch and Eileen by
text: only a foot of air and a thin plate of glass.
dialog: 96.
scene_heading: 151D PHILLIP'S POV - BUTCH AND EILEEN 151D
text: Kissing, writhing, but FROM this ANGLE all he can really see
text: is a mane of hair swinging to and fro. Butch is out of sight
text: but it's obvious that his lips continue to caress Eileen's
text: backside. She cranes her neck, arching it like a swan,
text: moaning like a wildebeast and then...
text: She stops and stares STRAIGHT AHEAD. Butch continues to kiss
text: but only for a beat, sensing the locomotive he's on has
text: stopped at an unscheduled station. He slides his face from
text: around her rear, a la Kilroy, and he stares, too. Except for
text: their continuing heavy breathing they could be modern art
text: statues staring STRAIGHT AHEAD AT...
scene_heading: 152A INT. OFFICE - REVERSE - NIGHT 152A
text: Phillip's nose is pressed to the glass. In fact if he pressed
dialog: any harder there wouldn't be any glass.
scene_heading: 152B BUTCH AND EILEEN 152B
text: hold their pose for a second until...
speaker_heading: 152C PHILLIP 152C
text: comes back to real time and bolts away into the darkness of
text: the parking lot.
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: Nosy little feller'.
speaker_heading: 152D BUTCH 152D
text: races to the side window and watches as Phillip runs into the
text: parking lot.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Phillip!...
speaker_heading: EILEEN
dialog: (a last try)
text: I keep a cot in the back.
text: But Butch, still at the window, just keeps breathing.
scene_heading: 153 EXT. DOTTIE'S CAFE - ANGLE ON SKY - NIGHT (SECONDS 153
speaker_heading: LATER)
text: Nothing but stars swimming in black West Texas crude.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: stands right next to the SPUTTERING NEON SIGN, staring
text: straight up, the neon light splashing his face in a grotesque
text: pink light.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: 153 CONTINUED: 153
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: In the b.g., over his shoulder, the cafe door opens, CLANGING
text: a string of BELLS as Butch hastily exits and walks past
dialog: Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Get in the car.
scene_heading: 154 INT. STATION WAGON - NIGHT 154
text: Silence. Butch drives away libidinous desires, Phillip sits
text: quietly, staring straight ahead, now and again stealing a peek
dialog: at Butch.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: You mad at me?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (curt)
dialog: No.
dialog: More silence.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: You kissed her, huh?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (much regret)
dialog: Jus' barely.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Caus' it feels good. Ain't you ever seen
dialog: your mama kiss a man?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: No.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You kissed her backside, huh?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: It's, well, uh, it's kinda' hard to
dialog: explain. I know how it musta' looked.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hell, I don't know how it looked....
text: As Butch's voice trails off silence overtakes the car. After
text: a few seconds Butch seems happy not to have to answer any
text: more questions. Phillip fidgits with the door handle.
text: Several more seconds pass, then...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: 154 CONTINUED: 154
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Do you love her?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: The lady that cooked the hamburgers?
text: Butch ponders this, then a grin slides across his face.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yeah, Phillip, I love her.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Kissed her butt didn't I?
text: And they both start to laugh.
scene_heading: 155 EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT (LATER) 155
text: The station wagon pulls off the main dirt road and onto a
text: smaller, private road. After 150 yards or so, it leaves the
text: graded dirt and, shocks bouncing, crosses into a plowed field
text: and comes to a dusty stop.
speaker_heading: BUTCH (V.O.)
dialog: You wanna' drive?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP (V.O.)
dialog: Yeah!
speaker_heading: BUTCH (V.O.)
dialog: Jus' kiddin', Buzz. I'm just gonna' stop
dialog: here for awhile and catch 40.
scene_heading: 156 INT. WAGON - NIGHT 156
text: Butch KILLS the ENGINE but keeps the RADIO MUSIC on low.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Things go our way we'll be in Alaska in
dialog: four or five days. Get the jump on winter.
text: Phillip looks a little sad.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I wanna' go home.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: If you wanted to go home so bad, why
dialog: didn't you stay at that store today?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: 156 CONTINUED: 156
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Caus'.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Caus' why?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: 'Caus' I stole. They'd put me in jail.
dialog: Prolly' go to hell.
text: Butch chuckles at the notion.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Same difference. We'll get you home soon.
dialog: I swear, okay?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Butch?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yeah, Phillip?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I can drive.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Done proved that ain'tcha'? There's lots
dialog: and lots of stuff you can do, Phillip.
dialog: (gets an idea)
dialog: Reach in that glovebox there. See if
dialog: Bob's got a notepad or something.
text: Phillip extracts a small ringed memo pad.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Good old Bob. Can you write?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I can print.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Good enough. Now I want you to make a
dialog: list of everything you ever wanted to do
dialog: but wasn't allowed to. Okay?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Like what?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Like... cotton candy.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Cotton candy?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: 156 CONTINUED: (2) 156
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Hell I don't know. It's yer' list.
text: Butch settles in for a catnap. Just as his eyes close...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Butch?...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yeah?...
scene_heading: 157 EXT. FIELD - NIGHT 157
text: Only the dome light and the LOW MUSIC bring attention to
text: the car sitting lonely in the middle of the massive field.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP (V.O.)
dialog: How ya' spell 'rocketship?'
scene_heading: 158 INT. AIRSTREAM - NIGHT 158
text: The aftermath of a full scale Texas Bar-B-Q: plates full of
text: gristle and bone, cigarettes burning in ashtrays and swirl-
text: ing in half-drunk bottles of Coke and mugs of coffee, men
text: groaning and picking their teeth with toothpicks.
text: Bradley, Adler and Suttle are dead-ass asleep and snoring.
text: Bobby Lee, too mean to sleep, sits by himself cleaning his
text: fingernails with a pocket knife.
scene_heading: 159 EXT. FIELD - NIGHT 159
text: Red leans against the Airstream and sips coffee from his
text: thermos. Sally walks up, sipping from a mug, and leans
text: against the bumper. Red doesn't even turn.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Figger to give 'em another hour of
text: shuteye, then grab the patrol cars and
text: head for the Panhandle.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Bring back any memories?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Too many.
text: Red turns to her. They both know he's divulged something.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: They got a file on me, too?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: 159 CONTINUED: 159
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: It's the 60's, Red. They've got a file
dialog: on everybody.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Just caus' it's written down don't make
dialog: it true.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You worked as County Sheriff in Amarillo
dialog: and Austin before you became a Ranger.
dialog: Right so far?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Oh, and it says your name's Cecil.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yeah, well, that's definitely the worst
dialog: of it.
text: Red uncorks his thermos and refills Sally's mug. She takes
text: a sip and almost chokes on it.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Strong... but good. So Cecil...
text: Red gives her a strong look.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Red. What do you do when you're not at
dialog: work.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: The file don't tell ya' that, too?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Nope.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I got a ranch I never visit, nieces I
text: hardly know, a tackle box full of dry lures
text: and a dog that figures he's the owner and
dialog: I'm the pet. Could have a point, he's
dialog: there more.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: A confirmed bachelor. Any regrets?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Liked to have wet those lures. Maybe a
dialog: new dog.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How'd you get into... whatever the hell
dialog: it is you do?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: 159 CONTINUED: (2) 159
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: My father's defense lawyer.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: That explains your mouth.
text: Sally smiles.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Instead of Home Ec, I studied Criminology.
dialog: When I graduated, my father, with the
dialog: Governor's help, they, he and my dad...
dialog: I created a position for myself with the
dialog: prison system.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: What's yer' husband think about all
dialog: this?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Don't own one.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yer' not careful you'll wind up jus' like
dialog: me. Old, tired, with nobody around to
dialog: love ya'.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: It's crazy ain't it?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Goin' without sleep chasin' after a
dialog: three time loser and Casper the Friendly
dialog: Ghost?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Sleep? That's what retirement's for.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Bite your tongue.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You wanna' know what's really crazy?
dialog: Hayne's juvenile court record lists you
dialog: as Amicus Curiae.
dialog: Silence save the CRICKETS.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: 159 CONTINUED: (3) 159
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: Friend of the court. Evidence given by a
dialog: non-party with the intention of swaying
dialog: the judge one way or the other. They're
text: usually in written form, but there's no
dialog: copy attached.
text: Red doesn't flinch.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Okay, then at least tell me why Haynes
dialog: got four years for a joyride? What about
dialog: probation? The boy had a home, a father.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: What's your file say about him?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: That he was a petty thief who did a little
dialog: time, got out and stayed pretty clean.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: There are murderers I'd trust with my
dialog: mother and petty thieves I wouldn't
dialog: turn my back on. Your precious files
dialog: are wrong.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I'm listening.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Hayne's old man was a career criminal
dialog: with a soft spot for whores. One way or
dialog: the other he beat the hell outta' every
dialog: person he ever crossed, screwed or
text: fathered. Judge sends junior home with
dialog: the old man and you can bet your last
dialog: dollar that within a year he'll have a
dialog: rap sheet as long as yer arm.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I know kids who did Gatesville, made it
dialog: through, shaped up. Hell, one's even a
dialog: priest.
text: Sally realizes she's opened an old wound.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Still, I don't understand from the file
dialog: why...
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: -- This job ain't about files and books
dialog: and second guessin'. Ya get one shot
dialog: and ya call 'em like you see 'em.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: 159 CONTINUED: (4) 159
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I'm a bit confused...
text: Red tosses out the rest of his coffee.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: In Texas the bottom line is who ya' know
dialog: and what they owe ya. That's how I do
dialog: my job and how you got yours.
text: He turns to walk inside.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (a bit ticked)
dialog: What are you trying to say?
text: Red stops, faces Sally.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I bought the judge a T-bone and told
dialog: him to send the boy up. Told him it
dialog: was the right thing to do. He went
text: along right down the line.
text: Red disappears. Sally just stares after him, her face
text: once again soft.
scene_heading: 160 INT. STATION WAGON - CLOSEUP - MEMO PAD - NIGHT 160
text: resting on Phillip's lap.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: His fingers release it as he drifts to sleep.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: asleep, the way a child sleeps. Soundly.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: also asleep, but only his body -- his mind works over-
dialog: time...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 161 SERIES OF SHOTS - BUTCH'S DREAM 161
text: (NOTE: the entire dream is a series of snapshots to a
dialog: strong Coonass beat)
text: A) A baby snapshot of Butch.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: 161 CONTINUED: 161
text: B) A Haynes family photo -- a grizzled father standing
text: behind a mother seated holding a baby. They stand
text: in front of a small, white framed house.
text: C) Extreme closeup -- The baby in the snapshot - Butch.
text: D) Snapshot of a young Butch, age 6, with his father and
text: another adult male, who are both holding deer rifles
text: with one hand and with the other the antlers and head
text: of a dead deer.
text: E) Extreme closeup -- Butch's father from the same photo.
text: F) Snapshot of Butch, 8, with his mother but no father.
text: G) An establishing snapshot of a nightclub in New Orleans.
text: The gaudy sign above the joint reads: CLUB - DANCE HALL.
text: H) A snapshot of Butch's mother dressed in a somewhat
text: sleazy Latino outfit. She's surrounded by 3 or 4
text: lounge lizard types, whose hands are all placed on
text: parts of her body. She has a drunken sneer on her face.
dialog: I) Snapshot of Butch, 8, being taught to dance in the club
text: by his mother. He looks awkwardly into the camera.
text: J) Snapshot of Butch, 8, sitting on the bar of the club,
text: surrounded by a motley group of sleazy "dime dancers".
text: K) Another snapshot of Butch being taught to dance by his
dialog: drunken mother.
text: (NOTE: A heavy MACHINE GROWL should START LOW and INCREASE
text: IN VOLUME through the remainder of these fast-paced series
dialog: of cuts.)
text: L) Snapshot of Mom dancing very closely, too closely, to
text: a handsy patron of the club.
text: M) Snapshot of Mom kissing the same man. We see a tattoo
text: on his arm.
text: N) Extreme closeup -- the tattoo. It is of a naked
text: girl. The words "hell-bent" in cursive frame the
dialog: tattoo.
text: O) Snapshot of Mom sitting on the tattooed man's lap at
text: the bar. His hand is resting on the inner portion of
text: her thigh.
text: P) Snapshot of Butch at the bar with the club bartender.
dialog: Q) Same as (K) -- Butch being taught to dance.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: 161 CONTINUED: (2) 161
dialog: R) Extreme closeup -- Butch in same photo.
dialog: S) Same as (J) -- Butch in bar with dime dancers.
dialog: T) Extreme closeup -- Butch in same photo.
dialog: U) Same as (O). Mom with tattooed man.
dialog: V) Extreme closeup -- tattooed man from same photo.
text: W) Snapshot of crime scene in the bar. A man lies on the
text: floor in a pool of blood. Onlookers, including some of
text: the dime dancers and Butch's mom, express their shock
text: at the incident while police photographers and newsmen
dialog: look on.
text: X) Extreme closeups -- Some of the onlookers faces.
dialog: Y) Extreme closeup -- Butch's mom's face. As opposed to
text: the others, her face is rather displaced. You'd think
text: she'd witnessed a fender bender instead of a murder.
dialog: Z) Extreme closeup -- The face of the victim. It's
text: the tattooed man.
dialog: AA) Extreme closeup -- The tattoo.
text: The ROAR of the MACHINE GROWL is now DEAFENING as the image
dialog: of the tattoo...
scene_heading: FADES INTO:
scene_heading: 162 BRILLIANT WHITE LIGHT 162
dialog: that FILLS the FRAME.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. STATION WAGON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
text: Except it's brighter than the brightest day as a high power
text: light shines directly at...
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: who exits his dream and enters reality with a throttled
text: shock. He squints and tries to discern the source of the
text: light while groping for his gun under the seat.
scene_heading: BUTCH'S POV - WHITE LIGHT
text: It's bright as hell but getting clearer, less fuzzy.
text: We can now see it's the headlights of a huge COMBINE which
text: sits, ENGINE RUNNING, directly in front of the station
dialog: wagon.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: 162 CONTINUED: 162
text: A BLACK MAN - 50 or so, KILLS the ENGINE (but leaves the
text: lights on) steps down from the combine cab and starts
text: toward the station wagon.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Phillip, now wide awake and scared. He notices that...
text: Butch is fingering the gun, resting it in his hands and
text: under his right leg.
text: The Black Man, whose name is Mack, crosses the front of the
text: wagon and walks to the driver's side window.
speaker_heading: MACK (BLACK MAN)
dialog: Didn't mean to scare ya'. I work at
dialog: night. It's cooler. Ya'lls car break
dialog: down?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Me n' the boy was just catchin' some
dialog: shut-eye in yer' field.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: Oh, it ain't mine. I just works it for
dialog: Mr. Andrews. Where ya'll from?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Drove from Texarkana yesterday.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: Quite a haul.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Said a mouthful there.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: Well, ain't no sense in ya'll
dialog: sleepin' in the car. Not when I got a
text: fold out couch sittin' empty.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Wouldn't want to put you out. 'Sides we
dialog: need to get back on the road.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: No trouble t'all. Wake you up first
dialog: light, fill yer' belly and send you on
dialog: yer' way.
scene_heading: 163 EXT. RURAL ROAD - FIRST LIGHT - DAY 163
text: A Highway Patrol car, followed by a tow truck, breeze along
dialog: the highway.
speaker_heading: 164 OMITTED 164
dialog: 108.
scene_heading: 165 INT. HIGHWAY PATROL CAR - DAY 165
text: Two officers, MONTGOMERY and HALL, scan the horizon. They
text: look like they've driven all night.
text: Saunders wakes up in the back seat and leans forward.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: We didn't pass it did we?
text: Saunders spots the RV on the horizon.
speaker_heading: MONTGOMERY
dialog: There it is.
scene_heading: 166 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 166
text: The patrol car stops, as does the tow truck.
scene_heading: 167 INT. PATROL CAR - DAY 167
text: Hall and Montgomery view the beat to hell RV while Saunders,
text: ready to cry, jumps out and runs into the field.
speaker_heading: MONTGOMERY
dialog: Good Gawd Almighty. Governor ain't
dialog: gonna' like this.
scene_heading: 168 INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 168
text: Suttle is asleep among the rubble. He jumps to when
text: Saunders bursts in. Saunders gasps when he sees the shape
text: his prize vehicle is in.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: Where are they?!
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Uh, uh, they're gone.
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: How long?!
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: I don't know, uh, four, five hours.
text: Saunders, dejected, starts to move some of the trash from
text: the couch. He sits down and moans...
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: Well, goddammit, did he say anything?
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: 168 CONTINUED: 168
speaker_heading: SAUNDERS
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: Well, uh, Chief Garnett wanted me to tell
dialog: you that the vehicle gets his seal of
dialog: approval....
text: Saunders' face begins to turn red.
speaker_heading: SUTTLE
dialog: And that he wants his chair back.
dialog: If he was red before, now Saunders is crimson. A ther-
text: mometer dropped into boiling water.
scene_heading: 169 EXT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 169
text: We hear a SCREAM and then a second later, Red's desk chair
text: comes flying out the door. It hits a rock and splits as it
text: bounces.
scene_heading: 170 EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 170
text: Two Highway Patrol cars rocket along, one behind the other.
scene_heading: 171 INT. LEAD PATROL CAR - DAY 171
text: OFFICER JONES, a lean, hard-nose of 25, drives. Adler in
text: the front seat, Red and Sally in the back. Not a word is
dialog: spoken. Serious business.
scene_heading: 172 INT. SECOND PATROL CAR - DAY 172
text: ANOTHER OFFICER drives this car. Kaiser rides shotgun
text: working the radio. In the back seat sit Bobby Lee and
dialog: Bradley.
scene_heading: 173 INT. MACK'S HOUSE - DAY 173
text: A COFFEEPOT RATTLES on the stove.
text: Two black hands move the pot and rescue overfried eggs in
text: a skillet on the stove.
text: Two small black feet dangle from a too-high bathroom
text: toilet. As they hit the ground we hear a FLUSH. We
text: FOLLOW the feet DOWN down a short hall and into the
text: living room. As they pass the bottom of a fold-out couch
dialog: we...
text: BOOM UP to reveal Butch and Phillip asleep. Butch's arm
text: has found its way under Phillip's head and is acting as
text: an early morning pillow.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: 173 CONTINUED: 173
text: A small head pops up on the side of the bed nearest
text: Phillip. The six-year-old eyes of CLEVELAND peer close
text: to Phillip and watch, only inches away, as Phillip sleeps.
text: Phillip's eyes blink a bit and then they open...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (scared)
dialog: Aaaayyyyy!
speaker_heading: CLEVE
dialog: (more scared)
dialog: Aaaayyyy!!!
text: Butch jumps up like a rocket and is on the floor in an
dialog: instant.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Aaaayyyyy!!!!
text: Cleve races into the kitchen and the apron strings of his
text: grandmother, Mack's wife, LOTTIE.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: He wake ya'll up?
dialog: (to Cleve)
dialog: Now I told ya not to do that.
text: BUTCH AND PHILLIP, breathing hard, can't help but laugh.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: No harm, Ma'am.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: I'm Lottie. Mack's wife. This here's
dialog: my grandbaby, Cleveland.
speaker_heading: CLEVE
dialog: Name's Cleve. I'm six.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I'm eight. Mine's Buzz.
scene_heading: 174 INT. MACK'S KITCHEN - DAY 174
text: Butch, Cleve and Phillip finish breakfast while Lottie
text: pours coffee. Cleve and Phillip, hitting it off well, are
text: engaged in fervent storytelling.
speaker_heading: CLEVE
dialog: We got us a creek down the way.
dialog: Wanna go later?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 111.
speaker_heading: 174 CONTINUED: 174
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Sure thing.
text: Mack enters after a hard night's work.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Mornin' to ya.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: Mornin'. Rest done ya'll some good.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: You wanna plate?
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: Not jus' yet.
dialog: (to Cleve)
dialog: Boy, go get my thermos from the truck.
text: Cleve, still whispering and giggling with Phillip, isn't
dialog: really listening.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: Don't ya hear good, boy?!
text: Mack firmly cuffs the boy's ear and Cleve jumps up and out
text: the door, one hand holding the side of his head. Butch and
text: Phillip both look up at Mack.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: Boy don't got the sense Gawd gave a
dialog: chicken.
scene_heading: 175 INT. LEAD PATROL CAR - HIGHWAY - DAY 175
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: Want me to stay on Highway 70?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Let's head on over towards Amarillo.
dialog: We'll cross him there or wave goodbye at
dialog: the border.
scene_heading: 176 INT. MACK'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 176
text: Phillip sits on the couch and watches as Butch shows Cleve
text: a trick. Cleve bends over, puts his hands between his legs
text: and Butch grabs them and pulls -- a flip. Cleve is
text: ecstatic at the result. Phillip and Butch laugh along.
speaker_heading: CLEVE
dialog: Agin'! Do it agin'!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: 176 CONTINUED: 176
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: (to Butch)
dialog: Where's the boy's mother?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: We left her at home this time. Boy's
dialog: night out kinda thing.
text: Butch spots an old phonograph.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Say, lookie here.
text: He gives it a spin with his finger and searches through a
text: stack of 78s.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Mr. Andrews give 'em to us when he got
dialog: hisself a newfangled one.
text: Butch finds a particular favorite.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Jeezus. Now this is music. You know
dialog: how long it's been since I heard this.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: That's an oldie all right. Mrs.
dialog: Andrews' maiden name was Bougeois --
dialog: half-Creole herself she is, but Mr.
dialog: Andrews he don't like nobody to know.
dialog: 'Suppose that's why he give 'em to us.
scene_heading: 177 INT. BATHROOM - DAY 177
text: Mack drops his pants and sits on the throne. He reaches
text: over and turns ON the RADIO resting on the wash basin. A
text: FARM REPORT comes on just as...
scene_heading: 178 INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 178
text: A NEEDLE DROPS on a 78, filling the room with the SCRATCHY
text: sounds of a Coonass waltz.
text: Butch's eyes come to life.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You dance, Lottie?
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Lawd goodness no.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: 178 CONTINUED: 178
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Here, jus' follow me.
text: He takes her in his arms and slowly but surely adjusts her
text: movement to his. After a few rough turns they're not too
dialog: bad.
text: Phillip can't help but smile as he and Cleve watch and
dialog: giggle.
text: Butch and Lottie dance, swirling around the room.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Mr. Poe, you sure can move.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Oughta be able to. Was raised in a dime
text: a dance whorehouse.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Yer' foolin' me?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: No, ma'am. My mama would dance their
text: asses out of the fryin' pan and into the
text: back room fire.
text: Butch spots Phillip and Cleve, watching, giggling.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Get on yer' feet, Buzz. You'n Cleve
text: shake a leg.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: (encouraging)
dialog: Well go on!
text: Cleve and Phillip reluctantly stand and stare at one
dialog: another.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Dance, boys!
text: The little boys do their best to emulate the adults and
text: soon they're laughing and dancing, too.
text: The RECORD STOPS. They all clap and laugh. Butch hears
text: something... The RADIO in the bathroom.
scene_heading: 179 INT. BATHROOM - DAY 179
text: Mack sits, cleaning his fingernails with a Barlow knife as
text: the radio announcer begins a news flash.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: 179 CONTINUED: 179
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
text: Update on the manhunt for the escaped
text: convict. Haynes is armed and extremely
dialog: dangerous. He is believed to have a
text: hostage with him, an eight-year-old boy.
text: A finger turns OFF the RADIO. We FOLLOW the finger UP an
text: arm TO Butch's concerned face. He sits down on the edge of
text: the tub across from Mack and takes the knife away from him.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: We'll be leavin' soon enough. I'll kill
dialog: all of you if you try anything stupid.
text: Mack swallows hard.
scene_heading: 180 INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 180
text: Lottie quizzes Phillip...
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: What's Texarkana like? I ain't never
dialog: been there.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (through his teeth)
dialog: Oh, it's real nice. I got a dog named...
dialog: Phillip and a tree house and...
text: Mack, nervous, enters the room followed by Butch.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Come on, Buzz. Time for us to hit the
dialog: road.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Whass' wrong, Mack? You look like you
text: seen a ghost.
text: Cleve runs up to Butch, turns around backwards and puts his
text: hands between his legs.
speaker_heading: CLEVE
dialog: Do me agin'!
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: (scared for the boy)
dialog: No! Boy! Get over by yer' Mammaw!
text: Lottie senses something is wrong. Cleve, too young to
dialog: smell trouble, persists...
speaker_heading: CLEVE
dialog: Come on, Mister, do me agin'!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115.
scene_heading: 180 CONTINUED: 180
text: Butch smiles and starts to oblige the boy, but Mack inter-
text: venes and smacks Cleve hard, sending him sprawling to the
text: floor bawling.
text: Butch, instantly enraged, back-hands Mack, grabs him by the
text: collar and tosses him onto the floor.
text: Phillip -- frozen, sitting, watching as things go from bad
dialog: to worse.
text: Cleve -- confused, bawling, afraid.
text: Butch pulls the gun from his pants, bends down, picks up
text: Mack by his throat, presses the gun in his mouth and lifts
text: him into a chair beside Lottie. He bends close to Mack --
text: their noses are inches apart.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Why'd ya' wanna' go and hit Cleve for?
dialog: He didn't move fast enough for ya', is
dialog: that it? Or maybe he gets excited
dialog: sometimes and don't hear everything ya'
dialog: say? You make me sick to my stomach.
text: Butch spits in Mack's face, then rises and walks over to
text: Phillip and hands him the revolver.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Point it at 'em.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I don't wanna'...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Point it!
text: Phillip does so, occasionally wiping a tear from his eye.
text: Mack reaches down and holds Lottie's hand.
text: Butch kneels down to a still-sobbing Cleve.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Now, son, you wanna' flip?
text: Cleve shakes his head "no" between sobs. Butch gently
text: takes the boy and lifts him to a standing position.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Go ahead. Put yer' hands between yer'
dialog: legs. I won't hurt ya'.
text: Cleve turns to Mack and then runs to him. Butch walks
text: calmly over and pulls the crying child away from the old man
text: and back to the center of the room.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: 180 CONTINUED: (2) 180
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Mack)
dialog: He don't trust ya' no more. You gotta'
dialog: earn that, ya' know?
dialog: (to Cleve)
dialog: Put yer' hands 'tween yer' legs, son.
text: Cleve, still sobbing, does so. Butch reaches down and
text: flips him, all the while staring at Mack. Each time he
text: flips the boy, Butch reaches down, grabs Cleve's hands and
text: flips him again.
text: Finally he allows the frightened child to go to Mack and
dialog: Lottie.
text: Butch takes the gun from Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Buzz. Go out to the car and get that
dialog: rope.
text: Phillip stands frozen.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Phillip!...
text: Phillip slowly rises and walks away. He stops for a moment
text: and turns his back.
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: His eyes lock in a gaze with...
scene_heading: EXTREME CLOSEUP - CLEVE
text: His sobbing eyes plead for something, anything.
scene_heading: 181 EXT. HOUSE - DAY 181
text: Phillip exits the house, walks past an old well to the
text: station wagon. He opens the door, stops, looks back.
scene_heading: 182 INT. HOUSE - DAY 182
text: Butch sits on the coffee table across from Mack, Lottie and
dialog: Cleve.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Mack)
dialog: Now you hold that boy and tell him you
dialog: love him.
text: Mack grabs Cleve and sets him in his lap.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: 182 CONTINUED: 182
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: (scared)
dialog: I love you.
text: Butch cocks the revolver and slides forward. His nose is
text: almost touching Mack's.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: No, old man. Say it like you mean it.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: This boy know I loves him, mistah'.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Then say it.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Please, mistah'. I gotta' sense about
dialog: you. I know you a good man.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Nome', I ain't a good man. Ain't the
dialog: worst neither, jus' a different breed.
scene_heading: 183 EXT. HOUSE - DAY 183
text: Phillip is at the screen door looking in. He holds the bag
text: in his hand.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Butch sits on the coffee table, which is pushed right up
text: to Mack, Lottie and Cleve, who sit on chairs.
scene_heading: 184 INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 184
text: Butch, enthralled with the episode he's directing, almost
text: quivers with anticipation.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Say it, Mack. Don't cost nuthin'.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: I love you, Cleve.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (serious)
dialog: Gawd that's beautiful.
text: Butch spots Phillip standing at the entrance to the living
text: room with the bag. He takes it from the boy, empties the
dialog: contents -- candy, cookies, bread, sugar and all -- and
text: picks up the rope, takes Mack's Barlow knife from his
text: pocket and cuts off a long shank. Butch takes the rope and
text: begins to tie up the three.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: 184 CONTINUED: 184
text: Phillip stands, stares, aware that something bad is
dialog: happening.
text: Butch finishes tying, sticks the knife in his pocket and
text: walks over to the PHONOGRAPH. He turns it back ON. The
text: SCRATCHY RECORD plays. He turns UP the VOLUME.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: You can go wait in the car or you can
dialog: watch. Yer' old enough to think for
dialog: yer'self.
text: Phillip, unsure what to do, stands his ground.
text: Butch returns to his seat on the coffee table and stares
text: at the three hostages. He appears as if he's about to cry,
text: closes his eyes and rests his chin on the barrel of the
text: revolver while he recites instructions...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Shut yer' eyes, Cleve. Mack, you and
dialog: Lottie hold the boy tight. Shut yer'
text: eyes, too.
text: Phillip, awkwardly aware that he's going to witness an
text: execution, starts to cry out, then squelches himself.
text: Butch seems to be in another world now -- taken to another
text: place and time. A slight smile finds its way to his face,
text: then disappears.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Please, mistah', ain't no use in it.
speaker_heading: MACK
dialog: We'll give you ever'thing we got!
text: But Butch doesn't even hear the words. He slowly opens his
text: eyes, pulls his chin from the pistol barrel and points it
dialog: at Mack.
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: Our Father, which are in heaven, Hallo
dialog: be thy name...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Lottie)
dialog: Shhh... shhh... shhh...
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: ... Thy Kingdom come, Lawd, thy will be
dialog: done... here on Earth as it is in Heaven.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: 184 CONTINUED: (2) 184
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Shhh.. shhh...
speaker_heading: LOTTIE
dialog: (to Mack/Cleve)
dialog: Say it wif' me....
text: Butch looks to Phillip in a strange way, sets the gun on
text: the floor between them, and crawls amongst the candy, gum
text: and wrappers until he finds the electrician's tape.
text: Phillip watches, not knowing what to do.
text: The revolver -- cocked, resting on the floor.
scene_heading: MACK, CLEVE &amp; LOTTIE
dialog: Giv' us this day our daily bread and
dialog: forgiv' us, Lawd, our trespasses as we
dialog: forgiv' those who tresspass agin' us...
text: Butch rips tape from the roll and slaps a piece over each
text: of their mouths, silencing their prayers one by one.
text: Out of breath, he kneels down in front of them and stares
text: at the three while he reaches his hand behind him for the
dialog: .... pistol -- but it's not there...
text: Butch looks up to see...
text: Phillip -- teeth gritted, holding the pistol, pointing it
text: directly at Butch.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: His expression is blank -- then a slight smile. For a
dialog: second it's as if none of this has happened, that Butch will
text: grasp Phillip in his arms...
text: A DEAFENING GUNBLAST turns his expression to blank.
text: Phillip, knocked to the floor by the revolver's kick,
text: recovers to his knees, shaking like a leaf.
text: The MAMBO RECORD comes to an END, but SCRATCHES ON AD
speaker_heading: INFINITUM.
text: Butch falls back to his knees, still staring at Phillip.
text: He looks at his stomach, where a stain of brown-red
text: gushes through his T-shirt, and back to the boy.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (as if he hasn't
dialog: seen him in years)
dialog: Phillip?....
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 120.
speaker_heading: 184 CONTINUED: (3) 184
text: Phillip, momentarily dazed, stares at the gun in his hand,
text: at Butch, the blood pouring from Butch's side, and the
text: shocked faces of Mack and his family. Then, in a flash, he
text: runs, pell-mell, out of the house.
scene_heading: 185 EXT. HOUSE - DAY 185
text: Phillip blasts out the screen door and runs straight to the
dialog: well.
text: He drops the gun into the well, catches his breath and heads
dialog: for the road.
text: After a few yards he has a thought, runs back to the
text: station wagon, grabs the keys and throws them as far into
text: the adjacent field as he can. Then he resumes his race for
dialog: the road.
scene_heading: 186 INT. HOUSE - DAY 186
text: Butch gropes to his feet, still in shock. He stumbles
text: toward the door, then stops, reaches in his pocket,
text: extracts Mack's Barlow knife, holds it up and walks toward
text: them, staring hard.
text: Mack, Cleve, Lottie -- Afraid they'll be killed after all.
text: Butch, surprisingly, meekly sets the knife down on the
dialog: coffee table...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Thanks for yer' hospitality.
text: And walks away.
scene_heading: 187 EXT. HOUSE - DAY 187
text: Butch emerges and stumbles out.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to the horizon)
dialog: Phillip?!...
text: No answer. He drags himself to the station wagon and, with
text: much effort, slides himself into the seat. No keys. He
text: opens the door, crawls out, leaving a trail of blood, looks
text: out to the road and starts to walk.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: runs down the road, looking back every so often to see if
dialog: Butch is following
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 121.
speaker_heading: 187 CONTINUED: 187
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: makes his way onto the private dirt and starts walking back
text: toward the main road.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Phillip?!! I won't hurt ya', I swear!
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: is running out of steam on the road ahead. He stops for a
text: blow and looks back.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: A few hundred yards back, Butch struggles forward.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Phillip crawls through the ditch beside the road and
text: squeezes through a barb wire fence.
text: His costume hangs on a barb. He rips away from the fence
text: leaving a foot-long strand behind.
text: In the b.g. -- a pickup truck drives by.
scene_heading: 188 INT. TRUCK - DAY 188
text: ARCH ANDREWS, 50, the owner of the Ranch, slows down when
dialog: he sees...
speaker_heading: ARCH
dialog: What the hell?...
speaker_heading: HIS POV - PHILLIP
text: clad in his white costume, running across a field toward
text: a grove of trees beside the creek.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Arch continues on down the road and passes...
text: Butch -- nearly in shock, stumbling down the road.
speaker_heading: TRUCK
text: pulls into Mack's place, and Arch gets out, peers into the
text: station wagon, sees blood, grimaces and walks up to the
text: house. He notices a dripping trail of blood on the porch.
dialog: 122.
scene_heading: 189 INT. HOUSE - DAY 189
text: Arch enters the kitchen, sees no one and starts toward the
text: living room. The MAMBO continues to SCRATCH.
speaker_heading: ARCH
dialog: Mack?... Lottie?...
text: Arch enters the living room and stops when he sees Mack and
text: family, still gagged and tied to the chairs.
scene_heading: 190 EXT. ROAD - DAY 190
text: Butch, holding his side, the pain is worse as he stumbles
dialog: along.
text: He stops when he spots something -- a piece of white
text: costume on the fence. He crosses the ditch, steps through
text: the fence and walks in the same direction Phillip did.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: That was a helluva' thing to do, Phillip.
dialog: You're a hero. Prolly' be in all the
dialog: papers tomorrow, how you saved those
dialog: folks. Truth is, I don't think I woulda'
dialog: killed 'em. I only killed two people in
dialog: my whole life. One hurt my mama and one
dialog: hurt you.
scene_heading: 191 INT. LEAD PATROL CAR - DAY 191
text: Adler listens in on the shortwave.
speaker_heading: KAISER (V.O.)
dialog: A town called Happy, over in Swisher
dialog: County.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Jones)
dialog: How far?
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: Half-hour tops.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Adler)
dialog: Get on the radio and tell whoever gets
dialog: there first to play it nice and easy.
text: Sally gives him a look.
speaker_heading: KAISER (V.O.)
dialog: They've got the boy's mother flyin' in
dialog: on a private. You want her on standby?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: 191 CONTINUED: 191
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Jeezus, who did that?
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Guvner, I assume.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Not a bad idea.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Go ahead and chopper her in.
text: After a moment of silence, Sally turns to Red.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I didn't mean to pry last night.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yes, ya did.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Look, Red, it was 20 years ago.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Funny thing. When the judge sent him
text: away the kid stared at me. Like he knew.
dialog: Not hard or mad like you'd expect. It
dialog: was... It was like he was forgiving me.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Forgiving you for what?! For looking
dialog: at the facts and doing what you
dialog: thought was right?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Naw. For what's gonna happen today.
scene_heading: 192 EXT. FIELD - DAY 192
text: Butch follows Phillip's path through the field.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What say we talk this over? Settle
dialog: things man to man. Then we can be on
dialog: our way. I'll even let you drive. Knock
dialog: that right off yer' list. How'd that be?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: finally arrives at the creek, looking over his shoulder all
text: the way. He looks at the water -- deep and running swift.
text: Where to go? He decides and heads for the nearest tree --
text: a big oak, and shimmies up to a branch ten feet or so above
dialog: the ground.
dialog: 124.
scene_heading: 193 INT./EXT. LOCAL BLACK AND WHITE - DAY 193
text: A country cop answering the report, drives slowly down the
text: road, his pistol drawn and held upright in one hand. He
text: pulls into Mack's driveway and parks. Arch walks out of
text: the house to greet him.
speaker_heading: ARCH
text: That's his car. Took off on foot. He's
text: got a pistol. Mack says it looks like a
dialog: .38.
scene_heading: 194 EXT. FIELD - DAY 194
text: Butch stops to rest. Something catches his eye.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: A white figure moves slightly in the boughs of an oak tree.
text: Phillip tries to climb higher but can't reach the next limb.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Butch walks underneath the tree without even looking at
text: Phillip. He sits down to rest.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Alaska, Phillip. Wild and wooley. Man
dialog: against nature. Me personally, I like
dialog: them odds.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Did I tell you my daddy lives there?
dialog: He's the one that sent the picture
dialog: postcard. Listen here to what he says
dialog: about it...
text: Butch pulls the postcard from his back pocket and reads...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (reading)
dialog: 'Dear Robert'... that's my real name,
dialog: Phillip. Robert. Jus' like old Bob the
dialog: family man. 'Dear Robert, I just wanted
dialog: to tell you that me leaving has nothing
dialog: to do with you.'
text: Phillip, still afraid, can't help but listen as Butch
text: suffers through his memories.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (reading)
dialog: 'Alaska is a beautiful place. Colder
dialog: than hell most all the time.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: 194 CONTINUED: 194
speaker_heading: BUTCH (CONT'D)
dialog: Someday you can come and visit and we'll
dialog: maybe get to know each other better.'
dialog: Short and sweet. That's the old man's
dialog: style. 'Cold all the time' -- like that's
dialog: a big sellin' point.
text: He laughs to himself.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: He useta' pat me on the head and tell
dialog: folks 'that it's some that can live life
dialog: without askin' about it and it's others
dialog: has to know why, and this boy here is
dialog: one of the latters.'
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That's why I wanted to go up there. To
dialog: visit the old man, I guess. Prolly'
dialog: punch him one first, but then maybe we'd
dialog: end up bein' friends, sit down, have a
dialog: beer, talk things over....
text: Butch groans. He pulls his hand from his side. Blood is
text: oozing all over the place. He returns the postcard to
text: his pocket.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: We'll jus' rest awhile. Then you
dialog: can make up yer' mind. How's that?
text: Phillip, still clinging to the tree, can't help but feel
dialog: compassion for his friend.
scene_heading: 195 EXT. MACK'S HOUSE - DAY 195
text: A dozen Highway Patrol cars now sit in the driveway. The
text: Fed in charge, AGENT HENDRICKS, assigns different officers
text: to secure the area in an incredibly organized fashion.
text: Mack, Lottie, Cleve and Arch watch from the porch.
scene_heading: 196 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 196
text: Butch's eyes are closed. A small puddle of blood drips
text: and becomes a rivulet running down into the creek.
text: Phillip, still in the tree, still watching, can't bear it
text: any longer. He slowly climbs down and drops next to Butch,
text: who opens his eyes to the boy and smiles.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: One thing's for sure now -- I definitely
dialog: believe in ghosts.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Never been shot before.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 126.
speaker_heading: 196 CONTINUED: 196
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: I know ya' are. Truth is, if it had to
dialog: happen, I'm glad it was you. As opposed
dialog: to someone I don't know, I mean. All
dialog: things considered, I feel pretty good,
dialog: though. Could use a beer, though.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: What's beer taste like?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Oh, it's about the best thing there is.
dialog: You'd better put that on the list.
text: Phillip's eye catches something. He stands up fearfully...
scene_heading: HIS POV - TWO MORE PATROL CARS
text: lights spinning, rushing down the road, kicking up dust.
scene_heading: 197 INT./EXT. RED'S PATROL CAR - DAY 197
text: Sally watches Red. When the car comes to a stop, she
text: reaches out and touches his arm.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I think our chances of this thing ending
dialog: peacefully are good.
text: He smiles a lonesome smile, opens the door and exits.
scene_heading: 198 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 198
text: Phillip kneels back down to Butch.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: You better run.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Naw, Phillip, I need me a time machine
dialog: with a loud radio to take me where I'm
dialog: goin'. Walkin's for squares.
scene_heading: 199 EXT. MACK'S HOUSE - DAY 199
text: Red exits his patrol car, followed by Sally. Agent
text: Hendricks walks up.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: Garnett, I'm Tom Hendricks, F.B.I., out
dialog: of the Amarillo office. I understand you
dialog: have one of our men with you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: 199 CONTINUED: 199
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yeah. You got the area quadroned off?
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
text: Water tight. Like a frog's pussy.
dialog: (notices Sally)
dialog: Sorry, ma'am.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: No doubt an observation based on personal
dialog: experience.
text: Red can't help but smile.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You got him spotted?
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
text: By the creek, half-mile down the road.
text: I spaced officers in a circle around them
text: 100 yards or so away.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You got any problem with me handling this
dialog: one?
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: What say we both handle it?
text: Red sighs.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Let's head on down there. Bradley, gimme'
text: a megaphone.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
text: One other thing, Chief. Haynes is wounded.
text: The boy gut-shot him.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Yer' shittin' me.
scene_heading: 200 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 200
text: Phillip scoops a handful of water and brings it to Butch,
text: who opens his mouth and drinks, A megaphoned voice
text: interrupts...
speaker_heading: RED (V.O.)
dialog: (through megaphone)
dialog: Butch, this is Red Garnett of the
dialog: Texas State Police.
text: A thin, knowing smile crosses Butch's lips.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 128.
speaker_heading: 200 CONTINUED: 200
speaker_heading: RED (V.O.)
dialog: I know yer' hurt. We've got damn near
dialog: 100 armed men here. Take a look around
dialog: and you'll see I'm shootin' ya' straight.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yelling back)
dialog: All this for me. I'm touched, but I'm
dialog: afraid ya'll gonna' have to back it up a
dialog: step or two. I'm headed to Mexico.
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Lyin' to 'em, of course.
scene_heading: 201 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 201
text: Red leans against a patrol car, accompanied closely by Adler,
dialog: Sally and Hendricks.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (into megaphone)
dialog: Hate to tell ya', Butch, but yer' headed
dialog: the wrong direction. Tell ya' what.
dialog: You let the boy go and we'll talk about
text: it. Discuss it over a cold beer.
scene_heading: 202 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 202
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Beer. What'd I tell ya'.
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: Appreciate the offer, Cap'n, but ya'
dialog: know I can't do that. If you and yer'
dialog: pals back outta' here, I'll drop the boy
text: at the border.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: If you don't I'll shoot him in the
dialog: head. I mean it!
text: Phillip, betrayed beyond comprehension, stares at Butch.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Don't look at me like that. I don't
dialog: even have a gun. What did ya' do with
dialog: the pistola' anyway?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: Threw it in the well.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Good thinkin'.
dialog: 129.
scene_heading: 203 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 203
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Ya' think he means it?
text: Red mulls it over, replaces his old chaw with a fresh one
text: and looks to Sally.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Based on what's happened the past two
dialog: days I don't think he would.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: One thing's for sure. If he gets outta'
dialog: here with the boy, we're right back to
dialog: where we started.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: If he kills the boy he'll get the chair.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Shit, he'll get the chair anyway. He's
dialog: killed two in two days.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: We don't know that he pulled the trigger
text: on either of the innocent victims.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: Well he wasn't at home in his Strat-O-
dialog: Lounger. 'Sides, who killed Pugh?
dialog: Casper?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: All right, both of you, that's enough!
dialog: From the trail of blood I got a feelin'
dialog: it ain't gonna' make any difference.
dialog: Let's jus' concentrate on gettin' the
dialog: boy out for now.
text: Bobby Lee approaches with a leather case, bypasses Red and
text: goes straight to Hendricks.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: Where ya' want me, sir?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Can you shoot off a hood?
text: Bobby Lee nods.
text: In the b.g., a HELICOPTER circles, preparing to land.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 130.
speaker_heading: 203 CONTINUED: 203
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: That'd be the boy's mother.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Bring her on over.
scene_heading: 204 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 204
text: Butch and Phillip watch the helicopter land.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: See, Phillip, dreams do come true.
dialog: There's yer' rocketship.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Think I'll get to ride it?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Today's the day.
speaker_heading: RED (V.O.)
dialog: (megaphoned)
dialog: Butch, we got the boy's Mama here.
text: She wants to say something.
text: Phillip is visibly stunned by the news. He crawls up to
text: the crest of the creekside and squints, looking for his
dialog: mom.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: What's wrong, Phillip?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: It's my mama.
text: Phillip still cranes his neck to see.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Now that ya' got yerself a ghost suit,
dialog: do ya' think she'll let ya' trick r'
dialog: treat?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (better than none)
dialog: I got to do one house.
text: Butch smiles. He has an idea.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Put yer' mask back on.
scene_heading: 205 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 205
text: Bobby Lee carefully unsnaps the latches on his leather case
text: and opens it on the hood of the patrol car.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 131.
speaker_heading: 205 CONTINUED: 205
text: Inside is... a high-powered military rifle in three parts.
text: Hands unzip a velvetine bag and pull out a high-powered
dialog: scope.
text: Bobby Lee holds the lens of the scope to his mouth, blows a
text: breath on it and wipes it clean with a piece of clean
text: cloth. He feels eyes and turns to see...
text: Sally, watching him at work.
text: Bobby Lee smiles at her, cocksure. His dark role in this
text: manhunt is now perfectly clear.
text: Sally turns her head, disgusted.
text: Gladys Perry, frazzled, somewhat in shock, is ushered
text: forward. She's handed the MEGAPHONE. She fumbles with it,
text: pushes the button. It SQUAWKS LOUDLY.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Jus' push the button and talk normal.
text: It SQUAWKS again.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Here, I'll hold the damn thing.
dialog: You jus' talk.
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: (into megaphone)
dialog: Hullo... Hullo. Please, sir, he's my
dialog: only son. I'll give you money, whatever
dialog: I can. Please, I want to take my boy
dialog: home! I want to...
text: The MEGAPHONE SQUALKS one final dying time and SHORTS OUT.
text: Red hands it to Bradley, who immediately sets it on the
text: trunk and starts taking it apart.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Gladys)
dialog: Yer' doin' fine. We'll get another one.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: I think yer' tobacco spit shorted it
dialog: out, Red.
scene_heading: 206 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 206
text: Phillip wears the mask. Butch dusts him off and smiles.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: You ready to go home?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 132.
speaker_heading: 206 CONTINUED: 206
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (very sure)
dialog: Yeahsir.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Hey, Cap'n, you got any candy?
text: INTERCUT BACK and FORTH BETWEEN Butch and:
speaker_heading: RED
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: (re: megaphone)
dialog: This one's shot.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Well, find another one!
text: Red sighs and cups his hands around his mouth.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (yells)
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Candy! Halloween candy! Popcorn balls,
dialog: caramel apples, gum, shit like that?!
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (yells)
dialog: You hungry?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: You find me some candy and I'll
text: deliver up a ghost.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Adler)
dialog: You heard him.
scene_heading: 207 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 207
text: Red nods to Adler who starts to gather sticks of gum,
text: mints, anything from the surrounding officers.
speaker_heading: BRADLEY
dialog: Don't have another megaphone, Chief.
text: Red just shakes his head and sighs. Bobby Lee leans on
text: the hood of the car and places one eye behind the scope of
text: his rifle.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 133.
speaker_heading: 207 CONTINUED: 207
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: You all set?
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: You say when, I'll say dead.
text: Red glares at Bobby Lee for an extended moment.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (yells; to Butch)
dialog: You got yer'self a deal. Candy's waitin'.
scene_heading: 208 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 208
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: One more thing. His old lady has to
dialog: swear to take him trick r 'treatin'
dialog: every year.
text: Phillip strains to look for his mom. He's upset, ready to
dialog: leave.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Gimme' yer' list, Phillip.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Butch?...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Gimme that list.
text: Phillip pulls it out. Butch snatches it and reads it to
text: himself, laughing. He's on a death roll of sorts, between
text: losing blood and being in an impossible situation he almost
text: seems to be enjoying the macabre scenario as it unfolds.
text: Phillip, on the other hand, is beginning to sob.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: And she's gotta promise to take him to
dialog: the fair for rollercoasters and cotton
dialog: candy whenever he wants... or at least
dialog: once a year...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I wanna' go home!...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (checks list; yells)
dialog: And when he gets older he gets to drink
dialog: beer...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 134.
speaker_heading: 208 CONTINUED: 208
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I don't need beer!...
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Well it's on yer' list.
dialog: (yells to Red)
dialog: And to go out on dates with girls!
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Not on the list, but you'll thank me
dialog: later for that little addition.
dialog: (checks list)
dialog: Done that, got to drive, gonna' ride that
dialog: rocketship. That's about it.
dialog: (yells; to Red)
dialog: She's gotta' promise or I won't let him
dialog: go!
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I wanna' go home, Butch. My mama's not
dialog: bad! She gives me those things.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Don't kid a kidder, Phillip.
scene_heading: 209 EXT. ROADSIDE -DAY 209
text: Red, exasperated, he can't believe how weird this has
dialog: gotten.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (yells)
dialog: It's a deal!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Make her say it!
text: Red looks to Gladys as if to say, "go ahead". She seems
text: reluctant. Red's frustration is showing.
scene_heading: 210 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 210
text: Phillip is near tears.
text: He rises and starts to move for the field, but Butch grabs
text: him with one arm, pulls him close and holds him like he's
dialog: his own child.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: I jus' wanna' go home.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (sincere)
dialog: Know jus' how ya' feel, Phillip.
dialog: 135.
scene_heading: 211 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 211
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: (to Red)
dialog: Phillip knows those things are against
dialog: our beliefs.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Gladys)
dialog: What kinda' foolishness is that?
dialog: (yells)
dialog: She promises!
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Make her say it!
text: Red gives her a look that says, "Say it or deal with me".
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: (yells)
dialog: I promise!
scene_heading: 212 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 212
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: Can we trust her?
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: She's a real good mama.
text: Butch reaches into his pocket, extracts the remaining wad
text: of stolen bills, unzips the Casper outfit, stuffs them
text: into the costume and rezips.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (to Phillip)
dialog: When you get home, hide this. If
dialog: she's lyin' you can buy yer' own damn
dialog: beer.
text: Phillip quiets for a moment and stares at Butch.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: Yer' not bad, are you, Butch?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Yeah.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Now, Buzz, listen here. I want ya' to
dialog: step out there real slow, keepin' yer'
text: paws in the air. Then strut right over
dialog: to them cops and yell 'trick r' treat.'
dialog: Got it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 136.
speaker_heading: 212 CONTINUED: 212
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: What are you gonna' do?
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Somethin'll come to mind.
text: Butch sticks out his hand. Phillip shakes it, afraid.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: 'Bye, Phillip. It's been one helluva'
dialog: ride.
text: Butch nods and smiles.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: (yells)
dialog: All right, Cap'n. Make way for Casper
dialog: the friendly ghost. The friendliest
dialog: ghost I know.
text: Butch nudges Phillip and the boy starts toward the field.
scene_heading: 213 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 213
text: Adler, looking through binoculars, can't help but smile.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Gimme' them things.
text: Adler hands over the binoculars. Red takes a look.
speaker_heading: HIS POV - PHILLIP
text: nee Casper, walking in his full whitehood, arms reaching
dialog: for the sky.
scene_heading: 214 EXT. FIELD - DAY 214
text: Phillip reaches level ground and for the first time sees
dialog: the full strength of the amassed police forces -- at least
text: 20 cars, swirling lights, guns everywhere, pointing at him.
scene_heading: 215 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 215
text: Red watches.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Come on. Keep walkin'!
scene_heading: HIS POV - THROUGH BINOCS
text: Phillip stops walking and stands perfectly still.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 137.
speaker_heading: 215 CONTINUED: 215
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Red lowers his binocs.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Why the hell's he stoppin'?
dialog: (to Gladys;
dialog: direct)
dialog: Call for yer' boy to come!
text: Gladys, near shock, AD LIBS commands to Phillip. "Come on
dialog: honey," "Phillip, keep walking," that kind of thing.
text: (NOTE: Her commands become more and more shrieking and
text: frantic and continue throughout, giving rise to even more
dialog: confusion than is already present.)
scene_heading: 216 EXT. FIELD - DAY 216
text: Phillip turns back and sees ...
text: Butch -- He tries to get up in an attempt to make a run for
text: it, but his strength is gone. He collapses.
text: Phillip, standing still, with his mother's shrieks filling
text: the air behind him, watches Butch for a second then runs
text: back toward him.
scene_heading: 217 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 217
text: Red sighs and lowers the binocs.
scene_heading: 218 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 218
text: Phillip stands before a struggling Butch.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Personally I think we negotiated a pretty
dialog: fair deal, but if there's somethin' else
dialog: you want...
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
dialog: (disbelief)
dialog: Do they want to shoot you?
text: Butch starts to lie to the boy but can't.
scene_heading: 219 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 219
text: A finger strokes the trigger of a high-powered rifle.
text: Bobby Lee -- Smiling, ready, waiting.
text: Red shrugs and wipes his brow.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138.
speaker_heading: 219 CONTINUED: 219
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: He thought better of releasin' the hostage.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: It doesn't necessarily mean that.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Bobby Lee)
dialog: Stay on ready.
scene_heading: 220 EXT. CREEKSIDE - DAY 220
text: Phillip holds his hand out and helps Butch get up. Butch
text: stands, dusts himself off, grabs the boy's hand and to-
text: gether they walk toward the field.
scene_heading: 221 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 221
text: Red, through the binoculars.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I seen it all now.
scene_heading: 222 EXT. FIELD - DAY 222
text: Butch and Phillip, hand in hand, walking across the field.
scene_heading: 223 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 223
text: Red scratches his head.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: What's he up to?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Hell if I know.
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: He's giving himself up.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: Keep in mind -- he still has the gun.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (yells; to
dialog: Butch)
dialog: Butch! Stop and let the boy go! Put
dialog: yer' hands up and let the boy go!!!
dialog: (NOTE: AD LIB instructions from Red continue as well.)
dialog: 139.
scene_heading: 224 EXT. FIELD - DAY 224
text: With all the yelling, it's hard to make out what's being
text: said. Butch and Phillip continue to walk and talk.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: So I guess that's it for Alaska, Phillip.
scene_heading: 225 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 225
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Stop and put your hands on your head!
speaker_heading: GLADYS
dialog: Run, Phillip! Come here, Phillip!
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Come on, come on...
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: (a warning)
dialog: Chief, we've got an armed killer and an
text: innocent boy out there.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: (to Bobby Lee)
dialog: You clean?
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
text: As a whistle.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Keep him locked down. Don't squeeze til'
dialog: I say 'when.'
text: Red holds Bobby Lee's eyes until the young Fed nods. Then
text: Red unstraps his holster and moves between the cars.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: Where the hell you going?
text: But Red's not listening, just walking, long and tall, into
dialog: the field.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - DAY
text: Butch and Phillip continue to walk, Butch holding Phillip's
text: hand. When Butch spots Red approaching he slows and then
dialog: stops.
text: Red shows his palms and keeps walking toward them. When
text: he gets within 25 feet he stops.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I'm unarmed. Toss your gun on the
dialog: ground.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 140.
speaker_heading: 225 CONTINUED: 225
text: Butch smiles.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: If I had a pistola I'd be headed the
dialog: other direction. My partner here got rid
dialog: of the evidence.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Do I know you, friend?
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: No... not really.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Hmm. Well, look I wanna' talk to the boy
dialog: and then we'll take care of bidness. How's
dialog: that? Only take a second.
text: Red nods then looks over his shoulder at the patrol cars
text: lined up like a wagon train, guns aimed, Bobby Lee peering
text: through the scope of his rifle.
speaker_heading: 226 NEW ANGLE 226
dialog: Butch and Phillip.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: I wanna' give ya' somethin'.
scene_heading: 227 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 227
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
text: He's stopped.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: He's gonna make a run for it.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Give it a second!
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: (to Bobby Lee)
dialog: Hold him!
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (yells)
dialog: Let the boy go, Butch!
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: (to Bobby Lee)
dialog: If he makes a move...
dialog: 141.
scene_heading: 228 EXT. FIELD - DAY 228
text: Butch kneels down beside Phillip. He reaches slowly, pain-
text: fully for his back pocket.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Mebe' someday you'll get to go...
scene_heading: 229 EXT. ROADSIDE - DAY 229
text: Hendricks looks through the binocs.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: He's goin' for his weapon!
scene_heading: THROUGH BINOCULARS
text: Butch reaches into his back pocket...
speaker_heading: IN FIELD
text: Red squints to make out what Butch's reaching for.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: Butch smiles as he retrieves the POSTCARD from his pocket.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: A look of concern crosses Red's lips...
speaker_heading: ROADSIDE
text: Sally realizes it's not a gun that Butch is reaching for.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Noooooo...!!!!
scene_heading: FINGER ON TRIGGER
text: squeezes -- An EXPLOSION followed by a RINGING ECHO.
speaker_heading: IN FIELD
text: Butch's chest explodes when the bullet hits him. He rocks
text: backwards, still on his knees... and looks at Phillip in
dialog: amazement.
text: Phillip screams, grabs Butch and holds him up.
text: THROUGH CROSSHAIRS OF GUN
text: Phillip is obscuring a second shot at Butch.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: tastes blood and sighs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 142.
speaker_heading: 229 CONTINUED: 229
speaker_heading: BUTCH
dialog: Damn, Buzz, shot twice in the same day.
text: He collapses and falls into Phillip's arms. Phillip backs
text: away two steps and falls to his knees. Butch wavers for a
text: second then topples on his back.
text: Phillip moans, sobs, as he watches Butch, the GUNSHOT still
speaker_heading: ECHOING.
speaker_heading: AT ROADSIDE
text: Gladys runs from behind the car, followed by a host of
dialog: officers.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: Keep everybody back!
text: Bobby Lee stands, lowers his rifle disengages and smiles at
dialog: Hendricks.
speaker_heading: BOBBY LEE
dialog: No need to worry. He can't hurt nobody
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: IN FIELD
text: Red stands frozen, staring, in another world. An OFFICER
text: trots up to Butch and does a careful ground frisk.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: (calls back)
dialog: No weapon, Chief!
text: Red "comes to," turns and walks toward the...
speaker_heading: ROADSIDE
text: Red walks up to Bobby Lee, stops and stares at the grinning
text: marksman. After a beat, Red turns then nearly jumps out of
text: shoes with a sudden right cross that floors the younger man.
text: Red starts to jump in for more but Hendricks, stunned, jumps
text: in, grabs Red and, joined by four other Officers, holds the
text: older man back. Shouting, i.e. "Hey, hey, Red, whoa, whoa!"
text: Red settles a bit. Hendricks turns to Bobby Lee who rises
text: to one knee and wipes at a bloody lip, and then to Red who
text: is still breathing hard.
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: What the hell was that all about?!
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I didn't say 'when.'
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 143.
speaker_heading: 229 CONTINUED: (2) 229
text: Red turns and walks away. Hendricks throws his hat to the
text: ground, kicks it and follows Red with his eyes...
speaker_heading: HENDRICKS
dialog: (to no one/everyone)
dialog: Goddammit!!
text: Adler catches up to Red. He stares at his old friend and
text: boss as they walk along.
speaker_heading: ADLER
dialog: I thought he had a gun, too, Red. There
dialog: was just no way of knowin'.
text: Red doesn't even look at Adler, just keeps walking. Adler
text: stops, his eyes following Red.
text: Sally, nearby, watches Red walk away.
speaker_heading: PHILLIP
text: is helped to his feet by his mother. She holds him dearly
text: to her chest. He hugs back just as hard, his blood-stained
text: Casper outfit staining her blouse. She unzips the costume
text: and dollar bills fly all around. She starts to lead
dialog: Phillip off but he won't leave until...
text: He pulls the postcard from Butch's hand.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: Staring down at Butch.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: His eyes flutter a bit with recognition.
speaker_heading: AT PATROL CAR
text: Red leans against the car. After a few seconds Sally walks
text: up and finds a spot a few feet down from him where she, too,
text: leans against the car. After a few more seconds.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: You did everything you could. You know
dialog: that.
text: Red just stares straight ahead.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: I don't know nuthin'. Not a damn thing.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 144.
speaker_heading: 229 CONTINUED: (3) 229
text: Red reaches into his pocket, pulls out his tobacco and
text: stuffs a chunk into his mouth.
scene_heading: IN FIELD - CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: He licks his lips as the MUFFLED VOICES CONTINUE around
text: him. He squints hard and sees:
speaker_heading: HELICOPTER
text: as it lifts off and speeds away. As it wipes the sun...
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - BUTCH
text: A slight smile crosses his dying face as he squints to
dialog: see Phillip's flight.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
text: Nose pressed against the glass bubble.
speaker_heading: BUTCH
text: His eyes don't close, still squinted but frozen.
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - EYES
dialog: We realize now, are lifeless.
speaker_heading: BUZZARD
text: continues its flight past the sun.
speaker_heading: SUN
text: flares, SENDING the SCREEN TO:
scene_heading: MILKY WHITE IMAGE
dialog: that opened the film.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
