speaker_heading: A SIMPLE PLAN
dialog: A Screenplay
dialog: : By
dialog: Scott B. Smith
speaker_heading: ORIGI/AL
dialog: ~
dialog: — keno
speaker_heading: FADE IN on:
speaker_heading: BEGIN CREDITS
scene_heading: INT. FEED MILL - DAY
text: The air is thick with dust. Grain is being milled, a loud,
text: steady GRINDING: WE SEE the machinery moving in the shifting
text: light. Shelves line one wall, sagging with burlap sacks. HANK
text: MITCHELL is tallying the bags on a Clipboard. He's thirty years
text: old, slim, light~haired, dressed in khakis and a sweater.
scene_heading: EXT. FEED MILL - DAY
text: A tall narrow building, roofed with corrugated tin. It's
text: separated from the feedstore by a barren, snow-covered yard.
text: The snow is dirty, pockmarked with tracks. We still HEAR the
text: grinding, but it's more muffled now.
text: The mill's door opens, and Hank emerges, clutching his
text: Glipboard. He coughs, spits into the snow, then picks his way
text: quickly toward the feedstore, slapping at his sweater and pants
text: as he goes, leaving a cloud of dust in the air behind hin.
scene_heading: INT. HANK'S OFFICE = DAY
text: A tiny office, which Hank shares with his boss, TOM BUTLER. The
text: bookshelves are crowded with files; the desks are messy; a
text: fluorescent light flickers on the ceiling. Butler, a heavyset
text: man approaching forty, is talking on the phone: no words, just
text: an intermittent string of HMMM‘'s, UH-HUH's, and UNE-UNH's.
text: Hank enters, plucks the top sheet of paper from his clipboard,
text: deposits it on Butler's desk. Butler scans its columns without
text: pausing in his conversation. As Hank sits down at his own,
text: slightly smaller desk, his watch BEEPS. He fumbles with it,
dialog: checking the time: it's noon.
text: Hank hurriedly shuts his briefcase, turns off his desk lamp.
text: When he steps to the door and pulls down his coat, Butler
text: glances at his own watch, raising his eyebrows, the phone still
text: pressed to his ear. Hank hesitates, halfway into his overcoat.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: The cemetery..?
dialog: (Butler's face remains blank)
dialog: My brother and I...
text: Butler nods, suddenly remembering, and waves Hank away. Hank
text: rushes out the door. It SLAMS shut, then immediately pops back
text: open as Hank sticks his head in.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Happy New Year!
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
speaker_heading: P
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Before Butler can respond, the door shuts, and Hank is gone.
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL TOWN MAIN ST. - DAY
text: A small, worn-looking town. The street is lined with two-story
text: buildings, their paint peeling, gutters sagging. The few people
text: out and about are dressed heavily against the cold. Snow has
text: been shoveled into long piles along the sidewalk's edge. Wind-
text: tattered Christmas decorations cling to the light poles.
text: Hank emerges from the feedstore, buttoning his overcoat. He
text: turns to the right, hurrying, his head ducked against the cold.
speaker_heading: MOVING
text: We follow Hank down the block. He passes a woman carrying a
text: bulging grocery bag, a SMALL CHILD trailing behind her,
text: androgynous in its snow gear. The woman's name is LINDA.
speaker_heading: ~ BANK
dialog: Happy New Year, Lindal
dialog: (to the child)
dialog: Happy New Year, Marcil
text: The mother and daughter both RESPOND, their faces too muffled by
text: their scarves for us to make out their words.
text: HANK walks on, passing a tavern, several stores, the library:
text: all of the buildings look equally rundown. Only the town hall
text: stands out in any way, a red-brick structure with a police truck
text: parked on the street before it. CARL JENKINS, the town
text: policeman, a white-haired, vigorous-looking old man, is scraping
text: the truck's windshield. He waves at Hank.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Happy New Year, Hank!
text: As Hank waves back, a little girl glides toward him down the
text: sidewalk, perched on a sled: silent, almost magical. Hank
text: steps aside to let her pass. Then he turns the corner, starts
text: down the next block. He stops at--
scene_heading: THE MITCHELL HOUSE
text: --which is just a bit less dilapidated than its neighbors, an
text: essentially rundown building with a thin facade of renovation:
text: fresh paint, clean windows, a wreath on the door. Christmas
text: lights blink on the porch railings. Hank climbs the steps,
text: vanishes inside, the door SLAMMING shut behind him.
speaker_heading: END CREDITS
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL ENTRANCEWAY —- DAY
text: Hank pauses inside the door, unbuttoning his coat. To his right
text: is the dining room, to his left the living room. Nothing's
dialog: expensive, but all the furnishings have obviously been chosen
text: with care. A poinsettia sits on a table by the front door.
text: Hank drapes his coat over the bannister, bends to remove his
text: shoes, then stops, listening. WE HEAR water running, and--too
text: faintly to make out the words--a woman singing. Hank yanks off
text: his shoes, starts quickly up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM —- DAY
text: A bed, night tables, a pair of bureaus. Photographs dot the
text: walls; the windows look out onto the street. A door, cracked
text: open, leads to a bathroom. This is where the water's coming
text: from: Hank's wife, SARAH, is singing in the shower. We can
text: HEAR her words now. She's singing, "In the Bleak Midwinter".
text: Hank enters, moves to the bathroom door. Very slowly, he pushes
text: it open, steps into--
scene_heading: THE MITCHELL BATHROOM
text: A sink, toilet and tub. Everything shines whitely, except for
text: the shower curtain, which is bright red. Behind it, Sarah
text: continues to SING, her voice hauntingly pretty. Hank stands in
text: the center of the room, perfectly silent, listening.
text: After a few beats, the singing stops and the water is turned
text: off. Then the shower curtain is slowly pulled open, revealing--
speaker_heading: SARAH
text: --who, like her voice, is hauntingly pretty. She flinches at
text: the sight of Hank, startled, hiding behind the shower curtain.
text: It clings to her body, betraying the huge dome of her belly:
text: she's extremely pregnant. After a moment, she smiles, and Hank
text: grabs a towel, steps forward with it, holding it out to her.
text: Neither of them says a word.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM = DAY
text: Hank is knotting his tie in front of the mirror; he's changed
text: into a dark suit. Sarah stands behind him, adjusting his
text: collar, HUMMING the Christmas carol. She's wearing a bathrobe;
text: her hair is still wet. She brushes at Hank's jacket.
text: From downstairs, WE HEAR a sudden pounding. Sarah steps to the
text: window, peers out.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
speaker_heading: 9 CONTINUED: 9
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Oh-oh. Looks like it's going to be a long
dialog: afternoon for you.
dialog: (grinning from the window)
dialog: Be brought Lou along.
text: Hank turns from the mirror in dismay, his shoulders sagging.
scene_heading: 18 INT. MITCHELL FRONT ENTRANCEWAY - DAY 18
text: The POUNDING resumes, as Hank comes down the stairs. He grabs
text: his coat off the bannister, pulls open the door. His brother,
text: JACOB, waits on the porch. He's heavy, slovenly, dressed ina
text: dirty red parka. He eyes Hank, taking in his suit and tie.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You ready?
text: Hank stares past him, buttoning his overcoat.
scene_heading: 19h HANK'S POV — THE STREET 108
text: Jacob's rusted red pickup idles at the curb. His DOG, a
text: shepherd mix, is in the back. LOU sits in the passenger seat:
text: fortyish, balding, stoop-shouldered. He throws Hank a wave.
scene_heading: 1@cont BACK TO SCENE 1@cont
text: Hank waves back with an obvious lack of enthusiasm.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (to Jacob)
dialog: What's he doing here?
text: Jacob shrugs, not looking at his brother.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Needed a lift home.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Kind of out of the way, isn't it?
speaker_heading: , JACOB
dialog: (another shrug)
dialog: I thought we could take him after.
text: Hank looks as if he's about to protest more strongly, but then
text: he checks himself. He sighs, reaches back inside for the
text: poinsettia, then shuts the door and leads Jacob down the steps.
dialog: "1
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY CEMETERY - DAY W
text: A small graveyard behind a ramshackle church, surrounded by open
text: fields. Snow covers everything. Jacob's truck idles in the
text: church's lot. His dog sits in back, pressed against the rear
text: windshield, which has been replaced with a sheet of plastic.
text: Hank and Jacob trudge toward the center of the cemetery. Hank
text: is carrying the poinsettia. They stop before a gravestone.
text: Jacob stoops to wipe it clear of snow, revealing an inscription:
dialog: Jacob Hansel Mitchell Josephine McDonnell Mitchell
dialog: June 2, 1930 May 5, 1933
dialog: December 31, 1990 December 31, 1990
text: Beneath this are two blank spots, for Hank and Jacob. The men
text: stand for a beat, heads bowed. The dog watches from the rear of
text: the truck, ears erect.
text: After a moment, Hank kneels to place the poinsettia before the
text: grave. He scoops out a little crevice for it in the snow,
text: inadvertently excavating the frozen remains of a potted
text: chrysanthemum. Hank stares at it in surprise, then up at Jacob.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Somebody else was here.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I brought it.
text: Bank seems to have trouble accepting this idea.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: You think this is the only day we can come?
text: Before Hank can respond, WE HEAR a screeching sound from the
text: parking lot. Both men turn to look.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - CHURCH PARKING LOT
text: Lou has climbed out of the truck. He unzips his pants, starts
text: to pee. As he urinates, he shuffles slowly to the right.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Bey, Jake! I'm writing my name!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 11
speaker_heading: *11hA
speaker_heading: *11B
speaker_heading: *11C
dialog: 110
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 11
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Jacob laughs. He starts toward the lot, unzipping his own fly.
text: Hank remains crouched there, watching as the two men, giggling
text: like boys, pee their names in the snow. The dog jumps from the
dialog: truck to sniff at their urine. :
scene_heading: EXT. PEDERSON BARNYARD - DAY *11A
text: The explosive sound of FLAPPING WINGS. WE SEE a chicken coop,
text: surrounded by a wooden fence. The chickens are scrambling, a
text: FOX in their midst. The fox lunges, catches one of the birds,
text: snaps its neck with one quick shake of the head, then darts
text: away, scampering over the wooden fence. The windows of the
text: Pederson house are blank: no one's home.
text: WE RISE into the air, watching the fox set off into the fields,
text: its paws throwing up a wake of snow. On the horizon, WE SEE a
text: dark mass of trees. The fox is heading straight for them.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY CEMETERY - DAY *11B
text: Jacob's truck is pulling away from the parking lot, the dog in
text: back. WE SEE the two men's names yellowing the snow. Lou's is
text: written in large, bold letters. Jacob's starts out equally big,
text: but then gradually shrinks as his bladder empties: JAcob.
scene_heading: EXT. JACOB’S TRUCK ~ DAY - MOVING/BRIDGE & CREEK *1IC
text: The truck crosses a low bridge over a half-frozen creek. Plowed
text: snow is piled thickly over the bridge's railings. In the
text: truck's rear, the dog sits pressed against the back of the cab.
speaker_heading: LOU (OS)
dialog: So the cop starts to search the car, right?
scene_heading: INT. JACOB'S TRUCK - DAY - MOVING/BESIDE FROZEN LAKE *110
text: Jacob drives with his gut pressed against the wheel. Like Lou,
text: he has a beer can nestled between his thighs. Lou is on the
text: outside, with Hank in the middle. Lou and Jacob talk back and
text: forth above Hank's head, as if he weren’t even there.
dialog: Lou
text: And when he looks under the seat, he
dialog: shouts: “What the hell is this supposed to
dialog: be?” And you know what the guy says?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (snickering)
dialog: It’s a crockpot.
text: Lou shakes his head, LAUGHING.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
scene_heading: *11D CONTINUED: *11D
dialog: *12
dialog: “13
dialog: 14
dialog: 16
dialog: Lou
dialog: No, no--come on, pay attention. That was
dialog: the preacher, This is the cowboy.
text: Jacob thinks for a moment, then grins slyly.
speaker_heading: JACO!
dialog: He says, “Moooo.”
text: They both LAUGH. Hank glances from one to the other, mystified.
dialog: Lou
dialog: No. He says, “Why, officer. It’s just a
dialog: piiiiiineapple.”
text: They LAUGH even harder; Lou prods Hank with his elbow.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont'd)
dialog: Get it?
text: Hank shakes his head. Lou turns to Jacob.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont’d)
text: Mr. Accountant doesn’t get it.
text: Jacob starts to respond, but then a startled, panicky expression
text: sweeps across his face. He slams the brakes.
speaker_heading: oMIT "42
speaker_heading: OMIT “13
speaker_heading: oMIT 14
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - OUT THE WINDSHIELD 15
text: The fox is sprinting across the road, directly in front of us, a
text: chicken hanging from its jaws.
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF PARK - DAY
text: The truck goes into a skid, its right front tire dropping into
text: the ditch beside the road, the right headlight shattering.
text: INSIDE THE TRUCK
text: Everyone's thrown forward. The dog comes flying in through the
text: plastic rear window, legs flailing, then scrambles quickly out.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE TRUCK 16
text: The dog leaps down, BARKING, and chases the fox into the woods.
dialog: 7
text: INSIDE THE TRUCK
text: Jacob slaps the steering wheel with his hand.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck.
speaker_heading: JA.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 17
dialog: 17
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 17
text: Lou GIGGLES, and pushes open his door.
scene_heading: EDGE OF THE PARK
text: The three men climb out to inspect the damage. WE SEE their
text: breath in the air. Jacob flips up his parka's hood; Lou pulis
text: on a hat. Hank shivers in his overcoat. The dog’s BARKING
text: grows fainter and fainter. Jacob WHISTLES.
speaker_heading: JACOB
speaker_heading: MARY BETH!
text: Lou peers across the road. Hank follows his gaze.
scene_heading: ACROSS THE ROAD - HANK'S POV
text: The fox’'s tracks trail off across the field, a dotted line
text: pointed toward the Pederson farm.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
dialog: Lou
text: Looks like Dwight Pederson's missing a
dialog: chicken.
text: Jacob WHISTLES again. The BARKING sounds very far away now, but
text: it seems to have stopped moving. The three men listen.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: She treed it.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: That‘s how it sounds.
text: Jacob walks to the truck and reaches inside, rummaging behind
text: the front seat. He emerges with a hunting rifle in his hand.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What’re you doing?
text: Jacob doesn’t answer. He loads a bullet into the gun, slams the
text: truck's door, shoulders the rifle. .
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: It’s a nature preserve, Jacob.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: So?"
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It’s posted land. You can’t hunt here.
text: Lou grins, watching the brothers. Jacob points at his truck.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
dialog: 17
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 17
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: He busted my headlight.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: We're not really hunting here, Hank. It's
dialog: more like we're collecting a debt.
text: Jacob and Lou set off into the woods, LAUGHING. It's clear that
text: they're a bit loaded. Hank hesitates, then hurries after them.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DAY 1B
text: A small stream. WE SEE the dog and fox's tracks running up the
text: far bank. Lou has already crossed; Jacob is Sloshing through.
text: Bank, in dress shoes, searches for a dry passage. Lou and Jacob
text: LAUGH as they watch him teeter his way across on some stones.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - FURTHER IN - DAY 19
text: Lou and Hank stop to rest on the edge of a small valley. Jacob
text: has fallen behind. He struggles toward them, his jacket open,
text: his face shiny with sweat. Lou points into the valley.
dialog: Lou :
dialog: Jesus. Look at all those birds.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - DOWN THE SLOPE
text: The trees are different here: smaller, planted in rows, the
text: remains of an apple orchard. Their branches are full of crows.
text: The fox's tracks go straight through the orchard, disappearing
text: over the far slope. In the distance, the dog continues to BARK.
speaker_heading: JACOB (OS)
dialog: Wish we'd brought something to drink.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Jacob has reached them, GASPING, soaked with sweat. Lou waves
text: his hand in the air, snaps his fingers over his jacket pocket,
text: pulls out a can of beer. He opens it, hands it to Jacob.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Always be prepared.
text: Jacob takes two large gulps, returns the can to Lou. Lou sips
text: at it, then holds it out to Hank, but Hank shakes his head.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont’d) .
dialog: What? Can't drink till after five?
text: Hank SIGHS, peers off into the orchard, pointedly ignoring Lou.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 19
dialog: 28
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: is
speaker_heading: LOU (cont'd)
dialog: (trying to get a rise)
dialog: Or maybe you don't wanna share? ‘Fraid
dialog: you'll catch something from us.
text: He winks at Jacob, who smirks. When Hank still refuses to
text: react, Lou hands the beer can to Jacob, scoops up a snowball.
text: He feints a throw at Hank, and Hank ducks. Lou and Jacob LAUGH.
dialog: Lou
dialog: See, now that's what you might call in-sin-
dialog: uea-ting a throw. Remember? You said that
dialog: last time I saw you. Could've just said
dialog: "hint," but nooo, you had to put on airs,
dialog: show us all the fancy words you know.
text: Lou tosses the snowball into the orchard.
scene_heading: BANK’S POV - THE ORCHARD
text: The snowball arcs into the orchard, smacks into a mound of snow
text: upon which a dozen crows are perched. CAWING, the crows rise
text: up, and a sheet of snow slides off the mound, partially
text: REVEALING a SINGLE ENGINE PLANE. Both its wings are missing.
text: It's balanced, nose-down, over the trunk of a fallen tree,
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: The three men stare into the orchard, stunned.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jesus Christ.
scene_heading: INT. PLANE - DAY 26
text: Near darkness--we shouldn't be sure where we are. A thin stream
text: of light enters from a crescent-shaped tear in the fuselage. WE
text: HEAR muffled voices, then the cabin begins to shake. There's a
text: CREAKING sound, metal pushing against metal, and a perpendicular
text: crack appears in the darkness, a doorway opening.
text: WE SEE Hank’s face shoved through the crack, blinking.
scene_heading: INT. PLANE ~ HANK'S POV FROM THE DOORWAY - DAY
text: The plane’s rear is lost in shadow, but it looks empty. Toward
text: the front is a large duffel bag. Beyond it are two seats. in
text: the gray light filtering in through the ice-covered windshield,
text: it's impossible to tell if they're occupied.
speaker_heading: Rev. 2/12/98
dialog: Goldenrod
dialog: il.
scene_heading: 2i EXT. ORCHARD - DAY 21
text: Hank pulls his head from the doorway. Jacob has his rifle
text: cradled in his arms; Lou is drinking from his can of beer.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I can't see.
dialog: (to Jacob)
dialog: Can you scrape some of that snow off the
dialog: windshield?
text: Jacob shuffles off, while Hank tugs again at the door. He pulls
text: so hard that he rocks the plane, dislodging the remainder of its
text: shell of snow, but the door refuses to budge any further,
text: Hank turns sideways, pushes his head and shoulders through the
text: doorway, then gets stuck. He tries to pull back, but his coat
text: is snagged. WE HEAR a tearing sound.
speaker_heading: ‘HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Shit.
scene_heading: 22 INT. PLANE - DAY . 22
text: Hank is trying to worm his way in, when WE HEAR Jacob start to
text: Scrape at the windshield. Sank squints toward the cockpit.
scene_heading: 2aae HANK’S POV — PLANE'S COCKPIT 224%
text: Jacob continues to scrape at the windshield, but to no effect.
text: Through the gray opacity of the ice, WE SEE the shadow of his
text: arm moving back and forth. It disappears, then comes THUMPING
text: down against the glass. The ice shatters, falls away. Light
text: floods in, REVEALING a man's body, slumped in the lefthand seat.
text: The pilot's head, resting against the dashboard, seems to be
text: shaking back and forth.
scene_heading: 22B* BACK TO SCENE : 22B*
text: Hank stares in shock.
speaker_heading: : HANK
dialog: Hey, buddy. You all right?
dialog: (slapping the fuselage)
dialog: Hey!
scene_heading: HANK’S POV - PLANE’S COCKPIT
text: The pilot’s head has stopped moving.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: Rev. 2/12/98
dialog: Goldenrod
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: 22B* CONTINUED: 22B+
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank twists his head, yells over his shoulder.
speaker_heading: BANK
dialog: There's somebody in here!
text: He tries to squeeze forward again.
scene_heading: 23 EXT. ORCHARD 23
text: Jacob shuffles back toward Lou from the front of the plane.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: What'd he say?
text: Lou shrugs: he neither knows nor cares. He finishes his beer,
text: tosses the can off into the trees, then steps behind Hank.
dialog: Watch this.
text: He begins to tickle Hank. Hank kicks out, but misses and loses
text: his footing. ‘The doorway’s grip holds him up. Lou LAUGHS.
scene_heading: 24 INT. PLANE 24
text: Hank strains to get free. Lou and Jacob’s LAUGHTER filters in.
speaker_heading: JACOB (05)
dialog: Let me try.
text: Hank freezes as WE HEAR a loud flapping sound from the cockpit.
scene_heading: 244* HANK'S POV -. TRE COCKPIT 24a%
text: The pilot's head is tossed aside as two crows burst from his
text: lap, THUDDING into the windshield. They beat against the glass,
text: then bounce off, one landing on the rear of the pilot’s seat,
text: the other on the seat beside it. Their heads dart back and
text: forth, eyeing Hank.
scene_heading: 24B* BIRD'S POV = HANK TRAPPED IN THE DOORWAY 24B*
text: Hank, very carefully, is trying to slip back out the door.
speaker_heading: 24C* EXT ORR nn
text: Jacob begins to tickle Hank. WE HEAR Hank screan.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: Rev. 2/12/98
dialog: Goldenrod
dialog: 13.
scene_heading: 24 CONTINUED: 24
speaker_heading: TT
scene_heading: * 24D* HANK'S POV = THE COCKPIT 24D
text: The birds take to the air, banging against the windshield again.
text: One of them bounces off and flies straight at us.
scene_heading: INT. PLANE end
text: Hank ducks, and the bird hits him in the forehead. Be YELPS,
text: pitches forward, and finally breaks free, landing inside the
text: plane. The bird flies up to the hole in the fuselage and worms
text: its way out, followed almost immediately by its partner.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. ORCHARD 25
text: The birds emerge from the hole. Lou flinches at the sight of
text: them, stumbling backward, falling onto his rear end in the snow.
scene_heading: 26 INT. PLANE 26
text: Jacob fills the doorway, blocking the light.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You see those birds?
text: Hank doesn’t answer. His forehead is bleeding. He stands up,
text: moves hurriedly toward the cockpit.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: Hank?
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - THE PILOT
text: The pilot is a thin young man, dressed in a flannel shirt and
text: jeans. WE SEE Hank's hand tap him on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: HANK (0S)
dialog: Hey. You okay?
text: A pause, then Hank pulls the pilot from the dashboard. | The 26A*
text: 26A% man's head falis - His eyes have beén eaten out the
text: birds: their dark sockets stare up at us. A bloody icicle .
text: hangs from his nose.
dialog: ——— F*="n
scene_heading: 26B* BACK TO SCENE 26B*
text: Hank stumbles backward, trips over the duffel bag, falls. His °-
text: impact upsets the plane's balance across the fallen tree: its
text: nose lifts into the air, and Hank slides toward the plane’s
text: tail. The pilot's body swivels in its chair, as if to pursue
text: him; the duffel bag slips along the floor till it's blocking the
text: doorway; and a soda can rolls ont from under the pilot's seat,
text: RATTLES down the length of the plane, thumps into Hank's leg.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
speaker_heading: Rev. 2/12/98
dialog: Goldenrod
dialog: 14.
scene_heading: 26B* CONTINUED: 263%
speaker_heading: Lou (0S)
dialog: What the fuck's he doing in there?
text: Hank picks up the can, throws it away in disgust. It hits the
text: floor, RATTLES right back into him. He peers down at it for a
text: beat, then touches his forehead, examines the blood on his
text: fingers, Finally, he rises, struggles toward the door, shoving
text: the duffel bag out before him.
scene_heading: 27 EXT. ORCHARD - MOMENTS LATER 27
text: Hank crouches beside the plane, holding snow to his wound. Lou
text: removes his gloves, starts to work at the duffel bag's knot,
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I say we just stop by the police station.
dialog: If we call it in on the CB, we'll never
dialog: out of here. We'll have to wait forever——
text: Lou has managed to open the bag; WE SEE him look inside with an
text: expression of stunned amazement. He reaches in, touches
text: whatever's there. Neither Hank nor Jacob notices his reaction.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: We'll still have to come back, Jacob.
dialog: We'll have to lead them to the--
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Jacob!
dialog: (Jacob turns)
dialog: Look...
text: He tilts the bag. It’s filled with hundred dollar bills,
text: packets held together with pai bands. The three men stand in
text: shocked silence, not even n cing when the dog reappears,
text: wading down through the snow on the opposite slope. Finally,
text: Lou starts to GIGGLE. He bends his head into the bag, kisses
text: the money, then looks up at the other two, ecstatic.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont ’d)
dialog: Can you believe this?
text: Hank steps forward to look more closely. Jacob glances from him
text: to Lou, bewildered.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: It's real?
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Of course it's real. Don't be stupid.
text: He plucks out a packet, tosses it to Jacob. Jacob catches it,
text: staring in wonder. Lou jumps up, pumped with excitement.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: 27 CONTINUED: (2) 27
text: Hank shakes his head; he finds the prospect preposterous.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont’d)
dialog: (with sudden venom)
dialog: Stay the hell out of it, then. We don't
dialog: need you. It just means more money for us.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I don't want to stump you with another
dialog: "fancy" word, but does the term accomplice
dialog: mean anything to you?
text: Jacob tries to intercede before Lou can reply.
dialog: Hank is
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Why would we get caught?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It's a lot of money, Jacob. Someone has to
dialog: be looking for it. And when they find the
dialog: plane, and it's not inside-~
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: That's bullshit. That guy's gotta be a
dialog: drug dealer or something. As far as the
dialog: police're concerned this doesn't even
dialog: exist. Nobody knows about it but us.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (nodding enthusiastically)
dialog: Like lost treasure!
text: obviously unconvinced. Lou turns to Jacob, disgusted.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Your fucking brother--it's the American
dialog: dream, and he just wants to walk away from
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You work for the American dream, Lou. You
dialog: don't steal it.
dialog: . Lou
dialog: Then this is even better!
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (jumping in, insistent)
dialog: It's drug money, Hank. It's not stealing.
dialog: Lou
dialog: How about this?
dialog: (lifting out a packet)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 27
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 27
speaker_heading: LOU (cont'd)
dialog: I'll bet you ten thousand dollars that when
dialog: they find the plane, there's no mention of
dialog: the money.
text: He holds the packet toward Hank. Hank peers down at it. When
text: he doesn't take it, Lou tosses it at him. It smacks Hank in the
text: chest; he catches it as it bounces off.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont ‘d)
dialog: Why give it up before we even know if
dialog: someone's looking for it?
text: ON HANK, as he stares down at the money, hefting it in his paln.
text: The other men watch him, waiting. Hank opens his mouth to
text: speak, but then stops, hesitating, trying to make his way
text: through this new territory, struggling to discern a path.
text: Finally, slowly, as if he were merely thinking out loud:
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What if I was the one to keep it?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: All of it?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Sust till spring. Till someone finds the
dialog: plane.
dialog: Lou
dialog: And then?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: If you're right, and nobody mentions the
dialog: money, we can split it up and move away.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Why should you get to hold it?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: That's the only way I'll do it. Otherwise,
dialog: we can turn it in right now.
text: Jacob gives his brother a quizzical look.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You don't trust us?
text: Hank hesitates, weighing the merits of a truthful answer. Then:
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I guess I don't.
text: Jacob nods. He doesn’t seem surprised. Hank turns to Lou.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
dialog: i8.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 27
speaker_heading: HANK (cont‘d)
dialog: No promises. If it looks like anyone's
dialog: searching for the money, I'll burn it, and
dialog: that'll be that.
text: Jacob and Lou stare at each other, silently debating. Finally,
text: Jacob shrugs, tossing his packet back into the bag.
dialog: Lou
dialog: (threatening)
dialog: We count it first.
text: Hank and Lou lock eyes for a moment. Then Hank nods.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: That's probably a good idea.
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF ROAD ~ DUSK 28
text: Jacob’s truck is repositioned at side of the road. The three
text: men Stand behind it. WE SEE the packets lined up on the
text: tailgate, forty-four stacks of ten. The three men stare down at
text: them, mesmerized. Very faintly, WE HEAR a car approaching.
dialog: Lou :
dialog: (breathless)
dialog: Four million, four hundred thousand
dialog: dollars.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: How much is that apiece?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Almost a million and a--
text: The CAR is much louder now. All three men look up at once.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Shit.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - DOWN THE ROAD
text: WE SEE a pickup approaching. It has a bubble light on its roof.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank throws the duffel bag over the money. It barely covers
text: half of it. He waves Jacob and Lou toward the cab.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Get in the truck, okay? I'll handle this.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 28
dialog: 29
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 28
text: Jacob and Lou hesitate, then move quickly toward the front.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: THE POLICE TRUCK — NIGHT 29
text: stopping behind Jacob's truck. Carl Jenkins rolls down the
text: window, smiling broadly as Hank steps out to greet him.
dialog: Hey, Carl.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Engine trouble, Hank?
speaker_heading: HANK
text: Dog trouble. Jacob’s mutt ran into the
text: woods after a fox.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Tree it?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Thought so, but just as we started to go
text: after her she came running back.
text: Carl leans forward a little, squinting up at Hank‘s face.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: What happened to your head?
text: Hank touches his wound, then waves toward the woods.
speaker_heading: HANK
text: Walked into a branch.
text: Carl looks toward Jacob’s truck. Hank follows his glance.
scene_heading: BANK'S POV ~- JACOB’S TRUCK
text: Through the torn rear windshield, WE SEE Lou and Jacob talking
text: animatedly, their faces close together. Jacob's dog suddenly
text: pushes her way between them, scrambling out the window into the
text: truck's rear. She starts sniffing at the money.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Brother still out of work?
dialog: (Hank nods)
dialog: Lou?
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
dialog: 29
dialog: 30
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 29
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Him too.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: That’s a shame, ain’t it? wo grown men,
dialog: both eager for work. This country...
text: Carl leans forward, turns up his truck’s heater.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Well, we should probably-~
text: The door to Jacob's truck CREAKS open, and Carl looks up.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV ~ ACROSS THE ROAD
text: For an instant WE SEE the plane's pilot approaching, his eyeless
text: face, his bloated hands held out before him, but then WE HEAR:
speaker_heading: CARL (0S)
dialog: Hello, Jacob.
text: And the figure becomes Jacob approaching us, the door of his
text: truck standing open behind hin.”
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: CARL (cont'd)
dialog: I was beginning to think maybe you were
dialog: trying to avoid ma.
speaker_heading: - JACOB
dialog: I was just cold. Wanted to get in the
text: truck and warm up a bit.
text: (glancing at Hank, grinning)
dialog: You tell him about the plane?
text: Hank stares at his brother, speechless with surprise and horror.
scene_heading: INT. JACOB'S TRUCK - NIGHT - MOVING 3a
text: Hank sits between Jacob and Lou, his legs hugging the duffel
text: bag. He keeps glancing out the torn rear window, making sure
text: they aren't being pursued.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (scared and angry)
dialog: I've seen you do a lot of stupid things,
dialog: Jacob, but that pretty much takes the cake.
text: Before Jacob can respond, Lou jumps to his defense.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
dialog: 2l.
scene_heading: 30 CONTINUED: 30
dialog: Lou
dialog: It was my idea.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Well, that's brilliant, Lou. .If they fina
text: the plane now, and they realize the money's
dialog: gone, he’s gonna know right off who took
dialog: it.
text: Jacob shakes his head, grinning.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: That’s the beauty of it. There's no way
dialog: we'd have mentioned it if we were the ones
dialog: who took the money.
dialog: Lou
dialog: It's not like we told him you actually saw
dialog: . a plane going down. Just that you thought
dialog: you heard one with engine trouble. 1 don't
dialog: really think--
dialog: (furious)
dialog: You want me to burn the money?
text: The other two men are mute, intimidated by his Tage. .
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: I'm not going to jail for this, Lou. If it
dialog: looks like there’s even the slightest
dialog: chance of us getting caught, I swear to
dialog: God, it's all gonna vanish. You
dialog: understand?
text: Again, silence. The torn Plastic makes a flapping sound behind
text: their heads. Finally, Lou throws Jacob a little smirk.
dialog: Lou
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: It's a piiiiiiineapple,
text: He and Jacob begin to GIGGLE. Hank glances from one to the
text: other, still angry, and--with no small effort--they Manage to
dialog: stop laughing.
text: Out the window WE SEE a rundown farmhouse. Jacob slows the
text: truck, pulls into the driveway.
dialog: 31
dialog: 21a.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - LOU’S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: As the truck rolis toa stop, NANCY,
text: fortyish woman, leans her head out t!
text: Lou’s wife, a large,
text: he door, peering toward us.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 31
dialog: 31
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 2 31
speaker_heading: NANCY
dialog: Lou?
dialog: (she steps outside)
dialog: Where the heli‘ve you been?
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Lou SIGHS, starts to climb out. Hank grabs his sleeve.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Nobody knows about this. That includes
dialog: Nancy.
text: Lou glares at Hank’s hand till Hank lets go.
speaker_heading: NANCY (0S)
dialog: You're two hours late!
text: Lou ignores this, brushing at his sleeve.
dialog: Lou
dialog: She’s gotta know sometime. she’s gonna
dialog: wonder where all my money's coming from.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You can tell her when we decide that it’s
dialog: safe to keep it.
speaker_heading: LOU
text: Then the same goes for Sarah.
text: Before Hank can respond, a snowball smacks Lou in the neck.
text: Nancy gives a gleeful SHOUT.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - LOU'S HOUSE
text: Nancy has stepped down onto the snow-covered walk.
speaker_heading: NANCY
dialog: You promised to shovel the walk before you
dialog: left, you lazy son-of-a-bitch.
text: A snowball THUMPS into the truck. The dog begins to BARK.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Lou starts toward the house, making calming gestures with his
text: hands. Nancy throws another snowball at h Narrowly missing.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Come on, Honey. We just got a little tied
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
speaker_heading: ———OCUCUlhhU wT US
dialog: 31
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 31
text: Nancy retreats to the porch. ‘There's a shovel there, jammed
text: into a pile of snow. She yanks it out, throws it at Lou's feet.
speaker_heading: NANCY
dialog: You're not coming in till the walk's clear.
speaker_heading: HANK AND JACOB
text: As Jacob backs down the drive, Hank turns to watch the house,
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - OUT THE TRUCK
text: Lou stands there with the shovel, talking fast and low,
text: gesturing animatedly. Nancy has come down a step to listen.
speaker_heading: ON HANK
text: As he watches Lou, suspecting that their secret's already out.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL FRONT ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT 32
text: Light streams in from the kitchen, but otherwise the hall is
text: dark. WE HEAR pots clinking, Sarah singing. The front door
text: CREARS open, and Hank steps inside, dragging the duffel bag
text: behind him. He shuts the door, then hesitates, staring at the
text: bag. Sarah continues to SING, unaware of his return.
text: Finally, Hank comes to a decision. He leaves the bag, starts
text: down the hall, still in his overcoat. He stops after a few
text: steps, though, comes back, twists shut the door's lock. Then he
text: moves quickly toward the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL KITCHEN - NIGHT 33
text: Sarah stands by the stove, stirring a pot, SINGING softly.
text: She's dressed in a bathrobe. She glances up, smiling, when Bank
text: appears in the doorway.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Hey! I didn’t hear you-~
dialog: {setting down her spoon,
dialog: concerned)
dialog: What happened to your head?
text: She picks up a dish towel, runs it under the faucet, steps
text: toward him. Hank stares at her, struggling to think things
text: through. She takes him by the hand, leads him to a chair.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: It's all bloody.
text: She starts to clean his wound. Hank watches her for a beat,
dialog: silent. ‘Then:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 24,
speaker_heading: 33 CONTINUED: 33
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Sarah.
text: (she stops, looking at him)
dialog: What if you were out walking in the woods,
dialog: and you found a bag full of money--maybe, I
dialog: don't know...
dialog: (he pretends to think)
dialog: Four million dollars. Would you keep it?
text: Sarah gives him a funny look, half-smiling, half-wary.
speaker_heading: SARAE
dialog: Of course not.
text: The pot begins to boil over on the stove. Sarah jumps to turn
text: it down. Hank stares after her, astonished.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: How come?
text: Sarah resumes her stirring.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Well, for starters, it'd be stealing.
text: Hank shakes his head, standing up, growing animated: this is a
text: Teservation he's sure he can appease.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: We're talking about lost money here.
dialog: Nobody's looking for it.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Four million dollars and no one's looking
dialog: for it?
dialog: (Hank nods emphatically)
dialog: Then whose money is it?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What do you mean? It's yours.
text: Sarah opens the oven, bends to check on the bread.
speaker_heading: . SARAH
dialog: But whose was it before?
text: The question seems to stump Hank. Re has to think for a moment.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: A bank robber's?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Then it's the bank's money.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 33
speaker_heading: 33K
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 33
text: Hank throws up his hands in impatience.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: All right, it's a drug dealer's.
text: Sarah stirs the pot, considering this. It's clear that she's
text: searching for a reason not to take a drug dealer's money.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: This is so silly, Hank.
text: Hank gives her a long look of disappointment, which she doesn't
text: seem to notice. Then he turns and strides from the room. Sarah
text: continues to stir, oblivious of his departure.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: {to the empty room)
dialog: I mean, it doesn't matter where it's from.
dialog: I wouldn't take it.
dialog: {a pause)
dialog: It's just wrong. That's all that--
text: Hank returns, dragging the duffel bag. He pours the money into
text: a massive pile across the table, packets sliding off and.
text: dropping to the floor. Then he turns to Sarah, a huge grin on
text: his face. She's staring open-mouthed at the money.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It’s real.
text: Sarah looks almost pained. She reaches behind herself, drops
text: the spoon onto the stove, touches her hand to her forehead.
scene_heading: HANK AND SARAH - LATER *33A
text: seated at the kitchen table, eating dinner--spaghetti, garlic
text: bread, green beans, milk. The money is piled messily on the
text: floor beside them. They keep glancing at it while they eat.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: If we keep it, we'll never have to worry
dialog: about money again.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: We don’t have to worry about money now,
dialog: Hank. You’ve got a good job. We don’t
dialog: need this.
text: Hank lets this go. He stares down at the money, chewing his
text: food, thinking, searching for another approach.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Nobody gets hurt by our keeping it.
dialog: 26.
scene_heading: °33B THE KITCHEN SINK - LATER *338
speaker_heading: *33C
text: Hank is washing the dishes, while Sarah dries them and puts them
text: away. The money is still lying on the floor, but it’s been
text: organized into stacks now. A TV is playing on the counter.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: That’s what makes it a crime, isn’t it?
dialog: People getting hurt?
text: He turns off the water. Sarah begins to dry the last pot.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: What makes it a crime is that it's against
dialog: the law. It doesn't matter whether anybody
dialog: gets hurt or not. You get caught and you
dialog: go to jail.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: But you aren’t listening to me. The
dialog: money’s the only evidence that we've done
dialog: anything wrong. We can sit on it and see
dialog: what happens—
text: A COMMERCIAL is playing on the TV, and both it and Hank’s
text: dialogue roll over into the next scene.
scene_heading: INT. HANK’S FAMILY ROOM —- LATER *33C
text: Hank and Sarah sit on the couch in front of a larger TV.
text: They're sipping sparkling cider. The money is back in its bag,
text: which sits across the room now, leaning up against the doorway.
speaker_heading: BANK (cont'd)
dialog: --if someone comes searching for it, we'll
dialog: burn it, and that'll be that. There's no
dialog: risk, we'll always be in complete control.
text: On Tv, the commercial ends, and a New Year’s Eve show comes on-—-
text: there are shots of Times Square, frenzied crowds, the gold ball.
speaker_heading: . SARAH
dialog: What about Jacob and Lou?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: As long as we're the ones holding the
dialog: money, they'll do whatever we tell them to.
text: On the TV, the countdown is just starting; the ball begins its
text: descent. Hank and Sarah don’t seem to notice.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: *33C CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: *33D
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: *33C
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: And your tracks in the snow? They lead in
text: from the road, right to the plane, then
text: back out again.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It’s supposed to snow tomorrow. The
dialog: tracks'il be gone by tomorrow night.
text: The New Year arrives~—FIRECRACKERS, COWBELLS. on the TV a swing
text: band strikes up AULD LANG SYNE. Sarah lifts her glass, and Hank
text: returns the gesture, but distractedly, merely out of reflex.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: We can always burn the money. Right up to
text: the very last moment. It seems silly to
dialog: just give it up now, before anything's even
dialog: gone wrong.
scene_heading: BENEATH THE BED - LATER *330
text: A CU of the duffel bag, stuffed beneath the bed. The bed is
text: creaking a bit, and WE HEAR Hank and Sarah making love. We move
text: UPWARD until WE SEE .
speaker_heading: HANK AND SARAH
text: Sarah is crouched over Hank; his hands are on her breasts. They
text: both seem to be deeply involved in what they're doing, but then,
text: suddenly, Sarah freezes,
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You have to go back and return some of it.
dialog: A lot, like five hundred thousand.
text: It takes Hank a moment to focus in on what she's saying.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SARAH
text: That way when they find the plane, they‘11
dialog: assume no one’s been there yet. It’ll put
dialog: us beyond suspicion. No one would walk
dialog: away from that much money.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (still a little dazed)
dialog: Wa‘re gonna keep the rest?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You'll have to go in the morning, so when
dialog: it storms later, it’1l cover your tracks.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 28.
scene_heading: *33D CONTINUED: *33D
speaker_heading: *33E
dialog: 4
speaker_heading: “35
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: {a pause)
dialog: You can't tell Jacob, though.
text: It takes Hank a moment to follow this. He stares up at her.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You think he'd go back and take it?
text: Sarah brushes the hair from his forehead, then leans forward,
text: kisses his cheek.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: It's just being careful. That's what we
dialog: have to be from now on. We have to be
text: thinking ahead all the time.
text: She begins moving up and down again; Hank Tesponds accordingly,
text: though he seems distracted, his thoughts far away.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT LANDING - DAY *33E
text: Hank stands at the top of a dingy, dimly lit stairway, pounding
text: on a Closed door. There’s no answer. Hank pounds again, louder
dialog: this time.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Come on, Jacob. Open up.
text: He pushes at the front of his jacket. There’s a definite buige
text: there, which he tries to shift a bit with his hand. He’s still
text: working at it when the door opens. He quickly drops his hand.
text: Jacob blinks out at us. His face is puffy, his hair uncombed.
text: He’s wearing long johns and a too-small T-shirt. Behind him, we
text: glimpse a small, sparsely furnished, extremely dirty studio,
text: with a scraggly Christmas tree in the corner.
text: Hank glances anxiously down the stairs. He puts his hands in
text: his jacket pockets, pushing out, trying to hide the bulge,
dialog: seh
dialog: (whispering) .
dialog: I moved the pilot. We gotta go put him
text: back like he was.
text: Jacob gives Hank a bleak stare, then coughs raggedly, dragging
text: something up. He glances around for something to deposit it
text: into, then just leans out the door and spits into the hall.
speaker_heading: OKIT 934
speaker_heading: OMIT 35
dialog: #36
dialog: *37
dialog: 38
dialog: 28a.
speaker_heading: OMIT °36
speaker_heading: OMIT 37
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - DAY 38
text: Hank's car, a green station wagon, pulls over near where they
text: crashed the day before. Hank and Jacob push open their doors,
text: Jacob's dog bounding out behind them. Hank moves to the car's
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 38
text: rear, tugging at his coat, trying to readjust it over the bulge.
text: He stops when he sees Jacob watching him, and quickly opens the
text: car's tailgate, bending inside.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: {over his shoulder)
dialog: You go out with Lou for New Year's?
dialog: (Jacob grunts)
dialog: Nancy come along?
text: Silence. Hank pulls his head out of the Car's rear, looks at
text: his brother. Jacob nods.
speaker_heading: BANK (cont'd)
dialog: Be tell her?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You tell Sarah?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: ~ Of course not.
text: Jacob gives him a disbelieving look. Hank ignores it.
speaker_heading: HANK (contd)
dialog: $0?
text: Jacob glances away, SIGHS.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: How the hell should I know, Hank?
text: Hank leans back into the car. When he emerges, he's holding a
text: jack. He crouches beside the car's left rear wheel, starts to
text: fiddle with the jack, but then stops, turning to Jacob.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I want you to take responsibility for him.
dialog: If he fucks up, it'll be your fault. I'll
dialog: hold you to blame.
text: Jacob hesitates, thinking this through.
speaker_heading: : JACOB
dialog: Who takes responsibility for me?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I do.
dialog: (smiling up at Jacob)
dialog: I'll look after you and you'll look after
dialog: me. We'll each be our brother's keeper,
text: They each consider the other. Finally, Jacob SNORTS, as if it
text: were all a bad joke. Hank LAUGHS, too, a little embarrassed.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
speaker_heading: 39A*
speaker_heading: 39B*
dialog: agce
speaker_heading: 39D*
dialog: 48
dialog: 41
speaker_heading: Rev. 2/12/98
dialog: Goldenrod
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 38
text: He turns back to the jack, starts to rotate its handle. The car
text: begins to rise. Jacob gestures at the tire.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Nobody's gonna believe that. It's obvious
dialog: it’s not flat.
text: Hank reaches for the tire's valve. The air HISSES out.
scene_heading: INT. PLANE = DAY 39
text: Hank slips inside, his coat unbuttoned. aA purple pouch rests
text: against his stomach, bulging with the money. It's the type of
text: bag people carry babies in, and has a dinosaur on its front.
dialog: eee
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - THE PILOT 39A*
text: Still twisted around in his seat, facing us, his seatbelt
text: holding him in, his eyes gouged out, the bloody icicle hanging
text: from his nose. His arms are open, as if to embrace Hank.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE 39B*
text: As Hank starts forward, the plane tilts onto its nose again.
text: The soda can RATTLES past Hank to the cockpit; the pilot swivels
dialog: jis Chair, his ‘Smac) .
text: icicle falls to the floor, shattering.
text: Hank drags a trash bag out © pouch, shoves i
dialog: pilot's seat,
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF ROAD —- DAY 40
text: Jacob is crouched beside the car. He's changed the tire and
text: lowered the jack, and is just tightening the bolts on the spare.
text: WE HEAR an engine, gradually growing louder. The dog WHIMPERS,
text: peering toward the field. Jacob turns to look.
scene_heading: JACOB'S POV = ACROSS THE ROAD
text: DWIGHT PEDERSON, an old man in an orange jacket, is approaching
text: on @ snowmobile. He's following the fox's tracks, a rifle on
text: his shoulder.
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD ~ DAY 4
text: Hank squeezes out of the plane, then starts to shut the door,
dialog: only to discover—
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - THE AIRPLANE'S DOOR
text: A small square of tan cloth hangs from one of the door's bolts.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
dialog: 41
dialog: 42
dialog: 43
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
speaker_heading: 45a
speaker_heading: 46R
speaker_heading: 45B
speaker_heading: 46B
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 41
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank inspects his overcoat. WE SEE a small tear on his side.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jesus.
text: He carefully plucks free the snagged square of cloth.
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF ROAD - DAY 42
text: Jacob rises to his feet, still gripping the jack's handle. the
text: snowmobile is almost to the road. Pederson waves at Jacob, and
text: Jacob waves back, glancing anxiously into the woods.
scene_heading: EXT. THE ORCHARD - DAY 43
text: Hank is searching the wreck for other signs of their presence.
text: In the BG WE HEAR the snowmobile. Hank pauses, listening, then
text: pushes shut the door, turns and starts up the slope at a run.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS ~ THE STREAM 44
text: Hank is running through the trees, out of breath, sweaty. He
text: reaches the little stream, splashes straight through it. -
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - NEAR THE ROAD 45
text: Hank suddenly slows to a walk, looking ahead.
scene_heading: HANK’S POV - EDGE OF ROAD 46
text: About thirty yards ahead, WE SEE Jacob Standing behind the car,
text: talking with Pederson, who's still perched on his snowmobile.
text: BACK TO SCENE 45h
text: Hank straightens his jacket, continues walking toward the road.
scene_heading: HANK’S POV ~ EDGE OF ROAD 46A
text: Jacob is shaking his head, talking very fast. Pederson keeps
text: pointing at the snow. He looks up suddenly, squints toward us,
text: then raises his’ hand halfway up his body in greeting.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE 45B
text: Hank waves back, smiling, keeps walking.
scene_heading: HANK’S POV - EDGE OF ROAD 468
text: Jacob looks toward us, panicked, still talking. Pederson shakes
text: his head, REVS the snowmobile, starts slowly forward. Jacob
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: 46B CONTINUED: 46B
speaker_heading: 45C
dialog: 47
text: lunges after him, swinging the jack's handle, hitting Pederson
text: at the base of his neck, Pederson collapses. Jacob slips on
text: the follow-through, tumbling on top of him, losing his glasses.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE 45C
text: Hank starts to sprint toward the road.
speaker_heading: EDGE OF ROAD 47
text: Jacob pats around in the snow, finds his glasses, struggles to
text: his feet. His nose is bleeding. Hank is running toward us.
text: Jacob stands over the old man staring down at him. He drops the
text: jack's handle into the snow. Hank stops a few yards short of
text: the road, breathless, bewildered.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jesus, Jacob. What the--?
text: Jacob's nose is bleeding heavily, and he's started to cry. He
text: points at Pederson.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: He was... he was tracking the fox. He
dialog: would've gone right by the plane.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: So you hit him?
text: He takes a hesitant step toward Pederson.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont ’d)
dialog: Dwight?
text: Pederson isn't moving. He's lying with his face in the snow.
text: Hank stares for a beat, waiting for a response, then:
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: Oh, Christ.
text: He rushes toward him, rolls him over. Pederson’s eyes are shut;
text: a line of blood drains from his left ear. Hank fumbles at the
text: old man's jacket, trying unsuccessfully to get it open. Then he
text: drops his head to Pederson’s chest, listening.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I couldn't... I tried to stop him.
text: Hank yanks off his glove, holds his hand over Pederson's mouth.
text: Jacob's trying to stop crying.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: But he wouldn't listen--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: 47 CONTINUED: 47
dialog: *
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (horrified)
dialog: You killed him.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (rising)
text: He's dead.
text: Jacob moves quickly toward the old man.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: He can’t be. All I did was-—-
dialog: (a beat; with sudden panic)
dialog: Check again.
text: Hank ignores him. He steps out into the road, glancing in both
text: directions. Jacob crouches beside Pederson, jostles him. He
text: turns to Hank, his words emerging quick and scared.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont’d)
dialog: You gotta do CPR. Don't you know CPR?
text: Hank doesn't respond. He's peering off toward Pederson's farm.
text: Jacob starts to push at Pederson’s chest. It's clear he has no
text: idea what he's doing: he slams his hands down with far too much
text: force, totally out of control. Hank turns to watch.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jacob.
text: Jacob keeps pushing, too fast, too hard. Hank strides over.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: Goddammit!
text: He shoves Jacob away. Jacob immediately starts scrambling back
text: toward Pederson, crying, but Hank blocks his way.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: We gotta save him. They'll--
text: Hank crouches before Jacob, grabbing at him, intense.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Stop it. All right? I can’t think.
text: Jacob falls silent. He continues to CRY, though, his eyes on
text: Pederson. Hank paces off a few steps, glances up and down the
text: road again. Then he steps back toward Jacob, urgent now.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
dialog: 47
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Have any cars gone by?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Cars?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: While I was in the woods. Have any passed?
text: Jacob shakes his head, wipes at his face.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Why?
text: Hank stares down at Pederson, thinking hard. He glances up and
text: down the road one last time, then takes a deep breath, gathering
text: himself, and starts to lift Pederson back onto the snowmobile,
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Grab his legs. We'll make it look like an
dialog: accident.
text: Jacob jumps to his feet, Shaking his head, Pointing at the snow.
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: They’1ll follow the tracks, Hank. They’11
dialog: come here and they'll see our tracks and
text: they‘1l follow them to the plane
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: It’s supposed to storm. Any minute now
dialog: it’ll start snowing, and all of this'll be
dialog: covered up.
text: Jacob frowns, looking at the sky, which is continuing to clear.
text: He starts to protest, but Hank doesn't let him. He drops
text: Pederson, takes Jacob by the arm, guides him toward the car.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: You’re gonna drive back to the bridge.
dialog: I‘1l take him through the park on the
dialog: snowmobile. We’ll push him into the creek,
text: make it look like he drove off by accident.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: The bridge?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You‘’ll get there before me, but I don’t
dialog: want you to stop. I want you to drive by,
dialog: then circle back. I don't want people to
dialog: see you sitting there.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 47
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 47
text: Hank thrusts the car keys into Jacob's hand, pulls open the car
text: door, shoves Jacob inside. Jacob Grops into the seat. For an
text: instant it seems as if he's about to cry again. Hank leans
text: close, forces him to look him in the face.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: dust trust me, okay? I'll get us through
dialog: this.
text: Jacob stares at him, silent, but the threat of tears has passed.
text: After a beat, Hank steps back, SLAMS shut the door. He waits
text: till Jacob STARTS the car, then moves quickly back toward
text: Pederson. As Jacob turns the car around, Hank struggles with
text: the old man's body, dragging him up onto the snowmobile.
text: Hank slings Pederson's rifle over his shoulder, climbs onto the
text: rear of the snowmobile, starts the ENGINE. He has to press
text: against Pederson's back to reach the controls. Jacob drives
dialog: away.
text: CLOSE on Pederson's right hand, as the fingers clench slightly.
text: When the snowmobile starts forward, Pederson's eyes flash open.
text: He looks glassily out at the world, then GROANS, jerking his
text: head. Hank flinches, tumbling off the snowmobile, which’
text: continues on its own for a few yards before veering to a stop at
text: the edge of the woods. Pederson rolls off into the snow.
text: Hank stares in shock. Finally, he manages to rise and
text: hesitantly approach the old man. He crouches beside him.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Dwight. .?
text: Pederson rocks his head, kicks his leg. He MOANS.
speaker_heading: PEDERSON
dialog: Your brother... he... hit me...
text: Hank jumps up, rushes out into the center of the road.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Jacob! ©
scene_heading: HANK'S POV =~ DOWN THE ROAD
text: The car is already too far away to call back.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank watches for a moment, his arm raised, his mouth open. Then
text: he turns back to Pederson, who's stopped moving. Hank starts
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: 47 CONTINUED: (4) 47
text: toward him. As he nears the old man, his foot hits something in
text: the snow, and he stops to look: it's the jack's handle. Hank
text: stoops to pick it up, glancing back toward the road, where WE
text: SEE the jack itself still sitting on the pavement.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: shit.
text: He jogs over, picks up the jack, returns to Pederson, crouches
text: over him. Pederson biinks up at him, his face smeared with
text: blood. He gestures toward his farm.
speaker_heading: PEDERSON
dialog: Get... Alice...
text: He GROANS, shuts his eyes. Hank is clutching the jack in his
text: arms. He stares down at Pederson, then across the road toward
text: the farm, then back at the old man, thinking hard. Pederson
text: opens his eyes, peers up at Hank, as if surprised to find him
text: still crouched there.
speaker_heading: PEDERSON (cont'd)
dialog: Hank..?
text: They hold eyes for a moment. ‘Then Hank lowers the jack into the
text: snow. A sudden look of fear passes over Pederson's face. He
text: struggles up onto his elbows, turns toward his home. WE SEE his
text: house, tiny and dark against the horizon. Pederson YELLS.
speaker_heading: PEDERSON (cont'd)
dialog: Alice!
text: Hank pushes him back down, ducking low.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Shhh.
text: Pederson tries to rise again, SCREAMING:
speaker_heading: PEDERSON
dialog: ALICE..!
text: Panicking, Hank grabs Pederson's scarf, presses it against his
text: mouth. Pederson resists, flailing, but Hank won't let him up.
text: Gradually, the old man's struggling weakens. Then all is still.
text: Hank lifts his hands away from Pederson’s mouth, stares down at
text: the old man, clearly horrified by what he's done, a look of deep
text: shock and fear sweeping across his face.
speaker_heading: “48 «OMIT : *48
dialog: "49° «OMIT 49
dialog: 51
dialog: s2
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 51
text: smashing into the ice. We HOLD on him, lying crushed beneath
text: the snowmobile, the creek seeping in through the cracked ice.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE - DAY 52
text: Jacob drives up in Hank's car. As Hank throws the jack into the
text: car's rear, Jacob jumps out and rushes toward the bridge's
text: railing, leaving the engine on. Hank stares at him, shocked.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jacob.
text: Jacob ignores him. He's stopped crying, but his movements are
text: still jittery, panicky. He peers over the railing at Pederson.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: (urgent)
dialog: If someone sees us-—-
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I'm not gonna do it.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What?
text: Jacob's panic rushes out of him like vomit--his chin starts to
text: shake again, his voice trembles.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: It's just gonna make it worse if we try to
dialog: cover it up—-
text: Hank points toward the station wagon.
dialog: Get in the car!
text: Jacob starts down the bridge, his eyes on Pederson's body.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I'm pulling him out. We'll tell them the
dialog: truth. The money, everything. That I
dialog: didn’t mean to do it--
text: Hank rushes after him. Just as Jacob's about to step into the
text: snow at the end of the bridge, Hank yanks him back.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You're gonna leave tracks-~
text: Jacob turns on him, enraged. He shoves at Hank. Hank shoves
text: back reflexively, and Jacob rushes at him, bulldozing him back
text: toward the car. The dog scrambles out, BARKING, snapping at
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
dialog: 52
speaker_heading: *52A
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 52
text: their boots. Jacob throws his brother up onto the car's hood,
text: pinning him there. He leans down, SHOUTS into Hank's face.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: This is my decision! Mine!
text: He lifts Hank off the hood, SLAMS him back down, banging his
text: head. Then he turns, starts back toward the edge of bridge.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: I'm the one who killed him. I'm the one
dialog: they‘re gonna--
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You didn't kill him.
text: Jacob turns to look at him. Hank sits up, rubbing his head,
text: wincing. He remains silent, hoping Jacob will let the statement
text: go, but Jacob doesn't. He stands there, waiting.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: (hedging)
dialog: We both did.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: What do you mean?
text: Hank slides down off the hood, starts toward the driver's side
text: door. He obviously doesn't want to say anything more.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Can't we just get out of here, Jacob? If
dialog: somebody sees us...
text: Jacob doesn't move. Hank glances up and down the road, then
text: SIGHS, rubs at his face.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: He was still alive when you left. I
text: smothered him with his scarf.
text: Jacob struggles to absorb this. Hank moves to the driver's side
text: door, turns back to his brother. The dog pushes past him,
text: jumping into the car.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont ’d)
dialog: I guess that makes it my decision, doesn't
dialog: it?
scene_heading: CU - TELEVISION SCREEN *52A
text: Someone's flicking quickly through the channels. We fly by game
dialog: shows, cartoong, talk shows, Xena the Warrior Princess...
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED)
dialog: 39.
scene_heading: *52A CONTINUED: *S52A
dialog: 53
speaker_heading: S3u
text: WE PULL BACK to REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL FAMILY ROOM - DUSK 53
text: Rank and Sarah stand before the TV. Sarah's flicking the
text: remote: tense, frightened, focused. Hank's not looking at the
text: screen--he's watching Sarah, struggling to reassure her.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I swear to God, it looks real... And even
dialog: if... well, let's say it doesn't look like
dialog: an accident. Who'd ever..? I mean, why
dialog: would anyone think of us? We don’t--~
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (sharp, cutting him off)
dialog: Your tracks lead right to the plane.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: But it's gonna snow. Any moment now--
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Was there any. blood?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Blood?
text: Sarah turns on him, furious, still flicking the channels.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Jacob hit him. Did he bleed anywhere? On
dialog: the road, or the--
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I don't know. I can't re--~
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (appalled)
dialog: You didn't look?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (struggling to remember)
dialog: I didn't... T was... I mean, it's gonna
dialog: snow, Sarah. As soon as it snows all
dialog: that‘1l be cov~--
text: Sarah waves abruptly him into silence. She's found the news.
speaker_heading: ON THE TV S3u
text: The local news. WE SEE a FEMALE REPORTER walking along the
text: bridge, TALKING INTO THE CAMERA.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
speaker_heading: 53V
speaker_heading: S3BA
speaker_heading: *S3UB
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 53Vv
speaker_heading: FEMALE REPORTER
text: He was apparently trying to cross along
text: this bank of snow, when his snowmobile
text: slipped over the edge, throwing him into
text: the icy waters of Anders’ Creek.
text: WE SEE the ice, the half-submerged snowmobile. Pederson’s hat
text: floats beside it, but his body has been removed. Carl crouches
text: on the river's bank, staring up toward the guardrail.
speaker_heading: WE SEE SSUA
text: the reporter again, staring straight into the camera.
speaker_heading: FEMALE REPORTER
dialog: A tragic beginning to this New Year for one
dialog: local family.
dialog: (a pause)
dialog: Back to you, Mark.
scene_heading: INT. NEWSROOM - DAY - ON THE TELEVISION *S3UB
text: A MAN and WOMAN sit behind a low counter.
dialog: Thanks, Tracy.
text: On the wall behind him a picture of two Great Danes appears.
speaker_heading: MAN (cont'd)
dialog: (to the camera)
dialog: Playful pouches or killer canines? In this
dialog: case it seems to depend on who you talk to--
scene_heading: ON HANK AND SARAH 54
text: Sarah turns from the TV, sits on the couch. She's started to
text: regain control of herself, is struggling now to search out all
text: the loose ends. Hank drops down beside her. He takes her hand,
text: and she lets it hang there in his grip, absolutely lifeless,
text: like a napkin.
speaker_heading: SARAB
dialog: (staring into the distance)
dialog: I wish you hadn't told Jacob.
dialog: (a pause)
dialog: I wish he still thought he was the one who
dialog: killed him.
text: Hank waits, as if expecting something more, but nothing comes.
text: He drops her hand.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 54
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Does it scare you?
dialog: 40z.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 54
dialog: 54
speaker_heading: s4y
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 54
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Of course it scares me. What if he tells
dialog: someone?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I mean what I've done.
text: Sarah hesitates before she answers, as if debating the right
text: course to take. Finally, she shakes her head.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: I know you only did it because you felt
dialog: trapped. Because you couldn't think of
dialog: another way.
text: Hank considers this for a beat. It's obviously not the answer
dialog: he was hoping for.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: But would you've done the same thing? If
dialog: you'd been there instead of me?
text: Sarah stares at him; she doesn't know what to say.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont ’d)
dialog: I just want to know if it's possible.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Oh, Sweetie.
text: She leans forward to hug him. He hesitates, then hugs her back.
text: But just as he's beginning to relax into her embrace--shutting
text: his eyes, burrowing into her neck~-she abruptly pulls away,
text: staring at the Tv.
scene_heading: SARAH'S POV -- ON THE TV - ‘THE NEWSROOM S4u
text: The anchorman and woman are smiling at the camera. On the
text: screen behind them we see CHUCK, the weatherman, standing
text: outside a local mall.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: When we return, Chuck'll have the latest on
dialog: that big storm he keeps threatening us
dialog: with.
dialog: (turning to the weatherman,
dialog: checking her watch)
text: Knee-deep by six o'clock this evening,
dialog: Chuck. Wasn't that what you said?
text: Chuck grins sheepishly, lifting his hands in surrender. Above
text: him, WE SEE the sky: cloudless, the stars just emerging. the
text: newscasters LAUGH as the newsroom cuts to a commercial.
speaker_heading: *S4A
speaker_heading: #548
speaker_heading: *54C
dialog: *540
speaker_heading: *54E
dialog: +55
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
dialog: 42.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE *54A
text: Sarah turns to Hank. Her face has resumed its tense, frightened
text: expression. Hank sits beside her, searching for a way to
text: reassure her. But there's nothing he can Say. WE PUSH IN on
text: his face, which is just as frightened as Sarah's, and then:
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF WOODS —- DAY *54B
text: WE SEE the spot where the fox crossed the road. There are
text: tracks everywhere, a gash in the snow alongside the road from
text: Jacob's truck, and tread marks from Pederson's snowmobile...
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - THE STREAM *S4C
text: Tracks run up and down either bank-~Hank, Jacob, and Lou's, the
dialog: fox's and the dog's...
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD - THE PLANE *54D
text: The plane shines silver in the sunlight, surrounded by its own
text: tangle of tracks.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL FAMILY ROOM - DUSK *S4E
text: Hank and Sarah continue to hold each other's eyes for several
text: beats of anxious silence.
speaker_heading: OMIT *55
speaker_heading: OMIT *56
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM - NIGHT 57
text: The room is dark. Sarah is fast asleep. Hank climbs out of
text: bed, moves to the window. He parts the curtain, peeks outside.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - NIGHT SKY - THROUGH THE WINDOW 58
text: No sign of snow.
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD - NIGHT 59
text: Sirens, the CHOP-CHOP-CHOP of hovering helicopters. Dozens of
text: policemen are scouring the orchard. Searchlights flash across
text: the trees. By the plane, WE SEE a policeman plucking a red
text: thread from a torn piece of fuselage. Another cop bends to
text: extract Lou's beer can from the snow. He holds it up above his
text: head, blowing excitedly on a WHISTLE.
dialog: 42a.
scene_heading: *S9R INT. HANK'S KITCHEN ~ NIGHT *S9R
text: The room is dark. Hank, dressed in his bathrobe, is pouring a
text: glass of milk. He opens the refrigerator to put the milk back.
dialog: 68
speaker_heading: *68R
dialog: *688
speaker_heading: *68C
speaker_heading: *68E
dialog: *62
dialog: *63
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: INT. COUNTY MORGUE -— NIGET 6a
text: A cooler door opening, revealing the bare feet of 4 corpse on a
text: metal slab. A man in a lab coat drags the slab into the open.
text: Carl stands beside him, frowning. It's Pederson's body, and
text: there's a hand-shaped bruise on his face, covering his mouth.
scene_heading: INT. HANK'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT *68A
text: Hank stands by the table in his bathrobe, sipping at his milk,
text: paging through the brochures. The front window begins to RATTLE
text: from the wind. Hank steps toward it, excited, wipes away the
text: frosty condensation, and peers outside.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - OUT THE FRONT WINDOW "688
text: Still no snow, just the wind gusting down the street.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE *68C
text: Hank turns from the window, heads back toward the kitchen. He
text: pauses at the doorway to the family room, glancing in.
scene_heading: INT. HANK'S FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT 600
text: The room is a shambles. Lou and Jacob sit on the couch,
text: dividing the money. A shotgun rests across Lou’s knees. Hank's
text: bloodied body is slouched in an armchair across the room.
text: Suddenly, from the front of the house, WE HEAR a door open. Lou
text: and Jacob freeze, listening. The door slams shut, and Lou lifts
text: his shotgun from his lap. We PUSH IN CLOSE on Hank as his
text: eyelids flutter open.
speaker_heading: _ HANK
dialog: (gasping)
dialog: Sarah...
text: WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL *6BE
text: Hank slouched in the chair, He stares at his chest. There's no
text: blood, no sign of Jacob or Lou. The window has grown light:
text: dawn has come. Hank rises to his feet.
speaker_heading: oMIT *61
speaker_heading: OMIT *62
speaker_heading: OMIT *63
dialog: 43a.
scene_heading: INT. HANK'S BEDROOM —- DAWN
text: Sarah is alone in bed, sleeping soundly.
speaker_heading: HANK (0S)
dialog: (yelling, in the distance)
dialog: Sarah!
text: Sarah lifts her head. She stares around the room, disoriented,
text: then climbs from bed, moves to the window, parts the curtain.
dialog: 648 -
speaker_heading: 648
dialog: 65
speaker_heading: 658
speaker_heading: 65B
dialog: 44,
scene_heading: SARAH'S POV - OUT THE WINDOW 648
text: A snowball THUMPS into the glass. Snow is pouring from the sky.
text: Hank stands in the street, dressed in his Pajamas, LAUGHING. He
text: tosses another snowball, then waves for her to come out.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE 64B
text: Sarah starts to LAUGH, struggling to Open the window. When she
text: finally succeeds, she grabs some snow off the ledge and, with a
text: giddy YELP, throws it down at Hank.
scene_heading: SARAH'S POV - OUT THE WINDOW 65
text: Hank flops down in the middle of the street, starts to make an
text: angel. Across the way, a neighbor watches from his porch, a cup
text: of coffee in his hand, taken aback by their horseplay.
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD ~ DAY 658
text: The plane is once again buried beneath the snow. The tracks
text: have vanished. The crows perch motionless in their trees. We
text: watch the snow continue to fall: fat, heavy flakes. Then—-
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: SMALL TOWN MAIN ST. - FROM HANK'S OFFICE WINDOW — DAY 658
text: Through the blinds, WE SEE a trio of men loading a casket into a
text: hearse. Pederson's WIDOW, dressed in black, watches from the
text: sidewalk, clutching a handkerchief to her face.
dialog: We PULL BACK to REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. HANK'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Hank watching out the window.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (0S)
dialog: You listening to me, Hank?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (flinching from the window)
dialog: Sure. -
text: He steps quickly back to his desk, sits down. DOUG SCHMITT, a
text: thin old man, dressed in a parka and wool cap is sitting across
text: from him. Butler is at his own desk, MURMURING on the phone.
speaker_heading: DOUG
dialog: Every Monday I come down here, buy two bags
text: of feed, regular as clockwork. Two bags a
dialog: week, four weeks a month. That's eight
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: 65B CONTINUED: 65B
speaker_heading: DOUG (cont'd)
dialog: bags I'm supposed to be billed for.
text: (he shakes a slip of paper at
dialog: Hank)
dialog: I don't know how else to--
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (slowly, as if to a child)
dialog: December began on a Monday, Doug. That
dialog: means there were five Mondays in the month.
dialog: You come in five times, you gotta pay for--
speaker_heading: DOUG
dialog: You trying to tell me there were five weeks
dialog: last month?
text: He SCOFFS, turns toward Butler for support. Hank's phone begins
text: to RING. He finally loses patience, points across the room at a
text: calender hanging by the door.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: ~ Just look at the goddamn calender, will
dialog: you?
text: Hank's abrupt tone makes Butler hesitate in his own
text: conversation; he frowns across the room at him. Doug rises to
text: look at the calender. Hank snatches up his phone. .
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: (harassed, into the phone)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JACOB'S VOICE
dialog: It's me.
text: A short pause. Hank says nothing; he watches Doug scan the
text: calender, counting up the Mondays. Jacob CLEARS his throat.
speaker_heading: JACOB'S VOICE (cont'd)
dialog: I need to talk to you.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I'm kind of busy right now, Jacob--
speaker_heading: JACOB'S VOICE
dialog: (riding right over him)
dialog: Can you meet me at the farm?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (still watching Doug)
dialog: The farm? What farm?
speaker_heading: JACOB'S VOICE
dialog: Qur farn.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: REVISED 1/19/98 GREEN 46,
speaker_heading: 65B CONTINUED: (2) 65B
speaker_heading: i * AGE
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
text: Hank hesitates, suddenly alert. He lowers his voice.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What's going on?
speaker_heading: JACOB'S VOICE
dialog: On your lunch break. Twelve-thirty.
text: - Doug SLAPS down the calender’s page, STOMPS out of the office.
text: Hank half-rises from his chair, calls after the old farmer.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Doug? We straight on this?
dialog: (no answer)
dialog: Shit...
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: I'm not gonna drive all the way... Jacob?
text: Jacob's already hung up.
scene_heading: EXT. PARENTS’ FARM — DAY “R66
text: Establishing shot. Blowing snow, windmill, dilapidated barn.
scene_heading: EXT. PARENTS’ FARM - DAY : . 66
text: A snow-packed road running through barren fields. Hank's car
text: Stops behind Jacob's truck, and he climbs out. The ruins of a
text: house and barn stand on a rise above the road, along with a
text: rusty old windmill. WE SEE Jacob sitting on the edge of the
text: house's porch. He stands up, waves. Hank starts toward him,
text: leoking anxious. .
scene_heading: EXT. PARENTS' FRONT PORCH = DAY 67
text: Several of the house's windows are Shattered; the front door is
text: boarded up. The barn's roof is caving in. Jacob is trying to
text: peer in through one of the windows. He turns, smiling, when he
text: hears Hank CRUNCHING toward him through the snow. Hank stops in
text: front of the porch, raises his hands, questioning.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: S0..?
text: Jacob waves from the house to the surrounding fields, grinning.
speaker_heading: : JACOB -
dialog: I’m.gonna buy it back. I’m gonna rebuild
dialog: everything--just like it was before Mom and
dialog: Dad died. .
text: A long, sad stare from Hank. #e SIGHS, shaking his head.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You know you can't do that. As soon as we
dialog: Split up the money, we have to leave.
dialog: prarinrens
dialog: 67
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 67
text: Jacob eyes Hank for a beat, then moves to the edge of the porch.
text: He peers off toward the windmill. when he speaks, his voice has
text: a childish inflection, lost and scared.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You want me to just drive off all alone?
text: Hank doesn't know how to answer this. He rubs tiredly at his
text: face, steps up onto the porch beside his brother, turns to stare
text: eff across the fields.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Where would you say you got your money?
text: Jacob brightens; he's obviously already thought this through.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: We could tell people Sarah inherited some.
dialog: Nobody around here knows anything about her
dialog: family. We'll say you guys bought the farm
dialog: before you left, and set me up to run it.
dialog: {cutting off Hank's protest)
dialog: I thought you'd be happy. It’s our farm;
dialog: I’m gonna bring it back.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It’s so hard, Jacob. You don’t just buy a
dialog: farm, you have to work it. You have to
dialog: know about machines and seed and
dialog: fertilizers and pesticides and herbicides
dialog: and drainage and irrigation and the weather
dialog: and the government. You don’t know about
dialog: any of that. You’d end up just like Dad.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (sharp, stepping back)
dialog: How do you think he ended up like that?
speaker_heading: HANK
text: He had two mortgages riding on the place.
dialog: There was no way he could keep up--
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (his voice rising)
dialog: Where'd the money go? You think he just
dialog: spent it on the farm?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What else would--?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 67
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 67
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Why do you think he took the second
dialog: mortgage? Four years of college. Didn't
dialog: you ever wonder how he paid for that?
text: Hank seems truly shocked. He struggles for some response.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jacob--
text: Jacob kicks at the porch railing, splintering it.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: i was supposed to get the farm.
text: Hank lifts his hands toward his brother, pleading.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jacob, you've got the whole world. You can
dialog: ge anywhere you want.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: This is where I want. Right here.
dialog: (he STOMPS his foot)
dialog: Home.
text: Hank stares off at the empty fields, his shoulders hunched.
text: Then, without looking, he reaches out, touches Jacob's arm, the
text: first sympathetic gesture we've seen him make toward Jacob.
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL TOWN MAIN ST. - DAY 68
text: Afternoon: sunny, cold. Hank comes from the direction of the
text: feedstore, walking fast. He turns in at the library.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - DAY 69
text: Sarah is behind the counter, sorting books. Hank enters from
dialog: the street.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What..?
text: Sarah holds a finger to her lips, nodding toward MRS. TRILLING,
text: an old woman on the far side of the room. Then she waves Hank
text: behind the counter. She removes some papers from beneath a
text: book, spreads them out for him to see. Hank peers down at them.
text: WE SEE the papers: three photocopied newspaper articles.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: A four point four million dollar ransom.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 69
text: The first headline reads: DEADLY DUO KILLS SIX, KIDNAPS
scene_heading: HEIRESS: HUGE RANSOM DEMANDED.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont’d)
dialog: And as far as anyone else knows, it's just
text: disappeared into thin air.
text: The second headline reads: HEIRESS’ BODY ID’D BY FEDS: FATHER
scene_heading: LOSES DAUGHTER, RANSOM.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: (pointing at the last article)
dialog: Do you recognize one of them from the
dialog: plane?
scene_heading: The third headline reads: FBI ID‘S McMARTIN KIDNAPPERS: MANHUNT
text: BEGUN FOR MICHIGAN BROTHERS. Beneath the headline are photos of
text: the suspects. One is small, dark-haired, thin-lipped. The
text: ether is larger, with long hair and a thick beard.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (squinting at the photos)
text: IT can’t tell. His face was... gone.
dialog: (a pause) .
dialog: He'd have to be the younger one, though.
dialog: The older one’s too big.
speaker_heading: MRS. TRILLING (0S)
dialog: Have you read this one, Sarah?
text: Sarah covers the articles. The old woman stands across the
text: room, holding a book out toward Sarah. Sarah smiles.
speaker_heading: SARAH
text: Not yet, Mrs. Trilling. Stephen King
dialog: recommends it, though. So it must be okay.
text: Mrs. Trilling frowns at the book, unsure. Then she moves back
text: behind the shelves. Hank and Sarah hesitate a moment before
text: they resume their WHISPERED discussion.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I guess it changes things, doesn't it?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: How’s that?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Now we know someone's looking for it. We
dialog: can’t say it isn’t stealing anymore.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69
dialog: 78
dialog: 7
dialog: Tin
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 69
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: It’s always been stealing. It's just that
dialog: before we didn't know who we were stealing
dialog: from.
text: Mrs. Trilling COUGHS from behind the shelves. Hank and Sarah
text: freeze, glancing up. They wait a moment before:
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont’d)
dialog: I think it’s good we know where it came
dialog: from. I was beginning to worry that it
dialog: might be counterfeit, or marked.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It might still be marked.
text: Sarah shakes her head. She points toward the articles.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: It says they demanded unmarked money.
text: Hank seems unsure. Sarah gives him an impatient look.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont’d)
dialog: You're being paranoid, Hank. It's over.
dialog: You're just looking for stuff to worry
dialog: about.
text: She shoves the articles into her bag.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM - NIGHT 78
text: Hank and Sarah are asleep. Very faintly, WE HEAR knocking from
text: downstairs. Hank lifts his head, listening. When the KNOCKING
text: resumes, he slips out of bed, leaving Sarah sleeping behind him.
scene_heading: INT. HANK'S FRONT ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT 7
text: Hank tiptoes toward us down the stairs. Someone is JIGGLING the
text: front doorknob, trying to get in. Hank reaches the bottom,
text: stoops to peer through the window beside the door.
scene_heading: HANK’S POV - THROUGH THE WINDOW TIA
text: A car is parked on the street. Suddenly, LOU’S FACE blocks the
text: view. He presses against the glass, kissing it.
scene_heading: 7i{conBACK TO SCENE 7il(con)
text: Hank unbolts the door. He cracks it open and peeks outside.
text: Lou stands on the porch, smiling drunkenly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: 71 (COMPNTINUED: 71(con)
dialog: Lou
dialog: Hey, Mr. Accountant.
dialog: (a conspiratorial whisper)
dialog: I’m here to make a tiny withdrawal.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Go home, Lou. Turn around and go home.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: (shivering)
dialog: It’s freezing out, Hank. Invite me in.
text: Lou presses up against the door, and--when Hank retreats--steps
text: inside. He shuts the door behind him, grinning drunkenly.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I don't have time for this. I have to go
dialog: to work in the morning.
text: Lou nods, as if in understanding. He rubs his hands together,
text: glances around the entranceway.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: I want my share.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: The money’s not here. And even if it were
dialog: I wouldn't give you any.
text: Lou rears back in indignation.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Just because you have it doesn’t mean it’s
dialog: yours.
dialog: (he taps his chest)
dialog: Part of it’s mine.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Part of it might be yours. If we decide to
dialog: keep it. The plan was--
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Come on, Mr. Accountant. Be a sport. Just
dialog: give me a packet. I can come back later
dialog: for the rest.
text: Hank rests his hand against Lou’s chest, very lightly. Lou
text: stares down at it.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: If you ask me again, I’1l go and burn it
dialog: first thing tomorrow. Is that clear?
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: 71(COBPNTINUED: (2) 71{con)
text: Lou SNICKERS at this, brushes away Hank’s hand.
speaker_heading: LOU
scene_heading: Bluff. B-L-U-F-F,.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Call it then. See what happens.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Jacob told me a little secret, Mr.
dialog: Accountant.
text: {a pause; his grin deepens)
dialog: I know what happened to Dwight Pederson.
text: Hank stiffens, then tries to hide it.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You drink too much. You don’t know what
dialog: you‘re saying.
dialog: Lou
dialog: I want one of the packets.
speaker_heading: HANK .
dialog: They aren’t here. I’ve hidden them away
dialog: from the house.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Be a shame if someone wrote a note to Carl
dialog: Jenkins, saying there might be something a
dialog: little suspicious about Dwight Pederson’s
dialog: accident. I mean, he just drove off that
dialog: bridge? You believe that?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jesus, Lou. You*re a thief, remember? If
dialog: one of us goes to jail, we all do.
text: Lou is momentarily confused. He struggles to think it through.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: I need my share, Hank. I'm broke and I owe
dialog: people money.
text: Hank steps to the closet, fumbles inside, pulls out his wallet.
text: He removes two twenties, extends them toward Lou. Lou looks at
text: Hank as if he'd just shit in his hand and held it out to him.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont'd)
dialog: Forty dollars?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: J1(COMPNTINUED: (3) 71(con)
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: The money's a day's drive away. I couldn't
dialog: get to it even if I wanted. Not till
dialog: Sarah’s had the baby.
dialog: Lou
dialog: (not believing him)
dialog: A day's drive?
speaker_heading: HANK
text: It’s at a storage place down in St. Paul.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: What the hell is it doing in St. Paul?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I didn’t want it near us. In case we came
text: under suspicion for some reason.
text: Lou ponders this, pursing his lips, adding numbers in his head.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: We'll go after she's done?
text: (Hank hesitates, then nods)
dialog: And we'll split it up?
text: Hank nods again. Lou debates for a beat, then moves toward the
text: door. At the last second, he turns, grabs the twenties. Then
text: he pulls open the door, throws one final grin at Hank.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont'd)
dialog: Sorry to wake you.
text: He steps outside. Hank shuts the door behind him, peering out
text: the window to watch him leave.
scene_heading: 7168 HANK'S POV - THROUGH THE WINDOW 7B
text: As Lou opens his car door, the light flashes on inside. WE SEE
text: a vague shape in the front seat. It's hard to tell, but it
text: could be Jacob. Lou starts the car and drives away.
speaker_heading: 7i(conBACK TO SCENE 71(con)
text: Hank turns, moves toward the stairs, then stops, startled.
scene_heading: HANK’S POV - TOP OF THE STAIRS
text: Sarah stands there, looking frightened.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank hesitates on the bottom step.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: 71(CO®PNTINUED: . 71icon)
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You heard?
text: Sarah doesn’t respond. She’s holding her belly, perplexed.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: I never should've told Jacob...
dialog: (trailing off)
dialog: I knew it, too.
text: Sarah sits down suddenly, grimacing.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Hank.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Even as I was doing it, I knew--
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Hank!
text: Hank looks up at her, a dazed expression on his face.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: what?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: I think--
dialog: (a wave of pain)
dialog: I'm having the baby.
scene_heading: 72 INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY 72
text: Jacob, carrying a present wrapped in pink tissue paper, moves
text: down the hall, scanning doorways for room numbers, brushing at
text: his hair while he walks. He finally finds the room he wants and
text: strides toward it, only to pause on the threshold.
scene_heading: 73 INT. SARAH’S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY ch
text: A curtain divides the room. A TV PLAYS behind it. Sarah--no
text: longer pregnant--is dozing in the bed. Hank notices Jacob in
text: the doorway. He holds up a hand for him to wait. Then, moving
text: quietly, so that he doesn't wake Sarah, he slips from the room.
scene_heading: 4 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY 14
text: Hank and Jacob are standing a few doors down from Sarah's room,
text: speaking in HUSHED voices. There's no one else in the hallway,
text: but the doors to all the rooms stand open, and we can HEAR
text: people talking in them, along with the crying of a baby.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 74
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Gambling?
dialog: (Jacob nods)
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: In Hinkley. At the casino. He’s lost some
dialog: money.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: A lot?
text: Jacob shrugs, evasive. Hank starts to press for an answer, but
text: then smiles instead, looking past Jacob down the hall.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - DOWN THE HALL
text: A YOUNG COUPLE is approaching, the man pushing his wife in a
text: wheelchair, the woman holding a swaddled newborn: they're being
text: discharged. A NURSE walks alongside.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: dacob turns. He smiles, too.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (cheerily, to the couple)
dialog: The big day, huh?
text: The couple LAUGH, nod. As soon as they pass, Hank stops
text: smiling. But not Jacob: he watches them go, grinning, and
text: seems startled when Hank resumes his interrogation.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: How could you've told him, Jacob? 1 put
dialog: myself at risk for you, and what do you do?
dialog: You turn around and betray me.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: What're you talk--?
speaker_heading: HANK _
dialog: it's like there are two sides now. Like~-
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Why do you both keep talking about sides?
dialog: That's not-—
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (with sudden intensity)
dialog: Lou talks about sides?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: 74 CONTINUED: (2) 74
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I’m on both your sides. we're all in this
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: BANK
dialog: (stepping close)
dialog: If you had to pick a side--
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (retreating)
dialog: I'm not going--
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: No, I want to know: Lou, or me?
text: Jacob glances down the hall, searching for a way out. Finally:
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I‘d pick you. You’re my brother.
scene_heading: rh) INT. SARAH’S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 7s
text: The curtain is still pulled. Behind it, the TV continues to
text: play. Hank sits beside Sarah's bed. Sarah is unwrapping
text: Jacob's gift, a rumpled~looking teddy bear with a brass key in
text: its back. She holds it up, inspecting it.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: It’s used.
text: She examines it with distaste, then winds its key. A man’s
text: voice begins to SING “Frere Jacques”. Hank stares in surprise.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It was his bear.
text: (Sarah looks up, startled)
dialog: When he was little.
text: Sarah lifts the bear again, reappraising it. She sniffs at it.
speaker_heading: SARAE
dialog: I guess it’s sweet of him then, isn’t it?
text: The nurse enters, carrying Hank and Sarah's baby, AMANDA.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Feeding time for the little princess.
text: Everyone COO0S over the baby. Sarah unbuttons her nightgown,
text: begins to nurse the infant. The bear’s MUSIC slows to a stop.
text: Sarah leans forward to make sure the nurse has gone, then turns
text: to Hank. He's stroking her arm, distracted, gazing at the baby
dialog: in wonder.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 7.
scene_heading: 75 CONTINUED: ° 75
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: I want you to buy one of those little tape
dialog: recorders--the little dictating ones--the
dialog: type you can hide in your pocket.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: {not glancing up)
dialog: What do you want with a tape reco-der?
text: Sarah glances toward the curtain, lowers her voice.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You’re going to tape Lou confessing to
text: Pederson’s murder.
text: Hank looks up in surprise, stops stroking her.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: . What're you talking about?
text: Sarah holds her finger to her lips, gestures toward the other
text: half of the room. They both stare at the curtain, behind which
text: the only sign of life is the Tv.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You and Jacob invite him out for drinks,
dialog: you get him drunk, take him back to his
text: house, and then start joking about
dialog: confessing to the Police. You take turns
dialog: pretending to do it-~you first, Jacob
dialog: Second, Lou last--and when Lou does it, you
dialog: tape him.
text: Hank starts to LAUGH, but then realizes she isn’t joking.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: That’s absurd. There’s no way it’d work.
text: The baby makes a MEWLING sound. Sarah smiles down at it.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (in a baby voice)
dialog: Yes! You're a hungry little girl, aren’t
dialog: you? .
text: She jiggles the baby for a moment, then glances back up at Hank.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: Jacob helps you. That’s the key. If Jacob
dialog: eggs him on, then he'll do it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 75
dialog: *76
dialog: 77
dialog: *78
speaker_heading: A79
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 75
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: But even if we could get him to say it, it
dialog: wouldn't mean anything. No one would ever
dialog: believe it.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: That doesn’t matter. All you have to do is
dialog: get him to see that you and Jacob could
dialog: Claim he killed Pederson just as easily as
dialog: he could claim you did it. If you make him
dialog: think that Jacob would side with you, he’11
dialog: never risk bringing in the police.
text: Hank considers this, frowning. Sarah watches him, caressing the
text: infant, then reaches out and touches his arm.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont’d}
dialog: We should at least try, shouldn't we? We
dialog: can’t lose anything by trying.
speaker_heading: OMIT *76
speaker_heading: OMIT "11
speaker_heading: OMIT . “78
scene_heading: INT. JACOB'S APARTMENT - DUSK a79
text: Dirty, dimly lit. The scraggly Christmas tree still stands in
text: the corner. Jacob is slouched on the bed, a beer can in his
text: hand, the dog is sleeping beside him. Hank is sitting on a
text: chair a few feet away from his brother, dressed in a suit, his
text: tie loosened. He's leaning forward, intense, hectoring Jacob.
speaker_heading: BANK
dialog: It's not like I'm asking all that much of
dialog: you, Jacob. You pick up the goddamn phone.
dialog: You say, ‘Hey, Lou. Hank suggested we go
dialog: out drinking tomorrow night-~'
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: But why would you ask me and Lou to go
dialog: drinking?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (with growing impatience)
dialog: You tell him I agreed to split up the
dialog: money. That I want to go out and celebrate
dialog: first.
text: Jacob is becoming increasingly upset. He shakes his head
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
speaker_heading: A739 CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I can't trick him like that. He'd never
dialog: forgive me.
text: Hank jumps UP, Paces to the window, equally agitated,
dialog: 58A.
speaker_heading: A79
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED )
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: A79 CONTINUED: (2) A779
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Don't you get what's happening here? He
dialog: can send us both to jail.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Lou's not gonna--
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: {spinning back toward Jacob)
dialog: Know what the problem is? You don't have
dialog: any distance on this. You can't see what
dialog: he's really like.
text: Jacob gives him an incredulous look. He sits up on the bed.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You're gonna tell me that?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I can tell you--
text: Furious, Jacob flings his half-empty beer can across the room.
text: The dog jumps up, BARKS.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You know nothing about him, Hank. You've
dialog: seen him drunk a few times, so you think--
text: Hank cuts him off, impatient.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Look. You want me to help buy back the
dialog: farm?
dialog: (silence)
dialog: Well?
text: Jacob still doesn't answer. He realizes he's trapped and is
text: searching unsuccessfully for a way out. Finally, he nods. Hank
text: steps over to the night table, grabs the phone, slams it down
text: into Jacob's lap. :
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Then you gotta help me first.
text: He strides back to the window, stares out into the night. Jacob
text: wavers, watching his brother's back. Finally, he picks up the
text: phone and begins, very slowly, to dial. WE SEE Hank shut his
text: eyes, as if oddly pained by his success.
scene_heading: 79 INT. MITCHELL KITCHEN - NIGHT 79
text: Sarah sits at the table--which is set for two--nursing the baby.
text: WE HEAR the front door open, the MURMUR of Hank and Jacob's
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 79
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 60. 78
text: voices, Sarah lifts her head listening. After a beat Hank
text: enters, still in his coat, He bends, kisses Sarah on her an
text: forehead, Moves to the Cabinets.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (whisperin )
dialog: Did I hear Jacoby”
text: Hank nods. He Pulls down @ plate, grabs 4 placemat, start,
dialog: Set out a third Place, P ad P rs * to
speaker_heading: ; BANK
dialog: I invited him for dinner.
text: Sarah looks Surprised. She takes a moment to absorb the news,
text: watching Hank lay out the utensils, Then, still whispering:
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Is he gonna do it?
text: Hank hesitates, anticipating her displeasure,
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: T had to promise him the farm.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: What? 1 thought we already agreed
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (plaintively)
dialog: Where's he Supposed to go, Sarah?
text: Sarah launches into him, her voice Slowly rising.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: If he stays, we'll end up getting caught.
dialog: Sooner or later he'll screw up and-—
speaker_heading: BANK
dialog: (hushing her with his hands)
dialog: I know. 1 know. That's not what I'm
dialog: saying.
text: WE HEAR the toilet flush. The door to the downstairs bathroom
text: OPENS. Hank moves toward the fridge.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: I just wish he could, that's a1.
scene_heading: INT. HANK’S KITCHEN ~ LATER ; 88
text: Hank, Jacob and Sarah sit at the table, the mea) finished.
text: Jacob's dog Sleeps at their feet, its head resting on Amanda's
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80 conrInurp; 61.
dialog: bear,
dialog: be the
dialog: 80
text: Rank and Jacob are telling Sarah a sto: each i
dialog: t.
text: one to get it out, talking one over they Other, Tying to
dialog: And just when our dad's Putting the final
text: touches on it--he's way up on a ladder
text: tightening some bolts.
speaker_heading: HANK
text: This breeze Starts the windmill's Sails
dialog: spinning~~
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Smack!
text: They hit him right in the face, knock him
text: off the ladder.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (her hand over her mouth)
dialog: Was he hurt?
text: Hank and Jacob both LauGH. Hank pours Jacob more wine.
dialog: The all
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Mom thought so.
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: She saw it happen from the house, and was
dialog: sure he'd broken his neck, so she called
text: the volunteer fire department.
speaker_heading: LAUGH.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: He never forgave her for that.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Can still hear him bitching about it:
dialog: Why didn't you wait to see if I got up,
dialog: for Christ's sake?"
dialog: I
speaker_heading: cS
text: Everyone LAUGHS, From upstairs we HEAR Amanda begin to ery.
text: Sarah listens for a beat, then SIGHS, Standing up.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Her Majesty calls...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 80
text: The two men watch her leave. A beat of silence, then:
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Y think dad would've understood what we're
dialog: doing.
dialog: (a pause)
dialog: Don't you?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I don't know... I guess so.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I mean, that's why they killed themselves.
dialog: If they'd had what we have now, they'd
dialog: still be around.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What're you talking about?. They were
dialog: drinking. It was an accident.
text: Jacob SCOFFS at this.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You saw where it happened, right?
dialog: (Hank nods)
dialog: Notice any skid marks?
text: Hank's silence is answer enough. Jacob shakes his head sadly.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: Dad thought their life insurance would be
dialog: enough to pay off all their debts.
text: A short pause; the mood in the room has plummeted. Jacob picks
text: up the stuffed bear, winds its key.
speaker_heading: “JACOB (cont’d)
dialog: I guess it's what I would’ve eventually
dialog: done, too. If I hadn't gotten the farm
dialog: back.
text: Hank absorbs this in silence. The bear SINGS in Jacob’s lap.
scene_heading: EXT. BAR - NIGHT ~ ESTABLISH *AST
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN BAR —- NIGHT 81
text: A long room with a bar running down one side, a line of booths
text: down the other. ‘The place is loud, smoke-filled. Hank, Jacob
text: and Lou are drinking in a booth. Jacob sits beside his brother,
text: looking tense, distracted. Lou is leaning forward, a bit tipsy,
text: addressing Hank with surprising earnestness.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 63. 8
dialog: Maybe... Maybe sometimes I can come off as
dialog: a bit of an asshole... you think?
text: Hank starts to deny this, but Lou waves him into silence.
dialog: Lou (cont'd)
dialog: No, no, I know what I'm talkin' about. But
dialog: fuck it, all in the Past, right? Whaddya
dialog: ?
text: He extends his hand across the table. r+ takes Hank a moment to
text: understand what's expected of him. Then, while Jacob watches
text: with Something close to disgust, Hank Smiles, shakes Lou's hand.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Sounds good to me.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Hell yes! Live and let live:
text: He drops Hank's hand, quickly downs a shot, then wipes his mouth
text: on his sleeve, BELCHING,
dialog: Lou (cont'd)
dialog: Gotta take a leak.
text: Lou rises, a bit unsteady on his feet. As he's moving along the
text: bar to the bathri 1 he stumbles into a large, BEARDED MAN on a
text: Stool. The man glances over his shoulder, and Lou gives him an
text: angry stare, hitching up his belt.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Think that’s funny tripping People on the
dialog: way to the can? Think you‘re some king of
dialog: comedian?
text: The bearded man spins to face Lou. The bar begins to quiet,
speaker_heading: ED MAN
speaker_heading: BEARD)
dialog: Listen, buddy. Looks like you might've haq
dialog: a few too--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 81
dialog: B2
dialog: 83
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 81
dialog: Lou
dialog: Don’t you buddy me.
text: The bearded man starts to climb off his stool, but as he does
text: so, Jacob suddenly appears, resting his hand on Lou’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Maybe it's time we hit the road, Lou.
dialog: Whaddya think?
text: Hank is standing behind Jacob, holding Lou’s jacket. Lou allows
text: himself to be led away, but not without a parting shot.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: {pointing at Jacob)
dialog: He’s my buddy.
dialog: {pointing at Hank)
dialog: He‘s my buddy, too.
dialog: (to the bearded man)
dialog: You’re not my fucking buddy.
scene_heading: EXT. LOU’S FRONT YARD - NIGHT 82
text: Jacob’s truck pulls into the driveway. Hank, Jacob and Lou are
text: inside; Jacob's dog is in the back. Lou's house is dark.
scene_heading: INT. JACOB'S TRUCK
text: Lou and Jacob are taking turns sipping from a bottle of whiskey.
dialog: Lou
dialog: We gotta be real quiet. Nancy's asleep.
scene_heading: INT. LOU’S FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT 83
text: The living room is a step down from the entranceway. There’s a
text: green shag carpet, an old-looking TV. Hank and Jacob are
text: sitting on the couch; Lou is in an armchair across from them.
text: Everyone's drinking whiskey; Lou and Jacob are both quite drunk.
dialog: Lou
dialog: (loud)
dialog: --so this guy steps forward, right? And he
dialog: says, ‘He was doin’ fine till we twisted
text: his head back around for him. Then he
dialog: fuckin’ died on us.'
text: Jacob scowls as Hank bursts into LAUGHTER, playing to Lou.
speaker_heading: NANCY (0S)
dialog: I got one.
text: The three men instantly fall silent, startled, turning to see:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83
text: HANK'S Poy _ FRONT oF THE HOUSE
text: Nancy is at the foot of the Stairs,
text: Shirt. Her hair is tangled from Sleep
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: The three men watch her, Stone~faced.
speaker_heading: NANCY (0S cont'd)
dialog: Well, finally, she got so fed up she came
dialog: downstairs and told him that if he didn't
dialog: shut up he was gonna have to fing some
dialog: other place to live rent-free, Ha~-ha-ha.
dialog: Get it?
text: Lou jumps up from the couch, hurries toward her,
text: conciliatory gestures with his hands.
dialog: Lou
dialog: It's okay, hon. We're just drinking a
dialog: little and--
dialog: 65.
text: dressed in an extra-long tT-
dialog: making
text: Watching Lou and Nancy, who WE HEAR murmuring back and forth
text: from across the room, Hank leans toward his brother, WHISPERS.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What're you waiting for? 1 don’t wanna be
dialog: here all night.
text: Jacob shakes his head drunkenly, not looking at Hank.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I'm not gonna do it...
text: Hank gives him a stern look.
dialog: We made'a deal.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (still looking away, hard)
dialog: It's not right.
text: WE HEAR Nancy start back upstairs. Lou returns across the room.
text: Hank touches Jacob's arm, attempting to silence h
dialog: im, but Jacob
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83
dialog: 83
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 83
text: pushes his hand away. Hank picks up his Glass, trying to
text: pretend that nothing is happening. Lou sits down.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Guess we oughta keep it down a bit, huh?
text: Hank nods, sips from his glass. Jacob is still watching him,
text: with something like revulsion now,
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: What the fuck is wrong with you?
text: Hank glances up, shocked. Lou grins as Jacob turns to hin,
text: gesturing at Hank, his voice angry.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: See how he drinks from that glass? Like a
dialog: goddamn bird.
text: He mimics Hank sipping, exaggerating his hesitancy. Hank
text: attempts a joke.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You gonna play older brother now? Teach me
dialog: how to drink my whiskey?
text: Jacob ignores him, still looking at Lou.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Ever seen me drink like that?
text: (he downs his glass, slams it
dialog: to the table)
dialog: My dad?
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Tell the truth, Jake, I ain't never seen
dialog: nobody drink like that.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: So where'd he learn it?
text: Hank sets his glass down. He leans forward, trying to meet his
text: brother's eyes, questionin , but Jacob continues to ignore him.
speaker_heading: . JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: I mean, tell me one thing we got in common
dialog: besides our last name.
dialog: (Lou can't think of anything)
dialog: You're more like a brother to me than hin.
text: Lou GIGGLES, glances back at the stairs. Then, his voice low:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 83
dialog: Lou
dialog: Do him crossing the stream, Jake.
dialog: (Jacob hesitates)
dialog: Aw, come on. He don't care. Do you Hank?
text: Hank stares at Jacob, who's leaning forward to refill his glass.
text: His hands are unsteady, and he sloshes whiskey onto the table.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Crossing the stream?
text: Jacob takes a sip of whiskey--mimicking Hank again. Then he
text: stands up and begins making fun of the way Hank crossed the
text: stream that first day, as they made their way through the woods
text: to the plane. He exaggerates Hank's awkward hops, his teetering
text: in midstream. Lou CLAPS and GUFFAWS: it's obvious this has
text: been a recurrent joke between them. Hank blushes.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Do him getting bit by the crow!
text: Jacob ignores him. His smile has faded.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: We never should've let him keep the money.
dialog: Look at him. He thinks he owns us.
text: Lou's smile fades. Hank rises, picks up his jacket, appalled.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Look, we've all had too much to drink.
dialog: Maybe we should--
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Isn't this what you want? Me to pick a
dialog: side?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What're you talk--
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (sneering, to Lou)
dialog: Know what's gonna happen? He's gonna end
text: up confessing. Crawling into Carl's office
text: and spilling his guts.
text: Hank starts pulling on his overcoat.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Fuck yes. He'll rat on us to get off the
dialog: hook.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83
dialog: —. 68.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 83
text: Hank begins moving across the room toward the front door. Jacob
text: watches him, his grin fading, his voice turning steely.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Let's do him confessing. You be him, and
dialog: I'll be carl,
text: Hank turns, staring. Jacob avoids his gaze. SNICKERING, Lou
text: gulps some whiskey, stands up and mimes knocking on a door.
text: Hank moves back toward the couch. :
dialog: Lou
dialog: (mimicking Hank's voice)
dialog: Carl?
text: Hank pulls off his coat, sits back down.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Yes? Who is it?
dialog: Lou
dialog: It’s Hank Mitchell. 1 got something to
dialog: tell you.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Come on in, Hank. Have a seat.
text: Lou pretends to open a door. He walks in place, grinning, then
text: sits down. Hank fumbles at his shirt, pretending to scratch at
text: his chest. With a SOFT CLICK, the tape recorder turns on.
dialog: Lou
dialog: It’s about Dwight Pederson.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Yes?
dialog: Lou
dialog: Well, he didn’t die in an accident.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: What do you mean?
text: Lou feigns glan¢ing nervously around the room. Then:
dialog: I killed him.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You killed Dwight Pederson?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 83
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) a3
dialog: Lou
dialog: I smothered him with his scarf, then I
text: pushed him off the bridge into Anders’
dialog: Creek. I made it look like an accident.
text: That's enough for Hank; he gestures at Jacob to stop.
dialog: Okay. That's--
text: Jacob ignores him.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Why would you do something like that?
dialog: Lou
dialog: ‘Cause four million dollars is worth a hell
dialog: of a lot more to me than some old man's
dialog: life--
text: Hank reaches up, turns off the tape recorder in his pocket.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (firm, to Jacob) -
dialog: That's enough.
dialog: Lou
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: I wanna get to the part where you offer to
dialog: testify against us. Keep asking me
dialog: questions, Jake.
text: Jacob takes a swallow of whiskey. He seems spent by the whole
text: episode, drained. He dr back on the couch as Hank takes out
text: the tape recorder and rewinds it. Hank presses play, sets it on
text: the table. They all stare at it while it replays Lou and
text: Jacob's DIALOGUE. Lou looks utterly bewildered.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont'd)
dialog: You taped us?
text: Neither Hank nor Jacob answers him. When the tape is finished,
text: Hank reaches forward and rewinds it.
speaker_heading: Lov (cont'd)
dialog: What ‘re you doing, Hank?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It's your confession. It's you saying how
dialog: you killed Dwight Pederson.
text: Lou stares at the tape recorder for a moment, realizing finally
text: what it’s for. He sneers at Hank.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: CONTINTED: (6) 83
dialog: Lou
dialog: Nobody’s gonna believe that thing. It’s
dialog: obvious I’m just kidding around.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: If you and I both went into carl’s tomorrow
dialog: and claimed that the other killed Dwight
dialog: Pederson, who do you think he'd believe?
dialog: You? A forty-year-old, unemployed high
dialog: school dropout who's Broud when people call
dialog: him the town drunk? Or me? I've got a
dialog: job, Lou. I don't get drunk and shout
dialog: obscenities at my wife in public. I don't
text: pass out in other People's doorways.
text: A tense moment, then Lou tries to grab the tape recorder, but
text: Hank snatches it away, returns it to his shirt pocket.
dialog: Lou
dialog: (angry, humiliated)
dialog: You fucking--
text: He rises. Hank does, too. Lou scowls at him, waves at Jacob.
speaker_heading: LOU (cont'd)
dialog: Come on, Jake.
text: Jacob sags deep into the couch, not looking at either of them.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: The tape doesn’t hurt you. It’s just to
dialog: keep you from hurting him.
dialog: Lou
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: He’s not gonna use it unless you tell on
dialog: him. That seems fair, don’t it?
dialog: Lou
dialog: You're in this together?
text: Jacob finally looks up:
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: He promised to help me buy back the farm.
text: Lou clenches his fists, his body taut with anger. He glares at
text: Jacob until Jacob looks away, then spins and strides toward the
text: front of the house, disappearing down the hallway to the left.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED}
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (7) 83
text: Hank heads toward the front door, gesturing for Jacob to follow.
text: Jacob hesitates, then starts slowly after him, a bit wobbly on
text: his feet. As Hank opens the door, he glances down the hall.
scene_heading: HANK’S POV ~- LOU’S DOWNSTAIRS HALL
text: Lou approaches from the garage, jamming shells into his shotgun.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Jacob pushes Hank.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Move...
text: Jacob runs outside. Hank remains, looking at Lou in disbelief.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What ‘re you doing, Lou?
text: Lou stops five feet away, pumps the gun, aims it at Hank’s
text: chest. Outside, WE HEAR Jacob’s truck door slam shut.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: Give me the tape.
speaker_heading: HANK
text: Put the gun down.
text: Hank starts to back onto the porch, dragging the door shut
text: behind him. Lou grabs it, yanks it open, raises the gun again.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: You're not leaving till you give--
speaker_heading: JACOB (0S)
dialog: Leave him alone, Lou!
text: Lou freezes, startled. He and Hank both turn to look.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - LOU'S FRONT YARD 84
text: Jacob is aiming his rifle at Lou’s head, breathing hard.
scene_heading: EXT. LOU’S FRONT PORCH - NIGHT
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Stop it, Jacob. Go back to the truck.
text: Jacob doesn't move.
dialog: Lou
dialog: You gonna shoot me, Jake?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 84
text: They both begin to YELL. The dog jumps from the truck, BARKING.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Just leave him alone--
dialog: Lou
dialog: You stabbed me in the back. In my own
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Please, Lou.
dialog: Lou
dialog: You know I need the money. I need it
dialog: tomorrow. They're gonna take my truck.
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: Just put the gun down.
dialog: Lou
dialog: Why should he get to keep it? He's got a
dialog: job. We're the ones who need it. He just
dialog: wants it-~
speaker_heading: NANCY (0S)
dialog: Lou?
dialog: (instantly, silence)
dialog: What’s going on?
text: She starts down the stairs. WE SEE her feet through the top of
text: the doorway. Lou is still pointing his gun at Hank, but he’s
text: looking at Jacob. His face is bright red.
speaker_heading: LOU
dialog: How could you do this? You think he's your
dialog: friend? He doesn't give a fuck about you.
dialog: (he glances at Hank)
dialog: Do you?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Come on, Lou. We can talk this through.
text: Lou raises the gun till it's pointing just above Hank's head,
text: and pulls the trigger. There's a tremendous EXPLOSION. The dog
text: runs off. An eerie quiet settles in. Lou Pumps another shell
text: into the chamber, gives Hank an edgy smile.
dialog: Lou
dialog: That was just an in-sin-u-a-tion.
text: He steps forward, presses the gun to Hank's forehead. Rank
text: holds himself rigid, too frightened to move. He shuts his eyes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 84
dialog: 8s
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 84
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Lou...
text: Lou's smile deepens. Behind him, Nancy descends another step.
speaker_heading: NANCY
dialog: Put the gun down, baby.
dialog: Lou
dialog: This is the real thing.
text: With a quick, startling movement, he jerks the gun up so that
text: it's pointing just a few inches above Hank's head, and pulls the
text: trigger. Another EXPLOSION. At the same instant, Jacob FIRES
text: his gun. The bullet smacks Lou in the forehead. Lou falls into
text: the house. Nancy begins to SCREAM.
scene_heading: INT. LOU’S FRONT ENTRANCEWAY 85
text: Hank steps inside. Lou lies on his back a few feet from the
text: door, a small hole in his forehead. His shotgun rests beside
text: hin. A large puddle of blood is spreading across the floor.
text: Nancy rushes down the stairs, WAILING. She crouches beside
text: Lou's body, but doesn't touch it. Hank steps forward, as if to
text: comfort her. When she sees him coming, she backs toward the
text: family room, SOBBING hysterically.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It's okay, Nancy.
speaker_heading: NANCY
dialog: (shaking her head)
dialog: We gotta call--
text: She spins, starts into the family room, but Hank grabs her arm.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Wait. We have to decide what--
text: Nancy SCREAMS, yanks her arm free. She turns on him in a
text: frenzy, CRYING, her words unintelligible. Hank makes a quieting
text: gesture with his hands. Jacob steps through the door, looking
text: dazed, clenching his rifle.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Nancy. You can still have his share.
text: Nancy flinches, shocked into Momentary silence. Then:
speaker_heading: NANCY
dialog: You bastards.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 85
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 85
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Shhh--
text: He makes another quieting motion, but she Starts toward him, her
text: fists clenched, her face distorted with rage. Hank backs away.
speaker_heading: NANCY
dialog: You think I'm going to let you keep the
dialog: money? You fucking--
text: Hank retreats across the entranceway. Nancy pursues him. As
text: she passes Lou's corpse, she stumbles against the shotgun,
text: kicking it across the tiles. They all stare down at it.
text: There's a pause, then Nancy stoops, picks up the gun, pumps it.
text: Hank lunges forward, grabbing for the barre]. They struggle,
text: ana Hank rips the gun from her hands. Nancy falls backward,
text: tripping down the step into the living room, landing on her rear
text: end. SHRIEKING, she lifts her ams to protect herself, thinking
text: Hank's about to shoot her.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It's okay. I’m not--
text: He crouches to lay the gun down. Nancy scrambles to her feet,
text: begins backing into the living Toom, still SHRIEKING.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Shhh, Nancy. Please.
text: Hank starts after her, the gun in his hands. Nancy turns to
text: run. There's a doorway in the back corner of the room, leading
text: to the kitchen, and she heads straight for it, knocking over an
text: end table in her flight.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Waitt
text: He sprints after her, into--
speaker_heading: LOU'S KITCHEN , 86
text: The room is dark, illuminated only by the light filtering in
text: from the family room. Nancy is barely visible at the rear of
text: the room; WE HEAR her yanking open a drawer, scrambling inside,
text: things falling to the floor. Hank stops on the threshold.
speaker_heading: BANK (cont'd)
dialog: I just want to talk, okay?
text: He reaches to his right, fumbles for the light switch. At the
text: exact moment the light goes ON, Nancy spins toward us, a pistol
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 86
dialog: 8?
dialog: 89
dialog: 98
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 86
text: in her hand. She FIRES, and the bullet SLAMS into the wall to
text: Hank's left. Hank scrambles out of the doorway, back into--
scene_heading: LOU'S FAMILY ROOM 87
text: Nancy FIRES again. The bullet comes through the doorway, THUDS
text: into the couch. Hank rushes backward, not watching where he's
text: going: he stumbles into the overturned table, falls onto his
text: back just as Nancy appears. She aims her pistol at him, but
text: before she can shoot, he FIRES the shotgun from the floor. The
text: blast hits her in the chest, knocking her back into the kitchen.
text: A long, eerie beat of silence, then Hank struggles to his feet.
text: He's starting hesitantly toward the kitchen when he hears—-
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (terrified)
dialog: Bank..?
text: --and jumps, spinning to aim the gun at Jacob, who's still
text: standing in the front doorway. Jacob cowers. Hank holds the
text: gun on him for a moment, trying to find his bearings. Then he
text: pumps the shotgun, swings it a few inches to the right, FIRES
text: into the wall. He SHOOTS the ceiling, the armchair, the coffee
text: table, Jacob flinching at every’ shot.
scene_heading: INT. LOU'S KITCHEN 88
text: Nancy lies crumpled against the refrigerator, her chest a mess
text: of blood, her head cocked at an odd angle. Hank examines her
text: from the doorway, a blank look on his face. Then he turns and
text: vanishes back into the family room. WE HOLD on Nancy, as her
text: blood slowly begins to pool on the surrounding tiles.
scene_heading: INT. LOU'S FAMILY ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 89
text: Hank stands by the couch, talking on the phone. The coffee
text: table has been obliterated; the armchair has a giant hole in it.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: ~-at Lou Chambers' place. Out on County
text: Road 27, just past Burnt Road.
dialog: {a pause)
dialog: They're both... They're both dead.
text: {he feigns a sob)
dialog: You gotta hurry. Please.
text: He sets down the phone, his hand noticeably shaking.
scene_heading: LOU'S FRONT ENTRANCEWAY - MOMENTS LATER 98
text: Hank crouches over Lou's body, plants his prints on the gun,
text: sets it on the floor. He glances into the family room, which is
text: empty, and a frightened look comes over his face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 90
dialog: ot
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 90
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jacob?
text: He rises quickly to his feet. Jacob's parka is lying on the
text: floor a few yards away. Hank steps over and picks it up.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Jacob?
text: After a beat, WE HEAR, very faintly, a gasping sound-~like a
text: stifled sob-~come from the kitchen. Hank steps down into the
text: living room, hurrying toward the kitchen's open doorway.
scene_heading: INT. LOU’S KITCHEN - NIGHT 1
text: Hank pauses on the threshold. Nancy still lies in her bloody
text: puddle. Hank stares at her, as if he thinks that she might've
text: been the one to make the gasping sound. There's no sign of
text: Jacob. Hank is just about to turn from the doorway when he
text: stops, peers again at the floor.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - THE KITCHEN FLOOR
text: On the far edge of the puddle, WE SEE a man's bloody bootprint.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank edges his way around the puddle. There’s an open doorway
text: just beyond Nancy's body, leading down to the cellar, lost in
text: darkness. Hank reaches in, flicks on the light, REVEALING:
scene_heading: THE CELLAR STAIRS
text: Jacob sits midway down the steps, his head in his hands. After
text: a beat, he turns, blinks up at us over his shoulder. It's clear
text: that he’s been crying. Hank watches him from the doorway, a
text: worried look on his face.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What're you doing?
text: Jacob shrugs, struggles for a smile, but can't quite make it.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Hiding.
text: They look at each other for a moment in silence. Hank shifts
text: the parka from his right arm to his left.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You gonna be okay?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: —™
dialog: 91
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 9h
text: Jacob thinks for a moment, then shakes his head. His mouth
text: starts to tremble, and he turns away.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: We can make this work, Jacob. We can--
text: He starts down the steps, and Jacob jumps up, turning to face
text: him, scared. He shakes his head again, slowly at first but then
text: more and more quickly.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: No...
text: Hank crouches, bringing his eyes almost level with his
text: brother's. He makes a quieting gesture with his hands.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Shhh. dust listen, all right? All we
dialog: gotta say is--
text: Jacob continues to shake his head, covering his ears.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Not
text: Hank stands up, raises his voice, almost shouts:
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Stop itl
text: Jacob freezes, startled. Hank comes down another step, lowering
text: his voice, struggling to sound soothing.
speaker_heading: BANK (cont’d)
dialog: I need you to calm down. Can you do that
dialog: for me? Can you calm down and listen to
dialog: what I have to say?
dialog: (a long pause; finally Jacob
dialog: manages a nod)
dialog: They were fighting, okay? They were both
text: drunk, and Lou started pushing Nancy
dialog: around. When we tried to stop him, he went
text: and grabbed his gun, and Nancy ran for her
text: pistol. We sprinted out to the truck and
dialog: got your rifle, but by the time we got back
text: to the house, it was too late. He'd
text: already shot her. He was shooting up the
text: whole place, firing into the ceiling, the
dialog: walls, everything. And when we stepped
text: into the doorway, he fired at me. The shot
text: went wide, so he pumped the gun again and .
text: aimed right at my chest... And that's when
dialog: you killed him...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: OL
dialog: *92
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 94
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: {a beat)
dialog: You saved my life.
text: Hank stops, waiting for a reaction, but Jacob just stands there.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: See how simple it is?
speaker_heading: (still no response; WE HEAR
dialog: sirens approaching)
dialog: Come on, Jacob. Say it for me.
text: Jacob remains silent, the SIRENS closing. Then, hesitantly:
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: They were... they were fighting...
dialog: (he starts to CRY again)
dialog: »..and Lou... Lou started shooting the
dialog: walls...
text: He begins to shake his head again, CRYING too hard to speak.
text: The SIRENS are closing.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (coaxing him)
dialog: And what'd we do?
text: WE PUSH IN ON Hank, as he tries to prod the story out of Jacob,
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: We ran out to the truck--
speaker_heading: CARL (0S)
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: You ran outside with Jacob?
speaker_heading: OMIT *92
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. SHERIFF'S INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 93
text: Hank sits on one side of a table, facing the Fulton County
text: SHERIFF, a DETECTIVE, and Carl. WE SEE a tape recorder spinning
text: on the table, several half-empty cups of coffee. The detective
text: is taking notes. Hank hesitates, surprised by the question.
text: When he nods, the detective stops scribbling.
speaker_heading: CARL (cont'd)
dialog: Because the way Jacob tells it...
text: {he leans forward, scans the
dialog: ~ detective's notes)
text: He went to get his rifle on his own. He
dialog: says Lou chased you out of the house after
dialog: he shot Nancy.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 93
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Rank shifts in his chair.
dialog: 78A.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 93
dialog: 93
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 93
dialog: Jacob said that?
text: Carl nods: a long pause, while Hank searches for a solution.
text: He stares at his feet, CRACKS his knuckles, one after the other.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: Well, I suppose I can see how it might've
dialog: seemed that way to him.
text: Another pause. The policemen exchange a look. Hank shifts in
text: his chair, looking right through Carl, straining for a solution.
dialog: Then, slowly:
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: Because he did go to the truck alone... I
dialog: mean, I followed him, but then when I heard
text: Nancy get shot, I turned back toward the
dialog: house. I was on the porch when Lou started
dialog: to come outside, and that's when I turned
text: to run back down the walk again.
dialog: (a pause)
dialog: So, I guess that's how it might've seemed
dialog: to Jacob that I was running out of the
dialog: house.
text: The detective scribbles more notes. Carl studies Hank. Before
text: he can speak, a policeman enters the room, carrying a pot of
text: coffee. He leaves the door ajar behind him. Hank glances out.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - OUT THE DOOR
text: Sarah sits in the hallway, the baby in its pouch. She stares
text: blankly in at us, as if she were looking at a stranger.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: The policeman sets down the coffeepot, exits, shutting the door
text: behind him. The Sheriff refills everyone's cups.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: And then?
speaker_heading: : HANK (cont'd)
text: Then Lou fired at me and missed. He pumped
dialog: the gun to try again. And that's when
dialog: Jacob shot him.
text: Hank glances from policeman to policeman, fearing another
text: challenge. When none arrives, he waves at the tape recorder.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: I guess you know the rest.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: w_ se wor he
dialog: —™,
dialog: 93
speaker_heading: *O3L
speaker_heading: *93M
speaker_heading: *93N
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: ZONTINUED: (3) 93
text: A long pause. Then the Sheriff nods, shutting off the machine.
scene_heading: “t 93A THRU 93K - OMITTED **
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD - DAY - ON THE PLANE *9O3t
text: A wind is blowing, drifting snow across the wreck of the Cessna.
text: The crows sit hunched in the swaying trees, silent.
speaker_heading: MRS. TRILLING (0S)
dialog: Listen to this, Clifford--
scene_heading: INT. TRILLING KITCHEN - DAY *95M.
text: A small, meticulously clean room. Mrs. Trilling sits in her
text: bathrobe, reading the paper. Her HUSBAND is putting breakfast
text: on the table.
scene_heading: MRS. TRILLING (cont'd)
dialog: --it says he'd been gambling—-
text: She lifts the paper to see better, covering her face. WE PUSH
text: IN on the PAPER.
speaker_heading: MRS. TRILLING (OS cont'd)
dialog: ~-at the casino in Hinkley—-
text: The paper is lowered, but it's no longer Mrs. Trilling behind
dialog: it. It's Linda.
speaker_heading: LINDA
dialog: --and that they were gonna--
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN DINER - DAY *93N
text: Linda sits in a booth, with a sandwich and a cup of coffee in
text: front of her. Across from her sits a COWORKER of Nancy's, an
text: older woman in curlers.
speaker_heading: LINDA (cont'd)
text: --repossess his truck.
speaker_heading: COWORKER
dialog: You know, he used to hit her.
text: ON LINDA, looking both shocked and delighted by this revelation.
speaker_heading: LINDA
dialog: Not
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: *93N CONTINUED:
dialog: I swear it-~
speaker_heading: COWORKER (OS)
speaker_heading: SOA.
speaker_heading: *93N
speaker_heading: *"935P
speaker_heading: 930
dialog: “Oo
speaker_heading: 935
dialog: Bl.
scene_heading: cu - TELEVISION SCREEN *95P
text: The coworker is being interviewed by the female TV reporter.
speaker_heading: COWORKER (cont'd)
dialog: --we all knew she was headed for something
dialog: like this. ‘Cause they had problems going
dialog: way, way back--his gambling and drinking
dialog: weren't half of it. I remember her coming
dialog: into work once with this big bruise on her
dialog: cheek, told us she’d walked into a wall.
text: The woman rolls her eyes in disbelief.
speaker_heading: COWORKER (cont'd)
dialog: I mean, who'd she think she was kidding?
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN BAR - WNIGET *930
text: The TV hangs above the bar, which is moderately crowded.
text: Everyone's watching the screen, rapt. WE SEE Doug Schmitt at
text: the end of the bar. He turns to the MAN beside him, another,
text: equally old FARMER.
speaker_heading: DOUG
dialog: He could get nasty when he drank, know what
dialog: I mean? I saw him here that last night--
text: He waves down the bar. The other drinkers are turning to hear
dialog: what he has to say. -
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN BAR ~- NIGHT - FALSE FLASHBACK *93R
text: In SLIGHT SLOW MOTION, Lou bumps into the bearded man on the
text: stool, and they begin to argue.
speaker_heading: DOUG (OS cont'd)
text: --nearly took-a guy's head off—
text: Lou lunges at the bearded man, swinging wildly, shouting curses.
text: They tumble to the floor. Jacob steps in and pulls Lou off.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY CEMETERY - DAY *935
text: Hank and Sarah stand arm-in-arm as Lou's casket is lowered into
text: the ground. They keep glancing at Jacob, who's weeping
text: uncontrollably. WE SEE Nancy's fresh grave, a rectangle of
text: brown dirt in the snow. The priest sprinkles holy water. Hank
text: and Jacob both cross themselves.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: *93S CONTINUED: *93S
speaker_heading: *93T
speaker_heading: *93U
text: Off to the side the old farmer from the bar and Mrs. Trilling's
text: husband, Clifford, stand watching, whispering quietly together
text: as the service is completed.
speaker_heading: FARMER (cont'd)
dialog: --Jacob had to manhandle him out of there.
text: Clifford shakes his head, sadly, watching Jacob toss a shovelful
text: of icy dirt onto his friend's casket.
speaker_heading: CLIFFORD
dialog: It's just such a tragedy, the whole thing.
scene_heading: INSERT - CONDOLENCE CARD *93T
dialog: A woman's handwriting: “Our thoughts are with you in this time
dialog: of tragedy. Fondly, Brent and Kara Hill"
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL ENTRANCEWAY - DAY
text: Hank, still dressed in his suit from the funeral, is reading the
text: card. The hall table is cluttered with gifts--tupperware
text: containers full of food, jars of jam, foil-wrapped loaves of
text: bread. Hank sets the card beside them, starts up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL UPSTAIRS HALL - DAY *935U
text: Hank heads for the bedroom, loosening his tie. He pauses in the
dialog: doorway.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - ‘THE BEDROOM
text: The baby is on the bed. Sarah’s changing her diaper, but she's
text: paused to play for a moment. She dips her head to Amanda's,
text: then pulls it back, COOING. Amanda smiles, kicks her feet.
text: Sarah glances up, turns toward us, her face blank. Finally,
text: after a long moment, she manages a smile.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank steps into the room, moving to his bureau. Amanda drops
text: her pacifier; it rolls off the bed. As Sarah bends to pick it
text: up, WE SEE the duffel bag still hidden beneath the box springs.
scene_heading: ** 94 THRU 105 - OMITTED **
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN BAR - NIGHT 166
text: A Saturday night crowd: LOUD VOICES, LAUGHTER. The street door
text: opens and Jacob enters. He hesitates at the entrance, looking
text: lost. People turn to stare, and the bar slowly falls silent.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED }
dialog: 106
dialog: 2A.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: A long pause. For a moment it appears as if Jacob might turn
text: and flee, but then the BARTENDER beckons him, waving free one of
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 106
dialog: 106
dialog: 187
dialog: 188
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 106
text: the barstools. Jacob shuffles forward, takes the proffered
text: seat. The bartender places a shot in front of him.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
text: On the house, Jacob.
text: Jacob stares at the whiskey, as if he's not sure what to do with
text: it. Everyone in the bar is watching, silent.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER (cont'd)
dialog: Come on now, down the hatch. Do you good.
text: Jacob lifts the shot, downs it. Everyone smiles; someone CHEERS
text: drunkenly. The DRINKER next to Jacob slaps a bill onto the
text: counter, gestures toward Jacob's glass.
speaker_heading: DRINKER
dialog: Next one's on me.
text: The man gives Jacob a sympathetic nod. Jacob glances quickly
text: away. People are crowding around his stool. A woman puts her
text: hand on his shoulder. For a moment Jacob looks as if he's about
text: to cry: his face trembles. But then he regains control, lifts
text: the shot to his mouth, pours it in.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BATHROOM - NIGHT 187
text: Sarah kneels beside the tub, bathing Amanda in a plastic basin.
text: Hank is in his pajamas, brushing his teeth. WE HEAR a faint
text: pounding. Hank doesn't notice, but Sarah lifts her head.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You hear that?
text: Hank spits into the sink, turns off the faucet. WE HEAR the
text: pounding more clearly. Hank steps to the window, peers outside.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - THROUGH THE WINDOW 168
text: It‘s dark out, but WE can SEE Carl's truck parked in the street.
text: 1@7conBACK TO SCENE 187con
text: Hank turns from the window with a frightened expression.
dialog: It's Carl.
text: The POUNDING continues. Hank and Sarah hold eyes, motionless,
text: Amanda SPLASHING in her basin. Then Hank rushes from the room.
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: 189 MITCHELL FRONT ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT 189
text: Hank unlocks the door, pulls it open. Carl stands on the porch,
text: his hat in his hands, his face grave.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Hope I didn't wake you, Hank.
dialog: (he gestures upward)
dialog: Saw a light on, so I figured--
text: Hank shakes his head.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It's all right.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: I hate having to do this.
text: (he sighs, glances back toward
dialog: his truck)
dialog: See, I was driving by Lou Chambers's place,
dialog: and I saw your brother's truck parked right
text: in the center of the road there, could
dialog: hardly even squeeze by it. Found him
text: inside the house, passed out in an
text: armchair. Looks like he popped a pane of
dialog: glass to get in. Place was all dark, heat
dialog: off--he probably would've frozen to death,
dialog: if I hadn't happened by.
text: He pauses, as if waiting for Hank to respond, but Hank doesn't.
speaker_heading: CARL (cont'd)
dialog: I'd have taken him to his apartment, but he
dialog: was pretty firm about wanting to come here.
text: Hank finally realizes what Carl's saying: Jacob's in the truck.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: No, no, I appreciate it. I mean I'm sorry
dialog: you even had to... Is he gonna be in any
dialog: trouble?
text: Carl waves him into silence.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: I know you guys have been having a rough
dialog: time. Just have a talk with him, all
dialog: right?
text: (he turns to lead Hank to the
dialog: truck) .
dialog: I'll try to keep a tab on him, too.
dialog: 118
speaker_heading: 1
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL GUEST ROOM - NIGHT T1B8
text: Jacob sits on the bed, a blanket over his shoulders, shivering,
text: his nose running. Hank is untying his boots, yanking at the
text: shoestrings, angry. Sarah watches from the doorway.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What the hell were you thinking about?
dialog: That's the last place in the world you
dialog: oughta be.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I didn't... I didn't mean to. I was just
dialog: driving and I... I...
text: He starts, very softly, to CRY. He tilts slowly to the side,
text: pulling his feet away from Hank, and curls into a fetal position
text: on the bed, WEEPING quietly. Hank glances toward Sarah, waves
text: her away. She hesitates a moment, watching Jacob, then leaves.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jacob--
speaker_heading: JACOB .
dialog: (quiet, from the pillow)
dialog: Do you ever feel evil?
text: Hank is startled by the question. He thinks for a moment.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: No. I feel like... I mean we didn't--
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: {his voice quavering)
dialog: I do. I feel evil.
text: He begins to WEEP in earnest. Hank doesn't know what to do.
text: Finally, he reaches out, hesitantly, and pats Jacob's arm.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Shhh, now. Shhh, Jacob.
text: He glances toward the empty doorway.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM -—- NIGET mw
text: Sarah is lying on her side in bed, seemingly asleep. Hank
text: ENTERS, creeps toward the bed. As he slips beneath the covers:
speaker_heading: . SARAB
dialog: We should probably have him over more.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: lil
dialog: 112
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 111
text: Hank hesitates, surprised that she's awake. Then he settles in
text: behind her. He's just reaching out to touch her when--
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: If he’s gotta drink, I'd rather he did it
dialog: here than somewhere else.
text: --and he stops.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: He'll be all right. He's just--
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (rolling to face him)
dialog: You and I can help each other through this,
dialog: Hank. He doesn't have anybody.
text: From her crib across the room, Amanda begins to CRY.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Meaning?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You should keep an eye on him, that's all.
text: She starts for the crib, leaving Hank lying there on his side.
scene_heading: EXT. LOU'S HOUSE - DAY 112
text: There's a "For Sale" sign in the yard; the place looks even more
text: dilapidated than before. Jacob's truck sits in the center of
text: the road. Hank's car approaches, stopping behind it.
scene_heading: INT. HANK'S CAR - DAY
text: Hank puts the car in park, waits for Jacob to climb out, but
text: Jacob doesn't move. He stares off at the house, then out at his
text: truck, thinking. When he finally speaks, his voice is quiet.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Maybe I can get a family of my own now.
dialog: (a pause; he turns to Hank)
dialog: I mean, with the money and all.
text: He appears to expect a response from Hank, but Hank just watches
text: him, mute, Jacob continues, his voice suddenly irresolute.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont ‘’d)
dialog: Don't you think somebody'll marry me if I'm
dialog: rich?
text: Bank starts to smile, but then realizes how serious Jacob is.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: 112 CONTINUED: 112
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You don't need the money for that.
text: Jacob gives him a knowing look, not believing Hank means this.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: What about Carrie Richards? Didn't she
dialog: like you without the money?
text: Jacob shakes his head, smiling grimly.
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: Her friends all chipped in and bet her a
dialog: hundred bucks she wouldn't go steady with
dialog: me for a month.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: {with sympathy)
dialog: Jesus, Jacob.
speaker_heading: JACOB :
dialog: It wasn't that bad. I mean, we never
dialog: kissed or touched or anything like that,
dialog: but we walked around a lot together, and
dialog: talked, and when the month was up she still
dialog: stopped to say hello when we passed in the
dialog: hall, which she didn't have to do.
dialog: (a pause)
dialog: I‘m thirty-three, Hank, and I've never even
dialog: kissed a woman. If being rich'll change
dialog: that, then fine. I don't care if it’s just
dialog: for the money.
text: They fall silent: an awkward moment which Jacob finally breaks
text: by pushing open his door. He turns back before he climbs out,
text: though, his voice like a child's, full of uncertainty.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: I'm gonna be happy now, aren't I?
text: Hank only hesitates for a second. Then he manages a nod.
speaker_heading: . HANK
dialog: Sure you are. We all are.
text: Jacob nods, too, staring off down the road, pursuing a vision.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I‘m gonna buy the farm, and marry someone
dialog: nice, and have lots of kids, and you and
dialog: Sarah and Amanda'll come visit, and we'll
dialog: stay up late drinking on the porch just
dialog: like Dad and Uncle Ted used to.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 112
dialog: nas
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 112
text: Hank glances away, a pained look on his face. Jacob doesn't
text: notice: he climbs out, pushing shut the door behind him.
speaker_heading: HANK'S POV - JACOB
text: Jacob shuffles to his truck. He starts to scrape his windshield
text: with his glove, then glances up to see why Hank hasn't left yet.
text: He stares for a moment, then gives a little wave.
speaker_heading: cu ~ EANK
text: Tears glistening in his eyes. He raises his hand, holds it up
text: toward Jacob. Then he pulis away.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN BARBERSHOP - DAY WS
text: Hank sits in the barber's chair, an old, bald-headed BARBER
text: trimming his hair. Hank's eyes are shut, the scissors moving
text: quickly about his head. The door SQUEAKS open. The barber nods
text: to the new arrival, but Hank doesn't open his eyes.
speaker_heading: CARL (0S)
dialog: He nod off on you, Jack?
text: The barber smiles, but doesn't answer. Hank's eyes flick open.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV =< IN THE MIRROR
text: Carl is standing behind the chair, grinning, examining Hank's
text: hair. He CLUCKS his tongue.
speaker_heading: CARL (cont’d)
text: Getting a little thin up top there, Hank.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank reaches to touch his scalp, but the barber bats his hand
text: away. Carl CHUCKLES.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Don't you have any crimes to solve?
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Maybe. Think you could track down Jacob,
dialog: bring him by my office tomorrow afternoon?
text: He moves to the counter, lifts the lid on a glass jar full of
text: lollipops. Hank starts to twist his head to follow him, but the
dialog: barber won't let him.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Why's that?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: 113 CONTINUED: 113
dialog: 114
dialog: ws
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Man from the FBI's gonna be driving
dialog: through, thought you two might be able to
dialog: help him out.
text: Hank starts to turn his head again, and again the barber stops
text: him. Carl finds the flavor he's looking for, unwraps it, sticks
text: it in his mouth, turns toward Hank with a smile.
speaker_heading: CARL (cont'd)
dialog: Seems they're looking for a missing plane.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN BAR -— DAY 1t4
text: Hank sits across from Jacob in a booth. Jacob is sipping at a
text: beer, four empties at his elbow; he's a little drunk. Hank has
text: a cup of coffee. The place is empty except for the bartender
text: dusting the bottles behind the bar.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (just above a whisper)
dialog: --and then when we heard it crash-~ .
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: We didn't hear it crash, Jacob. We heard
dialog: an engine, that's it. For all we know it
dialog: could've been a snowmobile.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: But--
text: Hank jumps up, throws some bilis onto the table.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Come on. You've had enough.
text: He grabs Jacob's parka, pulls him out of the booth. Jacob rises
text: obediently. He reaches to take his beer, but Hank won't let
text: him; he drags him toward the door. The bartender turns to watch
dialog: them go.
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL TOWN MAIN ST. - DAY V5
text: Hank and Jacob exit the bar, Jacob blinking at the sunlight.
text: Down the street, an old man is unloading firewood from the rear
text: of a pickup. Hank and Jacob start down the sidewalk.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It's really not that difficult. We go in,
dialog: you say--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: CCNTINUED: 115
text: Jacob starts shaking his head, and Hank stops, turns to face
text: him, furious.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: All you have to do is think! Just use your
dialog: head for once in your life.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (snapping back)
dialog: Why'd you have to kill Pederson? If you'd--
text: Hank shoves his brother, knocking him back a step.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What the fuck does that have to do with
dialog: anything?
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (shoving back)
dialog: None of this'd be happening if--
text: Jacob slips as he pushes at Hank, falling to his knees. Hank
text: leans down, speaks right into his face:
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Who hit him in the first place, huh? Every
dialog: step of the way you're the one who's pushed
dialog: us into trouble, and I'm the one who's
dialog: dragged us back out.
text: Jacob lowers his eyes, silenced. A beat, then he struggles to
text: rise. Hank steps back, glancing up and down the street.
text: HANK'S POV - down the street
text: The old man with the firewood is peering toward us. He waits a
text: moment, then returns to his unloading.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Jacob brushes snow from his knees. Hank lowers his voice.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: If we stick to our story, we'll skate right
dialog: through this, all right? I promise.
text: He takes Jacob's elbow, starts to lead him away, and WE HEAR,
text: very loud, a baby begin to cry. This carries over into--
dialog: 91.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM - NIGHT 116
text: Sarah paces across the room, trying to quiet the WAILING baby.
text: Hank is changing from his work clothes, but he's so nervous that
text: he keeps starting a new task--untying his shoe, unbuttoning his
text: shirt--before finishing the last.
speaker_heading: ” HANK
dialog: Maybe we should leave. Just take the
dialog: money, the baby--
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Stop it, Hank.
text: She drops Amanda to the bed, checks her diaper, then refastens
text: it. She sits beside Hank, tries to force a breast on the baby.
text: Amanda twists away, SCREAMING. Hank stands up, begins to pace.
speaker_heading: , SARA (cont'd)
dialog: ~ You go in, see what he knows. If it looks
dialog: bad, we can always burn the money. That's
dialog: still our only real tie to--
speaker_heading: HANK :
text: The connections are just under the surface,
dialog: Sarah. It wouldn't be that hard for things
dialog: to come together. There's the plane and
dialog: Pederson, there's Lou and Nancy and--
text: Sarah grabs him as he passes before her. With one hand she
text: holds the SCREAMING baby, with the other she grips Hank's wrist.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You've got to remember how people see you.
dialog: You're just a normal guy. A nice, sweet,
dialog: normal guy. No one would ever believe that
dialog: you'd be capable of doing what you've done.
text: Hank pulls himself free, walks to the window. Behind him, Sarah
text: continues to jiggle the SHRIEKING infant. Hank shuts his eyes,
text: rests his fingertips against the glass, pressing till they grow
text: white. Then he spins back toward Sarah--
speaker_heading: . HANK
dialog: Christ! Can't you shut her up?
text: They lock eyes for a moment, then Hank strides from the room.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Hank? Hank!
text: WE HEAR him pound downstairs, wrench open the front door, slam
text: it shut behind him. Sarah rises, carries Amanda to the window.
dialog: 92.
scene_heading: 116A SARAH'S POV - OUT THE WINDOW - NIGHT 116A
dialog: 117
dialog: 118
text: Hank is standing with his back to us at the curb, wearing just
text: his pants and a T-shirt.
scene_heading: EXT. MITCHELL HOUSE - NIGHT 17
text: PUSH IN ON HANK, fists clenched at his side, eyes shut. He
text: takes a deep breath, steaming the air, then another, then...
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: FADE IN ON:
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL TOWN MAIN ST. - DAY 118
text: It's late afternoon, snowing heavily. The street is empty, but
text: lights shine in several windows, including Carl's office.
scene_heading: INT. CARL'S OFFICE - DAY 119
text: Hank, Jacob and NEAL BAXTER sit before Carl's desk. Baxter is a
text: large, crewcut man, dressed in a suit and trench coat. Carl is
text: behind his desk. His office is-neat and spare-~a filing
text: cabinet, a nearly empty bookshelf, a gun cabinet on the wall.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It was snowing pretty hard, so we weren’t
dialog: really sure, but it sounded like an engine
text: coughing on and off. We pulled over to
dialog: listen, but we didn’t hear anything more--
dialog: no crash, no engine, nothing.
text: He watches Baxter write this down. When Baxter finishes, he
text: shuts his notebook, then glances from brother to brother. Jacob
text: shifts uncomfortably in his seat, making it CREAK.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Anything to add, Jacob?
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: It was probably just a snowmobile.
text: Another moment passes in silence, while Baxter continues to
text: examine them. Then he nods at Carl. He rises to his feet,
text: sliding his notebook into his jacket. Carl stands up, too.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Well, thanks for stopping by, boys.
text: Hank and Jacob both rise quickly, elated to be let off so
text: easily. Jacob even sneaks a grin at his brother as they start
text: to move toward the door. But then, just before they escape:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED }
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: 119 CONTINUED: 119
speaker_heading: . BAXTER
dialog: Think you could take us out there?
text: Rank and Jacob look apprehensively back at Baxter.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: To the nature preserve?
speaker_heading: BAXTER
dialog: Have to go in the morning, I guess. After
text: the storm passes.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (to Baxter)
dialog: Can you tell us what’s going on?
scene_heading: 128 INT. MITCHELL KITCHEN - DUSK 128
text: Hank has just come home. He's still wearing his overcoat, snow
text: melting on his shoulders. Sarah is washing lettuce at the sink.
speaker_heading: ' SARAH
text: There's no way it's from an armored car
dialog: robbery.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: This isn't a guess, Sarah. The guy from
dialog: the FBI told me where it's from.
speaker_heading: SARAH
text: But it doesn't make sense. The kidnapping
dialog: made sense.
speaker_heading: HANK
text: BHe’s searching for a plane full of money.
dialog: .You can't tell me there's more than one of
dialog: those around here.
text: Hank pulls a bottle of beer from the refrigerator. The stove’s
text: timer BUZZES. Sarah opens the oven, checks inside. WE SEE a
text: roast chicken, not quite done. She resets the timer.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: It's hundred dollar bills, Hank. If it
dialog: were an armored car, there'd be other
dialog: denominations. There'd be fifties and
dialog: twenties and tens.
text: Hank twists the cap off his beer, flips it into the sink.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Well congratulations, Sarah. I guess you
dialog: know more than the FBI.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 120
dialog: 121
dialog: 122
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 120
text: Sarah starts to respond, but then stops, thinking, as Hank heads
text: into the hall. She waits a beat, then rushes after him.
scene_heading: MITCHELL FRONT ENTRANCEWAY - DUSK 121
text: Hank is hanging his overcoat in the hall closet. Sarah comes
text: toward him from the kitchen.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Did he show you his badge?
speaker_heading: BANK
dialog: Why would he show me his badge?
text: Sarah bolts up the stairs without answering. Hank stands there
text: a moment, exasperated, then trudges slowly after her.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM - DUSK . 122
text: Hank ENTERS. Sarah is digging through her bureau's top drawer.
text: As Hank sits on the bed and starts to remove his shoes, she
text: turns, excited, the articles about the kidnapping in her hand.
speaker_heading: SARAE :
dialog: It's him, isn't it? The older one, Vernon.
dialog: (she hands him the article)
text: He's looking for his brother.
text: WE SEE the kidnapper's photographs: he does resemble Baxter a
text: bit, though not much. Hank shakes his head.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: The guy I met today was skinnier. He had a
text: crew cut and no beard.
speaker_heading: . SARAH
dialog: Maybe he's lost weight. Maybe he cut his
text: hair and shaved his beard.
text: Hank continues to stare at the article. They're both growing
text: impatient with each other; their responses are quick, sharp.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: He wouldn't be coming around like this;
dialog: it's too big a risk.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: You're telling me that if Jacob took off in
text: a plane and disappeared with all the money,
dialog: you wouldn't try to find him? -
dialog: {a pause)
dialog: Think what we've already done to keep it.
speaker_heading: (MORE}
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: 122 CONTINUED: 122
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: What he’s doing is nothing compared to
dialog: that.
text: Hank drops the article onto the bed.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It doesn't really make a difference, does
dialog: it? No matter who he is, I still have to
dialog: take him to the plane.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: If we think it's him, you shouldn't go.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: He'll shoot all three of you, Hank. As
text: soon as he sees the plane. That's why he
dialog: wants you to go, so he can eliminate the
dialog: witnesses.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: But if he's really from the FBI, it'll look
dialog: suspicious if I don't help.
text: As he watches Sarah search for a response, WE HEAR the stove's
text: timer go off. It goes on and on, but neither of them reacts.
scene_heading: 123. INT. MITCHELL KITCHEN - NIGHT 123
text: Hank and Sarah sit at the table. Sarah is serving the chicken,
text: which is noticeably burnt. She starts to eat, setting aside the
text: burnt part. Hank watches her, ignoring his own food. He's
text: tense, overwrought.
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: I'll call the FBI in the morning. I'11 ask
dialog: for an Agent Baxter.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I'm meeting them at nine. They won't be
dialog: open before that.
speaker_heading: . SARAH
dialog: You can stall them for a bit. I'11 call
dialog: from here, then call you at Carl's office.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: And if there's no Agent Baxter?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Then you won't go. You'li tell Carl that
dialog: the baby's sick and you have to come home.
speaker_heading: {CONTINUED}
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: 123 CONTINUED: 123
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: And Jacob?
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Say he's hungover. Carl'll believe that.
dialog: (sprinkling salt on her food)
dialog: No matter who this guy is, we don't want
dialog: Jacob there.
text: Hank starts to protest, but Sarah jumps on him before he can.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: What do you want, Hank? You wanna just
dialog: walk out there and get shot by this guy?
dialog: I'm trying to come up with a plan--
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (out of control)
dialog: A plan? Like the one to take the money
dialog: back to the plane, and we wind up killing
dialog: Pederson? Or the one to tape Lou and two
dialog: more, people end up dying? That the sort of
dialog: plan you're thinking of?
text: A long, strained beat of silence. Then, with sudden resolution:
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: I'm gonna take the money back to the plane.
dialog: (a bewildered look from Sarah)
dialog: The snow'll cover my tracks. By the time--
speaker_heading: SARAB
dialog: Hank--
text: Hank stands up abruptly, nearly knocking over his chair. He
text: heads toward the hall, leaving his food untouched behind him.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: If we put it back, everything'll be just
dialog: like it used to be.
text: For a moment, Sarah is too astonished to react. Then she jumps
text: up and starts after him.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (furious)
dialog: That's what you think you want?
scene_heading: 124 INT. MITCHELL FRONT ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT 124
text: Hank is climbing the stairs. Sarah comes down the hall from the
text: kitchen, YELLING at him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 124 CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont‘d)
text: Walking off to the feedstore every morning
dialog: for the next thirty years? Waiting for Tom
dialog: Butler to retire or die so you can finally
dialog: get a raise?
dialog: 97.
dialog: 124
text: She stops at the foot of the stairs. Hank has vanished up them,
text: but she keeps SHOUTING after him.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd) ,
dialog: Coming home each evening to this cheap,
text: ugly house, with the basement flooding
text: every spring, the furnace breaking down
dialog: twice a year, those disgusting yellow tiles
dialog: on the kitchen floor? Is that all it'll
dialog: take to make you happy?
text: Bank reappears at the top of the stairs. He starts down then,
text: dragging the duffel bag behind him.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: What about Amanda? You think she's gonna
dialog: like growing up in somebody else's hand-me-
dialog: down clothes? Playing with other kid's old
dialog: toys because we can never afford to buy her
dialog: anything new?
text: Hank reaches the bottom of the stairs, turns to Sarah, a pained
text: look on his face,
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Sarah--
text: Sarah keeps going, ignoring him.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: And me? You think I want to spend the rest
dialog: of my life stamping due dates on books?
text: Eight hours a day with a fake smile
text: plastered on my face, then home to cook
dialog: dinner for you, the same meals over and
text: over, casseroles and macaroni and meatloaf,
dialog: whatever the week's coupons allow, only
dialog: splurging for a restaurant on birthdays or
text: anniversaries, and even then watching what
text: we order, skipping the appetizers, waiting
dialog: till we get home for dessert? You think
dialog: that's what I want?
text: Hank reaches toward her, sounding scared suddenly.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: That's enough. You've made your--
speaker_heading: _ (CONTINUED)
dialog: 124
dialog: *125
dialog: *126
dialog: Al27
dialog: 127
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 124
text: Sarah shakes her head, pulling away from his touch.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: No. We haven't done Jacob yet. What about
dialog: him? Back to the welfare office, the
dialog: occasional odd job, but without Lou to fill
text: the dead-time now, just himself and his dog
dialog: ail alone in that dirty apartment. How
dialog: leng do you give him, Hank? A year? How
text: long till he takes out that rifle of his,
dialog: sticks it in his mouth and--
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Stop it!
text: A beat of silence. Hank looks at Sarah as if she's just stabbed
text: him in the chest. Sarah remains wrapped within her fury. From
text: outside, WE HEAR the wind buffeting the house.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (with venomous disgust)
dialog: Sounds wonderful, doesn't it? Everything
dialog: just like it used to be.
text: She grabs the bag, starts to drag it back upstairs, leaving Hank
text: all alone in the hall. WE HOLD on him, staring dully after her,
text: while outside, the storm continues to rage.
speaker_heading: OMIT "125,
speaker_heading: OMIT "126
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL TOWN MAIN ST. - DAY R127
text: It's bright, clear, with fresh snow everywhere. WE SEE Hank
text: coming down the street from his house. He climbs the steps to
text: the town hall, disappears inside.
scene_heading: INT. CARL'S OFFICE - DAY 127
text: Hank sits in front of Carl's desk, his hat in his hand. Carl is
text: at his filing cabinet, fiddling with a coffee maker. He turns,
text: hands Hank a steaming cup, then sits behind his desk.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Well, if Jacob can't make it, that'll just
dialog: leave more of Linda's homemade breakfast
dialog: treats to go around.
text: He extends a greasy brown paper bag across the desk toward Hank.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 98a.
speaker_heading: 127 CONTINUED: 127
speaker_heading: CARL (cont'd)
dialog: Her special creation: a dietetic deep-
dialog: fried donut-~so inedible, you won't be able
dialog: to get enough down to be bad for you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: 127 CONTINUED: (2) 127
text: Hank gingerly takes one of the donuts, then holds it out to his
text: side. It's obvious he'd prefer not to taste it. Carl takes one
text: for himself, bites into it, chewing vigorously, smiling at Hank.
text: Hank glances at the phone, then his watch. It's 9:03.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (feigning indifference)
dialog: This guy show you a badge or anything?
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: A badge?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I always wondered if they look like they do
dialog: in the movies.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: And how's that?
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You know, bright and silver with the big F-
text: B-I stamped across the center.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Sure they do.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You saw his?
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: No, but I've seen them before.
text: (he winks at Hank, nods out the
dialog: window)
dialog: Bet he'd show it to you if you asked him.
scene_heading: *1278 HANK'S POV - OUT THE WINDOW *1278
text: Agent Baxter is just exiting from his car, looking somber.
scene_heading: +1278 BACK TO SCENE , 1278
text: Carl grins mischievously at Hank.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: He might even let you hold his gun, too.
dialog: If you ask real nice.
dialog: (he starts to CHUCKLE)
dialog: Then later I'11 give you a ride in the
dialog: truck, and flash the lights for you.
text: Hank grins, embarrassed. He opens his mouth to respond, but the
text: Phone RINGS, interrupting him. Carl picks it up.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: *L27BCONTINUED: *1273
speaker_heading: CARL (cont'd)
dialog: Police Department.
dialog: (@ pause; he smiles at Hank)
text: Yes, Ma'am. He's sitting right across from
dialog: me, trying to figure out how to avoid
dialog: eating one of my wife's homemade donuts.
dialog: {a pause; he laughs)
dialog: Well, why don't you tell him that yourself?
dialog: (another pause)
dialog: All right then. You take care.
dialog: (handing the phone to Hank)
dialog: Your wife.
text: Hank takes the phone.
dialog: Hey, honey.
speaker_heading: SARAH'S VOICE
dialog: It's him. you gotta get out of there.
text: Hank is silent, taking this in. He glances across the desk at
text: Carl, who's opened a newspaper and is busily reading the comics.
speaker_heading: BANK
dialog: I'm staying, Sarah.
speaker_heading: SARAH'S VOICE
dialog: What do you mean, you're staying? We
dialog: agreed-~
dialog: HANK . ;
dialog: (turning away, whispering)
dialog: What about Cari?
text: A long pause while Sarah tries to Solve this oversight. then:
speaker_heading: SARAH'S VOICE
dialog: Tell Carl... tell him to give the guy
dialog: directions, that you two'll meet him there,
dialog: and then... and then...
text: She trails off, at a loss. Hank watches Carl nibble his donut.
speaker_heading: BAXTER (0S)
dialog: Everybody ready to roll?
text: Hank jumps in his chair, turning.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - OFFICE DOORWAY
text: Baxter leans in the door. His jacket hangs open, and WE SEE his
text: shoulder holster beneath it, holding a large black pistol.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: *127BCONTINUED: (2) *1273
dialog: *128
dialog: *129
dialog: *138
dialog: 13t
dialog: 132
dialog: 133
speaker_heading: BAXTER
dialog: Where's your brother?
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Jacob won't be joining us today. Seems
dialog: like he tied one on last night.
text: Hank watches Baxter for a reaction, but Baxter appears unmoved.
text: CHUCKLING, Carl leads them out. Hank starts to follow, but then
text: turns back to set his uneaten donut on the edge of Carl's desk.
text: He hesitates, glancing at the paperweight, then takes off his
text: hat, sets it beside the donut, and turns to leave.
speaker_heading: OMIT *128
speaker_heading: OMIT *129
speaker_heading: OMIT *138
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN HALL - DAY 131
text: Carl and Baxter stand by Carl's truck, watching Hank approach
text: down the steps. Hank stops, reaches up, touches his head.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Damn.
text: (he glances over his shoulder)
dialog: Left my hat in your office.
text: Carl waves him back up the steps.
scene_heading: INT. CARL'S OFFICE - DAY 132
text: Hank moves quickly to Carl's desk. He takes the key from
text: beneath the paperweight, unlocks the gun cabinet, grabs a
text: pistol. He re-locks the door, returns the key to its hiding
text: place, and starts to leave, but then stops to see if the gun is
text: loaded. It's not. He moves to Carl's desk, yanking open the
text: drawers. He finds several boxes of bullets in the bottom
text: drawer, all different. sizes. He tries one, but it doesn't fit.
text: WE HEAR a horn honk. Hank jumps, glancing out the window.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - OUT THE WINDOW 133
text: Carl's truck is parked at the curb, engine running.
scene_heading: 132conBACK TO SCENE 132con
text: Hank grabs several of each type of bullet. He jams the pistol
text: into his waistband, picks up his hat, and runs for the door.
dialog: a
dialog: 134
dialog: 102A.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL BEDROOM - DAY
text: Sarah is staring out the window. The baby is on her hip,
text: SCREAMING.
text: Sarah jiggles her absentmindedly, her face tense.
dialog: 134
scene_heading: REVISED 1/19/98 GREEN
dialog: I
dialog: o
dialog: a
scene_heading: 1348 SARAH'S POV - OUT THE WINDOW 134A
text: Carl's truck is parked before the town hall, engine running.
text: After a moment, Hank emerges from the building, runs down the
text: steps, Climbs inside. Then the truck drives off.
scene_heading: 134conBACK TO SCENE. 134con
speaker_heading: *AISS
dialog: 135
dialog: 136
text: Sarah steps to the phone, snatches it up, dials, listens.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Jacob?
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD ~ DAY *A13S
text: The truck is moving through farm country.
scene_heading: INT. CARL‘S POLICE BRONCO - MOVING - DAY 135
text: Carl is driving. Baxter sits in the middle with Hank on his
dialog: right.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: This guy's body's going numb, the wind
text: whipping through the front of his jacket.
text: So he pulis over, climbs off his
text: motorcycle, and turns his jacket around.
dialog: Smart, right? That way the wind won't be
text: able to come through the front as he
text: drives. But then, a few miles up the road,
text: he hits some ice. The bike starts to slip
text: out from under him and his jacket’s too
text: tight for him to regain control. He shoots
text: right off the road, smack into a tree.
text: Carl SMACKS the wheel, and Hank jumps. He's sweating; he keeps
text: pushing at the gun beneath his coat, not listening at all.
speaker_heading: CARL (cont'd)
text: By the time I arrive, a big crowd's already
dialog: gathered. When I ask what happened, this
text: gay from Wisconsin steps forward and says,
dialog: ‘He was doin' fine when we first showed up.
dialog: But then we twisted his head back around
dialog: for him, and he just up and died on us.'
text: Baxter LAUGHS heartily, slaps his knee. It's obvious Hank
text: hasn't heard a word, but he forces a LAUGH for Carl's benefit.
scene_heading: EXT. EDGE OF WOODS - DAY 136
text: Carl's truck pulls over, and the three men climb out. Hank
text: continues to push at the gun beneath his jacket, glancing
text: nervously at Baxter.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 136
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 136
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: I figure the best way is for each of us to
dialog: take a different section of the woods.
dialog: (to Baxter)
dialog: If you or I see it, we’ll fire a couple
dialog: shots into the--
text: WE HEAR a Car approaching, and all three men turn to look.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV = DOWN THE ROAD
text: Jacob's truck is approaching us, fast.
speaker_heading: CARL (OS cont’d)
dialog: Well, good for Jacob. This'll make things
dialog: go quicker.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Hank watches, trying to hide his anger, as Jacob skids to a stop
text: behind Carl's truck. He pushes open the door, his dog jumping
text: out behind him.
speaker_heading: CARL (cont ‘d)
dialog: (calling to Jacob)
dialog: Bring your riflet
text: Carl takes a silver whistle out of his pocket, hands it to Hank.
speaker_heading: CARL (cont’d)
dialog: You'll have to use this. Blow on it loud
dialog: as you can if you find anything, and we'll
dialog: come running. All right?
text: Hank nods, frowning at Jacob, who's lumbering toward them now.
text: Jacob hesitates wnen he notices Hank's obvious disappointment.
text: He raises his eyebrows, questioning.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (with an edge)
dialog: Thought you weren't feeling up to this.
speaker_heading: . JACOB
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: Sarah said you wanted...
text: He trails off, unsure how to proceed. He glances from Hank to
text: Carl to Baxter, everyone watching him, then shrugs, MUMBLING:
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: Once I got up, I felt a little better.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 136
dialog: 137
dialog: 138
dialog: 139
dialog: 148
dialog: 141
dialog: 142
dialog: 145
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 136
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: That's the spirit. Fresh air‘ll do you
dialog: good.
dialog: (to the others)
dialog: Everybody set?
text: Hank steps decisively forward.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I'll take the center.
text: He points into the woods, straight toward the plane.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS ~- DAY 137
text: Hank trudges through the snow, weaving between the trees. The
text: other three men are nowhere in sight. He stops, stares.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - DOWN INTO THE ORCHARD 138
text: From the rim, WE SEE the plane, nearly hidden by the fresh snow.
text: The crows still cling to the branches of the apple trees.
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD - DAY . 139
text: Hank moves through the orchard. As he's passing the plane, WE
text: HEAR a crunching sound beneath his boot. He stops, turns to see
text: what he's stepped on. It's Lou's beer can, crushed now, and
text: half-covered with snow. Hank grins, bending to pick it up.
text: Then he starts jauntily up the slope, not looking back.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - FURTHER IN - DAY 148
text: Hank glances around to make sure he's alone, then heaves the
text: beer can into the woods. As it SMACKS into a tree trunk, WE
text: HEAR a gunshot. Hank jumps.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - BAXTER 141
text: A second SHOT echoes through the trees. Baxter stops, listens.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - JACOB 142
text: Jacob, panting, sweaty, stands listening. WE HEAR another shot,
text: sounding farther away here than with the other men, and Jacob
text: begins, slowly, to trudge through the snow toward the orchard.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - HANK 143
text: Hank is motionless, listening.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 143
dialog: 144
dialog: 45
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 143
speaker_heading: CARL (0S)
dialog: (from a distance)
dialog: I found it!
text: Hank starts to sprint back through the trees toward the orchard.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - BAXTER 144
text: Baxter is walking quickly toward the orchard. Suddenly WE HEAR
text: the sound of a whistle being blown. And then:
speaker_heading: HANK (0S)
dialog: Carl!
text: Baxter stops, listening, perplexed. The WHISTLE blows again.
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD - DAY 145
text: Carl is on the slope above the orchard, a huge grin on his face.
text: He's come around from the east, and is facing the tail of the
text: Plane. Hank's tracks cut straight across the orchard, from left
text: to right. As Carl slides his pistol into his holster, he
text: pauses, listening. WE HEAR the whistle. Then:
speaker_heading: HANK (OS cont’d)
dialog: Run, Carl!
text: Carl squints off into the woods, bewildered.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - HANK
text: Hank runs through the woods, blowing on the WHISTLE. He reaches
text: the rim of the orchard, and pauses, out of breath.
scene_heading: HANK'S POV - THE ORCHARD
text: Carl stands a few yards from the plane, staring toward us.
text: Behind him, WE SEE Baxter moving slowly down into the orchard.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Get out of there, Carl! Run!
text: Hank starts down into the orchard. Carl doesn't seem to hear
text: him. He smiles up at Hank, pointing at the plane.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: You walked right by it!
text: Baxter is almost upon him now, glancing from the plane to Carl
text: to Hank. He seems confused.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 145
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Pull your gun on him! Make him show you
dialog: his badget
text: Baxter and Carl glance at each other. Baxter grins awkwardly,
text: shaking his head. Carl CHUCKLES. Hank is fumbling with his
text: coat, trying to get at the gun, which has slipped down into his
text: crotch. His fingers are clumsy with his gloves on, though, and
text: he can't get anything open. Finally he just points at Baxter.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: Get your hands in the air!
text: Baxter and Carl LAUGH. Hank continues toward them, walking
text: awkwardly because of the pistol.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: What the hell’s going on, Hank?
speaker_heading: - HANK
dialog: Just do it, Carl. Make him show you his
dialog: badge.
text: Carl turns to Baxter, shrugging and smiling, as if in apology.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Maybe you should show him your badge.
speaker_heading: BAXTER
dialog: _ (shrugging)
dialog: All right.
text: He reaches into his jacket. Carl turns back toward Hank.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: See, Hank? He’s gonna--
text: Behind him, WE SEE Baxter pull his pistol from its holster. He
text: aims it at the back of Carl's head.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - JACOB 146
text: Jacob leans against a tree trunk, trying to catch his breath.
speaker_heading: HANK (OS)
dialog: (very far away)
speaker_heading: CARL!
text: WE BEAR a gunshot, and then, faintly, the crows CAWING. Jacob's
text: face shows a sudden look of terror. .
dialog: 147
dialog: 148
speaker_heading: Rev. 2/12/98
dialog: Goldenrod
dialog: 108.
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD - DAY 147
text: Baxter aims his pistol at Hank's chest. Carl's body lies at
text: their feet, his blood steaming the air.
speaker_heading: BAXTER
dialog: Where's my money?
text: Hank, struggling for breath, feigns bewilderment.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I don't-~-
text: Baxter lashes out at him with his pistol: a Savage, back-handed
text: blow to the side of his face, knocking Hank backward. Hank
text: touches his cheek. His hand comes away bloody.
text: When he glances at Baxter again, he finds the pistol aimed at
text: his head, its hammer cocked. Hank waves toward the plane.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
text: It's still in there.
text: Baxter glances down at the gun on Carl's belt, then up at Hank.
speaker_heading: BAXTER
dialog: Then go get it.
text: Hank doesn't move. Baxter quickly scans the orchard's rim, then
text: waves toward the plane with his gun.
speaker_heading: BAXTER (cont'd)
dialog: Come on. Before your brother gets here.
text: Hank starts toward the plane. He has to tug the door several
text: times to get it open, rocking the plane, once again freeing it
text: of its covering of snow. Taking a deep breath, he slips inside.
scene_heading: INT. PLANE ~- MOMENTS LATER 148
text: Hank crouches behind the pilot's seat. The garbage bag full of
text: money sits at his feet. He has the gun out, and is digging into
text: his pants for the bullets.
speaker_heading: BAXTER (0S)
dialog: Hey!
text: Hank's hand is shaking, and the bullets spill out onto the
text: floor, bouncing away from him. He picks some up, tries to shove
text: them into his pistol, but none of them fit.
text: Suddenly, Baxter FIRES twice into the side of the plane. Hank
text: flinches, dropping his pistol, ets punch a pair jax
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: Rev, 2/12/38
dialog: Goldenrod
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: 148a* CONTINUED: 148 ax
speaker_heading: 148B*
dialog: 149
text: holes in the fuselage above the melon-shaped tear, so that the
text: light shining in forms a semblance of a smiling face.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (picking up his pistol) 148Be
dialog: . Okay, okay! I've got itt
text: Still struggling with the bullets, he starts toward the door.
scene_heading: EXT. ORCHARD
text: Hank squeezes through the doorway, holding the garbage bag out
text: before him. Baxter steps forward and grabs it.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BAXTER 149
text: as he opens the bag, staring inside at the packets.
speaker_heading: BAXTER
dialog: That's it?
dialog: {he looks up)
dialog: Where the fuck is the r--
text: He freezes.
scene_heading: BAXTER'S POV ~ HANK
text: Hank stands there, drenched with sweat, pointing his pistol at
text: us. His wound is leaking a line of blood down his face.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Baxter watches Hank. After a moment, he smiles.
speaker_heading: BAXTER
dialog: You're not the cold-blooded type, are you,
dialog: Mr. Mitchell?
dialog: (silence, but Baxter's
dialog: satisfied)
dialog: Then I guess we're both going to have an
dialog: awful lot of explaining to do Dow, huh?
text: Hank's face is wet; it's hard to tell whether from sweat or
text: tears. He wipes at it, then shakes his head bleakly.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Just me.
text: He Shoots Baxter between the eyes. An instant after the
speaker_heading: GUNSHOT: ~
speaker_heading: JACOB (0S)
speaker_heading: HANK!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 149
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 149
text: Jacob has arrived on the rim of the orchard. Hank watches him
text: come stumbling down the slope, his dog BARKING at his heels.
text: The crows are whirling and CAWING. Jacob is red in the face,
text: panicky. He stares from Baxter to Carl.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: It's okay, Jacob.
text: Jacob moves toward Carl's body, as if in a trance.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You killed...
text: Hank shakes his head, points at Baxter.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: He did.
text: Jacob falls to his knees beside Carl, reaching toward him. #ank
text: steps quickly forward.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: Don't.
text: Jacob ignores him, taking Carl's hand.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: (growing angry)
dialog: You're gonna mess it up.
text: Hank grabs his brother by his jacket, drags him backward. Jacob
text: falls on his rear end in the snow, then just sits there, too
text: upset to move. Hank examines Carl's body, making sure Jacob
text: hasn't disturbed it. Then he turns back toward Jacob.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: You understand what we're gonna say?
text: Jacob doesn't respond. Hank steps toward him.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: It's simple.
text: {he holds up his pistol)
dialog: We're gonna tell them Carl loaned me the
dialog: pistol to signal if I found the plane, and
dialog: when I saw Baxter shoot him, I-~
text: Jacob lifts his head. His face is wet with tears. He rises to
text: his feet, his rifle slipping off his shoulder into the snow. He
text: gives Hank a desolate look. -
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: We can't, Hank.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: lll.
speaker_heading: 142 CONTINUED: (2) 149
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What're you talking about?
dialog: (he waves around them)
dialog: It's perfect. This is exactly what--
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I'm turning myself in.
text: Hank is speechless with shock. He looks from Jacob, to the two
text: bodies, to the plane, searches for something to say. Then:
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You can't do this again. We're gonna end
dialog: up in jail if you keep--
text: Jacob is looking at Carl's corpse, his face quivering.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: No...
text: He turns quickly away, covering his eyes with his hand. Hank
text: steps forward, panic surging through his voice.
speaker_heading: BANK .
dialog: This is it. I promise. we get through the
dialog: next few hours--
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: (on the edge of tears)
dialog: I can't... I can't...
text: He takes a deep, ragged breath. Hank grabs his arm, frantic.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You want to be happy, Jacob? You want the
dialog: farm, a wife and kids, me and you drinking
dialog: on the porch late at night?
text: Jacob stares at him vacantly. Hank shakes his arm, shouts:
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Do you?
dialog: (seemingly against his will,
dialog: Jacob nods)
dialog: Well this is how you get it. Right here.
dialog: Right now.
text: He starts to drag Jacob from the plane, past Carl's body. The
text: heat of Carl’s blood has begun to melt the surrounding snow.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont’d)
dialog: This is what it costs--
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: 149 CONTINUED: (3) 149
text: After a few feet, Jacob pulls his arm away. He turns to Hank,
text: suddenly intense, points toward Baxter.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Use his gun.
text: Hank gives him a stupefied look. Jacob shuffles to Baxter's
text: body, picks up the dead man's pistol, holds it out to Hank.
text: Hank hesitates, then takes it. Jacob nods his approval.
speaker_heading: JACOB (cont'd)
dialog: I don't wanna go to jail, Hank.
text: Hank seems relieved by these words.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: You don't have to. We're gonna--
text: Jacob shakes his head.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: I can't pretend like you...
dialog: (a pause)
dialog: Do it in the head, okay? /
text: Hank stands frozen: confused, frightened, the guns in his
dialog: hands.
dialog: Stop it.
speaker_heading: JACOB
text: From behind, so I don't have to see.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: STOP IT!
text: They face each other in silence. Jacob's dog stands by Carl's
text: corpse, ears cocked, watching. Jacob holds out his hand.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Here.
text: He steps forward, reaching to take back the gun. Hank retreats,
text: scared. Jacob shuffles to Carl's corpse, crouches, removes the
text: policeman's gun from its holster. Then he stands, faces Hank.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Goddammit. We don't have time for this.
text: Jacob stares down at the pistol in his hand, struggling to think
text: things through. He looks up at his brother.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: 149 CONTINUED: (4) 149
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You have to...
text: (he points toward Baxter's
dialog: pistol)
dialog: It won't make sense if I--~
text: His dog rubs against his legs, distracting him. He stares down
text: at her for a beat, then stoops to pet her. He hugs her roughly,
text: kisses the top of her head.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Jacob.
text: Jacob pushes the dog away, rises, lifts Carl's pistol. For an
text: instant it looks as if he's going to aim it at Hank, but then he
text: presses it to his own temple.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: (horrified)
dialog: Jacob!
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: It's okay.
text: Hank raises Baxter's pistol, points it at his brother.
speaker_heading: HANK
text: Put the gun down.
text: Jacob nods, encouraging him.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: Do it, Hank.
text: Hank shakes his head, his face anguished.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: No...
text: Tears are starting to. leak down Hank's cheeks. Jacob cocks the
text: pistol's hammer with his thumb. Hank takes a single step toward
text: him, but Jacob backs away.
speaker_heading: JACOB
dialog: You have to...
text: Hank keeps shaking his head. Finally, Jacob shuts his eyes, his
text: face tightening in anticipation of the bullet's impact. WE SEE
text: his finger begin to squeeze the trigger.
speaker_heading: HANK (cont'd)
dialog: Nol
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 149
dialog: 158
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) 149
text: A GUNSHOT echoes out across the orchard, and Jacob crumples into
dialog: the snow. For an instant we shouldn't be sure who fired the
text: shot. Then WE SEE the bullet hole, in the exact center of
text: Jacob's forehead.
speaker_heading: HIGH ANGLE SHOT
text: Hank is surrounded by the three corpses, the pistol still held
text: out before him. He slowly drops to his knees, then lifts his
text: head and lets loose with a long WAIL of pure despair. Behind
text: him, the plane shines in the sun. Mary Beth BARKS frantically,
text: while the crows whirl above the trees, CAWING.
scene_heading: TIME LAPSE DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: ORCHARD - SAME HIGH ANGLE SHOT - LATER 158
text: The trio of dead men are covered with blankets. Policemen mill
text: about the orchard. One of them videotapes the plane, another
text: photographs the bodies. A news cameraman is trying to approach
text: the scene, but the police won't let him. An ambulance crew
text: stands waiting for the photographer to finish with the corpses.
text: On the orchard's edge, WE SEE Hank talking to a group of
dialog: policemen.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: HANK
text: as two men, dressed in identical overcoats, approach him from
text: behind. They're Special Agents RENKINS and FREMONT. Fremont
text: has the plastic bag full of money.
speaker_heading: RENKINS
dialog: Mr. Mitchell?
text: Hank turns to find Renkins holding his badge toward him. It's
text: bright and silver with a big F~B-I stamped in the center.
speaker_heading: RENKINS
dialog: Mind if we have a word with you?
scene_heading: INT. CARL'S OFFICE - LATER 151
text: Renkins is seated behind Carl's desk, watching Hank, who sits
text: across from him. Fremont stands peering in at the gun cabinet.
text: The garbage bag full of money and the pistol Hank stole earlier
text: that morning sit on the desk, alongside a running tape recorder.
speaker_heading: FREMONT
dialog: {turning from the cabinet)
dialog: You know, Mr. Mitchell, for someone who's
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: 151 CONTINUED: 151
speaker_heading: FREMONT (cont'd)
dialog: been properly trained, there are many ways
dialog: to detect a liar.
text: There's a dark red gash across Hank's cheek, but the wound has
text: stopped bleeding. He gives Fremont a frightened look.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I don't--
speaker_heading: FREMONT
text: The shifty eyes of pulp fiction have a
text: certain basis in fact. A wooden or stilted
text: tone, gestures that seem either slightly
dialog: robotic or unnecessarily expansive--
text: Renkins nods in agreement, joining in.
speaker_heading: RENKINS
text: Details tend to be vague, slippery.
dialog: Sometimes the suspect will cover his mouth
text: with his hand as he speaks...
text: Fremont rests his palms on the desk, leans toward Hank.
speaker_heading: FREMONT a
dialog: You notice anything like that from the man
dialog: you shot today?
text: Hank still hasn't grasped what the agent is saying. He glances
text: from Renkins to Fremont, gives a nervous shake of his head.
speaker_heading: FREMONT (cont'd)
dialog: He was lying to you, Mr. Mitchell. He
dialog: wasn't from the FBI.
text: Hank lifts his hand, starts to cover his mouth, but then
text: realizes what he's doing and quickly lowers it. He struggles to
text: mask his relief, to feign confusion.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: I don't understand. He said--
text: Fremont nods; he knows what he said.
speaker_heading: FREMONT
dialog: His name was Vernon Bokovsky. His brother
dialog: was in that crashed plane you found out
dialog: there today.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: He was looking for his brother?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: 151 CONTINUED: (2) 151
text: The words seem to suck everything out of Hank; for an instant,
text: he looks as if he might crumple. The other two men don't appear
text: to notice. Renkins leans forward, opens the bag of money.
speaker_heading: RENKINS
dialog: He was looking for this.
text: He shakes it, displaying the money. Hank stares, unseeing.
speaker_heading: FREMONT
dialog: Bokovsky and his brother were the guys who
dialog: kidnapped that McMartin girl last November.
dialog: You remember? The one they shot and dumped
dialog: in the lake?
speaker_heading: RENKINS
dialog: Four point four million dollars in ransom.
text: Hank continues to stare into the bag, completely absent; he
text: hasn't heard a word they've said. The agents smile at each
text: other, misinterpreting his reaction. Renkins reaches into the
text: bag, pulls out a packet, holds it out to Hank.
speaker_heading: RENKINS (cont'd)
dialog: Wanna touch it?
text: Hank blinks up at him, too dazed to answer. Renkins nods
text: encouragingly.
speaker_heading: RENKINS (cont'd)
dialog: Go ahead,
text: Hank finally realizes what the man wants of him. He takes the
text: packet, balances it for a moment in his palm, then hands it back
text: to Renkins, who returns it to the bag.
speaker_heading: RENKINS (cont'd)
dialog: This is only part of it, of course. we're
text: still tracking down the rest.
speaker_heading: FREMONT
dialog: (confidently)
dialog: Just a question of time.
text: The words jerk Hank back into the conversation. He glances
text: apprehensively from Renkins to Fremont.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: FREMONT
dialog: We had the money for two hours before the
dialog: kidnappers picked it up. We couldn’t mark
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 151
dialog: *152
dialog: #153,
dialog: 154
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 151
speaker_heading: FREMONT (cont'd)
dialog: it--we were afraid they'd detect the
dialog: markings and kill the girl--so we put
text: together a task force of twenty agents,
dialog: and they wrote down as many of the serial
dialog: numbers as they could. We ended up
dialog: recording just under five thousand of them,
dialog: one out of ten of the bills.
text: Hank stares at them, too shocked to speak.
speaker_heading: RENKINS
dialog: Simply a matter of waiting for the numbers
dialog: to turn up. You can’t go around passing
dialog: hundred dollar bills without eventually
text: sticking in someone’s memory.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: The money’s marked.
speaker_heading: FREMONT
dialog: That’s what it amounts to. Marked money.
text: Renkins leans back in his chair, smiles.
speaker_heading: RENKINS
dialog: Crime doesn't pay.
speaker_heading: OMIT 152
speaker_heading: OMIT *153
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: THE MONEY 154
text: pouring out across the Mitchell's living room carpet.
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Hank drops the empty duffel bag to the floor, bends, picks up a
text: handful of packets. Logs burn in the fireplace. Sarah stands
text: before it, facing Hank. She's crying, shaking her head.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: No.
text: She holds her hands out before her, blocking his way. Hank just
text: stares at her, his eyes empty.
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd) ~
dialog: We can run with it... We can leave the
dialog: country, go to South America, Australia,
dialog: somewhere far away...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 117A.
speaker_heading: 154 CONTINUED: 154
text: Hank says nothing. He's resigned himself to what he has to do,
text: and he stands there waiting for Sarah to do so, too.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 154
speaker_heading: *168R
speaker_heading: *168C
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 154
speaker_heading: SARAH (cont'd)
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: I can get a job at the FBI. I can steal
dialog: the list of numbers.
speaker_heading: HANK
dialog: Sarah...
text: She wipes at her tears, steps forward, holding out her hands.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Please, Hank.
text: She touches his face, then leans in, hugging him, kissing him.
text: He tries to pull away, but she holds on, intense, and for an
text: instant it seems as if he might submit. Then he jerks free,
text: pushes past her to the fire. She grabs at him, and he turns,
text: shoving, knocking her back into the pile of money. She falls to
dialog: the floor.
text: Hank crouches, opens the fire screen. He throws the packets
text: onto the logs. Behind him, Sarah lies weeping on the carpet.
text: She's on her stomach, scrambling at the pile of money, dragging
text: packets toward her, trying to hide them beneath her body.
text: Hank stares into the fire. WE SEE the packets catching, their
text: edges curling, their ink going black. Very faintly, WE begin to
text: HEAR the grinding of the feed mill, which carries over into:
scene_heading: ** 155 THRU 160 - OMITTED
scene_heading: INT. SMALL TOWN LIBRARY - DAY *168A
text: Amanda lies in a bassinet by the counter. Mrs. Trilling coos at
text: the baby while Sarah stamps her books. She gives Mrs. Trilling
text: a fake smile. The sound of the FEED MILL is growing steadily
text: louder, carrying over into:
scene_heading: INT. MITCHELL LIVING ROOM - NIGAT *168B
text: Hank is crouched beside Sarah, prying the packets from her grip.
text: She’s sobbing. Behind them, the fire blazes. The GRINDING is
text: almost unbearably loud now.
scene_heading: INT. FEED MILL - DAY *168C
text: Hank stands in the center of the storeroom, his clipboard in his
text: hand, staring blankly at the shelves, which sag beneath the
text: piled sacks of grain. The air is thick with dust, the walls
text: vibrating with the violence of the mill. ~
scene_heading: *168D INT. MITCHELL LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Abrupt SILENCE. Hank crouches before the fire,
text: flames.
speaker_heading: 1184
speaker_heading: *168D
dialog: watching the
text: The pile of money is gone. It's all been burned.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 119.
scene_heading: *160DCONTINUED: *160D
text: Sarah still lies On the carpet, curled into a ball,
text: longer crying. Like Hank, she's Staring dully into
dialog: We watch them for a long time before we
dialog: but she's no
dialog: the fire,
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
dialog: 
