scene_heading: FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION 2009
speaker_heading: A SINGLE MAN
scene_heading: BEST ADAPTED SCREENPLAY
speaker_heading: SCREENPLAY BY
scene_heading: TOM FORD and DAVID SCEARCE
dialog: “RK Single Man”
dialog: Screenplay
dialog: by
dialog: Tom Ford and David Scearce
dialog: Based on the novel by Christopher Isherwood
speaker_heading: BLACK SCREEN:
scene_heading: EXT. UNDERWATER
text: Our black screen slowly fades to a murky blue-grey as it
text: becomes apparent that we are underwater. From the top of our
text: screen drifts the nude body of a man, arms outstretched,
text: sinking slowly. He moves his legs in a slight struggle as he
text: is pulled deeper and deeper into the water. His hand lashes
text: out in a final sudden movement as his body becomes still.
text: We are now close in on the man’s face to reveal GEORGE, 52,
text: as he begins to toss and turn violently in the water
text: searching for air.
text: A title appears over our image in simple bold type:
scene_heading: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1962.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SNOW COVERED ROAD. DUSK
text: George is walking in the snow. He is on a quiet stretch of
text: road and the snow is falling gently. All is silent. Ahead of
text: George and in our line of sight is a crushed car that has
text: flipped over on it’s top. There is broken glass everywhere
text: and the skid marks of the car are visible on the icy road.
text: The taillights are still on and there is steam coming from
text: the hood. A body is hanging out of a smashed window on the
text: driver's side of the car.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. UNDERWATER.
text: George continues to toss and turn underwater even more
text: violently as he struggles to find air.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SNOWY ROAD. DUSK
text: Arriving at the wreck, George looks at the bloody face of
text: the dead driver - it is a handsome man in his mid thirties,
text: JIM. There is a lifeless and bloody black and white dog on
text: the dashboard against the broken windshield.
dialog: 2.
text: George slowly lies down in the snow next to Jim. He stares
text: at Jim's bloody face and then leans over and kisses Jim on
text: the mouth. George pulls back.
text: Jim's open eyes and blood covered face fill our screen as we
text: push in tighter. His eyes have a cold gelatinous feel about
text: them. We continue to push in until his eyes fill our screen.
text: There is a faint, repetitive banging sound, like a drum
text: beat, in the background that becomes increasingly louder.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING 1962
text: George bolts up in a panic. He can’t breathe. He is sweating
text: The drumbeat sound is loud and constant. In the distance we
text: hear a female voice.
speaker_heading: MRS. STRUNK (0.S.)
dialog: Jennifer stop it! Stop that banging
dialog: now!
text: The banging sound stops.
text: We hear the white noise hum of waves crashing in the
text: distance and the faint sound of seagulls.
text: George’s face fills our screen as he recovers from the dream
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
text: Waking up begins with saying am and
dialog: now.
text: We gradually pull back from above to reveal a full length
text: George. He does not look his age - a slim, tan, Englishman
text: who has clearly taken care of himself. He has a full head
text: of salt and pepper hair. He is handsome.
text: QUICK CUTS OF A COMPLETELY STILL GEORGE FROM ALL SIDES AND
speaker_heading: ANGLES.
text: He is nude, lying on a bed, partially covered in wrinkled
dialog: 3.
text: white cotton sheets. There is a large black stain and an ink
text: pen on the sheets next to him.
text: FROM THE CEILING WE PUSH IN SLOWLY UNTIL WE ARE JUST OVER
text: GEORGE. WE SETTLE IN ON HIS FACE. WE ARE INTIMATE WITH HIM
text: AND CAN HEAR HIM BREATHING SOFTLY.
text: A twitch of his left hand. A worn gold signet ring on the
dialog: little finger.
text: George reaches over to the other side of the bed as if
text: searching for someone. There is an open fountain pen on this
text: side of the bed with a small stack of stationery. The ink
text: pen has left an enormous black stain on the sheets. Some of
text: the ink comes off on his fingers.
text: He gains his bearings and catches his breath. He lifts his
text: fingers to his lips. The ink leaves a slight mark on his
text: mouth. He lies still for a moment.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: FLASHBACK OF GEORGE KISSING JIM IN THE SNOW
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT: GEORGE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING 1962 -- CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: For the past eight months waking up
dialog: has actually hurt. The cold
dialog: realization that I am still here
text: slowly sets in.
text: George, with bed hair, still sweating, untangles himself
text: from the sheets and sits up. He holds onto his head as if in
dialog: pain.
text: A pile of clothes is in the chair next to the bed. Books and
text: magazines are loosely stacked next to the end table. There
text: is an empty scotch bottle on the floor. The room is dark and
text: in disarray.
text: On the floor on George's side of the bed are about 10
text: carefully addressed envelopes and letters laid out in a
dialog: grid.
dialog: 4.
text: George looks at the alarm clock. It has stopped at 4:57. He
text: looks at his wrist watch on the bedside table. 7:22.
text: George sighs and bangs the alarm clock a few times on the
text: table top, winds it and resets it. The second hand is now
text: ticking loudly.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
dialog: I was never terribly fond of waking
dialog: up.
text: He rises, navigates the grid of letters, and walks to the
dialog: bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BATHROOM. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
text: A SERIES OF SHOTS:
text: Relieving himself at the toilet.
text: Standing in the shower letting the hot water wash over him.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: I was never one to jump out of bed
text: and greet the day with a smile like
dialog: Jim was.
dialog: Shaving.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.0. (CONT'D)
dialog: I used to want to punch him
dialog: sometimes in the morning he was so
dialog: happy.
text: Taking a handful of aspirin
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
dialog: I always used to tell him that only
text: fools greet the day with a smile,
dialog: that only fools could possibly
dialog: escape the simple truth that now
dialog: isn’t simply now: it’s a cold
dialog: reminder. One day later than
dialog: yesterday, one year later than last
dialog: year and that sooner or later it
dialog: will come.
dialog: 
text: Scrubbing his fingernails briskly with a brush.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
dialog: He used to laugh at me and then
dialog: give me a kiss on the cheek
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING -- MINUTES LATER
dialog: 
text: Opening an extremely organized drawer and taking out a pair
text: of perfectly folded black socks.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: It takes time in the morning for me
dialog: to become George, time to adjust to
dialog: what is expected of George and how
dialog: he is to behave.
text: Opening another equally organized drawer and pulling out an
text: immaculately pressed and folded white shirt.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
dialog: By the time I have dressed and put
text: the final layer of polish on the
text: now slightly stiff but quite
dialog: perfect George I know fully what
dialog: part I’m supposed to play.
text: George runs a brush over his shoes.
text: He dabs the back of his neck with cologne.
text: END SERIES OF SHOTS.
text: Standing at his dresser, George adjusts his tie and looks
text: at himself intently in the mirror as our camera glides up
text: George's body to his face to reveal the now fully realized
dialog: public face of George.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
text: Looking in the mirror staring back
dialog: at me isn’t so much a face as the
text: expression of a predicament.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: (whispering aloud to himself)
dialog: Just get through the goddamn day.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: A bit melodramatic I guess.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - HALLWAY. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
text: George walks down the hallway. As he approaches the living
text: room he glances out the window and sees JIM.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: But then again my heart has been
dialog: broken.
text: JIM, 34, handsome and well built in a classical American way
text: is waxing a surfboard on a pair of saw horses. Two more
text: surfboards lie on the bright green lawn behind him. A black
text: and white, smooth fox terrier, like the dead dog in the car,
text: lies in the sun on his side next to Jim. Another smaller,
text: but identical dog is biting at the collar of the first dog.
text: Jim is disciplining the smaller dog.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
dialog: I feel as If I am sinking,
dialog: drowning, can’t breathe.
text: George stares back at Jim but his expression is suddenly
text: changed by a sharp pain that grips his chest.
text: He holds onto the louvered rail that separates the hall from
text: the living room to avoid falling over. He stands still and
text: takes a deep breath.
text: When the pain passes, he looks back out of the window. No
text: surfboards. No Jim. No dogs. Just a brown over-grown lawn.
text: George closes his eyes, and takes a deep breath.
text: He makes his way down the hallway and into the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
text: George plugs in the toaster and opens the bread box. No
text: bread. He opens the refrigerator. No bread. He opens the
text: freezer to find a loaf of white bread frozen solid. He drops
text: the bread on the counter with a thud. Irritated he bangs the
text: bread several times on the kitchen counter. He abandons the
text: loaf of bread and begins making himself a pot of coffee.
dialog: 7.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - DINING AREA. MORNING -- MINUTES LATER
text: George is seated at the table having his morning coffee as
text: the phone rings. George looks at his watch. 7:40. He looks
text: back at the ringing phone and decides not to answer it.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. DAY (1948)
text: George and Jim are standing in the completely new and
text: absolutely empty house for the first time. It is stunning.
text: The starkness of it then is a total contrast to the house of
dialog: today. This is the house before it had a life.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Aren’t you going to say something?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Are you kidding? It’s spectacular
text: George is quietly staring at Jim with a faint smile on his
text: face. Jim smiles when he realizes this, then slips up close
text: to George and moves toward him for a kiss.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What are you doing?
text: George pushes him away. Nervously looking out of the large
text: plate glass window.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Jim, stop it. I don’t think you're
text: quite ready for life in a glass
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: JIM
text: Drapes, old man.
text: Jim moves in for a kiss only to be held back by George.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: You're the one who’s always saying
dialog: that we’re invisible.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: That’s not exactly what I meant.
text: George gives in and the two men begin to kiss.
speaker_heading: END FLASHBACK
text: WE PULL BACK to reveal George alone in the house, across the
text: dining area and living room and out the pivoting glass doors
text: and across the dead lawn. George’s house is modest in size,
text: yet has dynamic lines. It is an example of very bold
text: architecture, circa 1948, that has become somewhat ramshackle
text: over time. We take in the full view of George in his world
text: as the phone continues to ring.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS:
text: George's empty bedroom as the phone continues to ring.
text: Surfboards leaning against a wall in the garage.
text: Books and architectural models on the living room shelves
text: next to a drafting table.
text: END SERIES OF SHOTS.
text: We cut back to George staring into space for several beats
text: as the phone continues to ring.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: For the first time in my life I
dialog: can’t see my future. Every day goes
dialog: by in a haze, but today I have
dialog: decided will be different.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING -- MINUTES LATER
dialog: 
text: As George stands in front of his book case, the phone starts
text: to ring again. George looks across the room at the phone
text: which sits on a small table next to an upholstered club
dialog: chair.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: Finally. You know it has been
dialog: raining here all day and I’ve been
dialog: trapped in this house waiting for
dialog: you to call.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. EVENING (1961)
text: George is sitting in the upholstered club chair reading. He
dialog: is wearing
text: glasses. He does not recognize the voice on the
text: other end of the phone.
dialog: There is a
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: I’m sorry. I must have the wrong
dialog: number. I’m calling for Mr. George
dialog: Falconer...
text: short uncomfortable silence.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m sorry, I was expecting someone
dialog: else. Yes sir, you have indeed
dialog: called the correct number. How may
dialog: I help you?
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: This is Harold Ackerley. I’m Jim’s
dialog: cousin.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh yes, of course. Good evening
dialog: Mr. Ackerley.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: I'm afraid I’m calling with some
dialog: bad news.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: oh?
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: There's been a car accident.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Accident?
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: There has been a lot of snow here
dialog: lately and the roads have been icy.
text: On his way into town, Jim lost
text: control of his car.
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: It was instantaneous apparently.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: It happened late yesterday, but his
dialog: parents didn’t want to call you
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I see.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: In fact, they don’t know I’m
dialog: calling you now, but I thought that
dialog: you should know.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: I know this must be quite a shock
dialog: It was for all of us.
text: George continues in his robotic state.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Yes, indeed.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Will there be a service?
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: The day after tomorrow.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well I suppose I should get off the
text: phone and book a plane flight.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: The service is just for family.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: For family. Of course. Well thank
dialog: you for calling. (Beat) Oh, Mr.
dialog: Ackerly?
dialog: ll.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: May I ask what happened to the
dialog: dogs?
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: Dogs? There was a dog with him but
dialog: he died. Was there another one?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
text: Yes. A small female.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: Well, I don’t know to tell you the
dialog: truth. I haven’t heard anyone
dialog: mention another dog
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, thank you for calling, Mr.
dialog: Ackerly.
speaker_heading: HAROLD (0.S.)
dialog: Goodbye Mr. Falconer.
text: George replaces the receiver. As he does, it misses the
text: cradle and falls to the floor, the dial tone continues to
dialog: hum.
text: He sits looking blankly ahead in total disbelief. He doesn’t
text: know what to do. He slides down in the chair and begins to
text: cry silently as the reality of what has happened sets in. He
text: suddenly jumps up, runs out of the room, down the hall, and
text: to the front door.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - CAMPHOR TREE LANE.
scene_heading: EVENING (1961) -- CONTINUOUS
text: George throws the front door open and dashes out of his
text: house, into the rain, down his driveway and up the road.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - EXT. STAIRS TO SOLEDAD WAY. EVENING (1961)
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
dialog: 12.
text: George turns onto a pathway with a steep flight of wooden
dialog: stairs.
text: The rain is torrential. George slips on the wet wooden steps
text: as he climbs to the top of the stair case and runs out onto
dialog: Soledad Way.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - EXT. CHARLEY’S DRIVEWAY. EVENING (1961)
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: George runs up the driveway towards Charley’s house. As he
text: reaches the front door he rings the doorbell several times
text: and begins pounding on the door.
text: A startled blonde woman opens the door. CHARLOTTE aka
text: CHARLEY, 47, is a British friend of George's.
text: George throws himself at her as she embraces him and he sobs
text: uncontrollably.
speaker_heading: END FLASHBACK
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING -- 1962.
text: The phone rings once more and then stops. George looks back
text: to the bookcase.
text: He grabs a Huxley novel and retreats to the bathroom
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BATHROOM. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
text: Sitting on the toilet, George reads.
text: There is a constant banging from outside. This is the same
text: banging we heard earlier. George attempts to ignore the
text: irritating sound but finds it impossible to concentrate and
text: slams his book shut. He looks across the street. The window
text: is positioned so that when on the toilet George can see out,
text: but only his head can be seen from outside.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STRUNK HOUSE. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
text: WE SEE THE STRUNK FAMILY BUT DO NOT HEAR WHAT THEY ARE
text: SAYING.
text: The Strunk house is a pristine, absolutely new ranch house
dialog: 13.
text: with a manicured lawn that reeks of the traditional American
dialog: dream circa 1962.
text: JENNIFER STRUNK, 8, a blonde, very American little girl,
text: hammer in hand, pulverizes an old bathroom scale that she’s
text: pulled out of one of the shiny new trash cans. She tightly
text: clutches a white Persian kitten with a pink ribbon. Jennifer
text: is wearing a gingham dress and she chants an annoying
text: advertising jingle over and over in monotone as she pounds
text: away at the scale with the hammer.
dialog: 
text: MRS. STRUNK, 32, appears in the doorway. She is the archetype
text: of the young attractive suburban wife and mother.
text: She is usually calm and poised but today she is clearly
text: exasperated and yells from the front door at her daughter to
text: put the scale back in the trash can.
text: Jennifer ignores her mother and continues pounding away with
dialog: increasing violence.
text: Meanwhile, Jennifer's oldest brother TOM, 9, is combing over
text: their lawn with a metal detector, as a younger brother
text: CHRISTOPHER, 5, digs ferociously at the lawn with a small
text: garden shovel. The metal detector suddenly shrieks, having
dialog: located something.
text: Jennifer drops her cat, runs to her brothers and joins in
dialog: the digging.
text: The lawn is littered with newly excavated holes and the
text: flower beds also seem to be in a freshly unearthed state as
text: if a dog has been digging in them. Simply put, the normally
text: perfect front yard is an absolute disaster area.
text: The three children start screaming loudly to their mother.
text: Mrs. Strunk rushes over to the hole to see. As the metal
text: detector shrieks again, the children scream and even Mrs.
text: Strunk squeals with delight and gets down on her knees to
dialog: dig.
text: CLOSE UP SHOTS FROM DIFFERENT ANGLES OF THE CHILDREN DIGGING
text: FEROCIOUSLY FOR THE MONEY.
dialog: 14.
text: WE CUT BACK TO GEORGE, AS HE WATCHES THE STRUNK FAMILY.
text: MR. STRUNK, 35, a well dressed young executive with briefcase
text: in hand, comes out of the house shouting at his family.
text: His wife rushes over to him but cannot pacify him as Mr.
text: Strunk surveys the destroyed lawn and flower beds.
text: SHOT FROM A LOW VANTAGE POINT WITH CHRISTOPHER IN THE
text: FOREGROUND CATCHING A BUTTERFLY ON A FLOWER.
text: The Strunks continue to argue as Mr. Strunk brushes off his
text: wife’s attempts at affection.
text: BACK ON THE LOW SHOT OF CHRISTOPHER NOW HOLDING THE REMNANTS
text: OF THE BUTTERFLY IN HIS HAND.
text: Mrs. Strunk leans forward and kisses her husband on the
text: cheek as he walks towards his car.
text: Mrs. Strunk heads over to the battered scale and throws it
text: in the trash can.
text: As she does, she looks across the street at George’s window
text: to catch him staring back at her. She begins to wave.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BATHROOM. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
text: Embarrassed, George ducks forward to hide from view. As he
text: does, the phone starts ringing again.
text: He sits still for a moment. He sighs. Finally realizing that
text: the phone will not stop ringing, he gets up. His pants are
text: still around his ankles as he shuffles out into the bedroom
text: to answer the phone.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Hello Charley.
speaker_heading: BRITISH WOMAN (0.S.)
dialog: How did you know it was me?
scene_heading: INT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
dialog: 15.
text: We cut to a shot of CHARLEY 48 in her bed smoking a
text: cigarette. Her bedside table is cluttered with pill bottles
text: and what is left of a cocktail. Her ashtray is filled with
text: cigarette butts and magazines are strewn around her in the
text: bed. Strawberry blonde and fair, Charley was clearly once a
text: great beauty but is now a lonely and manic alcoholic.
text: Charley is at the age where beauty hangs by a thread. On a
dialog: good day she can still manage a striking appearance yet good
text: days are few and far between. Today is not a good day.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (0.S.)
dialog: Charlotte, no one else ever calls
dialog: me before 8:00 in the morning
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I didn’t call too early, did 1? You
text: sound grumpy.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (0.S.)
dialog: No. I just have a headache. I was
dialog: going to call you actually. Is it
dialog: too late to change my mind about
dialog: tonight?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Of course not! I haven’t seen you
dialog: all week. I’m dying for a dose of
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (0.S.)
dialog: I know. I’m sorry. So, great. I’11
dialog: see you tonight. I need to run
dialog: though. I’m late for work. I’11
dialog: call you later from school
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I'll see you tonight.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (0.S.)
dialog: Good-bye kiddo.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Bye, old man.
text: We linger on Charley as she hangs up the phone. We see the
text: joy in her face. She has a reason to live. She takes a long
dialog: 16.
text: deep drag of her cigarette, then stubs it out and throws
text: herself back against her bed pillows.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. MORNING -- MINUTES LATER.
text: George, now fully dressed with his jacket and eyeglasses on,
text: goes to his desk and unlocks a drawer. He carefully lifts
text: out an object and places it on his desk. We see clearly that
text: the object is a gun. He picks it up, flicks open the revolver
text: and turns it up in the air to empty the bullets. There are
text: no bullets. George sighs, clicks the gun closed, and places
text: it in his briefcase. He then shoves a stack of papers into
text: the briefcase along with the Huxley book and heads out the
text: door to the hall.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. MORNING -- CONTINUOUS
text: George is coming down the hall. As he rushes toward the
text: front door, he practically knocks over his cleaning woman
text: ALVA, arriving with a bag of groceries and the newspaper
text: under her arm. Alva is a kind, Hispanic woman in her mid
dialog: 40's.
speaker_heading: ALVA
dialog: Good morning Mr. George.
text: Alva places the bag of groceries on the dining table.
speaker_heading: ALVA (CONT'D)
dialog: Sir, you don’t look so good. Did
dialog: you not sleep again?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Good morning Alva. No, I didn’t
dialog: sleep well. You forgot to take the
text: bread out of the freezer
speaker_heading: ALVA
dialog: It stays fresh that way.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It was a little too fresh this
dialog: morning. There are some papers laid
dialog: out on my desk that need to stay
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: there so please don’t move them.
text: And my pen leaked all over the bed.
dialog: I’m sorry about the sheets.
speaker_heading: ALVA
dialog: It’s OK sir.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Alva?
speaker_heading: ALVA
dialog: Yes sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Thank you. You're wonderful
text: Georges crosses to the table and kisses Alva on the cheek.
text: She is stunned. George turns and leaves the house as Alva
text: stares after him as though he is from Mars.
scene_heading: EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE. MORNING -- MINUTES LATER
text: George backs his car down his driveway and into the street.
text: The clock on the dash reads 8:04.
text: Our camera speed slows as we see Jennifer tap dancing in the
text: driveway. Jennifer looks at George in a slightly provocative
text: manner and tugs on her dress as he drives past.
text: Christopher aims a toy machine gun directly at George’s car
text: and fires to squeals of laughter.
text: George stares Christopher directly in the eye and holds up
text: his hand in a mock gun fashion and mouths “Bang, bang” to
text: the boy, stopping Christopher dead in his tracks.
text: George waves at Mrs. Strunk still on her lawn watching the
text: children play as Tom walks towards the street with an arm
dialog: full of school books.
text: She waves back - a warm smile - as George eases his car past
dialog: the Strunk house.
dialog: 18.
scene_heading: EXT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - PARKING LOT. DAY -- LATER
text: George pulls into the faculty parking lot of the school. His
text: radio is on as he waits for three female students to pass in
text: front of his car.
speaker_heading: RADIO ANNOUNCER (0.S.)
dialog: Premier Nikita Krushchev said today
dialog: that the Soviet Union’s policy of
dialog: peaceful coexistence averted a
dialog: nuclear war over Cuba. Krushchev
dialog: declared that the missiles in Cuba
dialog: were ready for launching but not
dialog: used, sparing the world from a
dialog: nuclear holocaust...
text: He pulls into a parking space and turns off the car. George
text: closes his eyes and breathes deeply several times. He looks
text: at himself in the rear view mirror, smooths his hair with
text: his hand and straightens his tie. He grabs his briefcase,
text: and gets out of his car.
text: George makes his way through a sea of students and faculty,
text: like a salmon swimming upstream.
text: We cut to George continuing his walk as a lawn filled with
text: students stretches out in front of him.
text: George notices a young couple lying together on the grass.
text: KENNY, 20, is a 3rd year student. He has dark brown hair,
text: pale skin and piercing blue eyes. Kenny is not classically
text: handsome , yet is attractive in a somewhat gangly way. LOIS,
text: 20, is a stunning and very stylish blonde girl with a bored,
text: beatnik feel to her manner.
text: Catching a glimpse of George, Kenny’s eyes light up. We hang
text: on this for a moment as Kenny’s hand shoots up in an
text: enthusiastic wave. Turning to see George, Lois offers
text: nothing but a nod and an exhale of cigarette smoke. George
text: waves back tentatively.
text: George’s eyes linger on Kenny who is staring at him intently.
text: Kenny stares after George while Lois reclines and continues
dialog: 19.
dialog: to smoke.
text: Reaching the Arts Building, George heads inside.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - OFFICE OF THE ENGLISH DEPARTMENT -
scene_heading: DAY -- MOMENTS LATER
text: George walks past two secretaries. One is quite a beautiful
text: blonde in her early twenties.
speaker_heading: BLONDE SECRETARY
dialog: Good morning professor.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Good morning.
speaker_heading: BLONDE SECRETARY
dialog: Oh, professor Falconer?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: BLONDE SECRETARY
dialog: There was a student here this
dialog: morning asking for your address.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: My address? What was his name?
speaker_heading: BLONDE SECRETARY
dialog: He didn’t say sir, and I’m sorry
dialog: but I didn’t ask him. He said he’s
dialog: in one of your classes this term.
text: We linger on George’s face a moment. He is intrigued by this.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Did you give it to him?
speaker_heading: BLONDE SECRETARY
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: Yes sir. I did. I hope that’s OK. I
dialog: realize I probably shouldn't have,
dialog: but he was very nice and before I
dialog: knew it...
dialog: 20.
text: George looks the girl up and down.
text: OUR SCREEN IS FILLED WITH CLOSE UP SHOTS OF THE SECRETARY'S
scene_heading: FACE AND HAIR.
text: George is taking in her beauty. He looks her dead in the
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Your hair looks great up like that.
speaker_heading: BLONDE SECRETARY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I said your hair looks great like
dialog: that. It suits you. You always look
dialog: so beautiful. Really fresh. You
dialog: have such a lovely smile.
text: George breathes in.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Arpege?
speaker_heading: BLONDE SECRETARY
dialog: Sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Really beautiful.
text: George walks away. The Blonde Secretary looks back at the
text: other girl, clearly dumbfounded at George’s manner.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - FACULTY LOUNGE. DAY MOMENTS LATER
text: George enters the room and makes an effort to avoid eye
text: contact with anyone. An older professor DON who is reading
text: the paper looks up and smiles at George.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Good morning Don.
speaker_heading: DON
dialog: Good morning George.
dialog: 21.
text: The large wall clock reads 9:10. There are two vending
text: machines against one wall of the lounge.
text: George grabs a cup of coffee from the coffee machine, and
text: gets a Hershey's bar from the candy machine. George puts
text: more change into the machine and gets a second candy bar. As
text: he does, GRANT, a tall young professor, slips next to George
text: and presses the button on the coffee machine.
speaker_heading: GRANT
dialog: Good morning George.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Good morning Grant.
text: George grabs his second candy bar and heads out the door as
text: Grant follows.
speaker_heading: GRANT
dialog: You look awful. What have you been
dialog: doing?
text: The two men exit the building and begin walking.
scene_heading: EXT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - CAMPUS. DAY -- CONTINUOUS
text: The sky is a dark brown haze.
text: George eats his candy bar, gently steering them towards the
dialog: tennis courts.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Look around Grant... most of these
dialog: students aspire to nothing more
dialog: than a corporate job and a desire
dialog: to raise coke-drinking, TV-watching
dialog: children who as soon as they can
text: speak start chanting TV jingles and
text: smashing things with hammers.
speaker_heading: GRANT
dialog: You're really scaring me today
dialog: George.
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I sometimes find them staring at me
text: in a kind of bovine stupor as if I
dialog: were lecturing in a foreign
dialog: language. Remind me why we
dialog: shouldn’t all just be annihilated?
text: George scans the tennis courts out of the corner of his
text: eye. Only one court is occupied, by two young men playing
dialog: singles.
text: The sun comes out with a sudden fierce heat that cuts through
text: the yellow smog-haze. The players are shirtless.
text: CLOSE-UP SHOTS OF THE PLAYERS. OUR SOUND FADES TO ONLY THE
text: AMPLIFIED SOUND OF THE GAME. SOUNDS OF THE BALL HITTING THE
text: RACQUET AND OF THE FEET OF THE PLAYERS SLIDING ON THE RED
text: CLAY COURT AND OF THEIR SIGHS AND QUICK BREATHING AS THEY
text: WHACK THE BALL BACK AND FORTH.
text: George clocks this intently and takes in every detail.
text: OUR SOUND RETURNS WITH A WHACK OF THE BALL AND A GUTTURAL
text: OUTCRY FROM ONE OF THE PLAYERS.
text: The stream of sunlight has passed and the sky is once again
text: dull and flat.
text: George realizes that Grant is talking and has been talking.
text: George has a faint smile on his face, still gazing at the
dialog: players.
speaker_heading: GRANT
dialog: You seem to think this is all a
dialog: joke. We're living in a world where
dialog: nuclear war is a real threat. I
dialog: don’t understand how you can’t be
dialog: concerned.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You're serious aren’t you?
speaker_heading: GRANT
dialog: Yes, I’m serious. George, did you
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: GRANT (CONT'D)
dialog: even read the article that I gave
dialog: you on bomb shelters? Ours is
dialog: almost done. We had 3 different
dialog: contractors work on it so none of
dialog: them know what we’ve got, then
dialog: we're having the outside of it
dialog: landscaped so no one will know it’s
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A SHOT OF GRANT AND HIS FAMILY IN A SIMPLE CONCRETE BLOCK
text: SHELTER STARING DEAD INTO OUR CAMERA AS IF POSING FOR A
text: PORTRAIT. GRANT IS SMOKING A PIPE, AND THE FAMILY ARE
text: WEARING THEIR SUNDAY BEST. THEY ARE SURROUNDED BY ANIMALS:
text: A COW, A GOAT, CHICKENS ETC.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
speaker_heading: GRANT
dialog: If word gets out that you've got a
dialog: better shelter, then everyone will
dialog: try to get in when something
dialog: happens.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: And so?
speaker_heading: GRANT
dialog: There will be no time for sentiment
text: when the Russians fire a missile at
dialog: us.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: If it’s going to be a world with no
dialog: time for sentiment Grant, it’s not
dialog: a world that I want to live in.
text: One of our tennis players lets out a loud THWACK.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - GEORGE'S OFFICE. DAY
dialog: 24.
text: George is sitting on the edge of his desk. Frozen. He has a
text: look of extreme melancholy on his face. His shoulders are
dialog: slumped.
text: He waits for the clock to strike 10:00 exactly and then he
text: stands, picks up his briefcase and heads out the door.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - GEORGE’S CLASS -- MINUTES LATER
text: George walks into class and places his briefcase on the
text: desk. Most of the students continue to talk.
text: George sits on the edge of the desk and reaches into his
text: briefcase. He fumbles around for a moment, pauses, and then
text: pulls out a book. He sits quietly with a slight look of
text: disgust on his face staring directly at the talkers as, one
text: by one, they succumb to his silence.
text: Finally George speaks.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: “After Many a Summer Dies the Swan.”
text: Blank stares.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: I trust you've all read the Huxley
dialog: novel I assigned almost three weeks
dialog: ago? How does the title relate to
dialog: our story?
text: He looks around the room as a few hands go up.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Yes, Mr. Mong.
speaker_heading: ALEX MONG
dialog: It doesn’t. It’s about this rich
dialog: guy who’s afraid he’s too old for
dialog: this girl...
text: George, irritated by the response of Mr. Mong closes his
text: eyes tightly and takes a deep breath as our sound fades.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 25.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - EXT. UNDERWATER
text: George is tossing and turning underwater struggling to
text: breathe. He turns over and over trying to find the surface of
text: the water but he continues to sink.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - GEORGE’S CLASS -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Our sound returns as George opens his eyes and snaps back to
text: the present. Laughter dies away. The only one not laughing
text: is Kenny, who is watching George intently. George remains
text: frozen for a moment as RUSS raises his hand.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Russ?
text: George signals for Russ to speak.
text: Our camera speed slows and our sound fades as George seems
text: mesmerized by the blank eyes of Lois. Lois is smoking and
text: staring straight back at George in an almost aggressive
text: manner. She begins to whisper into Kenny’s ear. Kenny
text: continues to watch George who has a dazed expression on his
dialog: face.
text: George slowly regains his composure and comes to attention
text: as MYRON - a dark-complexioned young man with intense eyes
text: and glasses- raises his hand.
scene_heading: OUR SOUND RETURNS.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Yes, Mr. Hirsch.
speaker_heading: MYRON
dialog: Sir, on page 79, Mr. Propter says
dialog: that the stupidest text in the
dialog: Bible is: “they hated me without a
dialog: cause." Does he mean the Nazis were
dialog: right to hate the Jews? Is Huxley
dialog: an anti-Semite?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No.
dialog: 26.
text: The class stares at George, expecting more from such a
text: provocative question.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: No, Mr. Huxley is not an anti
dialog: Semite. The Nazis were obviously
dialog: wrong to hate the Jews. But their
dialog: hating the Jews was not without a
dialog: cause... But the cause wasn’t real.
dialog: The cause was imagined. The cause
speaker_heading: was FEAR.
text: Curious stares.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Let’s leave the Jews out of this
dialog: for a moment and think of another
dialog: minority. One that can go unnoticed
dialog: if it needs to.
text: George looks directly at WALTER, a slightly effeminate young
text: man, who turns away embarrassed.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: There are all sorts of minorities,
dialog: blondes for example, but a minority
dialog: is only thought of as one when it
dialog: constitutes some kind of threat to
dialog: the majority. A real threat or an
dialog: imagined one. And therein lies the
dialog: FEAR. And, if the minority is
dialog: somehow invisible...
text: Another glance at Walter.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: .+:the fear is even greater
text: Kenny tries to find the target of George’s glance, but to no
dialog: avail.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: And this FEAR is the reason the
dialog: minority is persecuted. So, there
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: always is a cause. And the cause is
dialog: FEAR. Minorities are just people.
dialog: People...
text: Again a subtle look at Walter.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: +.+like us.
text: Walter shrinks in his seat.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: I can see that I’ve lost you a bit.
dialog: You know what? Let’s forget about
dialog: Huxley today.
text: George places his book on his desk. Several students look up
text: from their notebooks.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Let’s just talk about fear. Fear
dialog: after all, is our real enemy. Fear
dialog: is taking over our world. Fear is
dialog: being used as a tool of
dialog: manipulation in our society.
dialog: It’s how politicians peddle policy
dialog: and how Madison Avenue sells us
dialog: things that we don’t need. Think
dialog: about it. Fear that we’re going to
dialog: be attacked, fear that there are
dialog: communists lurking around every
dialog: corner, fear that some little
dialog: Caribbean country that doesn’t
dialog: believe in our way of life poses a
dialog: threat to us. Fear that black
dialog: culture may take over the world.
dialog: Fear of Elvis Presley’s hips. (beat)
dialog: Well, maybe that one is a real
dialog: fear. Fear that our bad breath
dialog: might ruin our friendships... Fear
text: of growing old and being alone.
text: George notices a few eyes looking over his shoulder at the
text: clock on the wall which reads 12:05.
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Fear that we're useless and that no
dialog: one cares what we have to say.
text: Some shift about uncomfortably in their seats, yet Kenny
text: stares, amazed.
text: George surveys the anxious class, realizing he has lost
dialog: their attention.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Have a good weekend.
text: George closes his book, shoves it in his briefcase, and
text: walks out the door as his students gather their things.
text: Kenny gets up to follow after George but Lois corners him to
dialog: talk.
scene_heading: EXT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - ARTS BUILDING. DAY -- LATER
text: George is heading briskly towards the administration
text: building when he hears Kenny's voice.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Sir! May I speak to you for a
dialog: minute? I have to go down to the
dialog: bookstore.
text: George pauses allowing Kenny to catch up to him and then the
text: two men begin walking.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: Why don’t you talk to us like that
dialog: all the time?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I don’t think it went over very
dialog: well.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Man, fear of things gets to me all
dialog: the time, but you can’t talk about
dialog: it with anyone or you just sound
dialog: like a fool.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You can’t even talk about it with
dialog: Lois?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I don’t think she’s afraid of
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Everyone's afraid of something
dialog: Kenny.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: What are you afraid of sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Cars.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: How can you live in Los Angeles and
dialog: be afraid of cars?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Maybe you can’t.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Sometimes my fear of things can
dialog: almost paralyze me. It’s like I get
dialog: really panic stricken and I feel
dialog: like I might explode or something...
dialog: May I ask you a personal question sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Do you ever get high?
text: George stops walking.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: How old do I look to you?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Have you ever taken any drugs sir?
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Of course, Kenny.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Like what?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I shouldn't really be discussing
dialog: this with you on campus Mr. Potter.
text: George begins walking and Kenny follows.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: It’s the only way I get by
dialog: sometimes. Have you ever tried
dialog: mescaline?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Not my drug of choice. I shaved off
dialog: one of my eyebrows once on
dialog: mescaline. Not a good look for me
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I looked in the mirror - big
dialog: mistake if you're high on mescaline
dialog: - and decided that my eyebrows were
text: taking over my face and before I
dialog: knew it, I had shaved one off. I
dialog: wore a band-aid over my eye for
dialog: about 6 weeks while my brow grew
dialog: in. Very embarrassing.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: You didn’t take it again after
dialog: that?
text: George stops.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Kenny, have you been listening to
dialog: me? I shaved off my eyebrow. I
dialog: wanted an experience Mr. Potter,
dialog: not a career on stage.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: If you ever want to get high sir, I
dialog: usually have some dope.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You're really mad aren’t you?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Sorry, sir. I guess you don’t feel
dialog: very comfortable talking like this.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What makes you say that?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Lois thinks you’re kind of cagey.
dialog: Like this morning, when you were
dialog: listening to all that crap we were
dialog: talking about Huxley...
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, not all of you. I didn’t
dialog: notice you open your mouth once.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I was watching you.
text: George is surprised and intrigued.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: You let us ramble on and on and
dialog: then you straighten us out - but
dialog: you never really tell us everything
dialog: you know about something
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, maybe that’s true up to a
dialog: point.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s not that I want to be cagey.
dialog: I can’t really discuss things
text: completely openly at school
dialog: Someone would misunderstand... I
dialog: tried to do that today. It doesn’t
dialog: work.
dialog: 
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - CAMPUS BOOKSTORE. DAY CONTINUOUS
text: Kenny seems to be thinking over what George has said as the
text: two men enter the bookstore. Kenny picks up a red pencil
text: sharpener from a display on the counter and a note book.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: What was it you wanted to get sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Nothing. I was on my way to the
text: Dean’s office.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: You mean you walked all the way
dialog: down here just to talk to me?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Well, I think you deserve something
dialog: for that. Here sir, take your pick
dialog: It’s on me.
text: Kenny waves his hand across the multicolored display of
text: pencil sharpeners.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Thank you.
text: George chooses a yellow one.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I thought you'd probably pick blue.
text: Kenny pays the cashier.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why blue?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Isn't blue supposed to be
dialog: spiritual?
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What makes you think I’m spiritual?
dialog: And you? Red?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: What’s red stand for?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Lots of things. Rage. Lust.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: No kidding?
text: Kenny looks George straight in the eye.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: See you around, sir.
text: Kenny smiles and walks away leaving George staring after
dialog: him.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - GEORGE'S OFFICE. DAY -- LATER
text: George is cleaning up his office. He is arranging the insides
text: of his drawers and throwing things into the garbage can. It
text: is all immaculate. His desk is absolutely bare with the
text: exception of three file folders carefully labeled and laid
text: out precisely on his desk top.
text: George sits down and sighs. He rests his head in his hands
text: for a few moments and rubs his temples.
text: He opens his briefcase, searching for something. He locates
text: a bottle of aspirin, and empties 3 tablets into his hand.
text: He opens his lower desk drawer and pulls out a near empty
text: bottle of scotch. He unscrews the cap and finishes the bottle
text: off, as he washes down the aspirin.
text: He picks up the phone and dials a number.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (0.S.)
dialog: Hello?
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What are you up to kiddo?
scene_heading: INT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - DRESSING ROOM. DAY -- CONTINUOUS
text: Charley's hair is teased up but has not yet had it’s final
text: brush out and last coat of lacquer. Her foundation is on but
text: the rest of her makeup is not yet done and her face is matte
text: beige. She has a picture ripped out of Vogue on her dresser
text: top about how to achieve the “Perfect Doe Eye”. One eye is
text: made up and the other is bare. We are staring at her in a
text: magnifying mirror. There are dresses strewn around the room
text: A Serge Gainsbourg record is playing in the background.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Just trying to finish up a book
dialog: How's your day going?
speaker_heading: GEORGE (0.8)
dialog: Fine. I was just getting ready to
dialog: leave school and wanted to know if
dialog: you needed anything for tonight?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: You're sweet, but thanks, I think
dialog: I’m all set.
text: She is looking at herself in the magnifying mirror.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, could you pick up a bottle of
dialog: Gin for me? Tangueray? I love the
text: color of the bottle.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - GEORGE'S OFFICE. DAY - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You love what’s in it. What time do
dialog: you want me?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (0.S.)
dialog: 7:00 would be great if that’s OK
dialog: with you.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Perfect. I'll see you tonight.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY -- CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I'll see you then. Bye Geo.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (0.S.)
dialog: Good-bye kiddo.
text: She hangs up the phone and starts back to work on her face.
text: She does a little dance move to the record and stares into
dialog: the mirror.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Beautiful...
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - GEORGE'S OFFICE. DAY - CONTINUOUS
text: We cut back to GEORGE’S P.0.V. He looks at the clock on the
text: wall. 2:20. George takes one of the folders off of his desk
text: and slips it into his briefcase as he walks to the door.
text: He turns, and looks around the room for a moment.
text: He turns off the light and closes the door as he leaves.
scene_heading: EXT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - CAMPUS. DAY -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Exiting the faculty building, George crosses the campus to
text: the parking lot.
scene_heading: INT. SAN TOMAS COLLEGE - GEORGE'S JAGUAR SEDAN. PARKING
speaker_heading: LOT DAY
text: George is inside his car with his briefcase open. He is
text: looking for his car keys. He spots the handle of the gun and
text: wraps his fingers around it. He is deep in thought.
text: There is a loud startling knock on George’s window. It’s
text: Kenny. He is on his motorcycle and has pulled up next to
text: George. He turns off his motor. George rolls down the car
text: window. George is in a dark mood as he quickly closes the
dialog: 36.
text: briefcase, irritated that he has been disturbed.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Yes, Mr. Potter?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Are you going somewhere sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: That is usually why people get into
dialog: their cars.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: No, I mean are you going on
dialog: vacation or something?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I saw you cleaning out your office.
text: George's face goes pale.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What is it that you really want
dialog: Kenny?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I was just hoping that perhaps we
dialog: could get together for a drink or
dialog: something sometime.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: And why is that?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I don’t know sir. Because I think
dialog: you might like it. I mean, because
dialog: you seem as though you could use a
dialog: friend.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh really?
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: (sincerely)
dialog: Yes sir, you do.
text: George looks Kenny in the eyes. He is touched by Kenny’s
dialog: concern.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, you might be right Kenny, but
dialog: we'll have to make it another time
dialog: I’m late. (beat) But thank you for
dialog: the invitation. And thank you for
dialog: the talk earlier. And stay away
text: from the mescaline.
text: George starts his car and pulls out of the driveway and
text: onto a winding side street leaving Kenny sitting on his
text: motorcycle in the parking lot.
scene_heading: INT. SANTA MONICA NATIONAL BANK. DAY -- LATER
text: George passes a security guard who nods at him.
text: As George walks up to a desk marked “Safe Deposit”, a pretty
text: brunette, BANK TELLER, greets him. She clearly finds him
dialog: attractive.
speaker_heading: BANK TELLER
dialog: Hello Mr. Falconer.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Hello. How are you today?
speaker_heading: BANK TELLER
dialog: Fine, sir. Do you need to get into
dialog: your box?
scene_heading: INT. SANTA MONICA NATIONAL BANK - SAFE DEPOSIT BOX VIEWING
scene_heading: ROOM. DAY -- MINUTES LATER
speaker_heading: BANK TELLER
dialog: Here you are sir. Can you sign
dialog: here please?
text: George signs.
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Thank you.
text: As the teller leaves, George opens the box and slowly
text: empties the contents.
text: He pulls out folded documents and pushes them into his
dialog: briefcase.
text: He takes out a slim gold wedding band, looks at it for a
text: moment and then slips it onto his little finger next to his
text: signet ring.
text: A black and white photograph in the box catches George’s
dialog: eye.
text: INSERT PHOTO: it is a nude picture of Jim lying on a large
text: boulder in the sun.
text: As George stares at the photo, he closes his eyes.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - EXT. JOSHUA TREE STATE PARK. DAY (1947)
text: A CLOSE UP SHOT OF SKIN AND THE BACK OF A MAN'S NECK IN
text: HARSH SUN. THERE IS A SOUND OF RUSTLING PALM LEAVES AND
text: WIND. WE SLIDE ALONG A MAN’S BODY AND ARE SUDDENLY PULLED
text: OVER AND ARE FACE UP IN THE GLARING SUN. THE LIGHT FLARES
text: AS WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL AN EXPANSE OF STUNNING AND ODD
scene_heading: LOOKING PREHISTORIC DESERT.
text: SEVERAL LINGERING SHOTS OF THE LANDSCAPE AND SOUNDS OF THE
text: DESERT CAPTURE THE REMOTE AND BEAUTIFUL EMPTINESS OF IT ALL.
text: George, 38, and Jim, 21, lay on a large smooth boulder on a
text: high cliff edge, propped up on their elbows, admiring the
text: peaceful and seemingly empty desert. There is a camera in
text: the foreground. Jim is buttoning up his pants.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: So explain your friend Charlotte to
dialog: me
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What would you like to know?
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You seem very... I don’t know...
dialog: intimate I guess. Like you were
dialog: once together. You haven't ever
dialog: slept with her have you?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Yes. A few times when we were
dialog: young. I don’t mean to say that it
dialog: didn’t mean anything to me but, I’m
dialog: afraid it meant a good deal more to
dialog: Charley. It was a long time ago in
dialog: London. It didn’t work out very
dialog: well. I love Charley and we are
dialog: very close friends but that’s all.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’m confused. If you sleep with
dialog: women then why are you with me?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Because I fall in love with men
dialog: Because I fell in love with you
dialog: Anyway, doesn’t everyone sleep with
dialog: women when they’re young?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I haven't.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You're joking.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No. I’m not. It was just never
dialog: anything that interested me
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well. You're awfully modern aren't
dialog: you? You know, that was the first
dialog: thing that I noticed about you was
dialog: how sure of yourself you were. How
dialog: can you be so sure about everything
dialog: at your age?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You think I’m sure of myself?
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Of course you are.
text: George lets his hand brush against Jim’s. Jim looks at
text: George then breaks into a great smile.
speaker_heading: END FLASHBACK
scene_heading: INT. SANTA MONICA NATIONAL BANK - SAFE DEPOSIT BOX VIEWING
scene_heading: ROOM. DAY
text: George slips the photo into his jacket pocket. He closes the
text: empty box and picks up the beige phone on the desk.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m finished now. Thank you.
scene_heading: INT. SANTA MONICA NATIONAL BANK. DAY -- MINUTES LATER
speaker_heading: BANK TELLER
dialog: Yes, Mr. Falconer... Is there
dialog: something else we can help you with
dialog: today?
text: George is looking through his briefcase.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I can’t find my check book and I
dialog: need some cash. Not my day I’m
dialog: afraid. Excuse me a minute.
text: George sits down on a trim upholstered sofa and starts to
text: look carefully through his briefcase.
text: Into our frame come two perfect, tiny blue patent leather
dialog: shoes.
text: George looks up to see Jennifer Strunk. Her beauty is
text: almost alarming. Her blue eyes match the color of her tiny
text: shoes. She stares at George intently.
text: OUR CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY OVER THE TINY GIRL, LITERALLY
text: DRINKING IN HER FRESH BEAUTY. WE SEE THE TINY BLONDE HAIRS
text: ON HER LEGS AND ARMS. WE STOP ON HER EYES AND OUR CAMERA
text: ZOOMS INTO THE DEEP BLUE OF HER EYES. WE HEAR HER LIGHT
dialog: 41.
text: BREATH. HER GOLDEN LASHES BAT IN SLOW MOTION AND THE SOUND
text: OF THE BREEZE CREATED BY THEM IS AMPLIFIED.
text: George is dumbstruck. The little girl looks up at him with
text: absolute innocence. She is holding a small glass terrarium
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
text: Mommy says bushy eyebrows are
dialog: pedestrian, but I think yours are
dialog: pretty.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well I think yours are pretty too.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Why do you look so sad? Would you
dialog: like to meet Charlton Heston?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What?
text: Jennifer holds out her terrarium. It has paper columns glued
text: around the outside and inside is a large black scorpion and
text: a small spider clinging to a stick.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Ben Hur. Our scorpion. Every night
dialog: we throw in something new to him
dialog: and watch him kill it. Daddy says
dialog: it’s like the colosseum so my
dialog: brother Tom glued on all the
dialog: columns. He wants to be a set
dialog: designer. He hasn’t eaten the
dialog: spider yet cause he’s still full
dialog: from the moth we gave him last
dialog: night. Daddy said he’d like to
dialog: throw you in the colosseum.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No kidding. why?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: He says you're light in your
dialog: loafers but you aren’t even wearing
dialog: loafers. I think my brother Tom is
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER (CONT'D)
text: light in his loafers too but he
dialog: wears Keds. Last week he made me do
dialog: a conditioning treatment on my hair
dialog: with eggs. Does it look shiny?
text: Mrs. Strunk appears suddenly. She looks lovely with her
text: light brown hair swept up in a french twist.
scene_heading: MRS. STRUNK
dialog: Sweetheart, what are you doing
dialog: bothering Mr. Falconer?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: She’s not bothering me at all
dialog: Susan. How are you?
scene_heading: MRS. STRUNK
dialog: I’m glad to see you George...
dialog: George, we’re having a few people
dialog: over tonight for drinks and would
dialog: love to have you join us if you
dialog: could.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Thank you, it’s very kind of you
dialog: but I’m afraid that I have plans
dialog: tonight.
scene_heading: MRS. STRUNK
dialog: Well, another time then. Come on
dialog: Jennifer. Let’s let Mr. Falconer
dialog: get back to his banking. Goodbye
dialog: George.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Goodbye Susan. Goodbye Jennifer
text: The two women walk away and George looks after them with a
text: faint smile. Jennifer turns and stares back at George and
text: flashes her blue eyes at him.
text: He is left smiling back at her.
scene_heading: INT. SPORTING GOODS STORE. LATE AFTERNOON -- MINUTES LATER
dialog: 43.
text: There are rows of guns on the wall behind the counter and
text: innocuous music plays in the background. A YOUNG BOY, 14, is
text: behind the counter helping a PRETTY BLONDE GIRL with a rifle.
text: George walks up to the counter and places his gun down.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BOY
dialog: May I help you sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I need a box of bullets for this
dialog: gun.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BOY
dialog: Yes sir.
text: The boy picks up the gun and looks at it.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: This is a really old gun sir. we
dialog: have a two for one sale on handguns
dialog: at the moment. Perhaps one for the
dialog: little lady?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No thanks. Just the bullets please.
text: George hands the boy money for the bullets.
scene_heading: EXT. LIQUOR STORE. PARKING LOT. LATE AFTERNOON
text: A giant billboard for PSYCHO featuring only Janet Leigh’s
text: eyes completely fills our frame as George’s car pulls into
text: our shot. George parks and gets out of the car and walks
text: towards the liquor store.
text: The sun is low in the sky, and the sky is now a dirty shade
text: of pale orange.
text: As George passes a late model car, a dog is barking
text: hysterically and looking out of the driver’s side window at
text: George. It is a smooth, black and white fox terrier. George
text: stops in his tracks, approaches the car and stares in the
text: window as the dog becomes silent and looks George in the
dialog: eyes.
dialog: 44a.
text: Just then a YOUNG WOMAN returns to the car.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: I’m sorry. I hope she didn’t growl
dialog: at you. She goes kind of crazy
dialog: sometimes when I have to leave her
text: in the car.
text: The Young Woman opens her car door and pushes the dog aside
text: with her bag.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: She’s perfect. What’s her name?
text: The Young Woman gets inside and rolls down the window. The
text: dog climbs onto her lap and puts her front paws on the car
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: India.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I used to have smooth fox terriers.
dialog: You don’t see them very often
text: OUR SHOT IS CLOSE ON INDIA AS GEORGE MOVES IN AND TAKES A
text: DEEP BREATH OF INDIA’S NECK AND EAR. HE NUZZLES HER AND
text: BREATHES DEEPLY. THE SOUND OF HIS DEEP INHALE IS AMPLIFIED.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: She’s still a puppy isn’t she?
text: George pulls back. The Young Woman is slightly taken aback
text: by George but flattered. She nods and then smiles.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: Have a nice evening.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You too. Good night India
text: George watches as the car pulls away. India now on the
text: passenger seat looks back at George.
text: George heads toward the front of the store.
dialog: 45.
text: As George walks toward the door we see CARLOS, 20, a hustler
text: in a leather jacket, tight jeans, boots and a t-shirt
text: loitering near a pay phone smoking a cigarette. He is very
text: handsome in a cheap way and locks eyes with George as George
text: enters the electric doors.
text: George looks away uncomfortably.
scene_heading: EXT. LIQUOR STORE. LATE AFTERNOON -- MOMENTS LATER.
text: As George exits the liquor store with two bottles in brown
text: paper bags, Carlos turns to enter and the two men walk right
text: into each other as George’s gin crashes to the ground.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Man, I’m sorry about that.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It’s OK.
text: Carlos’ pack of cigarettes is on the ground covered in gin
dialog: and glass.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: It was my fault. 1/11 get you
dialog: another pack.
text: Carlos smiles and looks right into George’s eyes.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Don't worry about it.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No, no I insist.
scene_heading: INT. LIQUOR STORE. LATE AFTERNOON -- MOMENTS LATER
text: The CASHIER slips George's bottle of gin into a brown paper
text: bag and hands him a pack of Lucky Strikes and a book of
text: matches. George hands the cashier a 10 dollar bill and she
text: gives him change.
speaker_heading: CASHIER
dialog: Thank you sir.
dialog: 46.
text: The cashier glares at Carlos as he walks towards the door.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m sorry about the broken glass.
dialog: Thank you.
text: George hands the cigarettes to Carlos.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Here you go.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Thanks man.
text: Carlos opens the pack as the two of them walk through the
text: glass doors.
scene_heading: EXT. LIQUOR STORE. LATE AFTERNOON CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: You want one?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No thanks.
text: George stares into Carlos’ face. His beauty is stunning.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, yes actually. Why not. Thank
dialog: you.
text: George takes a cigarette and Carlos lights it as George
text: gazes into his eyes.
text: CLOSE UP SHOTS OF CARLOS’ EYES AND LASHES. DETAILS OF HIS
text: MOUTH, BICEPS, HANDS. A SHOT OF HIS NECK. WE ALMOST FEEL HIM
text: SIGH AS HE EXHALES. THE SOUND OF HIS BREATHING IS SLIGHTLY
speaker_heading: AMPLIFIED.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Carlos.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What did you say?
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Carlos. You asked me my name. Are
dialog: you OK?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh, yeah, yeah. I’m sorry.
text: George takes a last deep inhale as he looks Carlos up and
text: down and then settles on his face.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: (in perfect Spanish)
dialog: Wow. You're really something. You
dialog: have an incredible face. Enjoy
dialog: that. It’s a great gift.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Your Spanish is perfect.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Thanks. I should have used it more.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: It’s not too late.
text: George stubs out his cigarette and then reaches into his
text: jacket pocket and pulls out a 20 dollar bill. He hands it to
dialog: Carlos.
text: George walks toward his car and starts to get in, but as he
text: does he notices Carlos trying to open the locked passenger
dialog: door.
text: Our shot is from the front of the car, taking in the sky in
text: the background which has turned a vivid pink.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Aren’t we going somewhere?
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No. But, thanks.
text: Looking up at the sky, George stops and stares at it.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: You know it’s the smog that makes
dialog: it that color.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I've never seen a sky like this
dialog: before.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Sometimes awful things have their
dialog: own kind of beauty.
text: George looks at Carlos, struck by his comment.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Could I have another cigarette?
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Sure.
text: George walks around to the back of the car. Carlos gives
text: George a cigarette and places one in his own mouth, strikes
text: a match and lights George’s cigarette and then his own.
text: George and Carlos sit on the trunk of the car and stare at
dialog: the sky.
speaker_heading: CARLOS (CONT'D)
dialog: You sure that you don’t want to go
dialog: for a drive?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m sure. (Beat) Where are you
dialog: from?
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Madrid.
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Madrid? How did you get here?
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: It’s a long story. I met a guy from
dialog: LA at the hotel where I worked who
dialog: told me I could live with him and
dialog: that he could get me an agent. I
dialog: never realized that I had a Spanish
dialog: accent.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I like your accent. You speak very
dialog: well. How did you learn English?
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: My mom had an American boyfriend
dialog: when I was little.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Is your mother in Madrid?
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Yeah. She cuts hair. She cut my
dialog: hair before I left. Do you like it?
dialog: I thought it made me look like
dialog: James Dean.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You look better than James Dean
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Really? Thanks. (beat) No one has
dialog: ever picked me up and not wanted
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I think you picked me up. (Beat)
dialog: Today is kind of a serious day for
dialog: me
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: Come on. What could be so serious
dialog: for a guy like you?
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh, I’m just trying to get over an
dialog: old love I guess.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: My mother always says that lovers
dialog: are like buses. You just have to
dialog: wait a little while and another one
dialog: comes along.
text: George stubs out his cigarette.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You have a smart mother. I’ve got
dialog: to go.
speaker_heading: CARLOS
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: You seem like all you really need
dialog: is someone to like you. I’m a nice
dialog: guy you know.
text: George goes around to the drivers side of the car and starts
dialog: to get in.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Thanks, but I’m going away.
text: George backs up the car and waves quickly to Carlos as he
text: pulls out of the parking lot.
text: Carlos stares after the car.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BATHROOM. EVENING
text: George, in a crisp white shirt with french cuffs, is washing
text: his hands and dressing for dinner as a very loud cocktail
text: party sound blasts from the Strunk house.
text: George looks out his window to survey all of this.
text: The Strunk lawn is pristine, flower beds immaculate, and the
text: guests are arriving. All are dressed in their best, chic
text: cocktail outfits and the driveway is full of sleek, late-
dialog: model cars.
dialog: 51.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. EVENING -- MOMENTS LATER
dialog: 
text: George is increasingly irritated at the sound of the party.
text: He walks over to his Hi Fi and starts to put on a record.
text: As he does he glances back at the sofa.....
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - STUDY. NIGHT (1961)
text: Jim and George are stretched out on the small sofa reading
text: with their heads at opposite ends. A fire is burning in the
dialog: fireplace.
text: There is a beer on the floor at Jim’s end and a scotch on the
text: floor at George’s end.
text: The female dog is tucked up between them and the male is
text: stretched out on the floor as a record ends and starts to
text: scratch back and forth.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It’s your turn to change it.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’m not changing it. It’s your
dialog: turn. You won’t like what I put on
dialog: anyway.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh, please, please. Come on. I’11
dialog: give you five dollars if you change
dialog: it. Please. I don’t want to. I’m
dialog: too old to get up.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You're only old when it’s
dialog: convenient for you to be old. What
dialog: are you reading?
text: George flashes the cover of Kafka's Metamorphosis at him.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh no. Not that depressing crap
dialog: again.
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It’s for my class. And what
dialog: highbrow work of fiction might you
dialog: be reading?
text: Jim flashes the cover of Breakfast at Tiffany’s.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hmmm.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Don't be so smug.
text: The dog on the floor sits up.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: (to the dog)
dialog: And just what do you want?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: He wants to go out.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Of course he does. What a life he
dialog: has. Don’t you envy him?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why, because he gets to sniff
dialog: anyone’s ass he wants to?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Nice. I envy him because he just
dialog: does what he wants. Like yesterday
dialog: I was standing in the front yard,
dialog: and Susan came over to talk for a
dialog: minute and that little brat of
text: hers, Christopher came running over
dialog: with that damned gun of his. Well
dialog: our little dog walked right up,
text: looked straight ahead, hiked his
text: leg and peed all over Christopher's
dialog: new tennis shoes. And all over
dialog: Christopher actually. He and his
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: mother both started shrieking and I
dialog: had to act like I was upset, when
dialog: it was all I could do to keep from
dialog: laughing. It was so perfectly
dialog: executed after all the times those
dialog: kids have tortured that poor dog. I
dialog: wish you had seen it.
text: They both laugh and look at the dog who knows that he is
dialog: being spoken about.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: You should take a lesson from him.
dialog: He doesn’t stay up all night
dialog: worrying. He’s figured out how to
dialog: get the two of us to do exactly
dialog: what he wants. They are both
dialog: basically very sophisticated little
dialog: parasites when you think about it.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, the dumbest creatures are the
dialog: happiest. Just look at your mother
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: You're an ass. What I mean is, he
dialog: really just lives in the moment.
dialog: Like now. What could be better than
dialog: this? Tucked up here with you. If I
dialog: died right now it would be OK.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, it wouldn’t be OK with me so
dialog: shut up and go change the record.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Good answer.
text: Jim starts to get up.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: I was going to take them with me to
dialog: Denver next week if it’s OK with
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: you. My mom loves them. It’s
dialog: probably that recognition of a
dialog: similar mind.
text: Jim kisses George on the forehead.
speaker_heading: JIM (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, you stay there old man. You owe
dialog: me five bucks.
speaker_heading: END FLASHBACK
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. EVENING
text: George looks towards the Strunk house again. He is irritated
text: at the noise from the party and puts on the record.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. EVENING -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Opera music is now blaring.
text: George, is re-arranging the items on his desk.
text: He takes a dark suit out of the closet and lays it across
text: the empty end of the desk top. He goes over to his dresser,
text: pulls out a shirt, takes a pair of gold cuff links out of an
text: ebony box on the dresser top and lays these out next to the
dialog: suit.
text: He goes back to his closet and grabs two different ties.
text: He stands over the suit weighing the two different tie
text: options. He chooses one, lays it on the shirt carefully and
text: returns the other one to the closet.
text: He carefully writes out something in bold type on a small
text: piece of paper and pins it to the tie that he has laid out
text: with the shirt. He takes a note marked “Charley” from the
text: desk top and lays this on top of the suit.
text: George goes to his closet, takes out a pair of black capped
text: toe shoes and places them on the desk next to the suit. The
text: shoes are perfectly polished. He stands back and surveys his
dialog: desk.
dialog: 55.
text: OUR SHOT FROM ABOVE REVEALS THE GUN AND BULLETS IN THE
text: CENTER OF THE DESK. WE SLOWLY PULL BACK FROM THE GUN TO
text: REVEAL THE ENTIRE DESK TOP. IT IS A COMPLEX BUT PRECISE
scene_heading: ARRANGEMENT OF LETTERS, BILLS, HOUSE DEEDS, A DOCUMENT
text: MARKED THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF GEORGE CARLYLE FALCONER,
text: AND 3 CAREFULLY LABELED KEYS. THE LARGE BOX AT THE END OF
text: THE DESK IS MARKED “CHARLEY”. THE OTHER END OF THE DESK IS
text: DOMINATED BY THE OUTFIT THAT GEORGE ASSEMBLED EARLIER. IT IS
text: NOW LAID OUT WITH THE SHIRT AND TIE INSERTED IN THE JACKET
text: AND A NOTE THAT SAYS “WINDSOR KNOT” AT THE NECK.
text: George takes the gun from his desk and goes over to his side
text: of the bed. He lays down. He opens his mouth and carefully
text: inserts the tip of the gun. He lies like this for a moment,
text: sits up, looks at the wall behind him and the pillows on the
text: bed and gets up and heads toward the bathroom with the gun
text: in his hand.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BATHROOM. EVENING -- CONTINUOUS
text: George gets into the shower and pulls the shower curtain
text: closed. Our shot is from the OUTSIDE OF THE SHOWER and we
text: can see George's silhouette as he raises the gun to his
text: mouth. He turns and looks behind himself. He repeats the
text: motion of placing the gun in his mouth but this time falls
text: back against the wall and slides down it. George yanks the
text: curtain open and goes out of the door and down the hall.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM. EVENING -- MOMENTS LATER
text: George comes back into the bedroom with a red flannel
text: sleeping bag. The gun is still in his hand. He unrolls the
text: sleeping bag and places it on the bed. He gets in and zips
text: it up over his head. We can see by the shape of the sleeping
text: bag that he has raised the gun to his mouth. Just as he does
text: this, the phone rings. George freezes for a moment, then
text: gets out of the sleeping bag and crosses the room. He places
text: the gun on his desk and answers the phone.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No, I did not forget the gin. I’11
dialog: see you in ten minutes
text: He hangs up the phone and heads down the hall.
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: EXT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - KITCHEN. EVENING -- MINUTES LATER
text: George is standing at the kitchen counter putting the
text: finishing touches on a note.
text: He is now dressed in a blazer with gold buttons, grey slacks
text: and black loafers. He has clearly made an effort to look
dialog: handsome.
text: He folds the note around a stack of one hundred dollar bills
text: and puts it into an envelope. He writes ALVA on the outside
text: of the envelope, goes to the bread box and pulls out a new
text: loaf of bread.
text: He opens the wrapper and slides the envelope in so that it
text: is visible through the plastic. He closes the wrapper and
text: places the loaf of bread in the freezer.
text: He grabs the liquor bottles and heads out the door.
scene_heading: EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY. NIGHT -- MINUTES LATER
text: George leaves his house and begins to walk down his driveway.
text: The Strunk cocktail party is now in full swing and two
text: couples are being greeted at the front door by Mr. Strunk.
text: All of a sudden, Christopher Strunk jumps out of the bushes
text: with his toy machine gun and starts shooting at George.
text: George stares down at the little boy.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Our sound fades as George slowly turns towards the boy,
text: unzips his fly, and unleashes a steady stream of piss all
text: over the stunned kid who starts screaming hysterically.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
text: Our sound snaps back. George is still staring at Christopher
text: who is shooting away. George’s stare brings the little boy
text: to a stop.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Christopher, would you like it if I
dialog: killed you?
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: I don’t know.
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, if you keep it up we are
dialog: going to find out, so go home and
dialog: stop shooting at people.
text: Christopher glares at George.
text: George offers a quick salutation and a broad smile to Mr.
text: Strunk and then turns and walks up the road.
scene_heading: EXT. STAIRS TO SOLEDAD WAY. NIGHT -- MINUTES LATER
text: George walks up the stairs with his bottles of liquor.
scene_heading: EXT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY. NIGHT
text: George walks towards the house. He stares at the door a
text: moment before ringing the bell.
text: George is stunned by the beauty of the lush pink climbing
text: roses next to Charley’s door. He leans in to smell one and
text: closes his eyes.
text: Charley opens the door.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Geo.
text: OUR CAMERA DRINKS CHARLIE IN:
text: Charley is dressed in a graphic black and white evening
text: dress that is clearly a few years ahead of it’s time. Her
text: strawberry blonde shoulder-length hair is teased and piled
text: on her head in a stylish coif that clearly took a great deal
text: of time to achieve. This is Charley at her best and not the
dialog: same Charley we saw earlier.
text: She has made quite an effort and she looks beautiful. She
text: kisses George on the cheek as they embrace.
text: A QUICK FLASHBACK OF GEORGE SOBBING IN THE RAIN IN CHARLEY’S
speaker_heading: ARMS.
text: Back to the present, George pulls away from Charley.
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You look divine. As chic as ever.
text: George is genuinely happy to see Charley.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Come on in.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - ENTRY HALL. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: George follows Charley as they walk together through the
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Oh God. It smells awfully of
dialog: cooking in here doesn’t it?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It smells great. I’m starving
dialog: Where’s Louisa?
scene_heading: INT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - SUN ROOM. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I gave her the night off. I’m
dialog: cooking myself.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You are?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Yes, and I’m trying something new.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Charley darling, you cooking is
dialog: new.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Don’t be smart. I’m in a good mood
dialog: tonight and I’m going to be fun
dialog: I’ve made two early New Years
dialog: resolutions. One, no more talk
dialog: about awful ex-husbands and
dialog: children who don’t give a damn
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: And the other one?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: One what?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Resolution.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Oh, resolution number two! More
dialog: smoking and more drinking and screw
dialog: it all! So, come mix me up a drink
dialog: I'll have a gin and tonic please
dialog: and watch out baby!
speaker_heading: GEORGE
text: Coming up.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: The interior of the living room is almost all white. This
text: is very definitely the house of a stylish woman. There is a
text: white shag carpet on the floor, a fire burning, a large
text: curved sectional sofa in the center of the room and an
text: elaborate dining table set for two in a window at the far
text: end of the room.
text: As they walk into the living room George turns to the well
text: stocked drinks table and mixes them both a drink.
text: Charley sits down on the sofa in front of the fire.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: It was sweet of you to come
dialog: tonight.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Sweet had nothing to do with it. I
dialog: needed to see you.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Oh come off it. Whenever you do
dialog: something sweet, you're too ashamed
dialog: to admit it.
dialog: 60.
text: George hands Charley her drink and sits down next to her.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: To our early New Years Resolutions.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: And just what are your resolutions
dialog: by the way?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: To let go of the past. Completely,
dialog: entirely, and forever.
text: They raise their glasses and smile at each other. Charley
text: looks George up and down.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Light me up Geo, will you...
text: Charley looks Geo in the eyes. George leans forward for the
dialog: table lighter.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (CONT'D)
dialog: Darling, you don’t look well. Do
dialog: you remember when you had your
dialog: little heart attack last year?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It wasn’t a heart attack.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Well whatever it was darling you
dialog: don’t look so hot.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m great. Never been better. Just
dialog: tired. I haven't been sleeping
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Geo, it’s normal. You were with Jim
dialog: for 16 years. I think about Richard
dialog: everyday too. It’s hard being alone.
dialog: At least you have a job and a life.
dialog: (beat) Let’s have a bit of dinner shall
dialog: we? Because I’ve worked so hard...
dialog: 61.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLEY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. NIGHT -- LATER
text: They've finished their dinner, and a bottle of champagne.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Really?
text: Charley lights another cigarette.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (CONT’D)
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Seriously, “old” doesn’t exist
dialog: anymore. A student yesterday called
dialog: me a “senior citizen”.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I wouldn't mind if “old” didn’t
dialog: exist, but I’m not sure “senior” is
dialog: what I’m shooting for either
text: Charley catches a reflection of herself in the glass of
text: the window and smooths her cheek up a bit with her well
text: manicured hand.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It’s all becoming so bland... it’s
dialog: not why I came to America. It’s
dialog: like a complete breakdown of
dialog: culture and manners.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Well, the young ones have no
dialog: manners. The other day at the car
dialog: wash I had a young man look me up
dialog: and down and actually ask me if I
dialog: was a natural blonde!
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No. What did you say?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I looked him straight in the eye
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (CONT'D)
dialog: and said: “Well, let’s just say
dialog: that if I stood on my head I would
dialog: be a natural brunette with lovely
dialog: breath.”
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You did not!
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I did! And the amusing thing was
dialog: that it went right over his head!
text: They both laugh hysterically.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You had a mouth on you even back in
dialog: London. Do you remember that old
dialog: lesbian who threw her drink at you
dialog: because you asked her if she was
dialog: hung like a donut!?
text: They practically fall out of their chairs laughing at this
text: one. Their laughing tapers off as Charley takes a drag on
text: her cigarette. There is a quiet, sweet pause between them.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Oh Geo, we could always go back to
dialog: London. The two of us.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No thanks.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: You know you miss it.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Sometimes I miss it. Maybe if Jim
dialog: had lived. He loved England. He
dialog: really wanted us to stay the last
dialog: time we were there.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Do you really think you would have
dialog: moved?
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh, I don’t know. It’s silly to
dialog: even talk about it. It was just a
dialog: fantasy.
text: Charley reaches over and holds his hand. As she does, she
text: fondles his little finger and notices the addition of the
text: slim gold band.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: What’s this?
text: George pulls his hand away.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: My mother’s wedding ring. I found
dialog: it when I was cleaning out a
dialog: drawer. Charlotte dear, we are both
dialog: in need of another drink
text: George stands up, grabs their two empty glasses, and heads
text: back to the drinks table as Charley watches, clearly still
dialog: very much in love.
text: Charley gets up and puts on a record and then crosses the
text: room to where George is mixing the drinks and slides up
text: behind him affectionately.
text: George smiles as Charley embraces him from behind and lays
text: her head on his shoulder.
text: Much to her surprise he turns around, takes her hand, and
text: grabs her around the waist as they begin to slow dance.
text: George buries his head in Charley’s neck and squeezes her
text: close. We hear the sound of her bracelets and George feels
text: the brush of her earrings as he literally drinks her in.
text: They are drunk and adorable together as the pace of the
text: music slows and George starts to pull away.
text: Charley in an attempt to keep things going stops dancing
text: and runs across the room to change the record.
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Wait, wait, wait! Don’t move. I
dialog: LOVE this.
text: She puts on a wild record as George begins to laugh against
dialog: his will.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You are insane!
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Come on old man!
text: The music blares and the two of them go crazy. Charley is
text: quite a sexy dancer as is George. He twists lower and lower
dialog: as the two of them have a Watusi competition all the time
text: laughing.
text: As Charley shakes her head and goes wild, she loses her
text: balance in her mules and falls back onto George. The two of
text: them fall to the floor laughing.
text: They are both flat on their backs as Charley slides into a
text: comfortable spot under George's arm with her head on his
dialog: shoulder.
text: They slowly calm down and their laughter turns to sweet
text: smiles of exhausted, drunken contentment as the record dies
text: down and turns itself off.
text: They look blissful lying on the white shag carpet as they
dialog: regain their breath.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Don’t move.
text: George jumps up, slips off his jacket and tosses a few
text: pillows to the floor. He grabs their drinks, Charley’s pink
text: cigarettes and an ashtray and heads back to her.
text: He slides back down next to her, lights two cigarettes at
text: the same time, gives one to her, and takes the other one for
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
text: Very smooth cigarette move.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I've always wanted to do that.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: You don’t even smoke.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, not for the last 16 years.
dialog: Jim hated. What’s to stop me now.
dialog: It’s not as if it’s going to kill
dialog: me is it?
text: They both laugh and blow smoke into the air.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: This is so nice lying here with
dialog: you. Don’t you ever miss this? What
dialog: we could have been to each other?
dialog: Having a real relationship and
dialog: kids?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: I had Jim.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I know, but I mean a real
dialog: relationship. Geo, let’s be honest,
dialog: what you and Jim had was great but
dialog: wasn’t it really just a substitute
dialog: for something else?
text: George sits up and looks directly at Charley.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Is that really what you think after
dialog: all of these years? That Jim was
dialog: just a substitute for real love?
text: George really loses his temper.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Jim wasn’t a substitute for
dialog: anything, and there is no
dialog: substitute for Jim, anywhere! And
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 65.
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: by the way, what was so REAL about
dialog: your relationship with Richard? He
dialog: left you after 9 years! Jim and
dialog: I were together for 16 years and
dialog: if he hadn’t died we would still
dialog: be together! What the hell is
dialog: not REAL about that!?
text: George, disgusted, gets up and stands in front of the fire.
text: He stands dead still for a moment trying to compose himself.
text: Charley is stunned and doesn’t move.
text: Charley has been stung by George’s comments about her
dialog: marriage.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I didn’t mean it the way it
dialog: sounded. I know how much the two
dialog: of you loved each other
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (CONT'D)
dialog: I just suppose that I was always a
dialog: bit jealous that you and I never
dialog: had that kind of love. Actually
dialog: I've never had that kind of love
dialog: with anyone. I don’t think Richard
dialog: ever loved me except for the way I
dialog: looked. And Clay, I don’t know. You
dialog: raise a child and love it and then
dialog: when they get old enough they just
dialog: leave.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Charlotte, there is nothing wrong
dialog: with your life. You like feeling
dialog: sorry for yourself. It’s one of
dialog: your great pleasures.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: And it’s not one of yours? You're
dialog: as pathetic as I am.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Feeling sorry for myself is definitely
dialog: not one of my great pleasures.
dialog: 67.
text: Charley struggles to stand up.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Well its not one of mine either. I
dialog: don’t like feeling sorry for myself
dialog: one bit. I tried to hold onto
dialog: Richard for so long even when it
dialog: was obvious to everyone but me that
text: it was over. Now Clay is grown up.
dialog: I mean, what am I doing here Geo?
dialog: Tell me that?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You have lots of friends. You’ll be
dialog: fine.
text: Charley sighs.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Yes, I have friends. But none of
dialog: them need me. And yes I have you
dialog: and if you weren’t such a goddamn
dialog: poof we could have all been happy!
text: George begins to smile.
text: Charley crosses to the coffee table, lights another
text: cigarette, takes a long drag and exhales slowly. She sits
text: down on the sofa and George joins her. He slips his arm
text: around her as she attempts to wriggle away.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (CONT'D)
dialog: I only have you now because you
dialog: lost Jim, but I’1l lose you again
dialog: soon to someone else. It’s not as
dialog: easy for a woman. I did everything
dialog: the way that I was supposed to and
dialog: all I have to keep me company is a
text: bottle of gin.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Maybe you should try donuts with
dialog: your gin.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Screw you!
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Charlotte, you are dramatic. You
dialog: really almost had me. A tiny tear
text: was beginning to form in the corner
dialog: of my eye. Now stop it, you know
dialog: that you are still breathtakingly
dialog: beautiful when you bother to get
dialog: yourself up and out of bed and you
dialog: stop whimpering about everything
dialog: for five minutes. Move back to
dialog: London! Change your life! If you're
dialog: not happy being a woman then stop
dialog: acting like one.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: You have all the goddamn answers
dialog: don’t you? If you're so smart why
dialog: aren’t YOU making something new
dialog: happen in your life? (beat) I’m
dialog: serious. Why don’t you take that
dialog: position at Stanford? Why do you
dialog: keep teaching at that little school
dialog: when you could have any position
dialog: you want?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I think what I’ve done has been
dialog: worthwhile.
text: George is stung.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I’m sorry, I shouldn't have said
dialog: that. (beat) As much as I dread it,
dialog: I think I might move back to
dialog: London.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why do you dread it?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: When I lived in London last I was
dialog: YOUNG. I was fresh, I was
dialog: everything. Coming to America was
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 69.
dialog: such a dream, it was the icing on
text: the cake. Going home is defeat.
dialog: None of it really worked out the
dialog: way I'd planned.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Most things don’t work out the way
dialog: people plan. You’re living in the
dialog: past. You need to start thinking
dialog: about the future.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: Living in the past IS my future.
dialog: You're a man. It doesn’t have to be
dialog: yours.
text: They both sit silently for a moment.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY (CONT'D)
dialog: And you're a bore tonight. Can’t we
dialog: just feel sorry for ourselves a
dialog: little bit longer? Mix me up
dialog: another drink. Please?
text: George checks his watch. 10:45.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I don’t think so. I have to go.
dialog: Come on. Walk me out.
text: He gets up and takes his jacket from the back of the sofa.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: But this was such fun!
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I have to.
text: Charley gets up and follows him as they walk toward the
text: entry hall.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: When will I see you again?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Aren’t you moving to London?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: I’1l never do that! It’s far too
dialog: much effort. Besides, I don’t think
dialog: Jim would want me to leave you here
dialog: in LA all alone.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Don't worry about me Charley. I’m
dialog: OK. I’ve got all the answers.
dialog: Remember?
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: What are you doing this weekend?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I think I might just be very quiet.
speaker_heading: CHARLEY
dialog: You never really did take me
dialog: seriously did you George?
text: George opens the door, turns and faces her.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I tried to Charley. Remember? A
dialog: long time ago. It didn’t quite
dialog: work, did it? Good night Charley.
text: As they embrace, she kisses him hard. For a moment he kisses
text: her back until her kiss turns serious and desperate.
text: George calmly backs up and looks into her eyes. With both
text: hands, he firmly grips her arms and kisses her again on the
text: mouth but this time it is a chaste good-bye kiss.
text: Charley behaves. She is defeated and we feel that this scene
dialog: has been played out before in their relationship.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT’D)
dialog: Sleep tight. I love you.
text: She resigns herself to him leaving, and stares at the back
text: of the door as he closes it behind him.
scene_heading: EXT. GEORGE’S HOUSE SANTA MONICA. NIGHT -- LATER. (1962)
dialog: 71.
text: An exterior shot of the full moon through the trees.
text: George's house is illuminated in the background.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - STUDY. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: George is sitting at his desk writing a note.
text: George seals the note and then picks up the gun and holds it
text: for a moment as he places the gun gently to his head.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - EXT. STARBOARD SIDE BAR. -- NIGHT (1946)
text: George walks up the sidewalk towards the bar. It is a lively
text: scene outside with the bar crowd spilling out onto the
text: sidewalk. George approaches the door and pushes himself
dialog: inside.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - INT. STARBOARD SIDE BAR. NIGHT (1946) CONTINUOUS
text: The bar is packed and filled with many men in their Naval
text: uniforms. It is also filled with girls who have clearly
text: dolled themselves up for the evening.
text: All are laughing and talking loudly. It is a wild and
text: raucous atmosphere and filled with so much smoke that it is
dialog: hard to see.
text: George walks in and not being able to find a spot to stand,
text: orders a beer and a pack of cigarettes at the bar and goes
text: outside to smoke and enjoy the cool breeze.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - EXT. STARBOARD SIDE BAR. NIGHT (1946) --
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: George is standing outside enjoying his cigarette as a young
text: Naval officer walks into the bar.
text: George briefly locks eyes with the young man. After a few
text: moments, the young officer returns with a beer - it’s Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: It’s too hot in there.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Yes it is. Would you like a
dialog: cigarette?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: No thanks, I don’t smoke. Is this
dialog: place always this crowded?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, it is Saturday night but no
dialog: it’s usually not quite this bad.
dialog: Most people just stop in here to
dialog: pick someone up and then head on
dialog: down the beach for the rest of the
dialog: evening.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Yeah. It’s pretty wild out there.
dialog: I’m surprised the cops don’t break
dialog: it up. Is it always like that?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Since the war ended. I think it’s
dialog: pretty great actually. Kind of
dialog: pagan.
text: Jim puts his hand out.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Jim.
text: The two men shake hands.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: George. Pleased to meet you Jim.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I’m supposed to meet some friends
dialog: here but they're nowhere to be
dialog: found.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I just needed to get out of the
dialog: house. I was just going to take a
dialog: walk but the lure of a cold beer
dialog: got to me.
text: George puts out his cigarette.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Do you live close by?
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Yes. In the canyon.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: How long have you lived here?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Since 38. Where are you from?
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Colorado. But I really like it
dialog: here. I think I might stay after
dialog: I’m discharged. It’s great. I love
dialog: being so close to the ocean. I
dialog: don’t know, perhaps I’m just a bit
dialog: of a pagan.
text: Just then it begins to rain lightly. The two men look at
text: each other and then scramble for the door to the bar as the
text: rain starts coming down hard and fast.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - INT. STARBOARD SIDE BAR. NIGHT (1946) --
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: It is packed inside and George and Jim are literally pressed
text: up against each other. There is an electricity between the
text: two of them. It is so loud inside the bar that they have to
dialog: shout.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Another beer?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: That would be great.
text: Just then a beautiful BLONDE GIRL with Veronica Lake hair
text: and a cherry red mouth, pushes between the two of them. As
text: she does she looks up at Jim.
speaker_heading: BLONDE GIRL
dialog: Well, hello.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: Hello.
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: BLONDE GIRL
dialog: Want to buy me a drink?
text: Jim looks past the girl directly into George’s eyes.
speaker_heading: JIM
dialog: I'm afraid I’m taken.
speaker_heading: BLONDE GIRL
dialog: Too bad. Too bad...
text: She pushes away from them back into the crowd as the two men
text: smile at each other.
speaker_heading: END FLASHBACK
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - STUDY. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: George sits still for a moment, puts the gun down, jumps up
text: and runs down the hall to the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: OUR VIEW IS FROM OUTSIDE OF THE HOUSE.
text: George crosses to the liquor cabinet and grabs the bottle of
text: scotch. There is only a drop left.
text: George puts down the bottle, takes off his glasses and goes
text: out the front door.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPHOR TREE LANE. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: As George leaves his driveway he hears someone behind him.
text: We see clearly the outline of Kenny’s bike in the foreground
text: but George doesn’t see this.
text: He stops and looks around. Nothing. George continues his jog
text: down the hill.
scene_heading: EXT. STARBOARD SIDE BAR. NIGHT -- MINUTES LATER
text: George approaches the bar. He opens the door and goes in.
text: The place is a faded version of its 1946 incarnation.
dialog: 75.
scene_heading: INT. STARBOARD SIDE BAR. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: The bar now sports a jukebox in the corner and a television
text: above it. A neon Budweiser sign/clock tells us it is 11:03.
text: Most of the patrons sit at the long bar, staring lazily at
text: the television in a cow daze.
text: George heads to the bar and calls out to PATRICK the
dialog: bartender.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Patrick, could I have a bottle of
text: scotch and a pack of Lucky Strikes
dialog: to go please?
text: As he says this he notices a young man who walks into the
dialog: bar.
text: A slow steady smile crosses George's face - it’s Kenny.
text: George looks to the bartender.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Patrick. Cancel that.
text: He holds up two fingers and points to his regular booth.
text: Patrick nods.
text: George walks over to the booth.
text: Kenny slips onto the bench across from George. Kenny is
text: slightly out of breath.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, hello Mr. Potter.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Hello, sir.
text: The bartender places their drinks in front of them.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: What are we drinking?
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Scotch.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: OK.
text: They each take a sip.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I come here all the time. I live
dialog: around the corner, but then you
dialog: know that.
speaker_heading: KENNY
text: On Camphor Tree Lane.
text: They smile at each other.
text: George reaches into his pants pocket, pulls out his pencil
text: sharpener, and places it on the table with a smile.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: You're still carrying that around.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: One must always appreciate life's
dialog: little gifts.
text: Kenny and George smile at each other.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: So what are you doing here?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Just out for a ride on my bike.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Is that all?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I don’t know.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Were you looking for me?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Maybe. I don’t know. I feel like my
text: head’s stopped up with stuff, with
dialog: crap.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Stuff like what?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Like, the stuff you were talking
dialog: about today in class.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: That is definitely not important.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: No, it is important. Your class is
dialog: great. But somehow we always seem
dialog: to get stuck talking about the
dialog: past. The past just doesn’t matter
dialog: to me
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: And the present?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I can’t wait for the present to be
dialog: over. It’s a total drag. Well
dialog: tonight's the exception
dialog: 
text: George bursts into laughter.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Tonight - yes! The present - no!
dialog: Let's drink to tonight!
text: They clink glasses.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Tonight!
text: They both take a sip.
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: So if the past doesn’t matter and
dialog: the present is a “total drag”. what
dialog: about the future?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: What future? I mean Cuba might just
dialog: blow us up.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Death is the future.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I’m sorry. I don’t mean to be
dialog: depressing.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: It’s not depressing, it’s true. I
dialog: mean, it’s not necessarily your
dialog: immediate future, but it’s what we
dialog: all share. Death is the future.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: You're right I guess.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: If one is not enjoying one’s
dialog: present there isn’t a great deal to
dialog: suggest that the future should be
dialog: any better.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Yeah, I’ve thought that before. But
dialog: the thing is, you just never know.
dialog: Look at tonight.
text: George looks intently at Kenny.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: Actually I feel really alone most
dialog: of the time.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You do?
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Yeah. I’ve always felt this way. I
dialog: mean we're born alone, we die
dialog: alone. And while we're here we are
text: absolutely, completely sealed in
dialog: our own bodies. Really weird. Kinda
dialog: freaks me out to think about it. We
dialog: can only experience the outside
dialog: world through our own slanted
dialog: perception of it. Who knows what
dialog: you're really like. I just see what
dialog: I think you're like.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m exactly what I seem to be, if
dialog: you look closely. You know the only
dialog: thing that has made the whole thing
dialog: worthwhile has been those few times
dialog: that I was able to truly connect
dialog: with another person
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I had a hunch about you, sir.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You did?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Yes, sir. I had a hunch you might
dialog: be a real romantic.
text: George smiles.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: You know, everyone keeps telling
dialog: you that when you're older, that
dialog: you'll have all this experience -
dialog: like it’s some great thing
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: That's a load of shit. I think I’ve
dialog: actually just gotten sillier and
dialog: sillier.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Really?
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Absolutely.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: So all your experience is useless?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No, I wouldn’t say that. As our
dialog: friend Mr. Huxley says: “Experience
dialog: is not what happens to a man; it is
dialog: what a man does with what happens
dialog: to him.”
text: Kenny looks at George and then blurts out...
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Let’s go swimming.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: OK.
text: Kenny bursts into laughter. George is confused but grins
dialog: anyway.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: It was a test. I thought you were
dialog: bluffing about being silly, so I
dialog: said to myself, I'll suggest doing
dialog: something completely outrageous and
text: if he resists, if he even hesitates
dialog: - then I know he’s full of shit.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Well, I wasn’t. Were you?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Hell no!
text: They both jump up. George throws a few bills on the table
text: and follows Kenny out of the bar.
scene_heading: EXT. STARBOARD SIDE BAR. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
dialog: 81.
text: They break into a run as Kenny sprints across the highway
text: without looking either way. George struggles to keep up.
scene_heading: EXT. SANTA MONICA STATE BEACH. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: As George runs across the highway - Kenny vaults over the
text: railing and disappears.
text: George clambers over the guard rail and looks down at Kenny,
text: the street lights shining on his grinning face.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Come on sir. I'll help you down
text: George drops to the sand.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: Let's go.
text: Kenny turns and runs, whooping and pulling off his clothes.
text: George follows. As he watches Kenny undress he hesitates
text: momentarily and then begins to unbutton his shirt.
scene_heading: EXT. SURF LINE. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: A naked Kenny runs toward the surf and fearlessly dives into
dialog: the waves.
text: Seeing Kenny, George toughens up. He slips off his pants,
text: runs after Kenny and dives in.
text: A wave splashes over George and he stumbles. He finds his
text: balance and continues out.
text: George makes his way out further, still laughing, as Kenny
text: continues to plunge in and out of the waves.
text: Emboldened by Kenny's enthusiasm, George wades out
text: further, his arms outstretched.
scene_heading: EXT. SANTA MONICA STATE BEACH. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: A naked George is way out and almost out of his depth as a
text: towering wave pulls the surf away from him. George tries to
text: brace himself against the giant wave but instead he is
dialog: 82.
text: knocked flat and suddenly pulled underwater. He does not
text: resurface. Kenny dives under water to look for George.
scene_heading: EXT. OCEAN - NIGHT --CONTINUOUS
text: George gasps for air as Kenny pulls him to the surface and
text: drags him toward the beach.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: That’s enough for now sir
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m fine.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Well I’m not. I’m cold. Come on.
scene_heading: EXT. SANTA MONICA STATE BEACH - NIGHT --CONTINUOUS
text: Kenny gets George to their clothes and starts toweling
dialog: himself off.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: can we go back to your place sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Of course. Where else?
text: George begins dressing.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Where else.
text: Kenny smiles and grabs the rest of his clothes, heading back
text: toward the highway still naked.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Are you out of your mind?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: What’s the matter?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You can’t walk home like that!
text: George catches up with Kenny.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: We’re invisible, don’t you know
dialog: that?
dialog: 83.
text: George stops dead in his tracks with this line from Kenny.
text: George is very cold, but Kenny seems in his element. He puts
text: his arm around George's shoulders.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: You know sir, they ought not to let
dialog: you out on your own. You're liable
dialog: to get into real trouble.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Oh, I excel at it.
text: Kenny looks at George who has a small cut over his left eye.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Your forehead is bleeding.
text: George reaches up and touches his brow. He looks at his hand
text: and sees the blood on his fingers.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. NIGHT -- LATER
text: They enter the house. Kenny is full of energy and George has
text: sobered up a little from the walk back.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
text: The bathroom is down the hall if
dialog: you would like to take a shower
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Aren’t you taking a shower too,
dialog: sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m fine. I’m English. We like to
dialog: be cold and wet.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: First, I think that we need to take
dialog: care of that cut sir. Do you have
dialog: any band-aids?
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Kenny and George walk into the bedroom
text: Kenny looks at the sleeping bag.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Going camping sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Really, I’m fine.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Stay there. I'll be right back
text: George sits down on the sleeping bag.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BATHROOM. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Kenny walks into the bathroom. He opens the drawer next
text: to the sink and pulls out a cotton ball and a bottle of
text: alcohol. He finds a tin of band-aids. As he lifts it up
text: something catches his eye. It is the nude photograph of
text: dim, taken in the desert.
text: Kenny stares at the picture a moment, looks towards the
text: bedroom, and then quickly puts it back in the drawer.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Kenny returns to the bedroom where George is lying flat on
text: the bed with his feet on the ground.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: sit up.
text: George obeys much to his surprise, as Kenny seems suddenly
dialog: in control.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: Tilt your head back
text: Kenny gently cleans George's forehead with a cotton ball
text: soaked in alcohol. George winces slightly but his eyes are
text: locked on his new friend. Kenny puts a band-aid across the
dialog: 85.
text: cut over George’s brow and gently brushes his wet hair back
text: with his fingers.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT’D)
dialog: Well sir, I’m afraid this time you
dialog: don’t have the excuse of mescaline
dialog: to explain your bandage.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I think that we need to get you out
dialog: of those wet clothes.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Yes sir.
text: Kenny stands up and moves to the corner next to a chair. He
text: kicks off his shoes and undresses very slowly. He carefully
text: lays his clothes on the chair. Standing nude, Kenny turns
text: towards George. He looks shy and nervous. George, who still
text: sits on the edge of the bed, does not take his eyes off of
dialog: Kenny.
text: Kenny smiles sweetly at George, but George does not react.
text: Suddenly embarrassed, Kenny turns and walks into the
text: bathroom. He doesn’t close the door after him but is out
text: of George’s sight. The shower is turned on.
text: George is not sure what to do. Looking towards the bathroom
text: he contemplates going in but instead rushes to his closet
text: and grabs his robe.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. NIGHT -- MINUTES LATER
text: George lights a fire. He turns on the Hi-Fi and adjusts
text: the lights. Kenny comes into the room, wrapped in a grey
dialog: blanket.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You're not too cold?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I'm great.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Would you like a drink?
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I'd love a beer sir, if you have
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I’m afraid that’s all we have. Two
text: beers, coming up.
text: Kenny is examining an architectural model next to the
text: drafting table as George arrives and hands him his beer.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: You live here all by yourself, sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I do now. I used to share this
dialog: place with a friend. He was an
dialog: architect.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Man, guys my age dream about the
dialog: kind of setup you’ve got here. I
dialog: mean, what more can you want? You
dialog: get to be left alone and come and
dialog: go as you please.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: And that’s your idea of the perfect
dialog: life?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: What’s the matter, sir? You don’t
dialog: believe me?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: If you're so keen on living by
dialog: yourself, where does Lois fit into
dialog: this plan?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Lois? What’s she got to do with
dialog: anything?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I had the impression that you and
dialog: she were together.
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Not really. I mean she’s kind of
dialog: cool and we're good friends, but I
dialog: think what you really want to ask
dialog: me is if we sleep together
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: And do you?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: We did. Once.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why only once?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I didn’t say only once, I said
dialog: once. Come on, the last thing I
dialog: want to talk about right now is
dialog: Lois.
speaker_heading: KENNY (CONT'D)
dialog: What time is it?
text: George looks at his watch. The second hand is not moving and
text: the case is clouded over.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: I don’t know. My watch seems to
dialog: have stopped.
text: George bangs his watch on the table.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: What does it matter anyway.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Would you like me to go?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: No, are you kidding? Get us both
dialog: another beer.
text: Kenny jumps up and heads to the kitchen, then looks back.
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Is that an order sir?
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: You're damn right it is!
text: George tries to get up, but he struggles, quite drunk now
text: and falls back into his chair.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Pathetic.
text: Kenny arrives with two bottles of beer.
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Were you saying something sir?
text: George gives Kenny a concentrated stare.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Why are you here? Why did you ask
dialog: the secretary in the office for my
dialog: address?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: I just wanted to see you someplace
dialog: other than school.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: why?
speaker_heading: KENNY
dialog: Sometimes I think I’m crazy because
dialog: I see things so differently than
dialog: everyone else does. I feel like I
dialog: can talk to you. To be honest sir I
dialog: was also worried about you today.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: Me? What’s to be worried about? I’m
dialog: fine.
text: George's vision begins to blur as Kenny moves toward us. Our
text: image fades to a dusky brown.
speaker_heading: GEORGE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m fine...
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. UNDERWATER
text: We are underwater in George’s recurring dream. From the top
text: of our screen drifts the nude body of George, arms
text: outstretched, sinking slowly. He moves his legs in a slight
text: struggle as he drops further and further underwater. George
text: begins to toss and turn violently in the water searching for
text: air. This time he suddenly rights himself and begins pushing
text: toward the surface of the water. He climbs higher and higher
text: and hits the surface with a loud gasp for air.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT -- LATER
text: George wakes up in bed with a deep gasp for air.
text: He looks around the room for a moment. He is still dressed
text: in his robe. The light is on.
text: He looks to the chair- Kenny’s clothes are still there.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S HOUSE - STUDY. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: George walks into the study. In the faint light we see Kenny
text: asleep on the sofa underneath the blanket.
text: George stands over Kenny a minute looking at him. The light
text: is catching on Kenny’s thick lashes. Kenny is breathing
text: gently. He looks angelic, and very, very, young.
text: Kenny's hands are holding onto something under the blanket.
text: George carefully pulls the blanket back to reveal Kenny
text: loosely gripping George's gun.
text: George reaches down and gently lifts the gun out of Kenny's
text: hand and pulls the blanket up over Kenny's chest.
text: As George stares down at Kenny asleep, a warm smile creeps
text: across his face.
text: George crosses the room and stares at the desk top. It has
text: been disturbed. His perfect grid of papers is out of order.
text: He opens the desk drawer and puts the gun carefully inside.
dialog: 90.
text: He lifts the key out of the drawer, locks the desk and slips
text: the key into the pocket of his robe.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S BEDROOM NIGHT 1962--CONTINUOUS.
text: George walks towards the glass door that opens to his back
text: yard. It is a beautiful night. We can hear the sound of the
text: surf in the distance and the sounds of the crickets and
dialog: frogs.
text: An enormous owl almost 2 feet tall is sitting perfectly
text: still in a branch of the large pine tree directly outside of
text: the glass door at eye level with George but George does not
text: see this. As he opens the door the owl suddenly spreads it’s
text: wings and takes flight.
text: As this happens our sound stops abruptly and we are left in
dialog: total silence.
text: George freezes, gazing at the full amber colored moon, and
text: drinking in the feeling of the fresh air.
text: It is clear from his face that he is a different man. He is
text: free. The cloud has lifted.
text: George bats his eyes and as he does our sound snaps back.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: A few times in my life I’ve had
text: moments of absolute clarity.
text: George walks back into the study and stands over Kenny and
text: smiles.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.0. (CONT'D)
dialog: When for a few brief seconds the
text: silence drowns out the noise and I
dialog: can feel rather than think...
text: George goes to the desk, gathers the note to Charley and one
dialog: of the other letters.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
dialog: And things seem so sharp and the
dialog: world seems so fresh.
dialog: 91.
text: He turns out the lamp and quietly closes the double doors to
text: the study leaving Kenny asleep on the sofa.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. NIGHT -- CONTINUOUS
text: George slips down the hall to the living room which is still
text: illuminated by the embers of the dying fire. He throws the
text: letters into the fireplace and watches them flare up.
text: He puts his hands in the pockets of his robe and lets out a
text: deep sigh.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: I can never make these moments
dialog: last. I cling to them, but like
text: everything they fade.
text: The golden light from the fire rakes across George’s face as
text: he beams.
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S BEDROOM NIGHT 1962 -- MOMENTS LATER.
text: George sits on the edge of his bed. He is ecstatic.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: I have lived my live on these
dialog: moments.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: FLASHBACK OF GEORGE AND CHARLEY DOING THE TWIST EARLIER IN
text: THE EVENING.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. GEORGE’S BEDROOM NIGHT 1962--CONTINUOUS.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O.
dialog: They pull me back to the present
text: George is sitting on his bed reveling in his new found
dialog: peace.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.O. (CONT'D)
dialog: and I realize that everything is
dialog: exactly the way it was meant to be.
dialog: 92.
text: George, still smiling, reaches towards his bedside table to
text: pour himself a glass of water from the carafe. As he does
text: this his arm goes numb - he can’t use his hand. He tries
text: again and then grabs onto his wrist with his other hand.
text: We see a look of disbelief in George’s face as there is
text: suddenly a sharp pain in his chest.
text: His face is contorted with panic. He tries to cry out but
text: can only muster a slight moan.
text: George attempts to stand but falls to the floor. As he does
text: he hits the night stand violently with his body.
text: The clock hits the floor breaking its face.
text: George lies silently on the floor. He begins to lose
dialog: consciousness.
text: There is no sound except for the sound of the clock which
text: ticks loudly for a few beats and then abruptly stops.
text: QUICK CUTS OF A COMPLETELY STILL GEORGE FROM ALL SIDES AND
speaker_heading: ANGLES.
text: FROM THE CEILING, WE PUSH IN SLOWLY UNTIL WE ARE JUST OVER
text: GEORGE’S BODY. WE ARE INTIMATE WITH HIM AND HEAR HIM
text: BREATHING.
text: Into our warm brown screen moves slowly an EVER CLOSER SOFT
text: FOCUS SHOT OF JIM. Jim moves toward us as FOCUS SHARPENS and
text: he comes in for a very gentle kiss. Jim’s face fills our
text: screen and then he pulls away slowly and recedes into the
dialog: darkness.
text: We settle, in an intimate way, close to George’s face. We
text: quite literally feel him slip away from us.
text: The sounds of life grow increasingly faint. George lets out
text: a deep but relaxed sigh as his jaw slackens and his eyes
text: begin to glaze and lose focus. George is completely
text: motionless but he now has the faintest smile on his face.
text: The room is warm and dark and pleasant.
dialog: 93.
text: Shot from above, George's face fills our screen as we slowly
text: pull back.
speaker_heading: GEORGE V.0. (CONT’D)
dialog: And just like that it came.
text: We are now high above George and his outstretched body fills
text: our screen as our image gradually begins to desaturate and
dialog: then bleaches to white as we -
text: CUT TO BLACK.
dialog: 
