speaker_heading: A SIMPLE FAVOR
dialog: Written by
dialog: Jessica Sharzer
text: Revisions by Jessica Sharzer, Peter Craig and Paul Feig
text: Based on A SIMPLE FAVOR by Darcey Bell
scene_heading: CURRENT REVISIONS BY PAUL FEIG
dialog: June 29th, 2017
scene_heading: WHITE PRODUCTION DRAFT: JULY 10, 2017
scene_heading: A COMPUTER SCREEN - INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 1
text: A YouTube page awaiting a live streaming vlog to start, the
text: screen blank. On the right side of the screen is a COMMENTS
text: SECTION. COMMENTS are being written in quick succession:
dialog: TigerMom217: Any word about Emily?
dialog: Yogalover999: Have you heard anything?
dialog: Lives2Zumba: Is Emi okay?
dialog: MomPowerl4: My kids loved your bundt cake recipe!
text: NinjaMom911: PLEASE TELL US EMILY’S NOT DEAD!!!!!
dialog: 
text: The screen pops on, revealing STEPHANIE SMOTHERS, a cute,
text: conservative, earnest young mother and mommy blogger. She’s
text: in a modest country kitchen with a cozy feel. There’s a
text: child’s art work on the refrigerator behind her.
text: On the counter in front of Stephanie are her cookie
dialog: ingredients: flour, brown sugar, chocolate chips, zucchini,
text: measuring cups, mixing bowls, spatula, pan.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. As promised,
dialog: today I’1ll be sharing my secret recipe
dialog: for zucchini chocolate chip cookies. Your
dialog: kids will never know they’re eating a
dialog: full serving of veggies. But first --
dialog: (her voice shifts, grave)
dialog: -- many of you have asked for an update
dialog: on the Emily situation. For those of you
dialog: new to my vlog ...
dialog: (checking computer screen)
dialog: That’s you, Babette9 and VioletsRblue,
dialog: thanks for joining ... You should know
dialog: that my best friend Emily is missing. She
dialog: asked me for a simple favor: to pick up
dialog: her son Nicky from school. That was nine
dialog: days ago. She hasn’t come back yet ...
dialog: (voice breaks; regroups)
dialog: I hope you'll forgive me. I’m just so
dialog: worried about her. And I want to help the
dialog: police track her down. But I’m realizing
dialog: I didn’t know her as well as I thought.
dialog: Like my mother used to say, God rest her
dialog: soul, “Secrets are like margarine. Easy
dialog: to spread, but bad for the heart.” But as
dialog: different as we were, I truly considered
dialog: Emily my best friend. Our sons brought us
dialog: together. She’s such a wonderful, elegant
dialog: person ...
text: She clears a tear, then composes herself.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT’D
dialog: I’m sorry, for all our new friends, let
dialog: me catch you up. I met Emily a few weeks
dialog: ago at school ...
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY 2
dialog: 
text: Hammering rain falls on a quaint Connecticut ELEMENTARY
text: SCHOOL. It pings onto the abandoned gungle gym and swing
text: sets, an ominous crack of lightning hrough the bars. A VOLVO
text: STATION WAGON drives alone through the torrent.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (POST-LAP
dialog: It was International Cuisine day in my
dialog: son Miles’ 2nd Grade class and, once
dialog: again, I drew Sweden.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY 3
dialog: 
text: Trying to juggle an UMBRELLA, PHOTO EQUIPMENT, and the
text: HATCHBACK, Stephanie fights to extract the TRAY OF SWEDISH
text: MEATBALLS (each adorned with a miniature flag). She can’t
text: quite pull it off and spills a few onto the pavement.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, nuts.
text: She turns and races toward the school, splashing through
text: puddles in her TALBOTS SKY BLUE MOCCASINS.
scene_heading: INT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY - KINDERGARTEN CLASSROOM - LATER 4
dialog: 
text: The tray of meatballs has now been eaten, paper flags dead in
text: puddles of cold gravy. They sit on a table with other
text: remnants of a consumed international pot luck.
text: On the ground, blocks, dinosaurs - two boys have made an
text: alternate universe, which they now demolish with toy trucks.
text: MILES SMOTHERS (5) is a shy kid with the alert eyes of his
text: mother. NICKY (5) is a rambunctious towhead, ready for
text: trouble. Miles both admires and fears his aggression.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: You're all dead! I killed everyone.
text: Miles retrieves his LEGO MAN from the wreckage, upbeat.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Not me. I came back to life.
text: Below a banner that reads “Ethnic Food Day” sit the spent
dialog: parents: STACY (30s, cardigan and culottes), SONA (30s, East
text: indian), DARREN (40, put together) dandling his toddler LULU.
scene_heading: MRS. KERRY
dialog: I want to thank everyone who participated
dialog: in today’s feast. vay! Class, didn’t we
dialog: learn so much about food from around the
dialog: world? Give your parents a big hand.
text: The distracted kids CLAP as the parents nod. FREEZE FRAME:
text: The parents look with dread at the lens. REVERSE ON -
text: Stephanie, decked out like a WAR CORRESPONDENT with photo
text: gear. She checks her video display, not loving the shot.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, shoot. The lighting was pretty bad.
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: Just set it to Auto.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What’s the fun in that? All right,
dialog: everybody look like you’re having fun!
dialog: 3.
text: qhey stare ahead like MUG SHOTS and she snaps another. As she
text: heads off to get more action shots, the parents talk:
speaker_heading: SONA,
dialog: How can she still have energy?
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: There must be crystal meth in those
dialog: meatballs.
text: MRS. KERRY, the teacher, calls over to the group of parents:
scene_heading: MRS. KERRY
dialog: And parents, don’t forget, there's a sign-
dialog: up sheet on the board for our Easter egg
dialog: hunt next week. Please, Stephanie, don
dialog: sign up for more than one job.
text: Stephanie looks caught as she starts to ERASE the first two
text: of her FOUR SIGNATURES she’s just written on the sign-up
dialog: sheets.
speaker_heading: MRS. KERRY (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not sure everyone has gotten a chance
dialog: to volunteer yet.
text: Stephanie glances over at Nicky, angrily smashing his block
text: creation with a truck.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Miles, honey? Maybe keep your fingers
text: away from Nicky’s truck.
scene_heading: MRS. KERRY
dialog: Has Nicky’s Mom volunteered?
text: SONA’S DAUGHTER has come over and lay across Sona’s knees,
text: limp as a sack of apples.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: Emily? Please. I don’t think she knows
text: it's Easter. She’s in the city 24/7.
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: God, it’d be my dream to run PR_ for
dialog: Dennis Nylon. Can you imagine all the
dialog: free shit she must get? The parties? I'd
dialog: kill for one night of her life.
text: Sona struggles to keep her daughter from falling on her head.
speaker_heading: SONA
dialog: I would miss my kids too much. Honey, sit
text: up. This game is hurting Mommy’s knees.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: (baby voice, to his Lulu)
dialog: Sona’s right, Lulu! You’d miss Daddy if
dialog: he worked in the Big City, wouldn’t you?
text: He fart-kisses her cheek, then her stomach. She laughs.
dialog: 4.
text: Stephanie’s in a quandary. She wonders whether to erase her
dialog: name from DECORATIONS or SNACKS. Always the problem-solver,
dialog: Stephanie tries to come up with an equitable solution:
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What if I just erase myself from
dialog: decorations and leave it for Emily? Then
dialog: if she can’t make it, I’11l still bring my
text: balloons and helium tank.
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: Please tell me you don’t actually own a
dialog: helium tank.
text: It just slipped out of Stacy - and she regrets it. Stephanie
text: is a bit hurt by the comment but tries to hide it.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I think lots of people own helium tanks,
dialog: Stacy. If they don’t, they should. Kids
dialog: love balloons, especially floaty ones.
scene_heading: MRS. KERRY
dialog: (try. ying to save Stephanie)
dialog: It’ 3! a perfect plan, Stephanie. We’1l
text: leave decorations open for Emily.
text: Stephanie looks proud, then notices the other parents staring
text: er like she’s an Alien. She deflates a bit.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY - MOMENTS LATER 5
text: Under the awning outside the school, parents are claiming
text: their children and trying to get them to put on raincoats.
text: Umbrellas snap open as water cascades off the awning.
text: Stephanie returns from loading her car, greeting her son
text: Miles again as he emerges beside a jacketless Nicky.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hey, Smooch. Great work today.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: (laughs )
dialog: Smooch?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: (a withering look)
dialog: Thanks a lot, mom.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Can me and Miles have a playdate today?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: “Miles and I,” sweetie. And I’m not sure.
dialog: We'd have to’ ask your mommy - and she’s
text: probably still in city.
speaker_heading: NICKY
text: She's right there.
text: Nicky points as Stephanie spins to see:
dialog: 5.
text: Walking across the soaked playground in a perfect straight
text: line, a raised BLACK UMBRELLA over the sleek outline of a
text: BURBERRY TRENCHCOAT - comes EMILY NELSON. She walks as if on
text: a fashion runway, never veering in the downpour even as a
text: lost Hello Kitty umbrella blows like a tumbleweed across her
text: ath. She’s a Classic beauty. Lights a cigarette. Nicky high
text: ives her and then hugs her. She hugs him back tightly.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (to Nicky)
dialog: Hello, little man.
speaker_heading: __NICKY
dialog: Hello, big woman.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Don’t tell me you lost another jacket?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Ask her!
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Ask me what?
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Can me and ... Can I and...
dialog: (correcting himself)
dialog: I just want a play date.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Good for you. And I want an unlimited
dialog: expense account. Neither event is
dialog: happening. Let’s go.
speaker_heading: MILES NICKY
dialog: Play-date! Play-date! Play-date! Play-date!
text: Emily gives a world-weary sigh.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Nicky, stop. I’ve got a ton of work.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Then keep your door closed and we won’t
dialog: even bother zou You don’t have to do
dialog: anything!
text: Emily glances at Stephanie, as if she might find solidarity
text: in this other mom. Stephanie gives her a bright smile.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Please just get in the car, sweetie.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: You don’t let me do anything! You don’t
dialog: let me have any friends!
text: Emily feels the other parents watching. She flicks her
text: cigarette into a flower bed and turns to Stephanie.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Do you drink? I need a martini.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: A martini. Wow. I haven’t had a martini
dialog: in forever. Apple’s my favorite.
text: Emily stares a beat, then pivots back to Nicky.
speaker_heading: . EMILY
dialog: Get in the car. No play date.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Then I’m staying here.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Of course, it doesn’t need to be apple.
text: Emily turns back to Stephanie, who smiles at her again. Emily
text: just shakes her head and sighs, defeated. Gets a small smile.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Christ, he’s as stubborn as I am. I’m
dialog: never gonna win this.
dialog: (to Stephanie)
dialog: Why don’t you come over for a non ple
dialog: drink and they can play? I need back-up
text: Miles and Nicky erupt into cheers, while Stephanie looks both
text: excited and nervous to be invited. She unconsciously fixes
text: her hair and straightens her blouse.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That would be lovely. No apples allowed.
dialog: Boo, apples. Ha ha.
text: Emily gives her a look of “What am I getting myself into?”
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - PARKING LOT/AWNING - DAY 6
dialog: 
text: DARREN, SONA, and STACY watch as STEPHANIE and EMILY run
text: under the same umbrella as the boys race ahead, stomping
text: puddles.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Don’t swamp your galoshes!
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: What on earth are those two going to talk
dialog: about?
speaker_heading: SONA,
dialog: Maybe they won’t talk. Maybe Stephanie
dialog: ill color-code her Tupperware.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: You really think Emily has Tupperware?
speaker_heading: STACY
text: Ha, she keeps her leftovers in Prada bags.
speaker_heading: SONA
text: Emily's going to eat her alive.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: At least she'd be eating something.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 7
text: Stephanie’s VOLVO pulls in behind Emily’s vintage BMW.
text: Stephanie gets out into the lingering drizzle and marvels at
text: the house: a MODERN DREAM of glass, steel and poured concrete
text: plunked in the midst of suburban Connecticut.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 8
text: Miles and Nicky tear upstairs. Stephanie slips off her wet
text: moccasins, revealing KITTY-CAT SOCKS.
speaker_heading: EMILY
text: Cute socks.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, yeah. Target. A pack is only ten
dialog: dollars. They must lose money on them.
dialog: They have other animals, too. Chipmunks,
dialog: squirrels ...
text: Stephanie sees a PAINTING OF NUDE EMILY. Her eyes go wide.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: ... beavers.
text: The painting hanging in the foyer depicts Emily at age 18,
text: with red hair, staring at her own reflection with a hard
text: expression. Stephanie tries to play it cool.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Wow, that is so ... lifelike.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Used to dye my hair. I get bored easily.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: It’s terrific. Who painted it?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: An_almost-famous painter from the East
dialog: Village. My life is littered with Almost-
dialog: Somebodies. I did some art modeling to
dialog: pay my way through school. But the weirdo
dialog: got obsessed with me. Like restraining
dialog: order obsessed. Anyway y I stole the
dialog: painting, hoping it'd be worth something
dialog: someday. No such luck.
text: Stephanie is still reeling from the story as Emily slips off
text: her heels and heads into a dream LIVING ROOM, decorated with
text: a bold, eclectic mix of modern and vintage. Emily switches on
text: Sonos, which plays the 1960s French pop song “COMMENT TE DIRE
text: ADIEU” by Francoise Hardy. Stephanie is in awe.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What an incredible house.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: It’s a fucking money pit.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oopsy.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: The fuck?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, I’m sorry. It’s what we say when
text: someone swears. Force of habit.
dialog: (off Emily’s look)
text: We have an “oopsy” jar in the pantry. A
dialog: quarter for every bad word.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You should smash the oopsy jar. It might
dialog: change your whole life.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: And stop saying you're sorry. It's a
dialog: fucked“up female habit. Don’t be sorry
dialog: for anything. Ever.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You‘re right. Thank you. That’s great
dialog: advice. I love your music, by the way.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: It’s old French pop from the 60s. Makes
dialog: me forget I’m stuck in this shithole
dialog: town. I’1l make the drinks.
text: Emily heads toward the kitchen. Stephanie looks to make sure
text: Emily is out of sight, then starts doing a little dance
text: around the living room to the music as she looks at
dialog: everything. She’s never been anywhere so “classy.”
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: coming back in)
dialog: You like olives or -- what are you doing?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh! Um. Just got caught up in the moment.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (shakes her head, amused)
dialog: Jesus Christ. Come with me, Audrey
dialog: Hepburn, before you hurt yourself.
text: An embarrassed Stephanie follows Emily into the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 9
dialog: 
text: Sea green glass tiles, slate counter tops and_hand blown
text: glass fixtures. A kitchen out of Architect’s Digest.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Wow, you must really love to cook.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No. Sometimes Sean does, but I think it’s
dialog: just an excuse to avoid writing.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE .
dialog: Your husband? He’s a writer?
dialog: 10
dialog: 11
text: Emily begins to mix a MARTINI at the built-in WET BAR.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Was. Now he’s a bitter English professor
dialog: at Connecticut College. He wrote a book
dialog: ten years ago that made him the toast of
dialog: New York. I€ opened every door in the
dialog: city, It was non-stop, the dinners, the
dialog: parties. All of Manhattan was like one
text: ong line of cocaine.
text: Stephanie forces a demure smile.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT’D
dialog: I had to stalk him and force him to fall
dialog: in love with me. Then ... nothing. One
dialog: big anti-climax. He never finished
text: another book. The old bait-and-switch.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: But he loves you. What was the book?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: It was called Darkness at Dawn.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh my Gosh! I read that in my book club.
dialog: That’s when I first became a single mom,
dialog: I was so tired at the end of the day I
text: was just jopping onto Miles’s bean bag
text: chair _in front of the Kardashians. And
dialog: then I thought - this is ridiculous. So I
dialog: joined a book club and that was the first
dialog: one we read. So impressive.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're divorced then?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Widowed.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You mind if I ask how he died?
scene_heading: EXT. CONNECTICUT HIGHWAY - DAY (FLASHBACK) 10
text: A classic Noir flashback: A CAR picks up speed down an empty
text: highway past changing foliage. It swerves across TWO LANES TO
text: THE LEFT, THEN VEERS HARD INTO A LAMP POST IN THE STEEL
text: MEDIAN with a violent SMASH. It’s a horrific wreck.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - BACK TO PRESENT 11
text: Stephanie tries to put on a cheerful face for Emily.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Car accident.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: How awful. I’m so sorry.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: My brother Chris was in the passenger
dialog: seat.
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're kidding.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: In one fell swoop, I lost the two most
dialog: important men in my life. Well, aside
dialog: from Miles, obviously. Two out "of three.
text: Emily studies Stephanie for a long time now. Slowly, her eyes
text: begin to well up. A single tear courses a line through her
text: make-up, until she wipes it away.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I can usually. stomach sad stories. For
dialog: some reason that one got to me.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I don’t talk about it much. Especially
dialog: with people I just met. I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Lady, I’m going to slap the “sorry” right
dialog: out of you if you apologize again.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m s---oopsy. Dang it. Hard habit to
dialog: break. I’m not sorry. Ha ha.
text: Emily generously pours the first martini and hands it to
text: Stephanie. Not a drinker, Stephanie sips it politely.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: So, are you dating anyone?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Me? No. It’s slim pickin’s in Warfield.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You’re an hour and a half from the city.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, I couldn’t date anyone from the cit
dialog: That’s a little too fast for me. I trie
dialog: eHarmony, but then that mother of three
text: wound up with her head in a trash can -
dialog: and I said, “No, thank you.”
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're too young and cute to give up.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Really? Thank you. I never thought I’d
text: end up a single mom, trying to make ends
dialog: meet. My husband had life insurance,
dialog: thank goodness ; but not a lot. And I put
dialog: half of it away for Miles’ college. So,
dialog: even with a fixed income, that money will
dialog: run out in 2020. Tokyo Olympics. Go, USA.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Sean barely makes a dime. I have to pay
dialog: for everything. And he spends like he’s
dialog: still the man of the hour. We’re upside
dialog: down on this house, too.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Bought it during the bubble and we can’t
dialog: sel People hate modern around here.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, I love it. Don’t even think of
dialog: selling it. If I lived here, I’d just
dialog: bask in this kitchen all day.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Well, cheers, then. Here’s to being
dialog: “House Poor.”
text: Clink! Stephanie eyes Emily’s BARBED WIRE TATTOO BRACELET.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Yeah, there’s another one of my bad
dialog: decisions. I got that when I was too
dialog: young and stupid to know better.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: It’s a nice contrast with your ring.
text: Emily flashes her VINTAGE WEDDING RING. Platinum filigree
dialog: with sapphires and diamonds, c. 1920.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: This? It’s a family heirloom. Belonged to
dialog: Sean's “great_grandmum,” then his “mum.”
dialog: She insisted I have it.
text: In the next room, the front door is unlocked and opened.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Speak of the devil ...
text: A MALE VOICE with a British accent calls out:
speaker_heading: SEAN (0.S.)
dialog: Whose Volvo is blocking the garage?
text: SEAN {30s) enters the kitchen, a handsome academic carrying a
text: bag of groceries. He acts light but has a burdened and uneasy
text: quality, an addict always in the early stages of withdrawal.
text: Emily 1s his heroin: both his greatest pleasure and curse.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, that’s me. I’m sorry.
dialog: (winces at her “sorry”)
dialog: Your wife is trying to get me to stop
dialog: saying I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (with a pointed laugh)
dialog: Maybe you can get her to start.
dialog: to Emily)
dialog: You left wo early, you couldn’t stop at
dialog: the grocer’s before martini time?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’m so sorry. Did I cut into your writing
dialog: time?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (forcing a smile)
dialog: Going right for the sword today, are we?
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (a playful smile back)
dialog: What’s the point? I’ve heard the pen is
dialog: mightier. Maybe try it some time.
text: Sean looks stung but covers with a laugh as Bmily moves in
text: and loops her arms around his neck, kissing him ceply-
text: Stephanie lingers watching them a moment too long, her lips
text: parted. Emily ends the kiss and gestures to Stephanie.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Babe, this is Stephanie. Her son goes to
dialog: Warfield with Nicky.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I'ma big. fan of your book. I thought it
dialog: was brilliant writing. It reminded me of
dialog: William Thackeray.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Well, that’s certainly high praise. Not
text: Many people trot out Thackeray as a
dialog: reference these days --
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I was an English major at Barnard. But
dialog: that was a lifetime ago, before
dialog: “Mommybrain” set in. I did my senior
dialog: thesis on Canterbury Tales.
dialog: (in olde English)
dialog: “And with that word Arcite gan espye,
dialog: Wher-as this lady romed to and fro --”
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (looking at Emily)
dialog: “And with that sighte hir beautee hurte
dialog: hym so ...” One of my favorite verses. So
dialog: much truth in so few words.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (shakes head; laughs)
dialog: Jesus, you should have married Sean.
dialog: (to Sean)
dialog: Want me to mix you a drink?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Not yet. I’m going to go upstairs and
dialog: take a shower. Nice to meet you, Sharon.
text: As he heads away across the living room ...
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: He’s terrible with names.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, Stephanie’s a hard one. Boy, you
dialog: two are ... what a cute couple.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Lotta good that does us. I never thought
dialog: anything would go this way. The job in
dialog: the city, the house in the suburbs -
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You‘ve figured out how to “have it all.”
dialog: How do you juggle it?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: This isn’t juggling. This is a nightmare.
dialog: We're on the verge of bankruptcy. I never
dialog: sleep, I eat seven-hundred calories a day
dialog: - and I can’t find a decent nanny in all
dialog: of Connecticut.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: If you ever need me to pick up Nicky
dialog: after school, I'd be happy to bring him
dialog: to my house.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You'd do that for me? I’m practically a
dialog: stranger. I’m never at the school.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, you will be. I just signed you up
dialog: for the Easter decoration crew.
text: Emily gapes . back. Suddenly, Miles races into the kitchen on
text: socks, iding like a speed skater on the slick floor.
dialog: ; MILES .
dialog: Nicky wants me to stay for dinner!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, not tonight, Smooch. I have to do my
dialog: vlog before dinner.
dialog: (to Emily)
dialog: I have a Mommy Vlog. For fun and a little
dialog: extra income.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: That’s very resourceful.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Six hundred and ten page views a day. I
dialog: really need a hundred thousand to start
dialog: monetizing the site with ad revenue. So,
dialog: it’s more a way to connect with other
dialog: moms. It’s a community.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Mom! Can I stay for dinner or not?
speaker_heading: _ STEPHANIE ;
dialog: I don’t like this new tone, Mister.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Let him stay. I’1l have Sean drive him
dialog: home later. That way you can go do your
dialog: t
dialog: vlog in a nice quie ouse.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: (running out)
dialog: Yeeees!!! Nicky!! I can stay!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Thank you. I know how busy you are.
dialog: 12
dialog: 13
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No sweat. I’m sure I'll be calling you
dialog: for a favor any day. You owe me now.
text: Emily flashes her megawatt smile and pours another drink.
text: Stephanie beams, dazzled by her.
scene_heading: A_ COMPUTER WINDOW POPS UP (STEPHANIE’S VLOG) - KITCHEN 12
dialog: 
text: In her lit set of a kitchen, Stephanie now has full makeup,
text: hair flat-ironed. She’s warm and chipper.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. If this is your
dialog: first visit to my vlog - a hearty
dialog: welcome. And ity out Sehe survey at the
dialog: bottom so I can thank whoever referred
dialog: you with this lovely lavender sachet.
dialog: (holds up sachet, then)
dialog: Today’ s theme is friendshi iD. You know, I
dialog: don‘t understand these silly, hurtful
dialog: divisions between working moms and stay-
dialog: at-home moms. The truth is, I’ve found it
dialog: hard to make friends with either.
dialog: Parenthood can be isolating. Honestly,
dialog: you moms have been better friends to me
dialog: even though we’ve never met in person. I
dialog: treasure each and every one of you.
dialog: Truly. And so I thought today ...
text: She clicks the ZOOM OUT button on her remote to reveal the
text: island is covered with packets of colored string.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: ... was a perfect day for FRIENDSHIP
dialog: BRACELETS! To celebrate the most
dialog: important bonds of our lives. Other than
dialog: family, of course.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY 13
dialog: 
text: There's a new spring in Stephanie’s step as she gets out of
text: her VOLVO with a box of CANNED GOODS marked MATH: Mothers
text: Assisting The Homeless. As she trundles the heavy load, her
text: CELL PHONE rings. She gtimpses the call screen - EMILY - and
text: she drops the box, sending cans rolling around the lot.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: Hello? Emily? Hi there! What’s up, lady?
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.8.
dialog: I was wondering if I could take you up on
dialog: your offer to pick up Nicky - I'm ina
text: meeting with no end in sight.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE EMILY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Of course! I’m happy to hel You're the best, Stephanie.
dialog: I just bought aj io set o
dialog: Perler beads --
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: And I have extra snacks. I just need to
dialog: know if he has any dietary restrictions.
dialog: 14
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I have no idea. Thanks!
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD LOCAL PARK - DAY 14
text: In her “Yearbook Mom” photo vest and camera, Stephanie chases
text: Miles and Nicky around the jungle gym with a_roar and finger
text: claws -- a game of “Darth Mommy” that Miles loves. She’s good
text: with them, making them squeal and dart away from her.
text: Emily pulls up in her car and walks toward the park, still on
text: a work call and exuding irritation.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: Calm down, Dennis. Alexi is all talk. No
dialog: one is “coming after you.” Take a fucking
dialog: Xanax and let me do my job. Jesus.
text: Emily ends the call and watches Stephanie chase the boys, a
text: natural mother in her element. Emily feels a pinch of guilt,
text: even jealousy. Stephanie sees Emily and jogs over, winded.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: “Darth Mommy,” we call it. It’s silly.
dialog: But it’s one of Miles’ favorite games.
dialog: One of the things he remembers from his
dialog: Dad. He was much better at roughhousing.
text: After flashing side eye, Emily pulls out a compact mirror and
text: begins tracing around her mouth with a pencil.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Don’t do that.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Do what?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Don’t denigrate your good parenting to
dialog: comfort me for my shitty parenting.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, gosh, Emily. That’s not what I was
dialog: doing at all. I think you're a super mom--
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No, you don’t. You pack nori rolls for
dialog: lune If I even remember the lunch box,
dialog: it’s a miracle. The nicest thing I could
dialog: do for Nicky is blow my brains out.
dialog: (off Stephanie’s horror)
dialog: I have a dark sense of humor.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Yeah, yikes. You do work in the city.
text: Emily stares emotionally at Nicky, who’s playing happily. and
text: unaware of her. We see how much she loves him. Then -
text: Emily spins to see that Stephanie has snapped a pictures
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: What did you just do?
dialog: 15
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m... the yearbook mom.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Erase it.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: But you look so ... chic.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: If that shows up on your vlog --
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, gosh, no. It’s just for the “Faces
dialog: and Placés” section. Only other parents
dialog: would see it -
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Erase it now or I'll slap an injunction
dialog: on the whole fucking yearbook.
text: Shaking, Stephanie erases the photo from her digital display,
text: showing Emily the last pictures of a cooking project.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: Gone. See. Just homemade granola.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Good. Don’t do that shit again.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Gosh, I’m sor-- I mean, I didn’t mean to
dialog: offend you. I can understand in your line
dialog: of work how sensitive this is.
dialog: (struggling)
dialog: I guess I’m not someone you'd normally be
dialog: friends with.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You don’t want to be friends with me.
dialog: Trust me. You’re a real human being.
text: Stephanie can’t tell if Emily means to forgive her with that
text: comment - but she takes it with a bashful smile.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Let’s grab the kids and get the hell out
dialog: of here. I need a drink.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 15
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (0.S.)
dialog: I made it especially for you.
text: CLOSE SHOT - Stephanie ties a new FRIENDSHIP BRACELET over
text: Emily's wrist, right onto the barbed wire tattoo.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: It’s very sweet.
text: Emily regards the CHEVRON PATTERN. Then she pours gin into a
text: shaker to finish the martinis. Stephanie watches in awe.
dialog: 16
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I used to watch old Bewitched episodes on
dialog: TV Land and always thought it was so
dialog: classy when Darren would come home and
dialog: Samantha would mix him a martini. And now
dialog: here I am. Again. It’s so high tone.
text: Emily chuckles as she shakes the ice-filled martini shaker.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: God, you're such a nerd, I hope it’s not
dialog: contagious. They'd make me quit my job.
text: Stephanie daughs . but we see she wishes she was cooler. Emily
text: pours . one martini from the shaker. It’s cloudy with ice chips
text: loating in it. Emily stares at it a beat, then:
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D
dialog: Fuck this. I need a real martini.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: This one’s not real?
text: Emily goes to the fridge, opens the freezer and pulls out a
text: frozen bottle of gin and one frozen martini glass. She brings
text: it back over to the island.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Too watered-down. When Sean and I were in
dialog: London, we had the real thing at Dukes
dialog: Hotel. Sometimes you just need something
dialog: with a kick to reset your brain.
dialog: (making the martini)
text: Frozen gin, frozen glass. Pour in a small
text: bit of vermouth, swirl it and dump it.
dialog: Then add the gin and squeeze a twist over
text: the top. Pure booze, no ice, strong as
dialog: hell. Gotta work your way up to it,
dialog: though. No amateurs allowed.
text: Emily hands Stephanie the watered-down martini, then picks up
text: her strong martini and clinks with Stephanie.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
text: Alessandro the bartender has a saying at
dialog: Dukes. “One’s not enough, three’s too
dialog: many, two’s just right. Just like tits.”
scene_heading: STEPHANIE _. EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Oopsy. L’chaim.
text: Emily takes a sip and visibly relaxes. Stephanie studies her.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Can you make me one of those? I think I
dialog: need to reset my brain too.
text: Off Emily’s impressed smile ...
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER 16
dialog: 
text: Stephanie and Emily sit on the couch as a fire blazes in the
text: fireplace. A FRENCH 60'S POP SONG PLAYS. Stephanie is clearly
text: wasted. She takes another drink, smacking her lips.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I really am not happy with myself about
dialog: the picture I took . of you. That was
dialog: so rude ... like a paparazzo eee
speaker_heading: EMILY.
dialog: Oh, please - will you get over it
dialog: already: Stephanie? You're so nice, I
dialog: don’t know how you" ve managed to survive
dialog: on this planet for so long.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (stares for a long beat
dialog: I’m not as nice as you thin
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, really ...? Are you baiting me?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I‘m juss’ Saying - we all have a dark
dialog: side. Even “nerds.” It’s juss’ -- some of
dialog: us are better at hiding it. My mother
dialog: once said, “Secrets are like margarine--”
text: Stephanie stops as_ her drink goes down the wrong pipe and she
text: chokes, coughing. Emily laughs.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: She had a way with words. Okay, Dark
dialog: Side. Let’s trade confessions. Tell me
dialog: the wildest thing you’ve ever done.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What? No. I mean ... well ... okay.
dialog: Maybe. But you go first.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (thinks a moment)
dialog: Well, I can think of a pretty recent one.
dialog: Sean and I had his TA over about six
dialog: months ago. We drank too much and had a
text: threesome.
text: Stephanie’s jaw slackens. She covers her open mouth.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Wasn’t Sean jealous of him?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Who says it was a him?
text: Stephanie digests this info. Nods, trying to stay cool. She
text: does a bad job. Emily grins, amused by the effort.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn’t mean to freak you out.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (freaked out, hiding it)
dialog: I am - what do you mean? I’m not freaked
dialog: out. I’m completely ... laissez faire.
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
dialog: 20
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I just know you’re not exactly a sexual
dialog: maverick. Nothing wrong with that. Prudes
dialog: are people, too.
text: Emily winks. Stephanie absorbs the insult, smarting.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: But now I really want to hear your dirty
dialog: little secret. Spill it.
text: Stephanie downs the rest of her drink, nearly swallowing the
text: lemon twist. She takes a breath, then ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE oo,
dialog: My father died when I was a senior in
dialog: High School ...
scene_heading: INT. PITTSBURGH ROW HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) 17
dialog: 
text: Pouring rain outside. A funeral reception. PEOPLE are dressed
text: in black, crowded into a modest house, having sandwiches.
text: STEPHANIE (here 18) moves through the house cleaning up. No
text: make-up, hair in a ponytail, simple black dress. She heads...
scene_heading: INTO THE KITCHEN (FLASHBACK 18
text: She looks out the window and sees CHRIS (20). He wears an ill-
text: fitting suit, dark hair in his eyes, skinny like a rock star.
text: He approaches the door. Stephanie freezes, unable to breathe.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
text: ... A boy showed up at the funeral.
scene_heading: IN THE LIVING ROOM (FLASHBACK 19
text: Her mother GRACE (50) opens the front door and nearly faints.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: His name was Chris.
text: It’s like seeing the young, handsome ghost of her dead
text: husband. The crowd haS now gathered to watch this unfold.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: He was the spitting image of my father -
text: only thirty years younger.
text: Grace starts to cry and throws her arms around Chris’ neck,
text: holding him as if he’s her dead husband. Chris hugs her back,
text: lifts his eyes and looks RIGHT AT Stephanie.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: 
dialog: Turns out ... he was my half-brother.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - BACK TO PRESENT 20
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Hold on. This is your deep dark secret?
dialog: That your dad had an affair?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (drunk, steadying herself)
dialog: No, this is necess’ssary prologue.
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Necessary prologue. Got it. Keep going,
dialog: Dark Side.
scene_heading: INT. PITTSBURGH ROW HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 21
text: Now in jeans and a tank top Stephanie unfolds the rusty y
text: stained pullout couch for hris. A bare bulb hangs overhead
text: illuminating the moldy basement.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: We talked for a long time, looking at old
dialog: photos of my dad. It was too late for
text: Chris to drive home. So he stayed over.
text: Chris watches Stephanie make the bed. She can feel his eyes
text: on her ass as she crawls across to stretch the fitted sheet.
text: They lock eyes. Their chests rising with desire.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: Maybe it was the loss of my dad, who was
dialog: the only person who ever truly understood
dialog: me, maybe it was the way Chris looked and
dialog: acted like him, or the fact I suddenly
dialog: wasn’t an only child, which I never
dialog: wanted to be. I don’t know, we just stood
dialog: there for the longest time.
text: She moves_in and loops her arms around his neck to say good
text: night, pulling him close. She tips her chin, looks up at him.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: We didn’t know how to say goodbye.
text: Lips so close. They start to kiss. Tug at each other’s
text: clothes, desperate to merge as quickly as possible.
text: Chris throws her on the bed and fumbles with his fly. She
text: yanks off her jeans. Chris climbs on top of her and thrusts
text: into her, eyes wide in amazement. She gasps: She’s never had
text: sex like this, great sex. She presses her lips together and
text: shakes with an orgasm building. She buries her face in his
text: shoulder and groans_as it swallows her up. He comes at the
text: same moment and collapses. They lie together stunned, sweaty.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - BACK TO SCENE 22
dialog: 
text: Stephanie stares into space. Emily snaps her fingers in front
text: of Stephanie’s eyes.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Hello? Keep going! You’re not allowed to
dialog: be too drunk in my house not to finish a
dialog: juicy story.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Me? No, I’m fine. What was I saying?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You stood there for the longest time, you
dialog: didn’t know how to say goodbye. I’m
dialog: waiting for the big ending here.
text: Stephanie can’t tell the truth. But she’s cornered. Then ...
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, I don’t know. Maybe it’s not so racy
dialog: where you're from. I went in to hug him
dialog: and then we ... kissed.
dialog: (buries face in hands)
dialog: It’s so gross.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: So that’s your whole story? You kissed
dialog: your brother? Once?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: It's like Chinatown! We immediately said
dialog: this will never happen again, and we'd
dialog: never breathe a word. And no, he wasn’t
dialog: my brother, he was my half-brother.
text: Emily sizes Stephanie up. She sips her drink, then leans in.
dialog: Swear.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: There’s more.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, there’s no more.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You started that story, then hit the
dialog: eject button. I saw it happen.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I did not eject -
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You fucked him.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What!? No! I didn’t say that.
speaker_heading: EMILY STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I swear.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Swear on your father’s grave.
text: Stephanie pauses.
dialog: Stephanie
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Ha! You’re a brother fucker!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh my Gosh, you're terrible. I never
dialog: should have said anything. Stupid
dialog: martinis ... from Dukes.
text: is flustered and guilt-ridden. Emily softens.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You crack me up. Do you and Miles want to
dialog: join us for dinner?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Really? That would be lovely.
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Great. You're cooking, Dark Side.
text: Stephanie gives her a look, then they share a genuine laugh.
text: Stephanie absorbs it: they really are becoming friends.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 23
text: CLOSE UP of Alka Seltzer being dropped into a glass. REVEAL a
text: very hungover Stephanie setting up her kitchen for her vlog.
text: She opens up her FIRST AID kit and lays out the items.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (practicing)
dialog: Hi Moms, Stephanie here. Today we’ll be
dialog: talking about the perfect First Aid Kit,
dialog: so that you’re never left in need during
dialog: a crisis --
text: She doesn’t like how that sounds, and starts to revise her
text: SCRIPT. Just then, her CELLPHONE rings. As she answers:
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Stephanie, thank God you picked up. I
dialog: have a little emergency --
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE EMILY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, that’s really a I need your help.
dialog: coincidence, because I was -
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: I'm fine, but I need a simple favor, Can
dialog: you grab Nicky from school? Sean’s in
dialog: London, his mother broke her fucking hip,
dialog: and I got a big fire to put out at work.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, Gosh, poor Sean. Poor you. Of course,
dialog: I’m always happy to help.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're the best. I gotta run but I’1l get
dialog: you back for this.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Of course! Nicky’s in good hands.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're a great friend, Stephanie. A true
dialog: friend. I really mean that.
text: OFF STEPHANIE, beaming --
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - SECOND GRADE - DAY 24
text: At the end of another day, moms are picking up kids. Miles
text: and Nicky emerge with their backpacks.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hey, guys! You’re getting a play date
dialog: today!
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: 23.
text: The boys both cheer as Darren approaches, Lulu in his arms.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: Stephanie, that’s so great you took the
dialog: nanny job.
speaker_heading: |. _ STEPHANIE
dialog: Nanny job?
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: For Emily. I know she was looking.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (mortified)
dialog: I am -- No. I am not - this is not a job.
dialog: I'm helping her out. As a friend.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: Oh, I’m sorry. I didn’t realize you guys
dialog: were so close.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, we are. We drink martinis together.
text: strong martinis. From London.
dialog: (to the boys, the 7fFun
dialog: mom” again)
dialog: All right, fellas - if you don’t wrestle
dialog: in the car, we'll make fruit pops.
text: They cheer again, running . across the yard - as Stephanie
text: storms away, throwing a dirty look back at Darren.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO - DAY 25
text: Stephanie, Miles and Nicky drive along, SINGING ALONG TO A
text: FUN SONG ON THE RADIO. Everyone’s really happy.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 26
text: The revelry seems to come to a sudden halt. Miles and Nicky
text: sulk at the kitchen table. Tempeh burger, carrots and steamed
text: spinach on their plates. Used to it, Miles eats; but Nick
text: pushes the food around with his fork as Miles sets down his
text: glass of milk on the wood table next to its coaster.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Miles, sweetie, you know the rule. Mr.
text: Glass always stands on Mr. Coaster.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: (putting | glass on coaster)
dialog: Because of his wet feet. Sorry, mom.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Nicky, you can’t just live on starch.
dialog: People need 11 different amino acids.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Do amino acids come from horse shit?
text: Miles gasps in horror. Stephanie smiles, beatific.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: We don’t use that language in this house,
dialog: sweetie.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
dialog: 29
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s an rooPsy.t It_would normally cost
dialog: you a quarter, but I’1l cut you a little
dialog: Slack this time because you’re a guest.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Well, that’s what it tastes like. Are you
dialog: telling me to lie?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, lying is wrong, too. But there’s a
dialog: difference between lying and being
dialog: polite. So we can at least take a “no
dialog: thank you” bite and see if we like it.
text: He takes a bite of Tempeh burger, horrified, making a face
text: like it’s torture. Then he pushes his plate away.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: No thank you.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 27
text: The two boys watch SpongeBob Squarepants on TV, eating
dialog: popcorn. Stephanie texts Emily: “Should i give nicky a bath?”
text: She hits SEND. Waits. She fixates on her phone. No response.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - BATHROOM - NIGHT 28
dialog: 
text: Stephanie gives the two boys a bubble bath. They splash
text: around, hurling rubber sea creatures at each other.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Don’t splash. This isn’t Sea World.
text: They ignore her and splash harder.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT 29
dialog: 
text: Stephanie dials Emily. She gets her VOICEMAIL.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: “Hi, this is Emily Nelson, Director of
dialog: Public Relations Yor Dennis Nylon
dialog: Holdings. Leave a message here or at the
dialog: New York office at 212-555-6361.”
text: BEEP. Stephanie opens her mouth to speak, but hesitates. As
text: she dives in, she’s now even more sugar-coated than before.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Em, Stephanie. Hey. I know you're
dialog: probably knee-deep in that crisis. But,
dialog: um, Nicky asked when you were coming and
dialog: I didn’t know what to tell him. They’re
dialog: having a hoot here, don’t worry. And I’m
dialog: happy to watch him as long as you need,
dialog: just’ let me know. Okay? Hope you’re
text: anging in there.
text: She hangs up, her smile dropping.
dialog: 30
dialog: 31
dialog: 25.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - MILES’ BEDROOM - NIGHT 30
dialog: 
text: As Stephanie climbs up to say good night to Miles on the TOP
text: BUNK, her head gets trapped in a HANGING SOLAR SYSTEM MOBILE
text: affixed to the ceiling. She tries to blow away a Styrofoam
text: Saturn, finally clearing planets like a cloud of gnats.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: G’night, Smooch.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Good night, Mama.
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: And good night, Daddy. Good night, Uncle
dialog: Chris.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Who's Uncle Chris?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Chris was my brother. He’s in heaven now.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: There’s no such thing as heaven.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Is that what your mommy and daddy tell
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: My Dad says life’s just a brief moment of
text: pain before an eternity of darkness.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, he’s an English professor.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: And he says when we die we turn into a
dialog: feast for bacteria.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, at least someone is eating dinner
dialog: then.
text: She checks Miles, hoping this didn’t sink in.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT’D)
dialog: Do you want a kiss good night, Nicky?
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: I want to go home. My Mom didn’t say I
dialog: was sleeping over.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She should be here any minute and then
dialog: she’1ll come wake you up.
text: Stephanie pecks Nicky on the cheek anyway. He rubs his face
text: with disgust as she walks out and closes the door.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT 31
dialog: 
text: Stephanie makes two kids’ lunches for the next day in
dialog: silence.
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: 26.
text: She mashes avocados and nori on whole grain bread, then cuts
text: the sandwiches in half. She texts Emily: “Made lunch for
dialog: Nicky. Text me to say you’re ok. Worried about u.”
text: She hits SEND. Waits a beat. No response. She finds a bottle
text: of WHITE ZINFANDEL in the back of the fridge, half empty. She
text: unscrews the screw cap and sniffs it. Still good? Maybe. She
text: pours herself a glass.
text: She steals a cookie from under Saran Wrap. She nibbles a tiny
text: bit of it, washing it down with wine. She slips the cookie
text: back, looking guilty. Looks at her phone. Nothing from Emily.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: 3 a.m. Stephanie dumps the empty wine bottle into the
text: necycling in. The cookies have been devoured. She washes the
text: dish in the sink, disgusted with herself.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY 32
dialog: 
text: PUSH IN ON the PARKED VOLVO as Stephanie tries to get a hold
text: of Emily at work. She speaks slowly and with a forced calm.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: Stephanie. Smothers. I’m a close friend.
dialog: I've been watching her son. Do you know
dialog: where she went or when she’1l be back?
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON INC - INTERCUTTING 33
text: In a sleek Manhattan office in a Midtown skyscraper, Emily's
text: assistant VALERIE (25) -- a Goth, emo girl -- is on her
text: headset, multi-tasking as she types.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: She - is - hold on...
speaker_heading: n(P¥ping) ,
dialog: Yeah e’s in Miami for a few days, did
dialog: you want to leave a message?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: A few days? She didn’t tell me -
text: The other line rings.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: Can you please hold for a second?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: The thing is, I haven't heard a peep and
dialog: Nicky wants to know -
text: Valerie puts her on hold, activating 80s SYNTH MUSIC.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, for the love of Job.
text: As she endures the hold music, we hear:
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (PRE-LAP) (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here, and the truth
dialog: is, I’m not quite myself today.
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: ON VIDEO VLOG - STEPHANIE'S KITCHEN - DAY 34
dialog: 
text: Stephanie addresses the camera, her voice shaky.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: My friend, the one that inspired the
dialog: double-weave chevron friendship bracelet
dialog: ... well, she’s been gone a few days and
dialog: Thaven’t been able to reach her. I sent
dialog: her Eouall of cute iPhotos of our boys.
dialog: She usually sends me back a winky-face
dialog: emoji, but now ... not even that.
dialog: (a deep breath)
dialog: Oh, she travels a lot for work and I know
dialog: some big hoo-ha came up, it’s always
dialog: something. So I’ve been watching her son,
text: who is a... London spirited young man. Her
dialog: husband’s in London visiting his injured
dialog: mother and ... an yWway s there’s probably a
dialog: good explanation. s not like I mind --
text: but her son is Btarting to ask questions.
dialog: Moms, what would you do if a mother put
dialog: you in this situation?
text: She glances at the comment feed:
text: HUGSnKISSES19: A true friend wouldn’t do that.
scene_heading: SUNDAYGIRLXOXO: Rude.
text: TIGERMOM9: REPORT HER TO THE POLICE!!!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Tigermom, be constructive. And you know
dialog: the all-caps rule. No yelling.
dialog: Yogalover999: The husband has to know something.
dialog: Lives2Zumba: Call her husband.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Right. Thank you, Yogalover, thank you,
dialog: Zumba. You’re both right.
scene_heading: INT. UNIVERSITY COLLEGE LONDON HOSPITAL - RM. 612 - NIGHT 35
text: In a cramped, shared hospital room, two beds separated by a
text: drawn curtain, Sean sits alongside his mother MARGARET (70),
text: asleep. Sean looks like hell. His cell phone rings. Sean
text: doesn’t recognize the number. He answers suspiciously.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Yes?
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - INTERCUTTING 36
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Sean. It’s Stephanie. I’m so sorry to
dialog: bother you, I got your cell number from
dialog: the school dixectory. I know you’re going
dialog: through so much gosh, my prayers are
dialog: with you and your mom. But we really need
dialog: to talk about», a situation with Emily.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Who is this?
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh. Stephanie Smothers. I’m Emily's
dialog: friend. I drive a Volvo.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I'm sorry, I’m a little out of sorts.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Our sons go to Warfield together.
dialog: is my son. Nicky is yours.
dialog: Miles
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Has something happened to Nicky?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, Nicky’s fine. It’s Emily. She asked
dialog: me to watch Nicky. That was three days
dialog: ago and I haven’t been able to reach her.
dialog: Have you heard from her?
text: Sean sighs as if he’s a punctured balloon. His mother wakes
text: up, having heard some of the conversation.
speaker_heading: SEAN'S MOTHER
dialog: What is it? What’s wrong?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Three days, Christ.
speaker_heading: SEAN'S MOTHER
dialog: What did Emily do now?
text: He presses a CALL BUTTON.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Shhh, mother, go back to
dialog: call a nurse and get you
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: What did she say?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Are you talking to me or
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You. What did Emily say?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She told me that she had
dialog: fire.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Oh, right,
dialog: ood. That sounds
dialog: sleep. Let’s
text: some morphine.
dialog: your mother now?
dialog: to put out a
dialog: Her office said she’s in Miami -
dialog: yes.
dialog: I've been’ t rough these emergencies with
dialog: her.
dialog: care of,
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, good. I just ...
dialog: communicating.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She’s not really much of
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: As long as she knows Nicky’s taken
text: she can disappear for some time.
dialog: I assumed we'd be
text: a communicator.
dialog: I mean, to check in on Nicky.
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: How is he?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: He’s okay.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Amazing. You‘re a life-saver. Look, I’m
dialog: flying back in the morning and then I can
dialog: pick Nicky up as soon as I’m on the
dialog: ground. All righty?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: All righty.
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - NIGHT
dialog: 29.
dialog: 37
text: A TAXI pulls up in front of the house. The first time we've
text: seen the exterior. It’s a quaint colonial, the country mouse
text: opposite of Emily and Sean’s house.
text: Sean gets out of the cab and pays the driver, dragging his
text: bag toward the front door. He knocks and Stephanie opens.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Oh, you. You’re Miss Canterbury Tales. So
dialog: SOrry I didn't remember.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You’ve got a lot on your mind. We all do.
text: The boys are asleep. Nicky tried to stay
dialog: up to See you, but he was just too
dialog: tuckered-out. Come in.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
dialog: 
text: Stephanie and Sean speak in low voices in the kitchen.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: So nothing? Still no word?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Nothing. Not to you either?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No, but that’s not unusual. We had a bit
dialog: of a row the other day.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Don‘t be. It’s our pattern. All dramatic
dialog: breakups and reunions, with almost
dialog: nothing in between.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: It sounds tiring.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Yes, but ... it keeps life interesting.
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
dialog: 40
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Her assistant Valerie hasn’t been able to
dialog: reach her either. Which doesn’t make any
dialog: sense if she’s dealing with a work
dialog: crisis. Some_of the moms think we should
dialog: go to the police.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: The moms?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I posted something about Emily on my
dialog: website. For other moms. Just ... cooking
dialog: tips, odds-and-ends. It’s mostly How-To.
text: He looks at her with jet-lagged eyes. It’s all sinking in.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: The police. Has it really come to this?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Would you like anything to drink? Herb
dialog: tea maybe?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Yes, let’s do it. Not the tea, the
dialog: police. Let’s call them.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - MILES’ BEDROOM - NIGHT 39
text: Miles is fast asleep on the top bunk. Nicky sleeps on the
text: bottom bunk. Sean stands in the cracked doorway, watching his
text: son sleep. A look of deep concern on his face.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (0.S.)
dialog: Sean? The police are here.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 40
text: Stephanie sits at_the dining room table while TWO POLICE
text: question Sean: SERGEANT MOLLOY and OFFICER BLANCO.
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: And when was the last time either of you
dialog: heard from her?
text: Sean swims, shaking his head. He looks over at Stephanie.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Four days ago.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’m sorry. I was in London. My mum broke
dialog: her hip.
scene_heading: SERGEANT MOLLOY
dialog: Sorry to hear that.
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: And she said it was a work crisis?
speaker_heading: SEAN
text: She has a very high profile job - with a
dialog: full staff she oversees.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: And what do you do, sir?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’m an Associate Professor.
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: And what do you teach?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: English.
scene_heading: SERGEANT MOLLOY
dialog: Sounds like you're pretty good at it.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: That’s wonderful. Well-played.
scene_heading: SEARGEANT MOLLOY
dialog: Ever slept with a student?
text: Stephanie is shocked.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Excuse me? Do you think I had something
dialog: to do with my wife’s disappearance?
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: No need to get defensive, Mr. Townsend.
dialog: We're just exploring all avenues.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Well, that’s a dead end. No. Christ.
scene_heading: SERGEANT MOLLOY
text: Most times when a woman vanishes, she has
dialog: a reason. A really good reason.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: That’s an astute piece of detective work.
dialog: What are you implying?
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: You two didn’t have a fight? Something to
dialog: make you run off to London?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Are you implying I broke my mother’s hip?
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: We're just looking at this objectively.
dialog: You leave town, your wife takes off.
dialog: Perhaps there was some abuse--
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (can’t take any an ed
dialog: How dare you. This man flew back from his
dialog: mother’s bedside. This is a dedicated
dialog: father and husband. I’ve seen him with
dialog: his wife, and let me tell you something:
text: they are in love. They have more
dialog: chemistry than the Science Fair.
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: Just exploring all avenues, Ma’am.
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Like Sean said, that avenue’s a dead end.
dialog: Or at least a cul-de-sac. So, drop it.
text: Sean is astonished. No one has ever defended him with such
text: veracity - and he now can’t take his eyes off Stephanie, who
text: even surprised herself. The officers are unfazed, however.
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: And where’s Emily’s family?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She doesn’t have any. She was an only
dialog: child. Her parents died when she was a
dialog: teenager.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She never told me that.
scene_heading: SERGEANT MOLLOY
dialog: We'll file a Missing Person report and
dialog: contact you ina day or two. If she
dialog: doesn’t turn up we’ll contact local
dialog: authorities in Miami. You’re not planning
dialog: any more trips, Mr. Townsend?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No. I‘’ll be right here. I mean, at_m
dialog: house. Taking care of my son. Until this
text: matter is resolved.
speaker_heading: OFFICER BLANCO
dialog: We can show ourselves out.
text: As Blanco and Molloy leave, Sean and Stephanie stare at each
text: other a moment in silence across the room.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, they were extremely rude.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I need a serious drink.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I have some white zinfandel in the
dialog: fridge.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Oh god no. I’m sorry. I’m sure it’s
dialog: lovely. I just need something a bit
dialog: stiffer.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I still have my late husband's whisky
dialog: collection ... if that doesn’t make you
dialog: uncomfortable. I know you don’t believe
dialog: in heaven, so it’s not like he’1ll mind.
speaker_heading: SEAN ;
dialog: How would you know what I believe?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh. Gosh. Nicky - He doesn’t like our
dialog: prayers at night.
dialog: 4l
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (with a chuckle)
dialog: Well, we're not sacrificing goats or
dialog: anything at our house.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I welcome all denominations.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: As do I. Let’s drink your husband's
dialog: scotch.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S KITCHEN - LATER THAT NIGHT 41
text: Stephanie and Sean sit at the kitchen table with two whiskey
text: glasses and a bottle of single malt between them. Stephanie
text: refills their glasses. Sean sips his.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: God knows, we've had our troubles - but
dialog: +. I don’t think she would just up and
dialog: leave her child. Do you?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She adores Nicky. She could never do that.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She’s an enigma, my wife. It drew me to
dialog: her. But it can also make her impossible.
dialog: She can be so fiercely private.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She sure doesn’t like having her picture
dialog: taken, I’1l tell ya that.
text: Sean sparks at this, studying her more closely.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: That’s right. She works in the fashion
dialog: industry, but you’d think you were
dialog: stealing her soul. I remember once she
dialog: made me shut down my Facebook account
dialog: after I posted a family picture.
dialog: ; STEPHANIE ;
dialog: Social media can be pretty tricky.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You can get close to her, but you can
dialog: never really reach her. That's the truly
text: hypnotic thing about Emily. She’s like a
dialog: beautiful ghost. She’s never entirely
dialog: ere.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That's really poetic. I can see why
dialog: you’re such a good writer.
text: He looks up at her with inconsolable pain in his eyes.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’m not a writer, Stephanie. T gave it up to
dialog: chase this woman for the rest of my life.
text: She puts her hand onto his, comforting him.
dialog: 42
dialog: 43
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I got addicted to her. God, and she
dialog: devours me. The things she does, you
dialog: wouldn’t believe it. She’s like a
dialog: succubus. So_ beautiful, so primal. Her
dialog: orgasms are like seismic events.
text: He looks down at her hand, on his. She withdraws hers.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, I’m a good Judge of character, Mr.
dialog: Sean T. Townsend. And I know Emily loves
dialog: you. One thousand percent.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I should call a taxi home.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (glancing at the clock)
dialog: Oh my Gosh, it’s 1:25. They stop driving
text: at 1 a.m. here.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What about an Uber?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, there’s only two Uber drivers in
dialog: Warfield, and I know Davit has his son’s
text: recital in the morning.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I have a guest room. Why don’t you stay
dialog: over? Nicky will want to see you when he
text: wakes up.
text: OFF SEAN, contemplating it --
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - DEN - NIGHT 42
dialog: 
text: Stephanie pulls open the HIDE-A-BED onto a few DINOSAURS
text: stranded on their sides and starts to prepare the bed.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I can do that. Really. You’ve already
dialog: done so much.
text: Stephanie stops and heads for the hallway.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: And Stephanie? Thank you. For everything.
text: Sean sits down on the creaking swayback bed, setting off a
text: RECORDED SONG: “Me mind of fire... me soul on fire... feeling
text: hot hot hot.” He reaches under his butt ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE .
dialog: Oh, that’s where Dr. Crackers is.
text: Sean pulls out a SINGING PARROT, activated by a button,
dialog: singing: “Party people, all around me feeling hot hot hot.”
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 43
dialog: 
text: Sunlight pours in the window. The sound of CHILDREN’S VOICES
text: rouses Stephanie out of an intoxicated gieep. She shakes
text: cobwebs from her head. She hears the GRINDING of a BLENDER.
dialog: 44
dialog: 45
dialog: 35.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 44
text: table dri enters in her robe. Miles and Nicky are at the
text: table drinking GREEN SMOOTHIES, Sean helming the blender with
text: a mix of CHIA SEEDS, YOGURT, KALE, SPINACH, BANANAS, HONEY.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Who wants more B vitamins?
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I do!
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: And I’m sure mum does.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE ;
dialog: What on earth are you making?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: A hangover smoothie. It’ll knock it right
dialog: out of you. The kids love it.
text: Stephanie turns to the kids, amazed they’re drinking it.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (whispering; with a wink)
text: It’s a full serving of vegetables and
dialog: they don’t even know it.
text: She's shocked to hear him say something she always does.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT’D
dialog: Hope this is okay. Don’t mean to mess up
dialog: your routine.
text: Her eyes are fixed on him now - with real desire.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you want some?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Yes, please.
text: Stephanie takes the smoothie from his hand, slowly. She
text: drinks it with her eyes locked on Sean. They have a long
text: moment in the kitchen. The toaster dings, breaking the spell.
dialog: Then they remember why they’re here.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: All right, kids. Party’s over. Let’s get
dialog: ready for school.
scene_heading: ON VIDEO VLOG - STEPHANIE'S KITCHEN - DAY 45
text: Stephanie addresses the camera, looking a little worse for
text: wear. She looks at the PAGE STATISTICS and sees HER LIVE
text: TRAFFIC STATS. A graph shows viewership rising ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. Before we get
text: to today’s topic - VEGETABLE SMOOTHIES —
dialog: I want to welcome all of the new viewers:
dialog: thank you for joining us.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
dialog: 49
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: And I especially want to thank so many of
dialog: you who have written to ask about Emily
dialog: Now, she is very sensitive about her
dialog: privacy but these are extenuating
dialog: circumstances. So, I’m using her real
dialog: name and posting a few rare pictures in
dialog: case any of you have seen her. It’s been
dialog: six days. The good news is her husband
text: Sean is back from London and working
text: closes with the police.
dialog: (a sigh)
dialog: Now, a soe) ou Moms are stuck on this
dialog: idea that the husband is always the
dialog: primary suspect. But I’m here to tell
dialog: you: Sean was out of the gountry wh when
dialog: Emily disappeared. Some of you ha
dialog: suggested he just wanted an alibi, “put I
dialog: can assure you, Sean is an amazing
dialog: husband and father. He’s been a wreck
dialog: ever since he got home. And the police
dialog: are no help. I don’t know what our tax
dialog: dollars are paying for!
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 46
text: Stephanie is on her hands and knees digging in her closet.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: Well, as every mom knows, if you want
dialog: something done right, you better do it
dialog: yourself.
text: She finally finds a VINTAGE CHANEL SCARF in a gift box.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO (MOVING) - DAY 47
text: Stephanie wears the Chanel scarf, nattily knotted on the
text: side. Trying to look chic, in dark li stick, eyeliner and her
text: hair pulled back in a low ponytail. She drives.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: I will leave no stone unturned.
scene_heading: I/E. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO (MOVING) - G.W. BRIDGE - DAY 48
text: Stephanie drives into Manhattan playing Adele’s “HELLO.”
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: I think that’s what Emily would want.
text: She joins in singing the chorus of “HELLO” at top volume.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: “Hello from the outside / I must_have
dialog: called a thousand times / To tell you I'm
dialog: sorry for breaking your heart ...
scene_heading: INT. MIDTOWN MANHATTAN OFFICE BUILDING - ELEVATOR - DAY 49
text: It’s that awkward Be aye silence in a crowded elevator. As
text: Stephanie rides, she eyes the faces around her. Skinny
text: PROFESSIONAL WOMEN in sleek suits and stiletto heels.
text: PROFESSIONAL MEN in suits with slick-backed hair.
dialog: 50
dialog: 37.
text: Stephanie adjusts the knot on her scarf, pulling it tighter.
text: She accidentally pulls it too tight, choking herself. She
text: GASPS OUT A SMALL CHOKE SOUND, then plays it off as if it’s a
text: COUGH and THROAT CLEAR. Everyone stares at her.
scene_heading: |. STEPHANIE .
dialog: Allergies. It’s that wet spring we had.
text: Nobody buys it. Dying of embarrassment, she pulls the knot
text: looser as the doors open and Stephanie exits.
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON HQ - RECEPTION - DAY 50
dialog: 
text: White marble and chromium steel. White leather banquettes and
text: black lacquer side tables. The name DENNIS NYLON in giant
text: silver letters. Stephanie works up her nerve as she
text: approaches the chic RECEPTIONIST answering phones on headset.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Dennis Nylon, please hold. Thanks for
dialog: holding, how may I direct your call?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE RECEPTIONIST (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi. My name is -- (holding up a finger)
dialog: Dennis Nylon, please hold.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE RECEPTIONIST (CONT'D)
dialog: My friend works here. She’s Thanks for holding, how may I
dialog: been missing for over a we-- direct your call?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Her name is Emily Nelson. She’s the head
dialog: of public relations.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Emily’s not in today.
scene_heading: STEPHANIE RECEPTIONIST
dialog: I know she’s not in. That’s Dennis Nylon, please hold.
dialog: why I’m --
text: Stephanie lurches across the counter and presses the hang up
text: button, hissing at the young woman:
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m sorry, but - no, you know what? I’m
dialog: not sorry. This is an emergenc A woman
dialog: is missing. I need to talk wit “Mr.
dialog: Nylon. Now.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Mr. Nylon’s not here right now.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Then I’1l wait.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Knock yourself out.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I will. Thank you very much.
dialog: 38.
text: The receptionist gestures to the lobby seating area.
text: Stephanie gives her a defiant look and takes a seat. She
text: tries to lean back, but the back of the fashionable chair is
text: too far. She sits up straight, avoiding eye contact with the
text: receptionist, who just stares at her.
text: The elevator doors open and DENNIS NYLON (40s, Tom Ford type)
text: walks out with his assistants, KIKO and DIEGO. Diego is very
text: intense looking and a bit scary. As Dennis breezes past -
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Mr. Nylon!?
text: He turns as Diego steps forward and puts himself between |
text: Dennis and Stephanie. Dennis looks at Stephanie with disdain.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: We don’t accept unsolicited resumes.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That's not -- We have a problem, sir.
speaker_heading: , DENNIS NYLON
dialog: (looking her over)
dialog: We most certainly do.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: A friend of mine works in your publicity
dialog: department--
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: Is that a vintage Chanel scarf?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: My Aunt Frieda gave it to me.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: Were you trying to hang yourself with it?
dialog: Look at this knot. Jesus.
text: He comes forward to loosen the knot around her neck.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m here because of Emily Nelson.
text: Dennis pauses, staring at Stephanie with concern now.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: What about Emily? What happened?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She's missing. She asked me to pick up
dialog: her son nine days ago because apparently
dialog: she was going to Miami and she never came
text: back. Not a.call, not a text - and no one
dialog: in your office seems to give a crap.
dialog: Excuse my language.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: (to Kiko)
dialog: Why did Emily go to Miami?
speaker_heading: KIKO
dialog: I didn’t know she did.
dialog: 51
dialog: 39.
text: Dennis looks quite thrown, then recovers and returns his gaze
text: to Stephanie, regaining his power.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: I’m sorry but if Emily hasn’t told us
dialog: about something then we know not to ask.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She works for you, right?
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: Yes, but do you see this skin? I’m 48
dialog: years— -old an that / s not botox, sweetie.
dialog: That's sleep. T get plenty of it, thanks
dialog: to Emil: Now, there’s something she’s
dialog: not tel ing me, it could be Chernobyl for
dialog: all I know, and bless her, she’ll put on
text: her radiation suit and deal with it.
speaker_heading: KIKO
dialog: And find a way to look fabulous doing it.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Then what do you suggest I do?
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: You want advice? Never wear a Chanel
dialog: scarf with a Gap T-shirt. If you were
dialog: truly Emily’s friend, you’d know that.
dialog: Have a nice day.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (as they walk away)
dialog: It's Target, thank you very much. And we
dialog: are friends. Best friends.
text: Diego throws a scary look back at her as the receptionist
text: tries to escort her out. Stephanie starts to stride off.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’1ll show myself out.
text: She walks toward the elevators as the receptionist goes back
text: to her desk. Stephanie looks over at the doorway to the
text: cubicles area. Her eyes follow Dennis. He now looks upset.
text: She then sees an office door that reads: EMILY NELSON.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON (0.S.)
dialog: Valerie, my office. Now.
text: Dennis grabs Emily’s assistant VALERIE and pulls her urgently
text: toward his office, Diego in tow. Stephanie sees a sign over
text: the doorway to the cubicles area that reads “EMPLOYEES ONLY.”
text: Stephanie looks torn. She’s never disobeyed a rule before.
text: She glances around nervously, considers, then takes a deep
text: breath and darts secretly into the cubicles area.
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON HQ - CUBICLES AREA - CONTINUOUS 51
text: Stephanie pauses in the doorway. She sees an INTERN pulling a
text: RACK OF GARMENT BAGS along the aisle that leads to Emily’s
text: office. She darts behind the rack, moving stealthily.
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
dialog: 40.
text: She nods hello to the intern, trying to fit _in while watching
text: through the tops of the hangers as Dennis, Diego and Valerie
text: enter Dennis’ glass walled office and close the door.
text: Stephanie sees them talking intensely through the glass but
text: can’t hear what they’ re saying as she approaches Emily’s
text: office. But Dennis looks quite agitated. Diego listens, cold.
text: Suddenly, THE RACK TAKES A SHARP TURN, EXPOSING STEPHANIE
text: just as Diego turns and is about to see her. She quickly
text: darts through a door next to her, closing it behind her.
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON HQ - CONFERENCE ROOM - CONTINUOUS 52
text: Stephanie leans against the door, nervous. To herself ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Deep breaths, deep breaths ...
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Finally!
text: midgic of turns to see the room is filled with people in the
text: middle of a design review. They all stare at her. A DESIGNER
text: is leading the review. He looks at her impatiently.
speaker_heading: DESIGNER
dialog: We’re dying in here. I need a skinny
dialog: latte with a double shot of vanill-- What
dialog: are you wearing?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, um, it’s Chanel.
speaker_heading: DESIGNER
dialog: (stares a beat, then)
dialog: It’s fab. Dennis would love that. All
dialog: right, what’s everyone else want?
dialog: Looking at her again)
dialog: Don’t tell me you didn’t bring a pad?
text: Stephanie shakes her head “no.” He sighs and tosses a pad and
text: pen to her. People start calling out their coffee orders to
text: Stephanie, who dutifully but distractedly writes them down.
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON HQ - WORK AREA - MOMENTS LATER 53
text: Stephanie peeks out the conference room, holding a long list
text: of coffee orders. She sees Diego and Dennis still conferrin
text: in Dennis’ office. She ducks down so that she’s hidden by the
text: low cubicles and darts into ...
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON HQ - EMILY’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 54
text: Emily's office is immaculate, modern with no clutter. Her
text: desk is a glass top on chromé legs. A small drawer unit sits
text: under it next to her minimalist desk chair.
text: The wall in Emily’s office is glass and so Stephanie is
text: completely exposed. She hunches down and duck-walks to the
text: desk, staying below view of the workers in the cubicles.
text: Stephanie tries to open the top drawer but it’s locked. They
text: all are. She thinks, then pulls a hair pin out of her hair
text: and tries to jimmy the lock in the top drawer with it.
dialog: 55
dialog: 41.
text: She clearly has no idea how to pick a lock. After a beat, the
text: pin bends and springs out of her hand and lands out of reach.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Motherfudger ...
text: Just then, Valerie walks past Emily’s office, talking on her
text: headset, preoccupied and upset. Stephanie scrambles behind
text: the drawer unit, hunching down low.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: Of course he’s freaking out! He needs
dialog: someone to manage this now ...
text: As Stephanie hunches lower to hide, she glances up at the
text: bottom of Emily’s desk. Her expression changes.
text: EMILY’S POV: Through the glass deskto Stephanie sees a
text: letter under Emily’s desk pad. It loo $ like it was hastily
text: shoved under there along with the envelope it came in.
text: Stephanie stares up at it, thinking.
text: STEPHANIE’S FLASHBACK VISION: Emily is at her desk, reading
text: the letter, worried, then hears Dennis heading for her
text: office. Scared, she quickly lifts the desk pad and hides the
text: letter under it, dropping it just as Dennis enters.
text: BACK TO SCENE: Stephanie reaches up and lifts the desk pad,
text: quickly pulling out the letter and envelope. She stuffs them
text: into her purse, then looks at Dennis’ office. It’s now empty.
text: Seeing Dennis and Diego nowhere, she rushes out of Emily’s
dialog: office.
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON HQ - WORK AREA - CONTINUOUS 55
text: Stephanie darts past the cubicles, speeding toward the exit.
text: She looks back at Dennis’ office. VALERIE IS NOW WATCHING
text: HER, STARING SCARILY. As Stephanie then turns to run ...
text: DIEGO STEPS OUT IN FRONT OF HER, grabbing her arms. She
text: GASPS. He stares at her threateningly as Dennis steps up.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: Forget gomething, Aunt Frieda? You’re not
dialog: supposed to be back here, you know.
text: Stephanie looks terrified, then suddenly changes tact. Snaps.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: to Dennis, in his face)
dialog: You listen to me, you bargain basement
dialog: Tom Ford. If you don’t have your goon
dialog: take his hands off me right now, I’m
dialog: gonna tell the moms who watch my vlog -
dialog: the thousands of moms - that Dennis Nylon
text: is an abusive creep who victimizes women
dialog: and that they Should spread the word all
dialog: over the internet to stop buying your
text: overpriced, poorly-made garbage. Because
dialog: if you losé moms, you lose business.
text: Dennis looks at her like she’s nuts but clearly responds to
text: the threat of potential bad press. He pulls Diego’s arm off
dialog: of Stephanie.
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: DENNIS NYLON
dialog: I was just going to have him escort you
dialog: out. Jesus Christ. You’re the one who
dialog: trespassed, you know.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, tough nuts. It’s a free country.
dialog: And I’11 escort my-self out, thank you.
dialog: (to Diego, re: her arm)
dialog: And you'd better pray I don’t have a
text: bruise.
text: Stephanie pushes past them and heads for the exit. As she
text: walks away, she begins to smile to herself, suddenly feeling
text: very cool and empowered. She takes out the coffee order list,
text: looks at it, then crumples it up and tosses it coolly into a
text: trash can. She exits around the corner.
text: After a beat, she comes back around the corner and takes the
text: crumpled list out of the garbage. She _uncrumples it, smooths
text: it on her knee and hands it to an ASSISTANT.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: They’ re waiting for these in the
dialog: conference room. Please apologize to them
dialog: for the delay.
text: She gives the assistant an apologetic look and heads out.
scene_heading: INT. DENNIS NYLON HQ - ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS 56
text: Stephanie slips into the elevator, then pulls out the letter.
text: It’s an UNFLATTERING CANDID PICTURE OF EMILY, dressed in a
text: big army coat, her face drawn, hair unwashed. Underneath it
text: written in bold pen: “GOTTA HAVE FAITH.”
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: “Gotta have faith?”
dialog: (studying it)
dialog: No wonder you don’t like to have your
dialog: picture taken.
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN WARFIELD, CT - MAIN STREET - DAY 57
text: THE UNFLATTERING PHOTO OF EMILY, copied to the point of
text: blurriness, is STAPLED to a communi y bulletin board.
text: Stephanie goes store to store in the small downtown area
text: putting up fliers with the caption “HAVE YOU SEEN ME?” and a
text: otline number. Sean walks up and hands her a new stack. They
text: exchange a sad smile. He’s grateful to her for all this.
text: REVEAL Darren, Stacy and Sona watching from a Starbucks.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: Look at our little Stephanie, comforting
text: the worried husband.
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: Oh, please. It’s an Arts-and-Crafts
dialog: project. I’ve never seen her pass up a
dialog: chance to use a stapler.
dialog: 58
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: Think of the optimism that _goes into
dialog: making those fliers. It’s like they’re
text: looking for a lost parrot.
speaker_heading: SONA
dialog: Emily's going to hate those fliers when
text: she comes back.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: She's not coming back. Don’t you ever
dialog: watch Dateline? If a case isn’t solved in
dialog: the first 72 hours, they’re always dead.
text: Sona looks sadly back at Stephanie, Sean standing nearby.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY 58
dialog: 
text: A beautifully set table for four with steaming platters of
text: food, good silver, linen napkins and lit candles. Stephanie
text: uncorks a bottle of white wine and pours it in two wine
text: glasses at either end. Sean comes in the front door in
text: sweats, damp from a jog.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, perfect timing. Dinner’s ready.
text: Sean stares at the table, then shakes his head.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Did I do something wrong?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No, I just ... I’ve never had this
text: experience. Coming home to a set dinner
dialog: table. I feel like I’m in some “Twilight
dialog: Zone.” Or “Leave it to Beaver.”
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Is it too much?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: It’s wonderful. Anythin stable is like a
dialog: gift from heaven these days.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You don’t believe in heaven.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (giving her a smile)
dialog: Maybe I’m starting to. I'm going to take
dialog: a shower. I’1l be right back.
text: The DOORBELL rings. Sean goes to the door and opens it,
text: revealing a man in a suit, DETECTIVE MEANY, 40s, Cuban.
text: Stephanie watches anxiously as he flashes a badge.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Stephanie? Maybe you should help the boys
dialog: with their homework.
text: Stephanie hovers in the doorway a moment, eyes wide.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Of course.
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: 44,
text: Stephanie grabs the bread basket of rolls and heads up.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT’D)
dialog: Just a snack before dinner.
text: Meany nods to her, then watches her go, curious.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Cute nanny.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No. She’s a friend of my wife’s. She's
dialog: been helping me out.
text: Meany nods. He clocks the open BOTTLE OF WHITE WINE on table,
text: the lit candles and fresh flowers. Meany smiles.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Maybe she can help out around my house,
dialog: too.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 59
dialog: 
text: Miles and Nicky sit on the edge of the bed munching rolls and
dialog: watching SpongeBob.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (anxious)
dialog: Eat over the napkin. Try not to crumb.
text: The boys ignore her and keep eating sloppily. Stephanie's
text: curiosity gets the best of her. She creeps out onto ...
scene_heading: THE SECOND FLOOR LANDING 60
text: She hovers in the shadows, trying to make out their VOICES.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: The manifests from American Airlines say
dialog: she wasn’t on any flight to Miami.
dialog: SE.
dialog: Bloody hell.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: But she did rent a White Kia from Budget.
dialog: She paid in_cash for a two-day rental.
dialog: People usually pay cash for one reason.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You're saying she’s having an affair?
text: Stephanie leans so far forward she knocks into the railing.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: I can’t say that with any confidence.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Then don’t say it. I’m sure you’1l be
dialog: able to track that Kia.
dialog: 61
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: We're working on it. I have toll reports
text: coming in from across the country,
text: assuming she didn’t swap out the plates.
dialog: I'd like to send a description of your
dialog: wife to every precinct in the Tri-State
dialog: area. Any distinguishing features?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Yes. She’s drop dead gorgeous.
text: Stephanie feels a pinch of envy.
scene_heading: . DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Any birth marks? Tattoos?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No. Wait. Actually, yes. She has a tattoo
text: on her wrist. A bracelet of barbed wire.
dialog: (off of Meany’s look)
dialog: More eee jement? Look, Emily did things
dialog: like that. Crazy, impulsive things. It’s
dialog: part of what made her the most exciting
dialog: woman I’ve ever known.
text: His voice trails off, forlorn. Stephanie can study him from
text: this angle and she feels his loss. But she also feels a pang
text: of jealousy. She shakes it off.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Well, you’re on a roller coaster now.
dialog: (with another smile)
dialog: Tell your wife’s friend I said goodbye.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 61
text: Stephanie washes the dishes post-dinner in silence. Sean
text: comes in and pours himself the last of the wine.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You don’t have to do this. You’re a saint.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m not a saint. I just like to keep my
text: hands busy.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Where was she going in that damn Kia?
dialog: She'd never be caught dead in a car like
dialog: that. Ugh, bad choice of words.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: She’s not dead. I know she’s not.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Then she’s having one hell of an affair.
dialog: Or maybe she just had to get away from
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean, you are a wonderful, caring,
dialog: intelligent man. And Emily loves you
dialog: dearly. Don’t you ever undersell yourself
dialog: like that again. I won’t stand for it.
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 46.
text: Sean stares at her, then smiles sadly. Nods. She smiles.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Good. I’m going to go home. It’s “Flags
dialog: of the World” day tomorrow at school and
dialog: I haven’t even started on Asia.
text: Stephanie moves to leave. As she passes Sean at the table, he
text: reaches out and takes her wrist. She gasps and stops short,
text: looking him in the eye. There’s genuine longing in his gaze.
text: He quickly lets go of her wrist apologetically.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Sorry. It’s just ... no. I don’t mean
dialog: sorry. I mean thank you. For being such a
dialog: good friend, Stephanie. Not just to
dialog: Emily, but to me as well.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Of course. I’m a problem-solver. I just
dialog: wish I could do more.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You're doing plenty. And you are a saint.
scene_heading: I/E. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO (MOVING) - DAY 62
text: Stephanie drives home, chewing her bottom lip, completely
text: conflicted. Miles is asleep in his car seat in the back seat.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: That’s where we are today, moms ...
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 63
dialog: We catch up to the VLOG from the very beginning.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: So, we're keeping our heads high and not
dialog: jumping to conclusions. We're Soldiering on
dialog: with zucchini cookies. But if you want to
text: help, Emily was driving a WHITE KIA rented
text: at the Budget at La Guardia on April 24th.
dialog: I did some digging and found that the
dialog: license plate was New York F as in Frieda,
dialog: N as #2 Nicky, Z as in Zucchini, 1447. If
dialog: any of you moms happen to see it, I’ve got
text: asketful of rosemary shampoo bars with
dialog: your name on them.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 64
text: Stephanie wears a robe and a towel turban over her wet hair,
text: Nefertiti-style. She opens her taptop, checking her e-mail.
text: We HEAR the voice of one of her MOMS as Stephanie reads.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (V. +)
dialog: “Dear Stephanie, I’m writing from
dialog: Standish, Michigan, with a possible Emily
dialog: sighting. I was in a gas station off the
dialog: 75 when I saw a White Kia rental you
dialog: described. The woman was wearin
dialog: baseball cap and glasses, so I didn’ 't get
dialog: a_ good look, but I managed to match the
dialog: license plate number. I hope this helps.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: And do you have a sugar-free “Christmas
dialog: cake recipe? I wou--”
text: Stephanie closes her laptop and makes a call.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I'd like to speak to Detective Meany.
scene_heading: 65 INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 65
text: The boys play in the next room. Sean pours a drink: there’s
text: an even deeper level of anxiety on him. Stephanie sips tea.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Meany sent all the info to local
dialog: authorities in Michigan. Did Emily ever
dialog: mention Michigan? Maybe a friend trom
dialog: college?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: As far as I knew, Emily never had any
dialog: real friends. Not before you.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, that’s ... I’m flattered. But how
dialog: is that possible?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She’s a workaholic.
text: Sean’s cell phone RINGS. Sees the number and answers quickly.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Hello? Tell me you found her ...
dialog: (to Stephanie)
dialog: Did Emily have a Celine handbag?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (with dread)
dialog: The Nano Tote.
speaker_heading: SEAN (ON PHONE)
dialog: Yes, that’s hers. A lake? I have no idea.
dialog: I‘ll head there now.
dialog: (hangs up)
dialog: They found the rental car in Michigan.
text: Stephanie grabs Sean’s hand, squeezing it.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I have to go or I’m going to go crazy.
dialog: Can you do me a favor an
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Done. I’1l take care of Nicky. Go.
scene_heading: 66 ON VIDEO VLOG - KITCHEN - DAY 66
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. I can see we
dialog: have a flood of new viewers today, so
dialog: welcome. But I’m sorry, this is probably
dialog: not the best entry to start with.
dialog: 67
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: 70
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: EXT. WITCH LAKE (MICHIGAN) - DAY 67
text: A TOW TRUCK tows a mud-splashed WHITE KIA down the dirt road.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V:9-)
dialog: Those of you who’ve been following the
dialog: last few weeks, you know that my best
dialog: friend went missing.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKESIDE - MICHIGAN WOODS - DAY 68
dialog: 
text: A CSI PHOTOGRAPHER takes a shot of FOOTPRINTS on a dirt path.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: So many of you wrote to me with your tips
dialog: or hunches.
scene_heading: INT. WITCH LAKE - CRAMPED SPACE - DAY 69
dialog: 
text: CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATORS tag and bag various personal items
text: strewn about a cabin lined with rusty bunk beds.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.
dialog: Special thanks to Leanne Dippens, whose
dialog: helpful tip led to a major break in the
dialog: case.
text: A GLOVED CSI HAND empties Emily’s handbag of its contents:
scene_heading: CELL PHONE. LIP GLOSS. SUNGLASSES. LEGO MAN HOLDING A SWORD.
scene_heading: EXT. MICHIGAN LAKE FRONT - DAY 70
text: LOCAL POLICE OFFICERS loll around at the bank, casually
text: chatting or on cell phones as an exhausted Sean stands at the
text: water’s edge, arms folded, his face as pale as he watches the
dialog: lake.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: I have somber news ...
text: DIVERS in tanks and goggles drag the bottom. Faint bubbles
text: pepper the surface in spots. One of the divers surfaces and
text: waves his hand, pointing below. He found something.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: Emily was found.
text: Sean’s face falls as the truth hits him hard.
text: The Diver resurfaces with a BODY under his arm. The pale
text: corpse of a woman, her loose hair hiding her face like
text: seaweed. He swims toward the shore, tugging her along.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE vo)
dialog: Not alive, I’m afrai
text: The police move in to meet him and take the body onto the
text: land. Emily’s face is bloated, her eyes wide open, her lips
text: parted as if taking her last breath.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O. )
dialog: My friend, my best friend . is dead.
dialog: 71
dialog: 72
dialog: 49,
text: Sean reaches for her lifeless hand with the barbed wire
text: tattoo. And his mother’s sapphire and diamond WEDDING RING.
text: Sean breaks down sobbing.
scene_heading: INT. MORTUARY - DAY 71
text: Sean is a wreck as he speaks to the MORTICIAN. Stephanie
text: hangs back a few feet, supportive.
speaker_heading: MORTICIAN
text: An open casket helps give the loved ones
text: a sense of closure.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I... God - I have to think for a second.
text: Sean heads out of the mortuary, leaving Stephanie alone with
text: the MORTICIAN. They stand together in silence.
speaker_heading: MORTICIAN
dialog: Let him know we have the best embalmer.
dialog: Usually with drowning victims, the skin
text: is too fragile for an open casket. But
dialog: not us. We can give her a glow.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: She was very private. And very particular
dialog: about how she looked.
speaker_heading: MORTICIAN
dialog: Oh, we only use the best brands of make-
dialog: up. And fillers. You’1ll never even know
text: out her missing tooth.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Missing tooth?
speaker_heading: MORTICIAN
dialog: Yes, the right front one.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (baffled)
dialog: Did she lose it when she died?
speaker_heading: MORTICIAN
dialog: Had to be an old injury. The bone was
dialog: growing over it. But we’ll cover it.
dialog: Think of us as life’s final fashion
dialog: runway.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD CEMETERY - DAY 72
text: EMILY’S CASKET is lowered into a grave as a PRIEST delivers a
text: sermon. Darren, Sona, Stacy, other parents, Dennis Nylon,
text: Emily's co-workers, they’re all there.
text: Sean and Stephanie stand a safe distance apart. Nicky wears a
text: navy blue suit and a numb countenance as the pulley ropes are
text: removed and the casket settles in. Stephanie glances at Sean,
text: whose eyes are red. Puts her hand on his arm.
text: We see Dennis Nylon staring at Stephanie intently, thinkin
text: Stephanie looks over at him and he looks back at the pries
text: before Stephanie sees he was watching.
dialog: 73
dialog: 74
dialog: 50.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 73
text: Emily's funeral reception. People mill around. Stephanie sets
text: food out on the buffet table. Darren sets his homemade
text: brownies out on a crystal platter next to her. He and
text: Stephanie trade a look and a sad smile.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Are those ...?
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: They are. From your “Last Minute
text: Brownies” entry.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I can’t believe you watch my vlog.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: Well, to be honest, I was making fun of
dialog: you at first. But then there were some
dialog: elpful tips in there - especially when
dialog: Lulu had that rash. Apple Cider Vinegar.
dialog: Who knew?
text: Stephanie gives him a sad smile as Sona walks up.
speaker_heading: DARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: You're a saint to help out her family.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m not a saint. Emily was my friend.
dialog: She'd do the same thing for me.
speaker_heading: SONA
dialog: If you or Sean ever need me to watch
dialog: Miles or Nicky any time, it’s nothing.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Thanks, Sona.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY 74
text: Nicky rips branches off a_ tree one by one. Angry and
text: frustrated, he needs a release. Miles approaches Nicky from
text: behind, also in his suit.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Nicky. You don’t need to worry. Your
dialog: Mom’s in heaven. With my Dad and Uncle
dialog: Chris.
speaker_heading: NICKY
text: No, she’s not. She’s in the ground. She’s
dialog: never coming back.
speaker_heading: MILES NICKY (CONT'D)
dialog: She's in heaven now - Shut up!
text: Nicky flies at Miles and shoves him to the ground.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: OWWWW! Stop!!!
dialog: 75
dialog: 51.
text: Nicky straddles Miles and smacks him across the face, open-
text: palmed, left then right then left then right until Miles’
text: nose starts gushing blood.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY 75
text: Stephanie notices the scuffle out the window and races --
text: OUT TO THE BACKYARD
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (racing over)
dialog: What the hell are you doing!?
text: Sean yanks Nicky off Miles and holds him back.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Calm down.
text: Stephanie moves to Miles and helps him up off the ground,
text: kneeling to look at his nose. Nicky points at Stephanie.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: she made this happen. She made my mom
dialog: ie!
text: Stephanie feels dizzy. She glances around and notices Darren
text: watching all this from the kitchen window.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Oh, Jesus, Nicky - that’s crazy.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: She's trying to be my new mom.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m not trying to be your new mom,
dialog: sweetie.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: You're trying to be everybody’s Mom. But
dialog: you're not mine!
speaker_heading: SEAN NICKY (CONT'D)
dialog: Nicky, stop. I know you're I want my mom!
dialog: upset, but -
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I know you do, but you need to calm down.
text: Sean struggles to hold onto Nicky who kicks wildly.
speaker_heading: _ NICKY
dialog: Mom was right. You’re a loser!
text: Sean hurls Nicky on the ground, snapping. Stephanie gasps.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Is that what your mother said? Is that
dialog: when she was drunk at two in the
dialog: afternoon? I’m doing the best I can!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean, shhh. He’s a little boy.
dialog: 76
dialog: 52.
text: All at once, Sean realizes what he’s done.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Oh my God, what am I doing? What have I
dialog: done? Nicky ... Jesus.
text: Nicky hurls himself on the ground and hides his face with his
text: hands. Sean touches his arm. Nicky swats him away.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Get away from me!
text: Sean looks up at Stephanie, completely lost. Some of the
text: guests watch from a distance.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What do I do?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Let’s everybody take a deep centering
dialog: breath. We’re going to do one thing at a
dialog: time. Let me talk to Nicky; and Sean, you
dialog: get some ice for Miles’ nose. He’s got a
dialog: good little shiner coming.
text: Sean puts his hand on Miles’ shoulder, walking him inside.
text: Stephanie sits down on the grass next to Nicky.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: I don’t want to talk to you.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, you’re not my favorite dinner date
dialog: eithér, Mister. But I think you should
dialog: know everything you’re feeling right now
dialog: is normal. You can act up all you want -
dialog: but it won't change what I know.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: (suspicious)
dialog: What do you know?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That you’re a good kid.
text: From a distance, SEAN turns to see Stephanie calmly sitting
text: across from Nicky, like a snake-charmer. He stares sadly.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE FROM A DISTANCE) (CONT’D)
dialog: So let’s sit here and not talk. Let’s
dialog: just sit here and feel lousy and watch
dialog: the grass grow. Sometimes you just need
dialog: to feel what you’re feeling. Until it
dialog: gets better. ome is the only medicine.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - STAIRS - DUSK 76
dialog: 
text: Stephanie carries a sleeping, spent Nicky upstairs INTO HIS
text: ROOM. She lays him on his bunk. Miles is asleep in the upper
text: bunk. Stephanie kisses Nicky’s forehead and slips out ...
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
dialog: 53.
text: INTO THE HALLWAY
text: Sean is standing silhouetted against the light from the
text: master bedroom. His eyes bloodshot, tear-filled. She moves to
text: him and hugs him.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE ;
dialog: You got to break some eggs sometimes.
dialog: Don’t be hard on yourself. These are the
dialog: sorts of things nobody ever gets right.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You do. You always do.
text: He sinks into her. This feels all too familiar and dangerous.
text: Her heart pounds against his. Sean can feel it too. His need
text: for her is turning physical. His hands slide down, resting on
text: the small of her back.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean, I don’t know ...
speaker_heading: SEAN ;
dialog: I’ll stop. I’1l stop if you’re sure you
dialog: want me to.
text: His hands move lower ... to her ass. She inhales sharply but
text: doesn’t stop him. His hand slides between her legs. It’s been
text: a long time. His fingers move rhythmically. Her breathing
text: picks up. He hikes up her black dress, eaSing down her
text: underpants. She grabs his wrist to stop him.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Right, you're right. We shouldn’t.
text: She stares in his eyes. Her heart pounding loud in her ears,
text: she then kisses him hungrily. They attack each other ...
scene_heading: INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM 77
dialog: 
text: Sean hurls her on the bed and climbs on top of her. As she
text: reaches down to unbuckle his belt, he grabs her wrists and
text: pins them to the bed. She VISUALIZES --
text: SEAN PINNING EMILY’S WRISTS TO THE BED THE EXACT SAME WAY.
text: Stephanie tries to shake off the image as he kisses down her
text: body to between her legs. She writhes in brutal ecstasy as he
text: goes down on her, pinning her hands down.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh my god ... oh my god... no...
text: She fights it but it’s too late. Her body arches and twitches
text: with a groan of intense pleasure. Yells in ecstacy.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D
scene_heading: Ohhh, SUGAR-FREE CHRISTMAS CAKE!
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - LATER 78
dialog: 
text: Stephanie and Sean lie in bed next to each other. Staring at
text: the ceiling in stunned disbelief. After several beats ...
dialog: 79
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, I think it was a lovely service.
dialog: Very tasteful.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Yes, it was.
text: They keep staring up at the ceiling ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (PRE-LAP)
dialog: Hi Moms. Stephanie here. In a time of so
dialog: much grief, it’s important to find that
dialog: silver lining.
scene_heading: INT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - AUDITORIUM - DAY 79
text: The SECOND-GRADERS are dressed in yellow T-shirts with hand
text: painted suns. They ;Sing “It’s a Sunshine Day” while
text: performing it in sign language. Ms. Kerry leads in front.
speaker_heading: SECOND GRADERS
dialog: sBverybody ’ s laughing/It’ s a sunshine
dialog: day /Every! ody’s singing/It’s a sunshine
dialog: ay ...
text: The parents crowd the auditorium shooting videos on iPhones.
text: Stephanie is in her photo vest, equipped with a telephoto
dialog: lens; but she’s lost some of hér over! earing quality.
text: She steals glances at Sean. He glances back, then feels
text: Darren's eyes on him. Stephanie smiles until her eyes fall on
text: Nicky: He’s singing with all his heart. Her smile falls,
text: thinking of Emily.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 80
text: Miles and Nicky watch Sponge Bob and laugh hysterically.
text: Nicky tax enters with a tray of TEMPEH. With his eyes on her,
text: Nic takes one off the trays eating it, swallowing with
text: difficulty ... then giving her a small Smile.
dialog: It’s a small gesture, but it means the world to both.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LAUNDRY ROOM - DAY 81
text: Sean's jogging shorts hang around his ankles. Stephanie's
text: perched on the rumbling washing machine while Sean has sex
text: with her. She folds her ankles behind him, pulling him in.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Don’t do that. You’re gonna make me come.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Fair is fair.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (suddenly climaxin
dialog: Ohhh, sugar-free Christmas cake!
text: He slumps against her, then gives her a playful smile.
dialog: 82
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (with a laugh)
dialog: Oh god. You’re terrible.
text: She playfully swats the back of his head. He winks and kisses
text: her shoulder. She smiles to herself, feeling powerful. Happy.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 82
text: Pandora plays on Stephanie’s iPhone. Beyonce’s “GIRLS (RUN
text: THE WORLD).” Stephanie dances as she washes some dishes.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Girls! We run this mother / Girls! We run
dialog: this mother / Girls! We run this mother -
text: Her back is turned when Sean opens the kitchen door, home
text: from work. He watches her piving- Cracks a smile. She feels
text: him there and turns, mortified.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh my God. It was --
dialog: (grabs phone; stops it)
dialog: I like to listen to hip hop when I cook.
dialog: How embarrassing.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No, keep it on. I like when you “twerk.”
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh lord. He can I make you a_drink?
dialog: Emily taugh "me how to make a Duke's
text: martini.
text: A flash of pain crosses Sean’s face at the mention of Emily.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Gosh, that was really insensitive of me.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No, it’s fine. And I'd love one.
text: Stephanie opens the freezer and takes out Emily’s gin and
text: glass. Stares at it, then starts to make the martini.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean ... how did she lose her tooth?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Emily. The mortician said that she was
text: missing her front tooth. She sure had a
dialog: good falsie. I had no idea.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I wasn’t aware she had a fake tooth.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Is that something she’d hide from you?
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She hid everything from me. Sometimes I’m
dialog: amazed I know as much about her as I do.
text: Stephanie sees his pain as he looks off distantly. Softens.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I made you guys cashew chicken with stir-—
text: fry veggies. It’s almost ready. Miles and
dialog: I will’ get out of your hair.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’d rather the two of you stay for
dialog: dinner. My hair can take it.
text: Stephanie turns and smiles. Sean smiles back hopefully.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I was really hoping you’d say that.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD, CT - STREETS - DAY 83
text: A beautiful morning in Warfield. The FLIERS OF EMILY, torn
text: and weathered, flapping sadly in the wake of passing cars.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 84
dialog: 
text: Stephanie stands in the center of Emily’s living room, taking
text: it all in. It’s impressive. She sees the Sonos remote. She
text: runs her finger along it remembering Emily. Then she pushes
text: the “on” button. A 60s FRENCH POP SONG begins to play.
text: Emily listens sadly, then starts to enjoy the son She does
text: a little turn and ends up face to face with THE NI DE PAINTING
text: OF EMILY, which stares back at her. Looking caught, Stephanie
text: thinks for a second, then takes down the painting.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 85
dialog: 
text: Sunlight pours into the ultra hip modern bedroom as the
text: FRENCH POP SONG continues playing from the ceiling speakers.
text: Stephanie slips off her worn moccasins and tiptoes, carrying
dialog: the painting to -
speaker_heading: EMILY’S CLOSET
text: Stephanie looks with some trepidation at the array of slick
text: designer clothes. Then, with a look of determination, she
text: stops in for the first time as if into a tomb, She rests the
text: PAINTING against the wall. She’s so cautious it’s as if she’s
text: certain it’s haunted. She pivots and she’s face to face with -—
text: - a Dolce & Gabbana fitted silk dress.
text: She holds it up to herself in the mirror. She can’t believe
text: she's doing this. She pauses, reverent, respectful. But
text: suddenly, excitement gets the better of her and she strips
text: down to her bra and panties, unzips the dress, and steps into
text: it. She tries to tug up the zipper but she can’t get it up.
text: Frustrated, she yanks the zipper up by force.
text: She studies her reflection in the mirror, jiking what she
text: sees. She stands on tiptoe, simulating high heels
dialog: 86
dialog: 57.
text: Stephanie moves to the closet where the designer shoes are
dialog: kept in their boxes: Prada, Jimmy Choo, YSL. She makes an
text: Emily face and strikes poses in the mirror in time with the
dialog: French song.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (channeling Emily)
dialog: “One’s not enough, ree’s too many,
dialog: two's just right. Just like tits.”
text: She smiles. The DOORBELL RINGS. Stephanie panics. She
text: desperately tries to unzip the dress. Not happening.
text: Stephanie races to the window and looks down. Sees a SEDAN
text: parked out front and Detective Meany at the front door. She
text: GASPS as HE LOOKS UP AND SEES HER.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Ms. Smothers? Can I talk to you?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (forced casual)
dialog: Sure thing! Coming right down.
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Shit, shit, shit. Oopsy.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 86
text: Trapped in the dress, Stephanie races downstairs, barefoot,
text: sti tugging at the zipper. She dives at the Sonos remote,
text: turns it off and yanks open the door.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi! Sorry! I was just - I left something
dialog: here and Sean gave me the key. For when I
dialog: bring Nicky home. We have an arrangement.
dialog: A deal! I meant a very domestic deal.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: You’re not under arrest, Ms. Smothers.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Ha! Ha ha. Well, I should hope not.
dialog: (suddenly sérious)
dialog: Sean's not home.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: I was hoping to speak to you, actually. I
dialog: went by your house and the school. Some
dialog: of the moms said you might be here.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, really. Who? It was Stacy, wasn’t it?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Can I come in?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Of course. Entre vous. Ha ha.
text: Stephanie clears the door, sweating, as Meany enters.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: I had a few follow-up questions.
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, I have more than a few myself.
text: Stephanie has a hard time sitting in the extremely tight
text: dress, but she manages an awkward pose on the divan.
scene_heading: _. _DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: You said Emily was your best friend.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She is. Was. It’s hard to get used to -
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Was she depressed?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE .
dialog: No. She had it all: the job, the house -
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: The husband.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I was getting there.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: The neighbors say they fought a lot.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, they had their issues. But they loved
text: each other. Intensely.
scene_heading: . DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Too intensely?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I think the exact right amount of
dialog: “intensely.”
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: What “issues” did they have?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Normal issues. They were stressed out
dialog: about money. Emily wanted to slow down.
text: Detective Meany produces a DOCUMENT.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: She slowed down all right. Here’s the
dialog: autopsy report.
dialog: (reading)
dialog: “Severe liver damage Suggesting heavy use
text: of alcohol. Track marks along her arms
dialog: and between her toes.” Were you aware of
dialog: her heroin use?
text: Stephanie’s eyes are as wide as a deer in the headlights.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Uh, I... no. I really don’t believe
dialog: that. She liked very strong martinis, b--
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: They found the needle.
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (reeling)
dialog: But -- how could she keep that a secret?
dialog: Not just from me. From Sean ...
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: You seem to know Sean pretty well.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (composing herself)
dialog: I’ve gotten to know him over the last few
dialog: weeks -- as friends helping each other
dialog: through a crisis.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Uh huh. I’m guessing youtve never dealt
dialog: with law enforcement before.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) 87
dialog: 
text: A YOUNGER STEPHANIE opens the door to TWO POLICEMAN with
text: grave expressions. Without sound, they begin telling her
text: about the accident with her husband and brother.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY - BACK TO PRESENT 88
dialog: 
text: Stephanie regains her composure.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Not really, no.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Then 1/11 simp plity this. Did Emily know
dialog: you were banging her husband?
text: Stephanie struggles to keep her wits.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That Ss a very rude way to put it.
dialog: (a deep breath)
dialog: The answer is no. Because it started
dialog: after she died. People grieve in very
dialog: different ways. We’ve been discreet;
dialog: we've been respectful of her memory.
dialog: No one knows. Not a single person in
dialog: Warfield, not even the children.
text: He stares at her a moment with a half-smile, toying with her.
text: Meany finally leans in, going for the knockout.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Were you aware that Sean took out an
dialog: extra four million dollar life insurance
dialog: policy on Emily before she disappeared?
text: Stephanie goes ash white.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, I ... I didn’t know that.
dialog: (mocking)
dialog: So, what are you saying? Sean hired a
dialog: “hitman”? That he rubbed her out?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: I never said that. But you just did.
dialog: 89
dialog: 90
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Look, I don’t appreciate your attitude,
dialog: quite frankly, Mr. Meany. { ou want to
dialog: grill anybody, ou should ta to Emily's
dialog: boss, Dennis Nylon. He couldn’t be more
dialog: suspicious.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: That’s interesting because he contacted
dialog: us and said that he thought you may know
dialog: more about all this than you’re letting
dialog: on.
dialog: (off her shocked look)
dialog: As long as you’re being honest with me,
dialog: Ms. Smothers, you've got nothing to worry
dialog: about. I’m just following bread crumbs,
dialog: wherever they lead.
text: Meany stands up, leaving Stephanie in her confounded state.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m done for now. Thank you for your
dialog: time. Nice dress, by the way. Her clothes
dialog: look good on you.
text: As he heads for the door, Stephanie erupts:
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Your theory doesn’t hold water. How does
dialog: it explain the fake plane ticket? The
dialog: rental car? Why drive to a Summer Camp in
dialog: Michigan to do heroin? There’s plenty of
dialog: good heroin right here in Connecticut!
dialog: ++. I’m told.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: I'll be in touch. Enjoy the new house.
text: As he heads out the door, she calls after him.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Those are the worst bread crumbs ever.
dialog: You couldn't fill a Caesar salad with
dialog: them.
text: As he vanishes, Stephanie is deep in thought, confused,
text: disgusted and finally ... determined. FRENCH POP KICKS IN.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 89
dialog: 
text: With kitchen shears, Stephanie cuts the Dolce dress up the
text: front and rips it off herself like Hulk. RRRIIIIIP!!!
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - HOME OFFICE - DAY 90
text: Stephanie goes ; through drawers, searching through Emily's
text: files and receipts, finding nothing much of interest. Pulls
text: out a large manila envelop that’s already been opened from a
text: pile. Written on the envelope is “EM - CAN YOU SIGN THESE? -—
text: INSURANCE GUY NEEDS THEM ASAP - THANKS! S.” She looks inside
text: the envelope but it’s empty. She looks a bit freaked.
text: FROM OUTSIDE, WE SEE STEPHANIE THROUGH THE OFFICE WINDOW. IS
text: THIS SOMEONE’S POV OR NOT? WE ARE UNSURE.
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: 61.
text: Stephanie stares at the writing on the envelope, thinking.
text: Suddenly, BANG! Stephanie GASPS as something hits the window.
text: Heart pounding, she stands and looks out the window.
text: STEPHANIE’S POV: A BIRD is on the ground, dazed from hitting
text: the window. It flops around a bit, recovers and flies off.
text: Stephanie catches her breath, recovering from the shock. Then
text: she looks at the writing on the envelope again, puts it back
text: in the pile and heads for the door.
scene_heading: EXT. CONNECTICUT COLLEGE - DAY 91
text: Happy, busy looking COEDS cross the paths en route to
text: classes. Stephanie moves across the campus, deep in thought.
scene_heading: EXT. CONNECTICUT COLLEGE - ENGLISH DEPT. - DAY 92
dialog: 
text: As Stephanie rounds the corner, she sees Sean with a very
text: attractive FEMALE T.A -- cool clothes, highlighted blonde
text: hair. A younger version of Emily. Sean and the girl walk out,
text: deep in flirty conversation. The girl laughs at a joke he
text: makes and then touches his arm gently. They hug.
text: Stephanie watches with a pit in her stomach.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY 93
dialog: 
text: All seated around the table, Stephanie, Sean, Miles and Nicky
text: eat in silence. Stephanie looks tense, pre- occupied.
speaker_heading: MILES
text: Mom, Nicky’s glass isn’t on the coaster.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What? Oh, Nicky, put Mr. Glass on Mr.
dialog: Coaster please.
text: Nicky rolls his eyes and moves his glass onto the coaster as
text: he crunches on his salad, confused.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Are these amino acids in this salad?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Those are just bread crumbs.
text: Determined, he keeps crunching. Stephanie hesitates, then ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Sean)
dialog: So how was work today?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Grim. I had to explain the difference
dialog: between “your” possessive and “you're”
text: ap postrophe R-E to a college junior.
dialog: Remarkable. That’s where my writing time
text: has gone. To proofreading illiterates.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I can see how that might ... drive a man
text: over the edge.
dialog: 62.
text: She's doing everything she can to contain her roiling soul.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: And what did you guys learn in school
text: today? Other than unmerited self-esteem.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: (mouth full)
dialog: I saw my Mom.
text: The dinner table goes silent. Sean and Stephanie meet eyes,
text: then look back at the boy, crunching on croutons.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I understand, buddy. We sometimes think
dialog: we see people we miss ... even if they’re
dialog: gone.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: (crunching loudly)
dialog: No, I saw her.
text: Stephanie is holding her breath. The crunching is maddening,
text: inescapable, like a tell-tale heart.
speaker_heading: NICKY (CONT’D)
text: She was right outside the fence by the
text: kickball yard. At recess.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Lots of people look like other people ...
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Nobody looks like Mom.
text: He finally looks up at a_ stunned Sean and Stephanie as the
text: crunching stops and he slurps his drink.
speaker_heading: NICKY (CONT’D)
dialog: She told me say hi to Stephanie.
text: Stephanie drops her knife onto her plate with a clank.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Nicky, this isn’t healthy.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Miles saw her too. Right, Miles?
text: Miles looks scared to be drawn into this.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I think I did, but ... I don’t know. I
dialog: was playing tetherball.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Did you two hatch this up? Is this some
dialog: game you’re playing? Like when you smash
dialog: everything with trucks. You know what we
dialog: say about lying?
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: I’m not lying! Fuck you, I saw her!
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Hey!
text: Nicky leaves the table and races upstairs. The other three
text: sit at the table in pained silence.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - TRASH AREA - DUSK 94
text: A preoccupied Stephanie is taking out the trash after dinner.
text: Suddenly, THERE'S MOVEMENT in the bushes.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hello? Is somebody there?
text: She moves forward cautiously when suddenly, WHOOSH! A BIRD
text: bursts out of the bushes and flaps past her. Stephanie GASPS,
text: then hustles back inside the house, freaked.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: AGH! STUPID BIRDS!
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - NICKY’S BEDROOM - DUSK 95
text: Both in their pajamas, Nicky and Miles clamber into their
text: bunk beds. Stephanie kisses Miles good night.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: ‘Night, Mom.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: ‘Night, Smooch.
text: Stephanie gets up and heads for the door.
speaker_heading: NICKY, ;
dialog: Don’t I get a kiss good night?
text: Stephanie heads over to his bed.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Qf course, you do. But you owe the oopsy
dialog: jar a quarter for earlier.
text: Stephanie leans over Nicky and pecks him on the cheek. As she
text: does, she smells something. Emily’s perfume?
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LAUNDRY ROOM - DUSK 96
dialog: 
text: Preoccupied, Stephanie checks the pockets of the boys’
text: clothes before she throws them into the washer. She pauses at
text: Nicky’s school clothes. Smells them. Emily’s perfume again.
text: Then she turns inside-out the pockets from NICKY’S CORDUROYS
text: to find: THE CHEVRON FRIENDSHIP BRACELET.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DUSK 97
dialog: 
text: As Stephanie heads through the EXPOSED GLASS ROOMS, she grows
text: nervous in the fishbowl.
dialog: 98
dialog: 99
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DUSK 98
text: For just a brief moment, we WATCH STEPHANIE from outside the
text: glass house, froma distant, anonymous POV. Stephanie seems
text: to sense someone behind the glass. She turns off the lights.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DUSK 99
text: Stephanie heads into the room. She pauses at the window for a
text: moment. Sean comes up behind her and pulls her close.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Let’s get naked.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean, wait. We need to have a talk about
text: Nicky’s laundry.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: About his laundry? Can we please hit
dialog: pause on the “Captain Mom” thing?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: The Captain Mom thing?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (sighs; knows he fucked up)
dialog: That’s just what Emily used to call you.
text: She was masking her own guilt. Because
dialog: you're such a saint.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m NOT a saint. And she knew that. If
dialog: anybody knew it, it was her!
text: Sean is confused by her demeanor.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I smell her, Sean. I smell her on Nicky.
dialog: Her perfume ... it’s like a ghost all
text: over him, all over his corduroys.
speaker_heading: EAN
dialog: He probably got into the bottle in the
dialog: medicine cabinet. He misses her. You're
dialog: getting paranoid.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Am I? Because I also found this.
text: She holds out the CHEVRON FRIENDSHIP BRACELET.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What is that?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: A friendship bracelet I made for Emily.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I hate to say it but she wouldn’t have
dialog: kept that. She hated that stuff. I’m sure
dialog: she gave it to him right after you gave
dialog: it to her.
dialog: 100
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (deflating)
dialog: Nicky and I were getting so close, but
dialog: ... now the way he’s ta king, Sean,
dialog: doesn’t _it worry you? Wouldn’t you think
dialog: we should get him a_ psychologist? They
dialog: can do a lot with play therapy: they | ave
text: these plastic figures in a sandbox.
dialog: mean, he’1ll smash all of them, but -
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Let’s let it rest for tonight.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: Or maybe he’s telling the truth.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Stephanie, you saw her with your own
text: eyes. In her coffin.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: There was something ... off.
speaker_heading: SEAN
text: She was dead. They found her at the
dialog: bottom of a lake. You saw her crazy
dialog: tattoo - and the ring she stole from my
dialog: mother.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She said your mother wanted her to have
dialog: that ring. She said she insisted.
text: Sean sits on the bed. He laughs darkly and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: God. Is that what she told you? That was
dialog: the ring my father gave my mother. It’s
dialog: the only piece of jewelry she ever owned.
dialog: whole life, I never saw her take it
dialog: off. I took Emily to England to meet my
dialog: mum after we eloped. That weekend, the
dialog: zing went missin: My mother was frantic.
dialog: ooked everywl ére. I went down to the
dialog: basement to tear apart the plumbing. We
dialog: never found it. My mother was devastated.
dialog: So, we flew back to New York ...
scene_heading: INT. TRANSATLANTIC FLIGHT (MOVING) - DAY (FLASHBACK 100
text: y and Sean sit side by side on the plane ride home from
text: ea They’re six years younger, radiant in love.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Guess what I found?
text: Emily reaches in her purse and pulls out the SAPPHIRE AND
text: DIAMOND RING, showing it to him.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Oh, thank god. Well done, my little
dialog: Sherlock! Mum will be so relieved.
dialog: 101
dialog: 102
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, Mum’s not getting this. She’1l take
dialog: it to the grave. What a waste.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Excuse me. Not amusing, my darling.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Not joking, my darling. I took it and I
dialog: have no intention of giving it back.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Of course you'll give it back. I’11 tell
dialog: Mum it dropped in your purse by accident,
dialog: that you au ain’ t find it until now.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: if you tell your mother that I found it,
dialog: tell her I stole it. What do you
dialog: think will be worse for her? Thinking she
dialog: lost her ring or knowing that her son
dialog: married a thief?
text: Sean is stunned by her cold cruelty. Emily slips off her
text: modest ENGAGEMENT RING and dons Sean’s mother’s antique.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Meet me in the bathroom in twenty
text: seconds. Knock twice.
text: Emily gets up and disappears up the aisle into the BATHROOM
text: STALL, shutting the door. Sean stares after her, his world
text: spinning on its axis. He married a monster.
text: He makes a decision, gets up and heads to the bathroom door.
text: Knocks twice. The door opens. He disappears inside.
scene_heading: INT. AIRPLANE BATHROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK) 101
text: We watch Emily and Sean’s faces as they make love in the
text: tight quarters. Sean stares at her as she stares back at him
text: intensely, passionately. The theft was her aphrodisiac.
speaker_heading: SEAN (V.O.)
dialog: Nicky was born nine months later.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - RESUMING 102
text: Sean and Stephanie hold each other's gaze.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: How could you stay with her?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She fascinated me. She was the one woman
dialog: I could never figure out. And as_an
dialog: arrogant young writer, that’s all that
dialog: mattered to me at the time. She was my
dialog: mystery ¢ but I was her dream. I could
dialog: never live up to what she wanted from me.
dialog: I could never be myself.
text: Stephanie just stares back at him, listening.
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: And I was always looking over m
dialog: shoulder. I never slept well. With you,
dialog: it’s different. I sleep like a log.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That’s what every woman wants to hear.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (smiles sweetly)
dialog: You know what I’m saying. You see me. You
dialog: understand me. You’ve rebuilt me,
dialog: Stephanie. I even started writing again,
text: part of a first chapter.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You did? That’s ... wonderful.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You took a broken man and you put him
dialog: back together. I’m a better person, a
dialog: better father. I’ve never known a woman
dialog: with your compassion and your strength.
text: Stephanie swallows hard, touched by his words. She nods.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Move in with me.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What? Sean. It’s too soon. What will
dialog: people think?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: They already think it. Why do we have to
dialog: lie? I’m tired of pretending, I want to
dialog: be this man, the man I am with you.
text: He strokes her cheek. She pulls back. Stiffens. Then ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I don’t do threesomes. We should get that
text: out in the open right now.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Your T.A.? You and Emily had your little
dialog: «+. thing with her.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Did Emily tell you that?
dialog: (off Stephanie’s look)
dialog: Stephanie, listen to me. Emily was a
dialog: pathological liar.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: steels herself)
dialog: Why did you take out a 4 million dollar
dialog: insurance policy on her?
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: SEAN
text: (a beat; shakes his head)
dialog: Good Lord, the cops have really done a
dialog: number on you. It’s because of you,
dialog: Stephanie. When you told Emily you were
dialog: living off your husband’s insurance
dialog: money, she realized that she and I both
dialog: needed policies. For Nicky’s sake. It was
dialog: the most responsible thing we ever did.
dialog: Thanks to you. Now is the interrogation
dialog: over, Detective Smothers?
dialog: (taking her hands)
dialog: Move in with me. We can start a new
dialog: wonderful life together. You and me and
dialog: the boys. Please say yes.
text: Stephanie stares into his eyes. She so wants this all to be
text: true that she can’t resist. She nods and hugs him.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I love you, Stephanie Smothers.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (eyes wide, then)
dialog: I love you, too.
text: MUSIC UP: MALA RODRIGUEZ'S “FUERZA” starts to play ...
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 103
text: AS THE SONG PLAYS, Stephanie takes Emily’s clothes out of the
text: closet and hangs them in garment bags. She replaces them with
text: her own clothes, less chic, more flowy. Eileen Fisher. She
text: raps along in Spanish, feeling empowered.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Me da igual gue estes ciego, no soy tu
dialog: parienta / Facil la cabeza te rebientan /
dialog: Se aplican sentencias en mi, andares
dialog: influencias...
text: She enters STEPHANIE'S CLOSET -
text: - coming face-to-face with the NUDE PORTRAIT. Avoiding eyes
text: with it, Stephanie pulls down the designer shoe boxes an
text: lifts the Tias to ogle the amazing shoes. Stephanie GASPS to
text: find one of the Manolo Blahnik’s contains a LADY PISTOL.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh my God.
text: In shock, Stephanie picks up the gun awkwardly, pinching the
text: barrel. She glances around the room, trying to figure out
dialog: where to put it.
text: She eyes the night stand drawer alongside Emily’s bed. She
text: opens it to find a GIANT HOT PINK GLASS DILDO. Stephanie
text: GASPS and returns the lady pistol to its original shoe box
text: and shoves it back on a high shelf, completely weirded out.
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - DAY 104
text: AS THE SONG CONTINUES, A “FOR SALE” sign goes up outside
text: Stephanie’s house with the name and info of a local realtor.
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
dialog: 107
dialog: 108
dialog: 109
dialog: 69.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - DAY 105
text: AS THE SONG CONTINUES, Stephanie takes down all personal
text: affects: Miles’ art work and their family pictures as she
dialog: continues to rap in Spanish:
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Niflas con deporte lo hacen con elegancia
dialog: / Yo, tengo presencia ...
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 106
text: AS THE SONG CONTINUES, Stephanie carries boxes of stuff from
text: a U-Haul truck to the front door. She’s moving in with Sean.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 107
text: AS THE SONG CONTINUES, Stephanie continues to rap as she
text: unzips her dress down’to her bra and underwear. She goes to
text: the closet to hang it back up, so happy.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Disfruta quitale importancia / No te
dialog: quejes tanto, tos tuvimos infancia --
text: When she slides open the door, her rap stops WITH A GASP:
text: ALL OF EMILY’S CLOTHES ARE BACK IN THE CLOSET, HANGING
text: EXACTLY AS THEY WERE BEFORE STEPHANIE REMOVED THEM.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (PRE-LAP) (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. I want to start
dialog: with something a bit different today.
scene_heading: ON VIDEO VLOG - KITCHEN 108
text: Stephanie addresses the camera at night.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I try to avoid any talk of religion on
dialog: this vlog: because I don’t want to offend
dialog: our non-denominational moms. But I do
dialog: believe we live on after we die. In some
dialog: fashion. So Emil - if you’re out there
dialog: «+. and you can ear me, I wanted to tell
dialog: you a few things. We all miss you more
dialog: than I can say. Nicky knows that you’1l
dialog: always be his mom. No one will ever
dialog: replace you. But he no longer cries at
dialog: night, like he used to. I know you
dialog: wouldn't want that. And I want you to
dialog: know that I_am preparing the most
dialog: nutritious food for him. I can never take
dialog: your place. All I can do is love the
dialog: people you used to love and try to_ make
dialog: their lives better. Which is what I know
dialog: you would want. Rest in peace, my dear
dialog: est friend. Wherever you are.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO (MOVING) - DAY 109
text: Stephanie drives Miles and Nicky home from school. They each
text: have a superhero figurine and crash them against each other.
text: Stephanie glances in the rear view getting stressed out.
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: It’s getting a little too rough back
dialog: there, guys.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Ha! I just killed you!
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: I came back to life! Like your Mom!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Okay! The dolls go in your backpacks or
dialog: they’re going in the trash! Now!
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Mom! They’re not dolls!
text: Nicky makes a face at Miles. He shoves his figure in his
text: backpack and remembers something, retrieving A SMALL SQUARE
text: BROWN ENVELOPE WITH THE NAME STEPHANIE WRITTEN NEATLY ON IT.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Oh. My mom told me to give you this.
text: stephanie looks in the rearview mirror at him, chilled, as_ he
text: holds out the envelop to her. She nearly drives through a RED
text: LIGHT and slams on the brake, the car spinning 180 as other
text: cars screech to a stop to avoid her. Both kids fly hard
text: against their car seat restraints. They sit in silence, then -
speaker_heading: NICKY (CONT’D)
dialog: That was awesome.
text: OFF STEPHANIE, heaving for breath --
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 110
text: The boys race upstairs. Stephanie listens to make sure
text: they’re in their room, then she rushes into the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 111
text: Stephanie tears open the envelope. She pulls out a photo:
text: A SMILING STEPHANIE HOLDS MILES, AGE 2, IN HER ARMS. NEXT TO
text: HER IS HER HUSBAND DAVIS AND NEXT TO HIM IS HER BROTHER
text: CHRIS. A grease pencil has been used to circle Miles and
text: Chris with an ARROW connecting them. Under Stephanie, is an
text: ARROW and the words “BROTHER FUCKER.”
text: Stephanie’s heart pounds » The phone RINGS. Stephanie jumps
text: out of her skin. She stiffens and reaches for the phone. The
text: CALLER ID says UNKNOWN. As she answers ...
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: You like the photo? You should be more
dialog: careful what you leave behind when you
dialog: try to sell a little gingerbread house.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Who is this?
dialog: 114
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: I’m just calling to say Thank you for all
dialog: that “nutritious food for Nicky,” you
dialog: Martha Steward wannabe. Oh, you’re just
dialog: squeaky clean, aren’t you? You’re not
dialog: fooling me. You fucked your brother,
dialog: Stephanie. I bet Miles isn’t even your
dialog: husband's kid. I thought I was warped,
dialog: but you have me beat by a landslide. And
dialog: what is this fetish with you? Fuckin
dialog: guys after funerals? Sick stuff, Dar
dialog: ide.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Tell me where you are.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Put up your hand. Don’t tell me how many
dialog: fingers you’re holding up.
text: Stephanie makes the peace sign in the air.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Two. Peace out.
text: Stephanie flinches. She moves to the window and squints out
text: at the woods.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Uh, uh, uh ... no cheating.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Why are you doing this?
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: How do you know it’s just me doing it?
text: Stephanie freezes when she hears this.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Kiss Sean for me. Four million times.
text: CLICK. The line goes dead. Stephanie can barely breathe.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO (MOVING) - DAY 112
dialog: 
text: Stephanie drives, gripping the steering wheel.
scene_heading: EXT. CONNECTICUT COLLEGE - ENGLISH DEPT. - DAY 113
dialog: 
text: Stephanie heads into the red brick building.
scene_heading: INT. CONNECTICUT COLLEGE - SEAN’S OFFICE - DAY 114
dialog: 
text: Sean corrects essays at his desk. Stephanie rushes in.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Hey. I didn’t know you were coming in.
dialog: I'd take you to lunch but I’m drowning.
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Are you trying to “Diabolique” me?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: There's a French movie about this gu
text: whose wife and mistress team up to kill
text: him. But then it turns out that he’s in
text: cahoots with the mistress to give the
dialog: wife a heart attack so they can collect
dialog: her_ inheritance. But I don’t have a four
dialog: million dollar life insurance policy, so
dialog: I can’t figure out why you’re trying to
dialog: GIVE ME A HEART ATTACK!
text: Sean takes her by the shoulders and talks to her like a child
text: having a tantrum, controlled and patronizing.
dialog: He breaks
dialog: There’s a
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Stephanie. You need to breathe. Nicky’s
dialog: getting to you. Emily is dead.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What about the missing tooth? And the
dialog: heroin? How could she just happen _to be
dialog: on heroin? We have to dest the police.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Tell them what? That the woman we buried
dialog: came back to life? They’re going to think
dialog: you’re insane. Do you really want to do
dialog: that to Miles and Nicky?
dialog: (holding her)
dialog: We may never have all the answers. Emily
dialog: was reckless. You know that as well as I
dialog: do. She overdid it for some reason. It
dialog: was just a stupid, tragic accident. You
dialog: understand that, right?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She called me today.
text: from the embrace.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She called me, Sean. She knew things
dialog: about me that I’ve never told anyone
dialog: else. She’s been watching us --
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: This is madness. I have a friend in the
dialog: Psychology department --
text: fast KNOCK on the door as someone enters.
speaker_heading: BETH (0.S.)
dialog: Hey, handsome. Got time for a visitor?
text: It’s the pretty T.A. BETH (20). She stops, surprised to see
text: Stephanie. Stephanie studies the two of them suspiciously.
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: BETH (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn’t know you were in a meeting.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Beth, this is Stephanie.
text: Beth shakes Stephanie’s hand, both women chilly.
speaker_heading: BETH
dialog: Nice to meet you.
dialog: (to Sean)
dialog: I was post gonna ask if you needed the
dialog: smart board today. ‘Cuz it’s broken.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I can live without it.
text: Beth nods, gives him a flirty smile and disappears.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Stephanie. Go home. Emily had a
dialog: prescription of Xanax in the medicine
dialog: cabinet. Take one. Take two.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Maybe she has some extra heroin lying
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: SEAN
text: This is all grief. Stages of grief.
text: Stephanie studies him, then takes a deep breath. Deflates.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You're right. I’m sorry, I - I think I’m
dialog: just overwhelmed. Sorry to bother you at
dialog: work and sorry about your... smart board.
text: She leaves quickly. Sean stares after her, then furrows his
text: brow, sinking deep into thought.
scene_heading: 115 INT. EMILY’S CLOSET - DAY 115
text: Stephanie stands in front of the NUDE PAINTING OF EMILY,
text: studying the pretty, enigmatic face ...
speaker_heading: EMILY (PRE-LAP)
dialog: Poor Stephanie. You just need someone to
dialog: love you ...
scene_heading: 116 INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 116
dialog: 
text: The fireplace is blazing. Emily and Stephanie nurse martinis.
text: Half-drunk, watching the fire.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I have you. All I need is a good friend.
speaker_heading: EMILY, ;
dialog: But don’t you miss sex? Having a man
dialog: throw you down and ravage you?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I barely remember what it’s like.
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Why are you such a masochist? You could
dialog: have a man in your bed any time you want.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I had a man. And I ruined it.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: How? What the hell does that mean?
text: Stephanie instantly regrets letting that slip. Emily sees
text: this is something deeper. She softens.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Tell me --
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’m your best friend. If you can’t tell
dialog: me, you can’t tell anyone.
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY (FLASHBACK) 117
text: A BBQ is in full swing. Stephanie is talking to her brother
text: Chris, more like flirting. She wears a sundress and a
text: ponytail, looking beautiful. She laughs as they talk.
text: MILES (age 2) tugs her skirt. Chris grabs his “nephew” and
text: tosses him in the air, too high £ for safety. Miles laughs
text: wildly, but Stephanie’s panic
text: There’s a loud KNOCK on the window pane of the kitchen. Her
text: husband DAVIS (40) watches, enraged. Stephanie scoops up
text: Miles in her arms and heads ...
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY (FLASHBACK) 118
text: -.- into the kitchen. She can see Davis is furious. Stephanie
text: nuzzles Miles and sets him down_in his high chair. Davis
text: watches as she brings Miles a plastic bowl of Cheerios.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: I need the truth.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: About Chris. And Miles.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: He’s my brother, Davis.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: You don’t act like it. Sometimes you look
dialog: more like lovers. Please, I need to know.
dialog: Is Miles mine or not?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Of course he is! My GOD, Davis, that’s
dialog: ridiculous. Listen to yourself.
dialog: 75.
text: Davis moves to the sink and tosses the dish into it with a
text: loud CRASH. He walks out the back screen door INTO THE YARD.
text: Stephanie watches, her stomach in her throat. Then:
text: CRASH! Miles throws his bowl of Cheerios down on the floor
text: and applauds with laughter! Stephanie looks out the window.
text: She can’t see Davis or Chris. Panicked, she races TO THE
text: FRONT DOOR and throws it open. She sees Davis and Chris
text: heading toward the driveway together.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Where are you going?
speaker_heading: CHRIS
dialog: Steph, it’s alright. Don’t worry. We're
dialog: going for a drive. We’re going to have a
dialog: ittle talk. Man-to-man. No problem.
text: Davis doesn’t acknowledge her as he climbs in the car. She
text: watches them pull away and waves, a pit in her stomach. The
dialog: last time she’ll see them again ...
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 119
dialog: 
text: Tears roll down Stephanie’s cheeks to remember.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: It’s all my fault. They’re both dead
dialog: because of me ...
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Sometimes people do terrible things. For
dialog: their own crazy reasons. That’s on them.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I miss him...
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Which one?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Both of them. I’m so lonely ... I think
dialog: loneliness probably kills more people
dialog: than cancer.
text: Emily strokes her hair. They hold each other’s gaze. Faces
text: close. Both a bit drunk. Emily leans in and plants a kiss on
text: Stephanie’s mouth. Stephanie melts into it. Parting her lips.
text: Tongues intertwined. Stephanie wants this. Emily pulls bac
text: Stephanie is mortified by her gaping desire, so obvious now.
text: Emily is totally casual. It was just a moment for her.
speaker_heading: EMILY,
dialog: Wanna order a pizza?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh my god. I’m so embarrassed.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, Jesus, don’t be. Not like I haven’t
dialog: kissed a girl before.
text: Stephanie rises, disoriented and hunts for her shoes.
dialog: 120
dialog: 121
dialog: 122
dialog: 123
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I have to go.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Take a taxi. You’re too drunk to drive,
dialog: lightweight.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S CLOSET - BACK TO PRESENT 120
dialog: 
text: Stephanie picks up the painting, then notices the top of some
text: writing hidden by the frame e pops off the frame,
text: revealing THE SIGNATURE OF THE ARTIST hidden under the
text: matting: DIANA HYLAND. Stephanie gets a determined look.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO (MOVING) - G.W. BRIDGE - DAY 121
text: Stephanie drives to the city. The PAINTING rides shotgun.
scene_heading: EXT. TRIBECA BUILDING - DAY 122
text: The painting in hand, Stephanie rings the buzzer.
speaker_heading: FEMALE VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Who is it?
text: Stephanie holds_up the PAINTING in front of a, SECURITY
text: CAMERA. She’s all business now, a new Stephanie.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Diana Hyland? Did you paint this?
text: The door just buzzes - and Stephanie pushes her way in,
text: trying to protect the painting from the weighted door.
scene_heading: INT. ART STUDIO LOFT - DAY 123
text: DIANA (50s) is a punky, severe artist with plaster in her
text: hair and a Sex Pistols T-Shirt. She studies the old portrait
text: as Stephanie’s eyes look around nervously. REVEAL there are
text: paintings of knives everywhere. ALSO, REAL KNIVES OF ALL
text: SHAPES AND SIZES FILL THE STUDIO. There’s bad energy in here.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: Where on earth did you find it?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I should start by giving you some
text: unfortunate news. Emily is dead.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: My condolences. Who the fuck is Emily?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: The girl. In the painting.
text: Diana absorbs this a beat. Then ...
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: Good.
dialog: (off Stephanie’ s look)
dialog: Her name wasn’t Emily. It was Claudia.
dialog: Little cunt ruined my life.
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (thrown; regroups)
dialog: Wow, I ... What happened?
text: Diana gazes at the painting, nostalgic. She picks up a
text: dangerous looking knife. ays with it absentmindedly as she
text: talks. Stephanie looks nervous, her eyes on the knife.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: She was just this beautiful sphinx, a
dialog: uzzle I could never figure out. And that
dialog: just made her more fucking compelling.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Yeah, I keep hearing that.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: She lured me in at a gallery show. I'd
dialog: started to sell some paintings. First
dialog: time in my career there was a buzz. And
dialog: there she was ... like a muse. Shit, I
dialog: fell so hard. I had to have her.
text: As Diana talks, INTERCUT FLASHBACKS OF DIANA PAINTING A SEMI-
text: NUDE EMILY IN HER STUDIO. Diana looks completely obsessed
text: with Emily as Emily flirts back with her demurely.
speaker_heading: DIANA (CONT'D)
dialog: Suddenly, all I could paint was her.
text: Every part of her. She just burrowed down
dialog: into me, under my skin.
text: See a montage of DIANA’S PAINTINGS OF EMILY’S BODY PARTS:
text: eroticized FEET, HANDS, THE ARCH OF A LOWER BACK. As Diana
text: paints, Emily smiles coyly and turns her face away.
speaker_heading: DIANA (CONT'D)
dialog: Except she never wanted me to show her
dialog: face. Refused. My new paintings started
dialog: getting bad reviews. Critics were writing
dialog: me off as_ some shitty erotic artist. They
dialog: said I’d lost my soul.
text: An increasingly agitated Diana walks toward Stephanie,
text: gesticulating with the knife at Stephanie as she speaks.
text: Stephanie tries to play cool but backs up slowly.
speaker_heading: DIANA (CONT'D)
dialog: She stole it from me. She fucking stole
dialog: my soul because she wouldn’t let me show
dialog: hers. But I didn’t care. I gave her
dialog: everything just to keep her happy, just
dialog: to keep her here. But I could never reach
dialog: her. She was like ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: A ghost?
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: Right. A fucking expensive one. I paid
dialog: her debts. I paid for her college.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Did you cover any dental work?
dialog: 78.
text: Diana stops. Seems to come back to reality.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: That's a weird fucking question. No, she
dialog: had perfect teeth. Every part of her was
dialog: perfect. Every fucking inch.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Any heroin use you ever saw?
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: Smack? Ha. No way. Too vain. She was just
dialog: a pretty little grifter. And she had
dialog: plans. The day after she graduated, she
dialog: cusappeared wee
dialog: (points to the painting)
dialog: ong with that painting, the only
dialog: one I ever did of her face. Tf was
dialog: convinced it was the one that was going
dialog: to put me back_on the map but then it was
dialog: gone and I couldn’t recreate it. Not
dialog: without her. I bottomed out. I wanted to
dialog: kill her, to track her down and actually
dialog: kill her. But the guilt of feeling that,
dialog: well ... I almost_offed myself. Funny -
dialog: that painting would be worth a lot more
dialog: if I had. Maybe that was her plan. She
dialog: was always looking for a big score. All
dialog: she wanted was to be rich.
text: stephanie takes this in, her mind racing. Diana stares at the
dialog: knife sadly.
speaker_heading: DIANA (CONT'D)
dialog: Now all I do is paint fucking knives. I
dialog: don’t even know why - Nobody wants this
dialog: shit except for biker bars and Satanists.
dialog: Goddamned Claudia. She destroyed me. But
dialog: I guess it’s my fault for always falling
dialog: for the fucked up ones. I never learn.
text: Diana looks at Stephanie and walks toward her, pointing the
text: knife at her. She gets an obsessive look in her eyes.
speaker_heading: DIANA (CONT'D
dialog: I could paint you. You look sweet. Fresh.
dialog: Normal. Not fucked up. Like you’re some
dialog: little saint.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (standing her ground)
dialog: Yeah, I get that a lot. I really hate
dialog: when people say that.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: Embrace it. People love saints.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Only after they’re dead.
text: Diana stops right in front of Stephanie, inches away, the
text: knife between them, the blade close to Stephanie’s face
text: Stephanie stares her down. Diana smirks.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: How did Claudia die?
dialog: 124
dialog: 125
dialog: 126
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: She drown in a lake at some summer camp
text: in Michigan. High on heroin.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: Bullshit. You don’t believe that, do you?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: Not for a second. I’m sure she’s alive.
text: Diana studies Stephanie, then smiles and heads to a CHEST at
text: the edge of the room, opening it to reveal S&M EQUIPMENT.
speaker_heading: DIANA
dialog: She left this behind. I saved it. She
dialog: said she had it since she was a kid.
text: She pulls out a faded old T-SHIRT: “SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP.
text: MICHIGAN, USA.” She tosses it to Stephanie.
speaker_heading: DIANA (CONT'D
dialog: She’s a survivor. But if she wants to
text: vanish, poof. She hits reset. only way
dialog: you'll ever find her: FOLLOW THE MONEY.
text: Off Stephanie’s look ...
scene_heading: EXT. TRIBECA BUILDING - DAY 124
text: As Stephanie exits, she leaves a message for Sean.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (ON HER PHONE)
dialog: Sean, Stephanie. I thought about what you
dialog: said and you're right. These are stages
dialog: of grief. This whole experience has been
dialog: stressful for both of us. I need to hit
dialog: the reset button, as Emily would say. I
dialog: need a day or two to be by myself. I’m
dialog: going to have Sona pick up the boys and
dialog: et them sleep at her place tonig t so
dialog: they can play with Hector and Ashley. You
dialog: should take some time too. There’s mango
text: and quinoa stew in the freezer. Five
dialog: minutes in the micro. Don’t forget to
dialog: stir. Lots of love.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO (MOVING) - HIGHWAY - DUSK 125
text: Stephanie drives, on a mission. The radio plays a HIP-HOP
text: STATION. Rihanna’s “BITCH BETTER HAVE MY MONEY.”
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: “Bitch better have my money! / Y'all
dialog: should know me well enough / Bitch better
dialog: have my money! Please don't call me on my
dialog: bluff / Pay me what you owe me / Turn up
dialog: to Rihanna while the whole club fuckin'
dialog: wasted ... “
dialog: So much for the oopsy jar.
scene_heading: EXT. MICHIGAN MOTEL - LOT - DUSK 126
text: Stephanie pulls into a Michigan roadside motel, seedy and
text: almost empty. She gets out and heads to the MAIN OFFICE.
dialog: 127
dialog: 128
dialog: 129
dialog: 80.
scene_heading: INT. MICHIGAN MOTEL - STEPHANIE’S ROOM - NIGHT 127
dialog: 
text: Stephanie sits on the bed in a dingy room, making a call from
text: the land line. A commercial for LITTLE DEBBIE CHOCOLATE
text: CUPCAKES plays on the TV. Stephanie stares at it, then ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, hi there, my name is - Deborah.
dialog: Little Deborah.
text: Panicking, she glances quick at a cheesy painting of rolling
text: hills. Lying like this is new to her and she’s lousy at it.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I mean, Hills. Deborah Hills.
dialog: My friends call me Little. Off-topic,
dialog: sorry. So ... I’m looking for a summer
dialog: camp for my son who is refusing his Bible
dialog: study like Lima beans. I hate to be pushy
dialog: but I travel a lot and I won’t be back in
dialog: town. for a while. Could I tour your
dialog: facility tomorrow morning?
scene_heading: EXT. SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP - ESTABLISHING - DAY 128
dialog: 
text: Stephanie’s car drives through the front gates of a rundown
text: campground. A sign reads “SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP” with a big
text: crucifix on it. The place is the definition of creepy.
scene_heading: EXT. SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP - DAY 129
text: The owners of the cam MARYANNE and BOBBY CHELKOWSKY, both
text: 40s, upbeat and out o " shape in their Squaw Lake Bible Camp
text: attire, stroll alongside Stephanie through the campground
text: toward the lake where Emily’s body was found.
speaker_heading: MARYANNE
dialog: We've been saving young souls going on
dialog: fifty years now. Not Bobby and me
dialog: personally, the camp. But we’ve still
dialog: een here a while and we'd be happy to
dialog: help your son see the light too.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, it just seems perfect.
dialog: (looking at the lake)
dialog: My son is practically a por, poise. He's
dialog: going to love swimming in this pond.
speaker_heading: MARYANNE
dialog: That’s Abel Lake. It’s where we have our
dialog: canoeing competition and our baptisms.
dialog: The kids all joke that it’s holy water.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: (his favorite joke)
dialog: Any fish you pull out of there is
dialog: guaranteed to feed a multitude.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Ha ha, that’s a good one. So funny.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Is it safe, though? Didn’t I read
dialog: somewhere that someone just drown in it?
dialog: 130
dialog: 81.
text: Bobby and Maryanne exchange a worried look. Try to recover.
speaker_heading: MARYANNE
dialog: Oh, that had nothing to do with the camp.
dialog: We were closed at the time. Just some
dialog: oor soul who wandered in here and found
dialog: er salvation in the lake. But don’t
dialog: worry. We watch our kids like a hawk.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Yeah, we’re so on top of them, they can
dialog: barely have any fun.
text: Maryanne gives him a “shut up, you idiot” look.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, that’s great news. Hey, do you have
dialog: any old photo albums or yearbooks I can
dialog: look at? I think there’s no better review
text: of a camp than the faces of the campers.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Oh, heck yeah. Got_a ton of them down in
dialog: the basement. You‘1l see nothing but
dialog: smiles in all of ‘em. I guarantee it.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN OFFICE - BASEMENT - DAY 130
text: An overhead bare bulb illuminates the musty basement. Cobwebs
text: and dust coat everythin Stephanie sifts through a box of
text: old books. She pulis out a stack of “SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP
text: YEARBOOKS,” scanning to SUMMER 2000.
text: Stephanie flips through book after book. Not quite sure what
text: she’s looking for, studying the young faces.
text: Finally a SINGLE IMAGE grabs her: TWO IDENTICAL TWIN GIRLS
text: (AGE 9), their arms around each other. They’re lean, fair,
text: blue-eyed. There’s a vague resemblance to Emily. Could it "be?
text: Suddenly the names grab Stephanie: HOPE AND FAITH MCLENNAN.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hope and ... Faith?
text: Stephanie pulls out the UNFLATTERING FAXED PICTURE: “GOTTA
text: HAVE FAITH.” STEPHANIE TAKES OUT HER PHONE AND SNAPS A
text: PICTURE OF THE TWINS. She starts rifling through the pages,
text: seeing and SNAPPING PHONE PICS of a SERIES OF AWARDS PAGES:
scene_heading: The MCLENNAN SISTERS won nearly every ribbon: FASTEST
scene_heading: CANOEING DUO, BEST SWIMMERS, HOT DOG EATING CHAMPIONS, THREE-
text: LEGGED RACE WINNERS ... the list is an endless procession of
text: grim summer accolades. Stephanie SNAPS A PIC. Must be Emily.
speaker_heading: BOBBY (0.S.)
dialog: Take a picture, it’1ll last longer. Oh,
dialog: you already are.
text: She startles and looks up the creepy staircase at Bobby. He
text: smiles at his joke but suddenly seems more menacing as he
text: blocks the only way out of the basement. He walks down.
dialog: 131
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: BOBBY (CONT'D)
dialog: You must be mother "of the gosh-darn-year.
dialog: Most parents drop their kids off here ...
text: they barely slow down the car.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, my son gets homesick. I like to
dialog: prepare him. I hope you don’t mind me
dialog: taking some snaps. I thought I’d show him
dialog: a bunch of these fun photos.
dialog: (showing the yearbook)
dialog: Boy, these McLennan sisters sure got on a
dialog: winning streak. They must have been popular.
text: Bobby looks ashen - as if he’s seen a ghost. His eyes narrow.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: Nowadays we put a’ emphasis on playing
dialog: fair.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Are you suggesting they cheated in the
dialog: hot dog eating competition?
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I don’t recall.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: The contest? Or the twins?
text: He stares at her coldly now, fun no more. A tense smile.
speaker_heading: BOBBY
dialog: I truly hope your boy will join us here.
dialog: We've gotta get back to work now. Thank
dialog: you for your visit.
text: Bobby gestures for Stephanie to leave. Stephanie forces a
text: grateful smile and turns to put back the yearbook. As she’s
text: closing the book, she sees _a banner at the top of a page:
text: “Squaw Lake Biblé Camp would like to thank the MCLENNAN
text: FAMILY for their generous donation.” She clocks this.
scene_heading: INT. MICHIGAN MOTEL - STEPHANIE’S ROOM - DAY 131
text: Stephanie sits in front of Google and a long list of CROSSED-
text: OUT NAMES, beginning at Adam Mclennan and spanning down to
text: “McLennan Foundation.” She dials another number. Someone
text: answers but drops the phone.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Is this the McLennan Foundation?
text: There’s a fumbling pause, and then:
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (0.S.)
dialog: Who is this?
text: Stephanie glances at the application from the camp.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi there! My name is Maryanne Chelkowsky,
dialog: I'm the director of Squaw Lake Bible camp-
dialog: 132
dialog: 133
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (0.S.)
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well, we are planning the fiftieth
dialog: anniversary reunion edition of our Camp
dialog: Gazette ... and I’m trying to track down
dialog: some of our star alumni! Do you happen to
dialog: be of any relation to Hope and Fait
dialog: McLennan?
text: A second phone picks up and another voice comes on, BRUCE
dialog: (60s), THE CARETAKER:
speaker_heading: BRUCE (0.S.)
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (0.S.)
dialog: Bruce? It’s that camp. The girls must
dialog: have done something again. God have mercy
dialog: on me if those girls need to come home
text: early again.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (0.S.)
dialog: The girls are long gone, Mrs. M. You just
dialog: go on back to your chair.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (0.S.)
dialog: It’s filthy in there, Bruce. I’ve asked
dialog: you a thousand times --
speaker_heading: BRUCE (0.S.)
dialog: (short)
dialog: I'll be right in, Mrs. M.
text: There’s the sound of the phone dropping again. Stephanie
text: hears Bruce breathing into the phone. She ventures ahead ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Yes, Bruce, I was just speaking to Mrs.
dialog: McLennan about our 50th reunion--
text: Click. The line goes dead. Stephanie knows she hit paydirt.
scene_heading: EXT. MCLENNAN MANOR - DAY 132
text: Stephanie has pulled onto the shoulder of the road, staking
text: out a SPRAWLING MANSION, a near-ruin of dingy columns and
text: colonnades. Vines have grown over a monogrammed gate. The
dialog: lineage of some great industrialist family has ended with a
text: whimper here.
text: As she moves along a gate, she sees - the WEST WING OF THE
text: MANSION has been completely BURNED DOWN. It’s charred rubble
text: has been jpartitioned off with plywood and tarps, blowing like
text: ghost sails in the wind.
text: Stephanie stops at the MAILBOX where she pulls out the day’s
text: mai She races back to her car as the rain turns to hail.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S VOLVO - MOMENTS LATER 133
text: She sorts through the mail: Bills for BRUCE HARGRAVE. A
scene_heading: massive CATALOG for Margaret Mclennan: “OLD MONEY STYLE:
scene_heading: VANDERBILT ON A VAN-DE-KAMP’S BUDGET.”
dialog: 84.
text: Stephanie perks up as she sees BRUCE (60s), walking out of
text: the house in coveralls with a hunting shotgun over his
text: shoulder. He’s an old caretaker with a ghoulish quality. He
text: hops into his old truck and takes off down the driveway.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Take your time, Bruce.
text: Here’s Stephanie’s chance. Deftly, she ties a handkerchief
text: over her head like a 50s HOUSEKEEPER, grabs freshly purchased
text: cleaning equipment (mop, bucket, feather duster) out of a
text: Target bag, and rushes out into "the storm.
scene_heading: 134 EXT. MCLENNAN MANSION - MOMENTS LATER 134
text: Stephanie rings the bell. We can tell she’s been at the door
text: for a while. She rings the doorbell again, which echoes in a
text: vast chasm inside. She bangs a last time.
text: Then, like the lid of a coffin, the door creeps open anda
text: FRAIL HAND appears in the crease. An old woman’s eyes peer
text: out at Stephanie in the slanting rain.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Mrs. McLennan? Hello! I’m Gloria. I’m
text: from the cleaning service.
text: Mrs. McLennan stares back with bewildered eyes.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, goodness. Did Bruce not tell you? He
dialog: Said I was supposed _to clean the entire
dialog: house until you could eat a four-course
dialog: meal off the floors. Did I get the date
dialog: wrong?
text: The old woman makes a hard, irritable face. She closes the
text: door. Dammit. But then it opens again, unlatched and pulled
dialog: wide for her.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
text: Start in the downstairs bathroom.
scene_heading: 135 INT. MCLENNAN MANOR - BATHROOM - DAY 135
dialog: 
text: Her plan has backfired as Stephanie, in rubber gloves, cleans
text: an extremely dirty toilet. Exasperated, she looks up at a
text: giant JESUS portrait over the toilet. She eyes him, guilty.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (to the portrait)
dialog: Well, it’s not_lying if I’m really
dialog: cleaning the place.
scene_heading: 136 INT. MCLENNAN MANOR - CORRIDOR - AFTERNOON 136
dialog: 
text: As Stephanie wanders with her bucket, lightning flashes in
text: the gauzy curtains. She looks at old’ pictures of SCOWLING
text: INDUSTRIALISTS on the wall. She finally stops at one picture -
text: - HOPE AND FAITH. They stare ahead with hard faces, arm-in-
text: arm, as if unified against the photographer.
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (0.S.)
dialog: Bruce! The fire’s dying. Bruce!
text: Stephanie takes off her head wrap and hustles ahead.
scene_heading: 137 INT. MCLENNAN MANOR - SITTING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 137
text: As Stephanie feeds wood onto the fire, Mrs. McLennan is now
text: seated on her red velvet chair, thumbing through an “OLD
text: MONEY STYLE CATALOG.” Stephanie sees a massive FORMAL
text: PORTRAIT of a younger Mrs. McLennan in an evening gown above
text: the grand piano.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I couldn't help but notice that lovely
dialog: picture of your daughters.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: What have they done now?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Nothing, no. I was just commenting on how
dialog: beautiful they are. You must be a very
dialog: proud mother.
text: Mrs. McLeannan clears her throat and leans forward. She seems
text: to have lost track of who Stephanie is without the head wrap.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: I don’t know what sort of donation you're
text: looking for, but the well has gone dry.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, I’m not looking for any money.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: Well, you must be the only one. My
dialog: husband lost a fortune in the recall of
dialog: 798. I warned him, you know. It was a
dialog: defect with the airbags. Do you know
dialog: anything about airbags, Miss?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m afraid not.
scene_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN .
dialog: What good are you then? Where is Bruce?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Bruce has gone out for a while. So your
dialog: daughter Faith ...? She had some
dialog: troubles, I take it.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: She restored my faith, all right. In the
dialog: devil.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That's a very strong statement coming
dialog: from a mother.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: Are you a mother?
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I am. I love every minute of it.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: Well, you must have brain damage. It’s a
dialog: thankless business. And some children are
dialog: born rotten. They don’t need a parent,
dialog: they need an exorcist. My husband
dialog: understood that.
text: The old woman rises ... and heads to a HUGE BOOKSHELF. She
text: pulls out a dictionary to reveal a HIDDEN BOTTLE.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (CONT’D
dialog: Don’t tell Bruce about this. It’s
dialog: unseemly the way that man polices me.
dialog: Would you like some sherry?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, thank you. Sweet of you to offer.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: (opens bottle; smells it)
dialog: Oh, that’s not the sherry. It’s the gin.
text: The sherry must be behind another book.
text: She looks up at the massive bookcase, hundreds of tomes. It’d
dialog: take her a month to look behind all of them. Then she shrugs
text: and returns to the chair with her straight gin.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: So what ever happened to Faith?
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: The family shame. We paid so much money
dialog: for that girl and her rehabilitation. Is
dialog: there any service where one pays so
dialog: dearly to get so little?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: She was using drugs?
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: drinking)
dialog: Oh please do pay attention. Hope tried to
dialog: take care of her, to get her off that
dialog: stuff, I know - but of course Hope is a
text: born liar. With terrible posture.
text: An idea comes over Stephanie. She unfolds the FAX from her
text: Rocket ,with “GOTTA HAVE FAITH” written across the bottom.
text: he military coat, the sunken cheeks.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Mrs. McLennan. Do you recognize anyone in
dialog: this picture?
text: Stephanie thrusts the picture in front of the old woman’s
text: eyes. Suddenly, some recognition seems to come into her
text: oblivious features. She looks back at Stephanie with a new
text: expression of fear.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: Faith. What does she want now? Who are
dialog: you? Did she send you?
dialog: 87.
scene_heading: STEPHANIE MRS. MCLENNAN (CONT'D)
dialog: No, ma‘am. I’m not even sure-- Are you the police?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, no, I’m just asking -
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: I've told you all a thousand times, my
dialog: memory isn’t very good anymore. It won’t
text: stand up in court. The night of the fire,
dialog: my husband and I were estranged. We were
dialog: in separate wings of the house. I was in
dialog: the east wing.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: A fire burned down the west wing?
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: Lord, you’re so dense. May, 2001. I’m
dialog: exceptional with dates. Unless it’s
dialog: today’s. Is it Wednesday? Are you an
dialog: insurance agent?
text: Stephanie swallows with guilt. It hurts to lie to this old
text: woman in her state, but —
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN
dialog: (softening again)
dialog: Oh good. Bruce and I have been waiting
dialog: for the insurance money. My husband's
dialog: stamp collection alone was worth a
dialog: fortune. But you’ve got that ridiculous
text: clause about arson. Vultures.
text: She toasts her bottle of gin.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Here's to being “house poor.”
text: The phrase strikes Stephanie as familiar - but just then,
text: with a loud squeak, the FRONT DOOR swings open down the hall.
text: Stephanie stiffens at the sound - and Mrs. McLennan panics,
text: too, handing her the bottle of gin.
speaker_heading: MRS. MCLENNAN (CONT’D)
dialog: It’s Bruce. Hide this.
text: With booming heavy footsteps, Bruce comes down the hall.
text: Stephanie pulls aside books to hide the bottle, but finds a
text: different bottle behind each.
text: Finally she drops it into her bucket beside the toilet brush.
text: She can think of nothing else but to grab the huge “OLD MONEY
text: STYLE” CATALOG from the end table beside Mrs. McLennan as
text: BRUCE APPEARS IN THE DOORWAY, HOLDING HIS SHOTGUN IN ONE HAD
text: AND A DEAD GOOSE BY THE NECK IN THE OTHER.
text: Stephanie tries not to freak. She waves the magazine in the
text: air as she squeezes past a glaring Bruce in the doorway.
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Thank you very much for your time, Mrs.
dialog: McLennan. We'll process your order for
text: the faux Chanel suit in ivory and the
dialog: taupe scarf ... we’ll put a rush on it.
text: She bolts to the front door, hurriedly unlatching lock until -
scene_heading: 138 EXT. MCLENNAN MANOR - AFTERNOON 138
text: - she’s outside, dashing back to her car.
scene_heading: 139 INT. STEPHANIE’S VOLVO - AFTERNOON 139
text: Hands shaking, Stephanie starts the car and drives quickly
text: down the driveway, looking back in her rearview mirror for
text: Bruce. She looks forward and GASPS, slamming on the brakes.
text: BRUCE STANDS IN FRONT OF HER CAR, SHOTGUN ON HIP, THE
text: DRIVEWAY GATES CLOSED BEHIND HIM. Looking like an ax
text: murderer, BRUCE stands in her headlights. He slowly starts to
dialog: walk forward.
text: Stephanie is hyperventilating as he comes to her window. Her
text: eyes are wide. Should she try to ram the gate? It’s too
text: heavy. Bruce taps on the window with the barrel of his
text: shotgun. Sweating, she rolls it down, her face pale.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Where do you think you’re going?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I wanted to order the Navy blazer. Extra
dialog: large.
text: Exhale. She nods yes as he goes and opens the driveway gates.
scene_heading: 140 INT. LOCAL LIBRARY - DAY 140
text: Stephanie approaches the LIBRARIAN'S DESK.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi. I’m looking for all arson-related
dialog: news items from Wayne County in 2001.
scene_heading: AT A MICROFICHE CARREL
text: Stephanie scans an article in a local newspaper dated May 3,
text: 200 The headline reads: “Teen Twins Vanish After Deadly
dialog: House Fire”
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: Holy smokes.
text: Stephanie scrolls the article, collecting phrases like
text: “trapped in the house”... “suspicion of arson”... “possible
dialog: abduction”...
scene_heading: 141 ON VIDEO VLOG - INT. MICHIGAN MOTEL - DAY 141
dialog: 
text: Stephanie addresses the camera from her motel room.
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. I’m coming to
dialog: you today from Michigan for a special on-
dialog: the-road edition. As you all know, I've
dialog: been struggling to find closure around
dialog: the tragic death of my best friend. So I
text: drove to the lake where she drowned, just
dialog: seeing if I could dredge up a little
dialog: something.
scene_heading: 142 INT. WARFIELD INN - EMILY’S MOTEL ROOM - DAY 142
text: Emily watches the VIDEO vlog of Stephanie, slack-jawed.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You crazy bitch.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (ON COMPUTER)
dialog: At first, I just couldn't figure why
dialog: anyone would drive to Michigan just to
text: shoot heroin and jump in a lake.
dialog: (a smile)
dialog: I could only” figure that this particular
dialog: watering hole had sentimental value.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No, no, no, no, no...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (ON, COMPUTER)
dialog: Turns out, it was the site of many a
dialog: canoe racé for Camp Squaw Lake, a Bible
dialog: Camp that only a_saint could love. I had
dialog: to dig throu plenty of camp journals:
dialog: they had no ining system. But I finally
text: found a picture of Emily. Or Claudia.
text: She holds up the SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP GAZETTE PICTURE.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Motherfucker.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (ON COMPUTER)
dialog: It’s like looking at an angel, isn’t it,
dialog: moms? And it gave me the closure I
dialog: needed. It made me feel closer to her
dialog: than I’ve ever felt. Almost like a
dialog: sister. So, wherever you are, Emily ... I
dialog: really HOPE you’re listening ... you’ve
dialog: gotta have Faith.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Mother. Fucker.
scene_heading: 143 INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 143
text: Stephanie unlocks the door and enters.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Mom’s home!
text: Miles flies at her and hugs her as Nicky rounds the corner.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, Smooch. I missed you.
dialog: 90.
text: Miles glances over at the table, suddenly looking caught and
text: guilty. There’s a glass of milk without a coaster under it.
speaker_heading: MILES
dialog: Sorry, mom. I forgot.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You know what? Forget Mr. Coaster. Mr.
dialog: Glass can stand wherever he wants.
speaker_heading: MILES
text: (looks at her oddly)
dialog: Are you okay, mom?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE ;
dialog: I’ve never been better, sweetie.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Where were you? Why did we have to sleep
text: at Hector’s? He pees the bed.
text: Sean emerges from the kitchen with a whiskey in hand.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: They could've stayed with me, you know.
text: The sight of him unnerves her. She quickly regroups.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I thought we all needed a breather. I
dialog: know I feel like a million bucks.
text: Stephanie heads up the stairs.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (under her breath)
dialog: Maybe even four million.
text: Sean studies her, suspicious now.
scene_heading: 144 INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT 144
text: Stephanie emerges from the bathroom in a nightgown carrying
text: her clothes. Séan watches her from the bed.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Since when do you undress in the
dialog: bathroom?
text: Stephanie shrugs and shoves her clothes in the hamper.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn’t like the way we left things.
text: Sean moves up behind her at the mirror as she brushes her
text: hair. His hands slide up her body, cupping her breasts. She
text: moves away. He tries to joke, but he’s frustrated.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Cold hands? Bad breath? What’s wrong?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m just tired. It was a long drive and
text: the Stuckey’s isn’t sitting well.
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
dialog: 91.
text: Stephanie climbs into bed and turns on her side, her back to
text: Sean. He eyes her, writhing inside. She’s wrapping him around
text: her finger now.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’m tired of women lying to me.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I know just what you mean. Good night.
text: She reaches over and turns off the lamp beside her bed.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - OFFICE - DAY 145
text: stephanie sits at Sean’s desktop computer and clicks on the
text: hard drive. Everything is neatly organized.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Follow the money ...
text: She finds the folder labeled FAMILY FINANCE and opens it.
text: Sees INSURANCE EMILY-2 and clicks on the PDF. It opens up a
dialog: standard confirmation letter from Allied Insurance. She
text: scrolls to the bottom for the customer service number. Dials.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi, my name is Beth. I’m calling on
dialog: behalf of my boss Sean Townsend regarding
dialog: his wife Emily Nelson's policy.
dialog: (gading account nu
dialog: CT7602258. Do you know the name of the
dialog: agent who handles that account?
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 146
text: Stephanie opens a fake e-mail account under the name
text: bhargrave@gmail.com, then drafts an e-mail to
dialog: iprager@alliedinsurance.com.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: “Dear Mr. Prager .-.. My name is Bruce
dialog: Hargrave. I’m writing to you about a case
dialog: you’re handling for Emily Nelson,
dialog: recently deceased. I have been the
dialog: caretaker of her family estate for many
dialog: years. What I have to say will sound
dialog: crazy, but years ago, m aan loyer died in
text: a house fire. His teen aug) ters, Hope
dialog: and Faith, disappeared without a_ trace.
dialog: I’m attaching an old photo as well as
dialog: some articles about the fire. I have
dialog: reason_to believe one of the girls died
dialog: recently under the name Emily Nelson.
dialog: Before you shell out that money, you
text: should know that she had a TWIN SISTER.
dialog: And while it may sound extreme to think a
dialog: gizi could kill her twin to stage her own
dialog: leath, I’m sure you run into a myriad of
dialog: strange situations in your line of work.
dialog: (thinks )
dialog: While I want to see justice served, I
dialog: prefer to be left out of this. Please
dialog: consider this an anonymous tip. Best
dialog: wishes, Bruce Hargrave.
dialog: 147
dialog: 92.
text: Stephanie’s cursor hovers over the SEND button. And ...
text: CLICK. Stephanie lets out a long slow exhale.
scene_heading: INT. DOLCE VITA RESTAURANT - GREENWICH VILLAGE - DAY 147
dialog: 
text: A trendy Italian restaurant. Sean sits alone in a corner
text: booth, annoyed. He huffs and dials his cell phone.
speaker_heading: SEAN (ON PHONE
dialog: Hi, this is Sean Townsen I was supposed
dialog: to meet Billy Kent for lunch?
dialog: (his face drops)
dialog: What do you mean? You called two days ago
dialog: to set it up.
text: A shadow falls over Sean. He looks up and sees -- Emily
text: standing over him in a baseball cap and shades.
speaker_heading: SEAN (ON PHONE) (CONT’D)
dialog: Nevermind. No, don’t call him.
text: He hangs up. Emily slides into the booth.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: We spent every anniversary here, you
dialog: dumbshit. How could you not put it
dialog: together? You’ve got “Mommy brain” now?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (in shock, then)
dialog: Why, Emily? why?
text: She takes a breadstick from beside him and crunches on it.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I have four million reasons.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: How could you do this to Nicky?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I did this for Nicky. I hated that job: I
dialog: never got to See him. And you clearly
dialog: only had one book in you. We couldn’t
dialog: exactly live off the faculty buffet the
dialog: rest of our lives. I was going to buy us
dialog: our freedom and . it would have worked
dialog: perfectly ... ae con just hadn’t shacked
dialog: up with Miss Zuce ini fucking Cookie.
text: Sean has to look down into his plate. He’s dizzy.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Whom did I bury?
speaker_heading: EMILY .
dialog: Let’s not split hairs over the details.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I was grieving your death.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: That’s how you grieve? Balls deep in my
dialog: “best friend?” That’s some renegade
dialog: therapy.
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She's been good to Nicky. At a time when
dialog: he really needed it.
text: Emily seethes at this comment. It disrupts her usual aplomb.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, she’s been good to Nicky? That’s what
dialog: drew you to her, her extraordinary
dialog: mothering. You're all just little horny
dialog: boys, aren’t you?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You could have told me something. Anything.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Except pon can’t keep a secret. Even in
dialog: the dar you almost ruined everything.
dialog: I was just gonna lay low until the
dialog: insurance money came through.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: So why didn’t you? Instead you’ve been
dialog: terrorizing your son, making me think he
dialog: and Stephanie had gone mad. Why didn’t
dialog: you stick to your plan?
text: Emily's face wilts, showing sincere longing.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I missed Nicky. He’s my little man.
dialog: (reclaiming her iciness)
text: Anyway, the clock is ticking. Nancy Drew
dialog: knows too much and if she fucks up that
dialog: insurance money y then I’m taking you down
dialog: with me. Don’t forget, Sean, this was all
dialog: your plan.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: My plan? I--
text: Sean hears a CLICK. Emily raises her hand enough to show she
text: has a GUN, pointed at his groin under the table.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Do you love her?
text: He sees the madness in her eyes. He says the only thing he
dialog: can to maintain the peace:
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No. It was just sex.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Did you think of me while you were
dialog: fucking her?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Do you love me or not, Sean?
dialog: 148
dialog: 94,
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (in pain; straining)
dialog: Of course I love you. Stephanie means
dialog: nothing to me.
text: Emily sees the WAITRESS heading over to them. CLICK! Emily
text: fires the gun at his groin, causing him to jolt and go rigid.
text: She smiles devilishly: the chamber was empty.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: That’s just an appetizer, baby.
text: She rises, coolly slipping the gun back in her purse, then
text: bends down and kisses
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Meet me in the bathroom in twenty seconds
text: for the main course. Knock twice.
text: She heads off. Sean can’t believe what just happened. He
text: stares down the long dark hallway to the LADIES ROOM door,
text: his chest rising in panic.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 148
text: A preoccupied Sean enters the house, looking shell-shocked.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (0.S.)
dialog: Here he is now.
text: Sean looks up to see Stephanie sitting on the couch with
text: ISAAC PRAGER (40s), a goughy » pedantic CLAIMS ADJUSTER. He
text: stands and holds dae his hand.
speaker_heading: PRAGER
dialog: Mr. Townsend. Isaac Prager, Allied
dialog: Insurance. I’m investigating the death
dialog: benefit claim for your late wife.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean, did you know that Emily had a twin
dialog: sister?
text: Sean stops, eyes wide, putting it all together. Then ...
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: No. But then ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: The woman in the lake was her sister.
speaker_heading: PRAGER
dialog: It would explain the DNA match.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: So, where’s Emily?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (composing himself)
dialog: If my wife were alive, she’d come home.
dialog: She’ "a want to see her son.
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: PRAGER
dialog: I’m not a cop. And I’m definitely no
dialog: therapist. I’m just an insurance guy. But
dialog: this is definitely an interesting case.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Will you need to exhume the body?
text: Sean shoots her a look, shocked by her macabre question.
speaker_heading: PRAGER
dialog: No, ma’am. Allied Insurance considers
dialog: digging up graves to be bad PR. We have a
text: thorough autopsy. But everyone tends to
dialog: read it in different ways.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: I see. Like the missing front tooth.
text: Sean is boiling inside as he looks at Stephanie.
speaker_heading: PRAGER
dialog: I’m not sure I caught that. A missing
dialog: front tooth?
text: Stephanie watches Sean like a hawk as he squirms.
speaker_heading: PRAGER (CONT'D)
dialog: I will say, it’s unusual to live with
dialog: someone as husband-and-wife and not know
dialog: they have a twin.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Or a missing tooth.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She was a very private person.
speaker_heading: PRAGER
dialog: Well, hey, we all have secrets. But as
dialog: I’m Sure you can understand with a
dialog: payment of this size, we're going to have
dialog: to continue this claims investigation.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: PRAGER
dialog: And, by law, we’ll have to notify the
dialog: authorities of our findings.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I just hope she’s alive. I want her back.
text: Stephanie tightens, pained by his words. Prager shakes his
text: han rises, and they all head to the front door ...
speaker_heading: PRAGER SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Obviously, if you do hear You'll be the first to know.
dialog: from her -
text: Sean closes the door behind him. He turns to Stephanie.
dialog: 149
dialog: 150
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: cold)
dialog: You knew she had a twin.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Did I? Why didn’t you?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You knew and you didn’t tell me.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean, baby « You sound crazy. Maybe you
dialog: should take a Xanax. Take two.
text: She heads back to the kitchen. He watches her go, reeling.
scene_heading: ON VIDEO VLOG - KITCHEN - DAY 149
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (PRE-LAP
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. Today we're
dialog: talking about Tombstone Tributes. I want
dialog: to thank Helen from Missoula, Montana,
dialog: for thinking out of the box.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD CEMETERY - DAY 150
text: Blue skies, green grass and headstones as far as the eye can
text: see. Stephanie stands at Emily’s geave site. Opens a small
text: cooler and takes out a silver” shaker and two frozen glasses.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: It doesn’t have to be flowers anymore. A
dialog: favorite household item can do the trick.
dialog: And Emily’s favorite treat was a dry gin
text: martini in the early afternoon.
text: She puts the martini glasses on Emily’s headstone. Stephanie
text: ours each glass to the rim. Peels two large twists from a
text: emon, squeezes one over each glass and rubs them around each
text: rim, then drops one in each glass.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.
dialog: I’m gonna make them exactly like Emily
text: did. Frozen gin into frozen glasses and a
dialog: generous twist. Her beloved Dukes. And
dialog: 'm going to have a toast on her grave.
text: A FIGURE approaches behind Stephanie. It’s Emily in her wig
text: and glasses. Stephanie can hear her approach but doesn’t
text: turn. Emily stands alongside her, studying the headstone.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Sean must have picked the font on the
text: headstone. He loves Helvetica.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Men are so simple.
text: Emily reaches for the martini glass.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Nice big twist. I taught you well.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: The student becomes the master.
dialog: 97.
text: Emily winces at the cliche, but clinks with Stephanie.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Whatever you need to tell yourself.
text: Emily goes to take a drink, then pauses. She switches glasses
dialog: - and indicates that Stephanie should drink first.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: I never know what surprises you have up
dialog: these new empowered sleeves of yours,
dialog: Dark Side. Let’s hope you haven’t build
dialog: up a tolerance to something.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You think I poisoned both drinks? That’s
dialog: not t style.
dialog: owning her martini)
dialog: I don" t even eat gluten.
text: Emily throws back her martini, facing Stephanie for a duel.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You want another?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Bring it on. But first tell my why you
dialog: killed your father and sister.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, are we airing dirty laundry? Like
dialog: your son’s real father?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Try me. I hold the cards, Emily. I want
dialog: to know about “Faith.”
text: Emily looks at Stephanie, who stares her down defiantly.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: We were triplets. Faith, Hope, and
dialog: Charity. But Charity was stillborn. M
dialog: mother used to say that Faith and I offed
dialog: her in the womb. And dad believed her.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Quite a mother. I had a nice afternoon
text: with Mags. She likes her martinis even
dialog: stronger than yours.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You met my mother?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: We had_a little walk down memory lane.
dialog: Actually it was more of a blind alley.
dialog: But I got the picture. She was a cold
dialog: woman, Em. I doubt you could ever do
text: anything right in her eyes.
text: Thrown for a loop, Emily looks childlike and exposed.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Was it Faith’s idea to set that fire?
dialog: 151
dialog: 152
dialog: 153
dialog: 154
dialog: 155
dialog: 156
dialog: 98.
text: Emily just stares at her, trying to hide her surprise.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D
dialog: You've got nothing to hide from me, Hope.
dialog: If you can’t tell your best friend, who
dialog: can you tell?
scene_heading: EXT. MCLENNAN MANOR - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 151
text: Dead of night. Hope and Faith (16) carefully open the second
text: floor window and climb down on expensive tapestries cinched
text: together. Hand in hand, they run past ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE ore
dialog: Don’t you think I understand?
text: «+. a vigilant BRUCE sitting by the caretaker’s shack.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD CEMETERY - RESUME SCENE 152
text: Emily is staring back.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O rd.
dialog: You were sixteen years ol It’s that age
dialog: when you feel trapped.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE’S EDGE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 153
text: A bonfire burns in the middle of a field. Teens hang out and
text: drink, dance, make out. Faith makes out with a CUTE BOY. Hope
text: watches them’ kiss with a mix of envy and_concern ... until
text: she sees her FATHER’S CAR rolling downhill toward them.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: And if your mother always had the biting
dialog: comment ...
scene_heading: INT. MCLENNAN MANOR - NIGHT 154
text: Hope is locked inside a dark closet as she HEARS the sound of
text: Faith being punished by her father on the other side of the
text: door. Faith SCREAMS and fights back as Hope holds her ears.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: +. I bet your father was more direct.
scene_heading: EXT. MCLENNAN MANOR - NIGHT 155
text: Hope and Faith each have a gas can in hand as they watch the
text: bedroom wing of the mansion burn from the front lawn.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: I know that’s when you learned to hit the
dialog: reset button. Burn, baby, burn.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD CEMETERY - RESUME SCENE 156
text: This time Emily is seduced by Stephanie. There’s warmth and
text: forgiveness in Stephanie’s voice, which prompts Emily to lean
text: against her own headstone, pouring herself a second martini.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: When did you and Faith part ways?
dialog: 157
dialog: 158
dialog: 159
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: We couldn’t stay together after the fire.
scene_heading: INT. GREYHOUND BUS (MOVING) - DAY 157
text: Hope and Faith ride the bus. Hope looks out the window, her
text: mind spipning: planning for them. A WELL-MEANING TOURIST taps
text: them, holding up a camera, wanting a picture of the pretty
text: twins. Faith violently slaps the camera out of the woman’s
text: hands, hissing at her to fuck off.
speaker_heading: EMILY (V.O.)
dialog: We were a freakshow wherever we went.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSTON TATTOO PARLOR - DAY 158
text: Ho) Hope and Faith sit across from each other, gripping each
text: er’s LEFT HAND. Hope already has her barbed wire tattoo on
text: her wrist. The TATTOO ARTIST is in the process of completing
text: Faith's matching barbed wire tattoo.
speaker_heading: EMILY (V.O.)
dialog: We said goodbye with tattoos ...
scene_heading: EXT. CORPUS CHRISTI STREET - DAY 159
text: Hope and Faith hug tightly under a pier as the ocean washes
text: to their toes. Both girls have tears in their eyes. They
text: slowly back away from each other.
speaker_heading: EMILY (V.O.)
dialog: --. and parted | wa s in Corpus Christi.
dialog: She was gging to ead to Mexico. I was
dialog: going to drift north. We had a time and
dialog: place to meet in six months, when the
dialog: smoke cleared.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD CEMETERY - RESUME SCENE - DAY 160
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: But you never showed up.
text: Emily shakes her head. She sips the martini.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I bought a one-way ticket to New York
dialog: City and I never looked back.
speaker_heading: ; _ STEPHANIE
dialog: Did you miss her?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: For a while. But you get used to pain.
dialog: You use it. Besides, Faith would only get
dialog: me in trouble again. She always did.
dialog: Sometimes I_ think my mother was right
dialog: about her. But then my life in New York
dialog: fell_into place perfectly. People took me
dialog: in. I got a job, worked my way up, met
dialog: the perfect man. That part you know.
text: She shoots Stephanie a deadly look.
speaker_heading: ; STEPHANIE
dialog: Until your sister showed up.
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Damn Facebook. I could kill that Mark
dialog: Zuckerberg. Sure, it’s all baby pictures
dialog: and protest marches until I got fingered.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You wouldn't meet her in New York: you
dialog: had too much to lose. So you fabricated a
dialog: trip to Miami, and went back to meet her
dialog: at your old camp.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Bunk Six. Our happy place.
scene_heading: EXT. SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP - DAY (FLASHBACK) 161
dialog: 
text: Emily heads down the dirt path to GIRLS BUNK SIX. She braces
text: herself then opens the door to ...
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
text: It must have been a shock. Seeing her
dialog: again after all those years.
scene_heading: INT. SQUAW LAKE BIBLE CAMP - BUNK SIX - DAY (FLASHBACK) 162
dialog: 
text: Faith is already inside, wearing the ARMY JACKET from the
text: fax. She rises to face her sister. Identical twins, the
text: contrast between them is shocking. Faith is a full-blown
text: junkie. Dirty and haggard, dark rings around her eyes. Her
text: ront tooth is broken.
speaker_heading: EMILY (V.O.)
dialog: It was like looking in the mirror ... and
dialog: seeing the life I could have had. The
dialog: life I fought not to have.
text: Faith moves toward Emily and hugs her. Behind her shoulder,
text: Emily gags at the smell of her sister and chokes back tears.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (V.O.)
dialog: And did she forgive you?
text: Behind Emily’s shoulder, we PUSH IN ON FAITH’S FACE as her
text: smile dissipates and hardens into a deep-seated rage.
speaker_heading: EMILY (V.0O.)
dialog: No.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD CEMETERY - RESUME SCENE - DAY 163
text: Emily stands in silence. Stephanie has got her now, like a
text: perfect den motherly prosecutor, slowly reeling her in.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: And how did you get your sister out into
dialog: the lake?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Fuck you. That was her idea. I didn’t
dialog: kill my sister.
dialog: 164
dialog: 101.
scene_heading: INT. BUNK SIX - LATE AFTERNOON (FLASHBACK) 164
dialog: 
text: Emily watches with dread and fascination as Faith drops a
text: syringe. Her arm goes limp and her eyes become gassy.
text: Faith’s head tips back as the warm rush climbs her body. She
text: smiles at Emily, revealing her broken front tooth.
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: You gotta have Faith. And now here I am.
text: Faith laughs darkly, her smile hardening to malice.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What are you up to, Faith?
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: You abandoned me. And now I’m going to
dialog: the cops. To tell them everything we did.
dialog: And when I go under, you go with me.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I have a family now.
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: Awwww, that kid is so cute. So’s the
dialog: husband. Can I be you for a day? Like in
dialog: High School when we’d switch places?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What do you want from me?
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: I want a million dollars in cash.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Where the hell would I get that?
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: You're rich and famous. You'll figure it
dialog: out.
text: Emily glowers at her. Then she appears to make a decision.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Maybe I owe you this much for abandoning
dialog: you. Okay. I’11l sell the house.
text: Emily softens, fighting tears. This may well be an act, but
dialog: if so, it’s a damn good one ...
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: Uch, it’s fucking hot in here. Let’s go
dialog: swimming. Like old times.
text: Faith tugs her wool dress over her head, no underwear. Emily
text: watches, disturbed.
speaker_heading: FAITH (CONT'D)
dialog: You coming?
text: Emily considers it. Her mind working quickly.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’m right behind you.
dialog: 102.
scene_heading: EXT. WITCH LAKE - WOODS - LATE AFTERNOON 165
dialog: 
text: Emily makes her way through the woods to follow Faith, whose
text: bare flesh flashes through the trees.
scene_heading: EXT. WITCH LAKE - LAKE FRONT - LATE AFTERNOON 166
text: Faith wades into the water then submerges under its icy
text: surface. Emily peels off her dress down to her bra and
text: underwear. She wades into the water with a gasp, her jaw
text: clenched against the cold. Faith surfaces and treads water.
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: C'mon, wimp! I thought you were the
dialog: Alpha!
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: I am the Alpha, goddammit.
text: Emily dives into the water, then swims out_to where Faith is.
text: They tread water, face to face in the moonlight. Faith’s
text: expression shifts. She’s childlike, vulnerable.
speaker_heading: FAITH
dialog: How could you leave me like that? We were
dialog: supposed to be a team. You and me.
dialog: Forever.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I know. I’m sorry. We were.
text: Emily takes her sister's shoulders to hug her ...
speaker_heading: ; EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s just ... things have changed.
text: She shoves Faith under the water. Faith struggles and
text: splashes to the surface, but Emily shoves her down again. The
text: struggle persists. Emily is athletic and strong. Her will to
text: murder is stronger than Faith’s will to live.
text: Finally the struggle stops. Faith goes limp and floats. Emily
text: holds her sister in her arms. A tender moment. Emily glances
text: at her own hand, the sapphire and diamond engagement RING.
text: She pulls the ring off her finger and wrestles it onto
text: Faith’s lifeless finger, forcing it on.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD CEMETERY - DAY 167
text: A few real tears roll down Emily's cheeks.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I woke up the next morning and she wasn’t
dialog: there. I couldn’t find her anywhere.
dialog: Finally I remembered how much she loved
dialog: swimming in the lake. So I went there. I
dialog: was too late ...
text: Now Stephanie reads Emily the same way Emily once read her.
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You’re lying. You drowned her. You're a
dialog: sister killer.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Well, you’re a brother fucker.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What does Sean know?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Everything.
text: Stephanie is stung by this. Emily sees her chance.
speaker_heading: EMILY, (CONT'D)
dialog: He told me to disappear until the money
dialog: came through. Said we could finally get
dialog: out of debt, sell the house, leave the
dialog: gountry. start over, that I could quit my
dialog: s
text: job an pend more time with Nicky.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE .
dialog: I don’t believe you. Sean grieved for
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: All an act.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You're a pathological liar.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Did Sean say that?
text: Emily takes out her cell phone, plays an AUDIO CLIP.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you love her?
speaker_heading: SEAN (0.S.)
dialog: No. It was just sex.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Did you think of me while you were
dialog: fucking her?
speaker_heading: SEAN (0.S.)
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: EMILY (0.S.)
dialog: Do you love me or not, Sean?
speaker_heading: SEAN (0.S.)
dialog: Of course, I love you. Stephanie means
dialog: nothing to me.
text: The CLIP stops. Stephanie looks sick to her stomach.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Sorry, Steph. I know you thought it was
dialog: real. But let’s look on the bright side.
dialog: Your web site went viral thanks to me.
dialog: Now you can sell those ad banners.
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: All of this was for a little money.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Yeah, a little four million. Sean
dialog: convinced me we could pull it off. M
dialog: sister didn’t exist anymore. DNA would
dialog: take care of the rest. All I had to do
dialog: was_ lay low for six months so he could
dialog: collect the money, sell the house, tie up
dialog: loose ends.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Was I a loose end?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Sean needed some help looking after
dialog: Nick And you're so good with them.
dialog: Dart. “Mommy.
text: The entire tone has changed. It’s like a chess match and
text: Emily seems to have regained an advantage.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You were supposed to lay low. Why did you
dialog: come back at all?
text: Emily glares back at her, offended now.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Look, I may be a working mother ... but
dialog: that doesn’t make me any less a mom.
dialog: (grimacing)
dialog: Every time you yiosged about how much
dialog: Nick cried or how he hated quinoa,
dialog: couldn’t take it. It was like a hostage
dialog: standoff. I had to see him again. To fet
dialog: him know that I was coming back. He’s my
dialog: heart and soul, Stephanie, my everything.
dialog: It doesn’t matter how good your brownies
dialog: are, he’s my son.
text: This has an effect on Stephanie and she blinks away tears.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: So what happens now?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I want my son. Period. You fucked up the
dialog: insurance mone) and_the authorities
dialog: won't stop loo: ing. I don’t even give a
dialog: shit anymore: take Sean.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I don’t want Sean. Not after this.
text: A flicker of satisfaction on Emily’s face. They wait quietly.
text: Then Emily breaks the silence.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Then there’s one other option, one mom to
dialog: another.
text: Emily reaches out her glass to toast. Stephanie clinks her
text: glass into her friend’s. OFF STEPHANIE, curious --
dialog: 170
dialog: 171
dialog: 172
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 168
dialog: 
text: Stephanie lies in bed, back to Sean, snoring in a deep sleep.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
text: Sleeping like a log.
text: She slowly, gingerly slides her leg off the bed, toe finding
text: the floor, her body slinking out behind it.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT 169
dialog: 
text: She logs onto the Connecticut College website. She types
dialog: Sean’s email into user slot: stownsend@conncollege. com, then
text: enters the password. Waits. She’s in.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - NIGHT 170
text: Stephanie plants _a DOCUMENT in the glove compartment of
text: Sean’s car and closes it. She’s wearing Emily’s leather
text: gloves. Stephanie quietly closes the door and_ clicks the lock
text: on the key fob. She tiptoes into the house, closing the door.
scene_heading: INT. CONNECTICUT COLLEGE - ENGLISH DEPT. - DAY 171
text: Sean arrives at his office to find Beth, spooked. Two
text: DETECTIVES are in his office unhooking computer cables.
speaker_heading: BETH
dialog: They had a warrant. I tried to call you.
text: Shocked, Sean enters his office toward the detectives.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’m Sean Townsend. I’m happy to comply
dialog: with whatever you need, b it would be
dialog: nice to have a heads up.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE #1
dialog: This is an open investigation. You don’t
dialog: get to pencil us in when it’s convenient.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’m calling a lawyer.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE #2
dialog: I’m calling that a good idea.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 172
text: Sean pulls up in his car to find his front door blocked with
text: police tape and THREE SQUAD CARS. Detective Meany is there.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What the fuck?
text: Meany clocks Sean’s arrival and approaches as he gets out.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Am I under arrest?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: We're still working on it. The D.A. wants
text: a slam dunk.
dialog: 173
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Well, that may be hard, since I didn’t do
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: Did you know your wife was alive?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: Not until recently.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: When?
text: Meany scrutinizes him carefully.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She contacted me.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: And you immediately notified the
dialog: authorities, right?
dialog: , SEAN .
dialog: I can’t discuss this without my attorney.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MEANY
dialog: I'd say that’s wise. We’1l talk soon.
dialog: (turning back)
dialog: Oh. If we need you ... will you be with
dialog: your wife or the best friend?
dialog: OFF SEAN, in a bad place --
scene_heading: EXT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - DAY 173
text: Sean pulls up to Stephanie’s house. Hearing his car, she
text: opens the door. He grabs his briefcase and approaches her.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I need a stiff drink. Maybe more of your
text: dead husband’s scotch.
text: She blocks the doorway with her body.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I can’t let you in. I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Why not? Where’s Nicky?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Upstairs sleeping. You have to go.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: This is an ongoing investigation, Sean, I
dialog: can’t let you into this house until this
dialog: whole big hoo-ha is solved.
dialog: 174
dialog: 175
dialog: 176
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (studies her; then)
dialog: My god, she got to you, didn’t she? She
dialog: got into your head.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: This has nothing to do with Emily.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: It has EVERYTHING to do with her!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Shhhh, the boys are sleeping --
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: She's gaslighting you. You don’t
dialog: understand how powerful she is.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I don’t understand anything right now. I
dialog: just need to be alone and take care of
dialog: the boys. Stay in a hotel tonight.
dialog: Please. Don’t make me call the police.
text: Sean looks at her, stunned. He backs away, Shaking his head.
text: Stephanie watches as Sean gets in his car and peels out of
text: her driveway. She heaves a long slow sigh of relief.
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 174
dialog: stephanie bakes cookies. But there’s no Jy in pinching the
text: little dough clumps onto the greased pan his is an act of
text: survival. She sees her cell phone vibrating on the counter.
text: We hear Sean on VOICEMAIL, forcibly calm and sincere.
speaker_heading: SEAN (V.0.)
dialog: Stephanie? I don’t know what’s going on
dialog: or how this all will turn out. But you’re
dialog: a great mum and you've taught me how to
dialog: be a better dad. For that I’1l always be
dialog: grateful. The truth is ...
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD INN - DAY 175
text: Emily comes out of her room and walks breezily past the
text: various doors of a seedy motel. A HANDYMAN is installing an
text: air conditioning unit into a room’s window, his open toolbox
text: on the ground next to him.
speaker_heading: SEAN (V.O.)
dialog: I don’t think I ever knew my wife ...
text: The handyman goes inside the room to adjust something.
text: Without breaking stride, Emily casually grabs | a wrench out of
text: the toolbox and keeps walking breezily, flipping the wrench.
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD INN - AROUND BACK - DAY 176
dialog: 
text: Emily walks around the back of the motel, casually flipping
text: the wrench in her hand. She stops, takes a breath and ips
text: the wrench high in the air. She puts her hands behind her
text: back and calmly lines herself up under the falling wrench.
speaker_heading: SEAN (V.O.)
dialog: Or what she’s capable of.
dialog: 177
dialog: 178
dialog: 179
dialog: 108.
text: As the wrench speeds down toward Emily’s eye ...
scene_heading: INT. WARFIELD POLICE STATION - RECEPTION - DAY 177
dialog: 
text: Emily walks into the Warfield Police Station, her eye and
text: cheek bruised and bloodied. Tears rolling down her cheeks.
text: She approaches the POLICE OFFICER manning the desk.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: My name is Emily Nelson. I need to speak
dialog: to someone.
scene_heading: INT. WARFIELD POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 178
dialog: 
text: Emily talks to Detective Meany. She’s convincing, emotional,
text: wiping away tears as she tells her story. Meany takes notes.
scene_heading: EXT. CONNECTICUT COLLEGE - DAY 179
text: STUDENTS pause to watch as Detective Meany walks Sean across
text: campus in handcuffs, POLICE OFFICERS in tow.
scene_heading: EXT. CONNECTICUT COURTHOUSE - DAY 180
text: Both in suits and sunglasses, Sean and his LAWYER push past
text: local news reporters on their way into the courthouse.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (PRE-LAP)
dialog: In the Emily Nelson case, which first
text: went viral on a popular Internet vlog ...
scene_heading: INT. STEPHANIE’S HOUSE - DAY 181
text: Stephanie’s listens to a local REPORTER on her TV.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (PRE-LAP)
dialog: The PR executive was believed dead in
text: Michigan. But today, she has resurfaced.
text: THE NEWS PROGRAM CUTS TO:
text: FOOTAGE OF EMILY, still bruised and bandaged, addressing a
text: slew of reporters outside the police station.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (0.S. -}
text: It appears the body found in the lake was
text: that of Nelson’s estranged twin sister.
dialog: As for Nelson, why didn’t she come
dialog: forward when her sister died?
text: See SHOTS OF SEAN AND HIS LAWYER entering the courthouse.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (0.S.) (CONT’D)
text: Nelson’s husband, an abusive failed
dialog: novelist and English professor, forced
text: her to stage her own death to collect an
dialog: enormous insurance claim to the tune of
dialog: four million dollars. We spoke briefly to
text: Sean's niece, who’s studying in America.
text: Stephanie perks up as BETH comes on camera.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: His niece?
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: BETH (ON SCREEN)
dialog: Everyone is in shock. No one believes my
dialog: uncle could do anything like this. He's
dialog: always been the most generous person I
dialog: know, and I don’t believe a word of this.
text: BACK TO THE REPORTER ON CAMERA.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Nevertheless, bail for Sean Townsend will
dialog: be set today. A British national,
dialog: Townsend faces deportation if found
text: guilty. Although an accomplice to fraud,
dialog: Ms. Nelson is complying with the
dialog: authorities in exchange for clemency.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - DAY 182
text: Sean unlocks the front door and walks inside. He looks like
text: hell, a broken man, tired and unshaven. The lights are on,
text: FRENCH POP MUSIC playing on the stereo, someone home.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Stephanie?
text: Emily emerges from the kitchen, carrying two martinis.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Guess again.
text: Sean takes her in, spooked.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Where's Nicky?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: At a friend’s watching a movie. I thought
dialog: we needed some mommy and daddy time.
text: She hands_him his martini and leans in to kiss his lips. The
text: kiss chills him to the bone. She’s hurt: he’s no longer
text: entirely under her spell.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Have you forgotten me that quickly?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You're impossible to forget.
text: She forces a smile and heads for the kitchen. Sean eyes the
text: martini, wondering if it’s poisoned. He pours it into a
text: potted plant and heads ...
text: INTO THE KITCHEN
text: Emily refills her glass and heads over to refill his.
speaker_heading: EMILY |
dialog: I don’t need to poison you, Sean. If I
dialog: wanted to get rid of you, you'd already
dialog: be dead.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You planted those files on my computer.
dialog: 184
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Not just me. I had help. From a woman who
dialog: volunteers for everything.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Stephanie.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Not as sweet as her cookies, is she?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Were you ever going to tell me you had a
dialog: twin sister?
dialog: EMILY | ;
dialog: She was mine to kill. Wasn’t your business.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I’m your husband.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Mmmm. Labels. Yawn.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - SIDE YARD - DAY 183
text: Stephanie stands in the dark yard, watching Emily and Sean
text: confer in the kitchen. Their exchange is quiet, tense,
text: contained. She can’t make it out. Her eyes well up with angry
text: tears. She has Emily’s lady pistol in her hand.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (PRE-LAP)
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. I’m so grateful
dialog: for all the love and support you’ve been
dialog: sending my way.
scene_heading: ON VIDEO VLOG - KITCHEN - DAY 184
text: Stephanie addresses the camera, falling apart.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: And as shocked as you are by the latest
text: turn of events, no one is more stunned
dialog: than me. Emily had her secrets and so did
dialog: her husband. Clearly, I was the naive
dialog: romantic who got caught in the middle. I
dialog: hope you’ 11 forgive me in advance for
dialog: what I’m about to do...
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - SIDE YARD - DAY 185
text: Mustering her anger and courage, Stephanie stalks ...
text: INTO THE KITCHEN
text: Sean and Emily are both shocked to see her.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Stephanie?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You shouldn’t be here right now.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I used to live here, remember?
dialog: 111.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Please. Don’t make this harder.
text: When Sean moves in toward her, Stephanie raises her gun.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hold on. Not another step.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Stephanie, please. You won’t even let the
text: boys play with squirt guns.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (cocking the gun)
dialog: Well, there’s a time and a place for
dialog: everything.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Whoa, Stephanie ... take it down a notch.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You used me, Sean. And for what? Free
dialog: babysitting? Home-cooked meals? I had to
dialog: wash those bicycle shorts.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, I hate those.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: I swear, I had no idea she was alive --
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No more lying!
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I agree. Let’s just sit down and talk
dialog: this out.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You sit, Em. You hated Stephanie. You
dialog: called her Captain Mom. You used to watch
text: her vlog and tear her apart.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: (hurt, to Emily)
dialog: All_I ever wanted was to be your friend,
dialog: Emily.
text: Emily stares back with sincere eyes.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You were. I didn’t expect it ... but I
dialog: loved you. Then you fucked my husband and
dialog: all of” my best plans.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Don’t blame her -
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: We could have been rich, Sean.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Maybe if you'd had the good _ sense to call
dialog: - I could have helped your little plot!
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, you haven’t come up with a decent
dialog: plot in ten years.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I’m going to say something. Objectively.
dialog: Nicky deserves better than both of you.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Stephanie, put the gun down. You don’t
dialog: want to do this.
text: Stephanie fingers the trigger as tears roll down her cheeks.
speaker_heading: _ EMILY
dialog: Stephanie.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I loved you, Sean. And I loved you,
dialog: Emily. This is the only way.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: But, Stephanie, I love y---
text: BANG! Stephanie shoots Sean in the chest, blowing a bloody
text: hole in his shirt. Sean clutches his chest and staggers
text: backwards, knees buckling.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh God! Oh no!
text: Stephanie wails and rushes to Sean, draping over him.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't die! Sean. Please, don’t die. I
dialog: didn’t mean to do that. I’m so sorry -
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (sputtering)
dialog: No, I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: No, God, please. I got so caught up. But
dialog: I love you, Sean. Don’t die.
text: Emily sips her martini, suddenly completely calm.
speaker_heading: EMILY ;
dialog: Oh yes, God, Sean. Please don’t die.
dialog: (a long beat)
dialog: Okay, cut the waterworks.
text: Stephanie looks up at her, confused. Emily draws a gun.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Get up.
text: Stephanie slowly rises to her feet.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: You too, DiCaprio.
text: Sean lies limp, eyes closed. Dead. Emily kicks him in the
text: gut. Sean clenches and groans.
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Get up! Show’s over.
text: Sean gets up and stands with Stephanie. They both know
text: they're screwed. Emily grins.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT’D)
dialog: That was almost brilliant, Stephanie.
text: Almost. So, the cops planted a mic
dialog: somewhere in here. You shoot him with a
text: blank. Fake blood. Nice cinematic touch.
dialog: I confess everything. You really almost
dialog: had me. I knew there was so much more to
dialog: you, Stephanie. You’ve got real panache.
text: Spattered with fake blood all over her blouse, Stephanie
text: looks genuinely touched. Another misplaced moment of bonding.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Thank you. You know that really means a
dialog: lot to me.
text: Emily nods back.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: But you already did confess, Em. And the
text: police are on their way.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No, no, no, don’t try that. You had me
dialog: just a little buzzed from this ... but
dialog: you're still a standard martini,
dialog: Stephanie. You’re not the standard-bearer
dialog: from Dukes.
text: Stephanie stares back, confused. Suddenly, Emily does a
text: perfect imitation of Stephanie’ Ss voice.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: (as Stephanie)
dialog: “HL Cops, Stephanie here! Change of
dialog: plans. I’m meeting Emily and Sean at
dialog: Darren’s house now. Hurry!”
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: You sent the cops to Darren’s house?
scene_heading: 186 INT. DARREN’S HOUSE - AT THAT SAME MOMENT 186
dialog: 
text: Darren, Sona and Stacy are having a “Moms Night” at Darren’s
text: house. They're playing Pictionary and smoking pot as
text: Stephanie’s OLD VLOGS play in the background. Sona is taking
text: a long drag as she draws something indecipherable.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: It’s a virus ... it’s a... it’s String
dialog: Theory. Is it String theory?
text: BLAM!!! The front door is splintered by a battering ram as a
text: SWAT TEAM storm in, guns drawn. The moms SCREAM.
speaker_heading: SWAT LEADER
dialog: Hands up, weapons down! NOW!!!
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: (hands up, wailing)
dialog: I have a prescription! It’s for my sleep
dialog: apnea!
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - BACK TO SCENE 187
text: Emily holds up a gun in one hand and, in the other -- THE BUG
text: the cops planted. The small mic cord’ has been severed.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’ve lived on the run for over a decade:
dialog: you don’t think I know how to manipulate
dialog: the authorities?
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: So you're going to kill us?
speaker_heading: EMILY
text: A murder-suicide seems like the only
dialog: fitting end for you two. And I believe
dialog: our insurance will still pay for that.
text: One door closes, another door opens.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: You have always been fucking crazy.
text: BANG! Emily shoots Sean in the shoulder. He falls to his
dialog: nees.
speaker_heading: SEAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Agh!! You really shot me!
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’m crazy. You said so yourself.
text: Emily aims the gun at Stephanie, who stares her down.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE |
dialog: You won’t kill me, Emily.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (cocking the gan)
dialog: The hell I won’t. 1 have to add this
dialog: to my list. A father, a sister ... and
dialog: now my dear best friend.
text: Stephanie can’t help but get sentimental, even in danger.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Am I really your best friend? You’re not
dialog: just saying that?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I’m not just saying that.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Because I felt that way, too - but I
dialog: worried it was just me. I mean, it’s so
dialog: hard to connect with other Moms ...
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Tell me about it. Imagine when you have a
dialog: full-time job?
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Oh, don’t pull that crap! What I do is
dialog: work too, Emily. It’s a full time job!
text: Emily chambers a bullet and steps ahead.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I may not get paid for it, but believe
dialog: me, being a mother is HARD WORK. And then
dialog: I have my vlog on top of that. In fact,
dialog: maybe you’d like to be on my vlog some
dialog: time? Have you ever thought about that?
dialog: (off Emily’s confuse
dialog: look)
dialog: Like ... right now? Killing us might just
dialog: get me to a million subscribers.
text: Stephanie points to the HIDDEN LIPSTICK CAMERA camouflaged in
text: a FLOWER ARRANGEMENT by the stove.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: We're live streaming. And you just
dialog: confessed. Wave hello to the moms!
text: Emily locks eyes with Stephanie as it dawns on her -
text: Stephanie has outsmarted her. Stephanie manages a light
text: smile. Emily simply shakes her head.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, goddammit ...
text: SIRENS rise up in the background. Then Emily bolts from the
text: kitchen, gun in hand.
scene_heading: INT. EMILY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 188
text: Emily bolts through the living room, then out the front door.
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 189
text: Emily sprints across the lawn toward her car across the
text: street. SIRENS approach.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Stop! Emily!
text: Emily stops and turns. Stephanie runs onto the front lawn.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: It's over, Emily. You can’t outrun this.
dialog: Think of Nicky. Don’t do it to him.
dialog: You're still Lis mom.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: He may be better off without any mom.
text: Emily aims the gun at Stephanie, who GASPS. Emily starts to
text: pull the trigger when ... BLAM!!! SHE FLIPS IN THE AIR, HIT
text: FULL ON BY A SPEEDING PRIUS. Her gun goes flying.
text: Darren gets out of the car heroically.
speaker_heading: DARREN
text: Toyota Prius. Silent but deadly.
dialog: 116.
text: Darren walks over to Emily, who is prone on the ground.
speaker_heading: DARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: Saw you on the vlog. You fuck with one of
dialog: the moms, you fuck with all of us.
text: Emily kicks him in the groin. As he doubles over, she tries
text: to_get up but can’t. She crawls on the as halt as TWO POLICE
text: CARS close in from the other direction, erry and blue
text: lights flashing, reflected in her eyes. Emi ly accepts defeat.
scene_heading: CAPTION: SIX MONTHS LATER
scene_heading: ON VIDEO VLOG - KITCHEN - DAY 190
text: Stephanie addresses the camera from Emily’s kitchen.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Hi, Moms. Stephanie here. Well, it’s a
dialog: big day because this morning we signed up
dialog: our one millionth subscriber, Mrs. Carol
dialog: Findley of Ames, Iowa! Thanks for joining
dialog: us, Carol. As our newest friend, you
dialog: should know that in addition to my usual
dialog: helpful tips and recipes, I am now also
dialog: taking on any unsolved mysteries. Turns
dialog: out I have a nose not only for sniffing
dialog: out the freshest basil but also criminals
dialog: who thought they got away with it. So, if
dialog: you have a cold case or a mystery to
dialog: unravel, drop me a line. But for now...
dialog: let’s focus on my favorite cold soup:
dialog: gazpacho!
scene_heading: EXT. PRISON YARD - YORK CORRECTIONAL FACILITY - DAY 191
text: Boss’ “I DON'T GIVE A FUCK” blasts on_a boombox. We‘re in the
text: yard of a women’s prison in Niantic, CT. Various cliques of
text: women engaged in different activities and conversations. On
text: the basketball court, there’s a seriously competitive and cut-
text: throat pick-up game going down. Right in the mix is --
text: EMILY. Racing up and down the court like a pro. Stealing the
text: ball. Sweaty, athletic, take no prisoners. She looks fabulous
text: in her orange jumpsuit with a more natural beauty. No make-
text: up. hair in a messy ponytail, more herself than ever before.
text: e swishes the ball in the hoop and high fives her TEAMMATES
text: with a grin. A GUARD comes out.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Hey, Runway. You got a visitor.
text: Emily peels off from the game. Her teammates groan.
scene_heading: INT. VISITORS ROOM - YORK CORRECTIONAL FACILITY - DAY 192
dialog: 
text: Emily walks in to see Stephanie and Nicky at a table. Nicky
text: races toward her. She scoops him up in her arms and hugs him
text: so tightly he groans.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Can’t ... breathe ...
text: Emily laughs and lets him go.
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're growing so fast.
text: Nicky pulls his lower lip down to show off his missing teeth.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: And you lost another one!
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: The tooth fairy got me a gumball machine.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Well, that was nice of her.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: (with a hard look)
dialog: I know it’s Dad.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're getting too smart for me.
text: She joins Stephanie at the table, Nicky on her lap. Stephanie
text: pushes a plate of cookies wrapped in saran across to her.
speaker_heading: ; STEPHANIE
dialog: With agave instead of sugar.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Good. They go a long way in here.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: Now can I have one?!
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Of course, Nicky.
text: Nicky grabs a cookie, shoving the whole thing in his mouth.
speaker_heading: NICKY
dialog: (mouth full)
dialog: I’m thirsty. Can I get a Coke?
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: I'd rather you had milk inst--
dialog: (then, with a smile)
dialog: Ask your mom.
text: Emily laughs and hands him a buck from a wad of cash tucked
text: inside her bra. He darts off to the vending machine.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay. Whattaya got for me?
text: Emily glances over her shoulder to make sure the GUARD isn’t
dialog: listening.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Inez Montoya. She used to be the guy’s
dialog: housekeeper before she got nabbed for
dialog: wire fraud. She says he hides cash, lots
text: of it, in a toolbox in the garage.
dialog: 194
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: That’s where they were putting it. Of
dialog: course! I knew he was guilty. Thank you.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You keep bringing the supplies, I’1l keep
text: doling out the info. ’
text: They share a smile. Emily takes a bite of a cookie. Frowns.
speaker_heading: EMILY (CONT'D)
dialog: Do me a favor, Dark Side. Next time, use
dialog: real sugar.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Copy that, Runway.
text: As the two women share a smile of mutual respect, BEGIN END
text: CREDITS ...
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - DAY 193
dialog: 
text: UNDER THE END CREDITS, the BELL rings and all the kids pour
text: out of the school with their parents. Stephanie walks out
text: with her boys -- Miles and Nicky -- who have bonded like
text: brothers. Darren races up to Stephanie.
text: Stephanie begins to sign her name onto EVERY SLOT of a SIGN-
dialog: UP SHEET when -
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: Stephanie! We need your help! There’s
dialog: been a terrible crime.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: What?
text: Darren grabs her hand and hauls her off. She resists.
speaker_heading: DARREN
dialog: Come with me, I have to show you. There’s
text: a dead body in the schoolyard!
dialog: (to Miles and Nicky)
dialog: Boys’ I’m borrowing your Mom!
text: Stephanie’s jaw drops as she follows Darren ...
scene_heading: EXT. WARFIELD SCHOOL - SCHOOLYARD - DAY 194
text: A MAN'S BODY is splayed face down on the ground. A KID (5) is
text: drawing a chalk outline around it. Confused, Stephanie turns
text: over the body and discovers -- SEAN. Grinning ear to ear.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Sean. That’s a pretty dark joke.
text: Sean nods to ANOTHER KID who stands next to a boom box. The
text: kid hits the button. MUSIC kicks in and a FLASH MOB begins.
dialog: Everyone we’ve met is there: Sona, Stacey, Darren, the
dialog: teacher Mrs. Kerry, even Detective Meany -- are there to
text: participate in the choreographed performance, along with all
text: the ELEMENTARY SCHOOL KIDS -- Miles and Nicky at the
dialog: forefront.
dialog: 119.
text: Two COOL KIDS, 9 and 11, watch the flash mob with disdain.
speaker_heading: COOL KID #1
dialog: Uch. This is so 2010.
speaker_heading: COOL KID #2
dialog: Totally embarrassing.
text: Stephanie stands at the center, beaming, her eyes filled with
text: tears as she takes in all this effort for her. At the end of
text: the song, Sean kneels on one knee and pops open a velvet
text: jewelry box. INSIDE IS THE VINTAGE DIAMOND AND SAPPHIRE RING
text: THAT BELONGED TO HIS MOTHER.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: Stephanie Smothers. Internet sensation
dialog: and P.I. Mom. Please say you'll marry me.
dialog: Or_I‘ll have a_ lot of explaining to do to
dialog: all these people.
speaker_heading: STEPHANIE
dialog: Well ... I’11 have to ask the moms first.
dialog: (off his Look)
dialog: Yes. Of course I’ll marry you.
text: Stephanie throws herself into his arms. The crowd explodes.
dialog: It's a happy ending! Why the hell not? They’ve all been
dialog: through a lot.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: 
