dialog: About Schmidt
dialog: by Alexander Payne
dialog: and Jim Taylor
dialog: inspired by the novel
dialog: by Louis Begley
dialog: second draft
dialog: May 8, 2000
scene_heading: EXT. MUTUAL OF OMAHA HEADQUARTERS - DAY
text: The very structure suggests sturdiness and reliability.
scene_heading: INT. WARREN SCHMIDT'S OFFICE - DAY
text: A WALL CLOCK READS 4:58.
text: WARREN SCHMIDT, 66, sits at his desk looking up at the clock. The
text: desk is completely clear except for a telephone.
text: Next to the desk are several large CARDBOARD BOXES. They are
scene_heading: marked “SCHMIDT ACTIVE DOCUMENTS , ” and “SCHMIDT FILES ARCHIVE.”
text: Warren looks at the clock again -- 4:59 and thirty seconds. He
text: remains motionless for a full thirty seconds.
speaker_heading: THE SECOND HAND
text: finally rounds 12.
speaker_heading: WARREN STANDS,
text: puts on his jacket, walks to the door. He wistfully pats the
text: boxes, takes one last look, turns out the light, closes the
dialog: door.
text: OFF SCREEN -- Cheers followed “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow.”
text: Then -- a THUNDERBOLT.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CADILLAC - NIGHT
speaker_heading: RAIN.
scene_heading: THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD --
text: Warren drives. His wife HELEN, 64, sits next to him.
text: OPENING CREDITS begin, wiped on and off by the windshield wipers.
text: Helen spots something up ahead.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Look, Warren -- your name in lights!
text: Warren leans forward and makes out --
scene_heading: THE BIG NEON SIGN
text: for Gorat’s Steakhouse. Below, awkwardly spaced letters spell out
dialog: “Happy Retirement Warren Schmidt.”
text: Warren nods slightly, leans back in his seat.
scene_heading: Ext. GORAT’S STEAKHOUSE - WIGHT
text: The Cadillac pulls into the PARKING LOT. Credits continue.
scene_heading: INT. GORAT’S STEAKHOUSE BANQUET ROOM- WIGHT
dialog: ON THE WALLS --
text: framed PHOTOGRAPHS of prize-winning cattle that have been
dialog: slaughtered for this fine Omaha eatery.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: eats his steak.
speaker_heading: WIDE --
text: Twenty or so people sit around a T-shaped table.
dialog: Warren and Helen
text: sit at the head.
text: On a side table lie wrapped gifts.
text: Warren happens to be seated right where two tables are joined. He
text: tries crossing his legs and must mask his discomfort.
text: GARY NORDIN, 34, Clinks a greasy knife on his water glass.
text: neck is thick, and his Brooks Brothers collar is too tight.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: For my part, I'd just like to say,
dialog: Warren, that as the new guy taking
dialog: over for you, I hope I can fill your
dialog: shoes, because from the looks of the
dialog: people here and what they think of
dialog: you, they sure seem awfully big.
dialog: His
text: General courtesy laughter. Credits continue.
speaker_heading: GARY (CONT’D)
dialog: As most of you know I recently moved
dialog: here from Hartford with my wife Sandy
dialog: here and Kimberly, our 14-month-old,
dialog: and you've all just made us feel so
dialog: welcome, and Warren, I want you to
dialog: feel just as welcome to drop by the
dialog: office to visit anytime you want. As
dialog: we've been discussing in the last
dialog: couple weeks, I might have some
dialog: questions to ask you about our
dialog: various accounts and such. So
dialog: here's to you, Warren.
text: He raises his water glass in an awkward toast gesture. All join
text: in. Warren manages a smile as everyone mumbles some variation of
dialog: “Rere’s to Warren,” or “We’re sure going to miss you,” or “Good
dialog: luck, Warren.”
text: A stout older fellow with a loud, abrasive voice -- RAY NICHOLS --
text: chimes in.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: Bey, Warren, how do you feel about
dialog: these young punks taking over our
dialog: jobs? They shoved me out the door
dialog: three years ago. Looks like some
dialog: kind of conspiracy to me!
text: Everyone laughs affectionately. Ray stands.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT’D) .
dialog: Now I’ve known Warren here probably .
dialog: longer than most of you have been
dialog: alive. Warren-.and I go-way back,
text: waaaaay back to the horse and buggy
dialog: days at Mutual. But that’s ancient
dialog: history. We were good friends not
text: only at work but also out on the golf
dialog: course and on fishing trips up at my
dialog: cabin in Minnesota. And what I want
dialog: to say to you publicly, Warren, so
dialog: all these young hotshots can hear, is
dialog: that that gold watch there doesn’t
dialog: mean a goddamn thing.
text: Warren finally feels a note of connection with someone.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT'D)
dialog: And this dinner doesn’t mean a
dialog: goddamn thing, and the social
dialog: security and pension don’t mean a
dialog: goddamn thing.
text: Ray’s wife MILDRED smiles uncomfortably as she grabs his hand to
text: get him to take it easy, but Ray is on a roll.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT’D)
dialog: None of these super-fishy-alities
dialog: mean a goddamn thing. What means
dialog: something, what really means
dialog: something, Warren—
text: Ray takes a dramatic, drunken pause.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT’D)
dialog: What really means something is the
dialog: knowledge that you devoted your
dialog: entire life to something meaningful
dialog: -- to being productive and working
dialog: for a fine company -- hell, one of
dialog: the biggest insurance carriers in the
dialog: nation --
text: Ray counts on his fingers and at one point counts the same finger
dialog: . _ twice.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT'D)
dialog: ~to raising a fine family, to
dialog: building a fine home, to being
dialog: respected by your community and
dialog: having some wonderful, loyal
dialog: friendships.
text: Hearing the part about raising the family, Helen puts her hand on
text: Warren’s, but he doesn’t react.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT’D) a
dialog: At the end of his career, if a man
dialog: can look back and say, “I did it. I
dialog: did my job,” he can retire in peace
dialog: and glory and enjoy riches far beyond
dialog: the monetary kind. So all you young
dialog: people here, here's a role model.
dialog: Right here. I want you to take a
text: good look at a very rich man.
text: All applaud. Ray leans over the table to shake hands with Warren.
text: In doing so, one side of his jacket trails through his mashed
text: potatoes and gravy. Ray sits back down, and everyone resumes
dialog: eating.
text: Warren looks at his food, can’t take another bite. He slides
text: his chair out.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (to Helen)
dialog: Be right back.
scene_heading: ANGLE FROM THE DOOR --
text: ag Warren leaves the room behind him.
scene_heading: INT. GORAT’S LOUNGE - HIGHT
text: Warren takes a seat at the bar. It's noisy and crowded. There's
text: a SINGER accompanied by a GUY with a drum machine and keyboard.
text: The BARTENDER puts down a cocktail napkin.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Good evening.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Vodka gimlet, please.
text: Warren sits alone at the bar waiting for his drink and waits and
dialog: waits -- it seems to take a lifetime.
speaker_heading: CREDITS END
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT HOME - NIGHT
text: Helen and Warren remove their rain coats and hang them up. The
text: PHONE RINGS. Helen answers.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Hello? Oh, hi, honey. Yeah, uh-huh,
dialog: it ran a little late, yeah. of “*
dialog: course he is.
dialog: (to Warren) 7
dialog: Warren, get on the phone. It's Jeannie.
text: Warren takes the phone. Helen gets a rag and wipes up the water
text: they spilled walking in.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Jeannie, how you doing? Uh-huh. oh,
dialog: it went just fine. Yeah, quite a big
dialog: event. Oh, I know; don’t give it
dialog: another thought. You've got bigger
dialog: fish to fry. I know. We'll see you
dialog: out there pretty soon anyway. Yeah.
dialog: Just a gold watch and some gag gifts,
dialog: you know. Yeah, it’s pretty nice, I
dialog: guess. The what? Oh, yeah, I did
dialog: get it. The robe. Yeah, that’s
dialog: guite an item. From you and Randall.
dialog: I see. Well, it’s going to come in
dialog: handy. And tell Randall thanks for
dialog: me too. Okay. Bye now.
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT BEDROOM/BATHROOM ~- NIGHT
text: Warren unties his tie. Helen is at work x i
text: Warren continues to disrobe and put on his pajamas.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Did you thank Randall?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I did.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: And what did he say?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Well, I just told Jeannie.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You didn’t thank him personally?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: He didn't get on the phone. -
speaker_heading: oe BELEN
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I don’t know. He didn’t get on the
dialog: phone.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You should have asked for him. You
dialog: should make more of an effort. He’s
dialog: going to be your son-in-law, and you
dialog: hardly know him.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I know him well enough.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: I wish you'd try to be more positive.
dialog: She's lucky to have him.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (resigned)
dialog: Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: You should make an effort.
dialog: They go about their business.
speaker_heading: HELEN (CONT'D)
dialog: You know, my father didn’t think so
dialog: much of you at first.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - MORNING
text: Warren awakens and looks at the clock -- it’s exactly 7:00 AM. He
text: heads to the bathroom. Helen keeps SNORING.
text: From outside the bathroom we hear his ablutions -- toothbrush,
text: urine, spit. Finally he comes out and stops, looks at --
scene_heading: EXT. DESERT - DAY
text: A DESERT -- an endless ocean of SAND.
text: Helen lies in bed some 100 meters away.
scene_heading: THE BEDROOM AGAIN --
text: Warren gets his robe and heads out of the bedroom. -
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOK =- DAY
text: Warren sits reading the NEWSPAPER.
scene_heading: HONK-HONK-HONK from outside.
dialog: window to see ~~
text: Suddenly he hears an insistent
text: He gets up and looks though the
speaker_heading: HELEN
text: .in the front seat of a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, a brand-new BOUNDER
text: parked in the driveway. She smiles and gestures for him to come
dialog: outside.
scene_heading: EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY
text: Still holding his newspaper, Warren wanders out into the driveway.
text: The vehicle is new and clean and still has the sticker. Helen
text: pokes her head out the window.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Where to, mister? Looks like you
dialog: need a ride!
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - DAY
text: Warren opens the door and steps up. Helen is waiting at the tiny
text: dining table. She has prepared a big breakfast -- waffles,
dialog: orange juice, eggs.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Surprise!
text: Warren expresses no visible happiness.
speaker_heading: HELEN (CONT’D)
dialog: I thought it would be fun to have
dialog: breakfast in here today -- you know,
dialog: see what it'll be like.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: On, fine.
text: He climbs inside awkwardly and squeezes in across from her.
dialog: She
text: pours coffee.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Isn't this fun?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: well, it kind of gives us a rough
dialog: idea.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: we're going to have a lot of good
dialog: times in this thing, Warren.
text: Warren doesn’t feel like going anywhere, especially with her.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Phyllis Cohen told me about their
dialog: trip to Padre Island. We could drive
dialog: down there, down to Texas. And I
dialog: still really want to see the Pacific
dialog: Northwest and Oregon. And then we
dialog: could take that cruise to Alaska.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Now just hold your horses. We've got
dialog: plenty of time to figure it out.
text: Helen holds out her DIXIE CUP of orange juice for a toast.
speaker_heading: RELEN
dialog: Here’s to a whole new chapter.
text: Warren nods, does his best to seem cheery. They tap their Dixie
dialog: cups together.
scene_heading: INT. TV ROOM - DAY
text: Warren, remote in hand, sits in front of the Tv.
speaker_heading: FLIP
text: A daytime talk show.
speaker_heading: FLIP
dialog: A Bob Hope-Phyllis Diller movie.
speaker_heading: FLIP
text: Close-ups of starving wide-eyed brown and black children, flies
text: buzzing about their eyes and mouths. An 800 number is displayed.
speaker_heading: VOICE-OVER
text: —Tavaged by drought and famine.
dialog: You'll join the thousands of caring
dialog: sponsors...
speaker_heading: FLIP
text: An exercise class — “Bodies by Jake.”
speaker_heading: FLIP
text: Back to the starving children. A baby with a distended betly is
text: weighed with negligible movement. from the scale’s needle.
speaker_heading: VOICE-OVER (CONT’D)
dialog: ~ the only way possible: one child at
dialog: atime. All it takes is just 22
dialog: dollars a month -- 73 cents a day --
text: 73¢ a day now flashes at the top of the screen.
speaker_heading: VOICE-OVER (CONT'D)
dialog: -- when you become a World Children’s
dialog: Crusade sponsor. You’ll work the
dialog: miracle of granting one needy,
dialog: desperate child a future. You'll give
dialog: that child the opportunity every human
dialog: being deserves -- the chance at living
dialog: up to his or her full potential, the
dialog: chance to live a life worth living.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: is riveted, moved by this appeal.
speaker_heading: THE TV AGAIN --
speaker_heading: VOICE-OVER (CONT'D)
dialog: Soon your child will begin to hear a
text: voice swell within him -- the voice
dialog: of pride and self-esteem, the voice
dialog: that tells him somewhere in the world
dialog: he matters just enough that someone
dialog: wants to revive his spirit.
scene_heading: CLOSER ON WARREN --
speaker_heading: VOICE OVER (CONT'D)
dialog: But only if you take action, only if you
dialog: pick up the phone right now and call
dialog: World Crusade will one of these children
dialog: have a chance at a meaningful life -- a
text: life free from despair and hopelessness.
dialog: 10
text: Almost without knowing why, Warren picks up the phone.
text: Squinting
text: at the screen, he puts the receiver to his ear.
speaker_heading: HELEN (0S)
dialog: warren!
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Just a minute!
speaker_heading: HELEN (OS)
dialog: we're going to be late for supper.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Just a minute!
speaker_heading: THE TV AGAIN --
text: more STARVING CHILDREN, looking at us with their big, round,
text: imploring eyes.
scene_heading: INT. NEW TOWER RESTAURANT - WIGHT
scene_heading: A TRAY OF FOOD --
text: is carried across the dining room, resplendent with plates of
dialog: prime rib, baked or mashed potatoes, choice of spaghetti or rice.
text: The WAITRESS arrives at a table where Warren and Helen Schmidt and
text: Ray and Millie Nichols are seated. She flips open a belted tray-
text: stand and begins serving.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: (eyeing his meat)
dialog: Saaaaay.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Ooh!
speaker_heading: MILLIE
dialog: Isn‘t this nice?
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: They do a good job here.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: We all set? Can I get you anything
dialog: else -- steak sauce, extra sour
dialog: cream.?
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: I'd say we're in pretty good shape.
speaker_heading: BELEN
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: ll
text: The waitress leaves them.
speaker_heading: MILLIE
dialog: Isn‘t she cute?
text: They all begin eating. Silent, the four of them consume their
text: prime rib, stare vaguely.
text: ALL LIGHTS DIM EXCEPT FOR A LIGHT ON WARREN,
text: and the din of the restaurant subsides.
text: About to lift another bite to his lips, Warren stops, looks at --
text: -- Millie wiping mashed potato from both sides of her +
text: . _ knife onto her fork béfGre raising the fork to her mouth
text: -- Peas falling off a fork, bouncing with loud duns
dialog: -- extra “au jus” dousing prime rib.
speaker_heading: WARREN'S EYES
text: dart from place to place. Something in the SOUND implies
dialog: Warren's distorted -- or very clear -- perception.
text: -- Helen’s greasy lips part every few chews.
text: -- A knife cuts through prime rib, an abrasive SCREECH as
text: the knife reaches the plate.
text: The burned-out bulbs on the wagon-wheel chandelier.
text: The waitress’s thick calves beneath thick support hose.
dialog: ~- The CLOCK.
text: Warren drops his head, pinches the bridge of his nose. Helen
text: notices Warren’s distress and leans over to him. But we can’t hear
text: her dialogue, just the distant impression of someone speaking.
speaker_heading: . WARREN
dialog: No, I’m, I’m fine. Just a little tired,
dialog: I guess.
text: He takes another bite of prime rib. It tastes like carrion.
dialog: ow a, Qu .
scene_heading: EXT. MUTUAL OF OMAHA - DAY
text: Warren’s Cadillac pulls into a VISITOR PARKING space.
scene_heading: INT. MUTUAL OF OMAHA - DAY
text: It’s a high floor, and Warren steps off the ELEVATOR. He's
text: dressed in suit and tie and looks ready for work. He walks
text: jauntily toward --
dialog: 12
scene_heading: INT. GARY NORDIN'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Warren walks by the new SECRETARY.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Oh hi, Mr. Schmidt.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: How are you? Say, is Gary in?
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
text: He’s right inside.
text: Warren gives a little KNOCK and goes into --
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S OFFICE -~ CONTINUOUS
text: Warren walks into an office that is completely rearranged.
dialog: Gary
text: is on the phone and gives Warren a gesture of “I'll just be a sec.
dialog: Have a seat.”
text: _ Warren takes a seat across from the desk that used to be his. He
text: looks at Gary's little personal touches -- the family photograph,
text: the motivational posters, the stress-reducing squeeze balls.
text: Gary hangs up the phone.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (extending his hand)
dialog: Hey, there he is! What do you say,
dialog: partner?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Pretty good, pretty good. How you
dialog: getting along?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Not too shabby.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I see you're all moved in.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Oh yeah, oh yeah. So what brings you
dialog: by this neck of the woods?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, I was just driving by and I
dialog: thought I'd pop in and see what kind
dialog: of trouble you’re getting into.
dialog: 13
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Oh, you know, keeping busy. Keeping
dialog: busy.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: And I guess I wanted to make sure you
dialog: didn’t have any more questions about
dialog: our accounts.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: No, I think I've got a pretty good
dialog: handle on things. You did a super
dialog: job of handing everything over. Just
dialog: super. Smooth sailing all the way. 7
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Because I've been concerned that a
dialog: few of those open items I walked you
dialog: through might have slipped through
dialog: the cracks, and it’s kind of been
dialog: nagging at me.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Nope.
text: That just sits there a moment.
speaker_heading: GARY (CONT’D)
dialog: Heck, a business degree from Drake
dialog: ought to be worth something.
text: They laugh.
speaker_heading: GARY (CONT’D)
dialog: But if anything bubbles up to the
dialog: surface, Warren, I'll be sure to give
dialog: you a holler. You can bet on that.
dialog: (checking his watch)
dialog: Oops. I’ve got to get to a meeting
dialog: out west. You want to walk down with
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Okay. Sure.
scene_heading: EIT. MUTUAL OF OMAHA BACK STEPS - DAY
text: Before Gary and Warren walk down the steps toward the EXECUTIVE
text: PARKING LOT, Warren hesitates.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Well, I'll say good-bye right here.
dialog: I'm out front.
dialog: 14
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (extending his hand)
dialog: Warren, it’s always a pleasure.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Likewise.
dialog: (wagging a fatherly finger)
dialog: But you call me if you need anything.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Oh yeah. Bave a good one.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: You bet. ad
text: They shake hands and start in opposite directions. Then --
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Say, Warren?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Come to think of it, there is
dialog: something I’ve been meaning to ask
dialog: you about. I can’t believe I forgot.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (elated)
dialog: Sure, Gary. What is it?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Is it just me, or did you have
text: trouble opening the left-hand drawers
dialog: of the desk? The key is super tight
dialog: in there, and you have to jiggle it
dialog: and twist it pretty hard to get it to
dialog: work, and I keep thinking the key’s
dialog: going to break right off. Any
dialog: pointers?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (deflated)
dialog: You. you have to pull up on the top
dialog: drawer while you're unlocking it.
dialog: That ought to do the trick.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I’ll give it a try. Thanks, Warren.
text: Gary heads for his car.
dialog: is
scene_heading: EXT. MUTUAL OF OMAHA BUILDING - SIDE ALLEY - DAY
text: Warren walks around the building on his way back to the front
text: parking lot.
text: He passes a row of DUMPSTERS.
text: Next to the last dumpster Warren
dialog: notices -~-
text: HIS CAREFULLY LABELED FILE BOXES,
text: now crumpled and soggy from a recent rain.
dialog: THAK! THAK!
text: A butcher knife separates a CHICKEN LEG from a THIGH. We are in -- -
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT KITCHEN - DAY
text: Warren comes in the backdoor. Helen wears an apron.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: How'd it go at the office?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh fine. It’s a good thing I went. I
dialog: was able to clear up some loose ends
dialog: and set him straight on a few things..
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: That‘s wonderful.
scene_heading: INT. HOME OFFICE ~- DAY
text: SORTING THROUGH THE MAIL
dialog: shows the usual assortment of bills and ads and do you need your
dialog: carpet steam-cleaned. But one --
scene_heading: THICK YELLOW ENVELOPE
text: bears the logo of WORLD CHILDREN’S CRUSADE in the corner. There
text: is a little sketch of two children, their hands extended in a
text: gesture that suggests begging for a hug, or for money.
text: Warren opens the letter.
speaker_heading: INSERT --
speaker_heading: LETTER
dialog: Dear Mr. Schmidt, You’re about to change
dialog: the world for little Ngudu Umbo. As you
dialog: become a WCC sponsor, providing the start
dialog: of a meaningful and productive life for
dialog: Ngudu.
dialog: 16
text: Warren examines the material. There’s a PAMPHLET entitled,
dialog: “Sponsoring a Child,” and a separate SHEET describing the child:
speaker_heading: SEX M
speaker_heading: BIRTHDAY Unknown
speaker_heading: COUNTRY TANZANIA
text: And of course there’s a PHOTO of Ngudu: thin neck; wide, mournful
text: eyes; black skin; puffy cheeks; close-cropped woolly hair.
speaker_heading: THE CHECK --
dialog: as Warren writes “Twenty-two and 00/100 ----------. ”
scene_heading: WARREN’S EYES -- -
text: as he re-reads the material. We hear the check RIP from the pad.
scene_heading: THE LETTER AGAIN --
speaker_heading: THE LETTER (CONT’D)
dialog: Please consider enclosing a letter to
dialog: NGUDU. You may want to include some
dialog: personal information about yourself.
dialog: You‘re not just sharing your money with
dialog: your child -- you’re sharing your love.
text: He picks up pen, thinks about what to write, can’t seem to come up
text: with anything, looks again at the words --
dialog: “.. personal information about
dialog: yourself.”
text: Warren looks up, thinks, looks down again at the blank piece of
text: paper. He begins to write.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Dear Ngudu, My name is Warren R.
dialog: Schmidt, and I am your new foster
dialog: father. I live in Omaha, Nebraska. My
dialog: older brother Harry lives in Roanoke,
text: Virginia with his wife Estelle. Harry
dialog: lost a leg two years ago to diabetes.
dialog: Warren pauses -- what else to say?
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: I recently retired as a division
dialog: manager of the Actuarial department
dialog: at Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company
dialog: -- you might have heard of it because
dialog: of the old TV show. They might have
dialog: even filmed some of it around where
dialog: you live. Anyway, as I say, I just
dialog: retired.
speaker_heading: MORE
dialog: 17
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D
dialog: (he can’t help himself)
dialog: - and goddammit if they didn’t replace
dialog: me with some kid half my age who
dialog: doesn’t know the first thing about
dialog: running a department. Brought him out
dialog: from Connecticut or some goddamn place.
dialog: Cocky little son-of-a-bitch.
text: Warren suddenly catches himself, looks at what he wrote. He
text: scratches something out, continues writing.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: ~ son-of-a-gun. I am 66 years of
dialog: ~..... .agé.. That_must sound pretty old to a_
dialog: young fellow like yourself. The
dialog: truth is it sounds pretty old to me
dialog: too, and I still can’t believe I'm
dialog: retired, can’t believe it’s all
dialog: behind me. Where has the time gone?
dialog: IN THE BATHROOM --
text: Warren straightens his tie in the mirror.
dialog: Be leans forward,
text: squints.
text: CLOSE ON HIS CROWSFEET
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Nowadays when I look in the mirror
text: and see the wrinkles around my eyes—
text: CLOSE ON HIS CHICKEN NECK
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
text: ~and the skin on my neck beginning to
dialog: sag.
scene_heading: WARREN’S PILLOW,
text: the indentation of his head.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
text: ~and the hair on my pillow.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON WARREN’S FOOT
text: traced by blue lines like a road map, as he pauses while pulling
text: on a sock.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: ~and the veins on my ankles, I just
dialog: can’t believe it’s me.
dialog: 18
scene_heading: INSERT -- PHOTOS
text: of Warren's graduation from high school and college. In a group
text: shot of “Future Business Leaders of America,” young Warren holds
text: up one side of the banner.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: When I was a kid I used to think that
dialog: maybe I was special, that somehow
dialog: destiny had tapped me to be a great man
dialog: -- not like Churchill or Walt Disney or
dialog: somebody like that. But somebody, you
dialog: know, at least semi-important.
text: A QUICK TILT DOWN STOCK MARKET PRICES
text: in the newspaper stops on “SCHMIDT INTL.”
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: I was going to start my own business,
dialog: build it up into a big corporation,
dialog: watch it go public, you know, maybe
dialog: make Fortune 500.
scene_heading: THE COVER OF FORBES
text: shows Warren on the cover, arms crossed, smiling the confident
text: smile of a powerful industrialist.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: I was going to be one of those guys
dialog: you read about.
text: The MAGAZINE FADES AWAY, and Warren's arms unfold, his smile
text: vanishes, his shoulders drop, he turns his back and walks away,
text: getting SMALLER AND SMALLER.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT‘D)
dialog: Instead I took a job at Mutual and I
dialog: just stuck with it. I never made my
dialog: move, never broke out on my own, as
dialog: much as I wanted to. I thought I was
dialog: doing the right thing — supporting my
dialog: family and moving up in a fine company
dialog: - but along the way all the dreams I
text: had as a young man just faded away.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON THE LETTER
text: as Warren writes the next sentence, his VOICE CRACKING.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: Somehow I convinced myself that my
dialog: dreams were just any young man’s
dialog: foolish dreams.
text: A TEAR SMEARS THE WORD “DREAMS,”
text: and another falls too.
dialog: 19
speaker_heading: THE MEMENTOS
dialog: that decorate his study:
text: -- A photograph of a group of men who completed a
dialog: management training seminar.
dialog: -- A certificate of recognition of 25 years of service from
dialog: Mutual.
text: -- A photograph of Warren shaking hands with SPIRO AGNEW.
text: -- The watch displayed in the velvet case.
text: BACK IN HIS HOME OFFICE °
text: Warren sits at his desk, momentarily paralyzed. He picks up his
dialog: pen to continue.
scene_heading: A DESKTOP PHOTO OF HELEN AND YOUNG JEANNIE --
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: But what about my wife and daughter?
dialog: What about my family? Don’t they
dialog: give my life meaning?
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT BEDROOM - NIGHT
scene_heading: CLOSE ON HELEN
text: asleep. Her mouth hangs slack, and she SNORES LOUDLY. Warren
text: lies wide awake, looking at her as though at a complete stranger.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: My wife’s name is Helen, formerly
dialog: Helen Meyers of Sloan, Iowa. we've
dialog: been married forty-two years.
dialog: Lately, every night, I ask myself the
dialog: same question. Who is this old woman
dialog: who lives in my house?
speaker_heading: A PAN —
text: from Helen's face to Warren and Helen's WEDDING PHOTO, ZOOMING IN
text: on Helen‘s young face.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Is she really the same woman I
dialog: Married?
scene_heading: EXT. MALL PARKING LOT - DAY
text: Warren carries bags as he and Helen walk to the car. Helen
text: removes the keys from her purse and clutches them.
dialog: 20
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: why is it that every little thing she
dialog: does irritates me? Like the way she
text: gets the keys out of her purse long
text: before we reach the car.
text: Warren looks ahead into the distance of the vast parking lot. A
text: superimposed ARROW moving up and down points to their car far away
scene_heading: INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
text: Warren watches Helen staring obsessively at the items passing the
text: price scanner, checking them against the register‘’s price display.
dialog: No discrepancy shall pass.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
text: And the way she watches the checkout
text: clerk at the grocery store.
scene_heading: INT. TV ROOM - DAY
text: “warren watches TV. Helen bustles in excitedly holding a
text: newspaper, her finger on a full-page AD for a new corporate
dialog: seafood restaurant.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: And her obsession with trying new
dialog: restaurants.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Warren and Helen entertain two other couples.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: And the way she cuts me off sometimes
dialog: when I try to speak.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: ~and the next thing you know, Warren
dialog: and I are standing there waiting for
dialog: the hostess to acknowledge us, you
dialog: know, to even look at us, and she
text: goes ahead and seats the people who
dialog: came in after us—
text: Warren tries to clarify.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Well, the thing is that--
dialog: 21
speaker_heading: BELEN
dialog: -which normally I wouldn’t mind,
dialog: you know, but we had been standing
dialog: there for at least.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM/BATHROOM - DAY
text: Helen comes out of the bathroom wielding an ENEMA BAG AND TUBE.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: And the way she.
text: Warren’s reverie is interrupted by a shrill voice.
speaker_heading: HELEN (0S)
dialog: Warren! -
scene_heading: INT. HOME OFFICE - DAY
text: Warren looks up startled.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (meek)
dialog: Yes?
text: Belen is at the door.
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: Lunch.
text: He discretely covers the letter. As Helen walks away he notices --
scene_heading: HER SHOES -- .
text: the way they‘re worn down and the loud FLIP-FLOP they produce.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Warren and Belen sit at the kitchen table eating TOMATO SOUP.
text: Maybe Helen SLURPS a little too loudly. Not a word passes between
dialog: them. Finally --
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: It‘s low salt.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Not bad.
scene_heading: INT. HOME OFFICE - DAY
text: Warren enters and eagerly gets back to work.
dialog: 22
text: HELEN'S BUTT HITS A CHAIR
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: And I hate the way she sits.
scene_heading: HELEN’S ARMPIT --
text: An odd shot.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: And the way she smells.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Through a cracked door we see Warren on the TOILET. His pants are
text: around his ankles, and we hear a muffled TINKLE.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: For years now she has insisted that I sit
dialog: when I urinate. My promise to lift the
dialog: seat and wipe the rim and put the seat
dialog: back down wasn’t good enough for her. No.
scene_heading: INT. HOME OFFICE - DAY
text: Warren takes a deep breath, composes himself.
dialog: a n a Writes again,
dialog: glancing up at --
text: A PEROTO .
text: of a much younger Warren smiling with his little daughter.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: (his tone softening)
dialog: But then there’s Jeannie. She’s our
dialog: only. I bet she’d like you -- she gets
dialog: a big kick out of different languages
dialog: and cultures and so forth. She used to
dialog: get by pretty good in German.
scene_heading: INT. JEANNIE'S ROOM -- FLASHBACK
speaker_heading: WARREN’S POV -- .
text: Jeannie’s door magically opens, and 6-year-old Jeannie looks up
text: from her toys and runs toward us.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Daddy!
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: She's my little girl.
dialog: 23
scene_heading: INT. ICE SKATING RINK -- FLASHBACK
scene_heading: ANGLE FROM THE STANDS --
text: Many LITTLE GIRLS are taking skating lessons.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: She lives out in Denver so I don’t
dialog: see her much anymore. Oh sure, we
dialog: stay in touch by phone every couple
text: weeks and she tries to come out for
dialog: the holidays, but not as often as
dialog: we'd like.
text: Little Jeannie looks up at us and waves.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Daddy, look!
text: We wave back.
scene_heading: INT. BATHTUB -- FLASHBACK
text: Very little Jeannie is naked in the tub playing with toys,
text: laughing, perhaps SPLASHING us.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: She has a position of some
dialog: responsibility out there with a high-
dialog: tech computer outfit, so it’s very
text: hard for her to break away.
scene_heading: EXT. “WATERBEDS AND MORE” — DENVER - DAY
text: A bland suburban waterbed store. Oh, look — they're having a
dialog: sale.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Recently she got engaged to a fellow
dialog: named Randall Hertzel, so I suppose
dialog: we'll be seeing even less of her now.
text: RANDALL HERTZELL comes walking out of the store. He is lean and
text: tall and wears a mustache and pony-tail. He waves at us and comes
text: walking over.
dialog: 24
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT‘'D)
dialog: we went out there last year to meet
text: him. He works in a waterbed store or
dialog: something. Personally I don’t feel
dialog: he’s quite up to snuff for our
dialog: Jeannie, but I suppose she’s no
dialog: spring chicken anymore. But I still
dialog: think she could have done a heck of a
dialog: lot better.
scene_heading: INT. GRADE SCHOOL AUDITORIUM -- FLASHBACK
text: Sixth-grade Jeannie plays VIOLIN in an orchestra RECITAL. --We move
text: closer to her.
text: we linger on young Jeannie, very concentrated, alternately bowing
text: and counting her rests.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT”D)
dialog: (wistful)
dialog: Jeannie.
scene_heading: INT. HOME OFFICE -- WOW
text: Warren draws a long breath, near tears, looks back down and writes
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Well, look at the time. I’ve been
dialog: rambling on and on, and I’m sure you’ve
dialog: nad enough of this belly-aching. You
dialog: probably want to hurry on down and cash
dialog: that check, get yourself something to
dialog: eat. So take it easy, and best of luck
dialog: with all your endeavors. Yours very
dialog: truly, Warren Schmidt.
text: He paper clips the check to the letter, which is by now several
text: pages long. He has trouble folding it.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Now in his overcoat, Warren walks past the kitchen, where Helen is
text: bent over, brandishing a DUSTBUSTER.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m going out to mail a letter. You
dialog: need anything?
speaker_heading: HELEN
dialog: No.
dialog: 25
text: He heads toward the door.
speaker_heading: HELEN (CONT“D)
dialog: Don't dilly-dally.
scene_heading: EXT. POST OFFICE - DAY
text: Warren parks his Cadillac and trots inside, bearing the sealed
text: record of his unburdened soul.
scene_heading: INT. CADILLAC - DAY
text: Driving his car, Warren catches sight of something alluring out of
text: the corner of his eye.
scene_heading: EXT. DAIRY QUEEN - POV - DAY
text: It beckons.
scene_heading: INT. DAIRY QUEEN - DAY
dialog: It’s Warren’s turn.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Um, I'll have a Blizzard with vanilla
dialog: ice cream and uh.
scene_heading: YOUNG FEMALE WORKER
dialog: What would you like in it?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Let’s see. I'1] have some, uh,
text: Reese’s pieces and some cookie dough.
dialog: Yeah, cookie dough.
scene_heading: EXT. DAIRY QUEEN ~- DAY
text: Warren sits alone at a PICNIC TABLE eating his Blizzard on this
text: overcast day.
text: At the other picnic table sit a rather large YOUNG WOMAN and her
text: YOUNG SON. Like Warren they enjoy their Dairy Queen treats in
dialog: silence.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHMIDT HOUSE - DAY
text: Warren’s Cadillac turns into his driveway.
dialog: 26
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT HOUSE - DAY
text: Warren comes in the back door, hangs his overcoat on a hook.
dialog: Is Helen still vacuuming? Sounds like it.
text: He glances in the KITCHEN and sees --
text: HELEN LYING ON THE FLOOR
text: in an improbable position. She's not moving now, but it’s clear
text: that not long ago she was trying to drag a TELEPHONE toward her.
text: The sight sinks in for a moment, then Warren rushes to her, kneels
text: down and rolls her on her back.
speaker_heading: WARREN .
dialog: Helen! Helen! What's wrong?
dialog: No response.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT’D)
dialog: Helen. oh God. Helen!
dialog: (panicking, shaking her)
dialog: Helen!
text: Warren awkwardly embraces her.
text: The dustbuster continues to WHIR,
text: sucking at nothing.
text: Note: During the following sequence, Warren remains in the same
text: Place in frame while the backgrounds change around him. The
text: effect is one of a swirling out-of-body experience.
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT KITCHEN
text: Warren watches while PARAMEDICS carry out a STRETCHER.
scene_heading: INT. MORTUARY
text: Warren walks through a COFFIN SHOWROOM.
scene_heading: INT. FUNERAL HOME
text: Warren sits across the desk from a MORTICIAN and writes a check.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH OFFICE
text: Warren talks with a PRIEST, arranging for services.
dialog: 27
scene_heading: ImT. AIRPORT GATE AREA
text: Warren’s daughter JEANNIE and her fiancée RANDALL HERTZEL walk off
text: the jetway. Jeannie embraces Warren tightly.
scene_heading: INT. FUNERAL HOHE CHAPEL
text: Warren accepts warm wishes from friends at the WAKE.
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH
text: Warren sits in the front pew next to Jeannie. -
scene_heading: Ext. CEMETERY - DAY
text: Warren is seated under a graveside canopy at this burial plot
text: close to the interstate. The PRIEST is talking, though we hear
text: him only faintly. The swirling sequence ends.
text: Warren looks over at --
scene_heading: THE MOUND OF EARTH
text: covered with a tarp. And at --
speaker_heading: TRE COFFIN
text: hovering over a pit. And at --
speaker_heading: THE CLOUDS
dialog: on this gloomy day. And at --
scene_heading: HIS DAUGHTER JEANNIE
text: seated next to him. Next to her sits Randall.
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT HOME - DAY
text: A post~-funeral RECEPTION is winding down -- there are glasses and
text: plates everywhere. People are filing out. Jeannie and Randall
text: are beginning to clear dishes and put chairs back in place.
text: Warren says his GOOD-BYES to the last three guests -- Warren's
text: best friend Ray Nichols and a couple of old friends, GEORGE and
text: JOANNE. Dear old Ray is quite broken up and has trouble fighting
dialog: tears.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: I can’t believe it, Warren. I still
dialog: can‘t believe it_
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: ~I know, Ray. I know.
dialog: 28
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: She just. she was too young.. she was
dialog: just so.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I know. Thank you, Ray. You’re a
dialog: good friend.
text: They shake hands firmly and reach around for a brief manly hug.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: You take care of yourself, Warren.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Iwill, Ray. You too. We’ll see you
dialog: real soon. Thanks for everything.
text: Ray leaves, shaking his head, lost in grief.
speaker_heading: JOANNE
dialog: We're going to say goodbye too,
dialog: Warren. You know how sorry we are.
dialog: We're going to miss Helen so much.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: She was a great gal, just the
dialog: sweetest, warmest, most wonderful—
dialog: If you need anything -- anything at
dialog: all -- you give us a call. Okay?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: GEORGE
dialog: (emphatically)
dialog: Okay?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah.
text: Warren closes the door on them. He turns to his daughter.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Nice of everybody to bring all this
dialog: food. All these cold cuts. Going to
dialog: have a lot of leftovers.
text: Warren surveys the food, gets momentarily lost in thought.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON --
text: yellow CEEESE CUBES.
dialog: 29
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON --
text: folded slices of ROAST BEEF with a CHERRY TOMATO in the center.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON --
text: a plate of RICE KRISPIE BARS.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON --
speaker_heading: WARREN.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT’D)
dialog: Yep.
text: Jeannie approaches her father and throws her arms around his neck.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE -
dialog: Oh, Dad.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I know, Jeannie. I know.
text: They hug each other tightly. Jeannie cries softly, and Warren
text: strokes her hair.
text: Randall quietly observes this intimate moment, moved by such a
text: deep connection between father and daughter.
text: Unable to contain his love, Randall steps forward and rubs
text: Jeannie’s back. He then extends a comforting hand onto Warren's
dialog: back too.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: She was a very special lady.
text: Warren opens his eyes and looks at Randall’s face inches away.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (CONT’D)
dialog: I for one am really going to miss
dialog: her. I miss her already. I know we
dialog: all do.
text: Warren now breaks the embrace with Jeannie, an embrace completely
text: sullied by this interloper.
text: Randall picks up an almost empty bottle of WHITE WINE and pours it
text: into three PLASTIC CUPS.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (CONT’‘D)
dialog: Let’s drink to her.
text: He hands a cup to Jeannie and another to Warren, who accepts it
dialog: reluctantly.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (CONT’D)
dialog: Here’s to Belen. They broke the
dialog: mold. They broke the mold.
dialog: (gazing heavenward)
dialog: Helen, we love you and we miss you.
dialog: And we always will. Here’s to you.
text: Randall downs his wine in one gulp. Jeannie sips hers.
text: just puts his glass back down on the table.
scene_heading: Int. WARREN'S DEN - NIGET
text: Weary from the day, Warren seeks a moment of solitude.
text: his desk, leafs absently through the FUNERAL PROGRAM.
text: Randall appears in the open doorway.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (very concerned)
dialog: How you doing? You doing okay?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m fine.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Sure?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah. You ought to get to bed.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: We're on our way. I just thought I'd
dialog: check up on you. Must be really
dialog: tough. I remember when my aunt died.
dialog: It was so unreal. It was the fourth
dialog: of July. I’11 never forget it.
dialog: 30
dialog: Warren
dialog: He'sits at
text: Randall reflects momentarily on the cruel fleeting nature of life.
dialog: Then --
speaker_heading: RANDAL (CONT’D)
dialog: So listen, Warren, I know now's
dialog: definitely not the time to talk about
dialog: it, but before we leave if you want
dialog: to take a few minutes and get your
dialog: mind off all this. craziness, there’s
dialog: something real important I want to
dialog: talk to you about.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: What's that?
dialog: 31
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: It's an investment opportunity that I
dialog: don’t think you’1l want to pass up.
dialog: And I want to give you first crack at
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh?
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: And it's not a pyramid scheme. A lot
dialog: of people think it’s a pyramid
dialog: scheme, but it’s not. It’s a sure
dialog: fire way to double your money, maybe ”
dialog: even triple it without any risk at (~~ 5
dialog: all. I've looked into it and. The ar
dialog: thing is, Warren, you know, I’m not Qu —
dialog: going to be selling waterbeds °
dialog: forever. I got plans. We've never
dialog: had much chance to talk about it, you
dialog: and I, but I got a pretty good
dialog: business head on me, and, you know, I
dialog: been going to a lot of seminars
dialog: lately and I really --
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Can we. can we talk about this
dialog: tomorrow?
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Oh yeah. Right. Absolutely. That's
dialog: what I was saying. Whenever you're
dialog: ready.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Goodnight, Randall.
speaker_heading: RANDALL _
dialog: Goodnight, Warren. You hang in there.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Warren is in bed but he can’t sleep. He rolls on his side and
text: stares at the void beside him. He reaches out one hand and
text: touches the empty pillow. His fingers discover a stray GRAY HAIR.
speaker_heading: LATER --
speaker_heading: WARREN’S HAND
text: turns his ALARM CLOCK around. It’s 3:26 AM.
dialog: 32
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - HIGHT
text: Warren pads out of the bedroom and in the darkness makes his way
text: to the stairway.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Warren sits at the kitchen table drinking a glass of milk.
scene_heading: INT. TV ROOM - DAY
text: Warren wakes up on the sofa. He looks around, dazed.
dialog: How did I
dialog: end up here?
text: Suddenly his attention is drawn to the“distant WHIR of Helen’s
text: dustbuster. Uneasy, Warren rises and follows the sound.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Warren pushes open a swinging door to reveal --
speaker_heading: RANDALL
text: on his hands and knees dressed in sweats, cleaning up spilled
dialog: coffee grounds.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Turn that off.
text: Randall turns around, startled.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Buh?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I said turn it off!
text: Frightened by Warren’s outburst, Randall fumbles for the switch.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Sorry. I’m sorry, I just—
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (composing himself)
dialog: Use a broom.
dialog: (pointing)
text: In the little closet over there.
text: Warren exits back through the swinging door.
dialog: 33
scene_heading: EXT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY
text: Warren shuffles along in his pajamas, the camera trailing behind.
text: He pauses briefly to look into Jeannie’s room, then continues on
text: and stops in front of the open doorway to --
scene_heading: INT. WARREN AND HELEN’S BEDROOM - DAY
scene_heading: OVER WARREN'S SHOULDER --
text: Jeannie stands in front of her mother’s dresser, looking forlornly
text: through the perfume bottles, jewelry boxes and framed photos.
text: Warren observes her for_a moment. Then -- te
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: There you are.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Oh, hi Dad.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (entering the room)
dialog: Why don’t you take some of those
dialog: things? Take whatever you want.
text: Jeannie holds up a STRING OF PEARLS.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Maybe just this for now.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: For God‘s sake, take more than that.
dialog: I'm going to have to go through her
dialog: things pretty soon and, you know,
dialog: donate it all or whatever so.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: I wish I could stay and help you with
dialog: all this, Dad, but—
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, I know. I know.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: ~ I've already used up all my
dialog: personal days this year, not even
dialog: counting the honeymoon, and Randall’s
dialog: got to get back to the store, and all
dialog: the wedding plans.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah. The wedding.
dialog: 34
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (holding back tears)
dialog: I can’t believe she’s not going to be
dialog: there. She’s not going to see my
dialog: wedding.
text: Warren puts his arm around her and squeezes her tight. We can
text: tell they are unaccustomed to such closeness.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (affectionate)
dialog: You know what’s flashing through my
dialog: mind right now?
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: What’s that?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, just when you were little and we
dialog: all used to go to Elmwood Park, and
dialog: you'd swing and ride that thing that
text: goes around and try to catch
text: butterflies by the creek.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: And when I used to take you to ice
dialog: skating classes at Ak-sar-ben.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: No. That was Mom. Mom always took
dialog: me to ice skating.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: You sure? Because I distinctly
dialog: remember taking you to ice skating.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: I don’t think so. Maybe once.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m pretty sure it was more than
dialog: once. Well, anyway, that was a nice
dialog: memory.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Yeah.
dialog: 35
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN — DAY
text: Warren is sitting at the kitchen table awaiting the sandwich that
text: Jeannie is preparing for him.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Mayonnaise or mustard?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I like both.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Okay.
dialog: te
dialog: And don't toast the bread too much.
dialog: I don’t like my bread very toasted.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (with a sigh)
dialog: Got it.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: And I’1l have some of those barbecue
dialog: potato chips. Not the plain ones.
dialog: Those are your mother’s. The
dialog: barbecue ones are mine. In fact, you
dialog: and Randall can take those plain
dialog: ones. They'll just go to waste here.
dialog: I won‘t eat them.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Fine.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: It's so good to see you. I sure wish
dialog: you didn’t have to get back so soon.
dialog: Can't you stay a few more days? I
dialog: feel like we really haven't had a
dialog: chance to, you know, catch up.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Couldn’t you just talk to them at
dialog: work? They'd understand.
dialog: (a feeble joke)
dialog: Heck, who's going to take care of me?
text: Jeannie brings over a plate of food and a glass of milk.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Here’s your sandwich.
dialog: 36
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, wonderful. Just wonderful.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: You know, Dad, you’re going to have
dialog: to get used to taking care of
dialog: yourself now.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (mid-chew)
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: You’re not going to have somebody
dialog: running your errands for you, picking
dialog: up your clothes, doing the grocery
dialog: shopping. You might need to hire a
dialog: maid or something.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: A maid? Oh, no, no. I can take care
dialog: of things. I don’t need that extra
dialog: expense.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Don’t be so stingy. I’m going to be
dialog: worried about you, and —
speaker_heading: WARREN .
dialog: Well, that’s why I’m asking you to
dialog: stay longer and sort of help me out
dialog: for a few days.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Dad, I have my own life! I mean,
dialog: it’s nice you want me to stay, but
dialog: leave it alone now.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (cowed )
dialog: Okay. I know.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: And even if I could get more time
dialog: off, what am I supposed to do about
dialog: the wedding? That’s like a full-time
dialog: job all its own.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Now that you mention it, I’ve been
dialog: thinking about that, and I was
dialog: wondering if maybe you should
dialog: consider postponing it.
dialog: 37
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Postpone the wedding? Are you crazy?
dialog: We can't do that. It’s all set.
dialog: Even if we wanted to, we'd have to
dialog: wait God-knows-how-many months for
dialog: the church again, and we'd lose all
dialog: our deposits and everything.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Actually, I made a couple calls, and
dialog: if we made a decision this week, we'd
dialog: only forfeit half the deposit on the
dialog: Church and the reception hall. I'm
dialog: just saying-you might want to take ‘-
dialog: this opportunity to, you know,
dialog: rethink things.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: But everyone’s invited and RSVP‘d and
dialog: everything.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: They'd understand. I mean, out of
dialog: respect for your mother.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Mom wouldn’t want us to change
dialog: anything. I know it.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (shifting gears)
dialog: Well, the thing is, Jeannie, your
dialog: mother and I.. we talked a number of
dialog: times very seriously about you and
dialog: Randall and_
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: What did she say?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Just that. that she loved you and she
dialog: wanted you to be happy. And that
dialog: Maybe Randall wasn’t quite. well, we
dialog: both just wanted to make sure you're
dialog: not going to have any regrets. I
dialog: just think you might want to keep
dialog: your options open, that’s all.
text: Jeannie can't really comprehend what Warren is saying.
dialog: 38
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: But she helped us pick the date and
dialog: everything. And I was on the phone
dialog: with her almost every day planning
dialog: it. No, I don’t think she’d want us
dialog: to change it.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: All right. Okay. Have it your way.
dialog: You know best. You and your mother.
text: They sit in silence a moment. Warren continues to eat.
dialog: Jeannie
text: sips her beer.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT‘D) -
dialog: Good sandwich.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (abruptly)
dialog: Why did you get such a cheap casket?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: I could tell you got the cheapest
dialog: casket. Everybody could.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (swallowing first)
dialog: Now that is not true. That is not
dialog: true. I specifically did not choose,
dialog: as you say, the cheapest casket.
dialog: There was one less expensive which
dialog: they showed me and I refused.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: You mean. a pine box?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I don’t remember what it was.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: So you got the second cheapest
text: casket.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: If you must put it that way. Look, I
dialog: know you’re upset, but I don’t think
dialog: it’s right for you to focus on one
dialog: little thing and take it out on me.
dialog: 39
dialog: +
speaker_heading: JEANNIE ~ 7
dialog: She never got anything she wanted.
dialog: You never bought her anything.
dialog: ' \
dialog: Veber -
speaker_heading: —_—
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Hey, hey, hey. What are you talking
dialog: about now? What are you saying?
dialog: What about the Bounder? What do you
dialog: call that? That’s an expensive vehicle
dialog: sitting out there. I didn’t want to
dialog: buy that. That was completely your
dialog: mother’s idea.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: She told me she had to pay for half
dialog: of it. She had to sell her stock to
dialog: pay for it or something.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: That was her decision. I was willing
dialog: to go as far as the Elite, but no,
dialog: she had to have the Imperial. She
dialog: wanted the whole she-bang. What was
dialog: I supposed to do? Tell her she
dialog: couldn't? It was her money. You
dialog: can’t call me to task on that one.
text: Now the front door opens and slams, and a VOICE calls from the
dialog: living room --
speaker_heading: RANDALL (OS)
dialog: Jeannie? Jeannie?
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: In here, Randall.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (OS)
dialog: where?
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: In here! IN HERE!
text: Randall opens the door.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Oh, hey. There you are. Thirty minute
dialog: warning. You better get packed.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Here I come.
text: Jeannie heads out the door. Randall watches her go, then turns to
dialog: Warren.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Looks like you two were having a
dialog: little heart-to-heart.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CADILLAC — DAY
text: Warren is driving the kids to the airport. Jeannie sits beside
text: him looking out the window. Randall is in the back seat. Warren
text: shoots furtive glances at his daughter. Then —
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Hey, was that Blockbuster here last
dialog: time? I don’t remember that *
dialog: Blockbuster.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, that’s new.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Buh.
scene_heading: INT. EPPLEY AIRFIELD TERMINAL - DAY
text: Randall, Jeannie and Warren step off the ESCALATOR and head toward
text: the gates. Jeannie and Randall carry their hand-luggage.
text: With Jeannie a few steps ahead, Randall suddenly remembers
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Oh. Hey. I just thought of
dialog: something. Did you ever read “When
dialog: Bad Things Happen to Good People?”
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: It‘s really amazing. It really helped
dialog: me out when my aunt died. You should
dialog: read it. When Jeannie and I get back
dialog: to Denver, I’m going to send you my
dialog: copy. The workbook too. I did most of
dialog: the exercises, but you can just write
dialog: next to my answers or something.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thank you, Randall. That’d be great.
dialog: 41
scene_heading: INT. UNITED EXPRESS GATE AREA - DAY
text: The flight is boarding. Randall and Warren shake hands.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: So long, Randall.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: You'll be in our prayers. And I'm
dialog: going to e-mail you about that
dialog: investment thing, okay?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, yes. Thank you.
text: Warren turns to his daughter.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay, Jeannie.
text: Father and daughter embrace.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (in his ear)
dialog: You take care of yourself, Dad. I‘11
dialog: see you in a few weeks.
text: Warren is overcome with many different emotions and fights to
text: maintain his composure. After a moment, Jeannie releases her arms
text: but Warren holds on, unable to let go, his eyes still closed.
speaker_heading: FLASH!
text: Randall takes a SNAPSHOT to capture the moment. The camera begins
text: its NOISY AUTO REWIND -- the end of the roll.
speaker_heading: RANDALL .
dialog: That was a good one. That's going to
dialog: be a really great shot.
text: Warren and Jeannie release their embrace. While she gathers her
text: carry-on baggage, Warren watches her, on the verge of tears.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (CONT'D)
dialog: Yeah, I got the plane in the
dialog: background. Very cool.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (to Warren)
dialog: Bye, Dad.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: So long, Jeannie.
dialog: 42
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: So we’ll see you in a few weeks.
dialog: It‘ll be great.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Bye, Warren.
text: Jeannie and Randall head toward the JETWAY.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (CONT’D)
dialog: You take care of yourself.
text: Warren watches them present their BOARDING PASSES to the
text: STEWARDESS. Randall goes first through the doors.
text: Jeannie gives her father a final little wave, then proceeds around
text: the corner. HOLD on the empty frame.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: turns his gaze and walks heavily away.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Dear Ngudu, I hope you're sitting
dialog: down, because I’m afraid I’ve got
dialog: some bad news.
scene_heading: EXT. EPPLEY AIRFIELD PARKING STRUCTURE - DAY
text: Warren trudges back to his car.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: Since I last wrote to you, my wife
dialog: Helen -- your foster mother -- passed
text: away unexpectedly of an aneurysm.
scene_heading: INT. CADILLAC - DAY
text: Warren sits in his seat, draws the lapbelt around him, puts his
text: key into the ignition.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: The services were lovely and very well
dialog: attended. Jeannie came in from Denver
dialog: with her friend, and folks drove up
dialog: from as far away as Des Moines and
dialog: Wichita. It was a very moving tribute,
dialog: anyway you look at it. I wish you
dialog: could have been there.
dialog: 43
text: Warren turns the key in his ignition and is rewarded only with the
text: GRINDING SOUND of a bad starter.
text: His anguish and frustration rising to the surface, he tries again,
text: but this time he keeps the key engaged, forcing the starter to eat
text: itself alive.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
text: A TOW TRUCK is backing into position, preparing to haul Warren’s
text: car away. Warren stands nearby.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHMIDT HOME - DUSK -
text: Warren is dropped off by a TAXI.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: But now that all the excitement is
text: over, and the smoke has cleared.
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT HOME - DUSK
text: Warren closes the front door and turns to face the vast emptiness
text: and silence of his home.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
text: . ~ it’s just me and my thoughts knocking
dialog: around in this big old house.
text: He wanders into the --
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
text: -- and absently opens the refrigerator. It’s full of left-overs
dialog: from the funeral reception.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: Funny thing is, that’s the way it was
dialog: way back when, before I had a wife,
dialog: before I had a career. before I had a
dialog: daughter.
text: Warren digs out a slice of AMERICAN CHEESE and begins unwrapping i
scene_heading: INT. TV ROOM - NIGHT
text: WE MOVE CLOSER TO WARREN
text: sitting next to a lamp, drinking a SCOTCH ON THE ROCKS. There's
text: Husker game on TV, but he’s not really watching.
dialog: 44
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: I believe I mentioned in my previous
dialog: letter that I was a manager in the
dialog: Actuarial department at Mutual of
dialog: Omaha. If I am given a man’s age,
dialog: profession, place of residence,
dialog: marital status and medical history, I
dialog: can calculate with great probability
dialog: how long that man will live. In my
dialog: case, now that my wife has died,
dialog: there is an eighty five percent
dialog: chance that I will die within eleven
dialog: years, provided I do not re-marry.
dialog: Marlin Perkins himself died only two ‘.
dialog: years after his wife passed on.
text: He leans his head onto the chair back and rests his eyes, his
text: mouth dropping open.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: All I know is I’ve got to make the
dialog: best of whatever time I have left.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. TV ROOM - DAY
text: Warren’s face is in the SAME POSITION on the chair, but now he
text: sports DARK CIRCLES under his eyes and a FIVE-DAY GREY BEARD. He
text: awakens. As he gets up, we sense that he hasn’t changed out of
dialog: his pajamas in days.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: I don’t want to kid you -- adjusting
dialog: to life without Helen has been quite
dialog: a challenge.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: DISHES are piled up, the GARBAGE overflows. Flies BUZZ.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: But I think you’d be proud of me.
dialog: Yep, this house is under new
dialog: management, but you’d never know the
dialog: difference.
text: He opens the refrigerator but sees nothing of interest. In fact
text: there's almost NOTHING in there.
dialog: 45
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: Helen wouldn’t want me sitting
text: around, wallowing in self-pity, no-
dialog: siree-bob. Why, she’d tell me to
dialog: shape up or ship out!
text: He opens a cupboard and finds only a stale package of TACO SHELLS.
text: Warren fishes one out of the box and takes a bite.
scene_heading: EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY
text: Now attired rather haphazardly -- perhaps his shirt is misbuttoned
text: -- Warren climbs into the BOUNDER and starts it up.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: So I try to get out as much as I can,
dialog: you know, try to stay active, stick
dialog: to my routine. That’s very important
text: in the face of big life changes.
scene_heading: EXT. BAKER'S SUPERMARKET - DAY
text: The bounder arrives, Captain Warren at the helm. It consumes two
dialog: parking spaces
scene_heading: INT. BAKER'S SUPERMARKET - DAY
scene_heading: IN THE FROZEN FOOD AISLE --
text: Warren stocks up on frozen EGG ROLLS, TATER TOTS, MINI PIZZA
text: ROLLS, HUNGRY MAN DINNERS and cartons and cartons of ICE CREAM.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: Oh sure, I’m not quite the cook Helen
dialog: was, but I remember a trick or two
dialog: from my bachelor days.
scene_heading: AT THE MEAT SECTION --
text: Warren selects a tray of EIGHT PORK CHOPS.
text: A WOMAN shopping close to Warren gets a good whiff of his STENCH
text: and quickly moves away.
scene_heading: EXT. BAKER'S SUPERMARKET - DAY
text: Warren has just finished loading the last of a DOZEN GROCERY BAGS
text: onto the floor of the Bounder.
dialog: 46
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: It’s a lot of work keeping a household
dialog: together. I suppose eventually I’11l
dialog: sell the place and move to a little
dialog: condo -- you know, less upkeep and so
dialog: forth -- but for now I'm getting by
dialog: just fine.
text: Suddenly he is seized with a mild discomfort, realizes he forgot
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Damn.
text: He slams the Bounder door and heads back toward the store.
scene_heading: INT. BAKER'S SUPERMARKET ~ DAY
speaker_heading: FROM A SHELF --
text: Warren selects the largest tube of PREPARATION H.
scene_heading: IN THE LIQUOR AISLE --
text: Warren is simply heading toward the checkout counters, but passing
text: all those inviting rows of alcohol, he picks up a bottle of CUTTY
speaker_heading: SARK.
scene_heading: APPROACHING THE CHECKOUT COUNTERS --
text: Warren sees that even the express lanes are JAMMED. At first
text: defeated, he gets an idea. Is anyone looking?
text: Warren furtively CONCEALS the ointment and the bottle on his”
text: person and nonchalantly saunters toward the exit.
scene_heading: EXT. BAKER’S SUPERMARKET - DAY
text: Five steps out of the store, Warren is approached by a PLAIN
text: CLOTHES SECURITY GUARD and a BAG BOY.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Sir. Sir!
text: Warren's eyes go wide, and he speeds up, pretending not to hear.
speaker_heading: GUARD (CONTD)
dialog: Rey, I’m talking to you!
text: Warren FREEZES, letting the Cutty Sark slip. It SMASHES on the
dialog: pavement.
dialog: 47
scene_heading: INT. BAKER'S SECURITY OFFICE - DAY
text: Warren sits uncomfortably on a metal FOLDING CHAIR, his head in
text: his hands. On a small table in front of him is the tube of
dialog: Preparation H.
text: The guard and the STORE MANAGER watch him. The store manager
text: shakes his head -- it takes all kinds.
text: Warren looks in his wallet, pulls out his BAKER’S CARD.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’ve got one of these. Been shopping
dialog: here for years. Can’t you let it go +.
dialog: just this once?—I‘ll pay-you ----
dialog: whatever you want.
speaker_heading: MANAGER .
dialog: You should have thought about that
dialog: before you left the store.
text: Two BURLY OMAHA POLICEMEN come through the door.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN #1
dialog: This the guy?
scene_heading: INT. OMAHA POLICE DEPARTMENT - NIGHT
scene_heading: THROUGH IRON BARS --
text: Warren is in a holding cell, sitting on a bench across froma
speaker_heading: WINO.
speaker_heading: OFFICER (OS)
dialog: Okay, Hemorrhoids. Let’s go.
text: Gathering what shreds of dignity left him, Warren rises.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: The name is Schmidt. Warren Schmidt.
scene_heading: EXT. BAKER’S PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: No cars remain in this section of the parking lot, none except the
speaker_heading: BOUNDER.
text: A POLICE CRUISER rolls up and lets Warren out.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: Appreciate the ride, officers.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN #2
dialog: You stay out of trouble now.
dialog: Int.
dialog: 48
scene_heading: BOUNDER - WIGHT
text: Warren opens the door and climbs in. He dives into his bags like
text: a hyena, and his hands get covered in milky GOO. He holds up the
text: source -~ a carton of MELTED ICE CREAM.
text: Now he unearths a box of TATER TOTS and opens it, ravenously
text: stuffing the thawed little puffs into his mouth.
text: INT.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Oh sure, sometimes I can be a tad
text: forgetful and miss a meal or two, but
dialog: I guess that’s hardly worth
dialog: mentioning to someone in your -
dialog: situation.
scene_heading: SCHMIDT BATHROOM - WIGHT
text: Warren lies asleep in his BATETUB, a newspaper dangling from his
text: hand, his mouth slack. He startles awake, looks around, is
text: completely disoriented. He rises from the tub, sees no towel,
text: and begins to BLOT himself with the newspaper.
text: INT.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONTD)
dialog: It occurred to me that in my last
dialog: letter I might have misspoken and
dialog: used some negative language in
dialog: reference to my late wife. But you
dialog: have to understand that I was under a
dialog: lot of pressure following my
dialog: retirement.
scene_heading: KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Warren sits at the kitchen table shuffling through some PHOTOS.
text: He smiles sadly from time to time.
text: INT.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not going to lie to you, Ngudu. I
dialog: miss her. I miss my Helen. It’s
dialog: been a rough few weeks, and I‘ve been
dialog: pretty, you know, broken up from time
dialog: to time.
speaker_heading: BEDROOM - DAY
scene_heading: HELEN’S CLOSET --
text: Warren approaches it as though it were a holy shrine. He opens
dialog: it.
dialog: 49
scene_heading: INSIDE THE CLOSET --
text: He’s touching her dresses one by one, smelling them, remembering
dialog: the times she wore them. .
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Helen dedicated her life to me and to
dialog: raising our family. I guess I just
dialog: didn’t know how lucky I was to have a
dialog: wife like Helen until she was gone.
scene_heading: MINUTES LATER --
text: Warren is sitting on the floor opening all of Helen’s SHOEBOXES.
text: Her little feet, her little shoes. .
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: (his voice quavering)
dialog: Remember that, young man -- you've
dialog: got to appreciate what you have while
dialog: you still have it. Helen. I just
dialog: can’t believe she’s gone. I’m sorry,
dialog: Ngudu. I’ve got to go now. Hope
dialog: all’s well. Warm regards, Warren
dialog: Schmidt
text: He opens one more box but instead of finding shoes, he discovers a
text: slim bundle of LETTERS bound by a purple ribbon. Letters? I
dialog: never wrote her any letters.
scene_heading: INT. HOME OFFICE - DAY
text: At his desk, Warren is reading from the letters. With every word
text: he DEFLATES a little more, his face sagging, his eyes clouding
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: FROM ABOVE --
text: Warren drops his head in his hands, the LETTERS laid out before
text: him like leaves torn from a book of broken dreams.
scene_heading: EXT. DEAN’S BARBER PARKING LOT - DAY
text: THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD OF THE BOUNDER --
text: Warren watches the outside of the shop. Someone emerges.
scene_heading: IT’S RAY NICHOLS --
text: striding toward his Chrysler.
text: Warren jumps out of the Bounder and heads toward Ray.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: Jesus, Warren! You scared me. What
dialog: are you doing here?
dialog: 50
text: Warren doesn't respond.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT’D)
dialog: You look terrible. What's the
dialog: matter?
text: warren ineffectually HURLS the wad of letters at Ray, and they
text: flutter off in all directions.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I thought you'd want these back.
text: Ray Captures one of the letters against his chest and examines it.
dialog: As it all sinks in -- A
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: oh, God, Warren. Oh, Jesus.
text: Warren just stares at him, fuming.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT’D)
dialog: That was so long ago, Warren. Must
dialog: be twenty-five, thirty years. I.
dialog: oh, Jesus. I never thought. She
dialog: kept these?
dialog: (slightly proud)
dialog: I can’t believe she kept these.
text: Warren rushes Ray and STRIKES him with open palms like a
text: ridiculous windmill. Ray does his best to block Warren's blows.
speaker_heading: RAY (CONT’D)
dialog: Jesus, Warren. Stop it. Stop
dialog: hitting me. Let’s talk about this.
text: Ray manages to put a car between him and Warren.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: You were my friend.
text: There’s nothing else to be done. Warren heads back to the
dialog: bounder.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: (calling after him)
dialog: It was all just a stupid mistake,
dialog: Warren. You were out in Frisco, and
dialog: things started up and got a little
dialog: out of hand, that’s all. I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (as he gets in the Bounder)
text: It's over. It's all over. It’s all
dialog: over.
dialog: $1
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: Warren
text: VRRRM! VRRRM! VRRRRRRRRRRM! Warren REVS the Bounder and with a
text: SCREECH pulls violently out of the parking lot, knocking over a
text: garbage can on the way.
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT BEDROOM - DAY
text: Warren lugs huge armloads of CLOTHING out of Helen’s closet and
text: dumps them into cardboard BOXES.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Warren empties drawers and cabinets of MAKEUP and TOILETRIES into
text: a box.
scene_heading: EXT. HI-VEE SUPERMARKET PARKING LOT - DAY
text: The Bounder pulls to a stop in front of a SALVATION ARMY DONATION
dialog: STATION.
text: The Bounder’s side door swings opens, and out come BOX AFTER BOX
text: of Helen's belongings.
text: Some of the boxes burst or tip over, spilling their contents.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHMIDT HOME - DAY
text: Warren pulls the Bounder into the driveway and walks toward his
dialog: house. :
text: MRS. BRUSH is watering her lawn next door.
speaker_heading: MRS. BRUSH
dialog: How are you getting along, Warren?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, fine, just fine. How are you?
speaker_heading: MRS. BRUSH
dialog: We're fine, but we sure miss Helen.
dialog: I don’t have anyone to give my Sunset
dialog: magazines to anymore.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh yeah. She liked that. Well, nice
dialog: to see you there, Mary. Give my best
dialog: to Julius.
dialog: 52
speaker_heading: MRS. BRUSE
dialog: Will do. We'll see ya.
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT HOME - DAY
text: Still smiling from his neighborly exchange, Warren walks through
text: the living room and OUT OF SIGHT down the hall.
speaker_heading: CAMERA HOLDS
text: on the sight of the empty hall. Then -- LOUD, WAILING SOBS waft
text: toward us from the distance.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: A tidy place with lace curtains and patterned wallpaper. Little
text: wrapped seashell soaps and a stack of designed napkins sit on the
dialog: sink basin.
text: Still sniffling, Warren enters, lowers his trousers, and begins to
text: sit. He catches himself and STANDS. He reaches to lift the seat
text: but on second thought leaves it down.
scene_heading: “CLOSE ON WARREN
text: as his stream commences. He gets an IDEA -- he raises first one
text: hand, then the other. The sound of the stream shifts randomly
text: from water-on-water to water-on-plastic to water-on-rug.
text: Now Warren begins to turn completely around -- slowly completing
text: one full circle, then another, finally picking up the pace and
text: SPINNING like a top, anointing the entire bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM — NIGHT
text: Warren is in the midst of a troubled, fitful sleep. We MOVE
text: CLOSER to him, and just as we’re upon him he OPENS HIS EYES. He
dialog: has had a REVELATION.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: Jeannie. Jeannie.
text: He rises.
speaker_heading: WHOOMP !
text: A SUITCASE hits the bed and is opened wide.
text: Warren opens his closet, begins to remove clothes and place them
text: on the bed.
scene_heading: THE SUITCASE AGAIN --
text: As Warren struggles to zip it shut.
dialog: 53
scene_heading: EXT. INTERSTATE - NIGHT
text: The Bounder zooms past a sign “Now leaving Omaha.”
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - NIGHT
text: Warren drives, determined, obsessed.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION — DAY
text: A weary and disheveled Warren is at a PAYPHONE.
scene_heading: ~ CHEERY WOMAN’S VOICE (ON PHONE)
dialog: (a recording)
dialog: You’ve reached Moon Dog Electronics.
dialog: If you know your party's extension --
scene_heading: BEEP-BEEP-BEEP -- Warren presses three digits and is transferred
dialog: to --
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: Shipping and receiving, this is
dialog: Jeannie.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Jeannie, it’s Dad. How are you?
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: Totally swamped. What’s up?
dialog: Everything okay?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Everything’s great. I have a big
dialog: surprise for you. Guess what.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PRONE)
dialog: Where are you calling from? You
dialog: sound weird.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: That’s what I want to tell you about.
text: I’mon the road. I’m on my way out
dialog: to see you. Right now I’m just
dialog: outside Grand Island.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: What are you talking about?
dialog: 54
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: It’s just that I’ve been thinking
dialog: about things, and I’ve realized that
dialog: I haven't been the greatest father to
dialog: you and, well, you’re about all I've
dialog: got left, Jeannie. And I want to
dialog: make it up to you. So I’ve decided
dialog: to come out to Denver and help
dialog: coordinate all the wedding
dialog: arrangements, take the burden off of
dialog: you. That’s the least I can do.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: You mean you’re coming now? ad
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (proud)
dialog: If I drive straight through I'll be
dialog: there in time for supper.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: (finally)
dialog: Um. I don’t think so, Dad. That’s
dialog: not such a good idea.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Why not? I’ve just been sitting in
text: Omaha twiddling my thumbs. I should
dialog: be out there helping you. I mean,
dialog: what the hell.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: The thing is, Dad, we don’t need your
dialog: help right now. Roberta and I ~-- and
dialog: Becky -- pretty much have everything
dialog: under control. Roberta’s been
dialog: amazing, by the way. Really amazing.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Besides, it'll give us a chance to
dialog: spend some quality time together and
dialog: have some good talks, you know,
dialog: before. before I lose you forever.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: Dad, you're not listening. It’s not a
dialog: good time for you to come. It’s just not.
dialog: (shouting at a co-worker)
dialog: No, use the bubble-wrap on that one.
dialog: It’s too big. Yeah.
speaker_heading: MORE
dialog: 55
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE CONT'D)
dialog: (to Warren again)
dialog: I'm sorry, Dad, but I don’t know any
dialog: other way to say it. Frankly at this
dialog: point, you'd just be in the way.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (deflated)
dialog: But I'm all packed and on my way in
dialog: the Bounder. I could just sleep in
dialog: there. I wouldn't be in the way at
dialog: all. By the way, she’s really
text: handling great on the open road.
dialog: Smooth as silk.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: I just think it’s better. if we stick
dialog: to the plan, and you get here the
dialog: Friday before the wedding like we
dialog: said. You should just turn around
dialog: and go home. I mean, it’s a sweet
dialog: offer, but like I say, we got too
dialog: much going on around here.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (wounded pride)
dialog: But I assume you won’t object to me
dialog: sending any more of those checks.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE (ON PHONE)
dialog: Jesus, Dad. I don’t have time for
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER —
text: Warren trudges back to the Bounder.
text: CLOSE ON THE GAS PUMP
text: as the total passes $41.00 with no end in sight.
speaker_heading: WIDE --
text: Warren is filling the seemingly bottomless tank of the Bounder.
text: It’s as though he were trying to fill his empty soul.
text: A pot-bellied FARMER wanders by.
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: That a Bounder?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yep.
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Thought so. Where you headed?
dialog: 56
text: Warren is caught off-guard. That’s a very good question.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: um. let's see. Well. out to Denver.
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Denver, huh?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: My daughter's getting married.
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Say! Congratulations.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: But I've got a few days to kill on
dialog: the way, So I suppose I’m going to
dialog: take my time about it. see some
dialog: sights.
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Good for you. You going to see
dialog: Pioneer Village?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: That‘s a good idea. Now that you
dialog: mention it, my wife and I must have
text: driven by it a dozen times, but she
dialog: never wanted to stop.
speaker_heading: FARMER
dialog: Oh, she didn’t, did she?
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON WARREN
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Now I’m going to stop.
scene_heading: THE GAS GAUGE AGAIN --
text: It STOPS on $62.37.
scene_heading: EXT. I-80 - CENTRAL NEBRASKA - DAY
text: Warren’s RV makes its way across this flat, sprawling agricultural
text: landscape. The composition of the shots and the music reinforce
text: Warren's sense of loneliness and alienation.
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER — DAY
text: Warren drives, a sad, anxious expression on his face. Suddenly —
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (mocking Jeannie)
dialog: “At this point you'd just be in the
dialog: way.”
scene_heading: WARREN NOW SEES A BIG SIGN --
dialog: “Harold Warp’s Pioneer Village.
dialog: See How America Grew.
text: Next Exit.” He beams.
scene_heading: EXT. MINDEN, NEBRASKA - DAY
text: The Bounder_approaches the compound known as Harold Warp's Pioneer
text: Village. (Harold Warp, by the way, invented FLEX-O0-GLASS. )_
text: As Warren emerges from the Bounder, his expression reveals a deep
text: sense of the moment, of arriving at a place long dreamed about.
text: Warren arrives at the FRONT DOOR to the main building and tries to
text: open it, but it’s LOCKED. He peers through the window and in the
text: distance notices a MAN wearing a toolbelt. Warren knocks loudly.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (approaching)
dialog: We’re closed for repairs. Closed.
dialog: Nobody here. Come back after the 22nd.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: How’s that?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (louder)
dialog: We re-open on the 22nd.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh. Thank you.
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER — DAY
text: Warren is sitting at his little kitchen table, sluggish from his
text: severe depression. He’s trying to write but the words are coming
text: slowly, painfully.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Dear Ngudu, I don’t know. I don’t
dialog: know anything anymore. I just. I
dialog: just don‘t know. I can’t goon. My
dialog: whole life. it's just nothing. It‘s
dialog: nothing... and now. and now my GODDAMN
dialog: PEN IS OUT OF INK!
text: Warren goes into a tantrum, throwing his pen across the Bounder
text: and tearing up the letter.
dialog: 58
scene_heading: INT. THE BOUNDER — DAY
text: Warren is driving, a desperate look on his bleary face.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT“D)
dialog: Dear Ngudu, How are you? I am fine.
dialog: A week or so ago, I decided to take a
dialog: little road trip on my way to
text: Jeannie’s wedding out in Denver.
dialog: Jeannie had wanted me to come out
dialog: early and help with the arrangements,
dialog: but I told her I needed some time to
dialog: myself. To tell you the truth, I've
dialog: been feeling a little down lately, a -
dialog: little lost.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
text: The big Bounder rolls along, heading toward a mournful sunset.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: So I decided to visit some places I
dialog: hadn't been to in a long time and
dialog: maybe try to figure out what has made
dialog: my who I am today. There’s so much
dialog: of my life I can’t seem to remember,
dialog: Ngudu, whole sections of my life that
dialog: are just. gone.
text: The Bounder now takes an EXIT.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: So my first stop was none other than
dialog: Holdridge, Nebraska. I thought it
dialog: might be a good idea to re-visit the
dialog: house where I was born sixty-seven
dialog: years ago next March.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLDRIDGE, NEBRASKA - DAY
scene_heading: THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD --
text: The “Welcome to Holdridge” sign replete with the traditional logo:
text: of Rotary, Kiwanis, and Lions.
dialog: 59
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: We moved away from Holdridge when I was
dialog: not much older than you, and I‘ve often
dialog: wondered what our old house looks like
dialog: today. Funny, I never forgot the
dialog: address -- 249 Locust Avenue. I
dialog: remember my Dad saying he paid $11,500
dialog: for that place. Believe it or not,
dialog: that was a lot of money in those days.
scene_heading: A STREET SIGN -- LOCUST AVENUE
text: WARREN LOOKS AT IT,
text: breathes a satisfied breath as he guides his vessel around the
dialog: corner.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: 249 Locust Avenue. Yes, sir.
text: He looks out the window scanning the addresses. All these old
dialog: houses: 225, 229, 237, 243 and finally --
scene_heading: 249 LOCUST AVENUE.
dialog: But wait -- there’s no house here. It’s a --
scene_heading: EXT. FOUR-DAY TIRE STORE - DAY
text: Looks as if that lot was re-zoned.
text: At first crestfallen, Warren quickly decides to make the best of
dialog: it. He’s come all these miles, waited all these years.
text: The Bounder pulls into the parking lot.
scene_heading: INT. FOUR-DAY TIRE STORE - DAY
text: Warren walks into this modern tire store as though walking
text: reverently into his past. It’s all coming back to him.
text: A chipper TIRE SALESMAN named KEN comes up.
speaker_heading: KEN
dialog: Can I help you, sir?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, that’s okay. I’m just looking
dialog: around. I used to live here.
speaker_heading: KEN
dialog: Here. in the store?
dialog: 60
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yep. My childhood home was right on
dialog: this spot.
dialog: (walking a few steps,
dialog: extending his hands)
dialog: In fact my bedroom would have been
dialog: right about here, the dining room
dialog: over there and --
dialog: (catching himself)
dialog: Of course, that was a long time ago.
dialog: Way before you were born.
text: Warren wanders off, lost in his memories. The MUSIC SWELLS with a
dialog: nostalgic and romantic sense of the past. :
text: SOUNDS FROM THE PAST
text: now filter in -- a child practicing piano, a lively dinner, a
text: lovingly scolding mother, a game of hopscotch, a barking dog.
text: Warren looks wistfully out the store’s front window.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT’D)
dialog: You’re not going to believe this, but
dialog: we used to have a tire swing right
text: out front.
speaker_heading: KEN
dialog: Huh. Well, listen, you let me know
dialog: if you need any help with some tires
dialog: today. My name’s Ken.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (touched)
dialog: Thank you.
scene_heading: EXT. FOUR-DAY TIRE STORE - DAY
text: On his way back to the Bounder, Warren surveys the parking lot as
text: though it were still his front yard.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: An awful lot had changed since my
dialog: day, but it was still good to be home
dialog: again. Very good indeed.
text: Spotting some LITTER, Warren picks it up and walks it to a nearby
text: receptacle.
scene_heading: EXT. O'NEILL PARK - DAY
text: Warren wanders onto an empty PLAYGROUND. He approaches MONKEY
text: BARS and jumps up, hangs for a second, drops back down.
dialog: 61
dialog: NOW WARREN RIDES A DUCK
text: mounted on a giant spring, rocking to and fro.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: I think I was a happy child.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY — DAY
text: The bounder zooms past a sign that reads, “Welcome to Kansas.”
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: (increasingly Charles
dialog: - : - Kuralt-ish)
dialog: Next stop, Lawrence Kansas, where I
dialog: paid a visit to my old alma mater,
dialog: K.U. I hadn’t been there in years
dialog: and years, and now seemed the perfect
dialog: chance to stop by.
scene_heading: EXIT. UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (LAWRENCE) — DAY
text: The Bounder heads toward the center of campus.
scene_heading: EXT. UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS - DAY
text: Warren walks through campus as STUDENTS bustle about.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: Believe it or not, I still have
text: dreams about being late for class.
scene_heading: EXT. BETA SIGMA FRATERNITY HOUSE — DAY
text: Warren climbs the steps of this old converted house.
scene_heading: INT. BETA SIGMA HOUSE — DAY
speaker_heading: A DOOR --
text: as a hand raps on it.
speaker_heading: DAVE (OS)
dialog: Hey, you looking for one of us?
speaker_heading: WIDER --
text: Warren turns and looks down the HALLWAY as two YOUNG MEN with
text: backpacks approach.
dialog: 62
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Say, you boys live here in this room?
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Sure do. What’s up?
text: They push past him, and one of the boys opens the door with a key.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Believe it or not, this was my room
dialog: too when I was a Beta Sig years ago.
dialog: Do you mind if I just take a quick
dialog: peek for old times’ sake? ~
text: DAVE-HAGGART, -an Electrical Engineering student with pimples
text: around his mouth, and PHIL GOBERSON, a good-natured, oafish sort,
text: exchange a look.
speaker_heading: : DAVE
dialog: I don’t care.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Whatever.
scene_heading: INT. FRAT BEDROOM — DAY
text: The boys put down their backpacks on their respective beds.
text: Warren follows them, takes a wistful look around the room.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: So, you were a Beta Sig, huh?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, yeah. Uh. Oi Koi.
text: Dave and Phil smile proudly.
speaker_heading: DAVE AND PHIL
dialog: Kai Ro.
text: They offer their hands to Warren and perform the secret handshake,
dialog: which of course cannot be described here.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: What are you doing here?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m just sort of looking around.
dialog: Haven't been back in years and years.
dialog: 63
scene_heading: INT. PRAT DIWING ROOM - DAY
text: CLOSE ON CHICKEN FRIED STEAK
text: CLOSE ON MASHED POTATOES AND GRAVY
scene_heading: CLOSE ON VEGETABLE MEDLEY
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: is eating lunch along with all the current frat members.
text: Charismatic CHUCK WOODARD walks over leans down to talk to warren.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Word is we have a veteran Beta Sig in our .
dialog: midst. Which one of you might that be? .
text: Hearty laughter.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: It’s me.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: No, I know. How are you? Chuck
dialog: Woodard, chapter president.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Warren Schmidt. Omaha, Nebraska.
text: They perform the secret handshake.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: And Haggart tells me you’ve never been
dialog: back for a visit before this.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Not since the early fifties. Always
text: too busy to break away for reunions.
dialog: But I have contributed quite a bit of
dialog: money over the years. You know.
scene_heading: INSERT - A CONTRIBUTION REPLY FORM
text: offering choices of $500, $250, $100, and $75. A pen puts an “x”
text: in the box next to a “OTHER” and writes in $12.00.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE --
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Well, the place has probably changed a lot
dialog: since then, but I doubt the food has
dialog: gotten any better.
dialog: That cracks Warren up.
dialog: 64
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Have you had much of a chance to look
dialog: around the campus?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Not too much, no.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Why don’t you guys take Mr. Schmidt
dialog: on a little tour this afternoon?
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: I can’t. I got Spanish.
speaker_heading: DAVE —
dialog: I have a-review section for my Circuits.
dialog: Design mid-term tomorrow, but I guess I
dialog: could meet you after that.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Oh, and be sure to show him Schuyler.
text: Warren has a sudden reaction of horror.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Show me what?
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: The new Schuyler Student Center.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: It‘s incredible.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Yeah, it just opened about six months
dialog: ago. it’s huge. It’s got like an
dialog: international food court, concert
dialog: hall, conference rooms, a coffee
dialog: house, computer center, bowling
text: alley, pool table and video game
dialog: room, what else? Oh, a bookstore,
dialog: travel agency, barber shop.
speaker_heading: PHIL
text: Frozen yogurt and cookie store, all
dialog: sorts of stuff. And it’s a really
text: cool-looking building.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: And it was largely donated by none
dialog: other than Roger Schuyler, an old
dialog: Beta Sig like yourself. You know who
dialog: he is, right?
dialog: 65
text: Warren looks deeply into his chicken fried steak.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: He was my roommate.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: You mean in our room? The one Dave
dialog: and I have now?
text: Warren nods slowly.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Dude!
text: Phil extends his hand to invite the high five, and Dave responds
dialog: with vim.
scene_heading: EXT. UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS CAMPUS - DAY
text: Dave and Warren are taking their little tour.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: You see that tower? In my day, kids
dialog: used to climb up that thing and
text: unfurl a Go Kansas banner before big
dialog: football games.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Oh yeah? Some guys built a huge bong
dialog: up there last year. It was pretty
dialog: hilarious.
text: Warren has no idea what a bong is.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: A bong, huh? That’s great.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: Last but not least, here is the
dialog: Schuyler Student Center.
scene_heading: THE SCHUYLER STUDENT CENTER
text: is an immense, sprawling edifice. Above the front doors, in
text: gigantic letters, are the words, “Schuyler Student Center.”
text: Dave starts to walk toward it, but Warren balks -- he rubs the
text: back of his neck, feigns fatigue.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Say, Dave, I think I’ve had a little
dialog: too much excitement for one day. I
dialog: should let you focus on your studies.
dialog: 66
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: At least poke your head in and have a
text: look at the frescoes.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I know where it is now, so I can come
dialog: back. Thanks a lot for your
dialog: hospitality and the tour and
dialog: everything. I know I kind of barged
dialog: inon you. You’ve been great.
text: He offers his hand for the secret handshake.
speaker_heading: DAVE a
dialog: You know, we're having a little mixer
dialog: tonight to welcome the new pledges
dialog: and little sisters. You ought to
dialog: stop by.
text: Warren gives a knowing smile.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, no. That’s for you young fellas.
dialog: I know what goes on at those things.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: No, really. It’s nothing wild -- more
dialog: just like a reception. I’m sure we'd all
dialog: be honored if you came.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Honored? Really?
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Yeah. It‘d give everybody,
dialog: especially our new pledges, a sense
dialog: of our, you know, our heritage as
dialog: Beta Sigs.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (brightening)
dialog: Really?
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - NIGHT
text: WARREN TAKES A SHOWER
text: through the blurry shower door, humming an old tune.
scene_heading: EXT. BETA SIGMA - NIGHT
text: The Bounder rolls up and comes to a stop.
dialog: 67
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - NIGHT
text: Warren opens the little vanity mirror inside the visor and combs
text: his hair, checks his appearance.
scene_heading: INT. BETA SIGMA ~— NIGHT
text: FRATERNITY and SORORITY STUDENTS mill about the lower floor. There i:
text: music, but no one dances. There is beer, but few drink. Dave spoke
text: correctly -- it is indeed more of a reception than a party, and there
text: stiffness about the affair.
text: Warren comes through the front door. He wears a sporty pole shirt
text: beneath his jacket.
text: He smiles warmly at no one in particular as he enters the main
text: room. He even seems to have a little bounce in his step. He
text: looks around amicably for a familiar face. He finds none, and
dialog: there is that _awkwa: ment of a nice guy in limbo at a party.
text: He spots the drinks table and heads thither. A young man acts as
speaker_heading: BARTENDER.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Yes, sir. Are you looking for someone?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I'm looking for a cold beer is what
dialog: I’m looking for.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: You got it.
text: The young man begins to fill a plastic cup from the keg.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: And none of this ‘sir’ stuff. I'm
dialog: one of your Beta Sig brothers.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Oh, right. You were the guy at
dialog: lunch. Right. Roger Schuyler’s
dialog: roommate.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I taught him everything he knows.
text: Chuck and Phil sidle up. Chuck puts his arm around Warren's
dialog: shoulder.
dialog: 68
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: (to the bartender)
dialog: Did you check this guy’s ID? He
text: looks a little young to be drinking.
text: They laugh, and Warren laughs a little too hard.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: check my ID
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Chuck wants to introduce you when he
text: gives his corny little welcoming
dialog: speech and all. That okay with you?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, like I'm a visiting dignitary.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Well, since you have been out of
dialog: school for a couple of years, we want
dialog: some tips on what to do when we
dialog: graduate.
text: They laugh again, and again Warren does so a bit too effusively. —
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: So you having a good time?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: The time of my life. It really takes
dialog: me back to when I was you fellas’ age.
dialog: Doesn’t feel as though any time has
dialog: passed at all. But you guys are a
dialog: little too low-key here, I mean, c’mon.
dialog: When we had fraternity parties in my
dialog: day, we used to let it all hang out.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Oh, it can get pretty wild sometimes.
dialog: You'd be proud of us.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I don’t know. I’m still a little
dialog: disappointed in you guys. I’m going
dialog: to have to include this in my report.
text: Warren CHUGS the rest of his beer and motions to the bartender to
dialog: fill it up again.
dialog: 69
speaker_heading: LATER --
text: President Chuck addresses the faithful.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: ~ and the second letter, Sigma, is the
dialog: eighteenth letter of the Greek
dialog: alphabet. As you math types know --
dialog: but I'll say it for the benefit of us
dialog: normal people -- Sigma, in math, is the
dialog: mathematical symbol meaning the
dialog: “summation of all the figures in a
dialog: problem.” So I want you new pledges
dialog: and little sisters to remember that as
dialog: Beta Sigmas we are a whole; we are the
dialog: summation of all our component parts.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON WARREN
text: sitting in a chair in a corner. He’s a little drunk by now. He
text: is studying something in the palm of his hand.
scene_heading: WARREN’S HAND -- - :
text: containing a little piece of PAPER with notes for a speech.
text: WARREN LOOKS UP AND BLINKS
text: trying to memorize his remarks.
speaker_heading: CHUCK (CONT’D)
dialog: We are a family of brothers and
dialog: sisters, and with the concepts of
dialog: Beta and Smigma, we can achieve more
dialog: together than we ever could as
dialog: individuals. For he who stands away
dialog: from the pack can never be dealt with
dialog: or played with. I hereby welcome you
dialog: into this elite club.
text: All applaud or raise their glasses.
speaker_heading: CBUCK (CONT'D)
dialog: There’s one more thing I want to
dialog: mention, and that is that we have
dialog: with us tonight a very special guest.
text: He's right over there in the corner.
text: Warren stands up, almost at attention.
speaker_heading: CHUCK (CONT'D)
dialog: -and no, he’s not some graduate
text: student crashing the party.
dialog: Warren gets a big kick out of that.
dialog: 70
speaker_heading: CHUCK (CONT’D)
dialog: He’s one of us -- a veteran Beta Sig
dialog: brother from yesteryear who
dialog: represents our very special heritage.
text: Warren is listening but also still going over the speech in his mind
speaker_heading: CHUCK (CONT’D)
dialog: You know, the men of Beta Sigma are a
dialog: unique breed who leave their
dialog: unmistakable stamp on history. Beta
dialog: Sigs are found in every walk of life
dialog: and in all fifty states. Most
dialog: recently, of course, Roger Schuyler, a *
dialog: Beta Sig from this very chapter and
dialog: head of one the nation’s largest
dialog: construction firms, based out of
dialog: Chicago, designed and donated our new
dialog: student center. And now, I’d like to
dialog: present you to someone who in this very
dialog: house was. Roger Schuyler’s roommate!
text: The applause is so thunderous that no one hears Warren's name.
speaker_heading: CHUCK (CONT’D)
dialog: Warren Spitz!
speaker_heading: SMILING FACES
dialog: of those applauding, proud to have in their presence a man once in
dialog: such proximity to greatness.
text: Warren's smile wilts before he politely freshens it. He slips the
text: piece of paper into his jacket pocket.
text: The music comes back on, and people return to talking. A young
text: Man approaches Warren.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: So what was Roger Schuyler like? You
dialog: guys stay in touch?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (confidential at first)
dialog: You want to know what Roger Schuyler
dialog: was like? He was a selfish jerk.
dialog: That guy cheated and screwed around
dialog: and treated everybody like dog, you
dialog: know, poop.
speaker_heading: MORE
dialog: 71
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: (getting fired up)
text: - and now he’s running around like
dialog: he’s some kind of bigshot. You want
dialog: to guess who did his Statistics final
dialog: that time so he could get an A and
dialog: get into Phi Beta Kappa and all that?
text: (jabbing a finger into his
dialog: own shoulder)
dialog: Me. You're looking at him. Me, that’s
dialog: who. He mention that in his book?
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: I don’t know. a
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT’D)
dialog: Hey Dave. Dave. Come here. Let me
dialog: buy you a little drinky-winky.
text: He takes Dave by the arm and drags him to the drinks table.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT’D)
dialog: Two beers, please.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: No beer for me. I still have two
dialog: chapters to review for tomorrow.
dialog: I‘1l have a Diet Coke.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I can’t get over you guys. No
dialog: drinking, no carousing, no carrying
dialog: on at all. I thought you college
dialog: kids -- let me tell you something,
dialog: and I want you to listen very hard.
dialog: That test tomorrow is meaningless.
dialog: (he’s starting to slur)
dialog: The senselessness of it all is going
dialog: to hit you someday like a ton of
dialog: bricks. What matters now is to enjoy
dialog: your youth. Do you hear me? Live
dialog: it up a little. Let me show you how
dialog: we used to do it in my day.
text: Warren takes his beer, lifts it to his lips, takes a deep breath
text: and chugs the whole thing, little streams of beer trailing down
text: the sides of his mouth and onto his neck. He slams the plastic
text: cup onto the table.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Fill her up, partner. With ethyl, if-
dialog: you got it.
dialog: 72
text: Be does so, and Warren downs this one even faster.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Aaaaaah. That's better. Now that’s
dialog: two for me and zero for you. C’mon,
dialog: do yourself a favor. You've got to
dialog: live life!
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Well, maybe just one. I had a big
dialog: dinner, anyway.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: That’s the spirit.
text: He slaps Dave hard on the back. They take their beers.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: One, two, three.
text: Down the old hatcharoo. Warren finishes his slower this time, and
text: not without gagging noises. Dave takes only a sip.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Set ‘em up again.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: Don’t you think you'd better slow
dialog: down a little, Mr. Schmidt?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Slow down? You think I ought to SLOW
dialog: DOWN? I’ve been slowing down all my
dialog: goddamn life! I’ve had enough slow
dialog: down here, slow down there, slow down
dialog: left and right and over there. YOU
dialog: slow down!
text: Everyone has now quieted and turned t
text: drinks table. Warren reels around.
dialog: tears.
text: © look at the scene by the
text: Dave is on the verge of
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you all looking at me like
dialog: that for? This guy thinks I should
dialog: slow down. I think you should all be
dialog: speeding up! Let’s have a party.
text: He starts to dance grotesquely around the room, exhorting all to
text: join his festive mood.
dialog: 73
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: C'mon, everybody, let’s have a party!
dialog: Let’s sing some drinking songs and
dialog: have a real party! C’mon, you guys!
text: He grabs a pretty YOUNG WOMAN and begins to dance with her.
text: Warren releases the unresponsive girl, seizes a PLEDGE, and now
text: starts to dance with him.
text: Finally stumbles and falls but gets back up again.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT“D)
dialog: Why are you all so BORING? You know
dialog: who I am? I’m Roger Schuyler’s
dialog: roommate. I’m Roger fucking Schuyler’s
dialog: roommate! But he didn’t build that
dialog: building. I did! He’s MY roommate.
dialog: It’s MY building!
text: Someone has cut the music by this time, and between Warren’s words
text: is a terrible silence.
text: He collapses in a chair, and his voice trails off. He slumps,
text: mouth open. He blinks heavily, and we cut to his blurred point of
dialog: view.
text: Everyone is still. Chuck motions to Phil. They walk over and
text: hoist Warren out of the chair. As they drag him out of the room,
dialog: we occasionally cut to Warren’s point of view -- the traveling
text: floor, the stunned onlookers.
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Son of a bitch. Grab his coat, and
dialog: let’s get him the fuck out of here.
text: They reach the little steps that lead to the front hall, and
text: Warren's feet knock against them as he is pulled up.
text: On the last step Warren's feet are knocked so hard that his FALSE
text: LOWER TEETH fall out and roll on the carpet.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: What was that?
speaker_heading: CHUCK
dialog: Oh, for Christ’s sake.
text: Following them, Dave dutifully picks up the denture with a piece
dialog: of newspaper.
dialog: 74
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER — HIGHT
text: The door is flung open, and Warren is heaved upon his bed. Phil
text: and Chuck leave. Dave lays the denture on the kitchen table and
dialog: leaves.
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER — MORNING
scene_heading: WARREN ’S LOWER DENTURE
text: is being scrubbed in the SINK.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: now fits the plate back in his mouth. He looks haggard and, drawn.
text: As he turns away from the sink, his head throbs even more
text: severely,..and he holds his head, sits down.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Well, Ngudu, I’m happy to report that
dialog: the campus may have changed a bit,
dialog: but it was the same old KU I
dialog: remember, full of friendship and
dialog: camaraderie.
speaker_heading: NOW DRIVING
text: Every breath, every blink seems painful.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: I managed to hook up with some kids
dialog: at my old fraternity Beta Sigma, and
dialog: we had a grand old time, really put
dialog: on the dog. I’m no spring chicken,
dialog: of course, but you’d be surprised how
dialog: well I held my own with the younger
dialog: set.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION IN SMALL TOWN — DAY
text: The Bounder pulls to a stop.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Here’s some advice: I highly recommend
dialog: that you pledge a fraternity when you
dialog: go to college. The relationships you
dialog: form there will stick with you for the
dialog: rest of your life.
text: NOW AT THE PAYPHONE —
text: Warren reads a number from the UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS ALUMNI
text: DIRECTORY and dials.
speaker_heading: WOMAN ‘S VOICE (ON PHONE
dialog: Hello?
dialog: 75
speaker_heading: WARREN .
dialog: Yes, is Roger Schuyler there please?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: May I say who’s calling?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yes. This is, uh, George Wilson from
dialog: the university club out here in
dialog: Lawrence.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (bright)
dialog: —Oh,..just a second. . 7
dialog: A moment later --
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Mr. Schuyler?
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER
dialog: Yes. And your name is Wilson. Have
dialog: we met?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, I’m fairly new here, and I’m afraid
dialog: I’ve been called upon to deliver some.
dialog: rather unfortunate news.
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Oh?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: This afternoon there was. an incident
text: at the student center. A fire.
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Oh, my God.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: The damage is quite extensive.
text: The firemen are still out there, but it
text: looks as though it could be a total loss.
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Oh God.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: They think it was arson.
dialog: 76
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Oh, my God. Was anyone hurt?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (that’s a good one)
dialog: Well, that’s the very unfortunate
text: news. The bodies of two freshman
dialog: girls have been recovered so far, and
dialog: there could be more.
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Oh, God. Oh, my God.
scene_heading: ——-. —. .__WOMAN_(ON PHONE) °
dialog: _ (distant)
dialog: Roger, what is it?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: And five firemen have been
text: hospitalized so far. One in critical
dialog: condition.
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Oh, my God. No.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (barely keeping it together)
text: A wall caved in on them.
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Didn’t the sprinklers work? And the
dialog: fire doors?
text: A NOISY SEMI pulls into the gas station, nearly drowning out their
dialog: conversation.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I've got to go now. They need me.
dialog: I’1l call you back as soon as I can
dialog: with an update.
speaker_heading: ROGER SCHUYLER (ON PHONE)
dialog: Wait
text: Warren hangs up and immediately doubles over with laughter.
scene_heading: EXT. BROKER BOW, NEBRASKA ~- DAY
text: Warren exits an old building that houses a local MUSEUM.
dialog: 77
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Anyway, after my little walk down
dialog: memory lane, it was tourist time for
dialog: yours truly. I made my way back to
dialog: Nebraska and stopped in at the Custer
dialog: County historical museum in Broken
dialog: Bow to see their fine collection of
text: arrowheads.
scene_heading: INT. MINI-MART - DAY
text: Drinking from a soft-drink cup with a capacity greater than the
text: human bladder, Warren is talking with a NATIVE AMERICAN CASHIER.
speaker_heading: —_—- WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Later that same day, at a local
dialog: grocery, I was lucky enough to
dialog: encounter a real Indian, or Native
dialog: American, as they like to be called
dialog: nowadays. We had a nice chat about
dialog: the history of the area, and he
dialog: really opened my eyes. Those people
dialog: got a raw deal. Just a raw deal.
dialog: Don‘t forget they were here before we
dialog: were.
scene_heading: EXT. THE KEARNY ARCH — DAY
text: This is an immense arch constructed over I-80. Like at the St.
text: Louis arch, visitors can climb to the top for a fine view and shop
text: at the gift store on their way out.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: I finally went up into the new arch
text: over the interstate outside Kearny,
dialog: climbing all 179 steps.
scene_heading: EXT. “THINGS ‘N STUFF” ANTIQUE STORE - DAY
text: A typical roadside bric-a-brac place.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: And, you know, I pull the Bounder
dialog: over whenever I feel like stretching
dialog: my legs, taking in a local sight, or
dialog: browsing for antiques.
scene_heading: INT. ANTIQUE STORE - DAY
text: Warren is browsing inside.
dialog: 78
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: The other day, for example, at an
dialog: antique store in Cozad, I came across
text: a fine collection of rare Hummels.
scene_heading: THE ADORABLE HUMMEL FIGURINES --
text: now at the cash register — a CLOG DANCER, a HOBO, a CHILD PLAYING
speaker_heading: AN ACCORDIAN.
speaker_heading: WIDE --
text: Warren is talking to the rather LARGE WOMAN who owns the shop.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: The owner told me that Hummels, aside =
dialog: from being very decorative, increase
dialog: in value on average 6% a year,
dialog: provided they are kept in mint
dialog: condition.
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - NIGHT
text: Warren is at his dinette table, eating soup and admiring the
text: HUMMELS laid out in front of him.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: Helen loved Hummels.
text: There's a KNOCK at the door.
text: Warren opens the door to find
text: middle-aged JOHN RUSK.
speaker_heading: JOBN RUSK
dialog: Ahoy, there!
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: JOHN RUSK
dialog: I said ahoy!
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Ahoy to you.
speaker_heading: JOHN RUSK
dialog: (extending his hand)
dialog: John Rusk. Eau Claire, Wisconsin.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Warren Schmidt. Omaha.
dialog: 79
speaker_heading: JOBN RUSK
dialog: Say, I hope I’m not disturbing you,
dialog: but I couldn’t help noticing you've
dialog: got one of the new Imperial M36‘s.
dialog: What a beauty! Man, oh, man.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thank you. Yeah, it’s quite a. 1I‘m
dialog: pretty happy with it.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: We're still dragging around -- my
dialog: wife and I -- we're still dragging
dialog: around an old 31M, if you can believe -
dialog: it. I tell you, though, we’ve had
dialog: some pretty good times with her, a
dialog: lot of memories. iIt’d be hard to let
dialog: her go at this point.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Uh-huh.
text: . An awkward moment while John waits for an invitation. Then --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Permission to step aboard, Cap’n?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: How’s that?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Can I take a look inside?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Sure. Be my guest.
text: Warren steps back. John Rusk climbs the gangplank.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Yeah, jeez, look at all this room.
dialog: That extra five feet really makes a
dialog: difference. Say, you keep a mighty
dialog: clean galley, mister.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thank you. I’ve only been on the
dialog: road about a week.
speaker_heading: JON
dialog: You‘re kidding! This is your maiden
dialog: voyage?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yes.
dialog: 80
speaker_heading: JOHN RUSK
dialog: And you‘re traveling solo?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: That’s right.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Holy Christ! You’ve got to come over
dialog: for dinner. We've got to celebrate.
dialog: My Vicki's one heck of a cook -- I
dialog: mean if you're free, of course.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (in the spirit) -
dialog: L..don!t. know. .I’11 have. to check my
dialog: calendar.
scene_heading: EXT. KOA CAMPGROUND - NIGHT
text: Warren has combed his hair and changed into nicer clothes -- a
text: sportcoat and open shirt. He carries a six-pack of MICHELOB.
text: He passes the more low-rent RV's and arrives at the Rusk’s
text: -Bounder. Be knocks, and VICKI RUSK opens the door.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Ahoy, there.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Ahoy!
scene_heading: INT. RUSK BOUNDER - NIGHT
text: Warren steps aboard.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I’m Vicki Rusk.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Warren Schmidt.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: John was so excited to meet you.
text: Warren extends the six-pack to Vicki.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh, you shouldn't have.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (sniffing the air)
text: Smells de-lish.
dialog: 81
text: Vicki goes to the stove and stirs a pot.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I hope you like chicken.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh yeah.
text: A FLUSH is heard, and almost simultaneously John Rusk emerges from
text: the bathroom between Vicki and Warren.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: There he is!
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Hey!
text: They shake hands like old friends.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Can I take your coat?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Sure.
text: warren removes his coat. While John puts it on a mini-hanger in
text: the tiny closet, Warren smells a new odor.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: Something burning?
speaker_heading: JOEN
dialog: Hmm? Oh, no. I just lit a couple of
dialog: matches is all. :
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh.
text: The limited space inside the Bounder requires all three occupants
text: constantly to maneuver around one another.
speaker_heading: JOEN
dialog: Shall we adjourn to the living room
dialog: while Vicki's -- you’re almost ready,
dialog: aren’t you, hon?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Just about. John, Warren brought
dialog: beer.
speaker_heading: JON
dialog: Why, thank you, Warren. Have a seat.
text: Warren and John sit side-by-side on the sofa-bed sofa.
dialog: They walk
dialog: awkward.
dialog: slaps his
speaker_heading: LATER --
dialog: 82
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: So what do'you do back in Eau Claire?
speaker_heading: JOEN
dialog: My brother and I have little shoe
dialog: store.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Shoes, huh?
speaker_heading: JOEN
dialog: It’s a Famous Footwear. Yes sir,
dialog: people will always need shoes. And
dialog: Vicki here’s an occupational -
dialog: therapist. So that’s our day job,
dialog: you might say. But now that the kids
dialog: are on their own, we've got it
dialog: structured so as we can be on the
dialog: road free as the wind about five
dialog: months a year. How about yourself?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I was in the insurance game, but I‘m
dialog: retired now.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (putting salad dressing
dialog: bottles on the table)
dialog: Dinner's ready.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (motioning Warren to join him)
dialog: Why don’t you tell us about it over
dialog: supper?
text: the two steps to the dining area. It’s all so small and
text: They SQUEEZE into their seats, but once settled John
text: hands together, expressing great satisfaction.
text: They are lingering over coffee and poppy-seed cake. They’ve eaten
text: well, drunk well, and have clearly bonded in the benevolent
text: glowing light of Bounder spirit.
text: The Rusks have dragged out their FAMILY PHOTO ALBUM and are
text: showing it to Warren.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: And this is Roger and Denise and
dialog: their daughters.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Now Denise is your oldest?
dialog: 83
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: No, she’s the middle one. They’re
dialog: out in Delaware. And these little
text: cuties are Katie and Sloan.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: A girl named Sloan? Never heard that
dialog: one before.
speaker_heading: JOHN AND VICKI
dialog: (with a laugh)
dialog: Neither had wel
speaker_heading: JOHN 7"
dialog: Do you have.any pictures of your
dialog: daughter with you?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Hmmm? No. Not on me.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Nothing in your wallet?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I might have one of George
dialog: Washington, though.
text: That just cracks John and Vicki up.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Or Abraham Lincoln.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: who?
dialog: They’re on a roll!
speaker_heading: VICKI ,
dialog: When did you say your daughter’s
dialog: getting married?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: This Saturday.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I’m surprised you're not out there
dialog: already - you know, helping with the
dialog: arrangements and all.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m on my way.
dialog: 84
speaker_heading: JOEN
dialog: What did you get them for a wedding
dialog: present?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Well, I figured I’m paying for the
dialog: wedding, sow.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (chuckling)
dialog: Oh yeah, I know how you feel. Had
dialog: two daughters of my own. No, but
dialog: seriously, what’re you getting them?
speaker_heading: a WARREN:
dialog: (stumped)
dialog: Um. I guess some kind of cookware or
dialog: small appliance or something. Maybe
dialog: a gift certificate.
speaker_heading: MICKI
dialog: Oh, that’s always good. Then they
dialog: can get what they want.
speaker_heading: JOEN
dialog: You never have to return a gift
dialog: certificate, that’s for sure.
dialog: (noticing)
dialog: Jeez, looks like we're a little low
dialog: on truth serum here. If I go out for
dialog: another six-pack, you guys going to
dialog: be okay?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh yeah.
speaker_heading: LATER —-
text: Warren and Vicki are alone now, and they have repaired to the
text: “salon” area of the Bounder. Vicki is perched with her legs
text: tucked under her, like a middle-aged slightly overweight
dialog: Midwestern Scotch-German Erté nymph.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yep, that’s quite a family you got
dialog: there. You and John are very lucky.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Yes, we are.
dialog: (shifting gears)
dialog: Warren, may I make an observation?
dialog: 85
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: And you won't get offended?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I don’t think so.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Well, you put a pretty good face on
dialog: things, considering all you've been
dialog: through lately.
text: Warren just nods alittle, unsure where this is going.
speaker_heading: VICKI (CONT'D)
dialog: And I’ve only just met you, but I
dialog: have a good instinct about people.
dialog: And what I’m feeling from you is that
dialog: despite your good humor and your
dialog: positive outlook, inside you’re a
dialog: very sad man.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Well, you know it is quite an
dialog: adjustment there when you lose a
dialog: spouse.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: But it’s more than that, something
dialog: more than grief and loss I see in
dialog: you. Something deeper.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Like. like what?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh, I don’t know you well enough. But
dialog: I’m guessing anger. Yes, anger.
dialog: Maybe. I don’t know. Fear.
dialog: Loneliness.
text: Warren says nothing. He suddenly feels very naked.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (low)
dialog: I ama little lonely.
speaker_heading: VICKL
dialog: I knew it. You see?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: You're a very understanding woman.
dialog: 86
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I know. A lot of people say that.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (gathering his courage)
dialog: You want to know the real truth?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I’m listening.
dialog: I didn’t love my wife. Maybe I never j
dialog: loved her. Not the way she deserved.
dialog: I just couldn’t give her everything *
dialog: \ she needed to be happy. I couldn't.
dialog: 4 I couldn't. and my life. I just
dialog: 4 think I’ve wasted my life my whole
dialog: \ life is just.
dialog: 
text: Warren trails off, overcome by his own honesty. Vicki reaches out
text: to comfort him, touching his shoulder.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh, you sad man. You sad, sad man.
text: He bends his head to rest it on Vicki’s shoulder. A little
dialog: uncomfortable with the whole situation, but ever the gracious
text: hostess, Vicki gently cradles his head.
speaker_heading: VICKI (CONT’D)
dialog: You sad man.
text: The intimacy, the alcohol, the intoxicating scent of Vicki's
dialog: $19.00 perfume -- it’s all too much for vulnerable Warren.
text: Suddenly he seizes her head and presses his lips against her
text: mouth. He even whimpers.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (pushing him away)
dialog: What are you doing?
text: Warren dives for her lips again, but Vicki turns stern. She
text: SHOVES Warren away, stands up.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I don’t know what kind of ideas
dialog: you've got, mister, but I think you
dialog: need to leave now.
text: Warren just stands there, surprised by his own actions and by
dialog: Vicki’s reaction..
dialog: 87
speaker_heading: VICKI (CONT’D)
dialog: You need to leave now.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m sorry. Oh God. I didn’t mean tow
dialog: I was just. I mean, you understand
dialog: me, and IL
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (now frightened)
dialog: Get out. Get out.
text: Warren gets to his feet, his shame palpable.
dialog: Could I get my coat, please?
text: Vicki reaches into the little closet and hands Warren his jacket.
scene_heading: EXT. KOA CAMPGROUND - NIGHT
text: Warren now scampers back across the campground. He reaches his
text: Bounder and starts to DISCONNECT it from the hook-ups.
scene_heading: INT. WARREN'S BOUNDER - NIGHT
text: Warren steps up, climbs into the driver’s seat and starts the
dialog: engine.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUND - WIGHT
text: Warren backs out his RV and heads toward the exit.
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - NIGHT
speaker_heading: WARREN'S POV --
text: As he turns into the road, his headlights find a solitary figure.
text: Why, it’s JOHN RUSK just back from his trip to the corner. Looks
dialog: like he got a whole case too, not just a six-pack.
text: Unsure how to react to what looks like Warren's Bounder, John
text: gives a little aborted wave.
text: Warren keeps his eyes straight ahead and SPEEDS UP.
dialog: 88
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY -- DAWN
text: Sunrise finds the Bounder on the shoulder as a HIGHWAY PATROL car
text: pulls up behind it. The PATROLMAN gets out and walks up to the
text: driver's window.
text: There’s Warren passed out against the steering wheel, a thick
text: strand of DROOL hanging from his open mouth. He seems dead. RAP-
text: RAP-RAP. Warren startles awake, looks around disoriented, finally
text: slides open his window.
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: Need any assistance?
speaker_heading: WARREN . .
dialog: No, I was just a little too tired
dialog: last night to go on, so I pulled
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: It’s illegal to park on the shoulder.
dialog: And extremely dangerous. There’s a
text: KOA campground about 12 miles back.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I must have missed that.
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: I'm not going to write you up, but you’re
dialog: going to need to move your vehicle.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m just going out to Denver to see my
dialog: daughter. She’s getting married, and --
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: Well, she‘’ll want you to get there in
dialog: one piece.
text: The patrolman leaves. Warren gathers himself together, starts the
text: Bounder up and pulls off the shoulder, out onto the high-speed
text: interstate, ready for adventure.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: As my journey draws to a close, I
dialog: reflect back on all I’ve seen and
dialog: done, and I think it’s been a good
dialog: trip, a rewarding trip. And last
dialog: night, my final night on the road,
dialog: was the best of all. It was a very
dialog: special night.
dialog: 89
scene_heading: EXT. WOODED AREA — DUSK
text: The Bounder makes its way down a pastoral tree-lined gravel road.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: I‘d spent a wonderful day driving in
dialog: the North Platte area. Ona lark I
text: turned down a country road, and
dialog: before you know it I found myself in
text: avery lovely wooded area.
speaker_heading: LATER —
text: Warren steps out of the Bounder and looks around him at the thick
text: shrubbery. He can.hear the nearby creek. He keeps looking around
dialog: -- what a lovely spot.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT‘D)
dialog: It was so quiet. And I was all
dialog: alone, and — bear with me here — I
dialog: felt something sort of come over me,
dialog: like a sense of. peace, you might
dialog: say. Nature can do that to you
dialog: sometimes — make you feel all small
dialog: and overpowered. Make you think
dialog: about things. Important things.
speaker_heading: LATER —
text: Warren sits OUTSIDE the Bounder on a folding chair, drinking a
text: Scotch and enjoying the smells and sounds.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Long story short, I decided to be
dialog: adventurous and spend the night right
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: LATER —
text: Warren is now ON TOP OF THE BOUNDER, wrapped in a blanket
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Just me and my thoughts and God’s great
text: universe stretched out above me.
text: We notice that Warren is looking at —
speaker_heading: THE HUMMELS
text: all laid out in front of him, illuminated by a couple of CANDLES.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: picks up one of the Hummels and kisses it before replacing it
text: alongside the others.
dialog: 90
speaker_heading: WARREN .
dialog: (addressing the Hummels)
dialog: Helen. Belen I miss you so much.
dialog: This trip would have made you so
dialog: happy. I‘ve seen so many things I've
dialog: wanted to show you and thought so
dialog: many thoughts I wish I could have
dialog: shared with you. Oh, Helen.
dialog: (losing it)
dialog: I forgive you. I forgive you for
dialog: Ray. I know it was a long time ago,
dialog: and maybe I wasn’t the king of kings.
dialog: But I tried. I tried real hard. I’m +
dialog: sorry I let you down.
text: (dissolving in tears, now
dialog: addressing the sky)
dialog: Helen, I miss you so much. Can you
dialog: forgive me? Can you ever forgive me?
text: THE BLACK SKY, THE INFINITE STARS —
text: As Warren’s sobs continue.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
text: And lying outside, looking up at all
dialog: the stars, I had a sort of Epiphany.
dialog: The universe or Helen or something
dialog: seemed to be telling me there were
dialog: certain things I had to clear up,
dialog: certain situations I had to set right.
text: Just then — a SHOOTING STAR goes by.
speaker_heading: WARREN --
text: moved by the miracle he just witnessed, mouths a silent wish and
text: awkwardly crosses himself.
speaker_heading: LATER —
text: It’s DAWN now, and Warren, bundled up in blankets atop the
text: Bounder, is awakened by his own SHIVERING and CHATTERING TEETH.
speaker_heading: FROM BELOW —
text: Warren peeks over the edge — it’s a long way down, and he’s cold
text: and stiff. Warren turns around, easing a foot over to search for
text: the first step on the ladder. After a clumsy and protracted
text: struggle, he finally manages to lower his aching body back to
dialog: Earth.
speaker_heading: LATER —
text: The Bounder pulls out abruptly and the forgotten Hummels tumble
text: off the roof, SMASHING TO BITS on the road.
dialog: 91
scene_heading: EXT. PAYPHONE SOMEWHERE — DAY
text: Warren has just finished dialing.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (ON PHONE)
dialog: You have reached the voice mailbox
dialog: of.
speaker_heading: RAY (ON PHONE)
dialog: ~Ray Nichols.
speaker_heading: WOMAN’S VOICE (ON PHONE)
dialog: At the tone, please record your
dialog: message. -
speaker_heading: BEEP.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Ray, it’s Warren. I know we
text: separated on a bit of a sour note.
dialog: But I just thought I should call and
dialog: let you know that I’ve been doing
text: some thinking and some soul searching
dialog: and, well, I'm willing to talk about
dialog: all this. If you are. I mean, we've
dialog: been good friends all these years,
dialog: and I don't know. I just wanted to
dialog: say that I’m willing to talk about
dialog: this. Because with all the —
speaker_heading: WOMAN’S VOICE (ON PHONE)
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: If you wish to continue recording or
dialog: deliver your message, press pound.
dialog: To erase your message and start
dialog: again, press star.
text: Warren momentarily panics, unsure which key is which. He presses
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (ON PHONE CONT’D)
dialog: Message erased. To record your
dialog: message, press star-nine...
text: Warren looks at keypad for a second, then hangs up.
scene_heading: INT. DINER - BRULE, NEBRASKA - DAY
text: Warren sits at a BOOTH by the window, writing to Ngudu.
dialog: 92
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Yes sir, no more pussy-footing around
dialog: for yours truly. From now on, I’m
dialog: going to do exactly what I want and
dialog: say exactly what I feel.
text: The WAITRESS comes over, pen and pad at the ready.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’d like a plain omelet, no potatoes,
text: tomatoes instead, a cup of coffee and
dialog: wheat toast.
speaker_heading: WALTRESS *
dialog: No substitutions.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh. Okay. 1/11 just have the
dialog: potatoes then.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: I'll be right back with your coffee.
text: " The waitress takes Warren’s menu.
text: He picks up his pen to finish
dialog: his letter.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: Well, I'11 close now and get this
dialog: little travelogue in the post before I
text: cross over into Colorado and head on
dialog: into Denver. Wish me luck -- I might
dialog: be dropping a pretty big bomb when I
dialog: get there. So until next time, this is
dialog: you trusty correspondent Warren R.
dialog: Schmidt signing off.
scene_heading: EXIT. POST OFFICE - BRULE, NEBRASKA - DAY
text: Warren mails the letter at a mailbox outside this small-town post
text: office and bounds back to the Bounder.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY — DAY
text: The Bounder zooms past us. DENVER looms in the distance.
scene_heading: EXT. DENVER RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD - DUSK
text: An older neighborhood with lots of trees and large rambling homes. :
text: The Bounder creeps around a corner,
dialog: 93
scene_heading: EXT. HERTZEL HOUSE - DUSK
text: Warren ascends the front steps of this large older home with a big
text: wooden porch and RINGS THE DOORBELL.
text: A few moments later the door is opened by ROBERTA HERTZEL, a
text: large, grand woman in a long, flowing muu-muu and festooned with
text: enormous jade jewelry -- necklace, jangling bracelets and rings.
dialog: Oh, and no bra.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: (extending her hand)
dialog: Warren, how grand to see you again.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Hope I'm not intruding.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Not at all. I was happy to get your
dialog: call and learn that you were finally
dialog: in town.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I don't suppose Jeannie’s here yet.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: They should be over in about an hour.
dialog: Come on in.
scene_heading: INT. HERTZEL LIVING ROOM - DUSK
text: Roberta leads Warren into this much lived-in house, takes his
dialog: coat.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: I sent you a card. Did you get my
dialog: card?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (no idea)
dialog: Oh, yes. Very nice card. Thank you.
dialog: Lovely card.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: But I want to say it to you in
dialog: person. I am so sorry about Helen.
dialog: I met her only that once, but as you
dialog: know we talked often on the phone
dialog: after the engagement. She was a
dialog: fine, fine woman. A fine, fine human
dialog: being.
dialog: 94
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thank you. And of course you know we
dialog: had planned to do this traveling
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: You poor thing.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: That's why we bought the Bounder.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: We all miss her. Just tragic.
text: That sits there a moment.
speaker_heading: LATER
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT’‘D)
dialog: So what can I get you to drink? I
dialog: bet that you would like a cocktail.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (holding up his hand)
dialog: Oh, no, I’m fine. 1/11 wait till the
dialog: kids get here.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Well, I am having a Manhattan.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: What the hell. Make it two.
text: Roberta and Warren sit on the sofa in the living room.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Oooocoh.. That’s better. This last
dialog: week has been very stressful. The
dialog: only way Helen is lucky -- and I mean
dialog: the only way -- is that she didn’t
dialog: have to go through this week with
dialog: Jeannie and me.
dialog: (with melodic cadence)
dialog: The church. The caterer. The
text: florist. The dress. The relatives.
text: The travel arrangements. The motels.
text: The bridesmaids. The groomsmen. The
dialog: gowns. Do you realize how many
dialog: people stil] have not RSVP'd? I
dialog: spent the morning tracking them down.
text: Warren, it does not stop.
dialog: 95
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thanks for taking such good care of
dialog: everything.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: But I don’t want to trouble you with
dialog: all of this. You've had a wonderful
dialog: trip, and I do not want to spoil that
dialog: for you.
dialog: Yes, she does.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: By the way, we do still need that
dialog: check for the church. Did Jeannie
dialog: mention it to you? Because we've
dialog: needed it for a few days now, and it
dialog: has actually been a bit of a problem.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh! Jeez, I’ve sort of been in my
dialog: own little world, and I guess I must
dialog: have missed that.
dialog: (getting up)
dialog: I’ll run out to the Bounder right now
dialog: and get my checkbook.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: (waving him to sit still)
dialog: Oh no. Nonsense. It can wait. You
dialog: sit still and finish your drink. I
dialog: want to hear all about your trip.
text: Suddenly some GUY yells from the kitchen.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Roberta? Ro-BERT-a!
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: (yelling back)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: I can’t get the goddamn thing off!
dialog: How do you turn this thing off?
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: (to Warren)
dialog: Would you excuse me?
text: Roberta gets up and wafts away, the ice clinking in her drink.
text: She pushes her way through the swinging kitchen door.
dialog: 96
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (OS)
dialog: What is your fucking problem? Don’t
dialog: you think I have enough to deal with?
speaker_heading: LARRY (OS)
dialog: That’s why I offered to come over and
dialog: help. I am trying to help you.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (0S)
dialog: Well this is no help! Look at it.
dialog: What do you expect me to do now?
speaker_heading: LARRY (0S) .
dialog: I‘ll do it if you just tell me what
dialog: you want! I’m not a mind-reader!
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (0S) ‘
dialog: Forget it. I’ll do it. Just like I
dialog: have to do everything around here!
dialog: Get out!
speaker_heading: LARRY (0S)
dialog: I am not a mind-reader! I AM NOTA
scene_heading: MIND-READER!
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (OS)
dialog: Do you understand English? Get out!
text: She pushes her way back through the swinging door. She sits again
text: next to Warren. Her face is flushed.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: I’m sorry.
dialog: (a long exhale)
dialog: You met Larry last time, didn’t you?
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: Just briefly.
text: The back door SLAMS loudly.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Larry is like a little boy. Ever
dialog: since our divorce, he thinks the only
dialog: way he can get my attention is to
dialog: cause a fuss. I understand it. I
dialog: do. I feel sorry for him. I just.
dialog: My first husband was the same way.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I didn’t know you were married before.
dialog: 97
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: It lasted nineteen months. He turned
dialog: into a real horse’s ass.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Buh.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: But I’m sure things will be different
dialog: for Jeannie and Randall. Now Randall
dialog: -~ he really knows how to treat a
dialog: woman. Honestly, don’t you think
dialog: Randall is something special?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: He’s. well, I know Jeannie seems to
dialog: be rather taken with him.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: That always helps, doesn’t it?
text: Warren gives his best courtesy laugh.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: You know, when I had my hysterectomy,
dialog: that boy did not leave my side for
text: one minute. Not one minute. People
dialog: used to raise their eyebrows because
dialog: I nursed him until he was almost
dialog: five, but I think the results speak
dialog: for themselves. I raised a very
text: sensitive, devoted boy who has turned
dialog: into a sensitive, devoted man. And
dialog: he’s also quite easy on the eye, if I
dialog: do say so myself. Don’t you agree? .
text: As though on cue, Jeannie and Randall walk in the front door.
text: Randall is wearing the worn-out suit and bad tie of a waterbed
text: salesman and is carrying a large BOX.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Look who's here!
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Hey, Dad! How’s it hanging?
text: Randall puts down the box and hugs his future father-in-law.
text: Warren responds as best he can.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Fine.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: You're here. I’m stoked.
dialog: 98
text: Warren releases Randall and turns to his daughter.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Hi, Dad.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Ri, sweetheart.
text: They embrace.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: So how was your trip?
speaker_heading: WARREN -
dialog: Great. Just great. _
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Great.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: Ran into a little traffic coming into
dialog: town this afternoon. Ended up
text: veering off 90 onto the 6 but that
dialog: wasn’t any better. Must have been an
dialog: accident or construction or
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: That’s Denver for you.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: You won‘t catch me driving on the
dialog: interstate.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: What you want to do next time is get
dialog: off at Capitol Avenue and take it
text: about four miles up to 75. Head
dialog: west, and that'll lead you directly
dialog: to Kingsley Ave.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thanks for the tip.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: (indicating the box)
dialog: Here, Randall, bring that into the
dialog: kitchen.
text: Roberta and Randall exit, and Jeannie starts to follow.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Jeannie, if you’ve got a moment, I
dialog: need to talk to you about something.
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Can it wait? I want to help these
dialog: guys.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: It's very important. I just need a
dialog: few minutes alone with you.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Okay, Dad. No problem. Later.
scene_heading: INT. ROBERTA’S DINING ROOM - NIGHT
scene_heading: CLOSE ON RANDALL eee
text: eating his food. The way he eats his pork chops says it all --
text: cutting farmer style, switchitig hands, dousing his bites in
text: ketchup and apple sauce, smacking loudly.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: watches him from across the dinner table. These are the greasy
text: lips that kiss my daughter’s flesh. And he looks at --
dialog: ROBERTA. And at --
dialog: LARRY and SAUNDRA (we'll meet them shortly). And --
speaker_heading: DUNCAN.
text: He is clearly Randall’s younger brother. Same hair, same
text: mustaches, same sloped forehead. And at --
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
text: next to him. She seems to be smacking a little too.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Say, Randall, how’d that investment
dialog: situation work out for you? You
dialog: never called me.
text: No one speaks. Randall turns a little pale.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Don’t bring that up.
speaker_heading: DUNCAN
dialog: Turned out to be some kind of pyramid
dialog: scheme.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: No, it wasn’t!
speaker_heading: DUNCAN
dialog: All I know is I lost eight hundred
dialog: bucks.
dialog: 100
speaker_heading: RANDALL .
dialog: Well, if you'd stuck with it a little
dialog: longer, you would have seen results.
dialog: Guaranteed. You bailed out too soon.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Can we change the subject, please?
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: See, you just didn’t find enough
dialog: quality reps of your own, and you
dialog: screwed the whole thing up for me
dialog: too. You never really took the time
dialog: -to understand how the “power” system *
dialog: works.
dialog: (counting on his fingers)
dialog: Principal, ownership, wealth, uh.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Boys, let’s change the subject.
scene_heading: DING-DING-DING --
text: Larry clinks his knife to his glass and stands.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Well, as father of the groom, I’d
dialog: just like to welcome our guest and --
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Larry, we know who you are, and
dialog: you’re going to have plenty of
dialog: chances to make toasts tomorrow and
dialog: the next day.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Would you let me finish? Please?
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Can't we just enjoy our food?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Go ahead -- enjoy your food. But I
dialog: have something to say.
dialog: (clearing his throat)
dialog: I just want to acknowledge that we
dialog: are gathered together around this
dialog: table as a family for the very first
dialog: time. And I wanted to welcome
dialog: Warren, who has journeyed a very long
dialog: way to be with us here tonight. So,
dialog: Warren, welcome.
speaker_heading: MORE
dialog: 101
speaker_heading: LARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: (squeezing Saundra‘s shoulder)
dialog: And on behalf of Saundra and myself,
dialog: I'd just like to say that we are very
dialog: proud to welcome Jeannie into our
dialog: family. And Warren, I just want you
dialog: to know that we love Jeannie very,
dialog: very much. Right, Saundra?
speaker_heading: SAUNDRA
dialog: Yes, we do. We love her.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Okay, Larry. That’s enough. Save it -
dialog: ~ ~ ~—~for tomorrow.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (sitting back down)
dialog: I’m done. You're interrupting me,
dialog: and I’m already done.
dialog: (extending his glass)
dialog: To our family.
text: All extend their glasses and clink, all except Roberta.
dialog: Everyone
text: resumes eating.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thank you, Larry. Thank you very
dialog: much.
text: Jeannie leans across Randall to KISS Larry on the cheek.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: That was lovely, Larry. Thank you.
text: Warren notices this closeness between Jeannie and her in-laws. He
dialog: then looks at --
speaker_heading: RANDALL
text: who has resumed eating.
scene_heading: LATER BY THE FRONT DOOR --
text: Warren is exchanging pleasant good-byes with Larry, Saundra and
text: Duncan, but he’s fishing for a moment with Jeannie.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (finding his chance)
dialog: Say, Jeannie, how about that few
dialog: minutes alone?
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Oh yeah. Right. I forgot.
dialog: 102
text: She shoots a glance at Randall, on his way out the door.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: We got a pretty big day tomorrow.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (to Warren)
dialog: Can it wait?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Actually, no. Just give me a few
dialog: minutes.
text: Jeannie looks at Randall with a look of “I have to do this.”
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Take your time. I1’1]l get the car started.
text: Warren and Jeannie go out onto the --
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT PORCH ~- NIGHT
text: It’s a screened in porch -- wicker furniture, a porch swing,
dialog: burned-down candles.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Okay. So what‘s up?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Like I said, I’ve been doing a lot of
dialog: thinking.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: And?
text: Dare he? He hesitates, but he has come too far, traveled too many
dialog: miles.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: And long story short. I think
dialog: you're making a big mistake.
dialog: (lowering his voice)
dialog: Don’t marry this guy. Don’t do it.
dialog: You'll regret it sooner or later. I
dialog: know it. I just know it.
text: Jeannie searches his face, incredulous.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t marry Randall. I’m begging
dialog: you.
dialog: 103
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (finally, as if to a child)
dialog: Okay, Dad. Calm down. It’s okay.
dialog: You're just wigging out a little. I
dialog: totally get it. You’re really tired.
dialog: It’s been a very emotional period for
dialog: all of us, and Mom's gone, and she’s
dialog: not here anymore to calm you down --
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, you’re not listening. You’ve got to
dialog: listen to me. This guy, he’s just not
dialog: up to snuff. You know, he’s just sow
speaker_heading: HONK HONK --
dialog: Randall is just so impatient.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Dad, I’ve.always known you've had
dialog: some misgivings about Randall, but
dialog: you just don’t know him well enough.
dialog: People have told me all sorts of
dialog: stories about parents freaking out at
dialog: the last minute. It’s natural to be
dialog: afraid to let your daughter go.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No. This is not like that.
scene_heading: HONK HONK HONK --
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Dad, I gotta go. Listen, get some
dialog: sleep. Let’s just forget we had this
dialog: conversation. Tomorrow's a really
dialog: super-busy day. Everything's going to
dialog: be fine.
text: She kisses him and trots toward the street. Warren watches her
dialog: go.
scene_heading: INT. RANDALL'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: The sound of BRUSHING TEETH over --
text: A PHOTOGRAPH .
text: of teenage Randall in his basketball uniform.
speaker_heading: A ROW OF RIBBONS
text: all reading “PARTICIPANT.”
dialog: 104
speaker_heading: A DIPLOMA
text: congratulating Randall Hertzel for completing a two-week
dialog: electronics class.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: is dressed in pajamas and brushing his teeth as he takes in
text: Randall's old room, a museum of Randall’s mediocre adolescence.
scene_heading: NOW EXITING THE ADJOINING BATBROOM ~~
text: Warren gets into Randall’s bed and is mildly alarmed to discover
text: that it’s a WATERBED. But soon he gets his sea legs and turns out
dialog: the light.
dialog: LYING IN BED -- te
text: Warren closes his eyes.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
speaker_heading: UNDER BLACK:
text: The TICKING of a clock. The ticking grows steadily LOUDER.
speaker_heading: MORNING --
text: Warren opens his eyes. The ticking continues. Warren looks up at -
speaker_heading: A WALL CLOCK
text: hanging near the bed. It’s a battery-operated BUDWEISER clock.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: now realizes where he has awakened. He rolls over to get out of the
dialog: water bed but can't. Ouch. What's going on?
text: Warren now realizes he has a TERRIBLE PAIN IN HIS NECK AND SHOULDER. \
text: He contorts around, keeping his head rigidly fixed, makes another
text: failed, sloshing attempt to rise out of bed. He GROANS repeatedly.
scene_heading: THE BUDWEISER CLOCK -- |
text: as its hands spin rapidly around from 8:15 to 10:07.
speaker_heading: THE DOOR --
text: as a little KNOCK is heard.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WARREN (OS)
dialog: Come in.
text: The door opens, and Roberta pokes her head in.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Good morning, mister sleepy-head!
text: Roberta stops short and is distressed to see -- \
dialog: 105
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: lying improbably on the ground, one leg still up on the edge of
dialog: the bed.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT’D)
dialog: Warren, what's wrong?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, I'm fine. Just a little stiff is
dialog: all. My neck, uh. I‘1l be okay.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Did you fall out of bed?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (a feeble old-man joke)
dialog: I guess it was just a little farther
dialog: to the ground than I thought.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Let me help you.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, I think it’s better if I‘mona
text: hard surface.
speaker_heading: LATER --
text: Warren is back in bed again, propped up on several pillows, his
text: head tilted rigidly to one side. He is in great pain.
text: Roberta, Jeannie and Randall stand hovering over the patient.
text: Jeannie and Randall are in a hurry -- we can tell from their.
text: jackets, ruddy cheeks and how they jangle their keys.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: I don’t know, it still seems pretty
dialog: weird for this to happen today, of
dialog: all days.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I’m sorry, Jeannie. I’m sure I’ll
text: rally in a few hours. The Advil is
text: kicking in pretty good.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: It's just that we’ve just been really
dialog: stressed out the last two weeks.
dialog: While you've been out on your little
dialog: trip, we've been kind of barely
dialog: holding this thing together, and now
dialog: for you to. crap out on us.
dialog: 106
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (good-natured, as though
dialog: scolding a child)
dialog: If you think this is going to make us
dialog: cancel the wedding, you’re sadly
dialog: mistaken, young man. Nice try.
dialog: Strike two.
dialog: Did Randall really just say that?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I just think it’s the bed. I need
dialog: something firmer.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: No way. That’s an Aquarest 2-9000.
dialog: Top of the line. It‘s definitely not
dialog: the bed.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I don’t know. I’m pretty sure I need
text: a harder surface.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: That’s a common misperception. A
dialog: waterbed is the best thing there is
dialog: for back and neck support. See, your
text: back isn't straight like a board.
dialog: It’s more like a long “8s.” Only a
dialog: waterbed supports all the natural
dialog: contours of your back. After all,
dialog: you spent the first nine months of
dialog: your life in water.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Anyway, the point is that you, Mr.
dialog: Schmidt, have a new job today. Your
dialog: job is to stay here and rest.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: All right. Let‘s just deal with
dialog: this, okay? I’ve got to get going.
dialog: Dad, where’s the receipt I gave you?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: The receipt?
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
text: For the programs. At the printers.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: It’s in my breast pocket over there
text: on the chair.
dialog: 107
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (retrieving it)
dialog: I guess now Randall will have to pick
dialog: them up.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: What do you mean? I gotta go to the
dialog: airport and get Brian and Dave, and
dialog: then run them by the tux shop and --
speaker_heading: JEANNIB
dialog: Well, I can’t do it. Do you think I
dialog: can do it?
dialog: (meltdown)
dialog: I can't do-everything! I cannot do
dialog: everything!
speaker_heading: ON WARREN --
text: as Jeannie begins to SOB.
text: He tries to sit up, but winces in
text: excruciating pain.
scene_heading: HOURS LATER --
text: Warren is alone in bed reading ENCYCLOPEDIA BROWN. This case is a
text: real puzzler, and Warren must turn to the back of the book for the
dialog: surprising solution. So it was the junk dealer after all.
dialog: By golly.
text: Roberta comes in with a tray of FOOD.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Anybody hungry?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I could eat a horse.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA ..
dialog: Chicken noodle soup okay?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Wonderful.
text: She sets the tray down next to Warren.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Anything for me in the bedpan?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (low)
dialog: Yes.
dialog: 108
text: Roberta now SITS on the bed, creating some rough seas. When the
text: waves calm, she places a napkin on Warren's chest and grabs a
text: spoon and steaming bowl from the tray.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, I can feed myself.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Maybe you can. I just think this
dialog: might be easier for you.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (he knows she’s right)
dialog: Thank you. +
text: Roberta begins feeding Warren spoonful after spoonful.
dialog: An odd but
text: undeniable intimacy informs their conversation.
dialog: ee
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: You know, sometimes injuries like
dialog: yours are more psychological than
dialog: anything else.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, this is definitely real.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: I don’t mean to imply that you’re
dialog: imagining your injury. It’s just
dialog: that. sometimes these things can be
dialog: brought on by other factors --
dialog: stress, anger, maybe holding onto
dialog: some feelings you need to let go of.
dialog: You might want to look at that.
text: Warren slurps his so®p, looks at her.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: You've been through a lot lately.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: It’s the bed. I’m telling you, I
dialog: slept wrong.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: You can choose to believe that if you
dialog: want to, but when I look in your
text: eyes, I see a sad man, a very sad
dialog: man.
text: Warren's expression is one of mild panic. Hasn’t he heard this
dialog: somewhere before?
dialog: 109
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (affecting a smile)
dialog: Oh, no. I'm fine.
text: Roberta catches some soup dribbling down his chin and spoons it
text: back into his mouth.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT’D)
dialog: Don't lie to me. Jeannie told us all
dialog: about your little panic attack last
dialog: night.
text: Warren opens his mouth to speak but Roberta pre-empts him with a
text: mouthful of soup.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: And I don’t blame you. It’s a
dialog: perfectly natural reaction. In the
dialog: beginning I had my own reservations.
dialog: After all, as the veteran of two
dialog: failed marriages, I have learned a
dialog: lot about what works and does not
dialog: work between two people. And knowing
dialog: what I know, and having seen the kids
dialog: together much more than you have, I
dialog: can tell you they are in very good
dialog: shape. They have a very healthy
dialog: relationship -- spiritually,
dialog: emotionally and physically. I’m not
dialog: sure how much Jeannie has really told
dialog: you about her relationship with
dialog: Randall -- I understand she was
text: closer with her mother. But Jeannie
dialog: and I have grown very close. She
dialog: confides in me. And, well, you
dialog: already know how famously they get
dialog: along as friends. But what you may
dialog: not know is that their intimate life
text: is positively white hot.
text: Warren is not happy knowing this.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: The principal reason that both my
dialog: marriages failed was physical. I am
dialog: an extremely sexual person. I can't
dialog: help it -- that’s just how I'm wired.
dialog: Even when I was a little girl. Most
dialog: people find this hard to believe, but
dialog: I had my first orgasm when I was six.
dialog: In ballet class.
speaker_heading: MORE
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Anyway, suffice it to say I've always
dialog: been very easily aroused, and Jeannie
dialog: and I have a lot in common that way.
dialog: The point is that neither Cliff nor
dialog: Larry could keep up with me. As much
dialog: as I tried to understand it and as
dialog: much as I valued the companionship, it
text: became an insurmountable problem. Now
dialog: I don’t want to betray Jeannie’s
dialog: confidence, but I can assure you that
dialog: she and Randall are not going to run
dialog: into those kinds of difficulties.
dialog: They may have other problems along the 7
dialog: way, but they will always have their— ---- —_—-
dialog: sexual life-to-fall back on. More
dialog: soup?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: No, I think I'm set.
scene_heading: INT. RANDALL’S ROOM - DAY
text: Warren is on his feet, awkwardly trying to slip his second arm
text: into his dress shirt, an excruciating task.
text: The door opens, and Roberta comes in.
dialog: She is now very nicely
text: dressed for the rehearsal.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: How are we doing?
text: Unable to turn his head, Warren grotesquely pivots his entire body
dialog: in order to see Roberta.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Just dandy. A couple more Advil
dialog: should do the trick.
text: Warren now raises his chin in order to lift his collar and has a
text: hideously painful reaction.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: I think you need something a little
dialog: stronger. Give me a second.
text: While she is gone, Warren continues the process of trying to put
text: his tie on. The wide end winds up much longer than the skinny
text: end, but Warren makes the decision to let it go.
text: Roberta comes back in with a PRESCRIPTION BOTTLE.
dialog: ill
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: I have these left over from ny
dialog: hysterectomy. They've expired, but
dialog: I’m sure they’re okay.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: What is it?
text: Roberta raises the glasses hanging around her neck and examines
dialog: the label.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Percodan. I guarantee you, within a
dialog: half-hour, you’1l be on cloud nine.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH OF CHRIST - NIGHT
text: A fine neighborhood church.
scene_heading: INT. FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH OF CHRIST - MNIGET
scene_heading: THE REHEARSAL --
text: Both families and the BRIDESMAIDS and GROOMSMEN.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON WARREN --
text: He is blissful. The world is beautiful. Sure, his pupils are
text: dilated, his mouth is dry, and he licks his lips compulsively, but
dialog: what the hell.
speaker_heading: REVEREND KRESGE
dialog: Following the procession, the
dialog: bridesmaids will stand on this left
dialog: side here, pretty much along where
text: the candles are, and the groomsmen
dialog: will stand over here. Just be sure
dialog: to leave enough space so the bride
dialog: and groom don't feel crowded. They
dialog: need to have a little room to
dialog: maneuver. And the bride’s father,
dialog: Mister, uh, Schmidt will take his
text: seat right there in the front row.
dialog: Mister Schmidt?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Hmmmh?
speaker_heading: REVEREND KRESGE
dialog: Mr. Schmidt, you can take your seat
dialog: now, right over there in the first
dialog: row.
dialog: 112
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (sort of to himself)
dialog: Messerschmitt. You can call me
dialog: Messerschmitt. They used to call me
text: Messerschmitt at the frat house. Yes
dialog: sir.
text: He cracks up.
speaker_heading: REVEREND KRESGE
dialog: Yes. Well, why don’t you just have a
dialog: seat right over there?
scene_heading: EXT. THE BRIARWOOD RESTAURANT - WIGHT
text: A fancy Tudor-style eatery.
scene_heading: INT. THE BRIARWOOD RESTAURANT ~ WIGET
scene_heading: THE BANQUET ROOM --
text: where the Hertzels, the Schmidts and others are seated to dinner.
text: Larry is characteristically mid-toast.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: There is so much love in this room. So
dialog: much love. And if I may say something
dialog: on a personal note, I learned about
dialog: love from my own parents, two
dialog: extraordinary people who themselves
dialog: were married sixty-two years. They’re
dialog: here right here in this room with us
dialog: tonight. I can feel them. Hello, Mom.
dialog: Hello, Dad. I miss you. And I love
dialog: you. But you taught me so much, and I
dialog: am privileged to be able to pass along
dialog: all I learned to my sons and.
text: During Larry's speech, the camera DOLLIES along a row of attentive
text: guests, coming to rest on Warren who is ROLLING HIS HEAD around
text: and around, in another world entirely.
scene_heading: INT. ROBERTA’S OLDSMOBILE ~- NIGHT
text: Roberta drives with a still dopey Warren beside her.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: You seem to have come around pretty
dialog: good there, Warren. You're a changed
dialog: man.
dialog: 113
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: That stuff you gave me -- wow.
dialog: You’ve got to write the name of that
dialog: down for me. That really does the
dialog: trick. Boy, I tell you.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: I know what will really get you out
dialog: of the woods. As soon as we get
dialog: home, I’m going to turn on the hot
dialog: tub, and you are going to take a nice
dialog: long soak before bed. You'll sleep
text: like a baby, and tomorrow morning .
dialog: you'll be*good as new. .
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Whatever you say, Dr. Howzel.
scene_heading: EXT. ROBERTA’S DECK - WIGHT
text: Warren is marinating in the sunken HOT TUB. The steam, the
text: bubbles. A second-storey WINDOW OPENS. Roberta’s head pops out.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: How does it feel?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Oh, this is incredible. I had no
dialog: idea. This is indescribable.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Didn’t I tell you? Didn’t I tell
dialog: you?
text: The window closes.
text: Warren leans his head back on the rim of the
dialog: tub. Then --
text: The patio door opens, and Roberta comes FLIP-FLOPPING out in her
text: robe and sandals.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Mind if I join you?
text: Before Warren can respond, Roberta steps out of her sandals and
text: drops her robe, revealing every bit of her glorious NAKED self --
text: her ample bosom, her full abdomen, her surgical scars, her thick
text: graying bush.
text: Warren experiences a rush of sudden terror. Roberta puts one foot
text: into the tub.
dialog: 114
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: (a long exhale)
dialog: Oooooooohhhhhh. Hot, hot, hot. Oh,
dialog: that’s good.
text: Unsure where to look, Warren does his best while Roberta SLOWLY
text: eases herself into the tub. Finally, and with much Archimedian
text: displacement, Roberta is up to her neck.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT’D)
dialog: That’s better. Ohhhhhhh.
text: Warren looks around to see if there are any nearby hills he can
dialog: run for. te
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT’D)
dialog: What a night. I was very moved. I
dialog: mean, I’ve been so stressed in the
dialog: last few weeks that I'd sort of lost
dialog: sight of the fact that. my little boy
dialog: is getting married. And so is your
dialog: little girl. You think about it from
dialog: the day they’re born, and now it’s
dialog: here. It’s a miracle.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah, it’s pretty amazing all right.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Did you have fun?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Well, Jeannie and Randall seem to
dialog: have some very nice friends out here.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Yes, they do. I just wish Larry
dialog: would learn not to say everything
text: that comes into his brain. He has no
dialog: filter. And it’s gotten worse since
dialog: he’s been with Saundra.
text: They sit in silence a moment.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: That's what I like about you, Warren.
dialog: You don’t waste words. You speak
dialog: when you have something to say.
dialog: That’s very attractive in a man.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: 115
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Just think. After tomorrow we‘re all
dialog: going to be one big family. And of
dialog: course, I'm going to insist that you
dialog: consider this your second home. I'll
dialog: set a place for you at the table for
dialog: Thanksgiving and Christmas, and I won’t
dialog: take no for an answer. And I don’t know
dialog: if Jeannie has told you about this, but
dialog: we don't give traditional gifts at
dialog: Christmas. We make them. It can be a
dialog: painting or a poem or a song. We're a
dialog: very creative family. One year Randall .e
dialog: made a spoon rack for my spoon
dialog: collection. And it goes without saying
dialog: that you’ll~have to come with us to our
text: time-share up in Breckinridge.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I don't ski.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: That‘s perfect! Neither do I. It‘ll
dialog: just be you and me while the kids are
text: on the slopes.
speaker_heading: UNDERWATER <-~
text: Roberta’s hand travels through the bubbles and comes to rest on
text: Warren's knee.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: can barely suppress his panic.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Here we are -- a divorcée and a
dialog: widower. Sounds like a perfect match
dialog: to me.
text: Warren suddenly GETS UP and steps out of the tub.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing?
text: Warren finds his towel, his trunks clinging sadly to his body.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I need to get to bed.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: (genuinely puzzled)
dialog: Just like that? Come on, we were
dialog: having such a nice talk!
dialog: 116
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I'm all tuckered out. Goodnight,
dialog: Roberta. Thanks for everything.
text: Warren turns to go inside.
scene_heading: EXT. ROBERTA'S STREET - WIGHT
text: Still in his trunks and wrapped in a towel, Warren walks barefoot
text: across Roberta’s front lawn toward the Bounder.
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - HIGHT -
text: The door opens, and Warren climbs up, locking the door behind hin.
text: He is not tuckered out, as he told Roberta. He is wide awake.
text: He pulls a little 8-ounce can of V-8 out of his mini-fridge and
text: tries to open the irritating peel-off top.
scene_heading: IN THE LITTLE BEDR -
text: He gets under the covers.
scene_heading: FROM OVERHEAD --
text: Warren lies awake, his eyes wide open. CAMERA DESCENDS until we
text: are very close on his face. Sleep is out of the question.
text: WORDS drift into his thoughts --
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: It‘ll just be you and me while the
text: kids are on the slopes.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Well, if you’d stuck with it a little
dialog: longer, you would have seen results.
dialog: Guaranteed.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: So you went for the second cheapest
text: casket. the second cheapest casket—
dialog: the second cheapest casket.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: After all, you spent the first nine
dialog: months of your life in water.
speaker_heading: ROBERTA
dialog: Most people find this hard to
dialog: believe, but I had my first orgasm
dialog: when I was six.
dialog: 117
text: AT THE LITTLE SINK --
text: Warren douses his face with water. He then backs up and sits on
text: “ the little sofa bed. It’s all just too much.
speaker_heading: musiIC --
scene_heading: PACHELBEL KANON in D
text: Played on a FLUTE and PIANO.
scene_heading: INT. FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH OF CHRIST
scene_heading: A MUSICAL DUO -- .
text: Their playing is so delicate, so ethereal, so lame.
scene_heading: THE WEDDING PROCESSION --
speaker_heading: - DAY
text: ~- Randall waiting expectantly by the minister. Instead of his
text: usual pony-tail, he now wears his hair loose to mark this once-in-
dialog: a-lifetime occasion.
text: -- Roberta walks solo, nodding broadly to people as she goes.
dialog: Roberta has chosen an African floral theme today. And an
text: unfortunate hat.
text: -- Larry walks with Saundra. Saundra is unsteady on her heels.
text: Larry has a huge grin on his shiny face.
text: -- Finally EVERYONE STANDS as the WEDDING MARCH commences.
text: walks Jeannie down the aisle. She is nervous and excited and
text: wears too much make-up. Warren has deep, deep circles under his
text: eyes, and his neck is still very stiff.
dialog: Warren
text: We follow them all the way until Warren lifts her veil and kisses
text: her cheek. Jeannie then takes Randall‘s hand as they find their
text: Place before God. Warren takes his seat in the front row.
text: DISSOLVE MONTAGE -- A SERIES OF IMPRESSIONS FROM THE WEDDING.
text: Intercut with Warren’s face, it becomes a mish-mash, the way
text: Warren is experiencing it.
text: -- A BRIDESMAID at the lectern reading from St. Paul's letter to
dialog: the Corinthians.
speaker_heading: BRIDESMAID
dialog: Love is patient and is kind; love
dialog: does not envy. Love bears all
dialog: things, believes all things, hopes
dialog: all things, endures all things
text: ~- Randall reading his own VOWS.
dialog: 118
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: ~ and I shall love you every day of
dialog: my life. And when I say every day, I
dialog: mean every day. And when I say
dialog: “day,” I mean all 24 hours, all 1440
dialog: minutes, all 86,400 seconds. I will
dialog: use every moment to show my love,
dialog: wipe away your tears, share your
dialog: laughter—
text: -- The SOLOIST singing a reverent arrangement of a familiar song.
speaker_heading: SOLOIST
dialog: Cherish is the word I use to *
dialog: describe. And there are so many ways
dialog: I wish that I could hold you. And
dialog: there are so many ways I wish that I 7
dialog: could love you...
dialog: -- The minister ministering.
speaker_heading: MINISTER
dialog: And do you, Randall Gerard, take
dialog: Jeanne Osmond to be your lawful
dialog: wedded wife?
speaker_heading: MINISTER
dialog: (simultaneously)
dialog: Do you, Jeanne Osmond, take Randall
dialog: Gerard to be your lawful wedded
dialog: husband..?
dialog: -- Randall and Jeannie.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: I do.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: (simultaneously)
dialog: I do.
text: Now all the super-imposed images fade away, leaving only WARREN,
text: as behind him the wedding guests APPLAUD. Fighting his feeling of
text: overwhelming emptiness, he finally applauds too.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLIDAY INW - DAY
text: The sign-board reads, “Congratulations Hertzel -- Jeannie and
dialog: Randall”
dialog: lig
scene_heading: INT. HOLIDAY INN BANQUET ROOM - DAY
scene_heading: A CHAMPAGNE FLUTE --
text: as a FINGER taps it.
speaker_heading: WIDE --
text: Warren is gesturing to a WAITER.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: (mouthing)
dialog: Could I have some more?
text: Warren is already quite DRUNK and isn’t paying much attention to
text: the TOAST being given at the DEEJAY BOOTH by best man DENNIS. He
text: is nervous about his own upcoming toast, and he is MAKING NOTES on
text: a NAPKIN.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: But Jeannie, I just have to share one
dialog: last thing. I gotta tell you what
dialog: Randall told me the morning after your
dialog: first night, you know, that night you
dialog: guys met at Corky’s Brewhouse.
speaker_heading: LARRY
text: leans over and taps Warren’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You're on deck.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Buh?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You're on deck. You’re up next.
text: Warren just nods, clearly very nervous.
speaker_heading: LARRY (CONT’D)
dialog: Just say what's in your heart,
dialog: Warren. That’s what I do. Say
dialog: exactly what’s in your heart.
text: Warren ponders this. .
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yeah. That’s what I’m going to do.
dialog: That’s exactly what I’m going to do.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
text: continues his toast.
dialog: 120
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: He called me up, and I could tell
dialog: there was something different in his
dialog: voice. Remember, Randy? You called
dialog: me and you said, “Dennis. I met this
dialog: girl and, well, this is going to
dialog: sound pretty weird coming from me
dialog: (pausing for effect)
dialog: ~ but this is one chick I might
dialog: actually want to see again.”
text: General knowing laughter. Jeannie mock-slaps Randall‘s shoulder.
speaker_heading: __—s_s_.séDENNIS (CONT'D)
dialog: But seriously. It wasn’t a couple
dialog: weeks later when we're out drinking
dialog: and, scout’s honor, we’re talking
dialog: about this and that and suddenly he
dialog: turns to me and he goes, “Dennis, I
dialog: think I might be in love.”
text: A general “awwwwwww.” Warren remains impassive.
speaker_heading: DENNIS (CONT’D)
dialog: And then he told me a bunch of other
dialog: stuff I'm not quite at liberty to go
dialog: into. But what I noticed in his voice
dialog: that morning almost two and half years
dialog: ago has been confirmed here today. You
dialog: guys are just a great couple, and you
dialog: guys really helped me out with that
dialog: thing a couple months ago, and I'll
dialog: never forget it. I love you guys. And
dialog: I drink to you.
dialog: (loudly, the amp distorting)
dialog: Randall and Jeannie forever!
text: He raises his glass and drinks. All join in and tap their
text: silverware on their glasses until Randall and Jeannie smooch.
text: Warren is nauseated by this and, emboldened by the resolve to
text: speak his mind, he CRUMPLES the napkin with his notes and casts it
dialog: aside.
speaker_heading: DENNIS (CONT’D)
dialog: And now I’d like to turn things over
dialog: to the proud father of the bride,
dialog: Warren Schmidt.
text: Amid much applause, Warren hesitantly stands and walks to the
text: microphone. He looks down, gathers his thoughts. There is
text: expectation in the air. Finally --
dialog: 121
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I didn’t get much sleep last night. In
dialog: fact, I didn’t get any sleep at all.
dialog: So forgive me if I'ma little. foggy.
text: He looks over at -~
scene_heading: JEANNIE AND RANDALL,
text: his daughter and his new son-in-law. They look back at him,
text: anxiously awaiting his benediction. Jeannie
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: searches his soul for the right words.
speaker_heading: ° WARREN (CONT'D) ~~ 7 -—
dialog: I was awake all night, thinking about
dialog: things, thinking about a lot of things.
dialog: But I guess I should have been thinking
dialog: more about what I was going to say here
dialog: today.
text: Scattered, uncomfortable LAUGHTER. But Warren doesn’t laugh along
text: with them. He was serious.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: I was thinking about Jeannie when she
dialog: was a little girl and about how sweet
dialog: she was, how she was everything to
dialog: Helen and me. And I was thinking about
dialog: how sad I was when she moved to
dialog: Boulder. Of course I supported her
dialog: decision to go to college, but I guess
dialog: somehow in the back of my mind I always
dialog: thought she'd land back in Omaha. With
dialog: her mother and me. But it didn’t work
dialog: out that way. People go their own way
dialog: in life. And there’s nothing you can
dialog: do about it.
text: Warren realizes he’s rambling and tries to focus. Those notes he
text: was making sure would be handy. He glances over at where he was
text: sitting, only to see a WAITER clearing the table.
text: The speech that follows is so forced that it’s painful to watch,
text: like a Special Olympics version of a wedding toast.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: But, you know, today is a special day.
dialog: We're here to mark a crossroads in the
text: lives of two people, a crossroads where
text: they come together and now walk along a
dialog: new road.
speaker_heading: MORE
dialog: 122
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s not the same road they were each on at
dialog: the beginning. It’s a new road. A
dialog: wonderful new road. It’s a road that, um.
text: He stares at a spot on the floor. His body is completely heavy.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: As many of you know, I lost my wife
text: recently, and Jeannie lost her mother.
dialog: Helen and I were married forty-two
dialog: years. She died very suddenly. I know
dialog: we all wish she could be with us today,
dialog: and I think it would be appropriate to .*
dialog: acknowledge just how pleased she was
dialog: that Jeannie had found someone to share
text: her life with, a companion, a partner.
dialog: (the words tasting of metal)
dialog: From what I’ve seen, Jeannie, I’m betting
dialog: you and Randall will have as happy a
dialog: marriage as Helen and I did. I recall
dialog: the day Jeannie first told us she had
dialog: been proposed to. We hadn’t yet met this
dialog: Randall fellow, so we were understandably
dialog: a little suspicious. Later she brought
dialog: him home for Christmas so we could get a
dialog: look at him. I remember there was a big
dialog: snowstorm. Randall here helped me shovel
text: off the front walk. He pitched right in.
text: Randall beams and nods and jokingly flexes a muscle for the
dialog: benefit of the crowd.
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT’D)
dialog: But that brings me to what I really
dialog: wanted to say. What I want to say is
dialog: that, uh. Thank you to you, Randall, for
dialog: taking such good care of my daughter,
dialog: especially recently with our loss. Ever
dialog: since I arrived here on Thursday
dialog: afternoon, just two days ago, I’ve so
dialog: enjoyed getting to know Jeannie’s new
dialog: family here in Denver.
speaker_heading: MORE
dialog: 123
speaker_heading: WARREN (CONT'D)
dialog: (finally on a roll)
dialog: Roberta, thank you for your generosity,
dialog: for opening your home. Your talent in
dialog: the kitchen. Larry, your eloquence.
dialog: Saundra, your skill at handicrafts is
dialog: truly remarkable -- that item you
dialog: showed me was so very, very artistic.
dialog: Duncan, I haven’t gotten to know you
dialog: very well, but I could tell from our
dialog: brief conversation Thursday night that
dialog: you're a very thoughtful young man.
dialog: And everybody else. Terrific people.
dialog: (He’s almost there.) :
dialog: In conclusion,-I just want to say that
dialog: on this special day, this very special
dialog: occasion, I am. proud.
dialog: Everyone is a little unsure about the moment. Was that it? Then --
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (raising his glass)
dialog: Hear, hear!
text: Now everyone knows what to do. All raise their glasses and drink.
text: Then the RINGING of silverware on glasses. Jeannie and Randall
text: kiss again to the delight of the crowd.
text: Warren makes a run for the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL BATHROOM - WIGHT
text: Warren rushes into the bathroom and heads for the URINAL.
scene_heading: ON WARREN’S FACE --
text: as he begins a seemingly ENDLESS PEE, one hand on the wall for
text: support. A range of emotions -- from grief to relief -- crosses his
dialog: face.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL BALLROOM - NIGHT
text: Warren and Jeannie are DANCING arm-in-arm to a lovely slow tune.
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: I can't believe everything worked out
dialog: so well.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Yep, I’d say you really pulled it
dialog: off. I’m proud of you.
dialog: 124
speaker_heading: JEANNIE
dialog: Thanks for understanding about the
dialog: money. I know it was more than you
dialog: expected.
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: I just want you to be happy. That’s
dialog: all I’ve ever wanted.
text: She leans her head on Daddy’s shoulder. Randall saunters up and
text: taps Warren on the back, makes a gesture of cutting in.
speaker_heading: RANDALL .
dialog: May?
speaker_heading: WARREN
dialog: Be my guest.
text: Warren wanders off the dance floor. He takes a seat an empty
text: table and watches his daughter dance.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO)
dialog: Dear Ngudu, You'll be glad to know
text: Jeannie’s wedding came off without a
dialog: hitch. It was a first-class affair
dialog: all the way. Right now she and
text: Randall are on their way to sunny
dialog: Hawaii, on my nickel of course.
scene_heading: INT. BOUNDER - DAY
dialog: Warren drives.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: As for ma, I’m on my way back to
dialog: Omaha. I’m driving straight through
dialog: this time, and I’ve only made one
dialog: stop. That’s right -- I finally got
dialog: to visit Pioneer Village.
scene_heading: EXT. PIOREEZER VILLAGE FRONT ENTRANCE - DAY
text: Warren walks across the parking lot and through the front doors.
scene_heading: INT. PIONEER VILLAGE MUSEUM AREA ~ DAY
text: Warren wanders among the myriad displays of historical artifacts,
text: The sheer volume of objects is staggering.
dialog: 125
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: You really have to see it to believe
dialog: it. Looking at all that history and
dialog: all those things made by people long
dialog: dead kind of gets you thinking.
scene_heading: EXT. PIONEER VILLAGE - DAY
text: Passing a COVERED WAGON, he stops at a SOD HOUSE and pats the
text: wall, impressed by its durability after all these years.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D) +e
dialog: We're all pretty small in the big
dialog: scheme of things, and the most you
dialog: can hope for is make some kind of
dialog: difference. But what kind of a
dialog: difference have I made? What in the
dialog: world is better because of me? I
dialog: have accomplished nothing. Even my
dialog: trip to Denver was insignificant
dialog: compared to the journeys others have
dialog: taken, to the hardships they endured,
dialog: the bravery they showed.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. BOUNDER APPROACHING OMAHA - DAY
text: Through the windshield we see a sign -- “OMAHA NEXT 11 EXITS.”
text: PAN to Warren at the wheel.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: When I was out in Denver I tried to
dialog: tell Jeannie that I thought she was
dialog: making a big mistake, but it just
dialog: didn’t work. And now she’s married
dialog: to that guy, that imbecile. I'ma
dialog: coward. And I’ma failure. There's
dialog: no getting around it.
scene_heading: INT. SCHMIDT HOUSE - DAY
text: Warren opens his front door, pushing extra hard because of the
text: voluminous MAIL that has been pushed through the door. He puts
text: down a suitcase and stoops to collect the mail.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT'D)
dialog: Relatively soon I will die. Maybe in
dialog: twenty years, maybe tomorrow. It
dialog: doesn’t matter. Once I am dead, and
dialog: everyone who ever knew me dies too, it
dialog: will be as though I never existed. What
dialog: difference has my life made to anyone?
dialog: My life has added up to nothing.
dialog: 126
speaker_heading: LATER --
text: In shots that echo those following Helen‘s death, Warren walks
text: alone through his house. Somehow now its emptiness seems even
dialog: vaster.
speaker_heading: WARREN (VO CONT’D)
dialog: Hope things are fine with you.
dialog: Sincerely, Warren Schmidt.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - DAY
text: Warren sets his suitcase down on the bed and takes off his ‘jacket.
dialog: Raaahh. But wait -~- something smells a little funny. Not just
text: funny, but BAD. He follows his nose to the source of the smell
dialog: and heads toward --
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Warren cringes at the rank smell of his own stale urine. He takes a
text: BATH TOWEL, soaks it in water and kneels to begins scrubbing the
dialog: carpet.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY - DAY
text: Warren throws the stack of mail on his desk and notices --
speaker_heading: A LETTER
dialog: that has traveled a very long way. The stamps are odd and
text: colorful. Even the envelope is strange. It’s from TANZANIA.
text: Warren opens the letter and pulls out two sheets of paper. He
text: sits down and begins to read.
dialog: 127
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE (OS)
dialog: (French accent)
dialog: Dear Mr. Warren Schmidt, My name is
dialog: Sister Nadine Gautier of the order of
dialog: the Sisters of the Sacred Heart. I
text: work in a small village near the town
dialog: of Mbeya in Tanzania. One of the
dialog: children I care for is little Ngudu
dialog: Umbo, the boy you sponsor. Ngudu is a
dialog: very intelligent boy and very loving.
dialog: He is an orphan. He recently needed
dialog: medical attention for an infected eye,
dialog: but he is doing better now. He loves
dialog: to eat melon, and he loves to paint. *
dialog: Ngudu and I want you to know that he
dialog: receives all of your letters. He hopes
dialog: that you are happy in-your life and
dialog: healthy. He thinks of you every day,
dialog: and he wants very much your happiness.
text: He is only six years old and cannot
dialog: write, but he has made for you a
dialog: painting. He hopes that you will like
dialog: it. Yours sincerely, Sister Nadine
dialog: Gautier
text: Warren puts down the letter and unfolds the other piece of paper.
dialog: There he finds --
scene_heading: A CHILD’S WATERCOLOR PAINTING
text: There’s a tree and a big smiling sun and two stick figure people
text: holding hands. It is beautiful and colorful -- a sweet, sweet
text: child‘s painting.
speaker_heading: WARREN
text: looks at Ngudu’s painting and is flooded with emotion. Somehow
text: this child’s simple act has unleashed all of Warren’s complex,
text: long suppressed emotions, emotions he will never understand.
text: breath shortens. Tears come. His wife, his daughter, his
text: emptiness, his loneliness, his grief, his entire misspent life.
text: But then, out of his tears emerges an odd, uncontrollable SMILE.
dialog: His
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
