speaker_heading: Rev. 04/29/87 (Blue)
dialog: ABOVE THE LAW
dialog: Screenplay by
scene_heading: STEVEN PRESSFIELD and RONALD SHUSETT
speaker_heading: and ANDREW DAVIS
dialog: Story by
scene_heading: ANDREW DAVIS and STEVEN SEAGAL
speaker_heading: FINAL DRAFT
dialog: March 27, 1987
scene_heading: WARNER BROS. INC. © 1987
scene_heading: 4000 Warner Boulevard WARNER BROS. INC.
dialog: Burbank, California 91522 All Rights Reserved
dialog: ABOVE THE LAW
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 1 TITLES SEQUENCE - MONTAGE WITH SCORE
text: PHOTOGRAPHIC STILLS show us NICOLA TOSCANI as a city boy in
text: various growing-up SHOTS, circa 1950's -- with street chums
text: wearing a Wyatt Earp T-shirt, in a communion suit. Then:
text: in his first qi, a youngster studying the martial arts; he
text: grows, we see news clippings of him winning trophies, his
text: name on contest posters, SHOTS of him in action. Then:
text: Japan. Nico now in his teens, studying with real masters,
text: being dumped on his butt, posing smiling beside Japanese
text: martial artists, then himself as an instructor. Now: a
text: few military uniforms enter the picture, we see security
text: clearance documents with Nico's picture and name on them.
text: Then Nico near draft age with an American friend NELSON
text: FOX on some kind of training base. TITLES END.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 2 EXT. JUNGLE - DAY
text: Blowing through the roof of a dense jungle straight AT
text: CAMERA, HELICOPTER ROTORS RISE to a DEAFENING PITCH.
text: SUPER: Viet - Cambodian Border, 1972. Jungle foliage
text: whips in the fierce downdraft as --
scene_heading: 3 "HUEY" GUNSHIP
text: with US Army markings becomes discernible. The chopper
text: lowers toward a crude landing zone hacked out of the
dialog: wilderness. We GLIMPSE Cambodian troops and several
text: machine gun positions around the LZ.
scene_heading: 4 EXT. JUNGLE - TWO ARMED AMERICANS - DAY
text: watch from the edge of the landing zone. We recognize Nico
text: and Fox, now in their twenties, dressed in the nonmilitary
text: jungle attire that usually marks a CIA "spook."
speaker_heading: 5 HELICOPTER
text: touches down. THREE OLDER AMERICANS -- rough-looking, in
text: their mid-thirties, all carrying some kind of medical bags
text: -- disembark into the HOWLING ROTOR BLAST. They hit the
text: ground nimbly, as if they've done it many times before.
scene_heading: 6 LEADER OF THREE
text: wears a khaki cowboy hat and packs a pearl-handled .45.
speaker_heading: 7 NICO AND FOX
text: don't know whether to react with laughter or uneasiness.
dialog: 2.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You ever see chemical interrogation
dialog: before?
text: Nico's eyes stay on the approaching "cowboy," KURT ZAGON,
text: for whom he plainly feels an instant animosity.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: These assholes are agency?
speaker_heading: 8 NICO'S POV
text: FOLLOWS the medical bag in the cowboy's hand.
text: 9 BACK TO FOX AND NICO
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: We're all C.I.A. But these guys are
text: from a page that ain't on the map.
scene_heading: 10 EXT. JUNGLE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Nico in the point, leading Fox and the three CIT (Chemical
text: Interrogation Team) men down an unmarked, twisting trail.
text: We see from Nico's gait that he is athletic, a born leader
text: and totally at home in the jungle.
scene_heading: 11 TRAIL - LATE AFTERNOON
text: snakes along a ridge line, high enough to give us a view and
dialog: let us know these guys are way out in the boonies.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: How long till we're across the border?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: We've been over for the past hour.
text: The group continues along the ridge.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 12 EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT
text: The sky glows from nearby bomb attacks.
speaker_heading: 13 NICO
text: listening hard -- and even sniffing the air -- glances back
text: at Zagon, who stands impatiently, drawing on a cigarette.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: What are you looking at, hotshot?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (indicates cigarette
dialog: glow)
dialog: Why don't you light a bonfire?
dialog: 3.
text: Irritably, Zagon ditches his smoke.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Just drive the taxi, ace.
text: As the party moves out, Fox flashes Nico a look as if to say,
dialog: "Don't fuck with these guys."
scene_heading: 14 EXT. CAMBODIAN BASE CAMP - NIGHT
text: A pocket-fortified position. Armed Cambodian lookouts,
text: several hooches, radio equipment. Nico leads the party in
text: through the perimeter. Zagon eyes the layout like he's seen
text: 100 of them. Fox indicates a hooch.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (to Zagon)
dialog: They're in there.
text: The three CIT men start for the hooch. Nico casts a concerned
text: glance around at the base camp troops, looking sloppy as hell.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I don't trust these yo-yo's.
scene_heading: 15 FULL SHOT - BASE CAMP
text: We see Nico moving like a shadow from one defensive position
text: to another, checking the perimeter. We can vaguely hear him
text: ROUSTING the Cambodian lookouts, speaking in dialect.
scene_heading: 16 DEFENSIVE POSITION - NICO
text: hears a SOUND, looks back toward the hooch.
speaker_heading: 17 NICO'S POV - HOOCH
text: Two Asian prisoners, stripped to the waist, babbling in-
text: coherently, are dragged out the back by a pair of Cambodian
text: guards and hustled off into the darkness. VOICES can be
text: heard inside the hooch. A single lantern glowing inside
text: gives the hut a creepy, frightening aspect.
scene_heading: 18 BACK TO NICO
text: He's extremely uneasy about what's about to happen inside the
dialog: hooch.
scene_heading: 19 INT. HOOCH - CLOSE ON RICKETY CARD TABLE - NIGHT
text: on which are spread a terrifying array of syringes, drug vials
text: and surgical instruments. Zagon's hand picks up a hypodermic,
text: squirt-tests it.
dialog: 4.
scene_heading: 20 TWO ASIAN PRISONERS
text: are on their knees, shirtless, handcuffed with heavy nylon
text: tape to a stake driven into the ground in the center of the
text: hooch. One of the subordinate CIT men moves in, grabs the
text: first prisoner by the shoulders. Zagon injects the first
text: prisoner. Instantly the man begins shivering, convulsing.
text: Zagon watches with professional satisfaction.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: That's the nice thing about modern
dialog: technology. You don't have to wait
dialog: for results.
text: He moves close to the first prisoner.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (to first prisoner)
dialog: Where is it, Charley? You got six tons
dialog: of our shit --
text: The prisoner tries to speak, but he's in such torment all
text: that comes out is a blood-curdling wail --
scene_heading: 21 EXT. BAST CAMP - NICO
text: hears this horrifying cry. He starts swiftly toward the
dialog: hooch --
scene_heading: 22 INT. HOOCH - INTERPRETER
text: has moved as close to Zagon and the first prisoner as a fight
text: referee to two boxers. The prisoner is convulsing wildly.
text: Zagon grabs him fiercely by the hair.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Don't you die on me, fucker --
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (from the side)
dialog: What the hell's wrong?
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (throws the prisoner
dialog: down)
dialog: This pussy can't hold his liquor.
text: The first prisoner is plainly in a death spasm.
speaker_heading: 23 NICO
text: enters at this point. He takes in the scene quickly, moves
text: to a spot beside the entrance. Zagon doesn't look at Nico,
text: but it's plain he is aware of Nico's presence. It is as if
dialog: he wants to prove something to this muscular kid -- and prove
dialog: it to the others, too.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 5.
speaker_heading: 24 FIRST PRISONER
text: dies in agony on the ground.
speaker_heading: 25 SECOND PRISONER
text: watches with eyes like flint. He is in his mid-forties,
text: scarred, missing several fingers. Probably a colonel or
text: higher, he looks like he's been fighting these round-eyes
dialog: since the French in the 50's. He is plainly one tough
text: customer. The second prisoner meets Zagon's eyes, as if
text: daring him to use the drugs on him, too. Zagon eyes the
text: prisoner with barely contained hatred. The prisoner doesn't
text: back down an inch.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (to second prisoner)
dialog: So my little doctor bag doesn't *
dialog: scare you, eh? Well I don't need *
dialog: it to open your yap. *
text: Zagon reaches to a scabbard on his Western belt, pulls out a
text: fearsome serrated blade -- a cross between a bowie knife and
text: a scalpel. He steps toward the prisoner, displaying the
text: blade in the lantern light.
speaker_heading: 26 NICO
text: watches impassively.
speaker_heading: ZAGON (O.S.)
dialog: (to prisoner)
dialog: Where's our load, you sack of slime?
dialog: What did you do with my shit? --
speaker_heading: 27 ZAGON
text: punches the prisoner full in the face, holding the knife
text: handle in his fist to double the force of the blow and to
text: terrify him with the proximity of the blade. The prisoner
text: crashes sideways, face bloody --
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: I'm gonna teach you good. I'm gonna
dialog: teach you never to fuck with my
dialog: opium --
scene_heading: 28 FOX AND TWO CIT MEN
dialog: seem to know exactly what this is about.
speaker_heading: 29 NICO
text: didn't know, but the new kid on the block is catching on fast.
text: Nico has difficulty containing his emotion. Zagon stands
text: over the prisoner, as if daring him to get back up.
dialog: 6.
text: The prisoner gets back to his knees, bloody eyes meeting
dialog: Zagon's with defiance --
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (to prisoner)
dialog: You're a hard nigger, aren't you, boy?
dialog: You took it from the Chinks... you took
dialog: it from the French. You'll be fucked
dialog: if some Yankee peckerwood's gonna start
dialog: your gums flapping --
text: Nico watches Zagon move the knife blade closer to the
dialog: prisoner.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: -- Well, you're gonna chirp for me,
dialog: tough guy. You're gonna sing like a
dialog: choir --
text: Nico takes a step toward Zagon.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: What the fuck does this have to do
dialog: with military intelligence?
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Your orders are 'assist and observe'
dialog: cherry --
text: Zagon turns to face Nico --
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (to Nico)
dialog: Back off, partner --
text: Zagon turns from Nico. He moves close to the second prisoner,
text: close as a lover, displaying the blade in the lamplight.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (to second prisoner)
dialog: I'm gonna start carving at your ankles.
dialog: We'll throw your feet in that box right
dialog: over there. Then I'm gonna take off
dialog: your arms --
text: One of the CIT men yanks the prisoner's leg forward, clamping
text: it to the ground with his hands. The prisoner still hasn't
text: flinched. He seems as locked into this dance of death as
dialog: Zagon.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (can't take
dialog: much more)
dialog: Fox --
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Shut up, Nico.
dialog: 7.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: You can disappear as easy as this
dialog: slope, kid --
text: Zagon starts for the prisoner. Here comes the blade.
text: Suddenly -- Nico grabs Zagon's shoulder. Zagon spins with
text: terrifying quickness, cocking the blade to slash at Nico.
text: Before Zagon's blow even starts, Nico slams him with a
text: ferocious elbow shot right under the jaw. Zagon literally
text: comes off the ground, Nico's blow is so terrific. Zagon drops
text: in an unconscious heap. In a flash the two other CIT men
text: move to jump Nico. Smash! The second CIT man is swallowing
text: his teeth. Fox leaps in the way of the third, shoves Nico
dialog: out of the hooch --
scene_heading: 30 EXT. HOOCH - NIGHT
text: Fox wrestles Nico away from the hooch --
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Are you crazy?!!
dialog: (as Nico jerks free)
dialog: What the fuck's the matter with you?!!!
text: Nico is shaking with rage and fear. He takes several steps
text: away from the hooch, then draws up abruptly. Nico pulls his
text: .45 from his holster, pops the safety, starts back for the
dialog: hooch --
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Nico!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I don't cap him now, he's gonna do me
dialog: later.
text: The last CIT man appears, gun drawn, in the hooch doorway.
text: Fox grabs Nico, hauls him back again --
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'll cover this. Get back to the
dialog: L.Z. --
dialog: (as Nico resists)
dialog: -- I'll fix it! Get out! Get the
dialog: fuck outa here!
text: The CIT man calls out to the Cambodian troops, in dialect,
text: pointing at Nico. The soldiers start toward Nico, as if to
text: seize him. Fox, too, starts yelling to the troops in dialect,
text: apparently countermanding the orders of the CIT men. The
text: troops, confused, hold up for a moment.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (to Nico)
dialog: I'll call for a chopper... get outa
dialog: here!
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 8.
text: Nico gives a last look, turns and takes off down the jungle
text: trail. Fox seems abandoned. The DISTANT BOMBING CONTINUES.
text: Nico disappears into the darkness.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: FADE IN ON:
scene_heading: 31 CHURCH STEEPLE - DAY
text: TILT DOWN to reveal St. Elizabeth's, a huge parish church in
text: an Italian/Latino neighborhood in Chicago. The church looks
text: festive, we see a few formally-dressed people hurrying in,
text: then a squad car pulls up. The cops run upstairs as if
dialog: they're late --
scene_heading: 32 INT. ST. MARY'S - DAY
dialog: A baptism in progress. Nico -- 15 years older than when we
text: last saw him, is standing beside SARA, his lovely wife *
text: -- watching a 60-ish priest, FATHER GENARRO, finish the
text: final ritual on Nico's infant son Julian. The priest
text: straightens the baby's baptismal garment, tugging the cloth
text: around the little fellow's crotch. Smiles from friends and
text: relatives clustered proudly around. Several cops, some in
text: uniform are amongst them. Nico grabs his son from Genarro
text: with a theatrical protective motion, tugs up the little boy's
text: garment, kisses him smack on the bare butt. Laughter from
text: all as Nico holds the lad high and proud. He puts his arm
dialog: around Sara. *
scene_heading: 33 EXT. NICO'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - DAY
text: Huge trays of Italian delicacies are carried out into the
text: sunlight by several "old country"-type women. Wine is
text: poured from generous carafes. Friends and relatives are
text: everywhere, laughing and enjoying themselves; apparently
dialog: the party has come here straight from the church. Presents
text: for the new baby are being opened by Nico's wife, Sara, *
text: and Nico's mother, ROSA.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: Mama, look at this -- all done by hand.
text: Sara lifts a cute baby outfit. *
speaker_heading: ROSA
dialog: Nico had one just like this. Thank
dialog: you, Cora.
text: Cora, an aunt, proudly smiles.
speaker_heading: 34 NICO
text: Holding the baby. Realizes that his little son has pooped
text: in his pants. He turns for help to Sara. *
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 9.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I think we got a little problem here.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (winking at the women)
dialog: I carried him for the last nine months,
dialog: you take him for the next diaper.
text: Assorted uncles and aunts watch with amusement as Nico tries
text: awkwardly to deal with the problem.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to all)
dialog: That's what you get for not marrying a
dialog: Sicilian.
text: Sara lets Nico struggle a moment, then takes over. *
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: My brave husband. He's not afraid of
text: thieves and muggers, but he's terrified
text: when his son poops in his pants.
text: Toscani relatives look on with approval at the happy couple
dialog: and their baby.
text: 35 ANOTHER PART OF BACK YARD
text: Three Chicago cops, LUKICH and HENDERSON in plain clothes
text: and LIEUTENANT STROZAH in uniform wolf some Italian goodies
text: while eying the group of celebrating relatives.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: (indicates Nico
dialog: across the patio)
dialog: Toscani holds the record... for havin'
dialog: more relatives under federal indictment
dialog: than any other cop in Chicago.
scene_heading: 36 TWO OF NICO'S UNCLES
text: BRANCA and LUIGI, who look like they have been on the other
text: side of a cop's work, are in turn eying Lukich and Henderson
text: -- plus a cluster of other cops in civvies hovering around
text: the buffet table like vultures.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: Look at these stiff dicks. A free meal
text: and they come out like flies.
scene_heading: 37 STREET OUTSIDE NICO'S HOUSE - DAY
text: An unmarked police car pulls up. DOLORES JACKSON ("Jax"),
text: another undercover cop, tall, black, and elegant, enters
text: the driveway leading to Nico's back yard --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 10.
speaker_heading: 38 BACK YARD
text: Jackson enters. She's impeccably dressed and radiates
text: intelligence. She's greeted warmly by Lukich, Henderson,
text: Strozah, and a couple of other cops.
speaker_heading: STROZAH
dialog: I didn't do nothing, Counselor. I'm
dialog: clean.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Eight more days, Lieutenant. You
dialog: better start preparing your defense.
speaker_heading: HENDERSON
dialog: Baby, I'm gonna put you on retainer.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: You passed the bar? I make it a
dialog: point never to pass the bar.
text: Jackson sees Nico and Sara across the yard, waves and *
text: starts toward them --
text: 39 BACK TO BRANCA AND LUIGI
text: Luigi indicates Jackson as she crosses the patio.
speaker_heading: LUIGI
dialog: Now this cop. She can bust me any
dialog: day.
scene_heading: 40 NICK, SARA AND ROSA (NICO'S MOTHER) *
text: Jackson comes up, makes a theatrical appreciation of Nico's
text: stylish attire, kisses Sara and greets Nico's mom warmly. *
text: She starts oohing and ahhing over the baby.
speaker_heading: 41 VARIOUS SHOTS
text: Young kids playing on the lawn, more guests arriving, Father
text: Genarro dancing with an elderly matron. We see that Nico's
dialog: friends are an electric mix. Cops, art-y types, people of
dialog: varied ages and professions.
scene_heading: 42 BACK TO JACKSON
text: Holding the baby.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Look at this little bundle. What a
dialog: cupcake!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You give up being the D.A. and hurry
dialog: up and find the right fella, Jax.
dialog: You might have time for one of these
dialog: yourself.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 10A.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: Nico, will you let the woman
dialog: catch her breath?
speaker_heading: 43 JAPANESE WOMAN (DR. WATANABE) *
text: moves in shyly on the fringe of the cluster. While Jackson
text: and Sara continue their "mom" talk, Nico edges off toward *
text: Watanabe, shaking her hand with real pleasure. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Watanabe! Say hey, Doc.
text: They begin jabbering in Japanese.
dialog: We will meet Watanabe again later. She's a brainy-looking *
text: woman -- reserved, a bit mysterious -- who talks quietly and *
text: intensely in Japanese with Nico like they're old friends who
dialog: go back a long way.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 11. *
scene_heading: 44 EXT. TOSCANI FRONT PORCH - LATER
text: Branca, Luigi and several other Toscani patriarchs smoke
text: cigars and sip beer in a cluster. Nico holds Julian.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: You're a father now. Are you gonna
dialog: take me up on my offer?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I'm happy, Branca. I like what I do.
text: Branca glances seriously to the other uncles, then, with a
text: smile, pats Nico's cheek.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: Look at this face! Six-foot-four,
dialog: pretty as the statue of David. And
dialog: he's a cop!
text: Branca laughs. From a distance, Watanabe watches, missing
text: nothing. Across the porch, Lukich and several other cops
dialog: observe and try to listen.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: This face should be sticking up from
text: a white shirt. It should be a banker,
text: a businessman, someone who earns a
dialog: decent living for his family!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: We're happy.
speaker_heading: LUIGI
dialog: Nickels and dimes. Your wife's a
dialog: woman with class. What did she run
dialog: -- a ballet school...?
speaker_heading: NICO
text: An art gallery.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: Same thing. She wants a husband who
text: carries a briefcase, not a shoulder
text: holster.
text: Jackson watches Nico trying to keep his good humor. This
text: is serious stuff, despite the light tone. Branca's eyes
dialog: meet Nico's.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 12.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: You wanted to get shot, you got shot.
dialog: You wanted to get knifed, you got
dialog: knifed. You've had your fun. Basta!
dialog: Enough!
speaker_heading: UNCLE GUISEPPE
dialog: Let your family help you, Nico.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (lightly)
dialog: Uncle Gio, that kind of help I don't
dialog: need. I'd rather get shot by someone
dialog: I don't know.
text: Jackson and Lukich crack up. The others follow. For the
text: moment, the tension is dispelled.
scene_heading: 45 INT. NICO'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - DAY
text: Nico comes out of the bedroom, adjusting his shoulder
text: holster, tugging his jacket over it. He sees his mother
text: standing near the head of the stairs, just outside
text: another bedroom door. Concern on her face.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: What are you doing in here, Mama?
dialog: Go join the party...
text: Nico comes down the hall, tucking in his shirt -- stops
dialog: to give his mother a squeeze. O.S. from the bedroom:
text: the sound of QUIET SOBBING. Nico glances in.
scene_heading: 46 INT. NURSERY - DAY *
text: Sara and another woman sit on the bed, comforting a 60-ish *
text: grandmother Zingaro, who is crying. Nico comes in. He
text: kneels before MRS. ZINGARO, concerned.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Mrs. Z.
dialog: (tries to be light)
dialog: Is this a way to act on the day of
dialog: my son's baptism?
text: The poor woman can't meet Nico's eyes.
speaker_heading: SARA *
text: It's Lucy. She's gone again.
text: Nico glances from Sara to Rosa. *
text: Mrs. Zingaro shakes her head, choked with pain. Nico
text: holds her, looking over her shoulder toward Sara. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: It's that kid from the bar on Damen?
dialog: The one with the drugs?
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 13.
text: Sara doesn't know. Nico does. He comforts Mrs. Zingaro *
text: another moment, then stands.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Listen to me, Mrs. Z. Are you
dialog: listening?
dialog: (as the woman nods
dialog: miserably)
dialog: I have to go to work now. But
dialog: I'll come by tonight. You'll be
dialog: at the bakery?
scene_heading: MRS. ZINGARO
dialog: Si, Nico.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: We'll talk, okay? We'll find a
dialog: way to take care of this.
text: Nico kisses Mrs. Z. He takes Sara's hand in goodbye, *
text: starts for the door.
scene_heading: 47 EXT. NICO'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Festivities still in progress. Nico passes through,
text: nodding, thanking people for coming, taking farewells.
text: Jackson waits for him, glancing at her watch.
scene_heading: 48 INT. UNMARKED CAR - MOVING
text: Nico is driving. Jackson checks in on the radio.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: Unit Ten Tango X-ray. We're up
dialog: and clear.
scene_heading: 49 EXT. VARIOUS STREETS - UNMARKED CAR
text: moves into the central city.
scene_heading: 50 POV THROUGH CAR WINDOWS - STREETS - MOVING
text: Bad-looking hombres on stoops, street corners.
speaker_heading: NICO (O.S.)
dialog: I promised the Lieutenant, I'm
dialog: gonna take care of you. Broken
dialog: windows and lost kittens for your
dialog: last week.
text: WIDEN SHOT to include Nico and Jackson.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: And then you're gonna come visit
dialog: me in a nice, clean, air conditioned
dialog: office --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 14.
scene_heading: 51 EXT. STREET - BUCKSHOT'S LIQUORS - DAY *
text: The unmarked car pulls up outside a liquor store and bar.
scene_heading: 52 INT. UNMARKED CAR
text: as it parks. Jackson gives Nico a look: "What are we
dialog: stopping at this dive for"?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I gotta take a quick leak. Stay
dialog: put.
text: He gets out of the car, starts for the bar.
scene_heading: 53 INT. BUCKSHOT'S LIQUORS - DAY *
text: Dim, smoke-choked, dangerous characters at the bar. Nico
text: enters.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 15.
text: His silk shirt and sport coat clash with the druggy, working-
text: class attire of the bar's denizens. Hard faces check him out
text: subtly, ignore him. Nico approaches the bartender, shows a
text: photograph. The bartender (BAD DUDE) shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BAD DUDE *
dialog: Why the fuck don't you assholes *
dialog: leave me alone? *
text: He continues mouthing off to Nico. Nico moves to one stool, *
text: then another; the same exchange is repeated.
scene_heading: 54 FAVOR ONE PARTICULARLY TOUGH CUSTOMER *
text: A hulking bruiser with an earring. He watches as --
speaker_heading: 55 NICO
text: approaches him. Three ARMY JACKETS look up sullenly.
text: Beefy arms, tattoos, greasy mustaches.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Gentlemen.
text: One Jacket treats him like he doesn't exist, and begins
text: to pick his nose.
scene_heading: FIRST ARMY JACKET
dialog: (to others)
dialog: I thought this was a kosher bar.
dialog: They didn't allow no pork in here.
text: The two others snicker, then so does the rest of the bar.
text: Nico holds out a photo of a young girl (Lucy).
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You seen this girl?
scene_heading: SECOND ARMY JACKET
text: I seen the top of her head.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That's witty.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 15A.
text: Nico takes a step away, as if moving on to the next
text: stool. From behind the bar, the bartender swings a *
text: sawed-off baseball bat into view. Other bodies move *
text: ominously toward Nico. Suddenly he spins and, in a move *
text: almost too quick to see, he kicks the entire stool right
text: out of its floor socket. Beer bottles fly, bodies crash.
text: Nico slams the First Jacket in the face so hard it looks
text: like his nose has exploded. Blood sprays onto Nico's silk
text: shirt. He hauls the Second Jacket upright, nails him with
text: a shot that crushes three ribs. A savage elbow blasts the
text: third, head over heels, out over the bar and careening
text: into the sink. In three seconds 600 pounds of fat has
text: been put in cold storage. The rest of the bar is on its
text: feet. Four huge men confront Nico. Now five. Six.
text: Seven. Nico's jacket and shirt are ripped, blood spat-
text: tered; his eyes are like an animal's, daring the men --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Come on. Show me something.
text: No one moves.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 16. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I get it. It's a gay bar. Is
dialog: that it?
text: The men, led by the Bad Dude, are shifting to surround
text: Nico. But no one attacks. Nico has Lucy's photo in his
text: hand. He jams it in one man's face, then another's, slap-
text: ping each one violently, spitting, raging for them to attack.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You seen the top of her head, huh?
dialog: Like I seen your mother's --
dialog: (to another guy)
dialog: Or was it yours?
dialog: (to a third)
dialog: Or yours?
dialog: (slaps him fero-
dialog: ciously)
dialog: I couldn't tell, it looked like
dialog: her ass --
text: Nico rages like a beast.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Come on, motherfuckers. Do it.
dialog: Do it! One man --
text: Nico lunges for the Bad Dude, grabs him like he's about
dialog: to tear his face off --
speaker_heading: BAD DUDE
dialog: Upstairs!
dialog: (in terror)
dialog: She's upstairs! 4-D!
text: Nico drags the Dude from behind the bar. Holding him,
text: Nico turns, glowering, to all.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You cocksuckers are brave enough
text: with 14-year-old girls.
scene_heading: 55A INT. FLOPHOUSE HALLWAY
text: Nico throws Bad Dude down the hallway in front of him.
scene_heading: 56 INT. FOURTH-FLOOR APARTMENT - DAY
text: The door bursts in from a jackhammer kick. Nico stands
text: in the hallway. Bad Dude stands next to him; hurt,
dialog: shaking.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Bad Dude)
dialog: Get outta here.
text: We look in the apartment.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 16A.
scene_heading: REVERSE - NICO'S POV *
text: A young PIMP -- quite handsome in a boyish way -- stares up
text: in panic from a grimy mattress on the floor. Little LUCY
text: is in bra and panties, strung out, 14 and beautiful.
text: Syringes and free-base paraphernalia are on a table.
scene_heading: NICO IN DOORWAY *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Pimp)
dialog: This ain't your day, kid.
text: Nico comes in, eyes taking in everything.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 17.
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: Wait, man. It ain't like it
dialog: looks --
text: Nico grabs the Pimp by the scruff of the neck, lifting him
text: bodily. Lucy starts wailing in horror. Nico smashes the
text: Pimp's face down into a mirror with white powder on the
dialog: table --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That's two years.
text: He jerks the Pimp back, rips open a drawer. More pills
dialog: and glacene bags.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That's four.
dialog: (twisting the Pimp's
dialog: neck toward Lucy)
dialog: She'll get you eight more. And
dialog: I'm just warming up --
text: Lucy is crying hysterically. Nico flings the Pimp, face *
text: bloody, toward the open door. *
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: (to Nico, indicat-
dialog: ing drugs)
dialog: Take it, baby. It's all yours --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Get your clothes on, Lucy.
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: There's money. Three grand in the
dialog: mattress...
dialog: (begging)
dialog: ... I can get ya more --
scene_heading: QUICK CUTAWAY TO:
scene_heading: 57 EXT. STREET OUTSIDE - JACKSON
text: Three young STUDS have ambled to the window of her parked
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: STUD
dialog: Hey, sister, what it be?
text: With infinite boredom, Jackson lifts her badge -- and
text: gun. The Studs shuffle away.
scene_heading: 58 INT. HALLWAY - DAY
text: Other tenants stare from doorways as Nico drags the Pimp *
text: to the top of the flight of stairs, threatening to throw *
dialog: him down. *
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 17A.
speaker_heading: NICO *
dialog: Don't you fuckin' move. *
text: Nico steps back into the apartment, hauls out Lucy in *
text: a dressing gown.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 18.
scene_heading: 59 TOP OF LANDING *
text: The Pimp is dazed, bloody. Nico comes down with Lucy,
text: hauls the Pimp to his feet --
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Let him alone! He's beautiful!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Not when I get through with him.
text: Nico lifts the Pimp by the throat, pins him to the wall.
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: No, man, wait! I'll give you
dialog: something! Something big!
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: Please, Nico! Don't!
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: It's huge! I swear it! A
dialog: shipment... coming in next
dialog: Tuesday --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Shipment, my ass.
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: This is square! On my mother's
dialog: soul! You can't send me up --
text: Nico glances to Lucy. Half of him wants to tear the
dialog: Pimp apart, the other half doesn't want to make the poor
dialog: girl's life any more tragic. Besides, he's a good cop
dialog: -- and maybe this "shipment" is on the level.
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: I heard it from a hooker friend
dialog: of mine. She's banging some big
dialog: coke lawyer, he told her. I swear
dialog: to Jesus!
text: Nico relents -- a little.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: What lawyer?
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: I don't know.
dialog: (sees Nico doesn't
dialog: believe him)
dialog: That platinum chola... Carla
dialog: DeCarlo... she knows.
text: Nico tightens his grip on the Pimp's throat.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 19. *
speaker_heading: PIMP
dialog: She got popped this afternoon.
dialog: She's downtown. Red dress, lizard
dialog: shoes --
scene_heading: 60 EXT. STREET OUTSIDE BAR - DAY
text: Jackson looks up from the car to see Nico -- wild-haired,
text: shirt ripped and bloody -- emerging from the adjacent
text: apartment stoop, leading young Lucy, who's tear-streaked,
text: wearing a torn dressing gown. Instantly, Jackson is out
text: of the car, moving to Lucy.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: It's okay, girl. Mama Jax is
dialog: here.
text: She wraps an arm around Lucy, helps her toward the car.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (to Nico)
dialog: That was some leak you took.
text: From the door of the bar, several bloodied heads peek.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
text: Broken windows and lost pussy cats,
dialog: huh.
text: Jackson checks out her battered partner.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: You're one crazy bastard, Toscani.
text: Nico opens the rear door, helps Jackson ease Lucy in.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: We'll get her some clothes and a
dialog: bath. I'm not bringing her home
dialog: to her grandmother like this.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: 61 OMITTED
dialog: &amp;
dialog: 62
scene_heading: 63 EXT. ZINGARO BAKERY - DAY
text: From the front seat of Nico's car emerges a tearful Lucy,
text: in fresh clothes and looking miserably contrite. Nico
text: walks her inside.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 20. *
text: The Zingaro family is busy preparing for the night's baking.
text: Grandpa and Grandma Zingaro leave their work and receive
text: their waif-like granddaughter. With eyes watering they
text: thank Nico. They disappear upstairs with Lucy. Jackson,
text: standing in the doorway, has seen all this.
scene_heading: 64 INT. UNMARKED CAR - MOVING - DAY
text: Nico at the wheel has just pulled away from the bakery.
text: Jackson, in the passenger seat, studies her partner for a
text: few moments, shaking her head at the contradictions in this
text: man. Educated, classy, an elegant dresser -- yet underneath
text: an out-and-out wild man.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: I don't get you, Toscani.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What the hell are you doing being a
dialog: shitheel cop? With your background?
text: For a long moment Nico says nothing. Then, quietly, look-
dialog: ing straight ahead:
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: When I was overseas, I saw some
dialog: things. Things that eat your guts
text: out. Things that stay in front of
dialog: your eyes like they were burned in
dialog: and branded.
text: He turns to Jackson.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You can walk away from them, Jax.
dialog: You can quit, but you know it's
dialog: still going on. You try something
dialog: anyway --
dialog: (smiles a moment)
dialog: -- I know I'm not going to change
dialog: the world. I can't stop the tonnage
dialog: coming in, I can't fight the boys
text: behind the desks pushing their
dialog: buttons --
scene_heading: ANGLE INCLUDING MEAN STREETS OUTSIDE
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: But maybe here, huh?
dialog: (indicates street)
dialog: Maybe in my own city, my own
dialog: neighborhood, on my own block --
dialog: maybe here I can do something.
text: He turns a corner.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That's why I'm a shitheel cop.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 20A. *
scene_heading: 64A INT. POLICE STATION - DAY
text: Behind the desk, a few detectives man the phones. A Latin
text: attorney, ABANDANO, is at the counter.
speaker_heading: COP (O.S.)
dialog: You can see your client. As soon
text: as she's through eating her dinner.
scene_heading: 65 INT. POLICE LOCKUP - "CAGE" AND HALLWAY - EVENING
text: Hookers, female addicts, etc. in the downtown "cage."
text: Nico has the girl in the red dress and lizard shoes
text: (CARLA DECARLO) out in the hallway adjacent to the lock-
text: up. Nico is Mr. Charm, offering her a heart-shaped box
dialog: of chocolates.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Carla... Carla -- I just want the
dialog: name of your boyfriend --
speaker_heading: CARLA
dialog: I got 200 boyfriends.
text: The hooker, Carla DeCarlo, slaps the box away, cursing in
dialog: Spanish.
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: CARLA
dialog: Pinchi cabron, cabeza colon!
text: Some of the chocolates tumble onto the lockup floor, the
text: detainees snap them up, start munching. The girl con-
text: tinues to spit curses at Nico, gesturing with her hands
text: with Latin flamboyance. Nico grabs her by the elbow, as
text: a jailer opens the lockup door. More curses are being
text: flung at Nico from various females in the cage. Nico
text: heaves Carla in among them. Carla flops down on a bench
text: next to a tall black hooker. MOVE IN ON the black hooker.
text: It's Nico's partner, Jackson, dolled up like a street-
text: walker, playing her undercover role to the hilt.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (to Nico)
dialog: Why can't you sons-a-bitches ever
dialog: treat someone with a little
dialog: respect?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (walking away)
dialog: Take it easy, sister.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: I ain't your goddamn sister. We
dialog: ain't got the same mother,
dialog: motherfucka.
text: Carla fires one final parting salvo of obscenities, then
text: sags back among the women. Carla starts to cry. Jackson
text: comforts her; Carla responds, lets herself be comforted.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 66 EXT. DOWNTOWN - FINANCIAL DISTRICT - DAY
text: Jackson, back in her normal daytime wear, exits a
text: building. She gets into Nico's car.
scene_heading: 67 INT. CAR - DAY
text: Jackson checks her makeup in the rearview mirror. Nico
text: sits behind the wheel. The two are on some kind of
dialog: stakeout.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
text: The lawyer's name is Abandano.
dialog: He's on the third floor. I got a
dialog: look at him. I couldn't get how
dialog: he's connected, but according to
dialog: Carla, he's a lousy lay.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Maybe we can bust him for that.
text: Jackson spots something, gestures subtly out window --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 22.
scene_heading: 68 EXT. DOWNTOWN BUILDING - DAY
text: A short, slick-looking Latin man in a business suit emerges
text: from the building.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: That's our stud.
text: Nico and Jackson leave their car and follow him on foot.
scene_heading: 69 EXT. FINANCIAL DISTRICT - BANK - DAY
text: ABANDANO meets a striking-looking middle-aged woman in front
text: of a stately financial institution. They go in. Jackson
text: remains out on the street, while Nico follows the couple in.
speaker_heading: 70 LATER
text: Jackson has been waiting, sipping some coffee. Nico
text: emerges from the bank, signaling to his partner to follow
text: him. Abandano and the woman exit from the bank's revol-
text: ving doors and immediately jump into a cab. Nico and
text: Jackson look at each other and step in front of another
text: cab. Nico opens the cab door, flips his badge open, then
text: asks the occupant to leave. Jackson gets in the front
text: seat next to the protesting cabbie.
scene_heading: 71 EXT. FEDERAL BUILDING - DAY
text: Abandano and the woman are crossing the plaza as Nico and
text: Jackson run up the block. Near the entrance to the Federal *
text: Building, a small but vocal group of protestors are *
text: gathered, carrying signs and chanting slogans. The frus- *
text: trated cabbie watches them in the background.
speaker_heading: 72 PLAZA
text: Jackson and Nico watch Abandano and the woman pass the *
text: crowd of demonstrators and enter the building. Jackson acts *
text: indifferent, almost frustrated; Nico keenly senses something.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 73 INT. EXPENSIVE RESTAURANT ("BOGOTA") - DAY *
text: The main dining room. No customers, just busboys readying
text: tables for the evening's business. We notice one of the *
dialog: busboys is the "pimp" Nico found with Lucy. *
scene_heading: 74 BOOTH NEAR BACK HALLWAY
text: The owner's table. Stacks of dining checks, a cashbox
text: and calculator, full ashtrays, wine glasses. BAUTISTA
text: SALVANO, a heavyset, swarthy Venezuelan dressed in a tux
text: with the collar open, glowers across the table at a mus-
text: cular, scar-faced Latin busboy -- the kind who looks like
text: he does more for his boss than clean up the tables. The
text: busboy (NARDO) is nervous, apologetic --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 23.
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: (pissed off)
dialog: -- I brought you in for your
dialog: muscles, Nardo, not your mouth.
speaker_heading: NARDO
dialog: (scared)
dialog: I'm sorry, boss.
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: Your English is getting good...
dialog: You're showing it off. Showing it
dialog: off on the street --
speaker_heading: NARDO
dialog: I keep quiet. I never talk no
dialog: more --
text: Salvano glowers at Nardo like he's about to punch him.
text: Instead he reaches over, playfully chokes the busboy --
text: then releases him, as if all is forgiven.
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: Make yourself useful.
dialog: (indicates empty
dialog: wine bottle on
dialog: table)
dialog: Get downstairs, bring me one of
dialog: these.
dialog: (as Nardo stands,
dialog: starts for back
dialog: hallway)
dialog: Then get back to work.
scene_heading: 75 INT. RESTAURANT BASEMENT STOREROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Nardo enters at the top of the stairs, radiating relief.
text: He trots down into the empty basement, toward a floor-to-
text: ceiling wine rack.
speaker_heading: NARDO
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: I thought I was dead, man.
dialog: (whistles with
dialog: relief)
dialog: I thought I was fucking dead.
text: He crosses to the wine rack. It's dark, hard to see.
text: He searches for the bottle. Suddenly: a METALLIC sound
text: behind him. Nardo turns -- CHI CHI TESTAMENTE, a wiry,
text: pock-faced Latino, stands in the shadows (it is clear he
text: has been waiting there, hiding) -- holding a small
text: silencer automatic.
speaker_heading: CHI CHI
dialog: You were right, cabron. *
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 24.
text: One SHOT between the eyes and Nardo CRASHES backward into
text: the WINE RACK, eyes wide with shock and bewilderment. Chi
text: Chi SHOOTS him AGAIN; Nardo drops like a stone. Coolly,
text: professionally, Chi Chi pumps FOUR more SHOTS into the
text: prone busboy's head. Chi Chi ejects the clip into his
text: palm, unscrews the silencer, holsters the gun. Salvano
text: appears at the top of the stairs. Two busboys are behind
text: him. One of them is the young pimp. The busboys hurry *
dialog: down, the pimp -- scared shitless but playing it macho-cool. *
text: Salvano comes down the stairs. Chi Chi stands over his work.
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: (to busboys)
dialog: Clean up this mess.
speaker_heading: CHI CHI *
dialog: Who knows who else is talking -- *
speaker_heading: SALVANO *
dialog: He was a young fool. *
text: 76 BACK IN UPSTAIRS DINING ROOM
text: Salvano and Chi Chi emerge from the basement steps and
text: walk toward their booth.
speaker_heading: CHI CHI
dialog: We're crazy waiting for this
dialog: bullshit 'shipment.' Let me waste
dialog: the other fucker now.
text: Salvano puts a hand on Chi Chi's shoulder.
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: Be patient. This will be done
dialog: the way it was planned.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 77 EXT. BODY AND FENDER SHOP - NIGHT
text: Rusting cyclone fences surround a mud-lot repair yard in a
text: dingy industrial section. Young Lation and black workers
text: finish up for the night; through the dirty, security-barred
text: office window we can see Chi Chi talking on the phone. The
text: lawyer, Abandano, is also there.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. ALLEY - REAR OF SHOP - NIGHT
text: Nico finishes connecting a small transmitter which has
text: been hastily wired to the entering phone line.
scene_heading: 79 INT. UNMARKED CAR - NIGHT
text: Nico and Jackson in the shadows down the street from the
text: body shop. Nico wears earphones, a small tape recorder
text: on the seat beside him. Jackson does not look happy.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 25.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Toscani, you're going to have me
dialog: doing time.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Lighten up, Jax. No one's
dialog: bringing this into court.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Except against us.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I don't give a shit how we do it.
dialog: I just wanna get there.
text: Jackson gives Nico a dirty look, but stifles her protest.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: I thought you said you were
dialog: gonna protect me. Cover my butt.
dialog: Be my guardian angel --
text: Nico hears something through the earphones. Gestures for
dialog: silence --
scene_heading: 80 ANGLE THROUGH OFFICE WINDOW
text: Chi Chi listens with increased intensity to something on the
text: phone. He starts writing it down --
speaker_heading: 81 BACK TO NICO
text: In unmarked car. He's writing it down too.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I got the shipment. *
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: What? What's he saying?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (scribbling furiously)
dialog: '... Engine block has cleared
text: customs. Serial number VA-748.
dialog: Pick up Tuesday, 3 May as
dialog: authorized.'
scene_heading: 82 EXT. BODY SHOP - NIGHT
text: Chi Chi emerges from the office, tucking a scrap
text: of paper into his pocket. Abandano follows. They get
text: into a late-model Lincoln which pulls out onto the street. *
scene_heading: 83 EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Nico and Jackson's car follows at a discreet distance.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 26.
speaker_heading: NICO (V.O.)
dialog: Unit Ten Tango X-ray. I need a
dialog: vehicle registration I.D.
speaker_heading: POLICE RADIO (V.O.)
dialog: Go ahead, please.
speaker_heading: NICO (V.O.)
dialog: '86 Lincoln. Illinois 354 Dog '67. *
scene_heading: 84 INT. UNMARKED CAR - MOVING - NIGHT
text: Jackson picks up Nico's pad to take down the response.
dialog: After a moment:
speaker_heading: POLICE RADIO (V.O.)
text: Vehicle registration follows.
dialog: Leaseholder: Ramon Testamente,
dialog: registered alien. Nation of
dialog: origin: Venezuela. Do you wish
dialog: criminal record search?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: I want to know when he wipes his *
dialog: behind. *
scene_heading: 85 SERIES OF SHOTS
text: As Nico and Jackson tail the Lincoln out of the industrial
text: zone into a fancier, non-Latin neighborhood. On the sidewalks
text: we glimpse theatergoers, fashionable white couples out on the
dialog: town.
speaker_heading: 86 LINCOLN
text: Pulls up to a valet park outside a ton-y restaurant. A
text: sign says: "BOGOTA." *
scene_heading: 87 INT. UNMARKED CAR - MOVING
text: Nico and Jackson exchange a glance.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Salvano?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Jackpot.
scene_heading: 88 EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: Chi Chi and Abandano get out of their car, a valet takes it,
text: Chi Chi enters the restaurant.
scene_heading: 89 INT. SALVANO'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: Nico and Jackson enter the main dining room, which we
text: recognize from the scene with Nardo the busboy.
dialog: 27.
text: The place is packed with fashionable people of all races.
text: A band plays salsa; couples dance. Nico and Jackson pass
text: easily as a hip "uptown" couple. A pretty Latin HOSTESS
text: approaches them.
speaker_heading: HOSTESS
dialog: Two for dinner?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Two for drinks.
text: They elbow up to the packed bar, standing. Nico squints
text: toward the rear dining room.
scene_heading: 90 NICO'S POV - DOWN BAR
text: Looking past numerous patrons, we see Chi Chi whisper
text: something to a waiter and take a seat at a rear table
text: (the same "owner's table" where Salvano sat before.)
text: The waiter hurries off into a back hallway.
scene_heading: 91 NICO AND JACKSON - AT BAR
text: Jackson moves to the salsa beat. A BARMAID approaches.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Gimme something stiff. I need it.
speaker_heading: BARMAID
dialog: Who doesn't?
text: Nico's eyes never leave Chi Chi.
scene_heading: 92 REAR DINING ROOM
text: From the back hallway Salvano emerges -- in his tux,
text: looking prosperous. He sits down beside Chi Chi and
text: Abandano. A waitress brings two drinks. After a few
text: words, Chi Chi removes the scrap of paper from his pocket,
text: hands it to Salvano.
speaker_heading: NICO (O.S.)
dialog: You'll have your engine block
dialog: next Tuesday, boss.
text: 93 BACK TO NICO AND JACKSON
text: As the Barmaid brings their drinks. Jackson sees her
text: peaceful week to retirement flying out the window.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Why couldn't it be a week from
dialog: Tuesday? I could read about it
dialog: in the paper.
text: Nico grabs her waist, pulls her onto the dance floor, and
text: does a playful twirl.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 28.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Cheer up, partner. I'm gonna
dialog: make you famous.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. WHOLESALE MEAT AREA - DAY *
text: Track spurs, greasy streets, parked fork lifts.
scene_heading: 94A EXT. ROOF - DAY *
text: Lieutenant Strozah surveys the street traffic. *
scene_heading: 95 NICO, JACKSON AND LUKICH
text: The two men, dressed as meat processors in hard hats and
text: bloody white coats, rake cattle guts under the eave of a
text: packing plant. Jackson, dressed like a USDA Inspector and *
text: carrying a clipboard, inspects a few hanging carcasses.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: You missed a few spots, boys.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: I'm takin' it home t'a make
dialog: kilbasa, boss.
text: Luke casts an impatient glance across the street to a lot
text: with four parked meat trucks. We glimpse two "truckers"
text: keeping low in the shadows of one cab. Down the block a
text: seemingly empty pickup truck is parked in an alley.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: This ain't a bust -- it's a
dialog: convention.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Don't you like company, Luke?
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: We got all the scouts here --
dialog: Drug Enforcement Agency, the
dialog: Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms --
speaker_heading: WALKIE-TALKIE (V.O.)
dialog: Keep this channel clear, Toscani.
text: We realize Nico, Jackson and Lukich are wired, with mikes
text: out of sight under their coats. Nico glances to the pick-
text: up, near to which three men can be spotted in the alley.
text: Apparently one of them is the walkie-talkie voice.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: This is our channel, dickhead.
dialog: And our collar.
scene_heading: ANOTHER WALKIE-TALKIE (V.O.)
dialog: That's enough, all of you! Keep
dialog: this channel clear.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 28A.
scene_heading: 96 ANGLE ON MEAT PLANT - DAY
dialog: Nothing happening.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 29.
speaker_heading: 97 ANOTHER ANGLE
dialog: Dead as hell.
scene_heading: 98 NICO, LUKICH AND JACKSON
text: Bored, pissed off, tired. Suddenly:
scene_heading: 99 BATTERED VAN WITH TWO MEN
text: emerges from a corner, two blocks down. It starts slowly
dialog: this way.
speaker_heading: 1ST WALKIE-TALKIE (V.O.)
dialog: All right. Everyone get their
text: heads outa their ass.
text: The meat truck men duck down out of sight, the pickup men
text: back into the shadows. Nico and Lukich keep raking cow
text: guts. The van passes slowly, checking out the area.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: '... And so I quit the police
dialog: department... got myself a steady
dialog: job -- '
text: The van accelerates slightly, turns a corner, vanishes.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: LUKICH *
dialog: They spotted me. I'm too good-
text: looking to be a meat slopper. *
speaker_heading: 1ST WALKIE-TALKIE (V.O.)
dialog: Will you hot dogs shut up?
text: The van returns. On a cross street. Heading behind the
dialog: packing plant.
speaker_heading: NICO *
dialog: (to Lukich) *
dialog: You're too ugly.
text: Now a second car appears. The Lincoln. Behind it is an
text: ancient station wagon. Both vehicles take a different
text: cross street, but both heading behind the packing plant.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (into hidden mike)
dialog: Here we go, boys and girls --
dialog: (to Jackson)
dialog: You stay put. *
text: As soon as the two vehicles pass out of sight, Nico and
text: Lukich ditch their rakes, dart into the packing plant.
text: The meat truck men START their TRUCK.
dialog: 30.
text: The pickup men board their vehicle -- Jackson follows Nico
text: and Luke -- but at a safe distance.
scene_heading: 100 INT. PACKING PLANT - DAY
text: Nico and Lukich sprint in a crouch past the blood runoffs,
dialog: meat cutting tables --
scene_heading: 101 NICO'S POV - RUNNING
text: THROUGH the windows at the rear of the plant, we see the
text: station wagon and the van, pulling up swiftly beside one
dialog: another, men getting out --
scene_heading: 102 INT. PLANT
text: Nico and Lukich draw their guns, running full-tilt.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (into hidden miki)
dialog: It's going down now. Move!
scene_heading: 103 EXT. REAR OF PACKING PLANT - DAY
text: The station wagon men heave their rear door open, the
text: van men start to open their side door. The Lincoln is
text: stopped at a distance. Suddenly --
speaker_heading: 104 NICO AND LUKICH
text: burst from the rear door of the packing plant, guns drawn.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: Police!
scene_heading: 105 QUICK CUTS - VAN AND STATION WAGON MEN
dialog: grab for their weapons --
text: 106 COPS IN MEAT TRUCK AND PICKUP
text: come highballing around both sides of the packing plant --
scene_heading: 107 VAN AND STATION WAGON MEN
text: OPEN FIRE. There is confusion and mayhem; it's not clear
dialog: who's a cop and who's a criminal.
speaker_heading: 108 NICO AND LUKICH
text: dive for cover, RETURNING FIRE. The DEA men in one truck
text: also OPEN UP. One of the van men is hit between the eyes.
text: MACHINE GUN FIRE rakes the DEA truck; it spins out of
text: control; flips. Lukich SHOOTS the machine-gunner.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: (shouts; points)
dialog: Nico! The Lincoln!
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: 109 LINCOLN
text: starts to PEEL OUT. We glimpse Chi Chi in the driver's
text: seat, Salvano on the passenger side.
speaker_heading: 110 NICO
text: steps in front of the accelerating Lincoln, raises his .45.
scene_heading: 111 INT. LINCOLN - DAY
text: Salvano and Chi Chi dive below the dash and continue
text: forward. Salvano, in the passenger seat, raises his GUN;
text: FIRES blindly -- trying to hit Nico.
scene_heading: 112 EXT. LINCOLN - DAY
text: Nico UNLOADS his .45 into the windshield and the firewall.
text: The Lincoln keeps coming down the narrow alley.
speaker_heading: 113 NICO
text: brazenly steps up onto the hood and dives, grabbing onto
dialog: the roof.
scene_heading: 114 INT. LINCOLN - DAY
text: Salvano can't believe it. He screams something in
text: Spanish. He FIRES again, this time through the roof.
scene_heading: 115 EXT. LINCOLN - ROOF - DAY
text: Bullet holes appear. Nico narrowly misses being hit.
scene_heading: 116 ANOTHER ANGLE - LINCOLN
text: Nico reaches over the side of the car and SMASHES the pas-
text: senger WINDOW with his fist.
scene_heading: 117 CLOSEUP - NICO'S HAND
text: Salvano's face is bashed. Nico's huge hand grabs Salvano's
text: throat; he won't let go.
speaker_heading: 118 CLOSEUP - NICO
text: He hangs on with one hand.
scene_heading: 119 CLOSEUP - SALVANO
text: Nico's fingers now dig into Salvano's larynx; he may never
text: talk again. He's gagging. Salvano now points the gun at
text: Chi Chi. Chi Chi makes the decision to stop the car in
dialog: order to save his boss.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 32.
speaker_heading: 120 NICO
text: leaps off the roof pulling Salvano past the broken glass,
text: out of the window.
scene_heading: 121 SEVERAL POLICE VEHICLES *
text: SCREECH into the lot. Officers pour out, guns drawn,
text: surrounding the Lincoln and the other vehicles. Jackson
text: joins them, weapon in hand.
speaker_heading: 122 NICO
text: drags Salvano by the neck across the lot to the van,
text: slamming the drug dealer up against the van's side.
text: Lukich, Jackson and Strozah are there, with the DEA cops, *
text: all covering the other men.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Salvano)
dialog: How many kilos you got in there,
dialog: Skivuzo?
text: Salvano couldn't answer if he wanted to. The other cops
text: look at Nico with awe. Lukich whips the van door open,
text: yanks a tarp off the cargo.
scene_heading: 123 INT. VAN
text: The engine block sits in a wooden shipping frame, wrapped
text: with industrial plastic. Nico climbs into the van, rips
text: the plastic sheeting off, grabs the wood slats of the
text: shipping frame, tears them off. In the background,
text: ambulances are arriving to care for the wounded cops
dialog: and criminals.
scene_heading: 124 CLOSEUP - ENGINE BLOCK
text: From the cylinder heads emerges a full load, not of drugs,
text: but of plastique tubes labeled U.S. ARMY C-4 HIGH EXPLOSIVE.
scene_heading: 125 LUKICH, JACKSON AND OTHER COPS
text: react with surprise and shock.
speaker_heading: 126 NICO
text: rips open one of tubes and smells it.
speaker_heading: 127 CLOSE - NICO
text: Confused; frustrated.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: What kinda fuckin' high is this?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 33.
scene_heading: 128 INT. FBI OFFICE - NIGHT
text: OPENING ON SALVANO, in a chair, looking bruised and swollen,
text: and wearing an expression of fuming indignation.
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: -- I'll tell you what this cop is.
dialog: He's a fucking menace!
scene_heading: 129 TWO FBI AGENTS (NEELEY AND HALLORAN) *
dialog: face Salvano, Chi Chi and the lawyer Abandano (apparently
text: representing Salvano and Chi Chi). Neeley is on the phone. *
text: Pictures of Reagan and Meese are prominent on the wall.
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: You see what he did to me?!
speaker_heading: AGENT HALLORAN
dialog: Your problem is being handled right
dialog: now, Mr. Salv --
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: Yeah? Well, it shoulda been
dialog: handled twelve hours ago. I don't
dialog: know who's running this outfit, but
dialog: somebody better get his goddamn wires
dialog: straight!
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: -- yes, sir... yes, sir, I understand --
speaker_heading: SALVANO
dialog: That maniac should be wearing a
dialog: number, not a badge.
text: Salvano knows what the call is about. He straightens the
text: tie beneath his bruised neck, assuming the attitude of a
text: respectable citizen who has been unjustly wronged.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: -- count on it, sir. Right.
dialog: You'll have our full cooperation.
text: Neeley hangs up. Glances dubiously to Halloran. Then turns *
text: grimly to Salvano, Chi Chi and the lawyer Abandano.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: You're free to go.
speaker_heading: 130 OMITTED
scene_heading: 131 INT. FEDERAL BUILDING - LOBBY - NIGHT *
text: The hoods and their lawyer smugly walk past a cleaning
dialog: woman.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 33A.
scene_heading: 132 INT. PRECINCT CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - MORNING
text: OPENING ON Agent Neeley's face. Composed, clean-cut, but *
text: intense, wearing a light-colored business suit. PAN TO
text: Agent Halloran -- the same upright, clean-shaven bureau look.
text: The two men are seated to one side of LIEUTENANT FRED STROZAH.
scene_heading: 133 NICO, JACKSON, LUKICH AND DEA AND ATF MEN
text: sit and stand in various postures in front of the Lieutenant's
dialog: desk.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH
dialog: (to Nico, DEA &amp; AIF)
dialog: -- This is no reflection on the
dialog: work you officers have done. I
dialog: feel, and the whole department
dialog: feels, extremely proud of your
dialog: initiative and gallantry.
text: That "spare me the horseshit" look on Nico's face. He's
text: fuming. Strozah sees Nico's bitter expression. It's on
text: the others' faces too.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH
dialog: As all of you are well aware,
dialog: possession of these explosives
dialog: is a federal offense and under
dialog: jurisdiction of the F.B.I.
text: Nico's eyes meet Lieutenant Strozah's. There's respect
text: between the two, but it's plainly under a helluva strain.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Sir. With all respect to our
dialog: brothers in the Bureau --
dialog: (biting sarcasm;
dialog: turns to Neeley) *
dialog: -- That's no answer. It's no
dialog: answer to why one of the biggest
text: dealers in the city is out on the
dialog: street now, free as a bird!
text: Agent Neeley stiffens. *
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH
dialog: Keep it in your pants, Nico.
dialog: These men have a job to do, just
dialog: like us.
text: Nico stifles his outrage. The other cops exchange glances
text: -- upset and angry. Agent Neeley clears his throat. *
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Lieutenant, I think these officers
dialog: are entitled to a fuller
dialog: explanation.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 34.
speaker_heading: AGENT NEELEY (CONT'D)
dialog: They've risked their lives. I
dialog: understand one man is in the
dialog: hospital.
text: He speaks to the officers.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: What I'm about to say doesn't
dialog: leave this room. Is that clear?
text: Assent from everyone.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Mr. Salvano has been working for
dialog: some time in cooperation with
dialog: certain federal agencies.
speaker_heading: 134 CLOSE - NICO'S FACE
text: Stunned and furious at this royal fuck-up.
speaker_heading: AGENT NEELEY (O.S.) *
dialog: I'm not at liberty to divulge
dialog: the nature of Mr. Salvano's
dialog: involvement -- I just learned of
dialog: its existence myself a few hours
dialog: ago. But one thing I can tell you --
text: 135 BACK TO AGENT NEELEY *
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Mr. Salvano's role is crucial to
dialog: an extremely sensitive ongoing
dialog: investigation. Any further
dialog: surveillance, harassment, or
dialog: unauthorized operations against
dialog: this individual are forbidden.
dialog: I must order you gentlemen --
dialog: (looking straight at
dialog: Nico)
dialog: -- with all respect for your work
dialog: and your courage, to stand down.
text: Lukich shakes his head; Nico is devastated. Jackson takes
dialog: it all in.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 136 INT. POLICE SQUAD ROOM - MORNING
text: OPENING CLOSE ON a desk drawer being opened. Aside from
text: rounds of ammo, notes and an aging eggplant parmigiana
text: sandwich, there are half a dozen hand-labeled audio-
text: cassettes and a small collection of miniaturized bugging
text: devices. Jackson and Lukich watch Nico take out the
text: notes, hand them to Lieutenant Strozah.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 35.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH
dialog: The tapes too.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (mocking)
dialog: That's my Lawrence Welk
dialog: collection!
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH
dialog: I want everything you got on this
dialog: one.
text: Reluctantly, Nico hands over the tapes. The Lieutenant eyes
text: the bugs and wires.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH
dialog: I know you don't give a shit
dialog: about yourself, Toscani.
dialog: (a glance to Jax)
dialog: But you're gonna put Jackson's
dialog: ass in a sling, too, with these
dialog: illegal wires.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 35A. *
scene_heading: 136A OTHER SIDE OF SQUAD ROOM
text: Agent Halloran edges up to Jackson, who's grabbing coffee
text: on the far side of the squad room, and watching from there
text: as Nico gives Strozah more of a hard time.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALLORAN
dialog: What's the story on your partner,
dialog: Jackson? Did he learn this style
dialog: or was he born with a brick up his
dialog: ass?
text: Jackson checks Halloran out. He's black too and, despite
dialog: herself, there's a certain rapport.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: He has ethics. Unlike certain
dialog: others on this case.
text: Halloran watches the illegal bugs and tapes come out of
text: Nico's drawer.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALLORAN
dialog: His 'ethics' are gonna cost him
text: his badge and his gun.
text: This "white" talk gives Jackson a pain. She slips into
text: her jive mode.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: You don't wanna catch him without
dialog: no gun.
dialog: Halloran's look asks why not?
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: 'Cause what he do with his hands...
dialog: make bullet holes look pretty.
text: Across the room, Nico turns over the tapes.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALLORAN
dialog: He bad?
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Bad bad.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 36.
scene_heading: 137 INT. PRECINCT HOUSE - STAIRWAY - DAY
text: Nico and Jackson come down the stairs. Jackson has had
text: ample excitement for her last week on the force.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Is that enough? Can we do
dialog: something normal now -- like
dialog: eat lunch?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Anything you say, Jax. How
dialog: about Salvano's?
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Let it be, Nico.
scene_heading: 138 EXT. PRECINCT HOUSE - DAY
text: Nico and Jackson's car pulls out into traffic.
scene_heading: 139 INT. UNMARKED CAR - PARKED (ALLEY BEHIND SALVANO'S)
text: Jackson and Nico are eating some fast good. Nico reaches
text: to his jacket pocket; takes out a cassette.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: What... you kept his tape, too?
text: Nico already has it in the PLAYER. We hear FRAGMENTS
text: of the telephone tap from the body shop in Spanish and
text: English. Jackson looks frustrated. Nico listens care-
text: fully to what appears to be the taped PHONE CONVERSATION.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Poetry, ain't it?
scene_heading: 140 EXT. REAR SALVANO'S RESTAURANT - DAY (POV FROM CAR)
text: The pimp (busboy) comes out and dumps a load of garbage.
scene_heading: 141 INT. UNMARKED CAR - DAY
text: Nico and Jackson case the restaurant from down the alley.
scene_heading: 142 EXT. REAR SALVANO'S - NICO'S POV - DAY
text: From the restaurant door, Salvano and Chi Chi emerge.
text: They get into a black Cadillac and pull out. *
speaker_heading: NICO (O.S.)
dialog: And now for some dessert.
scene_heading: 143 SERIES OF SHOTS
text: As Nico's car tails Salvano's through various streets.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 37.
scene_heading: 144 EXT. OAK STREET
text: Salvano comes out of a fancy flower shop with a bimbo on
text: his arm. He kisses her goodbye and puts her in a cab.
speaker_heading: NICO (O.S.)
dialog: And that must be Mrs. Sal. So nice
dialog: to see married couples still in love.
scene_heading: 144A NICO AND JACKSON
text: are hidden, waiting.
speaker_heading: 144B CHI CHI
text: emerges from a dry cleaner's with a suit on a hanger. *
scene_heading: 145 EXT. ST. ELIZABETH'S PARISH CHURCH - DAY
text: Salvano's Caddy pulls up outside the same church where we *
text: saw Nico's son get baptized. Salvano and Chi Chi get out,
text: look both ways up and down the street. Salvano, holding *
text: flowers, makes eye contact with a car down the block. *
scene_heading: 146 EXT. STREET UP BLOCK FROM CHURCH - DAY
text: Nico's car backs out of sight around the corner.
text: 147 SIDEWALK IN FRONT OF CHURCH
text: Salvano and Chi Chi, seeing nothing, enter the church.
scene_heading: 148 INT. CHURCH - DAY
text: A smattering of older women and men praying. Salvano and
text: Chi Chi stop at the head of the aisle, genuflect to the
text: altar, move in, take seats toward the front.
scene_heading: 149 BACK OF CHURCH
text: Nico and Jackson slip in the front door, glide silently
text: into the shadows at the rear of the church.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: This is your mother's church,
dialog: isn't it?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Yeah. But I bet she's never seen
dialog: these boys in the choir.
speaker_heading: 150 NICO'S POV
text: Salvano's head is bowed, but Chi Chi is looking around
text: quite carefully. Nico and Jackson fade into the shadows
text: behind the huge pillars.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 37A.
speaker_heading: 151 SALVANO AND CHI CHI
text: After a few moments, the pair rises. They cross them-
text: selves, start out for the front door. As they walk, they
dialog: continue to look for something.
scene_heading: 152 INT. CHURCH - DAY *
text: Nico and Jackson emerge into a courtyard which reveals a
text: day care center and a rectory. They head toward the front
text: of the building. Jackson, planning on picking up their
text: tail on Salvano, is stoped by Nico. He wants to stay and
dialog: look around.
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO (O.S.)
dialog: Nicola! That can't be you in
dialog: church without the family!
text: Nico turns to see Father Genarro, perspiring in a baggy
text: sweatshirt, a handball glove on his hand. The courtyard
text: alongside the church is marked off as an athletic area.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Father Genarro.
text: The priest seizes Nico's hand warmly, smiles at Jackson.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: This must be your partner in
dialog: crime.
dialog: (shakes her hand)
dialog: I'm Father Genarro. I saw you at
dialog: the baptismal party.
dialog: (with a wink to Nico)
dialog: What a partner.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Dolores Jackson
dialog: (smiling, but
dialog: impatient)
dialog: Nico, we gotta go --
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: No, please --
dialog: (more serious now)
dialog: It's good you stopped by. I have
dialog: to show you something. Please.
text: The priest begins leading Nico and Jackson. Jackson keeps
text: glancing back out the alley to see Salvano's car slowly
text: driving by.
scene_heading: 153 INT. CHURCH BASEMENT - DAY
text: This is an old building. The dark corridors resemble an
text: underground bunker. Old trophies and furniture are stored
text: along the walls. The two cops and the priest walk.
text: Another priest emerges from a door, nods, passes. Nico
text: and Jackson glance in through the door as they walk.
text: They reach a door with a broken handle. It looks like a
text: break-in has taken place.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
text: The rats are getting bigger.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: When did this happen?
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: Two nights ago. I didn't call
dialog: the police.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 39. *
text: Father Genarro knocks on the door, pauses, then knocks
text: again. The door opens. A twelve-year-old who looks like
text: he's from Central America stands in the doorway.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: It's all right, son. These are
dialog: friends.
text: The boy steps back and we MOVE INTO --
scene_heading: 154 INT. CHURCH SANCTUARY - DAY
text: A largish room, no exposed windows, everything boarded up.
text: Newly-constructed makeshift toilet and shower in one corner,
text: various cots. A number of LATIN REFUGEES -- families mostly
text: -- react shyly as Father Genarro introduces Nico and Jackson.
text: Sister Bonifacia is there, and a youthful priest, FATHER
dialog: TOMASSINO. We will see both of them again.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: (referring to the cops)
dialog: These are friends.
dialog: (to Nico)
dialog: This is Father Tomassino.
speaker_heading: FATHER TOMASSINO
dialog: How do you do?
text: Nico shakes the young priest's hand. There is a moment
text: between them as Nico meets Tomassino's eyes, liking what
text: he sees. The refugees are relieved, however, when Father
text: Genarro, Nico and Jackson take their leave.
scene_heading: 155 NICO, JACKSON AND FATHER GENARRO
text: continue down the hall.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: I didn't know this church was a
dialog: sanctuary, Father.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: Yes. But, perhaps not such a
dialog: safe one.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: How long have they been here?
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: Too long. At least the kids can
dialog: go to our school.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Who did it, Father?
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 39A.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: Kids, maybe.
dialog: (significantly)
dialog: Maybe worse. It's not the first
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: We can have a car check by, every
dialog: hour.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: No... please. Police frighten
dialog: these people.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 40.
scene_heading: 156 INT. CHURCH - MAIN AISLE - DAY *
text: The three are outside, taking their leave. A big smile
text: and a hand on Father Genarro's shoulder. The priest is
text: greatly relieved.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Really, I don't mind coming by.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: Tell me, Nico... When was your
dialog: last confession?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I'm a married man, Father. I've
dialog: got no sins to confess.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: You're a police officer, you have
dialog: many sins to confess.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Amen.
text: Nico and Jackson start off.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: (calls after Nico)
dialog: You come back Sunday. I feel
dialog: better when I see Nicola in
dialog: church.
dialog: (calls louder)
dialog: You don't show, I'm phoning your
dialog: mother!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 157 SAME CHURCH - POV FROM WINDOW - EARLY MORNING (SUNDAY)
text: HIGH ANGLE FROM ACROSS the street: neighborhood people
text: dressed in their Sunday best fill the sidewalk, filing in
text: for Mass. We hear an ORGAN from inside the church.
scene_heading: 158 VARIOUS ANGLES - CONGREGATION
text: An Italian neighborhood becoming more Hispanic. As the
text: churchgoers file in, we see families -- women, kids,
dialog: babies.
scene_heading: 159 NICO, SARA, ROSA AND JULIAN *
text: are among the crowd, exchanging pleasantries with friends
dialog: and neighbors -- in English, Italian and Spanish.
scene_heading: 160 INT. CHURCH - SIDE AISLE
text: Sara, holding Julian, slips into a pew. As Nico and Rosa *
text: follow, Father Genarro passes, heading for the front.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 41.
speaker_heading: ROSA
dialog: Father Genarro! I have you to thank
dialog: for getting my son back into church!
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: It's amazing what shame can
dialog: accomplish.
text: Father Genarro smiles and continues on toward the pulpit.
scene_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: 161 VARIOUS SHOTS
speaker_heading: A) THE CHOIR
text: building to the finish of a hymn.
speaker_heading: B) NICO'S WIFE (SARA) *
text: also singing, balancing baby Julian and a hymnbook.
scene_heading: C) NICO AND HIS MOTHER ROSA
text: sing with full gusto.
scene_heading: D) THE CHOIR MASTER
text: makes the sign to be seated.
speaker_heading: E) CONGREGATION
text: sits. We notice a young, intellectual-looking man
text: (Alan Singletary) wearing wire-rim glasses, sitting in
dialog: the front row. We will see his face again later. He
text: looks out of place and glances around, surprised as...
speaker_heading: F) FATHER GENARRO
text: moves into the pulpit, opens his Bible.
speaker_heading: FATHER GENARRO
dialog: In nomine patris, filius et
dialog: spiritu sancti... (etc)
speaker_heading: 162 SARA AND JULIAN *
text: The little one starts to CRY; she comforts him. Nico
text: reaches over to try to help. The BABY continues FUSSING.
text: Nico looks toward the priest and the front of the church.
text: He notices a woman in a black shawl rise from the front
text: of the church and turn, heading down one of the side
text: aisles.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (examines Julian's
dialog: diaper)
dialog: Way to go, Julian -- perfect timing.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 42.
text: She cynically smiles at Nico. Nico sees the woman in
text: black pass toward the exit of the church.
speaker_heading: 163 CLOSEUP - WOMAN
text: It is the same woman Nico and Jackson were following with
dialog: Abandano, the lawyer!
scene_heading: 164 CLOSEUP - LARGE SHOPPING BAG
text: The woman has left it in front of the votive candles
text: directly before the priest's pulpit.
speaker_heading: 165 CLOSEUP - NICO
text: His head spins from the shopping bag to the doorway --
scene_heading: 166 NICO'S POV - DOORWAY
text: The woman is hastily sneaking out.
scene_heading: 167 BACK TO NICO
text: Instantly he pushes his family to the floor, covering
text: them with his body.
scene_heading: 168 CLOSEUP - NICO - SECOND LATER
text: BOOM!!! A POWERFUL EXPLOSION erupts between the priest
text: and his congregation. Fragments of plaster, wood, and
text: marble come blasting past Nico and his family! Churchgoers
text: in the first rows are blown off their feet by the shock
text: wave of the blast. Pews overturn, smoke everywhere --
speaker_heading: 169 CHOIR
text: is shrieking hysterically. Stone and plaster dust rain
text: down on them from the ceiling.
speaker_heading: 170 CONGREGATION
text: is in total pandemonium. Screams, cries, panic --
speaker_heading: 171 PULPIT
text: has been blown to oblivion. Where Father Genarro had
text: been standing is now nothing but smoke and rubble.
speaker_heading: 172 NICO
text: Prone, covering Sara and the baby, groping frantically *
dialog: to protect his mother as well.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (clutching baby)
dialog: We're okay! We're okay!
text: Nico checks them and his mother swiftly.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 43.
speaker_heading: ROSA
dialog: (in Italian)
dialog: Help the others! Help them, Nico!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 173 STATUE OF JESUS
text: Splattered with real blood.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: 174 ANGLE ON CONGREGATION
text: Everyone is down, reeling from the concussion, dust and
text: smoke. Nico rises alone from this scene.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (forcefully)
dialog: Help each other move outside. Be
dialog: calm.
scene_heading: 175 EXT. SIDE OF CHURCH - MORNING
text: From a doorway and a shattered window smoke pours forth.
text: We hear SCREAMS from inside.
scene_heading: 176 INT. CHURCH
text: Nico on his feet, plainly the leader in this moment of
text: terror. Worshippers, shattered and bleeding, pour past
text: him toward the door. Nico grabs a stout-looking church-
dialog: goer.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Call 911. Tell 'em to send
dialog: everything they got!
dialog: (turns to his wife)
dialog: Sara, get the baby and Mama *
dialog: outside.
text: Nico starts for the altar where the damage is worst.
scene_heading: 177 EXT. FRONT OF CHURCH - MORNING
text: The congregation streams out in terror-stricken disarray.
dialog: We see Nico's family -- they're all right.
speaker_heading: 178 NICO
text: appears from the church, carrying a young choir girl. He
text: hands the child over to two older women, races back into
dialog: the church.
scene_heading: 179 LONG SHOT - STREET OUTSIDE CHURCH
text: The first paramedic van comes speeding around the corner,
text: SIREN BLARING. Police cars appear right behind --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 44.
scene_heading: 180 INT. CHURCH
text: Nico appears through the backlit smoke and kneels over
text: the bloodied body of Father Genarro. He desperately tries
dialog: to maintain the priest's life.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 181 INT. HOSPITAL/ICU WARD - AFTERNOON
text: The aftermath of the blast. Doctors and nurses have the
text: scene more of less under control, but there's still plenty
dialog: of pain and misery.
scene_heading: 182 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - AFTERNOON
text: Nico stands, his back to the wall -- a scary, blank look
text: on his face. A doctor and several nurses are pulling the
text: plugs on the terribly mutilated body of Father Genarro.
text: A nun is crying; a fellow priest is blessing the Father.
speaker_heading: 183 JACKSON
text: arrives. Nico talks to her, aside.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I want a list of everyone that's
dialog: been treated here today. Everyone.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Then find those sanctuary people,
dialog: the ones we saw in the church
dialog: basement --
text: As Jackson makes notes.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Find out where they're from, why
dialog: anyone would want to harm them.
text: Jackson flips her notepad shut, ready to go.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Where are you gonna be?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Just stay near a radio. I'll find
dialog: you.
scene_heading: 184 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NICO'S MOTHER (ROSA) - AFTERNOON
text: Sits on a bench with a bandage over one eye. Sara *
text: and Julian are sleeping beside her. Nico kneels beside
text: his mother, deeply concerned. Nico takes his mother's
text: arm, helps her to her feet.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 45.
text: Sara wakes and picks up Julian. Mama knows Father Genarro *
text: has died. She begins sobbing softly. Other members of
text: the congregation are in the hallway, mourning. Nico, with
text: his family, takes several steps toward the exit. Suddenly,
text: Nico stops. He sees Agent Neeley entering (the FBI man who *
dialog: ordered him off the case) accompanied by Lieutenant Strozah *
text: and two uniformed officers.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Sara... go down to the car; I'll *
dialog: be with you in a minute.
dialog: He hails Neeley. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I need to talk to you.
dialog: (a glance to Strozah
dialog: and others)
dialog: ... Alone.
text: Neeley nods. Nico leads him off the corridor, through a *
dialog: fire exit door --
scene_heading: 185 STAIRWELL LANDING
text: The door closes behind them. Nico and the FBI man are
text: alone on the stairway landing.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: What the hell is it, Toscani?
text: Without warning, Nico grabs Neeley by both lapels, slams *
text: him furiously into the wall!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You. That's what the hell it is!
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Get your goddam hands off me!
text: Neeley tries to shake free; Nico won't let him. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You let Salvano walk.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Salvano?! Are you crazy?
dialog: (rips himself free)
dialog: What does he have to do with this?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That was no cherry bomb in there.
dialog: That was C-fucking-4!
dialog: (struggles to master
dialog: his rage)
dialog: I've used that shit.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 46.
speaker_heading: NICO (CONT'D)
dialog: I know what it smells like, I know
dialog: what it blows like --
text: Neeley glares at Nico. *
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Salvano never came near that C-4.
dialog: It's in federal holding now!
dialog: Besides, why would he blow up a
dialog: church?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I tailed Salvano. Two days ago.
dialog: Him and one of his apes were in
dialog: that church -- and they weren't
dialog: taking communion. I saw some broad
dialog: saw who was with his lawyer plant
dialog: the bomb. Now I want some goddamn
dialog: answers.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: You tailed him? After I ordered
dialog: you off?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Where is he? Where's Salvano?
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: My orders were release him. Not
text: babysit him.
text: Neeley brushes Nico's fingermarks off his lapels. *
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: You think you're rough stuff,
dialog: Toscani -- martial arts hero, chop
dialog: suey crap. Well I'll tell you
dialog: something: you're not bullet-
dialog: proof. You're not even a good
dialog: cop.
dialog: (composes himself;
dialog: reclaims his dignity)
dialog: You sneak around, playing your
dialog: street dick games. But all you
dialog: come up with is conjecture, wild
dialog: coincidence and bullshit.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I want the agent who signed for
dialog: the explosives.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: I'll do my job. You do yours.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Bank on it, pal.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 47.
text: Nico stalks off. The door slams.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 186 MONTAGE WITH SCORE
scene_heading: A) EXT. "BOGOTA" (SALVANO'S RESTAURANT) - LATE AFTERNOON *
text: Nico's unmarked car whips in front. Nico storms toward
text: the front door of the restaurant.
scene_heading: B) INT. RESTAURANT - LATE AFTERNOON *
text: Nico storms through toward the restaurant rear. The
text: employees are getting ready for the evening crowd. He
text: flashes his badge, checks the kitchen, Salvano's
text: office. The man is gone.
scene_heading: C) INT. MORGUE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Jackson has her list from the hospital. A coroner and
text: his assitant show her a body on a slab. The body is
dialog: that of Alan Singletary, the man we saw in the front *
text: row of the church. Jackson takes notes. The dead man *
dialog: is definitely not the ethnic type you'd expect in St.
dialog: Mary's congregation.
scene_heading: D) EXT. BODY AND FENDER SHOP - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The same place where Nico and Jackson wire-tapped Chi
text: Chi. Nico interrogates the shop boss, several workers.
text: All shake their head, gesture emphatically. Salvano
dialog: not here.
scene_heading: E) CUT BACK TO MORGUE - JACKSON
text: takes Polaroids of the dead man's I.D. and personal
dialog: effects.
scene_heading: 187 CLOSEUP OF DEAD MAN'S EFFECTS
text: as Jackson's flash pops. We see clearly a U.S. Senate
text: staff ID, a U.S. Senate office building parking pass and
text: an Illinois driver's license with address.
scene_heading: 188 EXT. AFFLUENT BROWNSTONE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Nico comes storming out. A Maid and a bodyguard follow
text: after him screaming. The door slams. We see it is
text: missing a panel.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: You gonna be in real trouble,
dialog: mister, when El Senor Salvano
dialog: find out about dis.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 48.
scene_heading: 189 EXT. ST. ELIZABETH'S CHURCH - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Jackson at the blast scene. Police tapes rope the area
text: off while a TV news crew photographs the damage. Jackson *
text: talks with neighborhood people, asking questions.
scene_heading: 190 EXT. BICEK'S BAR - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Nico in the alley, grilling several tough guys we saw be-
dialog: fore when he raided this bar. The answers are all zero;
text: Nico's disgusted, worn out, frustrated. He starts out
text: the alley -- At the edge of the street, a battered van pulls
text: in. A jacketed LATINO MAN leans against it, an unlit ciga-
text: rette in his mouth. As Nico approaches, turning toward
dialog: his car --
speaker_heading: FIRST LATINO
dialog: (polite, casual)
dialog: 'Cuse me, sir. Can I bum a light?
text: Nico slows, eyeing the guy dubiously. As he reaches to
text: his jacket -- The side door of the van flashes open. A
text: .38 is leveled straight at Nico's head. Instantly three
text: other Latino hoods leap to the sidewalk.
speaker_heading: FIRST LATINO
dialog: (machete under jacket)
dialog: Don't even think about it,
dialog: motherfucker.
text: Machete Man (First Latino) snatches Nico's gun from its
text: shoulder holster. Two hoods shove Nico back into the
text: alley. Nico checks out his assailants quickly. Four of
text: them. Machete, CROWBAR, BALL BAT, GUN.
speaker_heading: MACHETE MAN (FIRST LATINO)
dialog: You come to our streets... fuck
dialog: with our people. Now our people
dialog: gonna fuck with you.
text: The five advance on Nico.
speaker_heading: PIPE MAN
dialog: We ain't gonna shoot you, man.
dialog: We gonna beat you to death. You
dialog: gonna learn what it means to 'get
dialog: down.'
speaker_heading: 191 QUICK CUTS
text: A) Nico is trapped. The hoods advancing. Nico has a
text: moment of stillness, as if all senses are clicking
text: out of normal gear and into some hyper-combat readi-
dialog: ness. Then:
dialog: 49.
text: B) Gun and Machete Man are side by side. As Machete Man
text: starts to move, Nico spins in beside him, seizes his
text: wrist, twists it violently, wrenching the machete away,
dialog: keeping Machete Man between him and Gun Man so Gun
text: Man can't shoot. In a flash, Nico swings the machete,
text: slicing over the top of Machete Man, half-severing
text: the wrist of Gun Man. Gun Man falls, clutching his
text: wrist in agony; the gun skitters away beneath a chain
text: link fence, out of reach. Nico flips Machete Man
text: (who has Nico's gun in his pocket) sending him crash-
text: ing, half-unconscious.
text: C) Instantly, Pipe Man aims a home run shot at Nico's
text: head. Nico uses the machete, matches the angle of
text: the oncoming blow, slides under and, in the same arc,
text: blocks the blow and turns it into a strike, slashing
text: Pipe Man's tendons behind the knee. Pipe Man goes
text: down on one knee, writhing, hamstrung, crying out in
dialog: pain.
text: D) Now Ball Bat attacks. Nico intercepts the blow,
text: flips Bat Man ass over teakettle, sending him sail-
text: ing -- feet first -- through the side window of the
text: van. Bat Man CRASHES THROUGH the GLASS, hung up with
text: just his head and shoulders dangling free.
text: E) Nico is spread out, feet wide, in a crouch. Crowbar
text: Man sees his chance. He is the fiercest of the four,
text: and the savviest fighter. He throws three consecu-
text: tive vicious blows at Nico's head; Nico drops to one
text: knee, dodges the blows, then intercepts the third,
text: machete in hand, matches the arc of interception and
text: whips the blade up -- straight into the crotch of
dialog: Crowbar Man. Crowbar Man can't believe it. He re-
text: mains frozen a moment, staring at Nico, then down at
text: his own groin.
dialog: F) Machete Man, the first to be flipped, struggles des-
text: perately to regain his senses. He tries to get
text: Nico's gun from his own pocket, but Nico bats it a-
text: way. Machete Man scrambles to his feet, in terror,
dialog: bolts.
text: G) Nico snatches his gun from the sidewalk, glances to
text: Bat Man who is still half-dangling from the van
text: window. Nico gives Bat Man one parting punch to the
text: head, then tears off after Machete Man --
scene_heading: 192 EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Shrieks from passersby as Machete Man hurtles past,
text: straight into the street. A car nearly hits him, he
text: vaults its hood. Here comes Nico, in hot pursuit. He
text: too leaps the car, whose owner is staring, cursing --
scene_heading: 193 ANGLE DOWN BLOCK
text: An all-out foot face.
dialog: 50.
text: Machete Man is a speedster; he hurdles a row of trash cans.
text: TWO YOUNG GIRLS, on a stoop, whistle as he passes.
speaker_heading: FIRST GIRL
dialog: Fly, baby!
speaker_heading: 194 NICO
text: tears after this human cannonball. Amazingly, he's
dialog: gaining --
scene_heading: 195 INT. BODEGA - DAY
text: Machete Man highballs off the sidewalk, straight into a
text: Mom and Pop groceria. Customers scatter in shock as the
text: hood blasts past them, out the back door. Here comes
text: Nico. Patrons curse in Spanish as he barrels past --
scene_heading: 196 EXT. YARD BEHIND BODEGA - DAY
text: Machete Man bolts from the bodega into a small patio with
text: tables and chairs. He leaps the fence into the next yard,
text: which belongs to a funeral home. He hurdles the headstone
text: inventory, clambers up the fence on the far side --
speaker_heading: 197 BACK TO NICCO
text: pursuing along the same route.
speaker_heading: 198 MACHETE MAN
text: claws his way to the top of the fence and onto a frame-
text: work of two-by-fours which form an arbor-like canopy a-
text: bove the third back yard. Plastic sheeting is tacked
text: between the beams. Machete Man glances back at Nico,
text: starts out -- tightrope-style -- across the two-by-fours.
text: Nico reaches the fence behind the hood, starts also onto
text: the two-by-fours. We hear FEMALE SCREAMS from below as
text: the rickety structure starts to wobble precariously.
text: Machete Man reaches the far side. A fire escape is ad-
text: jacent; he grabs for it, starts up. Nico catches him by
text: the ankle. The two crash together back onto the two-by-
text: fours, which give way, sending them plunging into --
scene_heading: 199 BACKYARD OF FLOWER SHOP - DAY
text: Four young Oriental women, potting plants, react with
text: terror as the two bodies CRASH through. Machete Man
text: scrambles away from Nico but is trapped in the corner
text: next to the rear shop door. The flower girls can't move
text: either; Nico and the hood are too near the door. The
text: girls retreat to the far corner, squealing in fright.
speaker_heading: MACHETE MAN
dialog: (to Nico, in terror)
dialog: No, hermano. Please --
dialog: 51.
text: Nico starts menacingly toward the hood, breathing hard
text: from the chase.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Who put up the money?
speaker_heading: MACHETE MAN
dialog: What money?
text: Nico grabs him by the hair.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You didn't come after me for a
dialog: piece of ass.
dialog: (twists the youth's
dialog: neck)
dialog: Who paid you?
speaker_heading: MACHETE MAN
dialog: I told ya! No one!
text: Nico slams him with a fierce shot to the ribs. The hood
text: doubles over, gasping. The flower girls shriek even
text: louder. Nico turns to the girls with a ferocious glare.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Shut up!
text: The girls instantly go silent in terror. Nico turns back
text: to Machete Man, spins him violently face-down, jacking
text: the punk's right arm straight out behind him. We see
text: that Nico can break his elbow with one blow.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Give it to me!
text: Nico raises his fist to strike.
speaker_heading: MACHETE MAN
dialog: Jimmy Constanza!
text: Nico shoves the hood into the ground, tearing the hood's
text: wallet from his trouser pocket. Nico rips the wallet a-
text: part, seizes the kid's identification and holds it up. He
text: grabs the punk by the hair with his free hand. Machete
text: Man is staring up in terror, wondering what this means.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: If you're lying to me, I'll come
dialog: and kill you right in your own
dialog: fucking kitchen.
text: Nico dumps him on the ground and walks away. Instantly
text: Machete Man changes his tune.
speaker_heading: MACHETE MAN
dialog: Salvano! Bautista Salvano!
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 52.
text: Nico walks back, his foot smashes into the punk's face.
text: He hits the ground with a thud.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Gracias, muchacho.
text: Nico walks away.
scene_heading: 200 MONTAGE WITH SCORE
scene_heading: A) INT. NICO'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Nico at the kitchen table spread with notepads, old add-
text: ress books, 3X5 cards. He's on the phone, impatient,
text: apparently getting nowhere. He slams the phone down.
scene_heading: B) INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING
text: Nico paces, phone cradled to ear, talking urgently.
text: CLICK: he's been hung up on; he looks at the receiver
text: in frustration and disgust.
scene_heading: C) CLOSE - CORKBOARD ON KITCHEN WALL
text: Nico's hands pushpin a 3X5 card into the wall.
scene_heading: D) INSERT - 3X5 CARD
dialog: We read: "FBI / Agent Smith / 11:53 / B.S. / Covering
dialog: for who?"
scene_heading: E) KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Nico back at the table, listening to the wiretap
text: tape, transcribing it.
scene_heading: F) ANOTHER ANGLE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (LATER)
text: Nico holds Julian, goes over notes.
scene_heading: G) CLOSE - YELLOW LEGAL PAD
text: The page is headed: "FATHER GENARRO." Below in
text: doodle formation, are a series of boxes, each one
dialog: containing a phrase. We read: "Father G had some-
dialog: thing on Salvano?" "Church break-in?" "Drug infor-
text: mation?" "Father G connected to FBI?" Irritably,
text: Nico's pencil crosses everything out.
speaker_heading: 201 SARA *
text: Appears in a nightgown at the kitchen doorway. She looks
text: frail, frightened. MUSIC ENDS.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (softly)
dialog: I can't sleep. Will you come and
dialog: hold me?
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 53. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Of course I will. I've been waiting
dialog: to hear from Jax. She was supposed
dialog: to get back to me by now.
scene_heading: 202 INT. NICO'S BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT
text: Nico comes in with his arms around Sara. She stops
text: near the bed, holds him tight. They look to little
text: Julian sleeping in the crib nearby.
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: Thank God you couldn't find your
dialog: shoes. We would of have been
text: sitting in the front row.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Alright, I know the rules -- I
dialog: don't ask you don't tell. But
dialog: could've died today and I deserve
dialog: to know.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Why did we go to church this
dialog: morning?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I'm willing to break the rules;
dialog: I'm willing to tell you whatever
dialog: I know. But I need some time.
dialog: Could you just give me some time?
text: Nico leans to kiss her, but is cut off by the HARSH RING
text: of a PHONE. Sara starts at the sound. She and Nico
dialog: glance at each other --
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: I'll bet that's her.
text: Nico picks up the phone.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: This better be good, Jax.
speaker_heading: MAN (V.O.)
dialog: (filtered)
dialog: It's bad, Nico.
text: Nico glances to Sara. The voice on the phone is not
text: Jackson. Nico is chilled. He glances to Sara, finger to
text: his lips. He points to his bare wrist as if wanting to know
text: the exact time. Sara, not sure what's going on, mouths:
dialog: "Two-fifteen."
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Long time, Nelson.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 54.
scene_heading: 203 EXT. STREET - PHONE BOOTH - LATE NIGHT
dialog: We recognize Fox, Nico's buddy from SE Asia whom we met
text: in the opening sequence. Fox, too, of course, looks 15
text: years older. He wears a suit and seems quite prosperous.
dialog: We are unable to identify from where Fox calls.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You should know not to use a name
text: on an open line.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm gonna talk for fifteen
dialog: seconds, then I'm getting off.
dialog: You're in trouble, Nico.
scene_heading: 204 BACK TO NICO'S BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT
speaker_heading: FOX (V.O.)
dialog: (filtered)
dialog: Serious, serious trouble. Take
dialog: your wife and family and get them
text: someplace safe now.
scene_heading: 205 BACK TO STREET - PHONE BOOTH - LATE NIGHT
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You hear me? Now. I'm risking my
dialog: ass by telling you this. Good
dialog: luck, kid.
scene_heading: 206 BACK TO NICO'S BEDROOM - LATE NIGHT
text: The PHONE CLICKS DEAD. Nico tries to keep a casual ex-
text: pression. Sara sees through it -- she knows he's shaken. *
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (grim)
dialog: That was Fox, wasn't it?
text: Nico doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (very concerned)
dialog: Why is the C.I.A. calling you at
dialog: two in the morning?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: It's okay, sweetheart --
dialog: (crosses to her, puts
text: his arms around her)
dialog: -- You know what a crazy bastard
text: Fox is. He gets drunk and forgets
text: he's halfway around the world. He
dialog: calls me.
text: Nico gives her a squeeze and a smile.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 55.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: He just wanted to make sure we got
dialog: his Christmas card.
scene_heading: 207 INT. BEDROOM - LATER
text: Sara is sleeping next to Nico. Julian next to her. A *
text: LOUD POUNDING comes O.S. from the front door. Nico jumps
text: out of bed. His gun appears in his hand, as if from nowhere,
text: he steps quickly to the front window, looks out --
scene_heading: 208 NICO'S POV - STREET BELOW
text: Two unmarked cars pull in.
scene_heading: 209 BACK TO NICO
text: He moves swiftly to the rear window and spots another un- *
dialog: marked car. *
scene_heading: 210 INT. DOWNSTAIRS - FRONT DOOR
text: Nico enters the vestibule in his pajama bottoms with his gun
text: in his hand.
speaker_heading: VOICE THROUGH DOOR (O.S.)
dialog: F.B.I., Toscani. Open up.
text: Nico pulls aside a curtained glass panel; he recognizes
text: two uniformed police officers, plus Neeley and Halloran, *
dialog: the FBI agents who authorized the release of Salvano. He
text: lowers his gun, opens the door. The cops surge in.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to one of cops)
dialog: It's a little early for breakfast,
dialog: O'Hara.
speaker_heading: O'HARA
dialog: Sorry, Nico.
dialog: (displays warrant)
dialog: You're under arrest.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: (reaches for Nico's
dialog: gun)
dialog: I'll take this, thank you.
text: Before Neeley can get his hand on the gun, Nico, without *
text: pausing, hands it over to another agent.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: No, you won't. I'm gonna give it
dialog: to you.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 56.
scene_heading: 211 INT. NICO'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: JULIAN BAWLS fearfully; Sara holds him, trembling. Nico *
text: is hurriedly getting dressed. A cop and the FBI agents
text: stand at the door.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (to cops; distraught)
dialog: This is ridiculous -- there's
dialog: no need for this!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: It's all right, darling.
text: Two agents enter the room carrying Nico's confiscated
text: papers and tapes and begin rummaging through dressers,
text: jewelry boxes and closets. Rosa crosses swiftly to calm
dialog: Sara. *
speaker_heading: ROSA
dialog: (to cops)
dialog: Who do you think you are --
dialog: coming in here like this,
dialog: treating my son like a criminal?
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: Why are you terrifying us?
dialog: There's an infant here!
text: Nico pulls on a jacket. He looks like he could kill. He
text: restrains himself for his family's sake.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALLORAN
dialog: (to cops)
dialog: Check that coat.
text: The cops cross to frisk Nico. Sara, still holding the baby, *
text: starts slapping at them.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: Get your hands off him!
dialog: Rosa grabs Sara -- *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Sara, *
dialog: allowing himself
dialog: to be frisked)
dialog: It's all a mistake, Sara -- It's *
dialog: gonna be all right.
text: The cops steer Nico toward the door.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (calls after them)
dialog: The Police Association's got lawyers
dialog: for this, you bastards!
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 57.
text: Sara grabs for the phone; Nico is manhandled out the *
dialog: door --
scene_heading: 212 EXT. NICO'S HOUSE - LATE NIGHT
text: The neighbors are now on their porches. Nico is led to a
text: waiting unmarked car.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 213 INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - LATE NIGHT
dialog: Bad Dude, the bartender we remember from Nico's first
text: visit to the Polish bar, finishes signing a deposition.
text: A cop takes the paper. Bad Dude stands, glances half-
text: fearfully, half-defiantly to Nico, who is led down a hall-
text: way flanked by two uniformed officers. Agent Halloran
text: opens the door for Bad Dude, who exits.
scene_heading: 214 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - LATE NIGHT
dialog: Neeley, Halloran, Lieutenant Strozah and Deputy Superinten- *
text: dent JACK CROWDER. Halloran indicates a stack of *
text: depositions, tapes and notes on the table before Nico.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALLORAN
text: Illegal wiretaps. Unauthorized
dialog: surveillance.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: When were you born, asshole?
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Associating with known felons.
dialog: Disobeying direct orders --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Where's Jackson?
speaker_heading: CROWDER *
dialog: She's outa this.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALLORAN
dialog: You're the rotten apple in this
dialog: barrel, Toscani. We don't have
dialog: to look any farther than you and
dialog: your 'family.'
text: Nico comes out of his chair, going for Halloran. Strozah
text: tries to block him, but it's useless.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH *
dialog: Nico! You damn fool! You wanna
dialog: go to prison?!
text: Nico stops. He's speechless with rage. His finger points
text: toward Halloran like a loaded gun.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 58.
speaker_heading: CROWDER *
dialog: (indicates more
dialog: depositions)
text: Unlawful entry. Illegal search
dialog: and seizure --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (spits on papers)
dialog: You'll never build a frame on this
dialog: chickenshit.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: You were ordered to back off on
dialog: Salvano. But you had too big a
dialog: hard-on for that, didn't you--
text: Nico contains his fury. He steps away from Strozah, with
text: a gesture that says "I won't hurt you."
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Strozah)
dialog: Fred. You can't be in on this.
text: Nico faces his lieutenant -- a look that calls on long *
text: years of comradeship and loyalty. Strozah is torn. He's
text: a good man, over his head in a situation he doesn't com-
dialog: pletely understand.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT STROZAH *
dialog: You're officially suspended, Toscani.
dialog: I want your tin... and your iron.
text: Neeley leans past Nico; drops Nico's gun (with an evidence *
text: tag on it) onto the table. Nico looks to Strozah, who
text: averts his eyes. Nico flips his badge onto the table.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You holding me?
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: You can walk for now. But don't
dialog: walk far.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 215 EXT. PHONE BOOTH ON DOWNTOWN STREET - DAWN
text: We are outside of a cop breakfast hangout. Several police
text: cars are parked in the lot. Nico is on the phone.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Sara, I'm okay. I love you. *
speaker_heading: CUT TO: *
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 58A.
scene_heading: 215A INT. NICO'S KITCHEN *
text: Sara on the phone. *
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: Where are you? Why aren't you *
dialog: coming home? *
speaker_heading: CUT TO: *
scene_heading: 215B EXT. PHONE BOOTH *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I'll be home later. Lukich will *
dialog: be there. Tell mama not to worry.
text: Jackson and Lukich are waiting by Nico's car. They see
text: Nico emerge from the phone booth.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 216 EXT. STREET - NICO, JACKSON AND LUKICH - DAWN
text: A mood of urgency.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: -- I found the sanctuary people.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 59.
speaker_heading: JACKSON (CONT'D)
dialog: They're refugees from El Salvador,
dialog: Guatemala, Chile. They won't talk *
dialog: to me, they're terrified of cops.
text: Jackson has an armload of notes, including photocopies of
text: news clippings.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Ready for this? One of the people
dialog: killed at the church was definitely
dialog: not a congregation member.
text: She shows Nico and Lukich the Polaroids we saw her take in
dialog: the morgue.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: Alan Singletary. He's an aide to
dialog: Senator Harrison.
text: Nico is electrified.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: That's right. Harrison. Foreign
dialog: relations committee. The guy who's
dialog: been crawling all over the Central
dialog: American drug connections.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (impressed)
dialog: You're gonna make a helluva D.A.,
dialog: Jax.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: God help us.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (savors the com-
dialog: pliment)
dialog: I've been at the Tribune all night,
text: wearing out their Xerox machine.
dialog: Harrison's staff has been
dialog: compiling some kind of white
dialog: paper. He's due to release it
dialog: next week.
text: Nico's mind races.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That's how Fox knew.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: What?
text: Nico turns to Lukich, dead earnest.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 60.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Luke. I want you to go to my
dialog: house. Call Branca... my mother
dialog: has the number. Get my family
dialog: ready to move out.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: You got it, buddy.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Stay with 'em. We'll be there.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: What's going on, Nico? What
dialog: happened?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I got a call last night. An old
dialog: agency friend. He told me my
dialog: family was in danger.
text: Jax and Lukich can't put all the pieces together yet. But
dialog: if it's drugs-CIA-Senate, it's got to be heavy.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: You got a weapon?
text: Lukich knows he doesn't. He glances up and down the
text: street, makes sure no one's watching -- then cracks the
text: driver's door of his car. There's a bulge in the map
text: pocket. Nico pulls out a Sig Saur .45.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: Try this on.
text: Jackson watches Luke slip Nico a clip. *
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 217 INT. DAY CARE CENTER (BEHIND CHURCH) - MORNING
text: OPENING CLOSE ON the faces of the sanctuary refugees.
dialog: They are faces that have known fear and tragedy. The kind
text: of faces we see on newsreels after villages have been
text: burned and family members murdered. The refugees have
text: been moved from church basement to a back room in the day
text: care center. Nico kneels, facing them. Jackson in the
text: background. A nun (SISTER BONIFACIA) and a priest (whom
text: we saw in Genarro's hospital room) watch over the people.
text: Nico is frustrated; he can't crack the refugees' fear.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to nun)
dialog: Sister... you know me. Tell them
dialog: there's no need for fear.
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: SISTER BONIFACIA
text: There is rubble all over the yard,
dialog: Nicola.
text: (THE REST OF THE SCENE MAY BE IN ENGLISH, OR SPANISH WITH
scene_heading: SUBTITLES, AT THE DIRECTOR'S DISCRETION.)
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to refugees)
dialog: I was there... in the church.
dialog: They tried to kill my family, too.
text: Several of the refugees look like they want to speak, but
text: they are terrified.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I know there was a man here, from
dialog: an American senator's office. Who
dialog: was he going to speak to?
text: The refugees become increasingly anxious.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to one woman)
dialog: Was it you, senora?
dialog: (to a man)
dialog: Was it you?
text: More silence. Glances among the people. Finally:
speaker_heading: REFUGEE WOMAN
dialog: The priest.
text: The others shrink. The Woman glances to them.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Who?
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Father Genarro?
speaker_heading: REFUGEE WOMAN
dialog: The other one.
text: Nico looks to the American priest standing there.
speaker_heading: REFUGEE WOMAN
dialog: No. The young one. From Costa
dialog: Rica.
text: Sister Bonifacia sighs.
speaker_heading: SISTER BONIFACIA
dialog: Father Tomassino.
text: Jackson has her pad out, taking notes. Bonifacia knows
text: too much has already been revealed; she must speak.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: SISTER BONIFACIA
dialog: He came alone... two weeks ago.
dialog: He had papers. Papers to give to
dialog: the senator.
text: Nico tries to contain his excitement; not scare anyone by
text: losing his calm.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: But the bomb... The bomb was
text: planted to destroy the pulpit.
speaker_heading: SISTER BONIFACIA
dialog: Father Tomassino was going to
dialog: give the Mass that day.
dialog: (shaken)
dialog: Father Genarro talked him out of
dialog: it.
text: The refugees' faces confirm this.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (understands)
dialog: It was Father Tomassino they were
text: trying to kill.
text: Bonifacia starts softly to cry. Nico puts his hand on her
text: shoulder, comforting her.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Where is Tomassino? Where is he
dialog: now?
text: The nun shakes her head. Nico looks to the refugees.
dialog: They don't know, either.
speaker_heading: REFUGEE MAN
dialog: He run, mister. He go --
dialog: He gestures: "who knows where?"
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: If you know where he is, you've
dialog: got to tell me. I want to help
dialog: him. I can help him.
text: The refugees lower their eyes. Bonifacia continues her
text: soft weeping. Nico glances to Jackson; her look says
dialog: "Enough, let's leave these poor people alone." Nico
text: stands, touches Bonifacia one more time on the shoulder --
scene_heading: 218 EXT. CHURCH DAY CARE BUILDING - DAY
text: Nico and Jackson come out. Nico has made a decision.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You're outa this, Jax. Go home.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 63.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (displays her notes)
dialog: You see this list? Well, I'm not
dialog: done.
text: Nico admires his partner's guts, but he's worried.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: I'm not a rookie, Toscani. Now,
dialog: go home. Get your family out of
dialog: here.
text: Nico agrees. The pair starts to split.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (calls after
dialog: Jackson)
dialog: Just paperwork, you understand?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 219 INT. NICO'S CAR - MOVING - MORNING
text: Nico drives, a jumble of emotions on his face. Urgency
text: fear, exhaustion. He's deep in thought --
scene_heading: 220 EXT. INTERSECTION - MORNING
text: Nico's car pulls up at a stop light. He looks around
text: without really seeing. An old lady pulls a shopping cart *
text: while a crossing guard takes some kids across the street. *
speaker_heading: 221 ANOTHER CAR
text: ROARS up out of nowhere, without two men inside, SCREECH-
text: ING to a stop head-on to Nico's door. Its doors spring
dialog: open --
speaker_heading: 222 NICO
text: dives toward his own passenger door --
scene_heading: 223 SECOND CAR - TWO MORE ARMED MEN
text: leap out, OPEN FIRE with pistols and automatic weapons.
speaker_heading: 224 QUICK CUTS
text: Nico's car riddled with a furious FUSILLADE. WINDOWS
text: BLOW OUT; the driver's door is shredded --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 64.
scene_heading: 225 NICO - ON FLOORBOARD
text: crawling frantically; shoving the passenger door open as
text: a FIRESTORM of lead and FLYING GLASS BLAZES all around
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: 226 FOUR MEN
text: FIRING point blank (6 to ten feet) into Nico's car. The
dialog: men are cool, professional.
speaker_heading: 227 NICO
text: spills from the passenger door onto the ground, scrambles
text: like mad under his own car toward one of the attackers' cars.
scene_heading: 228 PEDESTRIANS AROUND INTERSECTION
text: scream and scatter in terror.
speaker_heading: 229 FOUR MEN
text: FIRING as shells spew from the ejection ports of their
dialog: weapons.
speaker_heading: 230 NICO'S CAR
dialog: being chewed to pieces --
scene_heading: 231 NICO - UNDER MEN'S CAR *
text: crawling at full speed from the car's front to its back.
text: On the ground, alongside the car, spent CARTRIDGE CASES
text: RAIN like hailstones.
speaker_heading: 232 FOUR MEN
text: As their magazines empty. The last shells spring free,
text: GUN BARRELS SIZZLE, blue smoke fills the air. The leader
text: waves two men forward to check their kill. At that
dialog: instant:
speaker_heading: 233 NICO
text: springs to his feet behind the men, the Sig Saur .45 *
text: clutched in both hands. (He has crawled under both cars
dialog: to envelop his attackers.)
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Over here, you sons-a-bitches!
text: Nico's rage is superhuman. The men stare in conster-
text: nation. One of the men has a fresh magazine half into
dialog: his weapon --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 65.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (eyes like an
dialog: animal)
dialog: Try it. Be my guest.
text: The man lets the magazine clatter to the street. The
text: others raise their hands. It takes all Nico's strength
dialog: to keep from wasting all four of them on the spot. His
text: gaze swings wildly around the intersection. He spots a
text: corner grocery store. A phone inside.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (gestures with gun)
dialog: Over there! Move it! -- Now!!
text: The men are scared shitless. They put their hands in
text: back of their heads; trot jelly-legged --
scene_heading: 234 INT. CORNER GROCERY STORE - DAY
text: A Pakistani counter clerk takes one look at the mob enter-
text: ing his store and bolts for the rear. A customer exits
text: as Nico herds his captives in.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Hands on the counter!
text: Three men do it; the fourth is slow.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Don't tempt me, ASSHOLE --
text: The fourth obeys. Nico moves to the pay phone on the
text: wall, covering the men with his .45. He grabs the re- *
text: ceiver in his free hand; tries to dial. Adrenaline makes
text: his hand shake; the dials spin wrong -- One of the men
text: sees Nico's dilemma. To hit 911, Nico has to take his
text: eye momentarily off his captives. As Nico turns again
text: to the dial -- A free-standing sales display hurtles
text: toward him, crashing into his gun hand. One of the men
text: has lunged into the display; now he dives atop Nico a
text: second later. The whole human pile crashes, thundering
text: into a glass freezer. Somehow Nico gets to his feet.
text: One of the men grabs Nico's gun; Nico swings one of the
text: freezer doors -- Wham! -- smack into the man's face. The
text: GLASS SHATTERS; the man drops like a rock. Now it's
text: three against one -- prime odds for Nico. He wades into
text: his attackers. A coffee stand goes flying. A body sails
text: into a makeup display. One fool is lucky enough to land
text: a blow that bloodies Nico's nose; he pays with a shattered
text: forearm and a head-first heave into an ice cream locker --
scene_heading: 235 POV FROM OUTSIDE STORE
text: It looks like a tornado has hit the interior. Magazine
text: RACKS CRASH, mayo jars fly through the air, the ICE
text: MACHINE seems to EXPLODE as a man's back careens into it --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 66.
scene_heading: 236 STREET CORNER UP BLOCK
text: Two police cars heave into view, SIRENS WAILING --
scene_heading: 237 FRONT DOORS OF STORE
text: Nico takes the last man, lifts him up, and drives him like
text: a battering ram straight through the glass.
speaker_heading: 238 NICO
text: Wild-eyed and bloody, sees the cop cars whipping into the
text: corner. He spins to see his .45 on the floor -- too far
text: away to race for. He bolts down a gangway.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 239 INT. NICO'S HOUSE - DAY
text: The PHONE RINGS next to Lukich. Sara starts towards *
text: it. Lukich stops her with a look; he picks up the phone.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yeah?
scene_heading: 240 INTERCUT NICO ON STREET - PHONE BOOTH - DAY
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Get their stuff into the car now.
dialog: Do it in the alley, not the
dialog: driveway. I'll be there in five
dialog: minutes.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 241 TWO MORE POLICE CARS
text: SQUEALING around a corner, entering the block where Nico
dialog: is.
scene_heading: 242 NICO - ON SIDEWALK
text: Lets them pass, keeping low. He sprints across the street
text: and down the alley.
speaker_heading: 243 OMITTED
dialog: &amp;
dialog: 244
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 245 INT. NICO'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Sara grabs a handful of dresses from the closet and angrily *
text: throws them into an open suitcase on the bed. Nico watches,
text: hoping to ride the storm.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 67.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: Your job and your family in one day,
dialog: Nico. You're batting a thousand.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Sara... *
text: Sara is at the dresser, pulling open drawers, dumping her *
text: clothes haphazardly into the suitcase. She stops suddenly.
text: She pulls out a handgun and ammo from her panty drawer. She
text: starts to weep. Nico steps up behind her, puts his arms
text: around her.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You'll be safe with Uncle Branca.
dialog: It's gotta be this way... I'm sorry.
text: He turns her around to face him.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Don't you think I'd rather be with
dialog: you?
text: He holds her passionately. Rosa coughs loudly in the doorway.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (no longer angry)
dialog: -- Mama... you got your medicine?
dialog: Don't forget the baby's sweater --
speaker_heading: ROSA
dialog: I know about babies.
text: We glimpse other relatives in the hallway; Nico hands them
text: a pair of suitcases; they hurry off --
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (of Nico's bloodied
dialog: shirt)
dialog: You sure you're all right?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I am if you are.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: (trying to lighten up)
dialog: Don't worry --
dialog: (touches him)
dialog: We needed a vacation, anyway.
text: Sara takes her suitcase, hurries out -- *
scene_heading: 246 EXT. ALLEY BEHIND NICO'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Branca's sedan is half-loaded; Branca adds a few more bags.
text: Lukich's car is parked behind it.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 67A.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (crossing yard with
dialog: Sara) *
dialog: I'll give you five minutes start. We
dialog: have to do it this way.
text: They get their suitcases into the sedan. Mama and the baby
text: are already aboard. Sara gets into the passenger seat. *
text: Lukich comes around from the front, glancing around like a
dialog: lookout.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Where's Jax?
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: She thinks there may be documents at
text: some guy's apartment.
text: Nico starts toward the rear basement door. Lukich falls
text: in with him.
scene_heading: 247 INT. BASEMENT - DAY
text: Nico and Lukich enter, start down the steps.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: They killed the wrong priest.
dialog: Lukich doesn't understand.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: There was a second priest... from
text: Costa Rica... hiding at the church.
dialog: He was the one they meant to kill.
text: Nico starts to remove a large piece of ducting from the
dialog: basement heater.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: And you know where to find him?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: No.
text: The hole in the foundation holds several shotguns and a
text: couple of pistols, some passports and some cash.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: You're gonna need help.
text: Nico grabs the pistols, starts to strap them on.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Just stay with my family
text: Nico replaces the piece of foundation, starts back up the
dialog: steps.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 68.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: What are you gonna do?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You don't want to know.
scene_heading: 248 EXT. ALLEY BEHIND NICO'S HOUSE
text: Branca STARTS the SEDAN. Sara looks back, pained. *
text: Rosa, Lukich and Julian are also in the car. Nico grabs
text: another hand-carried case from the basement, hurries into
text: Lukich's car.
scene_heading: 249 NICO'S POV - LOOKING DOWN DRIVEWAY
text: Two police cars pull up to the front of the house.
scene_heading: 250 HIGH ANGLE SHOT - ALLEY BEHIND HOUSE
text: Lukich's car continues off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 250A EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY
text: We see Uncle Branca's car and Lukich's car out front.
scene_heading: 251 INT. SAFE HOUSE - DAY
text: Branca leads Nico, Sara, Rosa, Julian and Lukich down a *
text: corridor. Two older Italian women open a door leading to a
text: basement rec room.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: My sister's cousin's place. You're
dialog: safe -- not even I can find this joint.
text: The family enters the back room. They take in their
dialog: sanctuary.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 252 EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
text: Agent Neeley hurries across the lot toward his car. He gets *
text: in, STARTS the ENGINE. As he puts the car in gear --
scene_heading: 253 BARREL OF .45 AUTOMATIC
text: nestles behind his right ear.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (rising from rear seat)
dialog: Don't forget your seat belt.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 69.
scene_heading: 254 INT. FEDERAL WAREHOUSE - DAY
text: Nico walks casually beside Agent Neeley, holding his gun out *
text: of sight in his pocket. They proceed down a corridor. Be-
text: hind them we glimpse a security checkpoint, manned by two
text: uniformed guards, through which they apparently have already
dialog: passed.
scene_heading: 255 ANGLE - CORRIDOR
text: The two walk past floor-to-ceiling warehouse shelves, packed
text: with labeled boxes, film cans, etc. which are visible
text: through a heavy wire-mesh screen.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Congratulations, Toscani. You just
dialog: made number four on the most wanted
dialog: list.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 69A.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Keep walking --
dialog: (another nudge)
dialog: -- I'm bucking for number one.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 70.
scene_heading: 256 ADMINISTRATIVE WINDOW
text: A pot-bellied, Naval-retired-type CLERK looks up from his
text: desk as Nico and Neeley come up to the counter. We see a *
scene_heading: sign: "EVIDENCE HOLDING DEPOT -- You MUST Have Your Requi-
text: sition Number!!!" The Clerk stands, chomping a cigar, wad-
text: dles to the counter. We see his arms covered with tattoos.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: What can I do for you, lads?
text: Neeley presents his ID. *
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: There was a quantity of C-4 explosive
dialog: brought in four days ago --
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Hell, that's gone.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Right away, pardner. They scooped
dialog: that stuff outa here before we even got
dialog: it tagged.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Who? Who took it?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (casual)
dialog: C.I.A.
text: Nico reacts, nudges Neeley once more. *
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: (to Clerk)
dialog: We'd like to see the paperwork.
text: The Clerk has an accordion file right under the counter.
text: He indicates a sign-in book.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: You gotta sign.
text: Neeley signs the book. The Clerk starts leafing through his *
text: files, searching for the release form.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Yeah... I remember that guy. Flew in
dialog: special from Langley. Bomb tech.
dialog: Real nice fella --
dialog: (finds the form,
dialog: lifts it from
dialog: file)
dialog: -- Here it is. Fox. Nelson Fox.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 71.
speaker_heading: 257 NICO
text: snatches the release form. Stares at the signature, stunned.
scene_heading: 258 EXT. LAKEFRONT - DESERTED SECTION - DAY
text: Neeley's car parked in the boondocks along the lake. *
speaker_heading: FEMALE (V.O.)
dialog: (from car radio)
dialog: -- Here it is, sir. Coming in from
dialog: Langley now --
scene_heading: 259 INT. CAR
text: Neeley holds the radio mike, as if about to say something. *
text: Nico shoves his gun against the guy's temple.
speaker_heading: FEMALE (V.O.)
dialog: (from car radio)
dialog: -- That agent has been with the Central
dialog: American desk, uh, since '84 --
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: Thank you. That's what I wanted.
text: Nico takes the mike, clicks it back into its cradle. Neeley *
text: freezes, unsure what Nico's going to do with him.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (motions with gun)
dialog: Dump your shoes. Ditch your I.D. on
dialog: the floor.
text: Nico watches the FBI man obey.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: So you think I'm a lousy cop, huh,
dialog: Neeley? Maybe I am. But I haven't got *
text: my face buried up Washington's ass.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Nobody buys me, Toscani.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Yeah? Then somebody pulled the plug
dialog: on your brain, pal. You didn't come
dialog: up with the second priest, did you?
text: Or Harrison's dead aide.
dialog: (as Neeley fumbles with *
dialog: his laces)
dialog: Hurry up!
dialog: (as Neeley obeys) *
dialog: You heard the radio. The Agency's
text: pushing buttons and bodies are dropping
dialog: like flies. You assholes are missing
dialog: half the case!
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 72.
text: Despite his animosity toward Nico, Neeley is beginning to *
dialog: realize this cop is onto something.
scene_heading: AGENT NEELEY *
dialog: Listen. Toscani --
text: Nico grabs Neeley's shoes, heaves them into the back seat. *
text: He shoves the agent out the door, swings himself behind the
dialog: wheel.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Watch your step.
scene_heading: 260 EXT. DESERTED LAKEFRONT - DAY
text: Nico drives off, leaving the FBI man miles from nowhere.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 261 MONTAGE
dialog: with SCORE and V.O.
scene_heading: A) INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY
text: From out of an elevator and down a busy corridor march
dialog: the brass, Deputy Superintendent Crowder included. *
text: Lieutenant Strozah lags slightly behind. They enter *
text: an auditorium where a large contingent of press,
dialog: cameras ready, wait.
scene_heading: B) INT. CONDO COMPLEX - HALLWAY - DAY
text: Jackson outside an apartment door in a Yuppie-esque
text: condo complex. She looks both ways to be safe, then
text: slides a credit card behind the lock. The door opens.
scene_heading: C) EXT. CONVENTION CENTER - DAY
text: Nico parks Neeley's car in a huge packed lot. A towering *
text: marquee sign reads: "COMPUTER EXPO '87." Nico starts on
text: foot toward the convention center entrance.
scene_heading: D) INT. CONDO APARTMENT - DAY
text: Jackson enters, looking guilty as hell. She picks up
text: a framed photo from a piano: the dead Senator's aide
text: posed smiling beside a distinguished-looking man
text: (Senator Harrison) in front of the capitol building.
text: Jackson sets the photo down, starts rummaging through
text: desk drawers.
scene_heading: E) INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY
speaker_heading: CROWDER *
dialog: The officer is alleged to be involved in
dialog: illicit drug trafficking, racketeering
dialog: and kidnapping --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 73. *
scene_heading: F) INT. CONVENTION CENTER
text: Nico, in the crush of convention-goers, pauses before a
text: booth promoting a TV manufacturer. The latest model TV's
text: are set up in a sales display, with visitors gawking at
text: the pictures of the church bombing aftermath.
speaker_heading: NEWSWOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: (on TV's)
dialog: Police sources also speculate that
dialog: Toscani may be connected to the suspect
dialog: in the bombing of St. Elizabeth's
dialog: parish church --
text: A police composite rendering of the woman who placed the
text: bomb at the church is shown on the television.
speaker_heading: NEWSWOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: (on TV's)
dialog: -- the suspect is likely to be armed
dialog: and considered to be extremely
dialog: dangerous --
text: Nico's police ID photo appears on the news. He blends
text: back into the crowd.
speaker_heading: NEWSWOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: In other news, Senator Ernest
dialog: Harrison's presidential bid has...
text: Nico moves swiftly through the convention center floor
dialog: (which is packed for thousands of square feet with sales
text: booths, each manned by technicians and pitchmen, all
text: displaying the latest in high-tech data processing
dialog: equipment, telecommunications, etc.)
scene_heading: G) INT. CONDO APARTMENT - DAY
text: Jax stuffs a wad of offical papers -- including appoint-
text: ment books, notes and tapes -- into her briefcase. At
text: the apartment door, she looks both ways, then emerges,
text: starts away down the hallway.
scene_heading: H) INT. CONVENTION CENTER - COMPUTER BOOTH - DAY
text: Nico in the crowd in front of the booth of a Japanese
text: computer manufacturer. Dr. Watanabe (Nico's friend whom
dialog: we remember from the baptism/picnic scene) is the chief
text: engineer at the booth, showing off some high-tech
text: equipment to several brainy looking executives.
text: Watanabe glances up, spots Nico. Nico makes a subtle
text: sign to indicate he must speak to Watanabe. Watanabe
text: crosses at once to Nico.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 73A.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: So good to see you again, sir!
dialog: (shakes Nico's hand)
dialog: Come back near closing... five-
dialog: thirty... we'll place your order
dialog: then.
text: Nico nods, fades like a shadow into the throng. MUSIC
scene_heading: DOWN, SEQUENCE ENDS --
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 262 INT. CONVENTION CENTER - NIGHT
text: All customers gone, lights being turned off. Janitors
text: sweep up, the last booth people shut down for the night.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
text: emerges with Nico from behind a booth divider, leads her *
text: old friend at a brisk pace across the deserted floor.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Listen, Wat... you know I wouldn't
dialog: call in a favor --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 74. *
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: Of course not. Just because you
dialog: kept a few 'friendly' tribesmen
dialog: from cutting my heart out and serving
dialog: it up as Pad Thai?
text: With a wink, Watanabe escorts Nico into a back area off the
text: floor. Carpeted office dividers set off a small area,
text: packed with super sophisticated computer equipment.
text: Watanabe "boots up" a terminal, sits down with relish.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: The last six years I've been risking
dialog: nothing but money. It's a kick to
dialog: risk my ass again.
text: Nico eyes the equipment and Watanabe, impressed.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: The old Spook.
scene_heading: CUT AWAY TO:
speaker_heading: 263 OMITTED
dialog: &amp;
dialog: 264
scene_heading: 265 INT. JACKSON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Jackson has the Senator's aide's papers spread before her,
text: cataloging them with interest. The PHONE RINGS. Jackson
text: picks it up.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Jackson.
dialog: Whoever the voice is (which we can't hear), it makes Jackson
dialog: forget the documents.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: -- Yes... yes, of course, sister, I
dialog: know who you are.
dialog: (listens)
dialog: -- where... where are you?
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: 266 INT. WATANABE'S COMPUTER AREA - NIGHT
text: Watanabe working two computers simultaneously, with the
text: gusto of a rock keyboard player.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 75. *
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: -- No way to access Covert Ops
text: directly. But Ornstein's at
dialog: Princeton, he's got a database
dialog: bigger than Langley --
dialog: (works keyboard
dialog: lovingly)
dialog: If I can't crack that turkey's
dialog: code, it's time to hang up my
dialog: rock and roll shoes --
text: Nico watches Watanabe work.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: -- ah, here! Here's a little trap
dialog: door. Let's see if we can wriggle up
dialog: into --
dialog: (watches the screen
dialog: with anticipation)
dialog: Personnel files! Operative dossiers.
dialog: Will that do?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: It's a start.
text: Nico sits down beside Watanabe.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: 267 FULL ASHTRAY
text: Watanabe stubs out a cigarette. Empty coffee cups all
text: around. Nico paces, reading a hard-copy printout.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Fox has had a helluva career.
dialog: (reads down page)
dialog: '69 to '76, Cambodia, Laos. Operation
dialog: Phoenix. Operation Green Mountain.
dialog: Operaton Northstar. This is all Vang
dialog: Pao, it's all heroin --
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: You friend has found his metier.
text: Nico circles the "operations" on the page, hands it to
dialog: Watanabe.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Run personnel retrievals on all these
dialog: operations. I want the names of every
text: company man who was on them.
scene_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 268 CLOSE - COMPUTER SCREEN
text: A list of about thirty names -- mostly civilian, but some
text: with military rank attached.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 75A.
speaker_heading: NICO (O.S.)
dialog: Altshuler. Cosgrove. I know half
dialog: these guys --
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: Okay... now run me an update. Where
dialog: are these fuckers now?
scene_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 76.
speaker_heading: 269 NICO - LATER
text: Pouring a fresh coffee, studying the screen with Watanabe.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: (finger tracks down
dialog: screen)
dialog: Central American desk. Central
dialog: American desk. Central --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Thirty names from secret drug
dialog: operations... and two-thirds of 'em
dialog: are in Central America.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: All right. Run these two names:
dialog: Bautista Salvano and Ramon 'Chi Chi'
dialog: Testamente.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: Those street dealers you were talking
dialog: about? They're not gonna be in here.
text: Nico gives her a look. Watanabe starts punching keys. *
scene_heading: 270 CLOSE - COMPUTER SCREEN
text: Official biographies of Salvano and Chi Chi come up.
speaker_heading: WATANABE (O.S.)
dialog: Well, kiss my ass.
dialog: (reads)
dialog: Both former Somoza secret police.
dialog: (whistles, impressed)
dialog: Recruited by agency, 1975. Trained
dialog: Fort Benning, counter insurgency...
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 76A.
speaker_heading: NICO (O.S.)
dialog: Where's Fox's printout?
dialog: (finds it, reads)
dialog: 1976... Fort Benning. He recruited
dialog: these pricks!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 270A EXT. CONVENTION HALL - NIGHT *
text: It's even later. The last of the janitorial crew is *
text: finishing up the huge floor. A few display lights remain *
text: on, otherwise it's dark. Nico stands above, observing, *
dialog: contemplating the information he has received. *
scene_heading: 271 INT. WATANABE'S COMPUTER AREA *
text: Watanabe crapped out in a chair; Nico looking weary, pacing, *
text: wracking his brain.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: There's nothing left, Nico. We've
dialog: wrung these files dry.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 77.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (muttering to
dialog: himself; thinking)
dialog: Fox is here, in Chicago... or was
dialog: here...
dialog: (has an idea)
dialog: ... Listen. Can this thing tap into
dialog: airlines? Reservations records --
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: I can get you the ball scores, too.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: 272 NICO
text: As he finishes viewing the screen, stands.
speaker_heading: NICO
text: Five agents from Central American desk.
text: All trained assassins. All arrived in
dialog: Chicago in the last week -- and none
dialog: of them has left.
text: Nico grabs his coat, gulps a last swallow of coffee --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Thanks, Wat. You finally may have
dialog: done some good for your country.
speaker_heading: WATANABE
dialog: Where are you going?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: To find a priest.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 273 EXT. CONVENTION CENTER - NIGHT
text: Jackson's unmarked car whips into the curb. Aboard: *
text: Jackson and Lukich. Nico steps from the shadows, ducks
text: into the back seat. The car takes off.
scene_heading: 274 INT. UNMARKED CAR - MOVING - NIGHT
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: How did ya find him?
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: The nun phoned me. She said two men
text: had been sneaking around the church.
dialog: She sounded scared --
text: Nico checks his .45. Two spare clips.
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: There's more. I got the papers
text: from that senator's aide's apartment.
dialog: Everything Harrison's been working on.
dialog: It's all at my place.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 275 ELEVATED SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT
text: BOOMS PAST CAMERA, only a few feet away from a row of
text: tenement apartment buildings. As TRAIN sound RECEDES,
text: CAMERA MOVES IN ON one building. We hear LOUD UPBEAT
text: ROCK AND ROLL coming from a third-floor apartment --
scene_heading: 276 EXT. TENEMENT - POV FROM CAR ON STREET - NIGHT
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: (from within car)
dialog: Once you're inside, you'll signal us.
scene_heading: 277 INT. CAR - CLOSEUP ON TREMBLING WOMAN (SAME STREET)
text: It is the Middle-aged Woman who left the bomb, seen in Father
text: Genarro's church. A police sketch of her was seen on tele-
text: vision. She is looking up at the third-floor window, getting
text: instructions. She turns around occasionally to see who's
text: talking to her.
speaker_heading: SALVANO (O.S.)
dialog: Don't be scared. Your life depends on
dialog: this.
scene_heading: 278 CLOSE ON DRIVER
text: It is one of Salvano's goons we've seen before. He is
text: checking his gun.
scene_heading: 279 INT. TENEMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: The Woman walks slowly down the hall. She carries a small
text: donation can. She knocks on a door. We hear FOOTSTEPS from
text: within the apartment. The door opens. It's Bonifacia, the
text: nun from the church (though now in civvies). The Middle-Aged
text: Woman with the donation can raises it as if asking for a
text: contribution. Bonificia looks flustered, impatient. She
text: really doesn't want to leave the door open.
speaker_heading: MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN
dialog: Exusame, por favor. Tiene dinero
dialog: para...
speaker_heading: 280 FROM NOWHERE
text: Three of Salvano's armed goons appear on both sides of the
text: doorway. They push both women violently into the apartment.
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: 281 CLOSEUP - GOON
text: He steps quickly, surely into the apartment.
scene_heading: 282 CLOSEUP - BEDROOM DOOR
text: It flies open. The goon points his gun AT the CAMERA.
speaker_heading: 283 GUNMEN'S POV
text: Father Tomassino, the Costa Rican priest, stands at the
text: window, he has been trying to open it. He turns. He knows
text: he can't escape.
scene_heading: 284 EXT. APARTMENT - POV FROM SALVANO'S CAR
text: The light in the apartment window blinks twice.
scene_heading: 285 EXT. TENEMENT - STREET - NIGHT
text: From two cars emerge the shapes of several men.
scene_heading: 286 EXT. CHICAGO STREET - NIGHT
text: Jackson's car -- with Jackson, Nico and Lukich aboard --
text: swings around a corner into a traffic jam. The HORN BLARES.
scene_heading: 287 INT. TENEMENT APARTMENT - THIRD FLOOR - NIGHT
text: A STEREO SPEAKER BLASTS MUSIC from the front room. CAMERA
text: PANS ACROSS Bonifacia's bedroom dresser. We see mementos
text: of her life and a photo of herself with Father Genarro with
text: a group of children. CAMERA CONTINUES TO PAN PAST Bonifacia's
text: bed, PAST Bonifacia's body! CAMERA CONTINUES DOWN TO the
text: floor, where lies the lady who planted the bomb. They both
text: appear dead.
scene_heading: 288 CLOSE - FATHER TOMASSINO
text: He is in a chair, his wrists strapped to the chair arms. He
text: is sweating, fearful but clinging to his courage.
speaker_heading: 289 ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Behind Father Tomassino, we see Salvano, Chi Chi and two
text: other goons, armed with pistols. Salvano moves toward the
text: priest, sets a small TV table down beside him. The priest
text: glances toward it --
scene_heading: 290 PRIEST'S POV - TV TABLE
text: Atop its rickety surface: a fearsome array of syringes and
dialog: drug vials.
scene_heading: 291 BACK TO FATHER TOMASSINO
text: He glances up from the hypodermics --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 80.
speaker_heading: 292 PRIEST'S POV
text: INTO FRAME moves Kurt Zagon! We see clearly the 15 years of *
text: aging since SE Asia. His face is even scarier than when he
dialog: performed similar atrocities in those days. Zagon prepares
text: a syringe, tests it, shooting a clear liquid skyward.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: You'll be in heaven in a few minutes,
dialog: padre. But first I'm going to put
dialog: you through hell.
scene_heading: 293 EXT. CHICAGO STREET - NIGHT
text: Nico, Lukich and Jackson are speeding through the infamous
dialog: Southside. We want to scream at them to get there already.
text: 294 BACK TO APARTMENT
text: Salvano holds the priest's arm steady, Zagon moves in with
dialog: the needle.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: You came here to talk to the *
dialog: Senator's aide, didn't you? *
speaker_heading: FATHER TOMASSINO
dialog: I tried. But you killed him first. *
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Who told you about our plans? *
speaker_heading: FATHER TOMASSINO
dialog: This is from confession. I tell no
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: You wouldn't lie to me, Father? It's
dialog: a sin.
text: Father Tomassino says nothing, he begins to cry.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (almost with kindness)
dialog: If you spoke to anyone, tell me now --
dialog: (indicates hypo)
dialog: -- and I won't have to use this.
scene_heading: 295 EXT. TENEMENT - NIGHT
text: The unmarked police car pulls up, across the street.
scene_heading: 296 INT. CAR - NIGHT
text: Nico, Jackson, and Lukich gaze at the building.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 80A.
speaker_heading: 296A POV FROM CAR *
text: In the shadows by the corner, a hulking Latino man loiters. *
speaker_heading: JACKSON (O.S.) *
dialog: That's an eyeball if I ever saw one. *
scene_heading: 296B BACK TO CAR *
text: Nico starts to open the car door. Jackson moves to join him. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You're our backup. If we come out
dialog: running, then you can shoot.
text: Nico's eyes meet his partner's. It's plain he'll break her
text: leg if he has to, to keep her safe by the car. Jackson
text: accepts this reluctantly.
dialog: 81.
scene_heading: 297 EXT. TENEMENT - NIGHT
text: Nico and Lukich exit the vehicle. Nico indicates an adjacent
text: building; he and Lukich start for it.
scene_heading: 298 INT. APARTMENT
text: Father Tomassino is beginning to come under the influence of
text: Zagon's chemicals. In spite of this the priest's spirit to
dialog: resist is astounding...
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Speak to me, Father -- who did you tell?
speaker_heading: FATHER TOMASSINO
dialog: I know what you are. I know what
dialog: beasts you are.
scene_heading: 299 EXT. ADJACENT BUILDING - ROOF OF TENEMENT
text: Nico and Lukich emerge from the roof door, guns drawn. The
text: roof is empty. Antennas, skylights, clotheslines. The pair
text: creep soundlessly onto the next roof. They cross toward the
text: roof door like infantrymen, moving one at a time from cover
text: to cover, covering each other. They reach the door that
text: leads down into the building. Nico checks the far side of
text: the enclosure, nods to Lukich. Lukich cracks the roof door
dialog: open --
scene_heading: 300 STAIRWELL FROM ROOF - NICO AND LUKICH
text: Nico and Lukich creep down the stairs from the roof. Nico
text: opens the door leading to the top (third) floor.
scene_heading: 301 INT. APARTMENT
text: The drugs have taken hold. The priest's brain is an open
dialog: memory bank for Zagon to probe.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: I want to know who you told.
speaker_heading: FATHER TOMASSINO
dialog: (barely coherent)
dialog: I told them... you make the ninos...
dialog: see... castrating their fathers --
text: raping... mutilating their mothers
dialog: ... And...
dialog: (breaks down crying)
dialog: ... and sometimes... to the ninos...
scene_heading: 302 NICO'S POV - HALLWAY
text: As he slowly pushes the door open. The hallway is empty.
scene_heading: 303 INT. HALLWAY
text: Nico and Lukich pad in.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 82.
text: Quickly Lukich checks the stairs leading down. Nico crosses
text: silently past the first apartment door, checks the far end of
text: the hallway. Nico comes back toward the apartment door.
text: Lukich approaches from the opposite side. They take up
text: positions flanking the door, guns drawn. The LOUD MUSIC
text: CONTINUES from inside.
scene_heading: 304 INSIDE APARTMENT
text: Salvano and Chi Chi look on, revulsed. Whatever is happening
dialog: to Father Tomassino is enough to make even cruel men ill.
speaker_heading: ZAGON (O.S.)
dialog: -- Tell me the truth, Father --
text: The priest's eyes roll grotesquely; he convulses, sweat
text: beading on his forehead. He looks like a man in the agonies
dialog: of some narcotic hell.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (close to priest)
dialog: -- Can we kill him? If you told anyone,
dialog: about our plans to kill the senator,
dialog: we cannot do it.
speaker_heading: FATHER TOMASSINO
dialog: Nadie. Nadie. Nadie. *
text: 305 NICO AND LUKICH IN HALLWAY
text: O.S. we hear another ELEVATED TRAIN APPROACHING outside.
text: Nico kicks the apartment door in! He and Lukich burst in,
text: guns clutched two-handed.
speaker_heading: 306 QUICK CUTS
text: The first goon reacts, raises his pistol. Lukich SHOOTS him.
text: Nico NAILS the second goon, just as Chi Chi aims his sawed-
text: off pistol-grip shotgun at Nico. Nico has a split second to
text: dive behind a heavy upholstered chair. Chi Chi's DOUBLE-
text: BARREL BLAST blows the chair into powder. Almost instan-
text: taneously Nico sees the priest -- just as Zagon slashes the
text: priest's throat! Salvano SHOOTS Lukich point blank, in the
text: shoulder, sending Lukich's gun sailing. Nico, FIRING, grabs
text: Lukich, dives out the door with him --
speaker_heading: 307 HALLWAY
text: Zagon and Salvano OPEN FIRE from the apartment full-tilt.
text: BULLETS RIP through the WALL, BLASTING WOOD and PLASTER
text: everywhere. Nico shoves Lukich toward the stairwell --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Go! Go!
text: -- Simultaneously FIRING back through the kicked-in door,
text: EMPTYING his GUN.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 83.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (in Spanish, from
dialog: apartment)
dialog: Get him! Finish him!
text: Nico is slamming a fresh clip in, Lukich is stumbling away
text: toward the stairwell. Salvano and Chi Chi appear in the
text: apartment doorway. Chi Chi levels his fierce "hogleg" at
text: Nico's head. At that instant -- A broadside of BULLETS slam
text: into the wall around Chi Chi. It's Jackson -- on the stairs!
text: Chi Chi is hit, but spins, FIRES. His shotgun blast catches
text: Jackson square in the chest, blowing her back like a doll,
text: down the stairwell, out of sight. Nico reacts with agony, *
text: twists on the floor, SHOOTS Chi Chi in the face. Nico pulls
text: the trigger as fast as he can, sending a HAIL of FIRE through
text: the doorway, through the walls. Salvano clutches his hench-
text: man, using his dead body as a shield; Nico's BULLETS blow Chi
text: Chi apart. Zagon FIRES back, hits Nico in the side by the
text: ribs! Nico tries to fire back; he's empty!
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Now!
text: Nico bolts for the stairwell to the roof, clawing for a new
text: clip as he goes. Salvano and Zagon burst into the hallway,
text: SHOOTING at Nico.
scene_heading: 308 INTERCUT - ELEVATED TRAIN
text: THUNDERING along the tracks adjacent to the building.
scene_heading: 309 EXT. ROOF - NIGHT
text: Nico highballs from the stairwell as the tarpaper roof erupts
text: all around him with GUNFIRE from the floor below! He dives
text: sideways, rolling to avoid the fire -- He recovers his
text: footing in time to see Salvano and Zagon burst onto the roof
text: from the stairwell. Nico's BULLETS miss them; they separate,
text: taking cover behind two walls at the roof's margins. Nico
text: is trapped -- in the open.
scene_heading: 310 ZAGON AND SALVANO
text: pop back out, aiming at Nico --
speaker_heading: 311 NICO
text: leaps off the roof!
scene_heading: 312 ANGLE - ELEVATED TRAIN - MOVING
text: Nico lands on the roof of the speeding "el" train, his
text: momentum nearly carrying him off the far side --
scene_heading: 313 NICO - ATOP TRAIN
text: catches a railing, claws at it. BULLETS rip into the train
dialog: roof all around him --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 84.
scene_heading: 314 ATOP TENEMENT ROOF - SALVANO AND ZAGON
text: FIRE for all they're worth at Nico's receding form.
scene_heading: 315 ATOP TRAIN - NICO
text: crawls to the space between cars, lowers himself down. He
text: clings to the swaying chains.
scene_heading: 315A INT. TRAIN CAR
text: Nico staggers through the almost empty car and collapses on
dialog: a bench.
scene_heading: 316 AROUND CORNER - TWO POLICE CARS
text: hurtle INTO VIEW under the El, SIRENS BLARING. *
scene_heading: 317 BACK ON TENEMENT ROOF
text: Zagon and Salvano scramble away.
speaker_heading: 318 OMITTED
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 319 EXT. EL STATION - STAIRWAY TO STREET - NIGHT
text: A cleaner, more upscale neighborhood. Nico labors down the
text: steps, clutching his jacket to his ribs. Several affluent
text: people look at him oddly, he ignores them, keeps going -- He
text: makes his way up the street, weakening, to a tasteful brown-
text: stone. Nico climbs the steps in pain --
scene_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 320 INT. JACKSON'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - NIGHT
text: Nico over the sink, shirt off, WATER RUNNING -- applying a
text: makeshift bandage to his bloody ribs. We see Jackson's make-
text: up stuff along the counter, feminine robes hanging on the
text: door, law books around a reading stand. Nico is in real
dialog: pain, exhausted, weakening --
scene_heading: 321 LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Nico at Jackson's desk, its surface spread with the notes
dialog: and papers she got from Senator Harrison's aide's place. We
text: glimpse them: photos of Central American atrocities, dead
text: bodies, etc. He tries to study them, quickly, but his
dialog: attention shifts --
text: Nico glances around the apartment: more law books, Jackson's
text: degree on the wall, her rowing machine on the floor, several
text: framed photos beside him on her desk. Nico turns several
text: toward him.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 85.
scene_heading: 322 INSERT - FRAMED PHOTOS
text: Jackson with her sisters and their kids, Jackson in law
text: class, Jackson and Nico posing, smiling, at the police shoot-
dialog: ing range --
scene_heading: 323 BACK TO NICO
text: He starts to cry.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Jackson's photo)
dialog: -- Had to be a hero... another fucking
dialog: hero. I'm sorry Jax.
text: He reaches for a small calendar, looks at it.
scene_heading: 324 CLOSEUP - CALENDAR
text: Nico circles "meet with Father Tomassino." Nico circles
dialog: another date, "Senator delivers foreign policy position
dialog: paper/Committee for Democratic Policy fund raiser." *
speaker_heading: 325 OMITTED
dialog: &amp;
speaker_heading: 326
scene_heading: 327 BACK TO NICO
text: Nico scoops up the aide's papers, stands, wobbly --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: -- Senator... --
dialog: (of papers, with scorn)
dialog: -- dumb fuck... think they're gonna
dialog: let you put 'em outta business --
scene_heading: 327A INT. EMERGENCY ROOM CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: Several cops frantically clear the way to the emergency room.
text: A gurney is wheeled down the corridor. Lukich, a shoulder
text: bandaged, walks beside the gurney, holding the hand of Jackson.
speaker_heading: 327B CLOSEUP ON
text: a bloody flak jacket rests upon the gurney.
scene_heading: 327C CLOSEUP - JACKSON
text: She's been sedated. She has buckshot wounds on her neck and
text: shoulder, but she is alive.
speaker_heading: JACKSON
dialog: (to Lukich)
dialog: You call Nico's goddamn Uncle and
dialog: find out if he's heard anything.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 85A. *
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: (wounded himself)
dialog: You just shutup and take it easy,
dialog: pal.
scene_heading: 328 INT. TAXI - NIGHT
text: CLOSEUP of Nico riding through the wet streets.
scene_heading: 328A INT. EMERGENCY ROOM
text: Lukich is on the phone. His shirt is off and he's being
text: bandaged. In the background Jackson is also being cared
dialog: for.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: We don't know what happened to him,
dialog: Branca. Ya, she's gonna be alright.
scene_heading: 328B INT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Branca, a bodyguard next to him, grimly puts down the phone.
text: He looks devastated.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 86.
scene_heading: 329 EXT. DRIVEWAY - BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - NIGHT
text: From the darkness, Nico appears, barely making it up the
text: driveway. We hear the sound of the CAB DRIVE OFF.
scene_heading: 330 EXT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Branca and a bodyguard come forward, grabbing Nico as Nico
text: almost collapses.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: Jesus Christ!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: The motherfuckas got Jackson.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: Lukich called. She's not dead.
dialog: She's gonna make it. She was
text: wearing a vest.
text: Nico can't believe it. In spite of it all, life comes to
text: him. A little smile...
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That broad didn't trust me.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 331 EXT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - POV FROM WINDOW - NIGHT
text: We glimpse several armed bodyguards in concealed positions.
text: A late-model Cadillac pulls up. A man carrying a doctor's
text: bag gets out and is escorted to the side door.
scene_heading: 332 INT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Rosa has pulled back the curtain from the second-floor bed-
text: room window. She witnesses the arrival of the doctor. On
text: the bed behind her sleep Sara and Julian. A bodyguard *
text: stands outside the bedroom door.
scene_heading: 333 INT. BASEMENT FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT
text: The doctor tends Nico. Bloody bandages and antiseptic
text: bottles litter a coffee table. Two guards stand by. Branca
text: is showing Nico an 8-by-11 photograph.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: It was picked up with your mail this
dialog: afternoon.
scene_heading: 334 INSERT - PHOTOGRAPH
text: A shot of Nico's family taken from a parked car, in front of
text: the church, the morning of the bombing.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 87.
text: 335 BACK TO NICO AND BRANCA
text: Nico's grim expression shows he knows just what this means.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: Don't worry, they're booked on an early
dialog: plane. They'll be out of the country
dialog: tomorrow.
text: Nico winces as the doctor finishes applying a bandage. In
text: the background we hear a COMMOTION.
scene_heading: 336 INT. BASEMENT STAIRWAY - NIGHT
text: A bodyguard tries to fend off the physical and verbal assault
text: from Sara and Rosa. Sara carries Julian. *
scene_heading: 337 INT. BASEMENT FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT
text: Sara rushes to Nico's side. Nico reaches for her, but *
text: the pain stabs him.
speaker_heading: SARA *
dialog: Oh my God, Nico! *
text: Rosa starts forward, her face in agony at the sight of her
text: wounded son.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: He's fine. The boy has ribs of steel!
speaker_heading: ROSA
dialog: (touching Nico's brow)
dialog: Enough of your humor.
text: Sara clings to Nico's arm, tears in her eyes. Rosa *
text: crosses herself. Sara begins to weep. The doctor finishes. *
text: There's a long awkward moment. Then:
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: (to doctor and
dialog: bodyguards)
dialog: Leave them. Leave them alone.
scene_heading: QUICK DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 338 INT. FAMILY ROOM - LATER
text: Rosa sits in a chair. Nico on the couch, holding Julian.
text: Sara faces him. Tears have stained her cheeks, but she *
dialog: is in control of her emotions now. *
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: -- You've got to do it, Nico. You
dialog: know you have to.
text: Whatever Sara is proposing, Nico is dead set against it.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 88. *
speaker_heading: ROSA
dialog: Listen to her, Nicola.
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: Whatever you think of him, Federico
dialog: is family. He is our family.
text: Nico makes no response. Instead, he lifts Julian, nuzzles
text: him tenderly.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Ever notice how clean babies smell?
dialog: Like nothing in the world has touched
dialog: them yet.
text: Sara glances to Rosa. Rosa knows what she wants. Dis-
text: creetly Rosa rises, exits. Sara and Nico are alone.
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: If you won't go to him, I will.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (in pain)
dialog: Don't push me like this --
text: Her eyes meet his -- loving, but desperate.
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: Branca can put us on a plane -- but
dialog: where can we fly to? Tibet? The moon?
dialog: There's nowhere they can't find us.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You don't know what the hell you're
dialog: talking about.
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: I'm talking about everything I've
dialog: learned from you in the past five
dialog: years.
text: Nico is in agony.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You know I can't go to him.
text: Sara takes both his hands in hers.
speaker_heading: SARA
dialog: Do you know why I love you? Do
dialog: you know what it is about you
dialog: that I've always loved?
dialog: (as Nico fights his
dialog: own emotion)
dialog: Pride. It's what you have inside.
dialog: You don't live the way other people
dialog: live. You trust what you see as
dialog: right and won't let anyone or anything
dialog: make you stray from it.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 88A. *
text: MOVE IN PAST Sara TO Nico's face.
speaker_heading: SARA (O.S.)
dialog: But now that pride may kill all
dialog: of us.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You've got to swallow that pride,
dialog: Nico. Choke on it if you have to.
dialog: Lay it aside.
scene_heading: 339 ANOTHER ANGLE - NICO AND SARA
text: Close together, with their baby between them. Sara
text: buries her face against her husband's chest. Nico's arm
text: goes around her. He holds her tight.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 340 CLOSE - NICO - AGAINST WALL - DAY
text: He wears a suit and tie, a hat. All business.
speaker_heading: MAN (O.S.)
dialog: Is this the attorney?
speaker_heading: ANOTHER MAN (O.S.)
dialog: You can come now, Mr. Carlucci.
text: O.S. we hear a METALLIC sound BEGIN, VERY CLOSE -- PULL
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
speaker_heading: 341 ANOTHER ANGLE
text: To reveal bars which slide electrically to the side. A
text: prison door opens, letting him through.
scene_heading: 342 ANGLE - PRISON CORRIDOR - DAY
text: Nico, escorted by a prison guard, walks down a long, blank
dialog: hallway.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 343 NICO
text: Waiting in a barren reception room. Several benches, tables;
text: heavy steel mesh over windows --
scene_heading: 344 NICO'S POV - ACROSS ROOM
text: A steel door opens on the far side. Out steps a small
text: Italian man in his seventies, wearing the faded denim of
text: an inmate.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 88B-90.
scene_heading: 345 INT. PRISON CORRIDOR - LONG SHOT - DAY *
text: Nico and the small man (FREDERICO LARUSSO) walk together down *
text: a long corridor, speaking occasionally, the tension thick *
text: between them. Behind them, a discreet fifteen paces, walk *
text: two armed prison officials.
scene_heading: 346 CLOSER - LARUSSO AND NICO
text: The old man never looks directly at Nico, yet we sense keenly
text: that he is taking the younger man's measure.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: I am only an old man. An old man
dialog: with a cancer.
text: The two are like an old and a young lion, appraising each
dialog: other -- using all five senses and more.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I don't have much time, Uncle. So
dialog: I must speak plainly.
text: Larusso listens. Nico waits for a beat. Then:
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 91.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (this is very painful
dialog: for him)
dialog: -- For as long as I've been old enough
dialog: to think, I've hated you and hated
dialog: everything you stood for.
text: Larusso takes this in without a flicker.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I was so sure that you and I were on
text: opposite sides of the fence... and
dialog: that you and your people were
dialog: destroying this country --
text: Nico pauses, glances away across the grounds.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: -- The most painful realization of my
dialog: life was that the people I worked for
dialog: and you are not far apart.
dialog: (meets Larusso's eyes)
dialog: -- And there's not much difference
dialog: between what you are and what I was.
text: Larusso studies Nico a long moment. Then takes Nico's elbow. *
dialog: *
speaker_heading: 347 OMITTED *
scene_heading: 348 NICO AND LARUSSO
text: continue across the grounds.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: I will be candid with you. I knew,
dialog: probably before you did, that you
dialog: would be coming to me. I knew what
dialog: you would ask... and I had every
dialog: intention of refusing you.
text: He glances to Nico.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: But it is a form of wisdom to know
dialog: when to cease relying only upon
dialog: yourself.
text: He keeps walking.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: You know, of course, that this Senator
dialog: Harrison will never live to make his
dialog: speech tomorrow.
dialog: (as Nico acknowledges)
dialog: You know, too, that as long as this
dialog: man... this torturer --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 92.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Kurt Zagon.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: -- As long as this Zagon lives, nothing
dialog: I can do will guarantee your family's
dialog: safety.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: 'Ecce non uomine, ecce bestie.' You
dialog: know Dante?
dialog: (translates)
dialog: 'These are not men, these are animals.'
text: Larusso stops, takes a small note pad from his pocket. He
text: quickly scribbles a few lines.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: Memorize this address.
text: He holds the paper for Nico to see.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: Have you got it in your mind?
text: Nico nods. Larusso tears the paper into tiny shreds. *
scene_heading: 349 INT. ADMIN BUILDING - RECEPTION ROOM - DAY
text: The old man takes his leave of Nico with a warm, if formal
text: handshake. The guards stand by, waiting.
speaker_heading: FREDERICO LARUSSO
dialog: Thank you, Mr. Carlucci. I trust you
dialog: will give my love to my niece, Rosa.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: I will do that, Mr. Larusso.
dialog: (sincerely)
dialog: I hope you will be well.
speaker_heading: 350 LARUSSO
text: nods: "Bene." Then: without a word he turns and exits
text: back through the steel door.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 351 INT. O'HARE AIRPORT - BOARDING GATE - DAY
text: Passengers file aboard a flight to Toronto. Hugs, goodbyes.
text: Rosa, carrying the baby, is among the crowd moving toward
text: the boarding door. Leaving with them are two of Branca's
text: men. We PICK OUT Branca and two of his bodyguards near the
text: fringes, looking inobtrusive but definitely on guard.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 92A/93.
speaker_heading: 352 CORNER NEAR BRANCA
text: Hidden by a bank of phones, Sara clings to Nico, holding *
text: him as tight as she can. When she releases him, we can't
dialog: hear what she says, but it seems like, "Be careful, please be
text: careful." Nico glances to Branca, who motions subtly to
dialog: hurry.
text: He squeezes Sara's hand, she joins the crowd swelling *
text: toward the boarding door --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 353 EXT. O'HARE - RUNWAY - DAY (STOCK) *
text: An Air Canada PLANE BLASTS skyward.
speaker_heading: 354 NICO AND BRANCA
text: watch from an open corner of a parking lot. As the plane
text: begins its bank to gain altitude, Branca turns to Nico.
text: The two bodybuards keep a discreet watch nearby.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: You got the architect's drawings?
dialog: Wiring, floor plans --
text: Nico indicates a briefcase he is carrying.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: It's all here.
text: Nico turns to his uncle. Regards him with affection.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: I could help you from here on.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: It's not your business.
text: Nico embraces his uncle by both shoulders.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Grazie, tio caro.
text: Branca pats Nico's cheek.
speaker_heading: BRANCA
dialog: Take care of yourself, Nicola.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 355 SERIES OF SHOTS
text: SEVERAL SHOTS of high-rise cityscapes at night.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 94.
speaker_heading: 356 OMITTED *
dialog: thru *
dialog: 360 *
scene_heading: 361 TELESCOPE POV - CHICAGO SKYLINE - NIGHT
text: CAMERA PANS TO the apartment complex across the plaza.
text: FOCUS ON one suite on the topmost floor. Curtains are drawn
text: on all windows, but through one crack we glimpse a man
text: pacing. The man wears a white shirt and a shoulder holster.
speaker_heading: 362 RAISE TELESCOPE POV
text: TO the roof of the apartment complex. We see a heli-pad.
text: Two more men, also in suits -- smoking, talking.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 95.
scene_heading: 363 LOWER TELESCOPE POV
text: BACK TO the apartment suite. Now another man crosses before
text: the gap in the curtains. Wearing a cowboy hat: Zagon!
text: He's laughing, pouring himself a drink at the wet bar --
scene_heading: 364 EXT. ROOFTOP SKYSCRAPER - NIGHT *
text: Nico, looking through a high-tech night telescope. His *
text: briefcase is by his feet, open. Several architect's *
text: drawings, floor plans visible.
speaker_heading: 365 NICO
text: lifts his eye from the scope, jots a note on a pocket pad. *
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Not even you can hit him at this range,
dialog: Nico.
text: O.S. behind Nico: the unmistakable sound of a .45 SAFETY
text: being CLICKED OFF. Nico freezes, his back to the voice. He
text: raises his hands.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: That wasn't the plan, Nelson.
speaker_heading: 366 NELSON FOX
text: covers Nico from behind with a silencer-fitted .45. He
text: glances to the briefcase and building plans, on the floor.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Close range, huh? Never work. Place
text: is rigged, scanned every 35 seconds.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (back still turned)
dialog: I was thinking of a mine on the roof.
text: Remote-triggered, when the chopper
text: comes in.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Roof's wired too. Sensors every
text: fifteen feet.
text: Fox's finger rests ready on the trigger.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You can turn now. Slowly. Slooowly...
text: Nico turns. We see Fox clearly now. His boyish features
text: have weathered since his "spook" days in Vietnam. There is
text: grey in his hair now: he wears an expensive suit and is
dialog: alone.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 96.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I figured you'd do your recon from this
dialog: building.
text: Nico regards his old mate across the gun barrel.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You're looking fit, Nelson.
speaker_heading: FOX
text: Getting a bit of a tire.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (indicates Fox's suit)
dialog: Your own tailor?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Hong Kong.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You've gone a long way.
text: Fox motions for Nico to dump his gun; Nico complies, dropping
text: it gently into the briefcase. Nico takes half a step toward
text: Fox. Fox shakes his head in warning.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Uh uh. Uhhh-uh...
dialog: (motions Nico back)
dialog: I know what you can do when you get too
text: close to a man.
scene_heading: 367 CLOSEUP - NICO *
speaker_heading: NICO *
dialog: I don't believe you, Fox. *
scene_heading: 367A INT. BUILDING CORRIDOR - NIGHT *
text: Nico walks, hands behind his head. Fox is catty-corner be- *
text: hind him, carrying the briefcase, .45 leveled at Nico's back. *
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: -- What's so hard to believe. I
dialog: want to help you, you dumb guinea!
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Fox the fixer.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: If I wanted to cap you, I'd have saved
dialog: myself this chit-chat. Make big points
dialog: for me to bring in your scalp. I'd be
dialog: White House material.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Is that what Zagon is? One of your
dialog: basement boys?
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 96A.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Zagon's a rancher. 4000 acres in
dialog: Costa Rica. Beautiful place.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 97. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Bought with what -- opium from Cambodia?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: And a ton a week of coke from other
dialog: places.
speaker_heading: NICO
text: Which he funnels here through Salvano.
text: With the Company getting its cut.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Legal tender.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Still dodging appropriations
dialog: committees, eh, Nelson?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: That's my job, Nico.
text: They arrive at an elevator.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Keep your nose in the corner. When
dialog: we get out, stay five paces ahead of
dialog: me. Cross down to the garage.
scene_heading: 367B INT. LOWER CORRIDOR
text: Nico and Fox emerge from the elevator. Nico lowers his hands
text: from behind his head. Fox keeps his gun out of sight as he
text: and Nico step past.
scene_heading: 368 ELEVATOR BANK - NIGHT
text: Fox maintains a slight distance behind Nico as they cross to-
text: ward some escalators under a sign: "TO PARKING LEVEL 8."
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: The Senator couldn't be bought, could
dialog: he? He was gonna blow the lid off, so
dialog: you cleared Zagon to frost him --
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Keep walking.
scene_heading: 369 INT. PARKING STRUCTURE
text: They reach a corner and turn.
speaker_heading: 97A.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: But the priest found out somehow and
dialog: ran here. You couldn't do the Senator's
dialog: number 'till you knew if the priest had
dialog: talked. So Zagon flew in with his
dialog: little medical bag. Only by then I was
dialog: in on it -- and you thought I might
text: recognize his handiwork.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 98.
scene_heading: 370 PARKING GARAGE - VALET STATION *
text: Several guests and diners wait by the cashier's booth for
text: their cars to be fetched. Valets hustle with tickets. Fox
text: and Nico come off the escalator.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: If your name was Joe Smith I never
dialog: would have caught it. But how many
dialog: Nicola Toscani's are there?
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You got it off the arrest sheet.
text: Fox hands his ticket to the cashier, motions Nico to the
text: side, away from the guests, still keeping his distance --
dialog: should Nico try to make a move.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I tried to warn you, old buddy. I knew
dialog: you had wiretaps. and I knew you
dialog: wouldn't let 'em go.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Only I was too dumb to crack it. I was
dialog: so busy trying to figure a code, I
text: didn't even recognize Zagon's voice.
text: It's all crystal clear to Nico now.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: So we kill our own senators now.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Why not? The Romans did.
text: A Cadillac pulls up; the valet hops out, two particularly
text: florid, well-fed guests get in, tipping the valet.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Fox, watching the
dialog: guests)
dialog: Are we the Romans?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: We're an empire too.
text: Fox doesn't like the look Nico gives him.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Would you rather spoon borscht and
dialog: quote Lenin?
dialog: (losing patience)
dialog: I'm trying to save you, asshole! I got
dialog: a spot for you. Thailand, deep under,
dialog: no names, no numbers --
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Doing what -- processing heroin?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You 'consult.' You 'assist.' You send
dialog: checks to your family. Zagon won't
dialog: touch you, you'll be on the team --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Fuck you.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: In five years you're out, with a fat
dialog: Swiss account and a GS-15 pension.
text: Nico stares at his old friend with contempt. He sees the
text: gun under Fox's coat, but he's too tired and too disgusted
dialog: to care --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: You know, Fox, right now in Israel
dialog: they're trying some 80-year-old camp
dialog: guard for war crimes. And all around
dialog: our country there are guys on Death
dialog: Row for killing one person, two people.
dialog: And probably they all deserve it --
text: He takes a step toward Fox. Fox's hand tightens on his gun.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (emotion rising)
dialog: -- but you and I know a couple guys
dialog: personally who are responsible for the
dialog: murder of at least what... 60,000 non-
dialog: military personnel.
dialog: (ticks off the beats)
dialog: Viet. Lao. Thai. Cambodian.
dialog: Librarians, teachers, doctors... women,
dialog: children... and that's just a sliver of
dialog: it.
text: Fox tries to maintain a hard face. But his own guilty
dialog: conscience is working --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (presses closer)
dialog: We've wiped out entire fucking
dialog: countries. And not one agent --
speaker_heading: FOX
text: (moves gun into Nico's
dialog: view)
dialog: Stop right there!
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 100.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (doesn't stop)
dialog: -- not one C.I.A. agent has ever been
dialog: tried or convicted, much less accused
dialog: of any crimes.
dialog: (closer still)
dialog: You motherfuckers think you're above
dialog: the law --
dialog: (right in Fox's face)
dialog: Well, you ain't above mine.
text: Nico holds himself, trembling with intensity. At that
text: moment -- O.S. from the garage entrance ramp: the SQUEAL
text: of APPROACHING TIRES. Nico and Fox turn to see --
scene_heading: *NOTE* 4-17-87. THE FOLLOWING SEQUENCE (SCENES 371 - 401) WILL BE
text: MODIFIED TO CONFORM TO LOCATION. DO NOT BUILD OR PURCHASE
text: WITHOUT CHECKING WITH STUNT COORDINATOR AND ASSISTANT
text: DIRECTORS. STORYBOARDS AND NEW PAGES WILL BE AVAILABLE NEXT
text: WEEK.
speaker_heading: 371 A BIG CAR *
text: SCREECHES to a halt in front of them. Five men dismount *
text: swiftly. Salvano, Bad Dude, and two agent types from the *
dialog: tenement... and Zagon! *
text: Zagon and his men are forty feet from Nico and Fox, playing
dialog: it cool so as not to alarm any innocent bystanders, but the
text: bulk under their jackets is unmistakably guns.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Well... well. What a team we have
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (calls, friendly)
dialog: We've been looking for you, Nelson. I
dialog: see you've found our friend.
text: Fox looks shaky, unnerved: Nico's words have hit too close
text: to home. Now Nico backs away a step, ready for anything.
text: One of Zagon's agents holds their car's rear door open. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Thanks for the help, Fox.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I didn't bring him, Nico. I swear it!
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Have you two been sharing fond memories?
dialog: Reminiscing about the good old days?
text: Zagon waves Nico and Fox toward his car. Zagon and *
text: Salvano start forward. Fox glances, torn, to Nico, who
text: has backed away another half-step. Will Nico attack?
dialog: Run for it?
dialog: 100A.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Stay still!
dialog: (to Nico)
dialog: Don't fucking move!!
text: Fox pulls his .45 from concealment, covering Nico. An
text: EVENING-GOWNED WOMAN, waiting with her husband for their
text: car, hears Fox's shout, sees his gun.
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: EVENING GOWN WOMAN
dialog: (grabs her husband's arm)
dialog: Jack --
text: The husband sees. So do the other guests. Salvano sees
text: their alarm; he swings his jacket open, revealing a snub
text: machine gun. Someone SCREAMS --
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Bring in our friend, Nelson.
text: Salvano's muzzle covers Fox and Nico --
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Be a good boy --
speaker_heading: 372 FOX
dialog: His moment of truth.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Dive, Nico!!
text: He FIRES -- at Salvano! In the same instant, Salvano pulls
text: his own trigger! Salvano's MACHINE GUN BURST cuts Fox down,
text: a milli-second before Fox's .45 SLUG BLOWS Salvano off his
text: feet! Pandemonium. Fox, dying, slings his .45 to Nico, who
text: snatches it from the ground just as a HAIL of MACHINE GUN
text: FIRE THUNDERS around him. Nico dives headlong behind a
text: concrete column, which is instantly chewed to shreds by
text: GUNFIRE. Zagon FIRES his MAC-10 on full automatic. A
text: second agent hurries forward to outflank Nico. Nico pops
text: from behind the column, DRILLS the agent broadside behind
text: the ear, blowing the whole side of his head off! Guests and
text: valets are shrieking in terror, hitting the deck in
text: clusters, clawing and scrambling over each other for safety.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (to first agent,
dialog: advancing)
dialog: Move!
text: Nico springs from cover, FIRING, trying to bolt down the
text: garage ramp, toward the lower levels. His path puts the
text: first agent directly in Zagon's line of fire. Zagon doesn't
text: hesitate; he OPENS UP on Nico, cutting down his own man --
text: Salvano has gotten to his feet, wounded, but still handling
text: his gun. He joins Zagon, rushing forward --
scene_heading: 373 RAMP TO LOWER LEVELS
text: A valet rounds a corner, unsuspecting, bringing up a car.
text: Nico is on him like a cat, tearing the poor boy from behind
text: the wheel, leaping in --
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 102.
scene_heading: 374 ZAGON AND SALVANO
text: tear around the corner at the top of the ramp. Both OPEN
dialog: FIRE as --
speaker_heading: 375 NICO - IN CAR
text: highballs straight toward them!
speaker_heading: 376 SALVANO
text: hold the trigger down, FULL AUTOMATIC --
speaker_heading: 377 NICO'S CAR (MOVING)
text: Nico drops below the dash, driving blind. The WINDSHIELD is
scene_heading: BLOWN APART, both FRONT TIRES EXPLODE, the RADIATOR BLASTS
speaker_heading: STEAM --
speaker_heading: 378 ZAGON
text: Reloading as Salvano FIRES.
speaker_heading: 379 NICO'S CAR
text: pinwheels out of control, its nose facing away from Salvano
text: and Zagon. The car BRAKES FURIOUSLY --
speaker_heading: 380 NICO
text: hits reverse, looking back over the seat --
scene_heading: 381 NICO'S POV - THROUGH REAR CAR WINDOW
text: He sees Salvano, his clip empty now, hurrying to wrestle a
dialog: fresh magazine in --
scene_heading: 382 ANGLE - NICO'S CAR AND SALVANO
text: Nico floors it in reverse, slamming into Salvano, lifting
text: him off his feet, smashing him with the car into a metal *
dialog: grate wall. *
speaker_heading: 383 SALVANO
text: A horrible death.
scene_heading: 383A EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE - NIGHT *
text: From the eighth floor the metal grate of the parking struc- *
text: ture blows out onto the street below, followed by Salvano's *
dialog: body. *
scene_heading: 384 NICO - BEHIND THE WHEEL
text: BURNING RUBBER FURIOUSLY, away from the wall --
dialog: 102A.
speaker_heading: 385 ZAGON
text: Reloaded, turning his gun toward Nico, when --
scene_heading: 386 TWO UNIFORMED HOTEL SECURITY GUARDS
text: hurtle around the corner from the escalators, guns drawn.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 103.
scene_heading: FIRST SECURITY GUARD
dialog: (shouts to Zagon)
dialog: You there --
text: Zagon spins, rips both guards with a FIERCE BURST! The
text: Guards drop. Zagon turns to --
scene_heading: 387 NICO - OUT OF CAR
text: on his feet, charging straight at Zagon. Nico grabs him,
text: slams Zagon with incredible force into a concrete column.
text: Zagon's gun goes flying, but miraculously he spins away.
text: Nico dives for him, gets his neck in a grip that is certain
dialog: to snap it in half a second. But --
speaker_heading: 388 ZAGON'S KNIFE
text: appears in the torturer's hand. It slashes Nico, right a-
text: cross his already wounded ribs! Nico cries in agony --
speaker_heading: 389 ZAGON
text: scampers free. Nico gets to his feet, bleeding. Nico is
text: between Zagon and Zagon's machine gun on the ground. Zagon
text: bolts for his car. Nico dives for the gun -- *
speaker_heading: 390 CAR *
text: Zagon floors it into a SCORCHING 360, BLASTS up the exit
text: ramp, out of Nico's line of fire --
speaker_heading: 391 NICO
text: leaps into the other, half-destroyed car. Its two front
text: tires are flat, windshield blown out, RADIATOR POURING STEAM.
text: Nico does the only thing he can do: puts the pedal to the
text: metal in reverse, BLASTS across the ramp divider, takes off
dialog: after Zagon in reverse --
scene_heading: 392 ON RAMP - ZAGON'S CAR *
text: Another car is coming down. Zagon sideswipes it into a wall,
dialog: keeps going --
scene_heading: 393 ON RAMP - NICO'S WRECKED CAR
text: Rear TIRES CHURNING smoke, FRONT FLATS SCRAPING on their
text: rims... he pours on the speed --
scene_heading: 394 TOP OF RAMP - HOTEL ACCESS DRIVE
text: Zagon's car whips out into the night-time commotion.
text: Pedestrians, POLICE SIRENS O.S. Zagon looks behind him --
scene_heading: 395 NICO'S CAR - TOP OF RAMP
text: hurtles into view in reverse!
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 104.
speaker_heading: 396 ZAGON'S CAR *
text: is trapped by the traffic. Zagon looks around wildly, then
text: floors the accelerator. Zagon's car bucks straight up the *
text: pedestrian steps, onto the plaza! Strollers scream and
text: scatter as it fishtails wildly, careening toward the *
dialog: huge stone fountain --
scene_heading: 397 NICO'S WRECKED CAR
text: Follows, pouring smoke, in reverse! Nico cuts Zagon off,
text: CRASHES into Zagon's car broadside, sending it skittering *
text: sideways into the fountain retaining wall --
speaker_heading: 398 ZAGON
text: leaps free, sprints toward the hotel alley. Nico takes off
dialog: after him on foot --
scene_heading: 399 EXT. ALLEY - REAR OF HOTEL - NIGHT
text: Zagon races down the darkest of alleys, rounds a corner --
speaker_heading: 400 NICO
text: hurtles after him, gaining. Nico whips around the alley
dialog: corner, straight into:
scene_heading: 401 FOUR ARMED AGENTS
text: waiting beside a plain grey TV remote van. Nico skitters *
text: to a stop as a shotgun, an M-16 and two pistols cover him.
text: Shotgun Agent raises his weapon to fire --
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: No! I want him! I want him alive!
scene_heading: 402 EXT. MIDLAND HOTEL - NIGHT *
text: A banner reads: WELCOME COMMITTEE FOR DEMOCRATIC POLICY *
scene_heading: 403 EXT. ANOTHER ALLEY - BEHIND MIDLAND HOTEL - NIGHT *
text: A car pulls up. Nico, his wrists tied, is dragged into the
text: basement of the hotel. Zagon follows.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 404 INT. BASEMENT ROOM - NIGHT
text: Sweating, windowless concrete. Overhead pipes. Churning
text: machinery. As the CAMERA REVEALS this airtight dungeon --
speaker_heading: PISTOL AGENT (O.S.)
dialog: -- this is bullshit, Zagon. We got
dialog: work to do.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 105.
speaker_heading: ZAGON (O.S.)
dialog: All work and no play makes Jack a dull
dialog: boy.
speaker_heading: 405 NICO
text: in a metal chair, wrists taped in front of him. One agent
text: stands behind him, clasping a thin cable noose wrapped
text: tight around Nico's throat. Shotgun agent holds his
text: weapon on him, its twin muzzles inches from Nico's skull.
speaker_heading: 406 ZAGON
text: finishes washing his hands in an industrial-type sink. He
text: is cleaned up, wearing a fresh shirt, his hair combed.
text: When he dries his hands, he looks like a surgeon preparing
dialog: to operate.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: We've got an hour before the
dialog: honorable senator.
dialog: (hands towel to
dialog: pistol agent)
dialog: You've got to learn to take time,
dialog: smell the roses.
text: Zagon turns to Nico.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: How are you gonna do him, Zagon?
dialog: In a motorcade? Or passing
dialog: through a hotel kitchen?
text: The Noose agent jerks his cable tight, making Nico gag and
text: choke. Zagon motions to slacken off. He stops at a
text: small table before Nico -- unrolls a well-worn felt pouch.
text: Zagon watches Nico's reaction as the tools of the inter-
text: rogator's trade come into view -- drug vials, syringes,
text: scalpels, surgical tools.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: I've used these little beauties
dialog: many times to extract information --
text: (lifts a needle to
dialog: the light)
dialog: -- This'll be the first time I've
dialog: ever used them... just for fun.
text: Zagon sets the syringe down, slips on a heavy, weighted
dialog: glove.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: (to agents)
dialog: Take his arms.
text: Pistol agent and Bad Dude move in, one on each side, *
text: seizing Nico's forearms. Shotgun agent holds his weapon
text: tight to Nico's head.
dialog: 106.
text: Zagon punches Nico square in the face, so hard the chair
text: reels backward, spinning out from under Nico --
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Hold him up!
text: Pistol agent and Bad Dude lift Nico. Zagon slams him
text: again. Again. Nico's cheekbone is broken; blood drains
text: from his nose. Zagon aims a two-handed blow; backhands
text: Nico, crushing the other side of his face! Zagon backs
text: off, chest heaving. Pistol agent and Bad Dude plop Nico
text: back in the chair, gagging, choked by the noose. Nico
dialog: looks like the Viet prisoner -- the one we saw in the
text: opening sequence. Like the prisoner, Nico takes his
text: beating -- still conscious, still meeting Zagon's eyes
text: with defiance.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: This is where you came in, Toscani.
dialog: Only, now it's where you're gonna
dialog: check out.
text: He takes off his glove, grabs the syringe. Pistol agent
text: and Bad Dude clamp Nico's right arm down tight. Zagon
dialog: injects Nico.
speaker_heading: 407 NICO
text: reacts instantly to the hypo -- cursing, sputtering under
text: the choking noose. He twists wildly trying to free him-
text: self, but the agents' powerful arms hold him.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: That's it. Fight it, cherry.
dialog: Fight it, so it speeds faster on
dialog: its way --
text: Nico struggles more violently.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Fight it. Till the vessels burst
dialog: in your brain. Till the arteries
dialog: rupture in your heart --
text: Slowly, the struggle goes out of Nico. His muscles go
text: limp; he slumps -- drooling, babbling incoherently.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: That's my boy. That's what I was
dialog: waiting for --
text: Zagon produces his famous knife. He motions Pistol agent
text: and Bad Dude to release Nico's arms. Noose agent slackens
text: his grip on the choke cable. Zagon moves in closer,
text: gloating, cooing --
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: A fool learns from his own
text: mistakes. But a wise man learns
dialog: from the mistakes of others --
dialog: (moves closer, blade
dialog: in hand)
dialog: You should have killed me when
dialog: you had the chance, Toscani --
text: The blade moves to Nico's throat. Suddenly: Nico springs
text: to life (catching Noose man by surprise and jerking the
text: cable from his grip) -- grabbing Zagon with his taped
text: hands by the throat, lifting him bodily, slamming him
text: ferociously into the wall! Zagon drops to the floor,
text: half-conscious. Nico spins instantly to find: the Shot-
text: gun agent right behind him, raising his weapon to Nico's
text: face, about to pull the trigger. Nico sidesteps, grabbing
text: the man's wrist. The SHOTGUN GOES OFF, missing Nico by
text: inches, blasting a huge chunk out of the concrete wall.
text: The Noose agent draws his weapon from his shoulder
text: holster. Nico snaps the Shotgun agent's wrist, flipping
text: him through the air, simultaneously grabbing the weapon,
text: spinning behind the Noose agent, then using the shotgun
text: barrel like a club to smash the back of his head in!
text: Another swing wipes out Pistol agent. Bad Dude, now with
text: a clear shot, aims his M-16. Nico blows him away with a
text: double-barreled SHOTGUN BLAST. In a flash, Nico has spun
text: to Zagon's surgical tool table, lifted a rzor-sharp
text: scalpel and slashed the tape, freeing his hands. He
text: yanks the choke cable off his neck --
scene_heading: 408 ZAGON - AGAINST WALL
text: On his feet again. He reaches swiftly to the floor,
text: snatches up his famous knife. Nico confronts him -- face
text: battered, bloody -- shaking, battling internal spasms.
speaker_heading: ZAGON
dialog: Can you feel the chemicals,
dialog: cherry? You can't fight 'em much
dialog: longer --
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Long enough to finish you.
text: Sweating, half-spitting, Zagon slashes at Nico like an
text: animal -- Nico traps the knife, and enters, smashes Zagon
text: in the face with one lightning blow. We see Zagon's nose
text: and face completely cave in. Nico comes under Zagon's
text: elbow, the arm that still holds the knife clamping it in
text: a vise-like grip and bending it backwards, slowly, against
text: the joint -- which now starts to rip in half. Zagon is
text: screaming and cursing, writhing in agony -- The drugs
text: have hit Nico full force now. He's weakening, his eyes
text: are starting to roll. Zagon tries one last surge of
text: strength to save himself; it almost seems he'll wriggle
text: free when: the elbow JOINT SNAPS in half with a sicken-
dialog: ing sound.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 108.
text: As the joint hangs, dangling grotesquely, Nico reaches up
text: around Zagon's neck, still holding the dangling limb with
text: one arm. He begins to now do to Zagon's neck what he did
text: to his arm. We hear a terminal CRACK. Zagon's body
text: crumples to the floor. Nico, in delirium, staggers
dialog: toward the door --
scene_heading: 409 INT. HOTEL LOBBY - REAR STAIRWELL - NIGHT
text: A woman at a pay phone. She turns, drops the receiver
dialog: in shock as --
speaker_heading: 410 NICO
text: bursts, delirious, from the stairwell door!
scene_heading: 411 MAIN LOBBY - FRONT ENTRANCE
text: A commotion as Lukich, Agent Neeley and Jackson, arm in a *
text: sling, race in from their car.
scene_heading: 412 MAIN LOBBY - REAR - NICO
text: weaves wildly forward. He drops to his knees. Guests
text: react in astonishment and horror.
speaker_heading: 412A JACKSON
text: is the first to spot Nico. She runs up to him as he
text: collapses.
speaker_heading: 412B NICO
text: looks at Jackson.
scene_heading: 413 LUKICH AND NEELEY *
text: reach Nico and Jackson.
speaker_heading: LUKICH
dialog: (shouting for
dialog: anyone)
dialog: Is there a hotel doctor? Call 911!
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 108A. *
speaker_heading: 414 NICO
text: passes out in Jackson's arms. Behind them we see a banner,
text: announcing Senator Harrison's address. From the ballroom we
text: hear CHEERS and APPLAUSE. A fiery address is being finished
text: inside. The senator is now leaving.
scene_heading: 415 FULL SHOT - LOBBY
text: Total confusion. Guests staring everywhere. From a side
text: office, a man with a medical bag comes running. The senator
text: sees the group around Nico.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN ON:
scene_heading: 416 EXT. NICO'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Press vans outside; a crush of cars, reporters, neighbors.
text: Newsmen are trying to gain access to the house, held back
text: by several cops and some of Nico's more strapping
dialog: relatives.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 109.
scene_heading: 417 BUICK STATION WAGON
text: escorted by two police motorcycles, pulls in. The press
text: surrounds it as Lukich, Neeley, Lieutenant Strozah and *
text: Jackson, her arm in a sling, disembark from the car.
speaker_heading: 417A SECOND CAR
text: pulls up. Neeley walks over and opens the door as a court *
text: stenographer, carrying her transcription machine case, steps
text: out -- followed by a federal judge, CLAYTON ALSPAUGH and
scene_heading: SENATOR ERNEST HARRISON.
speaker_heading: 418 REPORTERS
text: shove mikes and cameras at the senator and the judge, shouting
text: questions. Lukich, Neeley and Strozah clear a path for them. *
scene_heading: 419 ANGLE FROM INSIDE HOUSE - THROUGH FRONT WINDOW
text: Harrison and Alspaugh fend off the questions, cross the path
text: and mount the steps to the house.
speaker_heading: T.V. REPORTER (O.S.)
dialog: (in front of house)
dialog: -- Senator Harrison has today
dialog: issued a statement calling for the
dialog: appointment of a special prosecutor --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 420 INT. NICO'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Nico, propped up on the couch, looking like hell, but de-
text: finitely conscious and in full command of his faculties.
text: Sara, Jackson, and Rosa beside him. *
speaker_heading: 421 TV
text: A network ANCHOR delivers the headline news.
speaker_heading: ANCHOR (V.O.)
dialog: Earlier this week, the Harrison
dialog: Commission delivered its report
dialog: on the growing C.I.A. scandal to
dialog: Congress...
text: The image changes to SENATOR HARRISON behind a battery of
text: microphones, sitting at a senate hearing-type table, with a
text: plaque reading "SEN. ERNEST HARRISON" before him.
speaker_heading: SENATOR HARRISON (V.O.)
dialog: (on TV)
dialog: -- officially-sanctioned deceit,
dialog: murder and corruption, will
dialog: continue until these men are
dialog: brought to justice.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/17/87 109A.
speaker_heading: 422 NICO *
text: looks up as the real Senator Harrison, Judge Alspaugh and *
text: the others enter the room. TV SOUND DOWN. Harrison stops
text: before Nico, taking a moment to look with respect and ad-
text: miration at the man propped up on the pillows.
scene_heading: ABOVE THE LAW - Rev. 4/29/87 110.
speaker_heading: SENATOR HARRISON
dialog: Detective Toscani. I wanted to personally
dialog: thank you. You are making it possible for
text: a sliver of truth to finally come out.
text: He holds out his hand. Nico takes it. The senator gestures
dialog: to Judge Alspauch.
speaker_heading: SENATOR HARRISON
dialog: And this is Clayton Alspaugh of the
dialog: fifth circuit court.
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: Your Honor.
text: The Judge nods to his stenographer, who swiftly sets up
text: her equipment, takes a seat. Rosa makes a face at Branca,
text: who rises, clearing a seat for the Judge. Sara moves *
text: in tight beside Nico.
speaker_heading: JUDGE ALSPAUGH
dialog: Are you sure you're feeling well
dialog: enough?
text: Nico glances to Sara, to the supporting faces around *
dialog: him. Lukich. Neeley. Strozah. Jackson. The others. *
speaker_heading: NICO
dialog: (to Alspaugh)
dialog: If you're ready to listen, I'm
dialog: ready to talk.
scene_heading: 423 CLOSE - STENOGRAPHER'S HANDS
text: As the Judge's VOICE begins OVER, "slating" the depo-
text: sitions, the stenographer's fingers start moving.
scene_heading: PULL BACK TO:
scene_heading: 424 ANGLE FROM OUTSIDE ROOM
text: The full scene. Nico telling his story. Responsible
dialog: officials recording it --
scene_heading: 425 EXT. YARD OUTSIDE NICO'S HOUSE - DAY
text: The press corps, vans, neighbors -- CLOSING CREDITS BEGIN.
speaker_heading: 426 LONG PULLBACK
text: to the street, the houses, and finally: the neighborhood.
text: Nico's neighborhood, to which the truth has finally come
scene_heading: home. CLOSING CREDITS CONTINUE OVER.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
text: THIS SCRIPT WAS PREPARED
scene_heading: BY WARNER BROS. INC.
scene_heading: SCRIPT PROCESSING DEPARTMENT
speaker_heading: (818) 954-4632
dialog: 
