speaker_heading: ABSOLUTE POWER
dialog: Written by
speaker_heading: WILLIAM GOLDMAN
dialog: Based on the book by
speaker_heading: DAVID BALDACCI
dialog: May 1996 Draft
speaker_heading: FOR EDUCATIONAL
scene_heading: PURPOSES ONLY
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 1 INT. WASHINGTON MUSEUM - DAY 1
dialog: The saddest eyes you ever saw.
text: We are looking at an El Greco drawing. It is a study for
dialog: one of his paintings.
scene_heading: PULL BACK TO REVEAL --
text: A bunch of art students are doing sketches of the eyes,
text: the elongated fingers, the slender hands El Greco drew so
text: brilliantly.
text: Most of the students are around 20. A couple of suburban
dialog: housewives are there too.
dialog: And one older man.
text: This is LUTHER WHITNEY. Mid 60s, very fit, neatly
text: dressed. At quick glance, he seems as if he might be a
dialog: successful company executive.
dialog: As we watch him draw we can tell he is capable of great
dialog: concentration. And patient. With eyes that miss
text: nothing: He has pilot's eyes.
dialog: We'll find out more about him as time goes on, but this
dialog: is all you really have to know: Luther Whitney is the
dialog: hero of this piece. As we watch him draw --
text: Luther's sketchbook. He is finishing his work on the
text: eyes, and he's caught the sadness: It's good stuff.
text: Luther. It's not good enough for him. He looks at his
text: work a moment, shakes his head.
speaker_heading: GIRL STUDENT
dialog: Don't give up.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I never do.
speaker_heading: GIRL STUDENT
dialog: May I?
text: She's indicated his sketchbook. He nods. She starts
text: thumbing through.
text: The sketchbook as the pages turn.
dialog: Detail work. Eyes and hands. The eyes are good. The
dialog: hands are better. Very skillful.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 2.
speaker_heading: 1 CONTINUED: 1
text: The GIRL hands it back. Impressed.
speaker_heading: GIRL STUDENT
dialog: You work with your hands, don't
dialog: you?
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - LUTHER *
dialog: An enigmatic smile. Now, from that --
scene_heading: 2 EXT. RED'S BAR - DAY 2
dialog: A nice working class part of town. Nothing fancy here
dialog: but there's a pleasant feel. The streets are clean, the
text: houses neat and well tended.
text: Luther, carrying his sketchbook, walks along. It's
text: afternoon now. Up ahead is a local bar: RED'S.
scene_heading: 3 INT. RED'S BAR - DAY 3
text: Luther walks in. Nothing fancy here. Strictly working
text: class. And relatively empty. An overweight bald man
text: Luther's age works behind the bar. This is RED. They
dialog: are good enough friends not to ask each other questions.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (as they nod to
dialog: each other)
dialog: Redhead.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Luther.
dialog: (as Luther hands
dialog: him a videotape)
dialog: Your life would be a whole lot
dialog: simpler if you could learn to
dialog: operate a V.C.R.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: My only failing.
dialog: As he turns --
scene_heading: 4 EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - LUTHER'S HOUSE - DAY 4
text: A street of small row houses. Clean, well tended.
text: Luther walks toward one. Later in the afternoon. He
text: carries half a dozen small shopping bags, from the
text: market, the hardware store, the drug store, the cleaners.
dialog: 3.
scene_heading: 5 EXT. LUTHER'S HOUSE - DAY 5
text: A terra cotta planter to the right of the front door.
text: Luther shifts his packages, tilts the planter slightly,
text: bends down, pulls out a key, inserts it in the front
dialog: door.
scene_heading: 6 INT. LUTHER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 6
text: as he enters. Neat, tidy. A Cuisinart, a cheese slicer,
text: lots of other nice equipment. As he begins putting food
dialog: away --
scene_heading: 7 INT. LUTHER'S HOUSE - DINING AREA - NIGHT 7
text: Evening now. Table set for one. A single candle.
text: Beside the candle is Luther's sketch pad. Now Luther
text: himself moves INTO VIEW, carrying a tray. He puts it
dialog: down.
text: A gorgeous omelet is on a fine china plate, parsley
text: sprinkled neatly on top. An elegant green salad is on
text: another plate, covered with thinly sliced parmesan
text: cheese. An expensive water pitcher, a lovely glass.
text: Clearly, a great deal of thought has gone into dinner.
text: Luther lights the single candle. We are now aware of a
text: photograph nearby. The picture is old. A pretty little
text: girl stands in the center, smiling. Her mother stands
text: alongside, smiling too. A man is with them, looking at
text: them happily. It's Luther. When he was young.
text: Luther studies the photo a moment. Then he turns, looks
text: out the window.
scene_heading: 8 POV SHOT - SLIVER OF MOON 8
text: is visible. Lovely. Peaceful.
speaker_heading: 9 LUTHER 9
text: Now Luther opens the sketch pad, quickly flips past the
text: hands and eyes and faces --
dialog: -- we are looking at something totally different: a
dialog: mansion.
text: HOLD ON Luther's drawing of the mansion.
text: KEEP HOLDING.
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
dialog: 4.
scene_heading: 10 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 10
text: In the moonlight -- it looks exactly like his drawing.
dialog: But no drawing could convey the size of the place -- we
text: are looking at ten thousand square feet. Wealth and
dialog: power.
text: We're in rolling hill country. The mansion is dark.
text: Totally deserted. Silence.
text: Now a sound - TIRES ON GRAVEL. A car comes rolling INTO
text: VIEW. The motor of the car has been turned off. The
text: lights of the car have been turned off. The car slides
text: to a stop. Again, silence...
text: HOLD ON mansion, a couple of hundred yards away. There
text: is a small field between the car and the estate. Now --
scene_heading: 11 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION/INT. LUTHER'S CAR - NIGHT 11
text: A man holds binoculars, studying the place. He wears
text: dark clothes, tennis shoes. He puts down the binoculars,
text: begins to smear his face with black camouflage cream --
dialog: -- it's Luther, and he's been a professional thief his
dialog: entire life. He's a three-time loser, but his last
dialog: sentence was so long ago and his skills are now so vast,
dialog: so refined, that it is unlikely he will ever get caught
dialog: again.
scene_heading: 12 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - GROUNDS - NIGHT 12
text: The grounds as Luther glides through it. He wears a
dialog: backpack.
text: The night is cool.
text: He stops. All that separates him from the mansion now is
text: a stretch of gorgeous lawn. Except for Luther, it isn't
dialog: gorgeous -- it's no-man's land.
text: One final check of his surroundings -- then he sets off,
text: in graceful motion, long strides eating up the ground.
text: He makes no sound at all.
scene_heading: 13 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - FRONT DOOR - NIGHT 13
text: Thick wood with reinforced steel.
text: Luther stops by the door, takes off his backpack, opens
text: it. He puts on plastic gloves that have a special layer
text: of padding at the fingertips and palms. Now he takes a
text: key, inserts it in the front door, turns it, and the
text: instant he pushes the door open -- ZOOM TO:
dialog: 5.
scene_heading: 14 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - FOYER - NIGHT 14
text: The infrared SECURITY DETECTOR -- it immediately starts
text: to BEEP and you can see the seconds being counted down:
dialog: forty, thirty-nine, thirty --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 15 LUTHER 15
text: -- in his hands now is an automatic screwdriver, no more
dialog: than six inches long --
text: -- he sets to work on the security panel that is inside
text: in the foyer next to the front door.
text: The screwdriver undoes the first screw, the second --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 16 SECURITY DETECTOR 16
dialog: Thirty-one, thirty, twenty --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 17 SCREWDRIVER 17
text: Now the third and fourth screws are in hands and he lifts
text: the security panel away.
text: The BEEPING sound is constant --
text: -- and getting louder.
text: A tiny device, no bigger than a pocket calculator. It
text: has two wires protruding from it. It is, we are about to
text: find out, a tiny computer. Luther holds it like a baby.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 18 SECURITY DETECTOR 18
dialog: Eighteen, seventeen --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 19 LUTHER 19
text: probing with the wires into the heart of the security
dialog: panel.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 6.
scene_heading: 19 CONTINUED: 19
text: The BEEPING is LOUDER still.
text: The security panel. Luther is attempting delicate work
text: and it's dark so it isn't easy but he continues to probe
dialog: with the wires and --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 20 SECURITY DETECTOR 20
dialog: Eleven, ten --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 21 LUTHER 21
dialog: and he's got it attached!
speaker_heading: 22 COMPUTER 22
text: Now the face of the tiny computer is alive with numbers
dialog: -- they fly by much too fast for us to make them out
dialog: clearly.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 23 SECURITY DETECTOR 23
dialog: Four, three, two --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 24 FACE OF TINY COMPUTER 24
dialog: as five numbers lock -- 7 -- 13 -- 19 -- 8 -- 11 --
text: The BEEPING sound dies.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 25 LUTHER 25
text: A glance across the foyer -- the lights of the security
text: detector go from red to a warm looking green.
dialog: Safe.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 7.
scene_heading: 25 CONTINUED: 25
text: He allows himself to exhale. Then he's busy again,
text: unhooking the computer. His fingers, as always, work
dialog: quickly, precisely.
scene_heading: 25A INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - FOYER - NIGHT 25A
text: The foyer as Luther, once again carrying his backpack,
text: moves across it. Behind him, the front door is again
text: shut, the security panel back on, screws all in place.
text: It's as if he hadn't been there at all...
scene_heading: 26 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - STAIRCASE - NIGHT 26
text: Luther walks quickly up -- and here we get a sense of the
text: vast size of the place -- it feels bigger inside than it
text: looked in the moonlight.
text: A Van Gogh at the head of the stairs. Luther moves past
text: it, then stops, goes back, studies the painting. It's a
dialog: late one, when the madness had him and things were
text: sliding away. Very sad.
text: Luther looks at it admiringly for another moment --
text: -- then surprisingly he raises his hand, and for just an
text: instant traces the lines of the painting in the air, as
dialog: if trying to figure out how the magic was done, as if
dialog: getting ready for his next museum session --
text: -- then almost grudgingly, he moves on, up toward the
dialog: third floor.
scene_heading: 27 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - THIRD-FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT 27
dialog: Here's a Hopper. One of the great ones, filled with an
dialog: overpowering sense of being alone --
text: -- Luther stares at it almost in awe, whispers "wow,"
text: moves on.
scene_heading: 28 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - HALLWAY - NIGHT 28
text: Luther, walking down the third-floor corridor.
text: The corridor walls. No paintings here -- instead we see
text: a series of framed photographs. The first is of a baby
text: girl, the next one of the same child at three.
text: We watch the child grow up in these photos. At ten she
text: is already pretty. At fifteen a stunner.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 8.
scene_heading: 28 CONTINUED: 28
text: Not a classic beauty by any means, she is turning into,
dialog: if you will a latter-day Ann-Margret. The kind of girl
dialog: you ached for in high school. The perfect cheerleader.
dialog: These are pictures, we will come to know, of Christy
text: Sullivan. A high school graduation shot at eighteen, a
text: shot in front of a Burger King at twenty.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - WEDDING PHOTOGRAPH *
text: Christy, looking just fabulous, is 24 and smiling
text: happily. We can only see her face and the wedding veil
dialog: here. Now --
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
text: A glorious and expensive white wedding dress. Christy
text: holds a bouquet of flowers. Breathtaking.
text: KEEP PULLING BACK.
dialog: And now we can see the groom. Walter Sullivan. Walter
text: is smiling too, one arm proudly around his lovely bride.
text: Walter, it might be noted, is eighty years old.
text: Luther, staring at the photo, shakes his head. Now he
text: moves on.
scene_heading: 29 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 29
text: Luther opens the DOOR. It SQUEAKS. He goes inside,
text: closes the door firmly. Next, he puts his backpack down,
text: takes out a low-power non-glare work light, sets it up.
text: Now he looks around. A huge room, a gigantic canopied
dialog: bed.
text: A nightstand alongside, which contains a small silver
text: clock, three Danielle Steel novels piled neatly one atop
text: the other, several more photos of the happy couple --
text: -- and an antique silver-plated letter opener with a
text: thick leather handle.
text: Luther. He studies himself in front of a very large
text: full-length mirror across from the canopied bed.
dialog: Now we realize something -- he isn't studying himself,
text: he's studying the mirror itself.
text: He turns, goes to the sitting area where there are chairs
text: and a sofa and a large TV and VCR.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 9.
scene_heading: 29 CONTINUED: 29
text: Three remotes on a side table. Luther carefully picks up
text: the middle one, crosses the room with it, points it at
text: the large mirror, clicks once --
text: -- and the mirror swings silently open.
text: A room is revealed. All we can see of it so far is this:
text: There is an armchair in the middle facing where the
dialog: mirror had been.
text: Luther turns back toward the sitting area, the remote
text: held in his hand.
text: The side table. Luther puts the remote down -- very
text: carefully. In the exact position it had been. Now he
text: takes a moment, blows on his hands, rubs them together.
text: Then -- Luther takes a collapsible duffel bag out of his
text: backpack, moves with the work light into the revealed
dialog: room --
scene_heading: 30 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - VAULT - NIGHT 30
dialog: It's a vault! And it's FULL! There's cash, naturally,
dialog: piles of the stuff. Plus all kinds of other valuables
dialog: we'll get around to.
text: Luther's a little stunned -- it's more than he hoped for.
text: He glances at the armchair -- there is a remote on it
text: that is identical to the one he replaced at the side
dialog: table.
text: Now he opens his duffel all the way and sets to work.
text: First the cash goes in -- all neatly bundled. Large
text: denominations. Lots of bundles. Next are a series of
dialog: slender boxes --
text: The first box as Luther opens it.
dialog: Jewelry.
text: Into the duffel it goes.
text: Luther, emptying more jewelry boxes into the duffel. And
text: still more. As he continues to do this --
scene_heading: 31 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 31
text: All is quiet. High on a wall, the security light beams a
text: friendly green.
text: Now, from somewhere, a distant sound. LAUGHTER? Was it
dialog: laughter? Doesn't matter, it's gone.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 10.
scene_heading: 32 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 32
text: Luther has moved deeper into it -- he's finished with the
text: jewelry. Now he's examining piles of bonds.
text: Into the duffel they go.
text: He takes a breath, glances around. Perfect.
text: Coins. Antique ones. They disappear into the duffel.
text: Stamp books. Gone into the swelling duffel.
text: Luther as he hears now the DISTANT LAUGHTER. Not so
dialog: perfect.
scene_heading: 33 INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 33 *
text: He moves quickly out of the vault, takes a step toward
text: the door -- the GIGGLING is getting LOUDER, closer. Two
text: people. A man and a woman.
text: Luther stops, mutters "shit!" -- glances around -- No
text: place to hide. Luther, grabbing his backpack, moves into
text: the vault, turns off his work light, and shuts the door
text: with the remote. The DOOR CLICKS --
scene_heading: 34 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 34
text: -- Luther is alone in the darkness.
text: A burst of LAUGHTER now. Growing nearer still.
text: Luther moves into the back of the vault, crouches down,
text: doing his best to hide behind the armchair. Trapped,
text: Luther waits in silence, trying not to breathe...
text: Now he can hear a SQUEAK -- the BEDROOM DOOR has opened.
speaker_heading: HOLD.
scene_heading: 35 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 35
text: Dark -- except for a slant of light from the hall outside
text: the open bedroom door.
text: Two people are briefly visible as they enter, a MAN and a
text: WOMAN. The CLINK of GLASS. Stifled LAUGHTER.
text: The Woman closes the bedroom door.
text: Darkness again.
text: And now the LAUGHING sound increases. GIGGLING, really.
dialog: 11.
scene_heading: 36 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 36
text: Luther in the pitch-black vault. The GIGGLING is MUTED
text: but it is there. He is starting to perspire.
scene_heading: 37 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 37
text: The woman flicks on the lights and as she does --
scene_heading: 38 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 38
text: Luther as the burst of light hits him like a fist -- and
text: it's over.
text: Luther blinks, confused, looks around --
text: -- because it isn't over, he hasn't been caught.
text: The door to the vault is suddenly gone. Luther is
text: staring straight into the goddamn bedroom.
text: Because the door is a two way mirror. Now it's as if he
text: was watching the bedroom on a giant TV screen.
text: Just a few feet away, just outside the door.
text: Where things are clearly starting to heat up.
text: Luther moves to the armchair, sits. There is nothing to
text: do now but wait. He settles in.
scene_heading: 39 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 39
text: They are staring at each other.
text: We have seen the woman already -- she's CHRISTY SULLIVAN.
text: But the pictures in the corridor did not do her justice.
text: This is a fabulous-looking twenty-five-year-old woman.
text: Long, golden hair, a round face that sets off her deep
text: blue eyes, a tanned, curving body. A bare-shouldered
text: black dress. An expensive necklace.
text: One more thing: she is staggering drunk.
text: The man is ALAN RICHMOND, wealthy, successful, handsome
text: and fit. Mid-forties. He wears an elegantly-cut suit.
dialog: Two additional points: (1) Richmond is clearly not the
text: husband in the wedding photo. (2) He is drunker than she
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: 39 CONTINUED: 39
text: Richmond carries a vodka bottle and two tumblers. He
text: fills them, gives one to her.
text: They touch glasses. Down the hatch. Tight laughter.
text: He looks at her.
text: She looks at him. There's a lot of sexual tension in the
dialog: air.
text: But now he begins looking around, checking things out.
text: She spots this.
speaker_heading: CHRISTY
dialog: (drunk)
dialog: It's okay -- I told him I was
dialog: sick -- anyway, he's gone --
dialog: relax...
text: He nods then, more at ease. And he blows her a kiss.
text: She catches it -- and now she starts to parade for him.
text: Her body moving very slowly.
text: He pours himself another shot, chugs it, watches. Now --
scene_heading: 40 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 40
text: Luther suddenly terrified and we find out why.
scene_heading: 41 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 41
text: Christy, fumbling with her necklace, looks across the
dialog: room --
text: What she's looking at: the side table with the remote
text: that opens the vault.
scene_heading: 42 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 42
text: Luther, frozen, as Christy starts toward the table.
scene_heading: 43 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 43
text: The table and the remote waiting there.
scene_heading: 44 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 44
dialog: Luther, mouth dry...
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 13.
scene_heading: 45 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 45
text: Richmond, reaching out for her, then as she passes him;
text: he takes her by the hand --
text: -- and now they are dancing, their bodies pressed
text: together. They move slowly. She hums. He tries to get
dialog: fancy, spin her with one arm --
dialog: -- no good. They're too drunk for it, starts to lose
dialog: balance, separate.
text: They giggle. Smile at each other. Now Christy manages
text: to unhook her necklace, and as she starts to drop it in *
dialog: the drawer of the nightstand -- *
scene_heading: 46 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 46
text: Luther. A genuine sigh of relief --
dialog: -- which suddenly dies --
scene_heading: 47 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 47
text: Christy, as she spins toward the table again, still with
text: the necklace in her hand.
scene_heading: 48 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 48
text: Luther, and there's nothing he can do now but watch.
scene_heading: 49 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 49
text: Richmond, watching too, emptying the vodka bottle into
text: his tumbler, chugging it down and now...
text: The table as Christy reaches out, grabs a remote, turns.
scene_heading: 50 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 50
dialog: Luther dead in the water because --
speaker_heading: 51 CHRISTY'S 51
dialog: pointing the goddam thing at him --
dialog: -- and as she CLICKS it --
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 14.
scene_heading: 52 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 52
text: Luther, and for a moment, he's like a goddam deer caught
dialog: in the headlights --
text: -- but now here comes another sigh of relief and we find
dialog: out why.
scene_heading: 53 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 53
text: Suddenly there's ROMANTIC MUSIC PLAYING -- she's turned
text: the STEREO ON. Christy starts humming, replaces the
text: clicker, drops the necklace in the drawer. *
text: Then they are into each other's arms. Their bodies
text: press. Their bodies sway. He moves a hand to her
dialog: breasts --
text: -- Christy breaks loose, shakes a finger at him, as if to
dialog: say, "naughty, naughty" --
text: -- then with one hand, she pulls a zipper down. The
text: dress falls off her body. Her breasts spring free. She
text: is wearing only her panties now and high heels. And a
dialog: smile.
text: She is stunning looking and she knows it and men have
dialog: always gone nuts over her and she knows that too. And
text: Richmond can't resist her either, goes to her, bends her
text: back, caresses her neck, begins sucking her nipples.
text: Christy moans.
scene_heading: 54 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 54
text: Luther, in the chair, embarrassed, averting his eyes.
text: But the MOANING from the other room GROWS LOUDER, more
text: insistent.
scene_heading: 55 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 55
text: Christy, pulling away for a moment, starting to work at
text: Richmond's tie, shakes him out of his suit jacket,
text: reaches for his belt, loosens it. She is working at his
text: shirt buttons now and their breathing is audible and in a
text: moment he is down to his boxer shorts and then her
text: panties are off, her shoes kicked away and they are near
text: the vault mirror now. As they approach it, they stare at
dialog: themselves.
scene_heading: 56 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 56
text: Luther, moving farther back in his chair as their faces
text: are just a couple of feet away --
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 15.
scene_heading: 57 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - CLOSEUP - CHRISTY - NIGHT 57
text: as Richmond's hands move across her wondrous body and she
text: is hot and drifting into drunken fantasy and her eyes
dialog: close and --
scene_heading: CLOSE ON RICHMOND *
text: as his eyes are open --
text: -- the look on his drunken face is scary.
scene_heading: 58 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 58
text: Luther, transfixed by that look, transfixed and worried.
scene_heading: 59 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - CHRISTY AND RICHMOND 59
scene_heading: IN CLOSEUP - NIGHT
text: looking at each other now, and she is smiling happily and
text: looking at him and he is smiling happily and looking at
text: her, and whatever was on his face just before has gone.
scene_heading: 60 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 60
text: Luther, watching as they turn for the gigantic canopied
dialog: bed.
scene_heading: 61 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 61
text: The bed as they stop alongside it and kiss -- it's their
text: first. And her arms go around his neck and she holds him
text: like that, her eyes shut tight --
scene_heading: 62 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 62
text: Luther -- watching because Richmond's eyes are not shut,
text: they are wide open and they stare at the mirror and the
text: awful look from before is back, only worse, and then
text: without warning, he grips her buttocks roughly --
text: -- and slaps her hard on the ass, over and over and
text: Christy is shocked, surprised, pulls away. Richmond
text: smiles at her sweetly.
text: Christy. Shaking her head.
text: Richmond. He continues to smile, makes a courtly
text: gesture, kissing her fingertips in apology.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: 62 CONTINUED: 62
text: Christy. She smiles in acknowledgement and they move
text: onto the bed. She pushes him down and straddles him.
text: Richmond, from her POINT OF VIEW -- a wonderfully-
dialog: handsome man.
text: Christy, from his POINT OF VIEW. A glorious, vibrant
text: young woman. She smiles, touches her lips to a finger,
text: reaches out, touches the finger to his mouth.
dialog: It's a sweet moment.
text: They smile.
text: Then he reaches up, and without a word, grabs her breasts
text: and squeezes and twists them brutally and Christy is
text: shocked and she tries to make him stop but he won't, and
text: she cries out in pain but he still won't stop so she
text: slaps him in the face. He slaps her back, viciously,
text: right in the mouth and now there is blood mixing with her
text: lipstick and she rolls off the bed onto the floor.
text: Christy sits there stunned.
speaker_heading: CHRISTY
dialog: (slurred)
dialog: You fucking bastard.
dialog: And on that --
text: Richmond, standing now, reaches down to help her up.
text: Christy hesitates, finally takes his hand and as soon as
text: she is on her feet --
text: Christy, kicking him with all she has, in the stomach.
scene_heading: 63 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 63
text: Luther, silently applauding.
scene_heading: 64 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 64
text: Richmond, the air momentarily out of him, falling
text: drunkenly to the floor, stunned for just a moment and
text: clearly in pain, but he is a big man and he is strong and
text: he grabs her ankle, yanks, and then both are laboring on
text: the floor and Christy kicks him again and again --
text: -- but he will not release her ankle. Each kick only
text: inflames his drunken rage.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: 64 CONTINUED: 64
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (very slurred --)
dialog: You little whore --
text: And now they both try and stand.
text: Neither one does it gracefully, neither one does it
text: quickly, but Richmond gets there first and as soon as he
text: is on his feet he begins to strangle her.
text: Christy, gasping, terrified, she claws at his arms, her
dialog: fingers scratching deeply --
dialog: -- but he will not let go.
text: She twists and jerks her body --
text: -- no good -- he continues to tighten his grip on her
dialog: throat --
text: -- and spreads his legs for better balance.
text: The bed table, as Christy, beyond desperation reaches
dialog: around for something, anything -- her fingers finally
text: close on the letter opener and in one wild stroke, she
text: slashes his right arm.
text: Now he lets go. And stares, stunned, at his bleeding
dialog: arm.
text: Then he crunches her flush in the mouth, a brutal blow,
text: and blood pours from her nose and mouth and if she
dialog: weren't so scared, maybe it would have stopped her, but
text: it doesn't -- because somehow she manages to maintain
dialog: balance --
text: -- and knees him all she has, in the nuts.
text: It's over -- Richmond falls to the floor, helpless. He
text: lies on his back, holding his crotch.
text: But it isn't over. Christy, blood pouring down her face,
text: stands over him, the letter opener still tight in her
dialog: hand.
text: And in her eyes you can see it, the homicidal rage --
text: -- and she drops to her knees beside him --
text: -- and Richmond can only lie there, watching her --
text: -- and she gets a better grip on the letter opener --
text: -- and Richmond still only lies there, watching her --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: 64 CONTINUED: (2) 64
text: -- and she raises the letter opener slowly very high
text: above her head, the point aimed at his heart --
dialog: -- and Richmond screams one time --
text: -- and as Christy starts to kill him, two well-dressed
text: men in business suits burst through the bedroom doorway,
text: GUNS in their hands, and they BLOW HER BRAINS OUT before
text: the opener reaches Richmond's heart...
scene_heading: 65 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 65
dialog: Luther, in SLOW MOTION and this is what he does --
text: -- he reels back in the chair, eyes wide, jaw slack,
dialog: mouth open --
dialog: -- this is a man who has seen everything but nothing has
dialog: prepared him for this --
text: -- his arms flop over the arms of the chair, his body
text: loses strength, he tries to look away, can't --
dialog: -- and this is what he sees --
scene_heading: 66 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 66
dialog: Christy, fighting for another instant of life --
dialog: -- no chance --
text: -- the two bullets have shattered her brain, her eyes
text: roll up into her head, the letter opener drops to the
text: rug, she collapses like a rag doll --
text: -- and blood is everywhere.
scene_heading: 67 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 67
text: Luther. Back in regular motion now. Pale, barely able
dialog: to breathe.
scene_heading: 68 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 68
text: The two well-dressed men in business suits.
text: BILL BURTON is the more formidable. Mid-40s, he looks
text: like a retired tight end. No body fat. Intimidating.
text: But right now he is shaking and he can't stop it. He
text: puts his gun away, goes to Richmond.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: 68 CONTINUED: 68
text: TIM COLLIN is closing in on 30. Handsome. In wonderful
text: shape. Burton is more physical, Collin more lethal. He
text: puts his gun away, goes to Christy.
text: Richmond is trying to sit. He is as drunk as before but
text: now he is also close to shock. He reaches over, manages
text: to pick up the bloody letter opener.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Kill her?
text: Collin, by the body, nods.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: No choice in the matter.
text: His words are efficient but clearly, he has been rocked.
text: Richmond, staring stupidly at the letter opener. He
text: drops it back to the floor, tries to stand, can't.
text: Burton helps him back to the bed. Which is when he
text: passes out cold.
text: Burton and Collin look at each other now.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Jesus, Tim, what did we do?
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: (echoing Burton)
dialog: No choice in the matter.
scene_heading: 69 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 69
text: Luther, staring at it all. The shock is still there but
dialog: so is something new: anger. And on that --
scene_heading: 70 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 70
text: GLORIA RUSSELL moving through the bedroom door.
text: Russell's 40, well-dressed, attractive and very smart.
text: Now she sees what's happened, stops dead.
text: Now she moves forward, looks at Burton and Collin. It's
dialog: very clear from the outset: these three are not
dialog: friendly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 20.
speaker_heading: 70 CONTINUED: 70
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (to Burton and Collin)
dialog: Do you realize what a shitstorm
dialog: we're in?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Go on -- tell me.
speaker_heading: COLLIN
text: Nothing to tell. He screamed.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: And you heard no sounds of
dialog: violence 'til then?
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Nothing we haven't heard before.
text: Richmond, on the bed, out. Russell studies his face as
text: Burton moves toward the telephone.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Maybe I should call the police
dialog: now.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - RUSSELL *
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Bill? Why don't you think about
dialog: that?
dialog: (beat -- starting to
dialog: move toward him)
dialog: Take a second and just think about
dialog: that.
dialog: (closing in on Burton,
dialog: furious)
dialog: Think... real... fucking... hard.
speaker_heading: BURTON *
text: He is strong enough to snap her neck with one hand.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (backing away)
dialog: Probably not a good idea.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (taking charge)
dialog: Okay -- here's what happened
dialog: tonight -- poor Christy came home
text: alone and interrupted a burglary.
dialog: That sound logical?
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: 71 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 71
text: Luther in the closet. He nods.
scene_heading: 72 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 72
text: Burton and Collin nod, too.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: We're going to have to sanitize
dialog: this place.
dialog: (shaking Richmond)
dialog: Alan, did you have sex with her?
text: Richmond, eyes barely open.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: ... Don'... 'member...
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Bill, you're going to have to
dialog: examine her.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: I'm no gynecologist.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (she takes nothing
dialog: from nobody)
dialog: I just made you one.
dialog: End of discussion.
scene_heading: 73 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT (LATER) 73
text: A clock on the side table beside the three clickers.
text: There is the sound of a VACUUM -- it's later now.
text: The place is incredibly changed. Christy is lying as
text: before -- except now she is fully dressed. The bed has
text: been made with clean sheets. There is a large black
text: garbage bag that Collin shoves the sheets in, dumps in
text: Christy's jewelry. Burton is VACUUMING the rug.
text: Richmond is visible, still in terrible shape, finishing
text: putting his clothes on in the open master bedroom.
text: Everyone wears gloves.
dialog: Everything that is incriminating is gone --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: 73 CONTINUED: 73
text: -- except the letter opener, which has been put in a
text: clear plastic bag. Collin reaches for it, starts to dump
text: it in along with the sheets and the jewelry.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I'll take that.
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: It's got their prints on it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (she holds out her
dialog: hand)
dialog: Thanks for sharing.
text: Collin glances at Burton, shrugs, hands it over. Russell
text: puts it in her handbag, puts the handbag on the bed table
dialog: when suddenly --
text: Richmond, careening into the room, wide-eyed, crying
dialog: out --
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Gloria -- I killed her --
text: Russell, turning, shocked as Richmond bears down --
text: -- she holds out her arms for him, but he is staggering
text: and he collides hard with her, spins against the wall,
text: uses the bed table to try to steady himself.
scene_heading: 74 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 74
text: Luther, stunned, staring.
scene_heading: 75 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 75
text: What he's staring at: the letter opener has spilled from
text: her open purse and fallen behind the bed, out of sight.
text: Russell, calm, going to Richmond, starting to lead him
dialog: from the room --
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: It's all going to be fine, Alan.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: ... But she's dead...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: 75 CONTINUED: 75
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: ... I'll take care of everything
dialog: just like I always do.
dialog: (to Burton and Collin)
dialog: Gentlemen?
text: She gestures to leave.
text: Burton and Collin finish up -- Collin grabs the large
text: plastic bag. Burton glances around one final time and
text: backs toward the door, vacuuming carefully. Then --
text: Collin stops dead. He stares across at the bed table.
scene_heading: 76 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 76
text: Luther, holding his breath.
scene_heading: 77 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - BURTON AND COLLIN - NIGHT 77
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: Shit.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: What?
text: In reply, Collin dashes back toward the bed table, grabs
text: Russell's purse, snaps it shut, tucks it under one arm
text: and leaves.
text: Burton flicks the light out, closes the door.
text: The room is lit by moonlight now. Christy looks
text: beautiful and still. HOLD for a moment.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. MANSION - FRONT DOOR - NIGHT 78
text: It's open and Russell leads a staggering Richmond
text: outside. Two dark Towncars are parked in the driveway.
text: Burton is behind them, turning off all lights. Collin is
text: last, with Russell's purse, the garbage bag. As he
text: follows them outside, he closes the front door firmly --
text: it makes a loud, solid sound.
scene_heading: 79 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - LUTHER - NIGHT 79
text: The sound is barely audible. He has been looking at his
dialog: watch --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: 79 CONTINUED: 79
text: The watch face is illuminated in the darkness. The
text: second hand is fifteen seconds away from the top.
text: Luther takes a deep breath, waits in silence.
text: The WATCH face: the sound is loud, like "60 Minutes."
scene_heading: 80 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - DRIVEWAY - NIGHT 80
text: Burton and Russell moving with Richmond toward one of the
text: cars. Burton takes the man in his arms, leaving Russell
text: free to open the back door.
text: Collin dumps the plastic bag into the trunk, shuts it,
text: moves quickly so that he can get a decent view of the
dialog: road.
text: The road in front of the house. Empty. Collin hurries
text: to the Towncar where Burton is struggling to get Richmond
text: comfortably stretched out on the back seat.
scene_heading: 81 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 81
text: The second hand on Luther's watch hits the top and he
text: moves into action.
text: -- He points the clicker at the door --
text: -- the door starts to swing open --
text: -- Luther, backpack in hand, strides quickly into the
text: bedroom, turns, points the clicker again and as the door
text: starts to swing shut -- Luther carefully tosses the
text: clicker back inside.
scene_heading: 82 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - ARMCHAIR - NIGHT 82
text: as the clicker lands -- dead-solid perfect --
scene_heading: 83 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 83
text: Luther, in the bedroom, moving to the nightstand,
dialog: carrying his backpack --
text: -- he slows as he circles the body of Christy Sullivan,
text: looks sadly down at her, continues on as we MOVE TO...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 25.
speaker_heading: 83 CONTINUED: 83
text: The bed table. First, Luther opens the drawer and *
text: pockets the necklace. Tense, he kneels, probes behind *
text: the table, reaches farther and then -- the letter opener!
text: In the plastic bag. Luther grabs it.
text: He rises, opener in hand, and goes to the far window that
text: has a view of the front of the house. He looks out,
text: grimaces.
scene_heading: 84 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - DRIVEWAY - NIGHT 84
text: The cars are still there. Burton is visible helping
text: Russell in. Collin hands over her purse, closes the
text: door. He and Burton move to the front doors.
scene_heading: 85 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 85
text: Luther, going to the rear window. He opens the window
text: slowly and silently. He ties one end of the rope around
text: the leg of a heavy, wooden chest of drawers --
text: -- now he carefully plays the knotted rope out the
dialog: window.
scene_heading: 86 EXT. SULLIVAN DRIVEWAY - TOWNCAR - NIGHT 86
text: Collin heads to one of the Towncars. In the other Burton
text: and Russell are getting settled in the front. Richmond
text: lies in a stupor, stretched along the rear seat.
dialog: Russell --
text: -- a moment of relief. She breathes deep. And as
text: Russell starts to open her purse --
scene_heading: 87 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - KNOTTED ROPE - NIGHT 87
text: as it snakes down the brick mansion -- it reaches the
dialog: ground.
scene_heading: 88 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 88
text: Luther, putting his backpack on securely.
text: The window -- Luther glances out and down.
scene_heading: 89 HIS POV - GROUND OUTSIDE SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 89
text: Forty feet below. And it's dark.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 26.
scene_heading: 90 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 90
text: Luther -- he doesn't much like this -- but taking hold of
text: the rope, he puts one leg out the window -- only the damn
text: backpack makes it complicated and he's caught for a
text: moment, clumsily trapped with one leg in, one leg out and
text: the backpack wedged against the corner of the window --
text: -- and at that moment, there is a SCREAM.
scene_heading: 91 EXT. SULLIVAN DRIVEWAY/INT. TOWNCAR - NIGHT 91 *
dialog: Gloria Russell, as every nightmare she has ever had comes
dialog: true -- the fucking letter opener isn't in her purse and
text: as she screams again --
scene_heading: 92 EXT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - WINDOW - NIGHT 92
text: Luther, cursing to himself, forcing his way out the
text: window and it isn't easy, but he makes it and then the
text: rope slips in his hands and for one precarious moment, he
dialog: is in serious trouble and...
scene_heading: 93 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - DRIVEWAY - NIGHT 93
text: The Towncar doors bursting open as Burton and Collin come
text: barrelling out.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 94
text: Luther, getting his grip on the nylon rope again,
text: starting to go down -- but it's difficult going for him.
scene_heading: 95 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - FOYER - NIGHT 95
text: Burton and Collin tearing into the house, Collin in the
dialog: lead.
scene_heading: 96 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 96
text: Luther in the night, thirty feet up, and he can hear
text: COMMOTION inside the house and he tries to go faster --
dialog: -- but it's not easy; the man is, after all, in his 60s
text: and he's dangerously high and his visibility is rotten,
text: so he's doing the best he can, but he isn't exactly
dialog: flying.
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: 97 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - DRIVEWAY - NIGHT 97
text: Russell, standing by the Towncar, staring in at the house
dialog: and from the look on her face, you know she thinks her
dialog: life might be over.
scene_heading: 98 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - STAIRCASE - NIGHT 98
text: Burton and Collin, racing up the second floor staircase
text: toward the top.
scene_heading: 99 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 99
text: Luther, halfway down.
scene_heading: 100 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - HALLWAY - NIGHT 100
text: Burton and Collin, tearing along the third floor
dialog: corridor.
scene_heading: 101 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 101
text: Luther, ten feet off the ground now.
scene_heading: 102 INT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 102
text: The bedroom door, flying open.
scene_heading: 103 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 103
text: Luther, six feet to go, three, and he lets go, drops the
text: rest of the way, hits the ground running.
scene_heading: 104 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 104
text: Burton, racing toward the window, Collin goes to the
dialog: night table.
scene_heading: 105 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - NIGHT 105
text: Luther, at the end of the house, turning a corner.
scene_heading: 106 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 106
text: Burton, staring out the window and Luther is gone.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 28.
speaker_heading: 106 CONTINUED: 106
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Shit!
text: Collin, looking around the table and the letter opener is
dialog: gone.
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: Shit!
text: And without another word, they bolt out the door.
scene_heading: 107 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - GROUNDS - NIGHT 107
text: Luther, crashing through the field. He is in wonderful
dialog: shape --
dialog: -- for a man his age.
dialog: And he gives it all he has but is it going to be enough?
scene_heading: 108 EXT. SULLIVAN DRIVEWAY - NIGHT 108
text: The Towncar as Collin yanks something out of the glove
text: compartment, and then he is racing off into the night
text: after Burton who is a few steps ahead.
scene_heading: 109 EXT. SULLIVAN DRIVEWAY/INT. TOWNCAR - NIGHT 109 *
text: Russell staring after them -- in the back seat, Richmond
text: is in a half-slumber.
scene_heading: 110 EXT. SULLIVAN MANSION - GROUNDS - NIGHT 110
text: Luther, bursting out of the underbrush --
dialog: -- up ahead is the most dangerous place for him --
text: -- one hundred yards of open field. He runs on.
scene_heading: 111 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - BURTON AND COLLIN - NIGHT 111
text: as Collin catches up to the other man, tosses what he
text: took from the glove compartment.
text: Thermal goggles.
dialog: They put them on, on the fly and...
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: 112 THERMAL POV 112
text: The world ahead of them as they see it: their FIELD OF
text: VISION now resembles a rough computer game. THERMAL
text: IMAGES register in red, everything else is dark green.
scene_heading: 113 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - OPEN AREA - LUTHER - NIGHT 113
text: Beginning to tire now -- and he's only halfway through
dialog: the open field and...
text: Burton and Collin, behind him, can't see him yet, but
dialog: they are moving faster --
dialog: -- and Burton could probably destroy anyone in a fight --
dialog: -- but Collin can fly.
text: And he begins to leave Burton behind.
text: Luther, and twenty yards ahead of him are some woods that
text: spur him on, he pumps his arms, his body straining and
text: his breath coming in gasps and...
text: Collin, graceful and young and in fabulous shape and just
text: ahead is the open field and as he starts into it --
speaker_heading: 114 THERMAL POV 114
text: What Collin sees: a THERMAL figure; a man running out of
text: the open and then disappearing into the woods.
scene_heading: 115 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - OPEN AREA - NIGHT 115
text: The sight of the figure is enough to kick Collin into
text: overdrive and he has never run this fast as he crosses
text: the open area.
scene_heading: 116 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - WOODS - NIGHT 116
text: Luther, running through the woods -- he can hear THEM
text: now, and he knows they're closing on him and he glances
dialog: back --
text: -- and smashes into a fucking tree!... hard... and it
text: rocks him, drops him to his knees --
scene_heading: 117 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - OPEN AREA - NIGHT 117
dialog: Collin and he could be jet propelled.
dialog: 30.
scene_heading: 118 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - WOODS - NIGHT 118
text: Luther, forcing himself back to his feet and running
text: again, giving it everything he has left and he's dodging
text: through the trees now.
scene_heading: 119 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - NEAR WOODS - NIGHT 119
text: Burton, behind Collin, but he draws his gun anyway --
text: Collin, in the woods, and his gun's drawn too --
text: Luther, out of the woods and now his car is visible --
text: Collin, in the woods but they're coming to an end.
speaker_heading: 120 THERMAL POV 120
text: The figure up ahead is approaching a car.
scene_heading: 121 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - LUTHER'S CAR - NIGHT 121
text: Luther, throwing the car door open, ripping off his
text: backpack, tossing it inside, jumping in behind the wheel.
scene_heading: 122 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - WOODS - NIGHT 122
text: Burton. Pulling up, gasping terribly. He sinks to one
dialog: knee.
dialog: Collin, out of the woods! -- Still amazingly without the
dialog: least sign of tiring --
text: -- and now there is a sound: a CAR MOTOR STARTING.
scene_heading: 123 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - LUTHER'S CAR - NIGHT 123
text: Luther in his car, wheels spinning.
scene_heading: 124 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - WOODS - NIGHT 124
text: Collin has his pistol ready but it's impossible to hit
dialog: anything when you're running like this.
scene_heading: 125 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS/INT. LUTHER'S CAR - NIGHT 125
text: Luther, in the car, GUNNING AWAY.
dialog: 31.
scene_heading: 126 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - WOODS - NIGHT 126
text: Collin. Slowing.
scene_heading: 127 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - LUTHER'S CAR - NIGHT 127
text: The car. A swirl of dust.
text: The dust clears.
text: The car rounds a corner, is gone.
scene_heading: 128 EXT. SULLIVAN GROUNDS - NIGHT 128
text: Collin. He stands there, rips off his thermal goggles --
text: -- and surprisingly, he smiles.
text: Burton, getting to his feet, his breath still not steady.
text: He takes his goggles off too as Collin approaches.
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: (still the smile)
dialog: I got his license number.
dialog: Now on that --
scene_heading: 129 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 129
text: Russell -- back in the bedroom, with Burton and Collin
text: who are moving around constantly, checking the place out.
dialog: Things are just amazingly tense.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (close to losing it)
dialog: Gee, guys, maybe it was the
dialog: bogeyman -- don't forget to check
dialog: under the bed --
dialog: (exploding)
dialog: -- You may have buried us! --
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: -- relax, I got his license
dialog: number, remember? --
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (whirling on him)
dialog: -- you think he's going to just
dialog: sit around waiting for us? --
dialog: Asshole --
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: -- take it easy, Miss Russell --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: 129 CONTINUED: 129
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (trying for calm)
dialog: -- everybody shut up, all right?
text: He is staring at his reflection in the big mirror. He
text: crosses to it, goes to his knees, studies the rug.
text: The rug -- indentations in the expensive carpet.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Oh boy...
text: Burton and Collin with a crowbar, working at the mirror.
text: The MIRROR; there is a TEAR and a POP and it swings open.
scene_heading: 130 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - NIGHT 130
text: All three going inside, looking around. The chair, the
text: looted shelves. The truth thuds home.
text: Russell turns, looks out at the bedroom through the door.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (dead)
text: A two-way mirror.
text: Silently, they move out into the bedroom.
scene_heading: 131 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT 131
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: -- I better get cracking on that
dialog: license number --
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (no anger now)
dialog: -- it's all we've got -- and he's
dialog: got the letter opener -- blood,
dialog: fingerprints -- Jesus, think what
dialog: he can do --
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (a powerful man who
dialog: speaks softly)
dialog: -- the man is a thief -- a thief
dialog: who witnessed a murder --
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: 131 CONTINUED: 131
speaker_heading: BURTON (CONT'D)
dialog: (gesturing around)
dialog: -- it looks like he stole a whole
dialog: bunch of money -- I'll tell you
dialog: what he's going to do.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He's going to run like hell.
dialog: And on that --
scene_heading: 132 INT. WASHINGTON MUSEUM - DAY 132
dialog: The saddest eyes you ever saw.
text: It's the next morning and Luther is back at the same old
text: stand, looking at El Greco. The other art students are
dialog: there too. So are the suburban housewives.
dialog: Everything is as it was -- calm and peaceful --
text: -- now a museum guard moves into the doorway, scanning
dialog: the room.
text: Luther -- a quick glance over, then back to his
text: sketchbook -- and from that glance it's clear all is not
text: calm and peaceful.
text: The guard checks the room again.
text: Edgy, Luther still works away.
text: The guard leaves.
text: Luther gets set to do the same.
scene_heading: 133 INT. RED'S BAR - DAY 133
text: Red, alone in his empty bar, sipping coffee. It's before
text: the place has opened for the day.
text: Luther comes in the back. Red slides the videocassette
text: over, Luther pockets it.
speaker_heading: RED
dialog: Jordan beat us at the buzzer.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Bad night.
text: And as he turns, goes --
dialog: 34.
scene_heading: 134 EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING AREA - DAY 134
text: A YOUNG WOMAN parking her car -- a high rocky area above
text: the Potomac. Below, a jogging path is visible, full of
dialog: runners.
text: The Young Woman gets out, locks her car, starts down a
text: narrow walk toward the joggers.
text: She's in her mid-thirties. A good face. And there's
text: something familiar about her.
scene_heading: 135 EXT. JOGGING PARK - DAY 135
text: Luther, standing by the edge of the jogging path,
text: studying the runners. Now he registers something: and
dialog: smiles.
text: The Woman in her mid-thirties as she comes jogging along.
dialog: She runs well.
text: Luther. An imperceptible straightening of his clothes.
text: The jogger. We realize who she is: the little girl in
text: the photo on Luther's dining room table. All grown up.
text: Now her face registers something: his presence. Her
text: eyes go down to the path, she increases her speed.
text: Luther. Waving, calling out.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Kate.
dialog: (as she runs on)
dialog: Kate.
text: She slows, hesitates, stops.
text: Kate, hands on hips, breathing deeply, moving to the edge
text: of the path as he approaches. The river flows behind
text: them. Runners pass by.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Probably too late for me to take
dialog: it up.
text: She says nothing -- he gestures toward the path.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
text: The jogging.
speaker_heading: KATE (YOUNG WOMAN)
dialog: Ahh.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: 135 CONTINUED: 135
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Dumb way to start this, I guess.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Wanted to talk to you.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: About?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Believe it or not, the weather.
dialog: (as she waits)
text: Nights are starting to get cold.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: That happens this time of year.
text: Luther speaks quickly now, his voice low.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I was thinking of maybe
text: relocating. Someplace with a
dialog: kinder climate.
dialog: (nothing shows on
dialog: her face)
dialog: I just wanted to check it out with
dialog: you first...
dialog: (still nothing)
dialog: ... you're the only family I've
dialog: got.
dialog: And on that --
text: Kate speaks quickly now, her voice low.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Luther, you don't have me.
dialog: The last words in this world he wanted to hear, but you
text: can't tell from his face.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Kate --
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: -- you know what it's like being
dialog: the only kid in show and tell who
dialog: got to talk about visiting day?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: 135 CONTINUED: (2) 135
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: This move -- I'm talking
dialog: permanent, you understand.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: We don't see each other anyway --
dialog: we haven't seen each other since
dialog: Mom died and that's a year.
dialog: (a step toward him)
dialog: Look, you chose your life. You
dialog: had that right. You were never
dialog: around for me. Fine. But I have
dialog: no plans to be around for you.
text: And now she stops, turns away toward the path --
text: -- Luther can say nothing, watches her --
text: -- then she spins back --
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (louder now)
dialog: -- wait a minute -- you're lying
dialog: about something, aren't you? --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: -- no --
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: -- are you active again? -- is
dialog: that why you're here now?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: -- no --
text: Kate moves in close now --
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: -- I don't believe you --
dialog: (big)
dialog: -- Christ, Father, what have you
dialog: done?
dialog: And on those words --
scene_heading: 136 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 136
text: Christy Sullivan's body.
text: We're back in the master bedroom but now there is a lot
text: of police activity -- people work around the corpse. The
text: place is covered with black fingerprint powder.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 37.
speaker_heading: 136 CONTINUED: 136
text: SETH FRANK moves into the room -- Bogart at 40. Chief
dialog: Homicide Detective of Middleton County, Virginia but he
dialog: had a decade of top work in New York City. Bright,
dialog: funny, and tough enough for anything you want to throw at
dialog: him.
text: He kneels beside the body next to an older man. This is
text: the MEDICAL EXAMINER, fat and bored. Seth studies
text: Christy; sadly shakes his head.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Christy Sullivan?
speaker_heading: MEDICAL EXAMINER
dialog: (nods)
dialog: Wife of Walter -- most likely came
text: home and stumbled onto a
dialog: burglary --
speaker_heading: WOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: -- some burglary.
text: LAURA SIMON. Laura is early 30s, and the best lab
dialog: technician Seth has ever known, and he knew some good
dialog: ones in New York.
speaker_heading: LAURA SIMON
dialog: I wish my carpets were this clean.
dialog: And I can't find a single decent *
dialog: fingerprint.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: You serious, Laura?
speaker_heading: LAURA SIMON
dialog: (bewildered)
dialog: It's like Mary Poppins was here.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Could someone have let him in?
speaker_heading: LAURA SIMON
dialog: Sorry, Seth, but the entire
dialog: Sullivan household went to
dialog: Barbados two days ago.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Thank you for your support.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: 136 CONTINUED: (2) 136
speaker_heading: LAURA SIMON
dialog: Wait -- it gets worse --
dialog: (moving to the door)
dialog: -- the shots came from here. If
dialog: she interrupted a burglary, she
dialog: should have been here --
dialog: (moving to the bed now)
dialog: -- she was killed where she is --
dialog: all the blood patterns indicate
text: that. But she was looking toward
dialog: the bed -- what in hell was she
dialog: looking at?
scene_heading: 137 INT. SULLIVAN VAULT - DAY 137
text: Seth says nothing as he and Laura go in the vault. Seth
text: stares at the chair.
speaker_heading: LAURA SIMON
dialog: Looks like someone sat here -- but
dialog: I couldn't find any prints.
dialog: (lowering her voice --
dialog: indicating the one-way
dialog: mirror)
dialog: You think Sullivan holed up in the
dialog: chair and watched his wife
dialog: perform?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I hope not --
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: -- he's such a great man.
text: He moves back into the bedroom.
scene_heading: 138 INT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 138
text: Another cop is working on the wall by the bed table where
text: a hole the size and shape of a bullet is visible.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (as he moves past)
dialog: Careful digging that out.
text: The cop nods.
speaker_heading: MEDICAL EXAMINER
text: Looks like he tried to strangle
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: 138 CONTINUED: 138
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: So he tried to strangle her, then
text: went to the door and shot her from
dialog: behind?
speaker_heading: MEDICAL EXAMINER
text: He also inspected her vagina.
text: Seth. Stunned.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: He did what? Why?
speaker_heading: LAURA SIMON
dialog: Maybe he couldn't remember if he
dialog: fucked her.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (has to laugh)
text: A strong burglar with a weak mind
text: -- obviously another open and shut
dialog: case...
text: As he stares around, baffled.
scene_heading: 139 EXT. LUTHER'S SAFE HOUSE APT. BUILDING - DAY 139
text: A high rise. It's in a different part of Washington than
dialog: we've seen thus far. Afternoon now.
text: An old salesman type is trudging into the building. He's
text: slumped, carries heavy salesman type suitcases. He wears
text: a battered hat. As he goes inside --
scene_heading: 140 INT. BUILDING - FOYER/MAIL AREA - DAY 140
text: The salesman is opening a mail slot with the name
text: "Hawthorne" on the outside. A good bit of mail, most of
text: it unsolicited. Hawthorne pockets it, unlocks the foyer,
text: heads toward the elevator.
scene_heading: 141 INT. BUILDING - HALLWAY - DAY 141
text: The elevator and Hawthorne slowly getting out, heading
text: toward a corner apartment, taking out some keys --
text: -- there are three locks on the door... he takes out
dialog: keys --
dialog: 40.
scene_heading: 142 INT. LUTHER'S SAFE HOUSE APARTMENT - DAY 142
text: Hawthorne walks in, puts the suitcases down, flings his
text: hat toward a long sofa --
dialog: -- it's Luther and this, we will come to learn, is what
text: he keeps as his safe house. It's neatly furnished,
dialog: modern and clean.
dialog: Now he moves quickly --
text: -- first he opens a suitcase -- it contains his full
dialog: backpack from the robbery --
text: -- then he opens a locked closet door, revealing a very
text: large and sophisticated safe. As he begins to work the
dialog: dial --
scene_heading: 143 INT. LUTHER'S SAFE HOUSE APARTMENT - DAY (LATER) 143
text: -- the TV ON in the living room as he slides the video
dialog: cassette Red gave him into his machine. Everything has
dialog: been put away.
text: The TV as Michael Jordan is introduced to the crowd --
text: Luther sits, nurses a beer, watches intently...
scene_heading: 144 INT. MORGUE - DAY 144
text: An old man silently weeping.
text: This is WALTER SULLIVAN, one of the giants of the era. A
text: self-made billionaire. Remarkably, the man has few
dialog: enemies.
text: At 80, his body may be betraying him -- he was once
text: handsome -- but his mind is that of a young man.
dialog: We've seen him before -- in the wedding picture on the
text: wall of his mansion. With his young bride Christy.
text: He is with her again now, at the morgue. A sheet covers
text: her body. The toe tag is visible. Walter, shattered and
text: desolate, stares at her once joyous face.
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
scene_heading: 145 INT. MORGUE - OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY 145
text: Seth Frank, studying Walter THROUGH a two way mirror.
text: Seth is moved at depth of the old man's grief. Anyone
text: would be. Walter slowly rises --
dialog: 41.
scene_heading: 146 INT. MORGUE - DAY 146
text: SANDY LORD waiting in an anteroom as Walter enters...
text: Sandy Lord is Walter Sullivan's lawyer. He is 60,
text: abrasive, powerful.
text: Sandy moves to Walter, gestures toward the front door.
text: Seth appears through another door, intercepts them.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Mr. Sullivan? -- I'm Seth Frank,
dialog: senior homicide detective for
dialog: Middleton County --
speaker_heading: SANDY LORD
dialog: (protectively)
dialog: -- my client is in no mood for
dialog: conversation, sir.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: It's all right, Sandy --
dialog: (looks at Seth)
dialog: -- you're in charge of the case?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (nods)
dialog: I have to ask some questions, but
dialog: it can be tomorrow.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: You want what, positive
dialog: identification? Yes, that was my
dialog: wife. Anything else?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (notebook in hand)
dialog: You'd been in Barbados for two
dialog: days?
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (nods)
dialog: I took the entire staff down --
dialog: always do this time of year.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: But Mrs. Sullivan didn't come.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: She was, had it all planned, but
dialog: you know women, they change their
dialog: minds.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: 146 CONTINUED: 146
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Seth, softly)
dialog: I'd been married to my Rebecca for
dialog: forty-seven years and when she
dialog: died, I decided I never wanted
dialog: that pain again. One thing I knew
dialog: about Christy: she was going to
dialog: outlive me.
speaker_heading: SANDY LORD
dialog: I think that's enough for today.
text: Takes Walter's arm.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I have to ask about the vault.
text: And on that -- Walter. Holds to Sandy for a moment, then
dialog: lets go.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: You mean the contents of the vault
dialog: of course --
dialog: (turns to Sandy)
dialog: -- Sandy, you go on, I'm all
dialog: right.
dialog: (as Sandy looks at
dialog: him a moment)
dialog: Really. Go to the reception --
dialog: obviously I can't make it, but I'm
dialog: sure everyone will understand.
text: Sandy nods, exits. Seth and Walter are alone.
dialog: Beat. Then --
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: I know it's not the contents --
dialog: (as Seth embarrassed,
dialog: stands there)
dialog: You mean the chair. You have to
dialog: ask about the chair.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Yessir, I do.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: But why? Are they connected?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 43.
speaker_heading: 146 CONTINUED: (2) 146
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I think someone sat in it -- and I
dialog: think that someone may have been
dialog: involved in the murder.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You were my father's hero, Mr.
dialog: Sullivan, I promise you this won't
dialog: make my highlight reel.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - WALTER *
dialog: Humiliated.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: I'd hoped I could satisfy her...
dialog: but you know... she had needs and
dialog: she didn't want to go behind my
dialog: back... she suggested the chair...
dialog: she hoped I might get to like
dialog: sitting there...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ... I didn't...
dialog: (takes a breath)
dialog: I've tried for eighty years to
dialog: live a decent life. I've given a
dialog: billion dollars to charity. If
dialog: this comes to trial, none of that
dialog: will be remembered -- I'll just go
dialog: out as the joke of the world.
text: Seth. He closes his notebook.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I understand, sir; I'll do what I
dialog: can.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Will you listen to me whine?
dialog: Please forgive me, Mr. Frank.
dialog: Just do your job.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And I'll do mine.
text: Walter slowly moves to the door. Seth watches him.
dialog: Sadly...
scene_heading: 147 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - MAGIC HOUR 147
text: A gorgeous SHOT of a very famous place. The sun is
text: setting. It all looks magical.
dialog: 44.
scene_heading: 148 INT. WHITE HOUSE - NORTH PORTICO - NIGHT 148
text: A room filled with well-dressed men and women. Formal
dialog: attire. The rich and the famous. But the only one we
text: recognize is Sandy Lord, deep in conversation with
text: several other men. Now, someone says his name.
speaker_heading: MAN (O.S.)
dialog: Sandy.
dialog: (as Sandy turns)
dialog: Is there anything I can do?
speaker_heading: SANDY LORD
dialog: Mr. President.
dialog: And on those words -- The 44th President of the United
dialog: States. He has all the natural charm in the world. He
dialog: is remarkably bright, with a phenomenal memory. He is,
dialog: also, at this moment, one of the most popular men in
dialog: American history, three years into a brilliant first
text: term, a shoo-in for re-election when that ritual comes.
dialog: His name, by the way, is Alan Richmond, and we've seen
text: him before, most recently lying drunk in the back seat of
text: a dark Towncar.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Take a walk with me.
text: He and Sandy start out of the room. A well-dressed woman
text: moves with them. She is Chief of Staff and her name is
scene_heading: GLORIA RUSSELL.
text: Two men in suits follow behind. Burton and Collin are
dialog: their names and they are the best the Secret Service has
dialog: to offer.
scene_heading: 149 INT. WHITE HOUSE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT 149
text: The group, as they leave the room, come to a wide
dialog: corridor.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Tell me about Walter -- how is he?
speaker_heading: SANDY LORD
text: Eighty and alone, Mr. President.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: He understands officially my hands
dialog: are tied?
speaker_heading: SANDY LORD
dialog: Mr. President, he's touched at
dialog: your concern.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 45.
speaker_heading: 149 CONTINUED: 149
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Any news of the killer?
dialog: (as Sandy indicates
dialog: "no")
dialog: Well, why isn't there? Who's in
dialog: charge of the case?
speaker_heading: SANDY LORD
dialog: Top man -- eight years homicide
dialog: work in New York. But I
dialog: understand how you feel -- it's
dialog: hard to be patient.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (terribly upset)
dialog: No one understands how I feel --
dialog: I'm supposed to have all this
dialog: power but I can't help my oldest
dialog: friend -- you know and I know that
dialog: more than any man alive Walter
dialog: Sullivan put me here -- and now
dialog: when he most needs me, he must
dialog: feel abandoned.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - RICHMOND *
dialog: On fire --
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: -- I'll hold a press conference --
dialog: and I'll have Walter come -- and I
dialog: will embrace him before the world.
text: Sandy. Listening. Moved.
speaker_heading: SANDY LORD
dialog: He'll treasure that, Mr.
dialog: President. What a generous
dialog: gesture. Thank you. Thank you.
text: And he reaches out, shakes Richmond's hand, squeezes
text: Richmond's arm and -- Richmond -- suddenly screaming in
text: pain -- Sandy pulls back, shocked. Richmond looks
dialog: embarrassed.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (quick smile)
dialog: Damn tennis elbow is killing me.
dialog: And on that --
dialog: 46.
scene_heading: 150 INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE OVAL OFFICE - NIGHT 150
text: Richmond, immediately after, and he sure isn't smiling
text: now -- he storms toward the Oval Office, Russell, Burton
text: and Collin hurrying to keep up.
scene_heading: 151 INT. OVAL OFFICE - NIGHT 151
text: Burton opens the door for them, closes it once they're
dialog: inside.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
text: (throws off his jacket,
dialog: turns on Russell)
dialog: This thing's worse, Gloria. I
dialog: need to see a doctor.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: The country would have to be
dialog: informed, Mr. President.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: What happened to my right to
dialog: privacy?
text: (rolls up his sleeve,
dialog: studies his cut)
dialog: I think she nicked a tendon.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Burton says it's a flesh wound --
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (to Burton)
dialog: -- when did you become such an
dialog: expert, Bill? -- Ever been
dialog: wounded? --
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Yes, sir. Many times.
text: The fireplace. Richmond goes to it, rubs his arm, stares
text: at the flames.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Are you serious about that press
dialog: conference, Alan?
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Of course I am -- Walter's been
dialog: like a father to me.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Shall I bring Mrs. Richmond home
dialog: for it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: 151 CONTINUED: 151
text: Richmond, turning from the fire now, quietly.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: I think Mrs. Richmond's mission to
dialog: help the poor in Asia should not
dialog: be interrupted.
dialog: (takes a breath,
dialog: starts to button
dialog: his shirt)
dialog: We know anything yet?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: We checked his license plate -- he
text: stole the car from a police
dialog: impoundment lot.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: We're not dealing with a fool
dialog: here.
text: (gestures toward his
dialog: jacket, as Russell
dialog: helps him into it)
dialog: Has he initiated contact?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
text: Burton doesn't think he will.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: I agree.
dialog: (checking himself
dialog: in a mirror)
dialog: Sorry about my behavior -- won't
dialog: happen again; think of it as a
text: blip on the screen. And as far as
dialog: I'm concerned, so is he.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: He could be a little more than
dialog: that, Alan -- he saw.
dialog: Richmond. Big.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
text: He saw nothing -- a drunk woman
dialog: who liked rough sex too much. And
dialog: he's a burglar. Who's going to
dialog: believe him?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: After all, it's not as if he had
dialog: evidence or anything...
dialog: And on those words --
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 48.
scene_heading: 152 INT. LUTHER'S SAFE HOUSE APARTMENT - LETTER OPENER - 152
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: Luther holds it. It's the middle of the night. Luther
text: turns the weapon over and over in his big hands...
scene_heading: 153 EXT. WHITE HOUSE REAR GATE - NIGHT (LITTLE LATER) 153 *
text: Burton is alone in his car, exiting the gate and driving *
text: home. He turns onto the main road.
scene_heading: 154 EXT. STREET NEAR WHITE HOUSE/INT. BURTON'S CAR - NIGHT 154
text: He picks up speed. Glances around -- no cars are
dialog: following.
text: Burton reaches into his pocket, takes out a MICRO-
text: CASSETTE RECORDER, flicks it ON.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (V.O.)
dialog: What happened to my right to
dialog: privacy?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I think she nicked a tendon.
text: Burton clicks the cassette off, puts it back into his
text: pocket. Drives into the night...
scene_heading: 155 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - TINY KITCHEN - DAY 155
text: A stove with one burner on high. A tea kettle is over
dialog: the flame.
text: It is morning and Kate is clearly not fully awake. She
text: is finishing making instant coffee with lowfat milk and
text: Sweet 'n Low; next she goes to the front door of her
text: apartment, opens it, picks up the morning Washington
dialog: Post.
text: She unfolds the paper as she starts back to the
dialog: kitchen --
scene_heading: INSERT - WASHINGTON POST
dialog: Huge headlines -- as big as you can get without a war.
scene_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN'S WIFE MURDERED
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: 155 CONTINUED: 155
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Kate looks at it only a moment, shakes her head, then
text: starts to turn her attention to another section of the
dialog: paper --
dialog: -- she doesn't get that far.
dialog: Kate: she has seen something she didn't catch before --
text: The front page again. And the headline is still there --
text: -- but there is a smaller headline beneath it:
dialog: Jewel Thief Sought
text: Kate sits down hard. Trying for control. Entering a
text: nightmare. She stares at the paper.
text: The front page. Pictures of the mansion, of Walter
text: smiling on his wedding day, of Christy.
text: But Kate's eyes keep coming back to the smaller headline:
dialog: Jewel Thief Sought
text: She tries to sip coffee, spills. She closes her eyes --
text: in the kitchen, the pot of WATER starts to SHRIEK. Kate
text: does not move.
scene_heading: 156 EXT. VALERIE'S MIDDLE CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY 156
speaker_heading: (EARLY AFTERNOON)
dialog: Kids riding bicycles. Very Norman Rockwell.
scene_heading: 157 INT. VALERIE'S BASEMENT - DAY 157
text: A bald man. There is the sound of a CLICK. We realize
text: after a moment that the bald man is Luther.
text: Another SHOT of Luther looking very different -- full
text: beard. Again, a CLICK.
text: Luther again -- elegant beard this time. CLICK.
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
text: We are in the basement game room of one of the suburban
dialog: homes.
text: But our attention is on a whole string of Polaroids of
dialog: Luther.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: 157 CONTINUED: 157
text: Two people are present: Luther and VALERIE. Valerie is
text: very small, and doesn't miss much.
text: She has been photographing him, and as the last photo
text: slides out of the camera, she blows on it, puts it
text: alongside the others.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: (as they study the
dialog: pictures)
dialog: You always did disappear good,
dialog: Luther.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You mean I've got a weak face.
dialog: Thanks, Val.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: You're lucky is all -- some of my
dialog: customers, they stand out no
dialog: matter what.
text: An order form book. Valerie licks a pencil with her
dialog: tongue.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: How many passports you need?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (thinks)
dialog: Four should cover it.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: (writes this down)
dialog: Now you'll want different looks,
dialog: and matching international
dialog: driver's licenses -- I'll throw in
text: some dummy credit cards, seeing
dialog: it's you. How the rugs I made you
dialog: holding up?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: They're good. Beards and
text: mustaches, too.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: (pleased)
dialog: I try to give value for money.
dialog: Leaving the country permanent?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: It may come to that.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 51.
speaker_heading: 157 CONTINUED: (2) 157
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: Matter where you've been? -- I
dialog: hate doing those goddam Asian
dialog: passport stamps.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Europe's fine. Maybe the
dialog: Caribbean for winters. When can I
dialog: pick up?
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: Usually takes some time, but for
dialog: you, I'll rush it.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Thanks, Val. I've always been
dialog: able to count on you.
text: Valerie puts the order book down, studies him.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: I don't want to know what you're
dialog: into, but leaving forever...
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Finish it.
speaker_heading: VALERIE
dialog: I never figured you for a runner
dialog: -- thirty percent of my runners
dialog: kill themselves within five years.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (kisses her forehead)
dialog: Five years doesn't sound so bad to
dialog: me just now.
text: And as he heads out --
scene_heading: 158 INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - CRIMINAL LAB - DAY 158
text: Seth and Laura in the good-sized criminal lab. Loaded
text: with up-to-date equipment.
text: Seth has drawn a picture of the crime scene. Words like *
text: "Bedroom Door," "Exit Window," "Vault," "Bed," "Victim"
text: are written neatly to scale. He holds a sheaf of papers.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 52.
speaker_heading: 158 CONTINUED: 158
text: It's late afternoon and things are already getting
text: crazed. NOISE in the b.g. throughout.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: See if any of this makes sense.
text: Seth mimes opening the "bedroom door," stepping inside,
text: closing it. He makes a click with his tongue.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I am Christy Sullivan and I walk
text: in and surprise a burglar.
text: Seth moves to the "vault door," mimes closing that, makes
text: a grunt.
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: Now you're the burglar coming out
text: of the vault and being surprised.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Gold star.
text: (aims his finger like
dialog: a pistol)
dialog: I draw my gun --
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: (cutting in)
dialog: -- then why do you bother to
dialog: strangle her when you could just
dialog: shoot?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: That's nothing -- why do I bother
dialog: to have her strip and then put her
dialog: clothes back on?
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: There I can help you -- see,
dialog: before you were a burglar you were
dialog: a dry cleaner and you still love
text: beautiful clothes.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: And I dress her because?
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: She was a good customer and you
dialog: didn't want her embarrassed when
dialog: the police came.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) *
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 53.
speaker_heading: 158 CONTINUED: (2) 158 *
speaker_heading: CLOSEUP - SETH
text: Frustrated.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: She had a point-21 blood alcohol
dialog: level. -- she was too drunk to
dialog: drive. I've checked every cab and
dialog: limo company in the area and not
dialog: one of them knows anything.
dialog: Someone drove her home. Goddamit,
dialog: who? And why haven't they come
dialog: forward?
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: Maybe whoever drove her home
dialog: killed her.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: You saying the burglar drove her
dialog: home?
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: I hate this case.
text: An open door behind them. A TELEPHONE REPAIRMAN appears.
text: Nice looking kid with a dazzling smile.
scene_heading: TELEPHONE REPAIRMAN
dialog: Lieutenant? -- sorry to bother you
dialog: --
dialog: (as Seth turns)
dialog: I've got your phone working again,
dialog: shouldn't give you any more
dialog: trouble.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Good service, thanks.
scene_heading: TELEPHONE REPAIRMAN
dialog: (dazzling smile
dialog: as he goes)
dialog: Part of the job.
text: Seth and Laura. Seth's lost his train of thought. Then --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Oh yeah -- remember that bullet
dialog: hole in the wall? Had the lab dig
dialog: out the slug -- guess what -- no
dialog: slug -- why does the burglar take
dialog: the time to do that?
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: Different from the one in her
dialog: body?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 54.
speaker_heading: 158 CONTINUED: (3) 158 *
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (getting more and
dialog: more upset)
dialog: Oh I like that a lot -- two
dialog: different guns means two different
dialog: burglars. Two guys broke in? And
dialog: they both went out the window?
dialog: Bullshit.
dialog: (big)
dialog: And oh, by the way, why does he --
dialog: or they -- go out the window in
dialog: the first place when he -- or they
dialog: -- got in by breaking a zillion-
dialog: dollar security system? --
speaker_heading: COP (O.S.)
dialog: -- Seth?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (whirling)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (in doorway)
dialog: A Bill Burton of the Secret
text: Service in the parking lot.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (gives papers to
dialog: Laura)
dialog: Here, you solve the goddam thing.
dialog: (as he starts away)
dialog: Did I mention that I hate this
dialog: case? I really truly hate this
dialog: case -- you cannot imagine how
dialog: much I hate it --
scene_heading: 159 EXT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PARKING LOT - DAY 159
text: Burton waits by his car as Seth walks up.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (as they shake)
dialog: Bill Burton, hi --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: -- hi, Seth Frank --
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: -- I know you must be going crazy
dialog: -- but the boss is very interested
dialog: in your progress. Maybe we can
dialog: help each other.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: 159 CONTINUED: 159
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: What did you have in mind?
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: You know how close he and Sullivan
dialog: are?
dialog: (as Seth nods)
dialog: The minute anything breaks, if
dialog: you'd call me, I'd tell the
dialog: President. That way, he'd be the
dialog: first to alert Mr. Sullivan -- it
dialog: would mean a lot to him. And any
dialog: red tape you want cut -- done.
text: (as he takes out
dialog: card)
dialog: Here are my numbers.
text: He turns, opens his front car door.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (getting in)
dialog: Leads?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Still trying to figure out what
dialog: might have happened --
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: -- I loved playing Sherlock
dialog: Holmes.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: You Secret Service guys do that?
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: I was State Trooper here ten years
dialog: ago before the Government got me.
text: Seth. It just pops out.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: You're that Bill Burton.
text: Burton. Embarrassed.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: I was younger and dumber then.
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Keep in touch.
text: Seth waves as Burton drives away.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 56.
scene_heading: 160 EXT. STREET NEAR POLICE HEADQUARTERS - DAY 160
text: Burton. He drives alertly along, turns a corner. Up
text: ahead, a telephone repair truck has stopped. The
text: Repairman leans out. He has a dazzling smile. He and
text: Burton wave to each other...
scene_heading: 161 INT. SULLIVAN DINING ROOM - NIGHT 161 *
text: Quietly elegant. Two men are finishing dinner. Walter
dialog: Sullivan we know.
text: MICHAEL McCARTY, his dinner companion, is 35, fit,
text: handsome, beautifully dressed. He is, at present, torn
text: by a silver tray of small French pastries.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (noting McCarty's
dialog: temptation)
dialog: The chef makes them especially for
dialog: me -- I promise you they're
dialog: sinful.
text: McCarty grabs one, downs it, grins sheepishly.
speaker_heading: McCARTY
dialog: You're a salesman, Mr. Sullivan.
text: Sullivan nods as they rise.
scene_heading: 162 INT. SULLIVAN LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 162 *
dialog: Tastefully appointed, as one would expect.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: This is a new arena for me, but
dialog: from what I'm told, you have a
dialog: flawless reputation, Mister
dialog: McCarty -- which is why I need to
dialog: employ you.
speaker_heading: McCARTY
dialog: Understood.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: I have no idea who I'm after.
dialog: Until I do, you will have to wait
dialog: in Washington for instructions.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 57.
speaker_heading: 162 CONTINUED: 162
speaker_heading: McCARTY
dialog: Out of the question, I'm afraid.
dialog: (explaining as they
dialog: walk)
dialog: Mine isn't particularly creative
dialog: work -- I only do it because I
dialog: enjoy living beyond my means. I
dialog: can't afford to just sit around.
text: A sofa. Walter gestures for them to sit.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: When I was 10 my father died -- he
dialog: was a miner and lung disease
dialog: killed him. I became rich at 25
dialog: and the first thing I did was
dialog: purchase that mine, close it, and
dialog: give every miner there fifty
dialog: thousand dollars to retire on.
dialog: (beat; staring at
dialog: McCarty now)
dialog: You will come to Washington, Mr.
dialog: McCarty. You will put one million
dialog: dollars expenses into the Swiss *
dialog: bank account of your choosing.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And, when the time comes, two
dialog: million dollars a bullet.
speaker_heading: McCARTY
dialog: (smiles, nods)
dialog: You are a salesman, sir.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: Selling sin is easy...
dialog: Now, sharply...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 163 INT. SETH'S OFFICE - CLOSEUP - OLD MUG SHOT OF LUTHER - 163
speaker_heading: DAY
text: PULL BACK to reveal...
text: ... Seth and Laura, in his office. The mug shot is on
text: his desk, along with some folders. Seth beckons to her.
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: (studying photo)
dialog: Who is he?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: 163 CONTINUED: 163
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Luther Whitney --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- one of the great thieves of the
dialog: world.
text: Seth. The words pour out.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Been going nuts with this thing,
dialog: up all night and I remembered your
dialog: notion how it might be two
dialog: burglars, and around dawn I
dialog: thought, wait, what if it wasn't
dialog: two burglars but what if it was
dialog: one guy trying to throw us off by
dialog: making it look like two?
dialog: (faster)
dialog: Called a buddy at the Bureau --
dialog: they keep track of this stuff
dialog: internationally -- he says maybe
text: only a half a dozen guys alive
dialog: could have pulled off the Sullivan
dialog: job -- I'm tracing all six --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- but Whitney's the only one
dialog: lives in Washington.
text: Laura. Looking at Seth now. Starting to get excited,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: Why haven't I ever heard of him?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Because he hasn't been arrested in
dialog: thirty years.
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: (indicating mug shot)
dialog: This his graduation picture from
dialog: Harvard?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (waving her off)
dialog: Ancient history -- he wasn't a
dialog: jewel thief back then. Just a
dialog: kid, just part of a gang, a three-
dialog: time loser. But since he got out
dialog: the last time, he's only worked
dialog: alone --
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 59.
speaker_heading: 163 CONTINUED: (2) 163
speaker_heading: SETH (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- and no one's touched him.
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: He gets questioned whenever
dialog: anything big comes up. But
dialog: nothing sticks.
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: (really excited now)
dialog: Seth -- we can make this stick --
dialog: I'll bet you anything this is our
dialog: guy -- a local? -- can't ask for
dialog: more --
speaker_heading: SETH *
dialog: (makes a face) *
dialog: We've got a problem. *
speaker_heading: LAURA *
dialog: -- what? --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Whitney hasn't killed anyone in 45
dialog: years.
text: Laura doesn't get it.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Korea.
speaker_heading: LAURA
dialog: Big deal, so he's a veteran.
speaker_heading: SETH
text: Not just a veteran -- a wounded
dialog: veteran.
dialog: (indicating folder)
dialog: Got his combat record here.
dialog: Battles, commendations, *
dialog: decorations up the kazoo. *
dialog: Lives alone on his disability. *
dialog: Says he does anyway. *
dialog: (glum) *
dialog: And I don't do war heroes... *
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 164 EXT. WASHINGTON MUSEUM - DAY 164
text: Luther -- it's a beautiful morning now and he's walking
text: up the steps to the art museum. He seems in a terrific
text: mood as he goes inside --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 59A.
speaker_heading: 164 CONTINUED: 164
scene_heading: -- HOLD.
text: Seth has been on the steps of the museum, watching him.
dialog: Now quickly --
scene_heading: 165 INT. WASHINGTON MUSEUM - DAY 165
text: Luther, inside, peering back out at Seth. And he doesn't
text: seem in as terrific a mood now. He hesitates, keeps on
dialog: going.
dialog: 60.
scene_heading: 166 EXT. WASHINGTON MUSEUM - DAY 166
text: Seth. Outside -- and he knows Luther was watching.
scene_heading: 167 INT. WASHINGTON MUSEUM - DAY 167
text: El Greco. The usual group has gathered, sketching away.
text: Luther is deeply engrossed in his labors.
text: Seth enters the room, casually taking it all in. He
text: approaches the group, ends up behind Luther who is intent
dialog: on getting the hands right.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (not looking)
dialog: Boy, you must be smart.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (really taken aback)
dialog: Sorry?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Usually takes a week for you guys
dialog: to get to me.
dialog: (turns, smiles)
dialog: You look just like your picture,
dialog: Seth. I'm Luther Whitney.
text: He reaches out to shake a surprised Seth's hand --
scene_heading: 168 INT. MUSEUM - COFFEE SHOP - DAY 168
text: They walk in, go to the food line. There is, throughout,
text: a bantering tone. Not that it matters, but these two, in
dialog: a different world, would like each other -- they're both,
text: in their own ways, deeply moral men.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: So, do you want my confession now
dialog: or after coffee?
text: As Luther draws some coffee from an urn --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (doing the same)
dialog: Before I send you away for life, I
dialog: should probably check out your
dialog: alibi.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: 168 CONTINUED: 168
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Watched the Bullets game with Red
dialog: Bransford. Prison buddy of mine
dialog: -- runs a bar -- want to question
dialog: me about the game? I'm probably
dialog: lying.
text: They each give the cashier some money and we see a quiet
text: table in the corner as they head for it.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: You been following the case?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (nods vigorously)
dialog: I love true crime --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: -- F.B.I. feels only a few guys
dialog: could have handled something as
dialog: hard as the Sullivan job.
dialog: (touches his notebook)
dialog: I've got a list here; you're on
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (nothing shows)
dialog: I wish it was true.
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: Your robber actually went in the
text: front door but came out down a
text: rope in the dark in the middle of
dialog: the night?
dialog: (as Seth nods;
dialog: Luther sighs)
dialog: If only I could do stuff like that
dialog: -- I'd be the star of my A.A.R.P.
dialog: meetings.
text: Luther and Seth as they sit. Seth smiles, looks at
dialog: Luther.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Luther? Why was this so hard?
text: Luther. Now he's surprised. He kind of smiles.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You want me to help solve your
dialog: case?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: 168 CONTINUED: (2) 168
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Just looking for insight. How
dialog: would you -- scratch that -- how
dialog: would one go about it? What kind
dialog: of person do you think I should be
dialog: looking for?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (like a shot)
dialog: Older fella. Like me.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (now he smiles)
dialog: Because?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Need patience. The secret is just
dialog: research, research, research --
dialog: from everything I've read.
dialog: Seth. This hasn't gone at all the way he thought -- and
text: he's starting to get fascinated.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Research for what?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Well, from what I can tell on the
dialog: tube, it's not a small house.
dialog: (as Seth nods)
dialog: There had to be an architect,
dialog: right? You'd be able to tell
dialog: which one from public records in
dialog: the library. And once you know
dialog: the office, you could break in and
dialog: find the plans and Xerox them, get
dialog: them back before morning.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Not just steal them?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Seth -- breaking in isn't hard --
dialog: what's hard is breaking in so no
dialog: one knows you've been there. Now,
dialog: after the architect, next you'd
dialog: want the contractor's office --
text: and the security company's office.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You know the skill involved
dialog: breaking the security of a
dialog: security company?
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: I wonder how those guys do it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: 168 CONTINUED: (3) 168
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Why go to all that trouble?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Papers said he kept the money in a
dialog: vault, yes?
dialog: (as Seth nods)
dialog: Well, I'm guessing there was
dialog: probably some secret way to open
dialog: it --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (casually)
dialog: -- clicker --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (fascinated)
dialog: -- explain --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: -- gizmo -- looked like a V.C.R.
dialog: remote --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: -- amazing --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- must have been a lot of money
dialog: inside.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (sipping casually;
dialog: a pause)
dialog: Five million.
dialog: And on those words --
dialog: Luther, more than he thought, a lot more -- but of course
text: nothing shows -- instead he breaks out laughing.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Why's that funny?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: The way you said it -- as if you
dialog: were trying to surprise me.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: I was trying to surprise you.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (smiles back)
dialog: There you go.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: 168 CONTINUED: (4) 168
text: Seth sips his coffee, takes out his notebook, opens it.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Would the burglar use a disguise?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Seth, you've got to get with the
dialog: program you expect to catch this
dialog: guy -- most likely it is a guy, am
dialog: I right? Some kind of weird
dialog: loner?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Maybe like you.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (couldn't agree more)
dialog: I'm the perfect prototype.
dialog: (sipping away)
dialog: But you see any face often enough,
dialog: you'll start putting things
dialog: together. That's why these top
dialog: guys disguise themselves. I read
dialog: a great article a couple of years
dialog: back -- damn, I wish I could
dialog: remember where -- anyway, it was
dialog: about these makeup experts some of
dialog: them use -- wigmakers, people like
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (flipping a page)
dialog: Go on about the wigmakers.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (glancing at his watch)
dialog: I'd love that but I'm late as it
dialog: is -- got to get my pacemaker
dialog: checked.
dialog: (he likes Seth)
dialog: -- all this excitement, you
dialog: understand.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (and he likes Luther)
dialog: A) You don't have a pacemaker, and
dialog: B) I'll be back tomorrow.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Tomorrow is promised to no one.
text: HOLD ON Luther.
dialog: 65.
scene_heading: 169 INT. LUTHER'S SMALL HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 169
text: Luther is throwing clothes into a suitcase while talking
dialog: on the phone --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Not 'til morning?
dialog: (makes a face)
dialog: -- I'll be by early --
text: He hangs up, shuts the suitcase, takes off out the
dialog: door --
scene_heading: 170 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 170
text: A place we've seen briefly before. Dark. Moonlight
text: through the windows.
text: The sound of a KEY IN the DOOR.
text: Luther enters, takes out a tiny flashlight. We're in one
text: largish room, books all over. The home of someone who
dialog: doesn't care a whole lot about their home.
scene_heading: 171 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 171
text: Luther enters. He opens the fridge. Disaster -- still
text: water, sparkling water, carrot sticks.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (sadly, muttering)
dialog: Katie darling, you've gotta try
dialog: real food sometime.
text: He closes the door, moves back into the room --
scene_heading: 172 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 172
text: A graduation photo of Kate. Luther touches it with a
text: fingertip, moves on through the silence.
scene_heading: 173 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT 173
text: Luther by the bed now, he flashes his light around --
text: -- what the light illuminates: a bed table full of law
text: books. Expected. A phone/answering machine. The
dialog: mandatory lamp.
text: And photographs. A proud mother and daughter picture.
text: The daughter is Kate. The mother is a fine-looking woman
text: with a kind face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 66.
speaker_heading: 173 CONTINUED: 173
text: Half a dozen more shots as Kate grew up, the mother grew
text: older. Mother and daughter, mother and daughter.
dialog: Nothing unusual here at all.
dialog: So why is Luther so sad?
speaker_heading: HOLD.
scene_heading: 174 EXT. MIDDLETON COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY 174
text: 10 A.M. A white-brick, weather-beaten building, Old
text: Glory fighting the breeze.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (V.O.)
dialog: I am having this press conference
dialog: here because...
text: Richmond, speaking on a podium. The press corps stands
text: in front of him, TV crews of all kinds, CNN the most
dialog: noticeable.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: ... it is here, at this courthouse, *
dialog: that Christine Sullivan's killer
dialog: will be tried for his crime.
text: Burton and Collin, in the b.g., scanning the crowd.
text: Gloria Russell stands behind them.
scene_heading: 175 INT. AIRPORT LOUNGE - DAY 175
text: The same shot -- only now it's grainy -- we're watching
text: it on a TV SCREEN. CNN ON the TUBE.
text: A BARTENDER cleaning glasses; otherwise, not a whole lot
text: going on.
text: Now Luther enters, dressed for travel. He goes to a
text: stool, orders a ginger ale, puts his passport and ticket
text: on the bar, glances toward the TV.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Turn that off, okay?
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: (finishing up the
dialog: glasses)
dialog: In a sec.
dialog: 67.
scene_heading: 176 EXT. MIDDLETON COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY 176
text: Richmond at his press conference. He speaks without
text: notes and he speaks beautifully.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: As you know, I came from an
dialog: impoverished family in an
dialog: impoverished town -- but we lived
dialog: with our doors unlocked.
text: Russell watching, listening; she loves hearing him talk.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (O.S.)
dialog: We all lock our doors now, but
dialog: that is not what concerns me...
text: Burton and Collin, scanning the crowd.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (O.S.)
dialog: ... we are also locking our
dialog: hearts... that is the sadness,
dialog: that is the loss.
text: Richmond, and suddenly he's like a Southern minister.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: We are locking our hearts to the
dialog: cries of the weary, we are locking
dialog: our hearts to the poor and their
dialog: pain...
text: An old man, standing behind Russell. We realize it's
dialog: Walter Sullivan.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (O.S.)
dialog: ... Sisters and brothers, we are
dialog: locking our hearts to ourselves.
scene_heading: 177 INT. AIRPORT LOUNGE - DAY 177
text: Walter Sullivan. Grainy now. CNN. He has aged
text: shockingly in the past couple of days.
text: Luther staring sympathetically at the devastated old man.
text: -- Sullivan's image suddenly is gone --
text: -- The Bartender has TURNED OFF the TELEVISION.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (politely)
dialog: Put it back on.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 68.
speaker_heading: 177 CONTINUED: 177
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: (starting to argue)
dialog: You said --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (cutting through)
dialog: Do it --
text: CNN. Walter Sullivan is still there.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (V.O.)
dialog: We feel savagery and violence must
dialog: be allowed a place at table.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That is wrong. That is not
dialog: America. I shall fight that
dialog: battle.
text: Luther, staring at the image of Walter Sullivan, who is
text: heartsick and beaten. Luther is simply transfixed --
text: -- Richmond on CNN and now he has turned and is beckoning
dialog: for Walter Sullivan to join him.
text: Sullivan for a moment is uncertain. He points to himself
text: -- "do you mean me?" Richmond nods, opens his arms out
text: wide. Sullivan gets up, comes forward.
text: Luther, as he gets up too, also comes forward, leaving
text: the stool, walking close to the television.
text: Richmond and Sullivan, grainy on CNN as Richmond embraces
text: Sullivan, holds him in a loving embrace.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (V.O.)
dialog: Dear friend, old friend, we shall
dialog: fight that battle.
text: Sullivan, too overcome by the moment, can only nod.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND (V.O.)
dialog: Who can explain the ways of
dialog: chance? If we had never met, I
dialog: would not be President. If
dialog: Christine had not taken ill, she
dialog: would be with you in Barbados *
dialog: even now. Oh, Walter, you've *
dialog: always been like a father to me. *
dialog: I would give the world to lessen
dialog: your pain.
dialog: 69.
scene_heading: 178 EXT. MIDDLETON COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY 178
text: The press corps. Subdued, saddened.
text: Richmond and Walter. They turn, face the cameras. The
text: president's arm is still around the old man; they both
dialog: blink back tears and now --
dialog: -- here it comes ! --
scene_heading: 179 INT. AIRPORT LOUNGE - EXTREME CLOSEUP - LUTHER - DAY 179
text: Tears of rage in his eyes. A rage so deep it shocks
dialog: him --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You -- heartless -- prick --
dialog: (building)
dialog: -- you -- fucking -- bastard --
text: The Bartender, surprised, turning toward Luther. He
text: starts to say something, stops; something tells him to
dialog: shut up and he does.
scene_heading: 180 EXT. MIDDLETON COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY 180
text: Richmond, wiping away tears, alone on camera.
scene_heading: 181 INT. AIRPORT LOUNGE - DAY 181
text: Luther, wiping away tears, in the bar.
text: A SHOT of the two of them, Luther and Richmond, one on
text: CNN, one in reality, because Luther has moved so close to
text: the TV he and Richmond could almost be staring at each
dialog: other.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (whispered now)
dialog: I'm not running -- not from you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm going to bring you down...
text: HOLD ON the two men.
scene_heading: 182 INT. WHITE HOUSE - NORTH PORTICO - DAY 182
dialog: Seventy very excited people we've never seen before.
text: They stare around at their surroundings -- they are in
text: the White House. On a guided tour.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 70.
speaker_heading: 182 CONTINUED: 182
text: A bright late morning of what's going to be a beautiful
text: day. A guide leads the people through a doorway. They
text: troop happily along.
text: Luther is with them; he seems happy too.
scene_heading: 183 INT. WHITE HOUSE - NORTH PORTICO AREA - DAY 183
text: The guide leads the people through. They look around,
text: chat with their friends, follow the guide out.
text: Luther follows the guide out too.
text: HOLD ON the room.
dialog: All is as it was.
text: Except a large envelope has been dropped on a side table.
text: MOVE IN ON the envelope --
dialog: -- it's addressed to Gloria Russell.
scene_heading: 184 INT. WHITE HOUSE - GLORIA RUSSELL'S OFFICE - DAY 184
text: Gloria Russell. Terrified.
text: Her doors are closed, Russell is at her desk. Burton
text: stands alongside. Collin, silent, sits in a corner.
text: And on her desk, half out of the envelope, is a photo-
text: graph of the letter opener.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: He was in the building -- he took
text: a guided tour.
text: Burton pulls the picture all the way out, studies it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I've never dealt with blackmail --
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (trying for calm)
dialog: -- he doesn't want money --
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (exploding)
dialog: -- you a mind reader too? *
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: 184 CONTINUED: 184
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (under control)
dialog: No, I just looked on the back --
dialog: (shows her )
dialog: -- see? --
dialog: Luther has written something.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (reading)
dialog: 'I don't want money.'
text: Russell is more upset. Burton almost smiles.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (admiringly)
dialog: This guy sure has the guts of a
dialog: burglar. Wish we had him.
text: Collin laughs.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You finished your recruiting
dialog: speech? Because I'd like to know
dialog: how I handle this.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Like you handled the letter
dialog: opener?
text: Russell. She studies Burton. Then --
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Gee, Bill, that could be construed
dialog: as criticism. Do you really want
dialog: me as an enemy?
text: Burton stands there, massively powerful. His voice, when
text: he speaks, is his usual voice: polite, considerate.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Miss Russell, I should have called
dialog: the police that night. But I was
dialog: weak. You convinced me to stay
dialog: silent. I regret that.
dialog: (another pause)
dialog: Know this: every time I see your
dialog: face I want to rip your throat
dialog: out.
dialog: Russell. Silence.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: 184 CONTINUED: (2) 184
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Fine -- you win the pissing
dialog: contest --
dialog: (then suddenly
dialog: almost like a
dialog: little girl)
dialog: -- what should I do?
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Nothing -- because he's making a
dialog: terrible mistake, he thinks he has
dialog: time -- he doesn't -- Seth Frank's
dialog: too good. He'll bring him in.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Then what?
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: (his first words)
dialog: Then I kill him.
dialog: Now, from them --
scene_heading: 185 INT. KATE'S OFFICE - DAY 185
dialog: She is, we will find, a top prosecutor for the Common-
text: wealth of Virginia. Her office is a zoo.
text: On her desk, a baby picture of Kate and her mom smiling
dialog: -- but there is something a little different about it.
text: Seth enters and they shake. He glances around --
text: -- sees the photograph, glances away.
text: Kate has risen now -- and in the silence it's clear that
text: even though they are both standing still, they are both
text: circling.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (trying for a smile)
dialog: For a tough prosecutor, you don't
dialog: resemble your reputation, Miss
dialog: Whitney.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (the same)
dialog: Is that good or bad?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: 185 CONTINUED: 185
speaker_heading: KATE (CONT'D)
dialog: (before Seth can
dialog: reply)
dialog: Look, Lieutenant -- I told you on
dialog: the phone, I'm simply not involved
dialog: with my father, so this may not be
dialog: a waste of time for you, but it
dialog: sure is for me.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: What would you do if I just turned
dialog: around and left?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Report you as an incompetent.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (a real smile now)
dialog: You're exactly like your
dialog: reputation, Miss Whitney --
text: As they head out --
scene_heading: 186 INT. LOUNGE OUTSIDE KATE'S OFFICE - DAY 186
text: They enter. It's empty.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (the instant
dialog: they're alone)
dialog: I'm assuming your father's a big
dialog: part of you --
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: -- what? --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: -- You think it's all coincidence?
dialog: He's a thief and you just happen
dialog: to be the toughest prosecutor in
dialog: the area?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (just amazed)
dialog: Wow -- that never crossed my mind
dialog: -- you think there might be some
dialog: connection? -- Like maybe I'm
dialog: somehow compensating? -- I better
dialog: write that down.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: -- Luther disappeared.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: 186 CONTINUED: 186
dialog: No reaction.
text: A banged-up couch. Kate sits, shrugs.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I think you can help me.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Lieutenant -- I don't know the man
dialog: -- he was in jail when I was a
dialog: kid, when he got out my mother and
dialog: I went off to live by ourselves.
dialog: We don't make contact. He doesn't
dialog: care about me. I've seen him all
dialog: of once this past year.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Couple days ago. He said he might
dialog: be going away. There. I just
dialog: helped you. Can I go back to work
dialog: now?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: Any idea where he might have gone?
text: Seth and Kate realize something: In a different world,
dialog: under different circumstances, they'd probably be
text: starting an affair.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (snappishly)
dialog: Quit wasting my time -- if he
dialog: doesn't want you to find him,
dialog: you're not going to find him.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: You saying he's left town, skipped
dialog: the country, what?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: I'm saying you won't recognize
dialog: him. I'm saying he could be just
dialog: around the corner -- he always
dialog: kept a safe house --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (cutting in)
dialog: -- where? --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 75.
speaker_heading: 186 CONTINUED: (2) 186
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: He never said --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: -- Then where'd you hear this?
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - KATE *
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: -- my mother loved him, all right?
dialog: -- Even after she left him -- even
dialog: when she was dying she always
dialog: talked about him -- 'If only he
dialog: hadn't this,' 'if only he could
dialog: have that' --
text: She stops.
text: Seth, watching her.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: And?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: I meet a lot of asshole cops like
dialog: you -- guys who O.D.'d on
dialog: Columbo --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: -- Lady, I may be an asshole cop
dialog: but you don't know me well enough
dialog: to call me one --
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: -- There's something else, isn't
dialog: there? Something you want me to
dialog: do? -- But you won't say ---
dialog: Seth. There is. But he won't say.
text: Kate. For the first time now, apprehension. Now --
scene_heading: 187 EXT. LUTHER'S HOUSE - DAY 187
text: The row of small, neat houses -- where Luther lived.
text: Kate and Seth get out of his car, go to the front door.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: How long did he live here?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: 187 CONTINUED: 187
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Years.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Never been.
scene_heading: 188 EXT. LUTHER'S FRONT DOOR - DAY 188
text: Seth stoops, gets the key from under the terra cotta
dialog: planter.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Strange place for a thief to leave
dialog: a key, don't you think?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (quick memory)
dialog: He always did that...
scene_heading: 189 INT. LUTHER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 189
text: They enter. It's surprisingly tidy.
text: Seth and Kate as they move along. Seth is watching Kate
text: who suddenly stops dead.
text: The mantle. A large blowup of the same picture Kate had
text: in her office, the one of Kate and her mom --
text: -- with one startling change: Luther is in this shot,
text: standing there proud and smiling. She has ripped his
text: presence out of her photo.
text: Seth, silently watching Kate. She turns sharply away.
text: He gestures for her to follow.
scene_heading: 190 INT. LUTHER'S BEDROOM - DAY 190
text: They enter. Clothes tossed all over.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: He sure took off in a hurry. What
text: scares a professional thief like
dialog: that?
text: Kate. No reply. She has seen something across the tiny
dialog: room and is drawn to it --
dialog: Luther's bed table --
dialog: -- and here it is!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: 190 CONTINUED: 190
dialog: Call it a montage, call it a collage, call it what you
dialog: will, we are looking at dozens of photographs --
text: -- all of them featuring Kate.
dialog: Many of them we saw in her apartment -- only here, as in
text: the photo over the mantle, Luther is there with Kate and
dialog: her mom.
dialog: We are looking at a shrine!
text: And there are newer photos too -- Kate at her college
text: graduation, Kate at her law school graduation, Kate and
text: her mother coming out of an elegant restaurant, Kate
text: alone on the steps of Middleton County Courthouse --
dialog: -- these are not posed shots.
text: She looks wonderful and alive in all of them --
text: Kate. She looks dead now. All energy gone. She sits
text: heavily down on the bed.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (fighting tears)
dialog: ... but he wasn't at those
dialog: places...
dialog: (pointing to the
dialog: grown-up photos)
dialog: ... college graduation; law school
dialog: graduation; the night Mom and I
dialog: celebrated when I got a job; and
dialog: me alone on the steps? -- I'd just
dialog: won my first case, I was so
dialog: proud...
dialog: (still fighting)
dialog: ... I used to think... sometimes
dialog: I'd come home and I'd sense he'd
dialog: been in my apartment, checking the
text: fridge, shaking his head because
dialog: he never thought I ate right...
dialog: It's crazy but I just knew Daddy
dialog: was watching over me...
text: And now she loses it, starts crying silently.
text: Seth kneels alongside her, gives her a handkerchief.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: You can do a good thing, Kate --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- help me bring him in. Just
text: leave a message on his phone
dialog: machine, you're worried about him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 78.
speaker_heading: 190 CONTINUED: (2) 190
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: ... No...
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: It's the truth -- you are worried
dialog: about him -- this isn't your
dialog: normal case -- his life may be in
dialog: danger -- you can save him, make
dialog: the call --
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: ... He won't come...
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (indicating the
dialog: pictures)
dialog: Of course he'll come. You're all
dialog: he has.
text: Kate, staring at the photos, trying to get control.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (moving in)
text: Kate, he's on the run and he's
dialog: scared and he's right to be scared
dialog: because he's going to get caught
dialog: -- you don't know the heat on this. *
speaker_heading: KATE *
dialog: He's not a murderer. *
speaker_heading: SETH *
dialog: Maybe you're right. Maybe he is *
dialog: innocent. If so I'll have him *
dialog: home and dry in a few hours. But *
dialog: what happens if some hotshot who's
dialog: trying to make a reputation tracks
dialog: him down?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I can guarantee his safety. You
dialog: make the call, I make a promise:
dialog: You'll have your father, home and
dialog: dry...
scene_heading: 191 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON 191
text: Kate alone. Totally wiped out. She is on the phone with
text: Seth. Outside, the sun is dying.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: I left a message on his machine,
dialog: he called back within an hour;
dialog: we're meeting tomorrow afternoon.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 79.
scene_heading: 192 INT. SETH'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON 192
text: Seth, taking it down.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: KATE (V.O.)
dialog: An open-air place near my office,
dialog: the Cafe Alonzo --
text: Seth's excited.
scene_heading: 193 INT. TREASURY BUILDING - BURTON'S OFFICE - BURTON - 193 *
speaker_heading: LATE AFTERNOON
dialog: taking it down.
speaker_heading: KATE (V.O.)
text: Four o'clock -- it's deserted then.
text: Burton's excited too. HOLD.
scene_heading: 194 EXT. SKY - MOON - NIGHT 194
text: high in the sky -- middle of the night now.
scene_heading: 195 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - KATE - NIGHT 195
text: Wired. Pacing across her small apartment, back and
dialog: forth, back and forth.
scene_heading: 196 INT. SETH'S OFFICE - SETH - NIGHT 196
text: alone in his office, going over plans, sipping coffee to
dialog: stay awake.
scene_heading: 197 INT. BURTON'S BEDROOM - BURTON - NIGHT 197
text: alone in his bed, staring at the ceiling, a nearly empty
text: Scotch bottle in one hand.
speaker_heading: 198 OMITTED 198
scene_heading: 199 INT. LUTHER'S SAFE HOUSE APARTMENT - LUTHER - NIGHT 199
text: listening to the PHONE MACHINE. We hear KATE'S VOICE.
dialog: "Daddy... I miss you... I'm worried... call me..."
text: A CLICK. Luther hangs up, immediately dials again. We
text: hear the message start over. "Daddy... I miss you..." As
dialog: he continues to listen --
dialog: 80.
scene_heading: 200 EXT. FIRING RANGE - DAY (EARLY MORNING) 200
dialog: -- on what's going to be a gorgeous day.
text: Burton, yawning, blowing into a steaming paper cup of
text: coffee. Collin, wide awake, moves alongside. Collin is
text: carrying a rifle.
dialog: -- we are at a government firing range.
text: Collin squints into the morning sun.
text: Burton, putting down the coffee cup, picking up a pair of
text: binoculars.
text: Burton and Collin staring out --
text: -- A distant target is being raised.
text: Collin. He strokes the barrel of his high-powered rifle.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 201 TARGET 201
text: A long way off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 202 BURTON 202
text: as he has focused the binoculars --
scene_heading: 203 BINOCULAR POV - TARGET 203
text: seen through the binoculars as it comes clear -- the
text: bull's eye is small.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 204 COLLIN 204
text: with his rifle. His fingers still move along the barrel.
dialog: No hurry whatsoever --
text: -- and then it all goes fast, and in one motion he is
text: aiming and FIRING and FIRING again and the sound explodes
dialog: and --
text: Burton, dazed.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: 205 TARGET 205
text: -- the bull's eye has been totally blown away.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 206 OMITTED 206
scene_heading: 207 INT. DOWNTOWN MEN'S STORE - DAY 207
text: Luther and a SALESMAN are engaged in conversation.
text: Luther is buttoning a new raincoat to the throat. The
text: Salesman holds several hats. Luther picks one, tries it
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I need to look really good today.
dialog: He doesn't like the hat.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Business?
dialog: (as Luther tries
dialog: the other hat --
dialog: very rakish, he
dialog: likes it)
dialog: It's a woman, I can tell.
dialog: (as Luther nods)
dialog: Never too late, is it?
text: Luther. Beaming.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You got that right.
dialog: Now, from his happy face --
scene_heading: 208 EXT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - THREE CURSING WORKMEN - DAY 208
text: PULL BACK to reveal the workmen are on a scaffolding two
text: stories up, struggling to replace a glass panel that has
dialog: cracked.
text: The glass panel is heavy and bulky and the workmen are
dialog: having a bitch of a time with it.
text: The entire front of the building is glass panels. It
text: mirrors the area across the street -- a bunch of
text: dilapidated brownstones.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 82.
scene_heading: 209 EXT. BROWNSTONES ACROSS FROM CAFE ALONZO - DAY 209
text: They are empty and, according to a sign, are due for
text: demolition. All the windows of the brownstones are
text: closed -- except one. On an upper story.
scene_heading: 210 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 210
text: Inside the window. Michael McCarty, who we last met at *
text: Walter Sullivan's, is there. He looks out. *
speaker_heading: 211 HIS POV 211
text: The glass building and the struggling workmen and, on the
text: ground floor, a few tables are set outside, with large
text: umbrellas alongside each.
text: There is a sign: CAFE ALONZO.
scene_heading: 212 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 212
text: McCarty. Beside him is a leather case. He opens it.
text: The case. A very high-powered rifle. McCarty begins to
text: expertly assemble it, taut and businesslike.
scene_heading: 213 INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS DEBRIEFING ROOM - DAY 213
text: Seth, taut and businesslike, stands by a blown-up map of
text: the Cafe Alonzo area. The restaurant is circled -- and
dialog: around it are marked places for policemen to wait -- Seth
dialog: is giving instructions to those policemen now --
text: -- fifty of them. And no one's smiling.
scene_heading: 214 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - DAY 214
text: Kate. Dressed and ready. Lying on her bed. Afternoon
text: now. She gets up, makes it halfway to the front door --
text: -- can't do it -- she turns, goes back to bed, lies down
text: again, frozen.
scene_heading: 215 EXT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 215
text: The cursing workmen. The glass panel is so damn
text: cumbersome they are having a miserable time.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 83.
scene_heading: 216 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 216
text: An elderly couple sits at one of the half dozen outdoor
dialog: tables.
text: The place is empty.
scene_heading: 217 EXT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PARKING LOT - DAY 217
text: Seth, outside headquarters now, giving instructions to
text: police officers. Behind them: two dozen unmarked cars.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 218 SUN 218
text: Later in the afternoon.
scene_heading: 219 EXT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PARKING LOT - DAY 219
text: Burton, getting out of his car at Seth's Police
dialog: Headquarters.
text: Seth, finishing instructing a dozen motorcycle cops. *
text: Burton moves up behind Seth, waits quietly. As Seth is
text: done, he sees Burton, they nod, start toward Seth's car.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: The Boss is very grateful.
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Figured he'd like an eyewitness
dialog: report of the capture. This is
dialog: our guy -- if he's innocent, he
dialog: sure took off awful fast.
scene_heading: 220 EXT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 220
text: The three workmen. Making some headway with the bulky
dialog: glass panel --
speaker_heading: 221 GUNSCOPE POV 221
dialog: -- now crosshairs cover them and we --
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 84.
scene_heading: 222 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 222
text: McCarty, staring out the window of the brownstone, the
text: rifle pointed -- very relaxed, he pulls the trigger --
text: the RIFLE'S not loaded yet -- and the STACCATO "CLICK" is
dialog: all we hear.
scene_heading: 223 INT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - LOBBY 223
text: Seth and Burton moving quickly into the lobby of the
text: glass office building that adjoins the Cafe Alonzo -- the
text: lobby has a clear view of the outdoor part of the cafe.
text: Around and behind them, dozens of cops get in position.
scene_heading: 224 EXT. STREET - CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 224
text: Around the corner from the glass building -- unmarked
dialog: cars.
scene_heading: 225 EXT. ANOTHER STREET - NEAR THE CAFE BUILDING - DAY 225 *
text: Motorcycles, waiting in shadow, out of sight.
scene_heading: 226 INT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY 226
dialog: Seth and Burton. They've both seen a lot -- which
text: doesn't mean they're not tense. Burton takes out some
text: Tums, offers them to Seth. Seth shakes his head, brings
text: out Tums of his own.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 227 SUN 227
dialog: Starting down.
scene_heading: 228 EXT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 228
text: The three workmen and they hate their job. One of them
text: glances down.
scene_heading: 229 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 229
dialog: Empty.
text: Now, from the workmens' angle, a woman moves to one of
text: the tables. It's Kate. They don't pay much attention.
dialog: 85.
scene_heading: 230 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 230
text: Kate. She hesitates, then decides on the front table.
text: She takes a breath. Sits. Motionless.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 231 GUNSCOPE POV - CLOSEUP ON KATE 231
dialog: -- now crosshairs cover her face and we --
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
scene_heading: 232 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 232
text: McCarty as before, with his weapon. He pulls the trigger
text: again and again, there is the "CLICK" -- now he flicks
text: away a grain of dust from the barrel --
text: -- then he puts the weapon down, reaches out and --
text: ONE BULLET. It's supersonic ammo. McCarty picks it up,
text: blows on it gently. He might be holding a child.
scene_heading: 233 INT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY 233
text: Burton and Seth. They can see Kate sitting alone in the
text: late afternoon.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (mutters)
dialog: Fuck...
text: -- And a goddamn WAITER has appeared and is walking out
text: toward Kate. He is Asian and very young.
scene_heading: 234 EXT. CAFE ALONZO 234
text: Kate, startled as the Waiter calls out from behind her.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Miss?
dialog: (as she spins
dialog: around)
dialog: What you want please?
dialog: His English could be a lot better.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Nothing, thank you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: 234 CONTINUED: 234
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Got to.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Pardon?
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: (gesturing)
dialog: You sit you eat please.
scene_heading: 235 INT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY 235
text: Seth and Burton. Stunned.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: This is not part of my brilliant
dialog: master plan.
dialog: More Tums.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Unfuckingbelievable.
text: They both crunch away.
scene_heading: 236 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 236
text: McCarty, watching the Waiter and Kate. He's not happy
text: either. He points a finger at the Waiter, goes "Boom."
scene_heading: 237 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 237
text: Kate, and it's almost four o'clock and she's not at her
dialog: best.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (gesturing around)
dialog: I'm waiting for someone.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: He must eat too, please.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Oh he will, we both will -- we'll
dialog: order half the menu -- but just
dialog: not now --
text: The Waiter nods, finally he turns, starts off.
text: Kate. Trembling.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: 237 CONTINUED: 237
text: The Waiter returning.
speaker_heading: WAITER
text: Cheesecake gone.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Thank you so much.
text: The Waiter nods again, and this time he does go.
text: Kate, watching him, making sure. Now she sits
dialog: straight --
scene_heading: 238 CLOSEUP - KATE 238
text: Very shaky, trying to hold it together. And now
text: crosshairs cover her face as we PULL BACK to reveal --
scene_heading: 239 EXT./INT. UNMARKED VAN ON STREET NEAR CAFE BUILDING - 239
speaker_heading: DAY
text: Collin. He holds a very high-powered weapon. It looks
text: like it could kill from a thousand yards away.
text: Where he is -- and it's not a thousand yards away -- he's
text: in an unmarked van on the street, even closer than
dialog: McCarty.
text: Collin, loading his weapon. His movements are skilled.
text: His concentration is total.
scene_heading: 240 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 240
text: McCarty, glancing out at the office building area. The
text: three workmen on the scaffolding are fighting to right
text: the glass panel. One of them grabs a rope connected to a
dialog: block and tackle.
text: He pulls on the rope. Slowly, the piece begins to rise.
scene_heading: 241 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 241
text: Kate, sitting alone, studying her hands.
scene_heading: 242 INT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY 242
text: Seth and Burton. The waiting is agony.
dialog: 88.
scene_heading: 243 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 243
text: Kate. It's worse for her. She glances around --
dialog: -- nothing, no one.
scene_heading: 244 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 244
dialog: McCarty. All the time in the world.
scene_heading: 245 INT. UNMARKED VAN - DAY 245
text: Collin. Blows on his weapon slightly.
scene_heading: 246 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 246
text: Kate, and it's a question of how much longer she can take
text: it. Her trembling is almost out of control -- she
text: glances around again and --
dialog: -- and there he is!
text: Luther Whitney himself, and he looks splendid in his new
dialog: raincoat and hat --
text: -- he moves along in the shadow of the office building,
text: toward the cafe, walking with his usual grace -- Luther
dialog: always seems to glide.
scene_heading: 247 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 247
text: McCarty in the window. Spotting Luther --
dialog: -- totally controlled.
scene_heading: 248 INT. UNMARKED VAN - DAY 248
dialog: Collin does the same.
scene_heading: 249 INT. LOBBY - DAY 249
text: Seth and Burton, and the instant Luther is visible, Seth
text: gestures toward the policemen: Get ready.
scene_heading: 250 INT. BROWNSTONE - McCARTY - DAY 250
text: raising his rifle.
dialog: 89.
scene_heading: 251 INT. UNMARKED VAN - DAY 251
text: Collin, raising his.
scene_heading: 252 EXT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 252
text: The three workmen, raising the glass panel.
scene_heading: 253 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 253
text: Kate. Watching her father come closer.
text: Luther. It's hard to suppress a smile as he walks
text: towards his daughter.
text: Kate, still watching.
text: Luther, almost there. Speaks softly.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I did not kill that woman, Kate.
scene_heading: 254 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 254
text: McCarty, flipping off the safety.
scene_heading: 255 INT. UNMARKED VAN - DAY 255
text: Collin, doing the same.
scene_heading: 256 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 256
text: Luther and Kate, and he starts to sit --
scene_heading: 257 INT. LOBBY - DAY 257
text: Seth, right hand raised -- he's about to start it all in
dialog: motion.
scene_heading: 258 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 258
text: McCarty, his finger floating to the trigger.
scene_heading: 259 INT. UNMARKED VAN - DAY 259
text: Collin, doing the same.
dialog: 90.
scene_heading: 260 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 260
text: Luther, seated now and as at last, he reaches out for his
dialog: daughter's hand --
scene_heading: 261 EXT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 261
text: -- The three workmen, and for a moment the glass panel
text: slips and tilts and as it catches the afternoon sun --
scene_heading: 262 INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 262
text: -- McCarty, blinded as the red reflection hits his eyes
dialog: but he FIRES.
scene_heading: 263 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 263
text: Luther and Kate as suddenly the umbrella at their table
text: is severed and starts to topple.
scene_heading: 264 INT. UNMARKED VAN - DAY 264
text: Collin, startled, and he FIRES too.
scene_heading: 265 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 265
text: Luther, instantly diving toward Kate as the second BULLET
text: EXPLODES in the pavement close by.
scene_heading: 266 INT. LOBBY - DAY 266
text: Seth, stunned, because this is crazy and Burton, stunned,
text: eyes wide.
scene_heading: 267 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 267
text: Luther, taking Kate down to the sidewalk, protecting her
dialog: body with his body and --
text: Madness! -- because all goes nuts now as there are shouts
dialog: and screams and people running this way, that way --
scene_heading: 268 INT. LOBBY - DAY 268
text: -- Seth is in the center of it all, shouting
text: instructions, racing with Burton out of the building --
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 91.
scene_heading: 269 EXT. STREET/CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 269
text: -- unmarked cars fill the street --
text: -- a hundred uniformed policemen charge --
text: -- MOTORCYCLES ROAR in from everywhere --
scene_heading: 270 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 270
text: -- Kate lies dazed -- staring at the chaos -- here come
dialog: thirty uniformed policemen -- *
dialog: -- and here come thirty more -- *
scene_heading: 271 EXT. REAR OF BROWNSTONE - DAY 271
text: -- McCarty races out of the back of the building, leaps
text: into a SPORTSCAR, GUNS away --
scene_heading: 272 INT. UNMARKED VAN - DAY 272
text: -- Collin disassembles his rifle, scrambles from the
dialog: van --
scene_heading: 273 INT. LOBBY - DAY 273
text: -- Burton stays close to Seth, watching it all --
scene_heading: 274 EXT. CAFE ALONZO BUILDING - DAY 274
text: -- The three workmen look down at it all -- then they
dialog: look at each other in total confusion -- what the fuck is
dialog: going on? --
text: -- because what they see is that the recently-deserted
text: plaza is now stuffed with cops and more cops and vehicles
dialog: and here come more and here come even more --
scene_heading: 275 EXT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 275
text: And Kate sits now, staring around, looking for Luther --
text: -- and Seth in the middle of it all stares around,
dialog: looking for Luther --
dialog: -- because where the hell is he?
text: A black police lieutenant, shouting for his men to spread
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 92.
speaker_heading: 275 CONTINUED: 275
text: Burton, turning, turning, trying to make sense of it all.
text: Three police sergeants on MOTORCYCLES, GUNNING through
dialog: the crowd.
text: Kate, standing now, looking down -- and then she sees it
text: -- on the ground where Luther was: a new raincoat and a
dialog: new hat and --
dialog: Seth, and it's all gone wrong and it's all going crazy
text: and there is noise and there are shouts and there are
text: whistles.
text: The black police lieutenant, breaking into a run, chasing
dialog: after someone we can't quite make out.
scene_heading: 276 INT. CAFE ALONZO - DAY 276 *
text: A tall uniformed police lieutenant, entering Cafe
dialog: Alonzo --
text: -- he passes a couple of guys in chef's hats and the
text: Chinese waiter who just gapes out toward what was his
dialog: service area --
text: -- the tall uniformed police lieutenant moves gracefully
dialog: past --
dialog: -- it's Luther.
text: He goes to the front door of the place, glances back
text: toward where the NOISE is still mounting -- shakes his
dialog: head -- out the door and gone!
scene_heading: 277 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 277
text: The door to Kate's apartment opening and Seth coming in
text: with Kate. Evening. Kate is as drained as you'd expect.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (glancing around)
dialog: Messy.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I like that in a woman.
text: She doesn't smile.
text: Seth, giving her back her keys and a piece of paper. His
text: voice is raw from all the shouting.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 93.
scene_heading: 277 CONTINUED: 277
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Top number's local police --
dialog: (as she nods)
dialog: -- other two are my office and
dialog: home.
dialog: (off another nod)
dialog: I live alone, too, call anytime.
dialog: Want me to get someone to spend
dialog: the night?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: I just need some sleep.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I've got surveillance outside.
dialog: And I'm keeping it on 'til this is
dialog: over. I've got a feeling he's
dialog: going to try and contact you.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: You're on a hot streak, I guess.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Listen, I'm sorry.
dialog: Kate. Nothing to say.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Anything unusual, call me right
dialog: away -- not a bother, I live
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: You said.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (he knows that)
dialog: Feeble, huh?
text: She nods. They look at each other. Then he starts toward *
text: the door. Slowly.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Anything for the road? I've got
dialog: water and water.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Deal.
scene_heading: 278 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT 278
text: They enter and she opens the fridge --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: 278 CONTINUED: 278
text: -- and it's full of food: milk and fruit and cookies.
text: Kate stares, then quickly glances at Seth. He just
text: points to a bottle.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Pelligrino would be great.
dialog: (off Kate, who can't
dialog: help it, breaks out
dialog: laughing)
dialog: What's funny, I say it wrong?
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Tired is all.
text: As she hands him a bottle.
scene_heading: 279 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT - FRONT DOOR - NIGHT 279
text: as they move toward it. He opens it.
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: I don't think I've told you this,
dialog: but I live alone.
dialog: (and this time, as she
text: does smile, and he
dialog: does go)
dialog: Lock it behind me.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (LOCKING it loudly)
dialog: How's that?
speaker_heading: SETH (O.S.)
dialog: Real good. Try and sleep.
text: His FOOTSTEPS get softer, DISAPPEAR.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (still facing door,
dialog: her back to her
dialog: apartment)
dialog: I betrayed you, Luther. You
dialog: better know that now.
speaker_heading: LUTHER (O.S.)
dialog: You're not the first.
text: As Kate turns, Luther, standing there, is looking at her.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Why'd you come?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: 279 CONTINUED: 279
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You have to know I'm not a
dialog: murderer.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: No, this afternoon. To the
dialog: restaurant. Why'd you come then?
dialog: You must have suspected something,
dialog: or you wouldn't have been
dialog: prepared.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (simply)
dialog: My daughter wanted to see me.
text: He points to the couch -- as Kate sits. Luther, and
text: before she's even seated, he's into it.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: The robbery went fine 'til they
dialog: came in. They were drunk. I hid
dialog: in the vault. Sex got rough. He
dialog: was going to kill Christy, but she
dialog: turned the tables, was going to
text: kill him. Two guys came in, shot
dialog: her dead.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: The same two guys who tried for
dialog: you this afternoon?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Probably only one of them. I
dialog: think Walter Sullivan might have
dialog: hired the other.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Pretty powerful enemy; good going.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Not as powerful as the President
dialog: of the United States.
text: Kate just looks at him.
text: Dead silence.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Richmond was drunk. The two guys
dialog: are Secret Service. Chief of
dialog: Staff Russell planned the coverup.
text: Kate just looks at him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 96.
speaker_heading: 279 CONTINUED: (2) 279
text: Dead silence.
text: Luther. Studying her. Not a great reaction.
text: Kate. Little shake of the head.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Every word true.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: You're saying you're innocent of
dialog: the murder? Why in the world *
dialog: should I believe you?
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - LUTHER *
dialog: Long pause.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Because I swear on Mattie's grave.
speaker_heading: KATE *
dialog: Rocked --
text: Luther, going to her.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: On your mother's grave, Kate --
dialog: you know I'd kill myself before
dialog: I'd lie about that.
text: Kate. Looking at him. Because he wouldn't lie, not
dialog: about that.
dialog: Everything he's told her, all true.
text: The air goes out of her.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Jesus, Luther.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: They'll kill you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 97.
speaker_heading: 279 CONTINUED: (3) 279
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: Can you run?
text: Luther as he sits beside her on the couch.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I was set to. At the airport.
dialog: All the money I'd ever need.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - LUTHER *
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: But I saw that bastard using *
dialog: Sullivan on the T.V. -- maybe I
dialog: couldn't have saved that woman,
dialog: Kate. But I didn't even try.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I know what you think of me and I
dialog: know what we've been to each
dialog: other --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- haven't been to each other.
dialog: And it's not the time to try and
dialog: explain my life --
speaker_heading: KATE *
text: watching his face now.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: -- but I've never robbed anyone
dialog: couldn't afford it and I've never
text: stiffed a waitress.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And Alan Richmond has to pay.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: What can you do?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Not much, maybe -- but I only went
dialog: to jail when I had partners.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: People betray each other, Kate --
dialog: nowadays, when there's a group,
dialog: someone wants to write a book --
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 98.
speaker_heading: 279 CONTINUED: (4) 279
speaker_heading: LUTHER (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- these people hate each other.
dialog: And if I can drive them just a
dialog: little bit nuts, who knows how
dialog: they'll react under pressure?
dialog: (rises and looks at
dialog: her)
dialog: Glad for the talk, wish we'd had
dialog: more.
text: Luther crosses to the door, turns.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: This is probably it; you
dialog: understand that.
dialog: (as she does, he still
text: looks at her. Then -- )
dialog: I was never going to tell you
dialog: this, but I watched you argue a
dialog: case last year -- thank God you
dialog: got your brains from your mother.
text: Kate standing now, too -- they're across the room from
dialog: each other.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: It's dangerous outside.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: It always is --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- and I may not make you proud,
dialog: Kate --
dialog: (soft)
dialog: -- but I'm not going down alone...
dialog: And on that...
scene_heading: 280 EXT. RUSSELL APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 280
text: An elegant high-rise in Washington. Crisp, cool
text: afternoon. A DOORMAN stands outside, enjoying the day.
text: A well-dressed man rounds the corner; he holds a small,
text: beautifully-wrapped package with a small envelope
text: attached. He moves to the Doorman.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: 280 CONTINUED: 280
scene_heading: WELL-DRESSED MAN
dialog: (it's Luther)
dialog: For Miss Gloria Russell.
text: He hands it over.
speaker_heading: DOORMAN
dialog: (taking it)
dialog: Want me to sign anything?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (shakes head)
dialog: I trust you.
text: And he turns, walks quickly away as we --
scene_heading: 281 INT. RUSSELL'S APARTMENT - DAY 281
text: The envelope being opened. It's early evening now. The
text: message inside is short and clear --
dialog: "Gloria,
dialog: Thanks for the rescue.
dialog: AR"
text: Russell smiles, and as she opens the package --
scene_heading: 282 INT. WHITE HOUSE - EAST ROOM - NIGHT 282
dialog: A beautiful necklace. Antique mostly likely. And
text: tasteful -- we hear the sound of an ORCHESTRA PLAYING
speaker_heading: WALTZES.
text: PULL BACK to reveal Gloria Russell, looking just
text: splendid, the necklace around her throat, entering a
text: large and very impressive White House dinner-dance.
dialog: Clearly an important affair of state.
dialog: We've never seen Russell quite like this -- relaxed,
text: secure in her femininity. She nods distantly to Burton
dialog: and Collin who are, as always, close the President. For
dialog: the first time now, we realize something: Gloria Russell
dialog: is hot for Alan Richmond.
text: Richmond, on the edge of the dance floor, chatting with
text: some elderly couples, several of them European, all of
dialog: them wealthy.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (as Russell approaches)
dialog: You're a vision this evening, Miss
dialog: Russell.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 100.
speaker_heading: 282 CONTINUED: 282
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Thank you, Mr. President.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And thank you, Mr. President.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (doesn't understand)
dialog: For?
dialog: (off her, radiant,
dialog: indicating the
dialog: necklace)
dialog: Come again?
text: This time she touches it -- he bends close to her.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: You sent it to me this afternoon.
dialog: Long pause -- then...
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - RICHMOND *
dialog: So happy.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Well, of course.
dialog: (now, to the others)
dialog: Excuse me, all -- I am overcome
dialog: with the desire to dance with my
dialog: Chief of Staff.
dialog: *
text: A hand to her -- Russell, beaming, moves out onto the
text: dance floor with him.
text: Everyone at the gathering, watching them.
text: Richmond and Russell, very much aware that all eyes are
dialog: on them --
dialog: -- what we don't know is this: they are both wonderful
text: dancers. And they seem to be reveling in their moves --
text: -- because throughout this, they never stop smiling.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: What is this nonsense? I'm hoping
dialog: there's an explanation.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 101.
speaker_heading: 282 CONTINUED: (2) 282
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Your gift, Alan -- I was
dialog: overwhelmed -- and your note was
dialog: so gratifying --
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (cutting in)
dialog: -- I sent a note?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Yes, yes, you think I don't know
dialog: your writing? I assumed you
dialog: wanted me to wear it tonight.
text: The necklace. He looks at it as they spin gracefully.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: It is lovely, Gloria -- and you
dialog: know what else?
dialog: They do a perfect dip.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: What, Alan?
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Christy Sullivan wore it the night *
dialog: she was killed. *
text: Russell, a quick glint of panic, a gentle peal of
text: feminine laughter.
text: Richmond and Russell -- he bends her back, their mouths
dialog: are close.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: You realize what this means?
dialog: Whitney's been heard from.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - RUSSELL *
text: They spin and glide. Long pause. Then --
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: It's not precisely the first time,
dialog: Mr. President.
dialog: *
text: The MUSIC is BUILDING TO CLIMAX now. Their movements
dialog: become more grand.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 102.
scene_heading: 282 CONTINUED: (3) 282 *
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (so happy)
dialog: You've been keeping things from
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Only because you have so much on
dialog: your plate, Alan; we wanted to
dialog: spare you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He sent me a Polaroid of the
dialog: letter opener yesterday.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - RICHMOND *
dialog: A kick in the teeth --
text: -- he summons all his control, goes into even more
dialog: complicated movements.
dialog: *
dialog: The crowd of elegant men and women, it's really wonderful
text: dancing they're seeing -- they start to applaud.
text: Richmond and Russell, hearing the sound. Richmond
text: acknowledges it with a smile as they come to climax.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Well, now --
dialog: (a final flourish)
dialog: -- I need time to think -- come
dialog: see me in my office in the
dialog: morning --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: This will certainly make for an
dialog: interesting chapter in my memoirs.
text: And as they bow...
text: The crowd applauding louder, while on the dance floor,
dialog: the President of the United States and the Chief of Staff
text: applaud happily back. As the sound builds --
scene_heading: 283 EXT. BURTON'S HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT 283
text: Luther in the night. Silence.
text: He is moving across the rooftop of a home. He carries a
text: briefcase -- Luther's making business calls.
text: Ahead is an attic window -- as he slides it open --
dialog: 103.
scene_heading: 284 INT. BURTON'S HOUSE - ATTIC - NIGHT 284
text: Luther, slipping inside. Some stairs are just across.
text: He goes down them, opens the door --
scene_heading: 285 INT. BURTON'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT 285
text: Luther stepping into the main part of the dark house. He
text: stops. No noise at all except that of someone BREATHING
text: DEEPLY, coming from an open bedroom door.
text: Luther passes by -- for an instant we can see that Burton
text: is asleep, an empty bottle by his head.
scene_heading: 286 INT. COLLIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT 286
text: Luther rounding a corner --
text: -- and we can tell immediately he's in a different house
dialog: now. Burton's had only old furnishings, these are modern
dialog: and new.
text: Luther pauses, listening. Nothing.
text: He moves forward then, turns another corner --
scene_heading: 287 INT. RUSSELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 287
dialog: -- and now we can tell he's someplace else -- this is an
text: apartment with a large window looking out on the city.
text: Luther doesn't stop to admire the view. He moves
dialog: silently on...
text: HOLD ON the window.
text: And suddenly: Dawn -- the sun is starting to rise.
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
scene_heading: 288 INT. RUSSELL'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAWN 288
text: Gloria Russell, as the ALARM GOES OFF. She sits --
dialog: -- she stretches --
text: -- then she stares -- something has been taped to her
text: lamp. We are looking at an issue of the Washington Post
text: -- Russell's photo smiles out -- there is a headline that
text: says simply: RUSSELL TO BE CHIEF OF STAFF.
text: Written across her picture are the words: "This
dialog: shitstorm is your fault -- if we go down, you go down!"
text: Russell takes the paper down, stares at it. Furious.
dialog: 104.
scene_heading: 289 INT. BURTON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING 289
text: Burton, hung over, staggering into the kitchen of his
text: home, stopping dead. A newspaper is set beside his
dialog: coffee pot.
text: A front page of the Washington Post. Years back. The
text: lead article reports that a siege has been successfully
dialog: broken --
text: -- Burton, bloody and wounded, is being carried to an
text: ambulance. A hero. Across the top these words have been
dialog: written:
text: HOW DID THIS HAPPEN, YOU GUTLESS FUCK?
text: Burton stares. Steaming.
scene_heading: 290 INT. COLLIN'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - MORNING 290
text: Collin, yawning, going into his bathroom --
text: -- across his mirror is taped a large white piece of
text: paper, across which is written in thick black marker --
dialog: "If you could shoot for shit, we'd be out of this."
text: Collin angrily rips it down.
scene_heading: 291 EXT. DOWNTOWN NEWSSTAND - MORNING 291
text: A bunch of commuters and businessmen are buying papers.
dialog: The newspapers. Washington, New York, Philadelphia --
dialog: and they're all different front pages, of course, but one
dialog: photo in all of them is the same --
text: -- every one of them is running the mug shot of Luther.
dialog: And the sense of the stories is the same too:
dialog: HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 292 COMMUTERS 292
text: crowded around, making their purchases. Some of them are
text: young, some of them are half asleep. One of them is in
dialog: his 60's and very wide awake --
dialog: -- it's Luther --
text: -- as he buys a paper, looks at the headline --
dialog: fascinated.
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: 292A INT. BURTON'S OFFICE 292A
text: Still early morning -- Collin is going through Burton's
dialog: desk hurriedly --
dialog: -- when Burton surprises him --
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: (closes the desk,
dialog: shrugs)
dialog: Needed a pen.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: (pointing to his
dialog: desktop)
dialog: There's pens --
dialog: (moving in)
dialog: -- you don't trust me? --
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: -- I don't answer to you, asshole
dialog: --
text: Russell in the doorway now, glaring at them.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You're both assholes, now move --
dialog: And on that --
scene_heading: 293 INT. OVAL OFFICE - DAY 293
dialog: The note that was sent to Russell and the Polaroid of the
dialog: letter opener.
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
text: The Polaroid and the note are on Richmond's desk. He
text: studies them. Russell, Burton and Collin stand silently
text: watching him, their hatred of each other clear.
text: The smell of death's in the room.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (holding the note now,
text: his voice is, when he
dialog: speaks, calm; to Burton)
dialog: Any idea who could have forged it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 106.
speaker_heading: 293 CONTINUED: 293
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: I talked to Seth Frank --
dialog: apparently Whitney learned how in
dialog: prison.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Very gifted man.
text: The window as he walks to it, looks out.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: And are we close to stopping him?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: We're working round the clock.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Good to know that.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: He'll make a mistake.
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: Good to know that too.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - RICHMOND *
dialog: With more meaning than the words convey --
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: There is one other thing you'll
dialog: want to take care of.
text: The other three, looking at Richmond.
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: You're sure you want to do that?
speaker_heading: RICHMOND
dialog: (nods)
dialog: She's a young prosecutor,
dialog: prosecutors ask questions -- she
dialog: might know what he knows...
dialog: (a reassuring smile)
dialog: Let's get cracking, shall we?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Show you love your country.
dialog: On those words --
dialog: 107.
scene_heading: 294 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - DAY 294
text: Kate Whitney, getting into the elevator. Off to work.
text: She pushes for the lobby.
text: The doors close and the elevator starts down.
scene_heading: 295 INT. ELEVATOR - DAY 295
text: Kate checks her purse to see if she has everything.
scene_heading: 296 INSERT - ELEVATOR BUTTON 296
dialog: The "L" is lit --
text: -- but when the elevator gets there, it does not stop but
text: goes straight on down to the basement.
scene_heading: 297 INT. ELEVATOR - KATE - DAY 297
text: That's strange. She instinctively moves to the rear of
dialog: the car.
text: ODD SOUNDS from the basement. Kate's just the least bit
dialog: tense.
scene_heading: 298 INT. ELEVATOR IN BASEMENT - DAY 298
text: The ODD SOUNDS are LOUDER.
dialog: And the doors don't open when they should.
scene_heading: 299 INT. ELEVATOR - KATE - DAY 299
text: and now she's starting to get a little scared.
scene_heading: 300 INT. BASEMENT - ELEVATOR DOORS - DAY 300
text: The doors sliding open and the Super standing there with
dialog: tools.
speaker_heading: SUPER
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Sorry, Miss Whitney, but this
dialog: thing's giving us a little
dialog: trouble.
text: Kate nods, smiles back, relieved.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 108.
scene_heading: 301 EXT. KATE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 301
text: Kate, leaving her building, going toward her car, getting
dialog: in.
text: Down the block is a police car. Two surveillance cops
text: inside. Kate starts to drive -- and so do they.
text: Kate turns a corner --
dialog: -- and so do they --
text: -- and as they do, they pass Luther, parked on the
text: corner. Watching. Satisfied, he drives off in another
dialog: direction.
scene_heading: 302 EXT. OUTER CITY ROAD (WASHINGTON) - DAY 302
text: Luther, heading out of the city. The sun is higher in
dialog: the sky.
scene_heading: 303 EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY 303
text: Several cars. Traffic is moving slowly. Luther
text: continues to drive.
scene_heading: 304 EXT. KATE'S OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 304
text: Kate, coming out of her office building, hurrying along
text: the sidewalk. Lunch hour.
dialog: *
text: She goes past some brownstones -- the two cops walk *
dialog: behind --
text: -- the window of one of the brownstones is open, shadowy
dialog: movement from inside --
text: -- Kate hurries past, not paying attention... Cops don't
dialog: either.
scene_heading: 305 EXT. BROWNSTONE - DAY 305
text: Now a figure begins to appear in the window --
text: The figure holds something long and thin, like a rifle
dialog: barrel --
text: -- it's a large woman with a long mop -- as she shakes
dialog: it --
text: Afternoon and the sun is strong.
dialog: 109.
scene_heading: 306 EXT. SULLIVAN MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 306
text: Sunlight, streaming in an open bedroom window. Whose
dialog: bedroom, though?
text: Two maids are cleaning it --
dialog: -- and now we realize where we are: Walter Sullivan's
dialog: bedroom, but it's all been changed, different rug,
dialog: different fabrics, different furnishings.
text: The maids work silently and well. A final sweep of a
text: dust rag here, a last tug at the bedspread there.
text: Done. They go to the door, take a last look around.
dialog: Perfect.
dialog: They go.
text: HOLD ON the empty room.
dialog: Keep HOLDING.
text: Now, silently, the vault door opens -- a gardener steps
text: out, clicker in hand.
text: The gardener -- it's Luther -- he clicks it, tosses it
dialog: back inside --
text: -- the door starts to close --
text: -- but before it shuts, we can see he's returned what he
dialog: took the night of the robbery.
text: And as he moves silently toward the door.
scene_heading: 307 EXT. GAS STATION (WASHINGTON CITY LIMITS) - DAY 307
text: The outskirts of Washington. Mid-afternoon now.
text: Luther's at a pay phone.
scene_heading: 308 INT. SETH'S OFFICE - DAY 308
text: Seth, as he picks up the phone --
speaker_heading: LUTHER (V.O.)
dialog: Kate okay?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: Where are you?
dialog: 110.
scene_heading: 309 EXT. PAY PHONE - DAY 309
text: Luther. Fast.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I'm not staying on long enough for
dialog: you to track this, just answer me.
scene_heading: 310 INT. SETH'S OFFICE - DAY 310
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: She couldn't be in better hands --
dialog: talk about catching a break,
dialog: Secret Service called me. They're
dialog: taking over surveillance --
scene_heading: 311 EXT. PAY PHONE - DAY 311
text: The telephone swinging back and forth --
text: -- and in the b.g., a car MOTOR ROARING away.
scene_heading: 312 INT. KATE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - ELEVATOR - DAY 312
text: Kate, coming down the elevator again -- in her jogging
text: clothes now. She has pushed the lobby button.
text: The elevator stops suddenly on the second floor --
text: -- The Super gets in, smiles.
speaker_heading: SUPER
dialog: Got it working fine, Miss Whitney.
text: Kate nods, smiles back --
scene_heading: 312A EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - DAY 312A
text: Luther, driving like crazy through the city.
scene_heading: 312B EXT. KATE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 312B
text: Kate, getting into her car in front of her building,
text: driving off -- no one is behind her.
scene_heading: 312C EXT. WASHINGTON - ANOTHER STREET - DAY 312C
text: Luther, HONKING his HORN as he barrels around a corner,
text: scattering traffic.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 111.
scene_heading: 312D EXT. JOGGING PARK ENTRANCE - DAY 312D *
text: Kate drives into the park past a sign reading: *
text: "PARKING LOT." *
scene_heading: 312E EXT. ROAD NEAR JOGGING PARK - DAY 312E
text: Luther, gunning along -- up ahead the park is visible
dialog: now.
scene_heading: 312F EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING LOT - ENTRANCE ROAD - DAY 312F
text: Kate, following an arrow that leads to the parking lot.
text: Luther, in the park, now, suddenly shouting "Shit" as
dialog: we --
scene_heading: 312G EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING LOT - DAY 312G
text: A "DETOUR" sign.
text: Kate, entering the parking lot.
scene_heading: 312H EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING LOT AREA - DAY 312H
text: Luther, out of his car now, running like crazy through
text: the park. Ahead is a sign saying: "JOGGING PATH."
scene_heading: 313 EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING AREA - DAY 313
text: Not many other cars so she gets a space in front,
text: overlooking the river, and as she stops, takes out her
dialog: keys --
scene_heading: 314 BURTON AND COLLIN 314
text: Collin at the wheel, ROARING in behind her, rear-ending
dialog: her hard.
text: -- there is a SCREECH of BRAKES and a SCREAM --
scene_heading: 314A EXT. JOGGING PARK - TRAIL - DAY 314A
text: Luther as he hears the terrible sound, keeps running.
scene_heading: 315 EXT. PARKING LOT - INT. KATE'S CAR - DAY 315
text: Kate in her car as it teeters at the edge and then starts
text: its long fall to the jogging path far below.
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 112.
scene_heading: 316 EXT. JOGGING PARK - PARKING AREA - DAY 316
text: Burton and Collin in their car, driving like hell away.
scene_heading: 316A EXT. JOGGING PARK - TRAIL - DAY 316A
text: Luther, running INTO VIEW, stopping dead, helpless now,
dialog: staring at the worst thing in the world --
speaker_heading: 317 OMITTED 317
scene_heading: 318 EXT. JOGGING PARK CLIFF - DAY 318 *
text: Kate's car, careening against a rocky ledge, then cart
text: wheeling the rest of the way down, landing horribly,
text: spinning, finally coming to rest upside down and --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 319 EXT. BOTTOM OF CLIFF - DAY 319 *
text: Luther running to the car; hands shaking, he manages to *
text: pull front door open and reach inside --
text: -- now there are cries as other joggers stop and stare
dialog: and --
text: Kate, as Luther pulls her body out of the wreckage.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (terrified)
dialog: ... Kate...?
text: -- no response -- it's impossible to tell if she's
dialog: alive --
text: -- in the distance now, the sound of an AMBULANCE.
scene_heading: 320 EXT. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ENTRANCE - EVENING 320
text: The AMBULANCE, SIREN SCREAMING.
dialog: PULL BACK to reveal --
text: Early evening now, getting dark, and the ambulance
text: braking in front of the emergency room of a large city
dialog: hospital --
text: -- as doctors and attendants with gurneys come pouring
dialog: out --
dialog: 113.
scene_heading: 321 INT. WASHINGTON HOSPITAL - KATE'S ROOM - NIGHT 321
text: A private room. Later. Kate is bandaged and attached to
dialog: a bunch of equipment --
text: -- but however faintly her breathing, it's still
text: breathing and it's steady. She's alone for the moment in
text: the semi-darkened room.
scene_heading: 322 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT 322
text: Empty. A doctor comes walking along -- it's Collin.
scene_heading: 323 INT. HOSPITAL - KATE'S ROOM - NIGHT 323
text: Kate in her room, sleeping. Another doctor is with her
text: now, checking her charts.
scene_heading: 324 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT 324
text: Collin. He sees what's going on, stops, pulls out a
text: small notebook, pretends to read it, all the while
text: glancing toward Kate's room with the one doctor still
dialog: there --
text: -- now from around the corner, NOISE, COMING CLOSER --
text: SEVERAL PEOPLE APPROACHING, perhaps more.
text: Collin turns away from the sound, curses, then stops --
text: -- The doctor is done with Kate's charts.
text: From around the corner now, the group coming closer
dialog: still.
text: Kate's doorway as the doctor exits and Collin enters --
dialog: they pass each other --
scene_heading: 325 INT. HOSPITAL - KATE'S ROOM - NIGHT 325
text: -- Collin moves a step further into the room --
text: -- and now there is something in his hand --
text: -- a hypodermic needle.
text: Kate. Out of it. Lying there, eyes closed.
text: Collin, the needle ready, moving silently toward the bed.
text: Kate is barely breathing.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: 325 CONTINUED: 325
text: And now suddenly Collin is barely breathing --
text: -- because the other doctor's arms have viced around
text: Collin's neck, forcing the air out of him.
text: Collin, stunned, trying to struggle --
text: The doctor jerking Collin's body into the air -- his feet
text: are dangling now -- the hypodermic needle drops to the
dialog: bed as the struggle goes on --
dialog: -- and Collin's in fabulous shape. He's young and power-
dialog: ful and he's been in terrible situations before and he
dialog: knows how to fight and he's been taught to defend himself
dialog: and --
dialog: -- tough shit --
text: -- the doctor -- it's Luther -- relentlessly increases
dialog: the pressure against Collin's throat --
dialog: -- Collin can't even gasp now --
dialog: -- his feet can't kick anymore --
text: -- his body starts to go limp --
text: -- his eyes start to slide up into his head --
dialog: -- silence in the room --
dialog: -- it's almost over --
text: -- which is when suddenly Luther lets go.
text: Collin, eyes flickering open as Luther lays him down on
text: the floor. All this next is whispered.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Scream. Go on. Which do you want
dialog: most, for me to kill you or life
dialog: in jail forever?
text: He has gone across the room to the bed. Collin tries to
dialog: move, can't.
text: The hypodermic needle as Luther picks it up carefully,
text: starts back to Collin.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Going to guess this wasn't to pep
dialog: her up.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 115.
speaker_heading: 325 CONTINUED: (2) 325
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: (staring, eyes wide)
dialog: ... you're not going to kill me...
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: ... why do you think that...?
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: ... you could have but you
dialog: didn't...
text: Luther. Kneeling by Collin now.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: That's because you didn't know
dialog: your crime, prick.
text: -- and now he jams the needle against Collin's neck. *
text: Collin tries to cry out, but Luther covers his mouth.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (kneeling close, almost
dialog: whispering into Collin's
dialog: ear)
dialog: I didn't mind you tried to shoot
dialog: me at the restaurant -- I wouldn't
dialog: have minded if you'd nailed me at
dialog: Sullivan's -- part of the job --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- but you fucked with blood.
dialog: Collin. Terrified. *
speaker_heading: COLLIN
dialog: ... mercy...
text: Luther, bending over him. Luther pushes the plunger. *
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I'm fresh out.
text: Collin dying now. His breathing is getting strange, his *
text: body starting to stiffen. And on that -- *
speaker_heading: KATE (O.S.)
dialog: ... Daddy...?
text: Kate, eyes barely open. From her position Luther is
text: simply kneeling, nothing else is visible...
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: ... go to sleep, honey...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: 325 CONTINUED: (3) 325
text: She tries to stay awake, can't make it, drifts off.
text: Kate. She closes her eyes.
text: Collin. Luther closes his eyes for him. Now --
scene_heading: 326 INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT 326
text: A gurney with a figure on it being pushed by a doctor.
scene_heading: 327 EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT 327
dialog: A dumpster outside --
dialog: -- the gurney is there --
dialog: -- the figure isn't --
text: -- the sound of a CAR GUNNING into the night and we --
scene_heading: 328 INT. SETH'S BATHROOM - NIGHT 328
text: Seth coming out of the shower. He puts a towel around
text: him, wipes the steam off the mirror, cries out --
text: -- Luther is standing there.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I need one answer -- when you
dialog: interviewed Walter Sullivan, did
dialog: he say why Christy didn't go to
dialog: Barbados?
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: Just that she changed her mind.
dialog: (studying Luther)
dialog: You know who did it, don't you?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: So will you -- check your
dialog: phones --
speaker_heading: SETH
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: -- who'd tap a police officer?
text: No reply -- Luther's already headed for the door as we --
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 117.
scene_heading: 329 EXT. GEORGETOWN MANSION - NIGHT 329
text: Walter Sullivan, getting into his limousine in front of a
text: Georgetown mansion. Later in the evening. The car
text: starts to move. Walter looks frail and very old now.
text: And somehow smaller.
scene_heading: 330 EXT. GEORGETOWN/INT. LIMO - NIGHT 330
text: Walter huddled in the back seat, as the street lights
text: illuminate him. He might even be ill. In any case, a
text: sad figure.
scene_heading: 331 EXT. GEORGETOWN - NIGHT 331
text: The limousine, turning a corner.
scene_heading: 332 INT. LIMO - NIGHT 332
text: Walter. Blinking.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: Is this a shortcut, Tommy? *
speaker_heading: CHAUFFEUR
dialog: (turns; it's Luther)
dialog: I'm your replacement driver for
dialog: the evening, sir. Don't worry,
dialog: Tommy's fine. *
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: Very unusual -- what do I call
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Luther, sir.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: And are you familiar with how to
dialog: get to my home, Luther?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I know the way, sir -- I'm the man
dialog: who robbed you --
text: Sullivan says nothing; stares unsmiling.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: -- and you're the man who tried to
dialog: have me killed --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: 332 CONTINUED: 332
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: -- I'm sorry I missed -- I believe
dialog: in the Old Testament, sir -- there
dialog: is nothing wrong with an eye for
text: an eye when a terrible deed has
dialog: been done.
dialog: (ice)
dialog: A deed such as yours.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You want to believe that, don't
dialog: you? -- Makes your life a lot
dialog: simpler if you believe that, isn't
dialog: that right?
dialog: (big now)
dialog: What do you think I gain being
dialog: here?
dialog: Sullivan. Contempt.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: Have no idea -- you going to rob
dialog: me again? --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I don't need your money, Mr.
dialog: Sullivan. Look in your vault
dialog: lately?
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (he has)
dialog: I'm afraid we're a little late for
text: an attempt at leniency.
scene_heading: 333 EXT. GEORGETOWN - STREET - NIGHT 333
text: The CAR. A SCREAMING TURN.
scene_heading: 334 INT. LIMO - NIGHT 334
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Shit's coming down tonight, Mr.
dialog: Sullivan, do you want to be a
dialog: player or not?
dialog: (bigger)
dialog: Do you want to know what happened,
dialog: or not? I saw. Your call.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I want to know.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: 334 CONTINUED: 334
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Are you up to hearing about it? --
dialog: Do you want to hear how he beat
dialog: the shit out of her and tried to
dialog: strangle her -- you have enough
dialog: left for that? --
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (a nod)
dialog: -- I could walk through fire --
text: Luther, fast now.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I was in the chair when they came
dialog: in.
dialog: (as Sullivan says
dialog: nothing)
dialog: They were drunk -- at first he
dialog: only wanted to bruise her -- she
dialog: fought back, he went for the kill
dialog: -- she turned the tables. Then he
dialog: screamed for help.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: Who else was in my house?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Secret Service shot her.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (doesn't like it)
dialog: Nonsense.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Gloria Russell handled the cover
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: Stop this --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: -- don't you want to know who the
dialog: man was?
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: It was you.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: We're too old to bullshit each
dialog: other, Mr. Sullivan.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 120.
speaker_heading: 334 CONTINUED: (2) 334
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (big)
dialog: Who was it then?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (bigger)
dialog: You know!
text: Sullivan, shaking his head as Luther roars on.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You fucking well do, don't shake
dialog: your head at me -- when you're
dialog: alone at night, when the rage
dialog: takes you and you think of what
dialog: you'd do to revenge her, on those
dialog: nights you put a face to your
dialog: enemy.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (coming apart)
dialog: Stop the car --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: -- we're going all the way,
dialog: Walter --
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: -- it's too terrible.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: It sure is.
text: Walter Sullivan. A long, shaky moment, then --
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: ... I know about Alan's reputation
dialog: as a philanderer... but... he
dialog: would never dream of betraying
dialog: me... I gave him the Presidency.
text: Luther and Walter as Luther turns a sharp corner and the
scene_heading: WHEELS SCREAM --
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (pressing it)
dialog: The press conference -- remember?
dialog: -- he held you in his arms and
dialog: said if only Christy hadn't gotten
dialog: sick she would have been with you *
dialog: in Barbados -- *
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 121.
speaker_heading: 334 CONTINUED: (3) 334
speaker_heading: LUTHER (CONT'D)
dialog: (bigger)
dialog: -- how do you think he knew she
dialog: was sick? You didn't tell
dialog: anybody. But he heard it, all
dialog: right. He heard it from her.
dialog: That night. And I heard every
dialog: word --
text: Walter. For a moment, no reaction. Then he sits back
text: hard. The air's out of him. He just breathes quietly.
dialog: Then --
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: That's not real proof.
text: Luther. Handing something back.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: And this?
dialog: Sullivan takes it --
dialog: -- it's the letter opener.
text: Sullivan leans back, shuts his eyes.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: You could have stolen this.
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: I did steal it. But that isn't my
dialog: blood and those aren't my prints.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP ON SULLIVAN *
dialog: Eyes still shut --
dialog: -- and he's very old and you expect tears --
dialog: -- but he didn't get to be Walter Sullivan by crying --
scene_heading: -- HOLD ON Walter --
text: -- and this incredible shriek of rage explodes! --
text: Luther, suddenly stopping the car --
scene_heading: 335 EXT. WHITE HOUSE GATE - NIGHT 335
dialog: -- and we're at the rear of the White House. *
dialog: 122.
scene_heading: 336 INT. LIMO - NIGHT 336
text: Walter. He sits in the back a moment.
text: Then he gets out.
scene_heading: 337 EXT. WHITE HOUSE GATE/EXT. LIMO - NIGHT 337
text: Luther has gotten out too. They stand close to each
text: other. They nod. Then Walter starts away.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: (turns -- quiet now,
dialog: at peace)
dialog: I did love her, you know.
text: And he walks away.
text: A White House SECURITY GUARD as Walter approaches.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN
dialog: Is he working late? I haven't an
dialog: appointment but I'd like to see
dialog: him if I might.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: You don't need an appointment, Mr.
dialog: Sullivan.
text: And as he waves him through --
text: Luther, standing there, watching the old man.
text: Walter, a final turn back, a nod of the head.
text: Luther. He nods back, returns to the car, gets in --
text: -- and now we begin a BLIZZARD OF CUTS.
scene_heading: 338 EXT. WASHINGTON STREET/INT. LIMO - NIGHT 338
text: Luther driving through the night.
scene_heading: 339 EXT./INT. NORTH PORTICO ENTRANCE - NIGHT 339
text: Walter entering the White House proper.
scene_heading: 340 INT. WHITE HOUSE - BURTON'S OFFICE - NIGHT 340
text: Seth, with a bunch of other officers, standing in front
text: of an office with the name "BILL BURTON" on a plaque --
text: he opens the door --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 123.
speaker_heading: 340 CONTINUED: 340
text: -- Burton has blown his brains out. A note alongside
text: reads: "I am so sorry." Alongside the note is a micro-
text: cassette recorder and a dozen tapes.
scene_heading: 341 EXT. WASHINGTON STREET/INT. LIMO - NIGHT 341
text: Luther. Driving faster.
scene_heading: 342 INT. WHITE HOUSE HALLWAY - SECURITY AREA - NIGHT 342
text: Walter Sullivan approaching a METAL DETECTOR -- he starts
dialog: to go through --
dialog: -- it GOES OFF --
text: Walter's embarrassed. He holds up his wrist, showing his
dialog: watch.
text: The security guards smile, wave him to go ahead.
text: Walter continues on.
scene_heading: 343 INT. LIMO - NIGHT 343
text: Luther, tense, ROARING along.
scene_heading: 344 INT. RUSSELL'S - NIGHT 344 *
text: Gloria Russell -- Seth is with her -- he cuffs her, leads *
dialog: her out --
scene_heading: 345 INT. AREA OUTSIDE OVAL OFFICE - NIGHT 345
text: Walter, by the door of the Oval Office. The letter
text: opener is tight in his hand now.
text: The door opens.
text: Richmond, arms out, comes to embrace him, as he embraced
dialog: him at the Press Conference.
scene_heading: 346 EXT. HOSPITAL PARKING LOT - NIGHT 346
text: Luther pulling up into the parking lot of the hospital,
text: getting out, passing the parking lot attendant who is
text: listening transfixed to a small radio.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 124.
speaker_heading: 346 CONTINUED: 346
speaker_heading: RADIO ANNOUNCER #1 (V.O.) *
dialog: ... in the greatest shock to the
dialog: nation since the Kennedy
dialog: assassination, President Alan
dialog: Richmond's death has rocked...
text: Luther has moved past now; we can't hear the radio
dialog: anymore.
scene_heading: 346A INT. HOSPITAL RECEPTION AREA - NIGHT 346A
text: Luther enters. A number of people are present, all of
text: them listening to a large radio, on the desk of the
dialog: Information Clerk.
speaker_heading: RADIO ANNOUNCER #2 (V.O.) *
dialog: ... Richmond died violently in the
dialog: Oval Office and Walter Sullivan...
text: Luther has moved past now; we can't hear the radio
dialog: anymore.
scene_heading: 347 INT. KATE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 347
text: She dozes. Luther sits alongside in a chair.
text: Outside, the moon is high in the sky.
text: Kate blinks, half opens her eyes, sees Luther.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: ... you're still here...?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: Haven't budged.
text: She dozes again.
scene_heading: 347A INT. HOSPITAL LOUNGE - NIGHT 347A
text: A coffee machine in a lounge. Empty. But a TELEVISION
text: SET IS PLAYING SOFTLY.
text: Luther enters, gets some coffee.
text: The TV is SHOWING the PRESS CONFERENCE Richmond held. As
text: we WATCH, Walter Sullivan moves down toward the President
text: and they embrace.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: 347A CONTINUED: 347A
dialog: Now the Press Conference is over and we are LIVE AT the
text: FRONT OF the North Portico of the WHITE HOUSE. A ton of
dialog: reporters --
text: -- and Walter Sullivan, in their midst, beckoning for
dialog: quiet.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1 (V.O.)
dialog: Mister Sullivan, have you no idea
dialog: why the President took his own
dialog: life?
text: Luther stops making coffee, looks at the screen.
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN (V.O.)
dialog: (voice soft)
dialog: I know he's been feeling the
dialog: pressure of office more than ever
dialog: lately. We've talked about it a
dialog: great deal.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2 (V.O.)
dialog: But why would he stab himself?
speaker_heading: WALTER SULLIVAN (V.O.)
dialog: (sadly)
dialog: That's a question that will haunt
dialog: me forever. Of course I tried to
dialog: stop him --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: -- Alan was like a son to me...
text: Luther smiles, takes his coffee, leaves the room as we --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 347B INT. KATE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 347B
text: Kate sleeping. Seth stands there now. Luther enters
text: with his coffee. Seth sees him and they both move to the
text: door and confer silently --
dialog: -- Seth indicates Kate.
text: Luther crosses his fingers.
dialog: Seth says something we can't make out.
text: Luther nods.
text: Seth glances a final time at Kate, then leaves them.
text: Luther moves to Kate, studies her face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: )B( ABSOLUTE POWER - Rev. 5/16/96 126.
speaker_heading: 347B CONTINUED: 347B
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (eyes still closed)
dialog: ... was that Seth...?
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: He was just checking in. When
dialog: you're up to it, he said we might
dialog: come over for dinner. He *
dialog: mentioned -- *
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: (eyes half open)
dialog: I know, he lives alone -- *
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Watch it now.
text: He arranges her sheets.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: ... you don't have to fuss...
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: You were forever catching colds.
text: She nods, drifts and we --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 348 MOON 348
text: starting to fall out of the sky now.
speaker_heading: 349 LUTHER 349
text: stands by the window, looking out. Soon, dawn. He
text: stretches, crosses to her.
speaker_heading: KATE
dialog: ... am I going to be all
dialog: right?....
speaker_heading: LUTHER
dialog: (long pause)
dialog: We'll be fine.
text: Kate nods, drifts.
text: Luther watches her.
text: Then he goes to his chair --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: 349 CONTINUED: 349
dialog: -- reaches down --
text: -- pulls out his sketchbook.
text: He turns the pages.
text: Drawings of Kate.
text: He turns to a new page. Starts drawing her again. He's
dialog: really getting good.
text: HOLD ON Luther and Kate.
scene_heading: FINAL FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
