dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Ace Ventura: Pet Detective script by Jack Bernstein, Tom Shadyac, Jim Carrey
dialog: <!--
dialog: if (window!= top)
dialog: top.location.href=location.href
dialog: // -->
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ACE VENTURA
speaker_heading: PET DETECTIVE
dialog: Written by
dialog: Jack Bernstein
dialog: Tom Shadyac
dialog: Jim Carrey
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: A UPS Man with a big pot belly is walking down the street, whistling and carelessly tossing a
text: package in the air. We hear the sound of broken glass in the box. He passes a professional woman.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: Good morning, UPS!
text: He tosses the box behind his back like a basketball, then acknowledges another passerby.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: UPS, good to see you!
text: He takes a couple of steps, then flings the package incredibly high into the air, spins completely
text: around and expertly drops to one knee and catches the box. A Hispanic man passes.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: Buenos dias. Uo Pay eSsay.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
text: The UPS Man dodges a couple of black kids as though playing basketball. He runs up the front
text: steps of the building. He reaches out to open the front door and inadvertently flings the package
text: behind him and back down the steps.
text: He goes back, retrieves the package, then enters the building.
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY - DAY
text: Several people stand in the elevator. The UPS Man just makes it, but the door closes on the
text: package... REPEATEDLY. He feigns embarrassment.
scene_heading: INT. 3RD FLOOR - DAY
text: ELEVATOR DOORS OPEN. The UPS Man throws the package out onto the floor and starts
text: kicking it down the hall like a soccer player. With one last big kick the parcel lands in front of
text: APARTMENT 3B. He picks it up and knocks on the door.
text: We hear a small dog barking.
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN (O.S.)
dialog: Shut the hell up, you stupid mutt!
text: An angry, burly man pokes his nose hairs out the chained door.
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: UPS, sir. And how are you this
dialog: afternoon? Alrighty then!
text: The man grumpily unchains the door. He's a big guy - 6'5", 250, and 50 of that is chest hair. A
text: small Shiatsu stands beside him.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: I have a package for you.
text: The UPS guy thrusts the package toward the man. We can clearly hear broken glass inside. The
text: man takes the package.
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN
text: It sounds broken.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: Most likely sir! I bet it was
dialog: something nice though! Now... I
dialog: haver an insurance form. If you'll
dialog: just sign here, here, and here,
dialog: and initial here, and print your name
dialog: here, we'll get the rest of the
dialog: forms out to you as soon as we
dialog: can.
text: The man begrudgingly begins to fill out the form. The dog wags his tail and whines. We can see
dialog: that he likes the UPS guy.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: That's a lovely dog you have. Do
dialog: you mind if I pet him, sir?
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN
dialog: (mumbles)
dialog: I don't give a rat's ass.
text: The UPS Man bends down and talks to the dog in a really sucky pet talk.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: Oo ja boo ba da boo boo do booo!
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN
dialog: (under breath)
dialog: Brother.
text: Before the Gruff Man can finish, the UPS Man stands back up and takes the form again.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: That's fine sir. I can fill out
dialog: the rest. You just have yourself
dialog: a good day. Take care, now! 'Bye
dialog: 'bye, then!
scene_heading: THRASH MUSIC STARTS
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY -- CONT'D
text: The UPS Man moves swiftly down the hall and into the stair well.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT 3B - CONT'D
text: The Gruff Man shakes the box, tosses it down and sits in front of the TV.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - CONT'D
text: The UPS Man bursts from the front door and hustles down the street very quickly. He passes
dialog: several people.
speaker_heading: UPS MAN
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: UPS, S'cuse me. UPS, comin'
dialog: through.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT 3B - CONT'D
text: We see the back of the Shiatsu staring at the crack in the front door. He has not moved an inch.
text: The Gruff Man looks over.
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN
dialog: Hey, stupid! Get away from the
dialog: door!
text: The dog doesn't budge and this really pisses him off. He gets up and heads for the dog.
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN
dialog: What's the matter with you, I said
dialog: GIT!!!
text: He roughly picks the dog up by the scruff of the neck, but as he turns it around we see that it is a
text: stuffed dog. Around it's neck is a business card that reads, "You have been had by Ace Ventura -
dialog: Pet Detective." He breathes fire.
speaker_heading: GRUFF MAN
dialog: Son of a bitch!
text: He smashes the dog to the ground.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - CONT'D
text: As the UPS Man/Ace rounds the corner, his shirt opens up at his pot belly and the Shiatsu's head
text: sticks out. Ace is gloating.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (announcer's voice)
dialog: That was a close one, ladies and
dialog: gentlemen. Unfortunately, in
dialog: every contest, there must be...
dialog: A LOOSER!
text: He jumps into an old beat-up Chevy Bel Air, and lets the dog out onto the passenger seat.
speaker_heading: ACE (CONT'D)
scene_heading: LOOOHOOOSERRRHERRR!
text: He then pulls open the car's ashtray, and to the dog's delight, it's filled with puppy chow.
text: He tries to start the engine but it won't turn over. The dog shoots him a look.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to dog)
dialog: No problem, it gets flooded.
dialog: We'll just wait a few seconds.
dialog: Ace sits back. SMASH!!!
text: From Ace's POV we see a Baseball bat shatter the front windshield.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Or, we could try it now.
text: Ace frantically tries to start the car. His new friend continues around the car beating the living shit
dialog: out of it.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oooh, boy.
speaker_heading: ACE'S POV
text: We see the creep wailing on the car in Ace's side view mirror.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Warning! Assholes are closer than
dialog: they appear!
text: The dog is barking insanely.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to dog)
dialog: You think you can do better?!
text: The baseball bat is now pummeling the trunk.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Wanna give me a push while you're
dialog: back there?
text: BOOM! The back window shatters. Then the car's engine roars to life. Ace rejoices.
speaker_heading: ACE
scene_heading: FARFEGNUGENNNNN!!!
text: Ace leaves the bad guy in a cloud of dust and gravel, screaming bloody murder.
scene_heading: EXT. MIAMI CITY STREETS - DAY
text: Ace and his new pal speed away freely.
text: Close on the happy dog, hanging his head out the car window. PAN across the broken windshield
text: to Ace, also hanging his head out the window to see where he's going.
text: The car drives by a sign on a telephone pole: "Reward" -- with a picture of the Shiatsu in Ace's
dialog: seat.
speaker_heading: THRASH MUSIC ENDS
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - DAY
text: A very sexy woman is hugging and kissing the Shiatsu.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: My little baby. You missed mommy
dialog: didn't you? Did daddy hurt you?
dialog: I won't let him, no I won't. He
dialog: may have kept the big screen TV,
dialog: but he's not gonna keep my baby.
dialog: No he isn't.
dialog: (very sexy to Ace)
dialog: Thank you, Mr. Ventura. How can I
dialog: ever repay you?
text: She slinks over to Ace and puts her arms around his neck.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well, the reward would be good,
dialog: and there was some damage to my –
text: She cuts Ace off with a devastating kiss.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Would you like me to take you
dialog: pants off instead?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ummmm… Sure.
text: She pulls him toward the bedroom.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
text: It takes a big man to stand up to
dialog: my husband. He's already put two
dialog: of my lovers in the hospital.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: How did he find out? Does he have
dialog: you followed.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: No… I tell him
text: She plants a kiss on Ace's neck and pulls him down out of frame onto the bed.
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN STADIUM PLAYING FIELD - DAY
text: The stands are empty, but there's plenty happening on the field. The Miami Dolphins are
text: practicing. Dan Marino is in top form, hitting pass after pass.
text: Behind one of the goal posts, the team's mascot, a rare dolphin (SNOWFLAKE), wearing #4, is
text: practicing his routine. The Trainer is dressed like a quarterback.
speaker_heading: TRAINER
dialog: Blue! 42! Blue! 42! Hut! Hut!
text: Snowflake swims over, snatches a small football out of the Trainer's hand, and does an end zone
text: dance on his tail. He then returns the ball to the trainer.
text: The Trainer now sets the ball on the dolphin's tail and snowflake "kicks" a perfect field goal. The
text: Trainer blows a whistle and raises both arms.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN STADIUM PLAYING FIELD - NIGHT
text: The stadium is now completely empty. Snowflake peacefully swims around his tank.
text: Suddenly, the water is illuminated by the headlights of an n.d. panel truck.
text: The rear door slides open. Two men jump out in wet suits.
text: They slip into the water while a third waits outside the tank.
text: Snowflake surfaces to check out the action. One of the men holds out a fish. Snowflake eagerly
text: takes it, then shudders as a large syringe is stuck into his back. Snowflake thrashes around.
text: Quick cut of a hand with the blur of a ring slamming against the tank. But the needle has done its
text: job. Snowflake quickly goes limp.
text: Snowflake is loaded into the back of the truck. Move in on Snowflake's face. His excited cackle
text: has turned into a painful whimper.
text: The truck skids away passing the guard gate. The guard is hog tied and gagged, struggling to free
dialog: himself.
scene_heading: INT. ADELLE'S FRIENDLY PET SHOP - NEXT DAY
text: Close up on a dead goldfish laying on a newspaper. We pull back to reveal ADELLE
text: ROSENBERG, the seventy year old owner of a cluttered pet shop. She's handing a live goldfish in
text: a bag to JENNIFER, a very sweet nine year old.
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: Here you go, honey. Now
dialog: remember… this kind of fish
dialog: doesn't like it in the freezer.
speaker_heading: JENNY
dialog: But what's gonna happen to Dolly?
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: Don't worry, I'll make sure she
dialog: gets a proper burial.
text: Jennifer exits. Adelle calls to her cat, and tosses it the goldfish. The cat catches it in mid-air.
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: Rest in peace.
text: Ace enters the pet shop. It looks like he slept in his clothes.
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: Well… here comes another dead
dialog: fish.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hi, beautiful. What time do you
dialog: get off?
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: Uh oh.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (suggestively)
dialog: I've heard some pretty great
dialog: things about your kibble.
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: Well, I hope I'm not getting a
dialog: reputation.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (switching to mock anger)
dialog: Just get me the food!
text: She chuckles at Ace as she loads a couple of bags with different kinds of pet food.
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: So… ahh, when can I expect you
dialog: to pay your tab?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I'm a little bit Sli Pickins,
dialog: right now, I'm a little Tight
dialog: Squeeze Louise, a little Welfare
dialog: Wolly, Potless Pissing Pete, I'm
dialog: ah –
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: If you were a horse I'd shoot ya'.
dialog: Just take it.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Gravy! I'm good for it, Adelle.
dialog: I'm on a very big case right now.
text: Ace reaches into his coat pocket and pulls out a flyer with a picture of a white pigeon.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: See this pigeon? It's a true
dialog: albino. Some rich guy lost it.
dialog: He's offering a ten thousand
dialog: dollar reward.
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: Wow, albino pigeons are very
dialog: rare. How are you going to find
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Just keep my eyes open, and hope
dialog: to god it doesn't snow.
text: Ace grabs his bags and heads for the door.
speaker_heading: ADELLE
dialog: You're a good boy, Ace. A good
dialog: boy.
text: He holds the door open for an elderly gentleman who is entering at the same time. The gentleman
text: is walking a toy poodle on a leash. The poodle is dragging its butt along the entire length of the
text: floor. Ace and Adelle just stare.
speaker_heading: ELDERLY MAN
dialog: (in a loud voice)
dialog: Do you have anything for ringworm?
scene_heading: EXT. SURFSIDE APARTMENT COMPLEX - DAY
text: Ace enters the courtyard of a two story U-shaped apartment complex carrying his groceries. It's a
text: crappy joint but he calls it home. Inside an open apartment on the ground floor, the landlord, MR.
text: SHICKADANCE, sits watching TV, stuffing his face with cheese doodles. Ace sneaks past the
text: door and up the stairs.
scene_heading: EXT. SECOND FLOOR - DAY
text: Ace is just putting the key in the door when the landlord steps up behind him. Ace is startled by
text: the dreaded 'Shickadance Rasp' (not unlike Linda Blair in THE EXORCIST).
speaker_heading: LANDLORD
dialog: Venturaaaaa?
text: Ace straightens up, but doesn't turn around.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Yes, Satan?
text: Now Ace turns around in mock surprise.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oh, I'm sorry, sir. You sounded
text: like someone else.
speaker_heading: LANDLORD
dialog: Never mind the wise cracks
dialog: Venturaaa. You owe me rent!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Mr. Shickadance… I told you,
dialog: you're my first priority! As soon
dialog: as I find the white pigeon,
dialog: you're paid!!
speaker_heading: LANDLORD
dialog: I heard animals in there Ventura!
dialog: I heard 'em again this morning,
dialog: scratchin' around.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I never bring my work home with
dialog: me, sir.
text: The landlord notices the bags of kibble.
speaker_heading: LANDLORD
dialog: Oh, yeah? What's all this pet
dialog: food for?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Fiber.
text: The landlord isn't buying it.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You wanna take a look for
dialog: yourself? Go head.
text: Ace rattles his keys in the door. Then he swings it open and turns on the light. The house is clear.
text: Ace walks in as the landlord stands there snooping and sniffing the air.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well… are you satisfied?
speaker_heading: LANDLORD
dialog: (still suspicious)
dialog: Yeah, but don't ever let me catch
dialog: you with an animal in there,
dialog: that's all!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Okay then. Take care now. 'Bye
dialog: 'bye.
text: The landlord walks away as Ace closes the door.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (quietly to himself)
speaker_heading: LLOOSER.
text: He then turns to the room and gives a distinct whistle.
text: CHAOS ENSUES! Animals jump out from every direction. Lizards crawl out of drawers, birds fly
text: through the air, all of them gravitating to Ace.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to his flock)
dialog: Ooshhooboobooboodoodoo!
scene_heading: INT. MIAMI DOLPHIN HEADQUARTERS - LATER THAT DAY
text: The very imposing office of BOBBY RIDDLE, owner of the Miami Dolphins. Riddle, 70, is a
text: take charge, doesn't take crap from anyone type of guy. He is yelling at ROGER PODACTER,
text: an ex-linebacker in his early sixties, and MELISSA ROBINSON, Podacter's attractive assistant.
speaker_heading: RIDDLE
dialog: I just want to know one thing; How
dialog: the hell do you lose a 500 pound
dialog: fish?!
text: Melissa's about to speak but hesitates.
speaker_heading: RIDDLE (CONT.)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: It's not a fish, sir. It's a
dialog: mammal.
text: An angry Riddle stands up.
speaker_heading: RIDDLE
dialog: Oh, thank you very much, Mrs.
dialog: Jacque Cousteau!
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: Bob, she didn't mean anything by
dialog: it.
text: RIDDLE calms down a little, and sits.
speaker_heading: RIDDLE
dialog: (calmer)
dialog: Listen, personally, I don't give a
dialog: good god damn about a fish.
text: He looks at Melissa. She doesn't dare say anything.
speaker_heading: RIDDLE (CONT.)
dialog: All I care about is winning this
dialog: Super Bowl! I want the players'
dialog: head in the right place. Shit,
dialog: Roger, you've been in this game
dialog: long enough, you know how
dialog: superstitious players are. Our
dialog: quarterback's been putting his
dialog: socks on backwards since high
dialog: school. And I got a lineman who
dialog: hasn't washed his jock in two
dialog: years because he thinks flies are
dialog: lucky! I want that god damn fish
dialog: on the field Super Bowl Sunday!
text: FIND THE FISH, OR FIND NEW JOBS!
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS ACTION
text: An upset Podacter and Melissa walk through the hallway.
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: Why did it have to happen now? I
dialog: got three stinking years left till
dialog: retirement.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I've got forty.
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: I'll tell you who did it. It was
dialog: those goddamn animal rights nuts!
dialog: Always out there with their
text: goddamn signs, ANIMALS WERE BORN
text: FREE, STOP TORTURING SNOWFLAKE!
dialog: That goddamn fish lives better than
dialog: they do!
text: They stop outside Melissa's office by her secretary's desk.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
text: The police are checking into the
dialog: animal rights people.
dialog: (to secretary)
dialog: Martha, have the police called
dialog: back about the dolphin yet?
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: No, but I wanted to tell you, when
dialog: I lost my Cuddles, I hired a pet
dialog: detective.
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: A what?
speaker_heading: MARTHA
text: A pet detective.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Thanks Martha, but we'd better
dialog: leave this to professionals.
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: Well actually, he was quite good.
dialog: Pet detection is a very involved,
dialog: highly scientific process.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF OF HOUSE - SAME TIME
text: CLOSE ON ACE - COOING like a pigeon. Widen to reveal, Ace precariously perched on the
text: roof of a two story building. He is four feet away from "The" pigeon. Ater a beat, he makes a
text: mad, spastic, yet scientific, lunge for the bird.
speaker_heading: ACE
text: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!
text: The bird makes a clean getaway. Unable to stop his momentum, Ace flies past the edge of the
text: building and slides down the side of the roof.
scene_heading: EXT. GROUND - CONTINUOUS ACTION
text: BAM!!! Ace crashes to the ground. As he lies face down, in a heap of trash, his beeper goes off.
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN HEADQUARTERS/BOBBY RIDDLE STADIUM - DAY
text: Parking lot. Ace's clunker drives by some real nice cars. Employees stare at him.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY CHECK POINT - DAY
text: A stern guard is admitting people into the stadium. He scans each one with a security detection
dialog: wand.
speaker_heading: MAN #1
text: Art Wheeler. Sporting supplies.
text: The guard scans him. He goes.
speaker_heading: MAN #2
dialog: Tom Anderson. Concessions.
text: The guard scans him. He goes.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ace Ventura. Pet detective.
text: The guard stares at Ace, accusingly.
scene_heading: INT. MELISSA'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Martha enters.
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: Ah… Mr. Ventura to see you.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Okay, send him in.
text: Martha exits, Ace enters.
speaker_heading: MELISSA (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi, I'm Melissa Robinson. Did you
dialog: have any trouble getting in?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: No, the guy with the rubber glove
dialog: was surprisingly gentle.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (apologetically)
dialog: Super Bowl week. Security's
dialog: tight. Mr. Ventura, I'll get
dialog: right to the point
text: She slips a tape in the VCR and gestures for Ace to sit.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Our mascot was stolen from his
dialog: tank last night. Are you familiar
dialog: with Snowflake?
text: The tape shows Snowflake doing a trick. The trainer, dressed like a quarterback, shouts out
dialog: signals.
speaker_heading: TRAINER (ON TAPE)
dialog: Blue! 42! Blue! 42! Hut! Hut!
text: Snowflake swims over, snatches the small football out of the trainer's hand, swims the length of
text: the pool, does an end zone dance on his tail, then returns the ball to the trainer.
speaker_heading: MELISSA (O.S.)
dialog: We got Snowflake from the Miami
dialog: Seaquarium. He's a rare Bottle
dialog: Nose Dolphin. That's the new
dialog: trick he was going to do during
dialog: the half-time show.
text: While Ace studies the tape, he chews sunflower seeds in a bird-like fashion, placing the shells in a
text: neat little pile on her desk.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Would you like an ashtray?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: No, I don't smoke.
text: He adds more shells to the pile.
text: Melissa is already wondering if she has made a mistake.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: To be honest, Mr. Ventura.
dialog: I'm pretty skeptical. Before
dialog: today, I didn't even know there
dialog: was such a thing as a pet
dialog: detective.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well, now that you do, you'll know
dialog: who to call if your Schnauser ever
text: runs away.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: How did you know I have a
dialog: Schnauser?
text: Ace pulls a, invisible-to-the-naked-eye dog hair off here blouse and presents it to her.
speaker_heading: ACE
text: He's young, about five pounds,
dialog: black coat, white speckles
dialog: (sniffs the hair)
dialog: likes to chase cars.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Very impressive.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You should see what I can do with
dialog: a good stool sample.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I can hardly wait. Look, we've
dialog: got a problem. Can you help me or
dialog: not?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (coy)
dialog: Well, sea faring creatures aren't
dialog: really my expertise
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: We'll give you three thousand
dialog: dollars on delivery.
text: Ace immediately becomes the narrator of a nature show.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: The dolphin is a social creature.
dialog: Capable of complex communication.
dialog: Traveling in large groups or
dialog: schools
scene_heading: EXT. PLAYING FIELD - A SHORT TIME LATER
text: The Dolphin players practice. A crowd of reporters interview Marino.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: We just choked in 82. We had a
dialog: chance to win it and we didn't.
dialog: Nobody's gonna choke this time,
dialog: and if they do, I'll kill 'em.
text: Ace and Melissa head for Snowflake's tank.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: The police were here this morning.
dialog: Apparently, the kidnappers used
text: the back gate.
text: Ace bends down to look at some tire tracks on the field.
speaker_heading: MELISSA (CONT'D)
dialog: They said some kind of a –
speaker_heading: ACE
text: Four wheel drive van… loaded from
text: the rear.
text: Ace sniffs the turf. Podacter enters nervously.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Oh, hi, Roger. How are you holding
dialog: up?
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: Well if it looks like I'm walking
dialog: funny it's because I have a bunch
dialog: on reporters up my ass. They've
dialog: been asking me about Snowflake all
dialog: day. Who's this?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Roger Podacter, meet Ace Ventura.
dialog: Ace is our pet detective.
text: Podacter shakes his hand.
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: Nice to meet you. Martha Metz
dialog: recommended you very highly.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Martha Metz? Martha Metz. Oh
dialog: yeah, the bitch.
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Pekinese. Hyperactive. Lost in
dialog: Highland Park area. She was half
dialog: dead when I found her. Is that
dialog: the tank?
text: They both follow Ace as he makes a B-line.
scene_heading: EXT. SNOWFLAKE'S TANK - MOMENTS LATER
text: The tank is empty.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Cops drain it?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Yes. This morning.
text: Ace hops on the ladder.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: If I'm not back in five
dialog: minutes… call Lloyd Bridges.
scene_heading: INT. DOLPHIN TANK - MOMENTS LATER
text: While eating sunflower seeds, Ace meticulously examines the tank, including the scratches where
text: the hand banged up against the wall when Snowflake was stolen. All the while, he is singing a
text: bastardized version of the theme from, "Flipper."
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Wonderful Flipper… glorious
dialog: Flipper… magnificent
dialog: Flipper… The flippiest Flipper
text: Podacter and Melissa, watching from the rim, look at each other like, "What have we gotten
dialog: ourselves into?" Podacter spots something.
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: Oh, great.
text: A hoard or reporters are headed their way.
speaker_heading: PODACTER (CONT)
dialog: I'll try to head them off.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (to Ace)
dialog: Get out of the tank.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (still singing)
dialog: Can't hear you Flipper,
dialog: Flipper… Lookin' for Flipper,
dialog: gotta find Flipper
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I said, get out of the tank! Now!
text: The reporters draw closer. Podacter heads them off.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: So where's Snowflake?
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: Ah… Snowflake is just, ah, not
dialog: available right now.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Come on, I'm supposed to get a
dialog: shot of his new trick for the
dialog: evening news.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2
dialog: What? Is he sick?
text: Other reporters chime in.
speaker_heading: VARIOUS REPORTERS
dialog: Did something happen to
dialog: Snowflake?! What're you
dialog: hiding..?!
text: Melissa and Podacter don't know what to say. Then, a strange voice is heard.
speaker_heading: ACE/HEINZ (O.S.)
dialog: (unrecognizable accent)
dialog: How cun I be getting dis vork dun
dialog: mit all da shouting? What for is
dialog: dis shouting?
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Who the hell is that?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: That? That's
speaker_heading: ACE/HEINZ
dialog: Heinz Kissvelvet. I am Trainer of
dialog: Dolphins. You vant to talk to ze
dialog: dolphin, you talk to me!
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: What happened to the regular
dialog: trainer?
speaker_heading: ACE/HEINZ
dialog: Vy do you care about the dolphin?
dialog: Do you know him? Does he call you
dialog: at home? Do you have a dorsal
dialog: fin?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: To train ze dolphin, you must zink
dialog: like ze dolphin. You must be
dialog: getting oonside ze dolphin's head!
dialog: Just yesterday I'm asking
dialog: Snowflake… "ee, eee, eee." He
dialog: said, "Eee, eee, eee, eee." Und
dialog: you can quote him.
text: Ace spits at the reporters' feet. Podacter jumps in.
speaker_heading: PODACTER
dialog: Gentlemen, please, Coach Shula's
dialog: press conference is just about to
dialog: begin. Why don't I take you over
dialog: there and let, ah, Heinz, do his
dialog: job.
text: He ushers the press away.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (sotto to Ace)
dialog: Are you finished, Heinz?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Not yet.
text: Ace goes to the filter outside the tank, opens it, and pours out its contents – mainly leaves, small
text: twigs and gunk. He roots through it, notices a very tiny amber stone. He smiles to himself.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Now I'm finished.
scene_heading: EXT. METRO POLICE DEPARTMENT - LATER THAT DAY
text: A flurry of activity in the detective division. As Ace enters, several cops taunt him on sight, led by
text: the obnoxious, SERGEANT AGUADO.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: Hey, Ventura! Make any good
dialog: collars lately?
speaker_heading: ANOTHER COP
dialog: Or were they leashes?
text: They all bust up. Aguado spots a bug on the ground.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: Uh oh.
dialog: (steps on the bug)
dialog: Homicide, Ventura!
text: The cops are falling all over themselves laughing.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: How you gonna solve this one?!
text: Ace walks up to them and looks at the squashed bug.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Good question, Aguado… first I'd
dialog: establish a motive. In this case
dialog: the killer saw the size of the
dialog: bug's dick, and became insanely
dialog: jealous.
text: The other cops all react with a big "ooooooo". Aguado has no comeback. Ace comes face to face
dialog: with him.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Then I'd lose thirty pounds
text: porking his wife.
text: Aguado suddenly loses it and swings at Ace.
text: With a lightening move, Ace sidesteps the punch and forces Aguado's face down next to the dead
dialog: bug.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Now kiss and make up.
text: Ace walks off.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to himself)
speaker_heading: LLLOOOSER!
text: Ace walks to the desk of EMILIO ECHAVEZ, a young energetic member of the homicide
text: division. Ace has a silly impish look on his face.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (playfully)
dialog: I miss you.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: It's not a good time, Ace. If
dialog: Einhorn sees me talking to you I'm
dialog: gonna be history.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Okay. Just tell me what you got
dialog: on Snowflake. That's all I need.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
text: I can't say anything. My hands
dialog: are tied.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (effeminate)
dialog: Sounds like my kind of a party.
text: A cop comes to Emilio's desk.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Look alive, Einhorn's on her way
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Ace, please?!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Just tell me who's working the
dialog: case?
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Aguado.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Aguado?! He's pimple juice! He's
dialog: the poster child for lead paint
dialog: chip eaters!
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Look, Ace. We're a little busy
text: with murderers and drug dealers.
dialog: A missing dolphin isn't exactly a
dialog: high priority.
text: The elevator is getting closer.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Ace, gimme a break will ya?
text: Ace nonchalantly sits back in a chair, pops a sunflower seed into his mouth and cracks it loudly.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Okay, okay. We checked all the
dialog: local animal rights groups,
dialog: taxidermists, and we're running a
dialog: check through DMV on all recent
dialog: van rentals. So far, nada.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Any unusual bets being made?
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Ace, it's the Super Bowl, of
dialog: course there's bets being made.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What'd you find out about the
dialog: tank?
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Nothing weird. Just the tire
text: tracks and the exit route. The
text: guard didn't see anything.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: That's it?
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: That's it. I swear. Now please
dialog: go away!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You know something?
dialog: (again impish)
dialog: YOU'RE NICE!
text: Ace gets up and exits the room. Then just as Emilio sighs with relief, Ace pops back in.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What about crazy Philly fans?
text: The elevator bell rings. Out steps police LT. LOIS EINHORN, mid 30s, with a slender build, a
text: great pair of legs and a bad tude.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Holy Testicle Tuesday!
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: (to Emilio)
dialog: What the hell is he doing here?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I came to confess. I was the
text: second gunman on the grassy knoll.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Spare me the routine, Ventura. I
dialog: know you're working the Snowflake
dialog: case. May I suggest you yield to
dialog: the experts on this one? We'll
dialog: find the porpoise.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (mock relief)
dialog: Whewww… now I feel better!
text: Ace turns to go.
speaker_heading: ACE (CONT)
dialog: Of course, that might not do any
dialog: good. You see, nobody's missing a
dialog: porpoise. It's a dolphin that's
dialog: been taken. The common Harbor
text: Porpoise has an abrupt snout,
text: pointed teeth, and a triangular
dialog: thorasic fin, while the Bottlenose
dialog: Dolphin, or Tursiops Truncatus,
text: has an elongated beak, round,
text: cone-shaped teeth, and a
dialog: distinctive serrated dorsal
dialog: appendage. (beat) But I'm sure
dialog: you already knew that. (beat)
dialog: That's what turns me on about you.
dialog: Hey… maybe I'll give you a call
dialog: sometime, lieutenant. Your number
dialog: still 911? Alrighty then!
text: Ace exits.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TEA ROOM - NIGHT
text: A wild thrasher club. An incredible thrash band is on stage cranking. Kids jump wildly into the
text: moshing pit.
text: Ace enters, sees a burnout at the bar whose head is circling insanely to the music.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Excuse me?! Is Greg here?!
text: The burnout's head thrashes on. No acknowledgement of Ace.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Thank you!
text: Ace heads for the basement stairs.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT STAIRS - NIGHT
text: Ace descends the stairs, stopping at a large steel door. Ace bangs on it three times. A voice is
text: heard from inside.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Password!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Tom Vu! I pay for sex! You can
dialog: too!
text: CLICK! The door electronically unlatches and slides open.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT
text: Ace enters. Green Peace "Save the Whales" posters abound. GREG/WOODSTOCK, a laid
text: back, ex-hippy with long gray hair, sits at a very impressive computer set up. Ace and he have
text: their own distinct banter.
text: A thud from above. Ace looks up.
speaker_heading: ACE'S POV
text: Part of the ceiling is made of metal grating, so you can see the bottom of the dance floor. A guy's
text: face gets smashed into the grate. We see that it is the burnout from the club.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to burnout)
dialog: Found him!
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Hey! St. Francis! How's it goin?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Super, and thank you for asking.
dialog: Hope you're having a nice day.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Do you?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Don't I? And what are you up to?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Just watching the fishies, man.
text: There is a BLIP on the computer screen.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Alright, you're just in time for
dialog: the party. You see those blips?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I certainly do.
speaker_heading: ON THE SCREEN
text: A map with several ships on the ocean.
text: He quickly taps in some commands and the ships start sailing in all different directions.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: That's a Norwegian whaling fleet.
dialog: I'm sending them new directional
dialog: coordinates… They'll find Jimmy
dialog: Hoffa before they find any
dialog: Humpbacks.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Gravy.
text: Woodstock moves to a different screen.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Check this out.
text: More computer graphics come up on the screen.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Just changed the formula for
text: Purina's puppy chow.
dialog: (turns to Ace)
dialog: Too much filler, don't ya' think?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (acting turned on)
dialog: I'm very attracted to you right
dialog: now.
text: Woodstock chuckles.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Are you?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Aren't I? Can you still tap into
dialog: all the aquatic supply store in
dialog: the area?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Of course I can. Why?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I want to trace the sale of any
dialog: equipment for transporting or
text: housing a dolphin within the past
dialog: few months
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: C'mon, Ace. I thought you might
dialog: have a challenge for me
text: Woodstock starts hacking away.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Okay then, try to remember the
dialog: sixties.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Wow! God one! Let's see
dialog: Marine winch sling, feeder fish,
dialog: 20,000 gallon tank
text: He waits. We hear a beep.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: That's it. I found the culprit.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: (dramatically)
dialog: Sea World.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: bastard.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Hang on, hang on
text: (He taps a couple keys)
dialog: Well, what do we have here?
dialog: That's a lot of equipment for a
dialog: civilian.
text: The printer spits out some data. Woodstock rips off the page and hands it to Ace.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ronald Camp? The billionaire?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Billionaire and rare fish
dialog: collector.
speaker_heading: ACE
text: RRREHEHEALLY!
speaker_heading: A PICTURE OF CAMP
text: Comes up on the computer screen.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: That, my friend, is the face of
dialog: the enemy.
text: He pages through his file on screen.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Always tryin' to get his hands
dialog: on endangered species
text: Newspaper articles fill the screen. One shows a picture of Camp and some Dolphin players.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hold on, this guy's connected with
dialog: the Dolphins?
text: Ace leans in.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Camp donated the land the new
text: stadium's built on.
dialog: (re: article)
dialog: Oh, look at this, he's throwin'
dialog: another, "I'm the richest man in
dialog: the universe" party.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: Hmmm… I wonder if I can find
dialog: myself a date.
scene_heading: INT. CAMP'S MANSION - NIGHT
text: It's a magnificent home. There is an extremely formal party in progress. Twenty to thirty people
text: having champagne, caviar, and hot air. We see Dan Marino sitting with an audience around him.
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: We just choked in 82. We had a
dialog: chance to win and we didn't. But
dialog: nobody's gonna choke this time; if
dialog: they do, I'll kill 'em!
text: Everybody laughs.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMP'S MANSION - NIGHT
text: Ace and Melissa climb an impressive stairway leading to Camp's mansion.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I'm really going out on a limb
dialog: here, Ventura. Camp's social
dialog: events are strictly A-list.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (a la Love Connection)
dialog: 'Well, Chuck… the date started
dialog: off good, but just before we got
dialog: to the party, she seemed to tense
dialog: up.'
text: Melissa rolls her eyes, then taps a huge door knocker.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I swear, if you do anything to
dialog: embarrass me in front of Camp
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You mean like this?
text: Ace starts doing a spastic body convulsion. Just then a bald-headed butler, who looks a little like
text: Gavin McCloud, opens the door. Ace doesn't notice until Melissa hits him with her purse.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Owwwe!!!
text: He sees the butler.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oh, hi Captain Stubing.
text: Melissa storms in, already pissed.
scene_heading: INT. CAMP'S MANSION - CONT
text: Ace and Melissa enter. Camp looks over.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: Melissa! Glad you could make it!
dialog: Oh, and who is this?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: This is my date. He's a
dialog: lawyer.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: Well, does he have a name, or
dialog: should I call him "Lawyer"?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I'm sorry, it's Ace - ah, Tom Ace.
text: Ace is very unimpressed with her lying ability. He jumps in.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Tom Ace. Wonderful to meet you,
text: Mr. Camp, and congratualtions on
dialog: all your success. You smell
dialog: terrific.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: Ah, well, thank you. Please, come
dialog: in.
text: Ace boldly leads the way over to an hors 'oeuvre table. Melissa closely follows.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: This is insane. There's no way
dialog: that Camp stole Snowflake.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (spreading pate' on a cracker)
dialog: Will you just keep him occupied,
dialog: while I work my magic please.
text: She crosses the room. He puts the cracker in his mouth and begins to crunch. A man in a tux
text: beside Ace spreads pate' on his own cracker.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (with a mouthful, to man)
dialog: Smooshy, isn't it?
text: Off the stuffy man's reaction
scene_heading: INT. CAMP'S MANSION - SECONDS LATER
text: Ace approaches Camp.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Excuse me, Ron, I need to use the
dialog: bathroom?
text: (palms his stomach, whispering loudly)
dialog: I think it's the pate'.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: Um, it's just over there.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Thanks. Stuff probably looks
dialog: better on the way out, huh?
text: Ace laughs, slaps Camp hard on the back and heads for the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - CONT
text: Ace wastes no time. He locks the door, turns on the water faucet, steps onto the toilet seat, opens
text: and climbs out a window.
scene_heading: EXT. MANSION COURT YARD - CONT
text: Ace drops to the ground. He follows a pathway, through a gazebo and into a doorway, all the time
text: quietly singing the musical score to 'Mission Impossible'.
scene_heading: INT. CAMP'S MANSION - FISH TANKS - CONT
text: Ace browses through a myriad of dramatically lit, salt water tanks, still singing. They're all filled
text: with colorful exotic fish. Very impressive, but nothing large enough to house a dolphin. He
text: continues on towards a large door.
scene_heading: INT. TANK ROOM - SECONDS LATER
text: A huge above-ground tank is covered with curtains to discourage onlookers. Ace swings open the
text: large door and enters.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Gravy.
text: Ace climbs a ladder on the side of the tank, singing more intensely now. The ladder leads to a
text: narrow catwalk over the center of the water. Ace grabs a feeder fish from a pail and walks
dialog: carefully out there.
text: CLOSE ON ACE. THIS IS IT.
text: He looks into the dark pool, but sees nothing. Now he stops singing, quietly squats down and
text: dangles the fish over the water.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Snowflake… Here, Snowflake
dialog: Snooowflaaaake
text: A GREAT WHITE LUNGES OUT OF THE WATER AND SNAPS ITS JAWS AN INCH
text: FROM ACE'S FACE!!! NEEDLESS TO SAY, ACE IS A TAD SURPRISED.
text: He reels back, falling off the catwalk, into the water.
scene_heading: INT. CAMP'S MANSION - SAME TIME
text: Melissa is admiring some beautiful tropical fish. Camp approaches.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: Wonderful, aren't they?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (nervously)
dialog: Yes. They're incredible.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: No matter what is going on in my
dialog: life, I can always watch them
dialog: swim and be completely at peace.
scene_heading: INT. INDOOR POOL ROOM - SAME TIME
text: The water is still for a moment. Then, Ace breaks the surface.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (frantic, to himself)
dialog: It's not Snowflake… It's not
dialog: Snowflake.
text: Instantly, Ace's body is thrashed around back and forth through the water, the entire length of the
dialog: pool.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: IT'S NOT SNOWFLAAAAKE!!! IT'S NOT
dialog: SNOWFLAAAA!!!
scene_heading: INT. CAMP'S MANSION - LATER
text: A line is forming outside the bathroom. Camp and Melissa are seated nearby. He's getting curious.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: Are you sure he's okay? It's been
dialog: an awfu;;y long time.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Who, Tom? Oh, I'm sure he's fine.
text: Ace suddenly opens the bathroom door and stands there, completely drenched from head to toe,
text: with his pants in shreds. Everyone stops. They all stare at Ace in amazement.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (loudly to the entire room)
dialog: DO NOT GO IN THERE!
dialog: (fanning the air)
dialog: Whewww!!
scene_heading: EXT. CAMP'S MANSION - LATER
text: Ace and Melissa are exiting. Camp stops in the doorway.
speaker_heading: CAMP
dialog: (still confused)
dialog: I'm very sorry, Mr. Ace. I'll
dialog: have the pluming checked
dialog: immediately.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Be sure that you do. If I had
dialog: been drinking out of that toilet,
dialog: I might have been killed!
text: Ace shakes Camp's hand and notices his ring. He holds on to get a better look. It's a very distinct,
dialog: commemorative ring.
text: Camp wants his hand back but Ace won't let go. Melissa finally drags Ace away.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: We'd better go.
text: Camp looks on and shakes his head.
scene_heading: INT. MELISSA'S CAR - NIGHT
text: Ace is thinking. Melissa is pissed.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Y'know, I don't even want to
dialog: know why your pants are missing!
dialog: I don't care what happened! You
dialog: could have cost me my job.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (on his own wavelength)
dialog: I was wrong about Camp. He's
dialog: breaking the law but he's not our
dialog: guy.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: It's a sure thing! It's
dialog: definitely him! Just get me in
dialog: there! Let me work my magic!
text: Ace takes the stone out of his pocket and studies it intensely.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: This is the key. Right here!
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Hiring you was the biggest mistake
dialog: I ever made!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: So small! So unnoticeable! Yet
dialog: an invaluable piece… of our
dialog: twisted little jigsaw puzzle!
text: Melissa stares at Ace like he's gone crazy. There is a flash of headlights and a car horn. Melissa
text: swerves back into her own lane. Ace drops the stone somewhere on the seat and begins to search
dialog: for it frantically.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Damn it!
dialog: (to Melissa)
dialog: Try to keep it on the road.
scene_heading: INT. MELISSA'S LIVING ROOM
text: Melissa enters, followed by Ace.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: So, you found a pebble in
dialog: Snowflake's tank. Excuse me while
dialog: I call CNN.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I found it in the filter. And
dialog: it's not a pebble. It is a rare,
text: triangular cut, orange amber.
text: Ace hands Melissa the stone and quickly goes to one of her bookcases.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Tonight I saw the exact same stone
text: in Camp's ring.
text: Ace finds a book on the Dolphin team and flips through it.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I thought you said he didn't do
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: N. Camp's clean. His ring
dialog: wasn't missing a stone. But
dialog: whoever was in that tank had a
dialog: ring just like his.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Wait a second. What ring?
text: Ace hands her the book. It's open to a photo of
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: The 1982 Dolphin AFC Championship
dialog: ring.
text: Melissa holds the stone up to the picture. It's a perfect match.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I find the ring with the missing
dialog: stone, I find Snowflake.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: How are you gonna do that?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Simple.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TRACK - DAY
text: Ace is wheezing and gasping for air as he struggles to jog up beside a large man who's running
text: around the track at a very fast pace. When he finally catches up, he awkwardly tries to catch a
text: glimpse of the man's ring and trips. The man just keeps going.
scene_heading: INT. FOOTLOCKER - DAY
text: Ace sits waiting with one shoe off. The store manager, an ex-player for the '82 team, sets down
text: several shoe boxes. Ace checks out the ring.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: A poster of the '82 team. The player we just saw is being crossed out.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL - DAY
text: Pan a few kids getting autographs from Marino and other players, ending on Ace dressed up and
text: looking like a pimply kid. As the players sign, he checks their rings.
scene_heading: EXT. TRACK - DAY
text: Ace is again trying to catch the large man on the track. This time, just as he draws near, the man
text: leaves him in the dust.
scene_heading: INT. SPORTS BAR - DAY
text: Two big guys finish arm wrestling. Ace steps up to challenge. He spends an undue amount of time
text: preparing his grip, as he checks out the ring. Ace finally gets set and gives the "go ahead" nod. He
text: is instantly thrown across the room.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: The poster of the '82 team. Another group of players are being crossed out.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: Ace spots a player driving along side him. He can't see his ring.
text: Ace deliberately cuts off the player's car and flips him off. The angry player flips Ace off. We see
text: his ring is intact. Ace waves and drives off.
scene_heading: INT. MEN'S ROOM
text: One huge lineman uses a urinal. Ace, using the urinal next to him, nonchalantly tries to catch a
text: glimpse of the guy's hands. The Lineman has a very angry look on his face, but after a beat it
text: changes to a "come on" smile.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: The poster of the '82 team. There is only one face that has not been crossed out. Ace circles it.
scene_heading: EXT. TRACK - DAY
text: Once again we see the large, fast man jogging toward camera. Suddenly Ace runs up behind him,
text: with a desperate look on his face, pouring a bottle of chloroform into a cloth. He leaps onto the
text: man's back, smothering him with the cloth and holding on for dear life. The man slowly gives up
text: the fight and collapses. Ace casually checks the ring, then walks away disappointed.
scene_heading: EXT. MELISSA'S BACKYARD - EARLY EVENING
text: Ace sits in a lawn chair depressed. Melissa consoles him.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ace, that stone could have come
dialog: from anywhere. An earring, a
dialog: necklace
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (with murder in his eyes)
dialog: It came from an '82 AFC
dialog: Championship ring.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Lt. Einhorn thinks it was an
dialog: animal rights group. Have you
dialog: heard of FAN?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Free Animals Now? Started in 1982
dialog: by Chelsea Gamble, daughter of the
dialog: famous industrialist, Fischer
dialog: Gamble? Over half a million
dialog: members from Florida to Finland?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No. Who are they?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Did you know that last year they
dialog: sent threatening letters to 127
dialog: college teams, demanding the
dialog: release of their mascots? At last
dialog: count –
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What do you feed your dog?
text: We see Melissa's dog lying near Ace's feet.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ah… dog food, why?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: He's miserable.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: He's just very unhappy, I feel
dialog: sorry for him. Bad diet, isolated
dialog: environment. It's amazing he's
text: still alive.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: You're just mad because your
dialog: stupid pebble theory didn't work
dialog: out and you don't know how to
dialog: express your anger.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Yeah? And you're ugly.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: I'm not even gonna' talk to you,
dialog: please leave.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What, so you can beat him? Fatty!
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: You… are unbelievable.
text: The phone rings inside the house. Melissa goes to answer it.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Hiring you was a huge mistake!
text: The door slams and Ace is alone with the dog. After a moment he reaches down to pet it and we
dialog: all see that it is one of the happiest dogs in the world.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You like her, huh?… Yeah, she's
dialog: alright.
text: Ace, feeling guilty, walks into the house.
scene_heading: INT. MELISSA'S DEN - CONT
text: Ace walks toward Melissa.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Look, Melissa, I, ah
text: Ace stops when he sees Melissa. She is sitting, holding the phone in her lap with a completely
text: stunned look on her face. Something is very wrong.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH RISE APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
text: Chaos. Police, lights flashing, paramedics, crowds of people.
text: Ace and Melissa see Roger Podacter's body taken away in an ambulance.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You okay?
text: Melissa nods bravely. Emilio joins them.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What'd you find?
speaker_heading: EMILIO
text: Podacter, Roger. Routine suicide.
text: He was alone. He'd been drinking.
text: No sign of a struggle. Neighbor
text: heard him scream on the way down.
dialog: Just your classic fifteen story
dialog: swan dive.
text: Melissa shudders. Ace gives Emilio a "way to go" look.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Sorry.
scene_heading: INT. HIGHRISE LOBBY - NIGHT
text: The three enter. Emilio pushes the button for the elevator.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: It just seems so out of character.
dialog: He was going to retire in two
dialog: years.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Did he leave a note?
text: The elevator arrives.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: No. That's nothing unusual. Some
dialog: do, some don't. He didn't.
text: The elevator doors close.
scene_heading: INT. PODACTOR'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER
text: Police are everywhere. Emilio, Ace and Melissa enter and are immediately approached by one of
dialog: the officers.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Miss Robinson, this is officer
dialog: Carlson.
speaker_heading: CARLSON
dialog: Evening, ma'am. I wonder if you
dialog: could answer a few questions about
dialog: the deceased?
text: Ace slips away, we follow him as he eavesdrops on conversations.
speaker_heading: NEIGHBOR
dialog: (to a cop)
dialog: I told you, I was across the hall
text: in my apartment, I heard a scream.
dialog: The door was locked, so I called
dialog: the manager
text: The Manager reiterates her story to the cop. The Manager is about 100 years old.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: The place was empty, except for
dialog: the damn dog in the other room.
dialog: Then I opened the balcony door,
text: looked over the railing,
dialog: and… splat, bang, pancake time
text: Ace, continuing his investigation notices
speaker_heading: PODACTER'S DESK
dialog: in perfect order.
text: Next, he notices police coming in and out of the balcony, closing the door behind them, shutting
text: out the noise.
scene_heading: INT. PODACTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: A dog is cowering in the corner. Ace tries to comfort the little guy.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hey, fella, have a bad night?
text: Ace examines its paws.
text: Ace then gets down and finds scratches in the door. TWO FEET interrupt.
text: Ace stands. He is face to face with Einhorn.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Who let Dr. Doolittle in?
text: Emilio steps in immediately.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Ah, Lieutenant. He came with Miss
dialog: Robinson –
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: This is official police business.
dialog: We'll let you know if the coroner
dialog: finds any ticks.
text: Cops snicker.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: I just thought since Melissa –
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: E, forget it. She's right.
dialog: Besides, I wouldn't want someone
dialog: tracing my steps and pointing out
dialog: all the mistakes I made.
dialog: Ace crosses to
scene_heading: EXT. PODACTER'S BALCONY - CONT
text: Ace examines the area. Einhorn is in hot pursuit.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Oh, so, you don't think this in an
dialog: obvious suicide, Mr. Pet
dialog: Detective?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well, I wouldn't say that. Lord
dialog: knows, there is plenty of evidence
dialog: here to support your theory,
dialog: except of course that spot of
text: blood on the balcony.
text: On the railing, sure enough, there is a tiny spot of blood.
text: Einhorn glares at a couple of nearby cops. They look down.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: May I tell you what I think
dialog: happened? Alrighty then!
text: Ace moves as he talks.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Roger Podacter went out after
dialog: work. He had a few drinks, and he
text: came home. But he wasn't alone.
dialog: Someone was with him in this
dialog: apartment. There was a struggle,
dialog: and then Roger Podacter was thrown
dialog: over that balcony. Roger Podacter
dialog: didn't commit suicide. He was
dialog: murdered.
text: A beat as everyone considers this.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Well, that's a very entertaining
dialog: story, but real detectives have to
dialog: worry about that little thing
dialog: lawyers call evidence.
text: Ace picks up a lottery ticket on Podacter's desk and becomes a condescending kid show host.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Let's take a trip to clue
dialog: corner, shall we? Can anyone tell
dialog: me why a man buys a lottery ticket
dialog: on the day he is going to commit
dialog: suicide? Or why the family pet,
dialog: suffering from acute canine
text: trauma, clawed at the bedroom door
dialog: until his paws bled? How about
dialog: the blood on the railing? I'll
dialog: bet if we put our thinking caps on
dialog: we'll see that it was the result
dialog: of the struggle that took place
dialog: inside this apartment while Mr.
dialog: Podacter was still alive!
dialog: (singing)
dialog: NEXT TIME YOU DON'T HAVE A CLUE
text: COME ON BACK TO CLUE CORNER! BOOP!
text: Everyone looks to Einhorn.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Not a bad try for a pet detective,
dialog: but not near conclusive enough for
dialog: us real investigators.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: First, people buy lottery tickets
dialog: everyday. It's a habit. It
dialog: doesn't prove a thing. Second,
dialog: the dog wasn't suffering from
dialog: canine trauma, he was suffering
dialog: from bladder trauma. Sergeant
dialog: Neilson found a piss stain as big
dialog: as Lake Huron near the bed. And
text: third, the blood on the railing.
text: Simple. He doesn't jump far
text: enough and whacks his head. A
dialog: fact confirmed by the paramedics
text: who found cuts on his scalp, with
text: traces of a white chalky
dialog: substance. i.e. plaster from the
dialog: balcony.
text: Einhorn shows Ace the paramedics report. Everyone is impressed with Einhorn.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: So much for your murder, Ventura.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: Uh oh, I think I heard a toilet
dialog: flush. Maybe someone lost their
dialog: turtle?
text: Everyone has a laugh. Ace looks beaten.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well, maybe I'm just a little out
dialog: of my league, here. Einhorn
text: Ace holds out his hand, Einhorn shakes it.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: good work.
text: Ace and Melissa head for the door.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oh, there is just one more thing,
dialog: Lieutenant.
dialog: (re: the neighbor)
dialog: This man is Roger Podacter's
text: neighbor. He lives across the
dialog: hall. He said he heard a scream,
dialog: is that right, sir?
text: The neighbor nods. Ace turns to the apartment manager.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: And you said you had to open the
dialog: balcony door when you keyed into
dialog: the room?
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: That's right.
text: Ace walks out onto the balcony and turns, facing them.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You're certain you had to open
dialog: this door?
text: She nods.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: What's the point, Ventura?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Only this
speaker_heading: AAAAAAAWWWWWWWWWWW
text: Ace sustains an incredible Pavorati note, while he repeatedly opens and closes the glass door
text: between them. When the door is closed nothing can be heard.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (tapping the door)
text: This is double paned, sound-
dialog: proofed glass. There's no way
dialog: this neighbor could have heard
text: Podacter scream on the way down
text: with this door shut. The scream
dialog: he heard came from inside this
dialog: apartment, before Podacter was
dialog: thrown over the railing! And the
dialog: muderer closed the door before he
dialog: left!
dialog: (celebrates insanely)
dialog: Yes! Yesss! I have exorcised the
dialog: demons!
dialog: (a la Poltergeist)
dialog: This house is clear.
scene_heading: INT. ACE'S CAR - A SHORT TIME LATER
text: Ace drives straight ahead.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: What are you thinking?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I'm thinking this whole thing is
dialog: connected somehow.
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: I'm thinking I want to find that
dialog: other ring!
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: You checked all the rings.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I know, Pessimistress. Could
dialog: anyone else have gotten a ring
dialog: that year?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: No. Camp was the only honoree.
dialog: Just players and coaches.
text: Everyone in the photo.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Receipts! There must be
dialog: receipts! You have a key to the
dialog: office.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ace this has been a really tough
dialog: day. Can't we do this in the
dialog: morning?
text: Ace looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Absolutely.
scene_heading: EXT. DOLPHIN HEADQUARTERS - 1:00 AM
text: Ace's car screeches to a stop, in front of the building. Ace jumps out, followed by Melissa.
scene_heading: INT. DOLPHIN HEADQUARTERS - HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: It's dark. Team pictures adorn the walls.
speaker_heading: MELISSA (O.S.)
dialog: These files go back to seventy-
dialog: eight.
scene_heading: INT. DOLPHIN OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Ace is flipping through a file cabinet, looking at receipts. Melissa is starting to warm to him.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: That was pretty impressive, what
dialog: you did back at the apartment.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (still looking)
dialog: You don't have to tell me. I was
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Maybe you should have joined the
dialog: police force… become a real
dialog: detective.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: I don't do humans.
text: Melissa gets a bit closer.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: You really love animals, don't
dialog: you?
text: Ace stops searching and looks into her eyes.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I feel a kinship with them. I
dialog: understand them. Wanna hear
dialog: something kinda spooky?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Sure.
text: She gets closer still.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: One time, when I was about twelve,
dialog: I had this dream that I was being
text: followed by a dog with rabies. He
dialog: had these really bloodshot eyes
dialog: and foam coming out of his
dialog: mouth… and just before I got to
dialog: my front door… he jumped on me
dialog: and sunk his teeth in. Then I
dialog: woke up, and felt the back of my
dialog: neck… check this out.
text: Ace motions for Melissa to feel the back of his neck, but when she does, he snaps at her hand,
text: barking like a vicious dog.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: ARARAR!!!
text: Melissa jumps out of her skin.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ohhh!! You bastard!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (snickering)
dialog: I'm sorry. I couldn't stop
dialog: myself. Are these all the
dialog: receipts?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (mildly annoyed)
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: There's only a dozen of them here.
text: Ace turns from the file cabinet with a hopeless look on his face. Melissa begins to clean up his
dialog: mess.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (pointedly)
dialog: Gee… maybe they were misplaced
dialog: because somebody didn't put the
dialog: files back when he was
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Who the hell is that?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: What
text: Ace crosses to a big picture of the '82 team that hangs on the aadjacent wall and points out a
dialog: player.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: That! Who the hell is that?!
text: He quickly pulls out his crossed out pictures of the team and begins to compare the two.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Oh, that's Ray Finkle… the
dialog: kicker. Don't you know who Ray
dialog: Finkle is?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: No! How come he's not in this
dialog: picture?!
text: Melissa checks Ace's photo.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: This was the picture you were
dialog: using? This was taken earlier in
dialog: the year. Finkle wasn't added to
dialog: the roster till mid-season.
text: She starts to realize what Ace has already figured out.
speaker_heading: MELISSA (CONT'D)
dialog: He's the guy that missed the final
text: field goal in the Super Bowl that
dialog: year. Cost the Dolphins the game.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: But he got a ring?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Definitely.
scene_heading: INT. STADIUM/PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE - LATER
text: Ace and Melissa look through Finkle's file on a microfiche screen. Newspaper articles, headshots
dialog: flash before them
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: 'Replacement Kicker Having Great
dialog: Year'… 'Ready For Super Bowl,
dialog: Confident Kicker Boasts'.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: 'Field Goal Sails Wide, Dolphins
dialog: Lose Super Bowl'.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
text: The kick heard round the world.
dialog: That was Finkle. The Dolphins lost
dialog: by one point.
text: Another headline hits the screen: FINKLE CONTRACT NOT RENEWED.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Poor guy.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Poor guy with a motive, baby.
dialog: Where is he now?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Last I heard, he went back to his
dialog: home town, Collier County. He
dialog: used to work in a bar up there.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (pondering)
scene_heading: REHEHEALLY.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Can you drop me off before you go?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: No way. It may not be safe at
dialog: your apartment, and you shouldn't
dialog: be left alone.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: What do you suggest?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ACE'S BEDROOM - LATER
text: We see a person's butt under a sheet coming up into frame repeatedly.
text: SKIN, SWEAT, SHEETS FLY, as Ace and Melissa roll back and forth on the bed. Ace is taking
dialog: no prisoners.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: 50 animals at the bottom of the bed, with eyes as big as silver dollars, watching them silently. We
text: cut back and forth between furious lovemaking and shots of staring animals.
text: Melissa and Ace simultaneously reach the pinnacle of pleasure.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (totally amazed and exausted)
dialog: OH man… oh man! Oh wow!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (mock embarrassment)
dialog: I'm sorry… that's never happened
dialog: to me before. I must be tired.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY ONE - DAY
text: Various traveling shots of Ace en route to a 'Deliverance' type town deep in the Everglades. A
text: sign reads "Gas - Food - 2 Miles" but the word "Food" is crossed out.
scene_heading: INT. BILBO'S GAS STATION - DAY
text: A pitifully sad country song plays on the radio. FERN BILBO sits at his cluttered desk with the
text: end of an old shotgun in his mouth. He is struggling to reach the trigger.
text: Through the glass behind him, we see Ace's car pull up to the only gasoline pump.
text: DING! The bell rings. Fern begrudgingly takes the gun out of his mouth, sets it down and walks
dialog: out.
scene_heading: EXT. BILBO'S GAS STATION - CONT
text: Ace gets out of his car.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Excuse me, sir. Do you know where
dialog: I can find the Pigskin Sports Bar?
speaker_heading: FERN
dialog: Do I have a "kick me" sign on my
dialog: back, son?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I wouldn't know anything about
dialog: that, but if you could point me
text: toward the bar.
text: Fern breaks down, sobbing.
speaker_heading: FERN
dialog: They all left me… all of them!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well… Hypothetically speaking,
dialog: say they all left you and went to
dialog: the Pigskin Sports Bar. How would
dialog: they have gotten there from here?
speaker_heading: FERN
dialog: Two miles down and take the first
dialog: left.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Thanks very much! Take care now,
dialog: 'bye 'bye then!
text: Ace gets into his car and pulls out.
scene_heading: INT. BILBO'S GAS STATION - CONT
text: Fern enters, sits down at the desk, places the end of the shotgun in his mouth, reaches for the
dialog: trigger and
text: DING! Another car pulls up to the pump. Exasperated, he takes the gun out of his mouth.
speaker_heading: FERN
text: (murmers to himself as he gets up)
dialog: Can't get anything done around
dialog: here
scene_heading: EXT. PIGSKIN SPORTS BAR - DAY
text: A weathered dive in the middle of a swamp. Ace parks.
scene_heading: INT PIGSKIN SPORTS BAR - DAY
text: If depression had a home, this is it. Several dejected men, with various degrees of missing teeth, sit
text: around the bar. A couple hapless guys play pool. One throws darts.
text: Ace enters, pops a sunflower seed in his mouth and addresses the room.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Excuse me, guy?! My name is Ace
dialog: Ventura, I'm a pet detective. I'd
dialog: like to ask you a few questions if
dialog: I could.
text: No one even looks at him.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Just a few questions, that's all.
text: Still no one reacts.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (very up)
dialog: Who wants gum?!
text: Again, no reaction. Ace walks over to the bartender and slides a five across the bar.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I'm looking for a guy who used to
dialog: work here.
text: The bartender takes the money.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: That right?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: He was a kicker for the Dolphins.
dialog: Ray Finkle.
text: A pool ball flies by Ace's head shattering a mirror behind the bar. All eyes are on Ace.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to guy who threw it)
dialog: That would be a scratch.
speaker_heading: TOOTHLESS GIANT
dialog: You a friend of Finkle's?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (thinks)
dialog: Yes?
text: CRASH! The giant guy smashes his bottle.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Sorry, I have "say the opposite of
dialog: what you mean" disease.
text: Several undesirables surround Ace.
speaker_heading: TOOTHLESS GIANT
dialog: That bastard ruined this town.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ewww… I hate that!
speaker_heading: HICK #2
dialog: We bet everything we had on that
dialog: Super Bowl and that son of a bitch
dialog: gagged.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What a diiick!
text: They all move closer in a threatening manner.
speaker_heading: HICK #3
dialog: Shanked a goddamn 26 yarder!!!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Death to Finkle! Death to Finkle!
text: The bartender steps in.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: We had a hell of a thing going
text: here. Tourists coming to see Ray
dialog: Finkle's home town. He was
dialog: standing right over there when he
dialog: got the call from the Dolphins.
text: The bartender points to a payphone. It has had the shit beaten out of it. Every expletive you can
text: think of is graffitied around it.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Did he come back after the Super
dialog: Bowl?
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Yeah… but the boys here had ways
dialog: of letting him know he wasn't
dialog: welcome.
speaker_heading: HICK #1
dialog: Excuse me, I gotta take a wicked
dialog: Finkle.
text: Laughter.
speaker_heading: TOOTHLESS GIANT
dialog: What's the difference between
dialog: Finkle and a jackass? A jackass
dialog: can kick.
dialog: More laughter.
speaker_heading: HICK #2
dialog: Why did Finkle cross the
dialog: road?!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (facetious)
dialog: Wait… I know this one.
speaker_heading: HICK #2
dialog: He didn't! And I've got the hair on
dialog: my bumper to prove it!
text: Maniacal laughter and chanting ensues.
speaker_heading: MOB
text: FINKLE SUCKS! FINKLE SUCKS!
dialog: FINKLE SUCKS!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: It's good you're dealing with the
dialog: anger.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I don't suppose anyone's seen him
dialog: lately?
text: The chanting stops and the guys all look at Ace.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: No… but we know where his
dialog: parents live! Don't we boys?!
speaker_heading: HICK #1
dialog: Yeah! We sure do!
text: They all laugh insanely again.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - DAY
text: Ace pulls up outside a two-story stilt house. The place has been completely desecrated by graffiti,
text: bullet holes and paint bombs. Toilet paper is strewn through the trees. Ace walks up and knocks
text: on the door. A wooden peephole slides open revealing a suspicious pair of eyes.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hi, I'm looking for Ray Finkle.
text: A gun slides out into Ace's face.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (with a gulp)
text: And a clean pair of shorts.
text: A deep gruff voice from inside.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: What do you know about Ray Finkle?
speaker_heading: ACE
text: Southpaw soccer style kicker.
dialog: Graduated from Collier High in
dialog: June, 1976. Stetson University
dialog: honors graduate, class of 1980.
dialog: Holds two NCAA division one
dialog: records. One for most points in a
dialog: season, one for distance. Former
dialog: nickname The Mule. The first and
dialog: only pro athlete ever to come out
dialog: of Collier County. And one
dialog: helluva model American.
text: After a beat the peephole closes. The door slowly creaks open revealing MR. FINKLE, an
text: unsmiling, taciturn, elderly man holding the gun.
speaker_heading: MR. FINKLE
dialog: Are you another one of them
dialog: scumbags from 'Hard Copy'?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: No, sir. I'm just a very big
dialog: Finkle fan. This is my Graceland,
dialog: sir.
text: Mrs. Finkle, a sweet, adorable elderly woman comes over.
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: Will you put that gun down. The
dialog: boy's a fan of our son. So nice
dialog: to meet you. I'm Ray's mother,
dialog: and this is Ray's father.
scene_heading: INT. FINKLE HOUSE - DAY
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: It's a real honor.
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: My Ray is so appreciative of his
dialog: fans. He'll be so pleased you
dialog: stopped by.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Are you expecting Ray anytime
dialog: soon?
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: Oh, yes. I expect him home any
dialog: minute.
text: Ace is surprised.
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: Would you like some cookies? I
dialog: just baked them.
text: Mrs. Finkle hurries off to the kitchen. Ace smiles at Mr. Finkle. The guy's a corpse.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Wow… Ray Finkle's house! Can't
dialog: wait to meet him!
speaker_heading: MR. FINKLE
dialog: Ray ain't comin' home.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: But your wife said you expect him
dialog: home any minute.
speaker_heading: MR. FINKLE
text: She expects him home any minute.
text: He points to his head, and looks toward the kitchen.
speaker_heading: MR. FINKLE
dialog: Engines runnin but there's no one
dialog: behind the wheel. Ten years ago
dialog: our son escaped from Shady Acres
dialog: Psychiatric Hospital in Tampa.
dialog: They're still buggin' us to pick
dialog: up his stuff.
text: Mrs. Finkle returns with a plate of football shaped cookies.
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: (sweetly)
dialog: It was all that Dan Marino's
dialog: fault, everyone knows that. If he
text: had held the ball laces out, like
dialog: you're supposed to, Ray would
dialog: never have missed that kick. Dan
dialog: Marino should die of Gonorrhea and
dialog: rot in Hell. Would you like a
dialog: cookie, son?
text: Ace takes a cookie. Holding it up.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hey, what do ya know. They're
text: little footballs.
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: Laces OUT!
text: CRASH!! A large stone smashes through the window. Outside, a pickup truck filled with drunken
text: patrons from the Pigskin Sports Bar drives by yelling their Finkle chant.
speaker_heading: MOB
text: FINKLE SUCKS! FINKLE SUCKS!
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: I told you he had a lot of fans.
text: Mrs. Finkle picks up the rock and hurls it out the broken window. It hits one of the vandals,
text: knocking him out cold, as the truck peels away.
speaker_heading: MR. FINKLE
dialog: (aside to Ace)
dialog: She got the arm. The boy got the
dialog: leg.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - A SHORT TIME LATER
text: Mrs. Finkle and Ace are walking down the hallway to Ray's room.
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
text: When Ray gets back and starts
dialog: kicking again, he'll never even
dialog: know he was gone. I kept his room
dialog: just the way he left it.
text: She opens the door to Ray's room. Ace steps in.
scene_heading: INT. RAY'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: It's a death shrine to Dan Marino. Complete with lifesize cutouts of Dan Marino, some with
text: nooses around the neck, other hacked to pieces. Painted on the walls: "Death to Marino!",
dialog: Marino must die!!!, etc.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oooh boy.
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: What a sports nut, huh?
text: In the center of the room is a movie projector.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: May I?
scene_heading: MRS. FINKLE
dialog: Oh yes. By all means.
text: Mrs. Finkle shuts the lights off. Ace turns on the projector.
text: The film flickers over the "Marino must die!!!" graffiti. It's the final play of the Super Bowl.
text: Marino takes the snap, Finkle kicks and the ball sails wide. The film repeats itself ad infinitum.
scene_heading: EXT. BILBO'S GAS STATION - DAY
text: Ace on the payphone. We see the gas station in the background.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Melissa, it's Ace.
scene_heading: INT. MELISSA'S OFFICE - DAY
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ace? Where are you?
speaker_heading: INTERCUT ACE/MELISSA
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I'm in Psychoville and Finkle's
dialog: the Mayor. Where's Dan Marino?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Marino? Why?
speaker_heading: ACE
text: Because he's about to join
dialog: Snowflake. I gotta know where he
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Okay, hold on
text: Melissa checks Marino's itinerary. Ace waits, impatiently.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Come on. Come on
text: In the background, we see two paramedics exit the gas station office rolling a dead body on a
text: gurney. The area of the sheet that covers the face is a giant red spot. We widen to see them load
text: good old Mr. Bilbo into an ambulance and drive away, ringing the station bell one more time. Ace
text: doesn't notice.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ah, he had practice. Then… he
text: has a commercial shoot out at the
dialog: Prescott Sound Stage.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Where is that?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: It's on Route One by the Six Cut
text: Off. Thirty minutes outside of
dialog: town.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Okay, that's about fifteen miles
dialog: from me. Call the police. Get
text: extra security over there now.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ace, tell me what's going on.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Ace?
text: The payphone dangles off the hook. Ace is
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY ONE - DAY
text: in his car racing out of the swampland, his heaad now back out the window so he can see. He
text: leaves a faded, old, barely legible sign in his wake:
text: "WELCOME TO COLLIER
scene_heading: COUNTY. HOME OF RAY
speaker_heading: FINKLE"
text: The "F" in "FINKLE" has been replaced with "ST" in spray paint.
scene_heading: INT. PRESCOTT STUDIOS - DAY
text: Rehearsal for an Isotoner ad in progress.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: So I protect the hands that
dialog: protect me. With Isotoners.
text: Marino gets carted off by FIVE HUGE LINEMEN.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Good. Remember, exit camera
dialog: right. That's to your left.
dialog: Alright, let's get ready to shoot
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: FIRST A.D.
dialog: (to the linemen)
dialog: Helmets on this time!
text: The linemen disperse.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Ace runs a red light causing cars to skid in every direction.
scene_heading: INT. PRESCOTT STUDIO - DAY
text: Marino is in the make-up chair.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: (to make-up girl)
dialog: See, in 82 we just choked. We had
dialog: a chance to win it and we
dialog: didn't –
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Dan, are you ready?
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: Ah, sure.
dialog: (to girl)
dialog: I'll tell you later.
scene_heading: EXT. STUDIO - DAY
text: The cops race onto the lot.
scene_heading: INT. STUDIO - DAY
text: Marino takes center stage.
dialog: A.D.
text: Quiet on the set… roll
dialog: speed
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: And action!
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: Hi, I'm Dan Marino. If anyone
dialog: knows the value of protection,
dialog: it's me
text: We see an old clip of Marino getting sacked.
scene_heading: EXT. STUDIO - DAY
text: Cops scramble on foot to the sound stage.
scene_heading: INT. STUDIO - DAY
text: The commercial is winding up. The linemen ready themselves.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: So I protect the hands that
dialog: protect me. With Isotoners.
text: The five linemen grab Marino and run off camera.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: And cut! That was good. Again
dialog: from one.
text: But two of the linemen keep running with Marino
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I said cut!!
dialog: And they keep running.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: What the hell are they doing?
text: Right out the studio door. Then the cops arrive and race after them. Two linemen stumble out
text: of the dressing room holding their heads.
scene_heading: EXT. SOUND STAGE - DAY
text: Ace skids around a corner, looking way up ahead.
text: He sees Marino being shoved into a black 81 Ford Bronco. They drive off.
text: The cops come out of the building on foot. Too late.
text: Ace in hot pursuit almost runs the cops down.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (yelling at cops)
dialog: S'cuse meee! Pet Detective!
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREETS - DAY
text: Ace's head is out the driver's window through the entire chase. As he starts gaining on the bad
text: guys, they start shooting. Ace wisely puts his head inside the car.
speaker_heading: ACE'S POV
text: He can't see shit through his broken windshield.
text: He pokes his head out again. They shoot again.
text: Ace swerves off the road into
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - DAY
text: Ace's car smashes through benches and tables. Then it flips over a few times and lands on its
text: wheels with a horrid SMASH. Ace is still strapped into the drivers seat, unconscious.
text: Ace's prized WHITE PIGEON lands on the car door right beside him. Ace cracks his eyes and
text: sees the bird. Then, with a sudden quick lunge he successfully traps it in his hands, and forgets all
dialog: about Marino.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I did it! I did it! I caught the
dialog: white pigeon! I caught the white
dialog: pigeon!
text: Ace jumps out of his car and starts skipping around the park with the pigeon held high over his
text: head. He looks insane.
speaker_heading: ACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (singing)
dialog: I caught the white pigeon, I
dialog: caught the white pigeon, I caught
dialog: the white
text: Ace slows down and begins to look around warily. There are now an unusual number of birds
text: perched on the telephone wires around the park and on the monkey bars, and on the swings.
text: The sky grows darker. He slowly turns and tries to get back to the car. All the birds take flight.
text: Ace sets the white pigeon free and starts to run, but it's too late. The birds are on him. Pecking,
text: and gouging, and ripping his flesh.
text: Now we see ten birds flying away with a leg. Five birds flying away with an arm. Twenty others
text: are trying to take Ace's left arm off, and half his face is missing
speaker_heading: ACE
text: AAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - DAY
text: Ace is back in his wrecked car with his arm hanging out the window. A small boy is pulling it.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Hey mister. Hey mister.
text: Ace come to suddenly, and looks at the boy with a crazed expression.
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: That was a really neat crash,
dialog: mister. Do it again!
text: Ace sighs with relief.
scene_heading: EXT. MIAMI - DAY
text: Various headlines hit the news stands: "MARINO KIDNAPPED" "STAR QB MISSING" "DAN
dialog: WHERE ARE YOU?"
text: THE GLOBE HEADLINE: "MARINO ABDUCTED BY ALIEN FRANCHISE!" On the cover,
text: Marino stands with several Space Aliens in football gear.
scene_heading: EXT. POLICE STATION - LATER THAT DAY
text: A chaotic press conference. Zillions of REPORTERS shout all kinds of questions at Einhorn.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Lieutenant, have there been any
dialog: ransom demands?
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: There's been no communication with
dialog: the kidnappers at this time.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #2
dialog: What's going to happen to the
dialog: Super Bowl? Will it be postponed?
speaker_heading: EINHORN
text: As of now, the game is going on as
dialog: scheduled.
speaker_heading: REPORTER #3
dialog: Why wasn't the public told about
dialog: Snowflake's kidnapping?
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Secrecy was essential. We didn't
dialog: want any public interference.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Are the crimes related? And what
dialog: about Roger Podacter's murder?
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: I'm sorry. I can't comment any
dialog: further. Now if you'll excuse me.
text: Einhorn pushes her way through the crowd of reporters.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE STATION - MOMENTS LATER
text: Einhorn is barking out orders to other cops as she heads for her office.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Emilio, get me the autopsy on
dialog: Podacter! Aguado, send out a
dialog: memo. No one talks to the
dialog: press
scene_heading: INT. EINHORN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS ACTION
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: And somebody get me a cup of
dialog: coffee!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (TV announcer's voice)
text: Tonight on "MIAMI VICE", Crockett
dialog: geets the boss coffee!
text: Ace is in her office, popping sunflower seeds, kicking back. Einhorn walks to her private
dialog: bathroom.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Ventura, when I get out of this
dialog: bathroom, you better be gone.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Is it number one or number two?
text: Einhorn turns and glares at Ace.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I just want to know how much time
dialog: I have.
text: Einhorn goes to the sink and begins washing her hands.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oh, by the way, I went ahead and
dialog: solved that pesky,
dialog: Snowflake/Podacter/Marino thing.
speaker_heading: EINHORN (O.S.)
dialog: (humoring him)
dialog: Oh yeah?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: yeah, ever hear of a former
dialog: Dolphin kicker named Ray Finkle?
text: The water shuts off. Einhorn appears around the corner.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Alright, Ventura. Make it quick.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I found a rare stone at the bottom
text: of Snowflake's tank. It's from a
dialog: Dolphin '82 AFC Championship ring.
dialog: It would have been a Super Bowl
dialog: ring, but Ray Finkle missed the
dialog: big kick. Blames the whole thing
dialog: on Marino. We're talking
dialog: paranoid, delusional psychosis. I
dialog: saw the guy's room… Cozy, if
dialog: you're Hannibal Lector.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: So how does Roger Podacter fit in?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: My guess is Finkle was snooping
text: around. Podacter recognized him.
dialog: End of story. As for Snowflake
dialog: they gave him Finkle's number, and
dialog: taught him how to kick a field
dialog: goal. Finkle took it personally.
text: Einhorn listens with great interest.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: So where is Finkle, now?
speaker_heading: ACE
text: He broke out of a metal hospital.
dialog: Did a Claude Raines. He's been
text: planning his revenge for years.
dialog: Waiting for the perfect time to
dialog: get back at the Dolphins. The time
dialog: when it would hurt them the most.
dialog: Super Bowl time! Man, I'm tired
dialog: of being right!
text: Einhorn walks in front and sits on the edge of the desk. She's totally softened her demeanor.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Congratulations. You've done some
dialog: fine detective work, Ace.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ahh, could you talk in my good
dialog: ear. I thought I heard you call
dialog: me Ace.
dialog: Einhorn gets real close.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Maybe I was wrong about you.
dialog: Maybe you are more than just a pet
dialog: dick.
text: SHE SUDDENLY PLANTS A MAJOR, TONSIL CLEANING, OPEN MOUTHED KISS ON
text: ACE. Objects are knocked off the desk as they lean back.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Your gun's digging into my hip.
text: More kissing, the Ace stops.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: (still coming on)
dialog: What's wrong, Ace? Want me to
dialog: read you your rights?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Maybe later.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: What is it? That bony little
dialog: bitch, Melissa Robinson?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: No. You just don't do anything
dialog: for me.
text: He quickly adjusts his crotch, to conceal the erection. Einhorn withdraws with a coy smile.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: I'll be here if you ever want a
dialog: real woman.
text: There's a sharp KNOCK at the door.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: What is it?
text: Aguado opens the door.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: Everything okay in here? Heard
text: some commotion.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Fine, Sergeant.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: You want me to throw him out?
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Why don't you throw yourself out.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: Yes, ma'am.
text: A crestfallen Aguado exits. Ace heads for the door.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Ace, I want you to leave
dialog: everything to us.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Can't do that, Lieutenant. I was
dialog: hired to find Snowflake.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: When we find Marino, We'll deliver
dialog: Snowflake.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: When I find Snowflake, I'll
dialog: deliver Marino.
text: He exits.
scene_heading: INT. TEA ROOM - NIGHT
text: A full on thrash metal band is cranking on stage. Kids leap wildly into the moshing pit. The same
text: Burnout is still thrashing his head wildly to the music.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Nice to see you again!
text: The Burnout just keeps thrashing. Ace spots Woodstock watching the band and joins him.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: St. Francis, how's it goin'?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (kidding)
dialog: That's none of your damn business.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Isn't it?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Is it?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Anything new on that dolphin?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Got his picture on some tuna cans,
dialog: but nothing so far.
text: A singer ROARS on stage. He sounds like a garbage disposal full of cutlery.
speaker_heading: SINGER
dialog: Arroohhghhh! Myrrrooohghhhh!
dialog: Geroooghhh!
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: So, what can I do for you today?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I need info on a football flunky
dialog: named Ray Finkle.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Sorry, Ace, I can't help you right
dialog: now. I gotta watch this band!
dialog: They are the shit!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Are they?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Aren't they?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Alright then. Don't worry about
dialog: it. I mean dolphins aren't
dialog: exactly an endangered species.
dialog: It's not like the whole food
dialog: chain's gonna be affected if one
dialog: highly intelligent mammal dies a
dialog: slow and painful death! Hell, if
dialog: the band is loud enough, you won't
dialog: even hear its pitiful whimpering!!
text: Ace does his best suffering dolphin impression. Woodstock is no longer enjoying the band.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT
text: Woodstock is at his computer. Ace looks over his shoulder. Finkle's Social Security information
text: appears on the screen.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: This guy's last reported income
dialog: was September, 1982.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well then. We know he's
text: incredibly thrifty.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Is he?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Isn't he?
text: Woodstock types in more information. Finkle's TRW flashes on the screen.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Well, I think we can be pretty
dialog: sure he's involved in the
dialog: kidnapping of the dolphin.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Really? What makes you say that?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: There's two-thousand dollars worth
text: of smelts on his VISA card.
text: After a beat Ace realizes it was a bad joke.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Please yank me no further. I beg
dialog: of you.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Alright already. The last time
dialog: this guy used his credit card was
dialog: June, '84. He rented a car from
dialog: Avis. And… eww… he was a bad
dialog: boy. They found it abandoned two
dialog: months later in South Miami.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Anything else?
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Nope.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well… you did all you could.
dialog: Thanks for nothin.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Hey man, according to this, your
dialog: friend Ray Finkle doesn't exist.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hmm, I know what that's like.
speaker_heading: WOODSTOCK
dialog: Do you?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Don't I?
scene_heading: INT. TEA ROOM - NIGHT
text: Ace emerges from the basement. The band is between songs. Ace strolls by the burnout whose
text: head has now stopped.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to burnout)
dialog: Did you get all the spiders outta
dialog: there?
text: Ace heads out, then freezes. The two thugs that took Marino are standing at the exit. Then they
text: see Ace and start towards him, reaching inside their coats.
text: Suddenly the music starts. The burnout's head wails again. His manic gyrations interfere with the
text: thugs long enough for Ace to bolt.
text: One of the thugs pushes the burnout violently against the wall as they pursue Ace.
speaker_heading: BURNOUT
dialog: (calling, as he gets up)
dialog: Thanks, man! You're a great
dialog: dancer!
text: Ace pushes his way through the crowd. The thugs follow.
text: Ace nears the stage. It's wild. People are diving off and getting moshed.
text: Before the thugs grab him, Ace runs up and throws himself from the stage. The insane crowd
text: begins to pass him around over their heads.
text: The thugs exchange a look, then dive after Ace, and a "mosh" chase ensues.
text: Ace is passed back onto the stage as the song comes to an end. The singer is lying there
text: exhausted. Ace sees the crowd starting to put the thugs down, so he quickly grabs the microphone
text: off the floor.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (screams)
scene_heading: ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, SPANK ME
dialog: MOMMY!!!
text: The audience looks at Ace for a second. Then the band members exchange a look and go for it!!
text: It's a nightmarish little ditty. Ace sings like one of Satan's minions.
speaker_heading: ACE
text: URGHHUURRAAAW! ARGHUURRRREEEW!
text: The crowd seems to understand. They throw the thugs high in the air again and mosh them away
text: from the stage. The Thugs are shooting stray bullets the whole time.
text: Ace incites the crowd, even more now, with a punching gesture. The crowd follows their new
text: leader, punching with one hand, moshing with the other.
text: The thugs get the living crap "moshed" out of them.
text: When the song ends, Ace raises fists in the air. The cheering crowd violently drops the thugs.
dialog: They're out cold.
scene_heading: EXT. TEA ROOM - NIGHT
text: Ace's car PEELS OUT and races by the parked '81 Ford Bronco.
scene_heading: EXT. MELISSA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Ace's car skids to a halt. He hops out.
scene_heading: INT. MELISSA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: There's a loud BANGING at the door. Melissa awakens, looks at the clock: 3:32 a.m. She drags
text: herself to the door.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: ACE (O.S.)
dialog: Ira.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ira who?
speaker_heading: ACE (O.S.)
dialog: I refuse to do a 'knock knock
dialog: joke'. Come on, open up!
text: Melissa opens the door.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Ace, what are you doing? It's the
dialog: middle of the night!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You have to commit me.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - DAWN
text: Ace's clunker speeds down the highway.
speaker_heading: ACE (V.O.)
text: Finkle escaped from Shady Acres in
dialog: Tampa. They still have some of
dialog: his stuff.
speaker_heading: MELISSA (V.O.)
dialog: So you think they're going to let
dialog: us just waltz in and look around?
scene_heading: EXT. SHADY ACRES - ESTABLISHING - DAY
text: A state hospital located on acres of green, manicured lawns.
scene_heading: INT. SHADY ACRES - DAY
text: The reception area. A DOCTOR is before Melissa.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Mrs. Robinson? I'm Doctor Handly.
dialog: Now who is it that you'd like to
dialog: have us look at?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: My brother… Eugene.
text: ANGLE ON ACE - Looking like the football player who never wore a helmet.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: I'm ready to go in, Coach. Just
dialog: give me a chance. I know there's a
dialog: lot riding on it, but it's all
dialog: psychological. Got to stay in a
dialog: positive frame of mind. Memorize
dialog: the play book. Study the films.
text: Ace strikes a dramatic pose and freezes, with a crazed look on his face.
speaker_heading: ACE (CON'T)
dialog: I'm gonna execute a button-hook
dialog: pattern!
text: He begins to make a play in slow motion.
speaker_heading: ACE (CON'T)
dialog: Super slo-mo!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHADY ACRES HOSPITAL - DAY
text: Melissa walks with the Doctor. Patients are sitting around, doing outdoor therapy, etc.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: You're brother won't be the first
dialog: professional football player we've
dialog: treated.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Is that right?
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Yes. We're very sensitive to the
dialog: emotional stress athletes have to
dialog: endure.
text: Ace runs across the b.g. screaming "I'm open! I'm open!"
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: We'll have to do some preliminary
dialog: evaluations, but I think your
dialog: brother will fit in nicely here.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: That's a relief, Doctor.
text: Ace takes a "snap" from a three-foot hedge and dives over it into the end zone. Melissa and the
text: doctor stop to watch him.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
text: He seems to have some difficulty
dialog: letting go of the game. Has he
dialog: had a long history of mental
dialog: illness?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (truthfully)
dialog: As long as I've known him.
text: Ace does a wild touchdown dance with some of the other patients participating.
scene_heading: INT. SHADY GLADE ACRES - HALLWAY - DAY
text: The doctor is showing Melissa around. Ace is walking alongside them adjusting his imaginary
text: shoulder pads.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: This is our therapy room… Arts
dialog: and crafts
text: They turn a corner. Ace squats to pick the dirt out of his cleats.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR (CON'T)
dialog: That's the storage room. This
text: hallway leads to another
dialog: recreational area –
text: Ace WHISTLES loudly and gestures like a referee
speaker_heading: ACE
speaker_heading: HALFTIIIIME!!
text: Ace sticks his head in the water fountain then sits down on the bench outside the storage room.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: He'll be fine by himself for the
text: next twenty minutes.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Well, why don't I show you the
dialog: dormitories, then?
text: They leave Ace.
text: After a beat, Ace gets up and does a quick spin pattern into the storage room door.
scene_heading: INT. STORAGE ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION
text: Cartons everywhere. Ace does a quick search and locates several boxes maked FINKLE.
text: Ace looks through the first couple of boxes and finds only clothes. In the third box, he hits the
text: jackpot: He finds sicko arts and crafts dedicated to Marino. Die-Dan potholders, shredded
text: Isotoner gloves. He opens a little diary. "Laces Out!" is insanely scrawled on every page.
text: Ace finds a newspaper clipping, the headline reads:
text: SEARCH CALLED OFF FOR MISSING HIKER
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (reading)
dialog: A massive search ended today when
dialog: rescue workers were unable to find
dialog: the body of Lois Einhorn
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: a camper reported lost since
dialog: Friday
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Lois Einhorn… holy shit balls.
text: Ace sits bewildered.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE STATION - DAY
text: The phone rings at Emilio's desk. He answers it.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Echavez.
scene_heading: INT. SHADY ACRES - HALLWAY - DAY
text: Ace is on the phone. A CRAZY GUY is hovering nearby.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: This is Chicken Little. The sky
text: is falling.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BACK TO EMILIO
text: A beat as he listens to Ace's news.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: I don't get it. What's it mean?
speaker_heading: INTERCUT ACE/EMILIO
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: It means she's involved in this.
dialog: The article's dated the day before
dialog: Finkle disappeared.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Before who disappeared?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Finkle. Ray Finkle… the guy who
dialog: took the dolphin? The guy you're
dialog: supposed to be looking for?!
dialog: Einhorn didn't tell you, did she?
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Hey, Ace. I see where you're
dialog: goin' with this and you're goin'
dialog: alone.
text: A Crazy Guy stands next to Ace now and begins mimicking everything he says.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Come on, E. I tell her about
text: Finkle, she doesn't tell a soul.
dialog: I have an article here that
dialog: connects her with Finkle. You
dialog: gotta' check her out.
dialog: (to Crazy Guy mimicking)
dialog: Do you mind?
text: The Crazy Guy stops and moves to one of the phones.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Ace, I like my job. I get health
dialog: insurance and benefits.
speaker_heading: CRAZY GUY
dialog: (into receiver)
dialog: I'm the Lindberg Baby. Come and
dialog: get me.
speaker_heading: ACE
text: Emilio, Einhorn is involved.
dialog: You're gonna' have to make a
dialog: decision here.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Listen, I gotta get off the phone.
dialog: I think I just solved the Lindberg
dialog: case.
text: Melissa and the Doctor return.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Well, look who's trying to use the
dialog: phone.
text: Ace covers the phone receiver and whispers to them in a heartfelt voice.
speaker_heading: ACE
text: Brian Piccalo is dead.
text: Ace breaks down. Melissa hangs up the phone and leads him away.
text: We hear a thrash version of the theme to "Brian's Song" as they exit the hospital.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT
text: Emilio stands at a window, watching Einhorn drive off. The coast is clear so he sneaks into
scene_heading: INT. EINHORN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: He rifles through her file cabinet. He tears through papers. Then he looks in her desk.
text: Stuffed in the back of the drawer he finds a personal note: We can make out the signature.
text: Roger. He pockets it and walks out.
scene_heading: EXT. MELISSA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Ace and Melissa pull up in the old heap.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Good job today. You're quite a
dialog: dirty rotten filthy liar.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (flattered)
dialog: Thanks. Are you sure you don't
dialog: want to stay here with me?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Naw, I got some thinking to do.
dialog: Besides, you'd be safer with
dialog: Salman Rushdie
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Okay.
text: She gets out of the car, then turns and leans in the window.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Listen… I know there isn't much
text: time left. The game is tomorrow.
dialog: But I know you've done your best.
dialog: It's just an impossible situation.
dialog: I don't expect..
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hey
text: Ace leans over and kisses her.
speaker_heading: ACE (CONT'D)
dialog: bet on the Dolphins.
scene_heading: INT. ACE'S APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT
scene_heading: CLOSE UP: ANSWERING MACHINE
text: Wiggles' nose enters frame and hits the play button.
speaker_heading: MESSAGE #1
dialog: (Shickadance rasp)
dialog: Venturaaaa? Your time is up!
dialog: You're out! You hear me?! No
dialog: rent… no roof!
text: We widen to find Ace on the couch listening.
speaker_heading: MESSAGE #2
dialog: Ace, it's E. Got something you
dialog: might find interesting. It's a
dialog: note from Podacter to Einhorn,
dialog: thanking her for a wonderful
dialog: Saturday night. This is too
dialog: weird, man?
speaker_heading: ACE
text: Wiggles, rewind.
text: Wiggles obediently hits another button and rewinds the phone tape. Ace pops sunflower seeds,
text: and holds some evidence aloft thinking. A bird eats seeds out of his naval.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What the hell does Lois Einhorn
dialog: have to do with Ray Finkle? Come
dialog: on, think!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: Later. Ace is posed like Rodin's "The Thinker".
speaker_heading: ACE
text: Finkle and Einhorn. In it
dialog: together. How? Why?
text: A small monkey sits in the same position. Mocking Ace.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: Later still. Ace pacing, jumping up and down. Trying to get his intuitive juices flowing. The
text: monkey is likewise, jumping on the mantle.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Alright! Here we go! Answer's
dialog: right there! Just gotta get some
dialog: blood to the brain! Finkle and
dialog: Einhorn! Finkle and Einhorn!
dialog: Finkle and Einhorn! Finkle and
dialog: Einhorn!
text: The animals all watch him like he's crazy.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: Daybreak. Ace sits staring at a picture of Finkle on the coffee table. He's totally spent and on the
text: verge of tears.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (whimpering)
text: Finkle and Einhorn. Einhorn and
dialog: Finkle.
text: He turns to see the monkey crashed out in a heap on a sofa pillow.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to sleeping monkey)
dialog: Quitter.
text: Wiggles jumps up onto the coffee table now. Ace can't be bothered with him.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What do you want? Huh?
text: Wiggles whines at the tone of Ace's voice.
speaker_heading: ACE (CONT'D)
dialog: What? I got no food for you. You
dialog: gotta have money to buy food. I
dialog: gotta find the dolphin to get the
dialog: money. I don't see any dolphins
dialog: around here, do you? Face it,
dialog: it's hopeless… your master is a
speaker_heading: LOSER.
text: Ace buries his face in his hands. His dog Wiggles does the same. Then Ace looks up again.
speaker_heading: ACE
speaker_heading: LOO… HOO
text: Suddenly he is silenced by something amazing.
text: Wiggles' dark haired floppy ears are lying around Finkle's picture like a wig. Ace combs the hair
text: over the head shot. The "make-over" is unmistakable. It's Einhorn!!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oh, my god! That's it!
text: He jumps up, estatic.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Einhorn is Finkle! Finkle is
dialog: Einhorn!… Einhorn is a man!!!
text: Ace's expression quickly turns sour.
speaker_heading: ACE
text: OH MY GOD!!! EINHORN IS A MAN!!!
text: MUSIC UP: AEROSMITH'S DUD LOOKS LIKE A LADY
text: Ace makes a mad dash into the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. ACE'S BATHROOM - MORNING - QUICK CUTS
text: Ace furiously brushes his teeth.
text: Ace rinses with mouthwash, spits it out and gags.
text: Ace is in the shower. He slowly curls up into a ball under the steaming water with an expression
text: of horror on his face.
scene_heading: INT. EINHORN'S HOUSE - DAY
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP:
text: A woman's leg being shaved.
text: Woman sexily putting on nylons.
text: Woman hands squeezing perfume bulb.
text: Woman's hand putting on AFC championship ring. One stone is missing.
scene_heading: EXT. EINHORN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Ace sticks wads of gum in his mouth while he watches Einhorn's house from his car.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (remembering)
dialog: You're gun is sticking into my hip.
dialog: Yeeeekkkk!
text: Einhorn comes out her front door and gets into her car. Ace shudders once more and then follows
dialog: her.
scene_heading: EXT. MIAMI STREET - DAY
text: The road is jammed in one direction. Going towards the Super Bowl. Einhorn drives in the
text: opposite direction. Out of town. Ace tails her at a safe distance, with his head out the window, of
dialog: course.
scene_heading: INT. BOBBY RIDDLE STADIUM - DAY
text: Various shots of crazy fans, piling into the stadium.
scene_heading: INT. STADIUM OWNER'S BOX - DAY
text: Melissa, BOBBY RIDDLE, and GUESTS all amidst the usual pre-game hobnobbing. Most of the
text: talk centers on the loss of Marino.
text: Emilio, in full uniform, and a couple cops are providing extra security for the box.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY ONE - DAY
text: Einhorn drives south out of town. The area's getting remote. Ace follows.
text: Einhorn turns down a deserted road and comes to
scene_heading: EXT. INDUSTRIAL PLANT - DAY
text: A large, abandoned industrial facility. Einhorn parks, disappears inside
text: A few beats later, Ace kills the engine and exits singing the score to "Mission Impossible".
scene_heading: INT. INDUSTRIAL PLANT - DAY
text: Immense machines and swimming pool sized cauldrons.
text: Ace cautiously makes his way through the desolate site, singing quietly now. He stops when he
text: hears a familiar voice.
speaker_heading: JOHN MADDEN (O.S.)
dialog: I particularly like the match-ups
dialog: of the defense.
text: Ace sees a weird sight: A HUGE TV PROJECTION SCREEN tuned to the Super Bowl pre-game
text: show. Marino is tied to a football tackling sled. The two thugs take turns running into Dan with
text: their shoulders, driving him back five feet each time.
speaker_heading: JOHN MADDEN (ON TV)
dialog: But the real story of this game
dialog: is the absence of Dan Marino. Him
dialog: being kidnapped and all has got to
dialog: be a strain on this Miami team. I
dialog: really feel sorry for those guys! I
dialog: mean, it's hard enough enduring
dialog: the pressure of the Super Bowl,
dialog: without your star quarterback
dialog: gettin' himself kidnapped. This
dialog: is the whole ball of wax, folks!
dialog: You wanna' get kidnapped, you do
dialog: it in the off season!
text: Marino looks incredulously at the screen. Next to him, Snowflake "watches" from a ground level
text: cistern serving as an ad hoc tank.
text: Ace sneaks closer.
scene_heading: INT. BOBBY RIDDLE STADIUM - DAY
text: The crowd quiets as Jon Bon Jovi prepares to sing the National Anthem.
text: Various shots of fans all standing at attention.
text: In the owners box, Melissa looks to Emilio. Nothing's new.
scene_heading: INT. INDUSTRIAL PLANT - DAY
text: Einhorn is now in front of the big screen TV SINGING the National Anthem along with Bon Jovi.
text: The thugs, VINNIE and ROC, are behind her standing at attention.
text: The song ends. The crowd cheers.
text: In a sultry fashion Einhorn circles Marino now.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: I just love Super Bowl Sunday,
dialog: don't you, Dan? A magical
dialog: afternoon where dreams are made
dialog: or crushed!
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: Look lady, if you want tickets,
dialog: you're going about it in the wrong
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Do I look familiar to you, Dan?
dialog: Does it seem as if we've met
dialog: someplace before?
speaker_heading: DAN
dialog: I don't know… I get hit in the
dialog: head a lot!
text: On the TV the ref makes an announcement.
speaker_heading: REF
dialog: It's tails. The Eagles will
dialog: receive.
text: Dan really struggles now.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Oops. Looks like we're going to
dialog: have to kick, Dan.
text: Einhorn steps behind a football set up on a tee. And in perfect sync with the kicker on TV, she
text: boots a ball through a window of the warehouse.
text: Marino doesn't know what to think.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: I made some refreshments, Dan.
dialog: Would you like some refreshments,
dialog: Dan? I'll be right back,
dialog: Daaaan!!
text: She goes. Dan struggles, but to no avail.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: Look, I don't know how much psycho
dialog: woman is paying you guys, but I
dialog: can double it.
speaker_heading: VINNIE
dialog: Sorry, Danny boy. Psycho woman
dialog: keeps us out of prison.
text: Vinnie grabs a feeder fish and entices Snowflake to the surface. Roc raises a football.
speaker_heading: ROC
dialog: Hey, Marino, check it out. I'm
dialog: throwin' passes to a Dolphin!
text: He chucks the ball and hits Snowflake, hard. The thugs both laugh hysterically.
text: Snowflake makes an angry leap and drenches the thugs. Snowflake laughs now, the thugs are
dialog: furious.
speaker_heading: VINNIE
dialog: Get some more fish!
scene_heading: INT. BEHIND MACHINERY - CONTINUOUS
text: Roc walks behind a big piece of machinery, reaches down for the pail of smelts, but sees nothing.
speaker_heading: ROC
dialog: Where the hell's the smelts?
text: He stands up straight and we all hear that familiar "Pop" of a sunflower seed being cracked open.
text: Roc's eyes widen. He turns and sees
text: Ace coyly smiles at him, blows the sunflower seed shells into his face and CLANG! He whacks
text: Roc in the head with a pail full of fish.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (doing Brando)
text: He sleeps with the fishes.
scene_heading: INT. INDUSTRIAL PLANT - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: VINNIE
dialog: Hey Roc, what the hell was that?
text: Vinnie cocks his gun and goes to check out the sound.
scene_heading: INT. BEHIND MACHINERY - CONTINUOUS
text: Vinnie rounds the corner and sees nothing. He walks a little further and notices a trail of smelts
text: lined up on the ground.
text: He follows the trail around a corner and we see Roc, unconscious but moaning. He is sitting
text: against the ground, with his legs spread apart and the pail over his head. The trail of smelts leads
text: to his crotch. There is one halfway into his zipper, with its tail flipping.
text: Vinnie takes in this sight, then rushes over to Roc and stands him up.
speaker_heading: VINNIE
dialog: Hey man! What happened? What's
dialog: goin on…?
text: We see Ace at the top of a giant machine. He is aiming a 200 pound steel hook, that hangs on a
text: chain from the ceiling.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Guess what, boys, it's nap time.
text: Ace gently releases the hook. Just as Vinnie and Roc turn to look, the iron hook shears both of
text: their heads clean off.
text: Two headless bodies fall to the ground in slow motion with blood gushing from their necks.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON ACE - HORRIFIED
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Hooooly Shiiit! Oh my god! I
dialog: didn't mean to - Oh man!!!
text: Ace holds his head and dances around, completely freaking out what he had done.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (looking to God)
dialog: Lord, I swear! I just wanted to
dialog: knock them out!
text: Ace abruptly stops to think.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Is that murder? I don't know.
dialog: They were gonna kill me. But they
dialog: didn't… But they tried. That's
dialog: self defense. That's it!! I have
dialog: nothing to worry about!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Ace nervously whistling as he wipes his fingerprints off the hook.
scene_heading: INT. IRONWORKS FACTORY - FACTORY
text: Ace checks on Snowflake then goes to Marino. He signals for Dan to keep quiet, then starts to
text: untie him.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Ace Ventura. Pet detective. I've
text: been sent in with a special play.
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Quarterback sneak.
text: WE HEAR THE CLICK OF A GUN.
speaker_heading: EINHORN (O.S.)
dialog: Penalty. Too many men on the
dialog: field.
text: Ace turns. Einhorn's holding a gun on them from the other side of Snowflake's tank.
speaker_heading: EINHORN (CON'T)
dialog: I warned you, Ventura.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What happened to "Ace"?
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Good question.
text: She pulls out a cellular phone and dials.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Be careful with that phone,
dialog: lieutenant. I wouldn't want you
dialog: to get a tumor.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Sergeant Aguado, it's Lt. Einhorn.
dialog: Get some men over to the old
dialog: ironworks factory on Victoria
dialog: Road. I've got the kidnapper
text: trapped in the warehouse. It's
dialog: Ace Ventura. He's killed Marino
dialog: and Snowflake.
text: Einhorn smiles as she puts the phone away.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Vinnie! Roc! Get in here!
text: Ace gets a very guilty look.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: What? Who are they? You mean
dialog: there's other people here?
scene_heading: EXT. POLICE STATION - DAY
text: A battalion of cop cars screech away as we hear
speaker_heading: RADIO DISPATCHER
speaker_heading: (V.O.)
dialog: Attention all units. Code 11 in
text: progress at 343 Victorville Road.
dialog: Officer needs back-up
scene_heading: INT. BOBBY RIDDLE STADIUM OWNER'S BOX - DAY
text: The cops and Emilio listen to their ear pieces
speaker_heading: RADIO DISPATCHER
speaker_heading: (V.O.)
dialog: Suspect's name: Ace Ventura,
text: male Caucasian, he is armed and
dialog: dangerous
text: Emilio nudges Melissa.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: It's Ace. Let's go.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Emilio high tails it out of there. Dodging concession stand patrons, bathroom lines, etc… Melissa
text: runs behind, trying to catch up.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Emilio, is he in trouble?
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Don't worry, there's nothing Ace
dialog: can't handle!
scene_heading: INT. IRONWORKS FACTORY - DAY
text: Einhorn cocks her gun. Ace's face is glistening with tears. He's a complete wreck.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Don't kill meeee!!
dialog: Pleeheeheeheeheeeezzz!!! I'll
dialog: never tell anyone! I swear!
dialog: (indicating Marino)
dialog: He's the one you want!! Kill
dialog: him!!
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: (indicating Ace)
dialog: No… kill him!
text: The two argue. Einhorn fires a shot in the air to stop them.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: No, I'm gonna kill the dolphin
dialog: first.
dialog: (to Ace)
dialog: I wouldn't want you to miss that.
text: Einhorn walks to the edge of the tank. She aims the gun at Snowflake and FIRES!
text: We see the bullet miss Snowflake under water.
text: Snowflake swims wildly. She FIRES again! Misses again. Suddenly, Ace HOLLERS!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Blue forty-two!!
text: Einhorn turns to Ace.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: SHUT UP!!
speaker_heading: ACE
scene_heading: BLUE FORTY-TWO!
text: Einhorn shoots at Ace! He dives out of the way.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: HUT! HUT!
text: Suddenly, Snowflake leaps out of the water and takes the gun out of Einhorn's hand, like the trick
text: we saw earlier. Snowflake swims around the pool with the gun in his mouth.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (smug)
dialog: Yes. The highly trained dolphin.
dialog: Perhaps the smartest mammal in the
dialog: animal kingdom. See how he knew
dialog: exactly what I wanted him to do,
dialog: as if our minds were somehow in
dialog: complete synchronization. They
dialog: have been know to save men at sea
dialog: you know. They have their own
dialog: language.
dialog: (to Snowflake)
dialog: Snowflake. Come here, Snowflake!
dialog: Bring me the gun!
dialog: (makes dolphin sounds)
text: EEEEEE! EEEEEE! EEEEEE!
text: Just like the trick in his routine, however, Snowflake swims around the tank, passes Ace, then
text: hands the gun back to Einhorn. He finishes with a tail walk.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Stupid fish.
text: ON TV: Miami's kicker boots a perfect field goal from fifty yards.
speaker_heading: JOHN MADDEN
dialog: He got all of his leg into that
dialog: one!
text: The field goal kicker is hugged by his teammates.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Good to see someone who doesn't
dialog: buckle under the pressure?
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: Yeah, not like in 82 when we
dialog: choked
text: Einhorn walks to Ace and puts the gun against his head.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: What would you know about
dialog: pressure?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Well, I've kissed a man.
speaker_heading: JOHN MADDEN (ON TV)
dialog: Of course, there's never been a
dialog: more crucial kick than the famous
dialog: Kick heard 'round the world
text: The famous footage airs on TV. They all turn to watch.
speaker_heading: JOHN MADDEN
dialog: I mean, it's clear to me that
dialog: it was a good hold. Finkle just
dialog: booted it.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
text: The laces weren't out. THE LACES
dialog: WEREN'T OUT!!
text: Einhorn takes a shot at the screen, creating a hole in Madden's forehead. Ace uses the moment to
text: smack the gun out of her hand.
text: A HUGE, NO-HOLDS-BARRED FIGHT ensues. Ace and Einhorn punch each other about the
text: face and stomach.
text: Einhorn throws a punch at Ace. Ace goes down.
text: Einhorn goes for the loose gun. Ace leaps and tackles her.
text: They both crash into old rusty equipment, raising a mountain of dust. Marino struggles all the
text: while trying to get free.
text: Einhorn kicks Ace. He flies into Marino.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: Having a little trouble with the
dialog: lady, Ace?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (out of breath)
dialog: You don't understand, she's a –
text: Einhorn grabs Ace, throws him into a head lock and begins wailing on his face.
text: Meanwhile, cops start arriving, SWAT team members disperse onto the catwalk as the fight
text: continues. They try but can't get a bead on Ace as the two roll around on the floor.
text: More punches. They fight up a flight of stairs, then back down. To the amazement of the SWAT
text: team, Ace and Einhorn slug it out as equals.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: (caught up)
dialog: Get him, Lois!
text: Now they crash through a plate glass window together. Ace gets to his knees first and wobbles
text: toward the gun. It's the first clear shot the SWAT team has had.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Shoot him! Shoot him!
text: We all hear the guns cocked. We see Ace in the rifle sights. We see fingers twitch on triggers.
text: A loud voice comes from off camera.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: DON'T SHOOT! HOLD YOUR FIRE!
text: Melissa is holding Emilio's gun under his chin.
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: Put down your guns or this cop
dialog: gets it!
text: The SWAT team hesitates.
speaker_heading: MELISSA (CONT'D)
dialog: I mean it!!
text: Much to Emilio's surprise, she cocks the gun.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: (whispers to Melissa)
dialog: Ah… Melissa? That's a hair
dialog: trigger.
dialog: (loud to cops)
dialog: She's not joking!
text: The SWAT team leader signals his men. They lower their guns. Einhorn gets back to her feet.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: He kidnapped Snowflake. He killed
dialog: Roger Podacter, and he was about
dialog: to kill Dan Marino and me!
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ho, ho! Fiction can be fun! But
dialog: I find the reference section much
text: more enlightening.
dialog: (doing his best Clarence Darrow)
dialog: For instance, if you were to look
dialog: up 'professional football's all
dialog: time bonehead plays', you might
dialog: read about a Miami Dolphin kicker
dialog: named Ray Finkle, who missed a
text: twenty-six yard field goal in the
dialog: closing seconds of Super Bowl
dialog: Seventeen.
dialog: (in one breath)
dialog: What you wouldn't read about is
dialog: how Ray Finkle lost his mind, and
dialog: was committed to a mental
text: institute, only to escape and join
dialog: the police force under the assumed
dialog: identity of a missing hker,
text: seducing her way to the top, in a
dialog: diabolical plan to get even with
dialog: Dan Marino whom he blamed for the
dialog: entire thing!!!
text: Ace gasps for air. Everyone is totally confused.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: What the hell are you trying to
dialog: say?
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: She's not Lois Einhorn! She's Ray
dialog: Finkle! She's a man!
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: He's lying! Shoot him!
text: Ace walks over to her.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Let's just see who's lying. Would
dialog: a real woman have to wear one of
dialog: these?
text: Ace dramatically pulls at Einhorn's hair, thinking it's a wig. Einhorn's head flies back. The hair is
text: real. Ace keeps tugging it.
text: The SWAT team ready themselves.
speaker_heading: ACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Boy, that's really on there! But
dialog: tell me this: Would a real woman
dialog: be missing these?!
text: Ace rips open Einhorn's blouse, and reveals two beautiful feminine breasts.
text: The sharp shooters are tensing. Ace is laughing nervously now.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ha, ha, ha! That kind of surgery
dialog: can be done over the weekend! But
dialog: I doubt if she could find the time
dialog: during her busy schedule to get
dialog: rid of Mr. Knish!!
text: Ace rips off Einhorn's skirt. Einhorn now stands there fully nude. She appears to be the perfect
text: figure of a woman.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Oooh boy.
text: Ace looks at Melissa and Emilio and shrugs his shoulders. Then, just when it seems all is lost, Dan
text: Marino who is back behind Einhorn, motions for Ace to come over.
speaker_heading: MARINO
dialog: Psst… Ace. Come here.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: (to everyone)
dialog: Could you excuse me just a second.
text: Ace goes to Dan. Melissa still holds Emilio hostage.
speaker_heading: EINHORN
dialog: Shoot him. Shoot him, now!!
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (to cops)
dialog: Don't anybody make a move!
text: Marino whispers something in his ear. Ace looks confident again. He once more addresses the
dialog: crowd.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen, my esteemed
dialog: colleague Mr. Marino, has just
dialog: brought some new evidence to my
dialog: attention. Now, history has
dialog: certainly shown that even the most
dialog: intuitive criminal minds can be
dialog: wrong, from time to time. But, if
dialog: I have been mistaken… if the
dialog: lieutenant is indeed a woman
dialog: then my friends, she is suffering
dialog: from the worst case of hemorrhoids
dialog: I have ever seen!!!
text: Ace spins Einhorn around now, exposing to the world, the healthy set of male genetalia that Finkle
dialog: has learned to keep tucked between his legs. (And if we have any balls, we'll actually show it.)
text: Everyone gasps. CLOSE UP ON EINHORN/FINKLE. He finally drops the facade.
speaker_heading: FINKLE
dialog: (deepest voice possible)
dialog: It was Marino's fault. The laces
dialog: were in.
dialog: (breaking down now)
dialog: They were IN!!!
text: Quick cuts of all the cops spitting with disgust. Then Emilio spits.
text: Then CLOSE ON Marino spitting. They all have kissed her/him/it. Even Snowflake blows his
dialog: spout.
text: Ace confidently cracks a sunflower seed.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: Somebody read it its rights.
text: Suddenly, Finkle picks up a shard of broken glass and lunges at Ace.
speaker_heading: FINKLE
text: DIE ANIMAL BOYYYYY!!!
text: Thinking fast Ace sidesteps Finkle and sends him head first into Snowflake's makeshift tank. After
text: a few seconds Finkle fights his way to the surface and thrashes around, helplessly.
speaker_heading: FINKLE
dialog: (gasping for air)
dialog: Help I can't swim!!!
text: Finkle goes under again. We see him under water sinking down.
text: Snowflake swims to him now, allowing him to grab onto his fin and pulls Finkle gently to the side
text: of the pool. Finkle lies there exhausted.
text: Ace reaches down into frame, removing the '82 AFC Championship ring from Finkle's finger. We
text: see that it's the ring with the missing stone. Ace replaces it with the stone in his pocket. It's a
dialog: perfect fit.
speaker_heading: ACE
scene_heading: LLLOOOSER! LLOO HOO SERR HERR
dialog: HERR!!!
text: Melissa is still holding the gun on Emilio.
speaker_heading: EMILIO
dialog: Melissa… you can give me back my
dialog: gun now.
text: Melissa has forgotten she even had the gun. She hands it to Emilio and faints in his arms.
text: Now Aguado appears beside Ace.
speaker_heading: AGUADO
dialog: I don't know how you did it,
dialog: Ventura… but that was damn good
dialog: police work. Alright guys, let's
dialog: wrap this up!
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
text: Twenty or more police cars in single file provide more than ample escort for
text: Ace and Marino in Ace's Chevy Bel-Aire with the cracked windshield. Both of them have their
text: heads sticking out so that they can see. Marino has a wad of gum in his mouth.
speaker_heading: HIGH ANGLE
text: The long line of flashing lights and cop cars drives at top speed up Route One. Ace's Bel-Aire
text: right in the middle.
speaker_heading: MARINO (O.S.)
dialog: hey Ace?
speaker_heading: ACE (O.S.)
dialog: Yeah, Dan?
speaker_heading: MARINO (O.S.)
dialog: Got any more gum?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. STADIUM - DAY
text: The Super Bowl Halftime Show is in progress. Marino is in uniform warming up. Emilio is
text: drooling at the cheerleaders. Ace and Melissa are standing near the fifty yard line taking in the
dialog: awesome spectacle.
text: Some fireworks go off around the tank. A marching band plays a triumphant tune. We see a
text: helicopter come up over the side of the stadium carrying Snowflake.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen, the Miami
dialog: Dolphins are proud to welcome back
dialog: to BOBBY RIDDLE Stadium, our
dialog: beloved mascot and star of the
dialog: halftime show
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON
text: The helicopter lowering Snowflake into his tank.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
dialog: Snowflake!!
text: As the crowd roars, Melissa turns to Ace, and with Snowflake in the background performing
text: spectacular flips, they kiss.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: As Melissa and Ace kiss, the prized 'White Pigeon' lands on a Gatorade dispenser in the
text: foreground. Ace spots it and starts to make a move.
text: Just as he closes in for the grab, the Philadelphia Eagles mascot eagle walks up to get a drink and
text: shoos the pigeon away. Ace is furious.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You idiot! Do you know what
dialog: you've done?!
text: The giant eagle head looks up at Ace.
speaker_heading: MASCOT
dialog: Huh?
text: Ace grabs him.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: You just cost me ten thousand
dialog: bucks, Polly!
speaker_heading: MASCOT
dialog: Yeah Blow me.
speaker_heading: ACE
dialog: REE HEE HEE HEELYYY?!!!
text: PULL BACK to find Eagle's mascot and Ace arguing. We can't hear what's said, but there's a lot
text: of finger pointing.
text: Emilio stops his leering to check out what's going on.
text: The ANNOUNCER up in the booth reads a release.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
dialog: The National Football League would
dialog: now like to offer a special thank
dialog: you to the man who rescued Dan
dialog: Marino and our beloved
dialog: Snowflake
text: On the field the mascot shoves Ace. Ace shoves back.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER (CONT'D)
dialog: A great humanitarian, and lover of
dialog: all animals… Mr. Ace Ventura!
text: Ace is straddling the eagle, pounding the shit out of giant head.
text: The image is flashed on the big stadium screen. We freeze frame on this huge picture of Ace, as he
text: looks into camera with his fist raised.
scene_heading: MUSIC UP: THRASH METAL
speaker_heading: ROLL CREDITS
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: (LOKI NOTE: My copy of this script has the bloody end of Vinnie and Roc physically crossed out
text: by three black marker lines, presumably by the authors. Fortunately, they were crossed out
dialog: diagonally, so I could still type the scene out for all to enjoy.)
dialog: 
