dialog: After the Wedding
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Bart Freundlich
text: Based on the film directed by Susanne Bier
dialog: Written by Anders Thomas Jensen and Suzanne Bier
scene_heading: EXT. CALCUTTA INDIA. FROM ABOVE - MORNING
text: We soar above the busy, dilapidated city, towards the
text: outskirts of town, where we close in on the remnants of
text: what looks like an ancient, abandoned temple.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. DILAPIDATED TEMPLE, OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY
text: ISABEL (39), leads a meditation. She’s not native to this
text: part of the world, though her skin is deeply tanned and
text: her hair is streaked from the sun.
text: Her eyes are closed and she emits a subtle chanting
text: sound. Her lids flutter and her eyes open and look right
dialog: at us.
speaker_heading: WHAT SHE SEES:
text: Sitting facing her, are a dozen Indian children
text: attempting to meditate. One lies on his back looking up
text: at his hands, pretending they are a bird, flying over
text: head. Isabel stands and walks to him.
text: She kneels next to him and looks at his bird-hands. After
text: a moment, she lies next to him. She whispers in
dialog: ‘Bengali’.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (In Bengali)
dialog: What kind of bird is that?
text: The 7 year old boy, JAI, looks at her and shrugs his
text: shoulders. Isabel puts her hands up in the air and makes
text: a bird of her own. They fly together.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: (Bengali)
dialog: Why don’t you sit up and meditate with
dialog: the others and you can imagine as many
dialog: birds as you like.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: (Bengali)
dialog: I don’t want to close my eyes today.
text: Isabel examines his precious face.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: OK. But help me with the bell.
text: Jai smiles and excitedly scampers to his feet. He puts
text: his hands out to help Isabel up.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 2.
text: Jai goes to the front of the room and grabs a bell. He
text: looks to Isabel in anticipation, and she nods.
text: With all his might, he shakes the bell and a low ring
text: emanates, signaling the meditation is over.
text: The others open their eyes. Jai laughs at their surprised
text: expressions as they see it’s him with the bell.
scene_heading: EXT. DILAPIDATED TEMPLE - DAY 3
text: Like the pied piper, Isabel leads the children out of the
text: beautiful but broken down temple, back into the rundown
dialog: village streets.
scene_heading: TITLE: AFTER THE WEDDING
scene_heading: EXT. CALCUTTA STREET, IMPOVERISHED AREA - LATER THAT DAY 4
text: Isabel, Jai, and a few other children from the orphanage,
text: ride in the back of an open pick up truck down a dusty
dialog: street.
text: A group of hungry local children chase the truck as it
text: pulls up in an open square and stops.
text: The driver gets out and the local kids surround the
text: truck. Isabel and the orphans begin their routine of
text: serving a meal from giant pots; rice and lentils. The
text: hungry children wait with cups and get food ladled in.
scene_heading: INT. BACK OF TRUCK - LATE AFTERNOON 5
text: The exhausted group rides back toward the orphanage. The
text: sun has just set and the sky is a silvery blue. Jai is
text: glued to Isabel’s side as they all sing a song.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. ORPHANAGE - EVENING 6
text: Isabel's truck pull in.
text: A French aid worker, JAQUES (Late 40's), is laying out
text: some supplies he has brought in a van. Isabel’s truck
text: pulls in and she hops out, anxiously.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (to Jaques)
dialog: What did you get?
text: She blows by him to check out the supplies.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 3.
speaker_heading: JAQUES
dialog: (sarcastically)
dialog: It’s nice to see you...
text: Isabel looks through what he’s brought. She picks up some
dialog: sheets.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Where are the beds? The food? And there
dialog: were supposed to be school supplies.
speaker_heading: JAQUES
dialog: We can hang hammocks. Temporarily.
text: A beat as they look at each other.
speaker_heading: JAQUES (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s all I could get. For the money.
text: She looks at him slightly confused, then shakes her head
text: and marches away.
scene_heading: INT. ORPHANAGE OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER 7
text: Isabel marches in.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Where’s the money we were promised? How
dialog: long are we supposed to wait?
text: The director of the orphanage, PREENA (60's), sits at her
text: desk, going over some paperwork. She removes her glasses
text: and takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: They want you to go meet with them.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: In New York. To tell them why we are a
dialog: worthy cause.
text: Isabel is taken aback.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: How many hoops are we supposed to jump
dialog: through?
text: Preena watches her.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 4.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: Their money, their terms.
text: This infuriates Isabel.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Well, I’m not going to go teach
dialog: compassion when the kids need me here.
dialog: Tell them to go save the fucking whales.
text: Isabel heads out the door.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: They want to give us 2 million dollars.
text: Isabel is stopped by the number. She and Preena look at
dialog: each other.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD, OYSTER BAY, LONG ISLAND - LATE 8
speaker_heading: AFTERNOON
text: From above, we follow a luxury sedan as it wends it’s way
text: down a country road.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA’S CAR - CONTINUOUS 9
text: THERESA YOUNG (51), drives her car while the radio
text: blasts, Lady Gaga. She speeds around a turn, then down a
text: narrow strip of road, bordered by a beautiful bay.
scene_heading: EXT. THERESA’S DRIVEWAY - SAME 10
text: A big beautiful estate, with gorgeous landscaping and a
text: few impressive sculptures scattered around the grounds.
text: Theresa’s car winds its way down the driveway.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA’S CAR - DAY 11
text: As the car approaches the house, Gaga is interrupted by
text: the phone ringing.
text: The screen in the car reads: OFFICE.
text: Theresa picks up on speaker.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Gwen, what is it? I’m just pulling in.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 5.
text: The voice of GWEN, Theresa’s assistant comes through the
dialog: speaker.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: I have Simon and Tanya for you.
text: Theresa comes to a stop in front of the house.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Ok, great. Put them on.
text: She turns the car off and takes the call on her phone as
text: she gets out.
scene_heading: EXT. THERESA’S DRIVEWAY/FRONT OF HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 12
text: Theresa steps out of the car and balances her bag and a
text: few files. We hear a voice leaking through the other end.
text: She stands looking out at her beautiful yard while she
text: listens to Tanya and Simon.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: No, no, Tanya, it’s OK. You don’t need to
dialog: sell them, just guide them through it.
dialog: And give them all the information they
dialog: are asking for. What else?
text: Theresa opens her front door and walks inside.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE, FOYER - CONTINUOUS 13
text: She walks through the beautiful entryway still on the
dialog: call.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Hang on, we need Bill on this call.
text: She puts her files down and heads toward the kitchen as
text: she continues the call.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 14
text: Theresa walks through the gorgeous living room. Walls
text: lined with art. Mid-century modern furniture, a piano. A
text: fire is lit in the fire place.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (phone)
dialog: Can you shoot him an email?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 6.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I don’t want to go through this twice so
dialog: call me tomorrow and we can go over it
dialog: together.
scene_heading: 15 INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 15
text: Theresa opens the door to the kitchen to find CIBELE,
text: housekeeper/baby-sitter, cleaning up dinner.
text: Theresa mouths “Where are the boys?”. Cibele points up
dialog: stairs.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (phone)
dialog: Gwen can you stay on a minute?
text: She heads out of the kitchen.
scene_heading: 16 INT. ESTATE HALLWAY/STAIRWAY 16
text: Theresa heads up the stairs.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (phone)
dialog: Get Bill on first thing tomorrow, then
dialog: get me.
scene_heading: 17 INT. HOUSE UPSTAIRS HALLWAY/LANDING 17
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (phone)
dialog: Is Cahill at home or in the office? Text
dialog: me his cell please. Thank you.
text: She hangs up. Let’s her gaze linger through a window
text: down onto the sprawling yard, where we see the beginnings
text: of a party set up. Theresa takes a breath then:
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Chickens! I’m home!
scene_heading: 18 INT. TWIN BOY'S ROOM - EVENING 18
text: Theresa walks in to find her 8 year old twin boys, OTTO
text: and THEO playing a video game.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: What’s going on here?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 7.
speaker_heading: TWINS
dialog: (distracted by the game)
dialog: Hi mom.
text: Theresa looks at the screen as the boys’ avatars fight
dialog: each other.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You know I don’t like this game.
text: They groan a little.
speaker_heading: TWINS
dialog: Dad said we could.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Well, now mom’s home.
speaker_heading: MINUTES LATER
text: All three sit together on the floor, the boys on either
text: side of Theresa as she reads them a book. “Meet my
text: staff”. She does all the voices. They lean on her.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK CITY ART GALLERY - EVENING 19
text: A sculpture exhibit is being installed. OSCAR CARLSON,
dialog: (early 40's), somewhere between artist and construction
text: worker, meticulously measures, hoists, and tinkers with
text: the lighting. Some movers and gallery staff stand by to
dialog: help.
text: He climbs down off the ladder and approaches a tower
text: looking sculpture made of balanced rocks. He watches how
text: the lights that now slowly rotate above illuminate the
dialog: rock structure.
text: He takes a step back and looks. Everyone waits.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
text: It’s catching at about 12 O’clock
text: He looks at the beams above where the lights hang.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: We may need to re-rig so the power cord
dialog: can run vertically.
text: The workers take a deep breath. Oscar takes a further
text: step back and we see now there is a translucent patterned
text: curtain with a hole in it through which the audience is
text: meant to view the sculpture through. As he looks:
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 8.
text: Oscar's phone rings. “GRACIE” calling.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: Hi Bunny.
scene_heading: 20 INT. GALLERY/ EXT. NEW YORK RESTAURANT TERRACE 20
speaker_heading: GRACE (0.S.)
dialog: Hi daddy.
text: GRACE CARLSON is 21, pretty in a tender way. She's
text: dressed for a night out. Oscar is happy to hear from her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: What’s going on?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Nothing. Just getting married this
dialog: weekend.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Yeah, not that big a deal.
text: She hangs on the line. Looks behind her to a whole group
text: of friends all drinking and eating together. They are
text: rowdy and making a ton of noise. JONATHAN (26),
text: attractive in a conservative way, beckons her back over.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: C’mon Grace! Milly bought us a round of
dialog: shots.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Sounds like fun over there.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Kind of...
text: She’s clearly not into it. Oscar can read her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (comforting)
dialog: It’s going to be perfect. Mom has
text: everyone working at maximum efficiency.
text: He laughs and Grace smiles warmly. A quiet moment. The
text: group beckons Grace again.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: How’s the show looking?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 9.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Work in progress. Thanks for asking.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Thank you daddy. I just wanted to say hi.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I love you.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Love you too.
text: She lets out a little excited-nervous sound. Oscar
dialog: laughs.
scene_heading: 21 INT./EXT OSCAR’S TRUCK - GRAND CENTRAL PARKWAY - NIGHT 21
text: Oscar flies down the highway with the music blaring and
text: windows open. He sings.
scene_heading: 22 EXT. CENTRE ISLAND ROAD, OYSTER BAY - HOUSE DRIVEWAY. 22
text: Oscar's truck pulls in the driveway.
scene_heading: 23 INT. THERESA/OSCAR’S BATHROOM - NIGHT 23
text: Theresa soaks in a bubble bath with her ipad propped up
text: on the side of the tub and a glass of wine in her hand.
text: Oscar walks in, a puzzled look on his face.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: What’s wrong with the boys? Why are they
dialog: reading?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (takes off her glasses)
dialog: Did you tell them they could play mortal
dialog: killing?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Mortal Combat. I may have.
text: He gives her a face. She rolls her eyes. He sits on the
text: edge of the tub and leans in for a kiss.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (re: show)
dialog: So, how does it look?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 10.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Never quite like I imagine.
dialog: She’s used to hearing this.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (The work is beautiful), It’s going to be
dialog: great. Just try to relax and enjoy it.
text: He smiles at her and takes her foot out of the tub. He
text: rubs it.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Gracie, called. I think she wanted some
text: reassurance. She sounded nervous.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I guess it runs in the family.
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Are you nervous?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Are you nervous?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Excuse me for a minute, I have to take
dialog: this...
text: He takes her foot and uses it like a telephone.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Hello... sorry, she’s too nervous to
dialog: talk.
text: She laughs and tries to pull her foot away.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: That tickles... Seriously.
text: She starts to laugh and struggle. He holds it tighter and
text: bites up her leg.
text: She grabs his hands to stop him. He lets himself slide
text: into the tub, all his clothes on. She is shocked and lets
text: out a scream of surprise. He pulls her close and they
text: kiss passionately.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 1.
scene_heading: INT. ISABEL’S BEDROOM, INDIA - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT 24
text: A slight breeze blows, gently swaying her curtains.
text: Isabel lies in bed awake. Jaques sleeps next to her.
text: A SCREAM from the other room. Isabel sits bolt upright.
scene_heading: INT. BUNK ROOM, ORPHANAGE - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT 25
text: About 20 beds, as well as some make shift beds on the
text: floor and some hammocks.
text: Jai is standing next to his bed crying.
text: Isabel rushes in, followed closely by Jaques.
text: Jai who looks at Isabel guiltily, then down to his
text: tattered shorts which are wet in the front. Some of the
text: other children sit up and look.
text: Isabel goes to him. She sees the mattress is soaked
dialog: through.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Jai, it’s okay...
text: She tries to calm him, then turns to Jaques.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Jaques)
dialog: Get me some sheets, OK?
text: Jaques nods and exits.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (to the others in Bengali)
dialog: Go back to sleep.
text: She hugs Jai.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (comforting)
dialog: Shhh... shhh. I’m right here.
scene_heading: INT. ISABEL’S BEDROOM - 3AM 26
text: She sits on the edge of her bed, exhausted. Jaques lays a
text: hand on her back.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m not going to leave him.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 12.
text: Jaques nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (strongly)
dialog: Do you hear me?
speaker_heading: JAQUES
dialog: I do...
dialog: Jaques thinks.
speaker_heading: JAQUES (CONT'D)
dialog: Why don’t I go New York and meet with
dialog: them? You can fill me in and I’1l take
dialog: them through it.
text: She looks at him.
speaker_heading: JAQUES (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s on my way to Argentina. Sort of.
scene_heading: 27 INT. ORPHANAGE OFFICE- DAY 27
text: Isabel and Jaques sit opposite Preena, who is on the
dialog: phone with the money people in New York. Isabel is
dialog: anxious to hear what they will say.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: Yes. I understand. Of course.
text: She hangs up and looks at Isabel.
speaker_heading: PREENA (CONT’D)
dialog: It has to be you.
text: Isabel gets agitated.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Why? That’s ridiculous.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: Are we really in a position to ask why?
text: Isabel stands and walks out.
scene_heading: 28 EXT. TRAIL THROUGH THE WOODS, NEAR THERESA AND OSCAR'S 28
scene_heading: HOUSE - MORNING
text: Theresa, is taking a morning walk through the woods while
text: she talks on her headphones.
speaker_heading: A29
dialog: 29
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 13.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: What’s their response to the truncated
dialog: retention period?
text: She listens.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s not going to work. We can give on
dialog: the deferred compensation, but the
dialog: retention period is non-negotiable.
text: She listens. Wider. We see the beauty of the path.
text: Bill lays out the terms he’ll go back with. Theresa slows
text: as she sees something up ahead. A massive tree that has
text: fallen in last nights storm, split at the base of its
dialog: trunk.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: OK, I’m on my walk. I’m going to call you
text: back from the car.
text: She hangs up and approaches the tree which blocks the
dialog: path.
text: AT THE TREE: Theresa is dwarfed by it. She examines it,
text: walking down the length until she gets to where it split.
text: It's a violent but beautiful sight; Splintered wood,
text: roots with moss still attached pointing up to the sky,
text: tree sap hanging on the points of the razor sharp breaks
text: in the wood.
text: She touches it in fascination. A little sap on her
text: fingers. She lets them stick together.
text: Then, just over to the side, she spots something else. A
text: birds nest on the ground.
text: Theresa goes over to it and bends close. She clears away
text: some leaves to see the carefully made nest has shards of
text: broken blue eggs in it. She touches one gently, then
text: looks up in the sky.
text: A bird circles above.
text: A PLANE CUTS THROUGH THE SKY A29
scene_heading: INT. AIR INDIA, FIRST CLASS - DAY 29
text: Isabel sits uncomfortably amongst mainly business people.
dialog: 30
dialog: 31
dialog: 32
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 14.
text: She looks at their faces. So different from those of the
text: children she’s just left. She looks out the window and
text: flashes back to earlier in the day.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. INDIA - EARLIER THAT DAY 30
text: Close on Isabel’s hand in Jai’s hand as they walk
text: together. We wander up to his face which looks tense and
dialog: sad.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Will you be back for my birthday?
text: She looks at him tenderly.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What did I tell you?
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: You don’t miss birthday’s.
text: She smiles.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: That’s right.
scene_heading: INT. AIR INDIA 31
text: On Isabel looking out at the sky, thinking.
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHANAGE - EARLIER THAT DAY 32
text: The children all crowd around her as she takes her bag
text: and puts it in a cab.
text: Jaques stands on the other side of them, looking at her.
text: He gives her a wave. She offers a tense smile.
text: Isabel hugs Preena.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (to Preena)
dialog: Check on him. Every night.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: We were here long before God brought you
dialog: to us Isabel.
text: Isabel takes a deep breath.
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: 37
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 15.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m coming back with a suit case full of
dialog: money.
scene_heading: INT. JFK AIRPORT, BAGGAGE CLAIM 33
text: Isabel exits with the throngs of people. Gets to the
dialog: other side of customs.
text: A chauffeur awaits, with a sign: “Isabel Andersen”. She
text: approaches. He takes her bag from her and leads the way.
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHANAGE - EARLIER THAT DAY 34
text: Isabel's taxi pulls away. The children from the orphanage
text: run next to it, yelling their good-byes. She waves.
scene_heading: INT. TESLA/ EXT. NEW YORK CITY 35
text: Inside the car, is every conceivable New York news
text: publication. Isabel picks up “The New York Post”. Some
text: horrific political scandal on the back. She puts it down
text: and picks up “The Wall Street Journal: “Market Bullish
text: over tax plan”. Not her world. She rolls down her window.
text: From the “Kosciusko” Bridge. Manhattan in all it’s glory
text: off to the west.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWERY HOTEL - DAY 36
text: The car pulls up in front of this chic Bowery Hotel.
text: The MANAGER of the hotel waits to greet Isabel. A Bellman
text: at her side. As Isabel gets out, the manager approaches.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Miss Andersen.
text: The manager puts her hand out and leads her into the
dialog: hotel.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY LOBBY - CONTINUOUS 37
text: They breeze through the chic lobby, not stopping at the
text: front desk.
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 16.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL, ELEVATOR 38
text: They ride up in the elevator.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Everything is prepared for your stay.
text: The reach “PH” and the door opens.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL, PENTHOUSE 39
text: The Manager leads Isabel inside.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: It’s one of our penthouse suites. Living
text: room, bedroom, one and a half baths. Full
dialog: kitchen.
text: The place is stunning and fancy. The manager walks to the
dialog: fireplace.
speaker_heading: MANAGER (CONT'D)
text: These are gas and operated with a switch.
text: She ignites one then continues the tour.
speaker_heading: MANAGER (CONT'D)
text: Fully stocked refrigerator and kitchen.
text: She opens the doors to the fridge: it is packed.
speaker_heading: MANAGER (CONT'D)
dialog: We couldn’t get an answer on what you
dialog: liked, so we had to do some guess work.
dialog: Anything that is missing, please let us
dialog: know.
text: Isabel is looking out the window at the city scape, only
text: hearing half of what the manager has said.
speaker_heading: MANAGER (CONT'D)
text: The shades are all controlled by remote
dialog: control, from this ipad, here.
text: The manager hands her a cell phone.
speaker_heading: MANAGER (CONT'D)
dialog: This is your cell phone. There is a car
dialog: at your disposal. My number and the
text: drivers are both programmed.
text: The manager smiles.
dialog: 40
dialog: 4l
dialog: 42
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 17.
speaker_heading: MANAGER (CONT'D)
dialog: I‘1l let you get your bearings. And,
dialog: Welcome.
text: The Manager heads out. Isabel is left alone.
text: She takes a deep breath, then walks over to the
text: refrigerator and opens it. There is a ridiculous amount
text: of food and drink. She shakes her head at the excess.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. OSCAR'S STUDIO - ON PROPERTY - DAY 40
text: A large shed like building with a little courtyard. We
text: can see the house in the background.
text: The courtyard and the studio are filled with sculptures
text: and tools. Some are large. Some made of wood, some stone.
text: There is also a kiln in the corner with blocks of clay
text: and pots in various stages of being glazed.
text: Oscar stains a wood piece, that stands about as tall as
text: him. We can’t quite see it in it’s entirety. His phone
text: rings: “Theresa”.
scene_heading: INT. OUTSIDE HORIZON CONFERENCE ROOM - SAME 4l
text: Theresa has stepped out of a meeting to call Oscar.
scene_heading: INT. OSCAR'S STUDIO/ INT. OUTSIDE HORIZON CONFERENCE ROOM42
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I think I forgot to tell the caterer no
dialog: sesame or nuts.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I did it.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Thank god. And I’m worried about the
dialog: lobster risotto. I think I pressured her
dialog: into it.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: She needs to have something to resent us
dialog: about. Let it be the lobster risotto.
text: Oscar breathes a sigh of relief.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Also, I got a call from the fire
dialog: Marshall.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 18.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh shit. What does he want?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: He’s asking us to cut down the fireworks
dialog: by half.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh c’mon. I’11 call him.
dialog: (Pause)
dialog: Did you get a car for your parents?
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Oscar?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I’m kidding, I did it.
text: He jots down “car for parents”.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Ok. I gotta get back to work.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Wait.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Why is this happening?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Cause it’s what she wants, baby.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Doesn't mean it’s a good idea...
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Is this what you were thinking about when
dialog: you were up last night?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: How do you know I was up last night?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Well, it’s a big deal.
dialog: 43
dialog: 44
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 19.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL - DAY 43
text: The elevator opens and Isabel steps out. She has cleaned
text: up and wears a nicer outfit but still looks out of place.
text: She carries a folder and a DVD.
text: Jonathan, who we saw at the bar with Grace, approaches
dialog: Isabel.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: You must be Isabel.
text: She’s taken aback.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m Jonathan.
text: He extends his hand and she shakes it dubiously.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m here to take you to your meeting.
text: She looks at him.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: OK.
text: They look at each other awkwardly for a moment. He smiles
text: and extends his arm as if to say, ‘after you’.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWERY HOTEL - CONTINUOUS 44
text: They emerge onto the busy street.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: How’s the hotel? Are you comfortable?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes.
text: He seems happy.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Good. I chose it myself.
text: They arrive at the curb and Jonathan raises his hand,
text: beckoning the Tesla which waits at the corner.
text: Jonathan opens the door which swings upward, like a
text: spaceship. Isabel is startled.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 20.
scene_heading: INT. TESLA - MINUTES LATER 45
text: Isabel tries to get her window down but can’t seem to
text: find the right button. Jonathan helps.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Is it the french spelling?
text: She looks at him.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: (with accent)
dialog: “Isabelle.”
speaker_heading: ISABEL
speaker_heading: ISABEL.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Ah, that’s not the french.
text: Another awkward moment. Isabel looks out at the city.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Have you ever met Theresa?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: She’s very impressive. She built
dialog: ‘Horizon’ from nothing 22 years ago, and
dialog: now it’s one of the biggest media buying
dialog: companies in the world.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Media buying?
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: We connect brands to consumers and vice
dialog: versa, through an understanding of
dialog: demographics and Psycho-graphics.
text: Isabel looks at him blankly.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: So, what do you sell?
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Whatever the client is selling.
text: She nods, half understanding.
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 21.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: It’s Theresa’s brain child. Don’t be
text: intimidated by her. That’s a mistake.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Sounds like you know her well.
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: I’ve worked at the company for 4 years.
dialog: (admitting)
dialog: And she’s my mother in-law... or will be
dialog: on Saturday. I’m marrying her daughter.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Oh. Congratulations.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: (happy)
dialog: Thanks.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON WAITING AREA - DAY 46
text: Isabel sits, waiting. Modern and beautiful. Lots of
text: glass. Stunning view of the city. After a moment,
text: Theresa’s executive assistant, GWEN (30's), approaches
dialog: Isabel.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: Isabel.
text: She stands.
speaker_heading: GWEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Follow me.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON OFFICE HALLS AND STAIRS - CONTINUOUS 47
text: Isabel follows Gwen down the labyrinth modern hallways -
text: up a staircase, past walls of glass and employees. And
dialog: finally:
scene_heading: INT. HALL JUST OUTSIDE THERESA’S PRIVATE CONFERENCE ROOM 48
text: Gwen and Isabel arrive and stop. Glass windows allow us
dialog: to see in.
text: Inside, Theresa is just finishing up a meeting with SIMON
text: (43), TANYA (55) and Bill (60), her lawyer. They have
text: someone on a conference call.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 22.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: Sorry, they are almost finished. Can I
dialog: get you a water?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No, thank you.
text: A phone on Gwen’s desk rings from down the hall.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: Excuse me.
text: Gwen hustles to get it. Isabel waits awkwardly shifting
text: her gaze between the conference room and the view out the
dialog: window.
text: We can just hear Theresa and the others though they are
text: muted by the glass.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: Christine...
dialog: (getting irritated)
dialog: Christine! Here is the important point.
dialog: The valuation potentially changes if this
dialog: leaks into next quarter. If getting it
dialog: done quickly means conceding a few of
dialog: these points, then do it.
text: Theresa sees Isabel.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I need to go.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (Into speaker phone)
dialog: Tanya and I will call you back in a bit
dialog: with some suggestions.
text: He hangs up. Theresa looks at her team.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (to her team)
dialog: I’m not sure why we hired someone to
dialog: guide us through the process, who we now
dialog: need to guide through the process.
speaker_heading: TANYA
dialog: She’s just not a great communicator. But
dialog: she’s been through this before with other
dialog: companies, which is valuable.
text: Theresa heads out of the conference room toward Isabel.
dialog: +e
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 22a.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Okay. But can we think about
dialog: renegotiating her fee because we’re doing
dialog: most of the work here.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 23.
text: Tanya nods. Theresa stands and exits the conference.
scene_heading: 49 INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE CONFERENCE ROOM 49
text: Theresa approaches Isabel.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You must be Isabel.
text: Isabel nods with a tense smile and Theresa extends her
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Theresa.
text: Theresa takes her in for a moment, then looks out the
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: On a clear day you can see New Jersey
dialog: from here. Don’t know why you’d want to.
text: Isabel doesn’t get it.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Let’s go to my office.
scene_heading: 50 INT. HORIZON, THERESA’S OFFICE 50
text: Isabel and Theresa walk in. Beautiful furniture, a wall
text: of wood and a huge photograph of the ocean above her
dialog: seating area.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You had a long trip.
text: Isabel nods.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Please sit.
text: Isabel sits.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Was it comfortable?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: It was fine.
text: Theresa nods and takes a seat opposite Isabel. She gets
dialog: down to it.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 24.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: So, I watched the video that my group
dialog: brought back from India.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What’s really going on there can’t be
text: understood though a video.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It gives a sense.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: There are over two hundred thousand child
dialog: prostitutes in the south alone. And five
dialog: times that amount suffer from
dialog: malnutrition. The numbers triple when you
dialog: go the bigger cities.
text: Isabel takes a paper out of the folder she is holding.
text: She hands it to Theresa. It has figures, numbers and
text: graphs. Theresa looks at it while Isabel continues.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (bitter)
dialog: Hundreds of thousands die from minor
dialog: illnesses, infections. Completely
dialog: preventable, with very little money if
dialog: someone had the inclination.
text: Theresa studies her.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It’s infuriating isn’t it.
text: Isabel taken back by the question.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Because it’s preventable.
text: Gwen pops in.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: Sorry to interrupt. I have the caterers
dialog: on the line. They want to know if they
dialog: can use mussels and shrimp for the
dialog: risotto. There’s a lobster shortage.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Is there a lobster shortage, or can they
dialog: not get enough lobster?
text: She stands there.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 24a.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: I’m not sure.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 25.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Well, then let me know when you find out.
text: The assistant retreats to call the caterer.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: You’ve caught me at a busy time. My
dialog: daughter is getting married this weekend.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes. I met your son-in-law.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Jonathan.
text: Theresa stands and picks up a framed photo of Grace.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
text: Grace is young. But she says she’s in
dialog: love. I could fight her on this and tell
dialog: her she’s too young and have her hate me -
dialog: I've tried that. Or I could give her a
dialog: beautiful wedding.
text: Theresa hands Isabel the framed picture. Isabel looks
text: down at it. A beautiful picture of Grace stares back at
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you have kids?
text: Isabel shakes her head, ‘no’.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Partner?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No. My work is all consuming.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I understand. I really wanted a family.
dialog: I think a lot of women believe it’1l just
dialog: happen on its own.
text: Isabel isn’t sure if this is a criticism.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: But personally, I think if you want it,
dialog: you have to make it happen. I have 2
dialog: little boys too. I worked hard for them.
text: Theresa takes the picture back and replaces it on the
dialog: shelf.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 26.
text: Isabel tries to refocus the conversation. She reaches
text: into her bag and pulls out another folder.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I have a list of priorities here.
dialog: Eventually we'd like to take in three
dialog: times the number of children.
text: Theresa glances at the folder then walks to her desk as
dialog: Isabel continues.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: Change our food program. Subsidize and
dialog: buy from local farmers. Vaccinate. Which
dialog: could be done for under 5 dollars per
dialog: child.
text: Theresa nods.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: What you’re doing is very impressive.
dialog: It’s important work.
text: Isabel gives a tense smile.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: But there are a lot of good, deserving
dialog: organizations out there. I need some more
dialog: time to think.
text: Isabel is surprised and annoyed.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What? I... I was under the impression
dialog: that you had already decided to be
dialog: involved.
text: She grabs the graphs off of the table.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: (getting upset)
dialog: Look at the information. The need is
dialog: undeniable.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I have a big weekend ahead of me and I
dialog: feel like I need the time. Leave the
dialog: folder. Monday we’ll have lunch and I’1l
dialog: let you know what I can do.
text: Isabel is fuming, but holds it in.
dialog: 51
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 27.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: In the meantime, come to the wedding. We
dialog: can get to know each other better.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m heading directly back to India.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Staying the weekend won’t kill you. It’s
dialog: a big party. You won’t be uncomfortable,
dialog: I promise.
text: Isabel is stuck. The door opens and her assistant comes
text: in comes in.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Gwen, get Isabel an invitation to the
dialog: wedding.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: Right away. And Dr. Cahill is here for
text: the insurance work up.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I need a physical?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Not you. Me. There are a lot of hoops to
dialog: jump through when you're selling your
dialog: company. See you tomorrow.
text: Theresa smiles at her. The doctor is shown in. Isabel
text: walks out. We go with her.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON, HALLWAYS 51
text: Isabel makes her way out. We stay close on her as she
text: makes her way through the maze like office toward the
text: front. Hard to read her.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON, ELEVATOR BANK - CONTINUOUS 52
text: As Isabel approaches the elevator bank, she suddenly
text: bails out through the emergency exit and into the back
text: stair well.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON, BACK STAIRWELL 53
text: Isabel takes off her shoes and begins running down.
dialog: 54
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 28.
scene_heading: EXT. THERESA AND OSCAR'S HOUSE, DRIVEWAY AND LAWN - DAY 54
text: A lot of action on the lawn. Trucks in the driveway,
text: people setting up for the wedding.
text: Theresa's car wends down the long driveway toward the big
text: house. It stops and Theresa gets out.
text: She heads across the lawn toward Oscar, who is speaking
text: to the wedding planner, MELINDA. She looks slightly
text: frantic.
text: Before Theresa can get to them, the twins, Otto and Theo
dialog: ambush her.
text: Her face lights up as they run into her arms. She bends
text: to scoop them up and they almost all topple over.
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Hello my little cookies...
text: She covers them in kisses. They laugh and resist - and
dialog: love it.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Chocolate chip... and peanut butter...
speaker_heading: TWINS
dialog: No! Not peanut butter!
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh that’s right, someone is allergic!
dialog: Sugar then...
text: She pretends to eat their cheeks.
text: They point to the sky where a a hi-tech drone with a
text: camera mounted soars above them.
speaker_heading: TWINS
dialog: Mom, mom. Look. The man let us fly it. I
dialog: was making it go.
text: Theresa watches as the drone flies back to the young man
text: who is controlling it.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Wow! Just don’t fly away.
speaker_heading: TWINS
dialog: It’s not for people! It’s going to take
text: pictures of the wedding.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 29.
text: Theresa looks over at Oscar who is engaged with the
text: wedding planner MELINDA.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Ohhh I see. Have you seen your sister?
speaker_heading: TWINS
dialog: She told us to stay away from her.
speaker_heading: THERESA
text: Well, brides are crabby.
text: Theresa stands.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Go ask that man if you can fly it again.
text: They run off. Theresa walks to Oscar.
scene_heading: 55 EXT. LAWN 55
text: Theresa walks up to Oscar. They smile at each other in
text: acknowledgement of how much is going on.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I nixed the ice sculptures. Melinda’s
text: having a fit.
text: They look over at some huge ice sculptures which are
text: being carried away around the side of the house.
text: Melinda is frantically point to the men where to put
text: them. Theresa and Oscar watch her.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I guess this isn’t the time to tell her
dialog: we need one more chair.
text: Oscar looks at her, quizzically.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
text: Somebody from work.
text: Oscar sighs.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I think I just won’t tell her and add it
text: when she’s not looking.
text: Another scream. The boys are buzzing Melinda with the
text: drone. She is ducking.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 30.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Where’s Gracie?
text: Oscar looks toward the epic tent. Another kiss.
scene_heading: EXT. WEDDING AREA, BACK OF HOUSE - MINUTES LATER 56
text: Lush and beautiful. Tables are being set, flowers placed.
text: Theresa sees Grace counting chairs, excitedly and
dialog: anxiously.
text: Theresa takes Grace in for a moment then approaches her.
text: Grace turns and sees Theresa and gives her a wide,
text: nervous smile.
text: Theresa smiles back. They go to each other and hug.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Can you believe this is happening?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: No, I can’t. Are you okay? Any doubts?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: You wish.
text: Theresa holds her face and looks right at her.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: No. I wish what you wish.
text: Grace smiles and hugs her mom again.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I don’t see what would be so wrong with
dialog: just living together for a year...
dialog: Grace has heard this before.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: And, he’s not as good looking as you.
text: She's clearly used to this.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Anything else?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 31.
text: The look at each other deeply again.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Yes. You’1l always be mine. Remember
dialog: that.
text: This clearly touches Grace, but she tries to slough it
text: off, but it makes her emotional.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: You are honestly the worst. And try, if
dialog: you can to get all of your crying done
dialog: before the wedding, because it sets me
dialog: off.
text: Theresa puts her hand up like she is taking an oath.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE, STAIRWAY 57
text: Theresa walks up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S BEDROOM 58
text: Theresa enters the bedroom. She walks through the room
text: into her dressing room/closet.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA’ DRESSING ROOM/CLOSET 59
text: It's big enough to be another bedroom. Meticulously
text: organized. Her dress for the wedding hangs on the far
text: side of the closet, ready for tomorrow.
text: She takes off her shoes.
text: AT HER BUREAU, she removes her earrings and other
text: jewelry. Places it on a tray.
text: Next to the tray we see the bird nest with the three
text: little cracked eggs in it, that she brought back from her
dialog: walk.
text: Theresa opens a drawer where she keeps a pill box with
text: pills/vitamins divided into daily doses. She grabs
text: “Friday”, puts the pills in her mouth, and swallows them
dialog: without water.
text: ON THE CLOSET WINDOW, we hang on an empty frame.
text: Theresa walks up to the window. Expression unreadable.
scene_heading: THERESA’S VIEW OUTSIDE
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 32.
text: She looks out at the big oak tree. Branches outstretched
text: like arms. She breathes in. Breathes out. Breathes in.
text: Breathes out.
text: Then out the window, what looks like a bird, flies over
text: the tree. She leans closer to discover it’s the drone. It
text: flies high above the tree, swooping this way and that. We
text: hear the children’s giggles from below.
text: Theresa closes her eyes and we see:
speaker_heading: THE DRONE POV
text: Swooping, beautiful aerials of the tree, the house, the
text: people below. And it climbs, up, and up, and up.
text: BACK ON THERESA
text: She opens her eyes and her face breaks into a cry. She
text: covers her mouth to muffle it.
scene_heading: INT. AERIAL SHOT OF LOWER MANHATTAN 60
text: We close in on the Bowery Hotel penthouse.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWERY HOTEL - EVENING/ EXT. INDIA ORPHANAGE 61
text: Isabel is out on the balcony looking over the city, on
text: the phone with Jai.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes, it’s big. But also small. All the
text: buildings are squeezed together into a
text: small, small space.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Would I like it?
text: She seems to actually reflect on the question. Looks out.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: One day maybe you will see it for
dialog: yourself.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Are there birds?
text: Isabel looks out at the pigeons.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Kind of. But not like we are used to.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 33.
text: She stands and looks through the glass into the room
text: where two Housekeepers have let themselves in.
scene_heading: VIEW INSIDE THE ROOM
text: Housekeepers are followed by the Hotel Manager. They
text: carry 2 different dresses on hangers.
text: Isabel looks puzzled. The Manager waves and directs
text: Housekeeping to hang the dresses so they are on display.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: When will you be back?
text: Isabel looks through the window at the dresses.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: As soon as I can. But you need to set an
dialog: example for the others while I’m gone.
text: He nods, though of course she can’t see it.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Can you hand the phone to Preena?
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Okay, goodbye Ms. Isabel.
text: Jai hands the phone off.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: So, what do you think?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I think we could get 100 new beds for
dialog: what they are paying for this hotel
dialog: suite.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: I hope this wasn’t too good to be true.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m not coming back without...
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: --. A suitcase of money. I know.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes, I’1l call you soon.
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 34.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS 62
text: Isabel enters.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What’s this?
text: The Manager stands in presentation.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Ms. Young thought you might need a dress
dialog: for the wedding.
text: Isabel takes them in.
scene_heading: EXT. THERESA AND OSCAR'S HOUSE - WEDDING DAY - AFTERNOON 63
text: The grounds look beautiful. Lanterns line the driveway.
text: Around back, the ceremony is about to start.
scene_heading: EXT. THERESA AND OSCAR'S BACK YARD - SAME 64
text: Theresa, Oscar, and Grace, all dressed in their wedding
text: attire. They stand on a little brick patio in front of a
text: small greenhouse; waiting. About 50 feet away, the guests
text: are seated, waiting.
text: Oscar and Theresa stand on either side of Grace. They
text: look across at her, and then anxiously to each other.
text: Grace looks straight ahead, avoiding their gaze. Theresa
text: reaches up to Grace to fix a stray hair. Grace pulls away
dialog: annoyed.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Please...
text: Theresa nods. They settle back into waiting. After a
dialog: moment:
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: You look beautiful, sweetheart.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: You’ve told me that... A lot.
dialog: (Thank you)
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Well, it’s true.
text: Grace takes a deep breath.
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 68
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 35.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: (tense)
dialog: Thank you... Again.
text: Waiting. Then music begins. They jump, startled. Then
text: gather themselves, and begin walking.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE, BACK LAWN - CONTINUOUS 65
text: About 75 people. Everyone turns to see the bride and her
text: parents as they walk up the isle.
text: Jonathan smiles as he waits at the front, next to the
text: Buddhist monk who will be preforming the ceremony.
text: People take out their phones to take some pictures and
dialog: videos.
text: ON Grace, all smiles as she arrives next to Jonathan. Her
text: parents kiss her, then take their seats.
text: Looking between the Bride and Groom, we see the beautiful
text: stone sculpture Oscar was finishing earlier. It’s an
text: abstract depiction of 2 entwined bodies. Somewhere
dialog: between Picasso and Giacometti.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKWAY - SAME 66
text: The tesla sits on the Grand Central parkway in terrible
dialog: traffic.
scene_heading: INT. TESLA - CONTINUOUS 67
text: Isabel is dressed nicely but still in her own Indian
text: flavored outfit, having opted not to wear Theresa’s
text: dresses. She anxiously tries to look past the traffic.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: We might be a little late, but I won’t
dialog: let you miss it.
text: Up ahead we see a State Patroller dealing with a stopped
dialog: vehicle.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKWAY 68
text: The Tesla drives up on the shoulder and scoots around the
text: mess, then takes off down the freeway.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 36.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE DRIVEWAY - AFTERNOON 69
text: The Tesla pulls in. The door flips open and Isabel rushes
text: out. One of the wedding staff points her toward the
dialog: house.
text: She kicks off her shoes and runs up toward the wedding.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE, BACK YARD, WEDDING AREA 70
text: The monk delivers the vows.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Remember to be patient with yourselves
dialog: and others, knowing that change comes
text: slowly and gradually. Seek inspiration
dialog: from your family and friends.
text: Theresa and Oscar sit in the front, a mixture of nerves
dialog: and excitement.
text: An usher quietly shows Isabel to a seat in the back.
text: A few people turn to look at her. She smiles
text: uncomfortably and tries to focus on the ceremony.
speaker_heading: MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: To make your relationship work will take
dialog: love. This is the core of your marriage
dialog: and why you are here, today.
text: IN FRONT: Theresa puts her hand on Oscar’s leg. Oscar
text: looks at Theresa and smiles.
text: IN BACK: Isabel takes it all in. Gradually, her eyes fall
text: on Oscar's profile. She freezes.
speaker_heading: MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: It will take trust, to know, that in your
dialog: hearts, you truly want what is best for
dialog: each other. It will take dedication, to
dialog: stay open to one another - and to learn
dialog: and grow together.
text: Heart beating out of her chest, Isabel leans in subtly
text: trying to see Oscar more clearly.
speaker_heading: MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: It will take faith, to go forward
dialog: together, without knowing exactly what
dialog: the future brings. And it will take
dialog: commitment, to hold true to the journey
dialog: you both have pledged to today.
dialog: 71
speaker_heading: A72
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 37.
text: Again on Oscar's profile from Isabel's perspective.
dialog: Quick cut.
text: FEET RUNNING ON THE BEACH
text: SWIMMING IN THE DARK OCEAN
text: TWO BODIES INTERTWINED ON A BEACH.
text: BACK TO PRESENT
text: Isabel quickly stands and heads in the back door of the
dialog: house.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S HOUSE, FOYER/LIVING ROOM 71
text: Isabel paces nervously in the front foyer.
text: She catches herself in the reflection of the glass and
text: tries to gather herself. She looks back outside through
text: window where the bride is just kissing the groom. Guests
text: stand and cheer. She sees Oscar as he cranes his head to
text: look to where Isabel was sitting.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS A72
text: Isabel walks in and takes in her surroundings. Beautiful,
text: expensive art on the wall by the fireplace.
text: A grand piano. A small metal sculpture by the window that
text: looks like a man, looking out.
text: Art books are laid out on the table. She goes over to
text: one. It’s a catalogue from a show. She looks down at the
dialog: cover.
dialog: “Oscar Carlson, Sculpture 2003-2010”
text: She leafs through a couple pages. Arrives at his picture
text: in the front. He looks younger. She lingers on it for a
text: moment. A staff member startles her.
speaker_heading: STAFF
text: Miss? Drinks are being served on the side
dialog: porch.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 37A.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE PORCH AREA - MINUTES LATER 72
text: The guests mill about, celebrating. The twins chase each
text: other around through the chairs and guests. On the bar
dialog: are listed the specialty drinks “The Grace” and “The
dialog: Jonathan”
text: People congratulate the happy couple.
text: Isabel steps out onto the back porch, but keeps her
text: distance from the party. Everyone is in celebration mode.
text: The photographer gathers the bride and the groom's
text: families together for a group shot.
text: Isabel continues to watch from a distance. As the picture
text: is being taken, Oscar's gaze falls on Isabel standing in
text: the background. Time seems to stop as they look at each
dialog: other.
text: Close on each of them staring across a sea of people.
text: They seem to be the only two people there.
text: Oscar excuses himself from the group and approaches
dialog: Isabel.
text: As he steps in near her, the electricity is palpable. He
text: looks confused and isn’t sure what to say.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 38.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: What are you doing here?
text: Isabel takes a deep breath.
text: ON THERESA, as she spots Isabel talking to Oscar. Theresa
text: excuses herself and heads over.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Isabel, I’m so glad you could make it.
text: Isabel tries to mask her discomfort.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Congratulations. It was a beautiful
dialog: ceremony. What I saw, at least. There was
dialog: an accident. And I was stuck in traffic.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh no. Well, you made it for the party.
text: She studies Isabel for a moment.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Did you meet my husband?
text: Isabel nods, awkwardly.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Oscar)
dialog: Isabel runs an orphanage in India I may
dialog: be funding.
text: Oscar is reeling. He nods.
text: Grace appears, glowing with nervous energy.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Mom, do you think I should change my
dialog: dress before dinner?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Keep it on sweetheart. People love to see
text: the bride in her dress.
text: Grace is beaming. Her eyes fall on Isabel.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Congratulations.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 38A.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Thank you.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 39.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Gracie, this is Isabel.
text: The smile at each other
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: It’s a beautiful dress.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Isn't it? It’s my moms.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Yours now.
text: Grace smiles. Oscar stands by in a stunned silence.
text: Isabel gives a tense smile. Jonathan appears.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Baby, People are staring to sit down
dialog: already, let’s head over.
text: He sees Isabel.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Oh hi. Glad you could make it.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: You know each other?
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: I drove her to the office the other day
dialog: to meet your mom.
text: Some awkward smiles. The photographer comes over and
text: pushes them all together.
speaker_heading: PHOTOGRAPHER
dialog: Let’s get a picture.
dialog: Nothing to do but pose. Couldn’t be more awkward. The
text: camera snaps.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Dad, come on.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Okay, sweetheart.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: (to Isabel)
dialog: You too?
text: Isabel nods uncomfortably.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 39A.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: We're going to party like it’s 2019.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 40.
text: Some minor laughter. Grace pushed him playfully.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 73
scene_heading: INT. TENT - LATE, LATE - AFTERNOON 74
text: Beautifully decorated with flowers. Filled with guests
text: and waiters buzzing about.
text: Everyone enjoys themselves. Young and old.
text: Close on the menu in the middle of a table: “Lobster
dialog: Risotto”.
text: Two long tables holding 40 each. Isabel is down in
text: Siberia with a few of the more peripheral guests. Mostly
text: older, except for one conservatively handsome man, FRANK
text: (late 40's) who sits next to her. She glances at him.
text: Only a lone piece of meat sitting on his plate. At the
text: front, Jonathan calls everyone to attention.
dialog: 
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 41.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I’m on this paleo thing. Training for a
text: Tri. In Hawaii, on the big island.
text: Isabel looks at him then back to the front where Jonathan
text: calls everyone to attention.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Hi everyone. I want to welcome all of
dialog: you.
text: He takes a deep breath and looks at the big crowd.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Wow. I thought the saying ‘I do’ part
dialog: would be the hardest.
text: People laugh. Grace rolls her eyes. Jonathan rubs her
text: back. Theresa and Oscar smile at each other.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Thank you for coming to celebrate with
dialog: us.
text: He takes a speech out of his pocket.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT'D)
dialog: When I started working for Theresa at
dialog: ‘Horizon’, right out of school...
speaker_heading: FRIEND
dialog: You can say Harvard!
text: They laugh. Grace shakes her head. Jonathan smiles and
dialog: continues.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: I thought I was just getting a great job
dialog: for one of the most forward-thinking,
dialog: entrepreneurs I had ever read about.
text: Theresa smiles, a little uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT'D)
dialog: But very quickly I came to dread coming
dialog: into work. It wasn’t my boss’ fault.
dialog: Well, sort of it was. You see two years
dialog: ago, Grace started coming in with
dialog: Theresa. She was working in the design
dialog: department for the summer.
text: Grace shakes her head, embarrassed.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 42.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: She’s an amazing artist, for any of you
dialog: who don’t know. Anyway, I saw them
text: coming through the lobby; these two
dialog: beautiful, powerful women. And I froze.
dialog: (to Grace and Theresa)
dialog: In fact, there was room in your elevator,
dialog: but I couldn't bring myself to get in.
text: People think it’s cute. An older women at Isabel’s table
text: makes an aside to her friend.
speaker_heading: OLDER WOMAN
dialog: (to her friend)
dialog: Which one is he in love with?
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Well, I spent the next month trying to
dialog: find a way to be in the same place at the
dialog: same time with Grace. And finally, I
text: braved an elevator ride with her.
text: Grace blushes.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Do you remember my genius banter?
text: She nods.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: “What floor?”
text: Everyone laughs.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: I would plan things to say when I saw
dialog: her, but they never came out. Until one
dialog: day, I got lucky.
dialog: People hoot.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Not like that you perverts!
text: Roaring.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: We were in the company pub, and she was
text: on line right in front of me. And she had
dialog: forgotten her wallet. So I paid. Best $14
dialog: I ever spent.
text: Some applause.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 43.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Grace, I love you more than anything. And
dialog: I couldn’t be happier that you agreed to
dialog: Marry me. Even if it was out of guilt
dialog: about owing me money.
text: Grace stands and they kiss. Everyone claps. It goes on
text: for a while and the crowd loves it.
text: Theresa smiles at them and Oscar tries to, but it’s going
dialog: on a while.
text: At Isabel’s table, Frank leans in.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: That’s going to be a fun honeymoon.
text: The bride and groom pull apart. Grace remains standing
text: and clinks her glass.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Hi, Hi. You’re not quite free yet!
text: Grace’s hand shakes as she speaks. Oscar takes it.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Sorry. Those of you who know me, know how
dialog: much I love to speak in public.
text: Some laughter. Isabel watches her. Grace gathers herself,
text: fighting through her shyness.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Jonathan, I love you. And I am so happy
dialog: to be your wife.
dialog: (blushing)
dialog: I can’t believe I can say that!
dialog: (deep breath)
dialog: But this speech isn’t for you, it’s for
dialog: Mom and Dad.
text: She turns to her dad, whose hand she is still holding.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Dad, I don’t know a girl who is closer
dialog: with her father than I am with you. And I
dialog: am so grateful for that.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Most of the time.
text: Oscar beams at her.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 44,
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve gotten so much from you. My sulking,
dialog: my sense of humor... Unfortunately my
dialog: nose... And my love for art; my drawing.
text: We see the audience in rapt attention.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Not many fathers would have done what you
dialog: did at such a young age.
text: They clearly have a special connection. Isabel is
dialog: fascinated.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Oscar)
dialog: And thank you for your beautiful gift.
text: She motions to the carved statue which has now been moved
text: behind them in the tent. People oooh and ahh and clap.
text: Oscar smiles and kisses her hand. He beams.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: (joke to the room, re:
dialog: sculpture)
dialog: I’m not sure if it’s me and Grace, or
dialog: Grace and her dad!
text: Some laugh awkwardly, but the joke doesn’t go over well
text: with Oscar. Theresa makes eye contact with Oscar.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: I'm kidding, of course. We absolutely
dialog: love it.
text: Grace turns her attention to Theresa.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: And mom.
text: Theresa looks at her wide-eyed, with tears brewing. Grace
text: looks like she might go over the edge as well.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I told you to get your crying out
dialog: yesterday!
text: Theresa laughs and pushes away a tear.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I tried.
text: The room laughs. Grace composes herself and continues.
dialog: Pink Rev. (05
dialog: Grace gathi
dialog: She looks
dialog: Isabel sit
dialog: Grace take
dialog: /28/18) BE? 45.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: You have made this day so special. Thank
dialog: you for putting up with my pre-wedding
dialog: craziness.
dialog: ers.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: You are the most caring, loving, strong,
dialog: best example of a woman I could have ever
dialog: had for a mother.
text: down for a moment.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: And for those of you who don’t know, I
dialog: had the rare experience of getting to
dialog: choose my own mother.
text: s up. Tension building in her.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: It was just me and dad for the first year
dialog: of my life.
dialog: s a moment.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: .-. After my birth mother wasn’t well
dialog: enough to care for me.
text: On Isabel, frozen.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: And dad and I went everywhere together;
text: me strapped to his chest.
text: On the crowd in rapt attention.
dialog: She turns
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: One day, we were walking down the street
dialog: in Soho. And this beautiful woman, with
text: shockingly red hair, had just moved to
dialog: the neighborhood and was looking for a
dialog: good place to have a coffee. I guess my
dialog: dad and I looked like locals, so she came
dialog: up, and asked if we knew of a place.
text: to her dad.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: And what did you say?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 46.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I said; “I don’t drink coffee, so I
dialog: wouldn’t know”.
text: Some laughter. Theresa remembers. Isabel is spinning.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: And that would have been that, except, I
dialog: had grabbed hold of her hair, and I
dialog: wouldn’t let her go.
text: Tears roll. Theresa and Grace hold hands.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: So my dad really had no choice but to
dialog: start drinking coffee.
text: People clap.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (a long beat)
dialog: I’m so happy I chose you.
text: Everyone is near tears. Grace takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: To my parents for giving me this
dialog: wonderful life, and this beautiful night.
dialog: And, oh yeah... to angelic brothers...
text: The boys smile and play and pretend to fart in her
dialog: direction.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I love you.
text: She raises a glass. The guests stand, clap, cheer. A
text: guest yells out.
speaker_heading: GUEST
dialog: (Toasting)
dialog: To Grace and Jonathan!
text: We are with Isabel who is frozen in her seat. She stares
text: off into the middle distance for a few moments.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (encouraging her to get up)
dialog: Hey, we’re toasting.
text: She stands and heads out of the tent. Most of the guests
text: are caught up in the toast and don’t notice, but Oscar
dialog: does.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 47.
text: On Isabel as she walks out of the tent.
scene_heading: EXT. BOAT DOCK - DUSK 75
text: Isabel sits by herself on a bench on a dock jutting out
text: into the water, out of sight of the festivities.
text: She tries to gather herself and put all this together.
text: Suddenly up the dock walks Frank with two glasses and a
text: bottle of champagne. She sees him and shakes her head to
text: herself. He approaches.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I couldn’t agree more. I’m not into
dialog: weddings.
text: He sits next to her with the glasses and the bottle.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I'd like to be alone.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Tell me about it. Crowds are awful.
text: He pours her glass. She pushes it away. When he tries to
dialog: hand it to her.
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: I can take one for the team and drink
dialog: them both.
text: She can’t believe any of this is happening.
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: You know how at every wedding there are
dialog: always a few single people pretending not
dialog: to care that they’re single? Well, we’re
dialog: those people. Weird, huh? I’m divorced.
dialog: What’s your story?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: My story is; I'd like to be alone.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (trying to be charming)
dialog: You think you want to be alone...
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Get the fuck away from me.
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 48.
text: She gets up and walks away.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Okay...
scene_heading: EXT. TENT AREA - NIGHT 76
text: Isabel approaches the tent purposefully.
text: Inside, all the guests mill about, some dancing. Jonathan
dialog: spins Grace.
text: Theresa and Oscar watch happily.
text: Outside, Isabel hangs in the shadows, watching.
text: CLOSE ON GRACE as ISABEL WATCHES HER, STUDYING HER FACE.
text: Oscar's vision is drawn to Isabel. She looks back at him.
text: Between the two of them, Grace and Jonathan dance.
text: Isabel steps closer, staring intently at Oscar.
text: After another moment, Oscar breaks away from the crowd
text: and_heads toward Isabel.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK YARD - CONTINUOUS 77
text: Oscar walks by Isabel, who follows him away from the
text: entrance and the party guests inside.
text: They stand and face each other.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What did you do?
text: Oscar looks at her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Don’t. Too much adds up.
text: Oscar looks behind him at the tent then back to Isabel.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: But then I think, you wouldn’t have done
dialog: that.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 49.
text: He looks nervously behind him at the tent where people
text: are starting to head out onto the lawn. Oscar doesn’t
dialog: know what to say.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: I can see it.
text: All Oscar can do is look away and shake his head. We
dialog: don’t know if it means ‘no’, or ‘I can’t believe this’.
text: He looks right up at her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Isabel. We can’t talk about this now.
text: A party worker opens the tent and makes an announcement.
speaker_heading: PARTY WORKER
dialog: Fireworks are starting! Follow the
dialog: lanterns...
text: Party workers stand outside in a line ready to hand out
text: sparklers and drinks to people as they exit the tent. The
text: guests whoop it up on the way out of the tent to the
dialog: beach for the fireworks.
text: Oscar looks from them to Isabel.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I have to go. I’1l call you tomorrow.
text: Oscar backs away, then moves to join Theresa, Grace, and
text: the others who pour out of the tent.
text: Isabel watches, in shock.
scene_heading: EXT. DRIVEWAY OF HOUSE - MINUTES LATER 78
text: Isabel walks away from the party down the big lawn,
text: toward the driveway where the cars are lined.
text: Behind her, a huge bang, and the sky is lit up by the
text: first of the fireworks.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK LAWN, OVER LOOKING WATER - NIGHT 79
text: The crowd ooh’s and ahh’s at the fireworks display.
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 50.
text: We find Grace and Jonathan standing next to Theresa and
text: Oscar, their faces illuminated by the different color
dialog: fireworks.
scene_heading: EXT. GRAND CENTRAL PARKWAY - NIGHT 80
text: Isabel rides in the back, alternating between
text: illumination and darkness as the car passes through the
text: parkway lights.
scene_heading: EXT. WEDDING AREA, LATE NIGHT 81
text: Everyone is pretty loose. Theresa dances with Oscar.
text: Drunk and happy.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S BATHROOM - 3AM 82
text: Theresa finishes washing her face, then takes a pill.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA’S AND OSCAR'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 83
text: Theresa walks into the dark bedroom turning the light off
text: behind her. Oscar is in bed. She climbs in next to him.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I think people seemed to have a good
dialog: time, don’t you think?
text: Oscar looks at her through the darkness. A long moment.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Why’d you do it?
text: Theresa gets close and lays on his chest.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: God, I didn’t know. I didn’t know it was
dialog: her.
text: Oscar looks back at her, dubiously.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. BOWERY HOTEL PENTHOUSE - MORNING 84
text: Isabel sits out on the balcony wrapped in a blanket,
text: phone in her lap. She hasn’t slept.
text: The phone rings and she runs in to pick it up.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 51.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Hello...
text: Her face falls with disappointment. We can just hear the
text: voice leaking through the phone.
speaker_heading: HOUSEKEEPING (0.C.)
dialog: Hi Ms. Andersen. We are calling to check
dialog: to see if you need more towels, or new
dialog: linens?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No.
text: She hangs up. Waits a moment thinking, then stands.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWERY HOTEL - DAY 85
text: Isabel waits while a bellman hails a taxi.
scene_heading: INT. TAXI, GRAND CENTRAL PARKWAY - DAY 86
text: Isabel sits in the back staring out the window.
text: Her Indian driver is on the phone with a headset in. He
text: speaks to the person on the line in Bengali.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: (Sub-titled)
dialog: White girl. Very tan. Hot. Probably likes
dialog: to have sex all night. Late 30’s? Who
dialog: knows? I can’t tell the difference with
dialog: white girls.
text: On Isabel. He looks in the mirror.
speaker_heading: DRIVER (CONT’D)
dialog: (In English)
dialog: You want to hear some music?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (in Bengali)
dialog: No, I prefer it quiet.
text: The driver's eyes widen as he realizes she can speak his
dialog: language.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 87
text: Grace and Jonathan sift through a mountain of gifts with
text: Theresa and Oscar, while the twins play.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Be7 52.
text: Jonathan unwraps a present. It’s a table cloth. Has a
dialog: pattern.
text: He and Grace unfurl it.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: It’s a blanket...?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: No, I think it’s a table cloth.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Maybe it’s a cape.
text: Oscar looks closely.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I think it might be the confederate flag.
text: They laugh. Theresa looks at the card.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I think it’s one of our lawyers...
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Who you should order a background check
dialog: on.
text: Theresa laughs. The doorbell rings.
scene_heading: 88 INT. FRONT HALL 88
text: Theresa opens the door. It’s Isabel.
text: They look at each other for a long moment.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Come in.
text: Isabel enters.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Wait here.
text: Theresa heads back into the living room where they are
text: opening another gift. She walks over to Oscar.
scene_heading: 89 INT. LIVING ROOM 89
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: We have a visitor.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Be7 53.
speaker_heading: GRACE (0.S.)
dialog: Oh hi.
text: Isabel has stepped into the doorway of the living room.
text: Theresa and Oscar don’t quite know what to do.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Isabel, right?
text: Isabel uncomfortably nods.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Thanks for coming yesterday.
text: Isabel is taken with her.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (awkwardly)
dialog: Of course. Thank you for having me.
text: Oscar stands.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I was going to call you.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: But you didn’t.
text: There's obvious tension. Grace and Jonathan sense it.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Would you like something to drink?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No.
text: Theresa and Oscar look at each other.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Why don’t we show you around?
text: She nods and they begin to head out of the room. The air
text: is heavy.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Is everything okay?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It's fine. But, keep opening. Otherwise
dialog: we will be here till next week.
text: She smiles at Grace to try and alleviate any tension.
dialog: 90
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 54.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Boys, stay with your sister.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN 90
text: Oscar walks in followed by Isabel, then Theresa. Theresa
text: closes the door and makes sure it’s shut.
text: Isabel and Oscar look at each other. So much weight
dialog: between them.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: What do you want?
text: She lets out a shocked laugh.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (choking up)
dialog: I want to know why my daughter is in the
dialog: other room.
text: He looks at her with a mixture of fear and contempt, then
text: turns away.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: How do you live with yourself?
text: He’s stunned into silence, then regains his footing.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: A lot more easily than if I had left her
dialog: for someone else to raise!
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: How did it even happen? We decided we
dialog: couldn’t keep a baby.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: No, you decided.
text: Theresa watches.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You agreed!
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I was... a kid!
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Exactly! We... WE gave her up for
dialog: adoption. Because we decided that was
dialog: best for her.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Be7 55.
text: A long moment where no one knows what to say. Theresa
text: tries to calm things.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Isabel, we tried to find you.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You have all the money in the world, you
dialog: could have sent an army looking for me.
dialog: You didn’t want to find me. You liked
dialog: being the hero.
speaker_heading: OCSAR
dialog: Don’t you talk to her like that! You
dialog: didn’t want to be found. You ran the
dialog: second they let you out of the hospital.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You’re god damn right I did! You know how
dialog: painful that decision was to make. You
dialog: were there.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I don’t remember it being hard for you at
dialog: all. And if it was, you didn’t tell me.
dialog: You just shut down. You were a fucking
dialog: zombie.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: So that gave you the right to take her
dialog: and raise her behind my back... Because I
dialog: was conflicted about being a mother when
dialog: I was 18?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Conflicted? You were fucking crazy! One
dialog: second telling me we were going to have
dialog: some great life, the next that you were
dialog: going to kill yourself.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: I never said that.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Yes you did! YOU DID!
text: They are screaming. Theresa steps in.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Okay, okay, calm down.
text: Isabel tries to collect herself. She looks at Oscar.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 56.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Why didn’t you just tell me you were
dialog: going to keep her?
text: Oscar takes a moment and composes himself.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I didn’t know until you left. And by then
dialog: I couldn’t find you.
text: He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not going to justify it to you. I
dialog: don’t owe you anything.
text: She can’t believe this.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Owe? Isn’t this your daughter we’re
dialog: talking about? Doesn’t she deserve to
dialog: know her mother?
text: Oscar is shaking his head.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: You chose that. Not me.
text: Isabel looks at him nakedly.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Where did she think I was?
text: Oscar stares back.
speaker_heading: OCSAR
dialog: You can’t suddenly just show up...
text: She takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What do you expect me to do now? Turn my
dialog: back?
text: Oscar looks at her, as if to say ‘if the shoe fits’.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (Screaming)
dialog: Do not fucking judge me!
text: Isabel gathers herself. She nods.
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE?
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: You tell her, or I will.
text: Isabel walks out of the kitchen past Oscar and Theresa.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: With Isabel who contains her emotions as she walks down
text: the long hallway toward the front door.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Grace and Jonathan have been opening gifts with the
text: twins, and haven’t heard the yelling.
text: They watch as Isabel opens the front door and exits
text: without a look or a good-bye.
text: Jonathan and Grace look at each other, sensing
text: something’s off. Jonathan goes to the window and peers
dialog: out.
scene_heading: EXT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S HOUSE, DRIVEWAY
text: Isabel walks down the driveway toward her NYC taxi that
dialog: has been waiting for her this whole time.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM
text: At the window, Jonathan watches Isabel go. Behind him
text: Grace looks confused.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER
text: A tearful, shocked Grace, sits opposite her father who
text: tries to hold her hand. She pulls it away.
text: She looks to Theresa to see if it’s true. Theresa’s face
text: tells her it is.
text: On each of their faces. Theresa takes a deep breath.
text: Grace runs out.
dialog: 57.
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 58.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. OSCAR’S STUDIO - NIGHT 96
text: The doors are open.
text: Oscar sits alone smoking a cigarette, as he stares back
text: at the house. A few rooms illuminated.
text: On a work table sits a pile of old drawings. Seems to be
text: an series of charcoal lines intertwining. All the
text: sketches have the same theme, though the specifics and
dialog: materials used vary.
scene_heading: QUICK FLASH - NIGHT
text: Feet intertwined on a beach. Reflected flicker of a camp
dialog: fire.
text: BACK TO PRESENT
text: After another moment, Oscar puts out the cigarette,
text: reaches down and pulls the extension cord apart. The barn
text: goes dark.
scene_heading: INT. GRACE AND JONATHAN'S NYC APARTMENT - NEXT DAY 97
text: Oscar is in the middle of a fight with Grace.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I considered everything and I did what I
dialog: thought was best for you. It never
dialog: occurred to me it wasn’t the right
dialog: decision.
text: Grace is angry.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: How could what’s best for me be to not
dialog: know the woman who gave birth to me?
dialog: These are hard questions for Oscar to answer.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: It wasn’t simple.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Seems like it would be simple. Like
dialog: you've always told me: “Tell the truth,
dialog: that way you don’t have to remember
dialog: anything”.
text: Oscar is on shaky ground.
dialog: + *
dialog: *
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 59.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (half to himself)
dialog: I can’t believe this is happening.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Now that sounds like the truth.
text: Grace puts a couple things in her bag.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: What hotel is she staying in?
text: Oscar looks back at her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Grace you don’t understand. At every
dialog: moment, I made the best decision I could.
dialog: But it was very complicated.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: You’re fucking right! I don’t understand.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Don’t curse at me!
dialog: (a deep breath)
dialog: I didn’t know what I was doing. I did my
dialog: best. The story just developed. You think
dialog: I did everything on purpose?
text: Grace looks at him, still angry.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn’t want you to know that she gave
dialog: you up. So I told you she had died. Can
dialog: you not understand that? I didn’t want
dialog: you to have the hurt - that self doubt.
text: She looks at her father, emotionally.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: And you think I don’t feel that anyway?
dialog: You think I don’t feel... incomplete?
text: He looks at her, trying to process.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: You had no right to do what you did. And
dialog: it’s not my job to make you feel better
dialog: about it. And I won't.
text: She zeros in on him.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 60.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: What hotel?
text: He doesn’t answer her. Jonathan walks in. He easily
text: clocks the energy in the room.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Hi.
text: She turns and runs out. After a moment, he follows.
scene_heading: 98 INT./ EXT. BOWERY HOTEL - DAY 98
text: Jonathan and Grace pull up to the hotel in a taxi. The
text: Bellman opens the door and they get out.
text: On the street. Grace takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: You sure you want to do this? I mean, you
dialog: already have a really great mother.
text: Grace looks at him in disbelief.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Grace, I just mean...
text: He changes course.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: I‘1l wait for you.
scene_heading: 99 INT. BOWERY HOTEL - DAY 99
text: Grace walks through the lobby. Toward the elevators. We
text: watch the determination give way to nerves.
scene_heading: 100 INT. BOWERY ELEVATOR - SAME 100
text: She rides up.
scene_heading: 101 INT. BOWERY HOTEL PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS 101
text: Close on Isabel as she meditates.
text: A knock at the door. She opens her eyes.
dialog: Another knock.
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE?
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY, OUTSIDE ISABEL’S ROOM/ INT. ROOM
text: Grace waits.
dialog: 61.
dialog: 102
text: Inside, Isabel approaches the door. She looks through the
text: peep hole.
text: The distorted image of Grace, standing on the other side
text: of the door.
text: Isabel's heart races. Grace’s begins to sink, thinking
text: there is no one there. Another moment and she turns to
dialog: leave.
text: Then suddenly the door opens. Grace turns. She and Isabel
text: stand face-to-face.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Hi.
dialog: Long moment.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Come in.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL, ISABEL’S ROOM
text: Grace walks in and Isabel shuts the door. Grace
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: It’s a nice room.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: It’s very big.
text: Grace smiles. Isabel doesn’t know what to say.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I didn’t know you existed.
text: Isabel nods. Grace sees that she’s hurt.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You have nothing to be sorry about.
dialog: You’re the only one.
dialog: 103
dialog: looks
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 62.
text: Isabel looks at her, gently. Grace smiles nervously.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Would you like something to drink? We
dialog: have... well, everything.
text: Isabel opens the fridge.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Wow. Um. I’1l have, that.
text: She points to an orange can of “Pellegrino”. Isabel gets
text: it and hands it to her.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: My dad said you were dead.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m not.
text: They smile.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: You want a glass?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Sure.
text: Isabel gets a glass. Grace opens the can and pours.
text: Isabel looks at the bright orange soda.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What’s it taste like?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Fancy orange soda, I guess.
text: Isabel smiles.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Have a sip.
text: She holds the glass out for Isabel who takes it, though
text: Grace doesn’t let go, so both their hands are on it,
text: fingers touching.
text: They bring it to Isabel’s mouth and she drinks.
text: She spills a little down her chin. Grace takes the glass.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Sweet.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 63.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: You don’t have this in India?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: We have ‘Artos’. Not so much at the
dialog: orphanage, though.
text: A long moment of silence together.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I have so many questions.
text: Isabel nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I don’t know how good I’1l1 be at
dialog: answering them.
text: Grace gives her a little smile.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: How long are you staying? Do you have
dialog: time to meet?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes. I'd like that.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I could call... Now, that I know you
dialog: exist.
text: They share a smile.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Or I could call you. If you want.
text: The interaction is awkward, but sweet.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Okay, yes. Great. Let me give you my
dialog: number.
text: Isabel stands looking at her daughter.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you have a phone?
text: Isabel gets her cell phone and hands it to Grace. Grace
text: puts in her number. As she does, Isabel takes the
dialog: opportunity to really look at her.
text: She hands Isabel her cell phone. They stand, facing each
dialog: other.
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 64.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I should go. Jonathan is waiting for me.
text: Isabel nods. After another moment, they embrace.
text: Isabel walks Grace to the door. She opens it. Grace walks
text: out with a little wave. Isabel closes the door.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL HALLWAY, OUTSIDE ISABEL'’S ROOM 104
text: Grace walks away from Isabel’s room, a growing sense of
text: wonder on her face.
scene_heading: EXT. BOWERY HOTEL, ISABEL’S BALCONY - EVENING 105
text: Isabel stands out on the balcony looking out.
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHANAGE - FLASHBACK 106
text: Isabel says a special good-bye to Jai. He kneels.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I want you to help teach the meditation
dialog: class while I’m away. You need to show
dialog: the others how it’s done.
text: He looks unsure. She takes him in.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Close your eyes.
text: She waits. He doesn’t close them.
text: Isabel takes her hand and closes Jai’s eyes, then closes
dialog: her own.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
text: They are not closed. They are looking
dialog: inside you. And only you get to see that.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: I see darkness.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No, really look. And you can see all the
dialog: people you love, everything your
dialog: imagination can create. And you hear
dialog: that?
text: He listens with his eyes closed.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 65.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: The drum? Boom boom... boom boom. Boom
dialog: boom.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: That is not a drum.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What is it then?
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: My heart.
text: They open their eyes and look at each other. She smiles.
scene_heading: 107 INT. ROSE OF INDIA RESTAUTANT, 6TH ST - NIGHT 107
text: The place is entirely red, with Christmas lights lining
dialog: every square inch.
text: Loud Indian music plays. Four waiters are gathered around
text: a table in the back, singing an Indian version of happy
text: birthday as they clap.
text: Isabel and Grace sit at a table near the front, watching
text: the celebration. It finishes and the lights go back on.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I thought it might remind you of home.
dialog: (embarrassed)
dialog: It was probably stupid.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No, it was thoughtful.
text: They smile at each other.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Jonathan took me here on one of our first
dialog: dates. It seemed exotic then.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You two seem happy together.
text: Grace nods.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: (pause)
dialog: To tell you the truth, it’s kind of hard
dialog: to think straight about anything right
dialog: now.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 66.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I get it.
text: The waiter refills their glasses.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Do I have any brothers or sisters I don’t
dialog: know about?
text: Isabel is taken by surprise by the question.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No. I mean, not exactly.
text: Grace is unsure what she means.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
text: There is one boy at the orphanage who
dialog: I’ve pretty much raised. We found him on
text: the road when he was just 1. Abandoned.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: How old is he now?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: 8 next week. Jai.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: “Jai’.
text: Isabel nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: He loves birds. And he wants to be a
dialog: professional football player.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Soccer you mean?
text: Isabel smiles and nods. Grace looks at her for a long
text: moment, then reaches into her bag and pulls out a leather
text: bound picture album.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I brought some pictures. If you want to
dialog: see?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I would love that.
text: Grace opens the book, revealing a picture of her as a 5-
text: year-old in the bath.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 67.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: That’s me... in the bath. I was 5 I
dialog: think...
text: Isabel looks closely. Studies it. Grace turns the page.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: This was second grade.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: And who’s that?
text: She points to a little boy.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: That’s Lyle.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Was he your boyfriend?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: For a minute. But he dumped me when I got
text: him out in dodgeball.
text: Isabel smiles.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Better off. No one likes a sore loser...
text: Grace laughs and turns the page.
text: A picture of Grace with Theresa. Looks like a first day
dialog: of school.
text: Another of Grace sitting behind Theresa’s desk,
text: pretending to be the boss. Isabel takes them in.
dialog: 
text: A family shot with Oscar.
text: Grace on the couch holding both her newborn brothers.
dialog: 
text: Grace and Oscar holding surf boards on a beach when she
text: was about 15. Snap shots of a whole life. Isabel takes it
dialog: all in.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Dad said you were depressed.
text: Isabel moves her head back and forth, considering.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: And that you both drank too much.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 68.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Probably. We were really young.
dialog: Grace thinks.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I don’t think I could give up a baby.
text: Isabel takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Wasn’t in my plans either.
text: Isabel looks at her.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: But I knew I couldn’t take care of you.
text: Grace tries to understand.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: The best I could do was to bring you into
dialog: the world.
text: Isabel nods to herself.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: I’ve spent a long time living with that.
text: Grace nods.
scene_heading: 108 EXT. TRIBECA STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT 108
text: Pretty desolate. Isabel and Grace have been walking for a
text: while. Grace is behind Isabel looking at a tattoo she has
text: on her shoulder. It’s the earth, a globe. Grace is
dialog: fascinated.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I drew it myself and had them copy it.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Didn’t it hurt?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Fuck, yes.
text: They laugh and Grace cringes at the thought.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: But, it made me appreciate it more.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 69.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: (resolved)
dialog: I'm getting one.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m sure that would make your mother
dialog: really happy.
text: The air gets thick for a second.
speaker_heading: GRACE
text: Actually, Theresa has a tattoo.
text: Isabel looks curious.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Oh yeah?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: It's for my dad. An ‘O’. Right here.
text: She touches her ribs. Grace looks at her face.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Does that make you feel weird?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Weird?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Jealous?
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No.
text: Grace smiles at her.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Good.
text: They walk for another moment. Then Isabel stops.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I want you to have this.
text: Isabel takes off her necklace and hands it to Grace.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Of course, you don’t have to wear it.
text: Grace stares at it for a moment, then hugs her.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 70.
scene_heading: 109 INT. THERESA’S BATHROOM — MORNING 109
text: She downs her morning vitamins.
scene_heading: 110 INT. CLOSET - MOMENTS LATER 110
text: She puts on her jewelry. As she does, she looks over at
text: her shelf where she had put the birds nest and eggs she
text: found. It’s not there. She goes over and looks more
text: closely. No where to be found. She looks agitated.
scene_heading: 111 INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 111
text: Cibele, their housekeeper, is cleaning. Theresa stomps
dialog: in.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Cibele there was a nest in my closet. Did
dialog: you movie it?
text: Cibele looks puzzled.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: A birds nest with blue eggs. Did you move
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: CIBELE
dialog: No. I didn’t see it.
text: Theresa looks annoyed.
scene_heading: 112 INT. BARN - MORNING - CONTINUOUS 112
text: Oscar is showing two men around his new studio. One wears
text: a suit and looks like he is a collector. The other is his
dialog: art advisor.
text: Theresa walks in. She immediately spots the nest on one
text: of Oscar’s work tables. Oscar and the men appear from
text: around the other side of the huge stone he’s working on.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Tess. This is Jamey and Andre. I’m
text: showing them the new pieces.
text: She barely acknowledges them.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (to Oscar)
dialog: Did you take that from me?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 7.
text: He’s trying to understand what’s going on. He steps away
text: from the others to try and speak privately with her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I... I saw it in your closet.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: What were you doing in my closet?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I saw it when I was replacing a bulb for
dialog: you. It was starting to fall apart, so I
dialog: thought I’d repair it for you.
text: The two others hang awkwardly in the background.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You don’t need to fix everything. You’re
dialog: not the fucking handyman!
text: She stares daggers at him then leaves without a goodbye.
text: He takes a deep breath, then turns back to the others,
text: who wait awkwardly.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (lightly)
dialog: Sorry about that. The down side of
dialog: working at home.
text: He forces a smile and leads them back to the work.
scene_heading: 113 INT. ARETSKY'’S PATROON - DAY 113
text: Theresa sits at her regular corner booth of this up
text: scale, business-oriented restaurant, drinking a martini.
text: The maitre d’ shows Isabel to the table. Theresa smiles
text: at her.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh good come sit down.
text: Isabel slides in the booth. Theresa finishes off her
text: martini.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm celebrating. I have officially sold
dialog: my company.
text: She raises her hand to the waiter for two more martinis.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 72.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No, thank you.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You don't drink?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
text: Not in the middle of the day.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Not at the wedding either.
text: Isabel realizes Theresa was watching her.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Oscar said you guys partied a lot. Is it
dialog: cause of that?
text: Isabel doesn’t feel comfortable, and it shows on her
text: face. She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Why am I here?
text: Two men in suits approach the table and greet Theresa.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: Just wanted to stop by to say
dialog: congratulations.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: We heard you made out pretty well.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Is that a surprise? Now, I’m just a very
dialog: rich employee.
text: They smile at her.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: This is my friend, Isabel. Richard -
dialog: Eddie.
text: The men smile at Isabel.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m about to donate a small fortune to
dialog: the orphanage she runs in India.
text: Isabel is taken by surprise by this information.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: Wow, now I feel bad about myself.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 73.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It’s about time.
text: They all laugh and the men leave. The martini arrives,
text: Theresa starts on it.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I assumed after the other night...
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Why? It makes more sense now. We’re
dialog: practically family.
text: Isabel looks at Theresa, trying to read her. The waiter
text: approaches.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (to the waiter)
dialog: The sole. For both of us.
text: He nods and scurries off.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: You’1l love it.
text: Isabel narrows in on Theresa.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Why are you doing this?
text: Theresa smiles.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Just be grateful and try not to ruin it.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I just know when something sounds too
dialog: good to be true.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: The only thing you need to know is what
dialog: you can do with the money.
text: Isabel's mind is spinning.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s a good day for both of us.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 74.
text: Theresa finishes her second martini. She looks at Isabel.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: It must have been strange seeing Oscar
dialog: again.
text: Isabel nods, tentatively.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Does he look different?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I don’t remember.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh gimme a break. I mean, he is handsome
dialog: now, but back then...
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You knew who I was when you invited me
dialog: here, didn’t you?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: No. I did not. All I knew was what my
dialog: people told me; That there was a good
dialog: charitable opportunity. The rest is fate.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I don’t believe you.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Well, That doesn’t matter.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: The real answer?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I want to make money.
text: Theresa smiles. Isabel looks at her dubiously.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Grace said you two had dinner.
text: Isabel nods.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Be7 75.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Good. I’m glad you’re spending time
dialog: together.
text: Gwen, Theresa’s assistant, appears at the table.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: I’m sorry to interrupt...
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Then why are you?
text: Gwen swallows hard.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: You have a conference call. I was trying
dialog: to text you but you weren’t picking up.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Who scheduled a call during lunch?
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: You asked me to.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Well, I’m not available to talk right
dialog: now, so push the call.
text: Gwen stands there.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: You specially asked me to schedule it
dialog: before London closed.
text: Theresa raises her voice.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (loudly)
dialog: Jesus Christ! Do I work for you or do you
dialog: work for me?!
text: People turn and look. Gwen is frozen. Isabel sits
dialog: uncomfortably.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Which one is it?!
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: I work for you.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Very good. That’s using your brain. Now
dialog: go push the fucking call and if you can’t
dialog: then don’t come in tomorrow.
dialog: 114
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 76.
text: The few people left in the restaurant watch the scene.
scene_heading: EXT. THERESA AND OSCAR'S HOUSE, BACK PORCH - EVENING 114
text: Theresa sits staring out into the darkness with a mostly
text: finished drink in front of her.
text: Oscar walks out carrying a few folders.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Hey.
text: She doesn’t move. He puts the folders down in front of
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: The office dropped these off.
text: She looks at him with a dark expression. He examines her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: They also wanted to know if you were
dialog: okay.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (drunk)
dialog: I decided to go ahead and finance
dialog: Isabel’s orphanage.
text: Oscar isn’t sure what to say.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you going to say anything?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I’m sure she’s happy about that.
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You two are perfect for each other.
text: He’s totally taken aback.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: What the hell does that mean?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It means she didn’t seem that grateful
dialog: either.
text: This hits him hard. He takes a beat.
dialog: 115
dialog: 116
dialog: 117
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Be7 77.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I’m going to assume that’s the vodka
dialog: talking.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Good solution.
dialog: (finishes her drink)
dialog: No responsibility that way.
text: Oscar looks at her and shakes his head. She stands.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: You think you’re the only one affected by
dialog: this?
text: He tries to make eye contact with her but she seems far
text: off. She moves to leave, and he grabs her arm. They look
text: at each other.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t go up to the boys room like this.
dialog: g Pp Y'
text: She blows up.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Don’t tell me what to do. Don’t tell me
dialog: how to be a mother! It’s not like you’re
dialog: the better parent. And I’m getting pretty
dialog: sick of hearing that single dad story.
dialog: You didn’t do it all on your own.
text: She breaks free from his grasp and walks out.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S BEDROOM - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT 115
text: Theresa is dead asleep. Oscar lies awake. He looks over
text: at her.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON, RECEPTION AREA - DAY 116
text: Isabel waits. After a moment, Gwen approaches.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: Follow me.
text: Isabel and Gwen look at each other. Isabel stands.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE THERESA’S OFFICE 117
text: Gwen and Isabel walk toward Theresa’s office.
dialog: 118
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 78.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON, THERESA’ OFFICE 118
text: Gwen opens the door and shows Isabel in. Theresa stands.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I want to apologize. I was awful. Hope I
dialog: didn’t scare you.
text: Theresa looks at Gwen and smiles gently.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Gwen, I need an extra fifteen minutes.
dialog: Could you please tell them I’m going to
dialog: be late?
text: Gwen nods and exits. Theresa motions for Isabel to sit.
text: She joins her.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I've decided to amend my offer.
dialog: I'd like to make it more generous.
text: Isabel is cautious.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s going to require you stay a few more
dialog: days while we get the details worked out.
text: Isabel stiffens.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I have to get home. I can’t stay.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I know, I understand. But I the
dialog: circumstances have changed. You've
dialog: convinced me that this is too important
dialog: to just be a one off donation. And, it
dialog: means a lot to me that you're Grace’s
dialog: biological mother.
text: Isabel doesn’t understand.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: So, I’ve talked to our lawyers about
dialog: establishing a fund.
text: Isabel tries to process this.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: It would be in both your and Grace's
dialog: names, and you would run it together.
text: Isabel doesn’t know what to say.
dialog: 119
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 79.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I was thinking 20 million over six years.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: From the research I have, it could cover
dialog: fifty thousand kids a year. Medication,
dialog: shelter, education. Anything you'd need.
text: Isabel is reeling.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Including your local farming project.
text: She looks at Theresa.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What are you getting out of this?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (lightly)
dialog: Wow. *
text: Isabel looks uneasy. Theresa softens.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Stay. Stay a little. Get to know Grace
dialog: better. Talk to Oscar. Go out dinner with
dialog: them. Spend some time with them.
text: Isabel looks at her and shakes her head. Give a little
dialog: laugh.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I know, I don’t like it either.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Look, I’m not going to be here this
dialog: weekend. I’m taking the boys to my
dialog: sister’s in DC for the weekend. Go see
dialog: them while I’m gone. I’m sure you have a
dialog: lot to talk about.
dialog: +e
text: Isabel stands, so does Theresa.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Congratulations.
scene_heading: INT. DRIVEWAY OF HOUSE - MORNING 119
text: Oscar loads a couple bags in the back of Theresa's car.
text: The boys try and help.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 80.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: C’mon, you can do it!
text: They struggle. The other one comes and pushes from the
text: bottom. Oscar helps them.
text: Theresa appears with a to-go cup of coffee.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: (re: weight of bag)
dialog: My god, what are you bringing with you?!
text: They hoist the bags in.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You need a lot of footwear choices when
dialog: you are going to so many museums.
speaker_heading: TWINS
dialog: Nol!
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I’m teasing. Maximum 3.
text: They groan again.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Now hop in, I don’t want to hit traffic.
text: Oscar ushers them in. Sticks his head in so Theresa can’t
dialog: hear.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (to the kids)
text: There are snacks in the back.
text: The twins get in. Oscar turns to Theresa.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Why don’t you take the train, you won’t
dialog: have to worry about traffic... or
dialog: crashing.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I’m a better driver than you. And I want
dialog: to drive. It’s just DC.
text: She kisses him, then climbs in the drivers seat.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Besides, ‘they talk to you in the car.’
text: He smiles.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 81.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
text: Sounds familiar.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: See, I’m listening; even when you think
dialog: I’m not.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Say hi to your sister. And please be
dialog: careful.
text: She waves to him and starts the car. She turns the radio
text: on and music blares.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I could come...
text: She turns it up very loud and makes a motion like she
text: can’t hear him. He backs off. She pulls away.
scene_heading: 120 INT. HOUSE, KITCHEN - LATER DAY 120
text: The news plays on the radio.
text: Oscar makes a sandwich.
text: The doorbell rings. He looks up, not expecting anyone.
scene_heading: 121 EXT. FRONT DOOR OF HOUSE 121
text: Oscar opens the door to reveal Isabel. He’s surprised.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Can we talk?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: About what?
text: She shakes her head about how contentious he’s being.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Your wife.
scene_heading: 122 INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 122
text: The tension is thick between them.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (reluctantly)
dialog: Do you want a glass of water?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 82.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Did you know that Theresa asked me to
dialog: administer a fund?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Well, that’s what you came here for,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: With Grace. We'd run it together.
text: Oscar looks surprised.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: I don't know if Grace even knows. Or if
dialog: any of it’s even real. Frankly, I don’t
dialog: really trust your wife.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: You don’t trust her? She offers you money
dialog: to run a charity and you question her
dialog: integrity?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: 20 million dollars.
text: Oscar can’t hide his surprise.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: Is it real?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: You don’t need to be poor to have good
dialog: intentions. There are people with money
dialog: and ideals.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Oh really? That’s not what I remember you
dialog: saying when I knew you.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Well, I was an idiotic idealist and I
dialog: grew up. Did you?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You don’t know me so don’t pretend you
dialog: do.
text: They glare at each other. Oscar thinks.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (defensively)
dialog: Grace is not going to India with you.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 83.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You think you’re in charge of her?
text: He stays still.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: I hate to tell you, but she’1ll do
dialog: whatever she wants. We all do eventually.
dialog: The depth of the truth in that statement lies there
dialog: between them.
text: Oscar goes to the window and looks out. Isabel watches
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Theresa doesn’t care about the orphanage.
dialog: She barely wanted to hear about it. She
dialog: cares about business. So what does she
dialog: want?
dialog: Oscar thinks.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Maybe to give Grace some direction?
text: He softens.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: (admitting)
dialog: I don’t know.
text: Oscar looks defeated. He sits.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Seems to be a theme for me these days.
text: Isabel nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Join the club.
text: She sits opposite him. They aren’t sure where to go.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: I looked up some of your work online.
text: He looks at her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: It's pretty terrible.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 84.
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I looked you up too.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (dubious)
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Yeah. You sound very noble. At least on
dialog: the internet.
text: She nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: The orphanage is my best side.
text: They smile at each other.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Can I make you a coffee?
scene_heading: 123 INT. BARN - DUSK 123
text: We are close on Oscar’s art. The sketches, the older
text: sculptures, the new unfinished work.
text: Oscar and Isabel wander around the massive stone he is
text: getting ready to work on.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: How do you choose it?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I can’t really describe it.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Can’t or don’t want to?
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Both?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Fair enough.
text: He reconsiders and decides to let her in.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (hesitantly)
dialog: Certain rocks kind of glow. To me.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 84aa.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (little smile)
dialog: Like an ‘Aura’?
text: He shakes his head and smiles.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 84a.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (slightly embarrassed)
dialog: Maybe.
dialog: 124
dialog: 125
dialog: 126
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Be7 85.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: And those are the ones you take.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
text: Not right away. I leave them, and then I
dialog: go back. And if they are still...
dialog: lighting up... then I take them.
dialog: (lightly)
dialog: I’ve got to be sure because they are
dialog: heavy.
text: She smiles and touches the huge stone, amazed by it.
dialog: After a moment:
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Is that what happened with her?
text: Oscar looks puzzled.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Grace. She was lighting up?
text: A long moment. Oscar isn’t sure what to say. Tentatively,
text: he touches the back of Isabel’s hand.
text: She looks at him tenderly.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: I thought you’d come looking for me.
text: He takes it in. Breathes.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I thought you’d come back.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - NIGHT 124
text: On Isabel riding home.
scene_heading: EXT. WORKSHOP - SAME 125
text: Oscar steps outside and breathes in the cold air. He
text: looks up at the night sky.
scene_heading: EXT. GRACE’S LOFT - NEXT DAY 126
text: Grace sits at the computer.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (0.C.)
dialog: Is it too ass kissy to wear a tie?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 86.
text: She doesn’t take her eyes off the screen.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: For what?
text: Jonathan appears with a couple ties.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: My presentation. I’m pitching Pizza hut.
dialog: I’m the lead on it. Pretty sure I told
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: A tie is nice.
text: She looks up.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: But not the Harvard one.
text: She goes back to the screen.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Are you going to meet us at Nobu or wanna
dialog: come by the office?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: For dinner. With Ben and Xandy?
text: She keeps scrolling through picture on the computer.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: What are you doing?
text: He looks over her shoulder. Pictures of India.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Is that India?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I thought we could go.
text: He clearly isn’t into the idea.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Maybe for our honeymoon. There are
dialog: supposed to be great hotels.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 87.
text: He looks at the screen, then stands and angrily starts
text: doing his tie.
dialog: He shakes
dialog: She looks
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: We're going to Costa Rica. I want to
dialog: surf.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Maybe we can do both.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: India is too far babe. And I can’t take
dialog: that much time off work. We were just
dialog: going to be gone for a week.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Well, maybe you can just come for a week
dialog: I can stay longer.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: We just got married babe. I want to be
dialog: with you.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I know. But maybe I want to see India.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: You want to be alone in India? You hate
dialog: being alone.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I won’t be alone. I’1ll see Isabel.
text: his head.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Yeah. I get it. I’m not stupid.
text: at him perplexed and hurt.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Why are you being so shitty?
text: He looks at her, then shakes his head.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Me? How do you think it feels to marry
dialog: someone and then a week later have them
dialog: turn into a different person.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Well, a few things have happened.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 88.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: And is that fair to me?
text: They look at each other for a long moment. She can’t
dialog: believe him.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: So, you thought I would stay the same
dialog: forever?
text: He is agitated. Finds his shirt.
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: Jesus Christ, Grace. That’s not what I’m
dialog: saying.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Then what are you saying?
speaker_heading: JONATHAN
dialog: (struggling)
dialog: You can’t change things now. She gave you
dialog: up.
dialog: It’s a thoughtless comment.
scene_heading: 127 EXT. UNION SQUARE GREEN MARKET - DAY 127
text: Isabel walks amongst the locals and tourists who shop for
text: their fresh fruit, vegetables and flowers. She takes it
text: all in. She watches someone choosing a couple of muffins
text: and some bread from a stand.
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK
scene_heading: 128 EXT. INDIA, MARKET - DAY 128
text: We are walking through a busy street in Kerala and are IN
text: Isabel's POV. Food and goods for sale on either side.
text: Isabel is holding Jai’s hand as they navigate the street.
text: Jai sees some sweets and he drags Isabel over to the
dialog: stall.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Isabel...! (Please)
text: Isabel smiles at him.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 89.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Ok, but it’s our secret.
text: She orders a sweet from the vendor. Jai bounces in
dialog: anticipation.
speaker_heading: 129 OMITTED 129
scene_heading: 130 INT. OSCAR'S STUDIO - LATE MORNING 130
text: Some workers are preparing the big stone for cutting.
text: Grace appears at the door.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Is my father here?
speaker_heading: WORKER
dialog: He took a break.
scene_heading: 131 EXT. TRAIL THROUGH THE WOODS - DAY 131
text: Oscar walks through the woods, looking at the light as it
text: cuts through the trees. He checks a little compass app.
text: on his phone that tracks the sun.
text: Behind him, Grace calls.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Dad!
text: He turns, she catches up to him.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing out here?
text: Oscar takes her in.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Gracie... I’m just... thinking.
text: He looks weighed upon.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 90.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I hate fighting with you.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: You think you’1l forgive me?
text: She looks at him and shakes her head.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: What’s my other option?
text: He's relieved.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: But I want to know everything.
text: Oscar nods, takes her hand.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Of course, Bunny.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Don’t call me that.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: OK. What should I call you?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: How about my name.
text: He nods slowly and looks at her. Takes a moment.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: When you give a child up for adoption,
dialog: you have a period of time to change your
dialog: mind. 30 days. A “grace” period.
text: She listens intently. Thinks.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: So, how long did it take for you to
dialog: decide to come get me?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
text: 29 days. Visiting every day.
text: Grace listens intently.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: We had agreed once you were born we would
text: both leave. She kept up her end of the
dialog: bargain.
dialog: Oscar remembers.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 91.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: And I meant to. But I thought; ‘I’11l just
dialog: go see her for an hour.’ Then I couldn’t
dialog: stop going. Staring at you, talking to
dialog: you.
text: Grace digests all this.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: And they don’t have to contact the mom?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: A “Good faith effort”, they call it.
dialog: Just sending a letter to the last known
dialog: address. But she didn’t even have one and
dialog: I knew they wouldn’t find her.
text: She looks at her dad, pained and relived to be hearing
dialog: the real story.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Did you marry mom for my sake? So I would
dialog: have a mother?
text: A moment before he answers.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I knew she’d be a great mother; but I
dialog: married her because I love her.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Do you?
text: Oscar looks at her for a long moment.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: So, Isabel was just a mistake?
text: She's really grilling him.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: No, not a mistake. We were just... young.
text: He looks off.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Then why didn’t you tell me about her?
dialog: Oscar thinks.
dialog: 132
dialog: 133
dialog: 134
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 92.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I wanted to forget.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Did you?
dialog: Oscar thinks.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: No.
text: He looks off.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - AFTERNOON 132
text: Oscar walks up the stairs, holding the reconstructed
text: bird’s nest.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S BEDROOM 133
text: Oscar walks through to her closet.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA’ CLOSET - MINUTES LATER 134
text: Oscar stands on a stool trying to rig the birds nest so
text: it can hang from the ceiling, suspended by an eye hook
dialog: and monofilament.
text: He gets it rigged. There is some excess monofilament at
text: from where he’s tied it off and he tries to break it with
dialog: his teeth. It won’t break.
text: He gets down off the step ladder and looks around for a
text: scissors. Opens a couple drawers.
text: Approaches Theresa’s make-up table.
text: He opens one drawer, then another. No scissors, but
text: something catches his eye:
text: A weekly pill sorter with unidentifiable pills in it,
text: sorted by day. He lifts it. Underneath is a locked box.
text: He rattles the top. It won’t open.
text: He opens the other drawers, looking more and more
text: urgently for the key. Finally, he takes the middle drawer
text: completely out and rifles through her things. There is a
text: small cup filled with coins. He dumps it out, and amongst
text: the coins finds a little key. He reaches for it.
dialog: 135
dialog: 136
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 93.
text: On Oscar as he slips the key in the lock box. It fits. He
text: turns it and the top opens. The box is filled with
text: prescription drug bottles. Oscar reads the prescriptions:
text: Kepra, Oxycodone, Prednisone. He is confused.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA’S CAR - AFTERNOON 135
text: Theresa pulls into the driveway with the kids. They all
text: are singing to the radio.
scene_heading: EXT. DRIVEWAY OF HOUSE - DAY 136
text: Theresa helps the boys out of the car. They each carry a
text: huge stuffed animal.
text: Oscar comes out to greet them.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Go show daddy. And tell him we won them.
text: Otto and Theo run to Oscar.
speaker_heading: THEO
dialog: Daddy, look what we won!
text: They hold out their animals.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Wow, those are huge! How did you win
dialog: them?
text: The boys don’t have an answer. The both look back to
text: their mom, who is taking her bag out of the car.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: We stopped at a lovely go-kart track off
dialog: the highway that had a few carnival
dialog: games.
speaker_heading: OTTO
dialog: And mom said the games were a waste of
dialog: time so she bought them for us.
text: She's caught. Gives Oscar a funny smile.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It really smelled like feet and hot dogs
dialog: in there, and I wanted to beat the
dialog: traffic.
text: She gives him a kiss and hands him her suitcase.
dialog: 137
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 94.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you mind taking this is for me? I have
dialog: to get to the office.
text: Oscar looks at her searchingly as he takes her bag. She
text: senses something but turns away.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Boys, go in with daddy and take a bath.
text: They run toward the house. Theresa heads back to the car.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Theresa...
text: She reluctantly turns.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I should be back for dinner.
text: She’s about to get in.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I spoke to your doctor.
text: She freezes for a moment.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: You’ve known for 3 months?
text: She gets in the car. Oscar goes around the passenger side
text: and opens the door.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. THERESA’S CAR 137
text: Theresa yells.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: What? He spoke to you? Our relationship
dialog: is confidential. He’s not allowed to tell
dialog: you anything. I could sue him!
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: He thought I knew. He said you promised
dialog: to tell me right after the wedding.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I don’t have time for this right now, I
dialog: have to go.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Theresa! We need to talk about it.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 95.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: There’s nothing to talk about.
text: He doesn’t move.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Get out, please.
text: He doesn’t budge.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Get out! Get out I have to go work!
text: He looks at her, emotionally.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: No. I’m not getting out. I’m your
dialog: husband. I’m never getting out.
text: They look at each other. She fights off her emotion.
text: Takes a long moment.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Don’t tell Grace and the boys.
text: Oscar looks at her, tenderly.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Baby...
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Don’t tell them. Please.
text: He looks at her, eyes welling. Oscar nods.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: We will figure something out.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I have figured it out.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: There has got to be an experimental
dialog: treatment; Something they are testing.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You think I haven’t looked into
dialog: everything? There’s nothing I can do.
dialog: Nothing that won’t just prolong it... and
dialog: make it worse... And make it worse. I
dialog: don’t want you all to see me that way I
dialog: don’t want you to see me that way.
dialog: 138
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 96.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: So you expect me to do nothing.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: We don’t get to choose!
text: He puts his hand on her arm. She gives into it for a
text: second then pushes him away.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Let me go.
text: She pushes him harder.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Let me go!
text: He pulls back from the car as she starts to drive with
text: the passenger side door open.
text: We stay in the car with her as she leans over to try and
text: pull the door shut. The car swerves and she almost goes
text: into a tree, before she rights herself.
scene_heading: EXT. INDIA, CROWDED STREET - FLASHBACK 138
text: Isabel stands in a little makeshift stall at the market
text: being fit for the dress she wore to Theresa's office the
text: first day. A local “tailor” measures. Preena and a few of
text: the kids from the orphanage look on.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: How long will you be away?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Just a week.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: So you'll be back for my birthday?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I don’t miss birthday parties, Jai.
dialog: There's ice cream.
text: She winks at him. Jai smiles wide. The tailor drapes some
text: fabric over Isabel. The kids laugh.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Keep laughing. Your dress is coming next.
text: A wide eyed Jai laughs and shakes his head.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 97.
scene_heading: 139 INT. BOWERY HOTEL/ EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY 139
text: Isabel hangs on the phone. Her eyes are glassy with
text: emotion. Silence.
speaker_heading: INDIA
text: On the other end, Preena holds the phone out the window
text: of her office toward the courtyard where Jai’s party is
text: going on. The group sings happy birthday.
text: On her end, Isabel listens intently, and mouths a few of
dialog: the words.
text: They finish and people cheer. Jai looks up to the window
text: and sees Preena with the phone.
text: She gives a wave. Jai shakes his head ‘no’, then returns
dialog: to the party.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: We're going to do the ice cream now.
text: Isabel swallows, knowing this means he’s not coming to
dialog: the phone.
speaker_heading: PREENA (CONT’D)
dialog: Isabel. You are doing something
dialog: important. Call me as soon as you sign
dialog: the contract.
text: Isabel nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (happy birthday)
dialog: Tell him, “Subha janmadina”
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: (God bless you/good luck)
dialog: Allah tomara mangala karuka
scene_heading: 140 INT. THERESA’S OFFICE - AFTERNOON 140
text: Isabel sits and reads contracts while Theresa watches
dialog: her.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 98.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: There are a couple of points I don’t
dialog: understand.
text: Theresa looks over her shoulder.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh, that just means if you and Grace
dialog: can’t agree on how the funds are
dialog: distributed, Oscar will be the tie
dialog: breaking vote. I thought it would be
dialog: better if it wasn’t me.
text: She smiles and sits.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Not that.
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: This.
text: Theresa reads.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: It says I have to ‘reside’ in New York?
text: Theresa nods.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Yes. Your cost of living will be taken
dialog: care of.
text: Isabel is baffled.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I can just come for board meetings, do
text: the rest over Skype.
text: Theresa looks at Isabel impassively.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I'm afraid it’s a requirement.
text: This rubs Isabel the wrong way.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: That makes no sense. Why?
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 99.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (deep breath)
dialog: I know you are used to running things at
dialog: the Orphanage, but you aren’t familiar
dialog: with what it takes to manage millions of
dialog: dollars. So I would like you here. *
text: Isabel shakes her head and thinks.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: 6 months here and 6 there.
text: Theresa looks at her dead on.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It’s non-negotiable.
text: Isabel struggles to understand.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: And please don’t waste our time
dialog: pretending you aren’t going to do it. *
text: Isabel begins to let her anger out.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You think I give a shit about your money? *
speaker_heading: THERESA *
dialog: I do. *
speaker_heading: ISABEL *
dialog: You think I’m for sale? You can’t buy me. *
text: Isabel gets up. *
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I don’t want to buy you. This is an *
dialog: opportunity. *
text: Isabel becomes more and more agitated, like a caged
dialog: animal.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Bullshit! That’s what it says here.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 100.
text: She pushes the contract off the table and some papers
text: fly. Theresa stays calm.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Call it whatever you want. But think what
dialog: you could do with the money; how many
dialog: kids you could help.
text: She narrows in on Isabel.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I know you'd sell yourself for that.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Fuck you, you don’t know me.
text: Isabel turns to walk out.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Actually I know all about you. 39 years
dialog: old. Born in Troy, New York; raised by
dialog: adoptive parents in Connecticut. Went to
dialog: boarding school upstate, then Syracuse
dialog: for a year before dropping out and
dialog: joining the Peace Corps - where you met
dialog: Oscar... You’re a good person; An
dialog: idealist, well intentioned. You are...
dialog: just like Grace.
text: Isabel is reeling. She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I have a life!
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Your life will be good here.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You think because your rich I’m going to
dialog: get down on my knees and lick your
dialog: fucking asshole?
text: Theresa loses her temper.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: You think that because you’re a do-gooder
dialog: it makes up for the fact that you
dialog: abandoned your child?
text: It's a gut punch. The two women stand facing each other,
text: nakedly.
text: Then Isabel turns, and walks out.
dialog: *
dialog: 141
dialog: 142
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 101.
text: Theresa watches her go, then closes her eyes and breathes
dialog: in deeply.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON STAIRWELL 141
text: Isabel runs down the stairs, feet flying.
scene_heading: EXT. HUDSON STREET - MINUTES LATER 142
text: Isabel walks away from the office building, clearly
dialog: upset.
text: Theresa appears and calls to her.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Isabel!
text: Isabel doesn’t stop. Theresa runs to catch up.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Isabel. Stop. Come back. I’m sorry.
text: Isabel turns to her, furious and wounded.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You are cruel! You think you’re so
dialog: important. You sell... nothing. And the
dialog: world decided that’s worth a lot!
text: Theresa takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Listen to me. Listen. She’s our daughter.
dialog: We share her. I’ve had her for the last
dialog: 20 years, and now she needs you.
text: Theresa’s emotions begin to take over. Isabel is
dialog: confused.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: And Oscar needs you...
text: Theresa starts to cry. Isabel can’t handle it all.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You’re crazy.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: No!
text: Theresa looks at Isabel.
dialog: *
dialog: 143
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 102.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m sick. I’m sick.
dialog: (breath)
dialog: I’m dying.
text: Isabel is knocked back by the information, the emotion of
dialog: Theresa, and what it all means.
text: Isabel looks at her confused.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Help me! My boys are 8 years old...
text: Theresa is lost for a moment. Isabel is frozen. Theresa
text: explodes with desperation.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Do I have to be half way across the world
dialog: to get your help!
text: Not knowing what to do, Isabel backs up, then turns and
text: walks away from Theresa.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL - EVENING 143
text: Isabel stands looking out the window, trying to process
dialog: it all. Some images of India. Of Oscar. Of Grace.
text: The phone rings breaking her out of her reverie. She goes
text: to answer. As she moves, she reveals her packed bags
text: behind her.
text: A KNOCK.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I‘'ll be right down.
text: A knock again. Annoyed, she goes to the door and opens
text: it. Grace stands in front of her, looking vulnerable and
dialog: upset.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Grace.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 102A.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Can I talk to you?
dialog: 144
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 103.
text: Isabel looks concerned.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes, Of course. What is it?
text: Grace walks in and looks at Isabel, face crumpling.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I don’t think I want to be married
dialog: anymore...
text: She leans into Isabel’s arms.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL, ISABEL’S BEDROOM - LATER 144
text: They sit on the bed facing each other.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: He says I’ve changed. That I don’t talk
dialog: to him, or laugh at his jokes; or want to
dialog: go out with our friends.
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: His friends really.
text: Isabel listens patiently. Grace looks far off.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: And he’s a good person, but I look at him
dialog: now... and... He doesn’t want to know
dialog: me... I mean “Me”.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Have you told your parents how you feel?
text: She shakes her head ‘no’.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I can’t. They thought I was too young to
dialog: get married. And they were right.
dialog: (getting upset)
dialog: I wish I wasn’t married.
text: She leans on Isabel. Isabel holds her, unsure of what to
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Does everyone feel this way?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I wouldn’t know.
text: She comforts Grace for another moment.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 104.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Tell me what to do?
text: Grace looks up at Isabel searchingly.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Grace, I can’t do that.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Please... Everyone will hate me if I get
dialog: divorced... But I don’t know if I can
dialog: stay married.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No one is going to hate you.
text: Grace shakes her head.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Yes, they will. I’m stupid... I shouldn’t
dialog: have done it...
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: It’s your life. You decide.
text: Grace looks up.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Like you did?
text: Isabel looks at Grace.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Like we all do.
text: They are entering tricky territory.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: When you gave me up, were you doing what
dialog: you wanted?
text: Isabel looks at her.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: It was more complicated than that.
text: Grace's anger and emotion rises.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Not to me.
text: Isabel lets this land. She nods. Grace gets upset.
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 105.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Not to me! Did you think about what you
dialog: were doing to ME??!
text: Grace has shocked herself with her outburst. She gets
dialog: emotional.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m sorry... I’m sorry.
text: Grace starts to cry and Isabel hugs her.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m sorry.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL, ISABEL’S ROOM - DAWN 145
text: Over some room service trays and into the bedroom, where
text: Grace lies asleep in a hotel robe. Isabel sits up next to
text: her. The clock reads 530AM.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. BOWERY HOTEL, BALCONY-ROOM 146
text: Isabel walks out with the phone into the morning air. She
text: dials.
text: Preena picks up.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: It’s Isabel.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: Isabel, did we get the money?
text: She looks out at the city.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Yes.
text: We hear pure joy from Preena’s end.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: This is a miracle. It’s a miracle!! Let
dialog: me get Jai for you. We will celebrate!
text: Isabel is quiet.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: No. No. Not now.
dialog: 147
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 106.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: What’s the matter?
text: She isn’t sure how to say this.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I’m not coming back. I’m staying in New
dialog: York.
speaker_heading: PREENA
dialog: What do you mean? For how long.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: To live.
text: Preena is confused and concerned. This is hard for
text: Isabel, but she is clear.
scene_heading: INT. BOWERY HOTEL LOBBY, BREAKFAST ROOM - MORNING 147
text: Isabel sits with a cup of coffee, waiting. Oscar enters
text: and finds her. He walks to her table and sits. He looks
text: exhausted.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Is she okay?
text: Isabel nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
text: She’s confused and upset. She thinks she
dialog: made a mistake.
text: Oscar isn’t clear.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
text: Apparently, she doesn’t love him.
text: He nods. Half satisfied half worried.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: And she came to you?
text: Isabel nods with a little shrug.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: What did you tell her?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I told her... that it was her life.
text: Oscar takes this in. He takes a deep breath.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 107.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Thank you for letting her stay.
text: Grace walks in, surprising them. Oscar stands.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, there you are.
text: She is sheepishly emotional when she sees her dad. They
text: look at each other at her for a moment, then he hugs her.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Do you hate me?
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Are you kidding?
text: Isabel watches the embrace. They part and sit. Isabel
text: smiles at her. Grace wipes a tear away. The three sit
dialog: together. Odd.
text: After a moment Grace reaches over and takes a sip of
text: Isabel's coffee.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Sure, have some.
text: Grace laughs while drinking.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I’ll get some more.
text: She stands up.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you want some, Dad?
text: He nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: And see if they have any pastries.
text: Graces walks into the main lobby toward the restaurant.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: She’s so sensitive.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Where could she have gotten it?
text: He smiles. Then uncomfortable with the situation, he rubs
text: his face.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 108.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I didn't get a lot of sleep last night.
text: Isabel takes his hand.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Oscar. You have to tell her about
dialog: Theresa.
text: This catches Oscar off guard, and he fights back some
text: emotion. A long moment.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: She made me promise I wouldn’t.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
text: It doesn’t matter. She has to know.
text: Oscar bows his head, trying to keep it together. Isabel
text: takes his hand.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: (struggling)
dialog: I don’t want to hurt her.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Who?
text: Grace arrives balancing 3 cups of coffee.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: They said they’d bring the pastries over.
text: They all sit again. Grace starts to get upset.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, I forgot the milk...
text: He face crumples.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: It’s okay, baby.
text: Oscar reaches out for her and Isabel puts her hands on
text: Grace’s arm.
scene_heading: 148 INT. HORIZON OFFICES/ THERESA’S CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY 148
text: Isabel sits around a table opposite Theresa, Bill and a
dialog: few other lawyers.
text: A lawyer prepares the proper page. He passes it to
dialog: Isabel.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 109.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Sign here.
text: Isabel takes the paper and signs.
speaker_heading: LAWYER (CONT’D)
dialog: Theresa. Your turn.
text: They pass the paper to Theresa who puts on her reading
text: glasses. She begins to sign but the pen doesn’t work.
text: Theresa shakes it, still doesn’t work. Immediately,
text: everyone else in the room offers her their pen.
text: She takes one and signs. Looks up with a smile.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: It's official. I have a lot less money.
text: Everyone laughs.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: You’re changing a lot of peoples lives.
text: Isabel looks at her with some hidden melancholy. There is
text: an unintended double-meaning.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I hope you can do everything you want
dialog: with it.
text: Theresa’ assistant Gwen opens the door.
speaker_heading: GWEN
dialog: Sorry to interrupt, but Grace is here.
text: Theresa looks confused and slightly flustered. Isabel
dialog: gets her stuff together.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Oh.
dialog: (takes a moment)
dialog: I wasn’t expecting her.
text: Theresa’s gaze falls on Isabel.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Bring her in.
text: Isabel stands, ready to go.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (to the lawyers)
dialog: Thank you all for your time.
dialog: 149
dialog: 150
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 110.
text: She approaches Theresa, who looks at her curiously.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Why don’t you stay?
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I don’t think she came to see me.
text: Isabel looks deeply at Theresa. Isabel puts out her hand.
text: Slowly, Theresa shakes it. Isabel smiles, then is off.
text: Theresa takes a deep breath.
scene_heading: INT. HORIZON, HALLWAY OUTSIDE THERESA’S CONFERENCE ROOM 149
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: Isabel walks away from the conference room as Grace is
text: walking in.
text: They stop briefly.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: You okay?
text: Grace nods, subdued but determined. They grasp hands for
text: a moment before continuing by each other.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM 150
dialog: Theresa stands as the Lawyers and Board Members are
text: exiting. Grace walks in.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Gracie. I didn’t know you were coming in
dialog: today. I would have cleared myself for
dialog: lunch.
text: Grace looks at Theresa, tears already in her eyes. She
text: waits for the last person to leave and closes the door.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (trying to stay casual)
dialog: Did you see Isabel on the way out?
text: Grace ignores it. She turns and looks and looks at
text: Theresa, unwavering. Theresa can’t ignore what’s coming.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: (plainly)
dialog: Why didn’t you tell me?
speaker_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? ql.
text: Grace seems intensely vulnerable, but clear. Theresa
dialog: doesn’t know what to say.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (hurt)
dialog: Why didn’t you tell me yourself?
text: She looks away.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: You were lying; every minute you knew and
dialog: didn’t tell me.
text: Theresa looks away.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I’m sorry.
text: Grace's emotions are colliding.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Everybody's sorry!
text: Theresa looks at her, tenderly.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I didn’t want to make you sad.
text: Grace tears up.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: And you didn’t think I’d be sad If you
dialog: just died one day?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: No. I...
text: Theresa struggles.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I didn’t want anything to change. People
dialog: act differently sometimes.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: How would you know? You didn’t tell
dialog: anyone!
text: Theresa nods.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Maybe I was wrong.
dialog: 151
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 112.
text: They sit facing each other. Grace cries. Theresa stokes
text: her face. Grace looks lost.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: If I knew you were dying, I wouldn’t have
dialog: spent my time doing other stuff.
text: Grace starts to sob. Theresa holds her hands and kisses
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Don’t cry sweet heart. Don’t. It’s okay,
dialog: you'll be okay.
text: Grace is shaking her head.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I don’t want to be okay!
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: And Isabel will be with you...
text: Grace looks up at Theresa, feelings colliding.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: I don’t care about Isabel! You’re my mom.
dialog: I don’t want anyone but you. If you don’t
dialog: tell me, I can’t say all the things I
dialog: want to say...
text: Tears begin to run down Theresa’ cheeks.
speaker_heading: GRACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I can’t tell you that... I love you...
dialog: and I don’t want you to die.
text: Theresa cries with her. They hold each other. Kiss each
text: other’s tears. Theresa looks at Grace, nose-to-nose. She
text: holds her face.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I love you.
text: We find Grace’s hand, as she intertwines a lock of
text: Theresa’ hair tightly through her fingers, grasping. She
text: won’t let go. They cry.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. THERESA AND OSCAR'S HOUSE 151
text: We see a series of shots around the grounds and inside
text: the house. Most of them are either nature: A deer
text: drinking out of the pool - or inanimate objects in the
dialog: house that having meaning to the make-up of their lives.
dialog: 152
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 113.
text: A book on the table with the ring of a coffee cup on it.
text: In Oscar’s studio, the huge stone, waiting.
text: Pieces of the architecture of the house.
text: The boys clothes in the hamper.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA CLOSET - EVENING 152
text: Close on the birds nest with the broken eggs that have
text: been glued. We can see the cracks.
text: Past the nest, we focus on Theresa’s dressing table where
text: she sits, looking in the mirror. She wears a beautiful
text: dress and is made-up.
text: After a moment Oscar appears, dressed nicely, looking
text: handsome, holding a glass of water which he sets down for
text: Theresa. She takes a couple pills, not having to hide it
dialog: any more.
text: Oscar pulls reading glasses out of his pocket and kneels
text: down next to her, facing her profile and holds out his
text: hand. She hands him the earrings she’s having trouble
dialog: with.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: This pair always gives me trouble.
text: He puts on his reading glasses and focuses on getting the
text: post through her earring hole. It’s very intimate.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I love being needed. Makes me horny.
text: She can’t move but she rolls her eyes and smiles.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: Almost...
text: We see them in the mirror, she watches him in the
text: reflection, taking in the whole thing.
text: He smiles and finishes.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: One more second...
text: He takes Theresa’s phone off the table and holds it
text: behind them as they pose in the mirror for a selfie.
dialog: 153
dialog: 154
dialog: 155
dialog: 156
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 114.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR’S HOUSE, HALLWAY 153
text: Theresa walks down the hall and we follow her. She comes
text: to the boys room and pushes the door open.
scene_heading: INT. BOYS ROOM 154
text: The boys are already in their PJ’s. They have a couple of
text: friends over. They are all playing “Dance, Dance
text: Revolution”, on X-Box; all dancing like maniacs.
text: She watches them for a moment then walks in front of the
text: TV blocking it, facing the boys.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: A dance party! Oh good! I love to dance!
text: She starts to dance. They yell and scream, trying to get
text: her to move. The twins try and push her out. She just
dialog: keeps dancing.
speaker_heading: TWINS (OTTO AND THEO)
dialog: Mom, this is serious, get out of the way.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I didn't know it was serious! I’m sorry.
text: She hugs them, and they go right back to playing.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Be good for Bellie.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. THERESA’S CAR PARKWAY - LATE EVENING 155
text: Oscar drives. Theresa looks out her window. Music plays.
text: After a moment, Oscar turns to her; sensing him, she
text: turns to him. Oscar opens his mouth, about to speak.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MINETTA TAVERN - NIGHT 156
text: Theresa, Oscar, and about 30 others, have taken over the
text: whole back room of this village bistro. A mixture of
text: Theresa's work associates and friends.
text: Isabel sits with Grace midway down the long table.
text: Theresa and Oscar sit together at the end, surrounded
text: with friends. Someone is mid-toast.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 115.
speaker_heading: TANYA
dialog: There are not many people who have the
dialog: power and tenacity to will their vision
dialog: into existence - And in the process to
dialog: change the way our industry works. Not to
dialog: mention employing over a thousand people,
dialog: raising a family and, oh yeah, making a
dialog: shit load of money.
text: They all laugh. We are with Isabel and Grace as they
dialog: listen.
speaker_heading: TANYA (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve known Theresa for 20 years now, so
dialog: when she told me she was thinking of
dialog: selling the company I said: ‘don’t I get
dialog: a vote?’
text: He looks at Theresa.
speaker_heading: TANYA (CONT'D)
dialog: To which she replied: “no”.
text: Lots of laughter.
speaker_heading: TANYA (CONT'D)
dialog: So why sell? When you've built this big,
dialog: thriving, behemoth of a company. Why?
speaker_heading: SCATTERD GUEST
dialog: Why? Why?
text: Everyone laughs.
speaker_heading: TANYA
dialog: That’s what I asked. Why?
text: Theresa shakes her head at Tanya.
speaker_heading: TANYA (CONT'D)
dialog: And she said because she likes beginnings
dialog: - and a little bit of hardship. When
dialog: things get to easy, she gets bored. We
dialog: bored her!
text: Some jeers and laughter.
speaker_heading: TANYA (CONT'D)
dialog: Theresa, congratulations. We love you -
dialog: We can’t wait to see what you do next.
dialog: And we’re sorry we bored you!
text: Big smiles and laughter.
speaker_heading: +e F FH
dialog: *
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 115A.
text: Isabel touches Grace’s leg in support. Everyone raises a
dialog: glass.
speaker_heading: TANYA (CONT'D)
dialog: To Theresa, for bringing us all together.
speaker_heading: EVERYONE
dialog: To Theresa.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 157 OVERLAP ‘HAPPY BIRTHDAY’ BEING SUNG 157
text: Oscar carries out a cake that looks more like a
text: sculpture. Clearly his brainchild.
text: He sets it down as everyone finishes singing happy
text: birthday. Theresa looks embarrassed by the show of
text: affection. She looks at the crazy cake.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 116.
text: Takes a deep breath and blows out the candles. It takes a
text: couple tries. People clap. Theresa looks at Oscar and
dialog: shakes her head, as if to say, “I hate/love that you did
dialog: this”.
text: He takes some icing on his finger and offers it to her.
text: Theresa shakes her head but eats it. A deep breath and
text: she stands.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Okay, okay...
text: Everyone claps.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Thank you, thank you very much.
dialog: Just to be clear, my birthday is not
dialog: until next month and 52 is not exactly a
dialog: landmark birthday, but thank you for
dialog: being here and for this cake which is
dialog: clearly a creation of my husbands fertile
dialog: imagination.
text: She gazes at him.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (to the crowd)
dialog: I think you all know that he’s a
dialog: brilliant artist. You see his work all
dialog: over our office.
dialog: (promoting)
dialog: But you may not know that he has a show
text: up - at Anita Rodgers on Greene...
dialog: between Spring and Broome. So if you're
dialog: in the neighborhood stop by. Maybe buy a
dialog: piece?
text: People laugh. Theresa refocuses.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (a moment)
dialog: I had always thought of artists as flaky
dialog: and impractical. So you can imagine my
dialog: surprise when I fell in love with one. I
dialog: thought I was going to marry a nice
dialog: banker.
text: A big laugh.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: But thank goodness there are no nice
dialog: bankers.
text: More laughter. Theresa looks down at Oscar. A long pause.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 117.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you know what he said to me in the car
dialog: on the way here?
text: He takes a deep breath. She turns back to the crowd and
dialog: quotes him.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: ‘Is it us moving through the world, or
dialog: the world running past us?’
text: Some sounds of acknowledgement from the group. She’s very
text: emotional but pushes it back.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: To which I replied, “Let’s not take the
dialog: Northern State, traffic is horrible this
dialog: time of day”
text: Lots of laughter. She looks at Oscar and mouths “I love
text: you”. He takes her hand and kisses it.
text: Theresa gathers and switches back to business mode.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: But this is not about me, it’s not about
dialog: my family. This is about us and our
dialog: company and what we’ve accomplished.
dialog: Together. I know that many of you are
dialog: wondering what our company is going to
dialog: look like after the sale.
text: She makes brief eye contact with Grace who sits listening
text: next to Isabel. Theresa turns away and addresses the
dialog: other guests.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I'd be lying if I didn’t acknowledge that
dialog: there will be a period of transition.
dialog: But I must stress how important it was
dialog: for me to find a partner who would not
dialog: just continue our culture, but add to it.
dialog: Making it more dynamic, with more
dialog: resources, greater reach. So if you ask
dialog: yourself do I feel uncomfortable and the
dialog: answer is yes, then GOOD, cause that kind
dialog: of discomfort leads to growth. That kind
dialog: of discomfort makes you challenge
dialog: yourself, that kind of discomfort is
dialog: transformative...
text: Oscar looks down at Grace and Isabel.
text: MUSIC OVERLAPS - “Brick House”, by the Commodores.
dialog: 158
dialog: 159
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 118.
scene_heading: LATER IN THE EVENING 158
text: Tables and chairs have been moved and a dance party has
text: broken out.
text: Pure abandon, as everyone dances. Oscar and Theresa let
dialog: loose.
scene_heading: INT. THERESA AND OSCAR'S BEDROOM - 2AM 159
text: Theresa sits on the bed in her nightgown and robe, she
text: looks tired and pale. Oscar brushes his teeth in the
text: bathroom. Her back is turned to him.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I meant to tell you, the school called to
dialog: suggest that we split the boys into
dialog: separate classes after winter break. They
dialog: think it would be good for their
dialog: confidence.
text: Oscar finishes brushing and comes in.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I just worry about that one teacher,
text: Janet... She seems a little melancholy
dialog: for 3rd grade.
text: She doesn’t answer. Looks to be really struggling.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: Why are you telling me this?
text: Oscar sees she doesn’t look good. He goes to her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Are you okay? Let me get you a
dialog: painkiller.
dialog: He goes.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I don’t want it.
text: Oscar stops. He sits with her.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I want to know why you are telling me
dialog: this? About the boys.
text: Oscar looks at her, confused.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 119.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Because we have to decide...
text: Theresa looks at him.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: We don’t need to decide anything anymore.
text: Oscar swallows hard. She is exhausted and vulnerable.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: You need to decide on your own because
dialog: I’m not going to be here.
text: Oscar is pained. Theresa can’t believe her own words.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not going to be here.
text: She is baffled. Oscar puts his arms around her. She takes
text: him and makes her look at him.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you think you’1l be with Isabel when
dialog: I’m gone?
text: Oscar shakes his head.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Stop.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I want to know...
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: Theresa, I love you.
text: She looks desperate.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: I don’t feel well.
text: Oscar holds her and she lets him. Suddenly, she looks
dialog: terrified.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: Where will I go?
text: She’s like a child asking about death.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: (adamantly)
dialog: Where will I go?
dialog: 160
dialog: 161
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 120.
text: He looks at her filled with compassion.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I don’t know.
text: She lets all her anger and fear out while he holds her.
speaker_heading: THERESA
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: I don’t want to die!
dialog: (more)
dialog: I don’t want to die...
text: She crumples in his arms.
speaker_heading: THERESA (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not done! I’m not done!
text: She slides out of his arms and onto the floor, thrashing
text: and struggling. Oscar tries to contain her.
speaker_heading: OSCAR
dialog: I know, baby, I know...
text: He holds her as she screams and sobs.
speaker_heading: OSCAR (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm with you. I’m with you...
text: They sob together.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 160
text: The wind blows in the trees.
text: A small animal listens for danger.
text: Rain begins.
text: TOLLING OF A BELL.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS, NEAR HOUSE - DAY 161
text: On feet walking. Nature sounds.
text: Wider to see Oscar, Isabel, Grace, and the boys walk in
text: the woods together, holding a box of Theresa’s ashes.
text: They stop in a clearing and open the box. Oscar turns the
text: box over and the ashes blow. They all watch as the ashes
text: disappear into the air and the earth.
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
dialog: 164
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 121.
text: Isabel leans down and helps one of the twins zip up his
text: sweatshirt. The camera moves past them to find Oscar's
text: sculpture sitting in the woods. He has shaped and
text: intertwined the stone he was working on with part of the
text: fallen tree and it stands quietly amongst the forest. A
dialog: memorial.
speaker_heading: FADE DOWN/FADE UP
scene_heading: EXT. INDIA, CROWDED STREET - DAY 162
text: A cab honks its way through traffic. Isabel is in the
text: back. She looks out.
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHANAGE - AFTERNOON 163
text: Isabel gets out of the cab in front of the orphanage.
text: She breathes deeply, taking it all in. A moment later
text: Preena appears. She and Isabel embrace. Preena takes
text: Isabel's hand and excitedly leads her in.
text: They walk into the courtyard. Changes are already
dialog: noticeable.
text: Preena happily points things out.
dialog: - Boxes that contain medical supplies. Food.
dialog: - New soccer goals on the field.
text: - IN THE SLEEPING AREA: New mattress and bunks. Isabel
text: smiles.
scene_heading: INT. ISABEL’S OLD ROOM, INDIA - LATER 164
text: She goes through the few belongings she has. Not a lot.
text: Remnants from another life. She divides it in a ‘to keep’
text: pile, and a ‘throw away’.
text: She hears some voices of children who are returning from
text: their errands.
text: Footsteps, then Jai appears in the doorway.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Miss Isabel!
text: She smiles wide. Opens her arms. Jai runs into them.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 121A.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I missed you.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: I missed you too.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) Br? 122.
text: He remembers something and drags her outside.
scene_heading: 165 EXT. ORPHANAGE COURTYARD - CONTINUOUS 165
text: He points to the corner of the roof where a bird has
dialog: built her nest.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Look.
text: Three baby birds. Isabel lights up.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Amazing.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: (proudly)
dialog: I have been up there.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: Yes. Miss Preena brought a ladder. I
dialog: watched the mother feed them.
text: Isabel looks at the 3 little birds, as they open and
text: close their little mouths, awaiting a feeding.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: What does she feed them? Lentils?
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Vindaloo?
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: No, Miss Isabel! Worms!
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: Oh, yuck.
text: He smiles. Isabel looks at him.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Jai, I want to ask you something.
text: He waits innocently. She bends so she is eye to eye with
dialog: him.
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 123.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: I was wondering if you might like to come
dialog: to New York with me?
text: Jai looks confused.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: (tenderly)
dialog: To live.
text: Jai’s little brow furrows.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: We could come back here and visit as much
dialog: as you want.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: But this is my home. I want to stay here.
text: Isabel's face falls for a moment. Not what she was
dialog: expecting.
speaker_heading: JAI (CONT'D)
dialog: I would miss my friends.
text: Isabel nods. She wants to make sure he understands.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: The thing is, I have to live there. So we
dialog: won’t see each other as much.
text: Jai thinks it over for a moment.
speaker_heading: JAI
dialog: You can come and visit.
text: She thinks, then nods.
speaker_heading: ISABEL
dialog: I can.
text: We hear the other kids beginning to play on the soccer
text: field. Jai’s attention is drawn there.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT’D)
dialog: You want to go play?
text: He nods enthusiastically.
speaker_heading: ISABEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay, go.
text: He smiles. One more hug then he’s off.
dialog: 166
dialog: 167
scene_heading: Pink Rev. (05/28/18) BE? 124.
scene_heading: INT. ISABEL’S OLD ROOM, INDIA - CONTINUOUS 166
text: Isabel walks back in her room, alone. ON HER FACE as she
text: gathers herself emotionally.
text: Something across the room catches her eye. It’s a little
text: mirror she kept over her wash basin. She sees herself in
dialog: the reflection. Lets herself look. It’s one of those
dialog: naked moments, where you can really see yourself.
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHANAGE - A FEW MINUTES LATER 167
text: A game is being played on the soccer field. Jai runs
text: after the ball.
text: Isabel appears on the periphery of the field and watches.
text: As she does, we rise up and up; bird's point of view.
text: SLOWLY FADE TO BLACK.
dialog: 
