speaker_heading: Air Force One
speaker_heading: Air Force One
dialog: Andrew Marlow
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. C-130 HERCULES TURBO-PROP - NIGHT
text: Eighteen combat-ready special forces, wearing assault black,
text: jump packs and combat gear, stare down the deep end of a
text: greasy ramp into the night sky. Village lights flicker 19,000
text: feet below.
text: The STRIKE FORCE LEADER signals to his team.
text: Without a moment's hesitation, they dive into the darkness
text: and plummet toward earth.
scene_heading: EXT. MANSION - NIGHT
text: A military GUARD, old Soviet-style uniform, rounds the corner
text: of the large estate toting an AK-47.
text: A red laser dot appears briefly on his forehead and, after a
text: beat, the red dot seems to bleed. The Guard collapses dead.
text: Two other GUARDS are dispatched with single, silenced shots.
text: A Strike Team member at a junction box awaits a signal.
text: Through infra-red binoculars the strike Force Leader watches
text: his assault troops as they take positions.
scene_heading: STRIKE FORCE LEADER
dialog: (into headset/in
dialog: Russian)
dialog: GO!
text: On the estate - as the power goes out. The team on the
text: mansion's front porch pops the door and pours in.
scene_heading: INT. MANSION - NIGHT
text: FOLLOWING - the FIVE TEAM MEMBERS as they rush a stairway in
text: phalanx formation. They nearly knock over an old lady, who
text: in turn lets out a blood curdling scream.
scene_heading: UPSTAIRS CORRIDOR -
text: The team kicks open a door. Rushes into the room.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM -
text: Assault weapons pointed at the bed. The soldiers yank back
text: bedsheets to reveal IVAN STRAVANAVITCH, a middle-aged man
text: and his half-naked 18-year-old concubine.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: (in Russian)
dialog: Get up, now! Up!
text: The soldiers pull Stravanavitch to his feet and haul him out
dialog: of the room.
text: FOLLOWING - As they push down the hallway.
text: MANSION SECURITY GUARDS rally with haphazard gunfire.
text: Out come the strike force's flash-bang grenades. Exploding
text: everywhere, disorienting Stravanavitch's men.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - NIGHT
text: Signal flares burn as a helicopter descends on the position.
text: The Strike Team evacuates across the field and forces a
text: struggling Stravanavitch into the low-hovering copter.
text: The commandos swiftly board the craft as a handful of
text: Stravanavitch's guards break into the clearing. They open
dialog: fire.
text: And the mounted machine guns on the helicopter return.
text: One of the Strike Team members takes a bullet to the neck.
text: He's' pulled by his comrades into the chopper as it lifts
text: into the sky, its guns spitting lead...
speaker_heading: STRIKE FORCE LEADER (V.0.)
dialog: Archangel, this is Restitution.
text: Archangel, this is Restitution. The package is wrapped.
dialog: Over.
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.0. RADIO)
dialog: Roger, Restitution. We are standing
dialog: by for delivery.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK
text: The SOUNDS of a dinner banquet.
text: Forks clanking against plates and
text: the din of a hundred conversations,
dialog: broken by...
text: The DING, DING, DING of a SPOON tapping against a wine glass.
scene_heading: SUPER TITLE: "MOSCOW - THREE WEEKS LATER
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. BANQUET ROOM - NIGHT
text: Hundreds of men and women in formal evening wear sit at round
text: banquet tables. A HUSH falls over the guests as the DINGING
text: continues. All attention turns to the front table.
text: A rotund, silver haired-man in his late sixties rises and
text: sidles past U.S. and Russian flags up to the podium
text: microphone. He is STOLI PETROV, President of Russia.
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: (in Russian)
dialog: Thank you for joining us this evening.
text: Petrov's harsh Russian issues through the room. But over it
text: we hear a young woman's voice translating.
speaker_heading: TRANSLATOR (V.0.)
dialog: Tonight we are honored to have with
dialog: us a man of remarkable courage, who,
dialog: despite strong international
dialog: criticism...
scene_heading: AT THE FRONT TABLE -
text: A translator's words ring in the earpiece of a handsome man
text: in his mid-forties. Worry lines crease his forehead and the
text: touch of gray at his temples attest to three very difficult
dialog: years in office.
text: This man is JAMES MARSHALL, and he is the PRESIDENT of the
text: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. He busily makes last minute changes
dialog: to his speech.
speaker_heading: TRANSLATOR
dialog: (V.0. earpiece)
dialog: Has chosen to join our fight against
dialog: tyranny in forging a new world
dialog: community. Ladies and gentlemen, I
dialog: give you the President of the United
dialog: States of America...
dialog: Mr. President.
text: Thunderous applause as Marshall rises and approaches the
dialog: podium.
text: At the back of the room, DOHERTY, a senior policy adviser
text: whispers to the President's Chief of Staff ED SHEPHERD...
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: Maybe we should consider running him
dialog: for re-election instead of the U.S.
text: The applause dies as Marshall begins to speak.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (in Russian with
dialog: subtitles)
dialog: Good evening and thank you. First I
dialog: would ask you to join me in a moment
dialog: of silence for the victims of the
dialog: Turkmenistan massacres.
text: The room remains silent a few beats. Most guests respectfully
text: bow their heads.
text: Marshall begins again, but this time in English. The young
text: woman translates simultaneously for the Russian audience.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: As you know, three weeks ago American
dialog: Special Forces, in cooperation with
dialog: the Russian Republican Army, secured
dialog: the arrest of Turkmenistan's self-
dialog: proclaimed dictator, General Ivan
text: Stravanavitch, whose brutal sadistic
dialog: reign had given new meaning to the
dialog: word horror. I am proud to say our
dialog: operation was a success.
text: Applause from the audience. Marshall turns the page on his
dialog: speech.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: And now, yesterday's biggest threat
dialog: to world peace... today awaits trial
dialog: for crimes against humanity.
text: During the applause, Marshall pulls a page from the speech,
text: folds it and slides it into his pocket. He removes his
text: glasses and looks out into the crowd. His tone becomes more
dialog: personal.
text: He's not reciting the speech anymore.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: What we did here was important. We
text: finally pulled our heads out of the
dialog: sand, we finally stood up to the
dialog: brutality and said "We've had enough.
dialog: Every time we ignore these atrocities--
dialog: the rapes, the death squads, the
dialog: genocides- every time we negotiate
dialog: with these, these thugs to keep them
dialog: out of gig country and away from gig
dialog: families, every time we do thiS.E.
dialog: we legitimize terror.
dialog: Terror is not a legitimate system of government. And to
dialog: those who commit the atrocities I say, we will no longer
dialog: tolerate, we will no longer negotiate, and we will no longer
dialog: be afraid. It's your turn to be afraid.
text: Applause rolls through the crowd.
scene_heading: EXT. MOSCOW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - NIGHT
text: Sprawling terminals spread out to runways like tentacles.
scene_heading: ON THE TARMAC -
text: Bathed in floodlights, perched majestically on the runway,
text: dwarfing nearby commuter and military jets, stands...
speaker_heading: AIR FORCE ONE
text: The President's own Boeing 747-200,
text: dubbed "the flying White House".
text: The distinctive royal blue stripe
text: over a thin gold line tapers to a
text: tail adorned with the American flag
dialog: and the Presidential Seal Secret
dialog: Service agents and Marines stand
text: guard at the aircraft's perimeter.
text: A RUSSIAN NEWS VAN emerges from the darkness and pulls to a
text: stop by a Secret Service barricade.
text: SPECIAL AGENT GIBBS greets the Russian news team that emerges.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Gentlemen, welcome to Air Force One.
dialog: Please present your equipment to Special Agent Walters for
dialog: inspection.
text: The news team's segment producer, a crusty old Russian named
text: KORSHUNOV raises his big bushy eyebrows.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: We've already been inspected.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Sir, this plane carries the President
dialog: of the United States.
dialog: Though we wish to extend your press service every courtesy,
dialog: you will comply with our security measures to the letter.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Of course. I'm sorry.
text: Korshunov and the FIVE MEMBERS of his news crew present their
text: video cameras, sound equipment and supplies to Special Agent
text: WALTERS for inspection. Secret Service DOGS sniff through
dialog: the baggage.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Please place your thumbs on the ID
dialog: pad.
text: Korshunov puts his thumb on the ID pad of a portable computer.
text: The computer matches up his thumbprint with his dossier and
text: photograph. "CLEARED" flashes on the computer screen.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: The President, walking with his entourage.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: * CBS said they'll
dialog: give us four minutes. They thought
dialog: the Russian was a nice touch.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I always wondered if my freshman
dialog: Russian class would come in handy.
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: Sir, you threw out page two.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Goddamn right I did. I asked for a
dialog: tough-as-nails speech and you gave
dialog: me diplomatic bullshit. What's the
dialog: point in having a speech if I have
dialog: to ad-lib?
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: It was a good ad-lib, sir.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Thanks. Wrote it last night.
text: The President exits the building and enters his limousine.
scene_heading: EXT. TARMAC - AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Walters hands the bags back to the Russians.
speaker_heading: WALTERS
text: Equipment checks out.
text: A striking woman in her early thirties descends Air Force
text: One's stairway. MARIA MITCHELL.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Gentlemen, this is Maria Mitchell.
dialog: Press Relations for the Presidential Flight Office. She'll
dialog: take you from here.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Ms. Mitchell. So nice to finally
dialog: meet you in person.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: The President and I were delighted
dialog: that we could accommodate you. Now
dialog: if you're all cleared?
dialog: (Gibbs nods)
dialog: You can follow me then.
text: They ascend into the belly of Air Force One.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: * I'll be giving
dialog: you a brief tour, then during the
dialog: flight, two members of your crew
dialog: will be allowed out of the press
dialog: area at a time for filming. You
dialog: will have exactly ten minutes with
dialog: the President and twenty with the
dialog: crew...
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS OF MOSCOW, PRESIDENT'S MOTORCADE - NIGHT
text: Winding its way down narrow cobblestone streets onto a major
dialog: thoroughfare.
scene_heading: INT. PRESIDENTIAL LIMOUSINE - NIGHT
text: The limousine is packed with advisers, aides, military staff,
scene_heading: including LT. COL. PERKINS, the keeper of the NUCLEAR FOOTBALL
text: handcuffed to his wrist. In the b.g. on the limo's television
text: set, the LARRY KING SHOW indulges in its normal banter.
text: Marshall wearily rubs his temples as he stifles a yawn.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: You wanna knock of f?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: No, no. I'm fine. What did the
dialog: Speaker say?
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: He and the NRA don't like the wording.
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
text: Apparently taking uzis away from
dialog: sixth graders isn't as popular as we
dialog: thought it'd be. Representative
text: Taylor is working on a compromise.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Put together a score sheet. I'll
dialog: make some calls.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: With all due respect, sir, maybe you
dialog: should give them this one. Your
dialog: numbers are still pretty low and you
dialog: called in a lot of chips to nail
dialog: Stravanavitch.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I might still have a few chips left.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: * We could always
dialog: put you in a duck blind with a twelve
dialog: gauge. The second amendment types'll
dialog: love that.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: This is a crime bill, Shep. Killing
dialog: a couple ducks won't get it through
dialog: committee. Besides, Shep, I told
dialog: you... I don't shoot babies and I
dialog: don't kiss guns.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Other way around, sir.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (realizing what he
dialog: said)
dialog: Right... Christ I'm tired. Do me a
dialog: favor and keep me away from the press.
text: Marshall's watch alarm beeps and he automatically reaches
text: into his breast pocket, pulls out a medicine vial and downs
text: two pills with a coffee chaser.
dialog: On the T.V.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING (T.V.)
dialog: ... and your reaction to the
dialog: President's trip to Moscow. Good or
dialog: bad?
text: Shepherd turns up the volume.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: This is the part I wanted you to
dialog: see.
speaker_heading: REP. DANFORTH (T.V.)
dialog: Criminal. One of our boys died in
dialog: Marshall's little publicity stunt
dialog: and for what? So we could claim
dialog: victory over another country's
dialog: problems instead of our own? And
dialog: now he's got the nerve to prance
text: around Moscow gloating, while that
text: poor boy's family is left to bury
dialog: him. If I were Marshall, I'd be
dialog: ashamed of myself.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING
dialog: There you have it. Harsh words for
dialog: the President from Michael Danforth,
dialog: the Speaker of the House.
text: Marshall mutes the television. A quiet moment.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: * My opinion.
dialog: We can't let him get away with that
dialog: kind of language.
text: Marshall considers. Then decides.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: It's bait. Don't take it.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Sir, the Speaker of the House attacked
dialog: this administration on national
dialog: television. You can't afford to
dialog: leave that hanging.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (ignoring Shepherd)
dialog: Did we tape the Duke game?
speaker_heading: AIDE
text: It's waiting on the plane. The ending
dialog: was pretty...
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Please don't tell me. Just for once,
dialog: * let me be
dialog: surprised.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, CORRIDOR, TRAVELING - NIGHT
text: Maria Mitchell escorts the Russians down the plane's length.
text: As they pass the galley, Maria motions up a set of stairs.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
text: Up on the upper deck is the cockpit
dialog: and the Mission Communication Center.
dialog: The MCC, as we call it, can place
dialog: clear and secure phone calls to
dialog: anywhere on earth. We're linked to
dialog: a network of military and civilian
dialog: satellites and ground stations. We
dialog: could run the country or run a war
dialog: from there if we had to.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: This is a remarkable aircraft.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: You don't know the half of it. Did
dialog: you know this entire plane is shielded
dialog: from radiation? We could fly through
text: a mushroom cloud completely unharmed
dialog: if necessary.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: A dubious distinction, no?
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: I guess it depends on your
dialog: perspective.
text: They walk by several conference rooms, running down the
text: starboard side of the plane.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And all these rooms here?
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Conference rooms, though some have
text: other functions. The one up front
dialog: doubles as an emergency medical
dialog: center.
text: Past the conference rooms, they walk by a small side room
text: where SECRETARIES work on computers, generating documents.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: As you can see, back here's more
text: like a regular plane. Security and
dialog: Secret Service take this cabin.
dialog: You'll be in the rear with the press
dialog: pool.
text: The REAR PRESS CABIN, just ahead of the rear galley and bank
text: of bathrooms. A handful of disgruntled reporters feign sleep.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Here's a press kit. I'll let you
dialog: guys get comfortable and once we're
dialog: airborne I'll be able to schedule
dialog: the interviews.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Thank you.
text: Mitchell exits forward. One of the reporters stirs and looks
text: up at the news team. He groans. Space is a premium back
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: You fellas win some sort of fly-with-
dialog: POTUS contest?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Potus? What is Potus?
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: P.O.T.U.S. President Of The United
dialog: States.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Ah, no. We won nothing. We are
scene_heading: ITAR-TASS news service.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Right. Listen, this here... This is
dialog: my row. You'll have to sit over
dialog: there.
text: Korshunov trades looks with his news team.
scene_heading: EXT. MOSCOW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - NIGHT
text: The President's motorcade pulls up in front of Air Force
dialog: One.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: The President and his entourage ascend from the lower deck
scene_heading: platform onto the main deck. COL. DANIEL AXELROD, Air Force
text: One's pilot, snaps off a salute as he passes.
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
dialog: Welcome aboard, Mr. President.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (returns salute)
dialog: Hey Danny. How's it look tonight?
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
dialog: Glassy, sir. Care to take the wheel?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: You keep offering, one of these days
dialog: I'll take you up on it.
dialog: (to no one in
dialog: particular)
dialog: Rose and Alice back yet?
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: No, Mr. President. The ballet ran
text: late. Their ETA is seventeen minutes.
text: Marshall nods as he pulls off his bow tie and enters his
text: stateroom. Shepherd follows two steps behind.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Mr. President?
text: Marshall halts Shepherd with a gesture.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Thirty seconds.
text: Shepherd nods and waits by the door. Lt. Col. Perkins takes
text: a seat outside the Presidents stateroom and opens the latest
text: Tom Clancy thriller, using the nuclear football as a lap
dialog: desk.
scene_heading: INT. PRESIDENT'S STATEROOM - NIGHT
text: Marshall collapses on the couch, rubs his eyes, then closes
text: them. A moment of peace in a breakneck day.
text: The knock at the door jars him.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Yes.
text: Shepherd enters.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Can I at least issue a press release
dialog: objecting to the Speaker's choice of
dialog: wording?
text: President Marshall picks up one of the many phones in his
dialog: office.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I said it's not worth the fight.
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Steward, please.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: We'll just say it was in bad taste.
speaker_heading: * MARSHALL
dialog: Forget it, Shep. The kid gave his life for his country and
dialog: the
dialog: Speaker's a bastard for turning him into a sound bite. I'll
dialog: take the heat. Understood?
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: You give me ulcers.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: That's my job.
text: A STEWARD enters the room.
speaker_heading: STEWARD
dialog: Mr. President?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Hey Mike. Could you get me a
dialog: Heineken?
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: No, wait. Get him one of the Russian
dialog: beers.
text: The steward nods and disappears from the room.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: We've got those Russian news guys on
dialog: board and it'll look good in the
dialog: papers.
text: Marshall picks up a stack of policy reports. Thumbs through
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: C'mon Shep. I've been eating borscht
dialog: and drinking vodka for days. Isn't
dialog: that enough?
dialog: (off paper)
text: New home starts are down.
text: The steward arrives with the Russian beer. Marshall takes a
text: swig. He swallows hard. Piss-water. Marshall crosses to
text: his sink and pours the beer out. He hands the bottle to the
dialog: steward.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Fill this with Heineken.
text: The steward nods...
speaker_heading: STEWARD
dialog: Yes, Mr. President.
text: AND SLINKS AWAY WITH THE BOTTLE. MARSHALL CATCHES HIMSELF --
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I don't believe this. I'm playing
text: politics with a bottle of beer. A
dialog: goddamn bottle of beer. I've been
text: in office too long.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Look on the bright side... if the
dialog: polls don't change, you won't have
dialog: that problem, sir.
text: Marshall picks up the phone again.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Yeah. Put the Duke game on in my
dialog: room.
scene_heading: INT. AFO'S MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - NIGHT
text: THREE Air Force SPECIALISTS man the elaborate communication
text: system occupying much of the upper deck. Top-of-the-line
text: computers, communication systems, video decks, and satellite
dialog: receivers.
scene_heading: AIR FORCE SPECIALIST
dialog: Yes, Mr. President.
text: He slides in a videotape and channels the feed to the *
text: president's stateroom.
scene_heading: INT. PRESIDENT'S STATEROOM - NIGHT
text: A monitor comes to life with a basketball game.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (to Shepherd)
dialog: Defense and State Department in the
dialog: conference room in one hour. I want
dialog: to review the Iraq situation.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Yes, sir.
text: Shepherd exits as Marshall settles into his leather chair
text: and dives into work. He punches a button on the speakerphone.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Get me the Housing Secretary...
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: The Marine Guards snap to attention once again as the First
text: Lady's motorcade arrives.
text: ROSE MARSHALL, a self-assured woman with an aristocratic
text: gleam, alights from her limo. She takes a few steps, then
text: turns, tapping her foot impatiently.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: C'mon Alice, we're 20 minutes late.
dialog: Your father's gonna have a fit.
text: ALICE, the President's 13-year-old daughter, straggles out
text: of the car, rolling her eyes.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's not like he hasn't made us wait
dialog: a few times.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Well, you aren't the President, dear.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah, no duh.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN DECK, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: As the First Lady's entourage enters.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Why don't you go say hi?
text: Again, Alice rolls her eyes.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What is wrong with you tonight?
dialog: Come here.
text: Rose pulls Alice aside.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You don't want to say hi to your
dialog: father?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm sure he's busy.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Don't you even want to ask?
text: Alice toes her foot into the carpet as she releases an
text: exasperated sigh. She is, in this moment, the patron saint
text: of know-it-all 13-year-old girls. Alice waves toward the
dialog: Presidential Suite.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: If I go over there to say hi to daddy
dialog: President, Mike's going to tell me
dialog: he's in a meeting and can't be
text: disturbed. Then when the plane starts
dialog: to taxi, he'll come out and say "Hey,
dialog: are you guys back? Did you enjoy
dialog: the ballet?" But he'll be on his
dialog: way to another meeting and won't
dialog: wait for an answer. Then you'll get
dialog: pissed at him and he'll get pissed
dialog: at you. It's like you guys rehearse
dialog: or something.
text: With the weight of the entire world on her shoulders, Alice
text: Collapses into one of the many leather chairs. It seems to
text: swallow her. JORY, a steward passes.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Hey Joey, how `bout a cocoa, double
dialog: whip cream.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Alice...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mom, just this once, give it a rest.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You're jet-lagged. We'll talk about
dialog: this back...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Back at The Fishbowl?
text: Alice eyes the swirl of Aides who are pretending to work
dialog: nearby.
text: But it's obvious that they're eavesdropping. Alice smiles
text: and waves at them dramatically.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: We'll talk at home.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You know, most girls aren't as lucky
dialog: as you. For most girls seeing the
dialog: Bolshoi ballet would be the experience
dialog: of a lifetime.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I know, Mom.
text: (sees the hurt in her
text: mom's eyes and softens)
dialog: It was great... really.
text: Rose nods, smiling a half-smile. After a thoughtful beat,
text: Alice gets up and crosses to the Presidential suite. She
text: exchanges words with the Aide standing outside the door and
text: comes back, covering her disappointment.
speaker_heading: ALICE
text: He's in a meeting. He can't be
dialog: disturbed.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I'm sorry, honey.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No, it's okay. After all, he is the
dialog: President, right?
text: Joey the steward hands her her cocoa with a wink and a smile.
text: Her eyes light up at the mound of whip cream on top.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: When I write my memoirs I think I'll
dialog: devote an entire chapter to the cocoa
text: aboard Air Force One.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Your father never means to be so...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I know...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But lotsa times I feel like it's me
dialog: versus the world. Some kid at school
dialog: teases me and the same day a plague
dialog: breaks out in Bangladesh. I mean it
dialog: doesn't take a genius to figure which
dialog: is more important.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Some kids were teasing you?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's not really the point.
text: A quiet pause, then...
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You're right and I'll tell you a
dialog: secret. I know exactly how you feel.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Big secret. You said the same thing
dialog: to Newsweek.
text: The plane jolts forward as it begins to taxi.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We're taxiing. Ready. And... five...
dialog: four... three.. two... one... Cue
dialog: Daddy.
text: Alice points. And as if on cue, Marshall exits from his
text: office and checks his watch.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oooooh, I'm good.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Hey, you guys back already?
text: Alice nods.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: How was...
dialog: (thinks, then remembers)
dialog: ...the ballet?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (theatrically)
dialog: It was the experience of a lifetime.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: How `bout a hug for the old man.
text: Alice rises and hugs her father. A White House PHOTOGRAPHER
text: snaps off a few shots for the papers. Alice makes a face at
text: them. A second later, Shepherd comes up the corridor,
text: breaking up the pair.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Mr. President... they're ready for
dialog: you in the conference room.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Okay. Hey, pumpkin, you'll tell me
dialog: all about it later, right?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Sure.
text: As Marshall moves toward the conference room, he bends and
text: gives Rose a quick peck on the cheek. It all reeks of
dialog: formality.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: May I speak to you for a moment?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Can't it wait?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: No, Mr. President. It can't.
scene_heading: INT. PRESIDENT'S OFFICE.
text: Rose shuts the door behind them. As she starts to speak,
text: Marshall pulls her into a long passionate kiss. Rose pulls
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Don't. I know spin control when I
dialog: feel it.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Rose, I don't have time for this.
dialog: I've gotta go stop a war.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: For godsakes, Jim, slow down and
dialog: stop acting like the little dutch
dialog: boy. Not even you can plug all the
dialog: world's leaks. Don't you think it's
dialog: a sign you're pushing too hard when
dialog: your daughter sees more of you on
dialog: MTV news than in person.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: She's a big girl. She understands.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: How do you know she understands?
dialog: You haven't spent more than five
dialog: minutes with her, or me, in weeks.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: And when have I had five minutes?
dialog: When I wake up in the morning and
dialog: I'm already three hours behind
dialog: Schedule. What do you want me to
dialog: do, Rose, tell the G7 to fuck off
dialog: because I'm a family man?
speaker_heading: (BEAT)
dialog: I'm sorry. That wasn't fair.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: No. It wasn't.
text: He takes her in his arms.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: You know what?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I miss you. And I miss her.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: But that's the point, Jim. We're
dialog: right here.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I wish it were that easy...
text: Long beat. He smiles at her, it's the same sweet smile that
dialog: won her heart, the same smile that got him elected. She
text: softens.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I'll make it up to you, I promise.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I should trust that promise? Because
dialog: you know the voters are still waiting
dialog: for that middle class tax cut.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: This promise isn't subject to
dialog: Congressional approval.
text: She smiles. The tension breaks.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: How did your speech go?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Well, they aren't burning me in
dialog: effigy. That's always a good sign.
text: They kiss again, this time for real. But... a knock on the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD (0.5.)
dialog: Mr. President.
text: Shepherd opens the door.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Look on the bright side, hon. Shep
dialog: here thinks I'll be a one termer.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Shall I ask the Chief of Staff to
dialog: schedule your daughter in?
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
text: She is scheduled. Her school play's
dialog: Tuesday night.
text: Rose rolls her eyes.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: The First Lady was making a joke,
dialog: Shep. I'll make some time, Rose. I
dialog: promise.
text: Marshall heads for his meeting.
scene_heading: EXT. COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Col. Axelrod and his co-pilot LT. COL. ARTHUR INGRAHAMS are
text: at the wheel.
speaker_heading: RUSSIAN AIR TRAFFIC (V.0)
speaker_heading: (THICK ACCENT)
dialog: United States Air Force One, this is
dialog: tower. It's an honor to clear you
dialog: for immediate take-off on runway
dialog: three.
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
dialog: Roger, Tower. And thank you for the
dialog: hospitality.
text: Axeirod eases up the throttle and the four GE-F103 Turbofan
text: engines spring to life.
scene_heading: EXT. RUNWAY - NIGHT
text: A picture perfect take-off as Air Force One slides through
text: the moonlight and skates upward on a sheet of air.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE, FLYING - AN HOUR LATER
text: Airborne in the midnight sky.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, GALLEY - NIGHT
text: Aircraft engines drone.
text: CLOSE ON - A coffee pot pouring piping joe into a mug
text: emblazoned with ubiguitou Presidential Seal. The mug is placed
text: on a tray with a half-dozen other mugs and passed to a STEW.
text: He carries the tray down the corridor past passenger cabins.
text: Drowsiness has overtaken the plane. Many of the passengers
text: and aides are asleep. CNN plays On T.V. sets, entertaining
text: the few night owls and news junkies.
speaker_heading: CNN REPORTER (T.V.)
text: In an unusually aggressive speech,
dialog: the President characterized the
dialog: Stravanavitch regime as thugs whose
dialog: brutality will no longer be tolerated.
dialog: Meanwhile, in Turkmenistan,
text: Stravanavitch's ouster has sent the
text: country into turmoil. Tens of
dialog: thousands of refugees continue to
text: huddle in U.N. safe havens, as rival
text: Stravanavitch loyalists fight among
dialog: themselves for control. But at least
dialog: for the time being, the ethnic
text: cleansing has been stopped.
text: Toward the front of the plane, the steward enters the
dialog: conference room.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
text: As the steward closes the door behind him, all background
text: noise disappears. We are in a sound shielded room. Even the
text: engines' drone cannot be heard.
text: The lights in the room are dim as MAJOR CALDWELL, a military
dialog: advisor, projects satellite photos of Iraqi military bases
text: onto a screen.
text: The steward serves coffee as unobtrusively as he can while
text: the meeting continues.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Our KH-ll's took this one at 0100
dialog: hours. What you see here is the
dialog: mobilization of two mechanized
dialog: brigades.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: They've gotta be joking.
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: The Iraqi ambassador is claiming
dialog: it's just an exercise.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: An exercise in futility. Send the
text: Nimitz back in.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: The northern border's gotten a bit
text: hairy. Their MiGs are playing tag
dialog: with our Tomcats and our boys are
text: just itching to engage.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Tell our boys to cool their jets. I
dialog: don't need `em creating policy for
dialog: me.
text: We follow the steward as he slips out of the conference room
dialog: and back into the...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: with a few coffees left on his tray. One of them is scooped
text: up by Gibbs as he passes, his nose is buried in a fax.
scene_heading: INT. SECRET SERVICE CABIN - NIGHT
text: Gibbs leans in the cabin.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Hey Walters, you and Johnson come
dialog: here a second. Reykjavik just sent
dialog: the advance team report.
text: Special Agents Walters and JOHNSON rise and follow Gibbs
text: into an adjoining office.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Gibbs closes the door behind the two agents. As Walters and
text: Johnson take their seats, Gibbs WITHDRAWS HIS WEAPON and...
text: SHOOTS each of the agents in THE BACK OF THE HEAD.
text: Silenced pistol. Blood all over the desk. Gibbs removes each
text: of the agent's weapons and slips them into his waistband. He
text: waits a few beats, takes a long sip of coffee, then exits
dialog: the office.
scene_heading: INT. SECRET SERVICE CABIN - NIGHT
text: As he passes through the cabin he takes a silent inventory.
text: Five other agents working, sleeping, on the phone.
scene_heading: INT. PRESS CABIN - NIGHT
text: Gibbs nods to Korshunov. Korshunov nods one of his men.
text: NEVSKY removes one of his videotapes, pops the front cover
text: exposing the tape. Across the face of the tape is a thin
text: strip of a rubbery substance. Nevsky pulls the strip up and
text: out, making a kind of fuse. He reaches for a pack of
text: matches... courtesy matches, sporting the Seal of the
dialog: President.
text: Nevsky nods and lights the fuse.
scene_heading: IN A RAPID SUCCESSION -
text: GIBBS tosses his two extra weapons to Korshunov's men, pivots
text: the corner and begins firing at his colleagues. The SECRET
text: SERVICE AGENTS try to get at their weapons, but Gibbs has
text: caught them completely off-guard.
text: Several silenced central nervous system shots (head and neck)
text: and the five agents slump back, their red blood cascading
text: down the creases of the fine Corinthian leather chairs.
text: Nevsky tosses the cassette up the corridor... smoke pours
text: out of it. Smoke screen.
text: BAZYLEV and ZEDECK catch the guns Gibbs tossed and hold them
text: on the reporters.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: UP! GET UP NOW!
text: Bazylev grabs the stunned reporters, yanking them into the
dialog: aisle.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Walk in front of us. Go! Go! Go!
text: Human shields. A half dozen of them.
text: Behind the terrorists, one of the bathroom doors swings open.
text: A SECRET SERVICE AGENT emerges. Sees what's happening. Reaches
text: for his gun. ZEDECK fells him with a well placed unsilenced
text: GUN SHOT. SCREAMS ensue...
scene_heading: INT. FORWARD CABIN - NIGHT
text: A sleeping SECRET SERVICE AGENT bolts upright. HEARS MORE
speaker_heading: SHOTS.
text: He springs up and moves toward the gunshots, his weapon drawn.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
text: SHOTS FIRED! SECURE BOY SCOUT!
dialog: (screaming out and
text: into his lapel mike)
text: SHOTS FIRED! SHOTS FIRED!
scene_heading: INT. SECRET SERVICE CABIN - NIGHT
text: Bazylev and Zedeck lay down a suppressing fire outside the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Come on! Quickly.
text: Korshunov, Nevsky and VLAD follow Gibbs into the Secret
text: Service office. Gibbs opens a locker and pulls out a stash
text: of MP5 automatic assault rifles and bullet-proof vests.
text: Korshunov raises his bushy eyebrows in delight.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: The Secret Service believes in being
dialog: prepared for any eventuality.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: The Secret Service agent fights his way through the smoke to
text: a wall panel. Punches a red buttoned intercom.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE'S FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: A red light on the security panel lights up...
speaker_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT (V.0.)
dialog: We have a code red, I repeat, code
text: red. Shots fired onboard.
scene_heading: Cot. AXELROD Cabin/Flight Deck: Code Red Acknowledged...
dialog: Shit.
scene_heading: LT. CCL. INGRAHAMS
dialog: (into headset
dialog: microphone)
dialog: Warsaw tower this is Air Force One.
dialog: Declaring Emergency.
text: Axelrod toggles his headset to secure line.
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
dialog: Ranstein Air Base, this is Air Force
dialog: One Heavy. We have a code red. Shots
text: fired onboard, request priority
dialog: redirect. Please acknowledge.
scene_heading: INT. RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, AIR TRAFFIC CONTHOL TOWER - NIGHT
scene_heading: SUPER - "RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, GERMANY"
text: Hunched over a control terminal, the AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER
text: tracks Air Force One's radar image.
scene_heading: RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
dialog: Fuck me. GO WAKE THE GENERAL. NOW!
text: The WATCH OFFICER springs into action, picking up a phone.
scene_heading: RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
text: Air Force One Heavy, acknowledged.
dialog: You are on our scope. Please state
text: fuel remaining and souls onboard.
speaker_heading: COL. AXELROD (RADIO)
dialog: Sixty seven souls onboard, we're
dialog: okay with fuel. Request secure
dialog: military escort with emergency medical
text: standing by.
scene_heading: RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
text: Air Force One Heavy, acknowledged.
dialog: We are scrambling our fighters.
text: The controller hits a red button on his console. Sirens flare
text: up and klaxons wail across the base.
text: The controller looks down to his runways. In the light of
text: the moon he sees a half-dozen men rushing toward F-15 Eagles.
scene_heading: RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLLR
dialog: Call Berlin Tower. Not a plane lands
dialog: or takes off within two hundred miles!
dialog: Understood?
text: The once sleepy midnight control room cranks into full crisis
dialog: mode.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Pandemonium. GUNFIRE pops in the b.g. Air Force Specialists
dialog: try to get the word out.
scene_heading: AIR FORCE SPECIALIST
scene_heading: A.F. SPECIALIST #2
dialog: General Greely? No sir, Interrupt her. This is this
dialog: is Air Force One. We Air Force One with an have a
text: code red. Shots emergency call. have been fired.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
text: The conference room door bursts open and TWO SECRET SERVICE
text: AGENTS, weapons drawn, enter the room and run to Marshall.
text: The once quiet room floods with light. The sounds of a
text: gunfight and a blanket of smoke sweeps into the cabin.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: What's going on?
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: We're under attack.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Where's my family?
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: We're handling it, sir.
text: The agents lift Marshall to his feet, and practically carry
text: him from the room, leaving the other high ranking officials
text: to scramble for themselves in a cacophony of shouts.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: The launch codes! Who's protecting
dialog: the football?
scene_heading: FORWARD CORRIDOR -
text: Perkins, carrying the nuclear football, ducks and weaves his
text: way down the corridor into the fray. He takes a bullet to
text: the shoulder, which fells him.
scene_heading: NEAR THE FORWARD GALLEY -
text: Alice is nearly trampled by agents responding to the gunfire.
text: One agent grabs her and shoves her into a bathroom.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: Don't open the door!
text: GUNFIRE pops all around her.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, REAR CABINS - NIGHT
text: Smoke, automatic weapons fire. Secret service agents battling
text: the terrorists. Aides, diplomats, crew and personnel caught
text: in the crossfire.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: Down! Everybody down.
text: A spray of weapons fire overhead and everyone hits the floor.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
text: STAY DOWN, PLACE YOUR HANDS BEHIND
dialog: YOUR HEAD AND YOU WILL NOT BE SHOT!
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
scene_heading: RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER (RADIO)
dialog: Air Force One Heavy, you are cleared for priority divert,
text: all runways are clear.
scene_heading: LT. COL. INGRAHAMS
dialog: Warsaw Tower has cleared local
text: airspace.
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
text: Changing course heading to 276 point
dialog: five. Dropping to twenty thousand
dialog: feet.
text: Shots can be heard outside.
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
dialog: Ingrahams, make sure that door's
dialog: locked.
scene_heading: LT. COL. INGRAHAMS
dialog: Yes sir.
text: Ingrahams locks the cockpit door.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Air Force One banks into a curve and descends through broken
text: clouds.
scene_heading: INT. PRESIDENTIAL STATEROOM - NIGHT
text: The sounds of gunfire have reached the the nose of the plane.
text: Rose peers out to see what's the matter. An armed Secret
text: Service agent runs toward her.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: Get back! Get back!
text: A spray of bullets mows him down. He collapses in the door
text: frame. Terrified, Rose tries to close the door, but the dead
text: agent is in the way.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: Filled with smoke and gunfire. The agents rush the President
text: behind a forward bulkhead.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: We have Boy Scout, traveling forward.
speaker_heading: VOICE (OVER MIKE)
dialog: Negative... negative... they're up
dialog: here too.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: Roger. We're going to the chute.
text: Marshall looks up the hallway toward his stateroom.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (calling out)
scene_heading: ROSE! ALICE!
scene_heading: DOWN THE CORRIDOR -
text: Gibbs fires.
text: HITS - One of the Secret Service agents in the shoulder.
text: Blood blossoms through his clothes but he winces it off.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: Come on, sir.
text: The Secret Service agents whisk the President to the front
text: stairwell. They pull up a floor panel, revealing stairs
text: descending toward the baggage deck.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM -
text: Alice, huddled atop the commode.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL (O.S.)
dialog: Alice!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Daddy...
text: Alice opens the door and rushes...
text: INTO THE CORRIDOR...
text: Tripping and falling over Joey, the steward. His dead eyes
text: swim in a pool of blood that was his face. Alice screams,
text: scrambling to her feet.
scene_heading: MID-PLANE CORRIDOR -
text: Perkins manages to push himself to his feet and stumbles
text: down the hall into the computer room. Terrorist SERGE spots
text: the nuclear football dangling from his wrist. He pursues.
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT
text: Hysterical SECRETARIES feverishly dump classified documents
text: into a shredder, while Perkins struggles to open the black
text: leather briefcase handcuffed to his wrist.
text: Bullets tear up the doorknob lock arid SERGE kicks in the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: SERGE
dialog: Down! Everyone down!
text: The Fawn Halls hit the floor as gunfire sprays overhead. But
text: Perkins swings around brandishing his sidearm. He opens fire
text: on Serge, but the bullets smack harmlessly against the SWAT
dialog: vest.
text: Serge returns fire, ripping up Perkins who collapses over
text: the shredder, and with his last bit of strength, he dumps
text: out the briefcase.
text: Papers containing NUCLE WAR STRATEGIES and MISSILE LAUNCH
text: CODES slide into the hungry Shredding machine. Perkins manages
text: a slight smile before he keels over dead, his duty fulfilled.
text: The shredded remains of the nuclear football rain over his
text: head like tickertape at a hero's parade.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The pale moon catches shiny streaks of metal that descend
text: through the broken clouds. The Squadron of F-15 Eagles drops
text: into formation around Air Force One.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Gun shots right Outside the cockpit door.
speaker_heading: COT. CARLTON (RADIO)
dialog: Air Force One, this is Squadron
dialog: Commander Canton. You are now under
text: escort. All airspace has been cleared.
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
dialog: This is Air Force One Heavy. I'm
text: coming in full throttle. ETA to
dialog: Ranstein eight minutes. We've got a
dialog: war here, sir.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT F-LB EAGLE - NIGHT
text: Encased in a helmet, mask, and visor, Carlton watches the
text: flashes of gunfire in the dark windows of the plane.
text: COt. CARLTON Copy. Delta Force has been mobilized.
speaker_heading: COT. AXELROD (V.0.)
dialog: Roger that.
scene_heading: INT. LOWER DECK OF AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Beneath the main cabin, the Secret Service agents run the
text: President through the forward baggage compartment and the
text: lower galley: a large room with compartments, storage freezers
text: and food preperation tables.
text: On the far side of the galley, the agents fling open a
text: hatchway and enter...
text: A NARROW GANGWAY - running between the lower galley and the
text: rear baggage hold, flanked on either side by the landing
dialog: gear bays.
text: They duck under wing supports until they come to a mesh
text: grating.
text: The uninjured agent lifts the grating revealing an ESCAPE
dialog: POD.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: Get in!
text: Marshall freezes.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: Get in, sir.
text: A second later gunfire rips Up the agent's face. The new
text: volley sends Marshall under the cover of a wing strut. The
text: second agent takes Position and returns fire. He quells the
text: incoming volley for a moment.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: What about my family?
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT #
dialog: I have a family, too, sir. Now get
dialog: in the fucking pod.
text: The firing begins again. Marshall struggles with the decision.
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT #
dialog: Mr. President... MR. PRESIDENT! You
dialog: have to do this! The pod, on three.
dialog: Ready?
text: The agent shoves in a fresh clip...
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: One.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: But...
scene_heading: SECRET SERVICE AGENT
dialog: (cutting him off)
text: Two... THREE. GO!
text: The agent combat-rolls into the open and fires. He advances
text: down the gangway acting as a shield for the president,
text: shooting blindly. Marshall watches as he's hit repeatedly,
text: but it gives him the time he needs to dive for the pod.
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - VLAD AND NEVSKY
text: behind the bulkhead. When the agent drops, Nevsky and Viad
text: rush down the gangway. They arrive at the closed pod just as
text: it begins to slide on its rails. They let loose dozens of
text: rounds from their MP55, but the bullets just plink off.
text: The pod-lock doors slide shut. The President is on his way
dialog: to safety.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Small bay doors open in the belly of Air Force One, and a
text: human sized cannister drops from the bottom, its parachute
text: Opening instantly.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: A light flashes On the panel.
scene_heading: COT. AXELROD
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: Ramstein/Air Force One: Emergency
dialog: pod has been deployed. I repeat,
text: emergency pod has been deployed.
scene_heading: RANSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
dialog: This is Ramstein. Acknowledged. We
text: are picking up the homing beacon and
text: deploying search and rescue.
scene_heading: COT. AXELROD
dialog: Copy Ramstein. We are dropping to
text: five thousand feet, beginning final
dialog: approach.
scene_heading: INT. BAGGAGE DECK GANGWAY - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ALICE (O.S.)
dialog: Daddy? Dad?
text: Her voice comes closer, filled with choking fear and panic.
text: She rounds the corner and Nevsky catches her hair with a
text: vice-tight grip shoving his MP5 into the small of her back.
speaker_heading: NEVSKY
dialog: Your father has left you behind.
scene_heading: INT. PRESIDENTIAL STATEROOM - NIGHT
text: Korshunov kicks open the door.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: NO!
text: Gunfire from ROSE, who holds the dead secret service agent's
text: weapon. She empties the clip at the doorway. Click, click.
text: No more bullets. Korshunov steps into the room, brandishing
text: his automatic, smiling. Rose backs against the wall and raises
text: her hands.
scene_heading: EXT. WHITE HOUSE LAWN - DAY
text: A Marine helicopte touches down on the greenway. Marines
text: salute and escort KATHERINE CHANDLER from the chopper'
text: interior to the South entrance of the White House. She is
text: the VICE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, MISSION COMNUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Zedeck steps over the three dead Communications Specialists,
text: on his way to the cockpit door. Tries the door. It's locked.
text: He pounds on it.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: Open! Now!
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Through the cockpit window, the glowing landing lights of
text: Ramstein Base are visible in the distance, cutting a wedge
text: through the German towns and fields.
text: Zedeck's pounding continues.
scene_heading: COT. AXELROD
dialog: Ramatein, we are fifteen miles away
dialog: on final approach. I'm coming in
dialog: fast and will need every inch of
dialog: runway.
speaker_heading: RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER (V.0.)
text: Copy, Air Force One. Wind is twelve knots from the east.
text: Tactical and emergency are in position.
scene_heading: EXT. RANSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT
text: Rescue vehicle sirens gyre in the darkness. A team of black-
text: faced commandos unload from troop truck. Snipers take position
text: atop rescue vehicles, barracks, and the control tower.
text: High-powered rifles with infra-red scopes.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Zedeck aims his MP5 at the flight door. Fires off a dozen
text: rounds. Nickel sized indentations blossom across the steel
dialog: surface.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Dull thuds of bullet impacts.
scene_heading: COT. AXELROD
dialog: Let's get this crate on the ground.
dialog: They're some real good men waiting to help us.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: The plane sprouts landing gear as it descends over the city.
text: Coming in fast and low.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Gibbs shoves Zedeck aside. Produces a thumb-sized amount of
dialog: C-4.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Final approach... the landing strip not far at all.
scene_heading: COL. AXELROD
text: Almost there.
text: He raises his flaps. Air speed and altitude drop.
scene_heading: EXT. RAPISTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT
text: Spotters find Air Force One's navigation lights visible in
text: the sky, descending from the distant darkness. Followed by
text: the cluster of F-lSs.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Gibbs rolls out the C-4 like a kid making a snake in pottery
text: class. He presses it along the door seal.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Altitude decreasing. 300 feet... 200 hundred feet...
text: The runway coming up to meet them.
scene_heading: EXT. RAMSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT
text: As the entire airbase collectively holds its breath. Air
text: Force One's tires hover 50 feet above the ground... 40 feet...
dialog: 30...
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Gibbs raises his pistol. Aims at the C-4. Fires. BAM!
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: A BLINDING FLASH. The door blows in.
scene_heading: EXT. RANSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT
text: The wheels touchdown.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Gibbs and Zedeck storm the cockpit.
scene_heading: RNT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Axeirod gropes at the plane's controls, trying to retain the
text: wheel. Gibbs dispatches Axeirod with one shot. Zedek is a
text: little messier with Ingrahams. But both pilot and co-pilot
text: slump over their controls.
scene_heading: EXT. RANSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT
text: The taxiing Boeing 747 suddenly veers to the right cutting
text: across runways. Emergency vehicles give chase.
text: The plane bounces. Is airborne for a second. Touches down
text: again with a jolt.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Terrorists lead hostages to the conference room. Everyone is
text: bounced around, slamming against walls, spilling over chairs.
text: A MASTER SERGEANT seizes the opportunity and grabs for
text: Bazylev's gun, but Bazylev shoots him almost point blank.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Keep moving!
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Chaos. Gibbs tries to pull Axelrod off the controls.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Throttle up. Throttle up!
text: Zedek slams the throttle all the wa up. Spotlights and sirens
text: swirl outside the cockpit window.
scene_heading: EXT. RMMSTEIN FIELD - NIGHT
text: The Flying White House careens toward the barracks, then
text: edges toward a hangar. The jet engines strain to reach full
dialog: power.
scene_heading: INT. RAMSTEIN CONTROL TOWER - NIGHT
text: The controller stares down at the out-of-control plane.
scene_heading: RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
dialog: Aw Fuck. We're losing it!
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Gibbs pulls Axeirod's body out of the pilot's seat. Looks
text: out the cockpit window and sees...
speaker_heading: A C-141 STARLIFTER
text: in his path. A monstrous plane, every
text: bit as big as Air Force One. Gibbs
text: eases back on the wheel and the 747
text: sluggishly responds, its nose creeping
dialog: upward.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Come on.
text: Adjusts the flaps...
scene_heading: EXT. RAMSTEIN AIRFIELD - NIGHT
text: Air Force One closes in on the Starlifter. She's struggling
dialog: off
text: the ground like some injured bird. The straining metal defies
dialog: gravity.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: Gibbs senses that he's too close. He pulls way back on the
text: stick, risks stalling her out... but the bird responds.
scene_heading: EXT. RAMSTEIN FIELD - NIGHT
text: Air Force One barely clears the Starlifter, the edge of her
text: wing just missing the top of the C-141's tail.
text: The sharpshooters, the emergency crews, the commandos from
text: Delta Force... Nothing they can do but watch her rise out.
dialog: of sight.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - LATER
text: Gibbs and Zedeck. Gibbs checks over all the instruments.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Okay, 30,000 feet. Give me my heading.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
text: Bearing 110 point eight two.
text: Gibbs banks the plane into a curve, then activates the auto-
dialog: pilot.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Call me if something changes.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: That's it?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: To fly a 747 you need to know three
dialog: things. How to take of f, how to
text: land, and how to engage the autopilot.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS--
text: The terrorists, from every corner of the plane, lead the
text: stunned survivors, hands on heads, to the central conference
dialog: room.
text: As Korshunov walks Rose up the corridor, he meets up with
text: Gibbs, descending from the upper deck.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: The rest of the secret service?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Dead.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: How many others killed?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Nine.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Any of us?
text: Gibbs touches his bulletproof vest.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: No damages.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Where's my daughter?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: She's alive, ma'am, for the time
dialog: being.
text: Rose allows herself a half-sob of relief.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: And my husband?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: The secret service did their job,
text: ma'am. The President is safely off
dialog: the plane.
dialog: (to Korshunov)
dialog: But that still leaves us plenty to
dialog: bargain with.
text: Eyes filled with hatred... Rose SLAPS Gibbs face.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Mr. Gibbs. You, of all people...
text: Gibbs doesn't react.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Follow me, ma'am.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY
text: High-tech maps and communications systems line the walls,
text: surrounding an austere main conference table. Laptop computers
text: and secure telephones by every seat. Side tables. Tele-type
text: machines spitting out classified information.
text: VICE PRESIDENT CHANDLER analyzes the projected course of Air
text: Force One on the tactical vid-map.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: We should have the President secure
dialog: within minutes. Do we know who these
dialog: terrorists are or where they're going?
text: GENERAL NORTHWOOD, head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff...
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: General Greely says it looks like
dialog: the Middle East.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Does your office have anything to
dialog: add, Mr. Dean?
text: National Security Advisor WALTER DEAN leans forward.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: The garners believe that, given the
dialog: scenario, there's an 86% chance that
dialog: we'll be dealing with a hostage situation and not an
text: assassination attempt. Not much else until there's more data.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: If we're dealing with an airborne
dialog: hostage situation what's our
dialog: procedure?
text: The Under-Secretary of Defense, THOMAS LEE, punches up a
text: scenario on the lap-top.
speaker_heading: LEE
dialog: Our only policy assumes the plane is
text: on the ground. Our hands are
text: completely tied while they're in the
dialog: air.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Okay, Gentlemen, we'll take no action
dialog: until we confirm that the president
dialog: is off the plane... Lee, go huddle
dialog: with the D.O.D. I want an options
dialog: paper on this in 20 minutes.
speaker_heading: LEE
dialog: Twenty minutes?
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: You heard me.
dialog: (points to an aide)
dialog: You. Congress and cabinet heads.
text: The aide nods and picks up a telephone.
scene_heading: AIR FORCE COLONEL
dialog: Madame Vice-President?
text: Chandler turns toward the door. The Colonel enters the room,
text: holding a black briefcase identical to Perkins'.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Yes?
scene_heading: AIR FORCE COLONEL
dialog: National Command Authority. All
dialog: previous launch codes have been
dialog: cancelled. You're carrying the ball
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Thank you, Colonel. Have a seat.
scene_heading: EXT. GERMAN FARMLAND - NIGHT
text: A HUEY, flanked by a pair of APACHES, skims the surface of
text: wheat fields at maximum velocity.
scene_heading: INT. HUEY COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: The pilot checks his instruments. He's honing in on a signal.
scene_heading: EXT. GERMAN FARKD - NIGHT
text: The swirling spotlights of the Apaches finally illuminate
text: the Seal of the President atop the EMERGENCY DEPLOYMENT POD.
text: The Huey drops in for a landing and a half dozen Army Rangers
text: in full combat gear deploy to the pod. They open it.
dialog: But.........
text: IT'S EMPTY.
scene_heading: INT. BAGGAGE DECK GANGWAY - NIGHT
text: Bruised and battered, some blood smeared across his tuxedo
text: shirt... PRESIDENT JAMES MARSHALL lowers himself from one of
text: the overhead wing struts.
text: He emerges into the bowels of Air Force one.
text: He stands quietly a moment, listening... for footsteps, for
text: gunfire. All quiet except for the whine of the jet engines.
text: He tak9s a moment to think. Considers his situation. His
text: eyes find the dead agent who risked his life so he could
text: make it to the pod. He trots down the gangway toward the
text: lower galley.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Air Force One hovers atop billowy peaks. The smaller F-15s
text: cluster around her in a loose formation.
scene_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1 (0.5. RADIO)
dialog: Sir, isn't there something we can do besides escort?
speaker_heading: COL. CARLTON (O.S. RADIO)
dialog: Like what, son... shoot our own plane down?
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1
dialog: No sir. I just wish...
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Roger. We all wish... Now shut the
dialog: fuck up and escort.
scene_heading: INT. LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT
text: Marshall looks around for a weapon... half-full coffee pot,
text: stove, walk-in freezer, plates and silverware. Marshall picks
text: up a butcher knife.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Nevsky and Bazylev guard the conference room door as Korshunov
text: and Vlad enter. Nevsky hands Korshunov a copy of the plane's
dialog: manifest.
speaker_heading: NEVSKY
dialog: Every weapon and every person is
dialog: accounted for.
text: Korshunov nods and enters the room.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
text: Korshunov surveys the hostages. Viad covers them at gunpoint.
text: Rose holds Alice, comforting her. shepherd, Doherty, Aides,
text: Advisors, Crew... Fifty of them huddle like sardines.
text: The plane's doctor administers to the wounded.
text: Korshunov stares down his captives.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Fear will keep you alive. Any one
dialog: who is not afraid is bound to do
text: something foolish, and bound to die.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What do you want with us?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Cooperation. If you try to escape,
dialog: you will be met with automatic gunfire
dialog: and a barricade of your comrade's
dialog: bodies will prevent you from exiting.
dialog: Good day.
text: Korshunov exits, with Viad backing out behind him. Leaving
text: the hostages alone. The sound of the door locking.
text: A mournful beat. Everyone looks at each other and the dead
dialog: and wounded victims of this heinous act...
text: Hushed conversation breaks out all over the room.
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: This can't be happening. You just
dialog: don't pull this shit with the United
dialog: States. You just don't.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Keep your heads.
text: Caldwell paces, looks around the room.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Mrs. Marshall, are you okay?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: We're alive.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: That's all that matters. Thank god
dialog: the President got of f the plane.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Yes... thank God.
dialog: (to caldwell)
dialog: You there... Caidwell, right? What's
dialog: on your mind? caldwell takes a beat,
text: then crosses to Rose and Shepherd.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: (hushed)
dialog: I don't want to get anybody here
dialog: excited, but if we can get out of
dialog: this room, I can get us to safety.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: We're thirty five thousand feet up.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Yes, sir, that's a problem, but if
dialog: we can somehow get to a lower
text: altitude, the rear loading ramp on
text: the baggage deck is equipped with
dialog: parachutes in case of an engine
dialog: failure. Now we can either wait for
dialog: a political resolution, or try to
dialog: resolve this thing ourselves.
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: You're goddamn right we can resolve
dialog: this ourselves. We'll negotiate.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: You know the President's policy.
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: The President isn't here.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Right now we are an enormous liability
dialog: to the United States. We can't just
dialog: sit and do nothing.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: The terrorists move toward the nose of the plane leaving
text: Nevsky to guard the conference room.
scene_heading: INT. BAGGAGE HOLD - NIGHT
text: President Marshall reaches the front stairway. Cautiously
text: climbs to the main cabin. As he reaches the top stairs, he
text: hears Russian conversation approaching. He ducks back into
dialog: the stairwell.
text: He can't see them, but he can hear them.
text: The terrorists pass within a few feet as they ascend to the
text: Mission Communications Center on the upper deck.
text: Marshall waits a few beats, listens to the silence. Then re-
text: mounts the stairs and almost runs into the back of...
speaker_heading: VIAD
text: Standing guard, facing the opposite
dialog: direction.
text: Marshall FREEZES... looks past Viad down the corridor where
text: Nevsky guards the main conference room floor.
text: Unaware of Marshall, Viad reaches into his pocket and pulls
text: out a cigarette. Lights it. On the first puff he feels a
text: presence behind him.
text: VLAD slowly turns around...
dialog: Nothing there.
text: He smiles at his jittery nerves, turns back round.
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE -
text: Over Vlad's shoulder...
text: MARSHALL, flattened behind the edge of the galley divider.
text: He creeps away from Vlad toward the Presidential Suite...
text: stepping gingerly over dead secret service agents.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER -
text: * Korshunov pulls a handkerchef from his breast pocket
text: and wipes the blood from a telephone headset.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Proceed.
text: Gibbs works the communications board, dialing in a series of
text: numbers. Telephone ringing...
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY
text: A map of Air Force One's flight trajectory is displayed on
text: the rear screen. Moscow to Berlin and back toward the Black
dialog: Sea.
text: The assembled brass listens as Korshunov's voice slithers
text: off the speaker phone.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV (SPEAKER)
dialog: ...the Chief of Staff, the First
dialog: Lady, and the First Daughter. Our
dialog: demands are simple. Arrange the
dialog: release of Ivan Stravanvitch. Once
dialog: our leader is returned to Turkuenistan
dialog: soil, Air Force One and it's occupants
dialog: will be allowed safe passage to
dialog: Switzerland. You have one hour before
dialog: we start killing hostages.
text: The phone clicks off. A silent beat in the room.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Find that voice for me, I want to
dialog: know who we're dealing with. And get
text: President Petrov on the phone.
text: GENERAL CHARLES GREELY, head of the 87th Mechanized Air Wing,
text: the unit responsible for Air Force One, enters the room.
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: Madame Vice-President, we just got
dialog: word from Ramstein... The nod was
text: UntiL Chandler stands.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Empty?
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: The President... he must still be
text: onboard.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Play back that call.
speaker_heading: TECHNICAL OFFICER
dialog: Yes, sir.
text: The Tech Officer indexes back on his computer.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV (V.0. TAPE)
dialog: The plane is under our command, and
dialog: those we did not kill we hold as
dialog: hostages, including the Chief of
dialog: Staff, the First Lady, and the First
dialog: Daughter.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: but not the President. Not the
dialog: President.
text: A silent beat.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: He's dead then. They must have killed
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: We don't know that.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: Holding the president hostage is not
dialog: something that slips your mind when
dialog: you're making demands.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: And if he's dead? Do you really think
dialog: they'd risk telling us?
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: There is a possibility we're
dialog: overlooking.
text: All eyes turn to Dean.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: When I ran Specops in `Nam, I ordered
dialog: the destruction of a V.C. munitions
dialog: dump. During insertion, the plane
text: was shot down and the entire team
dialog: was killed, or so we thought. Two
dialog: days later the dump
scene_heading: BLEW AND A WEEK AFTER THAT, THIS 19-
text: year-old kid, the pilot... he walks out of the jungle in
text: pretty bad shape. He survived the crash and finished the
dialog: mission... alone.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: Walter, if you have a point, make
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: That kid's name was Jim Marshall.
dialog: Most of the President's service record makes for dull reading
dialog: because most of what he did iarLZ ULirn. History remembers
dialog: him for what he did aflar he got back to the states -- the
dialog: protests, the rallies -- But he was a soldier once, a damn
dialog: fine one.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: So what are you saying?
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: Maybe he's alive on that plane and
dialog: those bastards don't even know it.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Mr. Dean, may I remind you that the
dialog: President is not 19 anymore.
scene_heading: INT. PRESIDENT'S STATEROOM - NIGHT
text: Marshall cautiously enters the room. Ready for action.
text: The room is empty, but it's been trashed by the firefight.
text: The sound of voices... coming from the Duke game which still
text: plays. Marshall hustles over to one of the secure phones.
text: It's dead. He tries the regular phone. Dead. Hangs it up in
dialog: disgust.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Goddamnit.
text: He steps on some glass. It's a broken frame holding a
text: PHOTOGRAPH of Alice and Rose. He picks up the photo and lays
text: it on a table.
text: He thinks for a beat... glances around the room, searching...
text: Then he crosses to the closet, opens it and begins rifling
text: through his wardrobe.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.
text: Caldwell stands on the conference table. The hostages have
text: removed one of the ceiling panels. Air supply ducts and
text: bundles of wiring run through the ten-inch space between the
text: ceiling and the shielding plates.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: This is a dead end.
text: Rose looks around the room. Hopeless. Her eyes land on the
dialog: carpet...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR.
text: Marshall opens the stateroom door and slowly slides into the
dialog: corridor.
text: Vlad still faces the opposite direction.
text: Marshall creeps down the hallway, when...
dialog: Beep... Beep... Beep...
text: Marshall's watch alarm goes off.
text: Marshall dives for the nearest doorway. Vlad swings round to
text: see a figure slip into the senior staff cabin.
text: Vlad, unsure of what he saw., cautiously heads toward the
text: staff cabin. As he nears, he bends over a dead Secret Service
text: agent and pulls up the lifeless wrist revealing abeening
dialog: watch. It wasn't Marshall's after all. No matter. Vlad
text: continues to the staff Cabin.
scene_heading: INT. STAFF CABIN - NIGHT
text: Marshall frantically searches for something he can use as a
text: weapon. In the room: some video monitors, leather chairs and
text: phones. stainless steel cabinets run the length of one of
dialog: the walls.
text: Marshall throws the cabinet doors open, revealing...
text: A fully stocked MEDICAL CENTER... fold-down operating
text: table... high-intensity lights. Equipped to deal with any
dialog: medical emergency the president might encounter.
text: But too late. Vlad kicks the door open.
speaker_heading: VLAD
dialog: Get on the floor, now!
text: Marshall yanks down the operating table, and it smashes into
text: Vlad, knocking him down. Marshall lunges with his knife, but
text: Vlad OPENS FIRE. A HALF DOZEN ROUNDS pump into Marshall's
text: belly. He's thrown back against the wall, then slumps to the
dialog: floor.
text: Vlad approaches the crumpled body. Leans down to examine his
text: victim. He cups his hand under the man's chin and lifts his
text: head. Recognizes him.
speaker_heading: VIAD
dialog: (wonderment)
dialog: The President.
text: But Marshall's eyes flash open.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: That's right, asshole.
text: He springs, shoving the butcher knife under the flack jacket
text: and into Vlad's spleen. Vlad freezes, unsure of what just
dialog: happened.
text: Marshall is on his feet. Never letting go of the twisting
text: knife, he grabs Vlad by the back of the head and slams his
text: face against the mirror above the surgical scrub sink. The
text: mirror shatters and streams of blood erupt cn the terrorist's
text: face. The blood drips down into the white porcelain sink,
text: swirling into the drain.
text: Vlad elbows Marshall in the neck, stunning him momentarily.
text: He wipes the blood from his face, spins and hits Marshall
text: with a devastating right cross. Marshall reels back against
text: the wall, and Vlad follows, shoving the MP5 into Marshall's
text: throat. Marshall grabs the gun near the trigger...
speaker_heading: * VLAD
dialog: Don't move or I'll blow your head off.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I don't think so.
text: Marshall presses the saftey button on the gun with his
text: forefinger, then knees Vlad in the balls. Viad pulls the
text: trigger repeatedly as he goes down, but nothing happens.
text: Instead he comes up swinging his gun butt against Marshall's
text: face. Like a bat hitting a baseball, it knocks Marshall into
text: the medical closet. The gun goes flying, skittering
scene_heading: UNDERNEATH A CABINET.
text: Marshall pulls himself up the shelves trying to keep his
text: legs from buckling. Vlad grabs some I.V. tubing and wraps it
text: around Marshall's neck. Marshall struggles for breath, clawing
text: at the tube.
text: HE SPOTS A DEFIBRILLATOR, REACHES AND SWITCHES IT ON. LOW-
text: pitched hum and beeping.
text: Marshall pulls his head forward, straining against the plastic
text: tubing. Then slams back into Vlad's head. Viad releases his
dialog: grip just for a moment...
text: The beeping becomes a steady whine.
text: ... but a moment is all Marshall needs as he grabs the def
text: ib's CARDIAC PADDLES, turns, and SLAMS them on either side
text: of Vlad's head.
text: Vlad convulses from the shock for a full five seconds... his
text: eyeballs roll, his hair stands on end. then he collapses to
dialog: the floor.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Clear.
text: Marshall catches his breath for a moment. Pulls open his
text: shirt. Beneath it he wears a bulletproof Kevlar vest. He
text: lifts the vest and a half-dozen angry welts have blossomed
text: across his skin. The stuff may be bulletproof, but each of
text: Vlad's shots sting like a motherfucker.
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR.
text: Nevsky walks down the corridor. Sees that Vlad is away from
dialog: his post.
speaker_heading: NEVSKY
dialog: Viad?
scene_heading: * INT. STAFF CABIN.
text: Marshall opens the medical cabinets, rifling through them.
text: Pulls out hypodermics, adrenalin, rubbing alcohol... arming
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: NEVSKY (O.S.)
dialog: Vlad? Vlad?
scene_heading: EXT. CORRIDOR.
text: Nevsky works his way up the corridor, peeking in rooms.
text: As he enters the...
scene_heading: INT. STAFF CABIN.
text: he's blinded by the high intensity surgical lights.
text: Marshall cracks a tank of anesthesia across Nevsky's heu
text: Nevsky goes down.
text: Marshall rips Nevsky's MP5 off of him. Holds it to Nevsky's
dialog: throat.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Where are th*y? fly tamily, the
dialog: crew.... where are they?
text: Nevsky says nothing.
dialog: The conference room, right? Right?
text: Marshall jerks him to his feet.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: o'11 unlocli the door for me or I'll
dialog: kill you.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR -
text: Marshall walks flevsky toward the mj vonteronve room3 As
text: they pass the stairs to the upper deck, Nevsky breaks away.
speaker_heading: NEVSKY
speaker_heading: KORSKUNOV!
text: Marshall fires. Killing him.
speaker_heading: SHIT1
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR.
text: No time for remorse. Marshall tries the Main conference Room
text: door. Locked. He knows the others will be coming so he
text: flattens himself against the corridor wall. Trains his gun
text: on the stairs.
text: Just as the terrorists descend, Marshall squeezes off a few
text: rounds. The terrorists edge back up the steps, returning
dialog: fire.
text: Marshall checks his clip, not many bullets left. He fires
text: off a few more shots to buy some time then ducks round the
text: corner and pulls out the bottle of rubbing alcohol and some
dialog: gauze.
text: The terrorists seize the moment of quiet, descending the
text: stairs to take position.
text: Marshall lights the gauze fuse of his new made Molatov
text: cocktail and throws it down the corridor. The bottle crashes
text: into a BALL OF FLAME. Catching Bazylev on fire. He yells,
text: drops and rolls. FIRE SUPPRESSING FOAM immediately sprays
text: down from overhead.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Go after him.
text: Serge hops Bazylev's burning body and heads down the corridor,
text: looking for this new wildcard. Korshunov grabs a fire
text: extinguisher from the galley and attends to Bazylev.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, TOWARD THE REAR OF AIR FORCE ONE.
text: Marshall retreats behind a divider. Sees Serge coming. Fires
text: a few rounds, then retreats to the next divider. Working
text: toward the rear of the plane.
text: Serge picks his way through the rear cabins, advancing
dialog: cautiously.
scene_heading: INT. REAR GALLEY/BATHROOMS.
text: Marshall's out of plane. Nowhere to hide in the galley.
text: Marshall eyes the bathrooms, doors flapping.
text: FOLLOWING SERGE...
text: as he reaches the rear galley and bathrooms. Marshall is
text: nowhere to be seen. But the bathroom doors are all closed.
speaker_heading: SERGE
dialog: I know you're in there. Come on out.
dialog: (a few beats)
dialog: Okay. Have it your way.
text: Time for a deadly version of the shell game. serge fires
text: several rounds into the first closed bathroom door. The
text: bullets slice easily through the thin doors. He kicks the
text: riddled door open. The stall is empty.
text: Serge moves to the next one. Same procedure. It's empty.
text: Moves to the last bathroom, confident he's got him. He wails
text: with his MP5, turning the hatch into swiss cheese. Waits a
dialog: beat, then...
text: Kicks it in. It's empty too.
text: Serge looks around. Where the hell is this guy?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV (O.S.)
dialog: (calling down)
dialog: Serge?
text: Serge reluctantly returns to his group.
scene_heading: INT. LOWER GALLEY, BAGGAGE LEVEL -
text: Marshall tumbles out of the cramped galley dumbwaiter,
text: breathing heavy. He slumps against the bulkhead and slides
text: down to the ground.
text: He takes a moment to pull himself together, to clear his
text: head. He hefts the MP5, refamiliarizing himself with the
text: weight and texture of a gun. He checks the clip. Only a
text: handfull of rounds left. He slaps it back in and switches
text: from automatic fire to single-shot then pantomimes firing.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: The NRA'll love this.
text: Looking down the barrel of the gun, he notices bins loaded
dialog: with luggage.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - NIGWR
text: Stoli Petrov on the phone, behind his large oak desk.
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: I understand your dilemma, Vice
dialog: President Chandler. But unless you
dialog: can confirm that your President is
dialog: indeed a hostage, I cannot release
dialog: Stravanavitch. If Marshall is dead,
dialog: no good will come of meeting this
dialog: demand. We both know he would agree.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER (V.0. PHONE)
dialog: But the First Lady...
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: *.. is not a First Lady if her
dialog: husband's been killed. Then she's a
dialog: civilian. And I can't release him
dialog: for a civilian. Do you see my point?
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY
text: Each member of the crisis team is either on the phone or
text: huddled with staff. A secure fax machine spits out papers
text: which Lee slips into files.
text: Lee interrupts Chandler on the phone.
speaker_heading: LEE
dialog: Madame Vice president. We have an
dialog: options paper. chandler takes the
dialog: options paper, waves off Lee, and
text: reads it as she talks.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Yes. You've made yourself quite clear.
speaker_heading: PETROV (V.0.)
dialog: But I will deploy forces to a staging
text: area near the Turkmenistan border.
dialog: When you have more information, we
dialog: can decide how to proceed.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: By then I'll be President.
text: Chandler hangs up the phone.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: (of f options paper)
dialog: I don't like any of these. from, did
dialog: you brief General Northwood?
text: Northwood pops out of his huddle.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
text: I'M INCLINED TO TRY THIS PART -
text: Anticipate their landing site and get strike teams in place.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Can we do that?
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: We've got four hours before they
text: make it into Turkienistan airspace.
dialog: I've got a satellite passing overhead in twenty minutes. We
dialog: can narrow down the landing site choices based on runway
dialog: length and any unusual activity. With luck we'll only have
dialog: to capture three or four sites.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
text: But they start executing hostages in
scene_heading: FORTY FIVE MINUTES. -
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: I hate to be pragmatic, but they'll
text: sacrifice pawns before kings. It may
dialog: take them some time to kill their
text: way up to senior staff.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Okay. Also, I want you to put our
text: bases in Turkey on alert, and have
text: the Kitty Hawk prepare a retaliatory
dialog: air strike.
speaker_heading: * DEAN
dialog: Madame Vice-President...
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: I've not discounted your theory Hr.
dialog: Dean...
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: No... I got the new numbers from our
dialog: gamers. They believe that there's
dialog: only an eight percent chance that
text: the President is still alive.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Eight percent is better than zero.
dialog: Oh shit... what is that?
text: Chandler refers to a monitor in the rear of the room.
text: CNN, the omnipresent player on the world political stage,
text: broadcasts video from Ramstein Air Base.
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: That's trouble.
speaker_heading: CNN REPORTER (V.0. T.V.)
dialog: *.. the Presidential Aircraft was enroute from Moscow when
text: it began its mayday hail. But in a startling turn of events,
text: the seemingly out of control plane aborted its landing and
dialog: took off again. We haven't been able to confirm its status
dialog: or whether or not the first family was onboard at the time.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Would someone get the Press Secretary!
speaker_heading: AIDE
text: He's been holding on line four.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Air Force One, lit up by moonlight.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR.
text: The fire is extinguished. Zedeck squats over Nevsky's body.
text: Gibbs and Serge maintain a defensive position, guns ready.
text: Bazylev emerges from the Senior staff Conference room. He
text: shakes his head "no". Korshunov nods and furrows his brow.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Who did this?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: We checked the manifest. Everyone
dialog: was accounted for.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
text: A secret service agent. It must be.
text: Wounded but alive. Serge, Bazylev...
dialog: Find him.
text: Serge and Bazylev lock and load, head off in separate
dialog: directions.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
text: The conference room is no longer
dialog: secure. We'll take the First Lady
dialog: and the girl up top where we can
dialog: keep a closer eye on them.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM -
text: The hostages have torn up a section of carpeting. Caidwell
text: and Shepherd examine the floor. Smooth sheets of steel riveted
text: together. Pointless.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CAL DWELL
dialog: We're not getting out that way.
text: The door swings open and Gibbs and Korshunov enter. They
text: spots the ripped up carpeting.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Admirable, but you're wasting your
dialog: time.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Mrs. Marshall, would you and your
dialog: daughter please come here.
text: They don't move. Korshunov raises his gun, points it a
text: Shepherd's head.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Now, or he dies, please.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Come on, Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm scared.
text: Doherty steps forward. Shepherd tries to pull him back, to
dialog: no
dialog: * avail.
speaker_heading: DOHERTY
dialog: You've got the better part of the
dialog: White House locked in this room, you
dialog: know. If you want to negotiate, we're
dialog: the ones to do it with.
text: Korshunov SHOOTS Doherty through the head. Screams from some
text: of the hostages. Korshunov squeezes off a few shots to quiet
dialog: everyone.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Mrs. Marshall. Alice. If you please.
text: Rose turns to the other hostages.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: It's okay. Do what you're told. It's
dialog: okay. We'll be okay.
text: She locks eyes with Caldwell. HKeep working.N He nods.
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
text: The President hunts through luggage. Overturned garment bags
text: and suitcases around him, belongings littered all over the
text: bulkhead. He sifts through heaps of clothing and finally
text: recovers what he's been looking for...
text: A CELLULAR PHONE...
text: He flips it open, starts to dial... but freezes.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Goddamnit.
text: He can't remember the number. He dials...
scene_heading: CLOSE.ON PHONE -555-1212... Information.
text: The phone rings...
scene_heading: INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE HOLD.
text: Bazylev, moving like a commando, slowly and methodically
text: works his way into the lower galley.
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
text: Marshall. Finally, the phone picks up.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S. PHONE)
dialog: Information. How can I assist you?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Washington D.C.?
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Yes, sir. Can I help you?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Yes, the number for the White House.
scene_heading: INT. PILOT'S REST AREA - NIGHT
text: The rest area consists of a couple of bunks behind the
text: cockpit area, still soiled black from the earlier C-4
text: explosion. Korshunov pours a cup of coffee and offers it to
dialog: Alice.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't drink coffee.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You must be tired. It'll wake you
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No, thank you. The gunfire did that.
text: Gibbs wraps Rose's hands behind her back with duct tape.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Leave my daughter alone.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Or you will do what, Mrs. Marshall?
dialog: (beat, he chuckles)
dialog: But I admire your courage. Your
dialog: husband, on the other hand...
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What do you know of my husband?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: I know he left you behind.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: My husband is a very courageous man.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Your husband is a coward. He sends
dialog: soldiers half-way around the world
text: to steal a man from his home in the
text: middle of the night.
text: Alice sits up, attentive.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You're one of Stravanavitch's men.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: So, you study world events, little
dialog: one. That's good for a girl your
dialog: age.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah, I study world events. Five
dialog: thousand Turkienistan Muslims were
dialog: slaughtered in Stravanvitch's
dialog: cleansings... along with 15 American
dialog: school kids. You know hQw I studied
dialog: that. I went to their funerals with
dialog: my dad. I met their parents.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Smart for your age, eh? Top of your
dialog: class? Tell me, do you know what the
dialog: word "propaganda" means?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah. Do you know what the word
dialog: "asshole" means.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Alice!
text: Rose doesn't know whether to be pissed at Alice or proud of
text: her. Korshunov smiles, nods his head and lifts his gun.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Yes, I have heard that word.
text: He aims his gun at Alice.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Yes, I am an asshole.
text: A long beat, the Korshunov lovers the gun.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Your father is a reasonable man.
text: Once he hears our simple demand, I'm sure he will acquiesce.
dialog: For your sake.
text: Korshunov smiles. Gibbs grabs Alice's hands and pulls them
text: behind her back. Begins wrapping them with the tape.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABING, REAR GALLEY.
text: Serge searches through the galley cabinets, spots the galley
text: dumbwaiter. Now he knows where his quarry went.
text: He angrily grabs a service cart and shoves it into the
text: dumbwaiter, disabling it.
scene_heading: INT. GANGWAY -
text: Bazylev hears the beeps of a phone dialing. He moves toward
text: the aft portal of the gangway.
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
text: Marshall waits as the phone rings...
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE, SWITCHBOARD ROOM - DAY
text: A chipper woman in her mid-20s picks up the call.
speaker_heading: SWITCHBOARD
dialog: White House switchboard. How may I
dialog: direct your call.
scene_heading: MT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (hushed urgency)
dialog: Okay listen, listen carefully. This
text: is an emergency call from Air Force
dialog: One. Who's there? Is the Vice-
dialog: President there?
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE, SWITCHBOARD ROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: SWITCHBOARD
dialog: who can I say is calling?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL (0.S. PHONE)
dialog: This is the President.
speaker_heading: SWITCHBOARD
dialog: Yeah, right.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Don't cut me off. This is an
dialog: emergency.
speaker_heading: SWITCHBOARD
dialog: Sir, the President does not call
dialog: this particular number. So whoever
dialog: you are get a life, before I have
dialog: this call traced.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: You don't understand. This is an
dialog: emergency. Let me talk to anyone.
text: The switchboard operator thinks for a moment. Maybe she can
dialog: have some fun with this nutcase.
speaker_heading: SWITCHBOARD
dialog: Okay... if you're the President,
dialog: when's your wife's birthday?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Look lady, I don't have time for
dialog: games. Just put the....
speaker_heading: SWITCHBOARD
dialog: Thank you for calling the white
dialog: House...
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: No. no. no. Wait. Wait.
text: Bazylev appears behind Marshall. Raises his gun.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I should know this.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SWITCHBOARD ROOM -
speaker_heading: MARSHALL (V.0.)
dialog: It's June.
text: Gunfire in the background.
speaker_heading: SWITCHBOARD
dialog: Sir? Are you there? Sir? Sir?
text: Her face says N. The Switchboard operator pulls out a call
text: sheet and finds a number.
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
text: On the phone, lying open on a heap of clothing.
text: Bazylev points the machine gun at Marshall's head.
speaker_heading: BAZ YLEV
dialog: Hands away from your weapon.
text: Marshall doesn't move, his np5 hanging at his waist... his
text: hand inches from it.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Come now. You don't want to die.
text: Marshall... with no options... slowly moves his hands away
text: from the gun.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: On your knees...
speaker_heading: PHONE (O.S.)
dialog: Hello. Is anyone there?
text: Bazylev motions Marshall to get on his knees. Marshall
dialog: complies.
speaker_heading: BAZYUV
dialog: What's that in your shirt? Open it.
text: Marshall pulls his shirt aside revealing his Kevlar vest.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Take it off. Now.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY
text: Chandler on the phone. An aide waves, trying to get her
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: My intention is not to escalate the
dialog: situation, but it's a contigency
dialog: that must be considered. Hang on...
dialog: (to Aide)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: AIDE
text: The switchboard says that someone
dialog: called in claiming to be the
text: President, then she heard gunfire.
text: Caller's gone, but the line's still active.
speaker_heading: DEAN
text: Could be some crank watching CNN.
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: No sir. Trace confirms the call is
dialog: Coming from a White House staff
dialog: cellular account.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Put it through down here.
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Hang on, Toni.
text: The call comes in on speaker phone, distorted muffled voices
text: and the whine of an aircraft in the background.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: What's going on in the background?
dialog: Can we hear what's going on?
text: Dean picks up a phone.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: Max, get me Willis.
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, LISTENING POST - DAY
text: WILLIS, a grossly overweight man in his late forties
text: surrounded by a monolith of high-tech, starts working his
dialog: console.
speaker_heading: WILLIS
dialog: Tracking... Intercepting call... Got
dialog: it. Ten seconds, Mr. Dean.
text: Audio waveforms appear over Willis' console. He implements
text: digital filtering routines, cleaning up the sounds.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY
text: The group listens intently. The call modulates, distorts,
text: dissolves... then clarifies.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV (V.0.)
dialog: Hands... hands behind your head, Mr.
dialog: President.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
text: It's him. He is alive.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: I'm going to take your weapon now,
dialog: and then I'm going to take you
text: Upstairs to join the others.
dialog: Understand?
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: Christ, they have him.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: And if you make any sudden moves, I
dialog: will not hesitate to shoot.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: Maybe they don't have him yet.
text: Northwood stares up at the tactical board. Air Force One...
text: surrounded by the F-l5s.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: And maybe we aren't so helpless.
text: General Northwood picks up a secure phone and dials.
speaker_heading: GENERAL NORTPNOOD
dialog: General Greely, Air Force One has
dialog: automatic countermeasures, right?
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: Everything we own is in that plane.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTINOOD
text: So a single missile launched from a
dialog: distance should be a mere distraction.
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: Theoretically.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Ramutein Tower Control, please.
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: (getting it)
dialog: But the effect could be jarring.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: Exactly. Ramstein? General
dialog: Northwood... Patch me through to
dialog: your fighters. Madame Vice
dialog: President... with your permission?
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Do it.
scene_heading: INT. AFT STORAGE COMPARTMENT -
text: Marshall on his knees, hands behind his head. Bazylev, his
text: automatic pressed against Marshall's forehead, disarms
text: Marshall before stepping away. He slings Marshall's MP5 over
text: his own neck. Studies Marshall a beat.
speaker_heading: BAZ YLEV
dialog: So you're the President. Somehow, I
dialog: thought you'd be smaller.
text: Marshall stares straight ahead tn silent defiance. Bazylev
text: kicks him in the gut. Marshall doubles over, wheezing.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Not so powerful now, eh? No aides to
dialog: advise you, no secret service to
dialog: protect you, no armies to command.
text: Bazylev grabs Marshall's hair and tugs his head back. He
text: holds Marshall with his eyes.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: You'll suffer for what you've done.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: * So will you.
text: Bazylev slams Marshall's face against his knee. Marshall
text: slumps forward.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Up. Get up now!
text: Marshall slowly rises to his feet. Bazylev swings wide around
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: You will walk ahead... slowly. Do
dialog: you understand?
dialog: (no response)
dialog: Do you understand!
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Do you know what's going to happen
dialog: to you because of this? Do you know
dialog: what the world will do?
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Nothing. The world will do nothing.
dialog: That is what they've always done.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN, FORWARD GALLEY -
text: Serge seals off the second dumbwaiter.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
dialog: 63.
text: The Squadron of F-15 Eagles hover around Air Force One.
speaker_heading: COL. CARLTON (V.0.)
dialog: You want me to what?
speaker_heading: GENERAL NORTPNOOD (V.0.)
dialog: You heard the order. And do not, I
dialog: repeat, do not take your best shot.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Roger, sir. Okay boys, clear the
dialog: deck. I have been ordered to engage
dialog: Air Force One.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The other airplanes flare out giving distance to the Jumbo
text: Jet. Canton's plane drops back.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
text: Assuming attack posture. Targeting
text: computer is on.
scene_heading: INT. CARLTON'S COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: On TARGETING COMPUTER - Graphics: As it acquires Air Force
dialog: One.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Target is acquired. I have good tone
text: CLOSE ON: The flight stick. Carlton's
text: finger over the firing button. He
text: hesitates.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: They're gonna court martial me for
dialog: this.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, GANGWAY -
text: Hands behind his head, Marshall walks in front of Bazylev,
text: an MP5 pressed against his neck.
scene_heading: INT. F-15 EAGLE COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Carlton pulls the trigger.
scene_heading: EXT. F-15 EAGLE - NIGHT
text: An air-to-air missile detatches from under the Eagle. Its
text: tail ignites in flame.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Zedeck monitoring the controls. Situation normal. Then all
text: hell breaks loose as an entire wall of instrumentation lights
text: up. Warning bells. Flashing lights.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: What is this?
text: The TACTICAL COUNTERMEASUREs COMPUTER - Springs to life.
text: High-tech readouts, risk analyses, schematics, and
text: assessments. Radar tracks the incoming, identifies it.
text: On Screen: "Autopilot disengaged"
text: The plane banks into a dive, throwing Zedeck back against
dialog: his chair.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: Gibbs! Gibbs! Get in here.
text: On screen: "Activating countermeasures"
scene_heading: EXT. SICY - NIGHT
text: With no oneat the controls, Air Force One goes into a sharp
text: sloping dive.
scene_heading: INT. GANGWAY, AIR FORCE ONE -
text: Bazylev, thrown off balance, tries to keep his gun trained
dialog: on Marshall.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: Don't move!
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The missile follows a wide arc toward the banking plane.
scene_heading: INT. AFO, COCKPIT -
text: Gibbs slides into the pilot's seat, attempts to regain
dialog: control.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: What the hell's going on?
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: The Americans fired at us.
dialog: The Tactical Countermeasures Computer:
dialog: "Electronic Jamming has failed Target acquired"
text: Out the cockpit window, the brightly burning tail of the
text: missile closing on them.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Why would they fire on us?
dialog: The Tactical Countermeasures Computer:
dialog: "Missile Closing:
dialog: Metallic Chaff Burst Standing by:"
text: The computer counts down from eight... seven...
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The missile screams toward the jumbo jet, a slow easy target.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: Do something.
dialog: Five... Four...
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: I'm not a combat pilot.
dialog: Three... two....
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: Shit!
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Small bays doors slip open below the aircraft. A cloud of
text: small metallic narticles sprays out of the bottom of the
dialog: aircraft.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT -
text: On the faces of the terrorists, as the missile comes right
text: at them.
text: Then the missile veers downward.
dialog: The Tactical Countermeasures Computer:
dialog: "Missile Neutralized"
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - MIGHT
text: The missile dives into the swarm of descending chaff and
text: DETONATES, lighting up the evening sky. Red flames reflect
text: against the silver-grey clouds.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT
text: The shock wave hits the aircraft.
text: Lights flicker and the plane rocks side to side.
text: HOSTAGES are bounced around the conference room.
scene_heading: INT. GANGWAY -
text: Marshall and Bazylev are slammed against the ceiling and
text: then the floor.
text: Marshall seizes the moment. Grabs Bazylev's gun. The two
text: struggle and Bazylez instinctively pulls the trigger. A burst
text: of richocheting gunfire sparks across the bulkhead.
text: The turbulence worsens. Bazylev manages to wrest away the
text: rifle, but the plane pulls into a climb, sending Bazylev
text: tumbling down the gangway into the rear baggage hold.
text: Marshall manages to pull himself up the grating and into the
text: galley. He's free, for the moment.
scene_heading: INT. AFO, COCKPIT.
text: Gibbs steadies the plane as the shock wave from the explosion
dialog: * subsides.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: We're okay.
text: Korshunov examines the Tactical Countermeasures Computer.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Remarkable aircraft. Remarkable.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: why did they do that?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Psychology. They're trying to unnerve
dialog: us.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Well it worked.
text: Korshunov smiles and puts his hand on Gibbs shoulder.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Relax, my friend. Apparently they
dialog: cannot harm us. Even if they wanted
scene_heading: to. rNT. FRONT GALLEY.
dialog: 67.
text: Marshall Struggles to assemble the hypodermic and the
text: container of adrenalin.
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD.
text: Bazylev pulls to his feet, heads back down the gangway.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT GALLEY.
text: Marshall greets Bazylev with a spray of hot coffee from the
text: Simmering pot as he enters. Bazylev covers up, but the spray
text: sears him pretty bad. He yells in pain, turning.
text: Marshall springs, imbedding the hypodermic needle into
text: Bazylev's neck. A full dose of adrenalin. Bazylev pulls the
text: empty needle from his neck. Marshall steps back, waiting for
dialog: a reaction.
text: A pregnant pause as they both wait to see what happens.
text: Then Bazylev smiles and slowly turns toward Marshall.
text: Marshall backs away as Bazylev levels his gun.
text: He fires once, hitting Marshall in the arm. Marshall winces
dialog: off the pain.
speaker_heading: BAZYLEV
dialog: (disgust)
text: The leader of the free world.
text: He backs Marshall against a wall and holds him in his sights.
text: But he doesn't shoot. His breathing becomes faster and faster
text: as the adrenalin takes hold. Building... building... He
text: screams and clutches at his throat.
text: His eyes spin back and then his heart explodes.
text: Bazylev is caught frozen, suspended in a moment of disbelief.
text: Death reflex. He fires off several rounds from the gun as he
text: collapses.
text: Marshall waits a beat, half-expecting Bazylev to rise. He
text: slowly approaches the body and retrieves the KP5.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The F-lSs pull back into formation around the Jumbo Jet.
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
text: Marshall retrieves the phone, then wedges himself behind a
text: waste storage tank, out of view.
scene_heading: INT. PILOT'S REST AREA -
text: Rose and Alice On the bunk. Alice's eyes are Watering.
text: Korshunov examines tOPographic maps in the adjacent M1C.c.
text: and speaks into a phone in Russian.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mom?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Yes dear?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm sorry I was so mean to you
dialog: earlier.
text: Rose smiles sadly.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I know, sweetie. I know.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You're being very brave.
text: Alice nods. She's trying.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN.
text: Serge finishes his sweep of the upper level.
speaker_heading: SERGE
dialog: (to Zedeck)
dialog: He's not up here. I'm going down
dialog: below.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD/INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM
text: Marshall rips his sleeve off, swabs the blood off his arm.
text: Bazylev's bullet took out a good chunk of flesh when it grazed
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Did they say anything about my family?
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: They're still alive, but the loyalists
dialog: plan to start killing hostages in
dialog: forty minutes.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Then tell me there's a rescue
dialog: operation underway.
text: Marshall opens a travel bottle of Vodka and pours it over
text: the wound. He winces from the pain.
scene_heading: V.p CHANDLER 69.
dialog: I think we're okay, sir. flow that we know You're alive we
text: can force Petrov to release Stravanavitch.
dialog: MARSpari Don't tell me you plan to give in to these fuckers.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORmwOOD We plan to do whatever it takes to keep you
dialog: alive, sir.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: and if that means negotiating...
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: You know my policy. We don't negotiate
dialog: with terrorists. If we start now,
text: all of America becomes a target.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: But this is different, sir. You're
dialog: the President.
speaker_heading: * MARSHALL
text: And what happens when Stravanavitch is freed and discovers
dialog: he's got the President? You think for a second that that
dialog: crazy bastard is just gonna turn me over? He'll ask for the
dialog: goddamn moon before he's done.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Please, Mr. President. You're going
dialog: to get yourself killed. Is that your
dialog: solution?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Freeing Stravanavitch is gonna get
dialog: tens of thousands killed. I can't
dialog: live with that.
dialog: (somewhat resigned)
dialog: I'm not royalty. I'm an elected
dialog: official and the integrity of the
dialog: office of the President is infinitely
dialog: more important than the man who holds
dialog: that office.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We don't negotitate. Not as long as
dialog: I'm President. Is that understood?
text: A long silence, then...
scene_heading: YES SIR. CHANDLER
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: flow, is there a rescue operation
dialog: under way or not?
text: Lee shakes his head at Chandler, signalling "don't tell."
speaker_heading: LEE
text: He's not on a secure line.
dialog: MARSHAlj Whoever said that, shut up. Walter, are you there?
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: I'm here, Mr. President.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Where's the cavalry?
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: We can't do anything until that plane
dialog: lands. And when it does land, sir,
dialog: it's going to be in hostile *
dialog: territory. To be perfectly honest,
dialog: we don't know what the hell to do.
dialog: It's going to take a miracle to figure this one out.
text: A long beat. We hold on Marshall's determined face.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I'll see what I can do.
scene_heading: INT. GALLEY.
text: Serge comes across Bazylev. Checks for any sign of life.
text: Stone cold dead. He looks around and grips his gun a little
text: tighter as he backs out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN.
text: Serge closes the stair access panel to the baggage deck.
text: Sealing Marshall off.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Serge comes trotting up the stairs and collects new clips.
speaker_heading: SERGE
text: Bazylev is dead.
text: Korshunov swallows hard...
speaker_heading: AND THE
speaker_heading: SERGE
dialog: Trapped On the baggage deck. Let me
dialog: go finish him.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: No. He has the advantage down there.
dialog: Bring me a hostage. A woman.
scene_heading: INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE HOLD.
text: Marshall sees that the stairway hatch has been sealed.
scene_heading: INT. LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT
text: Marshall hits the button for the dumbwaiter. The dumbwaiter
text: begins to descend then snags on the service cart. Its motor
text: grind to a halt. Marshall slumps dQwn. His hopes dashed.
dialog: Nothing to do now but wait.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.
text: Serge looks over the crowd of hostages like a bouncer at a
text: hip dance club. His eyes fall on Maria Mitchell.
speaker_heading: SERGE
dialog: You. Come with me.
scene_heading: INT. LOWER GALLEY.
text: Marshall, seated on the floor. The cabinet next to him is
text: stacked with packs of complimentary cigarettes, all with the
dialog: seal of the President.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: What the hell...
text: He opens up a pack and puts the cigarette in his mouth. He
text: snags one of the Presidential lighters, tries to light it
text: several times but it only sparks. XC shakes it. It's out of
text: tial. He tosses it aside and reaches for a book of matches,
text: but he FREEZES in mid-reach. A thought occurs to him.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (murmuring)
text: Out of fuel.
scene_heading: INT. FORWARD BAGAGE HOLD - NIGHT
text: Marshall, lacking a screwdriver, levers open the hatch to
text: the Avionics compartment with the barrel of his gun.
scene_heading: RUT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Marshall sees the stacks of panels, piping, Wiring,
dialog: electronics.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Come on, where are you...
text: He searches up and down.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Serge leads Maria Mitchell up the stairway. Korshunov nods.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Ms. Mitchell. Hello again.
text: Maria is scared, she says nothing. She looks over to the
dialog: First Lady and Alice.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Maria.
text: Korshunov switches on the airplane's P.A.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: * Please tell me
dialog: your name.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: (frightened)
dialog: Maria... Maria Mitchell.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And what is it you do, Ms. Mitchell.
text: Maria Mitchell's voice echos over throughout Air Force One.
scene_heading: INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT.
text: Marshall halts his search to listen.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL (V.0.)
dialog: I'm responsible for Press Relations
dialog: for the Flight Office.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV (V.0.)
dialog: How are your fellow hostages feeling,
dialog: Ms. Mitchell?
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Scared. We're scared.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Rose cradles Alice, both of them looking away, as Korshunov
text: raises his gun, pointing it at Mitchell.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And why are you scared?
speaker_heading: MITCHEL*L
dialog: Because... because I don't want to
dialog: die.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.
text: The hostages, listening.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And what am I doing at this very
dialog: moment.
scene_heading: INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Marshall listens, helpless to do anything.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: You're pointing a gun at me.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER -
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Very good. Thank you, Ms. Mitchell.
dialog: Did you hear her? She said I'm pointing a gun at her.
scene_heading: INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT -
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
text: Now, to the secret service agent in
dialog: the baggage deck. I'm giving you ten
dialog: seconds to surrender, or this women
dialog: will die.
text: Marshall's eyes widen.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: One...
text: Oh shit. Marshall tries to decide what to do.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Two...
text: He climbs out of the avionics compartment and hurries to the
text: front baggage compartment.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Three...
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN.
text: Zedeck and Serge wait by the stairway hatch.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Four...
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.
text: Hostages wait, expectantly.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Five...
scene_heading: INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.
text: Marshall frozen near the bottom of the steps. To go up would
dialog: be to betray everything he believes in, and lose any chance
dialog: to save the others. But if he stays...
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Six...
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
text: Tears stream down Maria Mitchell's face. She's trying so
text: hard to be brave in front of Rose and Alice.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Seven...
scene_heading: INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.
dialog: For Marshall, this is the hardest decision of his life. His
text: face a mask of anguish as he wrestles with his conscience.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Eight...
text: He starts toward the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
text: Korshunov looking down the barrel of the gun.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Nine...
scene_heading: INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.
text: It takes every bit of training and will to stop Marshall
text: from going up those stairs. He knows what's going to happen.
text: He closes his eyes tight as if that will stop it from
dialog: happening.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Ten...
text: A long silent beat. Then... BAAAAM!
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: NO!
text: Marshall sinks to to his knees.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Aw, Jesus.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.
text: Hostages hold each other tight for comfort. A mournful silence
text: fills the room.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.
text: Marshall, silhouetted in the half light, craddles his head
text: head in his hands. The shaft of light disappears as the main
text: cabin hatch closes, sealing him off once again.
speaker_heading: KORSFL3NOV (V.0.)
dialog: I'll give you a few minutes to think
dialog: about that one and then we'll try
dialog: again. Perhaps soon I will choose
dialog: somebody important.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: She was important.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
text: zedeck and Serge drag the dead woman out of the compartment.
text: Alice sobs quietly.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Do you have to be so brutal?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Yes
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Why? Do you enjoy it?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: I neither enjoy nor dislike. I do
dialog: what is necessary.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: How can you? I mean they're people.
dialog: *
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: But they are not ny people. You look
dialog: at me as if I am a monster, but answer
dialog: me this -- when your planes bombed
dialog: the oil fields of Iraq, did You cry
dialog: for those dark skinned men whose
dialog: names you do not know and who's faces
dialog: You will never see? Did You cry for
dialog: their wives and children. They were
dialog: people too, yes... but they were not
dialog: your people.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: That was war.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: So is this.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Come now, you're upsetting the little
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: The woman you shot. She was my friend.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: That's the way of the world, little
dialog: one. Didn't they teach you that in
dialog: school?
scene_heading: INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE HOLD.
text: Marshall crosses back to the avionics compartment, talking
text: on the phone.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: (through static)
dialog: Chief Mechanic, 87th Air. How can I
dialog: help you?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: You can talk me through an emergency
dialog: fuel dump.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
text: Led off to slaughter one at a time.
dialog: Next time I say we rush `em. They can't shoot us all.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: They can shoot enough of us.
dialog: *
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: If we don't act, they'll kill US all
dialog: eventually Who's with me?
text: Several of the hostages raise their hands.
scene_heading: INT. AFO'S MAINTENANCE HANGER/ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE - DAY
text: The Chief Mechanic has Air Force One schematics open in front
text: of him. He and his staff are huddled around them.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MECHANIC
dialog: Do you see the maintenance panel?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Got it.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MECHANIC
dialog: Pop it open. There should be a red
dialog: switch, toggle it up.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Okay, it's on. We've got some
text: indicator lights here.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MECHANIC
dialog: Okay, you're aerated. To dump the
dialog: fuel you have to close the circuit
dialog: for the pump. There's no switch in
dialog: Avionics so you'll have to cross the
dialog: wires. There should be five wires,
dialog: just to your left. Do you see them?
scene_heading: INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Marshall finds the wires: red, white, blue, green and yellow.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Got `en.
text: Static blankets the conversation.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MECHANIC
dialog: Okay, hang on. Let me double check
dialog: here, because if you get the wrong ones, you'll cut the engine
text: feeds and stall the plane.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I'll wait.
text: The static worsens.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MECHANIC
dialog: First... cut... green wire.
text: Marshall, Using a kitchen knife, slices the green wire. Heavy
text: static. The phone beeps... lOsing batteries.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: It's cut.
speaker_heading: CHIEF MECHANIC
text: cross it... The static overwhelms
text: the voice, then cuts out.
speaker_heading: MARSHALR'
dialog: Hello? Hello? Goddamnit.
text: Static comes roaring back and garbled voices...
dialog: MARSHAlj Hello? Are YOU there?
text: Dead. Marshall tries to activate it again.
dialog: MARSHAIJi Hello? Hello?
text: Nothing. He tosses the dead phone aside.
text: Marshall stares. Cross the green wires with the... what?
text: Red, white, blue... or the yellow. His choice is obvious. He
text: cuts the yellow wire and crosses it with the green, leaving
text: the red, white and blue standing.
text: He waits. The engines continue to groan. He allows himself a
dialog: smile.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: An emergency landing in friendly
dialog: territory... there's your goddamn
dialog: miracle.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Beneath the plane a trickle of gasoline appears and grows
text: into a strong steady stream.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
text: A red warning light flashes on the plane's panel.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Goddamnit it. We're losing fuel.
text: Korshunov crosses to the flight deck.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Avionics compartment! It's the only
dialog: place. You better get Zedeck down
dialog: there fast Unless, of course, you'd
dialog: rather be a martyr than a savior.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: (to Zedeck)
dialog: Go! Take Serge.. and watch your backs.
text: Zedeck nods and dashes out of the cabin.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN.
text: Zedeck pulls open the hatch cover to the forward front stairs.
text: Descends into the dimly lit underneath.
text: Serge descends right behind Zedeck.
scene_heading: INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE COMPARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Zedeck, Spooked by the dark shadows, senses he's being
dialog: watched.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
text: He's down here. I can feel it.
speaker_heading: SERGE
dialog: Shut up and do your job.
text: Zedeck hastens toward the Avionics compartment, gun at the
text: ready. Serge sweeps the area behind.
text: They hear a metallic clank echo and reverberate around him.
text: They both check left... right... behind them...
dialog: Nothing.
dialog: It's creepy being a walking target.
text: From behind a water storage tank, Marshall watches down the
text: barrel of his Mp5. With all the equipment in the way, it's
text: almost impossible to line up a clear shot.
text: And they're both well armed. He looks toward the stairway
dialog: instead.
text: Zedeck enters the Avionics compartment. Serge takes a
text: defensive position outside the door.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK (O.S.)
dialog: The valve is shut. This guy sure
dialog: knew what he was doing.
text: Serge hears a noise and opens tire.
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: You see him?
speaker_heading: SERGE
text: Erring on the side of caution.
scene_heading: INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT -
text: Zedeck opens a panel and rips out some wiring.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: I'm going to deactivate the by-pass
dialog: pump. It'll take a minute.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK.
text: Gibbs checks the fuel gauges. They stop falling.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: We've stopped dumping... but we've
dialog: only got about twenty minutes of
dialog: fuel left.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: We're not going to make it.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Not even close. Hell, we can't even
dialog: make Syria or Iraq.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Where are we now?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Over the Black Sea. I can probably
dialog: get us to Turkey or Georgia.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: No! If we land this plane anywhere
dialog: else, we will end up another Entebe.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: The Americans built a super plane
text: that flies through mushroom cloud,
text: evades missiles and...
dialog: (holding up Maria
dialog: Mitchell's press kit)
text: refuels in mid-air. Call the White
dialog: House.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -
text: Tactical Map: Air Force One over the Black Sea heading south
text: west toward Turkmenistan.
text: An Aide holds up a phone.
speaker_heading: AIDE
text: It's him again.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER -
text: Korshunov on the phone.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Gentlemen, forgive me for diverting
dialog: you from your little wargames, but
dialog: I've just added another demand to my
dialog: very short list. I assure you it's
dialog: quite reasonable.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV (V.0. PHONE)
dialog: We need fuel, gentlemen. And we need
dialog: it right now.
text: Lee whispers to the Vice President.
speaker_heading: LEE
dialog: Finally, we can bargain.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: I'm sure we can strike some sort of
dialog: arrangement. Land the plane and we'll
dialog: trade you hostages for fuel.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: No. The plane lands when I say, or
text: it will crash. The hostages are
dialog: released when I say, or they will
dialog: die.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Tell me what I want to hear or I
dialog: will execute a member of the senior
dialog: staff, and will continue killing one
dialog: hostage every minute until we crash
text: or until a refueling plane arrives.
text: Murmuring and hushed discussion floats over the airwaves.
text: A long silence. Korshunov looks toward Alice.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Shall I begin by executing the
dialog: President's daughter? She's right
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Say something dear.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Fuck off, you stupid asshole.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: It would be a pity to squander such
dialog: a strong personality.
text: Another several beats of hushed murmuring.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Well? What do you say?
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER (V.0. PHONE)
dialog: Fuel's on its way.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN.
text: Serge and Zedeck lower the hatch to the baggage compartment
text: and seal it. They head up the stairs to the M.C.C.
scene_heading: INT. M.C.C. - NIGHT
text: Korshunov paces, weighing his pistol in his hand.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: We trained for months. Everything
dialog: should've gone like clockwork.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: We have the hostages, we're getting
dialog: more fuel.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: He's already killed three of us, and
dialog: we haven't even seen him. He's also
dialog: shown that he can hurt us. I need to
dialog: think.
dialog: (looks at Serge)
dialog: What the hell are you doing up here?
dialog: Get back to the conference room.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN
text: Serge takes his position by the conference room.
text: Across from him, against the cabin divider, Marshall peers
text: down the sight of his gun.
text: Serge freezes.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Don't make the same mistake your
dialog: friend did earlier... Show me your
dialog: hands.
text: Serge raises his hands. Marshall reaches over and pulls out
text: the clip to his MP5.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Open the door.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
text: Caldwell, Shepherd and a few other aides hear the key turn
text: in the lock. They quickly take position around the door. As
text: Marshall marches Serge in, they're both tackled and smothered
text: by the group. They wrest the guns away and shut the door
text: quickly behind them.
text: Marshall struggles against his people.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: It's me goddamnit. Let me go.
text: Surprised to hear their boss' voice, the aides and advisors
dialog: release Marshall.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Mr. President, how the hell did you
dialog: get on board?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I never left. Where's my wife and
dialog: daughter?
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: They took `em out. They're probably
text: on the upper deck.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Mr. President, Major Caldwell here
dialog: has a plan to get these hostages of
dialog: f the plane.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I dumped most of the fuel. They'll
dialog: land soon and Delta will take its
dialog: shot.
speaker_heading: SERGE
text: A refueling plane is already on it's
dialog: way so we won't be landing until we
dialog: reach Turkmenistan. Your best course
dialog: of action is to release me. I will
dialog: be merciful.
scene_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL 84.
dialog: Sir, maybe we can use this. Turn it to our advantage.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Mr. Caidwell, the ground's a few
dialog: miles away. How do you propose getting
dialog: us from here to there?
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Gravity.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -
text: Satellite pictures of various landing strips projected on
text: wall-sized monitors.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: Of the three dozen airports in
dialog: Turkmenistan, only five have
dialog: sufficient runways for a 747. Of
dialog: those five, only these three have
dialog: shown any activity.
text: General Northvood points with a laser pointer.
speaker_heading: GENERAL NORTPNOOD
dialog: But this one here, see this. It's a
dialog: satellite dish and it wasn't there
dialog: two weeks ago. Basic communications
dialog: uplink, which suggests extensive
dialog: communicatins ability. I'd say this
dialog: was the one.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Are you confident you can take the
dialog: facility?
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTIWOOD
text: It's night there for a few more hours.
dialog: That's a real plus. But I won't lie.
dialog: As far as special ops go, this one's
dialog: a bear, but I think we squeeze it
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: Let's get it going.
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: The Press Secretary's about to go
dialog: on.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: If we can get to a lower altitude,
dialog: we can use parachutes, but at this
dialog: altitude, we'll pass out from Oxygen
dialog: deprivation.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: We've already played our cards, Major.
text: There's no turning back.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: We can't jump from here or at this
dialog: speed. But if we could get a message
dialog: out - tell the refueling plane...
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: They've cut communication, and I
dialog: spent a good bit of time looking for
dialog: alternatives. My only solution ran
dialog: out of batteries.
text: A nearby SECRETARY in her late 20's pipes up.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
text: The fax machines.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
text: The fax machines.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (dismissive)
dialog: No good. I said they disabled the
dialog: communications system.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: No. I thought about this, Mr.
text: President. Voice lines and faxes are on two completely
dialog: different systems of encryption. It'd be easy to overlook
dialog: the data systems.
dialog: What do they have to lose?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (to Caldwell)
dialog: Get `em ready.
dialog: (to secretary)
dialog: You... come with me.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Eighteen thousand feet, sir. And two
dialog: hundred knots... otherwise it's
dialog: suicide.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Got it.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR.
text: Caidwell, holding Serge's gun, takes position by the front
text: stairway and waves the other hostages on. They emerge from
text: the conference room, and move to the stairway.
text: Marshall and the secretary rush the opposite direction toward
text: the equipment room.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE PRESS ROOM - DAY
text: Amid shouting questions, the PRESS SECRETARY alights to the
dialog: podium.
speaker_heading: PRESS SECRETARY
dialog: Please. Quiet please... First let
dialog: me... Please... I have a prepared
dialog: statement... The White House confirms
dialog: that the President's aircraft, Air
text: Force One, has been hijacked and is
dialog: currently controlled by foreign
dialog: nationals.
text: Murmurs, shouts, and more questions.
speaker_heading: REPORTERS
dialog: Is the President onboard?/ What about
dialog: the First Family?/ What are their
dialog: demands?
speaker_heading: PRESS SECRETARY
dialog: Please... please... For security
dialog: reasons I can not comment on any
dialog: specifics except to say that the
dialog: Vice-President is doing everything
dialog: within her power to resolve the
dialog: situation.
speaker_heading: PULL BACK
text: T.V. monitor on broadcasting CNN.
dialog: We're in the...
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT
text: Korshunov turns toward the monitor. Furrows his brow.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And you are almost out of time.
dialog: Where is the President?
scene_heading: INT. EQUIPMENT ROOM.
text: Marshall and the Secretary step over Perkins' body on the
text: way to the fax machine.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Here sir.
text: Marshall grabs a piece of paper and a pen. Scribbles a note.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Where are we sending it?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: White House Situation room.
text: He signs the paper and hands it toher. She slides it into
text: the machine, checks the listed numbers and dials.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Someone should give you a raise.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Actually, sir, you could be that
dialog: someone.
text: They wait... will it work? A few beats, a few beats more.
text: The machine pulls the paper in and begins scanning.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: It's yours.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM.
text: Marshall's note spits out of one of the fax machines. But in
dialog: the bevy of activity, will it be noticed?
scene_heading: INT. UNDERDECK, REAR LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT
text: Caldwell spins open the rear emergency pressure door and
text: leads the hostages into...
scene_heading: INT. TAILCONE PARACHUTE LAUNCH PLATFORM -
text: A cargo hold extending up the tapered edge of the aircraft's
text: rear. The hostages begin pulling parachute packs out of the
text: overhead storage bins. Helping each other.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.
text: Korshunov listens to Zedeck yell into the phone in Russian.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
text: Still no movement on Stravanavitch.
text: Korshunov eyes Alice and Rose.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Nor will there be. My husband does
dialog: not negotiate with terrorists.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You will be the first to pay for
dialog: that mistake.
scene_heading: INT. EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP.
text: Caidwell assists everyone in strapping on their packs. He
text: addresses one group, mostly women and senior staff, who belt
text: into the larger chutes.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: These chutes are designed for a safe
dialog: slow descent. They'll deploy off the
dialog: line automatically as you step from
dialog: the plane.
dialog: (turns to another
dialog: group, mostly younger
dialog: men)
dialog: You guys'll have to pull your own
dialog: rip cords. Wait until you're clear
text: from the plane, but not any longer.
dialog: (he checks packs and
dialog: straps)
dialog: Once I check you, go stand behind
dialog: the yellow line. You're good. You're
dialog: good. You're good.
text: Two neat lines ready to jump. One line on the deployment
text: wire, and the other set for freefall.
text: Marshall and the secretary arrive.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Mr. president? pwtsHALL The fax
dialog: went through. We can only wait.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CAWWELL
dialog: Your chute.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I'll not going without my family.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Yes, sir.
text: Caidwell crosses to prep the Launch Ramp controls.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT.
text: The gas gauges read very close to empty. Korshunov Stands
text: behind Gibbs, while Zedeck keeps an eye on the First Lady.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Where's that goddamn plane? tNT.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP.
text: Everybody waits. Caidwell watches the indicator. 30,000 feet.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: A KC-135, the USAF flying gas station, descends in front of
dialog: Air Force One.
speaker_heading: KC-135 PILOT
dialog: Air Force One, this is AF-135-RA. We
dialog: have been instructed to refuel your
dialog: plane.
scene_heading: TNT. AIR FORCE ONE FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: About goddamn time.
speaker_heading: KC-135 PILOT
dialog: Please change course to Zero Seven
dialog: Four and drop to eighteen thousand
text: feet. Over.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
text: Air Force One, acknowledged. tNT.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP.
text: The altimeter begins to fall. A wave of relief washes over
dialog: the group.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The KC-135 extends its flying gas pump.
speaker_heading: KC-135 PILOT
dialog: Air Force One, please reduce speed
dialog: to 250 knots.
speaker_heading: GIBBS (V.0. RADIO)
dialog: Roger.
scene_heading: TNT. AFO FLIGHT DECK.
dialog: 90.
scene_heading: Okay1 now KC-135 PILOT (V.0. Radio) vent your fueling
dialog: system.
text: It's the yellow lever on the upper control panel. And next
dialog: to that there's a toggle Switch to open your intake. Got it?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
speaker_heading: Roger KC-135 PILOT (V.0. Radio)
dialog: Air Force One, do you see the fueling arm?
text: Through the cockpit Window, the long metallic appendage
text: dangles ahead of the plane.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: That's affirmative.
speaker_heading: KC-135 PILOT
dialog: Ga get it.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: As Air Force One edges its nose up to the appendage. The
text: appendage finds it's grove and slides right in.
scene_heading: TNT. TAILCONE PARACHUTE LAUNCH PLATFOIW -
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALOWELL
dialog: That's it, eighteen thousand feet.
dialog: We're ready.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: What about them?
text: Marshall indicates the four men without parachutes on. TWO
text: AIR FORCE CREW MEMBERS, Major Caldwell and Shepherd.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Sir, we stay with the President.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: That isn't necessary.
text: None of them changes his mind.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Thank you.
text: A silent beat. A few forced smiles in this very tense room.
dialog: *
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Relax everybody. I used to do this
text: for a living9 Caidwell pulls a switch
text: on the wall.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Depressurizing compartment. This `11
dialog: take a moment.
text: The President crosses to one of his aides.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Hey, by the way... who won the Duke
dialog: game?
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: Find out for yourself, sir. I'll
dialog: have it waiting at the White House.
text: Marshall smiles.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The KC-135 flies above Air Force One, connected by a gasoline
text: umbilical cord.
scene_heading: INT. EMERGENCY RAMP PLATFORM.
text: Caldwell breaks safety glass. Reaches into a compartment and
text: pulls a lever.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Here we go.
text: A mechanical him and clank gives way to a rush of wind as
text: the tail section of Air Force One hinges open on hydraulic
text: struts, extending like a plank behind the plane. We can see
text: the sky with its angry clouds.
text: Rushing by at two hundred knots.
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK.
speaker_heading: A LOUD BUZZ
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: What's that?
text: A warning light flashes on the control panel. Tactical Video
text: Display shows the emergency parachute ramp activating.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN.
text: Zedeck runs toward the conference room. He bursts through
text: the doors.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM -
dialog: Empty.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT HOLD/LOWER GALLEY -
text: Tracking: Zedeck Sprinting to the rear of the plane.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE -
text: The tail cone section of Air Force One hinges open and
text: parachutes begin to blossum from the rear of the plane.
scene_heading: INT. F-15 EAGLE -
text: From several miles back Carlton watches the chutes emerge.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Here they come.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM.
text: Radio traffic echos through the room.
speaker_heading: COL. CMLTON (V.0.)
dialog: We got... okay... so far ten chutes
text: deploying of f the line. Dropping
text: signal flares for search and rescue.
scene_heading: INT. ITEAR BAGGAGE HOLD -
text: Zedeck reaches the emergency pressure door. Through the
text: porthole he sees the hostages getting away. He tries the
text: door hatch. Locked.
text: Zedeck looks around. Crosses to the lower rear galley.
text: He kicks open the panel on the stove. Rips out the propane
text: tank. He runs back and wedges the tank into the door lock.
text: He backs off 50 feet, turns and opens fire on the tank.
text: The tank explodes, blowing the door out.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH PLATFORM
text: The pressure door blows open and an explosion of pressurized
text: air blasts through the platform.
text: The remaining parachutists are blown out the rear. Chutes
dialog: deploying.
text: Marshall and Serge are knocked down the ramp, tumbling toward
text: oblivion. Just as Marshall's about to slide off the corner
text: of the ramp he grabs its hydraulic strut.
text: Plummeting death.
text: His grip is all that separates his dangling body from a long
text: Serge tumbles by Marshall, limbs flailing, and with a scream
text: Woven from a thousand nightma5, he loses his grip and slides
text: off the ramp into the jetblack sky, falling endlessly.
text: Shepherd and Caldwell manage to hang to safety webbing as
dialog: the
text: wind whips around them. The two other air force crew members
text: Without chutes also manage to hang on.
text: As the plane depressurizes, it BUCKS like a wild bronco.
text: Marshall looks down into the sky. Below his dangling legs,
text: parachutes blossoij. He's straining... he can't hold on
dialog: forever.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT -
text: Gibbs fights the wheel.
text: Oxygen masks spring out from an overhead compartment as air
text: is sucked out of the cockpit...
text: The plane shudders and jumps badly....
speaker_heading: KC-135 PILOT (V.0. RADIO)
text: Air Force One, back off. I repeat, back off.
text: Gibbs wrestles with the yoke, to no avail.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: She's bucking. I can't hold her!
speaker_heading: KC-135 PILOT (V.0. RADIO)
dialog: What are you doing? Back off! Back off!
scene_heading: EXT. SKY -
text: Air Force One jerks upward, snapping off the fueling arm of
dialog: the KC-135.
speaker_heading: KC-135 PILOT
dialog: LOOK OUT!
text: The broken edge of the fueling arm scrapes along the top of
text: Air Force One... metal against metal... tearing a gash in
text: the plane... Sparks fly.
text: ONE OF THE SPARKS
text: ignites the river of gasoline being pumped from the refueling
text: craft's belly.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT -
text: Gibbs Sees the fueling arm catch fire. It doesn't take a
text: rocket scientist to figure what's coming. The flames creep
text: up toward the gas tanks.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
text: Holy Shiti Gibbs pushes the stick
text: down and Air Force One begins to
dialog: dive to safety.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY -
text: Air Force One descends.
text: Whipping fire trails the KC-135.
text: Slowly rolls it way into the plane's main tank.
text: A burning fuse.
text: BARRROOOOOOOM! A FIRECLOUD ERUPTS ACROSS THE SKY.
text: Sky like daylight.
text: From this incredible firecloud, the burned out skeleton of
text: an airplane emerges, falling toward earth.
text: The F-15 escort zoom toward the unexpected fireball.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Everybody break. Now! Now! Now!
text: Carlton's planes go into emergency climb, standing on their
text: afterburners to escape the inferno.
scene_heading: INT. EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP -
text: Marshall hangs on to the strut for dear life as the
text: pressurized air swooshes by him, taking with it everything
text: that isn't nailed down including some of the spare parachutes.
text: Fire rains down from the heavens, the sky like one giant
dialog: napalm nightmare.
text: The shock wave hits the plane, slamming it violently.
text: Almost yanking the hyraulic arm from Marshall's grasp.
text: The military aides without parachutes lose their footing and
text: tumble off the platform. SCREAMING as they fall into fire.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY -
text: The burning KC-135 shell, an apocalyptic Flying Dutchman in
text: a vengeful Kamikazee dive at Air Force One.
dialog: It's gonna be close.
text: The flaming shell passes only a few hundred yards to the
text: rear of the 747.
scene_heading: EXT. PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP -
text: Marshall's got a great view. Flames dance in his eyes as he
text: watches the refueling plane descend.
text: The brightness subsides, and the sky grows dark again.
text: The wave of pressurized air subsides leaving Zedeck, Marshall,
text: Shepherd and Caldwell on the ramp. Caldwell begins edging
text: toward Marshall.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: Don't move.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Let me save him.
text: Marshall barely hangs on.
speaker_heading: ZEDECK
dialog: That man, he is the president, no?
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Yes. Yes he is.
text: Zedeck motions to Caidwell with his gun. "Go get him."
text: Caldwell crawls down the ramp and extends his hand to
dialog: Marshall.
scene_heading: THE PRESSURE DOOR SLAMMING SHUT -
text: zedeck leads Marshall, shepherd and Caldwell away.
scene_heading: IPRR. AFO'S FLIGHT DECK -
text: Gibbs steadies the plane.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Fuel?
text: Gibbs checks the guages.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: More than enough to get us home.
scene_heading: EXT. WHITE HOUSE - EVENING
text: The sun begins to set along the Potomac in long streaks of
text: red and pink. The White House lights flicker on uminating
text: the long staunch columns, the pillars of democracy.
scene_heading: RNT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - EVENING
text: Tired. Strung out. Bickering within the small workgroups.
text: Chandler crosses to General Northwood, who has just hung up
dialog: the phone.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: They still have the President, it's
dialog: past their deadline and they haven't
dialog: called. What do you think it means?
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: Like any good poker player, they're
dialog: checking over their hand seeing which
dialog: cards to play and which to discard.
scene_heading: INT. AFO, MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - NIGHT
text: Zedeck leads the three hostage into the M.C.C.
text: Rose and Marshall - their eyes meet. Enormous relief for the
text: both of them. Marshall smiles at his wife, as she fights
text: back her tears.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (to Korshunov)
dialog: He didn't leave us.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You are a resilient man, Mr.
dialog: President.
text: Zedeck grabs Caldwell's hands and tapes them behind his back
text: with duct tape. Rose and Alice already have their hands taped.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNQV
dialog: You must forgive the tape, but we
dialog: were starting to feel outnumbered...
dialog: Gibbs!
scene_heading: INT. FLIGHT DECK -
text: Gibbs puts the plane on automatic pilot. Rises to join the
dialog: group.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER -
text: Korshunov separates Marshall from his family. Waves him into
text: the Com Officer's chair. His hands are now wrapped too.
text: Gibbs enters looking down.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Special Agent Gibbs. You helped do
dialog: this?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Yes, Mr. President.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: Because it is my duty.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: You're duty to what? The country you
dialog: served doesn't exist anymore.
speaker_heading: GIBBS
dialog: My loyalty was never to my country.
dialog: I serve my commanding officers.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You don't think the leaders of the
dialog: KGB would allow peristroika to ruin
dialog: years of infiltration? No, when the
dialog: Soviet Union collapsed, we took our
dialog: sleepers with us.
text: Korshunov holds up a telephone.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Now since we've had very little luck
dialog: getting Washington or Moscow to
dialog: cooperate, I wondered if you would
dialog: be so kind.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Over my dead body.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: No. But since I only have a few of
dialog: your staff left to kill, perhaps I
dialog: will start with your family instead...
dialog: Gibbs.
text: Gibbs grabs Alice and shoves her into a chair. She fights
text: him off, and he smacks her across the face and shoves his
text: gun into her neck.
text: Marshall and Rose struggle against their bonds.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: The world is such a dangerous place
dialog: and we can't always protect our
dialog: children.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Please. You can kill me but leave my
dialog: daughter alone.
text: Korshunov runs his finger down Alice's cheek.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: She isn't a part of this. This is
dialog: between you and me.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Call up Petrov and order
dialog: Stravanavitch' S release.
text: Marshall looks to Alice, then Rose, then back to Alice.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: This administration does not negotiate
dialog: with terrorists.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Pity. Mr. Gibbs.
text: Gibbs withdraws his pistol. Places it against Alice's temple.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Perhaps a President does not
dialog: negotiate, but does a father?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: An interesting choice. Your daughter
dialog: versus your world vision. The implicit
dialog: trust of a family against your oath
dialog: of office.
text: Tears of fears are streaming down Alice's face. She looks
text: into her father's eyes.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Daddy...
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Alice... I...
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And once the trigger is pulled, she
dialog: is gone forever. Then, I wonder, how
dialog: do you live, knowing you could've
dialog: saved her?
text: Marshall struggles with his duty. His honor.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And could you ever forget the look
text: on her face as she ceases to exist...
dialog: Late at night, when you think about
dialog: her, will Stravanavitch really matter
dialog: anymore?
text: Marshall tries to look away, but Zedeck forces him to watch.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Daddy. Daddy, please...
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Jim... for godsake!
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Look inside your heart. No one will
dialog: think you weak. Five...
text: Alice's face, trying to be brave.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Four...
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Jim...
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Three...
text: Rose looks away.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Two. .
text: Alice looks at her father for the very last time. Then shuts
text: her eyes tight.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: One...
text: Gibbs begins to squeeze the trigger.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: NO!
text: Korshunov smiles.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Stop.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You'll do it?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Yes, I'll do it.
dialog: (broken)
dialog: Just leave my family alone.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Good. Good.
text: Gibbs withdraws the gun from Alice's temple. Alice opens her
text: eyes and gasps for breath.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Bring him the phone...
dialog: You are true to your nature, Mr.
dialog: President.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Someday, you'll regret my nature.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You don't like seeing people get
dialog: hurt. Now in morality, that is a
dialog: virtue. In politics, however, that
dialog: is weakness.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You were a hostage to everyone else
dialog: * long before you
dialog: were a hostage to
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: A sleepless Petrov paces back and forth, smoking a cigarette.
text: The phone RINGS. He looks up expectantly as his aide answers.
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: Sir, the President of the United
dialog: States wishes to speak with you.
text: Petrov stops in mid-pace. Considers his cigarette for a moment
text: and then walks over to the phone.
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: Mr. President.
scene_heading: INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT
text: A guard walks down the cold steel hallway. He rattles the
text: bar of a darkened cage, he pulls out a set of keys and unlocks
text: the door.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Stravanavitch.
text: Stravanavitch awakes, and leans forward into the light. He
text: and the guard trade looks. After a beat, the guard turns and
text: retreats down the the hallway.
text: Stravanavitch rises from his bunk and approaches the cell
text: door. He leans against it and it swings open.
scene_heading: INT. M.C.C. - NIGHT
text: Rose stares at Marshall. Her look is hard to read. Distant...
dialog: cold, perhaps.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Can my husband sit next to me?
text: Korshunov considers the pair. Hands taped behind their back.
text: They're harmless. Korshunov nods.
text: Marshall rises and joins her on the pilot's rest bunk.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I don't know why you stayed.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Please... don't start with me.
text: Rose moves closer to him, and speaks in a low voice.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: There's something I need to tell
dialog: you... and God knows if I'll ever
dialog: get another chance.
text: From behind, we see her push his taped hands away.
text: He looks at her quizically.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: No matter what happens, you have
dialog: been and always will be my hero.
text: He feels the wall behind him. A dull edge of metal twisted
text: slightly from the earlier cockpit door explosion.
text: He understands.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: And you have always been my guardian
dialog: angel.
text: She smiles back at him.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I will never regret my life with
dialog: you.
text: Behind Marshall's back, he begins to cut away at the duct
dialog: tape.
scene_heading: INT. MOSCOW CENTRAL PRISON, HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Ivan Stravanavitch walks down the long prison hallway. Other
text: PRISONERS see him and begin banging on their bars in rhythm.
text: As he parades down the corridor, the banging grows until it
text: becomes deafening. Stravanavitch smiles a cocky smile.
text: One by one, guard doors swing open in front of him. In fact,
text: a few of the HACKS salute Stravanavitch as he passes.
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - AIR FORCE ONE
text: The communication board beeps and Zedeck picks up the line.
text: He exchanges some words with the caller in Russian, then
text: hangs up the phone.
speaker_heading: SERGE
text: It's confirmed. Stravanavitch is on
text: his way out. Our men are waiting
dialog: outside.
text: Korshunov smiles and puts his hand on Zedeck's shoulder.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You got what you wanted. You going
dialog: to release us now?
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You're very valuable. And our nation
dialog: needs so many things.
text: Marshall leans his head against the wall. Just as he expected.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Could I... Could I have some water?
text: Korshunov nods, motions Zedeck to take care of it. Zedeck
text: reluctanty descends to the main cabin.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: The taste of defeat is bitter, no?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: One thing I've learned as
dialog: President... all defeats are temporary and all victories are
dialog: temporary. Today' 5 conquerers are tomorrow's vanquished.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: e Very poetic.
text: Zedeck arrives with a glass of water.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: And there's one thing I've learned
dialog: from being a sports fan.
text: Zedeck brings the cup of water to Marshall's lips. Marshall
text: tips his head back to receive it.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: And that is?
text: Water spills over Marshall's face. He shakes it off.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: It ain't over, til it's over.
text: With blinding speed, Marshall leaps to his feet and swings
text: his arm around Zedeck's throat. He snaps Zedeck's neck with
dialog: quiet efficency.
text: Gibbs fires at Marshall, but Marshall, using Zedeck as a
text: shield, grabs hold of the terrorist'sMP5 and lets loose...
text: mowing down the former Secret Service agent.
text: The rest of Gibb's shots pelt against the cockpit controls
text: sending showers of sparks flying.
text: Korshunov whips out his gun and lines up a clean shot at
text: Marshall's head.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: Mr. President.
text: Korshunov fires at Marshall, but...
text: Major Caidwell dives in front of the bullet spray taking the
text: rounds in his chest.
text: Marshall turns his aim to Korshunov... but Korshunov grabs
text: Alice and presses his pistol to her head.
dialog: Stand-off.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Don't be hasty.
text: Marshall holds Korshunov in his sights. Slowly advancing.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: You love your daughter, Mr.
dialog: President. And I love my country.
dialog: It's a fair trade.
text: Korshunov backs away to the steps. Marshall does not lower
text: his gun. Korshunov disappears down the staircase.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Shepherd.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Sir...
text: Shepherd stands. Marshall unwraps Shepherd's hands.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Call Petrov...
dialog: (to Rose)
dialog: I'll be back.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Both of you.
text: Marshall slowly descends the steps to the main cabin. As
text: soon as Shepherd gets her hands loose, Rose rushes to
text: Caidwell's aid. Shepherd crosses to the communications panel
text: and picks up a headset. Begins dialing numbers
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: In his nightdress, Stoli Petrov nurses a vodka on ice. His
scene_heading: PHONE RINGS.
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: Petrov.
text: Petrov's eyes widen.
scene_heading: EXT. MOSCOW PRISON EXERCISE YARD - NIGHT
text: A wall of bars part and Stravanavitch walks through. Into
text: the main exercise yard.
text: The main gate separates him from...
text: A group of men wait in the street by a limousine.
text: The main gate opens slowly.
text: When the men sees Stravanavitch they come to attention and
text: salute him. Stravanavitch returns the salute. And then starts
text: his march toward his limousine...
text: A SIREN WAILS. LIGHTS FLOOD THE INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF THE
speaker_heading: PRISON.
text: The front gate begins to close. Worry crosses Stravanavitch's
text: face. His men rush toward him, take position by the gate.
text: Stravanavitch breaks into a run toward his limousine.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Halt! Halt!
text: Stravanvitch looks behind him. Guards rushing toward him
text: from the yard... the limousine fifty yards ahead of him...
dialog: closing fast...
text: On the limo... the back door open and waiting.
text: A shot rings out from the guard tower, followed by another,
text: and another. Like popcorn starting to pop. Stravanavitch's
text: men return fire. A minor war breaks out. Loyal guards battling
text: Stravanavitch sympathizers.
text: Stravanavitch caught in the middle, hit by one bullet, then
text: another, then another. He makesit to the open rear door of
text: the limousine, but collapses dead.
text: Everyone stops firing. Stravanavitch's men rush to his side..
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Petrov slips under the covers as an aide knocks on his door.
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: It's about Stravanvaitch.
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: What about him?
speaker_heading: AIDE
text: He's dead, sir. Shot while trying to
dialog: escape.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: PETROV
dialog: So be it. The world will sleep easier.
text: Petrov turns out his bedside light.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, MAIN CABIN - NIGHT
text: Marshall ascends down from the upper deck. Spots Korshunov
text: by the front stairway. Korshunov pushes Alice down the stairs
text: to the underdeck.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Autopilot engaged. A shower of sparks erupts from one of the
text: bulletholes in the panel.
text: Directional compass... the course heading drifts off to the
dialog: south.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The squadron of F-15 still surround Air Force One, which
text: slowly banks to one side.
scene_heading: INT. F-15 COCKPIT - NIGHT
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: They've changed their bearing.
dialog: (into headset)
text: Air Force One. Air Force One.
dialog: Over... Air Force One please respond...
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1
dialog: Sir, this new bearing. We're headed
dialog: for Iraq, sir.
scene_heading: INT. PILOT'S REST AREA.
text: Unaware of the course drift, Shepherd and Rose lift Caldwell
text: onto a bunk.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Easy, Major. Easy.
speaker_heading: MAJOR CALDWELL
dialog: The President?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You saved his life.
text: Caidwell smiles, settles peacefully back in the cot. He dies.
text: Rose reaches up and shuts his eyes.
scene_heading: INT. LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT
text: Marshall makes his way through the dimness. Stepping
dialog: cautiously.
text: A shot rings out and richochets off a piece of piping right
text: over Marshall's head.
text: Undaunted Marshall advances.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: It's over, Korshunov. You won. Now
dialog: let her go.
text: He listens, footsteps ahead of him.
text: ON Korshunov - holding Alice by her hair, practically dragging
text: her over the mid-section wing cross-braces.
text: As Marshall appears in the gangway he fires off another shot,
text: hitting a cooling vent. Steam fills the' gangway area, bathed
text: in red auxiliary lighting.
text: Korshunov retreats toward the rear of the plane.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL (O.S.)
text: There's nowhere to go.
scene_heading: INT. CONTROL TOWER - NIGHT
scene_heading: SUPER - "HUSSEIN AIR BASE, NORTHERN IRAQ"
text: A cacophony of Arabic. The radar indicates an apparent
text: invasion force heading for its borders.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FIELD - NIGHT
text: Iraqi pilots rush to their MiGs.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -
text: All eyes on the tactical display... Air Force One's course
text: has arced south and the plane is heading straight for Iraq.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
text: They aren't answering their hails.
speaker_heading: DEAN
text: This doesn't make sense.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: How close are they?
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHiqOOD Fifteen miles, so two minutes.
speaker_heading: LEE
dialog: The Iraqi Ambassador won't take our
dialog: calls. We're trying to get through
dialog: to their Central Command.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: To tell them what? The great infidel
dialog: himself is flying overhead, Go get
dialog: him? This is a man they burn in effigy
dialog: daily.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: If challenged, our fighters are to
dialog: state that they are on a rescue
dialog: mission.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: Iraqi's won't buy it. Either they're
dialog: already in on this or they'll think
dialog: we're spying.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: If fired upon, tell our fighters
dialog: that they are ordered to engage.
scene_heading: INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD - NIGHT
text: Marshall checks behind the racks of stored goods and luggage.
text: P.O.V. LOOKING DOWN A GUNSIGHT AS MARSHALL WALKS INTO THE
dialog: open.
text: A finger on the trigger.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Dad, look out.
text: Korshunov fires and Marshall dives out of the way. He cones
text: up in defensive crouch ready to shoot, but all he can see is
dialog: Alice.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: How you doing, sweetie?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Been better, Dad... You?
text: Marshall smiles briefly. But Alice is yanked around the
text: corner. Marshall hears foatsteps. He junps to his feet and
text: cautiously follows.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - EVENING
text: On the tactical display as a second group of fighters appear.
text: ready to challenge the F-l5's.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Air Force One and the cluster of F-15's zoom by.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Air Force one... please respond. Air
dialog: Force One, you are entering hostile
dialog: air space. Air Force one...
text: All Carlton receives is static.
scene_heading: INT. AFO'S COCKPIT.
text: Nobody at the wheel. The automatic pilot is still engaged.
scene_heading: INT. F-15 EAGLE COCKPIT.
dialog: Con. CARLTON Okay, guys, time to earn your paychecks. Stay
dialog: in protective formation, and do not engage, I repeat, do not
dialog: engage... unless you are fired upon. All wings acknowledge.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1
dialog: Halo one, acknowledged.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #2
dialog: Halo two, acknowledged.
text: The rest of the pilots chime in.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, LOWER AFT GALLEY - NIGHT
text: Marshall swings into the cubicle... empty.
text: He crosses to the cargo bay/parachute launch ramp hatchway.
text: Looks through the porthole.
text: Korshunov straps on one of the few remaining parachutes. He
text: tosses the rest of the spares out onto the platform.
text: Marshall steps onto the platform. Korshunov fires off a round
text: forcing him behind the door for cover.
text: Korshunov pulls Alice in front of him and yanks down the
text: ramp activation lever.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: Stay where you are.
text: The ramp lowers, and Alice gets her first look at the drop.
text: Marshall watches the remaining parachutes slide off the ramp
text: and into the stormy sky.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: There goes your ride.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Let my daughter go or I'll take you
dialog: out!
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: If you put down the gun, I promise
text: not to drop her on the way down.
text: Korshunov backs toward the edge of the ramp, pulling a
text: struggling and fighting Alice.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Let her go now! Or I will kill you.
text: Korshunov is a foot away from the edge of the ramp... two
text: steps back, he and Alice will take the plunge.
text: Marshall lines up his shot. Korshunov laughs as he presses
text: his pistol to Alice's ear.
speaker_heading: KORSHUNOV
dialog: No you won't. You'll compromise...
dialog: like always.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Hold on, Alice.
text: Marshall fires, his bullet ripping apart a good deal of
text: Korshunov's face and snapping his body back.
text: Korshunov tumbles off the platform, but his limbs are caught.
text: in Alice's. She's knocked to her belly and his dead weight
text: drags her off the edge of the platform.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: NO!
text: Marshall dives down the sloping platform, reaching out for
dialog: her...
text: Alice tries to grip the platform with her hands, but she
text: can't hold on. Her hand slip off the metallic lip.
text: But as she falls, she's caught by the wrist. Strong arms
text: pull her up. Her father's arms. He carries her back to the
text: safety of the plane. She's sobs uncontrollably.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh NY god... oh my god... oh my god...
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: It's okay, honey. I got you. I got
dialog: you. You're okay.
text: Shepherd and Rose appear. Marshall locks eyes with Rose...
text: smiles. Shepherd crosses to the parachute bins.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: Gone. They're all gone.
text: The plane shakes with the thunder of a supersonic boom.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: A half dozen MiGs race by the cluster of American aircraft
text: at breakneck speeds.
scene_heading: INT. IRAQI CONTROL TOWER - NIGHT
text: GENERAL CERALLOS eyes the radar.
speaker_heading: IRAQI SOLDIER
dialog: The Americans say they are escorting
dialog: a damaged plane. Our pilots confirm
text: they are surrounding a 747.
speaker_heading: CERALLOS
dialog: Did we warn them off?
speaker_heading: IRAQI SOLDIER
dialog: Yes. They refused to alter course
dialog: and the 747 would not answer our
text: hails.
text: Cerallos takes a moment, looking at the screen.
speaker_heading: CERALLOS
dialog: It's some kind of trick... a
dialog: preliminary airstrike in response to
dialog: our troop movement.
speaker_heading: IRAQI SOLDIER
dialog: They are in our airspace. We would
dialog: be within our rights.
speaker_heading: CERALLOS
dialog: The world would not look on us kindly
dialog: if we shot down a civilian airliner.
text: The Soldier listens to chatter coning over his headset.
speaker_heading: IRAQI SOLDIER
dialog: The pilot says it is does not have
text: the markings of a commercial jet.
speaker_heading: CERALLOS
dialog: Warn then again. If they don't
dialog: respond... shoot them down. We will
dialog: not be intimidated.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
scene_heading: INT. MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - NIGHT
text: Another sonic boom.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: What is that sound?
text: Marshall makes his way to the cockpit.
text: Through the cockpit window, a MiG accelerates out of the
text: darkness coming straight at us. At the last second it pulls
text: up slightly, riding over the top of the 747.
text: Its sonic boom rocks the jumbo jet.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: My god. I think that was a MiG.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: A MiG? Where the hell are we?
text: Marshall rushes back to one of the rear upper deck windows.
text: He looks out at the F-l5s.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: They're flying a protection formation.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Call D.C. Find out what's going on.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT, F-15 EAGLE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: MIS PILOT (V.0.)
dialog: This is your last warning. You are
dialog: violating our airspace. Leave
dialog: immediately.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: I said back off and hold your fire.
dialog: We are on a rescue mission. Do not engage. I repeat, do not
dialog: engage.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: A MiG loops into position behind Carlton.
scene_heading: INT. MIG COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: switches his targeting computer on. Finds carlton in his
dialog: sights. Good tone.
text: The pilot pulls the trigger.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The missile detaches from the MiG and slides toward Carlton.
text: Carlton breaks formation, leading the missile astray. His
text: plane tucks into a tight little roll. The missile misses
text: over Carlton's rolling wings.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Halo Team, this is group leader.
dialog: Halo Team is cleared to engage. I repeat, you are cleared to
dialog: engage.
text: Carlton pulls his plane into a monster climb.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: This is the real thing boys. Let's
text: fly and fry.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: A ringing phone is answered by an aide. A few beats.
speaker_heading: AIDE
dialog: It's the Chief of Staff calling...
dialog: from Air Force One. They've retaken
text: control of the aircraft.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: Then tell him to get the fuck out of
dialog: Iraq.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Marshall settles into the pilot's chair. Shepherd comes in.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Iraq, sir. We're over Iraq.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Iraq? Shep, you're fired.
text: Marshall looks at the plane's bearing. The instruments are
dialog: shot to hell.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Shit.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: How long's it been since you flew,
dialog: sir?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Twenty-five years.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY -
text: An F-15 follows a MiG into a barrel roll.
scene_heading: INT. MIG COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: The MIG pilot targets Air Force One. He cuts his speed as he
text: lines up his shot. Gets a lock.
speaker_heading: MIG PILOT
dialog: (arabic/subtitle)
dialog: I have radar lock on the 747.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: On tactical computer - "RADAR LOCK"
dialog: "Dis-Engaging Auto-pilot"
text: The plane banks left into a dive. Marshall grabs the yoke.
scene_heading: INT. MIG COCKPIT -
text: Finger on the trigger.
speaker_heading: MIG PILOT
dialog: It's evading. Can I take the shot?
speaker_heading: MIG LEADER (V.0.)
dialog: Take the shot.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Looking forward from underneath an F-15, the MiG heads toward
text: Air Force One. The F-15 fires a sidewinder.
text: On the MIG... as it fires its missile. The F-15's sidewinder
text: blows the MIG up, taking the missile with it.
text: Air Force One is clear... for the time being.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: MARSHALL STRUGGLES TO REGAIN CONTROL OF THE 747. HE OVER-
text: compensates and the plane rocks side-to-side.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: Flying the plane.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You haven't even driven a car since
dialog: you took office.
text: Marshall checks out the tactical display.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I'm sure it's like riding a bicycle...
dialog: downhill with no brakes and somebody
dialog: shooting at you.
text: Marshall finds the throttle, pushes it up all the way. He
text: feels the plane out, gently nudges it into a turn.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Two MiGs flare out of an engagement with the F-15's and break
text: toward Air Force One.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: We got two on the loose. Someone get
text: on them.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #2
dialog: Halo Two... I can't get there in
dialog: time.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Bullshit. Do it.
text: The two MiGs lock onto Air Force One. Each fires a missile
text: at the President's plane, before breaking in opposite
dialog: directions.
scene_heading: INT. AFO COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: A red buzz. It's all Marshall can do to keep the plane flying
dialog: straight.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: We got two coming at us!
text: Tactical Countermeasures Computer... as it tracks the
dialog: incomings...
dialog: "Heat Seekers"
dialog: "Launching Flares"
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Brightly burning flares launch from either side of Air Force
text: One's wings and descend toward earth.
text: The missiles follow the heat of the flares, plummeting
text: harmlessly to earth.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: The shock waves from a nearby MiG explosion shakes the plane.
text: In the aftermath, Marshall takes a moment and pulls on the
text: pilot's headset.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: U.S. Pilots, this is Air Force One.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Copy Air Force One. Welcome to the
dialog: party.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1 (V.0.)
dialog: I'm on it.
scene_heading: INT. AFO COCKPIT - NIGHT'
speaker_heading: MARSILALL
dialog: Can you... can you drop in front of
dialog: me? I'll follow you out.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Hang tough, I'm on my way.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: On the two MiG's heading for Air Force One.
text: An F-15 drops in behind them. The MiGs scissor and break in
text: OPPosite directions. The F-l5 can only follow one of them.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT 11
dialog: I'm tight on one, the other's loose.
dialog: I need help down here.
text: The other MiG comes up on the 747 and opens fire with his
text: CANNONS. The shells rip up the surface of the aircraft's
text: wing. The MiG swoops past Air Force One and jerks into a *
dialog: vertical.
text: On the damaged wing - Fuel starts leaking out and the outer
text: jet engine catches fire.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Red warning light flashes on the control panel.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: We're hit. We've got an engine on
dialog: fire.
speaker_heading: COT. CAALTON (V.0.)
dialog: Shut it down. Shut it down.
text: Marshall reaches over and toggles the shutoff switch.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: The engine whirs to a halt and the rushing wind blows out
text: the fire. But now she's only got three engines.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Through the cockpit window, an F-15 settles in front of Air
text: Force One... Flames pouring out of its tail. Under any other
text: condition, it would be pretty. Alice, Rose and Shepherd watch
dialog: Marshall fly.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: This is President Marshall. I know
dialog: you guys are busy, but we need some
dialog: help here.
scene_heading: INT. CARLTON'S F-15 COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Canton in pursuit of a Mis.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Mr. President, it's an honor. Now
dialog: with your permission can we lead you
dialog: the fuck out of here.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: You read my mind.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Put your pilot on.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: He's busy being dead.
text: Carlton breaks left, lines up a MiG and fires. He nails the
dialog: Iraqi aircraft.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Who's flying the fucking plane?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I'm doing what I can.
scene_heading: COL. CAELTON
dialog: Can you, can you change your heading
dialog: to Zero Four One point six?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Negative. We've lost navagition. I
dialog: don't know where that is.
text: Buzzer sounds in Carlton's cockpit. He's been locked on.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Oh shit. Hang on. Somebody help me
dialog: out. I got one up my ass.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Carlton puts his plane into a triple canopy roll then slams
text: on his airbreaks. The MiS shoots by him and Carlton lets
text: loose with his CANNONS. The MiG pulls up and disengages.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
text: Two and three are heading toward the
dialog: Boeing.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Okay. We're gonna arc a fat one to
dialog: the right. Got it?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Got it.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Stay cool.
text: Canton's plane edges around to the right... and Marshall
text: follows. The 747 leans at an angle and continues the turn
text: until the F-15 is dead ahead. Another plane explodes ahead
text: of him at three o'clock.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: How we doing, Colonel?
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: We still got three MiGs running around
text: and six more on the way.
dialog: Can't you fly any faster?
scene_heading: IRA'. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: All eyes are glued to the tactical screen, showing the
text: dogfight. They listen to the radio traffic.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: We're at full throttle.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1 (V.0.)
dialog: Air Force One, MiGs four and five are on your tail.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Well get `em off me, goddamnit.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Two MiGs targeting the big bird.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1
dialog: I can't get a lock. Break right.
dialog: Break right.
scene_heading: INT. AFO COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Marshall struggles with his stick turning the aircraft to
dialog: the right.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
dialog: Of course its pointless. The Boeing is a fucking sloth
dialog: compared to these fighters.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: The familiar buzz. Tactical computer. "RADAR LOCK"
text: Alice notices the computer. At the upper right hand of the
text: screen, the computer displays Defensive Mode/Offensive Mode.
text: Defensive Mode is highlighted.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Daddy, look. It says...
text: Alice reaches out and touches the screen.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Not now, pumpkin.
text: Alice's touch activates offensive mode.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: Along the belly of the aircraft, two hatches pivot open,
text: revealing a series of missiles.
scene_heading: SKY - AS THE F-15 JOCKEYS WITH THE `NO MIGS
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #1
dialog: I can't get good tone.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Take the shot.
text: The F-15 fires, but the Sidewinder screams past the turning
dialog: HiGs.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Tactical computer... Over graph display.
dialog: "Offensive Counter Measures Activatedw "Launching Missiles"
scene_heading: ERR. AIR FORCE ONE -
text: The Flying White House launches two sparrow missiles. The
text: MiGs release flares, but the Sparrows don't flinch.
text: Twin FIREBALLS erupt in the sky as the Mics evaporate.
text: But from the fireball, a MISSILE emerges coming right at Air
dialog: Force One.
text: Closing fast.
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT #2
dialog: Boss, they got one off.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: On the console... sparks fly.
text: Tactical computer flashes... "SYSTEM FAILURE"
dialog: "Missile Locked"
dialog: MARSHMj What did you touch? What did you touch!?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Nothing!
text: Marshall checks display.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Oh shit. It's got us.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The missile has Air Force One dead to rights, crawling right
text: up its tail pipe.
text: Just before its about to hit the plane...
speaker_heading: FIGHTER PILOT 11
speaker_heading: YAAAAAAAAH!
text: An F-15 swoops up from below. Like a Secret Service agent
dialog: during an assassination attempt...
text: The F-15 takes the bullet in its mid-section. BOOM!
text: The blast slams bits of the fighter plane against Air Force
text: One. Rocking it badly. Chunks of the plane rip away metal
text: sheeting on the 747's wings and tail section.
scene_heading: INT. F-15 COCKPIT - NIGHT
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
text: We got six more bogeys, closing fast
dialog: from the south.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: A squadron of Navy F-14s drops into the theatre. The cavalry.
speaker_heading: NAVY SQUADRON LEADER (V.0.)
dialog: You Air Force boys get that plane out of here. We'll take
dialog: care of those MiGs.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Roger that. Kick ass, Navy.
speaker_heading: NAVY SQUADRON LEADER (V.0.)
dialog: That's affirmative.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Marshall works the controls of the 747. Tries to engage the
text: automatic pilot. The system is fried. Marshall wrestles with
dialog: the yoke.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Uh, we got a problem here.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Just stay on my wing, sir. I'll take
dialog: you all the way in.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: No. We're losing fuel and my rudder's
text: not responding.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Lemme take a look.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Canton pulls up and drops back over the plane. He looks down
text: at the Boeing's wing.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Aw, man. You're torn up pretty bad
dialog: out here, sir. Do you have any
dialog: elevater control.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Sluggish... I think it's jammed too.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: Uh, Tower, we got a problem up here.
dialog: Sir, I got some bad news. Air Force One... there's no way
text: they can bring it down. Plane's damaged, it's unlandable.
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT - NIGHT
text: Marshall looks out the side cockpit window, sees Carlton's F-
text: 15 fly steady with his.
scene_heading: COL. CARLTON
dialog: I'm sorry, sir.
text: Carlton salutes Marshall. Marshall returns it.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Thanks for your help, Colonel.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: General Northwood collapses into his chair.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: They've got no chutes. They can't
text: control the plane, their engines are
text: failing and they're losing fuel.
speaker_heading: DEAN
dialog: I prefered the terrorists.
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: That's game, set, and match. There's
dialog: nothing to do, except call the Chief
dialog: Justice.
speaker_heading: V.P. CHANDLER
dialog: The Chief Justice? What on earth
dialog: for?
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: To swear you in as President.
text: Dead silence in the room.
text: General Greely ambles over to the tactical map and just stares
text: at it. He loosens his tie and scratches his head.
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: Where's your strike team, General?
scene_heading: GENERAL NORTHWOOD
dialog: On their way back to Turkey. Why?
speaker_heading: GENERAL GREELY
dialog: I just had the craziest idea.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: KC-lO Transport plane.
text: KC-lO PILOT Romeo Tango Zulu. We copy. Change of Orders
dialog: acknowledged. We are en route.
text: The KC-lO banks into a turn.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - MIGHT
text: Alice, Rose and Shepherd stand behind the pilot's seat.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: (into header)
dialog: Is it our only option? - Then do it.
text: Marshall looks to the others.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: We're now over the Black Sea, so
dialog: even if they could get us chutes
dialog: we'd drown or die of hypothermia
dialog: before they could get to us. We've got one other option
dialog: though...
scene_heading: EXT. WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Standard news shot. CNN REPORTER facing the camera.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
text: incredible, yet unconfirmed reports,
dialog: of White House staff members
text: parachuting from the plane while the
dialog: President himself battled these
dialog: terrorists.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: A family gathers around their T.V. set to hear the report.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (TELEVISION)
text: Yet now, in a bizarre twist of events,
dialog: CNN has learned that Air Force One
text: has been severly crippled and is
dialog: virtually unlandable and our sources
dialog: report that the First Family is
text: trapped onboard. A daring mid-air
dialog: rescue operation is said to be
dialog: underway.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: How long's it been?
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: Twenty five minutes. They should be
dialog: here any moment.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: They better. Fuel's almost gone.
text: Up ahead, navagation lights.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: There they are!
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Okay, I'm slowing us down.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT
text: Shepherd crosses to the forward cabin door. He follows
dialog: directions for emergency door release.
scene_heading: EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: The emergency door opens and the emergency raft/slide deploys.
text: It inflates before being ripped from the aircraft, gently
text: wafting through stormy clouds.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT
text: Air rushes past the airplane at two hundred miles an hour.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
speaker_heading: IT'S OPEN!
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT -
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: DO YOU SEE TEEM?
scene_heading: INT. CABIN - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ROSE (O.S.)
dialog: CAN YOU SEE THEM?
text: Shepherd looks out into the night sky. Inky blackness and
text: greying clouds. The horizon, though, lightens as dawn
text: approaches.
text: Shepherd spots navigational lights descending from above.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: HERE THEY COME!
scene_heading: EXT. KC-LO TRANSPORT - NIGHT
text: It's side cargo door is wide open. Army Rangers begin winching
text: out three-inch wide cable.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The KC-lO pratically on top of Air Force One. Separated by
text: forty feet. Super flying.
text: The cable slaps against the side of Air Force One and drags
text: along it's edge. As it slides past the open doorway, Shepherd
text: grabs it and hauls it into the plane until he has its end.
text: He hooks the cable to a metal clasp at the top of the door
dialog: frame.
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: WE'RE HOOKED!
scene_heading: INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT -
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: We're hooked. Hove into position.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT (RADIO)
dialog: Romeo Tango Zulu, acknowledged. We
dialog: are assuming position.
text: A red light flashes on the control panel. Engine number two
text: grinds to a halt. The pressure guages drop to zero.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Get going. We don't have much time
dialog: left.
text: Rose bends down and kisses Marshall on the cheek.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I love you. I just wanted you to
dialog: know that.
text: Marshall holds her with his eye.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I love you too.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We're going to make it.
text: Alice throws her arms around her father.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: My school play's Tuesday night.
dialog: Promise me you'll be there.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I promise.
text: Guages show fuel is low on the remaining turbofans.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY -
text: The transport plane dips into a lateral position. The two
text: planes are connected by a hundred yards of cable.
text: FIVE ARMY RANGERS in snatch harnesses slide down the cable
text: bridge onto Air Force Onefr As they hit the open doorway,
text: they unclip and sail into the main cabin.
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER #1
dialog: Let's get you folks out of here.
scene_heading: INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - EVENING
text: Electronics department. Banks of television sets. Shoppers
text: watch intently. The audio broadcast plays over a map of the
text: region and a graphic of Air Force One.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT (V.0.)
text: Tower, Air Force One has been boarded.
speaker_heading: TOWER (V.0.)
dialog: Romeo Tango Zulu, copy One the
text: television, graphics of the First
dialog: Family against the Presidential Seal.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: You're listening to an intercepted
dialog: audio feed of radio communications
dialog: between Air Force One and Army Special
text: Forces, flying side-by-side,
dialog: attempting to get the first family
text: off the damaged aircraft.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN -
text: Three Army Rangers harness themselves `to the survivors. One
text: to Alice, one to Rose and one to Shepherd. The other two
text: head for the cockpit.
text: Alice and her Ranger are ready.
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER
dialog: We're set.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Mon...
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You can do it, baby.
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER
dialog: Hold on tight. The first step's a
dialog: bitch.
text: Alice takes a deep breath, closes her eyes...
text: The soldier clips on the cable, and shoves off the lip of
text: the doorway, SAILING DOWN THE WIRE.
text: They plummet, Alice screaming. The line goes taut.
text: The pair slide the hundred yards to the KC-lO. Rangers grab
text: them and bring them into the transport.
scene_heading: INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - EVENING
text: Shoppers listen to television sets, galvanized.
text: KC-lO PILOT The first daughter is on-board.
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT
text: With a smile.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
text: Acknowledged.
text: Two Army Rangers approach the cockpit.
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER #1
dialog: Mr. President!
text: Army Ranger #2 slides into the co-pilot's seat.
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER #2
dialog: I'll take it, sir. You get going.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT
text: Rose clips on to a Ranger's harness.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Ready!
text: They clip on the wire, move to the lip, and rappel off the
text: side of the plane.
scene_heading: INT. AFO UPPER DECK - NIGHT
text: As the first Ranger leads Marshall through the M.C.C.
text: WHEN A SHOT RINGS OUT...
text: The soldier at the flight yoke slumps over dead.
text: Marshall and the first Ranger swing around to see...
text: A bloody but smiling Gibbs, lying on the deck, clutching an
dialog: MP5.
text: The Ranger draws his weapon...
text: But Gibbs swings his rifle around. Pulls the trigger. BAM.
text: BAM. BAM. Hitting the Ranger.
text: The Ranger returns fire, shooting round after round at Gibbs
text: before pitching over, dead.
text: Gibbs draws a bead on the President, smiles... but he doesn't
text: have any strength left to pull the trigger. He expires.
text: And the plane begins to dive. Marshall runs for the cockpit.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Rose and her Ranger are pulled aboard the transport.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN -
text: Shepherd and his Ranger clip onto the wire, but the KC-lO is
text: now higher than Air Force One.
scene_heading: INT. AFO COCKPIT -
text: With Marshall back at the yoke.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT
dialog: Air Force One, you're losing altitude.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I can't hold it!
scene_heading: HANG ON. KC-LO PILOT (V.0.)
scene_heading: EXT. SN - NIGHT
text: The KC-lO transport dips lower and lower, trying to maintain
text: its position under the descending plane.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT
dialog: Tower, Romeo Tango Zulu. The First
text: Lady is onboard. Air Force One,
dialog: status?
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: We've lost two of your men. There's
dialog: no one to fly the plane.
speaker_heading: KC-L0 PILOT (V.0.)
dialog: We can send another one over.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: No time. I only have one engine left.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER
dialog: Come on!
speaker_heading: SHEPHERD
dialog: What about the President?
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER
text: He's on his way.
text: With the KC-lO back in the Position, Shepherd and his Ranger
text: shove off the dying plane toward safety.
scene_heading: TNT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: KC-L0 PILOT
dialog: The Chief of Staff is onboard. We
dialog: are at six thousand feet descending
dialog: rapidly.
text: Everyone's biting their nails.
scene_heading: TNT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I can't stabilize it.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT
dialog: Sir, we're going to pound pavement
dialog: in less than three minutes.
text: Marshall holds the yoke in one hand and unclips the snatch
text: harness from the dead ranger in the co-pilot's seat.
text: The last red light on the engine control panel starts to
dialog: flash.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: I'M LOSING NUMBER FOUR!
text: Marshall, still fighting the yoke, stands. He takes a deep
text: breatn, drops the wheel and runs like a motherfucker for the
dialog: stairs.
scene_heading: EXT. SICY, AIR FORCE ONE.
text: Drops into a banking twist.
text: The cable line runs taut.
text: The KC-lO tries to compensate.
speaker_heading: TNT. CABIN
text: Marshall dives down the stairs from
text: the upper deck, comes up sprinting
dialog: for the door.
scene_heading: TNT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT -
text: Engine four fails.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -
speaker_heading: KC-1O PILOT (V.0.)
text: She's out of control. I can't pace
dialog: her.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN -
text: The taut straining cable snaps one corner of the metal clasp.
text: The clasp starts to bend.
scene_heading: IN SLOW MOTION -
text: MARSHALL sprinting to the open door.
text: The clasp twisting. The cable hook ready to slip of f it.
text: Marshall clips on, and dives out of the door. He slides forty
dialog: feet down, when....
text: The clasp gives. The cable line snaps away from the plane...
text: one end connected to the KC-l0, the other connected to...
dialog: Nothing.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY
text: Marshall slides down the cable, gripping at it, trying to
dialog: break his fall.
text: Air Force One plummets toward the water.
text: Marshall sliding, right behind it, running out of cable.
text: At the end of his rope, literally. Marshall's harness snags
text: on the end clasp. He hangs on for dear life.
text: Moments later Air Force One impacts.
text: A huge EXPLOSION, water and flames blows sky high into the
dialog: night.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT
text: Tower. Air Force One is down...
scene_heading: INT. SPORTS BAR - EVENING
text: Dead silence as all the patrons stare up at the T.V.
speaker_heading: KC-1O PILOT
dialog: I repeat, Air Force One is down.
speaker_heading: TOWER
dialog: Romeo Tango Zulu. Do you have the
dialog: President?
dialog: No response...
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: TOWER
dialog: Romeo Tango Zulu, please respond. Do
dialog: you have the President? Over.
dialog: Still no response...
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: The massive fireball and glowing remains of the Presidential
text: aircraft almost reaches up to where the President struggles
text: to hold on to the end of the cable.
scene_heading: INT. KC-LO TRANSPORT
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER
dialog: Winch it up! Winch it up!
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - NIGHT
text: Marshall slipping off the line, unable to get a solid hold.
text: His hands slick with blood.
text: The belly of the KC-lO gets closer and closer.
speaker_heading: MARSHALL
dialog: Come on. Ten mare seconds.
text: He closes his eyes. His fingers begin to give.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: All over America, families, gathered around their televisions,
dialog: wait.
speaker_heading: TOWER
dialog: Romeo Tango Zulu, do you have the
dialog: President? Over.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT
dialog: Stand by.
scene_heading: INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - NIGHT
speaker_heading: TOWER
dialog: Romeo Tango Zulu1 this is Tower.
dialog: Please report. over.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: A long beat of silence, then...
speaker_heading: TOWER
dialog: Romeo Tango Zulu, do you copy? Do
dialog: you have the President?
text: Another long beat.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT
dialog: We copy. Stand by...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tower?
speaker_heading: TOWER
dialog: Tower, here.
speaker_heading: KC-LO PILOT
dialog: This is Romeo Tango Zulu changing
dialog: call signs.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tower, alert air traffic, Romeo Tango
text: Zulu is now Air Force One.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: This is Air Force One... The President
text: is safe onboard.
speaker_heading: TOWER
dialog: Copy, Air Force One.
text: Cheers flood the situation room.
text: Cheers flood the Department Store.
text: Cheers flood the press room, the living room, the sports
dialog: bars, churches, schools, construction sites, hospitals...
dialog: all across America.
scene_heading: INT. KC-1O HOLD - DAWN
text: Marshall huddles tight with Rose and Alice as a MEDIC attends
text: to their wounds.
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER
dialog: Mr. President?
text: Marshall turns to see this soldier, a fresh-faced, 19-year-
text: old kid, saluting his Commander-in-chief.
speaker_heading: ARMY RANGER
dialog: Welcome aboard, sir.
text: Marshall returns the salute.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - DAWN
text: The KC-1O soars into the emerging sunrise, flying in the
text: center of the remaining F-l5 formation.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK
dialog: 
