dialog: 
speaker_heading: OVER BLACK
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICcs
dialog: You’re quite lucky, you know...
scene_heading: INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON
text: CAMERA EXPLORES the room... Modest, messy anc male. Just the
text: pasics. No photos of family or friends. Only telltale signs
text: of a single, untidy man living alone. An ad, torn from 4
text: wagazine, picturing a classic Morgan sports car is taped to
text: the refrigerator with Nant It scrawled in black marker,
dialog: A stack of books - French For Fun, Dress For Success For
dialog: Less - A Guide To New York’s Designer Discount Warehouses.
text: A clock on the night-stand tells us it’s half past two.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’ S VOICE
dialog: -- I rarely allow anyone into my
dialog: flat.
scene_heading: TRACK IN ON - ALFIE
text: Sleeping, with a wry smile on his face. A beat, then... One
text: eye POPS OPEN and Alfie GLANCES CONSFIRATORIALLY at CAMERA.
dialog: This is gomething he will do throughout our story... speak in
text: intimate asides to the audience, as though he’s talking to a
text: friend. Other characters within the scene will be oblivious.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: I know... humble digs, not exactly
dialog: what you'd call a ‘panty peeler’...
text: He pulls himself out of bed, wearing only striped silk pajama
text: bottoms, drops to the floor.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: Know what I mean?
text: With that, he begins a quick series of crunches.
text: Alfie is an Englishman in his early thirties with tousied
dialog: good-looks and a healthy dose,of cockiness. He Lives in
text: perpetual motion and has the youthful air of a guy who’s
text: managed to escape the normal adult resoonsibilities and
dialog: emotions. .
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to CAMERA, while doing
dialog: crunches)
dialog: -- but it works for me. Tc be
dialog: honest, I rarely spend a night in
dialog: my own bed anyway...
text: Another five or six crunches.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: There we go, Ten crunches is all I
dialog: need. Try not to hate me for it.
text: Alfie continues talking TC CAMERA as he hoos up and gathers a
text: handful of vitamins from various bottles and pours some
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Now with women, generally speaking,
dialog: if a guy’s a good provider and a
dialog: nice chap, six-pack abs aren’t
dialog: really a deal-breaker. In fact, if
dialog: he’s in the right tax bracket, a
dialog: bloke can be bald, wear a truss,
dialog: have seizures - and’ still get
dialog: shagged.
text: Alfie swallows a mouthful of vitamins with water, then grabs
text: a pack of Dunhills.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (confidentially)
text: On the flip-side, even though the
dialog: politically-correct bloke sitting
dialog: next to you will deny it - for us
dialog: men, when it comes to women, it's
dialog: all about the F.B.B. - face, boobs,
dialog: bottom. JI mean, sure, we’d like a
dialog: cool gig tossed in for good
dialog: measure, like say...
dialog: multi-millionaire hotel chain
dialog: heiress. But above. all else -
dialog: ‘looks rule’.
text: He lights his cigarette and gives CAMERA a sly shrug.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Just being honest.
scene_heading: INT. TINY BATHROOM
text: Alfie turns on the shower, cigarette dangling from his lips,
text: unties his drawstrings, looks up, remembering THE CAMERA.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: Give us a bit of privacy now.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: No, really, turn away.
text: He SHOCS US AWAY, then slips out of his pajama bottoms and
text: into the shower, pulling the shower doar closed behind him.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: All right, you can look back. Hang
dialog: on, If11 be quick.
text: Through OPAQUE GLASS, we watch Alfie lathering up.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (shouting over the shower
dialog: I know you’re expecting the opening
dialog: credits now but we'll save you the
dialog: thrill of knowing the Key Grip’s
text: name ‘til the end of the flick.
text: He peeks his SOAPY HEAD out, looks about tifteen...
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D.
dialog: So, while I lather up, why don't
dialog: you settle in with the popcorn you
dialog: overpaid for and we can begin.
text: Alfie ducks back into the shower and begins singing a
text: garbled, almost unrecognizable version of I Gotta Be Me.
scene_heading: A CLOSET DOOR SLIDES OPEN
speaker_heading: ALFIE (0.S.}
dialog: It’s been said that clothes speak
dialog: the international language...
text: REVEALING Alfie’s small but fastidiously organized and
text: supremely fashionable WARDROBE. Alfie sorts through the
text: choices, while glancing over his shoulder AT CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: And I admit I ama bit of a fashion
dialog: whore. But, I believe, to he
dialog: satorically-correct, a man requires
text: only a few well-chosen basics.
scene_heading: 2% SERIES OF RAPID-FIRE CUTS
text: Alfie, posing as if for a GQ layout, wearing a quick
text: succession of STYLISH WARDROBE COMBCS. He models these
text: outfits in a slightly rumpled, hair tousled sort of way,
text: giving the impression of never trying too hard.
dialog: 
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: He selects a pin-striped suit from the closet.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Unfortunately, today t'm off to
dialog: work so we’ve got to tone it down a
dialog: bit.
dialog: (holds up suit)
dialog: Gueci - End of Summer Sale. Very
dialog: understated. :
dialog: (takes out a very pink
dialog: shirt)
dialog: But I can easily spice it up. When
dialog: you ooze masculinity, as some of us
dialog: do, you have no reason to fear
dialog: pink.
text: He holds up the shirt and suit together.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
text: Smashing.
text: A little smile as he picks up a bottle of Acqua Di Gio
dialog: cologne.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Now, most men overdo it in the
dialog: cologne department. Americans
text: practically spray it on with a crop
dialog: duster.
dialog: (dabs his wrists}
dialog: My rule: Nothing above the neck.
text: Alfie then splashes a bit on his fingers and drops his HAND
scene_heading: BELOW FRAME.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Though I do believe in a quick
text: aplash on the old Eiffel Tower.
dialog: (winks)
dialog: Never know where the day might
dialog: take you.
scene_heading: INT, APARTMENT - FRONT DOOR -. MINUTES LATER
text: BRlfie, dressed smartly in his suit and a carefully chosen
text: tie, adtusts his cuff-links and starts to exit,
text: fingers, remembering something.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Almost forgot--
dialog: 
text: He crosses to the dresser and tears a page off a WORD FOR THE
scene_heading: DAY CALENDAR.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: New word for the day:
dialog: {reading calendar)
dialog: Os-ten-ta-tious. “The attempt to
dialog: attract attention to one’s self.”
text: He looks in the mirror.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Who? Me? .
scene_heading: INT, HALLWAY
text: Alfie steps out, locks his apartment door, TURNS to CAMERA:
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh, blimey, I’m rude, I forgot to
dialog: introduce myself. I’m-~
speaker_heading: A WOMAN’S VOICE
dialog: -- Alfie! .
scene_heading: FREEZE FRAME. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’ S VOICE
dialog: There you go.
text: ACTION RESUMES and Alfie turns TO CAMERA with a big grin.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Alfie.
text: He turns to see LU SCHNITMAN, an overweight woman in her
text: sixties with pendulous breasts and a coquettish grin.
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: Were you the little elf who left
dialog: those mocha bon-hons on my
dialog: doorstep?
text: Alfie glances at CAMERA, shrugs.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: {to CAMERA)
dialog: They were passing out free samples
dialog: in the Village.
scene_heading: (to MRS. SCENTTMAN)
dialog: Perhaps you have a secret admirer,
dialog: Mrs. Schnitman.
dialog: 
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: What do T have to do to get you to
dialog: call me Lu?
dialog: {then} .
dialog: Alfie, you're a doll, but I’m
dialog: supposed to be on a diet.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You? A diet?
text: He crosses te her and leans in with a husky whisper.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: tf don’t mean to be forward, Lu, but
dialog: don’t you know a full-figured gal
dialog: like yourself is every man’s secret
dialog: fantasy?
text: As Mrs. Schnitman melts, Alfie LOOKS UP to CAMERA:
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: All right, she’s a tub of lard, buz
dialog: the ship’s already sailed, so why
dialog: not let her feel good about
dialog: herself? Know what I mean?
text: He starts out, turns back to Mrs. Schnitman.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, Lu, don’t feel you have to, but
dialog: the key’s under the mat if you’ re
dialog: up for a bit of your fabulous dust-
text: busting.
text: The look on her face tells us she can’t wait to grab that
dialog: Dirt Devil...
text: And with that, MUSIC BEGINS: Sting singing, Englishman In New
dialog: York.
scene_heading: EXT. SOHO STREET - DAY (MUSIC OVER}
text: Alfie expertly weaves through the gridiock on his mint-
text: condition, vintage VESPA, all the while SPEAKING to CAMERA.
text: Alfie smiles at every SEXY WOMAN he passes. Most smile back.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I migrated to the States a few
dialog: years back ‘cause I had a mate who
dialog: knew a bloke who crossed the pond,
dialog: snagged a job and in less than two
dialog: years wound up owning the joint.
dialog: 
text: A STUNNER gives him the once-over.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: But, more importantly, I always
dialog: heard the most beautiful women in
dialog: the world reside in Manhattan. And
dialog: when it comes to shagging birds,
dialog: it’s all about location, location,
dialog: location.
dialog: (gestures to PASSING
speaker_heading: WOMEN)
dialog: And just look around - every one
dialog: unique and special, like
text: snowflakes.
dialog: (breathes in the city)
dialog: God, I love this city. And, I
dialog: mean, with such a piethora -
dialog: calendar word - meaning abundance
dialog: of gorgeousness and diversity...
text: Alfie pulls into the RED ZONE in front of an OUTDOOR CAFF,
text: where a curvy Hispanic METER MAID is writing up a ticket.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: ~~ how could I ever choose to
dialog: settle down with just one?
text: The Meter Maid looks up at Alfie, then at the RED ZONE, then
text: gives him a scolding look. Alfie approaches, all charm.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Desperately need a spot of tea,
dialog: Lindy. Do us a favor.
speaker_heading: METER MAID
dialog: (flirtatiously}
dialog: As long as you return it. Again.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: As long as you wear the uniform,
dialog: Again.
text: Alfie offers Lindy his patent killer smile, pats her butt and
text: cruises toward a cafe table. Lindy watches him for a moment,
text: slaps a ticket on someone’s car. He’s made her day.
scene_heading: ALFIE - SEATED AT THE CAFE (MUSIC CONTINUES)
text: He sips a cup of tea, while observing a parade of scurrying
text: suits and shoppers laden with designer store bags.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
speaker_heading: (ta CAMERA}
dialog: I watch this parade of ccnspicuous
dialog: consumption and upward mobility
dialog: and think to myself, America ~ take
text: a tea break.
dialog: (his cell phone RINGS,
dialog: checks caller ID)
dialog: Annie? Incredible! I was just
dialog: thinking about you.
dialog: (whispers, inta phone}
dialog: I’m with a client at the moment,
dialog: luv, ring you later? Kiss -kiss.
dialog: {clicks off, back to
speaker_heading: CAMERA)
dialog: I myseif subscribe more to the
dialog: European philosophy, my priorities
dialog: leaning toward wine, women and--
dialog: {cocks his head, smiles}
dialog: -- well, actually that’s it, wire
dialog: and women.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Although women and women is always
dialog: a fun ception.
dialog: (finishes tea)
dialog: So.
dialog: (rising)
dialog: To live life to the fullest--
text: He glances around, casually slides the tray of remaining TEA
text: BAGS into his coat pocket and starts off,..
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- I require only enough to cover
dialog: my modest expenses.’
dialog: (turns back)
dialog: I’ve got no desire to he the
text: richest stiff in the cemetery.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY — EVENINS
text: Guiet. Eerie. Shadows on tombstones. CAMERA GLIDES over
text: the graveyard toward a LIMO parked on a road above. CLOSER.
dialog: CLOSER. Right up to:
scene_heading: THE LIMO’S WINDOW
text: A beat. Then, a hair-raising SCREAM. And a WOMAN’S FACE
text: bolts INTO FRAME. She continues SHRIEKING as she moves up and
text: down, in the heat of passion...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - SAME TIME
dialog: a
text: The woman is DORIE, a suburban housewife in her late
text: thirties. She's in the throes of intense love making... her
text: skirt pulled up around her waist, bra unhocked, blouse open.
text: She’s straddling Alfie and as her moans of pleasure grow
text: LOUDER, Alfie gives a LCOK to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {softly, to CAMERA}
dialog: I think this just might be my
dialog: favorite position. I know it was
dialog: President Kennedy’s. He was such a
dialog: great leader. Of course, JFK used
dialog: the old ‘bad back’ excuse, but, if
dialog: you ask me, the Prez knew it gave
dialog: you maximum pleasure with minimum
text: exertion.
text: Dorie reaches a climax during above and now collapses into
text: Alfie’s arms...
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Mmmm... What is it about the back
dialog: of a limo?
text: Alfie kisses her neck, while CONTINUING to CAMERA,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: She’s right, you know. If you
dialog: haven’t tried it limo-style, I give
dialog: it my highest recommendation. Of
dialog: coursé, you usually don’t get the
dialog: full undress--
text: Dorie buries her head in his neck...
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to CAMERA}
dialog: -~ but that can be an added bonus.
dialog: I mean, once you’ve seen a bird in
text: the buff, it’s like unwrapping the
text: sare birthday gift again and again.
dialog: Know what I mean?
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: (purring)
dialog: What would I do without my weekly
dialog: Alfie fix?
text: They xiss, he caresses her, SPEAKS to CAMERA.
dialog: 
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Obligatory cuddling... Thousand
dialog: cone... thousand two... thousand--
text: Alfie glances at his watch, taps it a couple of times to get
text: it going, then bolts up, pretending to suddenly realize the
dialog: hour.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Cripes, I’ve gotta get cracking,
dialog: luv... Ifve a ten o’clock pick-up.
text: Dorie sits up, stretches, pulls up her lacy red bra.
speaker_heading: DORTE
dialog: Oh, better hurry, you don’t want to
dialog: keep her waiting.
text: Alfie helps Dorie tasten her bra, while he TALKS to CAMERA:
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Luckily, this one’s only a wee bit
dialog: possessive...
text: He kisses Dorie’s HAND, then EASES IT to CAMERA, showing us a
scene_heading: WEDDING RING.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- Married, you see. I love
dialog: married. No property rights.
text: Alfie watches with appreciation as Dorie stretches out her
text: long shapely leg, adjusting her garter belt.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Quite the number, isn’t she? Yet,
dialog: she tells me her old man hasn’t
dialog: shagged her in six months. Thank
dialog: God there are gents like me ‘round
dialog: to pick up the slack,
speaker_heading: (to DORZE)
dialog: You deserve to be appreciated...
speaker_heading: (BACK to CAMERA)
dialog: -— While she’s in her prime.
text: {to DORIE, caressing her
text: leg, pats her tush)
dialog: Men, legs like a racehorse... The
dialog: perfect yoga butt...
speaker_heading: {BACK to CAMERA)
dialog: -- I give it my highest
dialog: grace - A minus.
dialog: 
dialog: 11.
text: He reaches down, puts on a CHAUFFEUR’S HAT and adjusts it
dialog: “Thsl so”,
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - TRAVELING ~ NIGHT
text: Alfie drives while Dorie sits in the backseat, freshening her
text: make-up and punching the RADIO BUTTONS, looking for a seng
dialog: she likes.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Where did we tell the old man we
dialog: were going tonight?
speaker_heading: DORTIE
dialog: (punching stations)
dialog: Movie...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Treasure, please quit messing
dialog: about, you'll ruin my pre-sets.
dialog: (then)
dialog: What movie?
text: Dorie settles on a slow-jeam.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: IT don’t know. What’s the
dialog: ditference?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: The difference is, the more details
dialog: you give, the less interested your
dialog: hubby will be. If you want to stop
dialog: someone from being suspicious, tell
dialog: ‘em more than they want to hear.
dialog: When lying, never be vague.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: It doesn’t matter what I say. It
dialog: would never occur to Phil that
dialog: anotaer man would look twice at me,
speaker_heading: ALFIZ
dialog: Dor, darling, if you're fishing for
dialog: a compliment, you should know by
dialog: row they only come when least
dialog: expected.
dialog: (offers a tin}
dialog: Now, have an Altoid so Phil doesn’t
dialog: smell the Alfie on your breath.
speaker_heading: DORIE :
dialog: I don’t care if he does.
dialog: 
dialog: 12.
text: Alfie sighs, LOOKS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: If there’s one thing that puts me
dialog: off marriage, it’s married women.
text: Dorie pops the Altoid in her mouth and chases it with a swig
text: of vodka. She checks to make sure Alfie’s not lcoking, then
text: migchievously slips her LACY RED THONG inte the pocket of his
text: jacket, which is neatly folded over the front seat.
text: She wraps her arms around Alfie, nibbling on his ear, as he
text: drives and TALKS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: What Dorie doesn’t know is - we
dialog: won’t be seeing much more of her.
dialog: Yeah, Ifve got that all-too
dialog: familiar feeling that, before long,
dialog: she’11 be wanting @ bit more than
dialog: I’m able to give.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Wouldn’t it be great if I was going
dialog: home with you tonight instead of
dialog: Phil the Pill?
text: Alfie gives a knowing side-long glance TO CAMERA. As they
text: pull up to a RED LIGHT, Doric grabs Alfie by his tie, pulling
text: him close.
speaker_heading: DORIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (pouty)
dialog: Baby, I'm not ready to let you go--
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (re: his tie}
dialog: Careful, darling, Ralph Lauren -
dialog: Purple Label-~
text: Before he can finish, Dorie YANKS Alfie down by his favorite
dialog: tie.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: It’s him!
text: Alfie drops onto the front seat, while Dorie flattens herself
dialog: in the back,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Him who?!
dialog: 
dialog: 13.
text: Alfie ard Dorie are now both LYING FLAT in their respective
text: seats, WHISPERING to ons another.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: My huskand just pulled up next to
dialog: us!
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: What the bloody hell am I ducking
dialog: for - he doesn’t know me!
dialog: (then)
dialog: Besides, one-way windows.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: ch, right. Sorry.
text: Alfie nonchalantly sits up, straightening his tie. He
text: casually LOWERS HIS WINDOW and glances over at PHIL, a
text: harried, 35-going-on-60, balding exec sitting in the back of
text: a taxi, talking on his cell. Alfie gives him a littie salute.
text: Phil, a bit confused, returns the gesture. FREEZE FRAME.
speaker_heading: CVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’ S VOICE
dialog: Yep, it’s definitely time to stage
text: a disappearing act.
scene_heading: EXT. HUDSON RIVER - WATERWAYS FERRY — TWENTY MINUTES LATER
text: Alfie and Dorie standing in the shadows. Alfie takes her
text: face in both hands and kisses her. Corie doesn’t realize
dialog: this is their final good-bye...
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Next Tuesday? Same time? Same
dialog: place? .
text: Alfie feigns disappointment.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Sorry, luv, that's Fashion Week...
dialog: I’m booked double shifts.
dialog: (peck on the cheek)
dialog: I’ll ring you the instant things
dialog: let up.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: I’1l be doing my Kegel exercises.
dialog: (kisses him)
dialog: in the meantime, T left you a
dialog: little souvenir to.remember me
dialog: by...
dialog: 
dialog: 14.
text: Alfie looks at her quizzically but before he can respond,
text: she’s started up the stairs to the ferry.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh, Dor...
dialog: (she turns >dack)
dialog: Your derriere looks rather
text: ravishing from this vantage point,
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Why, thank you, kind sir.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {a grin)
dialog: See. A compliment. When you least
dialog: expect it.
text: She smiles down at Alfie and kounces up the stairs.
speaker_heading: ALFIE WATCHES
text: Dorie approach Phil, who's wearing a trench coat and carrying
text: an over-stutfed briefcase. Phil gives her a quick peck on
text: the cheek and moves off, heading for the Ferry, leaving her
text: five steps behind. Dorie looks down at Alfie, shrugs and
text: smiles. Alfie blows her a kiss, TURNS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: What can I tell you - happy as a
dialog: pup with two tails. And I reckon
dialog: I’ve done old Phil a good turn =
dialog: but of course, he’d be the last to
dialog: see it.
dialog: (sighs, reflective)
dialog: Never expect any thanks in this
dialog: life, you know what I mean?
text: Alfie checks his watch, starts back toward his Limo.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: So. Tuesday, 10:03 PM, Do I drag
dialog: meself home to a cold flat and
dialog: empty fridge?
dialog: (checks himseif in side-
dialog: mirror}
dialog: Or, nip cross town to a warm body,
dialog: hot bath and breakfast in bec?
dialog: {mock-mulling}
dialog: Decisions, decisions.
dialog: 
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: EXT. /INT. JULIE’S APARTMENT - NIGHT a
text: THROUGH THE WINDOW, we see JULIE, 26, a winsome working girl,
text: with an ever-so-slight weight issue. Her apartment is small
text: and warm, homey on a budget... At the moment, she’s peering
text: expectantly out the window, waiting for somebody.
speaker_heading: ALYFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Yeah, think I'll pay a visit to my
dialog: semi~regular, quasi-sort-of...
scene_heading: INT, JULIE'S APARTMENT — CONTINUOUS
text: Julie turns from the window to stir a big pot of chili on the
scene_heading: stove. FREEZE FRAME.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: ~- My Sweet Julie...
text: ACTION RESJMES and there’s a KNOCK on the door. Julie fluffs
text: her hair, hits a spritz of perfume between her breasts, picks
text: up a stereo clicker and presses “play”, filling the room with
dialog: Teddy Pendergrass.
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: Forget your key again, Alfie?
text: She opens the door, the eagerness leaving her face when she \
text: discovers TERRY, a cute, slightly awkward young guy. In his
text: hands, he cups a perfect PEAR.
speaker_heading: JULIE (cont'd)
dialog: (amused, but...)
dialog: Terry - you need to stop.
text: She lowers the CD player with the remote.
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: 1 know, the drop-by thing is
dialog: totally uncool, but I saw this pear
dialog: and thought it’d be perfect fer
dialog: you.
text: She looks at him, baffled. He grins. She's grins. he’s
dialog: cute, .
speaker_heading: TERRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Remember, date three, I made baked
dialog: ziti and we rented ‘Godfather Ii’?
dialog: And young Don Corleone brought his
text: wife a pear wrapped in brown paper,
dialog: ‘cause it’s all he could afford--
dialog: 
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: -- and she said, ‘What a nice
dialog: pear... *
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: -- And you thought that was really
dialog: romantic. Now every time I sse a
dialog: pear, I... you know, think of you.
dialog: And you may not realize this, but
text: there are thousands of pears in
dialog: this city.
speaker_heading: JULIE
text: (laughs, trying to move
dialog: off the subject)
dialog: ‘lerry, by any chance, has there
dialog: been @ little drinking going on
dialog: this evening?
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: No. No. Twe brews.
dialog: (beat)
text: And a shot of tequila.
dialog: {beat)
dialog: Maybe another beer. The thing
dialog: is... And ancther tequila. Or two.
dialog: (then)
dialog: The thing is I had the best four
dialog: and-a-half dates of my life with
dialog: you...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Terry... when I broke it off, the
dialog: half-a-date night, it was because I
dialog: suddenly realized it was 2 mistake
dialog: trying to see anyone else. I'm
dialog: really sorry if I hurt-~~-
text: Her robe falls open slightly.
speaker_heading: JULIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- you.
text: Terry gulps, looks away, tortured... as Julie quickly ties it
dialog: back. He's crazy for her,
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: (half to himself)
dialog: That kind of thing really doesn’t
dialog: help...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Look, I know my ‘situation’ doesn’t
text: appear to be perfect on the surface
dialog: but...
text: She shrugs.
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: And where’s the lucky baslard
dialog: tonight?
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: He had a double shift.
dialog: (cff Terry’s doubting
dialog: look)
dialog: Terry, don’t start...
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: I just don’t want to see you
dialog: treated like some kind of a--
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: {finish the sentence)
dialog: -- a...?
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: -- Booty call.
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: Bye, Terry.
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: Okay, okay... I’m sorry. I'm outta
dialog: here.
dialog: (lingering)
dialog: How’s Max?
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Great. He's great.
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: That’s great.
text: Awkward moment.
speaker_heading: TERRY (CONT'D)
dialog: So...
text: Julie taxes the pear from him.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Thanks for the nice pear.
dialog: 17.
dialog: 
dialog: 18.
text: They smile. She kisses him on the cheek. He turns and their
text: lips accidently meet. She eases away and shakes her head,
text: giving him a little smile. He steps forward but she pushes
text: him playfully out the door.
text: When she closes the door, her smile fades... And she stands
dialog: there unsettled...
scene_heading: IND. STATRWELL - JULIE’S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER
text: ‘erry trudges down the stairs, as the front door opens and
text: Alfie ENTERS carrying the bottle of Stoli from the Simo and
text: taking the stairs two-at-a-time. As they pass, Terry steals
text: a glance at Alfie, who either ignores him or doesn’t know he
dialog: exists.
speaker_heading: CULIE’S FRONT DOOR
text: A KEY in the lock and Alfie lets himself in. He sees Julie
text: stirring the chili.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I have an alibi, your honor.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Let me guess, unexpected late night
dialog: fare?
text: Alfie moves into the kitchen, slips his arms around her
dialog: waist.
speaker_heading: JULIE (CONT'D)
dialog: What was it this time — blonde,
dialog: brunette ox jet black Goth chick?
text: Alfie kisses her neck, sneaks a GLANCE at CAMERA,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: When trapped, it’s sometimes best
dialog: to admit the truth - they’11l never
dialog: believe it.
speaker_heading: {to JOLIE)
dialog: I had a very demanding last minute
dialog: ride - spoiled Long Island
dialog: housewife,
speaker_heading: SULIE
dialog: You had her? Am I supposed to read
dialog: anything into that choice of words?
dialog: 
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Make that: they’I1 usually never
dialog: believe it.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: And where, exactly, do you take
dialog: someone’s wife at this hour?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Where didn’t I take her, she had me
text: going up and down for hours.
text: He pulls her close.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Is that supposed to be funny--
dialog: (re rans his finger across
dialog: ker upper lip)
dialog: -- ‘cause it’s so very--
dialog: {kisses her gently)
dialog: -- not.
dialog: (kisses her again)
dialog: You’re a conceited...
dialog: (kisses her)
dialog: -- lying...
dialog: (kisses her)
dialog: -- irresponsible...
dialog: {and again) .
dialog: -- English asshole.
dialog: {and again)
dialog: Don’t kiss me again.
text: But instead, SHE kisses him, Alfie hoists her up, trots
text: across the room and they fall on to the sofa. He nuzzles her,
text: burying his face in her hair.
speaker_heading: JULIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not kidding, Alfie, I hate you
dialog: sometimes.
text: He kisses her again... their bodies coming together. A long,
text: sexy kiss, she’s totally gone now. Julie unbuckles his
dialog: belt...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You have a unique way of showing
dialog: it.
text: She starts pulling his pants down. Alfie eases away.
dialog: 
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Darling, can we... Sorry... Can we--
dialog: (she won’t let him ga)
dialog: -- hit ‘pause’? I just need a
dialog: second to unwind...
text: He rises, pulling up his pants, tries to distract her with:
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve knicked ae half bottle of Stoli
text: from the limo.
dialog: (starts toward kitchen}
dialog: How do you want yours, luv - rocks?
text: Julie grabs him, pulling him back down...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: I just want my usual, Alfie -
dialog: Straight Up.
text: She kisses him, goes for the be]t buckle again... He eases
text: away. Again. Heads for the kitchen area, walking backwards,
text: feigning exhaustion.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Ifm totally knackered, baby. I’21
dialog: make it up to you in the morning.
dialog: Cross my heart.
text: He picks up Terry’s “perfect” PEAR.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: But tonight...
text: Before Julie can speak, Alfie takes a BIG BITE cut of Terry’s
text: pear. Julie gasps, looks at him, annoyed.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (chewing}
dialog: -- all I’m good for is a quick
dialog: bite, hot bath and a Long night’s
dialog: kip.
text: He opens the fridge, drops a couple of ice cubes into a glass
text: and pours himself a stitf one. He wipes his hand along his
text: side and feels something in his jacket pocket.
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: (from sofa}
dialog: You know, this isn’t a hotel,
dialog: Alfie.
dialog: 
dialog: 21,
text: Alfie pulls Dorie’s LACY RED THONG from his jacket pocket and
text: looks at it, momentarily confused. As Julie enters, Alfie
text: quickly stuffs the thong back in his pocket, turning to her
text: with a big smile.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Sey again?
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Why aré you so ‘totally knackered’?
dialog: I mean, where were you tonight...
dialog: really?
text: As Alfie leans over to sample the chili with a wooden spoon,
text: he deftly drops Dorie’s LACY RED THONG in the trash bin and
text: buries it with his foot.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I thought we weren’t asking those
dialog: questions in this relationship.
text: Julie, getting emotional, maxes the appropriate “cuote” marks
text: as she speaks. .
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: It was always you who wanted to
dialog: have an ‘understanding’, your
dialog: words. Well, I think it’s time for (
dialog: a ‘new understanding’, my words.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (re: chili)
dialog: You really must open a restaurart,
dialog: Jules. This is seriously brilliant.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (oh, please)
dialog: Alfie, it’s just chili.
dialog: {then)
dialog: Look at me.
dialog: {he does}
dialog: I can’t keep doing this. I’m
dialog: serious. I need to know if we have |
dialog: a future or if.,. I’m just some
dialog: kind of glorified ‘booty call’?
text: Alfie pulls her close, LOOKING over her sheculder AT CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Is she not adorable? Problem is
dialog: she doesn’t have enough of the
dialog: superficial things that really
dialog: matrer.
speaker_heading: {MORE}
dialog: 
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: She’s cute, absolutely - but not
dialog: drop-dead. I know, sounds shallow
dialog: but I told you how we men are - we
dialog: want ‘show-stoppers’, that’s all it
dialog: is. I mean, even mangy old
dialog: Quasimodo, the Hunchback, thought
dialog: he deserved a babe.
dialog: {to Julie)
dialog: I don’t deserve you.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: That’s probably true but,
dialog: unfortunately for me... I love you,
dialog: Alfie.
text: Alfie stands uncomfortably, then turning to get more ice...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Thanks, baby.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (on verge of tears)
dialog: Jesus, Alfie! After eight months,
dialog: I say ‘I love you’ ‘and thanks is
dialog: the best you can do?!
dialog: (slams freezer door)
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (anxiously, to CAMERA)
dialog: Oh dear...
dialog: (gently, to JULIE)
dialog: All right, sshhh... C’mon now... we
dialog: don’t want to wake--
speaker_heading: LITTLE VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: -~ Max!
text: Alfie and Julie turn to see MAX, a sweet little two~and-a~
text: half-year-old boy standing in the doorway, wearing mismatched
text: pi’s. Alfie offers a quick sigh of relief TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hey little man, we wake you?
text: Max nods, extends his arms. Alfie crosses to him, SPEAKING
text: to CAMERA along the way.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Lads, learn from my.mistake, never
dialog: get involved with a single mum.
text: Alfie Lifts Max, who wraps his arms around Alfie’s neck.
text: Alfie makes a face, cracking Max up.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 23.
text: CAMERA FOLLOWS them inLo MAX’S ROOM, a tiny alcove off the
text: main room, Alfie lays Max on hig little bed, while TALKING
text: to CAMERA. .
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: See, they come with accessories,
dialog: some of which can be... quite
text: irresistible.
text: Alfie puils Max’s sheet ovez his head, slips on his shades
text: and in an instant, is transformed into a cool version of “The
text: Invisible Man”. Max cracks up.
text: Alfie turns TO CAMERA, with a shrug.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont’d)
dialog: Yeah... this little nipper made off
dialog: with my heart.
dialog: (rumples Max’s hair, to
speaker_heading: MAX)
dialog: Hey, Pookie...
speaker_heading: {to CAMERA)
dialog: And there’s absolutely nothing
dialog: worse than realizing you care about
dialog: someone...
text: (pulls up covers, tucking
dialog: Max in}
dialog: I know that sounds a bit frosty,
dialog: but the truth is, sooner or later,
dialog: oné way or another--
text: He watches Max’s eyes flutter and close.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont’d)
dialog: -- it’s gonna find’a way to knock
dialog: you sideways... Yeah, I’m mad for
dialog: this little character...
text: Alfie sees Julie standing in the doorway.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (sighs, to CAMERA)
dialog: -- It’s Jules that’s the problen.
text: He crosses to her, SPEAKING to CAMERA on the way.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Can’t very well tell her that and
dialog: break her heart, now, can I?
text: They speak in the hallway, in hushed tones.
dialog: 
dialog: 24,
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Is this it? Is this all it will
dialog: ever be?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: 1 know... You're right, he deserves
dialog: a proper ‘Dad’... Not some limo
dialog: driver who’s poor as a shit-house
dialog: rat.
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: Jus= say it, Alfie, we’re not
dialog: enough for you.
text: Alfie chooses his words carefully.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It’s difficult, Jules... I care so
dialog: much for you both, but I’m still, I
dialog: don’t know... a bit of a kid
dialog: myself, you know.
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: (knowing he’s right)
dialog: And one kid can’t raise another...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: igroggy, eyes closed)
dialog: Poem, Alfie.
text: Alfie, grateful for the distraction, crosses anda sits on the
text: cdge of Max’s bed.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Rere’s one my dear step-mum used to
dialog: tell me...
text: (softly, with a ‘working-
dialog: class’ accent)
dialog: Now... There was an old hooker from
dialog: Brighton,
dialog: Who did so many Johns it was
dialog: frightenin’...
text: Julie can’t help herself and smiles bitter-sweetly...
scene_heading: EXT. LOW RENT NEW YORK STREET - FOLLOWING DAY
text: CLOSE ON an OLD HOOKER, unsuccessfully working a street
dialog: corner...
dialog: 
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: ALPIE’$ VOICE
dialog: I feel sorry for the poor old
dialog: luv... Her racing days are long
dialog: gone.
scene_heading: NEW ANGLE - REVEALING ALFIE
text: Zipping through traffic on his Vespa, TALXING to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yep, sights like that make you
dialog: realize it’s important to know your
dialog: own expiration date.
text: He rounds a corner and pulls up in front of a drab building:
text: ELEGANT TIMGUSINE SERVICE. A smaller, hand-printed sign
dialog: reads: For Sale Ry Owner.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: Our shelf lives are limited, so
dialog: it’s best to strike while you're in
dialog: your prime. -
text: Alfie parks near the front steps, indicates sign.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: The standards for ‘elegance’ nave
dialog: taken quite a pounding, wouldn't
dialog: you say?
text: (as he dismounts, locks
dialog: up}
dialog: Still, this is where = make my
dialog: reasonably honest living. Heavy
text: accent on the ‘reasonably’. 1t’s a
dialog: mere stepping stone.
text: He gestures to a good-looking Black guy in his twenties,
text: MARLON, sitting on the steps, morosely sipping a Starbucks
dialog: coffee.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D}
dialog: And currently sitting on one of
dialog: those stepping stones, is my pest
dialog: mate and future business partner-- \
dialog: {greeting MARLON} ‘
dialog: Marlon.
text: Marlon nods. Alfie sits next to him on the steps. They sit
text: there in silence for a long moment. Marlon stares into his
text: steaming cup of coffee.
dialog: 
dialog: 26, |
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Black. Like Lonette’s skin. Which
dialog: I will never again touch.
text: Alfie looks TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I’m afraid you’re not meeting my
text: homeboy in top form. See, Marlon’s
dialog: got a problem...
dialog: CUT TO: |
scene_heading: INT. THE LUCKY BAR - NIGHT
text: A noisy, packed, downtown club with a cool, diverse
text: clientele. CAMERA FOLLOWS a MINI-SKIRTED WAITRESS, with a \
text: killer bod, swiveling through the crowd. She’s carrying a
text: tray of drinks which she delivers to a table of young Guys, j
text: who all look up and all do double-takes.
speaker_heading: ALFIE‘ S VOICE |
dialog: It’s called Lonette. |
dialog: |
dialog: |
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - LONETTE
text: A beauty. Leaning over to set down the drinks, she flashes a
text: blinding smile and we FREEZE FRAME.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’ S VOICE (CONT'D) |
dialog: And, very recently, it dumped him.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ELEGANT LIMO - ALFIE AND MARLON - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfie and Marlon sit on the steps.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh, dear. What was it this time?
speaker_heading: MARLON
text: Three a.m. desperation call.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: How do you live with yourself?
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: I hung up before she answered. She
dialog: didn’t know it was me,
dialog: 
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: But you know it was you.
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: And I used to think you were
dialog: COO-...
text: They both rise and start down the parking ramp. Alfie
text: attemots to fluff Marlon’s normally cool Afro which is dented
text: on one side.
text: Marion slaps his hard away.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: I'll get her back.
dialog: (forces a grin)
dialog: I’m still a radiating hoochie
dialog: magnet.
dialog: Alfie’s not sold.
scene_heading: INT. ELEGANT LIMO SERVICE - MINUTES LATER
text: CAMERA is CLOSE ON a short, skinny CHINESE MAN with a loud, Yo
dialog: abrasive voice. :
speaker_heading: CHINESE MAN
dialog: Alfie, why no Stoli in car
dialog: seventeen?!
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICk .
dialog: The little wanker’s name is Wing -
dialog: my boss and owner of this tragic
dialog: operation.
text: ANGLE BACK as WING approaches Alfie and Marlon who are wiping
text: cown two already gleaming black Town Cars.
text: Elegant Limo is a modest operation, two Town Cars, two Limos,
text: a small dispatch office and a row of shabby lockers.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: Wipe down car good.
text: Alfie continues wiping as he SPEAKS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: ‘Owner’ that is, ‘til Marlon and I
dialog: swing a loan and buy it out from
dialog: under him. You see, that’s my plan,
dialog: Marlon and I--
dialog: 
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: (points to fender)
dialog: ~- You miss bird voop.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Yep. Wing’s a barking lunatic.
text: Luring the above, Wing’s WIFE erters, carrying a ledger anda
text: pencil. She’s pleasant but down~trodden and at the moment, f
text: looks concerned.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Just check out the way he treats
dialog: the little woman.
text: Mrs. Wing asks her husband something in CHINESE, cesturing te
text: Alfie, as though telling her husband to be nicer to his
dialog: employees.
text: Wing unleashes a torrent of impatient CHINESE SHOUTING on his
text: beleaguered wife. Alfie watches, then LOOKS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Haven't a clue what he’s saying,
dialog: but I know it’s not good. She’s
dialog: given him ner best years, cooked
dialog: his freakin’ chop~suey, helped run
dialog: his business, and at one time, I'm
dialog: sure he couldn’t wait to rip off
dialog: her kimono... But look at ‘em
speaker_heading: TlOWe es
text: Mrs, Wing hurries off, close to tears, with Wing still
text: berating her.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: {to CAMERA)
dialog: And I’m supposed to respect the
dialog: institution of marriage?
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: There was more love in the Boxer
dialog: Rebellion.
text: Marlon has taken all he can stomach and steps fcrward.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Hey Wing, I think she can hear you
dialog: without the volume.
text: Wing glances at Marlon. Alfie TURNS to CAMERA, anticipating
dialog: the worst.
dialog: 
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Ch man, here comes trouble.
text: Everylhing falls silenl. Then, Wing wheels on Marion.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: You never mind! It not your
dialog: business! She not your wife! She
dialog: mine! You fired!
text: Wing storms off. Marlon is stunned. Mrs. Wing is
text: speechless. And scared.
text: Alfie gestures to them both to let him deal with this and
text: follows after Wing, who’s headed into his office.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Wing, Wing, wait up, mate.
dialog: (entering Wing’s office)
dialog: Look... He meant no disrespect...
dialog: (pretending to remember)
dialog: Ch... Get this. I got one for
dialog: you... A straight Priest with a
text: duck on his head walks into a gay
dialog: bar...
text: Marlon turns to Mrs. Wing.
speaker_heading: MRS, WING
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Thank you, Mister Marlon.
text: Marlon and Mrs. Wing watch as Alfie is SEN GESTURING
text: animatedly to Wing BEHIND THE GLASS PARTITION of Wing's
dialog: office.
text: Wing has no reaction and Alfie is working harder. Finally,
text: Wing stares at Alfie for the longest time, his mouth hanging
text: open, then ERUPTS with HOWLS of LAUGHTER.
text: Alfie sneaks a wink at Marlon and Mrs. Wing. DISCO MUSIC
text: BEGINS...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LUCKY’S BAR
text: CLOSE on LONETTE gliding through the room, effortlessly
text: balancing a tray of drinks.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 30,
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE
dialog: (doing his best Mazlon
speaker_heading: IMITATION)
dialog: I swear to you, my brother...
scene_heading: ANGLE - ALFIE AND MARLON
text: Alfie and Marlon move through the trendy crowd, their eyes on
dialog: Lenette.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- I’m not throwing you shade,
dialog: it's her night off.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: I can explain.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I lied.
scene_heading: INT. LUCKY'S - NIGHT
text: Alfie and Marlon sit with nearly empty drinks. Alfie wears
text: glasses and crunches number¢ on a cocktail napkin.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (figuring)
dialog: -- okay... times 3 months... 7,
dialog: carry my 2... equals...
text: ON ALFIE at a table, crunching numbers on graph paper in a
text: red file folder. Next to him is Marlon who stares longingly
text: at Lonette as she waits on someone across the room.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- times 3 months... 7, carry my
dialog: 2... equals... Okay, wait, wait...
dialog: this is brilliant... if we get a
dialog: amail business loan and calculate
dialog: it at...
dialog: (figuring)
dialog: -- Hold on... One...
text: He glances up from his calculations to see Maxlon’s attention
text: is riveted on Lonette. Alfie sighs, looks AT CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I predicted this. See, Marlon and
dialog: Lonette had reached that critical
dialog: eighteen-month, Where-Are-We-Going—
dialog: Wha t-Are-We-Doing-What ‘ s~Happening-—
dialog: Here crisis point that rears its
dialog: ugly head in every relationship.
dialog: Lonette wanted ring, home, baby. -
speaker_heading: {MORE}
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Marlon wanted another eighteen
dialog: months to make sure nothing better
text: was coming his way.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: (re: Lonette)
dialog: i fucked up egregiousiy.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Very nice wordage. I see you're
dialog: getting some use out of your
dialog: birthday calendar.
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
text: So, it ended. Marlon prowled, ‘
text: Lonette sulked. By the time he
dialog: realized he’d made a mistake and
dialog: wanted her back - it was too late.
speaker_heading: MARLON
text: The iron door has slammed shut.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You’ve just got to put her out of
dialog: your mind. Pretend she got ran
text: over by a truck and died.
dialog: (off Marlon’s look)
dialog: I'm serious. Funeral was this
dialog: afternoon. You're all cried out.
text: Single and ready to move on.
text: Marlon stares at Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Iceman. You ever deal with shit on -
dialog: any real level?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: And why would I want to do a thing
dialog: like that? :
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Well, that’s real solid advice, b.
dialog: ‘Move on’ to what?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Other women. Hello? Believe me,
dialog: as long as you don’t get crazy
dialog: picky, you have no idea what
dialog: aurprises await--
dialog: 31.
dialog: 
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: SEXY VOICE
dialog: -- Hey, stranger.
text: Alfie looks up to find an exotic brumette, CAROL standing
text: next to him. She seems uneasy, a bit hurt or could it be
dialog: resentful?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh, hello...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: -- Carol.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yes, Carol. You look wonderful,
dialog: Carol. How have you been, Carol?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Fine...
text: She stands there expectantly.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: So. Nice to seé you again, Carol.
dialog: Be well.
text: Suppressing some humiliation, Carol hurries off. Marlon
text: checks her out, then looks hack at Alfie.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: What's up with that?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Let me put it this way, the show
dialog: closed after only one performance.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Does a brother even want to know
dialog: why?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It would be less than discreet to
dialog: tell you.
dialog: {short beat)
text: Hair on the arms.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
text: Long, dark hair on her arms.
dialog: 
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: So? Don’t you have hair on your
dialog: arms?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Not as much as her. And I’m not a
dialog: bleedin’ bird, now am I?
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: What happened to ‘don't get crazy
dialog: picky’?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {points downstairs)
dialog: Try explaining that to Sir
dialog: Gigglestick.
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE
dialog: So, it’s the royal ‘Gigglestick’
dialog: that has the unreasonably high
dialog: standards?
text: They look up to see LONETTE has ARRIVED with fresh drinks.
text: She avoids Marlon’s gaze.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yes. All his fault. Even though
dialog: he has only one eye, he thinks he’s
dialog: seen and done it all. Nothing’s
dialog: ever good enough for him. He really
dialog: is arn arrogant little prick.
text: Lonette laughs, setting Alfie’s drink down. She wordlessly
text: slams Marlon’s down, the drink sloshing cver the xim of the
text: glass. Before Marlon can give her a beseeching smile -
text: Lonette’s gone. Marlon downs his drink...
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Can’t you talk to her for me...?
text: Alfie pats Marlon on the shoulder, while looking TO CAMERA..
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Classic, isn’t it?
text: Alfie watches Marlon watching Lonette longingly.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Now that he can’t have her, he
text: chinks he can’t live without her.
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: Some people are funny...
dialog: 
dialog: 34,
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - LATER THAT EVENING
text: Alfie*s Town Car pulls into a Handicapped Only slot. A
text: Senior Couple eyes him suspiciously and Alfie begins an
dialog: exaggerated LIMP...
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE
dialog: But Marion's predicament did get me
dialog: thinking about my own situation...
scene_heading: INT. JOLIE'S HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER
text: Alfie, carryirg a half-empty bottle of Cristal, bounds up the
dialog: stairs.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Maybe it was time to stoke the home
dialog: fires.
text: Ie opens the door with his key and is dumbstruck to find his
text: entry blocked by the security chain. Julie APPZARS through
text: the crack in the door.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Anybody in the mood for a little
dialog: Alfie straight-up?
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: This isn’t a good time, Alfie.
dialog: Ifve got a lot on my mind.
speaker_heading: ALFIS
dialog: Oh God, don’t you hate when that
dialog: happens?
dialog: (holds up Cristal}
dialog: I brought some ‘Cris.’
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: You brought a half bottle left in
dialog: your limo by some drunk rapper who
dialog: probably drank out of it with his
dialog: mouth. Am I supposed to be
dialog: flattered?
text: Alfie's genuinely thrown, recovers and puts on his best
dialog: “little boy” charm...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Baby, you look so warm, soft and
dialog: curvy=-
dialog: 
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: -- Not tonight, Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: What’s wrong, luv? - Tell me...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I don't know - guess T’m just...
text: She dangles Dorie’s LACY RED THONG on the end of her finger
dialog: like its’ contaminated.
speaker_heading: JULIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- seeing red.
text: Jules tosses the THONG in Aifie’s face and SLAMS the DOOR.
scene_heading: EXT. JULIE’S APARTMENS - MOMENTS LATER
text: Alfie steps onto the street, takes a deep breath and a deeper
text: swig from che Cristal and gets into his Town Car.
text: He doesn’t notice TERRY, walxing up to Julie’s with an arm-
dialog: load of take-out.
scene_heading: INT. THE LUCKY BAR - CLOSING TIME
text: A Busboy rattles around the empty kitchen, Lonette clears
text: the last of the glasses from a table. As she moves past the
dialog: window:
speaker_heading: A FACE APPEARS
text: Lonette SCREAMS bloody murder - her tray of glasses
text: shattering on the floor! She looks up terrified, and
text: realizes it’s only ALFIE, grinning contritely through the
dialog: glass.
scene_heading: THE LUCKY BAR - A FEW MINUTES LATER
text: Alfie trails Lonette, as she moves from window to window,
text: closing the steel shutters and half-listening.
text: In the background, the Bushoy sweeps up the broken glass.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I mean the poor guy’s dying...
dialog: Haven’t you toz¢tured him long
dialog: enough?
dialog: 
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: He should have thought about all
dialog: that before he dipped his wick in
dialog: that skanky, fake-bcobed ex-ho-
dialog: friend of his.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {stops in his tracks)
dialog: Those are fake..? I’m devastated.
dialog: Next you’1ll be telling me thera’s
dialog: no Easter Bunny.
text: Lonette moves behind the bar, takes down a bottle of 1800 and
text: pours shots.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: You were conseling my devastation,
dialog: remember?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Right, right...
text: Alfie sits on a bar stool.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: At any rate, he came crawling back,
dialog: didn’t he... begging forgiveness
dialog: and all that jazz?
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: (downs her shot)
dialog: and I’m just supposed to forgive
dialog: ard forget? Sorry. I’m not that
dialog: easy.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Who said you have to forgive him to
dialog: take him back?
dialog: (downs his shot)
dialog: In my opinion - forgiveness is way
dialog: over-rated. My motto is, always
dialog: harbor a bit of resentment - keeps
dialog: you in the power position.
text: Lonette rolls her eyes, as the Bus Boy sticks his head in
dialog: from the Kitchen.
speaker_heading: BUS BOY
dialog: It’s okay if I leave now, Miss?
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Si, gracias, Felix. Hit the lights
dialog: on your way cut, per favor.
dialog: 
dialog: :
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 37.
text: As he leaves, Felix flicks the switch and the LIGHTS DIM,
text: Alfie pours himself a shot, downs it and rises.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Well, I’m off.
text: Lonezte takes out a cigarette. Alfie lights it for her. She
text: takes a deep drag, blows a lazy smoke ring. He glances out
dialog: the window.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont’d)}
dialog: It’s really pissing down out there.
text: A CRACK of thunder...
speaker_heading: TIME PASSAGE:
text: AT THE POOL TABLE
text: Outside it’s raining. Inside the ashtrays overflow with
text: butts, the bottle of 1800 is half empty, old school + & b
text: plays on the juke box and Lonette and Alfie are feeling no
text: pain. They shoot pool, while playing a game called I’ve
dialog: Never,
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: I’ve never swam in the Pacific
dialog: Ocean.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Me neither.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Shit. Okay, wait a second...
dialog: (thinking)
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I got one.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Excuse me, it’s still my turn.
dialog: Wait. Ckay, I got one, I’ve naver
text: seen a Vames Bond movie.
speaker_heading: . ALFIE
dialog: Get out! Not even a Roger Moore?
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: I’m serious.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You can’t be.
dialog: {realizes she is}
speaker_heading: {MORE )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 3B.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {cont'd}
dialog: You are. Wow. Brilliant.
dialog: {downs a shot)
dialog: Five to four. Okay...
dialog: (smiles, he’s got one)
dialog: I’ve never made my own bed,
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Bullshit.
dialog: the shrugs, it’s true)
dialog: Not even as a child?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I repeat - I have never made my own
dialog: bed.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: (rolls her eyes)
dialog: I’m impressed. Five-five.
text: Her turn to down a shot. She refills both glasses...
speaker_heading: LONETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Here’s one... I've never been with
text: a white man.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: What? And you think I have?!
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Just checking. Okay, I’ve never
dialog: had sex with two people in one
dialog: night.
text: Alfie downs another shot.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Six-five, your favor.
text: Lonette leans over to pour him a refill.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: How many’s the most you've had in
dialog: one night?
text: Alfie pops a Dunhill in his mouth, looks over at her.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: We've stopped playing the game,
dialog: haven’t we?
text: Lonette smiles and lights his cigarette for him. A-fie
text: glances TO CAMERA.
dialog: 
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Am I wrong - or is there a little
dialog: innocent flirting going on here?
speaker_heading: TIME PASSAGE:
text: ALFIE AND LONETTE TAKING A BREAK
text: Lonette sitting on the edge of the pool table, regaling Alfie
dialog: with some story...
speaker_heading: ALFIE'’S VOICE
dialog: Like most women, once Lonette got a
dialog: little personal attention, she
dialog: really came alive, And I thought,
text: she looks amazingly dishy tonight,
dialog: has a real glow about her...
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: -- Okay, so here’s what I always
dialog: wondered - why I never made your
dialog: hit list...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- Okay, here’s why - I took one
dialog: look at you and thought - gorgeous,
dialog: smact, funny, can balance a dozen
text: drinks on a tray and still move
dialog: like poetry - and way out of your
dialog: league, son.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Alfie, you’re s0 full of shit but
dialog: you’re so damn cute, every woman
dialog: wants to believe it.
text: They share a laugh and another round...
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE
dialog: Funny how a few drinks and the
dialog: right lighting can turn an evening
dialog: into an experience.
speaker_heading: TIME PASSAGE:
speaker_heading: ALFIE AND LONETTE
text: A nearly empty bottle of tequila... Something like Didn’t I
text: Blow Your Mind This Time py The Delfonics on the juke box.
dialog: honette SINGS along, she’s got serious chops...
dialog: 
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Now see, if I had that kind of
dialog: talent...
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: ~- Finish the sentence.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: +++ and looked like you, I'd
dialog: definitely be strutting my stuff on
dialog: a stage somewhere...
text: Feeling emboldened, Lonette SINGS the next couple of bars
text: directly to Alfie.
speaker_heading: LONETTS
dialog: Didn't I Blow Your Mind This Time,
dialog: Didn't I? Oh, baby...
text: They do a Little club dance step... Alfie then picks up his
text: pool cue and passes behind Lonette, sizing up the table.
text: He takes her hand, raises it to his lips, inhales off her
text: cigazette, then leans in to line up his shot. Lonette shakes
text: her head, disapproving, bends over him to help... They are
dialog: very close.
text: Alfie stands up, so does Lonette. They look at each other,
text: Lonette takes a long, cool drag on her cigarette.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Trust me, what happened next was
dialog: the furthest thing from my mind
dialog: when I dropped by tonight...
text: Alfie pulls Lonette to him. They look at each other. She
text: doesn’t pull away. Alfie kisses her and they come together,
text: hungzily, drunkenly.
text: They break. Alfie Looks at her, gauging the moment. Lonette
text: doesn’t look away...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: ~~ but then, I thought to myself,
dialog: you know what, if it’ll help her
text: get past her anger towards Marlon,
dialog: I owe it to them both, as 4 friend,
dialog: to do whatever I can to help.
text: Lonette moves to him now and they kiss again.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: I find that lately, even lying to
dialog: fnyself comes easily...
text: With that, Alfie and Lonette start touching and undressing
dialog: each other...
scene_heading: TOP SHOT - THE POCL TABLE
text: Alfie sweeps the balls away and Lonette and Alfie fall IN
text: SLOW MOTION onto the pool table...
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO;
scene_heading: ALFIE AND LONETTE - FACE-TO-FACE
text: Staring silently at each other, catching their breatn. Icz’s
text: over ard neither knows what to say or do. The MUSIC has
text: stopped. Everything is still. lLonette starts to sit up.
speaker_heading: LONETTE ©
dialog: Oh God, room spinning...
text: Alfie slides off the pool table, helps her down. They self-
text: consciously and quickly begin putting on their clothes,
text: avoiding eye contact. Alfie pulls on a white undershirt.
speaker_heading: LOWETTE {CONT'D}
dialog: I think that’s mine.
speaker_heading: ALFIS
dialog: (quickly pulling it off,
dialog: handing to her)
dialog: Sorry... all the excitement...
text: She laughs without humor, pours herself a shot. Alfie tucks
text: in his shirt, takes a deep swig from the bottle and EYES
speaker_heading: CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Don’t give me that look. I know it
dialog: was wrong, but she’s so sexy and
dialog: life’s so short. Still, I know I
dialog: shouldn’t aave.,. Marlon’s my best
dialog: friend. But you know, down deep, I
dialog: really think I was trying to help
dialog: her make up for what he...
text: (then, annoyed at himself
dialog: more than 718)
dialog: Oh, never mind. I don’t owe you an
dialog: explanation. Just bang-cff!
dialog: 
dialog: 42.
scene_heading: EXT, NEWSSTAND - FOLLOWING DAY
text: Alfie pays for Vogue Homme, Details, Hello. He seems jumpy,
text: distracted.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: The next morning, I couldn’t get
dialog: last night out of my mind.
text: A, COLLAGE of RAPID FLASH-CUTS - Alfie and Lonette making
text: love. Alfie tries to snake off the thoughts.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D}
dialog: I txricd desperately to focus on
dialog: something clse... Anything else.
text: The FLEETING LOVEMAKING IMAGES are PUSHED ASIDE by:
scene_heading: RANDOM-UNRELATED CUTS
text: ~~ Alfie’s HAND moves up Lonette’s skirt... PUSHED ASIDE by
text: LENNOX LEWIS dropping MIKE TYSON to the canvas...
text: ~~ LONETTE’S HANDS tugging Alfie’s shoulders... REPLACED by
text: HANNIBAL LECTER wearing that mask and laughing...
text: -- ALFIE AND LONETTE’S MOUTHS MEETING.., PUSHED AWAY by QUESN
text: ELIZABETH waving to her leyal subjects...
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: anything to get my mind off my best
dialog: friend’s incredibly hot,
dialog: best-ass-I’ ve-ever-seen-in-my-life
dialog: girlfriend.
text: The IMAGES are all BANGING TOGETHER... fighting for control
text: of Alfie’s mind.
scene_heading: FLASH-CUT - LONETTE
text: In the throes of passion, she opens her mouth to call Alfie's
text: name but ANOTHER VOICE comes disconcertingly from her lips.
speaker_heading: MARLON’ S VOICE
dialog: Alfie!
text: Alfie is jarred BACK TO REALITY. He quickly moves down the
text: street, glancing over his shoulder to see Marlon jogging
dialog: tewazd him.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Hey, Alfie!
dialog: 
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (quickens pace, to CAMERA)
dialog: Should I pretend not te hear him?
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Slow down!
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Too late. Oh, Christ...
dialog: (turns to Marlon)
dialog: Marly, what up?!
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Marly?
text: CAMERA TRACKS - Marlon trying te keep up with Alfie.
speaker_heading: MARLON (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, Listen, I gotta talk to you.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Love to but gotta dash, gat a pick-
text: up at La Guardia.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: I wanna hear what happened last
dialog: night.
text: They start down the ramp toward ELEGANT LIMOUSINE.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Last night? What de you mean last
dialog: night?
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: Sen, you know, with Lonette.
text: We SEE Alfie‘s face drop, Marion doesn’t. ‘They ENTER wiNG’S
speaker_heading: OFFICE.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: You ever hear word ‘knock’ !?
text: Mrs. Wing ENTERS, avoiding eye contact with Wing. She takes
text: some papers from under a stack on the desk and abruptly
text: exits. Wing yells after her IN CHINESE but she sticks her
text: nose in the air, acting as though she doesn’t hear him.
speaker_heading: WING (CONT'D)
dialog: Missus give me silent treatment.
dialog: 
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: (ignoring Wing, to Alfie)
dialog: So, what went down?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (nervous, vamping)
dialog: What? Wething. We had some
dialog: drinks...
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: (in his own world)
dialog: Little she know, not hearing
dialog: constant-—
dialog: (makes ‘yapping’ motion)
dialog: -- blabber-blabber is gift from
dialog: heaven.
text: Alfie laugas a little too loudly.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Good one, Wing.
text: Alfie rifles through the booking slips, pulls one, szarts
text: cut. Exasperated, Marlon grabs Alfie’s arm, turning him
dialog: around. .
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Ah ha, what happened was...
dialog: (to CAMERA) .
text: I’m about to get my jaw recked.
text: Alfie stands, resigned now to face the music.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Marlon)
dialog: Oh fuck a duck. Look, man, I hada
dialog: lot to drink and... Well... I don’t
dialog: really remember a lot of what
dialog: happened but...
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: -- Well, you did something to her,
dialog: ‘cause she pulled a complete one-
dialog: eighty and turned up on my doorstep
dialog: at two in the morning saying--
text: Marlon’s VOTCE FADES, as Alfie’s VOICE RISES and he TURNS to
speaker_heading: CAMERA.
dialog: 
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- that she loved him and if he
dialog: needed moze time, she underszood
dialog: completely... She wanted him, and
dialog: didn’t care how long she’d have to
dialog: wait.
dialog: (proudly)
dialog: So, chalk one up to the blokes.
dialog: Thanks to me, Marlon had beaten the
dialog: rap. He was off Scott-free. It was
dialog: a bloody miracle.
speaker_heading: (to MARLON)
dialog: That is so fantastic, man, And
dialog: what did you say?!
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: (ear-to-ear grin)
dialog: It’s all good.
dialog: (then) l
dialog: I asked her to marry me. .
scene_heading: FREEZE FRAME on Alfie. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Moral of the story - No good deed
text: goes unpunished.
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN STREETS ~ DAY
text: Alfie navigates his Vespa through traffic and pulls up to the
text: MAGNOLIA CAKE SHOP. He parks in the red zone, takes a
text: shopping bag from the mini-trunk.
scene_heading: EXT. /INT. MAGNOLIA CAKE SHOP - SAME TIME
text: A birthday party for Max is in full swing. Max, surrounded
text: by a few of his Little Friends and their Moms, is seated on
text: Julie’s lap having just opened the last of his presents.
text: Everyone applauds.
text: Julic leoks up and is surprised to see ALFIE peering in the
dialog: window.
scene_heading: EXT. MAGNOLIA CAKE SHOP - A MOMENT LATER
text: Alfie moves away from the window, as Julie’steps out,
text: carrying Max. She’s a little testy, distant...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Didn't expect to see you here.
text: Max is excited to see Alfie, he waves with one hand, while
text: clutching a NEW TEDDY with the other.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hey, Jules, Hey, Max. I like your
dialog: teddy. :
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (garbled)
dialog: From Teddy...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Say again?
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: (setting Max down)
dialog: From Terry, It’s his birthday
dialog: present from Terry and he won't let
dialog: go of it.
text: Alfie shifts his shopping bag te the other hand, holds it
text: casually behind his back.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh really. Great. Well. Happy
dialog: Birthday, little man. i
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Happy Birthday, Alfie!
text: Alfie and Julie exchange an uncomfortable look, moved by -
dialog: Maxz’s silly adorableness.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: So... Terry, huh? You two an item j
dialog: now? |
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: You need a haircut.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Nice avoiding of the question,
speaker_heading: JOLIE |
dialog: I learned from the master.
text: Alfie neds. Touche. Just then, TWO HOTTIES exit the cake _
text: shop. Alfie casually turns away, trying to avoid them. Too
dialog: late.
speaker_heading: HOTTIE
dialog: Hey, Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hi, Sasha.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 47,
dialog: SASHA}.
dialog: Thanks for never calling back.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (half-wave)
dialog: Right... Sure... Sorry...
dialog: (to Julie)
dialog: Yeah, well...
speaker_heading: SULIE
dialog: Yeah, well...
text: Terry appears in the doorway.
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: Cimon guys, cake time.
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: Be right in.
text: Terry hesitates, then turns back inside. Everyone feels
text: uncomfortable except Max who is delightfully oblivious.
speaker_heading: JULIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (polite only)
dialog: You want to come in for the cake?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Nah, I should get back to work.
dialog: Just wanted to, you know, put in an
dialog: appearance.
text: (reaches for his wallet,
dialog: pulls out some bills)
dialog: Look I... uh, I didn’t know what to
dialog: get so um, you know...
dialog: (holds out money)
speaker_heading: JULIE .
dialog: You're giving a chiid cash?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh... Not good? All right, then...
dialog: (rubs Max’s head)
dialog: Have a happy, Max.
text: Alfie turns to go.
dialog: Poem, Alfie.
text: Alfie turns back, hesitates, looks to Julie, whos shrugs.
dialog: 
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: MAX (CONT'D)
dialog: For my birthday.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Ckay, something quick.
text: Alfie drops to one knee next to Max.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Here’s one my step-mum used to tell
dialog: me...
dialog: (reciting, softly)
dialog: Today’s my birthday, three years
dialog: old I am... I had for breakfast egg
dialog: as well as jam... I chose the cake
dialog: we had for dinner too... This
dialog: afterncon I’m going to the zoo...
dialog: Now isn’t that too grand for
dialog: anything! Mine is a birthday fit
dialog: for any king.
text: Alfie glances up at Julie, but she looks away...
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: {to Max)
dialog: We have to go in, sweetie, your
text: pals are waiting.
text: Alfie stands uncomfortably, odd-man-out.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yeah, okay...
text: Julie lifts Max and heads back inside.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Be well.
text: Baffled, Max starts crying, looking back at Alfie, over
text: Julie's shoulder.
scene_heading: ALFIE - ALONE ON THE STREET
text: From inside, the Kids SING "Happy Birthday, Dear Max”. Aifie
text: opens the shopping bag and looks down at the stuffed TEDDY he
text: beught Max. A ribbon is tied around its neck.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - DAY
text: Alfie's Vespa rears through traffic a bit recklessly. Alfie
text: flirts with every PRETTY WOMAN he passes.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Resilience - The ability to readily
dialog: recover after disappointment or
dialog: Joss.
text: He deftly avoids colliding with a passing GARRAGR TRUCK and
text: turns TQ CAMERA with a cocky smile.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: The capacity to spring back.
speaker_heading: BLACKOUT:
speaker_heading: OVER BLACK
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE
dialog: New word for the day...
scene_heading: ALFIE'S “WORD FOR THE DAY” CALENDAR
text: Alfie’s HAND rips off a page, revealing today’s word is:
speaker_heading: HEDONISM.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hedonism - The belief that
dialog: obtaining pleasure is the true
dialog: meaning of life. Hmmm... Reminds
dialog: me of someone I used to know...
text: Alfie raises an eyebrow TO CAMERA.
scene_heading: MONTAGE - MUSIC OVER
text: -- CLOSE ON ALFIE; a contented smile on his face.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Understand, I wasn’t looking to
dialog: repiace Julie...
text: ANGLE BACK to see he’s stretched out on a massage table, a
text: skimpy towel covering his skimpy butt, receiving a loving
text: massage from a loving Masseuse. A SCREEN surrounds the
dialog: Massage table.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: ~~ I just wanted to get back to the
dialog: simple life - women who meant
dialog: nothing to me...
scene_heading: AKXGLE - OUTSIDE THE SCREEN
text: There’s a GAP of several inches between the floor and the
text: bottom of the screen.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MASSEUSE (0.S8.)
dialog: You can roll over now, Mr. Elkins.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (0.5.}
dialog: {exaggerated formality}
dialog: Why, thank you, Miss Wilcox.
text: We WATCH the MASSEUSE’S FEET DISAPPEAR upwards as she climbs
text: onto the table with Alfie.
text: -- ALFIE struts past a long line of hipsters waizing to get
text: into a CHIC NIGHTSPOTF. He SPEAKS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Now, on the scene...
text: A no-nonsense, PLAIN JANE, wearing a headset and holding a
text: clipboard, guards the entrance along with Two Bouncers.
text: Spotting Alfie, she lights up and instantly unhooks the
dialog: velvet rope.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- you never want to be standing on
text: the wrong side of a velvet rope.
dialog: So I clocked in a bit of 0.T. with
dialog: a petite nightclub manager called
dialog: Ota...
text: - ALFIE and UTA in AN ALCOVE, behind a waist-high
text: partition... furiously making out. As Uta, still wearing her
text: headset, sinks down and OUT of FRAME, Alfie turns TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I knew - you’re thinking, not up to
dialog: the lad‘s usual standards, and I
dialog: must admit I am feeling a bit of a
dialog: mustache at this particular
dialog: moment...
text: A PRETTY BRUNETTE passes...
speaker_heading: BRUNETTE © “
dialog: Hi, Alfie... I dumped Robby.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (waves)
dialog: Fab... I’11 ring you.
text: —- ALFIE weaves through the BEAUTIFUL CROWD...
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Sl.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: And to think, somewhere in the
dialog: world people are going to hed
dialog: harny. Sad.
text: Ee waves to the DJ as he passes LEGGY TYPES who smile coyly.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
text: Now, as a heat-seeking bachelor, T
dialog: live by a few simple rules. My
dialog: Alfie Elkins Weltanschauung -
dialog: calendar word - meaning credo or
dialog: philosophy - can be summed up by
dialog: the only bit of advice my old man
dialog: ever gave me...
text: Alfie grins first to the Girls, then TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: He said, ‘Son, every time you see a
dialog: beautiful woman, just remember,
dialog: somewhere there’s a bloke who's
text: sick of shagging her.’
text: One BITTER put sexy GIRL watches Alfie strutting.
speaker_heading: BITTER GIRL !
dialog: Explain to me what everyone seés in .
dialog: that Euro-Trash?
text: Alfie flashes her a biinding smile and Bitter Girl melts.
text: —- ALFIE is now seated at A BOOTH in the VIP SECTION with <wo
text: Hilton Sister wannabes - CHYNA and TONYA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {to the Girls)
dialog: I think it’s so unfair how it's
dialog: acceptable for a man to be sexually
dialog: adventurous, but if a woman wants
dialog: to experiment with something...
dialog: like say an innocent little three-
dialog: way, they're considered a trollep,
dialog: a slut. It’s just so wrong.
text: The Girls nod with indignant agreement. CAMERA MOVES IN on
text: Alfie drinking and watching the Girls who begin making-out
dialog: with each other for his benefit.
dialog: 
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: But, although I was living every
dialog: guy’s post-modern Rock Hudson
dialog: fantasy-—
text: He leans back for a moment, closes his eyes on the sight of
text: two gixls kissing, which ordinarily he would savor.
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- something felt a bit ‘off’.
text: -- In a CHEESY STUDIO APARTMENT, CAMERA DRIFTS PAST an array
text: of discarded women’s clothes and undergarments and Alfie’s
text: neatly folded top-coat and things. A half-empty bottle ot
text: Jack sits on the end table. CAMERA comes to rest on the BACK
text: OF A SOFA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D}
dialog: -- And throwing myself back into
dialog: the old lifestyle didn’t go quite
dialog: as smoothly as I’d hoped.
text: The SOUNDS of building SEXUAL ANTICS, abruptly stop. A beat
text: and ALFIE’S HEAD APPEARS at the end of the sofa. He looks
text: chagrined, reaches for the Jack. CHYNA pops up on one side
text: of Alfie, eyeing him suspiciously. TONYA pops up on the
text: other, also giving him the ‘evil eye’.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (self-conscious)
dialog: Sorry, girls. Don’t know what
dialog: happened. So unlike me.
text: FUNEREAL MUSIC begins...
dialog: curt To:
scene_heading: A FUNERAL PROCESSION
text: Slowly passing, the coffin taced with flowers...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Unexpectedly, my very best friend,
dialog: had fallen... like a soldier on the
dialog: hattlefield...
text: CAMERA EASES BACK to see we are OVER ALFIE’S SHOULDER, as he
text: looks down on A CEMETARY from a high window inside:
scene_heading: A STARK WHITE DOCTOR'S EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY
text: Alfie turns from the window TO CAMERA. He is sitting cn an
text: examination table, wearing a paper gown.
dialog: 
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: How could I could go on? How would
dialog: I face the future without ‘him’.
dialog: Yes, from out of nowhere - ‘The
dialog: Unthinkable’ .
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
speaker_heading: THE BITIER GIRL
text: Wrapped in a rumpled sheet, SPEAKING BITTERIY to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: BITTER GIRL
dialog: Now I really don’t get what
text: everyone sees in him.
text: WIDEN to REVEAL ALFIE ~ at THE OTHER END of the bed,
text: dejectedly pulling on his pants, also SPEAKING to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It kept on happening and happening.
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. SXAMINATION ROOM - THE PRESENT
text: Alfie’s nervous knee jiggling so wildly he has to quiet it
text: with both hands.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -~- Or, more accurately, not
text: happening and not happening.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
speaker_heading: A BUBBLE BATH
text: TILT UP to UTA, the gate keeper, luxuriating at one end of
text: the bubble bath. REVEAL Alfie at THE OTHER END, staring
text: morosely down into the bubbles. He looks up al a stern,
dialog: judgemental Uta.
speaker_heading: . ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: This never happens, Uta. HonesLlly.
speaker_heading: UTA
dialog: {pointed} oe
dialog: That’s not the word around town,
dialog: pee-wee,
text: Alfie is mortified. Uta’s words ECHO us BACK to:
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 54.
scene_heading: INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - PRESENT
dialog: “
text: The DOOR SWINGS OPEN and DR. KULP, a middle-aged,
text: androgenous, no-nensense woman with a buzz-cut ard white lab
text: coat ENTERS. She refers to a clipboard.
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: Mr. Elkins? Dr. Kulp.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: The penis doctor’s a ‘she’ ~ with a
text: little ‘he’ thrown in.
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: So, I understand you’ re
text: experiencing some ED.
dialog: (off ais look)
dialog: Erectile Dysfunction?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh. Yes, I have been experiencing a
dialog: bit of what you just said.
speaker_heading: DR. RULP
dialog: Did it come en gradually?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- No, no. Very sudden. One
dialog: minute I... It... He... was... How
dialog: shall I put this ~ ‘the life of the
dialog: party’... And the next...
dialog: the shrugs, hopelessly)
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: (offers her hand
dialog: Not to worry, I’m an
dialog: Erectionologist. I specialize in
dialog: that area. :
text: Alfie shakes her hand, a little squeamishly.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I see,
dialog: (raises eyebrow to CAMERA)
dialog: And why do you suppose she chose,
dialog: as her field of interest, the
dialog: penis?
dialog: (cocks his head)
dialog: Envy?
dialog: 
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: Have you been under any emotional
dialog: stress, Mr. Elkins?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yes, but my fear of Al Qaeda
dialog: shouldn’t really affect my wanker,
dialog: should it?
dialog: (then, to CAMERA)
dialog: I suppose I could tell her about
text: the recent, less-than-calming chat
dialog: I had with Jules...
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. JULIE’ S APARTMENT - BALCONY - NIGHT
text: Julie and Alfie stand outside her closed apartment door.
text: Julie, looking more relaxed, now has a new very cute, SHORT
speaker_heading: HAIRCUT.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: I popped over unannounced, and you
dialog: know what - she wouldn't let me in.
dialog: Kept me at the door.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: I’m not angry anymore... I have to
dialog: accept that we want different
dialog: things... 3ut I can’t see you...
dialog: and I can’t have you traipsing in
dialog: and out of Max’s life.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (neds, then)
dialog: And so, you and Terry...
text: She shrugs, checks her watch.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Alfie, I’m gonna be late...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You’ ve changed your hair.
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Um-hmm.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It looks really good.
dialog: 
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: JOLIE
dialog: (unmoved)
dialog: ..-Okay. Thanks.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (uncharacteristic remorse)
dialog: Why dic you never do it like that
dialog: before? When we were toqether?
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Alfie, I’ve really gotta co.
text: They look at each other for a moment.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Right. Ckay.
text: She starts to close the door.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: oh...
dialog: (digs in his pocket)
dialog: I guess... I won’t be needing this
dialog: anymore.
text: He pulls out his key ring, takes off a KEY, hands it to
text: Julie. She takes the key. Alfie looks in her eyes, sees
text: nothing, TURNS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFLE (CONT'D)
text: Even the old ‘return the key bit’
dialog: got no reaction. ~
dialog: (then)
dialog: Have you ever noticed the sudden
text: chill that comes over a woman when
dialog: it’s truly over?
text: He starts down the stairs,
speaker_heading: JULIE
dialog: Alfie?
dialog: {he turns)
dialog: Are you gonna be okay?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {looking up at her}
dialog: No worries, I’l1l be fine. Thanks
dialog: for asking,
text: Alfie forces a smile... FREEZE FRAME. OVER:
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: ST.
speaker_heading: DR. KULP {0.S.)
dialog: All righty. Let’s take a gander at
dialog: that penis of yours.
scene_heading: INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE —- PRESENT
text: Dr. Kulp slips on a round HEAD MIRROR, flips it down over one
text: eye and DROPS OUT OF FRAME in front of Alfie, to examine him.
text: Alfie immediately reacts to her cold hands...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: {to CAMERA)
dialog: Whatever happened to warming your
dialog: hands by the fire?
text: (then sighs, remembering}
dialog: I had to admit, Julie never looked
dialog: lovelier than when she didn’t fancy
dialog: Te anyilore.
text: He smiles a bittersweet smile, then squirms around a little.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Dr. Kulp 0.58.)
dialog: So, what do you think, Doctor?
speaker_heading: DR. KULP {0.S.)
dialog: I think it would be helpful if you
text: stopped squirming, Mr. Elkins.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (tc CAMERA)
dialog: That's a bit of a challenge when
dialog: she's messing about with Sir--
dialog: (then suddenly)
dialog: Whoa! Hel-lo!}
dialog: (eyes widening)
dialog: Ged Save the Queen!
text: Dr. Kulp RISES INTO FRAME.
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: Well, so much for BD,
text: Alfie’s embarrassed at first, then grins.
speaker_heading: ALFIE :
dialog: Well done. What a relief. I feel
text: like Lazarus raised from the dead.
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: If the ‘Blair Witch’ here can give
dialog: me a stiffy, then I should have no
dialog: problem keeping it up for my target
dialog: demographic.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DR, KULP
dialog: -- There doesn’t seem to be
dialog: anything physiological, so we can
dialog: be fairly certain your problem was
dialog: stress-related.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: {to CAMERA
dialog: Translation: Julie-related, Like I
dialog: always say, if they don’t get you
dialog: one way, they get you another.
dialog: {to DR. KULP)
dialog: Right then, I’11 be off.
text: He reaches for his boxers, failing to see Dr. Kulp’s look of
dialog: concern.
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: Um... However...
text: Alfie turns...
dialog: She steps
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- I did feel something a little
dialog: kooky...
text: to him, drops her HAND OUT OF FRAME.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- Kooky? Is that a medical term?
scene_heading: TWO SHOT - ALFIE AND DR, KULP
text: As she examines him BELOW FRAME, Alfie’s beginning to have a
text: mild panic attack.
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: Any pain here? Tender?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (shakes his aead)
dialog: W-W-Whal exactly are you looking
dialog: for? Ow!
speaker_heading: DR. RULP ALFIE
dialog: -- Mx. Elkins- -- Please, you’ve got to tell-
scene_heading: DR. KULP ALFIE
dialog: -- there’s something~-- -- What? Something. What?
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: DR. KULP ALFIE'S VOICE
dialog: -- I thought I feit-- -- thought you felt--
speaker_heading: DR. KULP
dialog: -- a lump on your--
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (pure panic)
dialog: -- Not on my...?!?
text: Alfie falls straight OUT OF FRAME with a thud.
scene_heading: EXT, STREET ~- DAY
text: B light snow falls on Workers hanging the first of the
scene_heading: season’s CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: (as if reciting a
dialog: Christmas tale)
dialog: and so randy young Alfred got an
dialog: early Christmas gift...
text: Alfie hobbles onto the sidewalk, his hands covering his gzoin
text: to avoid contact with passing Pedestrians.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: -- A penis biopsy.
scene_heading: EXT. DEPARTMENT STORE WINDOW - DAY
text: Celighted Children and their Moms crowd the sidewalk, vying
text: for a peek at a SANTA’S WORKSHOP SCENE béing installed in the
dialog: store window.
text: Alfie approaches, his hands still protecting his crotch. He
text: steps into the middle of the gathered Families to check our
text: the display, all the while TALKING to CAMERA,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I get my test results in three
dialog: days, well five, if you caunt the
dialog: weekend.
dialog: {suddenly panics)
dialog: Oh, Lord... How am I going to keep
dialog: from going bonkers?
dialog: {calms himself)
dialog: I’1l be fine. I’m a young man.
dialog: Shift focus, Alfie.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 60.
text: A Pretty Young Mom glances over and notices Alfie looking
text: sort of spaced and crazed. Alfie gives her his besl sexy
text: smile. The Mom looks down, sees Alfie’s hands cupped over
text: his privates - and immediately yanks her Child away.
text: Alfie turns and realizes all THE MOMS are now glaring at him
text: like he’s some sort of perv. He TURNS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D}
dialog: In the meantime...
dialog: (turns, hobbling}
dialog: -- perhaps i'd be safer hobbling
dialog: home...
dialog: |
dialog: |
dialog: |
dialog: !
dialog: |
dialog: |
dialog: 
text: He turns and hobbles off...
scene_heading: EXT, ALFIE’S STREET - LATER THAT DAY
text: Alfie, juggling a bag of groceries and his dry cleaning,
text: limps up the steps of his building, as Lu Schnitman and her
text: friend MRS. LIBERMAN are about to exit. Alfie struggles to
dialog: open the door for the ladies. '
dialog: _— |
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: Alfie, dear, what's wrong - you
text: look like death warmed over.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE |
dialog: Slight groinal soccer injury is
dialog: all, Lu. Mrs. Liberman, you’ re
text: Looking well.
text: He holds the door with great effort and gives a slight pained
text: bow as they pass. The Girls giggle at his gallantry. Alfie .
text: steps sideways through the doorway. It’s then he notices: |
scene_heading: LONETTE ~ WAITING IN THE VESTIBULE
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Could I speak to you for a sec?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Sure... Of course. Ladies, this is
dialog: my friend, Lon--
text: But Lonette has already moved toward the steps. Alfie turns
dialog: to the Ladies. |
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Sorry... I didn’t expect—-
text: Mrs. Schnitman comes close to Alfie, whispers in his ear.
dialog: 
dialog: 61.
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAK
dialog: She’s lovely. Good for you dating
dialog: an African-American.
text: Alfie crosses to Lonetze, who’s leaning against the frort
dialog: bannister.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hey, girl. I’ve missed you.
text: Mrs. Schnitman and Mrs. Liberman tippy~toe around them.
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: Con’c mind us, we’re not here, you
text: two kids keep talking.
scene_heading: MRS. LIBERMAN
dialog: Very nice to meet you.
text: Lonette smiles at the Ladies. When they’re gone, she drops
text: the smile and turns to Alfie,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: So, what have you been--
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: -- I’m pregnant.
text: FREEZE FRAME on Alfie...
speaker_heading: ALPIf’S VOICE
dialog: It seems to me, the problems you
dialog: worry yourself sick about, never
text: seem to materialize.
speaker_heading: DARK CLOUDS
text: roll across a bleak, grey sky.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s the one’s that catch you
dialog: unexpectedly on a Tuesday
dialog: afternoon, that knock you sideways.
scene_heading: EXT. FAMILY PLANNING CLINIC - DAY
text: A grey, rainy morning. Alfie ard Lonette stand in front of
text: the clinic. Alfie, wearing his raincoat, holds an umbrella
dialog: between them.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: I offered to face the music with
dialog: her...
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 62,
text: Tney look at each other a moment, then Lonette turns and
text: heads inside...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOLCE (CONT'T)
dialog: -- but she wanted to go it alone...
scene_heading: INT/EXT ALFIE’S TOWN CAR
text: The rain has turned to drizzle as Alfie waits in front nf the
dialog: clinic.
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE
dialog: We both knew if that baby was born
text: with any pasty white boy features,
dialog: it would pretty much mean the énd
text: of Lonette and Marlon.
text: He glances up at the clinic, caecks his watch, TURNS to
speaker_heading: CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Not to mention, your host for the
dialog: this evening.
text: ON THE STREET
text: Alfie paces.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: But, standing there in the rain, I
dialog: found myself thinking morbid
dialog: thoughts, like ‘Here’s another kid
dialog: you’1l never get a chance to
dialog: know... your own...’
text: He turns up his collar against the chill.
scene_heading: A HALF-HOUR LATER
text: Alfie rubs his hands together to stay warm. He tries to
text: light a cigarette but can’t in the drizzle.
text: BACK IN THE TOWN CAR
text: Alfie is now smoking, takes a deep drag, leans ais head back,
text: TURNS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Life can be a bit too much at
dialog: times... Still, it beats the hell
dialog: cut of the alternative.
scene_heading: ALFIE LEANS AGAINST TOWN CAR‘S FENDER
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 63.
text: He glances up as the CLINIC DOOR OPENS and Lonette walks
text: slowly toward him, She looks shaken. Alfie hurries to meet
text: hez, trying to appear upbeat.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, that didn’t take long, did
dialog: it?
text: He looks in hex eyes, forces a smile. She turns away. Alfic
text: takes her hand and helps her to the car.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Your hands are freezing.
dialog: (cubs her hands}
dialog: Are you... How do you feel?
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Empty.
text: Lonette gets in the car, Alfie opening and closing the door
text: for her. He stands there for a moment, then TURNS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: That night in the bar, I thought I
dialog: was getting something for nothing
text: but it doesn’t seem to have worked
dialog: out that way, does it?
scene_heading: EXT, RESTDENTIAL STREET ~- HIGH SHOT - LATER
text: Alfic's Town Car pulls up and he gets out, opening the door
text: for Lonettc. She gets out and walxs the rest of the way home
text: without even a goodbye. Alfie stands there watching her
text: disappear in the crowd...
speaker_heading: BLACKOUT:
speaker_heading: OVER BLACK
speaker_heading: ALPIE’S VOICE
dialog: I keep having this vision...
scene_heading: INT. MEDICAL LAB - NIGHT
text: A bespectacled, LAB TECHNICIAN is bent over a microscope, |
text: intensely studying a slide,
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: That at this very moment, some lab
dialog: technician is looking at my slide
dialog: and gasping. ;
text: The Lab Tech GASPS, recoiling at what he sees.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: And calling over his mates...
text: Other Lab Technician’s quickly crowd around hin.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- to observe this tragic
dialog: specimen.
text: The other Lab Techs all GASP in horror as well.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: LU SCHNITMAN
text: In her LIVING ROOM, wearing a frilly robe and nightgown.
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: You're not going to die, honey
dialog: bunch. :
text: Alfie sits across from Lu, rumpled and anxious in his pj's.
text: Lu drops a marshmallow into the cup of hot chocolate Alfie’s
text: holding, follows it with a splash of brandy and stirs it for
dialog: hin. :
speaker_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAK (CONT'D)
dialog: If it’s anything, which I’m sure
dialog: it’s mot, you can rest assured they
dialog: caught it early. My friand Marge
dialog: Skolnick, God rest her--
dialog: {catches self)
dialog: Oh, never mind. Gn on, Alfie.
text: Alfie puts down his hot chacolate, overly anxious, wrings nis
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Because the thing is, Lu, when I do
dialog: go, I’d like to go out on a higher
dialog: note, if you know what I mean... I
dialog: don’t want to feel too many--
dialog: {searching for the word)
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: -- Regrets, sweetheart?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yeah. Exactly. Regrets.
speaker_heading: (TURNS to CAMERA}
text: She's so warm and compassionate.
speaker_heading: {MORE}
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {cont'd)
dialog: Why can’t she be a rich, curvy
dialog: Norwegian babe with pert, up-
dialog: turned...
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: All right, stop.
dialog: (to LU}
dialog: There are things I still want to do
dialog: with my life, Lu.
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: Like what, lovey?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Well, that’s part of the problem...
dialog: I’m not exactly sure... But, if it
dialog: turns out tomorrow that I even have
dialog: a future, it’s a sign changes need
dialog: to be made...
speaker_heading: MRS, SCHNITMAN
dialog: i'm sure you’ll find your way,
dialog: Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I appreciate you letting me ramble
dialog: on, Lu... There aren’t many people
dialog: I can turn to at two in the a.m.
text: Lu gives him a comforting smile.
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: Oh, please, everyone adores you.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I don’t think I’m winning many
dialog: popularity contests these days, Lu.
scene_heading: MRS. SCHNITMAN
dialog: Well, from what I’ve seen, you !
dialog: certainly have your share of female
dialog: admirers. Present company
dialog: included.
text: Alfie gives Lu a hug. She’s plotzing.
dialog: cor TO:
text: A LINS-UP OF OLD GEEZERS
text: CAMERA MOVES PAST Geezer after Geezer seated side-by-side
text: until we come to ALFIE, the youngest geezer in THR ROCTOR’ $
text: WAITING ROOM by thirty years. His nervous knee is bobbing
dialog: like gang-busters.
dialog: 
dialog: 4
dialog: 
dialog: 66.
text: He fidgets for a beat, then is on his feet, crossing to the
text: IcY NURSE, at the receptionist station. She’s a cool
text: Hitchcock blonde. Before he can speak:
speaker_heading: ICY NURSE
dialog: For the millionth time, Mr. Elkins,
dialog: when we know the results, you’1l
dialog: know the results.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: For the millionth time, Nurse,
dialog: since I’ve nething betcer to do
dialog: than find out whether I’m gonna
dialog: live or die - think I‘1i hang.
text: He crosses back to his seat, picks up a magazine, leafs
text: through it, then glances out the window.
scene_heading: HIS VIEW - ANOTHER FUNERAL
text: It’s raining and the Mourners are all hidden under an array
text: cf BLACK UMBRELLAS as they toss rose petals onto a coffin.
speaker_heading: CLOS= ANGLS - ALFIE
text: He turns from the funeral TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: One wonders who’d show up to toss
dialog: petals on my coffin. Really,
dialog: who - Max? Who’d drive him?
text: The Icy Nurse glances over at him, then looks away. Alfie
text: can’t help himself. He’s back at her desk like a shot.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Nurse, I saw the way you looked at
dialog: me just then and if you already
dialog: know something and they’ ve asked
dialog: you not to tell me--
scene_heading: IcY NURSE ALFIE
dialog: -- Mr. Elkins... -- I can handle it...
speaker_heading: Icy NURSE ALFIE
dialog: -~ Mr. Elx-- -- Ifm right, aren’t I?
dialog: Icy NURSE.
dialog: {daggers}
dialog: - is - no - news!
dialog: 
dialog: 67.
text: Alfie closes his eyes regaining his composure, TURNS to
speaker_heading: CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I’m gonna be fine. I just feel it.
scene_heading: INT. MEN’S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Alfie enters to find one urinal “Out of Order”. The other
text: occupied by a nattily dressed. old guy, JOE.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I’1l be a minute. Or ten.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Take your time.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Don’t have a choice. I used to
dialog: pee, now I trickle. I’m Joe.
dialog: What’s your name?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Me? Alfie.
text: We HEAR a thin trickle of pee in fits and starts from Joe.
dialog: JOE .
dialog: So, how you doin’, Alfie?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hangin’ in... you?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Shitty.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yeah, me too.
dialog: {then)
dialog: I like the bolo tie, Joe.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: thanks. iI have a collection.
text: He’s still peeing. Alfie, having a bit of trouble holding it
text: in, smiles politely at Joe.
speaker_heading: JOE (CONT'D)
dialog: When you're old, you learn to be
dialog: patient.
dialog: {then}
dialog: Yeah, used to be I had no time for
dialog: nething. Go, go, go.
dialog: 
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I know the feeling...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: The wife was always hocking me to
dialog: take a little vacation, Hawaii,
dialog: Reno... I always said, ‘Next year,
dialog: Evie, next year, I got too much on
dialog: my platter...‘ Always thought I’d
dialog: have more time... Then one Sunday
text: night, she takes the cot roast
text: outta the oven, yells, ‘Soup’s
text: on’... and slumps to the kitchen
dialog: floor. Just like that.
dialog: (snaps his fingers}
dialog: Dead as disco.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Geez, I’m sorry, Joe.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I tried picking up the pieces. Even
dialog: went to Waikiki alone on the eight-
dialog: day cruise package she was always
dialog: yakking about. Couldn’t get Evie
dialog: outta my mind. I kept thinking how
dialog: she would’ve loved the islands...
dialog: the trade winds, the flowers...
dialog: {laughs to himself)
dialog: -- and those blue drinks.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I think you had what they call a
dialog: bit of ‘contrition.’
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Calendar word.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: You married, Alfie?
speaker_heading: ALFIZ
dialog: No, Joe,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: How come? You a tough fit?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It’s just not on my. radar.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Two things I learned in life - find
dialog: someone to lave and live every day
dialog: as though it’s your last...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: JOE (cont'd)
dialog: (zips up}
dialog: She’s all yours, Alfie. Enjoy.
text: Joe crosses to wash his hands.
speaker_heading: JOE (CONT'D)
dialog: If you're ever bored or feel like
dialog: schmoozing, give me a holler...
dialog: {about to hand Alfie his
dialog: card, stops)
dialog: Ah... you'll never call.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {not really meaning it)
dialog: Maybe I will.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Good, we'll go to a rave together.
text: Alfie laughs, takes Joe’s card.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Thanks, Joe. And, sorry about
dialog: Evie.
text: Joe looks off wistfully, starts out, stops, turns back.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: We weren’t all that fond of each
dialog: other, but we were very close, if
dialog: you know what i mean...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I think I do.
text: Joe pats Alfie on the shoulder and leaves. HOLD on Alfie
text: watching him go. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: ='yve been thinking a lot about God
dialog: and death lately...
scene_heading: EXT. STREET OUTSIDE DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY
text: A dreary, drizzly day. Beat. Beat. The DOOR OPENS and
text: Alfie trudges out, head hanging, shoulders sagging. He lifts
text: his head slightly, looks mournfully AT CAMERA:
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- And how, if what they taught us
dialog: in Bible Class is true, I’m really
dialog: in for it.
dialog: (then, practically jumping
dialog: for joy)
speaker_heading: {MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: But I won’t be partying with
dialog: Lucifer any time soon - ‘Cause my
dialog: test results came back NEGATIVE!
dialog: I’m gonna live!
text: Suddenly he’s Gene Kelly, sans umbrella. He hops over the
text: railing - splashing feet first in a HUGE PUDDLES.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: Look at that, I’ve ruined my Prada
dialog: loafers!
text: Alfie splashes joyfully around in the puddle, oblivious to
text: the stares of onlookers. He suddenly stops, SPINS around to
speaker_heading: CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't think I’ve forgotten my oata
dialog: to completely change my life!
text: A CLAP of THUNDER, LIGHTENING streaks across the sky.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: Yep, health is now priority number
dialog: one, business plan moves onto the
dialog: fast track and from this day
dialog: forward - no more meaningless sex!
text: Alfie spreads his arms wide and as he opens his mouth to
text: drink in the RAIN, we HBAR a SCREAM of ECSTASY.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: THE ICY BLONDE NURSE - FREEZE FRAME
text: Half out of in her crisp white uniform and half out of her
text: mind, she’s caught in a frozen moment of unbridled ecstasy...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’ S VOICE
dialog: -- All right, all right... one
dialog: Little piece of unfinished
dialog: business...
text: The IMAGE POPS to LIFE and the Icy Wurse HOWLS like a
dialog: Banshee...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: You have to admit, this one
dialog: desperately needed a good thawing
dialog: out.
text: WIDEN to REVEAL the Icy Nurse and Alfie going at it, after
text: hours, on top of HER RECEPTIONISTS’ DESK.
dialog: 
dialog: 71.
text: The Icy Nurse claws Alfie’s back, writhing and screaming and
text: generally going nuts. Alfie steals a quizzical LOOK to
speaker_heading: CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: But, what’s up with all the racket?
dialog: T mean, if it’s for my benefit,
text: she’s wasting her breath.
dialog: (SCREAMS grow louder)
dialog: No ego requires this much positive
dialog: feedback.
text: The Icy Nurse reaches an EAR-PIERCING ORGASM...
speaker_heading: ICY NURSE
dialog: Oh, Mr. Elkins - you rock!!!
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR - MOVING - DAY
text: Alfie, wearing a snappy new suit and his chauffeur’s cap,
text: maneuvers the Town Car through traffic. He SPEAKS to CAMERA,
text: while occasionally checking something in his rear-view
dialog: mixror.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
text: Minor detour... Back on track and
dialog: eracking on.
text: He glances in the rear-view.
scene_heading: HIS VIEW - THROUGH MIRROR
dialog: . “
text: Curled up in his backseat is LIZ, a voluptuous, some would
dialog: gay over-ripe, all would say sexy, woman in her late forcvies, \
text: early fifies... She has a full, throaty smoker’s voice andis |
text: decked out in Versace.
text: Liz nuzzles WES, a tanned, tight, manicured, business exec in
text: his fifties. They both roll calls, Wes’ hand absently
text: resting on Liz’s thigh.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: {to CAMERA)
dialog: New slate. New beginning...
text: Liz looks up from her cell phone, catches Alfie in the rear-
text: view. Alfie flashes his patented smile, Liz looks away,
text: continues talking into the phone...
scene_heading: EXT. HENRI BENDEL - DAY
text: The Limo pulls up and Alfie pops out, smartly OPENING the
text: DOOR for Liz and Wes.
dialog: 
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: WES
dialog: (snapping phone shut}.
dialog: What's your name?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Alfie, sir.
speaker_heading: WES
dialog: Wait here, Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: May I ask how long you'll be?
speaker_heading: WES
dialog: {turns back} :
dialog: Why, you got someplace to go?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: No, I just thought I’d grab a cup
dialog: of tea across the--
speaker_heading: WES
dialog: ~~ You know what, why don’t you
dialog: stay put.
text: Wes starts after Liz.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I like your suit, guv.
text: Wes gives Alfie a dismissive look, then follows Liz into
text: Henri Bendel. Alfie “flips” Wes off, behind his back. Liz
text: glances over her shoulder and catches the gesture, breaks a
text: tiny smile. Alfie pops a lollypop in his mouth...
scene_heading: EXT, HENRI BENDEL - AN HOUR LATER
text: Alfie leans against the Town car watching Christmas shoppers
text: hurry past. He checks his watch, makes a decision, clicks on
text: the hazard lights and drops the lollypop stick in the trash.
scene_heading: INT. HENRI BENDEL - A FEW MINUTES LATER
text: CLOSE ON THREE IMAGES of LIZ geen in a three-way mirror.
text: She’s modeling a clingy low-cut cocktail dress while a Chic
text: Salesgirl watches admiringly from the sidelines.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Yay ox nay?
text: Wes looks up from his The Wall Street Journal but before he
dialog: can answer:
dialog: 
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (0.8.)
dialog: A definite ‘yay’.
text: Wes sees ALFIE'S REFLECTION approaching in the mirror,
text: pulling off his chauffeur’s cap.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (as he passes Wes}
dialog: Stunning, wouldn’t you agree, sir?
speaker_heading: WES
dialog: (annoyed)
dialog: I’m sorry, didn’t I ask you to wait
dialog: by the car?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I reckoned the lady might need a
text: hand with her packages.
text: Liz feels Alfie’s unabashed male appreciation wash over her.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (poses for Alfie)
dialog: Yay? You think?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I do... With one minor...
dialog: (gesturing he wants to
dialog: adjust something)
dialog: -- May I?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: -- You may.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- adjustment...
text: Alfie moves close to Liz, gently tugging the neckline
text: revealing a small TATTOO of a TINY HEART with the name
text: PABLO $ encircling it on her breast.
speaker_heading: LIZ
text: Bullfighter. Another lifetime.
dialog: Don’t ask.
text: Alfie glances at the tantalizing view of her cleavage, then
text: COCKS an EYE to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Fifty if she’s a day. But you know,
dialog: they say ‘fifty’s the new forty’
dialog: and is she not the living proof?
speaker_heading: (MORB}
dialog: 
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: I mean, have a look - Cleavage like
dialog: the Holland Tunnel.
speaker_heading: (to LIZ)
dialog: Better?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Much.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You are so right to trust Versace.
text: A pair of hot pink Jimmy Choo
dialog: stilettos and you're good to go.
text: Alfie neds to the Salesgirl who hurries off in search of the
dialog: Jimmy Choo’ s.
dialog: Wes snaps
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Well, aren’t you Mister Full
dialog: Service... ,
text: shut his cell-phone and glares.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: He’s getting a bit pissy, isn’t he?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: He’s fine. It’s good for him.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Husband’s a bit older than you.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: He’s not my husband.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
text: But he’s wearing a ring.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I didn’t say he wasn’t someone
dialog: else’s husband.
text: Alfie laughs, a gal after his own heart.
scene_heading: THE FOUR SEASONS HOTEL - LATER
text: The Town Car pulls up and a Bellman steps forward, opening
text: the door for Liz and Wes.
text: Alfie hustles around, pops the trunk, and begins handing
text: shopping bags to a Second Bellman. He finishes, turns,
text: helding out his card to Liz.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: If you should require my services
dialog: in the future...
text: Liz takes the card, joins Wes.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (calling after them)
dialog: Happy Christmas... Sir... Ma’am.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Back at ya, cutie.
text: Alfie watches Liz move toward the hotel entrance. She offers
text: Alfie a quick turn of the head and a wink, FREEZE FRAME.
speaker_heading: OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Now that, I thought to myself, is a
dialog: real woman, Smart, sexy... And you
dialog: saw the little flirt that went down
dialog: between us.
text: Alfie gives Liz a parting wave, then TURNS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It makes me think... If a woman of
dialog: that caliber takes notice of a
dialog: bloke like me... perhaps I’ve been
dialog: selling myself a bit short...
dialog: {starts toward Limo)
dialog: And that was it, in a flash I had
dialog: my New Year’s resolution...
dialog: (stops, turns TO CAMERA)
dialog: Aim higher.
scene_heading: EXT . ELEGANT LIMO - DAY
text: Alfie’s Town Car zooms down the ramp. OVER:
speaker_heading: WING'S VOICE
dialog: Futile!
scene_heading: INT. ELEGANT LIMO DEPOT
text: Wing is PACING AND RANTING behind Alfie who stands in the
text: foreground, FACING CAMERA.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: Desperate! Doomed! Desolate!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Gave him a calendar for
dialog: Christmas - large mistake.
dialog: (to WING}
dialog: What’s got you so bleak, mate?
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: You soul brother!
text: Wing tosses a package to Alfie.
scene_heading: ON THE STREET - OUTSIDE ELEGANT LIMO - MOMENTS LATER
text: Alfie leans against a wall reading a letter and holding a
text: small wrapped gift.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: As it turns out, Wing was bummed
dialog: because Marlon had quit. He and
dialog: Lonette decided, on the spur of the
text: moment, to elope and move upstate.
text: Somehow, Lonette convinced Marlon
dialog: it would be too painful to say our
text: ‘good-byes’ in person.
dialog: (sighs, resigned)
dialog: Yeah, right...
text: As Alfie unwraps the gift.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
scene_heading: A BEACH - AT SUNSET - ALFIE’S MEMORY
text: Alfie, Marlon and Lonette, bundled up in blankets, around a
text: bonfire - drinking beer, acting crazy and cracking each other
speaker_heading: up. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: In the letter, Marlon called me his
dialog: ‘best mate’ and apologized for
text: bailing on our little ‘take-over’
dialog: scheme, He said his whole thing
dialog: now was to make Lonette happy - and
dialog: that I had a standing invite to
dialog: drop by anytime...
text: The Three Friends sling their arms around each other end the
scene_heading: IMAGE FREEZES. PULL OUT to:
scene_heading: ALFIE - HOLDING THE GIFT
dialog: 
dialog: 77.
text: It’s a sea shell-encrusted FRAME with the PHOTOGRAPH of
text: ALFIE, MARLON and LONETTE captured at that moment on the
text: beach - laughing, their arms axound each other.
scene_heading: WIDE SHOT - ALFIE ON THE STREET
text: Alone, holding the framed photo.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: I was feeling a bit abandoned...
dialog: and to make matters worse, it all
text: cove-tailed into the second
dialog: loneliest night of the year...
text: Softly, we HEAR Steve Tyrell’s soulful version of Have
dialog: Yourself A Merry Little Christmas.
scene_heading: CHRISTMAS EVE IN MANHATTAN
text: New York in all its holiday splendour.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: -- Christmas Eve.
text: -- DJoorways adorned with garlands... Wreaths of holly and
text: strings of twinkling lights hung on snow-dusted shops.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: A night that brings on those
text: familiar festive feelings of
text: hopelessness, anguish and despair.
text: -- Snow flutters down on happily, bundled-up Upper East
text: Siders - hurrying to festivities.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Not a good time to be flying so+0.
scene_heading: INT. ALFIE’S TOWN CAR - MOVING - NIGHT
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: That’s why I’m of the belief that
dialog: couples should never break up
dialog: between Thanksgiving and January
dialog: ‘Two.
text: -- Thousands of lights adorn the Broadway entrance ta Macy’ s.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’ S VOICE
dialog: Always have a relationship to carry
dialog: you through the holidays.
dialog: 
dialog: 78.
text: -- Skaters, mostly Couples, glide by the 70-foot Christmas
dialog: tree in Rockefeller Center,
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: The down side of course being
dialog: gifts.
scene_heading: INT. ALFIE’S TOWN CAR - MOVING - NIGHT
text: Passing The Empire State Building wrapped in twinkling
text: Christmas lights. Alfie LOOKS at CAMERA as he drives.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Personally, I’ve always suspected
dialog: that everyone was having a far
dialog: merrier Christmas than me. Wot
dialog: that I ever actually had a
dialog: Christmas, but that’s a whole other
dialog: Dickens story.
text: A LOUD male WHISTLE interrupts him and Alfie raises a finger
text: TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Excuse me.
text: He turns to see:
scene_heading: ALFIE’S VIEW - TRAVELING SHOT - CITY STREET
text: A boisterous group of BRIGHT YOUNG THINGS in their late 20’s,
text: waving for Alfie to pull over. Someone drops a bottle to the
text: sidewalk where it shatters.
dialog: YOUNG GUY IN SANTA HAT
dialog: Taxi!
text: Fits of bent-over laughter, some random carolling. They’re
text: drinking from plastic cups, practically spilling on each
text: other, all majorly buzzed. Alfie lowers his window...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Serry, mates, against the law for
dialog: me to tzansport more than--
text: Alfie stops mid-sentence, unable to speak, as one of the
text: young women who has been facing in the opposite direction
text: turns toward him.
dialog: HER NAME IS NIKKI a“
text: And she’s a tall, willowy, drop-dead blonde, She gives Alfie
dialog: a smile that could melt Alaska.
dialog: 
dialog: 79,
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: And there she was...
text: Snow swirls around her... BACKLIT by twinkling Christmas
text: lights, she is nothing short of a vision. CHORAL MUSIC rises.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- My Christmas Miracle,
dialog: Remember... ‘Aim higher’?
dialog: (to THE GROUP, voice
dialog: cracking}
dialog: Hop in, then.
text: They all rush the Town Car, Nikki leans her head in the
dialog: window...
speaker_heading: WIKKI
dialog: Thanks for saving us, I was
dialog: freezing my little...
dialog: (picking her word)
dialog: --tush off. .
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: No worries. A bit crowded back
dialog: there, why den’t you--
speaker_heading: NIRKT
dialog: (reading his mind)
dialog: ~~ Good idea. Why don’t I.
text: Nikki slides into front seat, while the others pile in back.
text: Alfie glances down, could there be a shorter mini-skirt on
dialog: planet earth? Could there be longer legs?
scene_heading: EXT. TOWN CAR ~ HIGH SHOT - TRAVELLING - NIGHT
text: OVER we HEAR everyone singing "I Saw Mommy Schtupping Sante
dialog: Claus”...
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR ~ SAME TIME
text: The friends are all crammed into the back finishing the verse
text: and cracking up.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
text: They don’t get out much.
text: Her Friends laugh agreeably...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (to the Friends)
dialog: You better watch out, you'll end up
dialog: with a lump of coal in your
dialog: stocking.
speaker_heading: NIKKI ~
dialog: You’re English. I love English. a“
text: The guy wearing the Santa hat, KEV, leans Scar the
dialog: seat.
speaker_heading: KEV
dialog: (hokey English accent)
dialog: How much to take us downtown,
dialog: English? :
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Consider it my gift, darling.
dialog: (for Nikki's benefit)
dialog: That's what the season’s all about,
dialog: isn’t it, the joy of giving?
speaker_heading: KEV
dialog: Yeah. Don’t you just hate the
dialog: holidays?
speaker_heading: GUY #1
dialog: Loathe.
speaker_heading: GIRL #1
dialog: Despise.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: oh, I love them.
dialog: (to Alfie}
dialog: Don’t you... what’s you name?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Alfie. Absolutely.’ Adore.
dialog: 80.
dialog: front
text: Nikki is punching RADIO BUTTONS, screwing up his pre-sets the
text: way Dorie did earlier. Every station is playing HOLIDAY
text: TUNES. Alfie starts to say something, catches himself
text: Nikki fires up a joint and gives him an inviting smile.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: Wanna abuse a little substance,
dialog: Alfie?
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: #1.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Wo thanks, I’m trying to quit.
dialog: {glances at heautiful
dialog: Nikki)
dialog: One hit.
text: Nikki settles on Little Saint Nick by The Beach Boys, as
text: Alfie takes a long pull on the joint and holds it in...
dialog: And MUSIC RISES...
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN - NIGHT (MUSIC OVER
text: The Town Car rolls through the nearly empty city streets.
scene_heading: INT. ARTIST'S LOFT - NIGHT
text: A full-tilt bash. Packed with young, arty types. Huge
text: Pollack-like canvases, with bold streaxs and splotches of
text: color, cover the walls. Strings of vintage Christmas lights
text: everywhere. Sixties holiday MUSIC blasts, possibly a Mel
text: Torme/Hip Hop mix. The crowd, mostly couples, laugh, dance,
dialog: make-out, drink too much...
text: CAMERA FINDS Alfie taking a couple cf eqgnogs from the
text: Bartender. He turns to see:
scene_heading: NIKKI - SURROUNDED BY ADMIRERS
text: She winks at Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALPIE’S VOICE
dialog: There’s an expression the Yanks
dialog: often use, ‘Go with the flow’.,,
dialog: BACK TO ALFIE
text: SPEAKING to CAMERA as he moves through the crowd, holding the
dialog: drinks.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: She invited me inte the party and
dialog: although I had a dose of the
dialog: holiday blues, when a bird of thig
dialog: mind-blowing caliber comes along,
dialog: it's best to get going and start
dialog: flowing...
text: Alfie arrives with the drinks, handing one to Nikk2 and
text: accidently spilling a bit down the side of his glass in the
text: process, As Nikki leans in and licks the eggnog off the side
text: of Alfie’s glass, he TURNS to CAMERA.
dialog: 
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D}
dialog: Maybe it was the late hour. Maybe
text: it was the heavily-spiked eggnog...
scene_heading: ALFIE AND NIKKI ~ STANDING UNDER A DOORWAY
text: Talking, laughing, drinking.... Suddenly, Nikki realizes they
text: are standing under a sprig of MISTLETOE... And she gives
text: Alfie a sweet kiss. He glances TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Maybe it was simply a mutual
dialog: desperate desire to have ourselves
dialog: a Merry Little Christmas...
scene_heading: ALTIE AND NIKKI - DANCING
text: It’s getting romantic, they’re wrapped around each other,
text: moving fluidly.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Whatever the reason, ‘hooking up’
dialog: has never gone more swimmingly,
dialog: until...
text: They are about to kiss, this time without the aid of
dialog: mistletoe, when:
scene_heading: A DEEP MALE VOICE . “
dialog: May I have this dance? o
text: Alfie turns to see a handsome MIDDLE-EASTERN GUY, standing
text: before them. He’s tall and slickly dressed... everything's
text: shiny - shirt, tie, suit, forehead. He has a moustache and
text: wears tinted glasses.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: No thanks. But sweet of you to
dialog: ask.
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: {ignores Alfie)
dialog: -- I need to speak with you, Nikki.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: Farooz, I’m dancing.
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: {a step forward)
dialog: Undance. We need to talk.
dialog: 
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (raises his hands}
dialog: Really, don’t let me--
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: He's my ex-fiance,
dialog: {introducing}
dialog: Farooz - Alfie.
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: {correcting)
dialog: Ifm her fiance. I did not agree to
dialog: the ex part.
text: Alfie gives CAMERA a LOOK... Nikki takes him aside.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: It’s not what you think, English.
dialog: I promise you. We're so over,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: «..think you better explain that to
text: the bloke in the shiny suit.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: Oohh... ‘bloke’. You’re so cute.
dialog: (holds up five fingers)
dialog: Give me five. Believe me, I can
dialog: turn a guy off as easily as I can
dialog: turn him on.
text: She squeezes Alfie’s hands, gives him a smile... She's too
text: gorgeous. Alfie STEPS away and then EASES BACK within
text: earshot, as Nikki and Farooz carry on a heated, clenched
dialog: teeth argument behind hin, ..
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: -- you're full of bullshit! Who
dialog: else will ever put uo with you?
speaker_heading: NIKKI .
dialog: That’s really a great way to win me
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: I want an explanation, Nikki!
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: You want an explanation? How's
dialog: this - she’s had her fill of you,
dialog: Slick. Move on. You look rich,
dialog: I’m sure you can buy someone else.
dialog: 
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: -- plus I can’t deal with the drama
dialog: and the possessiveness...
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: You are outrageous!
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: Hey, calm down, Maybe you should
dialog: take something...
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: Like what - a gun to shoot you?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (to no one}
dialog: I’1l be at the bar.
scene_heading: TWENTY MINUTES LATER - AT THE BAR
text: The Bartender hands Alfie a fresh drink. The party has
text: thinned out. Nikki and Farooz are not around.
scene_heading: THIRTY MINUTES LATER
text: Alfie’s glass is empty and the party has now dwindled way
text: down. He looks around. Nikki and Farooz are still not to be
text: found. Alfie asks the Bartender for one for the road and
text: grabs his overcoat.
scene_heading: INT/EXT STAIRS - MOMENTS LATER
text: Alfie heads down the stairs, sipping the fresh eggnog and
text: TALKING to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: A lesson to us all, never--
text: A DOOR BANGS OPEN somewhere above and HIGH HEELS CLACK
text: frantically down the stairs. Alfie looks up, and sees Nikki
text: running down the stairs. She grabs his arm, without breaking
text: stride, pulling him along with her.
speaker_heading: NIRKT
dialog: Quick... we gotta get out of Dodge!
text: Above them, the door BANGS OPEN again!
scene_heading: ON THE STREET - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT
text: Alfie and Nikki hit the street at full bore... slide across
text: the icy sidewalk. Alfie presses his remote, unlocks the
text: doors and he and Nikki scramble inside.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: es.
text: Alfie starts the engine and is about to pull away when
text: there’s a DEAFENING CRASH. Alfie looks up.
speaker_heading: HIS VIEW - FAROOZ
text: Landing on the WINDSHIELD, his face a mask of rage. Alfie
text: takes off, Farocz hanging on to the wiper blades for dear
dialog: life. :
speaker_heading: FAROOZ
dialog: (screaming into Alfie)
dialog: You'll be fucking sorry!!!
text: Alfie HITS his BRAKES and Farooz SLIDES OFF the hood and
text: FLIES into a SNOW BANK.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Alfie floors it and the Town Car fish-tails down the street.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR - TRAVELLING - SAME TIME
text: The Town Car skids around the corner, making a clean getaway.
text: Alfie sighs with relief, looks over to Nikki, who gives him a
dialog: sweet smile...
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: You may be fucking... but you won't
dialog: be sorry.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK - HIGH SHOT - A HALF HOUR LATER
text: Blanketed in snow. CAMERA MOVES TOWARD the Town Car parked
text: under a street lamp.
speaker_heading: ALFIB’S VOICE
dialog: After a remark like that and
dialog: knowing she was suddenly ‘homeless
dialog: for the holidays’, I did something
dialog: highly out of character...
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR - NIGHT
text: Alfie and Nikki are furiously making out in the back seat.
text: Between breathy kisses...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I’m renovating in the West Village,
dialog: so I can only offer. up temporary
dialog: digs... but you’re welcome to crash
dialog: at my sublet if you like...
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
speaker_heading: {MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: ~- Tide me over through the
dialog: holidays.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: Sounds inviting...
dialog: (kissing him)
dialog: Anything you say with that accent
dialog: makes me want to do things only
dialog: ‘bad girls’ do on a first date.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK ~ NIGHT
text: CAMERA PULLS AWAY from the Town Car, now covered with snow...
speaker_heading: ALPIE’S VOICE
dialog: And so it came to pass, that after
dialog: all those years, Little Alfie
dialog: finally got what he wanted for
dialog: Christmas...
text: MUSIC UP...
text: A HAPPY NEW YEAR! BANNER
text: CAMERA BOOMS DOWN past balloons, crepe paper and one of those
text: twirling mirrored bails that sends twinkling lights across a
dialog: room.
scene_heading: INT. SWANKY NIGHTSPOT - NEW YEARS EVE
text: A champagne cork is popped! A Band plays. Alfie struts in
text: wearing Nikki wrapped around his arm. She looks smashing in
text: a shimmering skin-tight mini dress. Alfie grins AT CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: The twelve days of Christmas were
dialog: flying by...
text: Alfie twirls Nikki out to the music. She laughs big time.
scene_heading: FREEZE FRAME. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALPIE’S VOICE
text: -- at a surrealistic pace...
text: RESUME ACTION. Nikki twirls effortlessly back into Alfie’s
text: arms and kisses him. You half expect the other patrons tc
text: applaud.
text: Alfie slips off his elegant NEW TOPCOAT, smiles AT CAMERA.
dialog: 
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You like? Little Christmas gift
dialog: from Nikki.
dialog: {hands to Coat Check Girl}
dialog: Originally meant for Farooz. Lucky
dialog: break we’re the same size.
dialog: {confidentially}
dialog: Cashmere.
dialog: (winks)
dialog: Got his girl and his topcoat...
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
scene_heading: RAPID-FIRE SHOTS - ONE AFTER ANOTHER
text: HIGHLIGHTS of the past week with Nikki...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Yeah, it’s been quite the ride.
text: -- Nikki and Alfie, flying through SoHo on his VESPA, looking
dialog: very 60's Mod.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: The package was irresistible - a
dialog: show-stopper... .
text: ~~ Nikki, wearing big Chanel shades, feeds Alfie a hot fudge
text: Sunday at an OUTDOOR CAFE. Other Men ogle her.
speaker_heading: ALPIE'S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- With a new schoel brand of
dialog: sexiness...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And who wouldn't dig the way she
dialog: made heads turn?
text: -- Wikki, wearing glitter eye-shadow, sips a Martini and
text: stares smoldering INTO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: She was also smart...
text: -- Nikki and Alfie in bed - both concealed by NEWSPAPERS.
text: He’s reading Hello, she’s behind The New York Times.
speaker_heading: ALPIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Fun...
text: -- Nikki and Alfie lying half-naked on top of the KITCHEN
text: TABLE, surrounded by the remains of Italian take-out...
dialog: 
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, and did I mention, she makes a
dialog: cracking good bed? -
scene_heading: -- Alfie's BED - FOR ONCE - PERFECTLY MADE.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: I began to wonder - Could this be i
dialog: ‘the one’...
text: -- Alfie and Nikki SLOW DANCING.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: -~ who finally holds my attention?
text: Another Stunning Blonde passes, flashing Alfie a comely
text: smile. Alfie looks her way for a fleeting moment, his gaze
text: almost instantly returning to Nikki... As they continue to
text: glide across the floor...
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. SWANKY NIGHTSPOT - THE PRESENT
text: Ten... Nine... Eight... The Revellers COUNTING DOWN to the
text: New Year. Seven... Six... Five... Alfie and Nikki pick up
dialog: flutes of champagne. Four... Three... Two...
text: THE CLOCK ON THE WALL
text: The second hand hits midnight! Everyone CHEERS, blowing
text: noise-makers, kissing one another and singing “Auld Lang
dialog: Syne”...
speaker_heading: ALFIE AND NIKKI
text: Nikki kisses Alfie with all she’s got, writhing up against
dialog: him, way over-the-top...
text: When they break Nikki CLINKS Alfie’s glass a bit too hard and
text: both GLASSES SHATTER. FREEZE FRAME on SHATTERING GLASS in
text: mid-air. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: In every doomed relationship, there
dialog: comes, what I like to call, The Zh-
dialog: Oh Moment...
dialog: 
text: Alfie still holding the jagged CHAMPAGNE FLUTE, TURNS to
text: CAMERA. .
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: When a certain little something
dialog: happens that tells you you've just
text: witnessed the beginning of the end.
dialog: And suddenly you stop and think...
dialog: uh~-oh, iceberg ahead.
speaker_heading: ANGLE - NIKKI
text: Bent over LAUGHING HYSTERICALLY at the mishap. Other Guests
text: leok on, failing to see the humor. FREEZE on Nikki - out of
speaker_heading: control. OVER:
speaker_heading: ALFIE VOICE
dialog: With Nikki, that was the first of
dialog: many Uh-Oh Moments...
scene_heading: RAPID FIRE SHOTS - ONE AFTER ANOTHER
text: LOWLIGHTS of life with Nikki...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: It began with petty arguments...
text: -- Nikki, her face filled with rage, throws the contents of
text: her Martini glass, including the olive, DIRECTLY at CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
text: Followed by random bouts of
dialog: melancholia...
text: -- Nikki sits on a PARK BENCH next to a crazy, filthy BAG
text: LADY with a garbage-filled shopping cart. They are both
text: staring blankly into space. The Bag Lady looks way happier
dialog: than Nikki.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Reckless behavior,.,
text: -- Alfie’s Vespa WRAPPED AROUND a fire hydrant, water
text: spraying into the air... Nikki stands nearby, gesturing -
dialog: Like it’s the hydrant’s fault.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: And thank you, no - I did not have
dialog: insurance.
dialog: {rolling on)
dialog: The girl never knew when she'd had
dialog: one too many...
dialog: 
dialog: go.
text: -- Wikki PASSED OUT COLD on the BAR at LUCKY’S. Other
text: Patrons try not to stare.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: And I begin to dread the way she
dialog: made heads turn...
dialog: (then)
dialog: But, whenever I began to feel there
dialog: was little reason to go on...
text: -- Nikki stretched out on ALFIE’S BED, wearing a clingy
text: negligee, Llanguidly smoking a cigarette. She gives CAMERA a
dialog: “come hither” look.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: I was reminded that we still had
dialog: one very major thing in common...
text: ~- Lu Schnitman, in rollers and a robe has her ear glued to
text: her APARTMENT WALL.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Yep, Freud was right - the battier
dialog: the bird, the better the boffing.
text: Lu’s eyes widen as she HEARS Nikki's HYSTERICAL SCREAMS of
text: PLEASURE coming from Alfie's apartment.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: If only she didn’t insist on
dialog: smoking before, after...
text: -- Alfie's BED - ENGULFED in FLAMES...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- and during...
scene_heading: DISSOLVE INTO:
text: A PAINT BRUSH
text: Paints a wide swath of INDIGO BLUE across one of the walls in
text: ALFIE’S APARTMENT. The room is now cluttered with Nikki’s
text: things... underwear drying on the back of a chair, make-up,
text: fashion magazines scattered about, overflowing ashtrays, 4
text: box of Tampons, a bong, a gaggle of prescription pill
dialog: bottles...
text: ANGLE BACK to Nikki, wearing a silk thong and one of Alfie’s
text: big sweaters, painting a wall of Alfie's apartment. Altie
text: ENTERS from the bedroom, pulling a scarf around his neck.
dialog: 
dialog: g1.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: (over her shou2Zder)
dialog: What time will you be home, honey?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: {to CAMERA)
dialog: Hear that? What time will I,
dialog: honey, be home? Sounds dangerously
dialog: close to wife-speak.
speaker_heading: NIKKI :
dialog: -- ‘Cause I’m making something
dialog: really special for din-din.
text: Alfie LOOKS to CAMBRA on ‘din-din’...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I’ll ring you. You don’t think
dialog: that color’s a bit intense?
text: Nikki turns to him...
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: I think you’re a bit intense.
text: She grabs his scarf and pulls him toward her.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Careful - do you have paint on your
dialog: hands? Plus, must you wear one of
dialog: my good sweaters to: paint in...?
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: {pulls sweater over her
dialog: head}
dialog: Sorry, baby.
text: She’s now topless. Alfie glances down at his sweater, as it
text: FALLS to the floor - with INDIGO PAINT SMUDGES where Nikki
text: just pulled it off. He sighs...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: All right then, gotta dash...
text: She slips her arms around him...
speaker_heading: NIKKEI.
dialog: Bet I can make it worth your while
dialog: te stay...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Wish I couid Nik, but I’ve got that
dialog: meeting...
dialog: 
dialog: 92.
text: As Nikki closes the paint can and moves into the KITCHEN,
text: Alfie TURNS to CAMERA, indicating her toplessness.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: You know you’re in trouble when a
dialog: sight like this can’t keep you
dialog: planted.
dialog: 
text: Nixki begins taking things out of the fridge to prepare
text: dinner as Alfie starts for the door, TALKING to CAMZRA on the
dialog: way...
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: When I was a boy, St. Alban’s
dialog: Secondary, my school, took us all
dialog: on a cultural outing to observe art
dialog: at some famous museum in. London.
dialog: And while there--
text: He stops at the threshold, looking back at Nikki.
speaker_heading: HIS VIEW
text: Nikki, toplessly cutting and dicing phallic vegetables with a
text: large kitchen knife,
speaker_heading: ALFIE {0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: ~~ I happened upon this statue of a
dialog: Greek Goddess, Afro-diddy, I think
dialog: at was, marble, with this
text: curvaceous womanly shape and
text: perfect chiseled face. I stood, in
dialog: awe of it.
text: ALFIE turns from Nikki BACK to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Finally, the teacher called at me
dialog: to move along, and, as I walked
dialog: past, I realized there were these
text: huge freakin’ cracks all over the
dialog: goddess. Ruined her for me.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: That's Nikki, a beautiful statue,
dialog: damaged in a way you can’t see ‘til
dialog: you get too close. -
speaker_heading: ANGLE - NIKKI
text: She glances up, smiles at Alfie. She looks a little nuts.
text: Alfie LOOKS to CAMERA.
dialog: 
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: There’s a very unhappy ending
dialog: lurking somewhere in our near
dialog: future.
text: Nikki waves, the huge butcher knife in her hand. Alfie
text: smiles and slips out the door.
scene_heading: EXT. UPSCALE NEIGHBORHOOD - LATE DAY
text: Alfie pulls up on his Vespa, parks and locks it. He nods to
text: a Doorman, who bows as he pulls the door wide for Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Elvis.
scene_heading: INT. POSH APARTMENT BUILDING - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfie nods to the Receptionist. a
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Gilda.
speaker_heading: GILDA
dialog: Welcome, Mr. Elkins. Enjoy your
dialog: evening, sir.
text: Alfie RAISES an EYEBROW to CAMERA as he cresses to the
dialog: elevator,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: As you can see, the lad’s moving--
dialog: (presses ‘UP’ button}
dialog: -- up in the world.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfie approaches a corner door, inserts a key, then GLANCES
text: over his shoulder to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You’1ll never guess who I’m dropping
dialog: in on.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfie enters, dropping his keys on the entry table.
scene_heading: THE LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
dialog: 94.
dialog: Italian Moderne with a decided Sixties influence... A fire
text: erackles in the fireplace, a spread of delicacies awaits on a
text: well-stocked wet bar. A female ‘pad’. Seductive and
dialog: inviting...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: Wouldnt‘ ve believed it meself a few
dialog: weeks back.
text: LIZ GLIDES INTO THE ROOM
text: stopping under a wind-blown OIL PAINTING of herseif in
text: younger days. She wears a low-cut cocktail dress and heels.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: The San Laurent does wonders for
dialog: your décolletage.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Big word.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Big décolletage.
text: Liz laughs her throaty laugh.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D}
dialog: Come here immediately.
text: He kisses her neck, gives her a small smile...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: What’s up, haby? You're not your
dialog: usual effervescent ‘self.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Just some personal stuff. WNething,
dialog: really.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Don’t ‘nothing’ me.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It’s a... a thing with a friend...
dialog: who's kind of overstayed his
dialog: welcome...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (knowing)
dialog: It’s a lot tougher gettin’ ‘em out
dialog: than gettin’ ‘em in, isn’t it?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: So, I’m learning - the hard way.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Well, why not just be honest...
dialog: (hint of innuendo) }
dialog: Tell him the hotel’s under new
dialog: management and he needs to vacate
dialog: the premises. Know what I’m saying?
text: Alfie looks at her-
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Yes, I believe I do.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Now, come on, let’s have a drink
dialog: and you can tell me the rest of
dialog: your troubles.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {to CAMERA}
dialog: --instead of me listening to all
dialog: hers. Now there’s a first.
dialog: (to Liz}
dialog: You're very wise, for scmeone so
dialog: young.
dialog: 95.
text: Liz loves hearing this. Alfie’s feeling a bit more chipper,
text: notices a tasteful floral display.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Secret admirer?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: {teasing}
dialog: One of many.
dialog: (kisses him)
dialog: You'd never think of bringing a
dialog: girl flowers, would you, Alfie?
text: Alfie slides his hands along her hody...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It would only encourage them.
dialog: Liz
dialog: Mmm. ,. Down boy.
text: Liz gives a little growl, running her fingernails across his
text: chest, as she heads for the bar. Alfie watching with
dialog: appreciation, TURNS to CAMERA,
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: ALFTE /
dialog: Yep, she’s someone who could mother
dialog: you and rock your world.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: What’s your poison, sweetheart?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Ill have a spot of whiskey,
dialog: Midleton Rare, if you’ve got it?
text: Alfie crosses to the bar, TALKING to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I like dropping a fancy brand name
dialog: now and again, let her know, she
dialog: ain't the only one been around...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (taking dewn an exotic
dialog: green bottle)
dialog: Why don’t we make this an Absinthe
dialog: afternoon.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Brilliant.
speaker_heading: (te CAMERA)
text: No idea what she’s talking about.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: You’ ve had Absinthe?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Not recently. Remind me. What is
dialog: it again?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: ‘The Green Fairy’. It’s an old
dialog: Buropean aperitif. The French
dialog: Impressionists’ liquid drug of
dialog: choice.
text: Liz takes down two ornate little glasses and mixing utensils.
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
dialog: I picked up some of thase things
dialog: you like, the little egg thingys.
text: Alfie nibbles on an egg thingy from a tray of hors d’ oeuvres,
dialog: 
dialog: 97,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (to CAMERA}
dialog: I mention I fancy something once,
dialog: next thing I know——
dialog: (gestures to hors
dialog: df oeuvres} )
dialog: -- it's presented to me on a silver
text: platter.
text: Liz begins the Absinthe ritual: Pouring the green liquid into
text: the small glasses... During this, Alfie wanders around the
text: Living Room, CAMERA FOLLOWING.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Groovy, huh? The kind of pad I
dialog: plan to own myself one day...
dialog: Understated elegance with just a
dialog: touch of the trendy...
text: He picks up a fireplace poker, stokes the fire, glances over
text: at Liz, mixing theix drinks, then CONTINUES to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: She’s a regular fashionista... You
dialog: never have to tell this one which
dialog: sling-backs go with which frock.
text: He wanders back toward the Bar, still talking TO CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Owns her own cosmetics company. \
dialog: Empire, actually. Started out 1
dialog: doing facials at some fancy salon, 1
text: mixed up a handful of mud with a
dialog: dash of papaya or something, put it
dialog: on the market and next thing you
dialog: know...
dialog: (gestures around}
dialog: -- All this.
text: He returns to the bar, where Liz is dousing a spoonful of
dialog: sugar with Absinthe...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: This stuff is so illegal. Les
dialog: smuggled me a case back from Prague
text: in Listerine bottles.
text: She tosses Alfie a RED FOLDER from the bar.
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, I looked over your business
dialog: plan...
dialog: 
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: And?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I’m impressed.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You seem surprised.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Not at all. Under all that
dialog: bravado...
text: Liz lights the spcon and watches the Absinthe and sugar
scene_heading: FLAME-OP. .
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
dialog: -- beats the heart ofa guy who’s a
dialog: whole lot smarter than he thinks
text: but not nearly as cocky as he wants
dialog: everyone to believe.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (enjoying this)
dialog: And what would we be basing this
dialog: on?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: That it takes one to know one.
text: With that, she pours the FLAMING concoction into a glass,
text: stirs rapidly.
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
text: A dash of sugar to hide the
dialog: bitterness. -.
text: Liz bends forward, her top revealing the Holland Tunnel, as
text: she hands the glass to Alfie. He looks down at the S PABLO S
text: tattooed on her breast, then up to Liz - who's staring
text: directly in his eyes.
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
dialog: Something on your mind, sailor?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Just wondering if a clever tattoo
dialog: artist could turn that Pablo into
dialog: an Alfie...
text: They exchange a smile, clink glasses.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D}
dialog: Cheers.
text: Alfie chugs it down and immediately lecs out a horrific GASP
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D}
dialog: Jesus!
dialog: (between gasps)
dialog: It's like drinking bleedin’ paint
dialog: thinner!
text: Liz laughs, downs her shot and gasps as well. The stuff is
text: so strong. Alfie plops into a chair. Liz drifts over, sits
text: on his knee. A moment, as the Absinthe kicks in...
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (feeling the glow}
dialog: Is it meant to make you feel all
dialog: warm going down?
speaker_heading: LIz
dialog: (kissing him)
dialog: No, darling, that’s my job.
text: The cnly SOUND in the room - Liz’s NAILS scratching against
text: the fabric of Alfie’s thigh. They are very close...
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
dialog: You know what they say..
dialog: Absinthe makes the heart grow
dialog: fonder.
text: Alfie pats her butt as Liz crosses to the bar and mixes
text: another round. He zises, really feeling the effect of the
text: Absinthe, “Whoa”... then motions for CAMERA to FOLLOW.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {sette, to CAMERA)
dialog: Check this out.
text: He BECKONS us into LIZ'S BATHROOM. Posh. Subducd lighting,
text: huge jacuzzi tub filled with bubbles and surrounded by
text: flickering candles.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: What about the size of this tub?
dialog: It can get a bit snug with the both
dialog: ef us playing around in there...
dialog: {then} .
dialog: She’s had two husbands. Both
text: croaked.
dialog: {indicates tub}
speaker_heading: (MORE }
dialog: 
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: I have a feeling, this could’ve
dialog: been the scene of the crime.
text: Liz appears, leaning in the doorway, holding two fresh shots
text: of Absinthe. She and Alfie share a stoned grin...
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: {sotto, to CAMERA)
dialog: I mean there’ve been times I’ve
dialog: felt lucky to crawl out of this
dialog: thing alive.
text: Liz moves to the tub, setting their Absinthe snots on the
text: ledge, then slipping out of her dress and into tke bubbles.
dialog: Lig
dialog: Come on, baby, let’s get wet.
text: Alfie TALKS to CAMERA, while unbuttoning his shirt.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: She keeps this up, we may be
dialog: updating that tattoo sooner than
dialog: she thinks...
scene_heading: EXT. ALFIE’S STREET - LATE AT NIGHT
text: A light rain falls on Alfie standing under a street lamp,
text: smeking and locking up at his apartment window.
scene_heading: INT. ALFIE’S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER
text: Alfie, damp from the rain, lets himself in, SPEAKING SOFTS!
speaker_heading: to CAMERA,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Remember how Little Alfie finally
dialog: got what he wanted for Christmas?
text: Alfie looxs around. A TRANSFORMATION has taken place. The
text: apartment is spotlessly clean and organized. The only chore
text: left undone is the half-painted Indigo blue wall.
text: Soft soul music plays on the stereo. Candles, illuminating a
text: romantic table set for two, have burned low. Nikki dozes on
text: the sofa. Alfie sighs, TURNS to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT’D}
dialog: -- Be careful what you wish for.
text: He crosses to the sofa and gently shakes Nikki. She doesn’t
text: budge. He shakes her again and she wakes with a start...
text: Looks at him for a beat, like she doesn’t recognize him, then
text: smiles sleepily.
dialog: 
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: You dozed off.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: I tried waiting up for you...
dialog: {sits up)
dialog: Your meeting ran late, huh, honey?
text: She stretches, stunning as always.
dialog: She pulls
dialog: it on the
speaker_heading: Her VOICE
speaker_heading: to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Quite... and I’m knackered. But, I
dialog: did want us to have a little
dialog: chat...
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: (rising)
dialog: Okay... Why don’t we talk over a
dialog: midnight snack?
dialog: (crossing to kitchen)
dialog: I made roast beef and Yorkshire
dialog: Pudding... That was your favorite
dialog: as a ‘young lad’, right?
dialog: {gestures}
dialog: And check the place out, if you
dialog: please. Your little girl worked
text: her fanny off.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
text: Everything looks smashing, Nik.
dialog: Really. Brilliant.
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Look...
text: a pan of roasted vegetables out of tne oven, seus
text: ccunter, starts dishing them into a bowl.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: So, Alfie... I’ve been thinking...
dialog: Will you look at these cute little
dialog: potatoes... I know I’ve been a
dialog: handful lately... but I think that
dialog: has to do a lot with me feeling
dialog: displaced and not totally trusting--
text: DIALS down, as she CONTINUES TALKING, Alfie STEPS
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Can you believe she picks tonight.
dialog: to act sane again? This is gonna
dialog: be tricky...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: When they’xe this vulnerable,
dialog: you've got to watch your step...
dialog: You don't want ‘em swallowing a
text: handful of pills and leaving a note
dialog: addressed to you. Very tricky.
text: He STEPS ASIDE and Nikki's VOICE is DIAIRD UP
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: -- but I’m as blown away as you are
dialog: that something real seems to be
dialog: happening between us and--
dialog: (stops, to herself)
dialog: Okay, Nik, get a grip, don’t bury
dialog: yourself here.
dialog: (to Alfie)
dialog: All right. So, Cutting to the
dialog: chase... I’m gonna do better, I
dialog: promise, I’m gonna take my
dialog: medication religiously from now on
dialog: and everything’s gonna be easy and
dialog: breezy. Sound good?
dialog: (opening the oven,
dialog: revealing the roast}
text: So. Come. Sil. A feast awaits.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: 1, um... I already ate, Nik.
text: Nikki covers her disappointment.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: Okay. No worries. We'll have
dialog: leftovers. I'll whip up a little
text: corned beef hash for brunch.
dialog: 102.
dialog: again...
text: She moves to him, puts her hands on his shoulders and smiles.
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: What's up, Alfie?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Nothing, it's just... I don’t know,
dialog: there’s a lot going on and I’m
dialog: feeling a bit--
text: Nikki steps back realizing something's off.
text: wary, a little scared...
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: What? Cold? Distant? Remote?
text: She’s suddenly,
dialog: 
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Look, Nikki, this is a complete
dialog: drag... but everything happened so
dialog: quickly and... I don’t know... I’m
dialog: not the best at this sort of
dialog: thing...
speaker_heading: NIKKI
dialog: (knowing exactly what he
dialog: means}
dialog: What sort of thing?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- I don’t know exactly how to say
dialog: it...
speaker_heading: NIKKT
dialog: Sure you do, Alfie. You’ve had
dialog: plenty of experience dumping girls.
text: A look passes between them...
text: Nikki crosses the room, pulls’ her suitcase from the closet.
text: She sets it on a chair, opens it and iooks at Alfie.
speaker_heading: NIKKI (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t worry. [I’m already gone.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - HIGH SHOT - NIGHT
text: Pouring rain... Nikki, wearing a raincoat but without an
text: umbrella, holds her suitcases, while trying to hail a cab.
text: CAMERA EASES BACK to see we are OVER ALFIE’S SHOULDER, as he
text: looks out his window. Nikki waves down a Taxi and struggles
text: with her suitcases, finally climbing in and slamming the
dialog: door.
text: As the Taxi disappears in the rain...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: (sounding raspy- now}
dialog: Strange, but even when you know it
dialog: has to end...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ALFIE‘S APARTMENT BUILDING - A FEW WEEKS LATER
text: Pouring rain. OVER, we HEAR Alfie in a raspy voice:
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S RASPY VOICE
dialog: -- when it finally does, you always
dialog: get that inevitable twinge--
scene_heading: INT. ALFIE’S APARTMENT - SAME TIME
text: Rain streaks the windows. Nikki's gone and the apartment is
text: once again modest, messy and male. Nikki’s presence echoed
text: by the haif-painted INDIGO BLUE wall.
text: CAMERA DISCOVERS Alfie, sitting on the edge of the sofa,
text: shining his shoes with a corner of his comforter, a blanket
text: draped over his shoulders. He has a cold and looks the worse
text: for wear. He glances up AT CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (raspy)
dialog: ~~ have I done the right thing?
text: He blows his nose into a handkerchief, pulls himself up,
text: crosses to the KITCHEN AREA where a can of tomato soup is
text: boiling over the top of a sauce pan.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I admit, I do miss the
dialog: companionship,..
text: He turns off the burner and pours the soup into a coffee muc,
text: takes a sip.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- and Nikki was a show-stopper.
text: He moves to his closet where he removes a sport coat from its
text: plastic cover and slivs it on.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: But, as my ugly Aunt Gladys used to
dialog: say, ‘Looks ain’t everything’. I
dialog: used to think that was a load of
dialog: bollix but lately I’ve come to
dialog: believe, the old bat may have had
dialog: something.
text: He culls on his raincoat, gives himself a final m-rror-check
text: and heads for the door. As he’s about to exit, he TURNS BACK
speaker_heading: to CAMERA,
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: One thing I do know... You can’t
dialog: really take away a girl’s dreams if
dialog: you don’t have new ones to replace
dialog: them with...
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 195.
text: Somewhere a CHURCH BELL is ringing...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A CHURCH SPIRE
text: The BELLS RINGING. CAMERA TILTS DOWN to the entrance, as:
scene_heading: THE CHURCH DOORS
text: are flung open and JULIE and TERRY bounce out with MAX and
dialog: the Teddy Bear Terry gave him for his birthday. They e211
text: hold hands in a row like a family foursome.
text: Julie grasps a wedding bouquet and looks radiant. All three
text: are dressed to the nines, laughing and seemingly bursting
text: with happiness. A small Group of Friends and Family follow,
text: milling on the church steps, with hugs and kisses while a
text: PHOTOGRAPHER grabs shots, During:
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: Jules had left a phone message. It
dialog: wasn’t an invitation so much as a
dialog: notification...
text: Alfie watches from the safety of a nearby alcove, TURNS to
speaker_heading: CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: But my curiosity got tae best of
dialog: me.
text: Julie takes Terry‘s lapels and pulls him to her, kissing him.
text: Everyone cheers.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I wish it hadn‘t.
text: The Well-wishers clap and cheer them on to hold Lhe kiss.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: You know, it’s funny but Jules used
dialog: to say she couldn’t live without
dialog: me...
text: Alfie shrugs.., Such is life. He steps from the cover of the
text: alcove and catches little Max’s eye, gives him a wave.
text: Max just stands there, hugging his Teddy... either no longer
dialog: remembering Alfie or no longer trusting him...
dialog: 
dialog: 106.
text: Alfie slips back out of sight as the Newlyweds break and
text: Terry picks Max up. Max throws his arms around lerry’s neck,
dialog: the way he used to do with Alfie.
text: Alfie watches “The New Family” posing for pictures in front
dialog: of the church...
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: I had the sudden realization that
dialog: I’d probably never see Jules and
dialog: Max again...
text: Alfie, hidden in the shadows of the alcove, LOOKS vo CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: This was followed by a very
dialog: unpleasant feeling in the vicinity
dialog: of my heart...
text: He glances back for one final look, then walks away...
scene_heading: EXT, /INT. LIMO DEPOT - OUTSIDE WING’S OFFICE - LATER THAT DAY
text: Alfic onters. He HEARS an odd sound... is it WHIMPERING?
text: Has Mrs. Wing finally been pushed over the edge? Alfie
text: hesitates outside WING’S OFFICE, then knocks lightly, peeks
dialog: inside,
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hello? Mrs. Wing, is everything--
dialog: Oh...
dialog: Alfie stops when he SEES:
scene_heading: WING - BENT OVER HIS DESK
text: His body racked with heart-wrenching SOBS. Alfie can’t quite
dialog: put it together.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Wing? Are you... crying?
text: Wing grabs tissues, blows his nose loudly and wipes his
text: swollen, red-rimmed eyes.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: Ionot cry! Get out!
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Are you sure you’ re-~-
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: -- I fine! Get out, Alfie!
dialog: 
dialog: 107.
text: Alfie backs out, closing the door, just leaving his head in.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Okay mate, I just came to see if I
dialog: could borrow one of the cars, I--
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: {blurts out)
dialog: -- She leave me!
text: Alfie pushes the door back open.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: ifm sorry?
speaker_heading: WING
text: Missus gone.
text: A pause.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Whaddya mean?
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: Blossom leave me.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Your wife’s name is Blossom?
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: (pleading)
dialog: What I do wrong, Alfie? Love her?!
text: Alfie LOOKS to CAMERA, unbelieving, then:
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Look, mate, I’m sure you can get
dialog: her back, I mean, a woman of her
dialog: age, how many options--
text: The stern look on Wing’s face stops Alfie. He changes tact.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Woo her, send flowers, write a
dialog: poem.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: (tentatively)
dialog: That what you would. do?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Absolutely.
dialog: 
dialog: 108.
text: Wing considers this for a moment, then picks up pad and pen.
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: What rhyme with Blossom?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: {thinks about it)
dialog: I'd go with... Awesome?
speaker_heading: WING
dialog: Okay.
dialog: (tossing Alfie a set of
speaker_heading: KEYS)
dialog: Get lost.
text: Wing begins composing. Alfie slips out while he can.
scene_heading: EXT. UPSTATE NEW YORK - HIGH SHOT - DAY
text: The Black Town Car looks out of place rolling through a quiet
dialog: green upstate New York suburb.
scene_heading: A COUNTRY ROAD — DAY
text: The Town Car drives down a bumpy, unpaved road.
scene_heading: EXT. BUNGALOW — DAY
text: The Town Car pulls into a gravel drive and parks in front cf
text: a modest, well-kept bungalow with a flourishing garden.
text: Alfie climbs out, stretches. A DOG barks. He reaches into the
text: Town Car and pulls out the Red Folder with his business plan.
speaker_heading: WOMAN {0.S.}
dialog: You never cease to amaze.
text: Alfie turns as the SCREEN DOOR OPENS and LONETTE steps onto
text: the porch. She doesn’t seem pleased to see Aim.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Really great to see you, too, Lon.
dialog: (no reaction)
dialog: Guess I should have rang.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: That would’ve been a plan.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: O-kay. So. Um...
dialog: {takes a beat)
dialog: Look, Lonette...
text: (starts up steps, speaking
dialog: softly)
speaker_heading: {MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 199.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (cont'd)
dialog: I know it's uncomfortable seeing
dialog: each other after-~-
speaker_heading: LOWETTE
dialog: -- You don’t have to whisper,
dialog: Marion’s not here.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- after what went down with us..-
dialog: But I miss you guys, And I think
dialog: we should try to put the past be--
text: From inside the house, a BABY CRIES. Lonette glances over
text: her shoulder.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Dropping by wasn’t a good idea.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Do I hear a baby?
speaker_heading: LONETTE:
dialog: Alfie...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Coming from inside your house?
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: Really... this was not smazt.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: What's not smart? What are we
dialog: talking about?
text: The BABY CRIES again.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Wait a minute, You guys... didn’t
dialog: have a baby...?
dialog: 
text: Lonette says nothing.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: You did have a baby.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: No, you were right tne first
dialog: time...
text: Alfie looks at Lonette, trying to piece together what she’s
text: saying. He reaches for the door handle. They lock eyes for
dialog: a momenz.
dialog: 
dialog: 110.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfie mcves along the unfamiliar hall, following the SOUNDS
speaker_heading: of the BABY.
scene_heading: INT. NURSERY
text: CLOSE ON ALFIE. He steps into the nursery and slowly crosses
text: to the crib... confused by what he sees.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VIEW
text: A gorgeous BI-RACIAL BABY staring up at him. Alfie moves a
text: little blanket aside for a better view of the Baby’s face.
text: LONETTE steps into the NURSERY behind him. Alfie turns to
text: her, starts to speak but somehow words won’t form.
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Yeah... he’s your son... You can
dialog: close your mouth now...
text: He looks down at the Baby, then back to Lonette, who has
text: tears in her eyes.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FANTLY PLANNING CLINIC - DAY
text: That drizzly day many months ago... Alfie glances up as the
text: CLINIC DOOR OPENS and Lonette walks toward him. Alfie
text: hurries to meet her. -
speaker_heading: ALFIE’ S VOICE
dialog: And then I flashed on that day at
dialog: the clinic...
text: Alfie looks in her eyes.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D}
text: -- trying to look in Lon’s eyes...
dialog: to see if I could even begin to
dialog: understand what she was going
dialog: through...
text: But Lonette turns away, avoiding his gaze.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: And how she wouldn’t lock at me.
scene_heading: FREEZE FRAME on Lonette. OVER:
dialog: 
dialog: a41.
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE (CONT’D}
dialog: And how I think I knew then... I
dialog: just didn’t want to admit it to
dialog: myself. So, classically - I said
dialog: nothing.
speaker_heading: TONETTE (G.8.)
dialog: I knew there was a good chance the
dialog: baby could be Marlan’s...
scene_heading: INI. NURSERY - THE PRESRNT
text: A dazed Alfie, holds on to the crib for support. Lonette is
text: crying softly now, she shrugs...
speaker_heading: LONETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: -- I hoped...
text: Alfie is pretty much shattered...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: This is just a lot...
dialog: (at a loss)
dialog: He’s healthy and everything...?
dialog: (she nods)
dialog: That’s good.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: And Marlon? He stayed?
speaker_heading: LONETTE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: So far...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (nods, a beat)
dialog: Is there... What can I do...?
speaker_heading: LONETTE.
dialog: {get real)
dialog: What are you gonna do, Alfie?
text: She lcoks at him, honestly waiting for an answer.
scene_heading: EXT. BUNGALOW ~ MONENTS LATER
text: Still reeling, Alfie steps inte the sunlight, hcelding the Red
text: Folder. He moves quickly to the Town Car, opens the door,
text: then HEARS the sound of tires on gravel.
dialog: 
dialog: 1i2.
text: He turns to see a car pull up and park. A beat and Marlon
text: gets out, holding a bag of groceries. He looks across the
text: drive at Alfie. The two old friends stare at each other fer
dialog: a Jong moment.
speaker_heading: _ ALFIE
dialog: Marlon... I never meant to...
speaker_heading: MARLON
dialog: {ahead of Alfie)
dialog: You never mean to hurt anybody.
text: Alfie starts to speak...
speaker_heading: MARLON (CONT'D)
dialog: -- But you do, Alfie.
text: Lonette steps onto the porch, holding the Baby. Alfie looks
text: from Lonette back to Marlon.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR - SPEEDING - DAY
text: CLOSE ON Alfie, intense, driving way too fast. He comes to a
text: fork in the road, hits his brakes, whips the wheel one way,
text: then the other, finally screeching to a stop, kicking up huge
text: clouds of dust, .
text: THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD
text: Alfie sits there motionless... He picks up the car phone...
text: and SMASHES it against the windshield - SHATTERING the glass
text: like a spider web. He drops his head on the steering wheel-
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - TOP SHOT - DAY
text: Dust settling around the Town Car idling in the middle of
dialog: nowhere,
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT, EMPTY BEACH - LONG SHOT - AT SUNSET
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: I felt the need of a friend to talk
dialog: te. Problem was ~- they were
text: suddenly in shert supply.
text: TWO DISTANT FIGURES walk along the shore. OVER:
dialog: 
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- And next thing, I‘m crying...
text: Tears running down my face, like I
dialog: was a kid myself.
speaker_heading: . CLOSER ANGLE
text: Alfie is walking with JOE, the old gvy from the Doczor’s
text: Office. Joe wears a sweater and another bolo tie. His slacks
text: are rolled to his knees, and he carries his shoes and socks.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Crying for the little one...?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: That’s the thing... I don’t know
dialog: exactly. Maybe for him... But
dialog: mostly, I think, for me.
dialog: {pause}
dialog: And Marlon... I never had anyhody
dialog: look at me quite that way before.
dialog: And believe me, I’ve had my share
dialog: of looks that could kill.
dialog: (then)
dialog: And the way he stood by Lon... I
dialog: could’ ve never--
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: ~- You don’t know what you’1ll do
dialog: ‘til you really love someone...
text: A beat, as this sinks in...
speaker_heading: JOE (CONT'D)
dialog: But now, what? You gonna shoehorn
dialog: yourself into the situation? Nah,
dialog: you did the only thing you could do
dialog: - you behaved like a gentieman.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I've never been accused of that
dialog: before.
speaker_heading: JOR
dialog: Don’t get all choked up, you also
dialog: behaved like a scheming, back- ~
text: stabbing, so low he can look up a
dialog: snake’s asshole, son-of-a-bitch.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Next time, think before unzipping.
dialog: I mean, your best friend’s girl...
text: They continue along the shoreline until finally...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: All for a couple of minutes
text: pleasure on a rainy Sunday evening.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: So all right, you screwed up but
dialog: whaddya gonna do - run to the
dialog: bridge?
dialog: (then)
dialog: The question is - what's gonna
dialog: happen with the rest of your life?
text: They walk on. Not much else to say.
text: Alfie stops when he spots something up ahead. He smiles anc
dialog: waves.
scene_heading: ALFIE’S VIEW - LU SCHNITMAN
text: Dolled-up and STANDING cn a SMALL CLIFF above the water. She
dialog: waves down to:
speaker_heading: ALFIE AND JOE
text: Alfie puts his arm around Joe.
speaker_heading: ALFI£
dialog: Hey Joe, there’s somebody I want
dialog: you to meet.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK STREETS — THAT EVENING
text: A blustery night. Alfie buzzes through traffic on Ais now
text: banged-up Vespa. He looks cold and distracted and a bit
text: bedraggled. He passes a pair of true HOTTIES on the street,
text: doesn’t look twice.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VOICE
dialog: I'd be lying if I didn’t admit the
dialog: events of the past few weeks have
dialog: knocked me for a bit of a loop....
text: Alfie notices something out of the corner of his eye, a
text: QUAINT FLOWER SHOP. He impulsively hangs a “u” causing horns
text: to blow and Cabbies to curse.
scene_heading: INT. QUAINT FLOWER SHOP ~ MOMENTS LATER
text: A gyay-haired, snappily-dressed PROPRIETOR, is arranging ar ~
text: chic bouquet when Alfie enters, rubbing his hands together
dialog: for warmth.
dialog: 
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Hullo, mate.
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: And what can we do for you this
dialog: evening?
text: Alfie looks around, sees a plastic tub of pre-packaged
text: bouquets.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: How much for one of those?
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: Five-fifty. And you'll need to put
text: them in water immediately.
speaker_heading: ALFIZ.
dialog: Right...
text: Alfie picks a bouquet from the tub and pulls out his wallet.
text: He eyes the elegant bouquet being prepared et the counter.
text: Looks at his inferior offering...
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: On second thought...
dialog: {drops flowers back in
dialog: tub)
dialog: -- this is sort of a.,. special
dialog: thing.
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: And what's the occasion?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Say again?
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: For the flowers?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Ah...
text: Alfie isn’t really sure, has to think about it.
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: Ifve been in the business too many
dialog: years, I have a sixth sense:
dialog: Proposal?
dialog: 
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: No... but... Well, I do want to
dialog: extend an offer to maybe try te
dialog: have a go at it for a bit, you
dialog: know...? See where it takes us...
dialog: Give it a spin... That sort of
dialog: thing...
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: (knowing smile)
dialog: I get it. Commitment issues.
text: Alfie nods, unamused.
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Tell me what she or he is like and
dialog: we‘ll, find the appropriate blooms.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Well she’s... adventurous.
text: The Man picks a flower... begins putting together a bouquet.
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: Lady of the Nile.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Sexy, of course...
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: Orchid.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: A bit mischievous...
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
text: Spider Lily with a touch of Saby
dialog: Blue Eyes...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: And under it all, kind of sweet...
scene_heading: EXT. FLOWER SHOP - EVENING
text: THROUGH THE WINDOW, we watch Alfie and the Proprietor putting
text: together Alfie’s bouquet with great care.
scene_heading: EXT. LIZ’S BUILDING - A LITTLE LATER
text: Alfie holding his‘lovely bouquet, pulls up and parks his
dialog: Vespa,
dialog: 
dialog: 117.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR
text: Alfie walks down the corridor, holding the bouquet. Ile slows
text: to do a moving mirror-check, then stops in front of Liz’s
text: coor, a bit like a kid on his first date...
scene_heading: INT. LIZ’'S APARTMENT. - FOYER — CONTINUOUS
text: Alfie lets himself in, KNOCKING on the door as he enters.
text: Liz’s VOICE comes from the bathroom.
speaker_heading: LIz (0.8.)
dialog: Kello?
text: Alfie moves into the hall.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It's me, luv!
speaker_heading: LIZ (0.8.)
dialog: Just a sec. I/’11 be right out.
text: Alfie grins, sets the flowers down, as Liz comes out of the
text: BATHROOM, tying her robe.
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT ' D}
dialog: (rubbing her temple)
dialog: I'm sorry, Alfie, I’m taking a hot
dialog: soak. I have got one of the worst
dialog: migraines ever.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Migraine...?
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I’ve told you I get these blinding
dialog: headaches,.. You don’t listen,
dialog: sweetic.
dialog: (then)
dialog: How are you? I thought you were
dialog: working tonight...
text: He moves to the LIVING ROOM. She follows.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: It was a bit slow, so I took the
dialog: night off.... I thought maybe we’d
dialog: wake up early and drive to the
dialog: country... Check out that little
dialog: B & B you're always on about.
dialog: 
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: -~ Oh, honey... I'd love to, but
dialog: Ifve got an investors’ breakfast...
dialog: Can we do it later in the week? Or
dialog: how ‘bout this weekend?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Brilliant. Better.
dialog: {trying for casual}
dialog: All right, then... By the way, I
dialog: thought you might appreciate these,
text: He picks up the FLOWERS, does a cute little bow.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: For you... M’ lady.
text: It's an impressive bouquet. Liz is surprised, touched.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Oh, my God, Alfie ~ what a sweet
dialog: gesture. Wow. I’m impressed.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: And py the way, they’re not from a
dialog: plastic bucket... Every bud is
dialog: handpicked. I discovered I have
dialog: quite the flair for flower-
dialog: arranging.
speaker_heading: LIz
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: I can see that. I never would've
dialog: expected... Talk about being blown
dialog: away...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Good. Mission accomplished.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I like surprising you.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: You've done that. For sure.
text: She smelis the flowers. This is difficult for Altie. He
text: takes a step forward, she touches her head, winces slightly,
text: he eases hack.
dialog: 
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: All vight, then... Get some rest.
text: He moves to the door. Liz follows.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: I’1l be better in the morning.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: When you are, there’s something -
dialog: some things - I want us to talk
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: What things, honey?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Um... you know what... I'd rather
dialog: save it ‘til you’ re a hundred
dialog: percent.
text: (she starts to speak:
dialog: And that’s the last I’1l say about
dialog: it for now.
text: (gives her a peck on the
dialog: lips)
dialog: Ring you in the morning.
speaker_heading: LIz
dialog: (leading him to the door)
dialog: Alfie...
text: Ee turns back. She touches his asm.
speaker_heading: LIZ (CONT'D)
dialog: Thanks for the flowers. Really.
dialog: They made my night.
text: Alfie smiles, opens the door.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I’1l ring you first thing....
text: As he’s about to step out, Alfie catches sight of something
text: in the foyer.
scene_heading: HIS VIEW - A MOTOR-CYCLE JACKET
text: casually hanging on a hook.
dialog: BACK TO ALFIE
text: Liz has followed his look. She glances at the jacket, then
dialog: Lo Alfie.
dialog: 
dialog: 120.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Whose is that?
text: Alfie crosses back, picks up the jacket.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: What... ?
text: He looks at the jacket, then up at Liz.
speaker_heading: LiZ (CONT'D)
dialog: One of the guys that came to fix
dialog: the cable probably forgot--
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: -- Right.
text: Alfie shakes his head, reality starting to sink in...
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: (gestures to bathroom)
dialog: You’ve got another guy in there,
dialog: haven’t you?
dialog: Liz
dialog: Alfie....
text: Alfie looks heavenward.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: God, what’s happened to me?
dialog: (then)
dialog: Did he pick you up as easy as I
dialog: did?
text: Alfie moves past her and opens the bathroom door.
speaker_heading: LIZ .
dialog: Alfie, do not do this.
scene_heading: INT. LIZ’S BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfie stands in the doorway, a look of blank amazement on his
dialog: face.
scene_heading: HIS VIEW - A BEAUTIFUL YOUNG GUY
text: is stepping out of the tub, wrapping a vowel around his
text: waist. He's twenty-something with tousled long hair. He
text: glances casually up at Alfie.
text: Alfie stares at the Young Man. Liz has moved in behind him,
text: puts her hands to her face.
dialog: 
dialog: 121.
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: Alfie... I’m sorry.
text: Alfie moves away from the door.,. leans against the wall, his
text: eyes closed.... He speaks with a mixture of bewilderment and
dialog: pain...
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Why him - better than me? What's
dialog: he got that I haven’t? Besides the
dialog: hairdo? .
text: Liz looks away... Alfie looks directly at her now,
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: Really, I’d like to know.
text: She doesn’t want to answer.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Come cn - tell me, I want to know.
dialog: What’s he got?
text: A beat. She turns to him and says honestly...
speaker_heading: LIZ
dialog: He's younger than you.
text: CAMERA HOLDS on Alfie as these words sink in...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: DARK CHOPPY WATERS
text: Liz’s FLOWERS fall through the darkness.
scene_heading: EXT. WATERWAY’S FERRY - LATER THAT EVENING
text: Alfie, still dazed, leans over the railing, watching the
text: flowers break apart in the water.
speaker_heading: ALPIE’S VOICE
dialog: ‘He’s younger than you.’ Imagine, a
dialog: woman her age telling me that.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I gotta admit I didn’t see it
dialog: coming. Yeah, she caught me off-
dialog: guard all right...
text: he turns up his collar against the chill, LOOKS to CAMERA.
dialog: 
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: You couldn't tell though, could
dialog: you?
dialog: {slight grin)
dialog: As you’ve learned by now, I’m quite
dialog: skilled at hiding my feelings.
text: CAMERA TRACKS Alfie walking along the river. He passes a
text: YOUNG COUPLE leaning against the rail, laughing and then
text: seriously making-out.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: (to CAMERA)
dialog: The thing about feelings is, they
dialog: have this quiet way of creeping up
dialog: on you when you least expect it.
text: CAMERA DRIFTS CLOSER to Alfie, as he wanders along the
dialog: bridge.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Like with Liz. Who would’ ve
dialog: thought, out of all the birds I’ve
dialog: known... it would be her, the cne
dialog: who, in most ways, gave me the
dialog: least... would end up hurting me
dialog: the most...?
text: He forces a smile... starts to speak TO CAMERA again when he
text: notices someone coming toward him through the fog.
speaker_heading: ALFIE’S VIEW
text: DORIE, the Woman from the beginning of our story, walking
text: toward him. She doesn’t seem to notice Alfie, or did she
dialog: quickly iook away?
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey...
dialog: (squinting through fog)
dialog: That you, Dor?
text: Dorie walks hesitantly toward, him.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Hello, Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: (happy to see her)
dialog: Wow. Dorie - T haven't seen you in
dialog: ages.
dialog: 
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: DORTE
dialog: Maybe because you stopped calling.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: I know. Things were getting a bit--
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: -- Don’t bother explaining. I’m way
dialog: past needing excuses.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: All right.
dialog: {a beat)
dialog: ».but... no, Dor, I want to
dialog: explain...
speaker_heading: BORIE
dialog: What? You'd had your fiil of me?
dialog: Someone cuter came along? I don't
dialog: need to hear it, Alfie, really.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Look, Dorie, you see, what happens
dialog: with me is... 2... well, it gets
dialog: too... I don’t know... not close,
dialog: but something like that. And then,
dialog: I feel a bit... not stifled, not
dialog: trapped but... something like
dialog: that...
text: Dorie almost laughs, shakes her head... there’s something
text: icresistible about even his confession.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Are you done?
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Well, did any of that make sense?
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: I think it needs to make sense to
dialog: you more than me at this point.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Faiz enough.
dialog: {then}
dialog: Hey, I like that dress. Silk?
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Rayon.
dialog: 
dialog: 124.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh. Weil, you look smashing, as
dialog: usual.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Where you headed? I’ve got the
text: town car parked ‘round the corner.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: I’m meeting Phil.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Oh, right... Phil.
dialog: (touching her dress
dialog: I really do like this material.
dialog: You'd swear it was silk the way it
dialog: clings. Does wonders for your
dialog: décolletage.
dialog: {that grin)
dialog: Of course, you always were a smart
dialog: dresser. What about Tuesday then?
dialog: You up for it? .
text: A FOG HORN blares.
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: I don’t think so, Alfie.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: Really? Oh, c’mon, for old times
dialog: sake.
text: He takes her hand in both of his and massages it with great
text: ekill, his fingers running up her arm
speaker_heading: DORTE
dialog: I’m not sure... Maybe. But I doubt
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: ALFI£
dialog: If1l supply the champagne.
speaker_heading: DORIS
dialog: We'll see, I need to go. He'll be
dialog: waiting.
text: She starts to pass, Alfie gently holds her arm.
speaker_heading: ALFIE.
dialog: So, next Tuesday? Same time? Same
dialog: place?
speaker_heading: DORIE
dialog: Maybe, Alfie.
dialog: 
dialog: 125.
text: She forces a smile and hurries off. After a moment, Alfie
text: TURNS to CAMERA with a half a smile.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: She won’t be there. I know that.
text: The smile fades as Alfie watches another woman walk out of
dialog: his life.
speaker_heading: OVER DORIE
text: Disappearing into the mist.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (0.5.}) {CONT'D}
dialog: I warned them all from the start...
dialog: I always said something along the
dialog: lines of - ‘I must advise you that
dialog: I am stamped with an invisible
dialog: advisory warning: will net commit,
dialog: will never marry.’
text: Ee turns BACK to CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: But in spite of all my best
dialog: efforts, I’m beginning te feel some
text: small cracks in my faux finish...
scene_heading: ALFIE’S FLEETING MEMORIES
text: -- NIKKI waking Alfie with a breakfast tray. He’s rumpled
text: and sleepy, she is stunningly beautiful and looks at him with
dialog: hope in her eyes. And the tray is the one you ‘rake for
dialog: someone you really care for... The single rose in a bud vase,
text: perfect eqgs, steaming cappuccino.
text: -- LIZ and Alfie, wearing terry robes, facing each other on
text: her sofa, in front of a crackling fire, giving each other
text: Pedicures. She’s a pro, he’s like a little kid with his first
dialog: Paint set...
text: -- Alfie, laughing along with his friend LCNETTE that night
dialog: at the bar... before everything changed.
text: -- JULIE and MAX, their faces glowing from the candles on a
text: birthday cake they are presenting to Alfie. They sing “Happy
dialog: Birthday, Dear Alfie”... It’s the moment they loved him most.
scene_heading: BACK TO ALFIE - ALONE ON THE BRIDGE
dialog: 
dialog: 126.
speaker_heading: ALFIE {CONT'D)
dialog: You know, when I look back on my
dialog: little life and the women I’ve
dialog: known - I think of all they’ve done
dialog: for me and how little I’ve done for
dialog: them. Of how they cared for me and
dialog: how I repaid them by doing my besz
dialog: to avoid returning the favor.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Yeah, I used to think I was getting
dialog: the best of the deal.
text: Re wanders along the river's edge, CAMERA TRACKS along.
speaker_heading: ALFIE (CONT'D)
dialog: But what have I got really?
dialog: A few bucks in my pocket, some
dialog: decent threads, a fancy car at my
dialog: disposal. And I'm single. Yeah...
text: Unattached. Free as a bird.
scene_heading: HIGH SHOT - THE SMALL FIGURE OF ALFIE
text: He waiks along the embankment, he appears tiny against the
text: vast expanse of river.
speaker_heading: ALFIE'S VOICE
dialog: I don’t depend on nobody ~ and
dialog: nobody depends on me.
dialog: (pause) :
dialog: My life’s my own.
text: NOW ALFIE WALKS TOWARD CAMERA
text: He stops, stares out at the darkness for a time, then LOOKS
text: DIRECTLY at CAMERA.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: But I don’t have my peace of mind.
dialog: And if you don’t have that...
dialog: you've got nothing really.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: So, what’s the answer? That’s what
dialog: I keep asking myself.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: What’s it all about? You know what
dialog: I mean?
text: Alfie turns and looks off. A little MUTT, trots toward him.
text: Alfie smiles, bends to pet him, the Deg licks Alfie’s face.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 12?.
speaker_heading: WOMAN’ S VOICE
dialog: Ohmygod, thanks... He’s always
text: running away.
text: Aifie looks up and sees a lovely, BREATHLESS YOUNG WOMAN
text: holding a leash and smiling down at him. Maybe it’s her
text: s.ightly embarrassed manner, or the way her nose crinkles
text: when she smiles, or maybe it’s the way the scarf is tied
text: European-style around her neck... Or maybe it’s just tinc...
text: Alfie rises, holding the dog.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: What’s,..
dialog: (checks quickly and
dialog: discreetly)
dialog: -- nis name?
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: Mugsy.
speaker_heading: ALFIE
dialog: . (looks at dog)
dialog: Hello, Mugsy.
dialog: {looks at the Girl}
dialog: I’m Alfie.
scene_heading: THE RIVER’S EDGE - HIGH SHOT
text: Alfie and the Breathless Girl talk for a few moments, then
text: Alfie sets the littie Mutt down and they all walk along the
dialog: river’s edge together...
text: And the song begins...
dialog: What’s it all about, Alfie?
dialog: is it just for the moment we live?
dialog: What‘’s it all about, when you sort
dialog: it out, Alfie?
dialog: Are we meant to take more than we
dialog: give?
dialog: Or are we meant to love...
dialog: 
dialog: Alfie...?
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: 128.
dialog: 
