dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALIEN NATION
dialog: Original Screenplay
dialog: by
dialog: Rockne S. O'Bannon
dialog: Rewrite
dialog: by
dialog: James Cameron
dialog: October 1987
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. MOJAVE DESERT - DAY (TELEVISION IMAGE)
text: A LONG LENS SHOT of a far distant metallic object hovering
text: just above the ground -- maybe two or three miles away.
text: The heat waves and the light refraction off the desert-
text: scape make the object undulate rhythmically, keeping its
text: true shape and appearance indistinct.
text: The VIDEO CAMERA recording this scene zooms back, then
text: pans over -- revealing a semicircle of US Army vehicles
text: and personnel. Army Engineers with their tripod-mounted
text: scopes and binoculars are shoulder to shoulder with the
text: armed infantry. Everyone stares off at the same point on
text: the horizon. Waiting.
text: The VIDEO CAMERA movements are HANDHELD, unsteady, as it
text: moves through the line of Army personnel to reveal a
text: second, less organized semicircle of observers fifty yards
text: behind the Army. LOCALS from nearby towns perch in truck
text: beds and on car roofs, Budweiser and Fritos at hand, eyes
text: glued to the distant object.
text: The VIDEO CAMERA image climbs up onto the roof of a parked
text: local TV van, finds the object again in the distance,
text: zooms in, and waits, like everyone else.
text: Abruptly the VIDEO IMAGE contracts, becoming a box
text: CHROMAKEYED behind CNN reporter DUNCAN CRAIS.
speaker_heading: CRAIS
dialog: That was the scene in California's
dialog: Mojave Desert three years ago today
dialog: -- the historic first view of the
text: Newcomer ship upon its dramatic
dialog: arrival. As with the assassination
dialog: of John Kennedy, who among us does
dialog: not remember exactly where he was
dialog: that October nineteenth morning,
dialog: when news first broke: that people
dialog: have landed... from another star.
text: We PULL BACK from a large television set to reveal...
scene_heading: INT. A CROWDED BAR - LOS ANGELES - NIGHT
text: The Hollowpoint Lounge -- a cop bar.
text: The off-duty uniformed and plainclothes cops are mostly
text: ignoring the TV, except for two detectives, FEDORCHUK and
text: ALTEREZ, who are waiting for the ball scores.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: I remember where I was -- pissing
dialog: off my balcony at the neighbor's
dialog: dog!
text: Others laugh.
speaker_heading: ALTEREZ
dialog: (yells at Crais on TV)
dialog: Get to the goddamn ball scores!
text: ON THE TV SCREEN, an on-location interview with a CAL-TECH
text: PROFESSOR comes up. Her name and title appear across the
text: bottom of the screen.
scene_heading: CAL-TECH PROFESSOR
dialog: From the time mankind first gazed up
dialog: at the stars there had been
dialog: speculation about a visit by people
dialog: from "out there." How ironic that
dialog: when that first contact was made,
dialog: the two hundred and sixty thousand
text: occupants aboard the craft were as
dialog: surprised as we were about their
dialog: arrival. That they awakened from
text: frozen hibernation to find their
text: malfunctioning autopilot had landed
dialog: them here by mistake.
text: The CNN reporter, Duncan Crais, appears again.
speaker_heading: CRAIS
dialog: These "Newcomers," we soon learned,
dialog: were a genetically-engineered race,
dialog: adapted for hard labor in almost any
dialog: environmental condition. In effect,
dialog: their ship was a slave ship...
dialog: washed ashore on Earth with no way
dialog: to get back to where they came
dialog: from...
text: A dishwasher tray filled with beer glasses CUTS ACROSS
text: FRAME, and we PAN WITH IT as it is slammed down on the
text: countertop.
text: Now an interview with a FRESNO HOUSEWIFE standing outside
text: a supermarket comes on the TV SCREEN.
speaker_heading: FRESNO HOUSEWIFE
dialog: When the Newcomers were first let
dialog: out of the ship, they were
text: quarantined in a camp not ten miles
dialog: from the town here. You can imagine
dialog: how the people around here felt
dialog: about that. But once they were
dialog: releases from the camp and we got a
dialog: chance to know them, we saw what
dialog: nice, quiet people they really are...
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: revealing a MASSIVE ALIEN FIGURE in a filthy white
text: busboy's uniform. His back is to us as he picks up two
text: trays from the counter. The bartender is dwarfed by this
text: Newcomer, but works around him without apparent concern.
text: Fedorchuk addresses the alien busboy.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: Hey, Henry, how you doin' tonight?
dialog: Workin' hard?
text: The Newcomer turns -- his face is humanoid, but
text: disturbingly alien.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: You got your green card, buddy? You
dialog: didn't leave home without it?
text: The cops at the bar crack up. Henry looks at Fedorchuk --
text: his eyes carrying no malice... or pain. He merely blinks.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. SLUG-MOBILE - STREET - NIGHT
text: An explosion of color and movement as OPENING TITLES PLAY
text: very quickly. We're TRAVELING the streets in a n.d.
text: sedan, getting MOVING GLIMPSES of the aliens living among
dialog: us now:
text: -- A coffee shop where aliens eat at some window tables.
text: -- A Newcomer leaving a night school with an armload of
dialog: books.
text: -- A city park where a number of alien families have
text: gathered to play some arcane alien game.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Jeez... they call that gang-bang a
dialog: game...?
text: -- A billboard for Pepsi featuring an alien.
text: -- The sedan has pulled to a stop at a red light.
text: Suddenly a hand thumps against the glass next to Sykes'
text: head... and alien hand. Sykes jumps. It's a NEWCOMER
text: DERELICT standing there, weaving, mumbling in his own
text: language. In one filthy hand holds a quart carton of
dialog: milk. We know immediately what he wants. Sykes rolls
text: down the window.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Take a hike.
text: Sykes gets a whiff of the derelict's breath as the light
text: changes and the sedan pulls away, leaving him in the
text: street. Sykes grimaces at the smell.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Why's it have to be sour milk that
dialog: these guys get wasted on? What the
dialog: hell's wrong with Jack Daniels, or
dialog: Thunderbird for chrissakes?
dialog: (beat; disgusted)
dialog: Slagtown. Shit...
text: -- Aliens hanging around outside their homes.
text: -- Alien hookers plying their trade.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Hope their plumbing's the same.
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: It is.
dialog: (and Sykes gives him
dialog: a look)
text: -- A Newcomer lowrider pulls up beside the slug-mobile.
text: -- An alien couple exit a theater playing "Terminator
dialog: III".
dialog: -- An alien wig shop.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: TITLES END, and we start to PULL BACK into the slug-mobile
speaker_heading: and HEAR:
speaker_heading: TUGGLE (O.S.)
dialog: So you gonna go, or you not gonna
dialog: go?
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: The dashboard is littered with fast-food detritus and two
text: coffees in styrofoam cups making fog circles on the
text: windshield. A hand picks up one of the coffees and we
text: FOLLOW IT to a face, a forty-year-old cop face that's seen
text: some wear and tear -- behind the wheel is MATT SYKES.
text: Beside him is his partner of nine years, BILL TUGGLE.
text: Tuggle expertly munches on a slice of pizza as he talks.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: How can I go?
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: Put on your wash-and-wear suit and
dialog: your clip-on tie, have your landlady
dialog: tie your shoes for you, and show up
text: at the church. Simple.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Me and Carol are going.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: Hey, look -- we've known Kristin
dialog: since... since she was conceived in
dialog: that cabin up in Big Bear.
dialog: Remember? You and Edie banged the
dialog: wall so hard, me and Carol were
dialog: picking plaster out of our hair for
dialog: a week...
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Goddammit, Tug -- I want to see
dialog: Kristin get married, okay? But--
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: But you're bummed because your ex
dialog: and her new husband are paying for
dialog: the whole thing.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Shit, if Kristin had to get married
dialog: where I could afford it, we'd be
text: holding the reception at Buddy's
dialog: Burgers.
text: Sykes stares out the window, wallowing in his pissed-off
text: mood. Then he spots something that twinges his street-cop
dialog: radar.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Uh-oh... Check it out.
text: THROUGH THE WINDOW Tuggle sees what Sykes sees: two ALIENS
text: in long coats moving down the sidewalk, entering a mom-
text: and-pop mini-mart on the corner. One of them wears dark
text: glasses and a red bandana (KIPLING): the other has on a
text: black vinyl raincoat.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Does that look at all suspicious to
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: Whatever gave you that idea?
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Sykes continues up a quarter of a block, pulls to the curb
text: among other parked cars.
scene_heading: INT. SEDAN - NIGHT
text: Sykes is already pulling his gun. Tuggle quickly reaches
text: for the radio in the glovebox.
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: This is one-Henry-seven, we've got a
dialog: possible two-eleven in progress at
dialog: Porter's Mini-Mart, corner of Court
text: and Alvarado. Requesting backup.
text: Impulsive Sykes is already opening his door and climbing
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Let's do it, partner.
text: Tuggle drops the radio mike and follows Sykes as the Radio
text: Dispatcher confirms the call.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: The two cops, guns in hand, move along the row of parked
text: cars across the street from the mini-mart. Through the
text: store window they see the old alien PROPRIETOR behind the
text: counter. His eyes go wide as Kipling whips back his coat
text: and yanks out a short combat pump-shotgun and aims it
text: right at him. The Raincoat alien pulls an identical gun
text: and covers the door.
text: Sykes and Tuggle react to the firepower inside.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You got your vest?
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
text: Of course. Right in the trunk of
dialog: the car.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, that's comforting. Mine, too.
text: Through the store window the robbery continues in
text: pantomime. Kipling gestures viciously with the shotgun,
text: yelling orders in the alien language. The Proprietor is
text: quickly filling a paper bag with cash from the register.
text: The PROPRIETOR'S WIFE, a middle-aged alien woman, stands
text: in the doorway from the back, frozen in fear. The
text: Raincoat alien dances from foot to foot, antsy, wired.
text: Sykes and Tuggle crouch at the car directly across the
text: street from the store entrance.
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: Watch the driver. I'm going for a
text: better angle on the door.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I got him. Don't get pinned.
text: Tuggle leaves the cover provided by the car, runs cater-
text: corner across the intersection.
text: Through the store window Sykes sees Kipling grab the bag
text: of cash, shove it in his coat pocket. Bills fall out, but
text: he doesn't care. Then, without warning, Kipling whips up
text: the twelve gauge and blows a hole in the Proprietor's
text: chest! The Proprietor slams back against the shelves,
text: slides to the floor. Kipling leans over the counter and
text: FIRES another round into the Proprietor.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Aw, shit.
text: Tuggle is almost across the street when he hears the
dialog: shots.
text: The human DRIVER of the getaway car (parked at the curb a
text: few doors down from the mini-mart) glances up, spots
text: Tuggle. He leans on the HORN, reaches for a machine
text: pistol on the seat next to him.
scene_heading: INT. MINI-MART - NIGHT
text: Kipling and Raincoat alien react to the horn honk. They
text: spot Tuggle through the store window and open fire --
text: BLASTING THROUGH THE GLASS.
text: A civilian car enters the intersection. The engine is hit
text: by shotgun fire, and the car skids to a stop in the
text: intersection, steam rising from the radiator.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Tuggle dives behind a lamp post.
text: The Driver is out of the car now, brings up the machine
text: pistol to fire at Tuggle. Sykes sees this and opens fire
text: at the Driver. The Driver turns and fires at Sykes.
text: Sykes ducks down, and the car he's hiding behind is
text: sprayed with bullets.
text: A forty-foot moving van pulls down the street between
text: Sykes and the Driver. Once the truck is past, Sykes is
text: standing behind the bullet-riddled car, gun ready. He
text: rapid-fires -- creaming the human Driver.
text: Tuggle is pinned down behind the thin lamp post by the
text: shotgun fire from Kipling and Raincoat alien.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Get outta there!
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: I can't! Do you mind!
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I'll cover you! Get outta there!!
text: Sykes rises and runs across the street toward the getaway
text: car, firing toward the store as he goes.
text: Kipling and Raincoat dodge behind cover.
text: Tuggle seizes the opportunity, jumps from behind the lamp
text: post and runs to the stalled civilian car. He slides
text: across the hood and drops behind the car for cover.
text: Tuggle slowly pokes his head up to peer through the car
text: window. His gaze is met by the face of the OLD MAN driver
text: who is still inside the car.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: Can I get out now?
speaker_heading: TUGGLE
dialog: Move it!
text: Sykes doesn't have a clear firing line on the aliens in
text: the store. As he considers his next move--
text: Tuggle fires at the two aliens. They return fire and he
text: slides down to safety behind the car. Or so he thinks.
text: Glass rains down on him as the car windows are cremated by
text: the shotgun blasts. He flinches as another blast hits the
text: car. He looks over. There's a big exit hole in the
text: fender beside him. THE SHOT WENT RIGHT THROUGH THE CAR.
text: Another exit hole is BLASTED, inches from his shoulder.
text: Panicked, he scrambles along the side of the car -- BLASTS
text: and exit holes following him until he reaches the front of
text: the car. He has nowhere left to go and--
text: -- a BLAST comes through the car and catches him squarely
text: in the chest throwing him back onto the street.
text: Sykes' head jerks around -- in time to see his partner of
text: nine years blown away.
text: Kipling keeps firing in Tuggle's direction until his
text: shotgun CLICKS empty.
scene_heading: INT. MINI-MART - NIGHT
text: Kipling grabs Raincoat and throws him toward the back exit
text: of the store. The shotgun falls from Raincoat's hands.
text: The two of them run out the back.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Sykes runs to Tuggle's spread-eagled body. One glance is
dialog: enough. Nobody ever looked deader.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Aw shit, Tug, Jesus! Goddamn it!
text: He stares, shocked and incredulous. He can't find a way
dialog: to think or feel about this. Then we see him going crazy
text: right before our eyes, the rage revving. He takes off
text: toward the store as SIRENS are HEARD rapidly approaching
text: in background.
scene_heading: INT. MINI-MART - NIGHT
text: Sykes moves through like a locomotive skidding on broken
text: glass, bangs through the exit.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT
text: Sykes catches sight of the two aliens just as they round
text: the corner at the far end of the alley. He takes off,
text: quickly cranking up to full speed.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK STREET - NIGHT
text: Sykes rounds the corner. Doesn't see them anymore. He
text: slows... moves along this street with some caution. Lots
text: of shadows, lots of hiding places. Sykes HEARS a NOISE,
text: looks up... just in time to see Raincoat on a high, huge
text: billboard. He cuts loose with the shotgun. Sykes dives.
text: Huge chunks of the crate he dives behind fly off into the
text: night. Sykes, on his belly, scrambles deeper among the
dialog: crates.
text: Raincoat's shotgun CLICKS empty now. He drops it, swings
text: down off the fire escape, runs off.
text: Sykes is up again in a flash, pounding after him.
scene_heading: EXT. TUNNEL STREET - NIGHT
text: Sykes rounds this second corner, races down the street.
text: The only route they could've taken is through a tunnel up
text: ahead. Sykes approaches the tunnel, all senses wide open.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT
text: The murkiness of the tunnel engulfs him as he moves
text: through the mouth. He tries to control his breathing so
text: he can hear. The only SOUND is his own shoes scuffing
text: along the asphalt.
text: Then he HEARS -- another set of FOOTSTEPS. Rapid
text: footsteps, coming toward him, ECHOING. He can't tell from
text: which direction! He spins, just as a LARGE SHAPE lunges
text: for him with an alien CRY.
text: It's the wired Raincoat alien. Sykes gets his gun up just
dialog: in time and FIRES -- once, twice, three times. Raincoat
text: alien is knocked backwards to the wet asphalt by the
text: blasts. Sykes approaches the body slowly. With an
text: inhuman ROAR, the alien snaps forward, lunging at Sykes
text: with outstretched arms. Sykes jumps back, startled, and
text: FIRES twice more at the pale figure. Raincoat goes down
dialog: and stays down.
text: Sykes relaxes for the briefest moment. Then he HEARS
text: it... a distinctive CLICKING SOUND, metal on metal. Sykes
text: looks up and -- Kipling drops down on him from directly
text: above! Sykes goes down in a heap. He's managed to hold
text: onto the gun and as Kipling comes for him, he swings the
text: gun hand around. Kipling sees it, lashes out, slamming
text: the gun from Sykes' hand. Sykes tries to get to his feet,
text: but the alien grabs him and flings him down the tunnel.
text: A SIREN is HEARD approaching in background.
text: Kipling moves in to deliver the coup de grace. As he
text: draws near, Sykes HEARS that distinctive CLICKING SOUND
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: SYKES' P.O.V.
text: Though his vision is BLURRED, Sykes still gets a good look
text: at an exotic silver bracelet on the alien's wrist. The
text: strands of this bracelet are what make the CLINKING NOISE.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: The alien rears back, and as he does, the approaching
text: SIREN suddenly WAILS louder as a backup patrol car swings
text: onto the street heading this way. Kipling sees this and
text: leaves Sykes, running off down the dark tunnel.
speaker_heading: ON SYKES
text: dazed, struggling to rise. WE HEAR running FOOTSTEPS
text: approaching. Sykes turns, his eyes wild and unfocused.
speaker_heading: SYKES' P.O.V.
text: An OUT-OF-FOCUS ALIEN FACE looming over him.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Sykes whips around in a roundhouse swing with all his
text: weight on it, pistoning his fist straight into the alien
text: face. The alien, caught by surprise and off balance,
text: sprawls backward OUT OF FRAME. Sykes is grabbed by a
text: human uniformed cop, as he tries to swing again.
speaker_heading: HUMAN COP
dialog: Whoa, whoa... hold it. Take it easy.
dialog: (to alien on the
dialog: ground)
dialog: You okay?
text: Sykes stops struggling, and his eyes focus. He looks at
text: the alien he just decked, sprawled on his ass ten feet
text: away. The alien is a uniformed cop... his name is JETSON.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I am all right.
text: He gets up. A trickle of purple blood runs from his nose.
speaker_heading: HUMAN COP
dialog: I better call in.
text: He moves off. Jetson moves toward Sykes and the Raincoat
text: alien's body. Sykes tenses, thinking Jetson might
text: retaliate in some way. But Jetson simply steps past him
text: to kneel beside the dead alien. He checks for a pulse on
text: the underside of the dead alien's upper arm. Nothing.
text: Sykes is holding his punching hand in obvious pain. He
text: struggles to rise. Jetson gets an arm around him to help
dialog: him up.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Your hand will require attention.
text: Sykes roughly jerks himself free of Jetson's grip.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Get the hell away from me! I don't
dialog: need your goddamn help.
text: He almost loses his balance and has to steady himself
text: against the tunnel wall. Sykes leans there, the picture
text: of impotent rage and frustration. Jetson looks at him,
text: with that slight inquisitive expression aliens exhibit
dialog: when trying to understand human nature.
scene_heading: EXT. MINI-MART - NIGHT
text: OPEN on Tuggle's body, as the body bag is zipped up over
text: his face, and the litter is lifted into the back of the
text: Coroner's wagon.
text: WIDEN to reveal Sykes, standing nearby, watching. The
text: Wagon pulls out, and Sykes turns, moving past all the LAPD
text: black-and-whites and forensics wagons, and COPS (two of
text: them aliens) and DETECTIVES, and RUBBERNECKERS (some
text: alien). He moves into:
scene_heading: INT. MINI-MART - NIGHT
text: The CRIME SCENE TEAM is checking for prints, digging slugs
text: out of the wall, photographing everything. Several
text: UNIFORMED COPS mill around. Sykes moves aimlessly around
text: the room like a stranger at a party.
text: The Proprietor's Wife stands near the body in a strange
text: rigid posture, a thin, mournful KEENING SOUND coming from
text: her lips. A harried female uniformed cop is trying to get
text: her away from the body, but can't get her to budge.
text: MINKLER, a ballistics guy, is tagging the pump-shotgun the
text: Raincoat alien dropped here. NATUZZI, a mean-looking
text: veteran uniform cop is with him.
speaker_heading: NATUZZI
text: Looks like a standard combat pump-
dialog: action.
speaker_heading: MINKLER
dialog: It is.
speaker_heading: NATUZZI
dialog: So what punched holes clear through
dialog: that car out there?
text: Minkler pulls an evidence baggie from his work box.
text: Inside are four unfired twelve gauge shells.
speaker_heading: MINKLER
text: BRI Sabot slugs. These puppies are
text: nasty. Two plastic sabots fall away
text: in flight leaving a fifty-caliber
dialog: slug going two thousand feet per
dialog: second. Tug might as well've been
text: hiding behind a rosebush.
text: Minkler senses somebody has just stepped up beside him.
text: He looks. It's Sykes.
speaker_heading: NATUZZI
dialog: Pretty heavy artillery for knocking
text: over a liquor store.
text: A new voice enters the conversation.
speaker_heading: JETSON (O.S.)
dialog: An identical round was used in the
dialog: shooting of a Newcomer named
dialog: Hubley, two days ago.
text: Sykes turns -- surprised, and not especially pleased to
text: see the voice is Jetson's.
speaker_heading: MINKLER
dialog: Yeah? So why the extra fire power?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Perhaps because even the larger
dialog: caliber handguns aren't always
dialog: effective against my people.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (mulls this, then)
dialog: You saying there's some connection
dialog: to this other homicide?
text: Before Jetson can say, the female cop who was talking to
text: the Proprietor's Wife steps up.
speaker_heading: FEMALE COP
dialog: Hey, give me a hand with this woman,
dialog: will ya Jetson? We've got to get
dialog: her to Division for her statement
dialog: and she won't budge.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (to Sykes)
dialog: Excuse me.
text: And he moves off with his partner. Sykes calls after him,
text: but Jetson is already approaching the woman and doesn't
dialog: turn.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: So, you think there's a connection,
dialog: or what? Hey!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SYKES' APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
text: The slug-mobile pulls up. A drained Sykes moves up the
text: walk to his front door.
scene_heading: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Sykes enters his apartment, an untidy bachelor place
text: decorated with negative taste. It's obviously the maid's
dialog: decade off.
text: By rote, he hits the rewind switch on the answering
text: machine on his way into the kitchen. The tape rewinds.
text: He opens the fridge. Not much here. Left-over take-out
text: pizza carton. Left-over take-out Chinese food cartons.
text: Left-over take-out burger wrappers.
text: The answering machine message begins -- he glances over
text: his shoulder as he HEARS his daughter's VOICE. During the
text: following, he reaches the fridge. Brings out a milk
text: carton that's in his way, sets it on the counter. Reaches
text: in again and this time brings out a bottle of Stoly. Then
text: searches for a semi-clean glass.
speaker_heading: KRISTIN'S VOICE
dialog: (bouncy, bride-to-be
dialog: happy)
dialog: Hi, Daddy, it's me. I'm over at
dialog: Danny's parents' house... talking
dialog: about Sunday. I thought maybe you'd
dialog: be home by now. Anyway, uh, nothing
dialog: really. I just wanted to call and
dialog: say I love you. I love you, Daddy.
dialog: (she giggles)
dialog: Uh-oh, I shouldn't'a done that.
dialog: Knowing you, you'll probably pull
dialog: this tape out of your machine and
dialog: save it -- in that drawer where you
dialog: keep every card I ever gave you, and
dialog: all of my old baby teeth... gross!
dialog: Anyway, Daddy, don't save this tape
dialog: -- but I do love you, and I'll talk
dialog: to you before Sunday.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Oh, Tug and Carol came by and met
dialog: Danny last week.
dialog: (Sykes stiffens)
dialog: Danny thought Tug was the greatest
dialog: -- but, then, who doesn't? Anyway,
dialog: love you, talk to you soon. 'Bye.
text: The machine BEEPS and HISSES. Sykes take the glass and
text: the bottle of vodka, crosses back toward the living room,
text: switching off the answering machine as he goes.
text: Then he stops, turns back, takes the message tape out of
text: the machine and tosses it into a drawer.
speaker_heading: FADE TO:
scene_heading: INT. DETECTIVE SQUAD ROOM - DAY
text: Sykes enters, stirring a jumbo coffee. He's slept about
text: four hours, and his face looks like he went a few with
text: Hagler. He crosses straight to Fedorchuk's desk.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: So what've you got on Tuggle's
dialog: killers?
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: Jesus, Sykes -- it's been less than
dialog: ten hours. Me and Alterez are on
dialog: it, okay?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You don't have squat.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: You ever try to make a case in
dialog: Slagtown? The list of Newcomer
dialog: informants is about as long as the
dialog: list of Mexican war heroes...
speaker_heading: ALTEREZ
dialog: Up yours.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: ... Nobody talks to nobody down
text: there. Half of them don't speak
dialog: English and the other half only when
dialog: it suits them. It's gonna take some
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, I know it's gonna take time.
text: Like until the Ice Capades opens in
dialog: Hell, with you two on it.
text: Across the room, the Captain's door BANGS open and CAPTAIN
text: WARNER pounds out, his deep voice booming through the
text: squad room.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: Nobody wanders off! I got an
dialog: announcement. Get your asses back
dialog: in here.
text: Two detectives on their way out, stop, and head back into
text: the room. Everybody gathers around, curious, as Warner
text: stands holding a sheet of paper.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: I'll make this short. This is a
dialog: directive from Chief Evaner, who is
text: acting on orders from the Mayor, who
dialog: is under mandate from the Federal
dialog: Bureau of Newcomer Relations. As of
dialog: nine o'clock this morning, one
dialog: Newcomer uniform officer has been
dialog: promoted to the rank of Detective,
dialog: third grade.
text: The detectives GROAN... some angrier ones grumble, "This
dialog: is bullshit!", etc.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: And we've got him, gentleman.
dialog: (more groans)
dialog: Volunteers for duty with the new
dialog: detective should see me in my
dialog: office... otherwise I will choose a
dialog: volunteer myself. That is all.
text: He turns and heads back to his office in the wake of
text: continued grumbling from the detectives. Sykes, standing
text: to one side, absently watches Warner return to his glass-
text: walled office. Waiting inside are a balding man and an
text: alien in a grey suit. Sykes reacts. The alien in the
text: suit is Jetson.
text: The grumbling continues around him as Sykes considers
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: Unbelievable bullshit.
speaker_heading: ALTEREZ
dialog: How long has this Slag been on the
dialog: force? A year, max -- right?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: I don't know about the rest of you,
dialog: but I sure as hell ain't gonna sit
dialog: still for this. I'm calling the
dialog: union, pronto.
text: Others grumble. "Yeah!". Meanwhile, Sykes has decided
text: something. He heads toward Warner's office. Fedorchuk
dialog: sees this.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: Where the hell is he going?
scene_heading: INT. WARNER'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Sykes KNOCKS and enters.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: Yeah, Sykes?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Captain. I'd like to volunteer for
dialog: duty with the new detective.
text: Warner is surprised. He never expected Sykes.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: ... All right. Detective Sergeant
dialog: Sykes, this is Detective... Jetson.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We have met.
text: Warner looks up, clocking this. He looks at Sykes,
text: starting to smell something fishy.
text: The balding man, GOLDRUP, rises to shake their hands.
speaker_heading: GOLDRUP
text: Victor Goldrup, Mayor's office.
dialog: Congratulations, gentlemen.
text: Warner is starting to suspect what Sykes is up to.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: (to Sykes)
dialog: You are to have nothing to do with
dialog: the investigation into Bill Tuggle's
dialog: death. You know that. Leave that
dialog: for Fedorchuk.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Departmental policy.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: You?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: Good.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: There's another case I'd like to
dialog: take. A homicide -- a Newcomer
dialog: named Hubley.
text: Jetson looks over at Sykes, knows he's up to something.
text: Sykes avoids his look.
speaker_heading: WARNER
text: Granger and Pitts are already on it.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Granger and Pitts have one hell of a
dialog: caseload... and I would have thought
dialog: with Jetson here being the first
text: Newcomer plainclothes, and Hubley's
text: body being found over in the
dialog: Newcomer community...
speaker_heading: WARNER
dialog: Don't tell me what to think.
speaker_heading: GOLDRUP
dialog: He's got a point. That's the sort
dialog: of thing we should be doing with
dialog: this early advancement program...
text: Long-suffering Warner looks up at Goldrup, then finally
text: sighs with resignation. Sykes grins.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY
text: The steel door BANGS open and Sykes and Jetson exit. Next
text: to Sykes' slept-in look, Jetson in his grey suit looks
text: like a Jehovah's Witness canvasser. They move past all
text: the black-and-whites pulling out on p.m. watch during:
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: ... and we work my hours. I'll do
dialog: the driving, you do the paperwork.
dialog: You gotta learn it so you might as
dialog: well do it all.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (after a moment)
dialog: Sergeant... I'd like to thank you
dialog: for what you're doing.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What's that?
dialog: (then realizing)
dialog: Look, Jetson. Get this straight in
dialog: your head. We're not pals, we're
dialog: not married, and we ain't gonna take
text: long moonlight walks together...
dialog: We're just partners. And don't call
dialog: me Sergeant. Call me Sykes... or
dialog: Matt if you have to.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I am George.
text: Sykes nods absently, and they walk on... four and a half
text: steps to be exact. Then it hits Sykes. He seizes up
dialog: cold.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Wait a minute. George? George
dialog: Jetson?
text: Jetson nods... he's used to this.
text: Sykes cracks up.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (between laughs)
dialog: Man, somebody really hung one on
dialog: you! I've heard some good ones for
dialog: you guys... Humphrey Bogart, Harley
dialog: Davidson. I guess the people at
dialog: immigration got a little punchy
dialog: after a while, coming up with names
dialog: for a quarter of a million of you.
dialog: You weren't at the back of the line,
dialog: were you, George?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: My true name is Ss'tangya
dialog: T'ssorentsa'.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Gesundheit. You don't mind if I
dialog: stick to George, do you?
scene_heading: EXT. POLICE STATION PARKING AREA - DAY
text: They approach Sykes' ugly sedan, the slug-mobile.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Anyway, what's it matter to you if
dialog: we think it's funny, right? Whatta
dialog: you care?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: That is exactly so.
dialog: (completely deadpan)
dialog: It is like your name... Sykes. I'm
dialog: sure it doesn't bother you at all
dialog: that it sounds like "ss'ai k'ss",
dialog: two words in my language which mean
text: "excrement" and "cranium".
text: Sykes looks at him, perplexed.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: "Shit... head".
text: Jetson gets in and slams the door, leaving Sykes standing
text: there, the smirk dropping from his face.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DAY
text: They're cruising along in downtown traffic. Sykes drives.
text: Jetson is somewhat cramped in the passenger seat.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Let's talk Hubley.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (refers to a folder
dialog: he holds)
dialog: His body was discovered three days
dialog: ago, in an alley off of Central
text: Avenue, near downtown.
speaker_heading: SYKES
text: With two BRI Sabot slugs in the
dialog: chest.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (gently correcting
dialog: him)
text: Through the chest. Rupturing both
dialog: the primary and secondary hearts.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (out the window)
dialog: Nice signal, dickwad!
text: Jetson is momentarily thrown by this outburst from Sykes.
dialog: Then...
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: He was employed at the Northwest
dialog: Petroleum Refinery in Torrance. He
dialog: was manager of the Methane Facility.
dialog: He was also a principle partner in a
dialog: real estate venture to develop low-
dialog: cost housing for Newcomers.
text: Sykes grimaces at the mention of "Newcomer housing".
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Terrific. A real pillar of the
dialog: community.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Was Hubley missing anything when
dialog: they found him? Was he ripped off?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (checks file)
dialog: There was no wallet... but he was
text: still wearing a watch and two rings.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: The guys at the mini-mart last night
dialog: made a half-assed stab at the money
dialog: in the till -- but I don't think
dialog: that's what they were there for. I
dialog: think we got us a couple'a
dialog: executions on our hands, George...
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: The murder at the mini-mart is not
dialog: our case. The Captain said--
text: Sykes looks over at Jetson, pissed.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Look, you want to fit in here,
dialog: right? You want to learn how to get
dialog: along?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Well, there's a thing about
dialog: partners, about being somebody's
dialog: partner. You do for each other.
dialog: And other people's rules don't mean
dialog: shit. It's the rules set up between
dialog: the two of you, that's all that
dialog: counts. Understand?
dialog: (Jetson nods)
dialog: Okay. Well, my friend and partner
dialog: was shot last night and I'm after
dialog: the shitbag that did it. As my
dialog: partner, I'm asking you to respect
dialog: me and help me find him.
text: Jetson considers this several moments, then--
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: And as my partner, I ask you to
dialog: respect me and my desire not to
dialog: break with procedure.
text: Sykes stares at him, exasperated. Without warning, he
text: slams the car to a stop right in the middle of heavy
text: traffic, puts it in "Park." Jetson, who is already a
text: little too close to the dashboard, bangs up against it.
text: HORNS instantly go crazy behind them.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: What is wrong?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (very calm)
dialog: Nothing's wrong. I just want to get
dialog: something straight. You agree that
dialog: there's a good chance these two
dialog: shootings are somehow related,
dialog: right?
text: YELLING joins the HORNS outside. Jetson is visibly
text: unsettled by the chaos.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Well... yes, quite possibly.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Possibly. Good. Well, would you be
dialog: willing to accept the theory,
dialog: George, that... possibly... by
dialog: examining the evidence from one case
dialog: we might shed some small ray of
dialog: light on the other? Does that sound
dialog: unreasonable to you?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Yes... no, it is not unreasonable.
dialog: Although I--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Great.
dialog: (a relieved sigh)
dialog: Well, I'm sure glad that's settled,
dialog: aren't you?
text: And with that he puts the car in gear and pulls rapidly
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I think we're really starting to
dialog: click now, George -- hmmm?
text: Jetson doesn't know what to think -- he just holds on.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - L.A. COUNTY MORGUE - DAY
text: WINTER, a deputy Medical Examiner (human), is leading
text: Sykes and Jetson along the hall. He reads on the fly from
text: a case file in his hand.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: You know I've been over all this
dialog: with Fedorchuk and Alterez this
dialog: morning...
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Come on. You got nothin' better to
dialog: do, cushy county job like yours.
scene_heading: INT. AUTOPSY ROOM - DAY
text: They enter briskly through a swinging door. They move
dialog: among the tables (some occupied, some not) during:
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: Yeah, right. Don't push your luck.
dialog: Anyway, according to the sheet, the
dialog: guy you nailed outside by the car--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: The human?
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: Yeah... he was one Martin Helder.
dialog: White male, twenty-seven. Let's
text: see... wrap sheet shows one armed
dialog: robbery conviction, a couple for
dialog: sale of a controlled substance.
dialog: Oh yeah, and he was wired on coke
dialog: when you stopped his clock.
text: They have reached a table holding a covered body. Winter
text: unceremoniously throws back the cover. There lies the
text: pale naked body of the Raincoat alien.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Have you identified this one?
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: So far he's a John Doe. Or a Sam
dialog: Slag, if you like.
text: Jetson smiles slightly out of politeness.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: No I.D. on him and -- well, you
dialog: know, no fingerprints -- so it could
dialog: be tough. Your buddies this morning
dialog: went through the mug book but
dialog: couldn't make a facial match.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Fedorchuk couldn't find his ass with
text: his hands in his back pockets.
text: Jetson nonchalantly looks over the alien body while Winter
text: and Sykes continue talking off to one side.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: (referring to
dialog: Raincoat alien)
dialog: You took this gut out, too, didn't
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: Lucky for you, you got him in both
dialog: of his... well, what we loosely
dialog: refer to as... hearts.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Lucky nothing. I had to empty my
dialog: damn gun into him.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: That's the way these people are.
dialog: You don't hit both pumps you just
dialog: piss them off.
text: During this, Jetson has turned the dead alien's hand over
text: -- sees something that brings a frown of curiosity to his
text: face. He leans closer, examining the palm carefully.
text: Then he peels back the alien's upper lip.
text: Jetson frowns anew, with concern this time. He looks
text: around, spots a Newcomer lab assistant nearby -- BENTNER.
text: Jetson motions him over. Jetson begins questioning him
text: using the alien language. Sykes and Winter nearby, remain
text: oblivious.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: Oh, here's an extra headshot if you
dialog: need one.
dialog: (hands Sykes a
dialog: polariod of dead
dialog: alien's face)
dialog: We're just about to start cutting
dialog: in. You're welcome to stick around
dialog: if you want. It's really
dialog: fascinating stuff.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, I'll bet.
text: Sykes looks over, now noticing Jetson and Bentner in
text: earnest conversation. He only catches snatches of the
text: alien language. Bentner appears very unsettled by what
text: Jetson is telling him. In response to Jetson's final
text: statement, Bentner nods -- as if agreeing to do something
text: Jetson has requested. Sykes goes over to Jetson.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What's this? What's going on?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (really suspicious
dialog: now)
dialog: Nothing?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (looking away)
dialog: Shouldn't we examine their personal
dialog: effects?
text: Jetson moves off, leaving Sykes there wondering.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PROPERTY ROOM - COUNTY MORGUE - DAY
text: Two large plastic packets are dumped of their contents
text: onto a formica counter. Sykes looks through the dead
text: alien's effects while Jetson goes through the human's.
text: ORTIZ, the college girl working the property counter, sits
text: nearby doing homework.
text: Jetson holds up a little foil packet with a puzzled frown.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: What is this?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (looks, then)
dialog: A rubber. A condom. You know...
dialog: Coney Island whitefish?
dialog: (Jetson doesn't know
dialog: what one is)
dialog: Men, human men, put them on their,
dialog: uh -- penises -- to protect against
dialog: having babies.
dialog: (Jetson still doesn't
dialog: get it; Sykes turns
dialog: to Ortiz)
dialog: You need this for anything?
speaker_heading: ORTIZ
dialog: Nope, got my own. Anything you guys
dialog: don't use gets stuffed away in
dialog: storage.
text: Sykes tears open the packet, unrolls the condom, dangles
dialog: it before Jetson.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Get the picture?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (frowning)
dialog: And that fits?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Well... Yeah, it's rubber. It
dialog: stretches.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: And still it fits?
text: Sykes looks at Jetson's serious expression. He tosses the
text: condom and packet back into the counter and continues
text: searching. A beat, then he can't stop himself -- he
text: steals a glance at Jetson's crotch.
text: Still searching, Sykes picks up one of the dead alien's
text: well-worn heavy work boots. He grimaces... the sides and
text: soles are painted with a viscous black substance. He very
text: tentatively sniffs it... and is grateful that it's not
dialog: what he thought it might be.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What is this stuff?
text: Sykes gets some on his hands, doesn't know where to wipe
text: it. Jetson glances over.
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: It is a resin.
text: Sykes looks at him... surprised that he knows.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Newcomers working near methane
dialog: gasses at oil refineries must paint
dialog: it on their boots to protect against
text: sparks.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: How the hell do you know that?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: A large number of my people were
dialog: hired by refineries because the
dialog: methane fumes are not harmful to us.
dialog: My spouse's brother is one.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: So the Slag they're cutting into
dialog: upstairs worked at a refinery just
text: like Hubley worked at a refinery.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'd say that "possible" connection
dialog: between the two cases just got a
dialog: hell of a lot more possible.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Okay, next step -- I gotta go talk
text: to the wife of the Slag store owner
dialog: blown away last night.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I believe I should interview the
dialog: widow alone.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Why the hell--?!
dialog: (realizes it's
dialog: because of his lack
dialog: of "bedside manner")
dialog: Great, fine. You talk to the wife.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. MINI-MART - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The shattered windows have been covered with plywood.
text: Through the open doorway we see Jetson talking to the
text: Proprietor's Wife. She studies a photo Jetson shows her,
text: nods her head, speaking rapidly in the alien language.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. REFINERY - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Sykes drives along beside the mammoth, steaming network of
text: buildings and pipes that make up the refinery.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. REFINERY - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Through the loud and smoky refinery we see Sykes walking
text: with the newly promoted Methane Section manager, O'NEAL,
text: in tie and shirtsleeves. The workmen around them are both
dialog: human and Newcomer.
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: (yelling over the
dialog: roar)
dialog: Mr. Hubley was an all right guy --
dialog: and a damn good manager. The men
dialog: liked him. I'm really gonna have to
text: scramble to fill his shoes.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Well, one of the men didn't like him
dialog: so much...
text: They stop and Sykes hands O'Neal the polariod photo of
text: Raincoat alien. They have stopped near the heavy
text: refrigeration-type door leading to the "METHANE SECTION".
text: Newcomer workers move in and out through the door during:
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: (looking at photo)
dialog: You think this is the guy who did
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: We think he could'a been involved,
dialog: yeah. You know him?
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: To be honest, it's hard to say. I
dialog: hate to admit it but -- they all
dialog: still kinda look alike to me.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: Who else can I ask around here?
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: (looking at photo
dialog: again)
dialog: Wait. You know who it looks like?
dialog: Yeah. Anderson. Uh... James
dialog: Anderson. He isn't in today. He
dialog: took the afternoon off.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I think you're gonna find he's taken
text: the rest of his life off.
text: O'Neal reacts. Sykes notices the door to the Methane
dialog: Section.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: That where Anderson worked?
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: Yes it is.
dialog: (some alien workers
dialog: come through the
dialog: door)
dialog: Thirty-five percent pure Methane gas
dialog: in there. I don't know how these
dialog: fellas do it.
text: Sykes watches two more alien workers pass back through the
text: door. O'Neal watches Sykes' expression for signs of
dialog: suspicion.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: HIGH ANGLE SHOT - SYKES AND O'NEAL
text: We see Sykes hand O'Neal a card, then move off. O'Neal
text: watches him briefly, then crosses to some steps and starts
dialog: up this way.
text: We PAN with him as he enters a door here on the second
dialog: level.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. METHANE SECTION CONTROL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
text: O'Neal enters, moves to a telephone, begins to dial.
text: Beyond is a glass wall overlooking the Methane Section.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: ANGLE - BELOW
text: CAMERA TRACKS through the Methane Section... past the
text: alien workers in lab whites... past all the arcane
text: equipment and chemical procedures... ending in an EXTREME
text: CLOSE UP of a small cylindrical dispenser as it fills
text: slowly with a pale blue, viscous liquid.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. SLUG-MOBILE - JETSON'S STREET - DUSK
text: We're SHOOTING THROUGH the slug-mobile window as Sykes
text: pulls up in front of Jetson's modest but immaculately
text: maintained home on the outskirts of Slagtown. Jetson's
text: WIFE, an attractive alien woman, stands watering the lawn
text: with a garden hose. Jetson's son, age six, rides his
text: bicycle along the walkway. Jetson, dressed in his suit
text: for work, crouches near the walkway, playing with his son.
text: Sykes pulls the car toward the curb, rolls his eyes.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Jesus. Welcome back Ozzie and
dialog: Harriet...
text: He HONKS the horn. Jetson looks up, then moves to his
text: wife and kisses her goodbye. Moves to his son, kisses him
text: on the top of his head.
text: Sykes watches all this... and as he does, slowly his
text: derisive expression softens. As corny as this tableau may
dialog: be, there's something very appealing about the innocence
text: of it... even to an unrepentant cynic like Sykes.
text: Jetson starts to climb into the car, and we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. RESTROOM - BILTMORE HOTEL - NIGHT
text: CLOSE on an alien hand as it removes one of the drug
text: dispensers from a tuxedo pocket. As the hand brings the
text: dispenser toward the face, we immediately recognize the
text: exotic silver bracelet worn by Kipling the night before.
text: It makes that distinctive CLINKING NOISE. We PAN with the
text: hand to reveal Kipling's face... sans bandana and
text: sunglasses now. He wears a black tuxedo. He lets a small
text: dab of the blue gel curl from the dispenser onto his
text: tongue. He swallows... and reacts as the rush from the
text: drug hits him.
text: The door to the men's room bangs open and a MIDDLE AGED
text: POLITICO enters, obviously drunk.
text: Kipling quickly pockets the dispenser, moves past the
dialog: Politico to the exit...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: Sykes drives, heading for the Biltmore Hotel.
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: Mrs. Porter is not taking her
dialog: husband's death well.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: Did you learn anything?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: A week ago two men came to see her
dialog: husband. After they left, he was
dialog: very frightened. She identified one
dialog: of the men from a photo I showed
dialog: her. It was Hubley.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Aw-right. What about the other guy?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: She didn't know him. But she said
dialog: her son might.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Did you talk to him?
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: He has not been home since that day.
dialog: But she told me where to find him.
text: Sykes nods.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MAIN BALLROOM - BILTMORE HOTEL - NIGHT
text: The men are in tuxedos, the women in evening gowns. Only
text: two of three Newcomers faces present. Kipling threads his
text: way among the tables as the MAYOR, at the speaker's
text: platform, addresses the assembly.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: ... Our guest speaker tonight has
dialog: done so much in his community and
dialog: for his community in such a short
dialog: period of time. And I must say, as
dialog: the founder of the first Newcomer
dialog: owned and operated corporation in
dialog: Southern California, he certainly
dialog: has come quite far in the last few
dialog: years. Granted, not as far as he
dialog: came in the years before reaching
dialog: Los Angeles.
text: There is laughter from the VIPs. Kipling slides into a
text: seat at one of the front tables. He leans over and
text: whispers something into the ear of the person seated to
text: his right. We see this CLOSE UP, and don't see who he is
text: whispering to yet. Whoever it is, nods.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: As Mayor of this city, it gives me
dialog: great pleasure to introduce someone
dialog: who has so readily made our city
dialog: his home... and all of us who live
dialog: here, his friends. Ladies and
dialog: gentlemen, William Harcourt.
text: The VIPs applaud as the spotlight sweeps over to a front
text: table. At first it hits Kipling, then it adjusts to
text: capture WILLIAM HARCOURT, seated to Kipling's right.
text: Harcourt is an exemplar of the successful Newcomer
text: entrepreneur... handsome, charming, with cool blue eyes
text: that glint with his piercing intellect. He rises, smiling
text: warmly, steps past his striking ALIEN DATE seated to his
text: right, to make his way to the podium. He shields his eyes
text: somewhat from the bright spotlight.
text: Once behind the podium, he slips his notes from a breast
text: pocket as the applause ebbs.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Thank you all for that very warm
dialog: reception.
dialog: (pauses, smiles)
dialog: I'm particularly grateful because I
dialog: actually had the gall to write that
dialog: in my notes: "Thank you all for that
dialog: very warm reception". Imagine how
dialog: embarrassed I would've been if it
dialog: hadn't have been such a warm
dialog: reception.
text: The VIPs laugh. He's won them over instantly with his
dialog: charm and candor.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BILTMORE HOTEL - FOYER - NIGHT
text: Sykes, followed by a reluctant Jetson, bears down on
text: Harcourt, who is exiting the hotel with his Date, and
text: Kipling. We see Kipling recognize Sykes from their fight
dialog: two nights before... but because Kipling looks so
text: different, Sykes doesn't recognize him outright. Still,
text: during this, Sykes senses something, though he's not sure
dialog: what.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: William Harcourt?
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Yes...
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I'm Sergeant Sykes, and this is
dialog: Detective Jetson, Los Angeles Police
dialog: Department.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (nodding greeting)
dialog: Sergeant... Detective. I wasn't
dialog: aware there were any Newcomers at
dialog: the rank of Detective yet.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I am the first.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Congratulations. This is my
dialog: administrative assistant, Rudyard
dialog: Kipling.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (throw away)
dialog: Rudyard Kipling? No shit?
dialog: (to Harcourt)
dialog: Listen, we just need a minute of
dialog: your time...
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We'd like to ask you about a
dialog: business associate of your, Warren
dialog: Hubley.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Yes, I heard about poor Warren.
dialog: Tragic.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You were partners with him on some
dialog: Slag -- uh, Newcomer real estate
dialog: thing.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: That's right. He and I, along with
dialog: seven or eight others. Listen,
dialog: gentlemen, I will be happy to assist
dialog: you in any way I can --
dialog: unfortunately, at the moment, I'm
text: overdue at another function.
text: Suddenly there's a voice from O.S.:
speaker_heading: MAYOR (O.S.)
dialog: William...
text: Harcourt turns as the Mayor and his WIFE step up.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Mr. Mayor...
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: William, I was wondering if you
dialog: wouldn't rather ride with Luisa and
text: me. Two limousines trying to make
dialog: it across town in all this traffic,
dialog: we're bound to be later than we
dialog: already are.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Excellent idea. Ray, I wonder if
dialog: you know two of your police
dialog: officers... Detective Jetson and
dialog: Sykes.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: (shaking their hands,
dialog: dismissively)
dialog: A pleasure.
dialog: (to Harcourt)
dialog: We really should be going.
text: The wind is knocked from Sykes' sails by the presence of
text: the Mayor with a very impatient expression. Harcourt
text: smiles.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Please feel free to call my office
text: Monday morning for an appointment.
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: Congratulations again on your
dialog: promotion, Detective. Remember...
dialog: you're out there setting an example
dialog: in our community. I'll be keeping
dialog: an eye on you.
text: Harcourt is smiling as he says this last, but his eyes are
text: penetrating... telegraphing a subliminal warning.
text: Harcourt and entourage move off... leaving Sykes steaming.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BILTMORE HOTEL - HARCOURT AND KIPLING - NIGHT
text: Walking behind the others. They speak in very low voices;
text: Harcourt continuing to nod and smile to other passing VIPs
dialog: during:
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: That cop, the human, he was the one
text: who killed Anderson and the driver.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: This is becoming a serious breach of
dialog: security.
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: He didn't recognize me.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: It is his new partner that I'm
dialog: worried about.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE FIRING RANGE - FRONT DESK - NIGHT
text: MAFFET, the stocky retired cop behind the counter, hands
text: Jetson a bag of reloads and some silhouette targets.
text: Sykes nods to Jetson, motioning him toward the firing
dialog: line.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Go on ahead. I'll be right in.
dialog: (to Maffet, low)
dialog: What'd you dig up for me?
text: Maffet slides open a drawer, takes out a paper bag
text: containing a massive pistol with an enormous bore. By
dialog: his manner this deal is definitely not kosher. Sykes
text: hefts the weapon.
speaker_heading: MAFFET
dialog: You said you wanted the biggest
dialog: thing I could find... Well, this is
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: MAFFET
dialog: Casull .454 Magnum. You're talking
dialog: twice the impact energy of .44
text: Magnum hot loads.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (flips open cylinder)
text: Only holds five.
speaker_heading: MAFFET
dialog: Yeah, the shells are too big for six
dialog: in an cylinder. Hell, Matt, you
dialog: don't need but one.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (sighting)
dialog: No... two.
scene_heading: EXT. SHOOTING RANGE - FIRING LINE - NIGHT
text: Jetson, looking bizarre in his ear-protectors, is taking
text: careful aim with his .38 as Sykes walks up. Jetson slips
text: the protectors down.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Well, let's see what you got,
text: Cochise. Gimme six, rapid fire.
text: Jetson, a little nervous at this command performance,
text: turns, sets, and FIRES at the silhouette target. It's a
text: large, sloppy grouping.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: How long you been shooting? That's
dialog: pitiful. Whattya gonna do if
dialog: somebody draws down on you, wave
dialog: your scores on the written exam at
dialog: 'em?
text: Sykes starts loading the thumb-sized bullets into the
dialog: Casull.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Why did you do it?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Why'd I do what?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Agree to work with me? You don't
dialog: like me... you don't like any of us.
dialog: You have nothing but contempt for
dialog: us. And yet you become an outcast
dialog: from your club of detectives by
dialog: making me your partner...
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: My partner is dead! Because one of
dialog: you bastards killed him -- then
text: disappeared into a rathole down in
text: Slagtown, where he's home and dry,
dialog: 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody
dialog: says nothing...
text: Sykes grabs a bullet-proof vest from nearby, slaps it onto
text: the hanging target form. He hits the switch, running the
text: target down to the end of the lane.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: But he didn't figure on you, George.
dialog: You're going to get me through that
dialog: wall of silence. You're going to
dialog: make them talk to me. You're going
dialog: to help me find that Slag son-of-a-
dialog: bitch. Comprendo? And if Fedorchuk
dialog: and the boys in the bullpen don't
dialog: like it, screw them... and if the
dialog: Captain doesn't like it, screw
dialog: him... and if all the Slags down in
dialog: Slagtown don't like it... well screw
dialog: them too!
text: Sykes raises the Casull, fires. KA-BOOM!!! The shell
text: rockets clean through the bullet-proof vest on the target
text: form. The recoil slams Sykes back, jerks his arm up. KA-
text: BOOM!!! again, and another hole is drilled through the
text: vest. Other shooters look over. Sykes sets the gun
text: down... sees his hand is bleeding. Jetson absorbs all
dialog: this, as we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. "X" BAR - NIGHT
text: A violet neon "X" FILLS FRAME, flashing hypnotically.
text: It's a bar catering to rough-trade Newcomer clientele.
text: Several ALIEN MEN, brute laborer-types, lounge around out
text: front. They glare with antagonism as Sykes and Jetson
text: climb out of their car.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: Okay, just stay back and do what I
dialog: do. Watch and learn, watch and
dialog: learn...
scene_heading: INT. "X" BAR - NIGHT
text: Sykes and Jetson walk into the almost total blackness of
dialog: this all-Newcomer place.
text: A few near-infrared indigo lamps dot the blackness.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I can't see dick in here.
text: We can dimly make out booths along one wall, some tables,
text: and the bar. There are maybe twenty figures seated or
text: standing in the darkness. The room falls silent in a wave
text: as Sykes' presence becomes noticed.
text: Sykes saunters forward, commanding the space with his
text: unhurried movements.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (calling into the
dialog: dark silence)
dialog: Which one'a you Slags is Porter?
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: (from the back of
dialog: the bar)
dialog: Who wants to know?
text: Sykes squints into the darkness, then--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (aside to Jetson)
dialog: Who said that?
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: (tilts his head to
dialog: indicate)
text: At the end of the bar.
text: Sykes nods, starts in that direction.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: My name is Sykes. I'm--
speaker_heading: ALIEN VOICE
dialog: Ss'ai k'ss?
text: The whole place roars with LAUGHTER. Too late Sykes
text: remembers what his name sounds like to them. He continues
text: down the bar and a figure in one of the booths sticks his
text: leg out and trips Sykes with his size 16 work boot. Sykes
text: stumbles, then recovers and pivots on the offender. Hoots
text: and derisive LAUGHTER. He sees only shadows.
speaker_heading: OFFENDER
dialog: (merely a voice in
dialog: the dark)
dialog: Careful, ss'loka', you might hurt
dialog: yourself.
text: More laughter. Sykes gives the darkness where the
text: offender sits a hard stare, then turns and shoulders his
text: way to the end of the bar. Jetson follows. Sykes stops
text: behind a big Newcomer in greasy work clothes.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: The punk Newcomer in the next seat is keeping his head
text: down, trying to be inconspicuous.
text: He glances over at the two cops... his expression shifting
text: to recognition as he spots Jetson.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Sykes speaks to the Big Newcomer's back.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You Porter?
text: The Big Newcomer continues to sip his mug of sour milk.
text: Doesn't turn. Sykes grabs him by the shoulder and turns
text: him around. The alien grabs Sykes' hand off, rising to
text: his full height. He and Sykes lock eyes. Meanwhile. the
text: punk Newcomer (PORTER) has started to slip away unnoticed.
text: Jetson spots him, reaches out with one arm, and grabs him
text: by the jacket.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: No, Matthew. I believe this is the
dialog: one you want.
text: He pulls Porter back into play. Now Jetson sees Porter's
text: face... and he, too, reacts with recognition.
text: Sykes gives Jetson a sour look, releases the Big Newcomer,
text: and turns his malice on the punk Newcomer.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Your name wouldn't happen to be
dialog: Porter, would it?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Uh, Matthew...
speaker_heading: SYKES
text: (over his shoulder
dialog: to Jetson)
text: Back off, George.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: But I-- (know this man).
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I'll handle it.
text: Jetson backs off, letting him handle it.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (to Porter)
dialog: Jesus, are the questions too tough
dialog: for you already? Let's try again--
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: Is your name Porter?
speaker_heading: PORTER
dialog: Ss'kya'ta'.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Screw you.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (back to Porter)
dialog: Screw me? That can't be right.
speaker_heading: PORTER
dialog: Ss'kya ta' ss'loka'. Ss'trokya'
dialog: ss'lato na'!
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (to Sykes, low)
dialog: You don't want to know.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Tell me.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Your mother mates out of season.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (to Porter)
dialog: That's very colorful. But see --
dialog: now I've got a problem. I don't
dialog: seem to be getting much cooperation
dialog: from you, Porter. So I guess we're
dialog: gonna have to take this little
dialog: session down to my office, ya
dialog: know?
text: And instantly Sykes whips out this flashlight, snaps on
text: the beam, and arcs it into the faces of the aliens around
text: him. Jetson gets a blast of it, too. The aliens are
text: momentarily blinded.
text: Sykes has Porter pinned to the bar, the flashlight in his
text: face, as he starts to handcuff him. But Porter gets a
text: hand free and crushes the head of the flashlight.
text: Darkness falls... along with Sykes' expression of
dialog: satisfaction.
text: Porter hurls Sykes back, slamming him into a table. The
text: crowd HOOTS and CHEERS. Sykes finds his way to his feet.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Matthew, you don't have to-- (do this).
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Stay back! I'm okay.
text: He charges Porter, brandishing the flashlight like a club.
text: The two of them battle, then Sykes sees his opportunity
text: and brings his knee up viciously into the alien's groin.
text: Porter doubles over in feigned agony, then slowly rises
text: again -- smiling.
speaker_heading: PORTER
dialog: Don't they teach you anything about
dialog: us in cop school, little ss'loka'?
text: Porter grabs Sykes by the shirt front, is about to deliver
text: a crushing blow, when another arm cuts into FRAME, locking
text: with Porter's, blocking the punch. It is Jetson.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Enough.
speaker_heading: PORTER
dialog: (eyeing Jetson)
dialog: Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'. You're a
dialog: cop.
dialog: (with some contempt)
dialog: It fits you.
text: Jetson says something to him in the alien language.
text: Porter gives him a hard stare, then moves toward the back
text: exit. Sykes stumbles over to Jetson.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You know that guy?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (nods)
dialog: From quarantine, when my people
dialog: first arrived here. He and I were
dialog: housed together.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: How could a straight-arrow like you
dialog: ever pick a roommate like him?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: In the camps, we were lodged four to
dialog: a room. The selection process was
dialog: entirely random. We did not get to
dialog: stay with our friends... or
dialog: families...
text: And he moves toward the back exit. Sykes watches him go.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. "X" BAR - NIGHT
text: Porter leans against an alley wall. He speaks English
text: learned on the streets.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: You don't know what your father and
dialog: these two men were arguing about?
speaker_heading: PORTER
dialog: I told you -- I was in the back of
dialog: the store. I just heard voices,
dialog: muffled like.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: One of the two men was Hubley,
dialog: right? What about the other one?
dialog: Did you know him?
speaker_heading: PORTER
dialog: Yeah... I seen him around. High-
dialog: roller dude named Strader. Joshua
text: Strader. Runs a club on the west
text: side. Encounters.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, I heard of it.
speaker_heading: PORTER
dialog: That's all I know. You want
dialog: anything more, you ask somebody
dialog: else.
text: He pushes away from the wall, heads for the door to the
dialog: bar.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I am sorry about your father.
text: Porter throws him a look over his shoulder, then
text: disappears through the door. Sykes and Jetson start down
dialog: the alley.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: If I may make a suggestion... We
dialog: have different weak spots than you
dialog: do. Next time, a blow to the nerve
dialog: plexus under the arm, here, will
dialog: produce the effect I think you were
dialog: looking for.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, sure. I knew that...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BURGER STAND - NIGHT
text: The wall-mounted menu is in English and the Alien
text: Language. The SERVERS are teen aged humans and aliens.
text: Sykes and Jetson stand at the counter awaiting their
dialog: order.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: (serving them)
text: Six forty-two.
text: They both put money on the counter. The kid goes to put
text: the order together. Sykes looks at the alien characters
text: on the menu.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I don't think I could ever learn to
dialog: read that shit.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How long did it take you to learn
dialog: English?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Three months.
dialog: (off Sykes' look)
dialog: We learn quickly. We adapt. It is
dialog: our strength... what we were bred
dialog: for, to adapt to hostile
dialog: environments.
text: The Serving Kid puts their bags on the counter.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Thank you.
text: They take the bags and walk off, digging the food out of
text: the bags as they talk:
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: My neighbor's kid has a Newcomer
dialog: girl in his class. She's six years
dialog: old and in seventh grade already...
text: They climb into the car.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: Jetson doesn't respond... some things are better left
text: unaddressed. Meanwhile, Sykes has unwrapped his food and
text: recoils in disgust.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Oh, God. I think I got yours
dialog: here...
text: He holds up two strips of raw meat with patches of animal
text: fur still on them. Jetson meanwhile is grimacing at the
text: dripping cheeseburger he's just unwrapped. They quickly
dialog: trade.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Which one is that? Raw what?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (eating a strip)
dialog: This is mole. It's good.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I'll bet.
text: (winces, watching him
dialog: chew)
dialog: Would it really put you out if they
dialog: tossed that on the grill for a
dialog: minute or two?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Our bodies do not assimilate the
dialog: nutrients if the food has been
dialog: cooked.
text: Jetson looks over at him, smiling.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Oh, that's real attractive. You got
dialog: fur in your teeth, George. Come on,
dialog: man, we're gonna be talking to
dialog: people... jeez.
text: Sykes looks at his burger, his appetite gone, shoves it
text: back into the sack and tosses it into the back seat.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: As Sykes pulls onto the street.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: So what was that other word for
dialog: Human... Slow ka?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Ss'loka'. It means literally "small
dialog: but intelligent creature".
dialog: (Sykes looks over,
dialog: doesn't know if he
dialog: likes this)
text: It loses much in the translation.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: And what was that one about my
dialog: mother? That was a good one.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, that's it. Say it slow.
text: Jetson pronounces the words and Sykes follows along
text: haltingly. After several tries, he can say it passably
dialog: well.
scene_heading: INT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT
text: An upscale, mostly yuppie-human dance club. The
text: antithesis of the "X" bar. A human HOSTESS in a slit
text: dress has just finished seating Sykes and Jetson at a
text: table. She moves off. The two cops look up at the stage.
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: revealing the exotic alien dancer named CASSANDRA. She
text: moves with a feline blend of strength and grace. Framing
text: her face is a silvery nylon wig that she tosses like a
text: mane as she undulates to the MUSIC.
text: Sykes watches with fascination. The MUSIC ends and
text: Cassandra steps down from the stage, to be replaced by a
text: human DANCER as the next SONG cranks up. Sykes and Jetson
text: quickly intercept her as she heads backstage.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: You are Cassandra?
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We are with the Police Department.
dialog: This is Sergeant Sykes, and I am--
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Ss'ai k'ss? Perfect.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: We're looking for your boss --
dialog: Strader.
text: She eyes the two of them warily, then moves backstage,
dialog: assuming they will follow.
scene_heading: INT. BACKSTAGE - NIGHT
text: She moves along the narrow corridor.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: He's not here. Why ask me?
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: The young woman at the front said
dialog: you might know where he is.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: She did, did she? Well, she was
dialog: wrong. Excuse me, I have to change.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: No problem.
text: She moves through a door. Sykes follows closely so does
dialog: Jetson.
scene_heading: INT. ENCOUNTERS - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Cassandra grabs some clothes and goes into a stall.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Look, we're not here doing an
dialog: interview for the school paper.
dialog: This is a homicide investigation...
dialog: and if you don't stop jerkin' us
dialog: around, I'm ready to start playin'
dialog: hardball.
text: Jetson has waited politely half-in half-out of the room.
text: Sykes rapidly motions to him to "go look around". Jetson
dialog: mimes back, "Huh?"
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: (slipping out of her
dialog: dance costume)
dialog: Oooh. Hardball. That sounds
dialog: interesting. Are you going to
dialog: strike me? You could tie me up and
dialog: then do whatever you want with me...
dialog: I've got my own ropes.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (still miming to
dialog: Jetson)
dialog: Does that cost extra or you throw
dialog: them in?
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: You've got me all wrong. I don't
dialog: charge money for something that I
dialog: myself find pleasurable...
text: Finally Jetson gets what Sykes is trying to tell him. He
text: says in the uncertain, stagy voice of a bad liar:
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I am going out to the car. I will
dialog: meet you there.
text: Sykes rolls his eyes as Jetson exits into the corridor.
text: Cassandra emerges from the stall, wearing a long, stylish,
text: low-cut dress.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: Look, I don't know where Mr.
dialog: Strader might be. He comes and he
dialog: goes.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (starting to feel a
dialog: little uncomfortable)
text: The girl out front mentioned
dialog: Strader's assistant, somebody named
dialog: Watson. Maybe he knows.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: (tensing slightly)
text: Todd? Todd doesn't know either.
text: She is very close to Sykes now. She fingers the lapel of
text: his jacket.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I know... Why don't you hang around
dialog: for a while, let me entertain you?
dialog: It's Matt, right? Now tell me the
dialog: truth, have you ever... made it...
dialog: with one of us?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Not unless I got real drunk and
dialog: nobody told me about it later.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: A virgin. I find that very
dialog: arousing...
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: MUSIC drifts up from downstairs. Jetson moves along the
text: corridor, scoping things out. He tries a door. Locked.
text: Tries another one. Open. He eases it wider, then enters
text: the darkened office.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT
text: Jetson moves into the office. Looks around. Makes his
text: way to the cluttered desk top. Pushes things around...
text: all the usual stuff. He starts to turn away, then his eye
text: catches something sticking out from behind a row of ledger
text: books. He reaches for it. A small dispenser -- of the
dialog: kind we saw being filled at the refinery. Jetson studies
text: it, his suspicions growing. Opening it, he finds only the
text: barest trace of a viscous substance.
text: He smells it... not enough to tell for certain what it is.
dialog: But enough that he is very concerned about what it could
dialog: be.
scene_heading: INT. CASSANDRA'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Cassandra is practically melting herself into Sykes now.
text: She takes his hand and guides his fingertips over her
text: facial ridges. She shudders with pleasure. Sykes begins
text: to perspire.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: There's lots of things I haven't
dialog: done, but his ain't high on the
dialog: list. Don't take it personally.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: I think you're just a little scared
dialog: now, about what you might find once
text: the lights go out. A little
dialog: scared... and a lot curious. Maybe
dialog: more than you want to admit. But
dialog: doesn't that turn you on, that
dialog: curiosity and fear, swirling
dialog: together?
dialog: (coos)
dialog: Think of it as broadening your
dialog: horizons.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I like my horizons narrow.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: (pressing herself
dialog: into him)
dialog: Your voice is saying no, but your
dialog: body is saying yes.
text: He quickly disengages from her.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: My voice, body, and everything else
dialog: is saying I'll be back in two hours
dialog: for Strader, and he better damn well
dialog: be here.
text: He shoves a business card at her, then retreats through
text: the door.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: Sykes closes the door and lets out his breath.
scene_heading: INT. CASSANDRA'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Cassandra's expression instantly turns to worry and she
text: quickly crosses to a phone and punches the intercom
dialog: button.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT
text: Jetson, looking through a desk drawer, hears the intercom
text: BUZZ in the next room. Through the wall--
speaker_heading: WATSON (O.S.)
dialog: (tentatively)
dialog: Yes...?
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA (O.S.)
text: (over the intercom,
dialog: breathless)
dialog: Todd, it's me. The police were just
dialog: here... looking for Strader. And
dialog: asking about you.
text: Jetson moves toward the door to the adjoining office,
text: drawing his gun. The floor squeaks beneath his feet. He
text: looks down, then continues toward the door.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT
text: Jetson eases open the door. It's the manager's private
text: office. Jetson sees the phone receiver resting on the
text: desk, the desk lamp on, a lit cigarette in an ashtray --
text: but no one behind the desk. Jetson eases through the door
dialog: and--
text: -- a chair crashes down on him from behind the door!
text: Jetson goes down, his gun skittering out of his hand.
scene_heading: INT. PRIVATE OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Jetson and his assailant battle in the well-appointed
dialog: office.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: Sykes hears the fight through the private office door.
text: He throws the door open.
scene_heading: INT. PRIVATE OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Sykes stands in the doorway, the Casull straight-armed at
text: Jetson's assailant.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Freeze! Now!
text: The assailant does. He looks at Sykes, scared, breathing
text: hard. He's a Newcomer in a snappy Armani suit. This is
text: TODD WATSON. Jetson, on the floor, starts to rise.
text: Suddenly somebody flies at Sykes from the side, knocking
text: him sideways down the corridor. It's Cassandra. Watson
text: seizes the moment and shoves the off-balance Jetson into
text: some furniture and dives for the door.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: Watson runs down the corridor, ducking onto a fire escape.
text: Meanwhile Sykes wrestles with Cassandra. She's as strong
text: as he is, but he has the edge in experience.
text: Jetson, disheveled, appears in the private office doorway,
text: ready to chase Watson, but not knowing which way he went.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (struggling with
dialog: Cassandra)
dialog: Fire escape! End of the hall!
text: Jetson nods, takes off down the corridor. Sykes manges to
text: get one handcuff on Cassandra's wrist, the other cuff
text: around a pipe sticking out of the wall. She SCREECHES at
text: him in the alien language as he collects the Casull and
text: charges down the corridor.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT
text: Jetson pounds down the fire escape. Below him, he sees
text: Watson reach the ground and take off running for the
dialog: parking area.
text: Jetson reaches the ground and gives chase.
scene_heading: EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: Watson zig-zags through the parked cars, Jetson cutting
text: down other rows trying to make up the distance between
dialog: them.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT
text: Sykes bangs down the fire escape, leaping the last fifteen
text: feet to the ground.
scene_heading: EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: Watson reaches his Alfa Romeo, yanks open the door, fires
text: it up. Jetson slides up, ten feet behind the car, pulls
text: his gun, aims.
text: The white reverse-lights flash on. Jetson stands there,
text: gun aimed -- but he hesitates to shoot. In that split
text: second hesitation, Watson floors it... Jetson jumping to
dialog: avoid being hit.
scene_heading: INT. ALFA ROMEO - NIGHT
text: Watson throws the car into Drive, looks up, and sees Sykes
text: standing right in front of the car. He hits the gas.
text: Sykes has no choice then to leap onto the hood of the car.
text: Watson, with Sykes' face on the other side of the glass,
dialog: panics and--
scene_heading: EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: -- plows the Alfa into some parked cars.
text: Sykes is up in a flash -- yanks Watson out of the car.
text: Watson rears back to swing at Sykes, when Sykes swings his
text: arms around in two wide arcs, his fists landing two direct
text: hits in the nerve centers under Watson's arms. Watson
text: folds over with a "ooowwph" sound and drops to his knees.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (breathing hard)
dialog: I'll be damned. It worked.
dialog: (sees Jetson run up)
dialog: How'd you like that, huh? Whammo!
text: Both barrels. Dropped him like a
text: bag of cement.
text: Jetson picks up Watson's fallen wallet. He looks at the
dialog: I.D.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Who is he?
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: Todd Watson. The assistant manager.
text: Watson is still doubled over, just trying to draw one
text: agonized breath.
speaker_heading: WATSON
dialog: I don't believe this. Look at my
dialog: suit. Look at what you made me do
dialog: to my car.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Your girlfriend put up a better
dialog: fight than you did, pal.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We are looking for your employer,
dialog: Joshua Strader.
speaker_heading: WATSON
dialog: He's out of town.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Why did you run?
speaker_heading: WATSON
dialog: Because you two were chasing me.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: We were chasing you because you ran,
dialog: you dumb son-of-a-bitch.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: When will Strader return?
speaker_heading: WATSON
dialog: Who knows. He's the boss -- he
dialog: doesn't have to check in with me.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (wearily)
dialog: Watson... this is my partner here's
dialog: first coupla days, and he wants to
dialog: make a good impression. Me, though,
dialog: the way I feel -- this could be my
dialog: last day, know what I mean? And I'm
dialog: ready to rain on you like a cow
text: pissin' on a flat rock.
speaker_heading: WATSON
dialog: Look -- Mr. Strader hasn't been
dialog: around for a coupla days. He didn't
dialog: tell me where he was going or when
dialog: he'd be back. I swear it.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I believe he is probably lying.
speaker_heading: SYKES
text: Through his ass.
dialog: (to Watson)
dialog: Next time you see him, tell him to
dialog: call me... unless you want us to
dialog: keep coming back on you like a bad
dialog: case of herpes.
text: Sykes shoves a business card in Watson's breast pocket.
text: They walk away and Watson slumps against his car.
scene_heading: ANGLE - MOVING WITH SYKES AND JETSON
text: as they walk wearily to the slug-mobile.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: George, you can handle the women
dialog: from now on, you mind?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: Watson is alone, surveying the damage to his Alfa, when he
text: hears footsteps. He turns with a "What now?" expression
text: and -- a shotgun butt is slammed into his forehead. He
text: goes down. Kipling stands over him, flanked by FOUR HUMAN
text: THUGS. One of these is QUINT, senior human in Harcourt's
dialog: employ.
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: (to other Thugs)
dialog: Okay, scrape him up.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ZUMA BEACH APPROACH _ NIGHT
text: Harcourt's private limo glides down the narrow access
text: road, passing a lookout car attended by two alien Thugs.
text: The limo moves down to the beach, parking near an n.d.
dialog: van.
text: Harcourt exits the limo, walks onto the sand to the back
text: of the van. Here he finds Kipling and Quint and the three
dialog: human Thugs.
text: They have Watson chained to the van's rear bumper, facing
text: the sea, and have been working him over with a tire iron.
text: He's bruised and bloody, but still conscious.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Any progress?
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: My arm's gettin' tired and so far,
dialog: zip.
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: He is ss'verdlatya ss'alo to
dialog: Strader.
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: What's that mean?
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: Duty-bonded. His allegiance to
dialog: Strader is above pain or life.
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: You tellin' me this guy would die
dialog: before he'd screw his boss and work
dialog: for us? Nobody's that dumb.
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: It is something you couldn't
dialog: comprehend, Quint.
text: Harcourt approaches Watson, kneels beside him, careful to
text: keep the knee of his designer pants out of the sand.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: I understand you have been resisting
dialog: my offer Mr. Watson. Your sense of
dialog: duty to Mr. Strader is noble, but --
dialog: no longer an issue, I'm afraid...
text: Harcourt signals and the two Thugs drag an alien body from
text: the back if the van: a middle-aged alien, Strader, shot
text: twice through the front of his silk suit. Watson's eyes
text: widen in fear.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I will not make this offer again. I
dialog: want you to work for me, to manage
text: the nightclub as Strader's successor.
dialog: If you do, you will know a wealth
dialog: and comfort our people never dared
dialog: imagine...
text: Watson stares at Harcourt, scared but defiant.
speaker_heading: WATSON
dialog: Sss'k'a ta'!
text: Harcourt studies Watson a moment, perhaps even admiring
dialog: his resolve. Then--
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: It is such a pity to die for an
dialog: outmoded value.
dialog: (rising)
dialog: Mr. Quint, I believe it's time for
dialog: our friend's swimming lesson.
text: Watson freaks out, howling and lashing against the chains.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (to Watson)
dialog: It's important to learn new skills.
dialog: Essential to your growth as a
dialog: person.
text: Quint and the Thugs free Watson from the bumper. He bucks
text: and lunges as they drag him toward the surf. Quint
text: addresses one of the Thugs, a new guy.
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: You never seen this before, have
dialog: you, Billy? oh, man, you ain't
dialog: gonna believe it... seawater is like
dialog: battery acid to these guys... I
dialog: don't know what it is, some kinds
dialog: chemical reaction. Whatta you think
dialog: it is, Watson? Whoa, hold him.
dialog: (a wave breaks
text: outside, the foam
dialog: rolls in)
dialog: What I love about the surf is you
dialog: can never tell how far up it's going
dialog: to come until it... whoops, got a
text: little wet there.
text: The wave just sloshes over Watson's lower legs. He
text: screams. Flailing, one of his hands dips below the
text: surface of the water. He howls and yanks out his hand.
text: We see the alien hand dripping seawater... then a thousand
text: droplets of purple alien blood begin to bead all over the
text: hand. The Thugs get Watson swinging.
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: Last call, sucker. One... two...
speaker_heading: THREE!
text: Watson is flung into the surf.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Harcourt and Kipling have walked down almost to the
text: waterline. We HEAR Watson's GURGLES and SCREAMS... then
text: nothing. Kipling is very nervous this close to the water.
text: Harcourt seems unperturbed.
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: When we picked him up, he was
dialog: talking to those two cops -- the two
dialog: who came to question you about
dialog: Hubley.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: This is getting out of hand. I want
dialog: you to deal with it. Immediately.
text: A wave rushes up the sand. Kipling quickly steps back.
text: Harcourt stands firm, staring it down, and the foam stops
text: six inches from his dress shoes.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: We must learn to embrace the things
dialog: we fear... and from that grow
text: strong.
text: A moment, then he turns and starts back toward the limo.
text: He motions to Strader's body and the surf. The Thugs grab
text: the body and heave it into the waves.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Jetson is talking rapidly in the alien language on the
text: kitchen wall phone. Sykes, foreground, takes the bottle
text: of vodka from the refrigerator, throws some ice in a
text: glass, pours himself a shot. As Jetson is talking, he
text: spots the carton of milk that Sykes inadvertently left out
dialog: of the refrigerator two nights ago.
text: He sniffs it... his eyebrows do an involuntary movement.
text: He finishes with his wife and hangs up. He watches Sykes
text: take a long pull on the vodka.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (holds up milk
dialog: carton)
dialog: Would you mind?
text: Sykes shrugs, tosses him a glass. Jetson pours the semi-
text: lumpy milk and takes a big swallow. Sykes grimaces.
dialog: Then--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (indicates phone)
dialog: So, she keeps you on a pretty short
dialog: leash, does she?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: My wife? She worries about me.
text: Sykes leans against the counter, getting comfortable, his
text: voice more weary then bitter.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah... I know the routine.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: You are married?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Was. Divorced.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We mate for life. Divorce... is a
dialog: strange concept to us.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: It's like having an eleventh finger
dialog: removed. It hurts like hell, but
dialog: you never really needed the damn
dialog: thing in the first place.
text: Jetson nods -- even though he doesn't really understand
text: this. They drink... Jetson gazes around.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Your home is quite disordered. I
dialog: thought perhaps you had been
dialog: burglarized when I walked in.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (growling)
dialog: I appreciate your honesty, George.
text: He smacks his glass against Jetson's. They drink.
scene_heading: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER
text: Sykes has his wallet out... showing Jetson a dog-eared
dialog: photo.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Ignore the bitch on the left, that's
dialog: Edie. I call her Edi Amin... This
dialog: is Kristin, my daughter. It's kinda
dialog: an old picture... she's twenty now.
dialog: Getting married, in fact... on
dialog: Sunday.
text: Jetson sitting across the table from Sykes, looks at the
text: proffered photo. They're both a little drunk now.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Human children can be very
dialog: beautiful.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Getting married? Congratulations.
dialog: You will be taking Sunday off,
dialog: then...
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (uneasy)
dialog: Maybe not... I don't know. I'm not
dialog: sure I'm gonna go.
dialog: (mumbles)
dialog: She doesn't need her burn-out of a
dialog: father there...
text: Jetson looks at him. Sees something he never thought
text: possible in Sykes. Vulnerability. Trying to break the
text: melancholy mood, Jetson reaches for his wallet.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (upbeat)
dialog: I must show you...
text: (flips open wallet,
dialog: shows four crisp
dialog: photos of his wife)
dialog: And this is Richard. My son. He's
dialog: four years old. We named him after
dialog: the former President, Richard Nixon.
text: Sykes looks at all the photos sprawled out on the table...
text: and has to laugh. He looks up at Jetson's sincere face.
dialog: He may be starting to like this guy.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You open to a piece of advice? Tell
dialog: people you named him after Richard
dialog: Burton, the actor. Just take my
dialog: word for it.
text: And he clacks his glass against Jetson's sitting on the
dialog: table, and--
scene_heading: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER
text: They are quite a bit drunker. Jetson has doffed his
text: jacket and tie, leans in, listening intently to Sykes.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: ... and so, and so the doctor says,
dialog: "If this is the thermometer, then
dialog: where'd I leave the pen?"
dialog: (laughs raucously,
dialog: Jetson doesn't
dialog: react)
dialog: You're not... you don't think that's
dialog: funny? George, work with me, I
dialog: always get a laugh with that one.
dialog: Look, if the doctor's got the
text: thermometer in his hand, then
dialog: where's his pen gotta be?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (straight-faced)
text: In the other man's rectum.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Sticking out of his ass... yeah!
dialog: See, that's what makes it a joke.
dialog: There's like a surprise, and your
text: mind fills in the funny picture.
dialog: Here's this guy with a pen stuck in
dialog: his ass and he thinks it's a
dialog: thermometer.
dialog: (Jetson just blinks)
dialog: Nada, huh?
text: Jetson shrugs apologetically. Sykes pours them each
dialog: another round.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Your health...
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Ta ss'trakyona'...
dialog: They CLACK glasses, and--
scene_heading: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER STILL
text: The party has moves into the living room floor, around the
text: coffee table. It's a quieter moment.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: There is so much our two peoples
dialog: don't understand about each other.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: No shit, Holmes. You're only from
dialog: another goddamn planet, for
dialog: chrissakes.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: You humans are very curious to us.
dialog: You invite us to live among you, in
dialog: an atmosphere of equality we've
dialog: never known before. You lay before
dialog: us a beautiful green world, full of
dialog: freedoms and opportunities... You
dialog: give us ownership of our lives for
dialog: the first time... and you ask no
dialog: more of us than you do of
dialog: yourselves: to live by the rules...
dialog: rules that aren't made to keep one
dialog: people subordinate to another, but
dialog: rules that exist to preserve
dialog: equality. You aspire to very high
dialog: ideals here.
text: Sykes is watching Jetson, mesmerized. The guy's never
dialog: said this much at one time before.
dialog: If he wasn't drunk, Jetson would never let himself open up
dialog: to a human like this.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I hope you can understand how
dialog: special your world is... how unique
dialog: a people you humans are. So it us
dialog: all the more painful and confusing
dialog: to us that so few of you seem
dialog: capable of living up the the ideals
dialog: you set for yourselves.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Don't count on me, George. I never
dialog: had any ideals.
text: Jetson smiles a little. He knows that's bullshit.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We don't understand the hatred, the
dialog: contempt. But we must bear it... we
dialog: must not react in anger... because
dialog: our situation here is still fragile.
dialog: The separationists would see us
text: returned to the quarantine camps.
dialog: The fundamentalists say we have no
dialog: more human rights than dogs or cats.
dialog: But the prejudice we face here is so
dialog: insignificant compared to the pain
dialog: that we've known before. And that
dialog: is why we are so grateful.
text: Sykes studies him a long time through heavy-lidded eyes.
dialog: Finally--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, well... except I did hear you
dialog: eat your dead.
text: Jetson looks at him a long beat, then--
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (deadpan)
dialog: Only on Fridays.
text: Sykes stares at him for about five seconds and then
text: explodes with laughter.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You son-of-a-bitch. You're okay.
text: Jetson stands unsteadily, and announces:
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I'm going home.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, go home. Get some sleep. You
dialog: do sleep, don't you?
text: Jetson, going out the front door, just waves over his
text: shoulder without turning around. He's gone.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What a wildman...
text: Sykes, stands there wobbling, then he collapses backward
text: onto the sofa, unconscious. And we MATCH DISSOLVE TO--
scene_heading: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - DAWN
text: The first hues of dawn stream through the window. Sykes
text: remains passed out on the sofa where we left him.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - FRONT OF SYKES' BUILDING - DAWN
text: The slug-mobile parked at the curb. Silence, then the
text: RUMBLE of a heavy truck... and a tow truck turns onto this
text: street at the corner.
text: The tow truck glides to the curb in front of the slug-
text: mobile. The driver stays inside as his passenger alights
text: carrying a tool kit and a paper bag. The human is Quint.
text: Quint uses a slim-jim to open the slug-mobile door, then
text: slides behind the wheel.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DAWN
text: Quint slides the contents from the paper bag. It is a
text: packet of C-4 plastic explosives, with a primer cap, and
text: two lead wires with their ends bared. Quint bends down,
text: starts to work under the dash. As his head disappears
text: from FRAME, suddenly another head appears above the
text: seats... George Jetson sitting up groggily in the back
text: seat. A blanket slips off his head and shoulders. He
text: sits there blinking, rubbing his eyes, feeling lousy.
text: Under the dash, Quint starts to whistle as he works.
dialog: Mistake.
text: Jetson, with a puzzled expression, leans forward and sees
text: this guy in the front seat. Before he can jump-start his
text: brain, Quint sits up, sees him, and hammers him in the
text: face with his fist. Jetson is knocked back, holding his
dialog: face. That was the last thing he needed.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - FRONT OF SYKES' BUILDING - DAWN
text: Meanwhile Quint is shouting and bailing out of the car.
text: He runs and leaps into the already moving tow truck.
text: It is sliding around the corner out of sight just as
text: Jetson stumbles out of the car. He whips out his gun from
text: the unfamiliar shoulder rig and it flies out of his hand.
text: Jetson sags against the side of the car, mumbles an alien
text: phrase, clearly the equivalent of "Fuck it...".
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - DAY
text: Sykes is in the fetal position on the couch where we left
text: him. Someone is POUNDING on the door. He regains
text: consciousness reluctantly.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: This better be good news or money.
text: He shambles to the door and gets it open, admitting
text: Jetson. Jetson holds the C-4 charge in a handkerchief
text: with one hand and gives it to Sykes.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Hold this.
dialog: (lurching to the
dialog: sink)
dialog: I feel very terrible.
text: Sykes registers what he's holding. He moves to Jetson,
text: who is running his head under the tap.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Where'd you get this?!!
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: A man, a human, was wiring it to
dialog: your car. I didn't get a good look
text: at him.
dialog: (then, registering
dialog: that it's day;
dialog: panicked)
dialog: I must call my wife...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PRECINCT FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY
text: Jetson is starting to take on Sykes' looks, his clothing
text: rumpled and a day old. Sykes has showered and changed so
text: he's not suffering as much by comparison. They approach
dialog: Sykes' desk.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: She's going to divorce me.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: George, she's not gonna divorce you.
dialog: You mate for life, remember?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: She's very progressive. I'm certain
text: she's considering it.
scene_heading: ANGLE - A UNIFORMED SECRETARY
text: distributing phone slips nearby notices Sykes.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: You guys are looking for somebody
dialog: named Strader, right?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Fedorchuk and Alterez just phoned
dialog: in. They found him.
dialog: (Sykes and Jetson
dialog: react)
dialog: Or at least what's left of him,
text: washed up on the beach at Zuma.
text: Sykes and Jetson react again.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: (continuing; handing
dialog: over the message
dialog: slip)
dialog: They're still there if you wanna
dialog: catch them.
text: She moves off.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Well, let's roll, George.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (with a stricken
dialog: expression)
dialog: To the... to the beach?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Come on, let's go, dude. Surf's up!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - ZUMA BEACH - DUSK
text: CRANE SHOT, nice and WIDE, showing the slug-mobile turning
text: off P.C.H. onto a gravel road which curves down the the
text: beach. The following is V.O. as the car approaches the
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: JETSON (V.O.)
dialog: Stop the car.
speaker_heading: SYKES (V.O.)
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: JETSON (V.O.)
dialog: Please, I must get out here.
speaker_heading: SYKES (V.O.)
dialog: Come on, you won't have to get near
dialog: the water.
speaker_heading: JETSON (V.O.)
dialog: Stop the car!
text: We see the car pull to a stop in a cloud of dust.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DUSK
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: All right, okay. Keep your
dialog: pantyhose on. Jeez, when in doubt,
dialog: freak out, for chrissake.
text: Sykes sees that his partner is covered with a sudden sheen
text: of sweat, his hands shaking. Sykes softens.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: It's all right, George. It's cool.
dialog: Just wait here, all right? I'll be
text: back in a coupla minutes.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Thank you.
text: He climbs out and Sykes drives down to the beach... toward
text: a cluster of vehicles: a Sheriff's black-and-white, a
text: coroner's wagon, and Fedorchuk's unmarked sedan.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH - DUSK
text: A quick glimpse of a pile of dark yuck in the shape of a
text: person, black and skeletal beneath the remains of a silk
text: suit. Wound around the corpse are streamers of kelp and
text: other high tide detritus.
text: ANGLE ON SYKES, FEDORCHUK, AND ALTEREZ
text: looking down at the body. A CORONER'S TECHNICIAN is doing
dialog: a closer inspection.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
text: Found his wallet in his jacket
dialog: pocket. Joshua Strader, big as
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: CORONER'S TECH
dialog: Jesus, what a mess. It's gonna be a
dialog: bear to make a positive
dialog: determination, but it looks to me
text: like he was shot before being tossed
dialog: in the drink. At least twice--
dialog: (indicates where
dialog: hearts would've
dialog: been on the body)
dialog: -- here, and here.
text: Sykes absorbs this. He rises along with Fedorchuk and
dialog: Alterez.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: How're you two doing on Tuggle's
dialog: killer?
speaker_heading: ALTEREZ
text: The store owner's son is in a street
dialog: gang, so now we're thinking maybe
dialog: it's gang related.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah, that's real good. You guys
dialog: follow up on that for a coupla
dialog: months.
text: Fedorchuk looks up at Jetson standing on the bluff above.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: Look at your dildo partner. He's
dialog: too scared to even come down to the
dialog: sand.
dialog: (calls up to Jetson,
dialog: even though he's too
dialog: far away to hear)
dialog: You're not gonna get wet standing
dialog: here, moron!
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I'd like to see you next to a sea of
dialog: hydrochloric acid, Fedorchuk... see
dialog: how much surfin' you'd do.
text: Alterez shoots a polaroid of the body. Sykes grabs it as
text: it emerges from the camera and walks back toward the car.
text: Fedorchuk flips him the bird. As Sykes rounds the car, he
text: sees that someone has drawn on the door in yellow liquid
text: chalk marker a big star with "E.T. P.D." printed inside
text: it. Sykes looks around. Fedorchuk and the others stand
text: together chuckling, conspicuously not looking in his
dialog: direction.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Cute.
scene_heading: EXT. BEACH ROAD - DUSK
text: Sykes has stopped to pick Jetson up.
text: He's wiping the "E.T. P.D." from the door as Jetson
text: approaches from the edge of the bluff. Fedorchuk pulls up
text: alongside in his n.d. sedan. He calls off to Jetson, who
text: is still twenty yards away.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: Well, if it isn't Detective Jetson.
dialog: Forget you hip waders, big guy?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Lay off, asshole.
speaker_heading: FEDORCHUK
dialog: I may be an asshole, but at least
dialog: I'm a real detective, not some outer
dialog: shit space thing.
text: Sykes, his face neutral, which we should by now know to be
text: highly dangerous, saunters to Fedorchuk's car and leans
dialog: against it.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah? you're a real honest-to-god
dialog: detective...?
text: Sykes grabs the back of Fedorchuk's head and slams it into
text: the steering wheel, BAM-HONK!, and in doing so, has hurt
text: his hand again (the hand he hit Jetson with).
text: He shakes that hand while lunging in and grabbing
text: Fedorchuk's car keys with the other.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Then detect these!
text: Fedorchuk, holding his bloody nose, watches as his car
text: keys sail out in an arc out over the bluff. Jetson, just
text: climbing into the slug-mobile, witnesses the last of this
text: scene without knowing how it began.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DUSK
text: Sykes gets in, slams the door. His hand hurts as he grabs
text: the wheel. He holds the wheel gingerly as he slams the
text: car into gear and hurls gravel up the road toward P.C.H.
text: Jetson looks over, curious.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: What was that about?
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (embarrassed that he
dialog: defended Jetson)
dialog: Nothing.
text: On Jetson's confused expression, we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BURGER STAND - NIGHT
text: A different burger stand. Sykes and Jetson sit across
text: from each other at one of the outdoor tables... Sykes with
text: his greasy burger, Jetson with his mole strips. This time
text: they have no trouble eating in front of each other as they
dialog: talk.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: ... So we've got three guys dead.
dialog: All Newcomers, all killed the same
dialog: way -- execution style.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Warren Hubley was in middle
dialog: management at a refinery... Joshua
dialog: Strader operated a successful bar
dialog: and nightclub...
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: ... and Porter ran a piece of shit
text: mom-and-pop mini-mart.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So what the hell's the connection?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PATHOLOGY LAB OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Sykes and Jetson enter the cluttered lab office. Winter
text: is here eating take-out chicken at his cluttered desk.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You guys finished the postmortem on
dialog: Strader yet?
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: (his mouth full)
dialog: You mean the Blob? They're
text: finishing up now.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Is Bentner here? I must speak with
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: He went home early -- his kid was
dialog: sick.
text: Jetson frowns.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Yeah, but he left something for you.
text: He wipes his greasy fingers on a napkin, then finds an
text: envelope on the desk and hands it to Jetson. Jetson tears
text: open the sealed envelope. The message inside is written
text: in the alien language.
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Does this have something to do with
dialog: the test he ran that he wouldn't
dialog: tell me about?
scene_heading: CLOSE ON - JETSON
text: His expression grows stricken as he reads the message.
text: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (getting very curious
dialog: and suspicious now)
dialog: What kind of test?
speaker_heading: WINTER
dialog: Looking for some foreign compound in
dialog: the blood of that alien you dropped
dialog: the other day.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Did he find anything?
text: Winter shrugs, indicates the message Jetson reads, as if
dialog: to say, "Maybe it says in there".
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: Well?
text: Jetson refolds the paper and puts it in his pocket.
text: He is clearly disturbed by what he has read. He looks at
text: Sykes a moment, then quickly breaks eye contact.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: It is nothing.
text: Jetson quickly moves off. Sykes hurries off after him.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Sykes hurries to catch up with the fast walking Jetson.
text: They eventually reach the elevators and Jetson jabs the
dialog: button during:
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What's this nothing shit? It wasn't
dialog: nothing yesterday when you asked
dialog: Bentner to run that test and he
text: looked like he was about to shit
dialog: peach pits, and it's not nothing
dialog: now. Don't lie to me, George,
dialog: you're bad at it.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (distant, closed)
dialog: You must leave me alone on this.
text: The elevator arrives, he steps in. Sykes follows.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT
text: They enter the empty elevator. Jetson presses the button
text: to descend.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: No, see, I don't leave you alone...
dialog: I'm your partner. I don't work that
dialog: way... Tug didn't work that way.
text: Jetson remains steadfast. Sykes, about to explode, slams
text: his palm against the red Emergency Stop button and the
text: elevator lurches to a halt between floors.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: No secrets, goddammit! You don't
dialog: hold back from me. Whatever is
dialog: going on, you're gonna tell me now!
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (agonizing)
dialog: No. I cannot involve you. This is
dialog: not your concern.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: The hell it isn't, when somebody
dialog: wires up enough C-4 explosive to my
dialog: car to turn me into pink mist!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That Slag was on something, and not
dialog: sour milk, either? Am I right?
dialog: (he has backed Jetson
text: to the wall by sheer
dialog: force of will)
dialog: TELL ME! What is it?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (finally)
dialog: ... It is called ss'jabroka'. To us
text: it is a potent narcotic.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: How potent?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Like your cocaine, I suppose. The
dialog: "high" lasts several hours. We
dialog: would receive small amounts of it...
dialog: as a reward for our labor.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: We? You've taken it?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We all did.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Where did he get it? Was there any
dialog: of it on the ship?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: No... I am sure not. That is why I
dialog: am so concerned... someone must now
dialog: be producing it here.
dialog: (emphatically)
dialog: But none of my people know how to
dialog: make it. The process was carefully
dialog: guarded.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (as the enormity
dialog: sinks in)
dialog: Jesus, this is major.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Why didn't you tell me sooner?
dialog: Why'd you hold out on me?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Your people don't know about this
dialog: part of out past. And they can't
dialog: know -- It would threaten our entire
dialog: existence here.
text: The voltage runs out of Sykes. He seems to understand
text: Jetson's dilemma.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: George... look me in the eye...
dialog: George, you don't ever lie to me
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I must trust you, Matthew. I cannot
dialog: stop this without you.
text: Sykes stare at Jetson... absorbing the enormity of the
dialog: earth-shattering secret this alien has asked him to keep.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTY MORGUE - NIGHT
text: Sykes and Jetson move quickly to the slug-mobile. Sykes
text: reaches for the driver's door handle with his punching
text: hand. He winces in pain... the son-of-a-bitch still
text: hurts. He looks across at Jetson opening the passenger
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: George? How about you drive...
text: Jetson looks over at him... gently reacting to this vote
text: of confidence. They walk quickly around to the opposite
text: doors, climb in.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHT
text: Sykes and Jetson move down this government-building
dialog: corridor.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: There's gotta be some other
dialog: connection.
text: They enter a door marked BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS.
scene_heading: INT. BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHT
text: HIGH SHOT showing the maze of partitioned cubicles filling
text: this huge room. It's all but deserted. Sykes and Jetson
text: are off to one side with a heavyset woman (human) COMPUTER
text: OPERATOR, who they're shanghaied into helping them after
dialog: hours.
scene_heading: CLOSER - AT COMPUTER OPERATOR'S DESK
text: She sits at her computer terminal. Sykes and Jetson stand
text: behind her as she types in commands and information.
text: She types: Hubley, Warren. The computer screen flashes
text: past various information, then settles on a screen full of
text: information of HUBLEY, WARREN.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Here's Hubley.
dialog: (scanning it)
dialog: Left Quarantine on November
dialog: thirtieth, relocated first to
dialog: Riverside, then moved to Los Angeles
dialog: early in February the following
dialog: year. Field of expertise: chemical
dialog: manufacturing. Looks like he passed
dialog: up several other better paying jobs
dialog: waiting for that one at the
dialog: refinery.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Try Joshua Strader, will ya,
dialog: darlin'?
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: For you, anything.
text: The Operator punches up STRADER, JOSHUA. The screen fills
dialog: with information.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: (continuing, reading
dialog: from screen)
dialog: Released on November twenty-ninth.
dialog: Came immediately to L.A. Ten weeks
dialog: after arriving he took over the
dialog: abandoned club which is now
text: Encounters.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (to Operator)
dialog: Now the store owner, please. Cecil
dialog: Porter.
text: She types it in.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Released December one. He and his
dialog: wife moved first to Modesto, then
dialog: Coalinga, California -- wherever
dialog: that is -- settled in L.A. in
dialog: April. Field of expertise:
dialog: organic chemical engineering. He
text: and his wife have one child, a son.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Yeah -- we met him. Wonderful
dialog: boy... close personal friend of
dialog: George's here.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: I'm sorry, Matt. Nothing here seems
dialog: to be matching up...
dialog: But Sykes wasn't listening. He's starting off... an idea
text: forming. He stands there a moment, considering it, his
text: face looking like he's chewing something sour. It's so
text: off-the-wall it takes a moment for him to assimilate it.
dialog: Then--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Holy shit...
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: Look what we're staring at: three
dialog: Newcomers with nothing in common,
dialog: right? What if it's just one other
dialog: guy who killed these three?
text: (Jetson looks at him
dialog: blankly)
dialog: Three and one make four. Four
dialog: Newcomers... of totally different
dialog: backgrounds...
dialog: (Jetson still doesn't
dialog: get it)
dialog: You and the store owner's son --
dialog: that punker!
text: Suddenly the realization hits Jetson, too. He looks at
dialog: Sykes.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: ... Quarantine.
text: Sykes spins to the Operator, excited.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Can you dig up their Quarantine
dialog: records in this thing?
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Sure. Just a minute.
text: She moves up a screen to the top of Porter's information.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Porter was in Lodge seven seven two.
text: She rapidly types in additional information. The screen
text: shifts as she jumps files. Finally she gets a line that
scene_heading: reads: ENTER LODGE NUMBER: She types: 7-7-2.
text: Sykes and Jetson lean in as the screen goes blank... then
text: information flashes past as the computer searches... then,
text: finally: Occupants, Quarantine Lodge 772: HUBLEY,
scene_heading: WARREN......... STRADER, JOSHUA.........
text: Sykes and Jetson react -- their hunch is coming true.
text: On the computer screen: .........PORTER, CECIL.........
text: Sykes and Jetson, their faces bathed in the green kick of
text: the screen, stare without blinking, waiting for that forth
dialog: name.
text: On the computer screen: .........HARCOURT, WILLIAM.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON - SYKES AND JETSON
text: reacting to the name.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT
text: CLOSE on a limousine door as it opens and a tall figure
text: rises from the back seat. We TILT UP to reveal William
dialog: Harcourt.
text: We MOVE with him as he walks to the n.d. van (from the
text: beach scene) parked in front of the limousine. Kipling is
text: just sliding out of the passenger side of the cab. Quint
text: exits the driver door. Kipling slides open the van's side
dialog: panel, reaches in for--
text: -- a large black suitcase. He slides it out. Harcourt
text: nods. He and Kipling start into the club, followed by
dialog: Quint.
scene_heading: INT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT
text: The club is deserted tonight as Harcourt and entourage
text: move toward the back.
scene_heading: EXT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: Harcourt and the others move up the stairs to the second
text: floor. Cassandra, wearing a slinky dress, is at the top
text: of the stairs waiting for them. She's very uncomfortable
text: dealing with Harcourt. Kipling and Quint continue on
text: toward the office door. Harcourt pauses with Cassandra.
text: He touches her neckline of her dress, letting his fingers
text: linger against her flesh.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Quite lovely...
dialog: (best)
dialog: What is your name again?
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: (flinching
text: involuntarily at
dialog: his touch)
dialog: Cassandra.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (a chilling smile)
dialog: I will have to remember that...
text: He continues down toward the office door. Cassandra
text: watches him go.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - MOVING - NIGHT
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: They had months in quarantine to
text: develop the plan. Porter, with his
dialog: chemistry background, must have
dialog: somehow come up with the formula for
dialog: the drug. Hubley manufactured it --
text: at the refinery. Strader, through
dialog: the nightclub, established a
dialog: distribution network. And
dialog: Harcourt--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Harcourt was the brain who brought
dialog: it all together.
scene_heading: EXT. REFINERY - ESTABLISHING SHOT - NIGHT
scene_heading: EXT. REFINERY - NIGHT
text: The slug-mobile skids to a stop at the loading dock
text: entrance. Sykes and Jetson climb out. They hop up onto
text: the loading platform and move purposefully into the well-
text: lit interior through the open door.
scene_heading: INT. REFINERY - NIGHT
text: It is Saturday night, the plant is barely operational --
text: only a few WORKERS around. Sykes and Jetson move
text: purposefully toward the back.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Okay, George -- we gotta play this
dialog: real smart.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: If the drug is here, we must destroy
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: No, George -- you're missing the
dialog: point. The drug is evidence. We
dialog: need to have the evidence, ya know?
text: Jetson doesn't reply -- he's focused beyond what Sykes is
text: saying. Sykes spots O'Neal up ahead by the refrigeration
text: door to the METHANE SECTION.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: That's the guy...
text: O'Neal recognizes Sykes and doesn't wait around for the
text: big Newcomer bearing down on him. He dodges quickly
text: through the refrigeration door and swings it closed.
text: Jetson's hand hits the door an instant later, before it is
text: latched, and he pushes it open despite O'Neal's body
text: weight against the other side.
scene_heading: INT. METHANE ROOM - NIGHT
text: Jetson grabs O'Neal by the collar and drags him deeper
text: into the deserted room.
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: Hey, what are you, crazy?! You
dialog: can't come in here like this! Hey!
text: Sykes reaches the doorway, stops and stares.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: So much for playing it smart...
text: O'Neal's feet are barely touching the ground as Jetson
text: moves along the row of drug-manufacturing equipment.
text: Finally he reaches a stainless steel tub... he runs a long
text: finger along the inside, comes up with some residue of the
text: drug. It glistens blue on his finger. It holds him
text: mesmerized for several moments... his expression that of a
dialog: former junkie beholding the stuff he used to covet so.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (tentatively
dialog: stepping closer)
dialog: Is that it...?
text: A beat, than Jetson explodes -- he sweeps a rack of
text: equipment off the worktable, savagely wipes the drug from
text: his hand onto O'Neal's shirt-front as he slams and pins
text: the bug-eyed O'Neal to the wall.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Uh, George...
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (in O'Neal's face)
dialog: Where is the drug? Where have they
dialog: taken it?
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: (choking)
dialog: What drug? This is an oil refinery,
dialog: you...
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (pushing harder)
dialog: WHERE?!
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: (unable to breathe)
dialog: You... can't do... this!
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: George, uh... you're gonna break his
dialog: little chest bones...
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Stay out of this, Matthew.
dialog: (to O'Neal)
dialog: Tell me where the drug has been
dialog: taken or I will crush your lungs
dialog: against this wall.
text: O'Neal is experiencing real fear now. Sykes has decided
text: to back Jetson up, for better or worse. He takes the
dialog: "good cop" role.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Don't piss him off, O'Neal. When he
dialog: gets like this, I can't control him.
dialog: I've seen this before. He got like
dialog: this once -- I saw him jerk a guy's
text: spine out and show it to him.
dialog: Nothing I could do. I hadda go
dialog: throw up.
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: (at length, with
dialog: great effort)
dialog: ... They took the stuff out, all of
dialog: it -- this afternoon.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: How much?
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
dialog: About fifty kilos... of
dialog: concentrate... and some street
dialog: grade... in tubes.
text: Jetson reacts to this... then increases the pressure.
text: O'Neal is really in bad trouble now. Even Sykes takes a
text: half-step forward -- thinking Jetson might actually crush
dialog: this man.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Where have they taken it?
speaker_heading: O'NEAL
text: Encount... Encounters Club.
text: Finally, Jetson eases off. O'Neal slumps to the floor,
text: gasping for air.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. REFINERY - NIGHT
text: This time Jetson is the Juggernaut... his expression set
text: and hard... as he strides to the car. Sykes practically
text: has to run to keep up.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: George, c'mon -- lighten up. It's
dialog: a beauty of a case. Don't sweat it
dialog: -- we got him by the short hairs.
dialog: He ain't gonna make any more of the
dialog: shit.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: The fifty kilos, Matthew. I have to
dialog: find it. I can't let it get out on
dialog: the street.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Why? What's the big goddamn deal?
text: Jetson has reached the driver's door of the slug-mobile,
text: yanks it open.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (continuing; as
dialog: Jetson starts the
dialog: car
dialog: You destroy that drug, you destroy
dialog: the case. Don't blow the whole
dialog: thing now by not following
dialog: procedure.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (through the open
dialog: driver's window)
dialog: Fuck procedure.
text: And to Sykes' shock, he throws the car in gear and peels
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Hey!!
text: Jetson accelerates toward the security gate. The guard in
text: the shack starts yelling and runs out as the slug-mobile
text: bashes through the barricade bar.
speaker_heading: SYKES
text: GEORGE! GODDAMMIT!!
text: Sykes stands there like a moron -- with no partner, no
text: car. A pickup truck carrying a Worker just getting off
text: his shift starts ambling past. Sykes runs in front of it,
text: waving his badge. The pickup skids to a stop.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Police. Get out. I need this
dialog: thing. Out, now!
text: The poor guy bails out and Sykes jumps in, jamming it into
text: gear. The truck has seen better days... it doesn't have
text: much power to give as Sykes floors it toward the exit.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: As Jetson races along the freeway, whipping past other
text: traffic. He takes a hand off the wheel, reaches over and
text: pops open the glovebox. He shoves some maps and garbage
text: aside, reaches deeper inside for something -- we don't see
dialog: what.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT
text: Cassandra walks a trio of well-dressed DRUG DEALERS (two
text: alien, one human) through the deserted club.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHT
text: She leads them to the office door, opens it, then lets
text: them enter ahead of her. A couple of them smile at her
text: lasciviously as they brush past. She is about to enter
text: herself when an alien hand flashes in behind her, covering
text: her mouth, pulling her backward away from the door.
text: It is Jetson. He had been hiding behind some crates
text: stacked here in the corridor. He pins Cassandra
text: powerfully to the wall, keeping one hand over her mouth.
text: She struggles until she sees who it is.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: I am here to take Harcourt. Where
dialog: is he?
text: She hesitates, then decides to cooperate, indicates with a
text: nod toward the office door.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: In there.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (pulling his gun)
dialog: Show me.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
text: The large suitcase rests on the expansive conference
text: table. A manicured alien hand reaches in and slowly opens
text: it. Inside are fifty one-kilo glass tubes full of the
text: viscous blue drug. Also several of the small, individual
text: dispensers. It is Harcourt, standing behind the table in
text: a pool of light, who has opened the suitcase. He is
text: flanked by Kipling... with Quint elsewhere in the room.
text: The room is lit by track light, creating pools of light
text: and dark.
text: The two alien Dealers' eyes widen at the sight of the
text: drug. The human dealer doesn't know what it is.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (to alien dealers)
dialog: It's been a long time, hasn't it,
dialog: gentlemen?
speaker_heading: HUMAN DEALER
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
text: A sweet indulgence from out past...
dialog: resurrected for our future.
text: Harcourt sees the hungering expressions on the alien
text: Dealers' faces... smiles knowingly. He slides one of the
text: dispensers from the suitcase.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (continuing; to
dialog: alien dealers)
dialog: Please feel free to sample the
dialog: quality. The experience will be
dialog: everything you remember it to be...
text: One of the alien Dealers takes the dispenser, brings it to
text: his tongue. The other alien dealer turns to Harcourt--
speaker_heading: ALIEN DEALER
dialog: Where'd you get it?
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: I arranged to spend some time with
text: three very resourceful men. With a
dialog: certain amount of coaxing, one of
dialog: them was able to reconstitute the
dialog: formula for me.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: They worked very well together.
dialog: Unfortunately, they are no longer
dialog: with us... but I was fortunate
dialog: enough to reap the benefit of their
dialog: endeavor.
text: He indicates the drug. The first alien Dealer sways
text: gently, enjoying the sensation. The second alien Dealer
text: takes his hit... shudders as the first rush washes over
text: him. The human Dealer is no fool... he grabs the
dialog: dispenser.
speaker_heading: HUMAN DEALER
dialog: Let me try some.
dialog: (he does,
text: immediately spits
dialog: it out)
dialog: Jesus! Tastes like detergent!
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: And that's all the effect it will
dialog: have on you. But when my fellow
dialog: Newcomers learn they can obtain it
dialog: here, they will work very hard... to
dialog: make as much money as they can... to
dialog: give it to me.
text: Suddenly, a voice from the shadows near the open door to
dialog: the other office:
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: You haven't told him all of it.
text: Harcourt and the others react. Quint leaps to his feet,
text: caught off guard. Kipling reaches for his shoulder
text: holster. A silhouette beside the open door to the outer
text: office nudges Cassandra into the light of the room, then
text: steps out himself. It is Jetson.
text: Quint gets his gun out, is about to aim... when his eyes
text: go wide at the sight of something Jetson holds.
text: It is the plastic explosive charge that Quint was wiring
text: to the slug-mobile. The wires are connected and Jetson's
text: finger squeezes down hard on the detonation push-switch.
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: He's got the C-4 charge!
text: Jetson moves forward slowly, holding the bomb in front of
text: him. He is sweating rivers. The others quickly join him.
text: He nudges Cassandra ahead of himself, keeping her where he
text: can see her.
speaker_heading: QUINT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Just take it real casual, buddy.
dialog: Keep your finger on that button and
dialog: don't do nothing squirrely.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: If you release that button, you not
dialog: only kill us, but yourself.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: To get you and that--
dialog: (indicates drug in
dialog: suitcase)
dialog: -- I would do it.
text: He says it with such straightforward eye contact, that
dialog: Harcourt (and we) know he isn't bluffing.
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: Everyone up against that wall.
text: Very slowly.
dialog: (to Harcourt)
dialog: Except you.
text: Harcourt remains behind the desk. Cassandra stays where
text: she is, near Jetson. The others move to the wall.
text: Kipling in particular is going nuts, letting this happen.
text: Jetson takes the "sample" dispenser from the table, tosses
text: it into the suitcase, then closes the lid and locks it.
text: All the while keeping his eye on Harcourt and the others.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: One small matter seems to have
dialog: escaped your attention. That--
dialog: (indicates suitcase)
dialog: -- is not on any books as a
dialog: controlled substance. Legally it
dialog: might as well be fifty kilos of...
text: grape jelly.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: The charge is murder... and
dialog: conspiracy to commit murder.
dialog: Hubley, Porter, Strader... probably
dialog: others.
text: There's a flicker of concern behind Harcourt's icy blue
text: eyes.
text: Cassandra stares at Harcourt.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: You... you killed Strader?
text: Cassandra runs to Harcourt grabbing his jacket.
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: Where's Todd?! Did you do something
dialog: to Todd?!
text: Harcourt looks down at her, totally uninvolved.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Todd? Who is Todd.
dialog: (then remembers;
dialog: smiles)
dialog: Ah, poor Mr. Watson.
text: Cassandra's eyes go wide as the horror of what he said
text: sinks in. Jetson nudges Harcourt with the suitcase. They
text: start out. Cassandra, wild with rage, grabs Quint's .357
text: and with a KEENING WAIL, brings it up toward Harcourt's
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: JETSON
speaker_heading: NOOO!
text: Jetson drops the suitcase as he lunges for the gun. He
text: manages to knock it away just as she fires -- the bullet
text: going into the wall behind Harcourt. Striking like a
text: mongoose, Kipling leaps forward, grabbing the two lead
text: wires on the bomb in Jetson's hand and jerking them apart.
text: Jetson reacts an instant late... releasing the switch...
dialog: and nothing happens.
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: I got it!
text: Kipling tackles Jetson and they both go crashing to the
text: floor. Quint grabs the gun from Cassandra and hammers her
text: with it, hard. She drops to her knees and Quint viciously
text: hits her again.
text: Meanwhile, Jetson struggles to regain his feet. Kipling
text: rears back and delivers a crushing blow under Jetson's arm
text: -- to the nerve plexus. Jetson instantly folds over
text: forward and Kipling savagely brings up his knee into
text: Jetson's face, flipping him back. Kipling slams him into
text: the wall face-first, pinning him there.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Kill them both.
speaker_heading: KIPLING
dialog: Here?
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: (raging)
dialog: Do it!
text: Quint brings the gun up, places the muzzle against the
text: base of Cassandra's skull, starts to squeeze the trigger.
text: There's a loud BLAM! and Cassandra flinches... then looks
dialog: up.
text: Quint is blown backward away from her.
text: Sykes stand in the doorway from the private office, the
text: Casull smoking in his hand.
text: Quint hits the wall behind him -- only it's not a solid
text: wall, but the huge window overlooking the club. He
text: crashes through it.
scene_heading: ANGLE FROM DANCE FLOOR
text: as the wall of mirror explodes IN SLOW MOTION and Quint
text: cartwheels to the floor in a shower of diamonds.
scene_heading: ANGLE - IN THE OFFICE
text: Kipling shoves Jetson aside, draws his gun and fires at
dialog: Sykes.
text: Sykes dodges into the private office for cover.
text: The three Dealers dive behind any available furniture.
text: Harcourt snatches up the suitcase and rushes to the door
text: leading into the adjoining outer office.
text: Sykes swings around the edge of the private office door,
text: straight-arms the Casull into the office and fires.
text: Kipling fires back, crossing toward the outer office door,
text: covering Harcourt's back. Sykes ducks back down.
text: An unsteady Jetson rises from the floor, sees Harcourt and
text: Kipling escaping, and takes off after them.
text: Sykes straight-arms the gun into the room again... sees
text: Jetson disappearing through the adjoining office door. He
text: moves into the room as the three drug Dealers, arms up in
text: surrender, rise from behind the furniture.
speaker_heading: ALIEN DEALER
dialog: Don't shoot, man -- we're unarmed --
dialog: look!
text: Sykes looks at these harmless wimps... then at Cassandra.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: CASSANDRA
dialog: (dazed, but all
dialog: right)
dialog: Yeah...
text: And he charges out the adjoining office door.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - ENCOUNTERS - NIGHT
text: Harcourt and Kipling bang down the metal stairs. Jetson
text: is ten feet above them. Sykes flies out onto the fire
text: escape, a few steps behind Jetson. A POLICE CAR SIREN is
text: HEARD arriving O.S.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - BEHIND ENCOUNTER - NIGHT
text: Two UNIFORMED OFFICERS bound from their unit and run into
text: the back entrance of the club, leaving the unit running.
text: Two seconds later, Harcourt and Kipling leap down from the
text: fire escape, find themselves near the unit.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: Here!
text: He throws the suitcase into the passenger side door, jumps
text: in. Kipling dives in behind the wheel, slams it into gear
dialog: and floors it.
text: Jetson and Sykes hit the ground just as the unit peels
text: out. Sykes raises the Casull and fires at the fleeing
text: car. One slug shatters a tail light, others pepper the
text: rear of the trunk, but the car keeps going.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: This way!
text: He indicates the slug-mobile parked nearby. They race to
text: it, jump in... Sykes driving. He burns rubber as he pulls
dialog: out.
text: A second arriving police unit pulls into the alley,
text: heading straight for the slug-mobile. Sykes has to grate
text: between the alley wall and the arriving police unit to get
dialog: past.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT
text: Harcourt and Kipling in the first police unit come
text: thundering down the street zig-zagging through traffic.
text: The slug-mobile is three-quarters of a block behind them.
scene_heading: INSIDE THE BLACK-AND-WHITE
text: Harcourt begins fumbling with the dash switches...
text: eventually hitting the right ones and the roof lights and
text: SIREN blast on.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT
text: It looks like a backwards chase, the slug-mobile chasing
text: the howling police car through traffic.
text: Jetson alertly eyes the approaching traffic -- calls it
text: out to Sykes the way he was trained at the academy.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Slow traffic on your right... you're
text: clear at the left rear...
dialog: (Sykes changes lanes)
text: Careful, red light ahead...
text: With Jetson's help, Sykes is able to dice through the
dialog: cross-traffic without incident.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT
text: The traffic ahead of the police car peels off in response
text: to the approaching lights and SIREN. Kipling dodges
text: around the stopped traffic easily.
text: The same traffic that has pulled over for the police car
text: now starts easing back onto the street, cutting off the
text: slug-mobile.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: Sykes' expression tells us he's slipped into the same
text: juggernaut mode we saw during the foot chase in the alley.
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: Yellow light ahead turning red...
text: But Sykes doesn't slow -- instead he floors it.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (continuing; wide-
dialog: eyed)
dialog: Red light! Red light!
scene_heading: EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT
text: Sykes peels around the merging traffic, cuts across the
text: intersection, and continues the chase. On the wrong side
text: of the road, head-on into traffic.
text: Headlights peel off in front of them as they charge along
text: the wrong side. They eventually catch up to the police
text: unit, racing parallel to it, but with the divider between
dialog: them.
text: Sykes keeps one hand on the wheel and draws the Casull
text: with the other. He brings it up and around right in front
text: of Jetson's nose, pointing it through the passenger window
dialog: at Kipling.
text: At that moment, Kipling glances over and reacts to the
text: bore of this huge gun staring him in the kisser.
text: Jetson reacts to the gun in his face... then reacts to
text: something else he sees beyond it.
speaker_heading: JETSON
text: Green light, Matthew.
dialog: (Sykes doesn't
dialog: respond)
dialog: Green light!
text: Now Sykes looks. The light at the intersection has just
text: turned green -- and the rows of the cars that were waiting
text: start coming. It's a wall of headlights coming right for
text: the slug-mobile.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Shit!
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Ss-ai!
scene_heading: EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHT
text: Sykes locks up the brakes. Kipling veers around a couple
text: of cars and speeds away.
text: Because of the other traffic, Sykes has only one course of
text: action. He skids a left onto a side street.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET - NIGHT
text: Sykes burns rubber down this quieter street, squeals a
text: right onto another street that parallels the street the
text: police unit is on. At the first street available, he cuts
text: back in behind the police unit.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHT
text: Sykes' car tears along below the overpass -- with the
text: police unit directly above them! An on-ramp approaches
text: for the slug-mobile and Sykes floors it.
scene_heading: INT. BLACK-AND-WHITE - NIGHT
text: Harcourt turns in his seat just in time to see the slug-
text: mobile airborne as it flies from the on-ramp, landing a
text: few feet behind the black-and-white's bumper.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHT
text: With the slug-mobile now, the police unit hangs a right,
text: cuts through a parking lot, and bounces onto--
scene_heading: EXT. SECOND STREET AND TUNNEL - NIGHT
text: The police unit hangs a u-turn into the Second Street
text: tunnel. It clips one of the civilian cars, causing a
text: pile-up of traffic behind the police unit.
text: The slug-mobile skids to a stop, blocked by the clog of
text: traffic in the tunnel. Sykes is out of the drivers door
text: in a flash, stand on the door frame, and yells--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Move your goddamned cars!
text: People climb out of their cars dazed and bewildered --
text: ignoring Sykes. Sykes slides behind the wheel, bangs his
text: bumper into the car in front of him, and pushes the car
text: far enough forward to get around. He speeds off.
scene_heading: INT./ EXT. BLACK-AND-WHITE - FREEWAY - NIGHT
text: Kipling rockets up a freeway on-ramp. Harcourt smiles
text: with satisfaction -- there's no sign of the slug-mobile
text: behind them. Kipling eases off, blends into the flow of
dialog: traffic.
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHT
text: Sykes slaloms the slug-mobile through the civilian
text: traffic like Mario Andretti lapping the pack at
dialog: Indianapolis.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: Jetson spots the police unit in the right hand lane ahead.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: There!
text: Sykes sees it. Thinking fast, he eases off, using another
text: car as a blind. He waits until the police unit is
text: parallel to an off-ramp, then guns ahead and swings right,
text: directly for the police unit.
text: Kipling looks over, reacts, just as the slug-mobile
text: broadsides the police unit. Sykes forces the police unit
text: up the off-ramp.
scene_heading: EXT. INTERSECTION - NIGHT
text: Door handle to door handle, the two cars slue to the
text: right. The police unit breaks out in front, but Sykes
text: stays right on its ass. They charge up onto--
scene_heading: EXT. VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - NIGHT
text: The police unit and slug-mobile -- bumper to bumper at 80
speaker_heading: MPH.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: As the cars scream along, Jetson cranes out the side
text: window, looking in distress at the inky seawater flashing
dialog: past below.
scene_heading: EXT. VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - NIGHT
text: They reach the far end of the bridge and skid wide onto--
scene_heading: EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT
text: A clear two lane straightaway near the ocean. Sykes
text: pushes the slug-mobile to its limits, pulls alongside the
text: police unit. The two cars trade blows at 90+ MPH.
text: Kipling manages to send Sykes onto the dirt shoulder,
text: slowing him down.
scene_heading: INT. BLACK-AND-WHITE - NIGHT
text: Kipling watches the slug-mobile in the rearview mirror,
text: then looks back out the front to see the end of the road
text: coming up fast! Harcourt bellows to Kipling, who slams on
dialog: the brakes.
scene_heading: EXT. END OF BOULEVARD - NIGHT
text: The police unit skids to a stop before hitting a chain
text: link fence where the road ends. An abandoned drawbridge
text: and the ocean are on the other side of the fence.
text: With nowhere else to go, Harcourt yells something at
text: Kipling and Kipling floors it back the way they came.
scene_heading: EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT
text: The two cars are racing for a full head-on. At the last
text: instant, Sykes wrenches the wheel, throws the slug-mobile
text: sideways, passenger side first. The police unit smashes
text: into the rear door and fender of the slug-mobile, both
text: cars skidding madly to a stop. A fire ignites under the
text: hood of the police unit.
scene_heading: INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHT
text: Sykes sits stunned behind the wheel. Disoriented but
text: conscious, he raises his head, looks over... sees Jetson
text: out cold, his forehead gashed and bleeding. Then he looks
text: over and sees the fire growing under the police unit's
text: hood which is crunched up against the rear of the slug-
text: mobile -- near the gas tank.
scene_heading: EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT
text: Sykes slides out of the driver's door, stumbles to
text: Jetson's door, wrenches it open, and drags the huge
text: unconscious alien away from the cars.
text: He's still dragging Jetson away when he spots Harcourt
text: pulling himself through the smashed police unit window.
text: Bruised and bleeding, Harcourt reaches in for the
text: suitcase, then starts to run with it.
text: With Jetson a safe distance away from the cars, Sykes
text: clambers to his feet, draws the Casull, and starts off
dialog: after Harcourt.
text: Harcourt reaches the chain link fence leading to the
text: closed drawbridge. He heaves the suitcase over, then
text: starts to climb.
text: Sykes lumbers past the burning police unit. Kipling is
text: still behind the wheel, his head slumped forward. Sykes
text: is just past the cars when they explode -- sending hoods
text: and door panels and glass flying in all directions.
text: Harcourt, on the other side of the fence, grabs the
text: suitcase and limps off into the shadowy world of the
text: abandoned drawbridge.
text: Sykes reaches the fence. Instead of climbing, he simply
text: blows the lock to hell with the Casull, and kicks open the
dialog: gate.
scene_heading: EXT. ABANDONED DRAWBRIDGE - NIGHT
text: The end of the bridge is in the "up" position... a huge
text: asphalt slab stabbing up into the night sky. Harcourt
text: runs along the pools of light and dark at the edge of the
text: bridge, the black seawater drifting past beside him. His
text: foot slips once and he almost goes over the side.
text: Sykes -- backlit by the burning cars, the big Casull a
text: prominent part of the silhouette -- just keeps coming.
text: Harcourt reaches the shadows at the end of the bridge --
text: and has nowhere to go. He is backed into a corner, with
text: seawater on two side of him. Harcourt pivots frantically,
text: sees Sykes coming this way. Harcourt is a trapped animal.
text: His chest heaves in panic. Then his gaze falls on the
text: suitcase behind him... and slowly... finally... a look of
text: resolve comes into his eye.
speaker_heading: ON SYKES
text: He eases cautiously toward the shadows where he knows
text: Harcourt is. There's some movement among the shadows, and
text: Sykes straight-arms the Casull, his finger white against
dialog: the trigger.
text: Perspiration drips into Sykes' eye, but he doesn't blink.
dialog: A long moment then--
scene_heading: ANGLE - THE SHADOWS
text: Harcourt emerges from the darkness. His face is composed,
text: the superior glint is back in his eye. His arms are held
text: away from his sides at 30 degree angles, clearly in
dialog: surrender.
text: Sykes cat-steps forward slowly. Harcourt stares at Sykes'
text: eyes, and the desire there that Harcourt will give him an
text: excuse. Harcourt simply... smiles.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Move a finger, Harcourt, and you're
dialog: history...
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
dialog: No, Sergeant -- not history...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Eternity...
text: And now Sykes sees it -- Harcourt has been holding one of
text: the one-kilo glass cylinders of the drug concealed behind
text: his arm. He brings it up over his head, grins at Sykes,
text: then tilts back his head and cracks the cylinder open.
text: The blue gel pours into his mouth and down his chin. His
text: mouth fills.
text: He looks back at Sykes, making eye contact... his eyes
text: mad, defiant. And -- he swallows. Long hold -- then the
text: wallop of the overdose hits him... his face contorts in
text: agony as he begins to convulse. Sykes, wide-eyed, lowers
text: the Casull and watches as Harcourt drops to the ground and
text: goes into a massive violent seizure. His limbs hammer
text: against the deck... his back arches fiercely. It is a
text: brutal, agonizing ten seconds. Then, finally, his body
text: becomes still.
text: Sykes, stunned at what he's just witnessed slowly goes to
text: him and takes his pulse the way he saw Jetson do it.
scene_heading: HIGH ANGLE SHOT - THE ENTIRE AREA
text: Sykes stands. He notices the suitcase nearby, latches it,
text: and hefts it. He carries it with him back toward the
text: inferno of the wrecked cars, the Casull hanging heavy and
text: cold in his hand.
text: ANGLE FOLLOWING SYKES
text: He approaches the burning cars, heading for Jetson. As he
text: passes the burning cars, we have a half-second to register
text: that the driver's door of the police unit is now open
dialog: before--
text: -- a dark figure hurtles at Sykes' back from O.S.! Sykes
text: is thrown forward. The suitcase crashes to the ground,
text: and the Casull goes skittering off. Sykes looks up -- to
text: be met by the singed and bleeding nightmare visage of
text: Kipling! Kipling reaches down for the suitcase then Sykes
text: hears it -- the telltale CLINKING SOUND. He looks -- and
text: sees the exotic silver bracelet on Kipling's wrist. It
text: connects for him; this is the bandana alien -- the one who
dialog: killed Bill Tuggle!
text: Kipling brings the suitcase above his head. He is a half-
text: second from hurling it down on Sykes' skull when -- a GUN
text: ROARS. Kipling is thrown back by the chest wound. Sykes
dialog: looks.
speaker_heading: ANGLE
text: Jetson, half sitting up, holds the smoking Casull.
text: Kipling recovers enough to come at Sykes again with the
text: suitcase again. Jetson, shaking but determined, fires
text: again, and again, and again.
text: Kipling is driven backward by the fusillade, the suitcase
text: still over his head... until he is blasted at last and
text: forever, suitcase and all, into the molten core of the
text: inferno.
text: Sykes rises, makes his way to Jetson's side. Jetson has
text: let the weight of the gun carry his hand to the ground.
text: Sykes kneels beside him, gently taking the gun from the
text: alien's hand. The two partners remain like this, bathed
text: in the orange flickering glow of the fire.
speaker_heading: HIGH WIDE SHOT
text: of the drawbridge, the debris, the carnage, and our two
dialog: cops...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHT
text: The police mop-up is winding down. Cop cars, coroner's
text: wagons, fire trucks. We MOVE through it all to find Sykes
text: and Jetson seated on the curb, away from the railing.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: With Harcourt and Kipling dead, I
dialog: assume you will be requesting
text: reassignment now.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (cool)
dialog: It'd be for your own good. I think
dialog: you'd be better off with a partner
dialog: who's a little more... by the book.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: ... Still, I gotta tell you, George,
dialog: for a quiet guy, you're sure hell on
dialog: wheels once you get going. I'd
dialog: kinda hate to miss your next two
dialog: days as a detective.
text: Jetson smiles. He glances up as they are bathed in red
text: and blue light. A patrol car has pulled up next to them.
text: Inside is Wiltey, a uniformed cop.
speaker_heading: WILTEY
dialog: I'll give you guys a lift to the
dialog: station. They're waiting to take
dialog: your statements on the shootings.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (to Jetson)
dialog: Let's go, partner.
dialog: (then casually
dialog: correcting Wiltey
dialog: as he rises)
text: And it's shooting. Singular.
speaker_heading: WILTEY
dialog: They said two.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Nope. I didn't shoot Harcourt... he
dialog: o.d.'d.
scene_heading: SHOCK CUT - JETSON
text: We rapidly PUSH IN ON HIM as his head snaps around toward
text: Sykes. His expression tells us his blood has just turned
dialog: to ice.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CORONER'S WAGON - NIGHT
text: ANGLE FORWARD, shooting from the rear of the wagon, toward
text: the DRIVER and ATTENDANT up front.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: So it's just me and her left in the
dialog: hot tub, right?
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: You and the blonde?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: No, man, the redhead. The blonde's
text: gone in the house with some other
text: guy. But a few minutes later she
text: comes back out, alone, when me and
text: the redhead are going at it fast and
dialog: furious in the tub, ya know... and
text: she sees us, and... she climbs right
dialog: in with us...
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: You're full of shit!
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: I swear it! If I'm lyin', I'm
dialog: dyin'...
text: And, without warning, A LARGE INHUMAN HAND FLIES UP IN
text: F.G., having ripped through the sealed body bag just below
speaker_heading: FRAME.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SQUAD CAR - NIGHT
text: Jetson is up front with Wiltey; Sykes sits in the back,
text: though he is on the edge of the seat, leaning forward
text: toward the front. Jetson is intently, nervously scanning
text: ahead and to both sides.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: You are certain this is the route
dialog: they would have taken?
speaker_heading: WILTEY
dialog: I'm not positive -- but probably.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (warily)
dialog: What's this about, George? I know
dialog: that look.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (spots something out
dialog: a side window)
dialog: There! Go back. Down that side
dialog: street.
text: Wiltey brakes, backs up, then turns into the side street.
scene_heading: ANGLE THROUGH WINDSHIELD
text: as they approach an eerie scene. The coroner's wagon is
text: stopped at an angle in the middle of the intersection,
text: headlights and roof lights cutting into the night, the
text: back doors wide open. A patrol car is also here, on the
text: other side of the wagon. There is no movement anywhere
text: near the two vehicles.
text: Wiltey pulls the car up, his eyes like saucers at the
text: eerie scene. He reaches for the radio hand mike. Jetson
text: quickly covers it with a large hand.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: No!
dialog: (both Sykes and
dialog: Wiltey look at him)
dialog: We must do this alone.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Do what?! George-- ?!
text: Jetson is already sliding out of the car.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHT
text: Jetson, Sykes, and Wiltey move warily forward, their guns
text: drawn. They reach the van and Sykes takes Wiltey's
text: flashlight, shines it through the open back doors. The
text: doors are bent outward, smashed half off their hinges.
text: One of the body bags is ripped open, literally split from
text: end to end. The blue and red lightbar on the other patrol
text: car can be seen through the wagon's front windshield.
text: Jetson starts around the wagon toward the patrol car,
text: Sykes and Wiltey follow. Lights all ablaze, it too is
text: abandoned. One door has been wrenched off its hinges and
text: lays in the street, and the front windshield is smashed.
text: Our three cops approach the car, then Wiltey spots
text: something beyond the unit.
speaker_heading: WILTEY
dialog: Oh, God...
text: Sykes and Jetson look.
text: The bodies of the coroner wagon Driver and Attendant, as
text: well as the two OFFICERS from the patrol car, are crushed
text: and beaten and stretched out on the asphalt. Their arms
text: are twisted as though by a mad force -- each pointing down
text: the street toward the dock warehouses ahead. Wiltey
text: stumbles away, backward.
speaker_heading: WILTEY
dialog: I'm calling for back up, now.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Wiltey, no.
text: But Wiltey is going. Jetson starts after him... but Sykes
text: grabs his arm, hard, and spins him.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: What is this?!
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (low)
dialog: ... It's Harcourt.
speaker_heading: SYKES
text: Harcourt is dead.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: No he's not. Not if he overdosed on
dialog: the drug.
dialog: (searches for the
dialog: words)
dialog: Massive amounts trigger a... a
dialog: change. Your body functions seize
dialog: up, you appear to be dead, but it's
dialog: really a state of incubation. When
dialog: you emerge you're...
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (looks at the four
dialog: bodies sprawled
dialog: before him)
dialog: Tell me about it...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHT
text: One minute later. OPEN CLOSE on a light shining into
text: CAMERA, then WIDEN to reveal it is one of the door-mounted
text: spotlights on Wiltey's patrol car. Wiltey eases the car
text: down the center of the street. Sykes and Jetson, guns
text: ready, walk slowly along on either side of the car... eyes
dialog: everywhere.
speaker_heading: MOVING POV
text: as they move past the shadowy dock warehouses... watching
dialog: for any signs of movement.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Sykes and Jetson converse across the hood of the car as
text: they walk. Their eyes everywhere.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: I never thought I'd say this, but --
dialog: for once in my life I think I'm
dialog: willing to wait for back-up.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: We can't let him get away.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Why the hell are you so dead set
dialog: against back-up?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (a difficult
dialog: admission)
dialog: Because... because of what will
dialog: happen if humans see what we are
dialog: capable of becoming.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: But there's no more drug.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: You understand that. But how many
dialog: others will?
text: Sykes looks across at Jetson's troubled expression.
text: Just then, Wiltey spots a flit of movement cutting across
text: his headlight beams fifty yards ahead. Whatever it was,
text: was large and fast. It darted into an open warehouse
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: WILTEY
dialog: There he is!
text: And Wiltey floors it. Sykes and Jetson watch, unable to
dialog: stop him.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Wiltey!
text: He and Sykes take off running. Wiltey skids to the left,
text: rockets in through the open warehouse door, out of sight.
text: Sykes and Jetson pour it on. They hear a SCREECH OF
text: BRAKES. They reach the warehouse door and race through.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
text: LOW ANGLE, SHOOTING ACROSS the underside of Wiltey's
text: stopped patrol car as Sykes' and Jetson's feet appear
text: around the corner of the warehouse door. The car is still
text: running -- the exhaust pipe still RUMBLING and expelling
text: fumes. The feet slow... then cautiously start around the
text: car. We PAN with them as they move around the side of the
text: car. A dark liquid begins dripping in EXTREME F.G. We
text: MOVE UP, to a CLOSE UP of the car bumper. The dark liquid
text: is blood, dripping deep red on the shiny chrome. We MOVE
dialog: UP farther, and--
text: -- there is Wiltey's severed head. IN CLOSE UP, resting
text: on the hood of the patrol car.
text: Sykes and Jetson stop dead at the sight. Wiltey's body
text: lies in a heap on the floor near the car. They both
text: stare, then Sykes looks around the shadowy interior of the
text: warehouse, his expression saying: what the hell could have
dialog: done this so fast?
speaker_heading: THEIR POV
text: There are two paths to go. Both dark and scary as hell.
text: The sound of a distant FOG HORN blends with the CREAKS and
text: DRIPS of this waterfront building.
scene_heading: ANGLE - SYKES AND JETSON
text: Jetson reaches into the patrol car and pulls the shotgun
text: from the dash mount. He checks the chamber as Sykes
dialog: checks the Casull.
text: They exchange a knowing look... then wordlessly, they
text: split up. Sykes takes the path to the left, Jetson to the
dialog: right.
speaker_heading: WITH JETSON
text: As he moves into a dark area. He slowly picks his way
text: along a long wall, having to step over all sorts of piled
text: debris, heading toward us. We PAN slightly to the left to
text: HOLD a door in CLOSE UP. The door, already ajar, eases
text: open slightly wider. Jetson hears this. He reaches the
text: door, sets himself, then spins and kicks the door open all
dialog: the way. There's nothing inside... now.
text: Jetson looks up, sees movement in the distance. It is
text: Sykes, quite far away, in another section of the
text: warehouse. Sykes leaves Jetson's field of view.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - GUARD'S AREA - NIGHT
text: Sykes walks around a corner -- freezes, and cocks his head
text: as he hears VOICES -- followed, curiously, by LAUGHTER.
text: He eases forward, peers around a bend, and sees -- a table
text: and a chair. On the table is a mini-television, tuned to
text: some local late night talk show. There's a thermos, a
text: steaming cup of coffee, and a Twinkie with a single bite
text: out of it beside the TV. The chair is empty, except for a
text: jacket slung across the back, the word SECURITY stitched
text: on the breast. The guard is nowhere in sight.
text: Sykes moves toward the table, taking in this eerie sight.
text: He looks around, then continues on.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - APPROACHING STAIRS - NIGHT
text: Jetson moves among the dark nooks and crannies, comes to a
text: set of stairs leading to an upper floor. The top of the
text: stairs is pitch black. Jetson adjusts his grip on the
text: shotgun, slowly starts up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - AT FISH NETS - NIGHT
text: Sykes comes to rack upon rack of drying fish nets, hanging
text: from the ceiling. He has no alternate route -- he begins
text: pushing through them.
scene_heading: SYKES' POV - MOVING THROUGH FISH NETS
text: Because of the dimness, he can't see much beyond each rack
text: of nets immediately before him. He keeps wading through
text: -- it's like a house of mirrors, he can't tell now much
text: farther he has to go to get out of the nets, and the
dialog: deeper in he gets, the harder it would be to go back the
text: way he came. He pushes past one particular rack of nets
text: and looming out of the darkness ahead of him is--
dialog: -- a terrifying face!
speaker_heading: ON SYKES
text: He stumbles back, gets tangled in the nets, brings up the
text: Casull, is about to fire when... he sees what the face is.
text: It's the maiden's figurehead from the bow of an old ship.
text: The wood is worm-eaten and decayed, creating a hideous
text: visage. Sykes stands there a moment, trying to jump-start
text: his heart again.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT
text: Jetson moves along the rickety planks. He comes to a
text: door. He eases it open, enters.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR ROOM - NIGHT
text: Jetson moves into the shadowy confines. He hears an
text: incessant drip from a sink faucet in the corner. He moves
text: to it. Turns the spigot, stopping the drip. Other drips
text: are HEARD from a dozen other hidden recesses all around
text: him. He glances up at the filthy mirror attached to the
text: wall above the sink. Suddenly he sees the movement of
text: something behind him. He spins with the shotgun. A huge
text: shadow moves along the wall. He pivots the shotgun again
text: -- toward the source of the shadow.
text: It's a length of black tarp, torn and flapping from the
text: ceiling. Jetson lets out a deep breath.
scene_heading: INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT
text: ANGLE down a short passageway to an intersecting hallway.
text: A strand of something hangs in FRAME in OUT OF FOCUS F.G.
text: It makes an indistinct, rhythmic CLINKING SOUND. Sykes
text: moves along the intersecting hallway. The CLINKING SOUND
text: catches his attention. He stops, listens, then starts
text: down the passageway, toward us.
text: He comes forward into the storage room, having to get very
text: close to the strand of something before he sees what it
text: is. It's a double strand of chain, CLINKING gently
text: against itself. Sykes reaches out, steadies the chain,
text: silencing it. He considers. It could've been a natural
dialog: occurrence... or something could have brushed against it,
text: setting it in motion. He tightens his grip on the Casull,
text: backing away from the chain. He senses something behind
text: him and spins. Nothing there. He relaxes. However--
text: Behind him now, in SOFT FOCUS, we glimpse movement at the
text: other end of the short passageway. It is a figure, moving
text: slowly forward down the passageway, back-lit by the
text: hallway light behind it, its shadow filling the passageway
text: as it approaches Sykes. It stops, inside the room now,
text: directly behind Sykes. Close enough to reach out and
text: touch him. It is an alien silhouette, but larger, more
dialog: powerful.
text: Suddenly, Sykes senses something is there. He turns,
dialog: slowly, and--
scene_heading: SHOCK CUT - HARCOURT
text: as he steps from the shadows -- just like he did the last
text: time Sykes saw him on the abandoned drawbridge. Only this
text: time it is a horribly transformed Harcourt. His eyes are
text: red-rimmed and piggish. His head is lumpen, his skin
text: thick and hard. His neck muscles are corded -- giving him
text: a kind of hellish cobra's cowl. There is still
text: intelligence behind the eyes -- but it is a feral
dialog: intelligence now.
speaker_heading: HARCOURT
text: (his voice a guttural
dialog: rumble)
dialog: Looking for me, Sergeant?
text: Sykes stumbles back several steps, wildly brings up the
text: Casull, and fires. The powerful Casull round catches
text: Harcourt in the shoulder, jerking him back.
scene_heading: EXT. WORK SHED AREA - NIGHT
text: Jetson, in another area of the docks, hears the echoing
text: blast of the Casull. He gauges as best he can the
text: direction it came from and takes off running.
scene_heading: INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT
text: Harcourt recovers from the jolt of the bullet impact. The
text: cloth of his disheveled shirt is shredded and powder-
text: burned, but the bullet couldn't pierce his plated skin.
text: Harcourt smiles with grotesquely altered teeth, starts
text: toward Sykes.
text: Scared shitless, Sykes rapid-fires. One of his shots
text: misses, shattering a crate beside Harcourt's head. The
text: remaining shots strike Harcourt full on. Harcourt is
text: jerked by the impact of the bullets each time, SNARLING in
text: anger -- but none of the hits stop him. The Casull is
text: empty and Harcourt keeps coming.
text: Sykes stumbles back, but Harcourt is on him in a flash.
text: Harcourt grabs Sykes' arm holding the gun, yanks hard. We
text: HEAR the POP as the shoulder dislocates. Sykes HOLLERS,
text: and the gun jumps out of his hand.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE - GUARD'S AREA - NIGHT
text: Jetson races in, shotgun ready. The last of Sykes' shots
text: are still ECHOING. Jetson looks around, frustrated,
text: unable to tell exactly where they are coming from. He
text: sees the likely path and charges that way.
scene_heading: EXT. DOCK - AT STAIRS - NIGHT
text: On the CUT, Sykes' body is already tumbling down these
text: rickety stairs attached to the side of the warehouse,
text: having been thrown ruthlessly from above. As Sykes' body
text: sprawls on the dock, the massive figure of Harcourt
text: appears at the top of the stairs.
text: Sykes, scraped and bruised, struggles to his feet.
text: Harcourt moves down the stairs, then vaults over the
text: railing the last fifteen feet. Harcourt lurches forward
text: and, with a taloned grip on Sykes' shoulders, propels him
text: down the docks.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHT
text: The first two arriving black-and-whites skid to stops at
text: the coroner's wagon. The Officers leap out, flagging
text: other arriving units to continue on toward the warehouses.
scene_heading: EXT. DOCKS - NIGHT
text: Sykes is on his feet, but his knees buckle, and he almost
text: collapses again. Harcourt comes at him. Then Sykes sees
dialog: it--
text: -- a fishing boat chugging along past the end of one of
text: the jetties. Sykes makes a break for it.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE - AT STAIRS - NIGHT
text: Jetson charges out at the top of the rickety stairs,
text: frantically scanning for any sign of Sykes. Then, in the
text: distance, he spots the two figures running along the jetty
text: -- Sykes being chased by the re-formed Harcourt. Jetson
text: gives the water surrounding the docks an apprehensive
text: look, then gathers up his courage, and races down the
text: stairs to help Sykes.
scene_heading: EXT. JETTY - NIGHT
text: Sykes lumbers along the narrow jetty. The fishing boat is
text: already passing the end of the jetty. Harcourt is fast
text: behind Sykes as he reaches the end of the jetty and vaults
text: off toward the stern of the boat -- landing on the fishing
text: net piled on the rear deck. He yells in pain as his ankle
text: twists under his weight.
scene_heading: EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: Sykes lies there, holding his arm, breathing hard,
text: relieved that he has escaped.
scene_heading: EXT. JETTY - NIGHT
text: Harcourt can't reach the boat from the same jetty Sykes
text: did, so he jumps on a platform beside this jetty, then
text: onto a second jetty. And from here, he vaults across the
text: seawater onto the boat.
scene_heading: EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: Sykes sees the phantom figure land on the boat near the
text: cabin. The fishing boat chugs up the channel toward the
text: open sea.
scene_heading: EXT. DOCKS - NIGHT
text: Jetson sees this and is shitting bricks. Suddenly the
text: stark BEAM of a police helicopter sun-gun stabs down from
text: above. Jetson looks up to see the chopper coming in low,
text: the sun-gun washing over the docks.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: The sun-gun hits Jetson standing on the dock, frantically
text: waving his badge at the 'copter, signaling it down. The
text: Pilot starts to take it down.
scene_heading: EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: Sykes is on all fours, clawing his way up the fishing net
text: toward the back of the boat. Harcourt gets one hand on
text: his leg. Sykes jerks his leg away, and Harcourt's claws
text: dig deep through Sykes' pants into his legs as he pulls
text: away. Sykes BELLOWS in pain.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: Jetson is barely in the seat as it lifts away from the
text: dock. He has to catch himself from falling out the open
text: door. Below, uniformed cops are now seen rushing out onto
dialog: the dock.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: On that boat -- out there!
text: Jetson indicates the fishing boat headed toward the mouth
text: of the channel. The helicopter tilts forward and goes.
scene_heading: EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: Sykes manages to pull himself up into the dinghy hanging
text: over the stern of the fishing boat. He pushes to the back
text: of the dinghy as Harcourt's savage visage appears at the
text: bow. Harcourt grins -- the predator with his prey
dialog: trapped.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: Jetson's face is bathed in sweat as he looks out at the
text: channel water racing past beneath. They come up on the
text: boat and the Pilot plays the sun-gun onto the deck,
text: looking for movement, finally pinning Sykes and Harcourt
text: at the stern dinghy.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: The Captain reacts to the helicopter overhead, looks back
text: at what the sun-gun spotlights. He sees Harcourt standing
text: at the bow of the dinghy, starting to clamber in.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Hey!
scene_heading: EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: Harcourt turns, sees the Captain on the bridge above him.
text: He reaches for a wood-handled gaff nearby. He rears back
text: with it and lets it fly like a spear.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: The gaff impales the Captain, off-center in his chest.
text: The Captain, his face frozen in shock, is thrown back
text: against the throttle. The boat lunges forward as the
text: engines REV loudly.
scene_heading: EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT
text: Harcourt is thrown into the dinghy with Sykes. As
text: Harcourt recovers, Sykes spots the release for the tie
text: line on the dinghy. He lunges forward, throwing the
text: ratchet. The line plays out, and the dinghy slides
dialog: backward into water!
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: Jetson watches this happen.
scene_heading: EXT. DINGHY - NIGHT
text: The dinghy bangs along (at the end of the ten foot tie
text: line) in the wake of the speeding fishing boat.
text: Harcourt claws his way toward Sykes. Water is already
text: splashing in over the stern transom... the dinghy is
text: sinking. Harcourt grabs Sykes' leg and pulls him toward
text: him. Sykes holds on to the stern cleats with all his
text: might. Harcourt yanks him free. Sykes kicks wildly at
text: the ratchet release, trying to free the remainder of the
text: line. Harcourt is coming in for the kill when--
text: -- Sykes' foot connects with the ratchet lever. The rest
text: of the tie line snakes through the ratchet, freeing the
dialog: dinghy from the fishing boat!
text: The dinghy is rocking wildly, sinking fast. A wave from
text: the fishing boat's wake splashes in over the side. Some
text: of it hits Harcourt -- he HOWLS and falls away. Sykes
text: sees this, tries to clamber over the side, but Harcourt is
text: on him again. Sykes' body weight at the side of the
text: dinghy coupled with the rocking motion cause more water to
text: wash in over the transom.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: Jetson reacts to Sykes and Harcourt battling in the dinghy
dialog: below.
scene_heading: EXT. DINGHY - NIGHT
text: Harcourt, who is getting more and more wet, HOWLS in
text: agony, thick blood beginning to bead wherever the water
text: touches. Sykes is taking one hell of a beating. Harcourt
text: sweeps Sykes up in a bear hug, is about to crush his rib
text: cage, when Sykes shifts his body weight, knocking Harcourt
text: off balance. Harcourt wobbles, fear on his face for the
text: first time -- then he finally loses it, and the two of
text: them tumble overboard into the water, capsizing the
dialog: dinghy.
scene_heading: EXT. WATER - NIGHT
text: Sykes breaks the surface, gasping for air, frantically
text: clawing with his one good arm at the wedge of dinghy still
text: above the water. Suddenly, behind him, Harcourt's
text: partially melted form erupts from the water, lunges on top
text: of Sykes, and drags him under.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: Jetson hangs in the open door, watching in horror, wanting
text: to help, knowing he can't.
scene_heading: EXT. WATER - NIGHT
text: Sykes breaks the surface, Harcourt's misshapen lump of a
text: body unmoving but still on top of him. Sykes shoves it
text: away, struggling to stay afloat. His head keeps dunking
text: under. He's drowning.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: Jetson screws up his courage and turns to the Pilot.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: Take it down! Take it down!
scene_heading: EXT. WATER AND HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: The helicopter moves down toward the turbulent water.
text: Jetson hangs in the doorway, watching Sykes' head dunking
text: under again. The helicopter's skids are three feet above
dialog: the water.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (to Pilot)
dialog: ALL THE WAY!
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: I CAN'T IT'LL DITCH!
text: Sykes' outreached hand stretches up from the water, but
text: the skid is just too high. Jetson has no alternative, and
text: he does the bravest thing he has ever done. He moves out
text: onto the narrow helicopter skid. Hanging on, three feet
text: above the water, he reaches down for Sykes' up reaching
dialog: hand.
text: The fingertips of the two hands waver mere inches from
text: each other... Jetson stretches farther, farther... and the
text: two hands meet! Jetson winces from the pain of the
text: seawater on Sykes' hand. He starts pulling Sykes up.
dialog: When--
text: HARCOURT'S HEAD BREAKS THE SURFACE A FOOT FROM SYKES'
text: FACE. His eye sockets are empty and his skin is mostly
text: gone. The nearly skeletal body heaves blindly onto Sykes,
text: breaking his grip from Jetson's, and dragging him under
dialog: again.
text: Jetson is frantic. He keeps waiting -- but this time
text: Sykes doesn't come up. Jetson doesn't know what to do.
text: Finally -- he leans down as far as he can, his face a foot
text: from the water, SCREAMS to block the pain, and plunges his
text: own arm below the surface! He feels around, gets hold of
text: something, and pulls. It is Sykes' wrist. He pulls hard,
text: bringing the sputtering Sykes up out of the water.
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: (to Pilot)
dialog: Take it up!
text: The Pilot does. Sykes comes up out of the water. His
text: feet are just clear of the surface when -- Harcourt's hand
text: and arm rocket out of the water, grabbing Sykes' ankle.
text: Sykes looks down in horror. The helicopter keeps moving
text: up, and before Harcourt's body breaks the surface, the arm
text: tears away from the torso at the shoulder. Sykes wildly
text: shakes the clinging severed arm from his ankle, and it
text: falls back into the water below.
text: Jetson continues pulling him up into the helicopter as it
text: moves off toward shore.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT
text: Sykes plops on the floor, soaked, battered, holding his
text: limp arm. Jetson is quickly whipping off his jacket,
text: wrapping the dry part around his own arm, wincing in pain.
text: The Pilot stare down at the circle of water where they
dialog: just pulled Sykes from.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: What the hell was that down there?
dialog: It was weird.
text: Jetson looks at Sykes, wondering if he will say. Sykes
text: looks at Jetson a long moment, then--
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: Looked like every other damn slag to
dialog: me. Just plain ugly.
text: Despite the pain, Jetson smiles.
scene_heading: LONG DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. CHURCH ANTEROOM - DAY
text: We are CLOSE on Sykes, who is having a hell of a time,
text: trying to tie a tuxedo tie with one arm in a sling. A
text: PAIR OF ALIEN ARMS reach into FRAME to help him. One of
text: the alien arms is also in a sling.
text: ANGLE WIDENS to reveal the alien is Jetson. Both men wear
dialog: tuxedos.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: How do I look?
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: You look very good.
text: There's a knock at the door. Sykes opens it. There
text: stands Sykes' daughter, KRISTIN, twenty years old, looking
text: radiant in her wedding dress. She is in a foyer, and
text: behind her is the interior of the church with all the
dialog: assembled guests, including Mrs. Jetson &amp; son.
speaker_heading: KRISTIN
dialog: Ready, Daddy...?
text: Sykes' heart melts. Before moving to the door:
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: George, uh... I want to apologize
dialog: now, in advance, for all the rotten
dialog: things I'll ever say or do to you
dialog: over the years.
text: Sykes moves to join his daughter. As he does:
speaker_heading: JETSON
dialog: That is all right, Matthew. After
dialog: all, you are only human.
text: Sykes, caught off guard, has to laugh.
speaker_heading: SYKES
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: What a wildman...
text: Sykes takes his daughter's arm and the two of them start
text: down the aisle.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
