text: ALL THE MONEY IN THE WORLD
dialog: by David Scarpa
dialog: June 15, 2015
speaker_heading: TRISTAR PICTURES
speaker_heading: 10202 West Washington Blvd
speaker_heading: Culver City, CA 90230
dialog: (310) 244-4000
scene_heading: © 2015 SONY PICTURES
dialog: This is a true story.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
speaker_heading: A GREAT MAZE
text: looms below us: a labyrinth of tangled alleyways. We DESCEND
text: toward it and into the dark heart of an ancient city.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPO DEI FIORE, ROME -- NIGHT
text: The streets of Rome are locked in a 3AM traffic jam. MUSIC
text: spills from cafes and discotheques. We DESCEND further...
speaker_heading: TITLE UP: 1973
text: ...into sidewalks overflowing with prostitutes, B-movie stars,
text: mafiosi, down-on-their-luck royalty and paparazzi darting
text: between cars on Vespa scooters. And now, from out of the
text: crowd, something even stranger emerges:
speaker_heading: A BOY
text: in his mid-teens, at once streetwise and innocent. A skinny
text: kid in worn jeans with iron-on patches on the knees. The
text: streetwalkers in their platform shoes call out to him:
speaker_heading: PROSTITUTES
dialog: Ciao, Paolo!
text: The kid smiles bashfully as they fall in around him.
speaker_heading: PROSTITUTES (CONT'D)
dialog: Che magro, che vergogna! So skinny.
dialog: Paolo, bambino, why don't you let us
dialog: make you breakfast? We'd look after
dialog: you real nice.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (smiles, blushing)
dialog: I bet you would.
text: A car pulls up to the curb: it's time for the girls to go
text: back to work. Maria-Donna pulls Paul close, serious now:
speaker_heading: MARIA-DONNA
dialog: Hurry home, Paolo, eh? The street
dialog: is no place for a boy like you.
dialog: Don't make your poor mamma worry.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I can take care of myself. Ciao,
dialog: Maria-Donna.
text: Paul walks on, leaving the girls to haggle with their johns.
text: He pulls out a folded-over issue of Fantastic Comics and
text: walks away into the darkened, narrow Via dei Bauillari.
text: A PAIR OF HEADLIGHTS
text: flicker to life behind him. Paul walks on, oblivious,
text: immersed in his comic book.
text: The car creeps forward. The headlights like owl's-eyes. A
text: white Fiat 600. It drives up behind him. Hovering.
text: A man climbs out. He wears a red ski mask.
speaker_heading: SKI MASK
dialog: Paul?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Yeah -- ?
text: Paul turns and sees them. A moment -- and then he runs.
text: In an instant, they are upon him. The boy flails, kicking
text: and writhing to buck them off. He's got a lot of fight in
text: him for such a skinny kid; it's as if he knew this was coming.
text: They open the trunk and shove Paul inside. He doesn't fit.
text: Someone sits down on the trunk.
text: The latch clicks: it's closed. The men pull off their masks.
text: Their eyes are black and wild with adrenaline. They climb
text: into the car.
speaker_heading: SKI MASK
dialog: Avanti! Go!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A PHONE RECEIVER
text: clatters into its cradle. We TILT UP to reveal a flustered
text: young SECRETARY in red lipstick and a tight sweater. She
text: rises from her desk, overwhelmed, and she begins to run.
scene_heading: EXT. SUTTON PLACE (SURREY, ENGLAND) -- DAY
text: A sprawling 400-year-old mansioned estate surrounded by
text: gardens and statuary.
text: The secretary runs across the grounds in her high heels.
text: She runs past a row of ancient busts of Roman emperors.
text: She runs past a full-grown male LION pacing in a gilded cage.
text: She runs past a swimming pool ringed by lounging STARLETS.
text: She trips and stumbles as she breaks a heel. She reaches
text: down, pulls her shoes off, and runs in her nylons --
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- DAY
text: -- up the stairs of the mansion, past walls cluttered with a
text: vast art collection. She runs down the hallway --
scene_heading: INT. ATELIER -- DAY
text: -- and opens the door to a huge room, empty but for a Louis
text: XIV desk, a phone and an old-time paper-tape stock ticker.
text: A man in a bespoke suit stands at the window, gazing out
text: upon his estate. The paper tape from the stock ticker snakes
text: across the room and through his fingertips. He whispers
text: price quotes to himself, like a monk saying the rosary.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr Getty. I should have
dialog: knocked but -- it's --
text: J. PAUL GETTY turns and cocks an eyebrow. His gaze is quick
text: and focused; he has the impatience of a man whose mind is
text: always sixty seconds ahead of whomever he's listening to.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: To the point, Nancy, the market's
dialog: open.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: They've -- He's been kidnapped!
dialog: Paul, Little Paul, your grandson, in
dialog: Rome my God he's just a child --
text: The ticker-tape in Getty's hands stops moving.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY (CONT'D)
dialog: They need to speak with you, it's
dialog: very urgent. The Italian police,
dialog: the boy's mother, they're on the
dialog: phone right now.
text: A tremor of emotion in Getty's eyes. Then it's gone.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I'm not available.
text: The Secretary stares at him.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Excuse me, Mr. Getty?
speaker_heading: GETTY
text: The door, Nancy.
text: She closes the door as the tape in the Getty's fingertips
text: starts to move again. We hear young Paul in VOICE-OVER:
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: To be a Getty is an extraordinary
dialog: thing.
scene_heading: EXT. AUTOSTRADA -- NIGHT
text: The little Fiat 600 (with Paul in the trunk) drives through
text: a toll gate and onto the great Italian highway.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: I know that because my grandpa told
dialog: me so.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL -- FLASHBACK -- DAY
text: J Paul Getty and the young Paul walk down a dark tunnel.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You're a Getty, Paul. A Getty is
dialog: special. A Getty has a destiny. A
dialog: Getty is nobody's fool.
text: The boy gazes up at his grandfather reverently.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: You see, my grandpa wasn't just the
dialog: richest man in the world. He was
dialog: the richest man in the history of
dialog: the world.
scene_heading: EXT. SAUDI DESERT -- DAY
text: SAND DUNES undulate endlessly unto the horizon. We SOAR
text: OVER THEM until we find a singular figure standing amidst
dialog: the shifting sands: J Paul Getty.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: My grandpa was the one who brought
text: the oil out of the Saudi desert.
dialog: Everybody knew it was there, they
dialog: just thought it couldn't be done.
text: We CRANE over the dunes to REVEAL a great city of refineries
text: and pumping oil derricks belching flame, a mirage seemingly
text: summoned forth by Getty's will alone.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: But Grandpa found a way. He made a
dialog: deal with the Bedouin tribes. But
dialog: there was so much oil there was no
text: ship big enough to carry it all.
scene_heading: EXT. SHIPYARD -- DAY
text: Getty supervises construction of a SUPERTANKER, a behemoth
text: the size of a skyscraper lying on its side.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: So my grandfather invented one. He
dialog: called it the supertanker.
scene_heading: EXT. AMERICAN LANDSCAPE -- DAY
text: As we soar over the American intercontinental highway, SERVICE
text: STATIONS materialize out of nowhere, dotting the landscape,
dialog: all bearing the Getty name.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: Then he built a chain of service
dialog: stations across America with his
dialog: name on them. Grandpa controlled
text: every drop of oil, from beneath the
text: earth to the customer's gas tank.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: And he was famous.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: PLAYBOY MAGAZINE
text: In a series of B&W still images accompanying the pages of
text: THE PLAYBOY INTERVIEW -- click click click -- Getty holds
dialog: forth on his great wealth.
speaker_heading: PLAYBOY
dialog: Mr. Getty, rumor has it that you are
dialog: the first man in history with a
dialog: fortune in excess of one billion
dialog: dollars. How much money do you have?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I have no idea. If you can count
dialog: your money, you're not a billionaire.
scene_heading: EXT. AUTOSTRADA -- NIGHT
text: The little Fiat 600 winds along the serpentine Italian
text: highway, its headlights blazing.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: I'm telling you this so you can
dialog: understand the things you're about to
dialog: see. And maybe you can forgive us.
text: We PULL BACK as the Fiat winds along the autostrada, away
text: from the glowing city, until it vanishes into the dark.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: It's like we're from another planet
dialog: where the force of gravity is so
text: strong it bends the light. It bends
dialog: people too. We look like you, but
dialog: we're not like you.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: But we were, once.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: ABIGAIL HARRIS GETTY
text: lies sleeping in a beauty mask as her three children, PAUL
text: (9), MARK (4), and ARIADNE (2) bounce on the bed, clamoring
text: for breakfast. Her husband lies beside her. Gail GROANS:
speaker_heading: GAIL
text: Too early. The sun's not even up.
dialog: Back to bed, you little monsters.
text: Little Paul peels back one eye of Gail's mask and lets the
text: sunlight in. She recoils.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: You made your point. But no pancakes.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT KITCHEN -- MORNING
text: QUICK CUTS: Gail fixes pancakes for the children and a cup
text: of strong black coffee for herself, cleans up empty
text: wineglasses and ashtrays from the party the night before,
text: downs two aspirin, puts a samba LP on the Hi-Fi, washes up,
text: dresses the children, pulls on capris, teases her hair, and
text: does a quick little bossa-nova with the children.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Now, you'll have to amuse yourselves
dialog: quietly. I have work to do this
dialog: morning and I am not to be disturbed.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM -- DAY
text: Gail works with pastels at an easel, copying from a posed
text: photo of a model in a cocktail dress (the music PLAYS OVER
text: from the previous scene, and throughout this whole sequence).
dialog: It's catalog work, but Gail's got a gift for line and gesture:
text: she has style. Her kids draw on the floor alongside her,
text: copying everything she does. Little Paul especially.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- DAY
text: Gail is on the phone, a utility bill in her hand.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Look in your file and you'll find
dialog: that we've been very good customers
dialog: of Southern California Edison. We're
dialog: good people.
dialog: 7.
text: In the sunlight we can see the words PAST DUE written there.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: And I have a little boy who's
dialog: concerned that if the lights aren't
dialog: on for Christmas Santa might not
dialog: find his way here.
dialog: Everything about Gail -- her Seven Sisters accent, her
text: finishing school posture -- reeks of the former debutante.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: If we could make the minimum payment
dialog: we wouldn't need an extension. We
dialog: do want to pay something, though.
text: We notice who the bill is addressed to: JOHN PAUL GETTY, JR.
speaker_heading: PHONE REP (0.S.)
dialog: Tell me, Mrs Getty. What does your
dialog: husband do?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: He's a poet. A good one.
speaker_heading: PHONE REP (0.S.)
dialog: Any relation to the oil man Getty?
text: She considers her answer carefully.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Distant.
speaker_heading: PHONE REP (0.S.)
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Must be, right?
scene_heading: EXT. BEVERLY HILLS APARTMENT DUPLEX -- DAY
text: Gail piles all three children into a Ford Fairlane. She
text: holds the electric bill in her hand, along with her drawings.
scene_heading: INT. SPIEGEL CATALOG PUBLICATIONS -- ART DEPARTMENT -- DAY
text: Gail hands over her drawings. The girl at the desk pays $25
dialog: apiece, in cash. Gail wouldn't dream of counting the money.
scene_heading: INT. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON -- DAY
text: Gail counts the money. She stuffs it in the tray at the
text: payment window. She thumbs through what's left.
scene_heading: EXT. RODEO DRIVE, BEVERLY HILLS -- DAY
text: Gail walks through Beverly Hills with her three children in
text: tow. She passes a store window and stops. It's Givenchy.
dialog: 8.
text: She gazes longingly at the window display of a woman in an
text: sapphire evening gown... and then we RACK FOCUS to the mother
text: with three kids reflected in the glass.
speaker_heading: ARIADNE (0.S.)
dialog: Are we going home now?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: One last stop, darling.
scene_heading: INT. WILSHIRE CORRIDOR OFFICE BUILDING -- DAY
text: Gail approaches the building's registry, with her children
text: in tow. She steps closer. She takes off her sunglasses.
text: There, encased beneath glass, are the white letters pressed
text: into black felt: GETTY OIL CORPORATION -- 28TH FLOOR.
speaker_heading: CONCIERGE (0.S.)
dialog: Excuse me, miss. May I help you?
scene_heading: EXT. WILSHIRE CORRIDOR OFFICE BUILDING -- DAY
text: Gail and her children stand out on the sidewalk, squinting
text: up at the 20-story glass tower that looms above them.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Must be eighty stories at least.
dialog: How many stories is it, Mom?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't know, darling. An awful lot
dialog: of stories.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What are we looking for, Mom?
text: Gail puts her sunglasses back on.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Your grandfather.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT -- LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: I've never even met the man.
text: JOHN PAUL GETTY II (known in the family as "Big Paul") is
text: young, bearded and handsome, his feet propped up on the want
text: ads on the coffee table before him.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR (CONT'D)
dialog: You know he refused to pay my mother
dialog: a nickel of child support.
dialog: 9.
text: Big Paul climbs out of his chair and digs around inside the
text: desk drawers. The apartment is warm, bohemian, filled with
text: paintings and books and music on the record player.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR (CONT'D)
dialog: When I was a boy, I would send my
dialog: father letters. "Dear Daddy, how I
dialog: wish I could meet you. I'1l be
dialog: waiting for you at the baseball
dialog: diamond," that sort of thing.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You know what he sent back?
text: He hands Gail a letter. It's in little-boy handwriting, on
text: lined paper -- but marked up with red ink.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR (CONT'D)
dialog: He mailed it back with the spelling
dialog: corrected. Nothing else.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: He is your father, that's got to
dialog: count for something, Paul, the rent
text: is due and Christmas is coming.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: What would you have me do, Gail?
dialog: Accost him on the street?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We write him a letter and ask for a
dialog: job. Any job. And this time, we'll
dialog: get the spelling right.
text: Gail goes to his chair, sits on his lap, and kisses him. He
text: looks up at her: she's not an easy woman to say no to.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: You were never meant to be poor,
dialog: Gail. I know that.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We're not poor. We're broke. There's
dialog: a difference.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: I don't want to be an oil man.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't want you to either. I love
dialog: you the way you are. All we need is
dialog: enough to get by, but we're not
dialog: getting by.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: I'm sorry, Gail.
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm tired of struggling. I'm ready
dialog: for a different kind of life.
text: Big Paul gets up, picks up the bottle of Chianti from the
text: coffee table, and goes to the bedroom. We HOLD on Gail.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT -- LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Gail sets her husband's Smith-Corona down on the carpet.
text: She inserts a clean page into the carriage.
speaker_heading: GAIL (V.O.)
dialog: Dear Dad -- Father -- For years I
dialog: struggled to understand why you kept
dialog: your distance. Now I know you were
dialog: giving me a chance to prove myself,
dialog: on my own, free from the shadow of
dialog: your achievements -- no, great --
dialog: (backspace, retypes)
dialog: -- immense achievements. I understand
dialog: now what a sacrifice that must have
dialog: been for you.
text: She kneels before the typewriter, a pretty witch conjuring
dialog: spirits.
speaker_heading: GAIL (V.0O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Now that I am a man, I have nothing
dialog: left to prove, except to you. Let
dialog: me prove myself to you, Father.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: As always, your loving -- no, your
dialog: loyal son: John Paul Getty Two.
dialog: She RIPS the page from the carriage and we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT -- LIVING ROOM -- EVENING
text: MUSIC. Big Paul reaches into the fridge and pops the top on
text: a can of Schlitz. Gail is making dinner on the stove. Big
text: Paul slips his hands beneath her sweater to warm them.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: God, your hands are cold! Stop, the
dialog: kids are -- I'm serious, you --
text: Gail wriggles free and Big Paul dances her around the
text: apartment to the BEACH BOYS' CHRISTMAS ALBUM as the children
text: look on. There's a tree with presents beneath it.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: (singing along)
dialog: He's the man with all the toys ...
dialog: 11.
text: Gail gazes up at him, starry-eyed: for this one moment, all
text: is right with the world. The BUZZER rings.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: That'll be Ms. Canzanelli telling us
text: she's calling the police.
dialog: (pressing the button)
dialog: We're so sorry about the noise --
speaker_heading: INTERCOM (0.S.)
dialog: I have a car waiting for Mr. John
dialog: Paul Getty the Second, if you please.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: "The Second?"
text: Little Paul goes to the window.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Down in the street, look --
text: OUTSIDE, a ROLLS-ROYCE PHANTOM is idling in the street.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Oh my God, somebody died.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: No, baby. We've been sent for.
scene_heading: INT. ROLLS-ROYCE PHANTOM -- EVENING
text: As "The Man With All The Toys" continues to play, the little
text: family rides in the back of the Rolls, along with their
text: hastily-packed bags. The kids exchange a look. Up ahead
dialog: they see it --
scene_heading: EXT. AIRSTRIP -- EVENING
text: A LEARJET 23 private plane idling on the runway. The Rolls
text: drives right up to the clamshell airstair.
scene_heading: INT. LIMOUSINE -- ROME -- NIGHT
text: Little Paul wakes up in the back of another limousine. The
text: other kids gaze amazedly out the window, their breath fogging
text: the glass. Reflected in the window is the Roman coliseum.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL PALERMO -- NIGHT
text: A luxurious Roman hotel, with a mustached CONCIERGE waiting
text: to receive them. A BELLMAN takes their bags.
speaker_heading: CONCIERGE
dialog: Signore Getty is awaiting you.
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR -- NIGHT
text: Parked outside the door is a room-service cart piled high
text: with dirty trays. A "NON DISTURBARE" sign hangs from the
text: doorknob. The Concierge KNOCKS gently. We PUSH into
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE -- NIGHT
text: A CLOTHESLINE is strung across the length of the room, from
text: which are suspended a line of MEN'S UNDERPANTS on clothespins.
text: Empty food containers and clothes are everywhere.
text: And everywhere there is art: paintings and artifacts propped
text: against the walls. Little Paul reaches into the mess and
text: pulls out a small statuette lying on the floor: it's a
text: MINOTAUR carved out of marble.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: (taking it from him)
dialog: Don't touch that, sweetheart. Let's
dialog: just keep our hands to ourselves.
dialog: It's dirty.
dialog: (examining it)
text: And old. Possibly priceless.
speaker_heading: GETTY (0.S.)
dialog: I deplore that word.
text: They turn to see Getty emerge from the bedroom, freshly
text: groomed and powdered.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm sorry?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Dirty and old I have no problem with
dialog: at all. In fact I have some affection
dialog: for them as they're the words most
dialog: frequently used to describe me, along
dialog: with rich.
text: Getty goes to the mirror, inserts a tie bar into his collar.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: But priceless -- that's another thing
dialog: entirely. People say priceless when
dialog: what they really mean to say that
dialog: something is invaluable, or
dialog: irreplaceable. That Minotaur
dialog: statuette in your hands, for instance,
dialog: dates from 460BC; there are only a
dialog: handful like it remaining, and none
dialog: in such pristine condition. I'm
dialog: sure those fuckers at the Met or the
dialog: British Museum would kill to get
text: their greasy paws on it.
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: LITTLE PAUL
dialog: He just said --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Paul.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Would you care to guess what I paid
dialog: for it?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I wouldn't know where to begin.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Oh, you're too modest. You've got
dialog: taste, I can tell. I think you know
dialog: a good deal about art.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I do. I just don't know what it costs.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Well then, you'll learn. Come on,
dialog: indulge an old fool. What do you
dialog: think I paid?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Five hundred thousand dollars.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Eleven dollars and twenty-three cents.
dialog: I picked it up in the black market
dialog: in Heraklion. This cripple was asking
dialog: seventeen dollars for it and it took
dialog: me an hour to bring him down to his
dialog: bottom line. At Sotheby's today I'd
dialog: hazard it'd bring $1.2 million.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: You see, priceless is such an insipid
dialog: word. Everything has a price. The
dialog: great struggle in life is coming to
dialog: grips with what that price is.
text: He crouches down and offers the figurine to Little Paul.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: I want you to have it.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: We couldn't.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Do you like it, Paul?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: That's OK. I don't need it.
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I insist.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I insist. We can't. It's far too
text: extravagant for a little boy.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: For most little boys, it would be.
text: Getty hands the boy the statue.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: But not for a Getty.
text: Little Paul takes the figurine; it's done. They're forced
text: to accept it. Gail and Big Paul smile awkwardly.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Thank you. We'll treasure it.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Thanks are for strangers. You're
dialog: family. You're my family. Come
dialog: here, let me look at you.
dialog: (brings Big Paul close)
dialog: Son. My son. My grandson.
dialog: (to Gail)
dialog: My daughter.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Daughter-in-law, I'm afraid.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Nonsense. You're not just some
dialog: district judge's daughter anymore.
dialog: You're one of our family now.
text: Getty turns to his son:
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: I had to focus on my mission, you
dialog: understand. My business. I couldn't
text: be weighed down, mentally, with a
dialog: family. There was work to be done.
dialog: You understand that, don't you.
text: Big Paul is silent. Getty darkens, glowering, then walks
text: away, pushing the clothesline aside as he crosses the room.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: Pardon the laundry. I wash my
dialog: undershorts myself, in the bathroom
dialog: sink.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: I see no reason to pay ten dollars
dialog: to have room service launder them
dialog: when I can do it myself for a few
dialog: lira. What kind of rube do they
dialog: take me for? Which reminds me --
text: He takes out a small notebook and golf pencil and writes an
scene_heading: entry: LAUNDRY SOAP -- 22 LIRA.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: It's tax-deductible. Almost
dialog: everything is, if you know how to
dialog: play it. What in hell are we doing
dialog: standing around in this dusty old
dialog: hotel room? We should be celebrating.
dialog: That's what families do, right?
speaker_heading: LITTLE PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: After that, everything changed.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- PIAZZA NAVONA -- DAY
text: Gail throws open the windows. The family is moving into a
text: light-filled apartment. Gail is unpacking when she finds it --
speaker_heading: LITTLE PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: Dad became an executive in Grandpa's
dialog: company. Mom found us an apartment
text: near the Piazza Navona.
text: -- the Minotaur figurine wrapped in her scarf. It makes her
text: anxious. She finds a shoebox and stashes it in the closet.
speaker_heading: LITTLE PAUL (V.0O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: And Grandpa started my education.
scene_heading: EXT. ROMAN TUNNEL -- DAY
text: We return to the SILHOUETTES of Getty and Paul as they walk
text: hand-in-hand through the darkened, ancient tunnel.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Come on, I want to show you something.
text: We FOLLOW them through the mouth of the tunnel. They look
text: out upon it: the boy is awed.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: It's home.
text: We step out into the sunlight of
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: EXT. HADRIAN'S VILLA -- DAY
text: AN ANCIENT ROMAN VILLA in the mountains overlooking Rome,
text: ringed by statues of the Roman gods. Getty leads Paul on a
dialog: house tour:
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: This is where I slept with my wife,
dialog: Sabina. This here is where I ate
dialog: roast wild boar with my generals.
dialog: This is where I made love to my
dialog: concubines. And this is where I
dialog: took my baths.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You used to live here?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: In the second century, when I was
dialog: the Emperor Hadrian. I knew it the
dialog: moment I first visited this place.
dialog: I remembered every stone as clearly
dialog: as if I'd just come back from a trip
text: to the store for a pack of smokes.
dialog: I never felt at home anywhere on
dialog: Earth until I came here.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Maybe they'd let you stay. Overnight,
dialog: like. Get a tent and a sleeping bag --
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Oh, I tried, believe me. I made
dialog: them an offer, a very generous offer!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Them?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Rome. The Romans. But when they
dialog: hear the name Getty they all get
text: dollar signs in their eyes. They
dialog: said it wasn't for sale.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Figures.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Exactly. That old tactic. That's
dialog: what I'm talking about, Paul.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: To be a Getty is to have everyone
dialog: you know secretly want a piece of
dialog: you. You are surrounded, always, by
dialog: smiling faces, but you have no one.
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You have us.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: (deeply moved)
dialog: That's true. I have you now. And
dialog: to think it was almost too late.
dialog: All I've built would crumble into
dialog: dust if there's no one to carry it
dialog: on after I'm gone.
dialog: (takes Paul's hand)
text: The blood of emperors runs through
dialog: you, as it does through me. You're
dialog: a Getty, Paul. You have a destiny.
scene_heading: EXT. YACHT/BOAT HARBOR, PORTOFINO, ITALY -- DAY
text: Gail, Big Paul and the children descend the gangplank onto a
text: 47-foot yacht. Beautiful COUPLES and their children are
text: already relaxing on deck with cocktails and music. ISABELLE
text: and JULIAN, the hosts, wave happily as they descend.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: Jules, it's the Gettys!
dialog: (kisses, greetings)
dialog: We were worried you'd been abducted.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: If I were you I'd make us walk the
text: plank.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: Not until we've got a few drinks in
dialog: you first. And this must be John
dialog: Paul II?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: And III.
text: Charmed LAUGHTER. Big Paul looks a bit taken aback.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: No Roman numerals, please. We're
dialog: American. Just Paul is fine, for
dialog: both of us.
scene_heading: EXT. LIGURIAN SEA -- DAY
text: Bronzed bodies lie in the sun alongside sweating gin-and-
text: tonics as the yacht glides over a stained-glass sea. Little
text: Paul tiptoes over and around them --
text: -- to the bow of the boat, where Gail stands, wearing a white
text: shift dress, her eyes closed: an Aegean goddess. She sees
text: Little Paul, holds out her hand to him, and brings him close.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I feel like we're flying.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Me too, darling.
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: The whole world, for you.
text: She hold him as they gaze into the approaching horizon.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM -- DAY
text: Getty, Little Paul, and Big Paul all sit at the breakfast
text: table, attended by BULLIMORE, a butler in a morning coat.
text: Getty eats a half grapefruit. Big Paul seems hung over.
text: Little Paul eats Cheerios as he reads Getty's mail to him.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: “Dear Mr. Getty, I am writing you
dialog: because we are in desperate straits.
dialog: My husband suffers from a tumor that
dialog: has caused his groin area to swell
text: to uncontrollable dimensions. The
dialog: doctors say without immediate surgery
dialog: normal movement will soon become
dialog: impossible. God bless you, you are
dialog: a Great American, Elvira Broadus,
dialog: Mound City, Arkansas."
text: Getty dictates as the boy transcribes his response:
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Dear Mrs. Broadus, while I am
dialog: sympathetic to your unique situation,
dialog: you are one of three thousand people
dialog: daily who write to me asking for
dialog: money. If I were to respond to every
dialog: request for money I receive, I would
dialog: soon be as destitute as yourself.
text: The boy seems slightly downcast.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: Yours, JP Getty. Next.
text: The boy places the form letter into an envelope, addresses
text: it, and sets it on a pile of identical letters. Little Paul
text: picks up a new letter and opens it.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: “Dear Mr. Getty --"
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: Surely you can find someone else to
dialog: answer your mail.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I like it, Dad.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: He likes it, son. The boy wants to
dialog: be useful. I find that admirable.
dialog: It's a family business. Everyone
dialog: has a role to play. Which reminds
dialog: me: I'm firing Howard Larkin. I'm
dialog: making you Executive Vice President
dialog: of Getty Oil, with oversight over
dialog: European operations and exploration.
speaker_heading: JOHN PAUL JR
dialog: All I know about oil is regular or
text: unleaded.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You wanted a job. I'm giving you
dialog: one. Sink or swim.
speaker_heading: BLACK OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. LE PALAIS DU ZAHIR, MARRAKECH, MOROCCO -- MORNING
text: CLOSE on Little Paul's sleeping face. He is older now, almost
text: in his teens. His eyes open. He sits up and looks around.
text: We are in a vast room piled with pillows and carpets, and
text: people sleeping upon them. Thick smoke hangs in the air.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- MORNING
text: Paul pours a bowl of cereal. There are others here, shirtless
text: skinny men with beards and long hair; he doesn't know them.
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- MORNING
text: A huge round bed within a tent-like canopy of brocaded silk
text: dominates the room. A man and a woman are sleeping there.
text: Paul lifts the flap of the canopy and climbs into the bed
text: with his cereal. We realize that, beneath the long hair and
text: the beard, the man is Big Paul, his father.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Dad.
dialog: (increasing volume)
dialog: Dad. Dad. Dad.
text: Big Paul does not move. Little Paul turns and looks at the
text: woman beside him; she is not his mother, but a remarkable
text: dark-haired beauty, a model.
dialog: 20.
text: Upon the nightstand there's a glass of wine, a lighter, a
text: glassine bag, a burnt spoon.
speaker_heading: PAUL (CONT'D)
dialog: Dad. Dad. Dad.
text: Finally, Paul realizes it's pointless and gives up.
scene_heading: INT. GETTY OIL COMPANY, LOS ANGELES -- DAY
text: Gail Getty paces in the front lobby of Getty's headquarters.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: This poor woman, what she has endured!
text: Gail is impeccably dressed and attended by her Italian
text: attorney, the high-strung, diminutive GIOVANNI IACOVONI.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI (CONT'D)
dialog: The decadence of the father, a
dialog: depraved drug addict, living ina
text: palace in Marrakech filled with hippie
dialog: parasites. How she suffers with
dialog: worry for her son!
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Giovanni, enough. This isn't Italy.
dialog: We're not going before the Pope for
dialog: an annulment.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: I know this, signora. I do this
dialog: simply to get my blood flowing.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's all business to them.
text: A TEAM OF SUITS file past en route to the conference room.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: I wonder how many people have ever
dialog: managed to walk out of that conference
text: room in one piece.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: Signora. Do not underestimate the
dialog: power of a mother's love.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Right now I'd rather have a
dialog: billionaire's money.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY (0.S.)
dialog: Ms Getty, they're ready for you now.
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: INT. BOARD ROOM -- DAY
text: A long conference table, lined on either side with ATTORNEYS.
text: At one end sits Gail Getty, with Iacovoni by her side.
speaker_heading: ATTORNEY
dialog: Of course, we expect Ms. Getty will
dialog: be seeking a generous financial
dialog: settlement, as is typical in high-
dialog: profile divorce cases.
text: At the other end sits J Paul Getty, silent and aloof. Beside
text: him, his lead attorney, OSWALD HINGE.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: As pertains to custody, there is the
dialog: matter of Ms. Getty's fitness as a
dialog: mother.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
text: The father is a drug addict who cannot
dialog: tie his own shoes. You would leave
text: the boy alone in Morocco with a rich
dialog: degenerate?
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: The court will take a close interest
dialog: in her psychological profile. We
dialog: are asking the judge to order a
dialog: complete evaluation by a panel of
dialog: psychiatrists.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: Ms Harris suffers from a common
dialog: affliction among the intelligent
dialog: women, which is to fall in love with
dialog: lo imbrogliare, losers, bums. Aside
dialog: from this, she is in perfect mental
dialog: health, you know this as well as I
dialog: do. You are simply stalling, using
text: the boy as a bargaining chip.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: We have all the time in the world.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: (vising)
dialog: We will see you before the judge.
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: A deal.
text: All eyes turn toward Gail.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: Did you say something?
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: The offer I'm about to make expires
dialog: at the end of business today.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: Gail, please --
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: What is your offer, Ms. Harris?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Nothing. You pay nothing. No
dialog: settlement, no alimony, no community
dialog: property, no child support, nothing.
dialog: Getty breaks in:
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I don't get it.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: In exchange, I want my son on a plane
dialog: back home tonight. And full custody.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: What's your game?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't want your money.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Everybody wants my money.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You want your money. I want Paul.
dialog: We can both have what we want.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I sense I'm being taken, I just don't
dialog: know how.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: Mr. Getty, why don't we take this
dialog: under advisement.
text: Gail removes her jewelry -- her engagement ring, earrings --
text: and sets them on the table before her.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I've watched you for years. You
dialog: can't help yourself. Stiffing the
dialog: bellboy. Re-using your dental floss.
text: Searching other people's seat cushions
dialog: for loose change --
text: Getty darkens. Gail changes tack, flattering him:
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: You didn't get where you are without
dialog: a healthy regard for the value of a
dialog: dollar. You know a bargain when you
dialog: see one. You know how to seize the
dialog: initiative when your opponent is at
dialog: his weakest. What I'm offering is
dialog: the greatest bargain you're ever
dialog: going to get. But free never lasts.
text: She rises, leaving the jewelry on the table. Iacovoni tries
text: to interrupt, but she ignores him.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
text: Six o'clock.
text: HOLD on Getty. Over the sound of a PLANE LANDING we CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROME FIUMICINO AIRPORT -- EVENING
text: Little Paul emerges from the gate into Gail's arms. She
text: holds him tightly, exhausted and relieved. For a moment, he
text: accepts her embrace, but then:
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I wanted to stay.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Let's just go home, OK?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I was happy with Dad and Talitha.
dialog: Why'd you have to ruin it?
text: He pulls away from her. As they walk through the airport,
text: Paul walks on ahead, pulling farther away from her.
text: Gail begins to reach out for him, but stops herself, giving
text: him his freedom, until he is nearly lost in the crowd.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- PAUL'S ROOM -- DAWN
dialog: Gail has been up all night. We have come full circle now,
text: and have returned to the night of Paul's disappearance.
text: Gail stands in the door of Paul's room, gazing at his bed,
text: which has not been slept in. Her other two kids are asleep.
speaker_heading: GAIL (V.O.)
dialog: Call me if you hear from him. No
dialog: questions asked. Just tell him to
dialog: come home.
text: Gail hangs up the phone. She closes Paul's address book.
text: QUICK CUTS: with no other way to fill her time, she tries to
text: work at her drafting table. She can't focus.
dialog: 24.
text: She cleans the bathroom instead. She washes the sheets in
dialog: the sink.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- DAWN
text: Gail lies passed out on the bathroom floor, still wearing
text: her rubber gloves. The apartment is immaculate.
text: The kitchen phone RINGS. She wakes, rises, goes to it.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Yes. Si?
text: The low VOICE on the other end speaks English with an accent.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: Signora. We have your son.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Oh, God, thank you. Is he all right?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: Signora, we are kidnappers and have
dialog: him captive.
text: A long silence.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you still there?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Is this some kind of joke?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: There must be some mistake.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: No mistake. He is not harmed. We
dialog: will send proof in the coming days.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: I am Cinquanta. Paul is safe, but
dialog: it will require $17 million to release
dialog: him. Go to the police if you like,
dialog: it makes no difference.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't have any money.
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: Get it from your father-in-law. He
dialog: has all the money in the world.
text: DIAL TONE. In the distance, we hear a SIREN approaching.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. SUTTON PLACE (SURREY, ENGLAND) -- DAY
text: The PHONE CLATTERS into the receiver again. The secretary
text: runs across the grounds, past the lion, up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. ATELIER -- DAY
text: Getty sits at his desk, his phone to his ear.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: They're here, Mr Getty.
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- CORRIDOR -- DAY
text: Getty walks down a long mirrored corridor. He buttons his
text: jacket, straightens his tie, shoots his cuffs.
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- GREAT HALL -- DAY
text: A throne room, literally. The chamber is lined with enormous
text: tapestries and gilt mirrors.
text: One side of the room is empty, the other packed with a rabble
text: of Fleet Street news reporters. When Getty enters, they
text: start baying like hounds for his attention:
speaker_heading: TELEGRAPH REPORTER
dialog: Mr. Getty! Mr Getty! How much is
dialog: the ransom for your grandson?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I don't know. I'll bet it's a lot.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- DAY
text: Gail is in the kitchen with the phone receiver pressed to
text: her ear, her eyes closed. Gail's attorney Giovanni Iacovoni
text: is there, along with several Roman Squadra Mobile OFFICERS.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY (0.S.)
dialog: I'm sorry, Ms. Getty. Mr. Getty is
text: unavailable at the moment.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Tell him it's regarding his grandson's
dialog: kidnapping in Rome. I'1l wait.
text: Gail looks out the window: in the street, dozens of REPORTERS
text: and PAPARAZZI are teeming. At the sight of her face in the
text: window they turn their cameras on her, flashes firing.
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI (0.S.)
dialog: Signora! The television!
text: Gail stretches the phone cord into the living room to see
text: her two other kids watching Getty's press conference on TV.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: Never mind. I've found him.
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- GREAT HALL -- DAY
text: Standing before the reporters, Getty seems vague, distracted.
scene_heading: DAILY MAIL REPORTER
dialog: Daily Mail here, Mr. Getty. We have
dialog: reports that a note has arrived
text: written in the boy's handwriting,
dialog: demanding 17 million US dollars.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: (whistles)
dialog: $17 million? That's a lot of money
dialog: for such a young boy.
speaker_heading: BBC REPORTER
dialog: What steps will you be taking to
dialog: secure your grandson's safety?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: None.
text: The reporters are momentarily stunned silent.
speaker_heading: BBC REPORTER
dialog: I'm afraid we didn't get that, sir.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I have fourteen grandchildren. If I
dialog: pay the ransom I will have fourteen
dialog: kidnapped grandchildren.
text: A MURMUR from the reporters as they process this statement.
scene_heading: DAILY MAIL REPORTER
dialog: You're a famously ruthless negotiator,
dialog: Mr. Getty.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: It's just that there's so little in
dialog: life worth paying full price for.
scene_heading: DAILY MAIL REPORTER
dialog: How much would you pay for your
dialog: grandson, if not 17 million?
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- DAY
text: Gail watches Getty on TV. His eyes are devoid of emotion.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Nothing. Good day, gentlemen.
text: Getty turns and walks away. The press conference is over.
speaker_heading: TELEGRAPH REPORTER
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Mr. Getty! What will you do to save
dialog: your grandson's life?
text: ON THE TV SCREEN: the door closes and Getty is gone.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY (0.S.)
dialog: Ms. Getty? Are you still there?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm still here.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY (0.S.)
dialog: Would you like me to give Mr. Getty
dialog: a message?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Tell him I'm coming.
scene_heading: INT. ATELIER -- DAY
text: Getty returns to his office, followed by his secretary. She
text: gives him Gail's message on a slip of paper; he folds it
text: once, then throws it away.
text: Getty stands there for a moment, pensive. The ticker-tape
text: coils up snakelike on the floor at his feet, ignored.
dialog: What will you do to save your grandson's life?
text: Getty turns: his secretary is still standing there, gazing
text: at him with those tremulous, pleading eyes. Then:
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Get me Fletcher Chace.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: THE SAUDI DESERT
text: undulates beneath us as we SOAR above it, from the POV of a
text: Peregrine falcon. We come over a rise and descend INTO --
dialog: 28.
scene_heading: INT. BEDOUIN TENT -- DAY
text: -- and onto the arm of a SHEIKH. The sheikh wears a Patek
text: Phillipe and sunglasses, as do the others lounging on pillows.
text: One man stands out from the rest: an American in a wrinkled
text: khaki suit. God knows how he got here, but FLETCHER CHACE
text: grins like a man who holds all the cards or is bluffing for
dialog: all he's worth.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I feel for your situation, Your Royal
dialog: Highness. Truly I do.
scene_heading: PRINCE AL-RASHID
dialog: Our agreement with Getty has brought
dialog: us nothing but problems. The younger
dialog: generation has become weak and lazy.
dialog: Our children care about nothing but
dialog: Lamborghinis and discotheques.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Perhaps then you would do well to
dialog: accept our competitor's offer.
scene_heading: PRINCE AL-RASHID
dialog: How so, Mr Chace?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Maybe Standard Oil will find ways to
dialog: siphon all that money away with their
dialog: accounting tricks, and bring your
dialog: wayward children closer to God.
text: Fletcher Chace grins. The princes don't.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Kidding aside, your highness. My
dialog: employer has made you rich.
scene_heading: PRINCE AL-RASHID
dialog: Not as rich as him.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: If you renew your land-use agreement
dialog: with Getty, he'll make you twice as
dialog: rich. Can Standard Oil say that?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: In America we have a saying: better
dialog: to deal with the devil you know than
dialog: the devil you don't.
text: Another prince speaks, in Arabic:
dialog: 29.
scene_heading: PRINCE AL-WALID
dialog: (to Al-Rashid)
dialog: You know where Getty hired this one
dialog: from? He belongs to the den of CIA
dialog: spies that brought down Mossadegh --
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: (in Arabic)
dialog: Belonged, Your Royal Highness. Past
dialog: tense, please.
dialog: (in English)
dialog: I don't have the stomach for politics
dialog: anymore. People tend to get hurt,
dialog: and it's usually all the wrong people.
dialog: Business is better. Nobody dies,
dialog: they just go broke.
scene_heading: PRINCE AL-RASHID
dialog: For some people going broke is worse.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: That's why I work for Getty now.
dialog: I've noticed people have a way of
dialog: getting rich just standing next to
dialog: him. People like you.
scene_heading: PRINCE AL-WALID
dialog: We don't need the Americans anymore.
dialog: Our cartel, OPEC, will control
dialog: inventory now. OPEC will set the
dialog: oil price.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Nothing would make Mr. Getty happier
dialog: than to see the price of oil higher.
dialog: In fact, he'd be happy to help.
text: Off on the horizon, a DUST DEVIL approaches, spiraling into
text: the sky like a tornado.
scene_heading: PRINCE AL-RASHID
dialog: Subhan Allah. Look.
text: The sheikhs marvel at it, and then it is upon us:
speaker_heading: A DUNE BUGGY
text: comes over the berm, fishtailing to a stop in the sand as
text: the camels hiss and spit.
text: A spattered OIL LANDMAN steps out of the dune buggy. He
text: staggers through the sand and walks up to Fletcher Chace.
speaker_heading: OIL LANDMAN
dialog: The old man wants you. Now.
dialog: 30.
scene_heading: EXT. SUTTON PLACE (SURREY, ENGLAND) -- FRONT HALL -- DAY
text: Gail Getty sits in a chair in the mansion's waiting area.
text: She's clad in Chanel from head-to-toe like a suit of armor,
text: along with a look of steely determination.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE
dialog: I'm afraid Mr. Getty is traveling at
text: the moment and is unavailable.
text: Gail eyes the dark-suited security guard in the corridor.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Do you know why I'm here, Bullimore?
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE
dialog: Yes ma'am, I do.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You wouldn't have me thrown out,
dialog: would you, Bullimore?
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE
dialog: I would never turn you away from my
dialog: home, ma'am. Or little Paul. But...
dialog: this is not my home.
text: An offscreen bell CHIMES. Bullimore excuses himself and
text: lets aman in. It's Fletcher Chace. Bullimore takes his
text: coat and umbrella and shows him to an adjacent waiting area.
text: Chace leafs through a magazine. From his vantage, we can
text: just spy a pair of STOCKING-CLAD LEGS around the corner.
text: Chace rises, drifts into the front parlor, and pretends to
text: examine a Vermeer still-life.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: How much would you say that painting's
dialog: worth?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Hell if I know. Awfully small.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's a Vermeer. If I took it off
dialog: the wall, do you think anyone would
dialog: notice?
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: A silent alarm would go off. The
dialog: dogs would get to you before you
text: made it to the fence. With a face
dialog: as pretty as that... I wouldn't.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You seem very knowledgeable.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: About paintings, no. About other
dialog: things, some.
text: Chace sits down opposite Gail.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: He's a tough old goat to get an
dialog: audience with.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE (0.S.)
dialog: Mr. Chace. If you'll come with me.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Apparently not.
text: Chace smiles sheepishly, rises, and leaves with Bullimore.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I need to stop off at the kitchen
dialog: first, if that's all right.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- SUTTON PLACE -- DAY
text: Chace uses a butcher's knife to cut a strip of raw meat from
text: a porterhouse steak. He cuts the strip into cubes.
scene_heading: EXT. SUTTON PLACE -- REFLECTING POOL -- DAY
text: A GERMAN SHEPHERD patrols the grounds. Chace crouches; the
text: dog runs to him. Chace feeds him the steak.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: That's it, Skip. Attaboy. What's
dialog: this?
text: He checks the dog's name tag: it reads "ANUBIS."
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (re: the nametag)
dialog: Sorry about that, fella. Some things
dialog: we don't get to choose.
text: Chace takes in the scene by the pool: Getty sits on a chaise
text: lounge beside a young STARLET in a bathing suit. Getty laughs
text: and jokes with her; she seems genuinely charmed.
speaker_heading: GETTY (0.S.)
dialog: This world was forged by two kinds
dialog: of men, Mr Chace.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 32.
text: Getty strolls with Chace around the pool.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: Men of enterprise, like myself. And
dialog: men of action, like you. What you
dialog: and I share is what most men lack: a
dialog: willingness to embrace enormous risk.
dialog: I risk my money. You risk your life.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I prefer to risk the other guy's
dialog: life, actually.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I like to risk the other guy's money,
dialog: too. My point is we represent a
dialog: very small minority of mankind. The
dialog: herd feeds off what we accomplish.
dialog: These people who took my grandson --
dialog: what do you think I should have done?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: You did the right thing. They won't
dialog: hurt the boy, he's a winning lottery
dialog: ticket. Pay them too quickly and
dialog: they may be afraid they asked for
dialog: too little. They might come back
dialog: for another bite.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: If only everyone was as clear-headed
dialog: as you.
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- ENTRY HALL -- DAY
text: Gail is still cooling her heels in Getty's front hall. She
text: rises and approaches Bullimore.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I need to phone my attorney to find
dialog: out if there's been any contact from
dialog: the kidnappers.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE
dialog: Of course, Ma'am. This way.
text: Bullimore leads Gail around the corner of the entry hall.
text: He shows her to a RED PUBLIC TELEPHONE BOOTH of the kind
text: found on the streets of London.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE (CONT'D)
dialog: Mr. Getty had it installed specially
dialog: for his guests' convenience, in case
dialog: they wanted to make telephone calls.
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: GAIL
text: Rome is long distance.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE
dialog: I am able to provide change.
text: Bullimore produces a small change dispenser. Gail stares at
text: him. She reaches into her purse and gives him a ten-pound
text: note. Bullimore parses out the coins.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE (CONT'D)
dialog: I'll leave you in private.
scene_heading: EXT. SUTTON PLACE -- REFLECTING POOL -- DAY
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You don't have children, do you,
dialog: Chace.
text: Chace shakes his head.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I guess it didn't seem right, doing
dialog: what I do for a living. Maybe I
dialog: never found the right situation. I
dialog: liked my freedom.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I know just what you mean. There's
dialog: something my father always used to
dialog: say: "The man who has children gives
dialog: hostages to fortune."
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Your father was a wise man.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: He told me I'd never be worth a damn.
dialog: So I made him look like a pauper.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Well. You certainly did that.
text: An awkward silence, then:
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I love my grandson, Chace.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm sure you do, sir.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I love all my grandchildren, of
dialog: course. But Paul is special.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: I don't know what I would do if
dialog: anything happened to that boy. I
dialog: want you to go to Rome and bring him
dialog: back, as quickly and inexpensively
dialog: as possible.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm going to need some kind of
dialog: resources to work with if you want
text: him back alive.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Of course. But I don't want you
dialog: just giving my money away, see.
dialog: Find the boy, Chace. And find out
dialog: who took him.
text: Chace walks away, a look of uncertainty on his face.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: Chace. There's one more thing.
dialog: (a beat)
text: The boy's mother.
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- ENTRY HALL -- DAY
text: Gail Getty sits in the phone booth, stuffing 50p coins into
dialog: the coin slot.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm running out of change, Giovanni...
dialog: Giovanni?
text: The phone goes dead. She's out of change. She hangs up the
text: receiver and slouches into the phone booth, dejected.
speaker_heading: CHACE (0.S.)
dialog: Ma'am?
text: Gail looks up. Fletcher Chace is standing there.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: My name is Fletcher Chace. I'm going
dialog: to help you find your son.
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- ENTRY HALL -- DAY
text: Gail walks back into the entry hall, annoyed. Chace follows.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm sure you're quite good at what
dialog: you do, Mr. Chace. My former father-
dialog: in-law only buys the best.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: But I don't need a retired policeman,
dialog: or a former secret agent, or a plastic
text: toy soldier to solve the mystery of
dialog: what happened to my son, because
dialog: there is no mystery. I don't needa
dialog: man of danger to catch the criminals.
dialog: I need one thing only, and that is
dialog: seventeen million dollars.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Paying the ransom doesn't guarantee
dialog: you get your son back.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Not paying the ransom nearly
dialog: guarantees I don't.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'd say your son's chances are better
dialog: than that.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Why don't you explain the odds to
dialog: me. Is it a coin toss? Heads he
dialog: lives, tails he dies? I can see how
dialog: that's a gamble worth taking when
dialog: there's real money at stake --
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Let me rephrase that.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: A billion dollars earns seventeen
dialog: million dollars a month sitting in a
dialog: bank vault. He could buy a Matisse
dialog: every day and never spend it all.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I don't think this is about money
dialog: for Mr. Getty.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm sorry. I didn't realize this
dialog: was your first day on the job.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Ma'am, I've had to bargain with a
dialog: lot of rich people. Sheikhs, sultans,
dialog: emirs. The one thing I've realized
dialog: is that money is never just money.
dialog: It always stands for something.
dialog: Usually it stands for the one thing
dialog: they've never had. Until you know
dialog: what that thing is you're just beating
dialog: your head against the bricks.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Look, I don't blame you. You came
dialog: here for seventeen million dollars
dialog: and instead you got me. But I'm the
text: one who has the old man's ear, and
dialog: I'm offering to help you.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm not leaving until I speak to him
text: face-to-face.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE (0.S.)
dialog: I'm afraid Mr. Getty has already
dialog: departed the estate.
text: Gail turns. Through the window, we see Getty's limousine
text: driving through the front gates, and away.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE (CONT'D)
text: He is traveling on business, and it
text: is uncertain when he will return.
text: Gail stares out the window, her back to us, visibly trembling.
text: Bullimore brings Chace's coat and hat.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm sure you'll want to be getting
text: back to Rome on the next flight out.
dialog: I'm headed there myself. I can offer
dialog: you a ride to the airport.
speaker_heading: BULLIMORE
dialog: I'll dial a taxicab straight away.
text: Gail is silent. Finally she turns. Her voice is icy:
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You're both much too kind.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: THE TRUNK OPENS
text: revealing a cloudless blue sky. Two men step into frame.
text: One is stout, bearded, chubby-cheeked. He smokes a cigar
text: with an air of authority. This is CHIPMUNK.
text: The other is rough but handsome, with the style that even
text: the poorest of Italians somehow manage. This is CINQUANTA.
text: They gaze at us as you would at a rug that needs moving.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Uno, due --
dialog: 37.
text: They reach in and hoist us out of frame.
scene_heading: EXT. CALABRIAN LANDSCAPE -- DAY
text: The two men carry Paul's body across the sun-bleached, rocky
text: landscape out of a Sergio Leone movie. Paul's arms and legs
text: have been tied off; his head is inside a burlap sack.
text: They set the boy down beneath a wizened tree. Cinquanta
text: pulls down his ski mask, then removes the burlap sack from
text: Paul's head. The boy, fearful, avoids looking at them.
text: A severely bow-legged man emerges from the house. This is
text: PICCOLINO, and he is their leader. Piccolino bends down,
text: examines the boy as you would a goat, then smiles.
text: The men embrace in celebration. Laughing, back-slapping. A
text: pretty young woman comes out with a tin plate of beans and
text: pasta. Cinquanta orders her to give it to Paul.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: This is for you.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Thirsty.
text: Cinquanta yells orders at his wife again.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: A few days. That's all. Your family
dialog: will give us our money, and you'll
dialog: go home. Some days, no school, it's
dialog: fun. A holiday.
text: The boy eats. The food tastes terrible.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK
dialog: Our food's not good enough for you?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I'm just not used to it.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
text: Leave him alone. He eats only in
dialog: the best places, right?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Sometimes. Not usually, though.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: You'll tell us. I want to know all
dialog: the things the rich eat. I am
dialog: Cinquanta, this is Piccolino, and
dialog: this is Tamia, the Chipmunk. Not
dialog: our real names, eh?
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I figured.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: We'll make friends. I'1l tell you
dialog: things about me, and you tell me
dialog: things about you.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I don't want to know anything about
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Smart boy. We talk about you then.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: What do you want to know about me?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Tell me about your grandfather.
dialog: Tell me about your mother. Tell me
dialog: about the money.
scene_heading: INT. 727 AIRLINER -- DAY
text: Fletcher Chace sits in an aisle seat, studying his files on
text: Gail and Little Paul. The STEWARDESS cracks open a tiny
text: airplane bottle of Campari for him and pours it into a glass.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Mille grazie, signorina.
text: We PULL BACK along the aisle -- to where Gail sits at a window
text: seat, eyeing Fletcher Chace warily from behind dark glasses.
scene_heading: INT. ROME FIUMICINO AIRPORT -- BOARDING GATE -- EVENING
text: The gate opens, and a flood of REPORTERS and PAPARAZZI are
text: waiting for us. FLASHBULBS click and whirr like locusts.
speaker_heading: REPORTERS
dialog: Signora, Signora! Is your son still
dialog: alive? Signora!
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: Out of the way, fellas.
speaker_heading: REPORTER 1
dialog: When will you pay the ransom for
dialog: your son's life?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't have the money.
text: The reporters laugh.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: REPORTER 2
dialog: You divorced the son of the richest
dialog: man in the world, Signora!
speaker_heading: CHACE (0.S.)
dialog: You don't have to answer questions.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: No. I want to say something.
text: Gail's voice is tense with emotion, but she remains poised.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: My son Paul must be very frightened
dialog: right now. I know I'm frightened
dialog: for him. So to the people who took
dialog: him: I don't care why you did this,
dialog: but as a mother I ask you to think
dialog: of your own children, or of the child
dialog: you once were, and set my boy free.
text: A brief silence, then:
speaker_heading: REPORTER 3
dialog: (to Chace)
dialog: Scusi. Why does the lady not cry?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: REPORTER 3
dialog: Your son is disappeared. A mother
dialog: should cry for her son.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You want me to cry, is that it?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: All right. Let the lady through.
text: The crowd parts before us to reveal the smartly-dressed
text: Investigating Magistrate ANTONIO DEL ROVERE flanked by two
text: uniformed officers of the Italian POLICIA DI STATO. The
text: flashbulbs pop and whirr, recording the moment:
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Ms. Getty. I am Antonio Del Rovere
dialog: of the Policia di Stato.
scene_heading: INT. QUESTURA POLICIA DI STATO (POLICE HEADQUARTERS) -- NIGHT
text: Del Rovere leads Gail and Chace from a police sedan in the
text: parking garage into the front lobby of a castle that has
text: been transformed into a police Questura.
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Your son is a very lucky boy, Signora.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Nothing about this feels lucky to
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Of course, it's a terrible thing.
dialog: But if he had to be taken, this is
dialog: the best place it could happen. No
dialog: police department in the world has
dialog: solved more kidnappings.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: How did you earn that distinction?
text: Rovere leads them up the marble staircase.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: A few years ago we had an outbreak
dialog: of kidnapping. Wealthy people,
dialog: ordinary Italians, everyone. This
dialog: was how the communist Rosso Brigate
dialog: financed their terrorist activities.
dialog: Everyone paid the ransom, no matter
dialog: what we told them to do.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What about the families that refused
dialog: to pay?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Even the poorest family will give up
dialog: everything to have their children
dialog: back. So I devised a solution. We
dialog: froze the bank accounts of the all
dialog: the families so they couldn't pay.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Is that legal?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: If the police do it, it must be legal.
dialog: It took some time but they realized
dialog: the money wouldn't come. Now it
dialog: seems they've decided to take
dialog: foreigners instead.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Freezing J Paul Getty's money is not
dialog: going to be an option in this case.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: I'm sorry, I've forgotten which party
dialog: you said you were working for.
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I represent Mr. Getty's interests.
dialog: I'm his head of security.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: And what are Mr. Getty's interests?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Business, sex, and the collecting of
dialog: art. In that order.
text: Del Rovere laughs, but Gail's not joking.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: I hope you're about to inform us you
dialog: have some information about my son.
dialog: Has anyone stepped forward to claim
dialog: responsibility for his kidnapping?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Tutti, Signora. Everybody.
text: He opens a door --
scene_heading: INT. EVIDENCE ROOM -- DAY
text: -- to a darkened room filled with glowing LIGHT TABLES where
text: INSPECTORS examine ransom letters, dusting for fingerprints.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: These letters are addressed to me.
dialog: You've been opening my mail -- ?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: It may be your mail, but it's our
dialog: evidence. All these letters are
dialog: from people claiming to have kidnapped
dialog: your son. From all over the world.
dialog: Germany, California, faster than we
dialog: can investigate.
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: $17 million brings out a crowd.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You're telling me you have nothing.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: No, Signora, we have too much. Too
dialog: many kidnappers, too many reporters.
dialog: A victim worth too much money.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Want some free advice? Put it in
dialog: the papers.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
text: When the kidnappers find out every
text: lowlife in Rome is trying to poach
dialog: their ransom they'll have to come
text: out into the open to claim it.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: It's the communists, the Rosso
dialog: Brigate. To kidnap the child of the
dialog: richest capitalist in the world --
dialog: this would be a dream for them.
dialog: They will take you too, Signora, if
dialog: they can. So I am placing you under
dialog: police protection.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't need anyone's protection.
dialog: I'm not a real Getty. I never was.
dialog: I'm an ordinary person.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: You're not a person anymore. You're
dialog: a symbol. My officers will escort
dialog: you home. Buona sera.
scene_heading: EXT. POLICE CAR/ROME STREETS -- NIGHT
text: Gail and Chace ride in back as the police car blazes through
text: the streets. Plastered along the walls are blowups of the
text: cover of La Stampa with Paul Getty's photograph on it.
text: A MOTORBIKE pulls up alongside Gail's window. The rider
text: reaches into his bag and we see the glint of black metal --
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Jesus, shake them off. Swerve!
text: And a FLASHBULB FIRES. The Paparazzo shoves his camera back
text: into his bag and speeds away. Gail never flinched.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey! Didn't you see that?
speaker_heading: POLICE DRIVER
dialog: It's a free country.
text: Gail looks over at the flustered Chace.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's kind of you to make a fuss, Mr.
dialog: Chace, but you really needn't bother.
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: In the kitchen, two SURVEILLANCE OFFICERS of the Policia di
text: Stato are setting up a large reel-to-reel tape recorder on
text: the table and connecting it to the telephone.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Is there anywhere you can put that
dialog: so that we have a place to eat?
scene_heading: SURVEILLANCE OFFICER
dialog: Your child is kidnapped, Signora.
dialog: How can you think about eating?
dialog: This stings.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Do what you have to do.
text: In the living room, Chace is examining her belongings: the
text: apartment is simple but stylish as Gail herself.
text: Gail's daughter Ariadne walks in in her pajamas, rubbing
text: sleep from her eyes. Chace is awkward.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Hi there.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Back to bed, darling.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: All these strange men in her house.
text: Gail tucks her daughter back into bed. Meanwhile, Chace
text: enters Little Paul's room. When Gail re-enters, she finds
text: Chace rifling through books on the bookshelf.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Did Paul do any drugs? Marijuana?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: He was a teenage boy. He had teenage
dialog: boy problems. He made teenage boy
dialog: mistakes.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm just trying to find it before
dialog: those guys in the kitchen do.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: They've already searched this room.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: He'd gotten in trouble at school, am
dialog: I right?
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: A boy needs a father, and his was
text: strung out in Marrakech with Mick
dialog: Jagger. It was all I could do to
dialog: get him to come home at night.
text: He opens a copy of "Watership Down" and a tiny bag of hashish
text: falls out.
dialog: Gail eyes
dialog: Gail looks
text: He pockets it. He finds Paul's address book.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Can I take this?
text: him warily.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Do you carry a gun, Mr. Chace?
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: You said you used to be a spy.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: That's not how I put it on my tax
dialog: return, but yeah.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Spies carry guns.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I never bothered. Ruins the line of
dialog: your suit. Guns are for people who
dialog: don't have money.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: All that spooky paperback stuff --
text: chasing around blowing poisoned darts
dialog: at the KGB in the Arab Quarter --
dialog: that's not what I did for a living.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What did you do, then?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I made deals. I bought people. I
text: whispered in Generals' ears.
text: at him, then nods.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Take it.
text: Chace pockets the address book, rises, and returns to the
text: living room. The mustached Surveillance Officer from the
dialog: kitchen --
text: his name is CORVO -- approaches Gail.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: One final question, Signora. About
dialog: your testimony earlier. Why did you
dialog: think the kidnapping was a joke?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: CORVO (CONT'D)
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: You said that when you first received
dialog: the phone call from Cinquanta you
dialog: thought it was a joke.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: That's what passed through my mind.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: It's a strange reaction, is it not?
text: Someone tells the mother her son is
dialog: kidnapped and she thinks it's funny?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I didn't think it was funny at all.
dialog: It seemed unbelievable.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: You didn't believe the man on the
dialog: phone?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's a figure of speech. The whole
dialog: situation was unbelievable. It still
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: Tragic, yes. But not unbelievable.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: It's not tragic yet. Maybe you ought
dialog: to work on keeping it that way.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: A figure of speech, as you say.
dialog: Please let us know, Signora, if you
dialog: plan to leave Italy for any reason.
text: Corvo bows slightly and heads for the door with his partner.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Why do you think he said that?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Do you want me to get rid of them?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: When the time comes I'll do it myself.
dialog: Good evening, Mr. Chace.
scene_heading: EXT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: Chace exits the building by a side entrance, past the half-
text: dozen paparazzi camped outside.
dialog: 46.
text: He casts a final glance up at Gail's glowing window, then
text: disappears into the night.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. CALABRIAN CAVE -- DAY
text: We DESCEND into a cave deep in the Calabrian mountains. An
text: army cot has been set up in here, with wooden boxes for tables
text: and chairs. Years of crude graffiti on the walls.
text: Deep inside the cave Cinquanta finds an unlit oil lamp. He
text: takes out a match and lights it --
text: -- REVEALING a bunk bed set up in here, and Paul is chained
text: to it. Cinquanta reaches into his bag. He brings out a can
text: of beans and a composition notebook.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Write another letter to your mother.
dialog: Tell her if she doesn't pay, we'll
dialog: mail her your finger.
text: Cinquanta sets down a BALLPOINT PEN. The boy takes it.
text: Cinquanta eyes him suspiciously.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Why doesn't your family love you?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I think they love me. I hope so.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: What's wrong with you? Are you a
dialog: bad boy?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Don't lie. What did you do?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I set a fire at my school and they
dialog: kicked me out.
text: Cinquanta considers this. He shrugs.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Boys play with fire. I did. If my
dialog: son was kidnapped, bad, good, I would
dialog: pay any money to get him back.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: They're going to pay. They just
dialog: need to get used to the idea of it.
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: I would get the money. I would borrow
dialog: it. Steal. OK, I steal anyway, but
dialog: I would steal more.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You have a kid?
dialog: (realizes)
dialog: I shouldn't have asked that.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Once. For a few weeks, that's all.
dialog: My wife put him to sleep in the crib.
dialog: In the morning the baby was cold.
dialog: No life. The doctor gave no reason.
text: No answer. Nothing.
text: Cinquanta suddenly seems angry.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Americans! I don't understand you.
dialog: For us, family is everything. We
dialog: are obbligo. I was born into my
dialog: family, and that decides my whole
dialog: life. My whole life.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I'm obbligo too. As much as you.
text: Cinquanta looks at Paul. He smiles.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: When we get the money, we'll run
dialog: away from them. To America, eh?
text: Cinquanta gazes out of the cave at a patch of blue sky.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: A Corvette. That's a nice car.
dialog: Just drive away.
text: He snaps out of it. He hits the boy on the back of the head.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Cazzo! What are you doing? Write.
dialog: Convince her to pay us our money or
dialog: Mother of God I'll kill you myself.
text: Cinquanta takes the notebook and exits, leaving the pen and
text: matches. Paul slips them into the sleeve of his shirt.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- MORNING
text: The reel-to-reel tape recorder sits in the center of the
text: table. The kids eat their cereal beside it in their pajamas.
text: Gail throws open the curtains to let the light in --
dialog: 48.
text: -- spray-painted in dripping red on the wall outside the
text: window is a FIVE-POINTED STAR. It seems the remnant of some
text: satanic ritual. Painted above it, the words ROSSO BRIGATE.
text: She pulls the curtain shut. Her kids continue eating, oblivious.
scene_heading: INT. PORTO ROMANO YACHT CLUB -- MORNING
text: Isabelle and Julian, Gail's friends, wait for her at the
text: foot of the gangplank as she boards their 47-footer.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: Gail, I'm so sorry.
text: Isabelle embraces Gail. For a moment Gail allows herself to
text: melt into her friend's arms.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Gail's hosts serve a light lunch on deck. Gail can't eat.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: We're torn up for you. What you
dialog: must be going through.
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: And the papers can't help any.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It doesn't matter what I'm going
dialog: through. I sleep in a warm bed every
dialog: night. God only knows where Paul's
dialog: sleeping. I mean, look at me, I'm
text: on a yacht.
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: That's the spirit.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: (summoning her nerve)
dialog: I don't know how else to say this.
dialog: You're my friends, so I thought I
dialog: could turn to you. I need money.
dialog: For the ransom.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: We don't have that kind of money.
dialog: We're not Gettys.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We could get some friends together.
dialog: Here aboard your boat. The money
dialog: would be paid back in full, I can't
dialog: say when but --
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: I mean, when you think how fortunate
dialog: that boy has been. The money he'll
dialog: inherit one day.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: All of us are fortunate.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
text: Not like that. He's set for life.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: He has to live that long first. The
dialog: money shouldn't matter. He's just a
text: boy, an ordinary boy.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: Of course it matters, Gail. You'd
dialog: be asking us, asking our friends, to
dialog: give a fortune to a boy who's worth
dialog: more money than they'll ever have.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: If I could think of another way I
dialog: wouldn't be asking.
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: And let's be honest, Paul was no angel.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You're saying he deserved this?
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: Of course not, but it wasn't entirely
dialog: a surprise, either. Privileged kids
dialog: get into trouble. If it's not drugs --
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: Everything comes too easy.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I forgot how you built yourselves up
dialog: from nothing.
text: A silence. A crewman comes to take away their salad plates.
speaker_heading: ISABELLE
dialog: (a forced smile)
dialog: You'll see. In a few weeks we'll
dialog: all be sailing to Portofino again,
dialog: like none of this ever happened.
scene_heading: EXT. VIA PANSIPERNA, ROME -- EVENING
text: Fletcher Chace walks with a newspaper folded beneath his
text: arm. He passes a streetlight with an "X" marked in chalk.
dialog: 50.
text: Parked twenty paces from the streetlight is a white plumber's
text: van. Chace knocks on the rear door twice, and waits.
scene_heading: INT. WHITE VAN -- EVENING
text: A bland-looking young fellow frisks Chace.
speaker_heading: BLAND FELLOW
dialog: Siediti perfavore.
text: Chace obeys. The van lurches into motion.
scene_heading: INT. SUBURBAN HOUSE -- NIGHT
text: The bland fellow leads Chace out of the garage into a sparsely-
text: decorated home. Chace is led to a chair in the dining room.
text: A red ROSSO BRIGATE flag is draped over one wall.
speaker_heading: BLAND FELLOW
dialog: Perfavore.
text: Chace obeys. A lamp is switched on, shining in his eyes.
text: FRANCESCI, a mustached young man in a corduroy sportcoat, is
text: seated beside the lamp. A gun is on the table beside him.
text: There are others in the room. Chace squints at them.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: You don't look like communists.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: What do communists look like?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Workers. Wasn't that the original
dialog: idea?
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: Sorry to disappoint you.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: You look like accountants.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: Let's talk about the money.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: First you prove to me that you have
text: the boy and he's in good health.
dialog: Then we negotiate the terms. But
dialog: first the proof.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: First the money. Then the boy.
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: It doesn't work that way. You know
dialog: that. You're supposed to be pros.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: No conditions.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I don't think you have the kid.
text: An intense young woman, MARGHERITA, speaks:
speaker_heading: MARGHERITA
dialog: Why are we negotiating with him? We
dialog: should try him and put him to death.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: MARGHERITA
dialog: For crimes against the proletariat.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Now I know you don't have the kid.
dialog: If you kill me, Getty's just going
dialog: to send someone else like me. Unless
dialog: he doesn't, in which case where does
dialog: that leave you? Think, comrade.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: We had an agreement.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Who had an agreement?
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: We did. With Paul.
text: Chace's smile fades.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: Paul used to talk about having himself
text: kidnapped. With his friends, out on
text: the street. A game, no one gets
dialog: hurt. A way to make a little money
dialog: from his grandfather, two million
dialog: dollars perhaps. That's what we do.
text: Chace rubs his eyes, suddenly weary.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Did Paul know who you were?
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: We made friends with him. We told
dialog: him we could help. But then he
dialog: disappeared.
speaker_heading: MARGHERITA
dialog: We believe he found someone else.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: And now you want -- what? A finder's
dialog: fee? A consolation prize?
speaker_heading: MARGHERITA
dialog: The people are owed.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: “The people," or just the people in
dialog: this room? And here I thought you
dialog: all were supposed to be above money.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: No one is above money. The problem
dialog: is that it's in the wrong hands. We
dialog: intend to get what is our due.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: (vising)
dialog: I'll save you a place in line.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: I'm curious. What would Getty pay
dialog: for you?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Don't bother. He wouldn't pay a dime
dialog: for me. Neither would anyone else.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCI
dialog: I've never met anyone who couldn't
dialog: think of someone who would pay for
dialog: his life.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: There's a first time for everything.
dialog: Now are you going to drive me back,
dialog: or am I going to walk out the front
dialog: door?
scene_heading: EXT. INDUSTRIAL HIGHWAY -- NIGHT
text: A stretch of barren highway out by an industrial plant. The
text: white van slows, its door opens, and Chace is shoved out.
text: The van speeds away. Chace picks himself up off the asphalt,
text: dusts himself off, and looks around. He is utterly lost.
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- FRONT DOORWAY -- DAY
text: Chace stands in Gail's doorway. She seems taken aback.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You've got to remember who the Gettys
dialog: are. Every time someone stays in
dialog: the bathroom too long people start
dialog: making jokes about being held for
dialog: ransom. He might have cracked a
dialog: joke once or twice among friends --
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: There's that word again.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What word?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: A joke. When it first happened you
dialog: said you thought it was a joke.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Now you sound like that policeman.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Did Paul ever talk to you about having
dialog: himself kidnapped?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Whose side are you on, Mr Chace?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm on my own side, always. And if
dialog: there's a joke I like to make sure
dialog: I'm in on it.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE (V.O.)
text: New developments have come to light.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL LOBBY/BAR -- EVENING
text: Del Rovere and Corvo have come to Chace's hotel. A news
text: report about the OPEC summit plays on TV behind the bar.
speaker_heading: CORVO
text: Gail Getty is two months behind on
text: the rent on her apartment.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: The lady needed money.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: So do I.
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: So do we all. But Gail Getty gave
dialog: up a chance to make a fortune in her
dialog: divorce. Did you know?
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: We calculated the money Ms Getty
dialog: could have expected in her settlement.
dialog: The number was 15 to 18 million
dialog: dollars. Quite a coincidence.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm impressed you had any time at
dialog: all to look for the kid.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: Then there is the matter of Gail's
dialog: lover.
text: Chace blinks. Corvo takes out a picture of a handsome
text: Sicilian. It's a police booking photo.
speaker_heading: CORVO (CONT'D)
dialog: Luigi Della Ratta. A casino croupier,
dialog: very much a ladies' man, with reputed
dialog: criminal connections.
text: Chace stares at the photo.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: It should have been obvious. A pretty
dialog: lady like this, expensive tastes, so
dialog: insistent to get Getty to pay the
dialog: ransom --
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: But never does she cry for her child.
dialog: How can a mother not cry?
text: Chace pushes the photo away.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Nice work, fellas.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: And you? Have you learned anything?
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: Nothing. Brick wall.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: You look like you've tasted something
dialog: you don't like. If you don't like
dialog: your drink, just get another.
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: This is going to kill the old man.
dialog: It has to stay out of the papers.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Nothing leaves this table. It's for
dialog: the best, eh? There was never any
dialog: danger. You have only to wait for
text: the boy to return.
text: Del Rovere rises, and Corvo with him. He nods at a DARK-
text: HAIRED BEAUTY at the other end of the bar and leans in.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE (CONT'D)
text: A single man alone in Rome on the
dialog: Getty expense account. I envy you.
text: The two men grin as they leave Chace at the bar. Chace
text: glances up at the TV. On a Bolletino Straordinario, the
text: SHAH OF IRAN is making a speech:
speaker_heading: SHAH OF IRAN (0.S.)
dialog: Of course the price of oil must rise.
dialog: You increased the price of wheat you
dialog: sell us by 3008, it's only fair that,
dialog: from now on, you should pay more for
dialog: oil. Let's say ten times more.
text: CUT TO A WIDE: all that remains of Fletcher Chace is the tip
text: he's left on the bar. He's already gone.
scene_heading: EXT. SUTTON PLACE (SURREY, ENGLAND) -- DAY
text: Rain. The great gates open for Fletcher Chace.
scene_heading: EXT. SUTTON PLACE -- REFLECTING POOL/GARDENS -- DAY
text: J Paul Getty and Chace walk side-by-side.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I wish I could say I'm surprised.
text: Getty approaches a statue by the reflecting pool. He puts
text: his hand upon it, as if for support. He seems badly shaken.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Are you all right, Mr Getty?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: When I wrote my book, "How to Be
dialog: Rich," the publisher called me and
dialog: said they wanted to change the title.
dialog: They wanted to call it "How To Get
dialog: Rich." They thought it would sell
dialog: more copies.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: I told them getting rich is easy.
dialog: Any fool can get rich, and a
dialog: remarkable number of fools do.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I've noticed that.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: But being rich -- that's hard. See,
dialog: the ordinary working man has to go
dialog: to work to feed his family. Maybe
dialog: he hates his job, hates his boss,
dialog: but the drive for survival gives him
dialog: a purpose in life. When a man gets
dialog: rich, he's faced with the problem of
text: freedom. An abyss opens up before
dialog: him. I've seen it ruin men, and
dialog: marriages, and most of all it ruins
dialog: the children.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: He's a kid. Kids do stupid things.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I thought I could trust my own blood.
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: He's probably lying on a beach
text: somewhere. When he gets bored or
dialog: runs out of money he'll come home.
dialog: And he'll have learned his lesson.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I wanted to give him everything,
dialog: give him all my knowledge, all I've
dialog: built, and he just wanted to pick my
dialog: pocket. Like his father, like his
dialog: uncle, like the parasites that have
dialog: swarmed around me my entire life.
text: Getty walks on, through his sculpture garden.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: That's why I like things, see. They
dialog: are what they appear to be, and they
dialog: never change. They never disappoint.
dialog: There's a purity to beautiful things
dialog: that I've never been able to find in
text: another human being.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Neither have I.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: You were right not to pay the ransom.
dialog: You were right to follow your gut.
text: Getty turns away from Chace, suddenly distant.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You performed well. This will be
dialog: reflected in your year-end bonus.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Thank you, Mr. Getty.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Go back to Rome. Wait there for Paul
dialog: to return. But your investigation is
text: closed. The search is over.
speaker_heading: BLACK OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: A PATCH OF BLUE SKY
text: framed by the mouth of the cave. We HEAR the kidnappers
text: arguing, their voices echoing off the cave walls. In the
text: darkness Paul listens.
scene_heading: EXT. CALABRIAN MOUNTAINS -- DAY
text: Chipmunk, toting a shotgun, leads Little Paul on a winding
text: trail through the mountains. The weather is turning cold;
text: the boy is wrapped in a blanket. They approach a creek bed.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK
dialog: Do you have to go? Here's your
dialog: chance. I'm not taking you out again.
text: Paul shakes his head. Chipmunk scratches at his mask.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK (CONT'D)
dialog: You don't eat, that's why. Our food
dialog: isn't good enough for you. Wait here.
text: Chipmunk climbs down into the ravine, out of sight of the
text: boy. He peels back his ski mask for a moment, then unzips
text: and begins to urinate.
text: He zips up and climbs back up the ravine. Paul stares at
text: him for a moment, then quickly looks away.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you looking at -- ?
dialog: 58.
text: Chipmunk reaches for his mask, and realizes he never pulled
text: it back down.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK (CONT'D)
dialog: Pezzo di merda! You saw my face!
speaker_heading: LITTLE PAUL
dialog: I didn't see anything!
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK
dialog: Figlia di puttana! Culo!
text: He pulls the ski mask down, then realizes it's pointless.
text: He pulls it off and starts kicking it across the ground.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK (CONT'D)
dialog: You saw my face! Don't lie!
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I won't tell anyone what you look
dialog: like, I swear.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK
dialog: You little shit. You've ruined
dialog: everything.
text: Chipmunk raises his shotgun at Paul.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK (CONT'D)
dialog: Run. Run away. Fretta!
speaker_heading: LITTLE PAUL
dialog: No. You're gonna shoot me in the
dialog: back and tell them I tried to escape.
text: Paul shakes his head, closing his eyes and refusing to turn
text: his back. Chipmunk gives up. He kicks the ski mask again.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK
dialog: Manache! Have it your way. Worse
dialog: for you. You'll wish you ran!
text: Chipmunk grabs Paul and drags him back down the hill toward
text: the squat stucco house in the distance.
scene_heading: EXT. STONE HOUSE -- EVENING
text: Paul is tethered to a rock by a rope around his neck as goats
text: graze around him. He watches the little house: inside,
text: Piccolo, Cinquanta and Chipmunk are arguing.
text: Paul leans over and pulls at the tether. Desperate, he begins
text: to chew on it. The men's voices grow ever louder.
dialog: 59.
text: Then they fall silent. The front door of the house opens
text: and three men walk out -- Cinquanta and Chipmunk in the lead,
text: with the bow-legged Piccolino falling behind.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK
dialog: I told you.
text: Chipmunk is carrying his shotgun. He chambers a shell.
text: Paul begins to whimper desperately.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Please. Don't. The money. You can
dialog: still get the money.
text: Chipmunk closes the shotgun and raises it at Paul.
speaker_heading: CHIPMUNK
dialog: You had to ruin it for everyone.
text: Now Piccolino raises his gun as well. He FIRES and we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: THE PHONE RINGS
text: and a groggy Fletcher Chace fumbles in the dark. A copy of
text: Getty's book "How To Be Rich" is open on the nightstand.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Who's. Yes. Si?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE (0.S.)
dialog: Mister Chace. We are requesting you
dialog: and Ms. Getty to report to the
dialog: Questura.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE (0.S.)
dialog: To identify the body.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: The body?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE (0.S.)
text: Paul's body. Paul Getty.
text: Chace is suddenly alert.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Paul's.
dialog: (blinks)
dialog: OK, yes. Va bene. We're coming.
dialog: 60.
text: Chace hangs up. He sits up and starts pacing the room. The
text: raven-haired beauty from the bar is in his bed.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: You've got to go.
speaker_heading: SICILIAN BEAUTY
dialog: Perché, Fletcher?
text: Chace starts putting on his clothes in a hurry. He starts
text: to pick up the phone, then puts it down again.
scene_heading: EXT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: Gail opens the door wearing her robe.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Chace -- ?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm sorry, Gail.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Oh God.
text: She covers her face with her hands. Chace looks away.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE CAR -- NIGHT
text: The Squadra Mobile car speeds through the night. Chace steals
text: furtive glances at Gail.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Mistakes were made, obviously,
dialog: somehow. My investigation and the
dialog: police's led us to the conclusion
dialog: that there was no physical danger --
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr Chace. I'm on my way
dialog: to identify my son's body. I don't
dialog: feel like talking.
scene_heading: INT. ROME POLICE STATION -- MORGUE -- DAY
text: The morgue dates to the 19th century; it's dank as a catacomb.
text: The body is laid out on a marble slab, covered by a sheet.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
text: The corpse has been in sea water for
dialog: some hours when it washed ashore.
dialog: The appearance may be a shock.
text: We gaze up at their faces as they gather round the table.
text: The elderly CORONER pulls back the sheet.
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: God damn!
text: Chace reels. Gail almost faints. She shakes her head "no.
text: REVERSE ANGLE: the bloated, waterlogged body on the table
text: isn't Paul. It's Chipmunk. He has an ugly exit wound in
text: his chest from where he was shot in the back by Piccolino.
speaker_heading: GAIL
text: It's not him. It's not Paul.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: The guy has five o'clock shadow, for
dialog: Christ's sake. He was headed for a
text: midlife crisis when they shot him.
speaker_heading: CORVO
text: A sailor by the harbor saw a body
text: being thrown from a white Fiat 600,
text: like the car the kidnappers drove.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: This country's infested with Fiat
dialog: 600s. First you said it was a hoax,
dialog: then you tell us they murdered him.
dialog: Why don't you make up your mind?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: No one stopped you doing your own
dialog: job, Mr Chace. You did that yourself.
text: Chace is momentarily speechless.
speaker_heading: CORONER (0.S.)
dialog: Scusi.
text: Everyone turns. The ancient coroner is picking at the body
text: on the slab with a pair of tweezers. He plucks something
text: from Chipmunk's beard, holds it up to the light: RED FIBERS.
speaker_heading: CORONER (CONT'D)
dialog: Un filato de tessuto rosso.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: The carpet the body was transported
dialog: in.
text: The coroner shakes his head, mimes scratching at his beard.
speaker_heading: CORONER
dialog: Una maschera.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: A ski mask.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A MUG SHOT
dialog: of Chipmunk. There's more than one to choose from, going
dialog: all the way back to his childhood.
scene_heading: INT. EVIDENCE ROOM -- DAY
text: The Police clerks search through boxes of criminal photo
text: files. Photos of Chipmunk are pinned to the wall.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: Ettore "Il Tamia" Pazzano, age 33
dialog: years. Purse snatching, public
dialog: indecency, vandalism, desecration of
dialog: a holy place, corruption of the youth.
text: PHOTOS of Cinquanta and Piccolino are pinned up on the board.
speaker_heading: CORVO (CONT'D)
dialog: Known associates: Alberto Laganadi,
dialog: Dino Bova, Dante Agnana, all from
dialog: Fiumara, Calabria, population 1381.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: How fast can we get to Fiumara?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A CONVOY OF SQUADRA MOBILE VEHICLES
text: On the unpaved road through the Calabrian mountains: we gaze
text: down at them from a police helicopter circling high overhead.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD -- CALABRIA -- PRE-DAWN
text: The police cars stop on the mountain road and the uniformed
text: police climb out. Del Rovere instructs Chace:
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: I must ask you to stay here. For
dialog: your own safety.
text: Chace watches Rovere head off down the road.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: (to Gail)
dialog: Stay here.
text: Chace opens the door and climbs out. The officer at the
text: wheel protests, but Chace ignores him. Then Gail climbs out
text: as well, and the cop goes apoplectic.
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Arrest me.
text: We can see the stone house from several hundred meters away
text: as the police create a wide perimeter encircling it. Nearby,
text: a SQUADRA OFFICER questions a GOATHERD. Gail listens in:
speaker_heading: GOATHERD
dialog: ..-hanno mantenuto il ragazzo in una
dialog: grotta nelle montagne...
text: Gail starts walking up the mountain road, in the opposite
text: direction from the police, and Chace follows. They reach
text: the mouth of the cave, which is littered with cigarette butts.
text: Gail enters. Chace casts a glance back: in the pasture far
text: below, the police cordon around the stone house draws tighter.
scene_heading: INT. CAVE
text: We HOLD on GAIL as she moves deeper into the dark, following
text: the last of daylight into its depths. Then she finds it:
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Paul.
text: PAUL'S BED, empty. The chain and shackle lie beside it, and
text: Paul's Fantastic Comics lies on the ground. An unfinished
text: letter in his handwriting crumpled beside it.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: "If you love me, Mother --
text: GUNSHOTS ring out, the echoes multiplying off the cave walls.
text: Gail and Chace hurry to the mouth of the cave.
scene_heading: EXT. STONE HOUSE -- MORNING
text: The house is riddled with gunfire, the windows shattered.
text: Piccolino slumps in the doorway with his shotgun in the dust
text: beside him. Del Rovere kicks the gun aside.
speaker_heading: PICCOLINO
dialog: Molti poliziotti... So many police.
dialog: Tanti...
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Where is the boy?
speaker_heading: PICCOLINO
dialog: Lo abbiamo venduto.
text: Piccolino coughs, drowning in his own blood. A sad smile.
speaker_heading: PICCOLINO (CONT'D)
dialog: We sold him.
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Sold him to whom?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SAVERIO MAMMOLITI
text: walks through a factory where women sew counterfeit Fendi
text: handbags. Mammoliti examines the workmanship on one of the
text: handbags, comparing it against the genuine article.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: This lining. It needs to be double-
dialog: stiched to look like the real Fendi
dialog: My buyer can tell the difference.
text: Mammoliti is forty years old, blankly handsome, and dressed
text: in a tailored suit: he could easily be seen in the business-
dialog: class lounge of any international airport in the world.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI (CONT'D)
dialog: Do it again.
text: Mammoliti hands the bag back to the woman. She nods, careful
text: not to make eye contact: she is frightened of him.
speaker_heading: FACTORY WOMAN
dialog: Sicuramente, Signore. Perdonami.
scene_heading: INT. MERCEDES 280SE -- DAY
text: Saverio Mammoliti sits in the backseat, his briefcase open
text: beside him, perusing a balance sheet. His bald-shaven
text: driver/bodyguard, SGRO, pulls over behind a tractor-trailer.
scene_heading: INT. TRACTOR-TRAILER -- DAY
text: The cargo door rolls open, revealing pallets of counterfeit
text: goods. Paul Getty is in back, guarded by two of Mammoliti's
dialog: men. Cinquanta is here as well.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: (re: Cinquanta)
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: SGRO
text: He comes with the boy.
text: Mammoliti looks Cinquanta over; a 21st Century gangster
text: looking back at a Stone Age one.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: Get him out of here. I don't want
dialog: him around.
speaker_heading: Cinquanta
speaker_heading: TWO DOZEN
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: It was part of our deal. I help
text: with the kid. I look after him.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: Your services are no longer required.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: The mother and I. Gail Getty. We
dialog: have a dialogue. I can help you get
dialog: the money.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: We know how to get the money. It's
dialog: not that hard if you have the stomach
dialog: for it.
speaker_heading: SGRO
dialog: You heard him.
text: reluctantly rises. Paul watches him go.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI (0.S.)
dialog: Does he do what you say?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Always. He's a good boy.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: He's not eating. Look at him. We
dialog: need him to eat meat, lots of meat.
dialog: Build up his blood. Do you understand
dialog: my meaning?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Yes. I understand your meaning.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: Va bene. You work for us now.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SAUDI PRINCES
text: emerge from the 1973 Extraordinary Summit of OPEC.
scene_heading: EXT. OPEC
scene_heading: SUMMIT, VIENNA, AUSTRIA -- DAY
text: The princes' white robes billow in the breeze; they wear the
text: triumphant smiles of men who have seized an historic moment.
scene_heading: EXT. LONDON COMMODITY EXCHANGE -- DAY
text: GETTY'S LIMOUSINE pulls up in front of the Exchange. J Paul
text: Getty emerges, resplendent in a Saville Row three-piece and
text: accompanied by two lacquered YOUNGISH WOMEN in tight dresses.
dialog: 66.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON COMMODITY EXCHANGE -- DAY
text: Getty takes his seat overlooking the exchange, flanked by
text: his two concubines, like an Emperor at the Arena. The traders
text: on the floor await the opening bell with dread and excitement.
text: Getty's FLOOR TRADER hurries up the steps to take his order.
text: Getty pats his stomach, like a man who can't eat any more:
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: No trades for me, George. My long
dialog: book's all topped up. Truth is, I
dialog: woke up this morning about as long
dialog: as I've been since I was a teenager.
text: The ladies titter and smirk. One leans in, confidential:
speaker_heading: MISTRESS
dialog: He just likes to watch.
text: Getty shoots her a reproving "bad girl" look. She puts out
text: her hand and he pinches it playfully.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Watch carefully, girls. In sixty
dialog: seconds half the men in this room
dialog: will be bankrupt.
text: The seconds tick down. The floor traders brace themselves.
text: We PUSH IN on Getty as the OPENING BELL RINGS...
scene_heading: INT. LONDON HEATHROW AIRPORT -- DAY
text: The boarding gate door opens and Fletcher Chace emerges
text: wearing a suit, sunglasses and a repentant look. Then he
text: sees something that stops him cold:
speaker_heading: EMBARGO
dialog: headlined on every London newspaper's evening edition: "OPEC
dialog: shuts off global oil supply."
speaker_heading: CHACE (V.O.)
dialog: When I got on the plane this morning
dialog: oil was $4 per barrel.
scene_heading: INT. SUTTON PLACE -- DAY
text: Chace walks the halls alongside Getty.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You should have bought it. No one
dialog: will ever see that price again.
text: Getty's secretary hurries up to him in her high heels. She
text: hands him a slip of ticker tape.
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: The New York open, Mr. Getty.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I think it's time to reassess our
dialog: strategy --
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Shh.
text: Getty reads the tape and gazes into the distance.
dialog: Then he's
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: What are you doing, sir?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Multiplication.
text: done. The number seems to surprise even him.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: A good day.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm glad to hear that, Mr Getty.
dialog: It'll make this much easier.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: We need to pay the ransom.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You said it was a hoax.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Your grandson was kidnapped by members
dialog: of the Calabrian N'dragheta, the
dialog: oldest of all Italian Mafias. Two
dialog: of the original kidnappers are dead
text: and one is missing.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: That sounds like progress to me.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm afraid not. They got nervous
dialog: waiting for the ransom and sold the
dialog: boy to an investor.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You told me Paul and his mother cooked
dialog: this up to soak me.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I was wrong. Paul may have talked
text: about being kidnapped with his friends.
dialog: He may have put it out there but I
dialog: don't believe he's behind this.
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: How do I know you're not wrong now?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Look, these people aren't the old-
dialog: world malavita anymore. They're
dialog: businessmen. Their only code is
dialog: profit and loss. They'll do things
dialog: to Paul that can't be undone for any
dialog: amount of money.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Paul got himself into this. The
dialog: boy's going to have to live with the
dialog: consequences of his actions.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Don't let him die just for being a
dialog: child. We have to pay.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I can't.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm sorry?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: It simply isn't possible right now.
dialog: My financial position has changed.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'm not all that bright but I can
dialog: multiply as well as you. With oil
dialog: up 7% this morning you made a fortune.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Precisely. I'm highly leveraged to
dialog: the price of oil right now.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: In the middle of an oil embargo I'd
dialog: say that's a good place to be.
speaker_heading: GETTY
text: When the oil price is rising, it is.
dialog: But what if the price of oil were
dialog: suddenly to fall? What if the embargo
dialog: is lifted? What then? I would be
dialog: exposed. Do you know how Jesse
dialog: Livermore died?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I don't know who he was.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: He was the greatest speculator in
dialog: stocks ever to work on Wall Street.
text: He blew his brains out in a coat
dialog: check room after he lost every penny
dialog: he had. That's how fast a man's
dialog: fortune can turn. Don't you see?
dialog: I've never been more vulnerable
dialog: financially than I am right now.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: No one has ever been richer than you
dialog: are at this moment.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I don't have the money to spare.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: What would it take? How much would
dialog: it take for you to feel secure?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: More.
text: Chace is struck silent. Getty turns on him:
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn't need to hire an ex-CIA
dialog: officer just to pay people off. I
dialog: can do that myself. I hired you to
dialog: do things other people can't, or
dialog: won't. That means rescuing the boy.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I can't do it without money.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: There is no money. You'll have to
dialog: get the boy on your own.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- KITCHEN -- NIGHT
text: The wall-mounted phone RINGS. Gail answers it.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: Signora.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Where is my son?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: He is still in good health. I am
dialog: with him, don't worry.
text: In the BG, Chace turns the reel-to-reel tape recorder on.
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's because of you I worry. I want
dialog: to talk to him.
scene_heading: INT. PHONE BOOTH, REGGIO, CALABRIA -- DAY
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: I'm afraid this I cannot do. I am
dialog: not in charge anymore.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- KITCHEN -- DAY
text: Chace appears at Gail's shoulder. Gail hands him the phone.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: This is Fletcher Chace. Mr. Getty
dialog: has authorized me to negotiate on
dialog: his behalf. We will cover all your
dialog: expenses up to $200,000. Anything
dialog: under this figure is not considered
dialog: extortion under Italian law so you
dialog: can walk away free and clear.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: The boy is worth much more. They're
dialog: not stupid.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: The boy is worth nothing to anyone.
dialog: We're just trying to settle this
dialog: without causing any more embarrassment
dialog: to the family.
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: My God --
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: He's a juvenile delinquent. His
dialog: grandfather's disowned him. It's a
dialog: tough break you took the wrong kid,
dialog: but you're getting off easy.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: You arrogant bastard.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Your uncle Piccolino died in custody
dialog: last night, by the way. You ought
dialog: to take this deal before the same
dialog: happens to you.
text: Chace calmly hangs up the receiver. A hand reaches into
text: frame, picks up the receiver, and HITS him with it.
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Whoa there -- !
text: But the next one connects. Gail hits him again, pushing him
text: back over the stove. Dishes come out of the cupboard and
text: rain down in shatters.
text: Everything collapses to the kitchen floor. Chace grabs at
text: Gail's wrists as they grapple atop broken plates. Somewhere
text: Gail's children are crying.
text: Then she's off him. Chace is lying on his back looking up
text: at the ceiling, bleeding from a split lip.
text: She disappears, taking her crying children with her. Chace
text: is left lying on the kitchen floor. Gail re-enters.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I need some ice or I'll bleed all
dialog: over your floor.
text: Gail reaches into the freezer, pulls out a tray of ice, and
text: drops it onto the floor. Chace rubs ice cubes on his face.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I lied. I said I was authorized to
dialog: pay them $200,000. You know how
dialog: much I'm really authorized to pay?
dialog: Nothing. If they accept I won't be
dialog: able to deliver but I had to buy
dialog: some time. You wanted to know what
dialog: I used to do? This is what I used
dialog: to do. What I still do, for Getty.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You "make deals." You "buy people."
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: That's right. Whether it's a pit of
dialog: grease in the desert or a human life
dialog: it's all the same. We have to show
dialog: we're willing to walk away.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I can't walk away. You can walk
dialog: away, because you have nothing to
dialog: lose, because there's no one in your
dialog: world but yourself.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Fair enough.
text: Chace goes to the door. As he leaves:
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Seventeen million dollars and zero
dialog: dollars. That's how far apart we
dialog: are. Those numbers have got to move.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: Gail lies in bed in the fetal position. The phone rings.
text: She goes to the kitchen and picks it up.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: Seven million dollars.
text: DIAL TONE. Gail is left holding the receiver. The numbers
dialog: have just moved.
scene_heading: INT. ST. PETER'S BASILICA -- DAY
text: GREAT SHAFTS OF LIGHT penetrate the darkness of the Basilica's
text: vaulted dome. In a pew toward the rear Gail and Chace sit
text: eight feet apart, like a couple waiting to get a divorce.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: When a man like you resorts to prayer
dialog: I start to worry we're running out
dialog: of options.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: We're not here to pray. We're here
dialog: to speak to the Archbishop Marcinckus.
text: The six-foot-six ARCHBISHOP MARCINCKUS approaches.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Otherwise known as the Pope's Gorilla.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: Marcinkus and Gail with their heads bowed in prayer.
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS/GAIL
dialog: Sancta Maria, Mater Dei, ora pro
dialog: nobis peccatoribus, nunc, et in hora
dialog: mortis nostrae.
text: Chace sits watching a few rows back, like a man waiting in a
text: bus station. As their prayers are finished, he joins them.
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS
dialog: Ms Getty, the Holy Pontiff himself
dialog: is praying today for the safe return
dialog: of your beautiful boy.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Thank you, Archbishop Marcinkus.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: I was hoping you could use your
dialog: personal influence to help Paul.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Paul has been kidnapped by the
dialog: N'dragheta, father.
text: Marcinkus nods. He speaks in a blunt Chicago accent:
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS
dialog: I may be able to have some influence
dialog: there.
dialog: (off Gail's look)
dialog: Don't look so surprised. The Vatican
dialog: has for hundreds of years had
dialog: relationships with the ancient
dialog: fraternal organizations of Italy.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Actually, we were hoping his Holiness
dialog: would persuade my father-in-law to
dialog: pay the ransom.
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS
dialog: You want me to ask the Pontiff to
dialog: twist J Paul Getty's arm?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Mr. Getty tends to listen to those
dialog: he considers his equals.
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS
dialog: And he thinks the Pope is his equal.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Nearly.
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS
dialog: You gave me the impression that you
dialog: were here on Mr. Getty's behalf.
dialog: Who is it you're working for?
text: For a moment, Chace doesn't know how to answer.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I just want to bring the boy home.
text: Marcinkus rises.
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS
dialog: I'll have a word with his Holiness.
dialog: (re: Chace's face)
dialog: You look like you met up with something
dialog: that didn't agree with you.
dialog: 74.
text: Gail looks away.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Rome is a tough town, Father.
speaker_heading: MARCINKUS
dialog: The toughest.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. PETER'S SQUARE -- DAY
text: Gail and Chace walk in the shade of the colonnades beside
text: the vast plaza. Chace keeps his distance.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I owe you an apology, Mr Chace. I
dialog: was angry, but that's no excuse.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I've taken worse beatings before for
dialog: less cause. Never with a princess
dialog: phone, though.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Please don't make a joke out of it.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: OK, how about this, then. You were
dialog: right when you said I had nothing.
dialog: I'm not important, I'm not rich.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: That's not what I meant.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: But if I had the money to give I'd
dialog: give it to you.
text: Gail looks up at him.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Let me rephrase that.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Don't.
text: Gail walks through the colonnade, and Chace walks with her.
scene_heading: EXT. ROME FIUMICINO AIRPORT -- NIGHT
text: A PRIVATE PLANE taxis on the mist-shrouded runway. The
text: clamshell air-stair descends, a black sedan pulls up, and
text: two bodyguards whisk J Paul Getty inside.
dialog: 75.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL AGOSTO -- NIGHT
text: Getty and his coterie enter via the alley door, briskly moving
text: through the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL AGOSTO -- NIGHT
text: A group of furtive Milanese in black designer clothes hover
text: outside a hotel suite.
speaker_heading: OTTO
dialog: Good evening, Mr. Getty.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Nothing good about it. Let's get
dialog: down to business.
speaker_heading: OTTO
dialog: Are you serious about making payment?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I wouldn't be here if I weren't.
speaker_heading: OTTO
dialog: Because there can't be any more games.
dialog: You know our price, and it's not
dialog: subject to negotiation any longer.
dialog: Payment must be made in cash, tonight.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I want the proof first.
speaker_heading: OTTO
dialog: After you.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT
text: As he enters, Getty is overcome with emotion.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: There you are.
text: REVERSE ANGLE: there on the bedspread is a small painting:
text: Albrecht Diirer's 15th Century "Madonna and Child in a Window."
speaker_heading: OTTO
dialog: Because of the painting's disputed
dialog: provenance, it can never be publicly
dialog: displayed. As discussed, our price
dialog: is $1.15 million.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I'm afraid we weren't able to bring
dialog: the full sum. Liquidity, you know.
text: Otto motions for his men to begin packing up the painting.
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: OTTO
dialog: True masterpieces never go on sale,
dialog: Mr. Getty. If you cannot pay, you
dialog: will never own one.
text: Getty grimaces. He turns to one of his coterie:
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Pay the man.
scene_heading: INT. BUTCHER -- REGGIO, CALABRIA -- DAY
text: A BUTCHER cuts flesh from a lamb's flank with a cleaver,
text: wraps it in wax paper, and hands it to Sgro and Cinquanta.
scene_heading: EXT. WHEATFIELD/BARN -- EVENING
text: A field of dried grain roils in the wind. A tumbledown
text: clapboard shack stands at its center.
scene_heading: INT. BARN -- EVENING
text: Paul sits on a bare mattress, chained to the floor. Cinquanta
text: enters with an oil lantern and a covered plate.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: I brought you something to warm you,
dialog: Paolo. Something special for being
dialog: a good boy.
text: He sets down the plate. Two steaks, running with blood.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Can I have some crackers?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: What do you want that for? I brought
dialog: you this good tagliata. Come on, we
dialog: eat it together.
text: Paul takes a bite. It's hard to swallow.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: It's too much. I'll be sick.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Look at me, Paul. You must eat it
dialog: all, no matter how long it takes.
dialog: Make sure you keep it down.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You bring me steak now? Why?
text: The door opens and a man walks in carrying a doctor's bag.
text: The Doctor indicates for Paul to come to him.
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Do as he says.
text: The Doctor examines Paul's ears. He shaves the hair around
text: the ear with a straight razor, then swabs it with alcohol.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Eat now. Keep eating. Ask me no
dialog: questions, Paolo. You have to trust
dialog: me. It's important.
text: He offers a bite to the boy, as you would to a child.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I'll eat it. Just leave me alone
dialog: and I'll eat it all, OK?
text: The Doctor exits, his examination finished. Cinquanta leaves
text: the plate on the floor. Paul takes a bite of the steak.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: If I could, I'd take your place.
text: Cinquanta turns and walks outside, leaving Paul alone. Paul
text: spits out the morsel. He takes out the Bic pen and the box
text: of matches hidden inside the waistband of his pants.
text: QUICK CUTS: Paul uses the steak knife to scrape the
text: phosphorous off the match heads. He removes the ink tube
text: from the pen and packs it with the phosphorous.
text: He goes to work on the shackle that chains him to the barn
text: floor, attacking the floorboards with the knife.
text: He hears the VOICES of the men. He looks through a crack in
text: the wall. They're drinking and singing outside the farmhouse.
text: He pulls on the chain again, leaning into it. Finally it
text: gives. He falls, the chain CLATTERING across the floor.
text: THROUGH THE CRACK IN THE WALL: the men fall silent, then
text: resume their carousing. Paul picks up the pen tube and raises
text: it to his lips like a peashooter. He lights a match --
text: -- and the phosphorous packed inside CATCHES FIRE. It sparks
text: brilliantly, like a Roman candle. He aims it through the
text: crack in the wall, then BLOWS --
scene_heading: EXT. BARN -- NIGHT
text: -- LAUNCHING it into the field of dried, broken grain. For
text: a moment it is a shooting star, and then it lands.
scene_heading: INT. BARN -- NIGHT
text: PAUL'S EYE peers through the crack in the wall --
dialog: 78.
scene_heading: EXT. BARN -- NIGHT
text: -- as his Roman candle sputters amidst the cracked stalks,
text: then dies. The light in Paul's eye seems to die with it.
text: Then the wind picks up. The embers begin to glow and scatter;
text: the cracked wheat catches fire.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: THE ENTIRE FIELD IS ABLAZE. Paul climbs out of the wood
text: shed with the broken chain slung over his shoulder. He
text: disappears into the wheat field.
text: The flames threaten to overtake the barn; the men from the
text: house come running, desperate to rescue the boy inside.
text: Paul runs through the wheat field as A WALL OF FLAME consumes
text: it. The wind whips the smoke into a black cloud behind him.
text: We PULL BACK to gaze down upon the young boy as runs, the
text: great field of fire spreading in his wake.
scene_heading: EXT. AUTOSTRADA -- NIGHT
text: Paul runs toward the highway with the chain slung over his
text: neck. A pillar of smoke climbs into the sky in the distance.
text: A single CAR drives by. Paul tries to wave it down, but the
text: driver speeds up to avoid him. Up ahead, he sees it: a
text: CARABINERI POLICE CAR driving away.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Hey. Police. Police! Poliziotto!
text: Paul runs into the highway, waving his arms.
speaker_heading: PAUL (CONT'D)
dialog: Over here! Attenzione!
text: A car horn BLARES: the driver nearly clips him --
text: -- but the RED TAILLIGHTS on the police car light up. The
text: mustached CONSTABLE stops and climbs out of the car.
text: As soon as the constable gets a glimpse of Paul's condition
text: he hurries over to him. The boy collapses into his arms.
scene_heading: INT. CARABINERI STATION -- NIGHT
text: A fire glows in the hearth. The Constable's WIFE, a stocky
text: Italian Mamma, stretches a blanket over Paul's shoulders.
text: In the BG, the Constable phones in to report the boy's rescue.
speaker_heading: MAMMA
dialog: Povera bambino... cosi freddo...
dialog: 79.
text: She goes to the hearth and spoons out a plate of warm polenta.
speaker_heading: MAMMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Mangia.
text: Paul takes a spoonful. As he eats, tears roll down his face.
text: The Constable and his wife smile warmly.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Can I make a phone call? I want to
dialog: call my mother.
text: The old woman brings the telephone to the boy's side and
text: hands him the receiver. With trembling hands, he dials.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: HOLD ON the phone as it RINGS. Gail turns on the tape
text: recorder, then picks up the phone.
speaker_heading: PAUL (0.S.)
dialog: Mom?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Mom, are you there?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Paul.
speaker_heading: PAUL (0.S.)
dialog: It's alright, Mom. I'm OK. I'm
dialog: safe now.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE STATION -- NIGHT
text: As Paul talks with his mother, there's a KNOCK at the door.
text: In the BG, the Constable goes to answer it.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I'm at the police station. I need
dialog: you to come and get me.
text: In the BG, several men enter and exchange greetings.
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: What police station? Where are you?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: I just want to come home. You don't
dialog: know how close they came.
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: I'm coming to take you home. What
dialog: police station are you at?
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Hold on, I'll ask.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: PAUL (CONT'D)
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Excuse me, where am I? Dove sono io?
text: Behind him, A HAND REACHES INTO FRAME and presses down on
text: the receiver cradle, gently hanging up the phone.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: The line goes dead.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Paul? Paul -- ?
scene_heading: INT. POLICE STATION -- NIGHT
text: We TILT UP from the phone cradle along the length of the
dialog: man's arm --
text: -- REVEALING that it is Saverio Mammoliti himself that has
text: hung up the phone. He reaches out to the boy.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: Give it here.
text: Paul hands the receiver to Mammoliti, who hangs up.
text: We PAN across the faces in the room: Mammoliti's men, along
text: with the Constable, his wife, and, to one side, Cinquanta.
text: Mammoliti offers his hand to Paul.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI (CONT'D)
dialog: Come now, Paul. There will be no
dialog: more foolishness.
text: The boy places a hand over the ear that's been shorn and
text: cleaned, as if trying to protect it.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI (CONT'D)
dialog: Come.
text: Paul takes Mammoliti's hand. They walk out of the station
text: hand-in-hand, into the street, where Mammoliti's car awaits.
text: The rear door opens, they climb inside, and the Mercedes
text: vanishes into the darkness.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: Gail stands frozen with the dead receiver in her hand.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: The apartment is overrun by Squadra Mobile officers, including
text: Del Rovere and Corvo. The tape squeals as it rewinds, then:
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: PAUL (0.S.)
dialog: I just want to come home. You don't
dialog: know how close they came.
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: I'm coming to take you home. What
dialog: police station are you at?
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: (listening on
dialog: headphones )
text: Ascoltare. Pavimenti. Footsteps.
dialog: Someone approaches --
speaker_heading: PAUL (0.S.)
dialog: Excuse me, where am I? Dove sono io --
text: CLICK. The line goes dead.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
text: Someone breaks the connection.
speaker_heading: GAIL
text: He was in a police station. Nothing
dialog: could happen to him there, right?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: It could have been a bad connection.
dialog: It's Italy. Nothing works right.
speaker_heading: CORVO
dialog: No. Everything works differently.
speaker_heading: GAIL
text: He was safe. He said he was safe.
dialog: He was in this room, just now, talking
dialog: to me. He can't just be gone.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Keep the line open. He'll call back.
dialog: We will wait as long as it takes.
scene_heading: EXT. WHEATFIELD/BARN -- NIGHT
text: The fire in the fields has burned itself out; ASHES dance in
text: the air like snowflakes. Paul rides in the backseat with
text: Mammoliti. Cinquanta rides up front with Sgro.
speaker_heading: SGRO
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: I'm starting to see why they don't
dialog: want their kid back. Maybe they'd
dialog: pay us to keep him, or kill him.
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Don't blame the kid. You'd have
dialog: done the same if you could have
dialog: thought of it.
text: Mammoliti gazes out the rear window.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: A big fire like this? It draws
dialog: attention. Inspectors. Bribes to
dialog: be paid. We budget for contingencies,
dialog: but nothing like this.
text: The farmhouse comes into view. The wooden shed is scorched
text: but still standing. We pull up in front of it.
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI (CONT'D)
dialog: There are carrying costs. It's
dialog: discipline, fiscal discipline. Either
dialog: the family pays, or we must cut our
dialog: losses.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- MORNING
text: The cops are all gone. Only their overflowing ashtrays and
text: coffee cups remain. Gail and Chace have been up all night.
text: Chace sits at the table, tie askew, helping Ariadne, Gail's
text: youngest, complete a word-search puzzle in a coloring book
text: as her other son watches television.
speaker_heading: ARIADNE
dialog: They always hide the words backwards.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You don't have to do that.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I enjoy it. It's about my speed.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: He's not going to call. Go home.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I don't have a home. I have a hotel.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: (to Ariadne)
dialog: Come here, darling. I'1l help you.
text: The girl sits beside Gail. She turns to another puzzle -- a
text: maze -- as Chace reluctantly gathers his jacket to leave.
text: Gail watches, mesmerized with exhaustion, as the point of
text: the pencil slowly winds its way through the maze. Then:
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: My God. How could I be so stupid.
text: Gail leaps up from her chair and RUNS through the living
text: room, down the hallway and into
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM -- MORNING
text: Gail throws open the closet, opening shoeboxes and flinging
text: them aside. She reaches deep into the dark and finds it:
text: THE MINOTAUR statuette lies inside, swathed in Gail's scarf.
text: She closes the box and runs back down the hallway, past Chace.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Watch the kids.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: What am I supposed to feed them?
text: The door SLAMS behind her on the way out.
scene_heading: EXT. SOTHEBY'S ROME -- PALAZZO COLONNA -- DAY
text: Gail fixes her makeup in a vanity mirror as her cab pulls up
text: outside the auction house. She pays the driver --
scene_heading: INT. SOTHEBY'S ROME -- DAY
text: -- and grips the shoebox in both hands as she waits. An
text: APPRAISER in a bespoke suit greets her.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm sorry to just show up like this.
speaker_heading: APPRAISER
dialog: No, Ms Getty, it is we that are sorry
dialog: to keep you waiting. Prego.
scene_heading: INT. APPRAISER'S OFFICE -- DAY
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: This piece came from my former father-
dialog: in-law's personal collection. It
dialog: was a gift to his grandson. By his
dialog: own estimate it was worth $1.2
dialog: million, and that was years ago.
text: The Appraiser opens the box... and the statue is unveiled.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: My situation is urgent. Please, if
dialog: you can give me any idea as to its
dialog: true value --
text: The Appraiser's expression is one of surprise and confusion.
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: APPRAISER
dialog: Signora, if we may have a moment
dialog: alone to consult among ourselves.
text: Gail nods and exits. Through the glass, we see him argue
text: sotto voce with his associate. They call her back inside.
speaker_heading: APPRAISER (CONT'D)
dialog: Seven or eight, at most.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: (euphoric, relieved)
dialog: Seven million -- !
speaker_heading: APPRAISER
dialog: No, Signora. Seven dollars. This
dialog: is un gingillo, a trinket of the
dialog: type sold to tourists.
text: Gail's eyes narrow.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: J Paul Getty is the foremost collector
dialog: in the world. Do you really imagine
dialog: that you know more than he does?
speaker_heading: APPRAISER
dialog: No, Signora, I do not. But I know
dialog: what my eyes see.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: (trembling)
dialog: We're a joke to you. All of you.
dialog: Me and my kids. We were never good
dialog: enough.
dialog: (gathering her things)
dialog: I'll get another appraisal. Thank
dialog: you for your time.
speaker_heading: APPRAISER
dialog: Signora. You might start at the
dialog: National Museum.
scene_heading: INT. NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ROME -- DAY
text: Gail walks through the Museum gallery clutching her shoebox,
text: showing the Minotaur to anyone who will listen. She finally
text: corners a DOCENT, who points her down the hallway.
speaker_heading: DOCENT
dialog: Dritto, poi a sinistra.
text: Gail hurries down the corridor, then turns into
dialog: 85.
scene_heading: INT. MUSEUM GIFT SHOP -- DAY
text: At first it seems a cruel joke. But then she sees it, beneath
text: the cash register: AN ENTIRE BASKET OF MINOTAURS, dozens of
text: them, and every one is identical to hers.
text: She kneels down before the wicker basket and reaches into
text: it, touching them, hearing the chalky clink of the little
text: idols as the other customers try not to stare. She quickly
text: gathers up her shoebox and walks out.
scene_heading: EXT. NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ROME -- PLAZA -- DAY
text: She walks out into the plaza, exhausted and overcome. As
text: she reaches the center of the Plaza, she becomes dizzy. Her
text: steps falter, she hesitates... and then she collapses.
scene_heading: INT. BARN -- NIGHT
text: A WOODEN STUMP is placed before us. It is dark with dried
text: blood. The doctor's instruments are laid out upon it.
text: Through the barn door we see Cinquanta pleading with Mammoliti
text: through the Mercedes' rear window. The Mercedes drives away.
text: Cinquanta enters. He offers Paul a bottle of cheap brandy.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Drink. Fast as you can swallow.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Tastes awful.
speaker_heading: PAUL (CONT'D)
dialog: When they get it, they'll pay, right?
text: And then it's over.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: That's right. You'll be home soon.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: It's only an ear, right?
text: In the shadows, men are moving. A knife-glint in the dark.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Look into my eyes, Paolo, always.
dialog: No matter what happens. Don't look
dialog: at anything else but me.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Make it quick. Tell them.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: (to the Doctor)
dialog: Un taglio, rapidamente.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Paul)
text: Soon it's over.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: When I get home --
text: A HAND reaches into frame and shoves a rag into Paul's mouth.
text: OTHER HANDS grab Paul by the arms as he struggles. The doctor
text: grabs the boy's ear, pulls it taut --
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Stabile! Tenerlo stabile!
text: -- and begins to saw at it with a straight razor. Paul's
text: eyes go wide with shock.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: At me! Look at me, Paul! My eyes!
text: Paul's eyes are locked with Cinquanta's: they implore and
text: accuse him. There is no blood; the ear is like rubber.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Maria santissima!
text: The doctor struggles with the knife. Then, all at once, the
text: blood comes, spilling down the boy's face.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: Paul -- !
text: Finally the ear comes free. They release Paul and he
text: collapses, his blood spilling out across the floor, and we
speaker_heading: BLACK OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN ON:
text: A SMALL YELLOW PACKAGE
text: addressed to "La Stampa" newspaper is dumped out of a canvas
text: postal worker's bag onto a conveyor belt.
scene_heading: INT. ROME POST OFFICE --DAY
text: We FOLLOW the little package as it drifts along on the tide
text: of thousands of other letters and packages, passing through
text: chutes and sorters, until it reaches another conveyor --
text: -- where it abruptly STOPS. The conveyor belt is turned
text: off; the hum of machinery goes silent. The postal workers
text: leave their stations. The lights are switched off...
text: .».-and the package sits there on the conveyor belt, waiting.
dialog: 87.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- KITCHEN -- DAY
text: Fletcher Chace is in Gail's kitchen, foraging through her
text: refrigerator for sandwich fixings as her kids look on.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Look at this. We've got guanciale,
dialog: pecorino moliterno, friggitello,
dialog: scamorzina, Licini coppa, limonata.
dialog: Back home you'd be stuck with peanut
text: butter and marshmallow fluff.
speaker_heading: ARIADNE
dialog: I want marshmallow fluff.
text: Chace starts fixing the sandwiches.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: You're breaking my heart. I tell
dialog: you what, I can get us some shipped
dialog: from back home. I have connections.
dialog: But don't tell your mother.
text: Chace brings the sandwiches over to the kitchen table, which
text: is still burdened by the reel-to-reel tape recorder. He
text: lifts it up and places it on the floor so they can eat.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: More like it.
text: Chace and the kids eat the meal he has prepared. For a moment
text: Chace seems slightly surprised to find himself here.
scene_heading: EXT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- DAY
text: Gail collects the day's mail and the newspaper from the
text: mailbox. From 0.S. we hear the sound of a camera CLICKING.
text: Gail looks up to see a weedy PAPARAZZO snapping pictures.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Lens cap.
text: The Paparazzo removes his lens cap, embarrassed. He tries
text: to get a reaction from her, calling out questions:
speaker_heading: PAPARAZZO
dialog: Is your son dead, Signora? It's
text: four months now. Surely he is dead.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: PAPARAZZO
dialog: How do you know?
text: Gail doesn't answer. The Paparazzo grows frustrated.
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: PAPARAZZO (CONT'D)
dialog: We wait out here months. You don't
dialog: pay the money. You don't cry. You
dialog: don't care if your own son dies.
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: I have to earn a living.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Money's the best excuse there is.
text: He shoves his cigarette in his mouth and climbs back onto
text: his scooter, rewinding his film as he goes, then speeds away.
text: Chace stands in the doorway behind Gail.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm pretty sure that was the last of
dialog: them. They've all given up now.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Not everyone.
text: A cold wind. She gathers her sweater around herself.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I wonder if it's cold where they're
dialog: keeping him.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: He's a tough kid.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You've never even met him.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: It's what I'm banking on.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Look, I'm going to ask you a question,
dialog: and you're going to tell me it's
dialog: none of my business. But I have to
dialog: ask. Who is Luigi Della Ratta?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You're resourceful enough to find
dialog: that out on your own.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: To you, I mean.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Lou was company when I needed company.
dialog: You know?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: It's all I've ever known.
dialog: 89.
text: Out in the street, some neighborhood kids are playing soccer.
text: Cars zoom by at high speed, and the kids just play through.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, kid, attento! Out of the street!
text: The kids ignore him. Gail watches them.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: From the day you bring them home
dialog: from the hospital, the world is full
dialog: of dangers that were never there
text: before. A penny lying on the floor.
text: A lamp with a frayed electrical cable.
text: A driver crosses the dividing line
text: on the highway for an instant and
dialog: all the light goes out of the world
dialog: forever.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Hostages to fortune.
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: It's one of those things the old man
dialog: used to say when he wanted to come
dialog: off all sage and profound.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I've heard him say it too. I don't
dialog: think he had any idea what it meant.
text: Gail turns and heads back inside, leaving Chace alone.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Until now I don't think I had any
dialog: idea myself.
scene_heading: INT. ROME POST OFFICE --DAY
text: THE SMALL YELLOW PACKAGE lies on the conveyor belt in the
text: darkened Rome Post Office. The overhead fluorescents flicker
text: on, workers return to their stations --
text: -- and the conveyor belt comes to life. The little package
text: is borne up once again on the tide of letters and packages.
scene_heading: INT. "IL MESSAGGERO" NEWSPAPER -- NEWSROOM -- DAY
text: We ride with the package atop a MAIL CART as it travels
text: through the bustling newsroom. It lands on a desk outside a
text: corner office with a placard that reads UFFICIO EDITORE.
text: The Editor's SECRETARY slices open the package. She removes
dialog: its plastic-wrapped contents. What is this?
text: She looks inside the package again. No letter, no note.
text: She shakes the yellow envelope and something falls out --
dialog: 90.
text: A POLAROID PHOTO. She examines the Polaroid in one hand,
text: then looks at the plastic-wrapped object in the other...
text: ...and SCREAMS.
scene_heading: EXT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- DAY
text: Gail Getty opens the front door to her apartment. Once again,
text: the street is teeming with reporters and paparazzi, all
text: shouting for her attention.
scene_heading: INT. "IL MESSAGGERO" NEWSPAPER -- NEWSROOM -- DAY
text: We FOLLOW Gail and Chace through the newsroom, where the
text: secretary's desk has been taped off by the Squadra Mobile.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Signora, it would be entirely
dialog: understandable if you feel you cannot
dialog: make the identification --
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I have to see it. Just show it to me.
text: Del Rovere nods to one of the uniformed police. Using a
text: pair of tweezers, he pulls back the plastic wrapping --
text: -- to REVEAL a small piece of flesh in the shape of a question
text: mark. Beside it a lock of auburn hair.
text: The Polaroid lies face-down next to it. The policeman flips
text: it over: it's Paul. Where his ear once was there is a fresh
text: wound. Gail inhales sharply and touches her ear.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: That's him.
text: Gail gazes at the Polaroid as the Police bundle the evidence.
text: Il Messaggero's mustached EDITOR appears at Gail's side.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: This must be a terrible strain.
speaker_heading: GAIL
text: He's alive.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: Come, rest in my office, it's quiet.
scene_heading: INT. EDITOR'S OFFICE -- "IL MESSAGGERO" NEWSPAPER -- DAY
text: Gail sits down on the sofa. Chace hangs back in the doorway.
text: The Secretary places a cup of coffee and cake before her.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Thank you, but I'm not hungry.
dialog: Gail looks
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: You must eat, Ms Getty. It will
dialog: raise your spirits.
text: around. There are several editors in the room.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I just need a moment to myself.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: I'm afraid time is of the essence.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Why? Do you know something?
speaker_heading: PHOTO EDITOR
dialog: We would like to publish it, Ms.
dialog: Getty. The photograph. Of the ear.
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: It's news. And we are a newspaper.
dialog: The ear came to us. It frightened
dialog: our secretary terribly.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: It's true.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's my son's ear. It's his. Ours.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: We want to offer some compensation.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't want to sell you pictures of
dialog: my son's ear.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: Your son is being held for ransom.
dialog: You claim not to have any money. We
dialog: may be able to make a negotiation.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: How much money are you offering?
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: Fifty thousand American dollars.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's not enough.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: In the eyes of the law, we own the
dialog: photograph already.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Go to hell.
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: Va bene. We will leave you alone
dialog: now if you like. Enjoy the coffee.
text: The editorial staff files out. Then:
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Pay me in newspapers.
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: I want my son's ear on the cover of
dialog: your newspaper.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: We wouldn't have it any other way.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: But I don't want money. I want a
dialog: thousand copies of your newspaper.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: And where would you like these
dialog: thousand newspapers sent?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A PALLET OF TABLOID NEWSPAPERS
text: On every cover, the Polaroid image of the earless Paul Getty.
text: The pallet is RAISED on a forklift --
scene_heading: EXT. SUTTON PLACE -- FRONT GATES -- DAY
text: -- and DROPPED in front of the iron gates. The forklift
text: lumbers off, leaving the newspapers fluttering in the wind.
speaker_heading: GETTY (0.S.)
dialog: There at the gate. What's that?
text: The gates GROAN OPEN. Bullimore the butler steps outside.
text: He pulls a copy of the newspaper from the pile and blanches.
text: Getty stands on the front steps of the house. Bullimore
text: dutifully folds the newspaper and brings it to him.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: It's Paul. What's happened to his --
text: Then he realizes what he's looking at. Getty stands
text: unsteadily on the steps. He HURLS the newspaper away from
text: him. It comes apart in the wind.
text: It becomes a swarm of paper, a swirling flock. They blow
text: back upon him. Getty swings his arm to bat them away, then
text: covers his face lest they peck out his eyes.
dialog: 93.
text: Getty turns and walks back up the great steps of his castle
text: as the tabloid pages swirl at his feet. Bullimore remains
text: on the steps to clean up what Getty has left in his wake.
scene_heading: INT. BARN -- DAY
text: Paul Getty lies on his cot, pale and motionless, as Cinquanta
text: cradles his bandaged head.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.)
text: Paul is dying. He's lost so much
dialog: blood.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: The tape recorder rolls as Gail leans against the wall of
text: her kitchen with the phone in her hand.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: They wanted to take the foot and I
dialog: convinced them to take the ear. But
dialog: the foot is coming next. I hear
dialog: them talking. I beg you, get the
dialog: money.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Tell us where you are. We'll make a
dialog: deal in exchange for your cooperation.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: The police?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We can get you out of Italy.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: You don't understand. I can never
dialog: talk to the police. It's onore.
dialog: It's forbidden. Even if this was my
dialog: own child.
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: There must be something you can do.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: What about you, Signora? I've risked
dialog: my throat for your son. What have
dialog: you given for him? Don't tell me
dialog: you don't have the money. What have
dialog: you done?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I --
text: The line goes dead.
dialog: 94,
scene_heading: INT. PHONE BOOTH -- TOWN SQUARE -- NIGHT
text: Cinquanta holds the dead receiver. As he searches the coin
text: slot for change, he sees a man in the square watching him.
text: He hangs up, walks out of the phone booth, and steals away.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT
text: Gail places the receiver back in the cradle. Then it RINGS.
text: She picks it up again.
speaker_heading: HINGE (0.S.)
dialog: Ms. Getty? This is Oswald Hinge in
dialog: Los Angeles. I'm sure you don't
dialog: remember me.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I haven't forgotten a thing.
scene_heading: INT. GETTY OIL COMPANY -- OFFICE -- DAY
text: Getty's attorney sits overlooking the smog of Los Angeles.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: I'm calling on behalf of Mr. Getty.
dialog: Not your former husband --
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: The old one with the money.
speaker_heading: HINGE (0.S.)
dialog: That's the one.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What can I do for you, Mr. Hinge?
speaker_heading: HINGE (0.S.)
dialog: Mr. Getty has decided to pay Paul's
dialog: ransom.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- DAY
text: Gail's eyes widen; she has to take a breath. Suddenly
dialog: everything's changed.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: That's -- Thank you, Mr. Hinge.
speaker_heading: HINGE (0.S.)
dialog: Thank him. I am but a messenger.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I would if he'd let me.
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: You'll get your chance. We'll need
dialog: you to come to Los Angeles for
dialog: discussions.
text: Gail's euphoria fades ever so slightly.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What is there to discuss?
scene_heading: EXT. LOS ANGELES -- OVERHEAD -- DAY
text: Gail gazes through the porthole window at the grid of dirty
text: streets that extends unto the horizon.
speaker_heading: STEWARDESS (0.S.)
dialog: Ladies and Gentlemen, we are now
dialog: beginning our final descent.
text: The plane touches down with that abrupt SCREECH --
scene_heading: INT. GETTY OIL COMPANY, LOS ANGELES -- DAY
text: Gail walks down a corridor, flanked by Fletcher Chace and
text: Giovanni Iacovoni, her attorney. We round a corner and enter --
scene_heading: INT. BOARD ROOM -- DAY
text: Getty sits at the head of the table, as he did years before.
text: He seems weaker following his experience on the steps of his
text: mansion. To his left sits Oswald Hinge, and to his right --
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Paul?
text: -- sits Gail's ex-husband, John Paul II. He is almost
text: unrecognizable: gaunt, feeble, attended by a professional
text: caregiver, a lost junkie in a borrowed suit.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Is that you, Paul?
text: Her ex-husband utters a listless grunt. At the head of the
text: table, the old man turns his lidded gaze to Fletcher Chace.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Mr. Chace -- ?
text: Chace walks to Getty's end of the table, where he takes his
text: place by his employer. Gail is taken aback, betrayed.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: You'll be happy to know there are
dialog: some new developments that will enable
dialog: us to finally help our little Paul.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm glad to hear that.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: My tax attorneys have discovered
dialog: that while ransom payments are not
dialog: deductible under the tax code, I can
dialog: write off the interest if I loan the
dialog: ransom money to my son.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You've discovered that you can take
dialog: my son's kidnapping as a tax
dialog: deduction.
dialog: (covering)
dialog: I'm glad. I'm happy it works out
dialog: financially for you.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: I think we can all agree that the
dialog: most important thing is getting Paul
text: home safely. And soon.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Soon, yes, aS soon as we can, please.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: The loan documents are ready, and
dialog: the funds are ready to be transferred.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Paul will be so grateful to his
text: grandpa when he gets home. He loves
dialog: you more than you know.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: And I love him.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: There's just the matter of the side
dialog: letter.
text: A lawyer slides a document across the table toward us.
speaker_heading: HINGE (CONT'D)
dialog: In exchange for Mr. Getty's making
dialog: the loan, you agree to sign over
dialog: full custody of all of your children,
dialog: including Paul, to your ex-husband.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Sign over -- ?
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: There is no provision for visitation.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 96.
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: HINGE (CONT'D)
dialog: All parental rights reside with Mr.
dialog: Getty.
text: Gail turns to her ex-husband.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Are you part of this?
text: John Paul II doesn't answer: he stares vacantly into space.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Iacovoni)
dialog: They can't do this, can they?
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: My legal team is the best there is.
dialog: If it wouldn't stand up in court
dialog: they wouldn't have written it.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Take your time. Sleep on it. Have
dialog: your attorney read it over.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I don't have time to sleep on it.
dialog: My child is being held prisoner.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: There is that.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I let you have the money back then.
dialog: I didn't ask for anything but my
dialog: kids. You just can't bear to leave
dialog: anything on the table, can you?
text: Getty doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Gail --
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Give it to me.
text: An attorney slides the document toward her, along with an
text: ornate gold pen. There's a blank line for her signature.
text: She stares at the pen in her hand as if in a trance:
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
text: This is a beautiful pen.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: The best.
text: And then, with a single stroke, Gail signs her children away.
dialog: 98.
scene_heading: INT. GETTY OIL COMPANY -- DAY
text: Gail makes her way back to the elevators, trailed by Chace.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Gail, I swear I had no idea.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Call Inspector Del Rovere. Tell him
dialog: to set up the cash exchange through
dialog: Cinquanta.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I never dreamed he'd pull this.
text: Gail steps into the elevator.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's time for you to do whatever it
dialog: is he pays you to do. Let's hope
dialog: you're half as good as everything
dialog: else he's bought.
text: The doors close and Gail is gone.
scene_heading: INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Gail and Chace sit on the twin beds on either side of the
text: phone, waiting for it to ring.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Look, Gail --
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You don't need to explain. You don't
dialog: work for me, or Paul. You work for
dialog: Getty. I guess I forgot that.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Yeah. I forgot it too.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI (0.S.)
dialog: We have a problem.
text: Giovanni Iacovoni has set up a makeshift office at a table
text: by the window. He rises and approaches them, agitated.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI (CONT'D)
dialog: The contract you signed. The language
text: of the document. It's hidden.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Getty has agreed to loan his son the
dialog: ransom up to the amount that is tax
dialog: deductible.
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: No.
text: The phone starts RINGING.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: So I investigate. Under US tax code,
text: only the first million is deductible.
dialog: That's all they wired to us.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What is the ransom down to?
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: Four. Down from seventeen.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We don't have four. We have one.
text: A series of clicks as, back in Rome, the Italian Police set
dialog: up the phone connection:
speaker_heading: SQUADRA MOBILE (0.S.)
dialog: Momento per favore.
text: Then Cinquanta comes on the line:
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
text: Meno male. It's almost over.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What is Paul's condition?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: He's not so good, but we can keep
text: him alive a few days, long enough to
dialog: make the exchange.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We may not have all of it.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: All of what?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We only have a million.
scene_heading: INT. PHONE BOOTH, REGGIO, CALABRIA -- INTERCUT -- NIGHT
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: The number is four.
speaker_heading: CHACE (0.S.)
dialog: One is the new number.
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
text: One is one quarter of the ransom.
dialog: For this they'll send one-quarter of
dialog: your son. Tell me, which quarter do
dialog: you want?
text: Cinquanta pounds on the phone with his fist in frustration.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (CONT'D)
dialog: You greedy animali. You're the worst
dialog: criminals of all.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I guess that makes you the victim,
dialog: right? Tell me, did you hold the
dialog: kid down so they could cut off his
dialog: ear?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: I did, yes.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Listen to me. I'm out now. I don't
dialog: have any money to make from this
dialog: anymore. But I don't want Paul to
dialog: die. You have to go back and get
dialog: Getty to pay --
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: He can only pay for what he hasn't
dialog: got. It's his sickness. He has to
dialog: get something for his money and I
dialog: have nothing left to give.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: I'm begging you, Signora.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You're begging me?
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: I don't want it to end like this.
dialog: They expect the money in 48 hours.
dialog: They won't believe you when you say
dialog: you don't have it. If they don't
dialog: get every lira they'll kill him.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: You have to get me some time here.
dialog: I'm fighting an empire.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: You think you're the only one.
text: Cinquanta hangs up the phone and vanishes into the dark.
dialog: 101.
scene_heading: EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY -- MALIBU -- NIGHT
text: Chace drives along the winding highway. Gail sits in the
text: passenger seat, gazing at the churning sea outside her window.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: This is it. He's building some sort
dialog: of mansion out here on the ocean.
text: Chace pulls into a gated drive. They step out of the car
text: and approach the gates. Gail presses the buzzer by the gate.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I need to speak to him.
text: She buzzes again and gets no reply.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: We can't stay here. They'll call
dialog: the police.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Let them.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: We have the million.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: For a million they'll kill him.
dialog: They won't believe me when I say I
dialog: don't have the rest of the money.
dialog: Nobody believes me.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: There were never any guarantees.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Don't do that. It won't make it any
dialog: easier when the time comes.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: We knew what we were up against.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Then why. Any of this.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: For me? A chance to ingratiate myself
dialog: with the old man, so I could make
dialog: myself into a cheap imitation of
dialog: what he is. For you, I don't know.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: A reason to live.
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: The money would have bought a chance,
dialog: maybe a window of opportunity to
dialog: grab him. Maybe not even that.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: The money, the money. I can't bear
dialog: to hear about the money anymore.
text: She leans her head against the iron bars, her back to him.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: This thing that's made beggars of
text: us, rats in a maze, grubbing out our
dialog: lives for -- what? Ink in some
dialog: ledger. We'll kill and die for it,
dialog: and none of it is real.
text: Chace reaches out his hand to touch her. But then she turns.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Everybody thinks I have the money.
dialog: Nobody believes me when I say I don't.
dialog: Why am I arguing with them?
text: Chace doesn't understand.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Everybody thinks I have the money.
dialog: The newspapers, the kidnappers --
dialog: they all think I'm rich. Do you
dialog: know what they call that?
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Credit.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: We announce that I have the ransom
dialog: money. All four million. We make
dialog: the exchange. You get your window.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: What happens when they find out the
dialog: money's not all there?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: By that time, we either have Paul or
dialog: we don't.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Now you're thinking like a Getty.
text: POLICE CARS pull up on Pacific Coast Highway behind them.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: The cops do come running when you're
dialog: a billionaire.
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: MALIBU POLICE OFFICER (0.S.)
dialog: You're trespassing on Getty property.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: We were just leaving, officer. We
dialog: don't need him anymore.
scene_heading: INT. BEVERLY HILLS HILTON HOTEL -- CORRIDOR -- DAY
dialog: She wears
text: Gail Getty applies lipstick in a compact mirror.
text: a designer dress, makeup, jewelry: she looks like Grace Kelly.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I'm saving the receipts so I can
dialog: return it all to Dior tomorrow.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: Pit bella. In all my life have never
dialog: seen a woman so lovely.
dialog: This isn't the effect she was after.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: You look rich. Beautifully rich.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: That's more like it.
scene_heading: INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL -- POOL TERRACE -- DAY
text: Gail steps onto the terrace, where two dozen reporters and
text: photographers await. She steps before the microphones.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Following a long and difficult
dialog: negotiation with my son's kidnappers --
scene_heading: INT. GETTY MANSION -- DAY
text: In his sun-streamed living room, J Paul Getty watches
text: television as Bullimore hovers nearby.
speaker_heading: GAIL (0.S.)
dialog: -- I have decided to meet their
text: demands and pay the ransom in full.
text: Getty's eyes widen.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: "I" have decided to pay?
dialog: this? In full?
dialog: What is
text: Getty turns around in his chair.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: Get me Fletcher Chace.
dialog: 104.
scene_heading: EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY -- DAY
text: Traffic. Fletcher Chace swelters in his rented car. He
text: checks the gas gauge -- the needle's bobbing on "E".
text: There's a gas station up ahead. The cars are lined up seven-
text: deep at the pump. Chace pulls into the gas line and waits.
text: A GAS-STATION ATTENDANT walks outside with a placard. Drivers
text: climb out of their cars and start JEERING at the attendant.
text: Curious, Chace climbs out and watches as the attendant places
text: the sign on the pump: NO GAS. Chace smiles ruefully.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Priceless.
text: He climbs back in and pulls back onto the highway.
scene_heading: EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY -- DAY
text: The car has stalled out by the roadside. Chace folds his
text: sportcoat over his arm and puts out a thumb to hitch a ride.
scene_heading: EXT. GETTY ESTATE -- FRONT GATE -- DAY
text: A GARDENER's old pickup truck pulls up and Chace climbs out.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Gracias, sefior. Muchas!
text: The pickup truck drives away. The great gates open before
text: us. Chace walks up the deeply sloping driveway, his shirt
text: damp with sweat. Finally, he reaches the crest of the hill --
dialog: -- and stops.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I'll be damned.
scene_heading: EXT. GETTY VILLA, MALIBU -- DAY
text: Here, on this hill, J Paul Getty supervises the construction
text: of a precise replica of Hadrian's Villa, complete with
text: reflecting pool and Roman statuary.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Chace. You're looking damp. What
dialog: happened to you?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Car-pooling.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: It'll never catch on.
dialog: 105.
text: Chace stands marveling at the sprawling Villa.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: It's an exact replica of my Imperial
text: Villa, down to the last detail, but
dialog: with flush toilets. The mountain
dialog: may not have come to Mohammed, but
dialog: it sure as hell came to me.
text: Getty's Secretary approaches.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: West Texas Intermediate, sir.
text: Getty glances at the ticker tape.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: What does it feel like, reading that
dialog: slip of paper?
speaker_heading: GETTY
text: Vertigo. For a moment, money loses
dialog: all meaning and becomes as plentiful
dialog: as air. Like... flight. But then it
dialog: passes.
text: Getty folds the paper and slips it into his pocket.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: What's all this I see on TV with
dialog: Gail? Paying the ransom in full?
dialog: We both know she doesn't have it.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: The lady's made other arrangements.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: She doesn't have the money. What's
dialog: going on? Come on, where'd she get
dialog: it? Is she fucking somebody?
text: Chace stares at the old man.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I think I'm finally beginning to
dialog: understand what makes you tick.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: You couldn't begin to. Now spill
dialog: it. What's going on? What's her
dialog: game?
text: Chace begins to walk away.
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: GETTY (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't forget, Chace. I have a
dialog: contract. And I'll enforce it.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I don't think so.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Because whatever personal security you
dialog: presently enjoy comes from me. Those
dialog: Alsatians limping around the pool? My
dialog: people trained them. Your security
dialog: system? My people installed it. Your
dialog: bodyguards? Uh-huh. You're protected
dialog: from every threat imaginable, unless
dialog: that threat happens to be me.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: I suppose this is your way of
dialog: submitting your resignation.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: "Men of risk." Isn't that what you
dialog: called us? "I risk my money, you
dialog: risk your life."
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: You and me -- we never risked a thing
dialog: in our lives. We never took the
dialog: chances ordinary people take. That's
dialog: why we are what we are now.
text: Chace turns to go. Getty grabs his arm.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Those children are my blood, Chace.
dialog: They were mine. And she took them.
dialog: I was left with nothing.
text: The old man's eyes brim with tears. Chace stares at him,
text: and beyond him, at the palace filled with treasures.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Now you know.
text: Chace walks away, down the hill, leaving Getty behind. As
text: he walks through the great iron gates, a cool spray from the
text: Pacific shimmers through the trees.
text: Chace walks down to the end of the driveway, puts on his
text: sunglasses, and holds out his thumb to hitch a ride.
dialog: 107.
scene_heading: EXT. ROME STREETS -- OVERHEAD -- DAY
text: We FLY OVER the same streets of Rome where the movie began.
scene_heading: INT. ROME FIUMICINO AIRPORT -- BOARDING GATE -- DAY
text: Chace emerges from the terminal. Iacovoni is waiting there
text: for him; he falls into step beside Chace as they exit.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI
dialog: The money came through. We were on
dialog: the phone, and my secretary begins
text: to shout the bank wire came through.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: It was the full ransom. $3.3 million
dialog: at today's exchange rate. $1.6
dialog: billion in lira.
text: Chace misses a step, surprised.
speaker_heading: IACOVONI (CONT'D)
dialog: What did you say to him?
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I couldn't even tell you.
scene_heading: INT. BANCO COMMERCIALE DI ROMA -- MONTAGE -- DAY
text: Nearly a dozen female BANK EMPLOYEES count out and bundle
text: huge piles of lira notes at a great counting table.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.)
dialog: The money must be in used lira notes,
dialog: small denomination only, no marking.
text: A PHOTOCOPIER flashes as each note is photographed. The
text: money is a 201-pound mountain. It is packed into three huge
text: canvas MAIL BAGS and loaded onto a rolling pallet.
scene_heading: EXT. ROME STREETS -- MORNING
text: The streets of Rome are COMPLETELY, EERILY EMPTY. No cars.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.)
dialog: Because of the fuel crisis rationing
dialog: measures, no cars will be allowed on
text: the roads on Sunday.
text: Chace fills up a 10-liter can of gasoline at a gas station.
text: He counts out a stack of lira notes for the owner.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: This way the autostrada will be empty.
dialog: They will know if Gail is followed.
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I'll make the exchange on my own.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- DAY
text: Chace is on the phone, with Gail, Del Rovere, Corvo, and a
text: surveillance officer in the BG.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
dialog: Signora Getty only.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: She's not going.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I can do it. I'm doing it.
speaker_heading: DEL ROVERE
dialog: Signora, be reasonable.
scene_heading: EXT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- MORNING
text: With dozens of paparazzi outside her building, Gail ascends
text: the stairwell to the rooftop, crosses to another building,
text: and descends to a car at street level on an adjacent block.
speaker_heading: CHACE (V.O.)
dialog: She'll be in a car with millions of
dialog: dollars. The whole world knows what
dialog: she looks like. She could be robbed
text: on the highway.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.)
dialog: That's your problem.
speaker_heading: CHACE (V.O.)
dialog: Then we both go. Non-negotiable.
scene_heading: EXT. ROME AUTOSTRADA -- TOLL GATE -- DAY
text: Gail drives, with Chace in the passenger seat. The trunk of
text: the vehicle is weighed down by the money.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.)
text: Driving a Fiat 123 with two suitcases
text: tied to the roof, exit the autostrada
text: toll gate at 9AM and drive south at
dialog: exactly 80 kilometers an hour.
text: Their car slowly makes its way on the vast, empty autostrada.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't stop for food, gas, toilet,
dialog: nothing. Remember they are watching.
dialog: 109.
text: As they drive they glimpse isolated FIGURES standing at the
text: edge of the highway: SENTRIES posted by the N'dragheta.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: A handful of gravel will strike your
dialog: windshield. This will be their sign.
text: They enter the mountains; a FOG shrouds everything.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Obey these rules or they will take
text: his other ear, his eyes, a hand.
text: A FISTFUL OF GRAVEL peppers their windshield. Chace cranes
text: his neck to see who threw it and glimpses a figure by the
text: roadside darting back into the trees.
text: Gail pulls over. The highway is empty. It's unclear what
text: they should do next. Then Gail sees him:
speaker_heading: A YOUNG BOY
text: standing by the roadside, shadowed in the mist a hundred
text: yards away. Gail runs toward him...
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Paul -- !
text: ...-but then she slows. The boy is not Paul. It's a 12-year-
text: old mafia wannabe smoking a cigarette, waiting. A messenger.
speaker_heading: ROADSIDE KID
dialog: Lasciare i soldi. Leave the money.
dialog: Drive on to the gas station and wait
dialog: for our call while we count it.
text: The kid turns and vanishes into the forest.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: THE BAGS OF MONEY by the side of the road. As Chace drives
text: away we glimpse the shadows of men emerging from the forest --
text: -- then CUT TO an AERIAL VIEW of the scene as viewed from a
text: POLICE SURVEILLANCE AIRPLANE high above. In an instant, the
text: mail bags are whisked away into the forest.
scene_heading: EXT. AGIP GAS STATION -- DAY
text: Closed. A cardboard sign on the pump reads "NIENTE BENZINA --
text: NO GAS." Gail pulls up in front of a battered pay phone.
scene_heading: INT. COUNTING ROOM -- DAY
text: The mail bags are unzipped. The bricks of lira are broken
text: down and counted by hand, all under Saverio Mammoliti's eye.
dialog: 110.
text: We recognize the woman from Mammoliti's factory among them.
scene_heading: INT. DELIVERY TRUCK -- DAY
text: Paul Getty rides in back, along with Cinquanta and Sgro. He
text: is dressed in brand-new clothes. Cinquanta brushes him off.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: That's better. You can't go home to
dialog: your mother looking like a sciattone.
speaker_heading: SGRO
dialog: I still say we should have cut his
dialog: tongue out, just to be safe.
text: The truck stops. Cinquanta pulls a ski mask over the boy's
text: head backwards, so as to blindfold him.
speaker_heading: SGRO (CONT'D)
dialog: Walk twenty paces, then stop and
dialog: wait. We're watching. Take the
dialog: mask off and we'll kill you.
scene_heading: EXT. AUTOSTRADA -- DRAIN PIPE -- DAY
text: The truck's rear doors open next to a concrete drain pipe.
text: As Cinquanta helps Paul out of the truck he whispers:
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Bona fortuna, Paolo.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: You too.
text: The boy starts walking blindly along the highway. The doors
text: close and the truck drives away, leaving Paul behind.
scene_heading: EXT. AGIP GAS STATION -- DAY
text: The phone RINGS. Gail picks up. Chace starts the car.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA (0.S.)
text: Three kilometers down the autostrada
text: is a drain pipe. Paul waits there
dialog: for you. Get him out of Italy as
dialog: fast as you can, I beg you.
scene_heading: EXT. AUTOSTRADA -- DRAIN PIPE -- DAY
text: The truck is gone. Paul waits a moment, then pulls off the
text: mask. There's no one around. There's a town in the distance.
text: AERIAL VIEW: CARABINERI POLICE CARS have begun to converge
text: on the scene from nearby villages. SEARCH TEAMS with dogs
text: comb the forest. The are encircling the area.
dialog: 111.
scene_heading: INT. COUNTING ROOM -- EVENING
text: The money is stacked, bundled, zipped into the mailbags, and
text: loaded onto a truck. Saverio Mammoliti hands out envelopes
text: of cash to each of his employees, including Cinquanta.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: Grazie, Signore.
text: In the distance, we hear DOGS BARKING. Mammoliti stops:
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI
dialog: Cane. Molti. Polizia. Tradimento.
text: Mammoliti climbs into his waiting Mercedes. To his men:
speaker_heading: MAMMOLITI (CONT'D)
dialog: Tornare indietro e prendere il
dialog: ragazzo.
dialog: (subtitled)
dialog: Go back and get the boy.
scene_heading: EXT. AUTOSTRADA -- DRAIN PIPE -- EVENING
text: The boy is gone. Gail is still, silent, frightened.
speaker_heading: CHACE
text: Footprints.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: He's not here, Chace.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: They made the drop.
text: Chace frantically searches the snow on the hillside.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: Paul's a smart kid. What would you
dialog: do? You wouldn't wait here for them
dialog: to change their minds.
text: Then he finds it, tossed into the drain pipe: the ski mask.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: He ran.
text: Chace looks down the highway, until he sees it on a nearby
text: hilltop: the medieval-looking village of LAGONEGRO.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GETTY MANSION -- MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: J Paul Getty wakes from his slumber with a start.
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: GETTY
dialog: Who's there?
text: Getty is in a bedroom decorated in the ancient Roman style.
text: A great log fire burns in the fireplace.
text: Getty sits up in bed; the room is unfamiliar to him. There's
text: a strangeness to his surroundings, as if the old man has
text: come unmoored, "2001"-like, in time.
text: One side of Getty's face has gone completely slack: he's
text: obviously suffered a stroke in the night. He steps into his
text: slippers and shuffles along the marble floors in his pajamas --
scene_heading: INT. GETTY MANSION -- NIGHT
text: -- into a granite corridor peopled by stone figures from
text: another age. He has no idea where he is.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: PAUL GETTY
text: as he runs into the eerie, cobblestoned village of Lagonegro.
text: We can hear the DOGS BARKING in the distance: the police
text: cordon has encircled the village and is drawing closer.
scene_heading: INT. BARBER SHOP -- EVENING
text: Paul wanders into the shop, his head covered in bandages.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Please let me in. Rifugio, prego.
dialog: They're after me.
text: The Barber slowly pushes Paul backwards, out of his shop.
speaker_heading: BARBER
dialog: Non posso coinvolto. I can't get
dialog: involved.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: My name is Paul Getty. I was
dialog: kidnapped.
speaker_heading: BARBER
dialog: I know who you are.
text: The Barber locks the front door and pulls down the blind.
speaker_heading: THE N'DRAGHETA
text: stalk through the street in their black suits, four abreast.
text: Cinquanta trails along. The villagers avoid eye contact.
speaker_heading: GAIL GETTY
dialog: 113.
text: hurries through twilight streets, calling Paul's name.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Scusi. Have you seen a teenage boy,
dialog: curly hair, American --
text: The VILLAGERS turn away from her and hurry into their homes.
speaker_heading: PAUL GETTY
text: knocks on front doors, one after another. The people inside
text: draw their curtains shut.
speaker_heading: PAUL
dialog: Rifugio, Prego! Let me in, please!
speaker_heading: FLETCHER CHACE
text: walks on the opposite side of the square from Gail, casting
text: quick glances down hushed, narrow alleyways.
text: He makes eye contact with one of the N'Dragheta. A look
text: passes between them.
text: Chace hurries on. He dares not call out Paul's name. He
text: pats himself down, searching for a gun that isn't there. He
text: kicks a loose cobblestone and picks it up.
speaker_heading: THE CARABINERI
text: move through the streets, conducting a house-to-house search.
speaker_heading: PAUL GETTY
text: rounds a corner, glimpses the Carabineri, and backs away
text: fearfully. He ducks down a narrow street.
speaker_heading: CHACE (0.S.)
dialog: Paul.
text: Paul turns: Fletcher Chace stands at the end of the street.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm here to take you home.
text: At that moment, Paul is grabbed from behind by the N'dragheta.
text: The N'dragheta drags him backwards, round the corner --
text: -- and there's a THUD of skull on stone. The N'dragheta
text: goes down, and we REVEAL Cinquanta standing behind him, having
text: struck him with a cobblestone.
text: Chace steps forward and brings his own stone down on the
text: N'dragheta. They kick him until he stops moving. They stand
text: together over the body. Chace looks at Cinquanta.
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: It's you.
speaker_heading: CINQUANTA
dialog: What are you looking at? Go.
text: Chace drops his stone, turns, and sees Gail in the alley:
text: she's witnessed everything. She grabs Paul by the arm and
text: hurries him to their car. Chace starts the Fiat --
text: -- and they drive away, out of the village. Already, the
text: Carabineri are apprehending the N'dragheta. A Carabineri
text: sees Chace's car coming and calls out:
speaker_heading: CARABINERI
dialog: Arresto! Attenzione!
text: But he blows right by. The car descends the mountain and
text: vanishes into the mists of the valley and beyond, to Rome.
scene_heading: INT. GETTY MANSION -- NIGHT
text: Getty wanders the halls of his mansion, his gait unsteady.
text: Marble emperors gaze down at him with their lightless eyes.
text: Getty shuffles on, until he finds his prized painting --
text: Albrecht Diirer's "Madonna and Child in a Window." He reaches
dialog: and takes it from the wall --
text: -- and the silent alarm goes off. The doors at either end
text: of the hallway SLAM SHUT, and the power cuts out.
text: DARKNESS. The corridor is illuminated by the flames from the
text: fireplace. The shadows of dead emperors dance along the walls.
scene_heading: EXT. FIAT 123 -- AUTOSTRADA -- NIGHT
text: The Fiat makes its way back to Rome along the serpentine
text: highway, its headlights blazing.
text: Chace drives; Gail and Paul sit in the back seat, silent and
text: apart, still recovering from what they've just endured.
text: We see the LIGHTS of Rome in the distance. But then we
text: realize that the lights are from TV cameras.
text: The Italian press has paid off the people at the toll gates.
text: They've formed a gauntlet of TV and still cameras to force
text: the car to stop so they can get a photograph of Paul.
text: Instead, Chace hits the gas and blows through the toll gate.
text: The paparazzi are forced to scramble and chase them.
dialog: 115.
scene_heading: INT. GETTY MANSION -- NIGHT
text: Getty sits down before the fire. For the first time we get
text: a good look at the painting: a mother and her child. A golden
text: crown floats suspended above the mother's head.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: A Getty is special.
text: A tear rolls down Getty's melted cheek. The painting falls
text: from his hand and CLATTERS to the floor.
scene_heading: INT. FIAT 123 -- AUTOSTRADA -- NIGHT
text: As the Coliseum of Rome comes into view, Paul breaks down.
text: Gail reaches for him and the boy crumbles into her arms.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: A Getty has a destiny.
text: The paparazzi on their scooters catch up with the car. Chace
text: looks into the rearview mirror: for the first and only time
text: in the movie, Gail is in tears.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: We aren't like you.
text: Chace flips the mirror down, giving Gail and Paul their
text: solitude, then puts the pedal down and leaves the reporters
text: in the dust.
speaker_heading: PAUL (CONT'D)
dialog: But we were once.
scene_heading: EXT. QUESTURA POLICIA DI STATO (POLICE HEADQUARTERS) -- NIGHT
text: Paul, Gail and Chace ascend the steps of the Questura,
text: surrounded by clamoring reporters.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: But I had an idea that maybe we could
dialog: be again, me and my dad and my
dialog: grandfather, if only we could get
dialog: back to our own world where the force
dialog: of gravity wasn't so strong. We
dialog: could be together, like we used to.
scene_heading: INT. GAIL'S APARTMENT -- PAUL'S ROOM -- NIGHT
text: A Squadra Mobile officer reaches under Paul's bed and finds
text: a young boy's suitcase. He zips it open --
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: It was just an idea I had, a joke I
dialog: told my friends: what if we gave it
dialog: all away?
dialog: 116.
text: -- and inside are hundreds of letters, all addressed to J
text: Paul Getty and pleading for money. Paul saved them all,
text: rather than sending them Getty's response.
scene_heading: INT. QUESTURA POLICIA -- INTERROGATION ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Paul makes his official testimony to Del Rovere.
speaker_heading: PAUL (V.O.)
dialog: I guess somebody must have overheard
dialog: me. And once it was out there I
dialog: couldn't stop it. It wasn't a plan
dialog: or anything. It was just a wish. A
dialog: stupid kid's dream. Now I know
dialog: nothing like that could never happen.
dialog: I'm not a kid anymore.
text: And with that, the tape recorder STOPS.
speaker_heading: BLACK OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. GETTY OIL COMPANY, LOS ANGELES -- DAY
text: Gail waits in the lobby of Getty Oil.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY (0.S.)
dialog: Ma'am? They'll see you now.
scene_heading: INT. BOARD ROOM -- DAY
text: Gail enters the same board room. Oswald Hinge and the other
text: attorneys are there; they all rise, smiling as Gail enters.
text: The only empty chair is that of J Paul Getty himself.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: Ms Getty, we offer our sincerest
text: condolences.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: For what?
text: She looks at the empty chair.
speaker_heading: GAIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh. You're very thoughtful.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: Please, sit. Mr Getty's death has
dialog: created a bit of a crisis here. You
dialog: see, Mr. Getty never groomed a
dialog: successor. Or rather he tried to --
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: But he destroyed them all.
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: I don't think he planned on dying.
dialog: He thought that was negotiable, too.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: Yes, well. As a result, the Getty
dialog: estate has become a family fortune
text: in search of a family.
speaker_heading: TAX ATTORNEY
dialog: You see, the estate was structured
dialog: as a charitable family trust.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Did he ever give any money to charity?
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: No. The trust enabled Mr. Getty to
dialog: build his fortune without paying
dialog: taxes. The problem is, the trust
text: has rules. It throws off interest.
dialog: The interest must be spent. It's a
dialog: staggering amount of money.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: What do you want from me?
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: How do I put this. The King is dead,
text: and the throne is vacant. Someone
text: has to take his place.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: That money destroyed my family.
speaker_heading: HINGE
dialog: So you don't want it.
text: We HOLD on Gail. Then:
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: No. Give it to me.
text: The other attorney slides a stack of documents toward her.
text: Atop the stack is the beautiful gold fountain pen that she
dialog: used to sign her children away.
text: She twists off the cap. The nib is as sharp as a knife.
text: She sets it down and signs on the dotted line.
scene_heading: EXT. GETTY VILLA, MALIBU -- DAY
text: The iron gates open before us, and a CROWD enters the grounds.
text: They wear sneakers, jeans, t-shirts.
dialog: 118.
text: They snap pictures with Instamatic cameras and carry cans of
dialog: soda.
text: Fletcher Chace is among them, his suit freshly pressed.
scene_heading: INT. GETTY VILLA -- MAIN OFFICE LOBBY -- DAY
text: Chace sits in a lobby chair, waiting for his appointment.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: GAIL'S SIGNATURE
text: scrolls across the signature line of a bank check. She sits
text: at Getty's old Louis XIV desk, her bearing modest but somehow
text: regal: she has become Getty, after her own fashion. She
text: tears the check from the register and offers it to Chace.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: I can't accept this.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: It's not enough. Take it.
scene_heading: EXT. GETTY VILLA, MALIBU -- DAY
text: They walk together, a bit awkwardly, on the main terrace,
text: where they pass a row of marble busts of Roman Emperors.
text: The last bust in line is that of Getty himself. They pass a
text: DOCENT leading a tour group:
speaker_heading: DOCENT
dialog: J Paul Getty believed deeply in the
dialog: power of art to make us aware of our
dialog: shared humanity, and that this legacy
dialog: belonged to every man and woman,
dialog: rich or poor. It was his
dialog: philanthropic vision that made this
dialog: museum possible.
text: Gail and Chace exchange a look.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Who wrote that?
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I did. But let's keep that to
dialog: ourselves.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: We hope you'll be staying on, Mr.
dialog: Chace, but we're a public foundation
dialog: now, and the position doesn't pay
dialog: what it did. And I know you had
dialog: other ambitions. But still.
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Guys like me don't get rich. I've
dialog: realized that. We get sidetracked
dialog: too easily.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Shame.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: Not really.
text: A moment. She struggles to find the right words.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: I think of you as our family.
speaker_heading: CHACE
dialog: It's kind of you to say so, ma'am.
text: They pass a tiny sculpture on a platform: the Minotaur.
text: Chace doesn't even notice it.
speaker_heading: CHACE (CONT'D)
dialog: There were a couple things around
dialog: the grounds I was meaning to see to.
speaker_heading: GAIL
dialog: Of course. Don't let me keep you.
text: Chace leaves Gail on the terrace. As she watches Chace go,
text: her son Paul joins her, his hair grown long now.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- DAY
text: Chace uses a butcher's knife to cut a strip of meat from a
text: steak. He cuts the strip into cubes.
scene_heading: EXT. GETTY VILLA -- DAY
text: Chace opens a cage and one of Getty's Alsatians limps out.
text: Chace feeds the dog the steak, kneading its fur, whispering
text: in its ear. He clips a chain leash to the dog's choke collar.
scene_heading: EXT. GETTY VILLA -- ENTRANCE -- DAY
text: Chace walks the dog to the open front gate. He grips the
text: dog's chain in his clenched fist.
text: They stand there at the gate as the outsiders stream past,
text: the dog BARKING its insistent warning to any and all who
dialog: would dare come to do this family harm.
speaker_heading: BLACK OUT.
dialog: 
