scene_heading: K-TOWN SUPER FROG
dialog: Screenplay by
speaker_heading: SCOTT COFFEY
dialog: Inspired by the short story
scene_heading: ALL GOD'S CHILDREN CAN DANCE
dialog: by
speaker_heading: HARUKI MURAKAMI
scene_heading: WGA Registered #1079491 JANUARY 2006
dialog: Contact: Anonymous Content
dialog: scott.coffey@mac.com
dialog: 323.252.8529
scene_heading: K-TOWN SUPER FROG
text: THE SOUND OF WIND BLOWING AND CLANGING.
dialog: SLOW FADE UP ON:
scene_heading: EXT. BASEBALL DIAMOND - DUSK
speaker_heading: WIDE SHOT:
text: The baseball diamond is surrounded by a rusty chain-link
text: fence that clangs against itself.
text: Weeds grow on the pitcher’s mound.
text: The dilapidated dugout is tagged with layers of graffiti.
text: Spray-painted in bright, vivid colors are names and images.
text: Discarded spray-paint cans lay under the dilapidated
text: bleachers.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: On the far side of the diamond is a burnt and rusted car
text: missing its wheels.
text: A strong gust of desert wind clangs the chain-link fence
text: louder and whips up a small dust devil that sucks up trash.
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
text: EXTREME CLOSE UP ON:
text: An upsidedown eye. (Briefly superimposed over the baseball
dialog: diamond. )
text: The eye is closed but it’s moving around wildly under the
dialog: lid.
text: Slow pull back from the eye revealing, the second eye and the
text: upsidedown face of a young guy.
text: KENGO YOSHIYA, early 20’s, half-Asian, great looking but shy
text: and slightly goofy. There is a wide-eyed openness in his
dialog: face.
text: His eyes slowly blink open with a slow groan, surveying the
text: surroundings of his room.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
text: His upsidedown room, blurry. A small shaft of light streams
text: into the window. Flecks of dust flicker around in the light.
text: It’s the entire universe in miniature drifting around Kengo’s
text: room. The rest of the room is out of focus.
text: Kengo head hangs over the side of the bed. His arm twisted
text: under him and his face, squashed against the back of his
text: hand. Obviously having passed out in this odd position. He
text: takes a deep breath and blows. The dust wildly dances through
text: the shaft. Chaos. Kengo smiles. He drags his numb arm out
text: from under himself and lifts his head off his hand and the
text: hangover hits.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (in soft pain)
dialog: Oh, fuck.
text: There is a small black ink smudge on his cheek and a smeared
text: club re-entry stamp on the back of his hand. Evidence of a
text: late night.
text: In another room, haunting traditional Asian folk music is
text: softly playing.
scene_heading: INT. KENGO’S ROOM - MORNING - WIDE
text: There would be a floor but it’s buried in layers of clothes.
text: Art posters on the wall and several photos Kengo has taken of
text: his life. Candid shots of people, buildings... There is a
text: large black and white photo of a young woman at the beach.
dialog: (His girlfriend SANDRA).
text: There is a small collection of cameras on a shelf. A tiny
text: Thai Buddha peers out from a shelf.
text: A garbage truck rumbles by and shakes the room. Kengo groans
text: suffering his hangover headache.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
text: The light has shifted, brushing across a large print of
text: Leonardo Da Vinci’s “THE ANNUNCIATION”. It’s creased and
text: wrinkled but still haunting.
text: CLOSE ON: The angel. It’s large wings are spread, on its
text: knees informing Mary of her immaculate conception.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (to the angle)
dialog: Please God, never do this to me
dialog: again.
text: There is a soft knock at his door.
speaker_heading: WOMAN VOICE (EVELYN)
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Kengo?
text: Kengo turns looks at his door as it cracks opens. His head
text: throbs.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Ahhhhhh! No!
text: EVELYN, late 30’s, stands in his doorway, upsidedown, still
text: his POV. She is beautiful, wearing only her underwear; a bra
text: and panties. They don’t match and are a bit chaste to be
dialog: contemporary.
text: Evelyn leans over sideways trying to make her head right-side-
dialog: up for Kengo.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Rise and shine monkey of mine.
text: Kengo groans. With all the effort he has in the world, he
text: pulls his head back onto the pillow.
text: Right-side-up, Evelyn is even more beautiful. There is a
text: fragility and sadness about her. She’s heartbreaking.
text: Evelyn finds Kengo’s glasses hanging off a lamp and puts them
text: on. She looks funny, her eyes a little buggy now.
text: Kengo pulls his pillow over his face.
text: Evelyn walks across the room and slides the pillow off Kengo.
text: He squints in the light.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Move over.
text: He hesitatingly moves over, groaning.
text: Evelyn lifts up the sheet and crawls into bed with Kengo,
text: snuggling up next to him.
text: Kengo drift back to unconsciousness. He yawns.
text: Evelyn gets a whiff of his breath. She plugs her nose.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Oh God! The smell. You smell like a
dialog: brewery. No, not a brewery, a...
dialog: distillery.
text: She lightly rubs his chest.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (whispering into his ear)
dialog: You got home very late last night.
dialog: Actually it was very early in the
dialog: morning.
text: Kengo groans again. Drifting off...
text: SLOW DISSOLVE TO...
speaker_heading: FLASHBACK
scene_heading: EXT. THE BUILDINGS OF KOREA TOWN - NIGHT
text: For a moment the image of the buildings appear on the walls
text: of Kengo’s bedroom.
text: Impressionistic, dreamy shots of Korea Town at night.
text: Traffic. Neon.
text: The great old 1920’s buildings and the glass office towers
text: built in the ‘70s. The huge video monitor near the corner of
text: Wilshire and Western. A 747 on its final decent into LAX
text: drones over seemingly in slow-motion.
text: Kids skateboarding on the steps of the monolithic 1960's
text: Wilshire Park Place building.
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP ON:
text: Kengo. His glasses don’t hide how good-looking he is, but
text: they magnify his eyes slightly, making him look slightly like
text: a frog.
text: We pull back to reveal...
scene_heading: EXT. WILSHIRE BLOULVARD - NIGHT
text: Kengo waits, pacing on the corner.
text: He changes his backpack from one shoulder to the other,
text: looking down the street, a little anxious. He sees something.
text: He hops to his feet, excitedly.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV:
text: A BEAUTIFUL GIRL crosses the street.
text: This is SANDRA, Kengo’s girlfriend.
text: Sandra is dressed in a great cool outfit that she’s made
dialog: herself. She has a totally unique style and vibe with the
text: awkward grace of young race horse colt.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Sandra!
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Hey!
text: She trips over the curb as she hops off the traffic island in
text: the center of Wilshire Blvd. One of her shoes to shoot off
text: her foot and into the street.
text: Kengo’s face lights up. He runs into the street, dodging a
text: honking car. He grabs her shoe and runs to her, falling on
text: his knees, holding her shoe out.
text: Sandra does a little leap in the air and a kick. She slips
text: her foot into the shoe.
text: Kengo kisses up her leg and up her body to her face. They
text: embrace, not noticing the car that’s stopped, waiting for
dialog: them to get out of the way.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: My punk Prince Charming.
text: The driver lays on his horn. Startled, they run back to the
text: sliver of island in the center of Wlishire Blvd.
text: ON THE TRAFFIC ISLAND
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You could have gone in. You didn’t
dialog: have to wait.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I went in and got stamped. It’s
text: still fresh.
text: He holds up his hand. A black barcode is stamped on the back
dialog: of it.
text: Kengo takes Sandra’s hand and licks it. She squirms.
text: Kengo presses his stamped hand against hers, holding it
text: there. Sandra looks at him, smiling conspiratorially. He
text: removes his hand. Sandra’s stamp is perfect.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Now I’m marked for life.
text: She kissed him.
text: WIDE ON THE TRAFFIC ISLAND
text: Kengo and Sandra kiss, standing under a scrappy stick of a
text: tree as traffic whizzing past them.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDEWALK - NIGHT
text: Kengo and Sandra walk off of Wilshire onto a quiet side
dialog: street.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (remembering)
dialog: Oh! I have something for you.
text: He pulls a tube out of his backpack and hands it to her.
text: Sandra gently fingers the top of the tube and very
text: seductively kisses the top of it.
text: Kengo grabs the tube and bangs her on the head with it.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (laughing and turned on)
dialog: Open it. You slut.
text: Sandra opens the tube and gingerly pulls out a large black
dialog: and white photograph.
text: Sandra moves into light of a street lamp and unrolls the
text: photograph. She looks at it carefully, mesmerized.
text: Kengo covertly fishes his camera out of his backpack while
text: Sandra checks out the photo.
text: CLOSE UP ON A PHOTO:
text: A view of the sky, framed by a window. A 747 flies through a
text: beautiful sunset, over the buildings of Korea Town. Kengo in
text: silhouette, his back to us, looks out the window. It’s a
text: great photograph. It expresses a palatable sense of longing.
text: Sandra slowly looks back up at Kengo and smiles, impressed.
text: Kengo quickly snaps a photo of Sandra, smiling at him in the
text: yellow street light.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (quietly, a bit in awe)
dialog: Oh, Kengo! It’s really beautiful.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Really?
text: She hugs him.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I used the self timer. See? It’s
dialog: me?
text: Sandra laughs.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I know. I Recognize you.
text: She studies the photo, getting into it.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I love it. What airline is that?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Air China! Look carefully at the
dialog: tail.
text: He moves around next to her and delicately points it out.
text: Sandra watches him not the photo, smiling.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: See? You can tell by the cherry
text: blossom on it. It’s the same flight
dialog: around the same time every day.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I can feel you in it. It’s...
text: melancholy but it’s... expansive
dialog: too.
text: Kengo is deeply pleased by her critique.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You're getting really good.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE “BAR CODE” - NIGHT
text: People talk and smoke out front as Kengo and Sandra walk up.
scene_heading: INT. THE HOUSE “BAR CODE” - NIGHT
text: The house has been converted into a small club and bar. It’s
text: intimate but sophisticated. It’s populated by good looking,
text: mostly Asian hipsters. People dance. A DJ spins records. Pin
text: ball machines line the wall.
text: Kengo and Sandra sit drinking and talking with a couple
text: friends. We can’t hear the dialogue but Kengo is clearly
text: animated with his friends and having a good time.
text: Sandra is moving around to the music, shaking her hair,
text: bobbing her head, wanting to get up and dance. She gestures
text: a toward the dancers. Kengo shakes his head.
text: Kengo’s friend puts a shot in front of him and Kengo knocks
text: it back His friend hands him another. He drinks that too.
text: Sandra grabs Kengo and pulls.
text: He grabs the table, in mock panic for leverage but she’s
text: strong, and pulls him towards the dancers.
text: Kengo puts up a good struggle but she gets him out in front
text: of the speakers. She dances around him seductively. He
text: tentatively begins to flap his arms like a weird bird to the
dialog: music.
text: BACK AT THE TABLE, his friends watch and laugh.
text: ON THE DANCE FLOOR, the camera swirls around Kengo and
dialog: Sandra.
text: Kengo becomes more confident. People dance around him as his
text: inhibitions melt away. His dancing movements are weird and
text: floppy but strangely cool. Awkwardly smooth like a frog doing
dialog: ballet.
text: Sandra dances along laughing. She leans over and plugs one
text: ear and yells above the music in the other.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Super-Frog!
text: Kengo kisses her and then leaps into the air flapping his
text: arms and legs harder hopping around, head swiveling around on
text: his neck.
text: Sandra grabs his head again and pulls it to her.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (loud whisper)
dialog: Big dicked Super-Frog!
text: She rubs his crotch. He presses against her.
text: As we PULL BACK the sound slowly fades to complete silence.
text: Just the image remains.
dialog: 10.
text: People dance wildly, surrealistically in the silence.
text: Slow fade out.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT (CONTINUED FLASHBACK)
text: Sandra and Kengo zigzag drunkenly down the street leaning
dialog: against each other for support.
text: Sandra carries her tube with Kengo’s photo inside.
text: Kengo looks up at the sky and stops walking. Sandra wraps her
text: arms around him looking up to see what he sees.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Wait. Keep looking.
text: ON THE SKY: The clouds are milky, illuminated by the city’s
text: lights. The moon appears then quickly disappears back into
text: the clouds. Kengo reaches his hand up to the sky in a weird
text: little gesture of reverence to the moon. Sandra giggles.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (quietly)
text: It’s full. All the lunatics are
dialog: out.
text: She kisses him out of his trance.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (realizing, ohhh!)
dialog: That’s what the word came from.
dialog: Crazy from the moon.
text: Kengo cocks his head.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Luna...tics...
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: It’s the same moon as the people in
dialog: Sri Lanka look up and see. We're
dialog: all...
dialog: ll.
text: He rubs his hands together wildly and waves his drunken arms
text: around, simulating chaos.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: War and... tsunamis and shit... but
dialog: it’s... just still there... the
dialog: same.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Take a picture of us now.
text: Kengo holds the camera out at as far as he can, stretching
text: his arm. They press their faces together. She bites his ear.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (yelping)
dialog: ow!
text: The flash blinds them. Freezing the moment.
scene_heading: DOWN THE STREET:
text: Kengo and Sandra manage to propel themselves along holding
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Do you really like the one I gave
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I love it.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: You swear?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: God, you’re so insecure.
text: Sandra grabs his face and kisses him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: It’s a great photograph. You're
dialog: gifted.
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT
text: A group of KOREAN KIDS take turns running and jumping as high
text: as they can, planting their feet on the wall.
text: A GIRL measures how high each guys’ feet land. She takes
text: money from people betting on who can plant their feet the
dialog: highest.
text: Kengo and Sandra stop to watch them. Kengo takes a photo.
text: After a moment, Sandra pulls Kengo away.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Kengo and Sandra stand against Sandra’s car, a dirty old
text: Volvo, and make out. It’s messy and passionate.
text: Sandra puts her hand down Kengo’s pants the abruptly pulls
text: away and walks to the driver’s side of her car.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Get in, Super-Frog.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: You’re not driving anywhere. You’re
dialog: too drunk. I’m walking you home.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Who said anything about driving?
dialog: Get in.
text: Sandra unlocks her door and plops in. She takes a little
text: flask out of her glove compartment and takes a swig.
text: Kengo presses his face against the windshield.
text: Sandra honks the horn.
scene_heading: INT. SANDRA’S CAR - NIGHT
text: Kengo kisses the windshield.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Oh that’s so gross. I’m never
dialog: kissing you again.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: SANDRA (cont'd)
dialog: There’s like about a billion
text: squushed bugs on the windshield. I
dialog: haven’t washed it since we went to
dialog: Joshua Tree.
text: Kengo tries to get in the passenger side of the car but
text: Sandra quickly locks it.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Come on, open it, or you’re going
dialog: to be very sorry.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: No way. Bug mouth. But I guess
dialog: that’s what super frogs eat. Bug
dialog: guts.
text: Kengo ducks down, disappearing from view.
text: Sandra moves to the passenger seat and looks in the side
text: mirror trying to find him.
text: She opens the driver’s door leaning out. Kengo leaps up from
text: behind it and pushes her back into the car, kissing her
text: passionately. Keeping his lips locked to hers as he crawls
text: over her to the passenger seat.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Tell me about how you used to
dialog: pretend you were an invisible
dialog: Ninja.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I would practice my quiet Ninja
dialog: walking...
text: They kiss deeply, scraping teeth.
speaker_heading: KENGO (CONT'D)
dialog: ...-sneaking around my neighborhood
dialog: when it got dark.
text: He takes a dramatic pause, getting into it.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I’d look in people’s windows and
text: see families eating diner.
dialog: 14.
text: Kengo takes a big swig from the flask. Sandra sucks it out of
text: his mouth.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’d watch fathers... eating with
dialog: their sons.
text: He gets lost in the memory.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sometimes the whole family would be
text: laughing.
text: Sandra watches Kengo. He turns to look at her.
speaker_heading: KENGO (CONT'D)
dialog: (ominously)
dialog: Later, late at night, I’d sneak
dialog: into their houses.
text: He slowly put his hand under her skirt, feeling her. Sandra
text: bites her lower lip.
speaker_heading: KENGO (CONT'D)
dialog: I’d go into the girl’s bedrooms and
dialog: watch them sleep.
text: Sandra’s mouth opens.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: You never told me that part.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Then... as they were dreaming, I
dialog: would gently peel their sheets down
dialog: and...
text: She bursts out laughing and punches him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You are such a liar.
text: They make out passionately. Kengo slides his hands back under
text: her skirt. Sandra fumbles with his belt.
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (without taking her lips
dialog: off Kengo’s)
dialog: Take them off.
text: Kengo removes her panties and puts them in his mouth. He
text: shakes his head and growls like a dog with a toy.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (giggling)
dialog: No. Your pants.
text: She pulls her panties but he won’t let go. She does and the
text: elastic snaps him in the face.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Ow.
text: They resume making out. Kengo starts to take off his pants.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (between kisses)
dialog: Let’s...(kiss) go back...(kiss) to
dialog: my....(kiss) house.
text: Sandra pulls away.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: No, Kengo. Your mom.
speaker_heading: KENGO
text: She doesn’t care.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: It always so weird there. It’s
dialog: like...
text: She looks off frustrated.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Why? She likes you.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I feel... I don’t know... like the
dialog: other woman.
dialog: 16.
text: Kengo is freaked by what she’s just said. He expertly shakes
dialog: it off.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh whatever. You're crazy.
text: He kisses her.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’‘1l sneak into your room and I‘1l
dialog: be gone before your parents wake
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: No way. Can’t risk it. My dad would
dialog: skewer you and have... frog legs.
dialog: She thinks this is really funny.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (suddenly a great idea)
dialog: Wait!
text: Sandra has a very mischievous look on her face.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Let’s go to the building where you
dialog: work. We can sneak into one of the
text: empty apartments.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No fucking way. Someone’1l bust us.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: We'll be really quiet. We’ve done
dialog: it before.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yeah, but the more we do it, the
dialog: better the odds are at getting
dialog: caught.
text: Sandra sighs.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: We can’t. It full of busy-body old
dialog: people.
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (giggling)
dialog: Busy-body?
text: She kisses him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You’re such a freak.
text: They start to make out and it gets heavier and more intense.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Fuck me.
text: Kengo pulls his wallet out and gets a condom out of his
dialog: pocket.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Give it to me. I’1ll put it on.
text: She gets his pants off and leans back for a better view.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Wow! God, I’m always surprised by
dialog: how big it is.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Is that the only reason you like
dialog: me?
text: She laughs.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Yes.
text: They continue making out as Sandra puts the condom on him.
text: They slide over the seats, into the back of Sandra’s Volvo.
text: Their heads hit the roof and they have to kick their legs to
text: position themselves in the back seat.
text: They’re laughing as they fumble with each other’s clothes but
text: soon their passion takes over.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (breathless)
dialog: Busy-bodies.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Wait.
text: He reaches for his pants that are crumpled on the floor. He
text: digs in the pocket and takes his camera out of his jeans.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Oh God, no!
scene_heading: EXT. SANDRA’S CAR - NIGHT
text: Close on: Sandra’s bare feet pressed against the back window.
text: Her toes wiggles around in passion her feet press against the
text: window harder making little foggy impressions on the glass.
text: Slow move back revealing more of the car.
text: The flash goes off. It’s like lightning in a Volvo.
text: A couple walk by on the street, not noticing. The flash goes
text: off again.
text: The car rocks gently.
text: SLOW DISSOLVE TO...
scene_heading: EXT. KENGO’S ROOM - DAY
text: BACK TO THE PRESENT:
text: Evelyn takes his glasses off and puts them on him. She wets
text: her finger and tries to get the little ink smear off his
text: cheek. He pulls away annoyed.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I have demons in my head and
dialog: they’re eating my brain.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: You have a lot of devil in you.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Come on mom. I don’t believe that
dialog: shit.
text: She puts a hand over his mouth.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Don’t say shit!
text: Kengo farts. It’s loud. He smiles.
text: Evelyn shrieks and unclamps his mouth. She reaches over and
text: pinches his nipple hard.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Ow!
text: He turns away from her and toward the wall.
text: Evelyn starts to tickle him.
text: Kengo flaps the sheet blowing the fart smell on her.
text: Evelyn screams and hops out of bed pulling the sheet off him.
text: Revealing his naked (except for his underwear) body.
text: Kengo covers himself with his hands.
text: Evelyn runs out of the room laughing.
text: Kengo sits up and adjusts his erection that is poking through
text: his underwear.
text: Evelyn runs back in the room with a long stick of burning
dialog: incense.
text: Kengo grabs a pillow and holds it over his crotch.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Mom!
text: Evelyn giggles and does a swirling dance around his room
text: waving the incense.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I’m scaring your demons away.
text: Evelyn’s dance is part ballet, part interpretative mixed with
text: traditional Kabuki moves. She’s graceful and beautiful.
text: Kengo watches her dance and spin around his room, entranced.
text: The phone rings, breaking their spell.
dialog: 20.
text: Kengo and Evelyn look at each other in mock-horror. Neither
text: of them makes a move to answer it. The machine picks up.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (the outgoing message)
dialog: Hi, neither Kengo or Evelyn are
dialog: home right now. Please leave a
dialog: message after the tone and we will
dialog: call you back. God Bless.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh God, mom. Why did you have to
dialog: add God Bless?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Shhhhh.
text: They listen.
speaker_heading: VOICE ON MACHINE (GLEN TABATA)
dialog: Hello? Hello?
text: Kengo and Evelyn laugh.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh shit! I’m late.
text: But he makes no effort to get up.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: It’s Glen Tabata here. Is anyone
dialog: home? I’m calling to inform Kengo
text: that he is late for work by more
text: than one hour. This is very late.
dialog: Please call me at the office. Hello
dialog: to you Evelyn. I hope you are good.
text: He hangs up.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: He’s so sweet, but why does he have
dialog: to be so formal?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He is a gentlemen and a very...
dialog: spiritual man.
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh God mom. He’s been in love with
dialog: you for years... Evelyn.
text: Kengo sits up and his head pounds. He grabs his head.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: God, please, I‘1l never drink again
dialog: if you let me get through this day.
text: Kengo stumbles out of bed. His erection has subsided so he’s
dialog: safe to move around the room to gather whatever clothes he
dialog: can find that aren’t filthy.
text: Evelyn watches as he smells a pair of jeans and decides that
text: they’re clean enough to wear. He slides them on.
text: Evelyn picks up a shirt and smells it.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Uhh. Horrible.
text: She looks at him.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: You aren’t going to shower?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No time. I’1l take a bird bath in
text: the sink.
text: She cocks her head and looks at him strangely.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What? What are you looking at me
dialog: like that for?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: You are really a man now.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Really?
text: He looks at himself in the mirror. He puffs up his chest a
text: little. He makes a “man face”.
text: Evelyn laughs.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: You are handsome Kengo, like your
dialog: father was handsome.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (almost whispering)
dialog: Really?
text: She nods.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I thought I got all my good looks
dialog: from my foxy mother.
text: She actually blushes.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: You should get to work.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: How do I look like him?
dialog: 22.
text: She walks out of the room. Kengo watches. She has a great
text: body and he can’t help noticing her beauty.
text: One of her buttocks is exposed and she has a slight wedgy.
text: She adjusts it, pulling her underwear out of her butt crack
text: as she walks away.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (calling after her)
dialog: H.A.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: What.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: It stands for hungry ass. When that
dialog: happens it’s called H.A. When your
dialog: butt eats your...
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (mock-shocked)
dialog: Don’t talk to your mother like
dialog: that.
dialog: 23.
text: She runs away.
text: Kengo laughs.
text: He walks over and looks out his window.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV:
text: We recognize the view out the window from Kengo’s photograph
dialog: that he gave to Sandra.
text: It’s a foggy day and visibility isn’t very far. Another jumbo
text: jet from Asia makes its decent across the sky.
text: Kengo smells his hands and fingers. He can still smell Sandra
text: from last night. He smiles thinking about her. Rays of sun
text: break through the fog. Kengo catches his breath at the sight.
dialog: Heaven?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (from the living room)
dialog: You should hurry.
text: Kengo snaps out of his trance.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Kengo, in a rush, takes what he calls a bird bath, splashing
text: water on his face and under his armpits.
text: He looks in the medicine cabinet and finds his mom’s
text: expensive face cleanser. He cleans his armpits with it, then
text: his face. He rinses, gargles with mouthwash and he’s done.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY
text: Kengo quickly walks through the kitchen and into a small room
text: off the kitchen that he has converted into a darkroom.
scene_heading: INT. DARKROOM - DAY
dialog: It’s small but has everything he needs to develop black-and-
dialog: white photos.
dialog: 24.
text: Kengo closes the door and switches the red light on. He
text: expertly takes a roll of film, pulls it open, puts it in the
text: developing fluid, into the enlarger, into the tray and
text: develops a photo.
text: Even though he’s in a rush, it’s important for him to see
dialog: this photo.
scene_heading: ON THE PHOTO:
text: It slowly appears on the paper.
text: It’s a great shot: Sandra, naked, sitting on top of Kengo in
text: the back seat of her car, from the night before.
text: It’s a great shot. It’s blurry but very erotic and very clear
dialog: they’re having sex.
text: Kengo watches the image sharpen and contrast.
text: Rushing, he quickly pulls down his pants and starts to jack
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (V.O. Outside the door)
dialog: Kengo, you need to go.
text: He pulls up his pants, frustrated. He gathers his things.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Evelyn sits on the floor and chants in front of a alter that
text: she’s constructed in the corner of the room. It’s an eclectic
text: mix of Buddhist, Hindu and Christian icons. A large Thai
text: Buddha, a big cross, a Ganesh statue...
text: Evelyn’s eyes are closed. She gently rocks back and forth,
text: chanting.
text: Kengo passes through room. He stops to watch her. He looses
text: himself for a moment in her rhythmic chanting and prayer. He
text: voice is lovely and radiates peace.
dialog: 25.
scene_heading: INT. KENGO’S ROOM - DAY
text: Kengo stuffs a few things into his backpack: his camera, a
text: sketch book, a vintage army jacket that has several badges
text: and buttons pinned to it...
text: He looks at his night stand noticing something.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV:
text: On his night stand: film canisters, change, gum and peaking
text: out from under a photography magazine, a thin gold chain.
text: Kengo pulls the chain revealing a small cross fastened to it.
text: He hasn’t seen in a long time. He holds the tiny cross in the
text: palm of his hand and considers it. He spaces out to it,
text: nearly hypnotised. It catches the light and flashes, gently
text: pulling his consciousness back into the room.
text: He kisses the cross and fastens the chain around his neck.
text: Kengo carefully rolls up the naked print of Sandra and slides
text: it into a tube. He puts the tube in his backpack.
text: He sticks ear pods in his ears, presses play on his iPod and
text: shoves it in his pocket. He shoves his cell phone in the
text: other pocket, takes one of the cameras off the shelf and is
dialog: off.
text: Kengo's music starts.
scene_heading: EXT. HALL - DAY
text: Evelyn continues her chanting as Kengo walks down the hall.
text: He opens the front door quietly so he won’t disturb her.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (V.O. From the living
dialog: room)
dialog: Kengo! You left the front door wide
dialog: open last night, again.
text: He can’t hear her over his music as he walks out the door,
text: forgetting to close it.
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (from the living room)
dialog: You must remember to close it.
dialog: Kengo? Kengo?
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Kengo walks out of his apartment building onto the street.
text: It’s a cold and windy day for LA. He looks up at the sky.
text: He pulls a red ski cap onto his head, and turns on his iPod.
text: Mellow ambient music gives Kengo his own private soundtrack
text: to the world as he walks down the street.
text: Kengo seems to almost float in slow-motion along to his
text: music. His hangover dissipates. He’s in his own private
dialog: bubble.
text: He stops to ponder an pile of garbage. Someone has moved and
dialog: decided not to take a lot of their stuff. There is an ironing
text: board, a chair, clothes and a collection of stuffed animals.
text: Kengo stares at the discarded contents of someone’s life. He
text: shakes off his trance. Then he takes out his camera and
text: carefully deliberates the composition, finally shooting a
dialog: photo.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Kengo walks down the street toward the high rise building of
text: Wilshire Blvd. He is the only one on the street walking. He
text: has the slight presents of a lone warrior in a post
text: apocalyptic world. He makes sure to make the music on his
dialog: iPod enhance this mood.
text: Kengo floats down the residential street. He looks up into
text: the sky at the clouds. He snaps a photo.
text: Kengo slows down as he passes a large 3-D portrait of Christ,
text: taped to the window of a shop. He leans in for a closer look.
text: As Kengo leans closer, the Christ’s eyes close.
text: He takes a couple of steps backwards making the eyes open
dialog: again and then.
text: He zooms into the Christ with his camera lens. Over the feet
text: of the Jesus is the price tag. $9.99 and a bar code.
dialog: 27.
text: Without missing a step, Kengo reaches into his pocket
text: changing the music to match the festive mood of the market.
text: He does this with one hand without having to look. This is
text: obviously something he’s very practiced at.
scene_heading: EXT. WILSHIRE BOULEVARD - DAY
text: Kengo emerges onto Wilshire. A few people on the street but
text: even here it’s oddly deserted for such a huge city.
text: Kengo reaches into his pocket, scrolling through for the
text: perfect music for the frenetic mood of the street. A
text: ambulance screams buy but Kengo can’t hear it. He looks up at
text: a helicopter circling.
text: Each song he goes though changes the vibe completely, even if
text: it’s just for the split-second before he changes it again. He
text: finds a perfect song.
text: The song transforms his mood. He walks faster with a swagger
text: inspired by the energy of the rock song.
dialog: Note: The song he listens to here should be pop, loud and
text: ecstatic.
text: Kengo walks along, watching the traffic and looking at the
text: architecture and occasional pedestrian.
text: An OLD WOMAN in a traditional Korean outfit walks by. A
text: couple of SECRETARIES gossip and smoke. SOMEONE dressed up as
text: a hotdog waits to pass out fliers to people but there is
text: barley anyone walking. He waves at traffic.
text: Kengo slows to take a few photographs.
text: He changes the music again. This time it’s Jazz from the
text: 1950's. The scene takes on a totally different mood.
dialog: Note: Think Miles Davis. Maybe something from “Walking.”
text: He changes the music a couple more times. A sad ballad, Hip
dialog: Hop, 60's psychedellia...
dialog: (Note: Think something from George Harrison's “All Things
dialog: Must Pass" like “Beware of Darkness" or “Isn't it a Pity”.)
dialog: 28.
dialog: It’s not that he doesn’t have the patience for a full song;
dialog: he does this to heighten and to get the most of his
dialog: experience walking to work.
scene_heading: EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY
text: A large hole in the ground with cement slab poured at the
dialog: bottom.
text: A HOMELESS MAN dressed in army fatigues sits next to the hole
text: with his shopping cart. He has long gray hair. He’s probably
dialog: a Vietnam War Veteran.
text: The shopping cart has a large tattered American flag tied to
dialog: it.
text: As Kengo passes by, he stops and takes a photo.
text: As the shutter snaps, the Homeless Man gives Kengo the peace
text: sign. Kengo flashes it back and keeps walking but he turns to
text: look back, wondering about the man for a moment.
scene_heading: EXT. MID-RISE APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
text: A building built in the mid-1960’s -- four stories with about
text: 20 units. It’s without architectural detail with the
text: exception of a cheesy sign in a Hawaiian-looking font that
text: reads PARADISE APARTMENTS.
text: In the bottom of the Paradise Apartments is a small office. A
text: sign on the door reads PARADISE COPIES and a smaller sign
text: below it reads NOTARY PUBLIC.
text: Kengo walks briskly across the street and into the office.
scene_heading: INT. PARADISE APARTMENTS OFFICE - DAY
dialog: This is the maintenance and manager’s office for the
text: apartments but also a small copy store and Notary Public.
text: Kengo walks in the front door. A loud bell rings. He turns
text: off the music, pops the headphones out from his ears, and
text: takes off his hat.
text: Behind the counter is his boss, GLEN TABATA, 60, graying
text: handsome but a little uptight. He’s the building manager and
dialog: Notary Public.
dialog: 29.
text: Glen looks up at Kengo and gives him a very disappointed
dialog: look.
text: Kengo walks over toward him. He cares what Glen thinks of him
text: and is pained to have any disapproval from him.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m really sorry, Mr. Tabata.
text: Kengo walks around behind the counter. He carefully puts his
text: camera in his backpack.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Kengo. Glen. We’re both men now.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Okay, (trying it out) Glen.
text: Glen smiles slightly. He turns and begins to sort through
text: some papers. He seems sad and far away.
text: Kengo watches him, seeming to almost absorb his loneliness.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (gently, softly)
dialog: I’m sorry... (trying out his name)
dialog: Glen.
text: Glen nods.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I was helping my mom at the market.
dialog: The line was really long and my
dialog: cell phone battery died. I forgot
dialog: to charge it.
text: Kengo’s cell phone rings in his pocket. He’s mortified. It
text: rings again. Kengo just stands there.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Just answer it.
text: Kengo pulls his phone out and looks at it. It’s stopped
dialog: ringing.
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I missed it. I guess my battery
dialog: wasn’t totally...
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Will you put new paper in the
dialog: machines and copy this manuscript?
dialog: It’s being picked up today.
text: Kengo takes a big stack of paper and loads up two big copy
text: machines at the front of the office.
text: As he is sliding paper into one of the machines, he gets a
text: nasty paper cut. He grimaces.
scene_heading: CLOSE-UP ON KENGO’S FINGER:
text: He squeezes it and blood comes out of the tiny slice.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You should always wear gloves when
dialog: you load the machines.
text: Kengo sticks his finger in his mouth,
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (his finger in his mouth)
dialog: I always forget.
text: Glen takes a first aid kit off the wall and opens it.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You are letting your mind slip too
dialog: much. You have to become...
dialog: mindful.
text: Glen removes a band-aid and some anti-bacterial ointment from
text: the first aid kit.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: It’s okay. I don’t need...
dialog: But Glen has already methodically made Kengo a little
dialog: treatment for his cut.
text: Kengo walks over to the counter offering Glen his finger.
dialog: 31.
text: Glen carefully blots up the little sliver of blood off
text: Kengo’s finger, applies the anti-bacterial ointment, and
text: gently puts the Band-Aid on it.
text: Kengo watches him. He is touched by how much Glen obviously
dialog: cares for him.
text: Glen hands Kengo some gloves and Kengo puts them on and gets
text: back to work copying the manuscript.
text: Kengo’s cell phone beeps.
text: Glen looks over.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I have a message. It’s probably my
dialog: mom... Evelyn.
text: Kengo sheepishly pulls his phone out of his pocket and checks
dialog: it out.
scene_heading: ON THE PHONE:
text: The picture loads. It’s a close-up of breasts. They are nice
text: full firm breasts. Sandra’s breasts.
text: Kengo smiles and looks closer. The phone rings and it says,
text: Sandra Cell. Glen looks over.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sorry. I’1l turn the ringer off.
text: He puts his cell phone away and gets back to work.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: It’s okay, Kengo. I’m not your
dialog: prison warden.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I feel guilty that I was late.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You are young. It’s okay to go out
dialog: and have good time. I just think
dialog: you need...
text: Glen looks off searching for the right words.
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: When I was your age, I was in love
text: with a girl named Jessica.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What happened to her?
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Her family didn’t approve of me.
text: Glen seems full of sadness today.
text: Kengo walks over toward him. It’s clear Glen needs to talk.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Where was that?
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: When I was a young man, I lived in
dialog: Long Beach. I know I told you about
dialog: when I had the fruit store there.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yeah. You did. It sounded really
dialog: cool.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You don’t have to humour me Kengo.
dialog: You are a good boy.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m not humouring you. I like to
dialog: hear about your life.
text: A WOMAN walks into the shop.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Hi, I need to send a fax.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Sure let me help you.
text: As Glen is helping the woman Kengo’s phone buzzes again.
text: Kengo takes it out and looks.
speaker_heading: ON THE PHONE
dialog: 33.
text: The text window alerts him that he has a photo.
text: Kengo presses a button and the photo loads.
text: It’s a shot of Sandra’s pelvis. Her pierced navel and smooth
text: stomach. Her thumb pulls down the top of her panties so there
text: is just a cute little peak of pubic hair revealed.
text: Kengo stares at the photo. It’s definitely turning him on.
text: The machine vibrates as it spits out copies.
text: Kengo presses himself against it as he continues looking at
text: his phone and the Sandra’s sexy photo.
text: His cell phone beeps and says LOW BATTERY.
text: Kengo makes sure Glen and the woman are engaged and not
text: looking at him.
text: He presses himself harder against the vibrating machine. He
text: humps it a little.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Kengo?
text: Kengo shoves his phone in his pocket quickly.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Will you load new paper in the fax
dialog: machine when you get the chance?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sure.
text: The woman thanks Glen and leaves.
text: The office phone rings. Glen answers it.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Paradise Copies and Management.
dialog: Hold on. He just got here.
text: Glen holds the phone out to Kengo.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: It’s for you.
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sorry.
text: He takes it.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Hello, this is Kengo. Oh, Hi
dialog: Sandra.
text: Kengo pretends to be surprised that it’s her for Glen’s
text: benefit. He gives Glen a big smile and points to the phone.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (whispering to Glen)
dialog: Sandra.
text: Glen smiles.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yeah, I got it. Of course I knew it
dialog: was you. Who do you think I thought
dialog: it was? I recognize them.
dialog: Kengo goggles.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I made a present for you.
text: He giggles again. Then he remembers Glen. He mouths “sorry”
dialog: to Glen.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Look, I can’t talk now. I’m busy at
dialog: work and I’m tying up the fax line.
dialog: What!?
text: Kengo is alarmed and turns away from Glen.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Where? You can’t... how did you...
dialog: I... uh...
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (acting normal again)
dialog: Okay. Well thank you for calling.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: KENGO (cont'd)
dialog: I’ll call you later. Okay. Yeah.
dialog: Kiss.
text: He hangs up.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You don’t need to tell me “sorry”
dialog: all the time, Kengo. I’m not the
dialog: police and not your disciplinarian.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Okay, I’m sor... Yeah, okay.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Is everything okay?
text: Kengo looks at him puzzled.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: With Sandra?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh yeah. Uh... Her car got towed.
dialog: But she’s going to get it now.
text: Kengo walks back over to the machine. The machine hums and
text: blows out hot air. Kengo is very distracted and anxious. He
text: stares out the window, grinding his teeth.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (suddenly blurting out)
dialog: Oh my Jesus Christ! I forgot to go
dialog: and help Mrs. Jun Pak with her
dialog: sink... I mean bath leak.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Don’t talk the Lord’s name in vain.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sorry. I said I would help her
dialog: yesterday when I saw her at the
dialog: store.
dialog: Glen thinks it’s a little odd that Kengo would be in such a
dialog: panic but he is a weird kid sometimes.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: There’s a leak and I think it just
dialog: need tightened.
text: Kengo rushes behind a curtain into a little room and emerges
text: with a tool chest.
text: The copy machine starts beeping, alerting them there’s a
dialog: paper jam.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (very stressed)
dialog: Oh no.
text: Kengo is frozen with near panic.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Go, go. I‘'ll take care of it.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTYARD OF PARADISE APARTMENTS - DAY
text: Balconies overlook a small courtyard swimming pool. A very
text: OVERWEIGHT WOMAN sunbathes.
text: Kengo runs up the stairs carrying the tool chest. He looks
text: around to see if anyone is watching him.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - DAY
text: Kengo walks down the dark hallway and stops in front of a
text: door. He knocks.
text: A door down the hall opens. An OLD MAN, wearing an oxygen
text: mask peers into the hall.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh, hi Mr. Soon? How is your new
dialog: stove?
text: The man abruptly closes his door.
text: Kengo looks up and down the hall, paranoid. He knocks on the
text: door again, then jiggles the door knob. It opens.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - DAY
text: Kengo walks into the empty apartment.
dialog: 37.
text: It’s clean but ugly, partially furnished with a table, some
text: chairs and shag carpet all from the 1970's.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Where are you?
text: Kengo closes the door and locks it.
text: He walks into the bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - DAY
text: A mattress with a flowered bedspread is the only thing in the
dialog: room.
text: Kengo looks around the room. He notices a light on in the
dialog: bathroom.
text: Kengo walks toward the bathroom.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Hello?
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - DAY
text: Kengo walks into the bathroom.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What the fuck?
text: The shower curtain is closed. Kengo walks towards the shower.
text: Just as he reaches out to open the shower curtain, it
text: suddenly and violently rips open, terrifying Kengo.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Ahhhh!
text: Sandra stands in the shower. She jumps on Kengo, laughing
text: hysterically.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: You scared the shit out of me!
text: Sandra straddles Kengo.
text: Kengo carries her out of the room.
dialog: 38.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - DAY
text: Kengo throws Sandra on the bed.
text: They roll around making out, pulling each other’s clothes
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - DAY - MOMENTS LATER
text: Kengo and Sandra lie on the bed after sex. They’re wrapped up
text: in the bedspread.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I have to get back to work.
text: He starts to get up.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Wait.
text: She pushes him back down on the bed.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What?
text: She sits on his chest.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: That was fun.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I know. It was fun last night too.
text: He squirms out from under her and gives her a kiss.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: It always is. I always get horny
dialog: when I have a hangover. Do you?
text: Sandra sits up and sighs. She looks off making it obvious
text: that something is bothering her.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What?
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Nothing.
text: Kengo rubs her back.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: We've been together for a long time
dialog: and... we still like each other.
dialog: Right?
text: She looks at him. He spaces our. She lightly taps him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Do you still like me?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yeah, of course. You know that.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: It’s real between us. I don’t
dialog: understand...
text: She picks at a loose thread on the bedspread.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What?
text: She buries her head under. He looks for her face in the
dialog: covers.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Why... Why are we sneaking around
dialog: still? Hiding.
dialog: They’ve talked about this a million times. She is on egg
dialog: shells here.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Who are we hiding from?
text: They stare at each other for a long moment.
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: This is so lame and... bourgeois.
dialog: It’s like we’re having... an
dialog: affair.
text: She pulls at the bedspread thread. It starts to unravel.
text: Kengo gently stops her, taking her hand in his.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I don’t why... Fuck.
text: She falls back on the bed, exasperated.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Why we can’t get married?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: We've talked... you...
text: She springs back up and straddles him, looking in his eyes.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I want you to tell me again.
text: Kengo avoids her interrogating stare. She pushes him onto his
text: back so she is on top of him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Kengo?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I can’t marry you because...
text: Kengo takes a deep breath. Sandra waits.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (totally serious and
dialog: without any irony)
dialog: I’m the son of God.
text: Sandra gets off him, flinging the bedspread off herself and
text: stands up. She starts putting her clothes on.
dialog: 4l.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I can’t believe you’re still saying
dialog: that hit Kengo.
text: She hops around angrily trying to but her pants on.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: I thought you would have outgrown
dialog: it by now. You’re fucking
text: brainwashed.
text: Kengo gets up and starts to put on his clothes on, too.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m not brainwashed.
text: Sandra stares at him waiting for him to say something else.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What if it’s true?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (super frustrated)
dialog: It’s not true.
text: Sandra is dressed. She starts to walk away.
text: She stops and turns back to him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (sadly, soft)
dialog: You’re just a scared little frog
dialog: boy.
text: She shakes her head and walks out of the room. Kengo listens
text: to the door slam as Sandra leaves.
text: He walks to the window, opening the curtian. He watches her
text: walk down the hall and quickly away.
text: Kengo looks up to the sky spacing out to...
text: Another huge jet makes it’s decent, banking into it final
text: turn above downtown and on to LAX.
dialog: 42.
scene_heading: INT. PARADISE APARTMENTS OFFICE - DAY
text: Kengo walks back into the office, a little disheveled.
text: Glen is binding the manuscript that Kengo was copying
text: earlier. He looks up.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Where’s the tool bag?
text: Kengo slaps his forehead.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh no!
text: Kengo turns to go back and get it.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Wait.
text: Glen just stands there. He opens his mouth but nothing comes
text: out. He looks away from Kengo and down at his feet.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What’s wrong? Mr. Tabata?
text: Glen’s eyes tear up but he quickly turns away.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Please call me Glen.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Glen.
text: Kengo walks over to him.
text: Glen disappears behind the curtain into the other room.
text: Kengo watches the curtain.
text: Glen comes back carrying a photo album.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: I want to show you this.
text: Kengo walks over and looks at the album with Glen.
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: GLEN
text: (pointing to a photo of a
dialog: beautiful younger Evelyn)
dialog: That’s your mother when I first met
dialog: her.
text: She’s stunning, in her early 20’s or late teens.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Wow!
text: He turns the page and there are more photos of her. A tear
text: falls onto the page, splashing on her face.
text: Kengo looks up at Glen, studying him.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (blurting)
dialog: Did you know my dad? Do I look like
dialog: him?
text: Kengo rubs the top of his ear.
text: Glen closes the book slowly. He looks off.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: I’m dying, Kengo.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: I have pancreatic cancer. I have
dialog: six months. If I’m lucky, a year.
text: Glen takes a moment for this to sink in then he takes a deep
text: breath and puts his hand on Kengo’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: I want you to have the store.
text: Kengo is shocked.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (abrupt, accidently shrill
dialog: but without anger)
dialog: I don’t want the store.
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You’re like a son...
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (subdued, panic)
dialog: No, I’m not at all like a son. I
dialog: don’t know how to be a son. I’m
dialog: selfish. I can’t...
text: Kengo is trying not to cry.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Are you sure? Doctors are stupid.
dialog: They say the wrong thing all the
dialog: time.
text: Glen nods.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: I’m making peace with God. Life is
text: nothing but a short painful dream.
dialog: Thanks to His guidance, I have made
dialog: it through this far.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Fuck God!
text: Kengo is totally shocked that he has just said this.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: (very gently)
dialog: Before I die, there is one thing I
dialog: have to tell you. It shames me to
dialog: say it but I have no choice.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: It’s okay. You can tell me
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: I have had lustful thoughts towards
dialog: your mother. I’ve always been in
dialog: love with her.
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I have too.
text: Kengo is even more shocked that he’s just said this. It’s
text: like he’s been suddenly stricken with Turrets Syndrome. His
text: face turns bright red. He looks away from Glen.
text: Glen rests his hand on Kengo’s shoulder.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: I know.
text: Kengo suddenly hugs Glen and holds on to him tightly. He
text: hides his face so Glen can’t see that he’s crying.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You poor boy.
text: Kengo lets go of Glen and pulls himself together.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You’re going to have a difficult
dialog: time finding a woman you want to
dialog: share your life with after having
dialog: Evelyn for your mother.
text: Kengo knows he is right. It terifies him.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You'll hold her up as a standard
dialog: for all other women. Even if you
dialog: try not to.
text: Kengo blushes again. He feels totally naked and exposed.
text: Glen rubs Kengo’s shoulder, trying to comfort him.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Every boy is a little bit in love
dialog: with his mother...
text: Kengo is frozen and all the color drains from his face.
text: Everything has changed.
text: Glen walks back through the curtains to put the photo album
dialog: away.
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (to the curtian)
dialog: You were good at being... a little
dialog: like a father... to me.
text: We can hear Glen quietly crying behind the curtain.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: (o.s. From behind the
dialog: curtains)
dialog: Will you do me a favor?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Anything.
text: Glen holds his hand out through the curtain and hands Kengo a
dialog: piece of paper and $20.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Please go and pick up a
dialog: prescription for me at the
dialog: pharmacy. You need some fresh air.
dialog: Why don’t you get something to eat
dialog: while you’re out, too.
text: Kengo is torn between wanting to stay and comfort him but
text: it’s obvious Glen need to be alone.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Okay.
text: Kengo grabs his backpack and starts to head out the door.
text: Glen sticks his head between the curtains.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Be careful.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - WILSHIRE - DAY
text: Kengo walks slowly through Korea Town. He is still in a bit
text: of a daze. He puts on his iPod. Scrolling through the music,
text: he can’t finds the right song for this moment.
text: He pulls out his arm jacket and put it on. He pulls his red
text: hat on too.
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: EXT. HARVERD AND WILSHIRE - OUR LADY OF THE ANGELS CHURCH - DAY
text: On the wall surrounding the church is a large statue of an
text: angel. His arms are open wide and reaching to the sky.
text: Kengo walks across the street. He stops and stares up at
dialog: statue.
text: The angel’s lifted arms convey a timeless longing for ecstacy
dialog: especially contrasted with the modern 60’s architecture of
text: the church on the other side of the wall.
text: Kengo, in his trance, slowly lifts his arms up imitating the
text: angel. People brush past him.
scene_heading: INT. PHARMACY - DAY
text: Kengo hands the prescription to the PHARMACIST. The
text: pharmacist looks at the prescription. He gives Kengo a sad,
text: grim look.
speaker_heading: PHARMACIST
dialog: (gently with pity)
dialog: It'll be twenty minutes.
text: The Pharmacist walks away, sadly.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (under his breath, to soft
dialog: to hear)
dialog: It’s not.... for me.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Kengo walks out of the pharmacy. He takes his cell phone out
text: and looks at the picture of Sandra’s breasts. He calls her.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Hi.
text: He starts to get a little choked up but hides it well.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sandra!? I’m sorry. Wait! Listen to
dialog: me. What are you doing right now?
dialog: Can you meet me? Just for ten
dialog: minutes. I need to talk to someone.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: KENGO (cont'd)
dialog: Can you get something to eat? Meet
dialog: me at the Tofu House. Okay bye.
scene_heading: INT. TOFU HOUSE - DAY
text: Kengo sits in front of a huge photographic mural of a temple
text: in Korea. It stretches from floor to ceiling and wraps around
text: the corner. He puts his iPod back on and watches people walk
text: by on Wilshire as he waits, listening to music.
text: A sexy WAITRESS with pink hair walks up to his table.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m waiting for my... someone.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Do you want something to drink?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yeah, I'll have some green tea.
text: He watches her walk to another table. He turns his music up
text: as his mood brightens. He takes his camera out of his
dialog: backpack.
text: When he is sure that the pink-haired waitress isn’t looking
text: at him, Kengo takes her picture and then quickly puts the
text: camera back.
text: He watches the pink-haired waitress take the check from A
text: MAN. The man is in his 50’s or 60's
text: On her way to the cash register, she gives Kengo a big smile.
text: Kengo smiles back and gives her a little wave.
text: Kengo looks back at the Man gather his things and stand up.
dialog: Something about this man is very intriguing to Kengo. He is
text: captivated by him.
text: The man is well dressed and handsome and one of the few Non-
text: Asians in the restaurant at the moment. There is a grace and
text: worldly elegance about him that seems from another era; a
text: tailored double breasted suit, a hat, a pocket square.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
dialog: 49,
text: We zoom slowly into the man as he puts on his coat. He turns
text: revealing the other side of his face and we see that his
text: right ear is strangely misshapen. It looks as though
text: something had taken a bite out of it. Very little of his ear
dialog: remains.
speaker_heading: ON KENGO
text: Kengo is frozen and all the color drains from his face. It’s
text: as if he has seen a ghost. He knocks over his water but just
text: lets it drip off the table and into his lap, numb.
text: The man leaves a tip and slowly starts to walk to the door.
text: The waitress comes back to Kengo’s table with his tea.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Here you are.
text: She looks down and sees that he has spilt his water into his
dialog: lap.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: I’ll get a towel.
text: Kengo doesn’t even notice her. He is still dumbfounded,
text: staring at the man.
text: The waitress shrugs.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Whatever.
text: She walks away.
text: Kengo watches the man grab a toothpick, open the door and
text: walk out to the street.
text: Kengo grabs his backpack and bolts up from the table. It’s as
text: if he has been shot out of a cannon, propelling himself
text: across the restaurant toward the door.
text: The waitress watches him.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Hey!
dialog: 50.
text: Just before he leaves, Kengo hears her. He digs in his pocket
text: pulls out a ten-dollar bill and slams it on the counter. He
text: runs out the door.
text: The waitress watches Kengo run after the man.
speaker_heading: ON THE TABLE
text: Kengo’s red hat sits on the abandoned table. It absorbs the
text: spilled water.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON
text: The man walks briskly down Wilshire, navigating his way
text: through an abandoned construction site.
text: We see Kengo, blurry, over the man’s shoulder running, behind
dialog: him.
text: The man slows down to light a cigarette. Kengo gets closer.
text: The man continues to walk and alternates between smoking and
text: picking his teeth with the toothpick.
speaker_heading: ON KENGO
text: Kengo keeps his distance, not too far behind him.
text: He’s out of breath, from the rush of adrenaline surging
text: through his body as he trail the man. His heart is beating
dialog: very fast. Maybe we hear it.
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: We track with the Man and Kengo as they walk about 20 yards
text: apart down the block. They have a similar gait. Kengo does a
text: small skip so he can walk in sync with the man.
text: The man stumbles over a plank. He regains his pace and
text: continues walking, smoking and picking his teeth.
text: When Kengo gets to the plank he imitates the man’s trip.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY
text: The man stops at the corner to wait for the light to change.
dialog: 51.
text: Kengo walks up to the corner and stands just a few feet
text: behind the man. He cranes his head a little to see around to
text: the side of the man’s head, so he can look at his ear.
scene_heading: CLOSE UP/KENGO’S POV
text: The side of the man’s head and his strange ear.
text: Kengo gets a good look.
text: Next to the man is a WOMAN waiting with her small SON. He is
dialog: about eight.
text: The little boy looks up and sees his ear too. The little boy
dialog: stares.
text: The mother picks up the little boy and whispers something.
text: The light changes and the crowd walks.
text: Kengo tries to stay close to him but not too close. He
text: follows him down Wilshire. His lap is wet from the spilled
text: water. He looks like he’s wet himself.
scene_heading: INT. TOFU HOUSE - AFTERNOON
text: Sandra walks into the Tofu house. She looks around the nearly
text: empty restaurant for Kengo, walking through the restaurant
text: looking for him.
text: Sandra spots Kengo’s red ski hat sitting on a table. She
text: walks to the table and sits down thinking maybe Kengo is in
text: the bathroom. She puts on Kengo’s hat and waits. She feels
text: that it’s wet. She smells the hat.
scene_heading: EXT. CORNER OF VERMONT AND WILSHIRE - AFTERNOON
text: The Man waits for the light to change. Kengo stands not far
text: behind him. A couple other people wait too.
text: THE HOMELESS MAN, Kengo took a photo of earlier in the day,
text: stands under the fluorescent lights of the gas station. He
text: holds a sign that reads, “VIETNAM VET WILL WORK FOR FOOD OR
text: SEX." People pump gas ignoring him. The man’s shopping cart
text: with his American flag is parked in front gas station sign.
dialog: 52.
text: Kengo stares at the homeless man, spacing out. He hasn’t
text: noticed that the light has changed.
text: The homeless man recognizes Kengo and salutes him. Kengo
text: salutes him back. He looks back and is shocked to see the man
text: and the other people waiting are gone and crossed the street.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DAY
text: Startled out of his trance, Kengo looks around franticly.
text: He catches a glimpse of the man who is heading towards the
text: huge subway stop across the street.
text: Keno’s spacing out has cost him. The light changes back to
text: “don’t walk” and the torrent of traffic is unleased in front
text: of him, stranding him on his corner.
text: He jumps up to see over a truck. When it passed the man is
dialog: gone.
text: Kengo jumps into the street nearly getting hit by a SUV. The
text: driver lays on the horn hard. Kengo jumps back onto the curb.
text: There is no way he can cross the street now. Kengo panics.
scene_heading: EXT. TOFU HOUSE - AFTERNOON
text: Through the windows we see Sandra sitting at the table
text: wearing Kengo’s red hat, waiting.
text: The Pink Haired Waitress comes to the table and talks to
dialog: Sandra.
scene_heading: INT. TOFU HOUSE - AFTERNOON
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
text: He spilled his water and split.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: God, he is such a freak.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: My ex used to wear my g-strings.
text: The waitress walks away.
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON
text: Sandra walks out of the Tofu House and onto the street. She
text: puts Kengo’s damp hat on and looks around at a loss of what
dialog: to do next.
scene_heading: EXT. VERMONT AND WILSHIRE SUBWAY STOP - AFTERNOON
text: Kengo sprints across the street, toward the subway entrance.
text: Just below the street is a plaza. The ticket booth is on this
text: level and escalators that lead down to the metro.
text: Kengo runs down the stairs and into the plaza. He desperately
text: searches for the man in the empty plaza.
scene_heading: KENGO’S SHAKY FRANTIC POV
text: Searching, spinning 360 degrees around the plaza. We hear his
dialog: breathing.
text: Suddenly the man steps out from behind a ticket kiosk and
text: heads to the escalator.
text: ON A TICKET KIOSK
text: Kengo stuffs a five into the machine. He grabs his ticket and
text: takes off after the man.
scene_heading: INT. TOP OF SUBWAY ESCALATORS - AFTERNOON
text: Kengo gets on the nearest escalator and hopes it’s the right
text: one. It’s a long escalator. A hot wind blows up from the
text: subway tracks. The man is gone.
text: Kengo is despondent.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Fuck.
text: Kengo leans over as far as he can and looks down the
text: escalator next to him. This one is even longer. It seem to go
dialog: on forever.
text: Kengo spots the man on that escalator.
dialog: 54.
text: Kengo hops over the steel partition onto the other escalator.
text: His backpack almost causes the woman he’s landed behind to
dialog: fall.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sorry. Excuse me. I’m really sorry.
text: He cranes his head and stands on his tiptoes. He can see the
text: back of the man’s head, about 20 feet ahead of Kengo. This is
text: an extremely long escalator.
text: Kengo is inpatients is excruciating. He’s terrified he’1l
text: lose sight of the man again.
text: The screeching train pulls into the station. People move
text: quickly down the escalator and onto the platform. A big sign
text: on the platform reads “NORTH HOLLYWOOD."
text: The man steps off the escalator and running towards the train
text: and out Kengo’s view.
text: Kengo freaks out and starts to push his way through a couple
dialog: people. They’re not happy about it.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m really sorry. I have to get
dialog: this train.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: There’s always another train you
dialog: rude bastard.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - DAY
text: Kengo hits the platform and runs to the train.
text: Just as he gets to it, the doors begin closing.
text: Kengo leaps onto the train. The doors close on his backpack.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY - DAY
text: Kengo struggles with the door, shoving himself into it with
text: all his weight, ramming his shoulder into the closing door.
text: People inside the train watch. It’s an impressive fight.
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: MAN IN TRAIN
dialog: Give up! Get the next one.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No way.
text: Kengo manages to squeeze himself into the train car. It’s
text: like a difficult birth but he lives. The train lurches off.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY - AFTERNOON
text: A couple people applaud.
text: Kengo feels heroic for a second. A commuter hero beating the
dialog: dehumanizing routine of their day.
text: Kengo looks around. It’s nearly deserted. Just a few grumpy
dialog: passengers. No man.
text: Kengo walks up to the front of the car, searching. He walks
text: back to the other end of the car.
text: An OLD BLACK MAN stands up from his seat.
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN
dialog: I’m sorry, but can anyone spare
dialog: some change. I haven’t eaten days
dialog: and I need help. I’m blind.
text: To prove it, the man lifts his eyelids, showing his milky
text: eyes. He continues in Spanish.
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN
dialog: No tengo los ojos. No miro...
text: He walks down the car, his hat out to the empty seats hoping
dialog: for money.
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN
dialog: Que Dios los acompane...
text: Kengo puts a dollar in his hat.
speaker_heading: BLACK MAN
dialog: Finally, my brethren, be strong in
dialog: the Lord, and in the power of his
dialog: might.
dialog: 56.
text: A woman sitting near Kengo mouths along to this passage from
dialog: the bible.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Amen.
text: She crosses herself.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (very quietly)
dialog: Amen.
text: He tries to peer into the next car.
scene_heading: INT. BEVERLY AND VERMONT SUBWAY PLATFORM - AFTERNOON
text: A small group of people on the platform lean over the track
text: and gaze into the tunnel waiting for the train. The rumbling
text: gets louder and the train’s light appears. The people leaning
text: step back as the train screeches into the stop.
text: Before the doors even open completely, Kengo launches off the
text: train and runs down the platform to the next car. He’s like a
text: wild animal pursued by invisible prey. His frantic movements
text: are oddly reminiscent of his frog dancing the night before.
scene_heading: INT. BEVERLY AND VERMONT SUBWAY PLATFORM - AFTERNOON
text: Kengo flings himself into the next car just as the doors
dialog: close.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY - AFTERNOON
text: Kengo lands directly in front of the man.
text: The man looks up and for a brief moment Kengo and the man
dialog: make eye contact.
text: In that moment everything goes completely silent except
text: Kengo’s racing beating heart. The world has gone into slow
text: motion. It’s a fleeting moment but of enormous resonance for
text: Kengo. The man seems to have glimpsed into Kengo’s soul.
text: The man slowly looks back to the newspaper he was reading.
text: The train takes off.
dialog: 57.
text: Kengo walks down the car to an empty seat. He closes his eyes
text: and tries to calm himself.
text: He opens his eyes. Looking at his reflection in the window
text: opposite him, he gently feels the shape of his face with his
text: fingers. He sneaks glances at the man searching for
text: similarities between them.
text: Kengo examines his reflection.
dialog: Fade to darkness.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - YEARS EARLIER
text: A door slowly opens, revealing Evelyn and a very young Kengo,
text: 8, standing on the front porch of someone’s house. Evelyn is
text: dressed very nicely if conservatively.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: We're from the Reformers Church of
dialog: Christ and we would love to leave
dialog: you some literature.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT PORCH OF SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY
text: A MIDDLE-AGED HOUSE WIFE listens patiently.
speaker_heading: HOUSE WIFE
dialog: Well we’re already Christians but I
dialog: appreciate your faith and
dialog: dedication.
text: She looks down at Kengo.
text: Kengo smiles.
speaker_heading: HOUSE WIFE
dialog: And what’s your name, sweetie?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Kengo. (then, spelling it out)
speaker_heading: K*E*N*G*O!
text: Kengo has some pamphlets in his hand. He holds them out to
dialog: the woman.
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: HOUSE WIFE
dialog: Why thank you. I’d be happy to read
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Peace be with you.
speaker_heading: HOUSE WIFE
dialog: Thank you sweetie.
text: She looks up at Evelyn.
speaker_heading: HOUSE WIFE
dialog: Your son has a very sweet nature
dialog: about him. And you do too.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Thank you. Be sure to come and see
dialog: us if you ever have any pain or
dialog: difficulties. We never push, we
dialog: only offer.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PORCH OF ANOTHER HOUSE - DAY
text: Evelyn is talking to a YOUNG AFRICAN-AMERICAN MOTHER holding
dialog: her baby.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: There was a time when my soul was
dialog: wondering through the deepest
dialog: darkness until the day I was saved
dialog: by our teachings.
text: The woman listens.
text: Kengo looks inside the house. He sees...
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - DAY
text: A MAN asleep in a big chair. This is the woman’s husband.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I was carrying this child inside
dialog: me.
dialog: 59.
text: Evelyn gestures to Kengo. Kengo smiles at the woman.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I was about to throw myself and him
dialog: into the ocean. But I was saved by
dialog: His hand, the One who is in heaven,
dialog: and now my son and I live in the
dialog: holy light of our Lord.
dialog: The woman considers this.
text: Kengo hands her some literature.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Peace be with you.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - DAY
text: Evelyn stands at the front door of another house.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Okay, go ahead.
text: Evelyn gives little Kengo a soft nudge toward the door.
text: Kengo reaches up and rings the doorbell.
text: A YOUNG GUY opens the door.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Hi, we're...
speaker_heading: GUY
dialog: Fucking holy rollers. Why don’t you
dialog: fuck off and go to hell?
text: He slams the door.
text: Evelyn takes Kengo’s hand more to comfort herself than him.
text: She’s visibly upset.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY
text: Evelyn and Kengo walk off the porch. Evelyn is shaking.
dialog: 60.
text: Kengo looks up at her and sees that she’s upset. He wraps his
text: arms around her waist and hugs her hard.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (talking to both of them)
dialog: It’s okay. It’s okay.
text: A younger Glen Tabata walks up the sidewalk to them. He’s
text: dressed in a suit and carries a briefcase with the same
text: pamphlets Evelyn and Kengo were handing out.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: How’s it going?
text: Evelyn suddenly brightens, expertly covering her true
dialog: feelings.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Great. This is such satisfying
dialog: work.
text: Kengo looks between them confused by his mother’s sudden
text: shift in tone and dishonesty.
scene_heading: INT. GLEN’S VAN - DAY (CONTINUED FLASHBACK)
text: Kengo rides in the back and Evelyn is up front while Glen
text: drives. Kengo looks outside the window and sees a father
text: playing catch with his son. He cranks his head around to keep
text: watching as they pass.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Evelyn?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Call me Mom.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Mom?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Where is my father right now?
text: Evelyn and Glen look at each other.
dialog: She turns
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Well, your father is our Lord.
text: around in her seat and looks at him.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Our Lord must stay high up in
dialog: Heaven.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He can’t live down here with us.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Well... He’s too busy. But he’s
dialog: always watching over you, sweetie.
dialog: He always has your best interests
text: in his heart.
text: This frustrates Kengo who has heard this a million times now.
text: He wants another explanation. Evelyn turns around to look at
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He sent you down to be with me.
text: Glen clears his throat. He moves the rearview mirror so he
text: can have eye contact with Kengo.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: It’s true Kengo, that you don’t
dialog: have a father in this world, and
dialog: you’re going to meet all sorts of
dialog: people who say stupid things to you
dialog: about that. Unfortunately, the eyes
dialog: of most people are clouded and
text: unable to see the truth, Kengo. But
dialog: in our world, your father is the
dialog: world itself.
text: Glen gets overly involved in lecturing Kengo and is
text: distracted. He nearly misses a stop sign.
dialog: 62.
text: Evelyn grabs his arm.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Look out!
text: Glen stops quickly and they all jerk forward. After a brief
text: pause Glen gains his composer. He starts to drive again.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You are fortunate to live in the
dialog: embrace of His love. You must be
dialog: proud of that and live a life that
dialog: is good and true.
text: Kengo thinks about this.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yeah, I know. But God belongs to
dialog: everybody doesn’t he? Fathers are
dialog: different though. Everybody has a
dialog: different one. Right?
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Listen, little man. Someday our
dialog: Lord, your father, will reveal
dialog: himself to you as yours and yours
dialog: alone. You will meet Him where you
dialog: least expect it. But if you begin
dialog: to doubt or abandon your faith, He
dialog: may be so disappointed that He
dialog: never shows Himself to you.
text: Kengo sighs in frustration.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I know where babies come from.
text: Glen swerves a little.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: And I know how they are made...
dialog: Evelyn.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (embarrassed)
dialog: This is not something we are going
dialog: to talk about now.
dialog: 63.
text: Evelyn mover the rearview mirror so she can see herself. She
text: nervously puts on her lipstick. Glen looks over at her
dialog: watching.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
text: (quietly, not looking at
dialog: him)
dialog: Glen. You should watch the road.
text: She puts her lipstick away. Her lips are perfect. She turns
dialog: around back to Kengo
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: But you can talk to your dad by
text: praying to him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BASEBALL DIAMOND - DAY (CONTINUED FLASHBACK)
text: A prison-like elementary school looms in the background. It’s
text: the middle of a baseball game.
text: Young Kengo is way outfield.
text: The ten-year-old PITCHER pitches the ball and the batter hits
text: it. The ball goes flying through the air. It’s surprising a
dialog: little kid could hit a ball so high.
text: The ball is heading right to Kengo.
scene_heading: LITTLE KID PITCHER
text: Oh shit! It’s going toward Kengo.
text: All the players in the outfield run toward Kengo, hoping to
text: get to him before the ball does, but it’s clear that it’s not
dialog: going to happen unless these kids can fly.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV:
text: The ball is very high, but fast coming right toward him.
scene_heading: SLOW MOTION:
text: High on the field, we float down toward Kengo. His baseball
text: mitt is wide open and he has a look of horror on his face.
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Please God... Dad, let me catch
dialog: this ball. Please...
dialog: Kengo concentrates really hard.
text: Kids run toward him.
text: The ball is getting closer.
text: Kengo closes his eyes and leans back, face pointed to the
dialog: sky.
speaker_heading: KENGO
text: (under his breath, with
dialog: fast fervor)
dialog: Please Dad. Prove to me that I’m
dialog: your son and that you can see me
dialog: and since you didn’t ever teach me
dialog: how to catch you can make it up to
dialog: me now by letting me...
text: The ball flies by him and Kengo falls over backwards trying
text: to catch it. The ball bounces on the manicured grass a few
text: feet behind him.
text: People boo and groan.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: (0.s.)
dialog: Idiot! Open your eyes.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER KID
dialog: (0.8)
text: His eyes can’t open very wide.
text: Other kids laugh.
text: Kengo opens his eyes and lies there looking up at the sky.
speaker_heading: THE SKY
text: It’s cloudless, dirty blue and vacant.
scene_heading: BACK TO PRESENT:
dialog: 65.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY - AFTERNOON
text: Kengo shakes off the memory and looks over at the man.
text: The man is nodding off. On his lap is a very old medical text
text: book. It’s open to a diagram of the human reproductive
text: organs. A woman next to him glances at it, then quickly looks
dialog: away.
text: Kengo looks at the seat across from him. A WHITE KID, about
text: 15, sitting there now.
speaker_heading: ON THE KID:
text: He’s dressed in baggy clothes; sweats, a Lakers jersey, gold
text: chains, and tucked into his waistband, barely visible above
text: the elastic of his sweats... the butt of a gun.
text: The kid notices that Kengo is looking at the gun. He pulls up
text: his shirt a bit higher making sure Kengo gets a good look at
text: the gun then pulls his shirt back over it. He raises his
text: eyebrows at Kengo, like he’s saying, “What? You got a problem
dialog: with something?”
text: Kengo quickly looks away.
scene_heading: INT. SANDRA’S CAR - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Sandra drives up to the front of Kengo’s building. She is
text: wearing his red hat. She honks a few times. It’s a “code
text: honk”. She leans over across the passenger seat and looks up.
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Fucker.
text: Sandra starts to cry. A car behind her honks. She drives on.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY - AFTERNOON
text: The train comes into the next stop, the man stands up and
text: walks toward the door.
text: The train slows down.
dialog: 66.
text: The doors open and the man gets off. Kengo jumps up and
text: follows. The kid with the gun stays on the train.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Kengo follows him up the escalators toward the natural light
dialog: of...
scene_heading: EXT. THE STREET - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The man, with Kengo close behind, emerge into the hazy late
text: afternoon sunlight of the San Fernando Valley.
text: The man crosses the street and waits at a bus stop. Kengo
text: walks over and waits too. He’s less worried about being
text: caught now, so he stands pretty close.
text: The man looks at Kengo. Kengo can feel the man’s eyes on him.
text: With great courage Kengo turns to meet the man’s eyes.
text: Time seems to stop. Kengo’s heart is in his throat, his ears
text: buzz, he can’t breath.
text: The man gives Kengo a barely imperception nod and the
dialog: faintest smile or does he?
text: Kengo opens his mouth as if to say something. A weird little
text: song escapes.
scene_heading: EXT. PARADISE APARTMENTS OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Glen is standing on the sidewalk in front of the office. He
text: looks his watch and then walks back in.
text: Sandra pulls up in her Volvo. It makes a lot of noise and
text: belches smoke.
text: Sandra turns off the ignition and gets out. She is wearing
text: Kengo’s red hat.
text: Just as Sandra gets to the front door, Glen walks back out
text: onto the sidewalk.
text: Sandra takes Kengo’s hat off and walks up to Glen.
text: They talk but we don’t hear what they’re saying.
dialog: 67.
text: Glen can tell Sandra is upset. He walks her into the office.
scene_heading: INT. BUS - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The bus isn’t crowded either. Kengo sits up front across from
dialog: the man.
text: Kengo looks at the man’s hands and then looks down at his
dialog: own.
text: The bus stops at the next stop and more people get off.
text: A very OLD WOMAN gets on. She is having a hard time walking.
text: She stands directly in front of the man.
text: As the bus lurches froward, the old woman almost falls. The
text: man looks back down at his paper.
text: Kengo can’t believe how inconsiderate he is. He is profoundly
dialog: disappointed.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (to the old woman)
dialog: Ma'am!? Excuse me, Ma'am?!
text: The old woman looks over at Kengo.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Please. Sit here.
text: He gets up and helps the woman over to his seat. She sits.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: Thank you very much. It’s so hard
dialog: for me to get to the back of the
dialog: bus.
text: She smiles at Kengo.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: You’re such a handsome gentleman.
text: Kengo smiles.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: You must have lovely parents.
dialog: 68.
text: Kengo smiles. He looks over to the man who continues to read.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: What is your name?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Kengo.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: Oh that’s a Japanese name! Are
dialog: you... Japanese?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No. I’m American.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: But where are you from originally?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Here. I’m American. I was born
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: But... you’re Japanese?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No, I’m Chinese. I’m a Chinese
dialog: American. With a Japanese name.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: That is very American. I’m Polish.
dialog: We don’t have a Polish town but you
dialog: have a Little Tokyo and a
dialog: Chinatown. Do you live there?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No, I live in K-Town.
text: The old woman cocks her head and gives him a puzzled look.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Korea Town.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: Oh, how confusing.
text: Kengo sort of fake laughs, humoring her.
dialog: 69.
text: His cell phone rings. This panics him. He grabs it and looks
dialog: at it. It say’s Work.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Shit!
text: He answers his phone.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: Hello? Glen?
text: He panics.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Sandra?!
text: Everyone on the bus looks at him because Kengo just yelped
dialog: her name.
text: Even the man looks up from his paper for a moment.
text: Kengo and the man make eye for a brief second.
text: The man looks back at his reading.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (quieter)
dialog: I’m really sorry. I can’t believe
dialog: what's happening...
text: His phone starts to beep, obnoxiously. He looks at it.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh, fuck, Sandra my battery is
dialog: dying. I’m okay but something
dialog: really...
text: His phone dies. He closes it and put it away.
text: The Old Woman laughs. Kengo looks down at her.
text: She is asleep but once in a while, she laughs and smiles.
text: The bus pulls onto the freeway. It looks like it’s going
text: somewhere far.
dialog: 70.
text: Kengo puts his iPod on. He scrolls though some music
text: searching for something that seems appropriately weighty
dialog: enough for this situation.
text: As he searches for the right music he watches the man,
text: looking for a song that fits his vibe.
text: He tries several different songs but everything seems
text: trivial. Then suddenly he finds something. It’s strange and
text: haunting. It could be the man’s theme song.
text: Note: Arvo Part (something from LITANY), Brian Eno and Harold
dialog: Budd (something from THE PEARL) would all have pieces that
dialog: would be great here.
scene_heading: INT. PARADISE APARTMENTS OFFICE - DAY
text: Sandra slams down Glen’s office phone.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: Nothing!
text: She paces. Glen stands by the counter watching patiently.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Sometimes I want to just... split.
text: She looks over at him.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I feel like running away.
dialog: Vanishing. Then maybe he would...
text: She runs out of words. She starts to cry.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I’m sorry. God, I’m being such a
dialog: stupid... girl.
text: Glen grabs two small folding chairs from behind the counter
text: and a box of tissues. He unfolds them.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Sit.
dialog: 71.
text: Glen waits for Sandra to sit before he does. She grabs a few
text: tissues as Glen holds the box.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (through her tears)
dialog: I would go to Mongolia on a trek.
dialog: That’s one of the few places that
dialog: hasn’t been totally... raped by
dialog: western civilization.
text: Glen smiles. He just listens.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I could go live with the fucking
dialog: nomads. They heard across these
text: beautiful meadows that go on
dialog: forever.
text: She starts to cry even harder.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: They have these round tents and
dialog: they all just share the same
dialog: room...
text: Glen moves a little closer to her and takes her in his arms.
text: She calms down. Glen sits back and takes her hand and pats
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: (calming)
dialog: I’m sorry I said fucking. I’m have
text: a mouth like a garbage can.
text: Glen laughs. Sandra does too.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I’ve never seen you laugh.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: That was the first time.
text: She laughs a little more. Sandra looks at him like he is a
dialog: whole new person.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Why is he such a....
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Weirdo?
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: Exactly. Totally.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Well. It’s very difficult to let
dialog: people be who they are without
dialog: letting our expectations of them
dialog: get in the way.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: I’m not trying to change him. I
dialog: just want him to be more...
text: She stops, realizing what she is saying. Glen smiles.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: Remember why you love him and why
dialog: you first realized that you did.
text: Sandra looks off remembering something specific.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You fell in love with him because
dialog: he’s... a weirdo.
text: Sandra laughs.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: All of the different parts of him
dialog: make him who he is. Right now, he
dialog: needs all these parts to be...
dialog: Kengo. Even when some of him makes
dialog: us crazy. They all fit together.
text: Sandra nods.
speaker_heading: GLEN
dialog: You two fit together.
text: Glen’s eyes tear up. Sandra see how sad he suddenly is. She
text: takes his hand and gives it a kiss.
speaker_heading: SANDRA
dialog: You’re a weirdo too.
dialog: 73.
scene_heading: INT. BUS - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Kengo steals looks at the man. His hands, shoes, parts of his
text: face, mouth...
text: The man takes some pills out of his pocket. He tosses a pill
text: into the back of his throat and swallows it dry.
text: Kengo swallows in unison. He looks out the window seeing:
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY - LATE AFTERNOON (KENGO’S POV)
text: A station wagon carries a family. A MAN drives while his WIFE
text: is turned around in her seat yelling at her SON in the back
dialog: seat.
text: The little boy is crying.
scene_heading: FLASH BACK - A THREE (3) YEARS EARLIER
scene_heading: INT. KENGO’S ROOM - VERY EARLY MORNING
text: Kengo’s room is similar but the objects in the room are
text: different - those of a younger boy. He is in his mid-teens
dialog: here.
text: Kengo sleeps. Suddenly the room starts to shake violently.
text: It’s an earthquake. A large one.
text: Kengo bolts upright in bed and watches the room shake. Some
text: of his things fall off the shelves.
text: From the other room we hear Evelyn scream.
text: Evelyn comes flying into the room nearly ripping Kengo’s door
text: off its hinges in terror. She’s wearing only her panties.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: It’s okay! It’s okay! It’s just an
dialog: earthquake.
text: Evelyn flies across the room and lands in bed with Kengo. She
text: grabs onto him like he’s a life raft.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: It’s the big one! This is it.
text: The shaking stops but Evelyn won’t let go of Kengo.
text: breasts are squashed against him.
text: Car alarms are going off.
dialog: 74.
dialog: Her
text: Kengo’s room is a wreck (more then usual). Most of the things
text: that were on the shelve are on the floor.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I don’t think that was the big one,
dialog: but it was a big one.
text: Kengo sits up and the bed moves. Evelyn think it’s another
dialog: earthquake.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Oh my God!
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Mom, it’s okay. That was me.
text: He hugs her, comforting her.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Next time we should stand in the
dialog: door jam. That’s what you’re
dialog: supposed to do. It’s the strongest
text: part of the building.
text: Evelyn is crying.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I know people are hurt. People have
dialog: died. I know it.
text: Kengo tries to comfort her.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: We're okay.
scene_heading: EXT STREET - MORNING
text: Evelyn, in a rather revealing and frayed nightgown,
text: stand in front of their building.
text: Car alarms are still going off.
dialog: and Kengo
dialog: 75.
text: Kengo takes photos of a fallen street lamp that’s shattered
text: on an SUV.
text: Other people from the building are on the sidewalk too, and
text: across the street.
text: Kengo puts his arm around Evelyn to comfort her.
text: An OLD WOMAN from their building gives them a dirty look,
text: obviously appalled by, what she deems their inappropriate
dialog: intimacy.
text: Kengo sticks his tongue out at her and wiggles it obscenely.
text: The old woman couldn’t be more horrified.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Come on, let’s go back inside. The
dialog: building’s fine.
text: The traumatized old woman watches them retreat back into the
dialog: building.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Kengo paces as he dials the phone that’s tethered to the
text: kitchen wall.
text: He gets a busy signal and dials again. It’s busy.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Shit!
text: The electricity buzzes back on and several lights come on.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING
text: Evelyn sits on the couch very disheveled and scared,
text: watching news about the earthquake on television. She has a
text: blanket wrapped around her.
text: Kengo comes in from the kitchen carrying a tray of tea. He
text: sits down next to her and hands her a cup.
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I keep trying to call Sandra but
dialog: it’s busy.
text: Evelyn takes the tea and grabs Kengo’s hand and holds on to
text: it tightly.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I’m sure all the lines are tied up.
text: ON THE TV: footage of a fallen building and a stretcher being
text: loaded onto an ambulance.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (bursting in to tears)
dialog: Oh no! No!
text: Kengo rubs her back.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: It’s okay.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: No. It’s not okay. We have to do
dialog: something. We have to help.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY (CONTINUED FLASHBACK)
text: Evelyn is on the phone organizing with her Church people.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I‘ll pick you up. I’ve got some
dialog: blankets here. What about canned
dialog: foods? Non-perishables?
text: There’s a pile of clothing and other items ready to be
dialog: donated to victims.
text: Kengo carries a sleeping bag into the kitchen, adding it to
dialog: the pile.
text: Evelyn hangs up and goes into a frenzy of activity preparing
dialog: to go help the earthquake victims.
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (emptying a cabinet of food)
dialog: They're picking us up in half an
dialog: hour.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (calm, strong)
dialog: I’m not going.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m not a believer, Mom. Not
dialog: anymore.
text: Evelyn freezes her frantic gathering. He walks over to her
text: and places his hands on her shoulders.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I haven't been for a long time and
dialog: I’ve felt like... I don’t know...
dialog: Today feels like a good time to
dialog: tell you.
text: Evelyn sits down on the floor and puts her head in her hands.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m sorry mom. I love you but I
dialog: don’t believe in your... God. I’m
dialog: not going to pretend like it
dialog: anymore.
text: Evelyn starts to cry.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Come on Evelyn. Don’t be a martyr.
text: She stands up walks to her room and closes the door.
scene_heading: INT. EVELYN ‘S ROOM - DAY
text: Evelyn lies on her bed and weeps. Kengo knocks on the door
text: and then walks into the room. He sits down on her bed. He
text: hands her a box of tissues. She takes them and blows her nose
text: and rubs her eyes.
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I can’t take more than one
dialog: earthquake per day.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Evelyn?
text: He makes sure he has her attention. This is serious.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I want you to tell me who my father
dialog: was.
text: Evelyn takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (automatically)
dialog: Your father is up...
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (strong and firm)
dialog: No Evelyn. The truth.
text: Evelyn hides her face under a pillow.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (muffled, into the pillow)
dialog: No.
text: Kengo grabs the pillow and pulls it off her. He throws it
text: across the room the.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (firm but calm)
dialog: Enough Mom. Tell me. You can’t hide
dialog: this from me my whole life. I’1l
dialog: never be able to believe in
dialog: anything if you do.
text: Evelyn is surprised by how self possessed her boy suddenly
text: is. The earthquake has cracked the surface of him and a man
text: is underneath.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MORNING (CONTINUED FLASHBACK)
text: Kengo and Evelyn sit at the kitchen table looking at each
text: other. They drink tea.
dialog: 79.
text: Evelyn holds the army jacket we recognize as Kengo’s, now.
text: She carefully places it on the table like it’s an egg. Kengo
text: reaches for it but Evelyn holds her hand up stopping him.
text: Evelyn gets up and grabs a small box she keeps on the top of
text: the refrigerator. She sits back down with it, takes a
text: cigarette and a book of matches out and, lights it. She takes
text: a big inhale and slowly exhales.
text: Kengo is a little shocked but he doesn’t say anything.
text: Evelyn takes another big drag. She starts to say something
text: but then stops, only smoke coming out of her mouth.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (frustrated)
dialog: Come on Evelyn. Talk.
text: Evelyn takes another drag and exhales.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (slow, finding the words)
dialog: I was living in a deep... darkness
dialog: in my teen years. My soul was in
text: chaos. Like an underwater volcano.
text: She makes an elaborate gesture expressing what an underwater
dialog: volcano might look like.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
text: The true light was hidden behind
text: dark clouds.
text: She adds dramatic sound effects.
text: Kengo rolls his eyes.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: No. Really, it’s the truth. I used
dialog: to have... disturbing thoughts.
text: She takes another drag of the cigarette.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What... ‘disturbing thoughts’?
text: This is difficult to talk about with her son.
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: about death and things. I
dialog: demons.
dialog: I...
dialog: saw...
text: Kengo gets goose bumps. He realizes she isn’t making this up.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I would try everything to make them
dialog: just...
text: She throws her arms up as if the demons are in the room now.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (yelling at the demons)
dialog: Go Away!
text: She takes another drag of her cigarette and to Kengo’s
text: astonishment, blows out a couple of perfect smoke rings.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I tried everything. Even LSD
text: Kengo is shocked. Someone should throw a blanket over him.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: That make them worse.
dialog: And so... I had... knowledge of...
text: She looks away from him and then back.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: -several different men. Without
dialog: love.
text: She stops and takes a drag. It seems like she can’t go on any
text: further. She stares at the jacket.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I Don’t want you to judge me,
dialog: Kengo.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (trying not sound
dialog: horrified)
dialog: Go on.
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: You know what it means to have
dialog: knowledge, don’t you?
text: Kengo rolls his eyes again.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yes. God, what century are we
dialog: living in? You’re acting like...
dialog: there is still a queen or
dialog: something. I know what it is to
dialog: have knowledge of... someone.
text: Now, Evelyn’s a little shocked. She looks at him, wondering
dialog: if he really knows what having knowledge means.
text: Kengo presses together the index finger and thumb on his
text: hand, then sticks his other finger through it a few times,
text: clearly indicating sexual intercourse.
text: Evelyn gasps and swats the offending gesture off Kengo’s
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Stop stalling.
text: She takes another drag of her cigarette.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Do you have knowledge of Sandra?
text: Kengo blushes and tries not to smile. Then he shakes it off.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Mom...
text: He uses “mom” as a weapon of manipulation.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Just tell me about my father.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (carefully, without
dialog: emotion)
dialog: I got pregnant in the second year
dialog: of high school.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: EVELYN (cont'd)
dialog: A friend of mine introduced me to a
dialog: doctor who gave me an abortion.
text: She looks at Kengo for his reaction, making sure he isn’t too
text: shocked at what she is telling him. Then she continues.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He was a very kind doctor. And
text: handsome and pretty young, too...
dialog: for a doctor.
text: Kengo nods, encouraging her along.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: After the... procedure, he lectured
dialog: to me about contraception.
text: A helicopter flies over making her have to talk louder.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (in a deep man voice)
dialog: “Abortion was good neither for the
dialog: body nor the spirit.” That’s what
dialog: he would say. I should also be
dialog: careful about venereal disease, so
dialog: I should always be sure to use a
dialog: condom, and he gave me a new box of
dialog: them.
text: Evelyn giggles at the memory. She takes another drag, lost in
text: the memory. She spaces out as the helicopter noise fades.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Mom?
text: Evelyn snaps out of it. She looks at Kengo, remembering again
text: that he’s here. She continues her story.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I told him that I had condoms but
dialog: he told me that the guys probably
dialog: didn’t put them on right. Kengo,
dialog: you would be amazed at how few
dialog: people know the right way to use
dialog: them.
dialog: 83.
text: Kengo makes a confused face, wondering what people might do
dialog: with condoms, ‘the wrong way’.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: But I wasn’t stupid and I was very
dialog: careful about contraception. I
dialog: mean, the minute we took our
dialog: clothes off, I would be sure to put
text: it on the penis... (she is suddenly
dialog: embarrassed) on the man... myself.
text: Evelyn does a little gesture miming putting a condom on a
dialog: man.
text: Kengo is a little grossed out. He tries not to let her see.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: You just can’t trust men with
dialog: anything like that.
text: Kengo nods, to get her to keep talking.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Kengo? You know about condoms,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Yes. Totally. I carry them in my
dialog: wallet.
text: She stares at him.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Go on! Come on!
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Well, two months later... I got
text: pregnant again.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Jesus!
text: Evelyn is self-conscious. Embarrassed, she looks down.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (gently, encouraging)
dialog: Sorry. Go on.
dialog: 84.
text: Her cigarette helps her have a little more courage. She takes
text: a big drag and blow more smoke rings. They’re like little
text: shields of smoke.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I went back to the same doctor who
dialog: I knew I could trust and who I knew
dialog: wouldn’t tell my parents. He took
dialog: one look at me and scolded, “I told
dialog: you to be careful. What are you
dialog: thinking?”
text: She gets a little quieter now. She picks at a piece of lint
text: on the army jacket.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I couldn't stop crying.
text: A siren grows louder and then fades again.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He was so mad. I told him I had
dialog: used the condoms and that I was
dialog: very careful but he didn’t believe
dialog: me.
text: Evelyn suddenly is like a sad little girl.
text: Kengo moves to try to comfort her but he doesn’t know how and
dialog: really wants to hear about his father.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Mom? Tell me. Please.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: The doctor was your father. Is your
dialog: father.
text: Kengo stops breathing.
text: They sit in the silence waiting for the consequences of this
text: revelation, waiting to see if the universe will come to and
dialog: end.
text: Kengo finally takes a breath.
dialog: 85.
text: Evelyn let's the gravity sink in then continues.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: About six months after my second
dialog: abortion and after a series of
dialog: weird events, I ended up... having
dialog: knowledge of the doctor himself. He
dialog: was about thirty at the time and I
dialog: was sixteen. He was very handsome.
text: Evelyn is trying not to get emotional by pretending like she
text: is talking about somebody else.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He was still a bachelor. He was
dialog: kind of boring to talk to, but we
dialog: didn’t talk much. He was sweet.
text: Remembering him and that time in her life, Evelyn smiles.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: His right ear was... kind of...
text: mangled. A lot of it was missing.
dialog: He was a medic in Viet Nam but he
dialog: said that’s not how it happened. A
dialog: dog chewed it off when he was a
text: boy. He was just walking along the
text: street one day and when a big black
dialog: dog he had never seen before jumped
text: up and bit his ear off.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh, whatever.
text: Evelyn is slightly startled back into the room from her
dialog: memory.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (consistory)
dialog: I think it happened in the war.
text: She carefully folds the army jacket.
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He used to say he was glad it was
dialog: just his ear. He could live without
text: an entire ear.
text: Evelyn gently slides the jacket across the table, in front to
dialog: Kengo.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (in awe)
dialog: This was his?
text: Evelyn suddenly starts to cry.
text: Kengo picks it up and smells it.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (through her tears)
dialog: Being with him helped me... get
dialog: myself.... back.
text: Evelyn takes deep breath. Kengo she’s how brave she is.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: When I was having... knowledge of
dialog: him, I managed not to think
dialog: disturbing thoughts. I even got to
text: like his ear.
text: She reaches over and traces her finger around Kengo’s perfect
dialog: ear.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I thought it was cute.
text: Evelyn lights another cigarette.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He was so dedicated to his work. He
dialog: would lecture me about the use of
dialog: the condom while we were in bed.
dialog: When to put it on and when to take
dialog: it off. You think this would make
dialog: for a foolproof contraception, but
dialog: I ended up pregnant again.
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: With me?
text: Evelyn nods slowly.
text: Outside, another siren screams past.
text: Kengo takes this in. Now he has even more questions but he
dialog: doesn’t know where to start.
text: Evelyn senses this and tries to help out.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He examined me and he was the one
dialog: who told me I was pregnant. He was
dialog: really mad and said I had been
dialog: cheating on him but it wasn’t true.
dialog: He was the only man I had been with
dialog: for months. He got me pregnant.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Didn’t you tell him that?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Yeah, but he didn’t believe me. All
dialog: my friends knew him and we would go
text: out together with them and they
dialog: knew that he was the only one I had
dialog: been with. He just kept saying, “My
dialog: contraceptive techniques are beyond
dialog: reproach, which means you have has
dialog: relations with another man.”
text: Evelyn shakes her head.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: But I hadn’t. I was devastated. I
dialog: was so hurt.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I understand. I don’t blame you.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: He called me a slut. He demanded I
dialog: get another abortion. But there was
dialog: no way I could that again.
dialog: 88.
text: Kengo fights tears back. He puts his hand on Evelyn’s hand.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: That was the last I ever saw of
dialog: him.
text: She seems to helpless and venerable as she remembers her
dialog: past.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: He never even called me... or
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Fucker.
text: Kengo pats her hand.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: It’s okay, Mom.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: When my parents found out they
dialog: kicked me out of the house. I was
dialog: going to kill myself. I was going
dialog: to drive to San Francisco and jump
text: off the Golden Gate bridge.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I’m glad you didn’t.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Glen Tabata found me crying, out
dialog: wondering the streets, and took me
text: to the church shelter. Without him,
dialog: I would have died.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: So, biologically speaking, my
dialog: father is that fucking obstetrician
dialog: that you... had knowledge of?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Oh no, listen. This isn’t the whole
dialog: truth.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: EVELYN (cont'd)
dialog: I took the most rigorous
dialog: contraceptive measures and became
dialog: pregnant. In fact, I became
text: pregnant three times in a row.
dialog: That’s not chance.
dialog: Kengo knows what’s coming.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Three chance occurrences is not
dialog: chance. The number three is none
dialog: other than that which is used by
dialog: our Lord for Revelations.
text: Kengo sighs, exasperated.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: It was our Lord’s wish that I give
dialog: birth to you. See, the doctor’s
dialog: contraceptive methods were
dialog: absolutely foolproof. Your father
dialog: is the Lord. You came into this
dialog: world not through carnal knowledge,
dialog: but through an act of our Lord’s
dialog: will.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh God mom. They brainwashed you.
dialog: I’m sure every mother wants to
dialog: think her son is the son of God
dialog: but...
text: He stops knowing there’s no dissuading her from her faith.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Does the doctor know that you had
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: I don’t think so. I never saw him
dialog: again, He never contacted me in any
dialog: way. I’m sure he has no idea.
text: Evelyn looks down at the box where she keeps her cigarettes.
text: She pulls a tiny gold cross on a thin gold chain.
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: This was his too.
text: She hands it to Kengo.
text: He looks at it like it’s a the missing piece of an ancient
text: secret. He puts it on.
text: Evelyn gets melancholy again and seems a million miles away.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Mom?
text: Evelyn consciousness comes back into the room.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Yes, sweetie.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Am I like him at all? What did I
dialog: get from him?
text: Evelyn looks at him, considering his question.
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Well, not his ears.
text: She giggles and then covers her mouth.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: EVELYN
dialog: Your big wee-wee.
text: Kengo is horrified.
text: A little after-shock rattles the room and they both run to
text: the doorway.
text: BACK TO THE PRESENT
scene_heading: INT. BUS - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Kengo, lost in thought and memory, stares off into the vast
text: empty spaces of the valley outside the bus window.
dialog: 91.
text: The old woman wakes up and looks up at Kengo. She taps his
text: leg, startling him.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: You look very far away in a sad
dialog: place.
text: Kengo looks over at the man and looks closer at his ear.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
text: A slow zoom into the man’s ear. It does look like it was
text: chewed off by a dog.
text: Kengo looks back at the old woman.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: Whatever it is that is troubling
dialog: you will be gone. Things are always
dialog: changing.
text: The woman holds her finger up as if to tell him to wait. She
text: closes her eyes. She opens them again.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: See. Things are different now than
dialog: they were a second ago.
text: Kengo smiles.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: There is only ever... now.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Are you physic?
text: The woman laughs.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: No. Just very old. So I know a
dialog: little about time.
text: Like he’s been struck by lightning, Kengo suddenly remembers
text: something. He unzips his backpack and takes out his camera.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Can I take your portrait?
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: Why, Because I’m such a relic?
dialog: You’ve never seen anyone this old.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No, no, that’s not... I think you
dialog: have a great face.
text: The old woman bats her eyes like a Hollywood starlet.
text: Kengo laughs, taking this as consent.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: Is that digital? That’s all anyone
dialog: ever says anymore. Digital,
dialog: digital, digital. The whole world
dialog: is not made of one’s and zeros.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: No, this good old fashioned film.
text: He crouches down, positioning himself so the old woman is in
text: the foreground, and in the frame not far behind her, the man.
text: The woman stares into his lens.
text: Kengo racks the focus to...
text: THROUGH THE LENS
text: The old woman goes out of focus and the man comes into focus,
dialog: perfectly.
text: Just as Kengo presses the shutter, the man stands up going
text: partly out of frame.
text: The camera makes a whirling sound, rewinding the film. That
text: was the last photo on the roll.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (in frustration)
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: What? Bad? Ugly?
text: The man is getting ready to get off at the next stop.
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: KENGO
text: (distracting, looking at
dialog: the man)
dialog: No. It’s great. That was the last
dialog: shot.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (to the old woman)
dialog: This is my stop.
text: The old woman blows him a kiss as the bus slows.
speaker_heading: OLD WOMAN
dialog: Remember... It’s always right now.
text: The doors open and Kengo follows the man off the bus.
scene_heading: INT. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The bus drives off, leaving the two of them.
text: Power lines buzz and crackle in the distance suspended by
text: huge towers. This is mostly an industrial area but a new
text: housing development is creeping in. Every few blocks between
text: warehouses an old house remains, but not for long.
text: The sun is low and the few clouds are beginning to take on an
text: orange tint.
text: The man walks slowly along the barren street.
text: Kengo quietly follows half a block behind him.
text: They’re the only people on the street and seems like they’re
dialog: the only ones left on the planet.
text: A cold dry desert wind blows litter down the street. A fast
text: food wrapper, wraps around Kengo’s shin. He has to shake his
text: leg violently to get it off.
text: As Kengo passes a junk-yard, a furious dog runs at him
text: flinging itself against the fence barking ferociously at
text: Kengo. The dog didn’t bark at the man.
text: Kengo is startled and even more adrenaline pumps through him.
text: He walks on, his heart pounding.
dialog: 94.
text: The only sound now is the man’s shoes rhythmically tapping
text: against the side walk. It’s oddly hypnotic.
text: Kengo’s practices his silent Ninja walking.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON
speaker_heading: WIDE
text: Two giant electrical towers holding up power lines rise out
text: of the field of dead grass and dumped garbage.
text: The power lines buzz loudly like a swarm of giant insects.
text: The man and Kengo are like ants as they make their way across
text: the buzzing field.
text: Kengo remains at a safe distance but makes sure he keeps the
text: man in view.
speaker_heading: ON KENGO
text: He walks with determined trepidation as if his about to
text: discover a new continent or the secret identity of a spy.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (whispering, barely
dialog: audible)
dialog: Are you my father?
text: He takes a deep breath.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (just slightly louder)
dialog: Are you my father?
text: He takes another deep breath.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (as loud as he can without
dialog: the man hearing)
dialog: Are you my one-eared father?
text: Kengo takes a deep breath.
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (yelling as loud as he
dialog: can)
speaker_heading: HEY!
text: The man stops and turns to look.
text: Kengo ducks down, hiding in the grass.
text: The man just sees an empty field. He takes a few steps back
text: toward where Kengo is hiding.
speaker_heading: ON KENGO:
text: Crouching in the tall grass his heart beating wildly, he
text: hears the man walking toward him.
text: The man looks around and then turns and keeps walking.
scene_heading: EXT. FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The man leaves the field and walks around the corner of a
dialog: building.
text: Kengo pops up and runs as fast as he can to catch up.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The man, his shoes clicking walks along.
text: Kengo appears behind him.
text: They continue walking through the industrial wasteland of
dialog: this part of town.
speaker_heading: ON KENGO
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: If you are my father, you will know
dialog: I’m here.
text: Kengo closes his eyes concentrating. He continues walking.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (quiet, pleading)
dialog: Turn around and see me.
dialog: 96.
text: Kengo opens his eyes. The man doesn’t turn around.
text: Kengo closes his eyes again.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: If you are my father...
text: He stumbles off the curb. He opens his eyes.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Come on. I’m part of you.
text: Kengo’s eyes fill with tears. He desperately needs this man
dialog: to turn around and acknowledge
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: him.
dialog: (a touch of anger)
dialog: I’m from you. Turn around.
text: Kengo stops walking and concentrates hard. He touches the
text: cross around his neck.
speaker_heading: ON THE MAN:
text: The man slowly turns around so
speaker_heading: MAN'S POV
text: Kengo: eyes shut, reaching for
dialog: Who is this bizarre, seemingly
text: gesticulating and genuflecting
speaker_heading: ON THE MAN
text: The man slowly turns and walks
dialog: the assault.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON KENGO:
text: Kengo keeps his eyes squeezed shut
text: squeezing out tears.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (like a prayer)
dialog: Are you my father?
dialog: see Kengo.
dialog: the sky.
dialog: possessed street kid,
dialog: to the sky?
text: on, his shoes clicking against
dialog: as tight as possible,
text: He raises his arms up in the air as a
dialog: answer he needs.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: See me.
dialog: 97.
dialog: conduit to receive the
text: He puts his arms down and slowly opens his eyes.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
text: The street is empty. The man is gone.
text: Kengo panics. He runs up the street.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Hey!
text: Kengo comes to an alley too narrow to
text: Kengo stops.
text: He listens and faintly but distinctly
text: echoing from somewhere down the alley.
text: He walks runs down the long alley.
scene_heading: IN THE ALLEY - VERY LATE AFTERNOON
text: Kengo runs a few steps then stops and
text: Utter silence except for the wind.
text: drive a car down.
text: hears the mans shoes
text: listens again.
text: Kengo runs as fast as he can and comes around the corner
dialog: to...
scene_heading: EXT. BASEBALL DIAMOND - DUSK
text: This is the same dusty baseball diamond we saw at the
dialog: beginning of the script:
text: Long neglected, surrounded by a rusty
dialog: chain-link fence, weeds
text: growing on the pitcher’s mound, the dilapidated dugout,
text: tagged with layers of graffiti, discarded spray paint cans
text: laying under the bleachers, the burnt
text: its wheels.
text: and rusted car missing
dialog: 98.
text: Kengo runs into the diamond and stops.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Hey! Hello!
text: There is only a slight echo.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Bastard!
dialog: Still nothing.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (not yelling)
dialog: Fucking bastard. Where did you go?
text: He listens of an answer. Again just the wind.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: I'm the bastard.
text: Kengo kicks an empty spray paint can. The can bounces through
dialog: the dirt.
text: He walks over to the battered car and looks inside.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
speaker_heading: INSIDE THE CAR
text: The seats are ripped up and there are several syringes laying
text: on them.
text: A used condom is draped over the steering wheel.
text: Kengo walks away from the car back to top of the pitcher's
dialog: mound.
text: He looks up at the sky.
speaker_heading: THE SKY:
text: It’s nearly dusk and the sky is turning incredible shades of
text: pink and orange.
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: ON KENGO:
text: Kengo turns in a full circle surveying the area. He walks
text: into the dugout.
text: The dugout’s walls are amazingly colorful, covered with
text: graffiti and spray paint art. A lot of it is people’s names
dialog: and gang tags - where they are from names, names of
text: couples... a few political slogans. One reads “USA Lies.”
text: Kengo walks over and picks up the can of spray paint.
text: He shakes it then holds his hand out and sprays. The very
text: last bit of red pant weekly spurts onto Kengo’s hand.
text: He throws the can as hard as he can. It clangs loudly against
dialog: the car.
text: Kengo walks over to the wall and presses his hand against it.
text: He bangs his fist on top of his hand making sure it’s pressed
text: against the wall hard. Satisfied he gently removes his hand.
text: He backs up admiring his work.
text: ON THE WALL:
text: Kengo’s fresh, bright red hand print shimmers among the older
text: graffiti. The newest piece in years and layers of paint.
dialog: ON THE FIELD:
text: Kengo walks out into the field and sits down. He lies on his
text: back and looks up at the sky.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
text: In stark contrast to Kengo's terrestrial surrounds, the sky
text: is beautiful, in the full blush of an amazing sunset.
text: Orange and pink clouds streak through the sky. A jet a mile
text: up leaves a contrail that turns orange. It engines make a
text: distinct static roar.
scene_heading: ABOVE KENGO (SKY’S POV?)
text: We float above the field looking down at Kengo stretched out
text: on his back looking up at the sky. We descend towards him.
dialog: 100.
text: As we reach him he raises his arms up and opens his hands
text: against the sunset sky.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
text: He holds his hands together like a frame. He makes the sound
text: of a picture being taken.
text: Kengo reaches into his pocket and pulls out his iPod and
text: turns it on.
text: He finds the right music to look at the sky with.
text: Something ambient and atmospheric but delicate.
text: Kengo gets tired of the song and looking at the sky. He jumps
text: up and changes the music to something with a faster tempo.
text: Kengo starts to dance along to the music. It’s his trademark
text: flapping frog-like dancing. It’s weird and jerky.
text: We swirl around him as he flaps along to the music.
text: Suddenly the music stops.
text: Kengo stops dancing and checks out his iPod. He bangs it on
text: his hand.
text: The batteries are dead.
text: WIDE ON THE BASEBALL DIAMOND
text: Kengo stands on top of the pitchers mound softly humming.
text: The wind picks up as the sun sets.
text: Kengo stops humming and listens. A guest of wind clangs the
text: chain link fence making a strange rhythm.
text: Kengo moves to the weird clang of the fence. He stars to hum
text: again, a little louder.
text: He starts moving a little more, swaying back and forth then a
text: little faster. He spins around and jumps in the air.
dialog: 101.
text: His movements evolve slowly into a dance. There is a little
text: bit of his frog movements but they diminish as his movements
text: become more and more fluid. The fence clangs, the wind blows,
text: a distant siren howls, Kengo dances along.
text: ANGLE ON THE FIELD
text: Kengo runs to one side of the lot and does some dancing then
text: to the other side. He runs around the baseball diamond
text: following where the bases would be, an imaginary home run.
text: After home base, he runs to the abandoned car and jumps on
text: the roof.
text: On the roof of the car he goes wild, dancing and jumping with
dialog: unprecedented grace, at least for him.
text: He rips his shirt off and waves it around like a flag before
text: throwing it down. He takes his pants off and whips them
text: through the air.
text: He continues dancing but now it’s taken on an almost
dialog: religious feel.
text: Kengo is in the middle of some huge personal ritual. He is
text: sweating and moving wildly dancing to his own music. He is
text: purging something deep from inside him.
text: Kengo leaps off the car and runs back to the pitcher’s mound.
text: His dancing crescendos in a flurry of wild movements and
text: then, Kengo collapses onto the ground, hyperventilating.
scene_heading: ANGLE - ABOVE THE BASEBALL DIAMOND
text: The light has drained from the sky and the world has taken on
text: a bluish color.
text: Kengo lies on the pitcher’s mound catching his breath.
text: We slowly float down to him.
text: There is a strange sorrowful compliance in him.
text: He sighs a long sigh and then takes the deepest of breaths.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: Oh, God.
dialog: 102.
text: A large gust of wind whistles hauntingly through the rusty
text: chain-link fence like it’s answering him.
text: Kengo starts to cry.
text: The last light of the day drains from the sky.
dialog: Slow dissolve to...
scene_heading: INT. BUS - NIGHT
text: Kengo rides the bus. It’s dark outside and the fluorescent
text: lights in the bus are bright. There are only a few other
text: passengers. They all ride in silence.
dialog: Slow dissolve to...
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - NIGHT
text: Kengo gets off the subway at Vermont and Wilshire and rides
text: the very long escalator up to street level.
dialog: Slow dissolve to...
scene_heading: EXT. WILSHIRE BLOULVARD - NIGHT
text: It’s raining lightly and the streets are slick, reflecting
text: the headlights of the traffic. Fog has rolled in and the
text: streetlights radiate an eerie glow.
text: Kengo walks along the sidewalk slowly and contemplatively as
text: Korea Town swirls around him.
text: An OLD MAN sells flowers from a little kiosk.
text: Kengo stops at the flower stand.
text: The homeless man with the American flag on his shopping cart
text: walks by, singing The Star Spangled Banner.
text: The Star Spangled Banner echoes, slowly dissolving over...
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL HOUSE - NIGHT
text: This mid-century house in a suburban neighborhood is just on
text: the edge of K-Town.
dialog: 103.
text: Kengo walks across the street and stops in front of the
text: house. He holds a small bouquet of daisies.
text: Kengo makes a loud chirp. His signal to Sandra. There is no
text: response so he chirps again. Still nothing.
speaker_heading: KENGO
dialog: (loud whisper)
dialog: Sandra.
text: A light in the house goes on.
text: A MAN, 50’S (Sandra’s father) opens the front door. He stares
dialog: at Kengo.
text: Sandra is obviously not home. Kengo walks away.
scene_heading: INT. KENGO AND EVELYN’S APT. - NIGHT
text: Kengo quietly opens up the front door. He carries the bouquet
text: of daisies. He steps into the hall, trying not to make the
text: floor creak. It’s like a mine field but he’s well practiced
text: at maneuvering through it. If Evelyn is sleeping, he doesn’t
dialog: want to wake her.
text: Music begins playing from the living room. It’s haunting and
text: beautiful. Maybe traditionally Asian.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Sandra drives her Volvo up to the front of Kengo’s building.
text: She is wearing Kengo’s hat. She takes a hand off the wheel to
text: honk the horn but stops herself. She turns the igniting off
text: and sits there for a moment in the quiet. She takes a tissue
text: from the dashboard and blows her nose.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: Sandra gets out of her car. She stares up at Kengo’s
text: building. Her eyes are puffy from crying.
scene_heading: INT. KENGO AND EVELYN’S APT. - NIGHT
text: Kengo walks down the hall forgetting to close the front door.
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: KENGO’S POV
text: Floating towards the living room and the source of the music.
text: Slowly we round the doorway revealing...
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Evelyn, dances slowly around the room to the music. She is
text: dressed in a beautiful silk nightgown, seeming to almost defy
text: gravity with her grace, totally uninhabited.
text: Kengo sets the daisies down next to the record player. He
text: leans against the door and watches Evelyn, hypnotised. Her
text: dance is almost mournful.
text: Evelyn turns and sees Kengo. She smiles at him, dancing
text: slowly, using the whole room as her stage.
text: Kengo starts to sway to the music. He steps into the room and
text: dances slowly in place.
text: Evelyn reaches her arms out inviting Kengo to dance with her.
text: Kengo smiles and pushes himself off the wall, toward her.
text: Evelyn embraces Kengo and they begin to dance together,
text: around the room.
text: Sandra quietly steps into the doorway, peering into the
text: living room. Kengo’s red ski hat is in her hand.
text: Kengo sees Sandra over Evelyn’s shoulder and keeping Evelyn’s
text: back to Sandra, he looks at her. He can see she’s been
text: crying.
text: Sandra watches Kengo and Evelyn’s intimate dance. The hat
text: slips out of her hand.
text: Kengo gently takes Evelyn’s hands from himself and steps out
text: of her embrace.
text: Evelyn turns and sees Sandra. She stops dancing.
text: Kengo walks across the room toward Sandra. He picks his hat
text: up from the floor and places it on Sandra’s head. Kengo
text: reaches his hand out to Sandra.
dialog: 105.
text: Sandra takes a small hesitant step towards Kengo and he takes
text: her in his arms and guides her into the room. Kengo leads
text: her, gracefully into his dance. They use the full space of
text: the room, moving through it effortlessly.
text: Evelyn takes a step back and watches.
text: Sandra closes her eyes and hugs Kengo, harder. The tension in
text: her face relaxes. They press their bodies together, tightly.
text: Evelyn turns away and dances slowly in her corner of the
text: room, her back to Kengo and Sandra.
dialog: Freeze Frame.
text: The music continues.
dialog: Fade Out.
speaker_heading: THE END
scene_heading: EPILOGUE - OVER THE END CREDITS
dialog: 
text: Kengo’s music.
text: Under the end credits we fade up to:
text: The photo Kengo took on the bus.
text: The old woman is blurry but we can tell she is smiling.
text: Behind her, THE MAN is standing. His head is almost
text: completely out of frame. We can’t see his eyes, nose or any
text: of his face. But we can see the bottom of his profile, and
text: as we slowly zoom in, his ear.
dialog: Fade out.
dialog: 
