speaker_heading: ALL IS TRUE
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Ben Elton
text: Black. As the following lines appear on screen, the familiar
text: Droeshout portrait of William Shakespeare fades very slowly
text: into view.
dialog: William Shakespeare was born on April 23rd 1564 in the
dialog: English market town of Stratford Upon Avon. He was the son of
dialog: a glove maker.
dialog: On November 27th 1582 he married Anne Hathaway. Will was 18,
dialog: Anne was 26 and already pregnant. They had three children.
dialog: In the early 1590’s Will moved to London, where he was to
dialog: become the most successful and famous writer of his age.
dialog: His family remained in Stratford.
dialog: Will’s only son, Hamnet, died in 1596, aged eleven.
text: The portrait slowly dissolves from the canvas image into a
text: living, breathing version of the man himself, gazing the same
text: enigmatic gaze at the viewer.
scene_heading: CUT TO BLACK
text: As the following lines appear, we scan across a period map of
text: the densely crowded buildings of Elizabethan London. As we
text: find Southwark, and its crammed streets, we close in on the
text: roof of a round topped building.
dialog: On June 29th 1613 a performance of Shakespeare’s Life of
dialog: Henry VIII was given at The Globe Theatre. It was advertised
dialog: under it’s alternative title:
speaker_heading: ALL IS TRUE
scene_heading: INT. DARKENED GLOBE STAGE 1
text: One actor, (The Chorus), is performing the opening Prologue
text: of ALL IS TRUE.
speaker_heading: CHORUS
dialog: Be sad, as we would make ye think
dialog: ye see
dialog: The very persons of our noble story
dialog: As they were living; think you see
dialog: them great,
dialog: Then in a moment, see,
dialog: How soon this mightiness meets
dialog: misery:
dialog: And, if you can be merry then, I'll
dialog: say,
dialog: A man may weep upon his wedding-
dialog: day.
text: Card: During Act 1 Scene 4 a misjudged stage effect began a
dialog: fire.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 2.
text: The map. Fire flicks viciously through the drawn image of the
text: Globe Theatre. CUT.
scene_heading: EXT. NIGHT 2
text: An explosive crack of fire . A figure stands silhouetted
text: against the frame-filling flames. Shouts and screams and
text: panic off screen.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GLOBE - DAWN 3
text: Low wide shot of a grey, smoking, empty wasteland. A figure
text: stands in the smoldering aftermath of the fire.
text: Close on the figure, who slowly turns to face us. Not the
text: Shakespeare of the famous portrait, but simply the man. A
text: haunted man.
text: CARD. The Globe Theatre burned entirely to the ground.
dialog: CARD. William Shakespeare never wrote another play.
text: PUSH IN ON A PERIOD MAP OF STRATFORD UPON AVON WHICH LAYS OW
text: THE QUAINT ENVIRONS OF THE MARKET TOWN. THE NAME NEW PLACE,
scene_heading: PICKED OUT.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM - EVENING 6
text: Shakespeare’s family, Anne, Susanna, and Judith sit together.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: He writes the life of a King? And
dialog: calls it All is True? Your father
dialog: has some nerve.
text: Susanna defensive of her father.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: No doubt the specific events will
dialog: be true. And the people involved.
dialog: The rest is anybody’s guess. It
dialog: might be true.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Nothing is ever true.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: The word of God is true.
text: Judith raises a contemptuous eyebrow.
dialog: 10
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 3.
scene_heading: EXT. THE TAVERN STRATFORD - EVENING 7
text: Noise. Flaming torches. A group of righteous Puritans are
text: protesting outside the tavern. Amongst their leaders is Dr.
text: John Hall (Susanna’s husband).
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Be not deceived! Neither drunkards,
dialog: nor fornicators, nor idolaters, nor
dialog: adulterers, shall inherit the
dialog: kingdom of God.
text: A messenger rushes up to a puritan who glances at the message
text: and then shares it with John Hall. Hall Knows he must leave.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - EVENING 8
text: A thump of hooves. A horse gallops across the wide lowlands
dialog: of the garden of England.
scene_heading: EXT. THE COURT YARD OF A COUNTRY TAVERN - LATE AFTERNOON 9
text: An exhausted Will sits in the partially covered booth of an
text: Inn. A frail boy (11) watches him. Will barely notices the
text: child. The boy wears a ragged cloak against the chill, his
text: face partly hid. The boy sees that Will’s cloak is burned.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: We heard a theatre burned Sir?
dialog: Which one was it?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Mine.
text: Will has scarcely glanced at him..
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM - DAY 10
text: John Hall has brought news. The family are shocked.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: A fire?
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: A furnace. We must prepare
dialog: ourselves for the worst. It is in
dialog: God’s hands.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Well don’t sound so bloody pleased
dialog: about it.
dialog: 11
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 4.
scene_heading: INT. THE ROADSIDE TAVERN - NIGHT 11
text: Will nurses a mug of ale. Eyes far away. Deep in thought. The
text: landlady brings bread and cheese. A Romany. Hard bitten but
text: with good reason. Will’s attention is far away.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY
dialog: Don’t see a lot of strangers.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Name’s Dotia. It’s my pub.
text: Will ignores her. The Landlady becomes wary.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY (CONT'D)
dialog: And who might you be?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (startled)
dialog: Who am I?
text: He looks away again. Almost to himself?
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Who am I?
dialog: (far away)
dialog: I... I have worked in the theatre.
dialog: This exchange has confirmed her suspicions.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY
dialog: Right then. I’1l have the reckoning
dialog: before you eat if it’s all the same
dialog: to you.
text: A look from Will.
speaker_heading: LANDLADY (CONT'D)
dialog: I seen you strolling player types
dialog: before.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: And?
speaker_heading: LANDLADY
dialog: An’ you ain’t exactly gen’lemen.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I am exactly a gentleman and Non
dialog: sanz droict.
dialog: (the landlady doesn’t
dialog: understand)
dialog: “Not without right”. You might see
dialog: it on my Coat of Arms.
text: He reaches into his bag and pulls out a heavy bag of coins.
text: He tosses a gold coin down. The landlady’s eyes widen.
dialog: 12
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 5.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Gentleman enough for you?
scene_heading: EXT. THE COURT YARD OF A COUNTRY TAVERN - NIGHT 12
text: Will preoccupied still. About to leave. The Boy is there,
dialog: ignored by Will.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: You're Shakespeare. The poet. You
dialog: tell stories.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I used to.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I had a story. But it was never
dialog: finished.
text: Will is fastening his cloak against the chill. Irritated by
dialog: this nonsense.
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: Will you finish it for me? Please?
text: Will is becoming impatient for his horse. Looks to the tavern
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I’m done with stories lad. And I
dialog: wouldn't know how to finish yours.
speaker_heading: BOY (V.O.)
dialog: Yes you would. Of course you would.
text: Light thickens in the silent dusk. Will ignores the child and
text: stares at the road ahead, as he waits, fearful, wondering.
text: After a moment, he looks back around. The boy has gone. The
text: Landlady comes to the door.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Where’s the Boy?
speaker_heading: LANDLADY
dialog: What Boy?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: The lad who took my horse?
speaker_heading: LANDLADY
dialog: No boy here. We found your horse
text: untethered.
text: Will shivers. He looks out at the gloomy light.
text: He looks back at the Landlady who clearly has seen and heard
dialog: nothing.
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: 15
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 6.
scene_heading: EXT. STRATFORD ON AVON. 13
text: Moving closer across the map of the town, which now features
dialog: the famous Clopton Bridge.
scene_heading: EXT. THE TAVERN STRATFORD- EVENING 14
text: The Puritans still protest the tavern. Will walks past.
text: The tavern protest continues. A man emerges from the Tavern.
text: John Lane, a surly drunkard. He glances furiously at the
text: Puritans and spits on the ground. They stare menacingly back.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE - NIGHT 15
text: Will outside his house. He pauses at the front door to look
text: at the Coat of Arms that hangs above it. He seems to take
dialog: strength from this.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - NIGHT 16
text: Will has returned and at table with the family. Will is
text: silent, shaken. It is uneasy reunion.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I rejoice to see you safe Father in
dialog: Law. We all do.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I thank you for it John.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: God burned your theatre but spared
dialog: you. Thus is he both wise and
dialog: merciful.
text: Perhaps this is offered as comfort but it doesn’t give any.
text: Will looks at John for a moment then stares once more into
text: the fire. Remembering. Thinking. Anne breaks the silence.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: And when Will you return to London?
text: Will looks at her blankly.
text: The significance of this sinks slowly in for his family.
scene_heading: EXT HALLS CROFT NIGHT 17
text: The upstairs windows lit by candle.
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 7.
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT BEDCHAMBER- NIGHT 18
dialog: Susanna and John Hall.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: I always thought he’d end his life
dialog: in London. Its where he lived.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: It doesn’t matter where he lived,
dialog: or where he dies, all that matters
dialog: is who will be his heir.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: I am his heir. And our daughter
dialog: Elizabeth after me.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Not if your sister gives hima
dialog: grandson.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Or we do.
text: There is coldness and disappointment as they meet each
dialog: other’s eye.
scene_heading: EXT NEW PLACE NIGHT 19
text: Candles at two separate windows upstairs.
scene_heading: INT. JUDITH’S BED CHAMBER - NIGHT 20
text: Judith lies alone, her face is blank. But there are tears on
text: her cheeks. She seems to cry without emotion. Damaged.
scene_heading: INT. ANNE'S BEDCHAMBER - EVENING 21
text: Anne is in the room. Will at the door.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Good night Husband.
text: Anne begins to close the door on him.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Twenty years Will. We’ve seen you
dialog: less and less.
text: Will accepts the admonishment in silence.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: To us you are a guest. And a guest
dialog: must have the best bed. Rest well.
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 8.
text: Will is saddened but can only retreat.
scene_heading: EXT. MEADOW - DAY 22
text: A contemplative Will takes in the familiar countryside as he
text: walks. Children are playing. He takes pleasure in their
text: play. Two young women approach.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: Mr. Shakespeare? Is it true what
dialog: they say? That you are he? The
dialog: great poet?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Poet certainly.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: Such an honour.
text: Still traumatized, he takes pleasure at this attention. It is
text: in stark contrast to his reception at home.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - DAY 23
text: Will is walking along the once familiar street. He feels like
text: a stranger but one who has earned his right to be there. He
text: wears fine clothes and takes pride that people greet him. As
dialog: a figure of respect. “Mr. Shakespeare.” “An honour sir” “We
dialog: heard you had come to live amongst us once more, such
dialog: excitement”.
scene_heading: INT. KINGS NEW SCHOOL STRATFORD - DAY 24
text: Will stands by a name plaque outside Stratford Grammar. His
text: mind is filled with memories.
text: He listens at a window. He hears a class of teenage boys
text: being instructed by their teacher. He hears a stern voice
dialog: call out “William Shakespeare!”
text: It was just a memory. The voice that called Will was the
text: current master come out to greet him.
speaker_heading: SCHOOL MASTER
dialog: Mr. Shakespeare isn’t it? I saw you
dialog: looking in. Please, perhaps a few
dialog: words of inspiration for the boys?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I... forgive me.. I think not.
text: Will turns away but then he turns back.
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: 27
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Tell them... Tell them to get
dialog: money.
speaker_heading: SCHOOL MASTER
dialog: Money sir?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Money. Money and property.
speaker_heading: SCHOOL MASTER
dialog: No words of wisdom? Philosophy?
dialog: Food for the soul?
text: Will considers this for a moment.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Money.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE - DUSK
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I thought perhaps, I would make a
dialog: garden.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: We've got a garden.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Not a kitchen Garden. Or a flower
dialog: garden. But a special one. For
dialog: Hamnet.
speaker_heading: ANNE
text: Hamnet’s in Paradise. He doesn’t
dialog: need a garden.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Perhaps I do.
text: Anne shrugs as if to say “do as you please”.
scene_heading: EXT HALLS CROFT NIGHT
text: Through the windows we see the Hall family at
dialog: 25
text: The second best house in the town sits quietly in the
dialog: 26
text: Dinner. Anne, Judith and Will. They eat in silence for some
text: time. Eventually Will breaks it.
dialog: 27
dialog: supper.
dialog: 28
dialog: 29
dialog: 30
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 10.
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT - NIGHT 28
text: Susanna, John and Elizabeth Hall. Also in silence. Susanna
text: throws a discreet smile at little Elizabeth to momentarily
dialog: break the grimness.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Your father’s mind is on his
dialog: legacy.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Your mind is on his legacy.
text: John does not like her tone.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: And therefore must be yours. For I
dialog: am your husband and what concerns
dialog: me concerns you.
text: John Hall gives Susanna a long and significant look.
scene_heading: EXT NEW PLACE GARDEN DAY 29
text: Will, like a stranger in a strange land, walks through the
text: existing plants and flowers, scouting for his new plan. He is
dialog: very engaged.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - AFTERNOON 30
text: Will digging. Enjoying the air. The buzzing insects. The
text: little birds that try to steal his seeds.
text: Anne brings him water. Will leans upon his spade, puffed out.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: Digging up roots. Heavy work.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: You'll find that.
text: Will drinks long and deep. A thought amuses him.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I once uprooted an entire Wood and
text: moved it across a stage to
dialog: Dunsinane.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Bit different in the real world.
text: A beat as their familiar akwardness settles.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: He showed such promise Anne.
dialog: 31
dialog: 32
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 11.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: You scarcely knew him.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I knew him. Through his poems.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: You say poems.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: Yes poems. Childish scribbles
dialog: perhaps, but wit and mischief in
dialog: every line.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Well.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He’1l write no more.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No. And nor shall I.
text: She looks at him. Turns and walks away.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: It’s not Hamnet you mourn. It’s
dialog: yourself.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I mourn my son!
text: She keeps walking.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Now. You mourn him now. At the time
dialog: you wrote The Merry Wives of
dialog: Windsor.
text: He tries to return to his digging but gives it up. He lays
text: aside his spade and heads into the lane.
scene_heading: EXT HALLS CROFT- DAY 31
text: Will is at the door of Susanna’s house. He knocks and Susanna
dialog: answers.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GREEN WOOD - DAY 32
text: Will is walking with Susanna. Elizabeth runs about playing.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Its an adjustment. She must learn
dialog: to be a wife once more.
text: They walk on. Birds twitter. Elizabeth laughs and skips.
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 12.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (CONT'D)
dialog: My husband thinks you’ve come home
dialog: to die.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Really? I’ve just bought a pension.
dialog: I can’t die for at least ten years
dialog: or I’ll be ruined.
text: A small moment of levity between them.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: So why are you come home? No more
dialog: stories left to write?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Susanna, I have lived so long in
dialog: imaginary worlds that I believe
dialog: I've lost sight of what is real, of
dialog: what is true.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Judith says nothing is true.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Judith is 28 and a spinster. That
dialog: is true.
text: Will walks on. Susanna calls after him.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Will you write no more Father?
text: Will either doesn’t hear or simply doesn’t answer.
scene_heading: EXT NEW PLACE DAY 33
text: The work in the garden goes on. Will still clearing and
text: rearranging the existing plants.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - DAY 34
text: Anne and Judith are preparing food together. Will is seen by
text: them both in the garden beyond.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: When Father dies I will be
text: destitute.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: No child. A third of his fortune
dialog: comes to me, while I live.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: While you live. You’re older than
dialog: him, remember.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 13.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Susanna will never see you want.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Susanna will obey her husband. I
dialog: will get nothing. Which is what I
dialog: deserve.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Judith. If you won’t forgive
dialog: yourself. How can you expect God
dialog: to?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I don’t.
scene_heading: 35 EXT. THE GREEN WOOD POND - DAY 35
text: Will and Susanna have arrived at a glade with a body of
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I ran here on the day I was sacked
dialog: from the school.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: I know Father.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: When I was the son of an Alderman I
dialog: had a free education. But the son
dialog: of a thief? I thought my world had
dialog: ended.
text: Will looks about him. Remembering.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: I loved this place. You children
dialog: loved it too.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Yes, we came here every day.
dialog: Although Hamnet never went in the
dialog: water. He wasn’t bold like Judith.
dialog: Or even me.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: But his mind was bold.
dialog: (memories)
dialog: Once he brought me here, to show me
dialog: what he’d written. I told him then
dialog: that I was the proudest father in
dialog: the Kingdom. I still am.
text: Will turns away. Susanna so sad for him.
dialog: 36
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 14.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE - DAY 36
text: Big broad sweeping vista from the garden. The leaves in the
text: Green Wood are turning. Time is passing.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - MORNING 37
text: Will works on his garden. Now digging, cutting turf,
text: Gardening is hard. Anne emerges.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Husband! Its Sunday.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Sunday?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: This isn’t London. If you miss
dialog: church here they fine you.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM — MORNING 38
text: Susanna and John and Elizabeth have arrived in their Sunday
text: best. Judith and Anne also. Will comes down buttoning his
dialog: smart doublet trying to be the happy family man.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Well well! Here we all are. How
dialog: sweet you look Elizabeth. Shall we
dialog: be off?
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I must needs first answer nature’s
dialog: call.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Nature seems to like your company.
text: It calls every five minutes.
text: Hall scowls and leaves, unbuttoning his cod piece as he goes,
text: he’s in a hurry.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE - MORNING 39
text: The family are leaving the house for Church. Will pauses
text: outside the front door, picking up little Elizabeth he shows
text: her the Coat of Arms above the door.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What’s that Little Lizzie?
text: The little girl is proud to know the answer.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Our Coat of Arms Grandfather.
dialog: 40
dialog: 4l
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 15.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: That's right. Which hangs upon the
dialog: second best house in Stratford. The
dialog: house of a gentleman.
text: The woman are unimpressed but Will takes great satisfaction
text: and casts another look at the shield before leading the
dialog: family to church.
scene_heading: THE MAP OF STRATFORD 40
text: Featuring the picturesque church of Holy Trinity.
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH —- MORNING 4l
text: The congregation are at Sunday Service. The Shakespeare’s
text: enter. Many townsfolk tip their hats to an important family.
text: Will is pleased to accept their greetings.
text: They take their places in the second row. In the far more
dialog: impressive side box are the Lucy family, the grandest family
text: of them all. Sir Thomas Lucy nods curtly at Will. Will feels
dialog: this slight.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Ah Shakespeare! Another Sunday and
dialog: still you occupy your family pew. I
dialog: pray that you are never obliged to
dialog: vacate it. As your Father was.
dialog: This cuts.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I am not my Father Sir Thomas.
text: The congregation continues to assemble. Rafe Smith, a
text: haberdasher enters. Susanna catches his eye and there is a
text: brief moment of connection. Will notices this.
text: John Hall also notices it too. He whispers to Susanna.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I am happy that you have friends in
dialog: the town Susanna. But kindly be
dialog: discreet about it.
text: Susanna reddens, there is a secret here.
text: A group of giggling girls surround a handsome man, Tom
text: Quiney. Quiney sees Judith and gives her a broad smile. She
text: does not return it. The girls sneer, they don’t like Judith.
dialog: The Puritans don’t like Tom Quiney. The little congregation
dialog: is a labyrinth of small town conflicts and alliances. We
dialog: sense a story in every face, only some of them will we
text: follow. The Vicar, Edward Woolmer enters. Music begins.
dialog: 42
dialog: 43
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 16.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - DAY 42
text: Will works in his garden. He makes slow but steady progress.
text: Now cutting shapes and tracks in the earth with knife and
text: trowel. Messy and content. John Hall approaches.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I joy to see you dig Sir. At last
dialog: given up on your plays to distract
dialog: the mob from our Lord.
text: Will considers this for a moment. A lark sings.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Does the Lark song distract you
dialog: from your God John?
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Of course not. It is evidence of
dialog: God.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Well then. Perhaps for some, I was
dialog: a Lark?
text: Will offers this with gentle twinkle. John Hall is slightly
text: floored, he is about to attempt an answer but realizes he
text: hasn't really got one. He gathers his dignity.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I came to ask a favour Father in
dialog: Law. But I am loath to distract a
dialog: man from his labours. Will you call
dialog: when you are done with your garden?
text: Will nods. John departs.
scene_heading: EXT. STRATFORD HIGH STREET - DAY 43
text: People go about their business. Susanna walks to the tavern.
text: She is greeted with respect as a wealthy doctors wife. Hats
dialog: are tipped.
text: Susanna passes Tom Quiney’s Wine and Tobacco shop. Quiney
text: calls out cheerfully.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: Good day to you Mrs. Hall. Tell
dialog: your sister I have a fine Rhenish
dialog: Wine delivered. She may have a
text: bottle gratis for a single smile.
text: Susanna puts her nose in the air with disdain and walks on.
dialog: 44
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 17.
scene_heading: INT. THE TAVERN STRATFORD- DAY 44
text: The Tavern is also a Post House. Susanna enters and
text: approaches the Landlady.
scene_heading: STRATFORD LANDLADY
dialog: Package for you Mrs Hall. Frank!
text: A nervous boy rushes forward but he is clumsy and trips. He
text: drops it and inside a bottle is heard to break.
text: As the boy tries to gather up the parcel spots of silver
text: liquid are seen amongst the straw.
text: A man is watching. It is John Lane. He drinks sullenly.
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE
dialog: Mercury Mrs. Hall?
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: My husband is a doctor.
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE
dialog: She said the parcel was for you.
text: John Lane looks once more at the mercury and turns back to
text: his drink. Susanna, begins furiously to gather up what is
text: left of her parcel.
scene_heading: EXT HALLS CROFT DAY 45
text: Will is entering John and Susanna’s house.
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT - DAY 46
text: John is appealing to Will.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: The reformation is but half
dialog: completed Father in Law. The Vicar
text: of Holy Trinity is a recalcitrant.
dialog: It is intolerable.
scene_heading: INT. THE TAVERN - DAY 47
text: John Lane sullenly drinks his ale, crosses himself discreetly
text: and leaves the Tavern.
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT - DAY 48
text: John Hall and Will continue their conversation.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 18.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: You are an influential man. If you
dialog: were to lend your voice to ours.
dialog: Will considers.
scene_heading: 49 EXT. THE HIGH STREET - DAY 49
text: Susanna is walking past the shops. She pauses outside a
text: haberdashery, then enters. Rafe Smith (35) is at the counter.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Good day to you Mr. Smith.
speaker_heading: RAFE SMITH
dialog: Mrs. Hall.
text: There is moment. A connection. A spark exists here.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: I need cloth. A loose weave. To
dialog: make a summer dress. Black.
speaker_heading: RAFE SMITH
dialog: Black? For summer? Perhaps this
dialog: blue.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: My husband does not approve of
dialog: fancy stuff.
speaker_heading: RAFE SMITH
dialog: If your husband had his way Mrs.
dialog: Hall my shop would be a very dull
dialog: place. All in mourning and nobody
dialog: dead.
text: Tension crackles between them.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Our Saviour wore only simple cloth,
dialog: and he was divine.
speaker_heading: RAFE SMITH
dialog: As are you Susanna. In any cloth.
text: Susanna reddens.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Mr. Smith. I am a married woman.
speaker_heading: RAFE SMITH
text: Unhappily.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: That is not... I should tell my
dialog: husband.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 19.
speaker_heading: RAFE SMITH
dialog: Will you?
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He knows.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - DAY 50
text: Susanna is emerging from the Haberdashers. John Lane watches.
text: Across the street Quiney in his wine shop has also seen. It’s
dialog: a small town. Everybody knows everybody. Secrets are hard to
dialog: hide.
scene_heading: INT. NEW PLACE - EVENING 51
text: The kitchen. Will dines with Anne and Judith.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: John Hall wants my help to remove
dialog: Woolmer as Vicar of Holy Trinity I
dialog: thought he knew me better.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: He thinks you like him.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I’m a good actor.
dialog: Perhaps Anne takes this in a different way to what Will
dialog: intended.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: I try to like him. For Sue’s sake.
dialog: But John is a...
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Hypocritical shit.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: A Puritan.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: That’s funny isn’t it? A Puritan,
dialog: who wants to close all the
dialog: theatres, will have all of William
dialog: Shakespeare’s estate - Don’t you
dialog: think that’s funny? I think it’s
dialog: funny.
text: Will is taken aback by her gleefully angry tone.
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 20.
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT - EVENING 52
text: John Hall slumbers by the fire. Susanna rises and quietly
text: makes for the door.
scene_heading: EXT. HALL’S CROFT - EVENING 53
text: It is dark. The front door opens and Susanna slips out.
text: Across the street John Lane has been watching. Susanna
text: glances about furtively but does not see Lane. She scurries
text: off into the night. Lane follows.
scene_heading: INT. NEW PLACE - EVENING 54
text: There has been a silence. Now Will answers Judith.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: For what it’s worth Judith I have
dialog: no intention of leaving my estate
dialog: to John Hall.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: No you'll leave it to the sainted
dialog: Susanna and by law her property is
dialog: his. As is her body - for all the
dialog: use he makes of it!
text: Even in her wild mood Judith knows she’s gone too far.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - NIGHT 55
text: Rafe Smith’s Haberdashery. Susanna steals through the shadows
text: and up to the door. Smith lets her in. John Lane is watching.
scene_heading: INT. NEW PLACE - NIGHT 56
text: Will, Judith and Anne.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You are grown hard Judith. There
dialog: was a time when you were such a
text: simple, joyful soul.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Was I Father? When was that?
text: Will doesn’t answer.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (CONT'D)
dialog: Before Hamnet died? Is that it?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Before Hamnet died. And I survived.
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 21.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Judith. Don’t.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: It’s what he thinks. Every time he
dialog: reads those bloody poems, which
dialog: aren’t even that good! He thinks
dialog: why did she survive not him?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Judith.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
text: The golden boy is gone and he’s
text: left with the girl. The useless,
dialog: pointless girl. Oh she was a pretty
dialog: thing once that girl. A simple
dialog: joyful soul. But look at her now?
text: Angry bitch. Still hanging around.
dialog: Why did the wrong twin die.
text: Will doesn’t answer. Because he knows there is some truth in
dialog: what she says.
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT - NIGHT 57
text: John Hall still sleeps before the fire. Susanna opens the
text: door and creeps back in. As she passes on her way to the
text: stair his eyes open. He wasn’t asleep at all and she knew it
text: too. They stare at each other but say nothing.
scene_heading: EXT NEW PLACE NIGHT 58
text: The lonely candles at the windows. A passer by looks up to
dialog: the great house.
scene_heading: INT. ANNES’S BEDROOM - NIGHT 59
text: Anne prepares for bed. Will appears at the door.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I never gave her cause. I never
text: said an unkind word.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: You've spent so long putting words
dialog: into other people’s mouths, you
dialog: think it only matters what is said.
text: She closes the door on him.
scene_heading: EXT RAFE SMITS SHOP NIGHT 60
text: The locked up shop. No light.
dialog: 61
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script
scene_heading: INT. RAFE SMITHS CHAMBER - NIGHT
text: Rafe sits alone on his bed, deep in thought. The bed is
dialog: 22.
dialog: 61
text: unmade, the covers rumpled. He gathers them up and breaths
dialog: them in.
scene_heading: EXT HALLS CROFT NIGHT
text: Darkness. Cold.
scene_heading: INT. SUSANNA’S CHAMBER - NIGHT
text: Susanna lies in bed. Eyes wide open. She hears pissing.
scene_heading: INT. JOHN HALL’S CHAMBER - NIGHT
text: John is pissing in his chamber pot. He is uncomfortable.
text: Unhappily he returns to bed.
scene_heading: EXT NEW PLACE NIGHT
text: All asleep bar one.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Judith sits alone drinking.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - MORNING
text: Time is passing. Will works on his garden. He is rolling
text: lengths of turf in front of a rich bank of flowers.
text: Now an earnest young student appears at the gate. Henry.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Mr. Shakespeare? I don’t want to
dialog: pester you.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Good. Excellent news. Cheerio then.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: It’s just that I wanted to ask...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: The best way to get started as a
dialog: writer is to start writing.
dialog: Cheerio.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: No really could I...
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 23.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I don’t have a favourite play. I
dialog: admire all my fellow dramatists
dialog: equally. And yes I do think women
dialog: should be allowed to perform the
dialog: female roles as is the practice on
dialog: the continent. Now please. If
dialog: you'll excuse me.
text: Will returns to his digging. Defeated, Henry almost leaves
text: but doesn’t.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I have come all the way from
dialog: Cambridge to see you. I left my
dialog: college without leave.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (wearily)
dialog: And that was your choice.
text: Henry gets the message. Starts to walk away. Stops and turns.
dialog: One last go.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I just want to ask - how you knew.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Knew what?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Everything.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: My friend I don’t even know how to
dialog: keep the slugs out of the
dialog: Hollyhocks.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (impatient)
dialog: The world is full of gardeners. I
dialog: mean everything that matters.
text: Will raises an eyebrow at this.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: There is no corner of this world
dialog: which you have not explored. No
dialog: geography of the soul you can not
dialog: navigate. How? How do you know?
text: Finally Will is forced to engage.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What I know. If I know it. And I
dialog: don’t say that I do. I have -
dialog: (a moment to consider)
dialog: Imagined.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 24.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: But they say you left school at
dialog: fourteen... You’ve never travelled.
dialog: Imagined? From what?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: From my self!
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Your self?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes! Everything I’ve ever done.
dialog: Everything I’ve ever seen, every
dialog: book I’ve ever read, and every
dialog: conversation I have ever had,
dialog: including, God help me, this one.
dialog: You will find the whole of me in
dialog: every word I ever wrote. My
dialog: thoughts, my feelings, my dreams.
dialog: If you would be a playwright and
dialog: speak for others then speak first
dialog: for yourself. Search within.
dialog: Consider the contents of your own
dialog: soul. Your humanity. For that is
dialog: the business of the theatre.
dialog: Everything else is just stage
dialog: directions.
text: Henry is trying to take it all in. Will takes a little pity
text: and tries to sum it up in a more kindly tone.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Write what you are, what you know,
dialog: what you feel and what you can
dialog: imagine my friend. And if you are
dialog: honest then whatever you write all
dialog: is true.
text: Henry wants to reply but can’t think what to say.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Now please. If you can’t save my
dialog: hollyhocks, leave me to mourn the
dialog: dead.
text: Will returns to his digging. Henry is confused but also
text: strangely inspired. He knows he should leave but can not
dialog: resist pushing his luck.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Then why....
text: Will looks up. Fierce now. The boy’s being rude. Henry
text: returns his stare.
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 25.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Why did you stop? Why do you write
dialog: no more?
text: A beat. Is Will considering an answer? Another beat. If he
dialog: was he doesn’t give it.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Cheerio.
text: Will turns his back. This time it’s final.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - DAY 68
text: Judith approaches Tom Quiney’s wine and tobacco shop.
scene_heading: INT. QUINEY’S WINE SHOP - DAY 69
text: Judith enters. Her usual cold self. But she knows Quiney.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
text: Good morning Tom Quiney. A barrel
text: of Huffcap ale and three flagons of
dialog: Malmesey wine to be delivered to
dialog: New Place if you would. On our
dialog: account.
text: Tom is a cheerful, flirtatious fellow.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: Your usual order and my usual
dialog: reply. Marry me Judith. I would
dialog: help bring back your smile.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Yes and every other maid in the
dialog: county’s. You chase them all.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: But I only ever propose to one.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I'd think you'd tire of it.
text: Quiney’s cheerful mask slips a little.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: I remember a girl. The prettiest
dialog: and happiest in town. And I
dialog: remember her laugh and I remember
dialog: kiss chase. I'd like to see the
dialog: woman that girl should have become.
dialog: Because it surely isn’t you.
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 26.
scene_heading: INT. THE GARDEN - MORNING 70
text: Time for a break. Will sits amongst his gardening tools. He
text: has his satchel of Hamnet’s verse and is reading. Some line
text: which catches his eye. It makes him smile, almost laugh.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Oh my son. My pretty chicken. My
dialog: golden lad.
text: Anne emerges.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: It’s Sunday.
text: Will carefully puts his precious pages away.
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH —- MORNING 71
text: The congregation are at Sunday Service. The Lucy family
text: arrive. Will attempts to greet them as equals, but again Sir
text: Thomas merely nods curtly at the Shakespeare's. Will pained
dialog: and embarrassed.
text: Rafe Smith enters. For a moment he catches Susanna’s eye. Do
text: they share a secret.
text: Will notices this and turns to look at Hall who is also
text: staring at Rafe Smith.
text: The dissolute John Lane is at the back. Tense. Sweating,
text: perhaps discreetly drinking. He stares at Susanna and then at
text: Rafe Smith. Building up to something.
text: The Vicar Edward Woolmer begins the service.
text: Quiney bustles in late with a pretty girl, Margaret Wheeler
text: following. Both a little disheveled.
text: Now the service is almost over.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER
dialog: Our reading today was from the
dialog: first chapter of Corinthians “I
dialog: beseech ye bretheren, in the name
dialog: of Jesus, that there be no
dialog: divisions among you”
dialog: (beat)
dialog: There is division in our town. The
dialog: Puritans protest against the old
text: ways. The feastings, the merriment
dialog: and customs long practised. Some of
dialog: you resent this I know but I charge
dialog: you remember Corinthians! These
dialog: good Christians act from honest
dialog: faith. They are upright citizens,
dialog: decent and pious....
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 27.
text: Suddenly John Lane jumps up.
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE
dialog: Are they Mr. Woolmer! Are they? Or
dialog: are they fornicators!
dialog: General shock
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE (CONT'D)
dialog: There is wickedness in this church
dialog: Mr. Woolmer! Puritan wickedness.
text: He points at Susanna.
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE (CONT'D)
dialog: I have seen Susanna Hall creep from
dialog: her husband’s house to Rafe Smith’s
dialog: chamber in the night!
dialog: Card: In the summer of 1613 John Lane, yeoman of Stratford
dialog: publicly accused Shakespeare’s elder daughter Susanna of
text: infidelity with Rafe Smith the Haberdasher.
text: Susanna mortified. Will stunned. The congregation in uproar
text: etc. John Hall leaps to his feet.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: This slander will be answered!
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE
dialog: This slander will be proved! You'll
dialog: no more tell us how best to save
dialog: our souls Doctor Hall. Not while
dialog: your Puritan wives fornicate worse
dialog: than whores and then send to London
dialog: for Mercury to physic what they got
dialog: of it!
dialog: Card: John Lane compounded his charge by stating that Susanna
dialog: had contracted Gonorrhea.
text: The tumult grows.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER
dialog: Silence! This is a house of God!
dialog: And I am master here!
text: Edward Woolmer the Vicar glares at John Hall. Sensing a
dialog: dangerous rival.
text: Will is red faced with anger and shame. He catches the
text: patronizing look of Sir Thomas Lucy, half censure, half pity.
text: As the congregation bustle out, all talking of the scandal
text: Sir Thomas Lucy pauses over Will.
dialog: 74
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 28.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Well well Sir. You Shakespeare's
dialog: are never far from a scandal are
dialog: you?
text: Will is mortified. Sir Thomas glances at Susanna.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS (CONT'D)
dialog: I suppose she gets it from her
dialog: Grandfather. Fixed the price of
dialog: Wool didn’t he? Bad business. And
dialog: illegal money lending to boot!
dialog: Goodness! He was a busy fellow. No
dialog: wonder they chucked him off the
dialog: council.
text: Will who is pretty dumb struck. Anne however hit’s back.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Every family has it’s dark Horse,
dialog: Sir Thomas, Even the Lucy’s. Or
dialog: perhaps it is another Thomas Lucy
text: who's niece ran off with a serving
dialog: man in 1600?
text: Sir Thomas, moves on in fury.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM - EVENING 74
text: The family assemble. All sit in shocked silence. Will enters.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I have instructed my lawyers. We
dialog: shall sue him for slander.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: A public trial?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: It is a public slander.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: John Lane is a dangerous man. We
dialog: can be sure he did not stage his
dialog: attack without some idea of how to
dialog: prove it.
text: Beat. Will turns to Susanna.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Prove it?
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: How can you ask?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Because your husband fears he can.
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 29.
text: John Hall is thrown by this. He had not expected Will to
text: place such an astute interpretation on his remark.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I mean that I fear he has
dialog: constructed a convincing lie.
text: Judith seems almost to revel in Susanna’s discomfort.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Well now. What a disaster. And that
dialog: it should befall such a fine and
dialog: blameless family as ours.
text: Will is determined.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: The Shakespeare’s will not be
dialog: ruined twice.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - DAY 75
text: Susanna hurries along. All eyes turn on her. Very different
text: from the respect she’s used to. The town seems to be turning
text: against her, reveling in her shame.
scene_heading: INT. CONSISTORY COURT AT WORCESTER - DAY 76
text: A packed court full of gawping towns folk. The Shakespeare
text: family enter. Some snigger, some snarl. The Puritan element
text: are tight lipped between shame and righteous anger.
dialog: CARD: The trial of John Lane for the slander of Susanna
dialog: Shakespeare was convened at The Consistory Court, Worcester.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Bring forward the accused.
text: A Clerk stands.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Call John Lane.
text: There is a pause. The Judge is impatient. An officer enters.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: John Lane is not here you Honour.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Not here!
speaker_heading: OFFICER
text: He has disappeared.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 30.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Susanna Shakespeare has been most
dialog: foully used.
text: The crowd erupts.
text: CARD: John Lane failed to attend his trial. The case being
text: uncontested, he was convicted of slander, and excommunicated.
scene_heading: 77 INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM —- EVENING 77
text: Anne and Will sit.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Why? Why did this man slander our
dialog: Sue?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: My guess is to damage her husband.
dialog: John Hall is a Puritan, and would
dialog: make Holy Trinity and all the town
dialog: likewise. John Lane on the other
text: hand likes his cakes and ale.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Then why did he not attend the
dialog: court and press his case?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I discussed the matter with him.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Discussed? Discussed what?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I asked him if he’d ever seen Titus
dialog: Andronicus.
scene_heading: 78 INT. THE TAVERN STRATFORD - NIGHT 78
text: Flashback. Will has met John Lane.
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE
dialog: What do I know of plays? Get away
dialog: from me. I shall see you and your
dialog: whore daughter in Court.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: It concerns a Moorish villain named
dialog: Aaron. And the African who played
dialog: him was magnificent and terrifying.
dialog: 79
dialog: 80
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 31.
scene_heading: INT. THE GLOBE STAGE - DAY 79
text: A performance of Titus. Intimidating passion and violence.
scene_heading: ACTOR PLAYING AARON
dialog: To kill a man, or else devise his
dialog: death,
dialog: Ravish a maid, or plot the way to
dialog: do it.
dialog: Accuse some innocent and forswear
dialog: myself,
text: Set deadly enmity between two
dialog: friends,
dialog: Make poor men's cattle break their
dialog: necks;
text: Set fire on barns and hay-stacks in
dialog: the night,
dialog: And bid the owners quench them with
dialog: their tears.
dialog: Oft have I digg'd up dead men from
dialog: their graves,
dialog: And set them upright at their dear
dialog: friends' doors,
dialog: Tut, I have done a thousand
dialog: dreadful things
dialog: As willingly as one would kill a
dialog: fly,
dialog: And nothing grieves me heartily
dialog: indeed
dialog: But that I cannot do ten thousand
dialog: more.
scene_heading: INT. THE TAVERN STRATFORD - NIGHT 80
text: Flashback. Will still talks with John Lane who is pretty
dialog: scared.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: Mighty like a lion. Strong as a
dialog: bear. I saw this man tear the heart
dialog: from a fool who wronged him and eat
dialog: it raw!
text: Lane is fearful.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And yet - he could be tender too.
dialog: And one day his wild heart was
dialog: tamed. He loved my daughter.
speaker_heading: JOHN LANE
dialog: Susanna?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Ay. Susanna. Their love could never
dialog: be of course.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 32.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: But he swore that if ever she had
text: need, his sword, his claws and his
dialog: teeth would either defend her or
dialog: kill for her. Should I tell him of
dialog: Susanna’s current distress?
text: John Lane is suitably nervous.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 81
dialog: Will and Anne.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Will. I saw Titus. Aaron was played
dialog: by the sweetest chap you could hope
dialog: to meet. I talked to him for an
text: hour afterwards at the George Inn.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes, He was a lovely fellow Wife,
dialog: but John Lane doesn’t know that,
dialog: and I’ve never let the truth get in
dialog: the way of a good story.
text: A moment of levity. Anne for the first time a little less
dialog: cold.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: All men fear what they do not know
dialog: Anne and I’1l wager John Lane has
dialog: never laid eyes on an African.
text: Anne once more reflective.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Do you think there was any truth in
dialog: it? In what Lane said? About
dialog: Susanna?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Well. There is coldness between
dialog: them. We’ve seen that.
text: Something they both recognize in themselves.
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT - EVENING 82
text: Susanna and John Hall sit in grim silence. She stitches, he
text: reads the Bible. Will’s voice-over comments on the scene.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: ‘Tis five years since she and John
dialog: have had a child.
text: John rises.
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 33.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I’m going to bed. Good night.
text: He leaves. Susanna sad and alone.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: And Susanna certainly knows this
dialog: Rafe Smith....
scene_heading: INT. RAFE SMITH’S SHOP - MORNING 83
text: A past moment. Susanna is buying material. Rafe holds some
text: cloth against her body as if to say “look, this would suit
dialog: you”. It is physical, fun, she blushes coyly.
scene_heading: EXT. THE TAVERN - DAY 84
text: Another past moment. Susanna is hurrying from the tavern with
text: the broken package of Mercury.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
dialog: She did send to London for Mercury.
dialog: Mercury is a cure for Pox.
text: A drop or two more falls to the street as she hurries along.
text: Susanna is nervous and embarrassed.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING 85
text: Will and Anne together.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Sue is not poxed Will. I’d know.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: He then?....a poxed man is ever
text: pissing.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM - MORNING 86
text: Flashback to the Sunday morning they went to church when Hall
text: said he must answer nature’s call. Susanna has just made her
text: comment about nature liking Hall’s company.
speaker_heading: HALL
dialog: Have you some objection to my
dialog: visiting the privy?
scene_heading: INT. HALL’S CROFT - NIGHT 87
text: John Hall in his bed chamber, sweating and in pain. He takes
text: a little bottle and swigs at it.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 34.
scene_heading: 88 INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM - EVENING 88
text: Back with Will and Anne’s conversation.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Is that why she bares no more
dialog: children? Did she seek comfort
dialog: elsewhere?
scene_heading: 89 INT. THE HIGH STREET - NIGHT 89
text: Susanna stealing into Smith’s house.
scene_heading: 90 INT. SMITH’S BED - NIGHT 90
text: Smith and Susanna are making passionate love.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: The Devil will take both our souls
dialog: for this.
speaker_heading: RAFE SMITH
dialog: But we go there by way of Heaven.
scene_heading: 91 INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING 91
text: Will and Anne still talking.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Susanna is a God fearing woman. She
dialog: would not betray her husband.
text: Judith appears at the door. She’s been listening.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Maybe it wasn’t a betrayal?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Judith?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Maybe he told her to do it.
scene_heading: 92 INT. HALL’S CROFT - EVENING 92
text: Susanna and John Hall sit.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: It will be either your womb or your
dialog: sister’s which secures your
dialog: father’s fortune.
text: John stares at her. Then returns to reading his Bible.
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 35.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S LIVING ROOM - DAY 93
text: Judith confronting a shocked Anne and Will.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Well it’s a thought isn’t it? And
dialog: frankly Father, if you got a
dialog: grandson by it. Would you care if
dialog: it were true?
text: Will decides not to answer this.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I care that Susanna is free from
dialog: slander. That you may be sure is
dialog: true.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Nothing is ever true.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GREEN WOOD - DAY 94
text: Once more Will walks with Susanna.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: You think my husband is trying to
dialog: whore me to get a bigger house?
text: Will a bit flummoxed. Susanna is not usually so forthright.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (CONT'D)
dialog: We should not seek to lift the veil
dialog: on other peoples marriages Father.
dialog: All are complex. To understand one,
dialog: you have to live it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And you’re hardly an expert there.
text: Susanna walks on. Will can only follow, chastened.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - DAY. 95
text: A change of season. Time is passing.
text: Will works in his garden. Some progress has been made on his
text: design. Some curves, and turns in the rails of turf, but it’s
text: hard. He is hot. He is very tired. The heat of the sun
text: starts to play tricks with his eyes as he shades them from
text: the glare. As he works a boy leans on the fence. It is the
text: boy from the tavern, he masks his eyes against the Sun, his
text: face once more in shadow.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Got any berries?
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 36.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Eventually. I have planted a
text: mulberry tree.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Well then, you’ve got time to
dialog: finish my story while we wait.
text: The boy has removed his hands. For the first time his face is
text: clear. Will’s eyes focus through the haze. Is it his son?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Hamnet? Is it you?
text: The boy seems half lost in the haze.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I wrote you another poem today.
dialog: Would you like to hear it?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I want nothing more in this world.
text: The boys cheerfulness suddenly gives way to rising anger.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Well you'll have to wait won’t you!
dialog: Like I waited. I had a poem before
dialog: for you but you never came! The
dialog: sickness came instead and still you
dialog: didn’t come though Mother promised
dialog: you would!
text: Now the boy emerges from the haze but in a horrifying visual
text: transformation he becomes a plague victim. Great sores on his
text: face. Will recoils in horror as the boy confronts him.
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: I had a poem for you! You never
dialog: came.
text: Will recoils in horror as the boy confronts him.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Hamnet!
text: Anne’s voice intrudes upon the vision.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Will?
text: Will spins around to her.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: You're shouting....
text: He turns back, there is no boy. There was no boy.
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 37.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: He was here Anne.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: He'll always be here Will.
text: Now we see that from an upper window Judith has been watching
text: the scene. Again there are tears on her cheeks.
scene_heading: EXT STRATFORD COUNTRYSIDE TWILIGHT 96
text: The gorgeous meadow in the last rays.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING 97
text: Will dines with Anne and Judith. The mood is sombre.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: In London now the plays are just
dialog: finished.
text: Will is doing his best.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
text: Taverns full.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: If you’re missing London. Why don’t
dialog: you go back there?
text: This is getting hard for Will. He is prepared to eat humble
dialog: pie but this is relentless.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Do you wish I would Daughter?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: It doesn’t matter what I wish but
dialog: what you wish. And it isn’t to be
dialog: with us.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: You’ve come back to mourn Hamnet!
dialog: To mourn your blessed departed son
text: and dig a bloody garden for him.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: That’s enough Judith.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: We mourned him Father! We mourned
dialog: him when he died. And we mourned
dialog: him thereafter.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 98
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 38.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (CONT'D)
dialog: Now it seems we must begin again as
dialog: if his grave was freshly dug
dialog: because suddenly you've found time
dialog: to mourn him too!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Hold your tongue! Respect your
dialog: Father even if you can’t respect
dialog: yourself.
dialog: That was a hard blow. Judith is in many ways a sorry sight.
text: Careless of her appearance. Often with a glass in her hand.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: If you are done with mourning him
dialog: at least honour his memory.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: How can you say I don’t?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Then start living up to it! If you
dialog: can not match his talent, try to
dialog: match his goodness and his
dialog: diligence. You are wasting your
dialog: life!
text: Judith stares at her father.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I know what you think’s the purpose
dialog: of a woman’s life. I know what you
dialog: want from me.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE GARDEN - DAY 98
text: Seasons change. In the montage, we see a quiet Will getting
dialog: on with building this garden as best he can. Thoughtful, as
text: if all that Judith has said sits with him. Preoccupies him.
text: Occasionally he looks about him. For signs of the boy. There
text: are none. Buds blossom. Leafs fall.
text: Will is measuring parts of the garden using twine and wheel.
text: He is assisted by a serving girl, Maria. Will counts off the
dialog: yards.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: 23, 24, 25....
text: Maria is inclined to chat.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: Bit of a change from making plays
dialog: in London.
text: Will leans on his stick, happy for a break. He likes her. He
dialog: considers her point.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 38A.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: In some ways yes Maria. In others.
dialog: Rather similar.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: Similar? I don’t see how.
text: A light of enthusiasm begins to shine.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Well, today we take the measure of
dialog: our stage.
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: A garden ain't a play.
text: Will enjoying himself. A relief from the grim family mood.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: A play, a garden, a fresh baked
dialog: loaf like the ones you bake each
text: morning. All begin with an idea. A
dialog: compulsion to create a thing of
dialog: beauty, or need.
speaker_heading: MARIA
text: Bread begins with yeast and flour.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Exactly! Now you're getting it!
dialog: Ingredients! Brambles, bushes.
text: Yeast, flour. Verses, players.
dialog: They're nothing without a dream!
dialog: Which will not be denied and which
text: endures in spite of all adversity.
dialog: The weather will turn, the bugs
dialog: will infest. The oven will cool and
dialog: the flour will mould. Your fellow
dialog: worker - in my case, a brilliant
dialog: lunatic actor called Dick Burbage -
dialog: will interfere and demand a bigger
dialog: show for a smaller budget, anda
text: shorter play with a much longer
dialog: part for himself. And all of these
dialog: trials must be countered and
text: overcome without ever loosing sight
dialog: of the dream itself!
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: And what does it feel like when all
dialog: of that works?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: How does fresh baked bread smell?
speaker_heading: MARIA
dialog: Wonderful.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 38B.
text: He smiles at her as if to say ‘exactly!’. That’s his point.
text: Maria is smiling too at his half comical passion.
scene_heading: 99 EXT. NEW PLACE - MORNING 99
text: Will is hurrying up the garden path. Excited, he has a letter
text: in his hand.
scene_heading: 100 INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - MORNING 100
text: Will rushes in. Anne is cooking.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Anne! Anne. Anne. The Earl of
text: Southampton makes a progress North.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: Anne does
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 39.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: He writes that since he passes this
dialog: way he will spend an hour or two in
dialog: talk with me.
text: not share Will’s excitement.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Did you hear me wife? The Earl of
dialog: Southampton.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: I heard you. And I recall the day I
dialog: first heard about your friend the
dialog: Earl of Southampton.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Wife?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Same day I heard there’d been a
dialog: book of poems published. Sonnets
dialog: they told me.
text: Will is completely thrown. He was not expecting this.
dialog: Will ata
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Perhaps you thought because I
dialog: couldn’t read them I wouldn’t mind.
dialog: But plenty of people can read. Even
dialog: in our little town. Including one
dialog: of your own daughters.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Anne - Those sonnets were published
dialog: illegally. Without my knowledge or
dialog: consent.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: But you wrote ‘em Will. And people
dialog: read ‘em. And after they’d read
dialog: them they started asking “Who are
dialog: they then?” “Who’s this dark lady
dialog: he’s so in love with?”
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: They were just poems...
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: And the Beautiful boy Will? The
dialog: Fair youth?
dialog: loss.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t answer. I didn’t want to know
dialog: then and I don’t want to know now.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 107
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 40.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: But I do know who some people said
dialog: he was. And now it seems he’s to
dialog: come to my house a’calling.
dialog: Will pretty shame faced.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: All these years you’ve worried
dialog: about your reputation Will. Have
dialog: you even once considered mine?
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE - DAY 107
text: Will and family at their gate. All in their best awaiting the
text: great visitor. Will is very excited.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I will introduce you but do not
dialog: address him unless he addresses
dialog: you. On my nod must you all depart
dialog: and leave us to our talk.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: He’s just a man Father.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: He is an Earl Susanna.
dialog: (to Elizabeth)
dialog: Do you hear that Lizzie, your
dialog: Grandpa is to drink wine with an
dialog: Earl.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Because you are a gentleman!
text: The little girl points excitedly at the Coat of Arms.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes! Because I am a gentleman!
text: Sir Thomas Lucy, his wife and servant approach on foot, also
dialog: in their Sunday best.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Ah Shakespeare. I heard word of
dialog: your distinguished visitor. My men
dialog: tell me that he is even now
dialog: approaching the town. Of course you
dialog: will introduce me.
text: Will taken aback. He hadn’t expected this. Anne assumes he
text: will tell Lucy to mind his own business, but Will buckles to
text: superior rank and says nothing.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS (CONT'D)
dialog: I shall suggest he comes on to
text: Charlecote to take his ease.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 41.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS (CONT'D)
dialog: Bit more what he’s used to.
dialog: Naturally I shall ask that you
dialog: join us...
dialog: (glancing at Anne)
dialog: Just you I think. We shouldn’t wish
dialog: to tire his Grace.
text: Clattering horses are heard.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE - DAY
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Welcome to Stratford Upon Avon Your
dialog: Grace.
text: The very impressive Earl of Southampton eyes Lucy.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: And you are?
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Sir Thomas Lucy of Charlecote Manor
dialog: your Grace and Member of Parliament
dialog: for this district. May I have the
dialog: honour of introducing my wife....
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Have we business?
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Well I...
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Is there some petition which you
dialog: are come to present?
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Oh no Your Grace I thought only to
dialog: invite you to...
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Then kindly remove yourself, Sir
dialog: Thomas. I want none of your
dialog: company. I am here to visit the
dialog: greatest man in the kingdom. After
dialog: His Majesty of course.
text: Southampton turns to Will.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Will!
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 42.
scene_heading: 108 INT. THE GREAT HALL NEW PLACE - AFTERNOON 108
text: Will and Southampton talking by the fire.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Damn impudence. A grubby little
dialog: Member of Parliment. They'll sell a
dialog: knighthood to anybody these days.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: He has snubbed me many times.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: But why do you let him snub you
dialog: Will? What is he? The son of a son.
dialog: Nothing more. All his pride and
dialog: strut comes from no greater
dialog: achievement than having been spat
dialog: from the dick of a previous
dialog: nonentity. I’m the same.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No!
dialog: (N.B Wriothesley pronounced ‘Wrizzly”, as in grizzly.)
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: I’m the son of a son Will. Henry
dialog: Wriothesley son of Henry
dialog: Wriothesley and if I were not the
dialog: son of Henry Wriothesley then your
dialog: Thomas Lucy, son of Thomas Lucy
dialog: would not grace me with a sneer.
dialog: You on the other hand are...
speaker_heading: WILL
text: The son of a thief.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: The son of Apollo! God of poetry!
dialog: God of truth! The finest, the most
dialog: complete and the most beautiful
dialog: mind I'll warrant that ever existed
dialog: in this world.
text: Will is of course delighted and deeply moved. Southampton
text: stares at him for a few moments.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: So why are you so small Will?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Small?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Why are you are such a little man?
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 42a.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Your Grace?
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 43.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: You can enchant the multitude with
dialog: the scratch of your quill.
dialog: Yet you cringe before a cur like
dialog: Sir Thomas Lucy.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Cringe?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Your talent has a greater scope
dialog: than all the other poets combined
dialog: and yet you’ve led the smallest
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I don’t think I’ve led a small life
dialog: your Grace.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Oh come now Will! Compared to Kyd?
dialog: Or Marlowe! What a man. What a
dialog: life! Spy! Adventurer! Fucked for
dialog: England! Boys. Girls. Boys and
dialog: girls. He knew how to live.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: He is dead of course, My Lord. So,
dialog: you know, win some lose some.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
text: They are all dead Will. Marlowe,
dialog: Greene...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Who called me upstart...
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: .+..Crow! You see! Still you care.
dialog: Still it rankles. Kyd, Nashe,
text: Spenser, Oxford. All dead. Booze
dialog: and passion, sex and violence
dialog: killed ‘em all. Life killed them.
dialog: And you? You survived.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes. I survived.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: With your nice house...
speaker_heading: WILL
text: Several houses.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: And your Coat of Arms. How much did
dialog: that cost you Will?
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 43A.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: Twenty pounds.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 44.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Twenty pounds. The man who wrote
dialog: Hamlet and Henry the fifth, Macbeth
dialog: and Romeo and Juliet paid twenty
dialog: pounds for the name of gentlemen.
dialog: Oh Will. Will. Why do you care?
text: Will pours more wine and thinks about his answer.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: My father was once fined for not
dialog: attending Church. Can you guess why
dialog: he didn’t go?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Priest too Protestant? I’ve heard
dialog: it rumoured there’s a whiff of
dialog: Papery about you Shakespeare’s.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Nothing so spiritual. He could not
dialog: attend church because he owed money
text: to most of the congregation.
text: A beat. Then Southampton roars with laughter.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: I think I’d have liked your Dad!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes. People did.
text: They drink in silence for a moment.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: You must write again Will. London
dialog: needs you. We have only Jonson now.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Who laughs at me because I speak no
dialog: Greek and don’t care wether Bohemia
dialog: has a coast.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Christ Will why do you care what he
dialog: thinks! You wrote King Lear.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I care because it matters Your
dialog: Grace! In England it matters. I
dialog: have what I have upon my own merit
dialog: and for that I am suspect! Perhaps
dialog: I will always be suspect. But I
dialog: have my money and I have my houses
dialog: and I have my Coat of Arms.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 45.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: You have your verse! Great Christ
dialog: man you have your poetry. Such
dialog: poetry. Such beautiful, beautiful
dialog: poetry....
text: Southampton’s eyes grow a little misty.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: And some of it. Some of it was writ
dialog: for me.
text: A long beat, they stare at each other.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes your Grace. For you.
dialog: Another beat. There is love here.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: I have grown old. As you said in
dialog: your sonnets that I would, you
dialog: bastard. But the beauty I inspired
dialog: in you will be forever young. And a
dialog: thousand years from now when people
dialog: read those lines, I shall be young.
text: Alive still in the minds of lovers
text: yet unborn.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: They were only meant for you Your
dialog: Grace. Not for any other living
dialog: soul nor any yet to live. Just you.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: It was only flattery of course.
dialog: Flattery that was my due.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes. Just flattery. Except. I spoke
dialog: from deep within my heart.
text: They stare deep at one another.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Well. I was younger then. Younger
dialog: and prettier.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Beautiful your Grace. As you will
dialog: ever be.
dialog: When, in disgrace with fortune and
dialog: men’s eyes,
dialog: I all alone beweep my outcast
dialog: state,
dialog: And trouble deaf heaven with my
text: bootless cries,
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And look upon myself and curse my
dialog: fate,
dialog: Wishing me like to one more rich in
dialog: hope,
text: Featured like him, like him with
dialog: friends possessed,
dialog: Desiring this man’s art and that
dialog: man’s scope,
dialog: With what I most enjoy contented
dialog: least;
dialog: Yet in these thoughts myself almost
dialog: despising,
dialog: Haply I think on thee, and then my
dialog: state,
dialog: (Like to the lark at break of day
dialog: arising
text: From sullen earth) sings hymns at
dialog: heaven’s gate;
dialog: For thy sweet love remembered such
dialog: wealth brings
dialog: That then I scorn to change my
dialog: state with kings.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Yes, well. As I say. Just flattery.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Not flattery. Truth. And I always
dialog: dared to hope...
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Hope Will?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: That, perhaps in some small way it
text: was reciprocated.
text: A tiny change of atmosphere. Will doesn’t pick it up.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Reciprocated?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: That perhaps you also...
text: Suddenly Southampton’s face is cold.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: You forget yourself Will.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: IT...
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: As a poet you have no equal. And I,
dialog: like anyone with brain and heart am
dialog: your humble servant.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 109
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 47.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: But as a man Will it is not your
dialog: place to love me and hanging a
dialog: twenty pound shield above your door
dialog: will never make it so.
text: Will is crushed. Southampton’s good humour returns, he slaps
text: Will on the back and drains his glass.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: I must be off. Goodbye Will
dialog: Shakespeare. It was the poet I came
dialog: to visit and it is the poet of whom
dialog: I take my leave.
text: Southampton stands, Will gets to his feet of course, but he
text: is sad, unable to make a merry parting. Southampton smiles a
text: friendly, conciliatory smile.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: When, in disgrace with fortune and
dialog: men’s eyes,
dialog: I all alone beweep my outcast
dialog: state,
dialog: And trouble deaf heaven with my
text: bootless cries,
dialog: And look upon myself and curse my
dialog: fate,
dialog: Wishing me like to one more rich in
dialog: hope,
text: Featured like him, like him with
dialog: friends possessed,
dialog: Desiring this man’s art and that
dialog: man’s scope,
dialog: With what I most enjoy contented
dialog: least;
dialog: Yet in these thoughts myself almost
dialog: despising,
dialog: Haply I think on thee, and then my
dialog: state,
dialog: (Like to the lark at break of day
dialog: arising
text: From sullen earth) sings hymns at
dialog: heaven’s gate;
dialog: For thy sweet love remembered such
dialog: wealth brings
dialog: That then I scorn to change my
dialog: state with kings
scene_heading: EXT NEW PLACE DAY 109
text: The Southampton party leaves. His Grace does not look back.
text: Will stands very still watching the procession go. The rest
text: of the family start to move back into the house. Anne stands
text: there too, a little apart. There is nothing to say.
dialog: 110
dialog: 111
dialog: 112
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 48.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - MORNING 110
text: Judith approaching Tom Quiney’s wine and tobacco shop.
scene_heading: INT. QUINEY’S WINE SHOP - MORNING 111
text: Judith enters. Quiney as ever jolly and boisterous.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: A glass Miss Shakespeare? To toast
dialog: this sunny morning?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I need no excuse for a glass of
dialog: wine Mr. Quiney.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: There is another pleasure, equally
text: heady.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: And plenty of country girls for you
dialog: to get it with.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: Your looks won’t last forever Jude.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: And I shall be glad when they’re
dialog: gone because I shall be no more
dialog: bothered by the likes of you.
scene_heading: EXT AERIAL GARDEN DUSK 112
text: Will has been working hard. Working to forget.
text: Will and Douglas are at work again on the garden border. They
dialog: are planting grasses where previously they measured. Douglas
text: begins another conversation.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Sir. I suppose you’ve writ down all
dialog: sorts of men.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Indeed.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: And now you grow flowers.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Trying.
dialog: 113
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 48A.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Which do you like better?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Which do you?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Flowers Sir. They’re beautiful.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Aren’t people?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Some. I suppose But they’re cruel
dialog: and selfish too.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: And flowers?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Aren't.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: But every flower fights for the
text: light. One will strangle and starve
dialog: another to survive. All they care
dialog: about is their place in the Sun.
dialog: Every one will put itself before
dialog: it’s neighbour. But sometimes, we
dialog: do not. Once in a while, god knows
dialog: not very often, we’ll reach to help
dialog: another up towards the Sun. I like
dialog: flowers. But I like people better.
text: Douglas smiles he likes the answer. They return to work.
text: Later Anne brings Will some water. An arm round the shoulder.
text: An attempt to restore normality. They slowly walk back
text: towards the house.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING 113
text: The family sit.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I notice that your friend the Earl
dialog: didn’t bring his wife with him on
dialog: his travels. Perhaps he doesn’t
dialog: find female company to his taste.
text: If this was a jibe Will ignores it.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 49.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I’m sure that His Grace and the
dialog: Countess Elizabeth are most happy
dialog: in their marriage.
text: Possible discreetly raised eye brows from Anne and Judith.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: As I would wish you to be Judith.
dialog: Why are you still unwed? You are
dialog: pretty enough I think.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I don’t.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Then look in your glass.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I have no glass.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn’t like the person I saw in
dialog: it.
text: Will getting a little irritated at her endless negativity.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Good God Daughter that’s a bleak
dialog: thought since the only company you
dialog: keep is your own.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: But there it is.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: But what of children? All women
dialog: want children.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Apparently.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Don’t you want a child?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Do you want me to replace Hamnet
dialog: for you Father?
text: This is brutal. Will absorbs the blow. Tries to be
dialog: reasonable.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I meant for your own sake. A
dialog: husband, children. For comfort,
dialog: companionship.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 50.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: She's seen that marriage may not
dialog: bring you either.
text: Will’s anger begins slowly to boil.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Is that it Judith? Have you seen
dialog: your mother’s misery, and thought
dialog: better to be a spinster than
dialog: shackled to a man who neglects you?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: I did not say I was miserable.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No wife you didn’t, but though I
dialog: put words into other people's
dialog: mouths, I too can occasionally see
dialog: beyond what is merely said.
text: Anne shrugs. Quite suddenly Will explodes. Fist on table.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And I will take no more of this! I
dialog: have worked ceaselessly on behalf
dialog: of this family...
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: On your own behalf-
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: And I am head of this family! I
dialog: have given you a fine house and
dialog: servants. I have sent you money
dialog: all your life. Is that not Comfort?
dialog: You have two beautiful daughters, a
dialog: brilliant son and a husband who
dialog: though absent, kept you always in
dialog: his thoughts! Is that not
dialog: companionship? In abundance?
text: Anne’s face suggests this is a stretch. Will doubles down.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: I have raised this family up!
dialog: Through my genius I have brought
dialog: fame and fortune to this house. Yes
dialog: my genius! Would you have had me
dialog: ignore that? Ignore a gift from God
dialog: almighty so that I could be a
dialog: bloody glove maker, and you might
dialog: feel a bit more appreciated!
text: It’s a hard blow. Will’s defense is to go deeper.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 51.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Hamnet died and I wasn’t here. I
dialog: know that. The plague took him and
dialog: I wasn’t here. But the plague has
dialog: taken millions and it would have
dialog: taken him whether I was in London,
dialog: or in Stratford, or on that
dialog: godforsaken highway. We lost our
dialog: boy! We lost our beautiful,
dialog: brilliant brilliant boy and I
dialog: wasn’t there...
text: Anne has merely bit her lip at all of this. Now, suddenly, it
text: is Judith who answers Will. Jumping up and shouting.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Hamnet wasn’t brilliant!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What?
text: A beat. Judith knows she has begun something which now can
dialog: not be stopped.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: He was beautiful but he wasn’t
dialog: brilliant.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Judith. Don’t.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I wrote them.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Wrote what?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Judith I said don’t!
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: The poems.
text: There’s no turning back. Judith grabs at Will’s satchel and
text: takes out the precious sheaf of papers.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (CONT'D)
dialog: The verses you hold so dear! With
dialog: wit and mischief in every line. I
dialog: made them up. Hamnet only wrote
dialog: them down.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: She helped him a little that’s all.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 52.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I made them up! All of them. Hamnet
dialog: was sweet and kind but he was no
dialog: poet.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No! He was....
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: He wasn’t!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Brilliant....
text: Anne realizes the game is up.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: No Will! He was just an ordinary
dialog: little boy. You would have seen it
dialog: in a moment had you ever looked.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I looked!
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: And you saw what you wanted to see.
dialog: You saw yourself!
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Judith! Enough.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Myself?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: A boy with a mind as big and bold
dialog: as yours. But happy, with a father
dialog: who appreciated his genius. Well
dialog: Hamnet might not have been a genius
dialog: but he was clever enough to know
dialog: that he could never live up to what
dialog: you wanted him to be! He dreaded
dialog: your visits!
text: Will is devastated. Anne tries to explain.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: We didn’t plan it. Not when it
dialog: began. It was only that Jude was
dialog: always making up stories, conjuring
dialog: rhymes... One day Hamnet wrote one
dialog: of hers down for practise with his
dialog: pen. You found it and thought it
dialog: was his and praised him so....
text: Will tries to come to terms with all this.
text: Judith has been holding the sheaf of papers.
dialog: 114
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 53.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: So are they worthless now?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: They aren’t his.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Will you read them no more? Sit in
dialog: the Sun and chuckle at their wit?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: They are not his.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: No! They’re mine and so I will do
dialog: what I please with them.
text: She throws them on the fire. For a moment it seems as if Will
text: will jump up and pull them out. But he doesn’t. He watches
dialog: them burn.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - NIGHT 114
text: It is very late. Will now sits alone. The empty satchel in
text: his lap. Anne appears.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Judith tried to teach herself to
dialog: write you know. After Hamnet died.
dialog: But she never had the patience. Not
dialog: like Sue.
text: A moment of silence.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: I should have liked to have been
text: able to write a few letters.
dialog: Particularly married to you!
dialog: Remember our wedding day? Me, older
dialog: and pregnant, you this strange,
dialog: clever lad of 18. I knew what
dialog: people thought. I couldn’t even
dialog: sign the register, had to make a
dialog: stupid mark. I felt so foolish.
text: Will looks at her, he hadn’t known that.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Then you went off and become the
dialog: greatest writer in England! With a
dialog: wife at home who couldn’t read a
dialog: single word. I sometimes wondered
dialog: wether that bothered you at all.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But why would it? You were hardly
dialog: here.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 54.
text: They both sit in the firelight with their thoughts.
scene_heading: 115 EXT. THE GREEN WOOD - DAY 115
text: Will walks with Susanna.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: I didn’t know it was she who wrote
text: the verse. But then Judith and
dialog: Hamnet were inseparable. I wasn’t
dialog: allowed into their world.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Why did she never tell me?
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Out of loyalty to Hamnet I suppose.
dialog: He wanted you to believe him
dialog: brilliant in life. Why would he
dialog: wish it any less in death?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: It was cruel.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Cruel for her I think.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: For Judith?
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Would you want to be denied credit
dialog: for your verse? Have people think
dialog: someone else writ them? Someone
dialog: better educated?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No. No I shouldn’t like it at all.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Well look at them afresh. Celebrate
dialog: your living daughter rather than
dialog: your dead son. Perhaps Judith will
text: finally smile again.
text: Will is beginning to have some understanding of his
dialog: insensitivity.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: She burned them.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Burned them? Why?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Because I am a fool.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 55.
text: Will walks on. Susanna follows.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Father. Why do you write no more?
text: Will still does not wish to answer this. But slowly, he
dialog: tries.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: On the morning after the theatre
dialog: burnt, I stood there, among the
text: ruins, determined to begin again.
dialog: To write another play. My greatest
dialog: yet. To open another theatre. Even
dialog: greater.
text: He pauses. Collecting his thoughts. Susanna listens.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And so I looked inside my self.
dialog: Into my soul. I looked, as so often
dialog: I had looked before. And this
dialog: time... I found - Nothing. There
dialog: was nothing there. I was as barren
dialog: as the smoking ruins on which I
dialog: stood. I was alone and frightened,
dialog: and I realised this terrible thing.
dialog: I realised that it just didn’t
dialog: matter to me anymore. And there on
dialog: that sad morning I knew that I
dialog: would never write again. My soul
dialog: was empty.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Your soul isn’t empty Father. Your
dialog: soul has the whole world in it. But
dialog: even if it was, I’m glad. For it’s
dialog: brought you home.
text: Will is very moved.
scene_heading: 116 INT. JUDITH’S BED CHAMBER - NIGHT 116
text: Judith in her room. Will appears.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: You lost your son. Any man would
text: mourn. A daughter is nothing.
dialog: Destined only to become the
dialog: property of another man. Or fade
dialog: away.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 56.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You mustn’t fade Judith. Why don’t
dialog: you write again?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Father you know I can not write.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I could teach you.
text: For a moment Judith is taken aback. This is such a potential
text: resetting of their relationship. But it is too late.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I have no verse in me any more.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Because the wrong twin died.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: No. Plague took him. Plague makes
dialog: no judgements. It is just plague.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I wish a plague had taken me.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Judith. Why do you hate yourself?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I have stolen Hamnet from you
dialog: twice. Once by surviving him, and
dialog: now by taking your dream of him
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You have given me a new dream. My
dialog: beautiful daughter, the Poet.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: A woman can not be a poet. A woman
dialog: is put upon this Earth for but one
dialog: reason. I know my duty now. I will
dialog: make amends for stealing Hamnet
dialog: from you. I promise I will make
text: amends.
scene_heading: 117 EXT. THE GARDEN - DAY 117
text: Will digs. Anne joins him. Beat.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I am glad Hamnet didn’t write the
dialog: poems.
dialog: 118
dialog: 119
dialog: 120
text: Anne looks at the garden. It is still pretty grim.
text: smiles.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Glad?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I know him better now. It is love
dialog: not ambition that will blossom in
dialog: this garden.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Well it had better because it
dialog: doesn’t seem like much else has
text: blossomed yet.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I am a poor gardener. It’s true. I
dialog: found it much easier to create
dialog: things with words.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Life’s like that. Would you like me
dialog: to help?
dialog: 57.
dialog: She
text: She smiles. He smiles. Together they begin to work on the
dialog: garden.
scene_heading: INT. ANNE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Anne gets ready for bed. Will appears.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Goodnight my love.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Stay Will. For comfort. With me. In
dialog: our second best bed.
text: Will smiles. He enters.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - DAY
text: Judith is approaching Quiney’s wine shop.
scene_heading: EXT. HALL’S CROFT - DAY
text: Anne is approaching Susanna’s house. She knocks
text: Susanna answers.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Susanna. There is something I
dialog: should like your help with.
dialog: 118
dialog: 119
dialog: 120
text: at the door.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 58.
scene_heading: 121 INT. QUINEY’S WINE SHOP - DAY 121
text: Judith enters. She closes the door and stares at Quiney.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I will take that glass of Rhennish
dialog: wine with you Tom Quiney.
scene_heading: 122 INT. HALL’S CROFT - EVENING 122
text: Susanna and John Hall. She stitching, he with his bible.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Your sister has been seen in Thomas
text: Quiney’s shop.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Quiney supplies wine to my father’s
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
text: She was not ordering wine. She was
dialog: drinking it. With Quiney. She was
text: inside for half an hour or more.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Is this the faith your Puritan
dialog: brothers practise? Spying on women?
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: They were quite public in their
dialog: merry making. They went later
text: together to the tavern.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: If Judith is reaching for a little
dialog: happiness then I am glad of it.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Sinning will not make her happy.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Really? Then let us hope it makes
text: her unhappiness a little more
dialog: bearable.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: That is a wicked thing to say.
dialog: Remember your scripture.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: What I remember is a little girl
dialog: who smiled a lot. I should like to
dialog: see what that smile looks like on
dialog: the woman that girl became.
dialog: 123
dialog: 124
dialog: 125
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 59.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: A reputation once lost can not be
dialog: refound.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Mine was.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Yours was not lost! It was defamed
text: by a convicted drunkard and
dialog: suspected Papist. Judith must drop
text: this Quiney. He is debauched.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: If only those without sin were
dialog: allowed to marry, there would be
dialog: precious few weddings.
scene_heading: INT. QUINEY’S WINE SHOP - EVENING 123
text: Quiney and Judith kissing.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: You know that I am not a good man.
dialog: There have been women. Many women.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I have seen too little of life.
dialog: You’ve seen too much. Between us
dialog: perhaps we may begin again.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - MORNING 124
text: The hustle and bustle of a tiny market town. Quiney and
text: Judith walk together. She is still sombre and serious but he
text: buys her a piece of fruit from a stall, maybe even juggles
dialog: some? He wins a smile. The first we have seen!
text: Margaret Wheeler is watching. She is both sad and bitter.
text: Quiney sees her but manages to prevent Judith doing so.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - DAY 125
text: Will and Anne work together in the garden.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: He has a good business with his
dialog: wine and tobacco shop.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: And people will always want those.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Unless John and his Puritan friends
dialog: have their way.
dialog: 126
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 60.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: I've known the Quiney family all my
dialog: life. They can be a wild and merry
dialog: crew, but good hearted.
text: Will glad to hear it.
scene_heading: INT. THE HOME OF MARGARET WHEELER - EVENING 126
text: A poor lodging in a near by village. Quiney is visiting.
dialog: Margaret Wheeler (who we saw him with at the church). She
text: sits with her parents.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: I can not see you anymore Margaret
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Because of Judith Shakespeare?
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: I never made you promise Margaret
dialog: you know that. If we sinned we
dialog: sinned together.
text: Margaret’s father speaks.
scene_heading: MARGARET'S FATHER
text: She’s with child.
dialog: This is a big blow.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: Can you be sure it’s mine?
text: Margaret reddens, perhaps she can’t be sure. Her father is
text: though and takes up a hatchet from the fire side.
scene_heading: MARGARET'S FATHER
dialog: You dare ask it? Dare again!
text: The Father is intimidating, but Quiney holds his ground.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: Margaret has many friends at the
dialog: tavern.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I’m certain... I think... I believe
dialog: it’s yours Tom. Honestly I do.
text: Quiney is not a bad man. He and Margaret have been friends.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: I have a wine shop. My family is
dialog: prosperous. You will always have
dialog: money for the child, always.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 127
dialog: 128
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 61.
speaker_heading: QUINEY (CONT'D)
dialog: And for your comfort too, a small
dialog: dowry that you might find a husband
dialog: who will take your child as his
dialog: own.
text: Margaret's father puts down his axe.
speaker_heading: QUINEY (CONT'D)
dialog: I hope that in return you will not
dialog: name me as the father.
text: Margaret is sad but she knows it’s the best deal she’1l get.
text: Her father knows this also. He nods grimly.
scene_heading: INT. THE TAVERN STRATFORD - DAY 127
text: John Hall enters. He approaches the Landlady.
scene_heading: STRATFORD LANDLADY
dialog: Well well. Doctor Hall. I did not
dialog: look to see you in the Tavern. Has
dialog: all your preachifying given you a
dialog: thirst?
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: A cup of water if you please.
scene_heading: STRATFORD LANDLADY
dialog: I shall charge you pottage. There
text: is water at the pump.
text: John Hall puts a coin down.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Tom Quiney the Vintner drinks here
dialog: does he not?
scene_heading: STRATFORD LANDLADY
dialog: Since he was a boy.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I would have you tell me what
dialog: company he has kept of late. What
dialog: female company.
text: Hall puts another couple of coins down.
scene_heading: INT. NEW PLACE - DAY 128
text: Will in his study. A serving girl shows in his lawyer Francis
text: Collins. Will is a feeling happy.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Francis Collins! Come in! Come in!
dialog: You'll take some wine? Maria! A jug
dialog: of wine if you please.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 62.
speaker_heading: FRANCIS
dialog: I am relived to see you in such
text: high spirits Will. When a man sends
dialog: for his lawyer it is not always so.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Judith’s getting married!
speaker_heading: FRANCIS
dialog: No! Congratulations! It was a crime
dialog: that such a pretty girl remained
text: unwed.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Well crime no longer! And thus
dialog: would I amend my Will to include my
dialog: new Son in Law Tom Quiney.
speaker_heading: FRANCIS
dialog: Quiney is it? Wine and tobacco.
dialog: Good trade.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Can’t think of better. Also we must
dialog: of course make provision for his
text: and Judith’s male issue.
text: The wine arrives. Will fills their glasses for a toast.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: My grandsons!
speaker_heading: FRANCIS
dialog: Many of them!
text: They drink. Will has a mischievous glint in his eye.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: And I wish also to leave something
dialog: for Anne.
speaker_heading: FRANCIS
dialog: Anne? If she survives you she will
dialog: have a third by law.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Oh she’1ll survive me. I have little
dialog: doubt of that. She’s years older
dialog: and ten times tougher. But I don’t
dialog: mean money! She’1ll have more of
dialog: that than she can spend. I had in
text: mind a piece of furniture.
speaker_heading: FRANCIS
dialog: Furniture? But Anne will live here
dialog: and have the use of every stick.
dialog: 130
dialog: 131
dialog: 132
dialog: 133
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 63.
speaker_heading: WILL
text: A specific piece of furniture.
dialog: Which when it is no longer ours
dialog: must be hers. And I hope that in it
dialog: will she smile and think of me.
text: Will drinks happily. Francis shrugs and gets papers and pen.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - MORNING 130
text: The congregation gathers. A merry scene as townsfolk go into
text: the church. Quiney arrives with his brother, there is much
text: back slapping as they make their way in.
text: Margaret Wheeler and her parents attend. She is heavily
text: pregnant and ashamed that all pity her unmarried condition.
text: Her father’s face shows angry defiance.
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH —- MORNING 131
text: Quiney enters. He sees that amongst the happy faces Margaret,
text: sits grimly and tearfully at the back with her mother and
text: father. Quiney catches Margaret's eye but he can not read her
text: face. Now Susanna and John Hall enter, John Hall sees
text: Margaret and note that Quiney is looking at her.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - MORNING 132
text: Now Will arrives with Judith. A happy morning.
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - MORNING 133
text: The vicar Edward Woolmer is officiating over the wedding.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER
dialog: Before I pronounce you man and wife
dialog: I must ask this congregation does
dialog: any know of any reason why these
dialog: two should not wed.
text: This is a tense moment for Quiney. His eyes flick to
text: Margaret, her face a mask, her father shifts in his pew, Will
text: he speak? Will John Hall? Hall is watching intently.
text: None speak. The Vicar continues and completes the service.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER (CONT'D)
dialog: I now pronounce you man and wife.
text: Judith turns for a moment to her father. She smiles at him,
text: she is doing this for him but she is happy. She turns back to
text: Quiney and embraces him
dialog: 135
dialog: 136
dialog: 137
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 64.
dialog: CARD: On the tenth of February 1616 at Holy Trinity Church,
dialog: Stratford Upon Avon, Judith Shakespeare then aged 31, married
text: Thomas Quiney, the local Vintner and tobacconist whom she had
dialog: known all her life.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - MORNING
text: The happy throng emerge. Margaret (her head bowed in shame
text: over her very pregnant body) slips away with her parents.
text: John Hall follows them.
scene_heading: INT. NEW PLACE - DAY 135
text: The wedding feast. A great cheering. This is a happy and
dialog: joyous affair.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HOME OF MARGARET WHEELER - DAY 136
text: John Hall is confronting Margaret and her parents.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Who is the father girl?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I will not tell.
text: John Hall glances at the well stocked shelves. Wine. Food. A
text: pile of what are clearly new blankets and sheets.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: This house is blessed with a goodly
dialog: abundance. Your silence has been
dialog: bought.
text: Margaret and her parents stare defiance at the two puritans.
scene_heading: INT. NEW PLACE - DAY 137
text: Will is making a speech to the rapt crowd
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: «++. One son in law owns a wine shop
text: the other one wants to close it.
dialog: (laughter)
dialog: A happy balance I think, balance in
dialog: nature always appealed to me and a
dialog: happy balance is what I feel now at
dialog: this wonderful feast. You all know
dialog: the Shakespeare’s. You knew my
dialog: father when he was your Mayor, and
dialog: you also knew him in less happy
dialog: times...
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 65.
text: A reveller calls out cheekily.
speaker_heading: O/S REVELLER
dialog: He certainly knew the price of
dialog: wool!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Of course he did! He made it up
dialog: himself!
text: Laughter and some ‘woos’. Will is being pretty honest.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: I know that sometimes we
dialog: Shakespeare’s have been our own
dialog: worst enemies. And sometimes we
dialog: have had the worst of enemies.
text: Will looks at Susanna who gives him a little smile. Another
text: voice calls out.
speaker_heading: 0/S VOICE
dialog: If ever John Lane shows his face
dialog: around here again he’1ll have the
dialog: nose cut off it!
text: All cheer at that.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: We have had our ups and downs but I
dialog: flatter myself that after my
dialog: father’s shall we say ‘creative’
dialog: approach to matters financial I
dialog: have brought some small credit to
dialog: my home town.
text: Another cheer and another voice shouts out.
speaker_heading: O/S VOICE
dialog: The world will know of Stratford On
dialog: Avon because of you sir!
text: More cheers.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: And although I no longer have a
dialog: son... and show me a family in this
dialog: town that has not lost at least one
dialog: child... I have two beautiful
dialog: daughters. So perhaps one day I
dialog: shall have a grandson.
text: Susanna is embarrassed by this. Judith smiles at Quiney.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: For that I look to you Tom and you
dialog: also John! Be about your business
dialog: both of you!
dialog: 138
dialog: 139
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 66.
text: Much good natured cheering. Quiney raises his mug. Hall does
text: his best to produce a grim smile.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: For family is everything and today,
dialog: I could not be more proud of mine.
text: More cheers. There are calls for “the Groom”. Quiney stands.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: My friends. I have known Judith all
dialog: my life. And I have loved her near
dialog: as long. I remember her as a happy
dialog: child and I remember the shadow
dialog: that fell on her when she lost that
dialog: other half of herself. That twin
dialog: soul with whom she entered this
dialog: world. I have asked her for her
dialog: hand many times across the years. I
dialog: don’t know what it was that finally
dialog: caused her to say yes, all I can
dialog: say is that I am happy for it and
dialog: my dearest hope on this our wedding
dialog: day is that I can bring into
dialog: Judith’s life a little of the
dialog: happiness that has forsaken her for
dialog: so long.
text: Judith is touched. Anne and Will too. All cheer.
scene_heading: INT. JUDITH AND QUINEY’S BED CHAMBER - NIGHT 138
text: It is their wedding night. They stand before each other.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I saw Margaret Wheeler in the
dialog: Church today Tom.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: I know it Judith and I have
dialog: confessed all to you. I can not
dialog: undo what is done. All I can say is
dialog: that her child and she will not
dialog: want.
text: They embrace and begin to make love.
text: CARD: Shortly after their wedding Judith and Tom Quiney
text: conceived a child.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - MORNING 139
text: Wide shot. Hustle and bustle of a market town.
text: Judith and Quiney walk hand in hand. They are happy.
dialog: 140
dialog: 141
dialog: 142
dialog: 143
dialog: 144
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 67.
scene_heading: INT. THE HOME OF MARGARET WHEELER - DAY 140
text: Margaret is in labour. It’s a bad one. She’s screaming. Her
text: mother is trying to help but gives up.
scene_heading: MARGARET'S MOTHER
text: The child is breech.
scene_heading: MARGARET'S FATHER
dialog: We must send for Doctor Hall.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - DAY 141
text: Quiney and Judith are visiting Will and Anne.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Pregnant?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: It’s very early Father but I
dialog: believe I am.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Oh my sweet girl.
scene_heading: INT. THE HOME OF MARGARET WHEELER - DAY 142
text: Margaret is screaming, the baby is not coming. Dr Hall is
text: doing what he can but he knows it’s desperate. He takes the
text: grim forceps from his bag.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - DAY 143
text: Susanna has joined the family gathering.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Sister. I am truly happy for you.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Where is John? He should be here.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: He was called out... toa
dialog: confinement.
text: Judith and Quiney know who that is.
scene_heading: INT. THE HOME OF MARGARET WHEELER - DAY 144
text: Margaret's screams reach a terrible crescendo. Then silence.
text: Her writhing body falls still. All know immediately that she
text: is gone. John Hall works feverishly at the limp body but to
dialog: no avail.
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 68.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
text: The child has departed with it’s
dialog: mother.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - DAY 145
text: A merry conversation is in progress. Judith and Quiney
text: laughing with Will and Anne. Even Susanna laughs merrily.
text: John Hall enters. Perhaps still blood splattered. Clearly
dialog: something is wrong.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: Quiney. Margaret Wheeler has died
text: in childbirth along with her baby.
dialog: The child has no name. It will not
dialog: enter heaven without one.
dialog: Quiney knows what he must do.
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVE YARD - DAY 146
text: Margaret's parents are burying their daughter and grandchild.
text: Tom Quiney and Judith are also there and stand some way
text: apart. Judith with her hand on her own belly lost ina
text: confusion of thoughts.
text: The service ends. The parents turn to walk away. They pause
text: before Quiney and Judith.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Mr. Wheeler. Mrs. Wheeler. I’m so
dialog: sorry.
dialog: CARD: Margaret Wheeler, former lover to Thomas Quiney was
text: buried with her child on 16th March 1616.
dialog: CARD: On 25th of March 1616 Shakespeare once more amended his
text: Will, striking out provisions made for his new son in law.
scene_heading: INT NEW PLACE DAY
text: Will has signed and lays down his pen. He looks so sad. For
text: once John Hall is moved.
speaker_heading: JOHN HALL
dialog: I take no pleasure in Judith’s
dialog: distress Father in Law. Or yours.
dialog: It grieves me.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I know that. John.
dialog: 149
dialog: 150
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 69.
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - DAY 149
text: The Bawdy court is assembling. Pious, grim figures.
dialog: CARD: On March 26th 1616 Tom Quiney was tried before the
text: Bawdy Court in the same church in which he had been married
text: six weeks earlier. He made a full confession.
text: Thomas Quiney stands before the Court and congregation.
speaker_heading: QUINEY
dialog: I got her with child. It was carnal
dialog: copulation out of wedlock and I am
dialog: sorry for it. Sorry for the agony
dialog: it has caused to her family and
dialog: sorry for the shame I have brought
dialog: on mine.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER
dialog: The sentence of the court is that
dialog: you shall parade yourself in open
text: penance, clad only in a white sheet
dialog: for three Sundays before this
dialog: congregation.
text: Will feels once more the weight of shame.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - DAY 150
text: Will is walking in the High Street, still in smart clothes
text: but looking older and sadder. He is no longer greeted with
text: respect, instead he gets smirks or looks of sympathy, he
text: catches people pointing.
text: Sir Thomas Lucy walks by.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Well well Mr. Shakespeare. How very
dialog: unfortunate. Seems your daughter’s
dialog: wedding was rushed for a reason.
dialog: Like your own eh? The apple doesn’t
dialog: fall far from the tree. Damn me you
dialog: Shakespeare’s are a scandalous lot
dialog: eh? Perhaps being an illiterate
dialog: farm girl your wife was unable to
dialog: teach your girls morals. Well well.
dialog: Must be getting on. Can’t loll
dialog: about thinking pretty thoughts all
dialog: day like you poets. I must to
dialog: business.
text: Lucy is about to walk on. Will stops him.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Business Sir Thomas?
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 69A.
speaker_heading: SIR THOMAS
dialog: Yes yes business. A large estate
dialog: like Charlecote Manor doesn’t run
dialog: itself ye’ know.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Oh I thought you meant a real
dialog: business. Like building, owning and
dialog: operating London’s largest theatre
dialog: for instance.
text: Sir Thomas about to speak but Will ploughs on.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Actors, carpenters, seamstresses,
dialog: crew. Bribes to pay, security to
dialog: mount, politics to navigate.
dialog: Fifteen hundred paying public each
dialog: afternoon, to be fed, watered, and
dialog: given a spectacle which must be
dialog: ever greater than the last. 170
dialog: Royal performances for our Queen
dialog: and our king. Have you ever
dialog: considered the cost and logistics
dialog: of mounting the Battle of
text: Shrewsbury in the banqueting hall
dialog: at Hampton Court? Please don’t. It
dialog: would make you very, very tired.
dialog: And yet Sir Thomas, in all the
dialog: years I ran my vast, complex and
dialog: spectacularly successful business I
dialog: also did find time to think and
dialog: write down those pretty thoughts
dialog: you mentioned, which in my
dialog: experience brought immense pleasure
dialog: to those seeking respite from this
dialog: vale of tears, and without which
dialog: the whole thing would have been as
dialog: pointless as..? Well, as pointless
dialog: as you Sir Thomas.
text: Will about to leave but then has a final thought.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And since you brought her up, my
dialog: wife Anne has more wisdom and
dialog: decency in her daily shit than you
dialog: have in your entire body.
text: Lucy is a little shaken but walks on with dignity. Will calls
text: after him.
dialog: 151
dialog: 152
dialog: 153
dialog: 154
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 70.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: I wish I had poached your bloody
dialog: deer!
text: Will walks on.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - DAY 151
text: Another day. Anne works alone. The garden is blooming but
text: Anne is sad for Will seems to have forsaken it.
text: Will emerges from the house
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Will you work with me a while
dialog: Husband? You could put some beer
text: about for the slugs.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: By the look of things Anne you do
dialog: better without me. I think I shall
dialog: walk a little.
text: He heads for the garden gate. Then pauses.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: She did it for you Will. You wanted
dialog: a grandson.
text: She returns to her digging. Will walks on.
scene_heading: EXT. THE VILLAGE GREEN/POND - DAY 152
text: Will sits watching the children play. Once more he thinks he
text: sees the boy. Once more when he looks again the boy has gone.
text: Something occurs to Will.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - MORNING 153
text: Will is walking towards the church. He pauses at the
text: graveyard wall.
text: Will enters and walks to his son's grave. The Stone reads
dialog: “Hamnet Shakespeare. 1585 to 1596”.
text: He stands in contemplation. Then walks into the church.
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH —- MORNING 154
text: Will walks through the empty church. He sits in a pew with
text: his thoughts. The vicar enters.
dialog: 155
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 71.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER
dialog: Mr. Shakespeare. In church and it
dialog: isn’t Sunday? Dare I hope that you
dialog: are seeking to know God a little
dialog: better?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: People who claim to know God feel
dialog: entitled to speak for him. I prefer
dialog: to maintain a respectful distance.
dialog: Which I imagine God appreciates.
dialog: May I see the Church register?
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - MORNING 155
text: The Chancery. Will sits at the desk. Woolmer busies himself
text: with the registers.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER
dialog: You did not attend the funeral?
dialog: The question is a painful one.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I was travelling home. The news
dialog: arrived in London after I had left.
dialog: By the time I arrived he lay in the
dialog: ground.
speaker_heading: EDWARD WOOLMER
dialog: It was summer. No corpse remains
text: unburied long. Particularly a
dialog: plague corpse. Here is the page.
dialog: August 1596.
text: Will looks at the entry for Hamnet’s death. The Year 1596.
text: His eye moves up and down the column. From the deaths
dialog: recorded in 1596 to those in 95 and then 97.
text: Will traces his finger across the Hamnet’s entry. Almost
text: trying to touch the boy.
text: Will is remembering...
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I'd brought him a pen knife. A
text: special one with a folding blade.
text: His name engraved upon the handle.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How he would have loved that knife.
text: Will takes out the knife which is old now, and opens it.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: I keep it with me still...
text: There is a pot of quills on the desk. Will takes one.
dialog: 159
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 72.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you mind?
text: Woolmer nods. Will begins to cut the quill.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And whenever I cut a new nib, I
dialog: imagine that my hand is his hand.
dialog: Grown to be a man...
text: Will watches his hand as he cuts at the quill.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
text: Trimming his quill with the knife
dialog: his father gave him - on that
text: joyful home coming long ago.
text: Will has cut a beautiful nib. He dips it in ink.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And when I dip the ink and mark the
text: page, it’s still his hand I see and
dialog: the words that I write are his.
text: He writes a word or two.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And then I tell myself that it
dialog: isn’t me who thinks of him at all,
dialog: but that I am dead, while Hamnet
dialog: lives, and thinks of me.
text: Will lays down the quill and folds the knife away. Edward
text: Woolmer glances down at the page Will has written on. He
dialog: wrote “Hamnet Shakespeare”.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: People often ask how I have writ so
dialog: much. How I found the energy and
dialog: dedication to sit alone at my desk
text: writing play after play after play.
dialog: The answer's simple, I was always
dialog: in the company of my son.
text: He gives way to grief. Edward Woolmer stand silently.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - DAY 159
text: Will has returned to Hamnet’s grave. He reads the inscription
dialog: again. Year of death 1596.
text: Will glances at the other graves close by, the years of death
dialog: 1594, 1597, 1597, 1598.
text: Will is thinking.
dialog: 160
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
dialog: 164
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 73.
scene_heading: HALL’S CROFT - DAY 160
text: Will has gone to talk with Susanna.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: It began and ended so quickly.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: It is always so with the plague.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: The four of us had supped that
dialog: night. We were usually a merry
dialog: crowd we four at table but that
dialog: night I recall Hamnet was quiet.
dialog: The illness already in his system
dialog: no doubt. Judith teased him as she
dialog: always did but that night could win
text: no smile in return.
scene_heading: INT. ANNE IN BED - NIGHT 162
text: Now it is a flashback we see Anne wake with a start. She has
text: heard Judith’s voice shout “Hamnet!” Susanna’s voice over
text: continues to describe the scene.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (V.O.)
dialog: Mother told me she was awoken that
text: night by Judith’s cry.
scene_heading: INT. JUDITH AND HAMNET IN BED - NIGHT 163
text: Still in flash back. Anne enters the children’s room. First
text: she sees Judith crying in fear. Judith points to Hamnet where
text: he lies already becoming plague ridden.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (V.O.)
dialog: Mother bid Hamnet come at once with
dialog: her to save Judith from infection.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GREEN WOOD - NIGHT 164
text: Still in flashback. Anne is leading the stricken boy to the
dialog: woods.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (V.O.)
dialog: She knew already that Hamnet could
dialog: not survive and so did her best to
text: isolate him from all but herself.
text: But Judith disobeyed and followed.
text: Judith is following Anne and Hamnet.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 74.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (V.O.)
text: It was a warm night. The air was
dialog: sweet and Hamnet begged to be taken
dialog: to his favourite place.
scene_heading: 165 INT. THE GREEN WOOD POND - NIGHT 165
text: Hamnet, now with pustules fully breaking out lies on the Moon
text: lit grass beside the water. He screams in fear and pain.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (V.O.)
text: They nursed him through the night
text: with cool water from the brook and
dialog: prayer. Mother did as best she
dialog: could to keep Judith and herself
dialog: from contact with his sores and by
dialog: God's mercy neither was infected.
text: Dawn now. Hamnet dies.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (V.O.)
text: He left them as the Sun rose.
dialog: Mother sent Judith for blankets and
text: thread to make a shroud.
text: Cross fade. Anne has stitched blankets around the corpse,
text: completely containing it.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA (V.O.)
dialog: When the plague is involved it’s
dialog: best not to linger too long saying
dialog: goodbye. When I awoke she’d sent
dialog: for the graves-men. Hamnet was
text: already in his coffin.
scene_heading: 167 INT. HALL’S CROFT - DAY 167
text: Back in the present. Susanna still with Will.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Judith never smiled again.
text: Will is thinking. He sees greater tragedy in his mind even
dialog: than that which has been described.
scene_heading: 168 INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING 168
text: Later Will and Anne before the fire. Judith enters.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: You sent for me Father?
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 75.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes Judith. Thank you for coming.
dialog: Your new home is comfortable I
dialog: hope?
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: There’s much to do but my husband
dialog: is working hard. He is a good man
dialog: despite the shame he brought us.
text: Will swallows. It’s still a painful memory.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I visited Hamnet’s grave today. I
dialog: read his name in the Parish
dialog: Register.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: I am glad of it.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Anne I have known the plague. Many
dialog: times in London did it strike and
dialog: all the theatres must be closed.
text: Neither Anne or Judith reply.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Yes, I have known the plague. And I
dialog: was thinking today that Black Death
dialog: is a scythe it is not a dagger.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: How so?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Never once did I see it strike a
text: single person, and then depart.
text: Anne and Judith remain silent. Will is wrestling with a
text: question he does not want to ask.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: How did Hamnet die?
text: Neither Anne nor Judith show any emotion. But now we see a
text: tear rolling from Judith’s expressionless eyes.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: His death is recorded in the Parish
dialog: register but with no mention of the
dialog: cause.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Plague husband. The priest
dialog: pronounced it at his funeral.
dialog: 169
dialog: 170
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 76.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Because that is what you told him.
dialog: And also what no doubt you told the
dialog: grave’s men when they arrived in
text: the greenwood to find him stitched
text: up in his shroud.
dialog: In all their minds a remembered scene...
scene_heading: INT. THE GREENWOOD MORNING 169
text: Hamnet’s shrouded corpse lies in the grass, a sad bundle.
text: Little Judith is being comforted by Anne. Two Grave’s men
text: have arrived. Heavily cloaked men wearing the horrible beak
text: nosed masks used to ward off plague. They have a great sheet.
text: They approach the bundled corpse warily. Like hook beaked
text: vultures gathering round carrion. They lift it quickly and
text: fearfully, perhaps even manipulating it with hooked poles.
dialog: Nobody wants to contact with a plaque victim any longer than
text: necessary. They dump it on the sheet and drag the corpse
dialog: bundle away.
dialog: CARD: Hamnet Shakespeare died on or around the 9th of August
dialog: 1596 and was buried on the 11th.
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING 170
text: We are back in the moment, Will is still quietly questioning
dialog: Anne.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: When I look at other graves around
dialog: about Hamnet’s and at his name in
dialog: the register. I see that no scythe
dialog: swung through this town in the
dialog: summer of 1596. Five children only
dialog: were taken and three of those were
dialog: new born’s. Not like in other
dialog: plague years. Why in 1597 even
dialog: dozens were cut down.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Wife. How did Hamnet die?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: He died of plague.
text: Will stares hard at Anne, his heart in torment. She returns
text: his stare with stony defiance. Then Judith speaks. Slowly,
text: scarcely with emotion. Her eyes distant, her voice toneless.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: I woke Mother in the night with my
dialog: cry.
dialog: 171
dialog: 172
dialog: 173
dialog: 174
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 77.
text: Once more we see the scene in flashback. This time described
text: by Judith in Voice Over.
scene_heading: INT. ANNE IN BED - NIGHT 171
text: Again in flashback we see Anne wake with a start. She has
text: heard Judith’s voice shout “Hamnet!”
scene_heading: INT. JUDITH IN BED - NIGHT 172
text: Still in flash back. Anne enters the children’s room. First
text: she sees Judith crying in fear. Judith points but this time
text: to an empty place in the bed.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (V.O.)
text: Hamnet’s bed was empty.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GREENWOOD - NIGHT 173
text: Still in flashback. Anne rushing through the wood.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (V.O.)
dialog: Mother searched the house and then
dialog: thought of the Greenwood Pond that
dialog: was his favourite place even though
dialog: he couldn’t swim and would never go
text: in the water.
text: Judith emerges from the house and follows Anne.
scene_heading: INT. THE GREENWOOD POND - NIGHT 174
text: Anne approaches the water with Judith behind her. They walk
text: to the edge and now, in the Moonlight they see Hamnet, dead,
text: floating like Ophelia. He is surrounded not by lilies but by
text: torn pages of paper.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (V.O.)
text: Around him, torn and shredded
dialog: floated the final verses I had
dialog: conjured and which he had writ. The
dialog: ones prepared for your return.
text: Anne moves towards the water to get Hamnet’s corpse.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (V.O.)
dialog: Mother sent me for blankets and
dialog: thread. So that none would know how
dialog: Hamnet died.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 78.
scene_heading: 176 INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S KITCHEN - EVENING 176
text: Back in the present Judith has told her story. Anne speaks
text: with hollow firmness.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: That’s your story Judith and you
dialog: have carried it’s burden ever
dialog: since. But I say he died of plague.
text: The vicar spake it at his grave and
dialog: God accepts it. Millions have died
dialog: of it and Hamnet entered Heaven
dialog: amongst that host. Jesus would not
dialog: have denied him his place whatever
dialog: Judith thinks we saw.
text: Will is too broken to speak. Instead Judith cries out.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Of course he’s in Heaven! Hamnet
dialog: didn’t kill himself, he only threw
dialog: himself upon the water. It was I
dialog: that caused it. I killed him! I
dialog: killed my brother!
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: No Judith! It isn’t so!
text: Judith turns to Will, utterly distraught.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: He wanted to please you so much.
dialog: All he cared about was your love
dialog: and all you cared about was him! I
dialog: was jealous... I was jealous...
dialog: Hamnet went to school. I helped in
dialog: the kitchen because I was a girl. I
dialog: wanted your approval too. I wanted
dialog: your love...
text: Will is numb.
speaker_heading: JUDITH (CONT'D)
dialog: So I told him I would tell you!
dialog: That this time you would know which
dialog: twin had writ the verse. I didn’t
dialog: mean it! I wouldn’t have done it. I
dialog: loved him. But he believed me... He
dialog: couldn't face your disappointment.
text: Judith sobs in abject misery. Anne comforts Judith.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: He died of plague Judith. God
dialog: accepts that. It was only a little
dialog: lie. He was only a little boy.
text: Will gets up unsteadily, puts on his cloak and leaves.
dialog: 177
dialog: 178
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 79.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GREEN WOOD - NIGHT 177
text: A wild night. Will stumbles through the woods. He calls out.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Hamnet!
text: He thinks he sees the Boy again. Somewhere in the woods. The
text: boy runs. Will crashes after him. Rain lashing down.
text: Will has arrived at the pond. He stares at he still Moon lit
text: water. Almost delirious he grabs at a rock and puts it in his
text: shirt. Gathering another he wades into the water. When it is
text: deep enough he plunges under.
text: The rocks aren’t heavy enough. He surfaces but plunges again.
text: Then he sees the boy standing on the bank.
text: The boy smiles. Will stops. He stands waste deep in the
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: You finished it.
text: Will doesn’t understand.
speaker_heading: BOY (CONT'D)
dialog: My story’s done.
dialog: Go home now.
dialog: I can rest.
text: Will reaches out his hand.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Hamnet please. Stay a moment.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: We are such stuff
dialog: As dreams are made on, and our
dialog: little life
text: Is rounded with a sleep.
text: The boy is gone.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - EARLY MORNING. 178
text: A few people are up and about. Milk churns are being carted.
text: Bread baked. Will walks home through the town, a filthy and
text: disheveled figure, soaked through. A stark contrast to the
text: proud man in his fine clothes. A few faces turn.
dialog: 179
dialog: 180
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 80.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE —- MORNING 179
text: Will arrives home, a sorry, shivering figure. Anne opens the
text: door to him. She looks on him with pity and with love. Will
text: seems so diminished.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I think perhaps I have caught a
dialog: little chill.
dialog: CARD: In April 1616 Shakespeare was visited by his friend and
dialog: rival Ben Jonson
scene_heading: INT. THE SHAKESPEARE’S HALL —- NIGHT 180
text: Will, wrapped in rugs and seeming rather ill is dining with
dialog: Jonson.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Christ Will! You have had a time of
dialog: it! Both daughters caught up in
dialog: scandals. Good for them!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Yes. So far retirement hasn't
dialog: exactly brought me the peace I’d
dialog: hoped for.
text: Jonson sups deep. He is a confident, bold, opinionated man
text: but also astute and he loves Will.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: In my experience Will no one ever
dialog: gets what they hope for. But they
dialog: do tend to get what they deserve.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You think I got what I deserve?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Not all of it perhaps but something
dialog: certainly. You lost a son. No man
dialog: deserves that but most men suffer
dialog: it. I myself have lost a daughter
dialog: and a son.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I know my friend.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: But you have two daughters still,
dialog: who love you and a wife to share
dialog: your bed. I have none of that. Mine
dialog: own Anne despises me.
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 81.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Well you publicly insult her and
dialog: call her ‘shrew’. Can you blame
dialog: her?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I didn’t say she had no cause only
dialog: that she does. Like your Anne
dialog: (wife?). She loves William
dialog: Shakespeare. But she won’t put up
dialog: with the monster. You tell me that
dialog: Southampton says you've lived a
dialog: little life. What an arse! You have
dialog: conquered England and returned
dialog: victorious to the bosom of your
dialog: family? Is that little?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Perhaps the second part.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: The second part is the best part!
dialog: You made it home Will. How many
dialog: other conquerors can say as much?
dialog: What poets? Anyone can die alone
text: and despised. Marlowe was murdered
dialog: and no one can agree on which of
dialog: his many enemies did it, Greene
dialog: died in poverty, estranged from all
dialog: who knew him. Kyd the same. No one
dialog: knows how Tom Nashe died but if his
dialog: filthy dildo poem’s are anything to
dialog: go by it wasn’t in the bosom of his
dialog: family.
text: Will laughs which brings on a coughing fit.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: And I? Well while I am not dead I
dialog: may soon be for I am out of favour
dialog: with the king and none will speak
dialog: for me. But you Will. You made it
dialog: home. Any of us might wish we had
dialog: half your ‘littleness’.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: (chuckling)
dialog: Well, perhaps put like that.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: You have kept your friends too,
dialog: even me and I am a waspish fellow.
text: Hemming and Condell are feverishly
dialog: seeking out your scripts intent
dialog: that all should be published and
dialog: your genius be preserved down the
dialog: ages.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 81A.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: Name another writer the bloody
dialog: actors have revered like that? Yes
dialog: we tease you Will. I’ve done it
dialog: myself. A lot. ‘Not without right’.
speaker_heading: 180c
speaker_heading: 181
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 82.
text: Will puts a bit of mustard on his ham in salute.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Or as you kindly put it publicly,
dialog: “Not without Mustard”
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: But you have your family and your
text: friends, a full fire and a full
dialog: belly. And oh, by the way you have
dialog: written the greatest body of plays
dialog: that ever were or will be. Damn
dialog: your eyes you bastard! Yes my
dialog: friend, I think you got what you
dialog: deserved.
text: Will is much moved by all of this.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Ben. I have an idea.
scene_heading: EXT. JUDITH'’S CHAMBER WINDOW- NIGHT 180c
text: Will and Jonson outside on the street.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Judith!
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Father?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Shhh! Don’t wake your husband.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: We're going to the pub. Wanna come?
scene_heading: EXT. NEW PLACE - NIGHT 181
text: Will and Jonson both drunk have got a ladder and Jonson and
text: are setting it beneath Will’s Coat of Arms. Judith stops
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: You’re both too drunk for ladders.
dialog: Just hold the bottom.
text: The pregnant Judith begins to climb.
dialog: 182
dialog: 183
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 83.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HIGH STREET - NIGHT 182
text: The two playwrights and Judith are making their way tipsily
text: up the street carrying the Coat of Arms.
scene_heading: INT. THE TAVERN - NIGHT 183
text: They enter and to everyone’s astonishment plonk it on the
dialog: bar.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: The Shakespeare Coat of Arms. It
dialog: cost me twenty quid. Who wants it
dialog: for nothing?
text: General surprise. Judith smiles. She understands what this
dialog: means to Will.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: Hang it above the bar if you wish
dialog: for I have no more need of it. You
dialog: all know me anyway! I’m the son of
dialog: a dodgy trader and my wife was
dialog: three months knocked up when I took
dialog: her to the altar. One of my girls
dialog: married a carnal copulator no
dialog: offense Jude...
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: None taken Father, he did tell the
dialog: entire town.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: And the other one married a
dialog: Puritan.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Which personally I think is worse!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Here here!
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Bloody right!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Some people think I poached one of
dialog: Lucy’s stags which I didn’t but I
dialog: wish I had.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: And never mind stags anyway you
dialog: once stole an entire theatre.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Very true.
speaker_heading: 183a
dialog: 184
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 84.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I was there!
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I worked too hard, drank too little
dialog: and worried too much about what
dialog: arseholes like you lot thought of
dialog: me.
text: Good natured cheers.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: I took my extremely long suffering
dialog: wife for granted, neglected my
dialog: beautiful, clever daughters.
text: He looks at Judith who returns his smile.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: And expected too much of my beloved
dialog: son. Apart from all that, I wrote
dialog: 37 plays, some of which I admit
dialog: were rather long but all of which
dialog: are works of absolute genius.
dialog: Except possibly The Two Gentlemen
dialog: of Verona.
speaker_heading: WILL (CONT'D)
dialog: My name is William Shakespeare. And
dialog: I am not a gentleman.
text: All cheer. Judith hugs Will. The party begins.
scene_heading: EXT NEW PLACE DAWN 183a
text: A crisp spring morning.
scene_heading: INT. ANNES’S BEDROOM - MORNING 184
text: Will lies in bed. He’s weak and ill. The chill is worse. He’s
text: dying. Anne, Judith and Sue enter. Judith now showing her
dialog: pregnancy.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Father. It’s a special day. And
text: Mother and Sue have prepared a
dialog: special present.
text: Susanna takes a document and hands it to him.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: Goodness. What’s this?
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Its our marriage licence Will. 34
dialog: years ago I put my mark to it.
dialog: 185
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 85.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: And now...
text: There is a little bureau, Susanna produces quill and ink.
text: Anne sits and with great care signs the licence.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Anne.... Shakespeare.
text: Will smiles and looks at the licence.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You have a beautiful hand.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Sue is teaching me also and by the
dialog: time you are better I shall have
dialog: written you a poem.
text: Will smiles with deep and special pleasure.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: You will need a pen knife then.
dialog: This is yours.
text: Will takes Hamnet’s knife from his pocket and gives it her.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: And what should you like to do
dialog: today Father? On this special day?
text: He smiles. He is at peace.
speaker_heading: WILL
dialog: I know a bank where the wild thyme
dialog: blows...
text: As the poem continues in voice over...
scene_heading: EXT. THE GARDEN - MORNING 185
text: It is beautiful now, a graphic maze garden of beautifully
text: arranged grasses. A knot garden of charm and symmetry. The
text: ladies lead Will to a seat and gather around him while little
text: Elizabeth plays. Standing apart but also included are Hall
dialog: and Quiney.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.O.)
text: Where oxlips and the nodding violet
dialog: grows,
text: Quite overcanopied with luscious
dialog: woodbine,
dialog: With sweet musk roses and with
dialog: eglantine.
text: There sleeps Titania sometime of
dialog: the night,
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 186
dialog: All Is True - Shooting Script 86.
speaker_heading: WILL (V.0.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Lulled in these flowers with dances
dialog: and delight.
dialog: CARD: William Shakespeare died on 23th April 1616 in the town
text: where he was born. It was his birthday.
scene_heading: INT. HOLY TRINITY CHURCH - DAY 186
text: It is Will’s funeral. Music. A sombre, respectful
text: congregation. Now Anne, Judith and Susanna stand together at
text: the dais. They have a piece of paper. First Anne reads, it is
text: a little faltering but loud and proud.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Fear no more the heat o the sun.
text: Judith reads the second line. Also falteringly. It is
text: heartbreakingly poignant, Anne and Judith finally beginning
dialog: to read Will’s poetry.
speaker_heading: JUDITH
dialog: Nor the furious winters rages
text: Now Susanna takes over. She of course reads with confidence
text: and beautiful clarity.
speaker_heading: SUSANNA
dialog: Thou thy worldy task hast done,
dialog: Home art gone, and ta’en thy wages
dialog: Golden lads and girls all must
text: As chimney sweepers come to dust
text: As the verses continue, we move away down the church, and
text: fade to black.
dialog: A final card
dialog: William Shakespeare, 1564 - 1616, writer.
dialog: CARD: Anne Died 9 years later.
dialog: Will had bequeathed her his second best bed.
dialog: Judith Quiney had three boys. All died young.
dialog: Elizabeth Hall, Susanna’s only child married twice but had no
dialog: children.
text: She died aged 61, the last of Shakespeare’s line.
dialog: 
