speaker_heading: . ALL THAT JAZZ
speaker_heading: FADE IN
text: IN_BLACK the single TITLE in WHITE appears:
speaker_heading: “ALL THAT JAZZ"
speaker_heading: FADE OUT TITLE
scene_heading: CROSS FADE FROM BLACK:
scene_heading: ECU DOCTOR'S HANDS, SYRINGE AND NEEDLE. 1,
text: An injection <~= into an arm.
speaker_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT (V.0.)
dialog: Feeling any pain now?
speaker_heading: JOE (V.0,)
dialog: (quite drugged)
speaker_heading: 2 eMOees
scene_heading: CUT TO BLACK:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM, JOE GIDEON AND ANGELIQUE, 2
scene_heading: NIGHT. STILL IN BLACK.
text: We HEAR a pop tune sung by a contemporary female vocalist
dialog: (Melissa Manchester or Carly Simon, etc.) We are ina
text: Strange limbcesque dressing room. There is a high wire
text: strung ten to twelve feet above the floor. Suddenly an
text: arc bangs in: Subject: Joe, who is walking the wire.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (as he's walking)
dialog: To be on the wire is life: the
text: vest is waiting.
text: We hear Angelique applaud. CAMERA PANS down to include
text: Angelique. She is strikingly beautiful and is dressed in
text: next year's Vogue high fashion. Her voice is soft, gentle,
text: seductive. Throughout, she never takes her eyes off Joe
text: e- totally attentive. Along one side of the dressing room
text: is a rack filled with costumes both male and female.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: That's very theatrical.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {swings down off of wire)
dialog: Yeah, I know.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 2
text: He crosses to dressing table which is filled with every
dialog: conceivable kind of make-up and props,
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Did you make that up?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Wish I had,
text: By now he is seated at the table and tries on a rakish cap.
speaker_heading: ‘ JOE
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (with a slow smile)
dialog: I like it...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Mammmmm. No.
dialog: (discarding cap, picks
text: up opera hat, pops it
dialog: open, puts it on,
dialog: strikes a pose)
dialog: How about this?
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (smiling again)
dialog: Stylish...ve. stylish, Joe,
dialog: (pause
dialog: But I've seen it before,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Wha? Where?...Yeah?
text: She smiles and nods, With a gesture of rejection, he dis-
dialog: cards the opera hat.
speaker_heading: ECU JOE.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (very determined)
dialog: This has gotta be the best one yet.
scene_heading: MUSIC OUT ABRUPTLY
scene_heading: EADE TO BLACK -= FADE UP IMMEDIATELY To:
scene_heading: EDT ATELY TO:
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S BEDROOM. ECU HAND AND CASSETTE MACHINE, 3
dialog: Day,
text: He slips in a cassette and we HEAR Vivaldi 5 Concerti,
speaker_heading: 3A
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 3
scene_heading: THE MUSIC CONTINUES THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S BATHROOM. ECU JOE'S EYE. DAY. 3A
text: The eye is bloodshot. Joe's hand lifts a bottle of Visine.
text: We see the drops go into the eye.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE IN BATHROOM. CLOSE SHOT OF GLASS.
text: an Alka Seltzer fizzles. Hand reaches in, lifts out the
dialog: glass.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE IN BATHROOM.
text: Joe takes an ice cold shower.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE IN BATHROOM, ECU PILL CONTAINER,
dialog: We clearly read the prescription label that says:
dialog: Dexe ne 5 mg. We also see: Joseph Gideon, 61 W. 58,
text: Dr. Hyman. Joe's hand reaches in, palms several pills;
text: he swallows, aided by a long pull at a coffee mug which
text: rests an a sink.
text: ANGLE INTO MIRROR.
text: Combed, bright~eyed and bushy-tailed, he smiles at him=
text: self in the mirror. Arms outstretched,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: It's show time, folks!
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK =~ FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO:
scene_heading: NEW MUSIC <= INSTRUMENTAL 4
scene_heading: INT, IMPERIAL THEATRE. STAGE AND WINGS. BOY AND GIRL
scene_heading: DANCERS, JOE, MURRAY, GRETCHEN. DAY.
scene_heading: A_SERIES OF DISSOLVING SHOTS:
dialog: A typical Broadway musical ensemble audition <= 'a cattle
dialog: Call.’ In this case it is an audition for a new Broadway
dialog: show, "NY/LA," to be directed and choreographed by Joe
text: Gideon. There are dancers everywhere, crowding the wings,
dialog: every available backstage area -- a trying to learn the
text: audition combination, taught by Joe's assistant, Gretchen.
text: The dancers are having trouble seeing and finding space
text: to dance, They bump into one another; curse themselves
text: and the people flanking them, and the steps. As DISSCLVES
text: progress and Joe makes his eliminations, the dancing never
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 4
text: Stops, the same dance combination being performed as the
dialog: er of candidates is reduced from the original couple
dialog: of hundred, Aftar the final DISSOLVE we end with a dozen
text: girl dancers in line and a dozen boy dancers waiting in
text: the background, also in line.
text: ACROSS JOE TO LINE OF GIRL DANCERS.
scene_heading: MUSIC CONTINUES.
text: CAMERA tracks down line of twelve girls. Joe pauses to
text: speak to each in turn. He reads from audition cards. Joe
text: Gideon ig a man who has developed a specific image.
text: Dressed in casual black clothes, he is a chain smoker with
text: a cigarette constantly drooping from the left corner of his
text: mouth, He ig unusually energetic -- seems to dart swiftly
text: from place to place. His emotions change rapidly without
text: transitions. Laughing, joking one moment -- then suddenly
dialog: angry (usually directed toward himself) but always accompa-
text: nied by a hyper-nervous energy.
text: NOTE: SOME OF WHAT JOE SAYS TO THE GIRLS IS UNHEARD,
dialog: B = DU! HOW .
text: Joe has brief DUMB SHOW exchanges with che first «wo sirls.
text: When he reaches the third, a very tall knockout, Victoiis,
dialog: he indicates more than ordinary interest,
speaker_heading: MUSIC UNDER (LIGHT PERCUSSION)
speaker_heading: JOz
dialog: (referring to card)
dialog: Is this your home phone on the
dialog: card?
text: Victoria neds and smiles. Their eyes hold for a moment.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP.
text: Joe moves on to a nervous black girl, Astrid. There is a
dialog: brief DUMB SHOW exchange. Then:
speaker_heading: MUSIC UNDER.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: «oeTHE WIZ?
speaker_heading: ASTRID
dialog: (after a long pause)
dialog: Mr. Gideon, I've never been in
dialog: THE WIZ or any show in my life...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 4
speaker_heading: ASTRID (contd)
dialog: I had to put something on my card.
dialog: I really nead a job... owe Julliard
dialog: a thousand dollars...so I lied.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: That's OK, Astrid, I lie all the
dialog: time myself.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP.
text: Joe moves on to the next girl. She is perspiring from the
text: recent effort and nervousness. In DUMB SHOW there is an
text: exchange between them as he takes a towel from across his
text: shoulder and gently pats her forehead. He moves on to the
text: next girl, Joan. After a brief exchange in DUMB SHOW:
speaker_heading: MUSIC UNDER.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: And who was the director of TRAFFIC
speaker_heading: JAM?
speaker_heading: JOAN
dialog: You were, Mr. Gideon.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: How was I?
speaker_heading: JOAN ~
dialog: Terrific.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: And who was the choreographer?
speaker_heading: JOAN
dialog: You were, Mr. Gideon.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: How was I?
speaker_heading: JOAN
dialog: Fantastic.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to all the dancers)
dialog: Now, that's how to get a job.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP.
text: _There is a DUMB SHOW exchange with two more girls THSee,
dialog: 7 he isvov come
text: py a terrible paroxysm of coughing. Then:
dialog: Revised 3/1/78 6.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 4
speaker_heading: MUSIC UNDER.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: «+ -axcuse me, coughing is the only
dialog: exercise I gat.
speaker_heading: MUSIC ur.
text: In DUMB SHOW he interviews two more girls, moves on to
text: the next. With the gentleness of a beautician, he sweeps
text: her hair back to another look.
speaker_heading: JOE :
dialog: Beautiful. That's the way you
dialog: should wear your hair.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: From now on I will, Mr. Gideon.
speaker_heading: (CCHTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 4
scene_heading: MUSIC. OUT.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE. JOE AND DANCERS.
text: Joe addresses entire group.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Tf yousast—stay—trtine—fee- a
dialog: whnute,-weLll—nake—cur—decisions.
dialog: Look, there are only twelve jobs
dialog: «2.30 3ome of you have to be dis=-
dialog: appointed. But, please, if you
dialog: don't get the job; promise me
dialog: you won't go home, kick the dog
dialog: and beat up your children.
text: Ad lib laughs and nods of assent from entire group. Joan
text: puts up her hand,
speaker_heading: JOAN
dialog: Mr. Gideon, suppose we do get the
dialog: job?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Go home, kick the dog and beat up
dialog: your children.
dialog: Big laugh from all.
scene_heading: WIDE ANGLE TO INCLUDE STAGE AND ORCHESTRA. 5
text: The dancers remain on stage. In the orchestra scattered
text: about within the first ten rows are producers Jonesy Hecht,
dialog: Ted Christopher, Larry Goldie; lyricist/composer Paul Dann;
text: Production Stage Manager Murray Nathan. Toward the rear
text: of the theatre sitting together on an aisle are Audrey
text: Paris, Gideon's ex-wife and star of "NY/iA" and their
text: daughter, Michelle Gideon, ten years old.
text: Joe leaps from the stage across the pit into an aisle.
text: CLOSER ANGLE TO CARRY JOE INTO GROUP. :
text: A second after landing he begins massaging his left hand.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM, JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT. §
text: Joe is trying on a large clown nose that lights up.
text: Angelique is seated where we last saw her. Joe blinks the
text: nose on and off. In background we HEAR off-screen LAUGHTER.
dialog: 
dialog: 6
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: Angelique
speaker_heading: Revised 8/1/78
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Now! That's what I call a real
text: drinker's nose.
text: smiles. Joe looks at himself.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: You know what you get when you give
dialog: a drunk a pot of black coffee?
dialog: (pause)
text: A very alert drunk.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE»
text: Who is also heavy into speed.
dialog: Sleeps with a great many women.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Stays awake with a great many women,
dialog: Awake.” Sleep? Sleep? I don't
dialog: even sleep with me.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: A real turn off, huh?
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: oeeesjust the opposite.
scene_heading: LAUGHTER OUT.
text: RESUME THEATRE.
text: The group has gathered together except for Audrey and
dialog: Joe hands Murray all the audition cards
text: except one which he tucks into his back pocket.
text: Ras a clipboard.
dialog: Michelle.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I'll make up my mind about the
dialog: boys later, but I know which girls
dialog: I want.
dialog: (pointing to stage)
dialog: Roxanne, Astrid, Carol Ann, Marie,
dialog: Joan...and Victoria.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: (disbelieving)
dialog: «+ Victoria?...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {riding over)
dialog: ..-And find out if any of the other
dialog: ones. are interested in being a swing
dialog: . dancer.
dialog: Murray
dialog: 7
dialog: 9.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED Toe 7
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: Victoria!? She can’t sing a note.
dialog: She's tone deaf, Joey.
speaker_heading: SOE
dialog: With those legs, who cares?
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: Look, Joey, I know I don't know
dialog: that much about dancing; but does
dialog: she even dance as well as some of
dialog: those other girls?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: She will, i-promtse,
text: He starts up the aisle as Murray comes flapping after hin.
speaker_heading: MURRAY
text: Joey, ahnew-yeulso—in—a—hurcy
dialog: and I don't want to bother you,
dialog: but I just want to check the
text: schedule. The dancers go into
dialog: rehearsal a week from Monday and
dialog: then the other actors and the
dialog: book start the following week?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Same ag always, Murray.
text: Murray scurries to the stage. Joe starts to go and Hecht
text: gestures him back.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Joey...,one minute. Can we talk?
text: Joe returns to the group who have been conferring urgently.
text: By now Murray Nathan is on stage and in background we hear
text: him dealing with the chosen dancers. The others will
dialog: disperse.
speaker_heading: MURRAY
dialog: (to male dancers) HECHT
dialog: Gentlemen, Mr. Gideon will What about Diane? I had her
dialog: make up his mind in the next in three shows and she was
dialog: couple of days and you'll be wonderful.
text: notified by phone. Thank (Christopher nods,
dialog: you so much for coming. all ad lib
dialog: (the men begin agreement)
dialog: dispersing. Ee
dialog: turns to the women) DANN
dialog: (MORE) At least, she can sing.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
speaker_heading: MURRAY (contd)
dialog: Ladies, Mr, Gideon has
dialog: selected Miss Carter, Miss
dialog: Braithwaite, Miss Stenis,
dialog: Miss Chapwick,
dialog: (Miss Chapwick squeals
dialog: with delight and hugs
dialog: Miss Stenis)
dialog: «..Miss-Manson and Miss
dialog: Porter. Mr. Gideon would
dialog: like you to know that he
dialog: has made his selections on
dialog: the basis of types and the
dialog: show's needs. The fact
dialog: that you did not get the
dialog: job is no reflection on
dialog: your talent.
speaker_heading: JOE'S POV.
dialog: lo.
speaker_heading: DANN (contd)
dialog: Now I don'thave a soprano.
dialog: ‘You left me without a
dialog: goprano, I gotta have a
dialog: soprano.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Paul...the tall guy in the
dialog: back...the one with the biue
dialog: eye shadow...believe me,
dialog: he'll hit the high notes.
dialog: (Joe glances
dialog: ~ to the stage)
text: THE STAGE AND PEOPLE.
text: The rejects have begun to leave with varying attitudes of
dialog: despondency.
speaker_heading: RESUME JOE.
text: A moment of sympathy, even a slight groan to himself. Joe
text: once more starts to go, leaving a frustrated, bewildered
dialog: group.
speaker_heading: MURRAY (contd)
dialog: If any of you are interested
dialog: in being the swing dancer
dialog: would you please remain and
dialog: move over there a moment.
dialog: I'll be right with you. -
dialog: (three girls move
dialog: SR and stand
dialog: waiting, the
dialog: others exit)
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: I never know if he's kidding
dialog: me or not.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: And neither does he.
text: ANGLE TO INCLUDE JOE, AUDREY AND MICHELLE.
text: He pauses on his flight up the aisle, grabbing a jacket from
text: Michelle's lap.
speaker_heading: MURRAY (contd)
dialog: (when just the
dialog: six remain)
dialog: Rehearsals being a week from
text: Monday. Ten o'clock at
dialog: Broadway Arts. Mr. Gideon
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to Audrey)
dialog: The six that Murray is talk-
dialog: ing to -- -those—ere—the-ones-
dialog: Sewante Okay with you?
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
speaker_heading: MURRAY (contd)
dialog: would like you to bring
dialog: ballet shoes and character
dialog: shoes. Everyone will start
dialog: at basic Equity minimum.
text: ANGLE IN THE WINGS. TWO GIRLS.
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 ll.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: That tall girl, Victoria,
dialog: she's so-o-0 pretty.
text: Joe looks at Michelle. *
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: -++Pine with me. *
text: Two of the rejected girl dancers. are changing in the wings.
text: Murray's speech continues in background.
scene_heading: YOUNGER GIRL DANCER
dialog: Oh, fuck him. He never picks me.
speaker_heading: OLDER GIRL DANCER
dialog: Honey, I did fuck him, and he never
dialog: (shrug)
dialog: picks me either.
text: RESUME THEATRE.
text: doe leans over to give Michelle a kiss on the cheek. As
dialog: he does so:
speaker_heading: MURRAY (contd)
dialog: You should call our company
dialog: Manager, Mr, Larry Goldie,
dialog: at 555-6818...that's 555-
dialog: 6318 and he will arrange
dialog: for you to sign your contract.
dialog: We would appreciate you doing
dialog: this as soon as possible.
speaker_heading: coo AUDREY
dialog: What about this weekend
dialog: with vou and Michelle? *
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh, Jesus, Audrey, I *
dialog: gotta work this weekend.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: {obviously
dialog: disappointed)
dialog: That's okay.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Sorry, Michelle. *
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: That's okay.
text: He continues up the aisle,
scene_heading: EXT. 44TH STREET. OUTSIDE STAGE DOOR. DAY. 8
text: Joe moves from the stage door in a big hurry. Reaching
text: for a pill container, he quickly swallows several.
text: dexedrine tablets. A few steps later he suddenly stops.
speaker_heading: REVAL 21/10
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) 8 (CONTD)
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (with Michelle on
dialog: his mind)
dialog: Oh, ... some kind of Father.
text: He reverses his direction with the same urgency.
scene_heading: INT. THEATRE. THE GROUP. 9
text: On Joe's re-entrance he finds Audrey and Michelle surrounded
text: by the production staff. Audrey is conducting a spirited
dialog: defense of Joe's selection of Victoria.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: I don't want to sign that girl.
speaker_heading: "DANN
dialog: Tf she's in the show, I'm out ...
dialog: I walk.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Listen Paul, if you're smart you'll
dialog: do exactly what he wants you to do.
dialog: Trust him. He's made an awful lot of
dialog: money for all cf us ... all of us before
dialog: and believe me, he'll do it again. Now
dialog: if he wants to hire that girl you hire
dialog: her and if he wants to hire a three-headed
dialog: gorilla go out and find one and hire it.
text: From the rear, Joe, who has overheard, interrupts.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Audrey, c'mere.
scene_heading: TWO SHOT. JOE AND AUDREY.
text: As they meet in the aisle:
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (smiling and whispering)
dialog: You know I love you.
dialog: (she nods)
dialog: And we had a terrific marriage ...
speaker_heading: AUDREY © =
dialog: (nods)
dialog: eee until you screwed it up.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: «+. until I screwed it up. You're
dialog: a great star and you're gonna be
dialog: fantastic in this show ...
dialog: 9
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: RMEV.SUT SIs 60
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: 9 (CoNTD)
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: You don't think I'm too old for
dialog: the part?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: No, no, ¢'mon ... you're kidding
dialog: eee NOW 26.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Have you worked on the script?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Of course I have.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: You're lying.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Joe, it needs a lot of work. Some
dialog: of those lines are just terrible.
dialog: Please don't make me say them.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Audrey, I promise you by the
dialog: first script reading I‘li have it
dialog: all fixed, all rewritten ... Now you
dialog: made me forget my point. ,
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (as he said it)
dialog: We had a terrific marriage.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Yeah, that's right. Now do me one
dialog: small favor, please ...
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Stop being my mother! Now watch me
dialog: do my father bit.
dialog: {turning to Michelle,
dialog: smiling)
dialog: Hey, Michelle, about this weekend.
dialog: If you don't mind hanging around the
dialog: cutting room ... I'll have you picked
dialog: up after school Friday ...
dialog: Rev 1d,
dialog: 13a
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Will I get to see some of the movie?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Sure.
dialog: 27/76
speaker_heading: 9 (CONTD)
text: He checks Audrey's eyes expecting to get approbation and
text: gets it. Once more he starts back up the aisle; Audrey
text: catches up to him.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Joey?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: That Victoria??
dialog: (pause. She buttons the
dialog: top button of his shirt)
dialog: Rotten!!
speaker_heading: JOE
text: (smiling, unbuttoning
dialog: the same button)
dialog: I know, I know.
text: He exits.
dialog: 10
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT. 10
text: Looking into the mirror, he's trying on a long-haired rock-
text: star wig. Off screen we HEAR a female belter singing “A
dialog: Scod Man Is Hard To Pind."
speaker_heading: JCE
dialog: (into mirrer, with
dialog: some regret)
dialog: Ah-heh, I screwed up that marriage
dialog: because I cheated...oh, man, I
dialog: cheated every chance I could get.
speaker_heading: CU ANGELIQUE.
text: Deliberately she puts on a pair of horn-rimmed glasses.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: New, why don't you just lie down
dialog: and we'll talk about that little
dialog: problem,
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT:
text: Joe is now lying on an analyst's couch, Angelique seated
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (gcod=naturedly,
dialog: a la analyst)
dialog: All right, we'll start with simple
dialog: word association.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh, I like playing that.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Marriage.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Screwed up.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Family.
speaker_heading: JOE
text: Serewed up.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Work,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: All there is.
dialog: 10
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: 1s.
dialog: 10
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Women.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (rapidly)
dialog: Music, poetry, -fiteweses, laughter,
dialog: bright lights, hips, legs, breasts,
dialog: neck...
dialog: (begins slowing down
dialog: Lips.. seston. ro
dialog: (pause) as
dialog: «+ Hope...
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: {after a pause)
dialog: Beauty.
text: A long pause, he turns slowly, points directly at her, The
text: looks hold for a moment and then she resumes.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Mother.
dialog: Jes
speaker_heading: eerfiusteonr—
speaker_heading: —RNGEEZCeS
dialog: “ethe>.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Fat...jolly...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: «eeand sexy.
speaker_heading: “ANGELIQUE
dialog: Father.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Vaudeville.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Father.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Liar, cheat, womanizer...You would
dialog: have liked him. Well...
dialog: (claps his hands)
dialog: I feel better already. How much
dialog: do I owe you, Dr, Kronkheit?
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Just your life.
dialog: 10
dialog: ll
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 10
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Hmm, You work a lot cheaper than
dialog: most analysts.
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT.
scene_heading: INT. CUTTING ROCM, LOSE SHOT TRIPLE HEADED 11
scene_heading: STEENBECK. LATE AFTERNOON.
text: On the three screens we see clapper slates and hear voices
text: announcing take numbers. Slates say THE STANDUP. SCENES
text: TLIA7E,C. Director: Joe Gideon, Cinematographer: Korthaze.
text: Following the slates we CUT into a nightclub where the star
text: of the film, Davis Newman, is performing a monologue. Davis
text: wears jeans and a work shirt and is smoking a cigarette.
dialog: During the ensuing we will see either the three different
text: angles at once or will isolate each angle.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: If I were God and sometimes I think
dialog: I am...depends on...
dialog: (takes a long hit
dialog: from cigarette,. _
dialog: pretending it's —
dialog: grass..,and maybe”
dialog: it is)
dialog: Okay...if I were God, man. vevery=
dialog: body would live forever! 'o death,
dialog: man! No pennies on the eyes Zor
dialog: anybody.
dialog: (pause, looks <houghtful)
dialog: Well-=l-1, there are a souple of
dialog: people...like my agent who bosized
dialog: me into this toilet...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Man, I tell ya there are two
dialog: things in life that are extremely
dialog: difficult to avoid...Death and the
dialog: clap. So far I've managed to avoid
dialog: one of then.
dialog: (indicates an Unsmiling
dialog: Man who sits zombie-
dialog: like at a ringside table)
dialog: This cat has also managed to avoid
dialog: one...the clap.
dialog: One of the, Angles for at least part of the monogue includes
text: Kimberly » the co-star of The Standup, sitting with
text: another girl at a ringside table. She is watching Davis
dialog: with open admiration. At some point we will hear the
text: following dialogue in that ANGLE, —
dialog: 11
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 17.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED il
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: He's cute. I'd like to meet hin. *
speaker_heading: WIDER SHOT.
text: Sitting at the Steenbeck in the cluttered cutting room
text: are Joe and editor, Eddie Lerner. Joe has a cup of wine
text: and never stops chain smoking. Also working in the room
text: is an eager, long-haired youth, Jonathan, the assistant
text: editor. At the rewind table is apprentice Stacy St. John,
dialog: a shapely, pretty 19-year old. Although we continue the
text: monologue here in its entirety, it will be seen in bits and
text: pieces against the scene.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: You knew, man, Death is really
dialog: a hip thing now. It's...in.
dialog: But we all have very different
dialog: feelings about if. I mean,
dialog: for instance, man, to a
dialog: Catholic...Death is a pro=
dialog: motion! And to Billy Graham
dialog: +.-man, he's really something
dialog: else. Somebody finall
dialog: pinned Billy down said,
dialog: ‘Dr. Graham, what is Heaven
dialog: really like?' Billy-Baby
text: xesponded instantly, ‘In.
dialog: Zeaven,‘ he said, ‘there's
dialog: no sex but a lot of golf.’ At the end of the word “golf,”
dialog: (another hit Joe manipulates the Steenbeck
text: on cigarette) and reverses the film back to
dialog: "really something else."
text: He reruns the joke to the
dialog: same place, stops the machine
dialog: and repaats the action, then
dialog: allows tne film to continue.
speaker_heading: DAVIS (contd)
dialog: = happen to know that Billy
text: gets off on putters.,.Then
dialog: there's our reaction to Death.
dialog: Liks Lenny 1 Bruce said, You're
dialog: working in a garage, see...a
dialog: guy comes in and says, ‘Guess
dialog: what, man? Charlie's been hit
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: il
dialog: 1s.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED : 11
speaker_heading: DAVIS (contd)
dialog: by a truck and he's dead.' And
dialog: you say, 'Oh my God! Charlie's
dialog: dead. Tf can't ave it.
dialog: (starts sobbing)
dialog: ‘dow can Charlie be dead? I saw
dialog: him just last night...Charlie's
dialog: dead! How can I live without
dialog: Charlie? My best friend, man.
dialog: I love Charlie. What am I gonna
dialog: do without him?!
dialog: {pause, tears dry up)
dialog: Then, man...a chick with big boobs
text: and a short skirt walks in and
dialog: says, 'Charlie's dead,' and you
dialog: say, ‘Who's Charlie?’ That's it
dialog: for Charlie, man.
dialog: (pause, he lights
dialog: another cigarette}
dialog: There's all this builshit about
dialog: Death with dignity, man...you
dialog: know what Death with dignity is?
dialog: «seyou don't drool.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: oh, yeah, man. Death is really
dialog: in. Books, magazine articles,
dialog: TV shows, lectures, Ken and Barbie
dialog: dolls who have a mutual suicide
dialog: pact, There's this lady in
dialog: Chicago, man...wrete a book...
dialog: Dr. Kubler-Ross...Now this chick,
dialog: man...without the benefit of .
dialog: dying Herself, has broken the
dialog: process of Death into five stages.
dialog: {ticking them off)
dialog: Anger, Denial, Bargaining,
dialog: Depression, Acceptance. Sounds
dialog: like my Jewish law firm...
dialog: (pantomimes answering
dialog: phone, assumes Jewish
dialog: accent)
dialog: Geed morning, Anger~Denial.
dialog: {back to normal delivery)
dialog: Okay, man...so here you are.
dialog: You know you're going to die in
dialog: six months...
dialog: (assumes a pose, : Te
dialog: holds up one finger) so ot
dialog: One: Anger.
dialog: (@xploding in terrible
dialog: rage)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: ll
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED il
speaker_heading: DAVIS (contd)
dialog: Jesus Christ, Goddamn, son-of-
dialog: a~bitch mother-fucker.. >
dialog: (zitcks wrist
dialog: effeminately)
dialog: Oh POO!...
dialog: (breaks out of anger)
dialog: Now...if you work this first
dialog: stage right, man, you'll have
dialog: apoplexy and never have to go
dialog: through the next four stages.
dialog: However...if you should happen
dialog: to get to...
dialog: (holds up two fingers)
dialog: Two: Denial.
dialog: (totally negates any
dialog: possibility of Death)
dialog: No, not me, no. Couldn't possibly
dialog: be me. Somebody else maybe...but
dialog: not me. How about my mother, man?
dialog: She's old, I'm weaned, I'm toilet
dialog: trained...I don't need her anymore.
dialog: Geedbye, Mom. You've been terrific
dialog: «+sbut not me.
dialog: 3 three fingers)
dialog: Three: Bargaining.
dialog: (leoks’ up “to God)
dialog: Psssst....Look, man, let's sit
dialog: down and talk this over like
dialog: businessmen...a negotiation.
dialog: Okay? I do not want to haggle.
dialog: You'll find me a reasonable man,
dialog: mane
dialog: (pause)
dialog: The blend...you know, the one
dialog: on East Sixty-third Street I
dialog: see on Tuesday nights...gone,
dialog: finished, I'll never see her
dialog: again. No more hard drugs...
dialog: A little grass...maybe?...
dialog: And, man, I promise I won't
dialog: flash on subways anymore,
dialog: Sol Have we got a deal? Set
dialog: (pause) hint —-eusken
dialog: What?...Okay. I'll screw my
dialog: wife at least once a month. 22pia-
dialog: Man, do you drive a hard +hat—new,—Jeo2-
dialog: bargain
dialog: jolds up four
dialog: fingers)
dialog: Four: Depression.
dialog: 11
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
speaker_heading: DAVIS (contd)
dialog: (he becomes infinitely
dialog: depressed, holding
dialog: his head and pacing)
dialog: Boy~oh-boy-oh-boy, man. I'm
dialog: dying. Boy, am I dying!
dialog: Oi weh, am T oysna! Nobody's
dialog: dying but ma. doctor's
dialog: not dying. Fourteen thousand
dialog: dollars for seven enemas, man.
dialog: He's alive in Florida!
dialog: I’m dying! Oh boy, oh boy.
dialog: I’m paying two hundred forty
dialog: dollars a day for this
dialog: hospital room...
dialog: (thinks it over)
dialog: At those prices, man, who
dialog: can afford to live? So...
dialog: {holds up five fingers)
dialog: Acceptance. I accept.
dialog: (falls to the floor
dialog: in a corpse~like
dialog: position)
dialog: 20.
dialog: il
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: eer ee It's
dialog: wenee Lousy. amd I directed
dialog: Tt Tousy.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Oh, no...no, Joey, you're
dialog: wrong. I think he's funny.
dialog: I think he's very funny.
dialog: The whole thing is funny.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (pointing to
dialog: Steenbeck)
dialog: Why does he have to mumble
dialog: like that?
dialog: {pause)
dialog: I'll tell you why. Because
dialog: I'm an asshole and I let hin
text: Spot light fades. He's in mumble like that.
dialog: BLACK. (be hits off-switch
dialog: on Steenbeck)
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: Let's try the long shot.
text: Eddie examines coding number and calls to the assistant.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Jonathan, pull out 421D...No, that's
dialog: B...E.
text: Joe crosses to the rewind table where he keeps his bottle of
text: wine, Stacy is rewinding a reel of film. Joe entangles her
text: in a seductive embrace from behind, reaching for wine.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Excuse me, Stacy.
dialog: way of my wine.
dialog: (smelling her hair)
dialog: Oooo, Stacy, You smell so...so
dialog: You're in the
dialog: «e280 good, What is that you're
dialog: wearing?
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: Joe-ey. You ask me that every
dialog: day. It's Shalimar.
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED oo” iL
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh, that's right. It's Shalimar.
dialog: (goes back to
dialog: Steenbeck, starts
dialog: running film)
dialog: Stacy wears Shalimar all the time,
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: How about putting in another
dialog: audience shot. There's that
dialog: great one with the fat couple,
dialog: ‘i it, and
dialog: they're really laughing.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: In every theatre in America
dialog: people would rise and say “What
dialog: the fuck are they laughing at?"
scene_heading: INT. PROJECTION ROOM. SHOT OF SCREEN, NIGHT, 12
text: We see a piece of the monologue sequence that has been cut
text: together. Over the sound of the monologue, whichever piece
dialog: of it we see:
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE TO JOE, EDDIE, JONATHAN AND STACY. KATIE TO
speaker_heading: ENTER.
text: Joe sits alone, slumped in his seat, still smoking and
text: @rinking. Stacy sits a couple rows behind him. Eddie and
text: Jonathan sit at the console to the rear. The door to the
text: screening room opens and Kate Jagger enters. She carries
text: a small poodle. Hatie ig twenty-two, beautiful, a featured
text: dancer in a Broadway show. She wears no makeup and is
text: dressed in a denim suit. All look briefly to see who has
text: entered. By the reactions of Eddie and Jonathan, who
text: obviously like her, she is a familiar figure around the
text: cutting room. Eddie smiles and whispers.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Hi, Katie,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (not taking his eyes
dialog: off the screen)
dialog: Sit down, Katie.
text: She moves to a seat behind Joe. He acknowledges her presence
text: by raising his left hand, which she takes warmly, at the same
text: time gently kissing his neck. There is also a cool acknow~
text: ledgment between her and Stacy. Eagerly Katie looks at the
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: 12 CONTINUED 12
text: gereen and almost immediately starts to laugh, Joe gives
dialog: her one look as if to say ‘What is she laughing at?'
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (with a glance at
dialog: watch -- whispers)
dialog: Can we have dinner together before
dialog: I go to the theatre? _
speaker_heading: JOB so ee
dialog: I can't,
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Shoulda I come over later?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: We may be working very late...
dialog: I'll call.
text: Katie's eyes go back once more to the screen. She finds
text: something funny, laughs again. She touches the back of
text: Joe's head, then gets up and, with whispered goodbyes to
text: the others, she leaves. A moment later the screén goes
text: white, and the lights of the room come Up.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Anybody got any setter ideas?
dialog: «-ebesides burning
dialog: the film?
dialog: (silence)
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: I like it, Joe. I think it's
dialog: really good.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (cold)
dialog: Who asked you, Stacy?
dialog: (pause
dialog: Look..-let's cut out the Jewish
dialog: law firm joke...let's try to get
dialog: some of the 'mans' out...sounds
dialog: fake hip...
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: What about the Billy Graham joke?
dialog: (to them)
dialog: Yeah, let's cut the Billy Graham
dialog: joke...a Little more tightening.
text: (begins massaging his left
dialog: hand, which he continues
dialog: to do for the remainder
dialog: of the scene)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 23.
scene_heading: 12. CONTINUED on 12
dialog: ee)
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: Maybe we can get away with au. *
text: A squawky voice comes over the speaker from the projection
dialog: room.
scene_heading: : PROJECTIONIST'S VOICE
dialog: Finished? Or do you want to run
dialog: it again?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: No, thank you, we are finished!
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: (politely)
dialog: Thanks, Irv. We're finished.
text: Eddie flicks off intercom. Joe still sits slumped in *
text: his seat, staring blankly at the screen.
dialog: *
scene_heading: MUSIC: GUITAR INTRO TO "PERFECT DAY" BY HARRY NILSSON,
text: THe SONG WILL CONTINUE OVER AND THROUGH THE FOLLOWING
speaker_heading: SCENE.
dialog: : JOE .
dialog: Do you suppose Stanley Kubrick eve
dialog: gets depressed?':
scene_heading: 13 INT. JOE'S APARTMENT. TO CARRY JOE. HALLWAY TO 13
scene_heading: FRONT DOOR. NIGHT.
text: Drunk, carrying a drink in one hand and a glass of wine
text: in another, Joe moves unsteadily toward the front door
dialog: in response to the buzzer. ,
speaker_heading: EDDIE (V.0.)
dialog: You wanna make those changes *
dialog: tonight, Joey?
speaker_heading: JOE (V.0.)
dialog: No...I think I'll work on the *
dialog: show. I start dance rehearsals *
dialog: in a week, and I don't have one
dialog: idea in my head.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE AT DOOR.
text: He opens the door to reveal Victoria. He hands her the
text: glass of wine. At that moment, we hear sung: :
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 24.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 13
scene_heading: IT'S A PERFECT WAY
scene_heading: TO END A PERFECT DAY
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. 14
text: NIGHT..
text: He wears a plumed hat and is applying a Cyranc-like
text: nose. Off screen wa HEAR instrumental guitar and rhythm
text: of same song. Also from off screen a wash of blue light
text: hits him as he's adjusting his nose.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {to unseen lighting man)
dialog: Too strong. Down two points. *
dialog: (the adjustment is made,
dialog: the nose appiied, the hat
dialog: cocked, Joe assumes the
dialog: flamboyance of an old
dialog: fashioned actor}
dialog: Oh, what foolishness I would
dialog: spout...what insipid insincerities
dialog: «.ejust to seduce her....
dialog: tesuming normal attitude)
dialog: Whoever “her" happened to be at
dialog: the time.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Naver any regrets?...guilt?
speaker_heading: / JOE :
dialog: Only... *
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE ,
dialog: (finishing for him) *
dialog: ...when I got caught.
dialog: 15
speaker_heading: REV.10/1i/73
dialog: 25
dialog: -
dialog: wu
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S LIVING ROOM. JOE AND VICTORIA. NIGHT
text: The room is lit only with candles.
scene_heading: CLOSE UP. JOE.
text: He pours wine.
scene_heading: CLOSE UP. PHONOGRAPH TURN TABLE.
text: We see record spinning.
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP. JOE
text: He lights a joint, takes a hit, passes it to Victoria
text: who also takes a hit.
scene_heading: LONG SHOT. JOE AND VICTORIA.
text: The two are now dancing slowly barely moving. Joe is
text: being very free with his hands. We hear sung:
scene_heading: IT'S A PERFECT WAY
scene_heading: TO END A PERFECT DAY
text: Gui inst. continues under.
speaker_heading: JOE .
dialog: -.- uh ... you've really got ...
dialog: something ... special... ,
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: All right. All ri-i-ight! I want
dialog: SQ to be a movie star.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh,
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Ever since I was this big ...
dialog: (indicating three year
dialog: old height)
dialog: -.. I wanted to see my face on
text: the screen f-o-o-rty feet wide.
dialog: (extends arms)
speaker_heading: . JOE
dialog: Un huh.
text: She moves away from him to the window, strikes a pose
text: with the entire city backlighting her.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (touching her hand to the
text: back of her head in a Delsar-
dialog: tian gesture)
dialog: I've always depended on the kindness
dialog: of strangers.
dialog: {never breaking the pose)
dialog: You're looking at my nose aren't you?
dialog: 15
dialog: 16
speaker_heading: REV. L0/ii/75
dialog: 26
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 15
speaker_heading: . JOE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: It's crooked see it goes
text: to the left.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh yeah. :
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I could always get that fixed.
dialog: Like this.
dialog: (gesture with finger)
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I mean do you think I could be?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: You know a movie star, I mean
dialog: in the movies.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {still touching her hips,
dialog: breasts, etc.)
dialog: Look, that's a heavy question.
dialog: I don't know anybody who could
dialog: answer that. It's a freaky
dialog: business, you know. --=..5
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Yeah, I know all about that.
dialog: But like I want to know what you
dialog: think? I mean do you think I
dialog: could be a movie star?
text: He glances at the clock. It reads nine forty-five.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY . DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT 16
dialog: Instrumental of “Perfect Day" continues.
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 18a
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (an old actor role)
dialog: On occasion, overwhelmed by
dialog: desire and haunted by the swift
dialog: fleeting of time, I might even
dialog: possibly risk the truth.
scene_heading: RESUME LIVING ROOM. JOE AND VICTORIA
dialog: When he shakes
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (looks back from clock)
dialog: Ne.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Even with a nose job?
text: his head "no", she sighs.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA (CONTINUED)
dialog: +e. well ... that's fair. It is
dialog: a freaky business, though. You
dialog: could be wrong, right?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I don't dance so hot either,
dialog: do I?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: But you will I promise.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
text: (she breaks away, looks
dialog: out window, pause)
dialog: Wanna go to bed?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (almost to himself)
dialog: It is a freaky business.
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND_ANGELIQUE, NIGHT.
text: As Joe strips off his nose:
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Truth ... the final ploy.
scene_heading: RESUME LIVING ROOM. JOE AND VICTORIA
text: She siowly starts up the stairs. He grabs a wine bottle
text: and staggers after her. As he goes, he takes of: his
dialog: shirt -- drops
text: it on the stairs. During we hear sung:
dialog: 16
dialog: i7
dialog: 15
dialog: 18a
speaker_heading: 18A
dialog: 19
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
dialog: 28,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 18a
speaker_heading: RIDE WITH ME
speaker_heading: GLIDE WITH ME
scene_heading: STAY BY MY SIDE
text: WITH ME THROUGH THE NIGHT
scene_heading: RIDE ON THE WINGS
text: OF THE ANGELS OF LOVE
dialog: WHO ARE ON OUR SIDE
scene_heading: INT. OUTER HALLWAY OF JOE'S APARTMENT. ANGLE TOWARD 19
scene_heading: FRONT DOOR. KATIE AND DOG. NIGHT.
text: The following lyric is heard sung through the succeeding
dialog: action. —
scene_heading: IT'S A PERFECT WAY
scene_heading: TO END A PERFECT DAY
scene_heading: IT'S A PERFECT WAY
dialog: TO SAY I LOVE YOU
text: Katie steps into the hallway leading the dog on leash.
text: CAMERA FOLLOWS her to the door of Joe's apartment. With
text: her _own key she. opens the door.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT. TO FOLLOW KATIE. NIGHT. 20
text: Katie glances at clock. It reads twelve thirty-one.
text: Katie's assumption is that Joe is asleep. She walks to
text: the kitchen where she refills the dog's water dish. From
text: the refrigerator she takes a carton of milk and fills a
text: glass. Carrying the milk, she starts upstairs. Unleashed,
text: the dog follows. On the way, she notices Joe's shirt --
text: hesitates but continues.
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S BEDROCM, KATIE AND DOG. 22
text: Katie enters the bedroom, comes to a dead stop.
scene_heading: KATIE'S POV. JOE AND VICTORIA.
text: She sees Joe and Victoria in bed, Both are asleep. On
text: a bedside table are white wine bottles and half filled
text: glasses, There are thick candles, still burning, heavy
text: with drippings. HERE IS WHERE THE LYRIC ENDS WITH THE
speaker_heading: LINE:
dialog: It's A PERFECT WAY
dialog: TO SAY I LOVE YOU.
text: The dog starts yipping.
text: MUSIC CODA CONTINUES OVER THE FOLLOWING.
dialog: seneeis
dialog: 21
dialog: 21a
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 21
scene_heading: RESUME KATIE.
text: She reacts, staring for a moment. A mixture of disappoint=
text: aon hurt...resignation. There is an inadvertent, small
scene_heading: RESUME JOE AND VICTORIA.
text: Both awaken. Joe sits up.
speaker_heading: WIDE SHOT.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: eeel'm sorry...O-0-0, am I sorry.
text: She starts to go.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: oe Katie...
text: He starts to get up.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: {leaving)
dialog: «eel should have called first.
text: She leashes the dog and leaves.
speaker_heading: JCE AND VICTORIA.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Ah, shit...
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Did I like screw anything up?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: No...it's my fault, I was supposed
dialog: to call her and tell her to come or
dialog: not to come...I forget all about it.
text: Pours another glass of wine. Turns to Victoria, pulls back
text: the sheet a bit, looks at her nude body.
text: MUSIC SEGUES INTO STRIPPER TYPE MUSIC.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE, ANGELIQUE AND JOE'S 21a
scene_heading: MOTHER. NIGHT.
text: Angelique is nude, Joe's mother is exactly as he has
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: 21A CONTINUED 21a
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
text: described her: a jolly, outgoing fat woman. She wears a
text: flowered house dress from the 50's. She treats Angelique
dialog: ag though this is a favorite girl of Joe's that he has
text: brought home for the first time and obviously pays no
text: attention to her nudity. Joe is fascinated by the meeting,
text: watching it at all times in the mirror, at the same time
text: experimenting with an eyebrow pencil. At times he and
text: Angelique make eye contact, both amused by the mother's
text: enthusiasm and her total misinterpretation of her son's
dialog: ife.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: I'm Joey's mother. Ever since
dialog: he was this high he's had such
dialog: a crush on you.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: {looking at Joe)
dialog: I've always been fond of Joe, too.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Of all the children, he was the
dialog: least worry. He worked in all
dialog: those cheap burlesque clubs...
dialog: always around stark naked girls.
dialog: But did it bother hime Nol He
dialog: never paid any attention...never
dialog: even looked at them.
text: Joe and Angelique exchange a look.
scene_heading: INT. NIGHTCLUB. (1951) STAGE. CLOSE SHOT STRIPPER'S 22
text: TASSELLED BREASTS. NIGHT.
text: CAMERA slowly pulls back. We see that the STRIPPER MUSIC
text: is played by a three piece combo <= piano, drums and
text: saxophone. With professional dexterity the stripper is
text: whirling tassels in opposite directions. When the entire
text: set is revealed we see that we are in a large, cheap night-
dialog: club with a capacity of two hundred, There are, however,
dialog: only fifteen or twenty customers.
text: BACKSTAGE, TEENAGE JOE (to be played by a young actor- 23
dialog: dancer).
text: At age fourteen, Joe works in this sleazy burlesque night-
text: club in Chicago. Between shows he sits in a corner surrep=-
text: titiously studying a first year Latin text, mumbling
text: conjugations. Not yet fully costumed, he will be seen
text: wearing white top hat, white tie and white tails. off
text: stage the stripper MUSIC CONTINUES. Behind Joe, ancther
dialog: 23
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED : 23
text: stripper appears, a coat covering her costume. She has just
text: come from the front of the club where she has been hustling
dialog: drinks.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (mumbling)
dialog: Amo, Amas, Amat...I love...you love
dialog: eeene, she, it loves...
text: Aware of stripper, he quickly closes the book. She stops,
dialog: grins.
speaker_heading: SECOND STRIPPER
dialog: Hey, kid, what have you got there?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Just a book.
text: She takes the book away from him. Off screen we HEAR the
text: end of the stripper MUSIC, scattered applause and ad lib
dialog: thank yous from the MC.
speaker_heading: SECOND STRIPPER
dialog: First year Latin??...How old are you?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Nineteen.
speaker_heading: SECOND STRIPPER
dialog: (just as quickly)
dialog: What year were you born?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (caught)
dialog: Nineteen thirty...uh, uh...nineteen.
dialog: thirty...uh...
speaker_heading: SECOND STRIPPER
dialog: Try nineteen thirty-four,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Right! Nineteen thirty-four.
speaker_heading: SECOND STRIPPER
dialog: Now try nineteen thirty-two.
text: trapped in the lie, Joe just lowers his head.
speaker_heading: SECOND STRIPPER
dialog: (knows he's lying)
dialog: Uh-huh.
text: (with a big grin, she
dialog: hands him back the book)
dialog: 24
dialog: 26
dialog: 27
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: INT. DRESSING ROOM, THREE STRIPPERS. NIGHT. 24
text: one Stripper has just finished performing, the Third is
text: preparing for her performance by putting on pasties, eye
text: lashes, etc. as the Second Stripper enters and takes off
dialog: her coat. Sows
speaker_heading: SECOND STRIPPER
dialog: Hey, ya want a laugh? That tap
dialog: dancer is only a kid. He can't
dialog: be any more than thirteen or
dialog: fourteen.
speaker_heading: THIRD STRIPPER
dialog: You're kidding!
scene_heading: RESUME JOE IN HALLWAY LEADING TO STAGE. 25
text: He is preparing to go on, putting on hig jacket and snapping
text: open his top hat. He is nervous and apprehensive. Off, we
dialog: hear the Comic-MC.
speaker_heading: MC (0.C.)
dialog: And now ladies and germs, I want
dialog: to introduce Chicago's tap dancer~
dialog: axtraordinaire...Ch wait...
scene_heading: INT. NIGHTCLUB, ANGLE FAVORING MC. 26
text: The MC is a Pinky Lee type -- wears a fedora hat.
text: INTERCUT BETWEEN THE MC_AND THE YOUNG JOE.
dialog: eee
speaker_heading: MC
dialog: (imitating Bert Lahr)
dialog: esejust a moment, just a moment...
dialog: You there, the lovely lady who
dialog: just walked in...that's right,
dialog: lady, you with the mink coat. Can
dialog: you tell me, madam, I mean Miss...
dialog: How did you get that lovely mink
dialog: coat? Don't bother to answer that.
dialog: We know. The same way m: 3 get
dialog: minks, Speaking of rich people,
dialog: my family is in the iron and steel
dialog: business. My mother irons and my
dialog: father steals...
text: Over sporadic laughter, the Comic continues a series of jokes
text: on a similar level.
scene_heading: ACROSS YOUNG JOE. 27
text: He is warming up. Behind him the doors of the dressing room
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 27
text: open and the three half-nude strippers, anticipating great
text: fun, stalk the unaware Joe.
speaker_heading: THREE STRIPPERS
dialog: (as they move in on him)
dialog: So you're only fourteen...First
dialog: year Latin?...Is your Mommy
dialog: waiting out in the car for you?
dialog: oeeYou better stop lying or your
dialog: nose will grow...00000, something's
dialog: growing.
text: By now they have surrounded him. The Second Stripper holds
text: out a naked breast and thrusts it into his face.
speaker_heading: SECOND , STRIPPER
dialog: Say something in Latin, baby.
speaker_heading: THIRD STRIPPER
dialog: (now rubbing and
dialog: addressing His groin)
dialog: Little boy blue,
dialog: Come blow your horn.
dialog: The sheep's in the meadow...etc,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (terrified)
dialog: Please don't do that!...Please stop!
dialog: os etive got to_go_on!!..,Don't...
dialog: Please
text: They continue teasing, titillating, massaging.
scene_heading: YOUNG JOE'S POV.
text: A very large naked breast.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE, ANGELIQUE AND 28
scene_heading: MOTHER. NIGHT.
text: The three are in the same position as before.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: deei—hre—ever-cered—sbewt—wae—te—be
dialog: -perfect—en—eeage. He's such a
dialog: good boy...three times hé@ won
dialog: first prize for knowing more Bible
dialog: verses than anyone else in Sunday
dialog: School.
text: Joe winks at Angelique.
dialog: 28
dialog: 29
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 28
speaker_heading: MOTHER (contd)
dialog: Joey never did anything to dis-
dialog: appoint me.
text: The mother continues chattering -- now in MIME.
text: Joe fixes eye contact with Angelique. They look at one
dialog: another for a long moment. :
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT.
scene_heading: NIGHTCLUB, BACKSTAGE. JOE AND STRIPPERS. 29
text: With a breast thrust into his left eye, Joe is in utter
dialog: panic; tries to avoid the inevitability by intense concen~
text: tration on something else. He clenches his fists, his
text: body becomes rigid.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (rapidly, mechanically)
dialog: Yea, tho I walk through the valley
dialog: of the shadow of death I will fear
dialog: no evil for Thou art with me. Thy
dialog: vod and Thy staff, they comfort me.
speaker_heading: STRIPPERS
dialog: Rod?!? Staff?!? Now you're
dialog: talking, sweetie.
speaker_heading: MC (0.C.)
dialog: And here he is, folks...Tops in
dialog: Taps...Mr. Joe Gideon! !1
text: A little fanfare. Nothing happens.
text: ECU JOE LOOKING DOWN aT HIS CROTCH.
text: Girls are giggling. He whimpers.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh, my God.ee
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON MC.
dialog: uc
dialog: (impatiently)
dialog: As I was saying, folks. Tops in
dialog: Taps...Mr. Joe Gideon...and here
dialog: he is, I hope...
dialog: Fanfare.
dialog: 29
dialog: 30
dialog: 31
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: 35,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 29
scene_heading: RESUME. JOE.
speaker_heading: JOE “
dialog: (groaniag with +6
dialog: embarrassment)
dialog: Abhhhhhhhhhh......
text: He exits through curtain.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON STAGE. 30
text: Joe starts his taph number: SWEET SUE - stop time.
text: SHOTS OF AUDIENCE TO INTERCUT WITH JOE. 31
text: Indifferent to the performance, some of the audience begin
text: to notice that Joe has a problem (a prominent stain on his
text: immaculate white trousers). There is pointed laughter until
text: all are aware of his predicament. Completely humiliated,
text: tears come into Young Joa's eyes as he continues to tap
dialog: dance <= and cry.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE:
scene_heading: INT, JOE'S BATHROOM. ECU JOE'S EYE. DAY. 32
text: The sound of music and tap dancing from preceding scene
text: Slowly fades as the Visine drops are applied.
text: MONTAGE: Horning waking coutine continues: Vivaldi cassette,
dialog: Alka Seltzer, co Shower, dexedrine, coffee, "It's show
dialog: time, Folks," etc.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS VOCAL ROOM. JOE, HECHT, AUDREY, 33
scene_heading: CHRISTOPHER, DANN. DAY.
text: At the piano Paul Dann is enthusiastically demonstrating
text: a new opening song for the show NY/LA. During his
text: performance it is obvious that Hecht and Christopher are
text: delighted with the number. Joe sits listening, intently
text: and without emotion. Audrey sits near by and occasionally
text: cnecks Joe for any reactions. Dann ends with a flouzish
text: ‘co immediate ad-libs of approval from Hecht and Christopher.
text: The three men look first to Audrey.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: {to Audrey)
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (shrugs, pointing to Joe)
dialog: Ask the man,
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: 33 CONTINUED 33
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: oeeJ0@??
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (hesitantly)
dialog: eeetth.. well, I think it's okay...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: eeslet me see what I can do with it.
text: Dann is slightly disappointed. To assuage him:
speaker_heading: HECHT
text: Catchy and bouncy.
speaker_heading: RGAT, TED?
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
speaker_heading: Fehinieiet jeeéu
dialog: wendertez, Sh very bouncy ana catchy
scene_heading: 33A INT. BROADWAY ARTS. JOE, MURRAY, GRETCHEN, DANCERS, 33A
scene_heading: DRUMMER, PIANIST. DAY.
text: We're in a typical large rehearsal room in the Broadway
text: area. Twelve dancers, six boys and six girls, are learning
text: the beginnings of a Dance Number chorecgraphed to the music
dialog: of the song Dann just Gemonstsated. In addition we see a
text: piano player and a drummer, Murray Nathan sits in the
text: corner. After a brief eight bars, Joe blows the whistle
dialog: to interrupt,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Hold it. Jesus Christ!!
text: (rubs “his chest and
dialog: massages left arm)
dialog: «+eYou can do better than that.
dialog: Victoria, you're dancing like
dialog: you have salamis for feet.
dialog: (nodding to Gretchen)
dialog: Again...
text: The dancers are intimidated.
speaker_heading: . GRETCHEN
dialog: eeefivea, six, seven, eight...
text: They commence dancing again.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (blows whistle,
dialog: stops them)
dialog: Hold it. I've got an idea. I want
dialog: to try something. Joan, come here.
dialog: (she does)
speaker_heading: (HORE)
dialog: 33a
dialog: 34
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 37.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 33A
speaker_heading: JOB (contd)
dialog: Lie down on your back.
dialog: (she does)
dialog: Now, spread your legs open.
dialog: (she does; he kneels
dialog: between her legs)
dialog: I'va got an idea I'd like to try.
dialog: (he lies down on her)
dialog: Now, wrap your legs around me.
dialog: (she does)
dialog: Astrid, come here. Now I want
dialog: you to put your left knee on ny
text: back and go into arabesque.
dialog: (Astrid does as told)
dialog: Joan, keep opening and closing
dialog: your legs. Very...slowly.
dialog: (by now Joey has entwined
dialog: the three of them th'a
dialog: comical sexual position,
dialog: turns to mirror, asking)
dialog: Does that lock like anythins?
dialog: Ali laugh.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGRY.IOQUT. 34
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
text: Joe is slicking his hair in a Valentino, patent-leather
dialog: haiz do. Off screen we HEAR a TANGO,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: . Have you ever...slept with another
dialog: woman?
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: «eet once tried living with two
dialog: girls...two girls at once...
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE *
dialog: Your “noble experiment".
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (neds) *
dialog: +»-lasted five and a half months...
dialog: (he rises)
dialog: We lived together...
dialog: 34
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 34
text: Menage Partners #1 and $2 appear. They are two attractive
text: young girls. Smoothly, Joe and the girls begin to TANGO.
text: As they dance, the two girls alternate the following lines.
speaker_heading: MENAGE PARTNERS #1 & #2
dialog: «eeLaughed together...
dialog: Drank together...
dialog: esmoked together...
dialog: »..Popped poppers together...
dialog: «eeSlept together...
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The two girls continue to dance. Joe sits down next to
dialog: Angelique.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Woke up one morning...one of them
dialog: was gone.
text: Partner #1 moves off as Partner #2 continues to dance.
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
text: On the bureau she left a note.
scene_heading: TIGHT CLOSE UP. MENAGE PARTNER #1
speaker_heading: MENAGE PARTNER #1
dialog: {emotionally -- tearful)
dialog: “t'm sorry I cannot share you anymore!
dialog: I want you all to: myself or not at
dialog: ali. Please...please txy..to under=
dialog: stand."
scene_heading: TWO SHOT, JOE AND ANGELIQUE.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (slightly over dramatic)
dialog: «eset not only understood, I was
dialog: flattered...flattered that she
dialog: felt so strongly about me...
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: How did you know the note was to
dialog: you?
text: He looks startled.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE (contd)
dialog: It could have been addressed "To
dialog: Whom It May Concern.*
text: Joe laughs, ' Enchanted, he tentatively reaches out to touch
text: her face.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
dialog: 35
dialog: 35a
speaker_heading: 35B
dialog: 36
dialog: 39.
scene_heading: EXT, 44TH STREET. OUTSIDE STAGE DOOR. JOE. DAY. 35
text: Joe's hand swiftly moves to his chest. He feels an extreme
text: shortness of breath. Puzzled, he leans against the wall.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM, JOE AND ANGELIQUE. 35A
text: Just before his hand reaches her face, Joe hesitates, then
text: slowly withdraws his hand. He rises and starts back to the
text: drassing table.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO: /
scene_heading: 44TH STREET. JOE. 35B
text: Normal breath regained, Joe shows obvious relief, He begins
text: massaging his left hand and slowly moves off as though to
text: turn into Shubert Alley.
scene_heading: INT, CUTTING ROOM. JOE, EDITING STAFF, PENN. DAY. 36
text: Joe sits alone, working the Steenbeck backwards and forwards,
text: sipping wine and chain=smoking. We see and hear part of the
text: Davis Newman monologue. Jonathan and Stacy Work at their
text: individual chores. Everyone is terribly fatigued. Off to
text: the side are THE STANDUP's producer, Joshua Penn, and Eddia
text: Lerner. Penn holds time sheets and is in an obvious state
text: of anxiety. Determinedly, Penn crosses over to the Steenbeck.
text: Joe continues, obsessively, to work.
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: Joey, I've got to talk to you about
dialog: these time sheets.,.three weeks we've
dialog: been on triple time and the brass is
dialog: eating my ass out. You shot eighty-
text: two days on a sixty-five day schedule,
dialog: On a four month editing schedule, .
dialog: you've gone seven months.” ‘We're
dialog: already two million’ two ovdr the
dialog: original budget. I mean, Ged created
dialog: the entire world in six days and never
dialog: went on overtime once. You can't even
dialog: cut an hour and a half movie in seven
dialog: months...on triple time, yet. Now,
dialog: Joey, I just hate tc do this and I'm
dialog: usually a very calm man; but this
dialog: whole thing has got me terribly crazy.
dialog: I must put my foot down. This whole
dialog: thing has gotta stop. It's just got
dialog: to stop!! It has to stop!! It just
dialog: 8 must stop!
dialog: 36
speaker_heading: 36A
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 36
text: Joe has remained unresponsive during the preceding.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Joshua, I made some changes in
dialog: the monologue. I think it's better.
dialog: Pakems-teck
text: He turns on the Steenbeck and maneuvers Penn to a position
text: where he. can watch it. He picks up his coat, pops some
text: dexedrine, washes it down with the remains of his glass of
text: wine, kisses Stacy on the neck.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I've gotta get back to rehearsal...
dialog: (te Stacy)
dialog: Mmmm. You smell good.
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: (sniffing at Joe)
dialog: So do you. California Chablis?
text: He slowly moves his hand up to her breast. She giggles and
text: moves it away. He repeats the action, she moves it away.
text: At the same time, he addresses Eddie:
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Eddie, I'll meet you back here at
dialog: five thirty. We've gotta work
dialog: tonight...iate. Nice seeing you,
dialog: Joshua.
text: Before anyone can answer, he goes. Penn is completely
text: involved'in the film and watches for several moments,
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: (almost to himself)
dialog: Oh, my God, it is better.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: God help us all, It is better.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS. LARGE REHEARSAL ROOM. JOE AND 36a
scene_heading: MICHELLE. NIGHT, ‘
text: It is raining outside. Almost midnight. Michelle sits
text: next to the rhythm machine, (This is a machine used
dialog: frequently by dancers and choreographers with which you
dialog: can get various tempos and rhythms.) ~ Joe is experimenting
text: with some slapping rhythms on his thigh. Michelle,
text: watching intently, occasionally tries to imitate.
speaker_heading: ~FOR
dialog: teat : . nytt
scene_heading: WEL —G94 6h 8408 WRSES-SYOTYORS—SD-
dialog: there) ——
dialog: 36a
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 36a
speaker_heading: JOE—teorts}
dialog: . ji
dialog: cage wink esse Tr one sarah 31-doi rey nated
dialog: Push up the tempo,
text: Michelle moves to the machine, pushes a knob. The tempo
text: increases, After experimenting a bit more, Joe gives up.
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: No, that stinks.
dialog: (to Michelle)
dialog: Flip that knob on the right to
text: a waltz and slow down the tempo.
text: This she does. We now hear the rhythm of a waltz.
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: (te Michelle)
dialog: Come here. I want to try a few lifts.
text: During the following, Joe will be lifting, carrying and
text: turning Michelle in various positions. He instructs her
text: as they move. She obeys each instruction,
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: First, sit on my shoulder and put
dialog: your leg in arabesque.
dialog: (he begins turning her)
dialog: How are things at home?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Oh, okay.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Be careful now, I'm going to drop
dialog: you backwards,
dialog: (he does)
dialog: Anything on your mind? Now, arch
dialog: your back.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (as she obeys his
dialog: instruction)
dialog: Well, I promised Mom I wouldn't
dialog: bring it up, but.....
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: But you are going to bring it up.
text: They continue to move around the floor in various positions.
speaker_heading: 36A
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: Revised 9/1/78 42.
dialog: New Page *
dialog: 36a
speaker_heading: . MICHELLE
dialog: Well, it's just that I kee;
dialog: wondering, Dad. :
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Now, hang on, I'm going to lift
dialog: you.
dialog: {he does)
dialog: What are you wondering about?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Why you don't get married again.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Now, do a head roll...slow...
dialog: I don't get married again because
dialog: I can't find anyone I dislike
dialog: anough to inflict that kind of
dialog: torture on.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (ignoring his response)
dialog: Why don't you marry Katie? She's
dialog: terrific.
speaker_heading: | JOE
dialog: Yeah, she is...which is exactly
dialog: why I won't marry her. Now, go
text: off in the corner...run and jump
dialog: at me in a stag leap...I'll catch
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (as she crosses
dialog: to corner)
dialog: What about Victoria? You're not
dialog: too crazy about her.
dialog: (she runs -- jumps --
dialog: he catches her)
dialog: What about the blonde?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: What blonde?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: The one in Philadelphia with the
dialog: television show that Mom keeps
dialog: talking about.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Why is it so important to you that
dialog: I get married again? .
speaker_heading: 36A
speaker_heading: 36B
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 43.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 36A
speaker_heading: MICHELLE *
dialog: Cause then you'd settle down and
text: step screwing around.
speaker_heading: JOE :
dialog: Michelle, watch your language. *
dialog: (glances at his watch)
dialog: Oh, my god, it's almost midnight.
dialog: I gotta get you home.
text: Throwing her over his shoulder in another lift, he starts
text: toward the door.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Oh, Daddy, can't I stay for a
dialog: little while? This is fun.
dialog: Joe.
dialog: Oh, no, your mother'’11 kill me.
text: By now they are out the door into the hallway.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS HALLWAY. LEADING TO ELEVATOR. 363
scene_heading: JOE AND MICHELLE. NIGHT.
text: CAMERA tracks them to the elevator.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE *
dialog: Besides, if you got married again
dialog: then I'd have another mother. I'm
dialog: the only kid in school who doesn't
dialog: have at least two mothers and two
dialog: fathers.
text: By now they are at the elevator. The elevator door
text: opens. Still carrying her, they enter.
speaker_heading: JOE *
dialog: (laughs)
text: Poor, underprivileged child.
dialog: (hugs her)
dialog: Michelle, I love you. :
speaker_heading: MICHELLE *
dialog: You say that to all the girls.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (affectionately)
dialog: Nobody likes a smart ass kid, Michelle.
text: The elevator door closes.
dialog: 36c
speaker_heading: 36D
dialog: 37
speaker_heading: 37A
speaker_heading: “38
dialog: 39
dialog: Revises 9/1/78 44.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRANCE HALLWAY. BROADWAY ARTS. JOE AND 36C
scene_heading: MICHELLE. NIGHT.
text: As they come out of the elevator, Joe still carries
text: Michelle only now in a slightly dizferent lift. As they
dialog: cross to the front door: *
speaker_heading: MICEELLE *
dialog: If you got married, maybe you'd
dialog: have a baby and maybe I'd have
dialog: a little brother.
speaker_heading: JOE *
dialog: I'll call Hertz tomorrow and rent
dialog: you a brother.
text: They exit the front door.
scene_heading: EXT. ANGLE FROM HALLWAY TO BROADWAY. JOE, 36D
scene_heading: MICHELLE, DRIVER AND CAR. NIGHT.
text: It is raining heavily. A limousine waits at the curb.
text: Joe husties her to se car, opens the back doer and *
text: tosses her into the back seat. The car takes off.
text: Joe waves. He turns and re-enters the hallway. He
text: is soaking wet. Popping a dexedrine he heads for the
dialog: elevator.
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S BATHROOM, DAY. 37
text: MONTAGE: The popping waking routine: Vivaldi cassette,
dialog: Alka Seltzer, co shower, Visine, dexedrine, “It's
dialog: show time, folks" into mirror, etc.
speaker_heading: OMIT , 37A° *
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM. KATIE, JOE. DAY. - 38 *
text: Ratie is sitting up in bed. Joe hands her a cup of
text: coffee, gently touches her cheek. As he does so:
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. 39
text: NIGHT. .
text: Joe is experimenting with make-up, having drawn vertical
text: and horizontal black lines on his face. The flirtatious
text: attitude is deepening between them. The MUSIC is a
dialog: sentimental love song.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: You believe in love?
speaker_heading: 36D
dialog: 37
dialog: 37a
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
speaker_heading: 394
dialog: Rare separ ey
speaker_heading: 44a
scene_heading: EXT. ANGLE FROM HALLWAY TO BROADWAY. JOE, MICHELLE 36D
scene_heading: DRIVER AND CAR. NIGHT.
text: It is raining heavily. A limousine waits at the curb.
text: Joe hustles her to the car, opens the back door and
text: tosses her into the back seat. The car takes off. Joe
text: waves. He turns and re-enters the hallway. He is soaking
text: wet. Popping a dexedrine he heads for the elevator.
dialog: tte stoke *
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S BATHROOM. DAY. ue 37
text: MONTAGE: The morning waking routine: Vivaldi cassette,
dialog: Alka Seltzer, cold shower, Visine, dexedrine, "It's
dialog: show time, folks" into mirror, etc.
speaker_heading: OMIT 37A
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM. KATIE, JOE. DAY. 38
text: Katie is sitting up in bed. Joe hands her a cup of
text: coffee, gently touches her cheek. As he does so:
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. 33
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
text: Joe is experimenting with make-up, having drawn vertical
text: and horizontal black lines on his face. The flirtatious
text: attitude is deepening between them. The MUSIC is a
dialog: sentimental love song.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: You Betieve. in love?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I believe in ‘saying I love you.
dialog: It helps people concentrate.
dialog: (after a moment; turns to
dialog: . her, not joking)
dialog: I'd believe in it if I knew what
dialog: it was.
speaker_heading: KATIE (0.8.)
dialog: Joey ...
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT.
scene_heading: RESUME BEDROOM. JOE AND KATIE. 39A
text: Katie is in bed, sipping coffee.
speaker_heading: JOE (0.8.)
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: 394
speaker_heading: 39B
speaker_heading: 39C¢
dialog: b
dialog: uu
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 39A (CONTD)
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: They've asked me to go on tour
dialog: with the show,
text: Joe is at the bureau collecting his keys, wallet, etc.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Six months. What do you think?
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT To:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT. 398
text: MUSIC IN. .
speaker_heading: KATIE (0.8.)
dialog: Six months. What do you think?
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: And you say it all the time.
speaker_heading: JOE.
dialog: Yeah, I say it a lot ... a lot.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: ‘then?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: When it works.
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT.
scene_heading: RESUME BEDROOM. JOE AND KATIE. 39¢
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I love you, Katie... but I think see
dialog: you have to do what's best for you ...
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Meaning?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: What do you mean, Joe?
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 39D
dialog: 40
dialog: Mave sey ay re
dialog: 46
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT. 39D
speaker_heading: MUSIC IN.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Sometimes it doesn't work.
text: Angelique laughs. Her laughter drifting across the cut to:
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT.
scene_heading: RESUME BEDROOM. JOE AND KATIE. . 40
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Well ... for your good, I think
dialog: you should go.
text: He exits into the bathroom. She sits for a moment, looking
text: at bathroom door; then reaches for her purse, takes out
text: small address book, looks up a phone number, then dials
dialog: bedside phone. :
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (into phone) - Ts
dialog: Michael? It's Katie... Kete Jaqger ...
dialog: You're Michael ...
dialog: (after a moment)
dialog: That's right, me. It's me ... So,
dialog: did you mean it about dinner?
dialog: Well, how about tonight? ...
dialog: Youtre surprised?
dialog: (a little laugh)
dialog: Well, I'ma little surprised myseiz ...
dialog: Let's make it eleven at Wally's.
dialog: Goocbye, Michael. .
dialog: 
text: She hangs up phone. Joe emerges quietly from bathroom;
text: calmly, controlled.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I'ma little surprised too. Now
dialog: we're all a little surprised.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Who was that?
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Michael Graham.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (remaining calm)
dialog: Michael Graham. Who is Michael
dialog: Grakam?
speaker_heading: . KATIE
dialog: A dancer in my. ballet class.
dialog: 
dialog: 40
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
text: Joe exits very calmly into the bathroom.
speaker_heading: REV. 12/1/78
dialog: 47
speaker_heading: JOE
text: A dancer in her ballet class.
dialog: Straight or fag?
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: JOE.
dialog: T mean is he looking to get laid
dialog: or is he looking for Mr. Right?
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: He's straight.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: And tall. Michael Graham is a
text: very tall name. A tall, blonde name.
text: re-emerges wildly angry.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: God damn it!
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (intredmcing him to imaginary
dialog: audience)
dialog: -And her's Joe again, ladies anda
dialog: gentlemen; this time .in a towering rage --
dialog: cree stent
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: How dare you use my telephone ...
dialog: my telephone ... to call somenody
dialog: who is not a fag!-
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (so angry she is almost unable
dialog: to speak.)
dialog: s+. Oh -- it's okay for you to gu
dialog: out with any -- any girl in town --
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Rigkt. I go out with any girl in town.
dialog: stay in with you.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Oh ... IT... it's ...
dialog: (inarticulate frenzy)
dialog: It's happening to me ... you always ...
dialog: you know I can't talk... I can never do
dialog: these speeches ... I need -- I —— I need
dialog: a taxi to get me to the end of a sentence,
dialog: I -- Oh, God, Joey, it's not fair -—- look,
dialog: it's all wrong ... I'm spilling the coffee
dialog: s+. everything is all wrong.
dialog: (te herself) :
dialog: Taxil
dialog: Instantly he
speaker_heading: 40 (CONTD)
dialog: 40
speaker_heading: 40A
speaker_heading: 40B
speaker_heading: REV. 12/1/78
dialog: 48
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 40 (CONTD)
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Let me help you. First; you're
text: obviously heading for a "door-slam-
dialog: exit." Door-slam exits do not work
dialog: within an apartment; and you are not
text: dressed for a door-slam exit out of the
dialog: apartment. Second; here are your lines:
dialog: “Joe, you are a self-centered ...."
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (suddenly, sharply, not
dialog: missing a beat)
dialog: Stop directing! You never stop directing!
dialog: Don't give me my lines. Here. Here are
dialog: your lines. You say softly, with feeling
dialog: -- "About that goddamn tour, I don't think
dialog: you skould go. Don't go, please ... Oh,
dialog: Joe, I don't want to see Michael Graham
dialog: or Graham Michael. I don't want dates.
dialog: I have no more small talk left. I don't
dialog: want to fool around, I don't want to play
dialog: games and I don't want to fight. I just
dialog: want to love you, Joe ... Oh, damn it, Joe,
dialog: why are you so generous with your cock? ...
dialog: I love you.
text: (she collapses on bed in clumsy
text: un-dancer-like fashion, helplessly)
dialog: ~ T love him ...
dialog: . (helplessly)
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: TRIPLE HEADED STEENBECK. . _ 40A
text: We see three CAMERA ANGLES of Katie having just delivered
text: the above line. Joe's hand reaches in and reverses the
text: film of all three angles. He then plays, it back so that
text: we see and hear the line repeated. Repeats action, back-
text: wards and forwards, one more time.
speaker_heading: RESUME JOE. 40B
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (thoughtfully)
dialog: +. That's pretty good ...
text: He slowly exits into bathroom. She remains seated on
dialog: bed.
text: STAY WITH JOE IN BATHROOM.
text: He takes a long look at himself in the mirror, then speaks.
speaker_heading: 40B
dialog: 41
speaker_heading: REV. 1L2s/l/78
dialog: 49
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 40B (CONTD)
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Katie ...?
dialog: (silence)
dialog: About the goddamn tour ... I don't
dialog: think you should go ...
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: That's the wrong reading.
text: He comes awkwardly into bedroom.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: «+. Don't go, please ...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Right reading?
text: Katie smiles then both break into laughter.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT. 41
text: Wearing white gloves, Joe is practicing a series of
text: theatrical gestures. Angelique is smoking a long
text: black cigarette. Off screen we HEAR a SAND DANCE.
text: Suddenly a pin. spot hits Joe. He makes a rather theatrical
text: gesture with his hands in farewell and freezes. The pin
text: spot slowly rises out, leaving Joe in silhouette and
text: Angelique in the backlight.
speaker_heading: . ANGELIQUE
dialog: No, I don't think so, Joe. Too
dialog: Las Vegas-sy.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: You're right.
text: Be snaps his fingers and two side lights hit him.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: Sooner or later, of course,
dialog: Katie would have to betray you.
speaker_heading: JOE . Sk
dialog: Yeah, I know. seas
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: As long as you could get away with it,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Right.
dialog: (pause) .
dialog: Why do you suppose she put up with it?
dialog: 41
dialog: 42
speaker_heading: REV. L2/T/ —
dialog: 50-51
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 41 (CONTD)
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Iocan think of many reasons for wanting
dialog: to be with you. .
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Don't bullshit a bullshitter.
scene_heading: SAND DANCE OUT.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS. JOE, DANCERS, GRETCHEN, PIANIST, 42
scene_heading: DRUMMER. DAY.
text: The dancers are learning a rehearsal combination probably
dialog: hustle number. Joe has concluded that to get Victoria away
text: from her artificiality and amateurism, he must first break
text: her down completely, then remold her. So, while they dance,
dialog: he relentlessly critizes Victoria. :
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Stop smiling.
dialog: Spot.
dialog: Stretch, Victoria.
dialog: Lay back, lay hack.
dialog: Casey, Candy good.
dialog: (to Victoria) .
dialog: You're gonna do it again.
dialog: Gary, Danny -
dialog: (to Victoria)
dialog: And don't smile, this isn't
text: a high school.play.
dialog: ' (te Gretchen)
dialog: Count. -
dialog: Bold it! et
dialog: Stand on your right foot poin:
dialog: your left toe and drop that
dialog: shoulder. That's not too hard
dialog: now is it?
text: As Joe turns to return to run the routine again, Victoria
text: mumbles under her breath "you sonovabitch." They begin
text: the rehearsal again ... Victoria loses her balance on the
text: turns and breaks down. The dancers finish the combination.
text: The pianist stops. Having achieved his objective, Joe
text: turns crosses a couple of steps to a table, goes back and
text: hands her a couple of kleenex. They talk by the bar.
speaker_heading: 42 COWDINVED
dialog: Sne blews her nese.
speaker_heading: 42 CONT
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: {still sobbing)
dialog: No, you're right. I'm terrible
dialog: Y know I'm terrible...2 can't 1
dialog: seem to do anything right...I lock
dialog: in the mirror and I'm embarrassed
dialog: ...Maybe I should guit...I just
dialog: can't seem to do anything right.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {putting his arm
dialog: around her)
dialog: Look, I can't make you a great
dialog: Gancer. I'm not sure I can make
dialog: you a gaod cancer. But if you stick
dialog: with it and don't give up I can
dialog: Make you a better Gancer...and I'd
dialog: like very much to do that...stay.-
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Are you gonna keep yelling at me?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Probably.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: I'll stay.
text: He touches ner cheek reassucingly.
speaker_heading: JOE .
dialog: Okay. Were we go, everybody. From
dialog: the top.
text: The dancers return to the center of the, room and begin
text: Gancing the combination again. After a few steps, Joe
dialog: s to Victoria.
dialog: sed, she
dialog: lo
dialog: 
dialog: ails.
text: She looks at him. He mouths, “Retter."
dialog: 
dialog: 43
speaker_heading: 44
dialog: 53,
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS VOCAL ROOM. JOE, LARRY GOLDIE, 43
scene_heading: JONESY HECHT, TED CHRISTOPHER, DCCTOR. DAY.
text: An insurance examination. Joe and the Doctor, the latter
text: an elderly hack, sit facing each other on straight chairs.
text: The Dector is listening through a stethoscope placed on
text: Joe's chest. Joe waits with bemused anticipation as the
text: three NY/LA producers wait anxiously. Both the Doctor and
text: Joe have Long-ashed cigarettes drooping from the corners of
text: their mouths. Lowering the stethoscope, the Doctor turns
text: to where he has his insurance form on a table. He picks up
text: a pen. Joe goes into a real paroxyen of coughing to which
dialog: the Doctor pays no attention. ee producers laugh
text: very nervously.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Well...does he pass???
text: Doctor just neds and signs the form.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (through cough)
dialog: Good, I'm now worth a million
dialog: dollars.
speaker_heading: GOLDIE
dialog: (jovially)
dialog: That's only if you die before
dialog: February ist.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {as he exits)
dialog: Schedules, schedules...always
dialog: schedules.....
scene_heading: INT. CUTTING ROOM. CLOSE SHOT. KIMBERLY ON 44
scene_heading: STEENBECK, NIGHT.
text: On the screen we see a close up of Kimberly in an exterior
text: (daytime) location. On the film we HEAR the off-camera
text: voice of Joe as he directs Kimberly. She will react to
dialog: each direction.
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: Where do you want me looking,
dialog: Joey?
speaker_heading: JOE (0.C.)
dialog: Camera Left, Kimberly.
dialog: (when her eyes turn)
dialog: No, Kimberly, your other left.
scene_heading: WIDER ANGLE. JOE, EDDIE, STACY AND JONATHAN. NIGHT.
text: Eddie runs the Steenbeck, Joe sitting next to him. Joe is
speaker_heading: 44
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 54.
speaker_heading: 44
text: drinking wine and leafing through the script of wee
text: In the background Stacy and Jonathan ara busy at
dialog: jobs.
dialog: Joe's Off-Camera instructions
dialog: to Kimberly continue through-
text: out the succeeding dialogue.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Is this the shot you mean?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (glancing up)
dialog: Yeah. Run it down *
dialog: to the end.
dialog: {goes back to
dialog: his script)
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: What are you reading?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: It's the new rewrite
dialog: on the show.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: How is it? *
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I really haven't had
dialog: time to read it.
dialog: (tossing it away)
dialog: Ah, hell, I'll fix it
text: out of town.
dialog: (pointing to screen)
dialog: Mark it right there and
dialog: then pull out the mono-
dialog: logue.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: *
dialog: I thought you were
dialog: finished with the mono-
dialog: logue.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: No, I've got some new
dialog: ideas. *
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: (totally resigned)
dialog: Stacy...guess what?...
dialog: reel three...the mono-
dialog: iogue.
dialog: 45
dialog: ‘Revised 8/1/78 55.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS VOCAL ROOM. AUDPEY AND DANN. as
scene_heading: JOE TO ENTER. DAY.
text: Paul Dann is at the piano accompanying Audrey who is
text: rehearsing a few dance steps. The door suddenly opens
text: and Joe bursts in slamming the door behind him. He
text: sits, buries his head. Audrey and Dann both stop.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: _ Z cannot go back in that room!
dialog: I can't face those people!!...
dialog: Tne number's lousy...
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: (nervously)
dialog: The song?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: . No, not the song...the way I'm
dialog: staging it. I think we should *
dialog: just cut it.
text: Dann abruptly stops playing.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: {small voice)
dialog: »--cut 4t? I think I'll leave.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Sit right there, Paul. Ge back
dialog: to bar seventeen. :
text: Dann once more nervously obeys. Audrey begins dancing.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I'll never get it. . *
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (continuing dancing,
dialog: to Dann) :
dialog: He always says the same thing
dialog: about every number in every show.
speaker_heading: JOB
dialog: How the hell do you know what I
dialog: _ always say?
speaker_heading: DANN ©
dialog: {continuing to play)
dialog: Don't you think it'd be better .
dialog: if I stepped outside... *
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Just keep playing, Paul.
dialog: 
dialog: 45
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 56.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 45
text: Totally frustrated, Joe starts to follow Audrey around
dialog: the room.
dialog: Jor espace
dialog: Christ, I only did this show
dialog: because you wanted to play that
dialog: stupid twenty-four year ole girl.
text: Audrey does a high kick aiming for Joe's chin which misses
text: only because he jumps away.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (not stopping)
dialog: Oh-h-h, I knew sooner or later
dialog: you'd say that. *
dialog: You do think I'm too old for
dialog: - the part. But you're wrong.
dialog: I can play twenty-four years
dialog: old, and I'll damm well prove
dialog: it. You want to quit the show,
dialog: quit anne show. *
dialog: You don't have to do anything
dialog: for me. But don't kid yourself
dialog: that you're doing it for any
dialog: other reason but guilt about me.
speaker_heading: / JOE
dialog: Guilt! What guilt?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: For never going a day when you
dialog: were faithful to me...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 45
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 45
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh, that guilt!
dialog: en exasperated)
dialog: Faithful! Faithful! Don't
dialog: you know to be faithful you gotta
dialog: have faith? Not just in marriage,
dialog: but the whole thing.
dialog: (pause, following her
dialog: across the rocm)
dialog: How do I know you were "faithful" to me?
speaker_heading: AUDREY 2
dialog: You know Iwas. © 0 7
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: That's right, I know you were.
text: She pirouettes and as she does her hand slaps him right
dialog: acress the mouth.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (accusingly)
dialog: You meant to do that.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (politely)
dialog: +2e¥es, I did. You kept me working
dialog: all the time. I never had a chance
dialog: to cheat.
text: Out of frustration, he grabs her by the wrists and stops
dialog: her dancing.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: What's the big hang up about
dialog: fidelity? What makes you think
dialog: that faithfulness is the greatest
dialog: virtue in the whole world?!
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Well, it's a hell of a lot better
dialog: than those meaningless affairs you
dialog: keep tap dancing through, Those
dialog: Stacys...those Victorias...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 45
speaker_heading: AUDREY (contd)
dialog: (accusing finger)
dialog: You're not even fooling Michelle
dialog: about Victoria, you know. The
dialog: Bonnies, the Wendys, the Debbies,
dialog: the Donnas. [I can't even rl be
dialog: remember all the names t
dialog: a can't either. Quick, tell me,
dialog: tmat-was the Game of the gizl in
dialog: Philadelphia -~- the blonde with
dialog: the television show.
speaker_heading: JOE
text: The blonde with the television
dialog: show...the blonde with the
dialog: television show...her name...the
dialog: blonde with the television show
dialog: was...her name was Sweetheart...
dialog: Honey...Dear...I don't remember
dialog: her name.
dialog: (long pause) Tes
dialog: Wait a minute. = --6 mee
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: I-ecan't-remember-that-gir1.'s-name.
text: Suddenly, as though he has experienced a revelation, he
text: swiftly exits the room.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: What was that? Where'd he go?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Don't worry, Paul, I think he
dialog: just got an idea for the number.
dialog: Let's go back to bar seventeen.
text: Dann starts to play. She starts to dance.
speaker_heading: OMIT 46
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S BATHROOM. JOE. DAY. 47
text: The morning waking MONTAGE done in very short CUTS: Vivaldi
dialog: cassette, oS Seftzer, shower, dexedrine, “It's show time,
dialog: folks” into mirror, etc.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS WAITING ROOM. PRODUCERS, COMPOSER. 48
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
text: Waiting are Hecht, Christopher, Goldie, and Dann.
dialog: 
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: -_
dialog: 32
dialog: 59.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE DOOR TO REHEARSAL ROOM. NIGHT. 49
text: Joa comes through the door and CAMERA TRUCKS with him down
text: the hallway past small rooms where we hear various frag-
dialog: ments of other rehearsals,
text: He enters the waiting room where they look at him 50
text: expectantly.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Look, it's really not ready yet,
dialog: and I gotta tell ya, it didn't
dialog: exactly turn out the way we talked
dialog: about So ewhy don't you go in...
dialog: and I'll show it to you in five
dialog: minutes. I wanna get a drink of
dialog: water,
text: They rise and head to large rehearsal room as Joe heads
text: toward bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS BATHROOM. JOE. NIGHT. 51
text: Joe is bent over a bowl in a partitioned toilet retching
text: violently. Finally recovering, he crosses to a sink,
text: applies cold water. to his head and face, then pops a
text: dexedrine. Looking into the mirror over the sink, he
text: parodies his “It's show time" gesture.
scene_heading: RESUME LARGE REHEARSAL ROOM. JOE, ‘AUDREY, DANCERS, 52
scene_heading: PRODUCTION STAFF, NIGHT. Henan stm
text: The producers and composer seat thamselv2s in a line of
text: chairs facing away from the mirror. Audrey finds a corner
text: away from the group.
dialog: Like a fixed "jury," expecting a "Gideon == Showbiz-type <<
dialog: Razzle Dazzle == Crowd-pleasing Number,” they have already
dialog: decided they are going to like it -=- only the amowit of
dialog: appreciation is in question. This is the Number we first
dialog: hearyDann audition for Joe and the Procucers.
scene_heading: A_PRODUCTION NUMBER FOR "NY/LA"
scene_heading: RRRRRERARERRRRERERRREREERERRRRERERERERRERERERRERRRRAE EKER
dialog: And that's exactly thea way the Number starts: Traditional
dialog: Broadway --"with style and moderate invention. ‘
text: The “jury” is obviously pleased at the beginning. It is
dialog: exactly what they expected and want. They show their pleasure
text: with frequent ad lib appreciative remarks and are all smiles,
dialog: 
dialog: 52
speaker_heading: REV. 10/2/78
dialog: 60
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) 52 CONTD
text: THEN SUDDENLY the Number takes an acute change!:: Dancers
text: begin disrobing, the first being Victoria. Hecht stares at
dialog: Victoria,
text: is face red with embarrassment.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: What's going on?
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: (similarly embarrassed)
dialog: --.I think they're taking off their .
dialog: clothes.
text: Both are now riveted by the sight of a boy dancer disrobing.
speaker_heading: DANN .
dialog: Jesus Christ!
text: Soon the entixe company has disrobed. The boy dancers wear
text: only dance belts (with hats on their heads, o£ course). The
dialog: girls wear only a minimum of clothing.
text: It's apparent that Joe has decided that the theme of the
dialog: Number is "Casual or indifferent sexual encounters in
dialog: contempora: society": People meet -- have sex -- separate
dialog: without a residue, or even memory, of relationship. There are
dialog: various mechanical sex couplings: every variation of girls and
dialog: boys ~- boys and boys -- girls and girls -- in threes and fours
dialog: -~ and so on and so on... . .
dialog: This is certainly not what the “jury” had expected. Shock,
text: confusion, bewilderment read very cteazty on their faces.
text: The Number finishes with all the dancers in isolated areas;
text: caressing only themselves, loving only themselves, incapable
dialog: of making contact with any other person. There is nothing left
dialog: but self-love. :
dialog: wet
scene_heading: ATRIA RRR RIK TC TOR TOK I TRIE ERIK ERAT PARR RRR E REE RE K
text: There is a very long pause during which both 4ancers and Joe
text: look tentatively toward the "jury". Dann appears to be on the
text: verge of hysteria.
scene_heading: HI eI RR KI TK RR ERR KIO TKR RE RIE RRR ER IOC RR ik
scene_heading: SONG -- “TAKE OFF WITH US"
dialog: ro
speaker_heading: AFTER SONG
speaker_heading: “C.52 (CONTD)
speaker_heading: TANGO:
speaker_heading: REV.10/2/78
speaker_heading: SOA
scene_heading: PRODUCERS AFTER _SONG
dialog: That's great Joey...
speaker_heading: JOE $c.52 CONTI
dialog: There's more. Wait a minute...
dialog: there's more. This set moves
text: over and another set moves on.
speaker_heading: MURRAY
text: Smoke. Smoke. Smoke.
speaker_heading: JOE
text: These lights go down and another
text: light comes up over there.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Welcome. Welcome aboard Airotica.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: Flying not only coast to coast.
speaker_heading: : CANDACE
dialog: But anywhere else your desires
dialog: and fantacies wish to carry you.
speaker_heading: GROUP
text: TAKE OFF WITH US.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Let's all get to know one another.
speaker_heading: . EILEEN
dialog: Remember we can take you anywhere
speaker_heading: CANLACE
dialog: Anywhere you want to go.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Just reach out your hand and
dialog: introduce yourselves.
speaker_heading: DANCERS
dialog: My name is Cheryl.
dialog: My name is Leland
dialog: My name is Jennifer
dialog: My name is Rema
dialog: Gary. John.
text: After the tango all the dancers move and say their names.
speaker_heading: CANN
dialog: Oh no.
speaker_heading: “REV.
speaker_heading: 60B
speaker_heading: $c.52 (CONTINUED) CHRISTOPHER
dialog: on No.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Oh my God.
speaker_heading: cALYPSO
dialog: Throughout the number the Producers whisper comments
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Oh, I think we lost the family
dialog: audience.
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
text: There goes the family audience.
dialog: Later as we see two boys together,
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: We'll: maybe get the gays.
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: Uh huh most likely the gays.
speaker_heading: re” HECHT
dialog: There goes the deep south.
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: Uh huh forget the South.
scene_heading: DURING THE ROCK:
speaker_heading: DANN ©
dialog: Wait a minute. I think I just
dialog: heard a little bit of my song.
dialog: Sex, sex, sex. Doesn't he ever
dialog: think of anything else but sex.
dialog: Maybe he should have cut it.
text: Murray moves in light curtain.
speaker_heading: JOE
text: Then an actor comes out of the side
dialog: of the stage and he says: Not once
speaker_heading: 10/3/78
speaker_heading: $C.52 CONT
dialog: to each other.
dialog: during any of our flights have we had
dialog: the crash of any real human contact.
dialog: Or the bumpiness of any real human
dialog: communication.
dialog: a
dialog: sc.52
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: “REV,
dialog: 60c
speaker_heading: GROUP
dialog: Goodbye...uh...I hope to see
dialog: you again soon...uh...Really
dialog: nice to have met you...uh...
dialog: You mean a ict to me...uh...
dialog: Goodbye. .
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Qur motto is "we take you
dialog: everywhere but get you nowhere".
speaker_heading: MURRAY
dialog: Blackout.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Lights. Well...
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Interesting.
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: uh huh...interesting.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: But did you like it?
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Unusual.
speaker_heading: CERISTOPHER
dialog: Yah...unusual.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Well, maybe I can fix that out of
dialog: town...
text: Joe cresses to Audrey.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I don't like it...what do you
dialog: think?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: It's the best work you've ever
dialog: done.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You son of a bitch.
text: She gets up and exits.
speaker_heading: (NOTE:
scene_heading: DELETE BALANCE OF SC.S2 AT TOP OF PAGE 61.)
speaker_heading: 1673778
speaker_heading: sC.52 CONTD
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 52
dialog: Another pause.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: (clearing his throat)
dialog: eooeeeinteresting...
text: The rest of the “jury” hesitatingly ad lib uncertain
text: praise. Joe crosses to Audrey. .
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: I don't think they like it...What
dialog: do you think?
text: Audrey looks at him and we see that she's crying.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: eeees It's the best work you've ever
dialog: done.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You son-of-a-bitch.
text: She gets up and exits.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT. 53
text: She sits holding a rose, smelling it appreciatively. We
text: hear the MUSIC of a Jazz Trio.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: No...nothing, I ever do is good
dialog: enough...it's not beautiful
dialog: enough...it's not deep enough
dialog: eseit's not funny enough...it's
dialog: net anything enough.
text: He goes to her, takes the rose from her hand, examines it.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: When I see a rose...now, that's
dialog: perfect...perfect.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I want to look up to God and say,
dialog: "How the fuck did you do that?
dialog: Why the helI“can't I do that?"
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (pause, nods appreciatively)
dialog: Now, that's probably one of your
dialog: better con lines.
dialog: 
dialog: 53
speaker_heading: 54
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 62.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED- 33
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Yeah, it is. Sut that doesn't
dialog: mean I don't mean it.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: ee-Z didn't say you didn't mean
dialog: it.
scene_heading: JAZZ TRIO OUT.
scene_heading: INT, PROJECTION ROOM. JOE, EDDIE, PENN, ALVIN 54
scene_heading: RACKMIL, AUDREY, KATIE, MICHELLE, STACY AND OTHERS.
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
text: This is an invited screening of THE STANDUP. Seated
text: at the console are Eddie Lerner, Joshua Penn and Stacy.
text: Directly in front of the console are Audrey, Michelle
text: and Joe's lawyer-agent Alvin Rackmil. Katie sits a row
text: or two down. ie room Lig. are still up. Joe stands
text: in front of the blank screen addressing the small,
text: invited audience. It is clear he is in the middle
text: of a litany of excuses.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: -.-This is a rough cut, I mean *
dialog: really rough. We don't have the
dialog: titles in and a lot of the sound
dialog: effects. The print doesn't match ‘*
dialog: and SO..e+e
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Enough apologies, Joe. Can we _*
dialog: just run the film?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Okay.
text: He starts up the aisle and as he passes the console:
speaker_heading: JOE (contd) :
dialog: (to Eddie) |
dialog: Okay. Start it. I'11 be back
dialog: _ din a second. :
text: He exits.
dialog: 63.
scene_heading: 54A INT. CORRIDOR CUTSIDE PROJECTION ROOM.” ANGLE TO MEN'S 534A
scene_heading: ROOM DOOR. NIGHT.
text: From inside the men's room we hear souncs of Joe retching.
scene_heading: $4B RESUME PROJECTION ROOM 548
text: Joe enters 2s the monologue has just started. He sits
text: next to Eddie. Expecting audience response which is not
text: forthcoming, he mumbles to Eddie.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: It's a bomb, They hate it.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Maybe they're not hearing it.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: It's fine, it's fine...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (pause)
dialog: They're not hearing it.
dialog: (looks at screen -
dialog: a moment)
dialog: Maybe they are hearing it.
dialog: (another pause)
dialog: No, they're not hearing it.
text: He reaches for the volume control and boosts sound until it
text: booms through the room, Nervously he Tooks around for mora
text: response from the audience. He doesn't get it. Leans
text: across Eddie to Penn.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I'm sorry, Joshua.
dialog: (leans forward to
dialog: Rackmil)
dialog: You hate it, right, Alvin? You
dialog: hate it.
speaker_heading: RACKMIL
dialog: No, Joe, no.
speaker_heading: JOE :
dialog: Then why aren't. you laughing?
speaker_heading: RACKMIL
dialog: Sheh-h-h!
dialog: (indicating screen)
text: I can't hear what he's saying.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {to Eddie)
dialog: Seet...I told you they can't hear
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: REV. 10/3/78
dialog: 64
speaker_heading: 54B (CONTINUED) 54B CONTD
dialog: oo
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: He tries to boost sound again:
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: (to Eddie)
dialog: Eddie, is there any way you can
dialog: get him away from that knob?
text: Eddie reaches over and gently removes Jce's hand from the volute control,
text: then turns down sound to proper level. After another few seconds, Joe finds
text: the pressure unbearable.
speaker_heading: JCE
dialog: (to Eddie and Penn)
dialog: Call me later.
text: He holts out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S LIVING ROOM, JOE. -— DAY. 55
text: He sits on the couch on the phone. While we don't inmediately see then,
dialog: we will be aware of Michelle and Katie in the kitchen. It's a Sunday.
speaker_heading: SCE soo
dialog: No, I was here, Joshua. I just wasn't
dialog: answering the phone. Really, Joshua?
dialog: -+-no kidding?! They bought that love story?...
scene_heading: INT. KTICHEN. MICHELLE AND KATIE. -~ DAY. 56
text: Michelle is preparing a salad and Katie a chicken for the oven. While
text: we do not hear the specific words, we are aware of Joe on the phone.
text: It will ring again during this moment. The two speak in hushed tones.
speaker_heading: KATIE .
dialog: Did you find, ‘em?
text: Michelle nods "yes".
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
text: A suitcase in his closet.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Where did you put ‘am?
text: Michelle points to a cabinet.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: He didn't see you, did he?
dialog: 57
dialog: ws 58
speaker_heading: REV.10/11/78
dialog: 65
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) 56 CONTD
text: Michelle neds "no". Katie nods "good". Both look over their shoulders
text: then back to each other.
speaker_heading: KATIE & MICHELIE
dialog: Let's go backwards when all else fails.
text: Both go back to preparing dimer.
scene_heading: RESUME JCE ON PHONE. 57
dialog: Jos
dialog: No, Alvin, T was here, but I just
speaker_heading: RESUME KITCHEN 58
text: The two girls are contimzing their preparations for dinner. ‘They
text: still speak in hushed tones.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I don't think I can g through with it.
text: Both mouth the word "hop hop hop hop", as they point their fingers
text: at each other on each word.
text: JCE appears in the kitchen doorway, locking very pleased.
dialog: Land eat
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 58 (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: KATIE
speaker_heading: REV.10/11/78
speaker_heading: 65A
speaker_heading: $8 (CONTD)
speaker_heading: . JOE
dialog: Well, at least two people say
dialog: the screening was a hit...
dialog: (Michelle and Katie applaud)
dialog: one was my producer and the other
dialog: my lawyer.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Oh, Joe, Everybody loved it... Oh, Daddy....
dialog: We told you that last night but
dialog: you wouldn't listen to us.
text: Katie laughs.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (slicing a tomato)
dialog: That was the first R-rated movie
dialog: I ever saw and I loved it.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Did you understand it?
speaker_heading: - MICHELLE
dialog: I understood everything except
dialog: the part where there were two girls
text: in bed together and they were kissing...
dialog: What was that supposed to mean?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Is dinner ready yet?
speaker_heading: " MICHELLE
dialog: (not to be denied)
dialog: What was that supposed to mean?
dialog: rer
dialog: on
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
speaker_heading: REV. 10/11/78
dialog: 66
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) JOE 58 (COI
dialog: Well, Michelle, there are .
dialog: certain women who...
dialog: {to Katie .
dialog: Thanks a lot.
dialog: {to Michelle)
dialog: there are certain women...
dialog: uh...well, they don't relate
dialog: to men...
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: (interrupts, to Katie)
dialog: I think Lesbian scenes are a big
dialog: turn off.
speaker_heading: _ JOE
dialog: You're right. I should have cut
dialog: it. I'm hungry.
scene_heading: RESUME LIVING ROOM. JOE, MICHELLE & KATIE. -- NIGHT . 359
text: Katie and Michelle are re-arranging living room for their
dialog: musical number.
speaker_heading: ~ KATIE , -
dialog: Brrrr...Crash.
dialog: Ladies and Gentlemen, in honor
dialog: of the semi-successful screening...
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Dad, get the lights.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: «+.0f Joe Gideon's new film
dialog: "THE STANDUP", we are proud to
dialog: present those new dance sensations,
dialog: Jagger and Gideon.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Gideon and Jagger.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Gideon and Jagger.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Dad, sit down.
speaker_heading: . KATIE
dialog: Yeah, sit down, Joe, sit down
text: --.in an under-rehearsed tribute.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I'm so nervous.
dialog: 60
dialog: 60a
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 60
text: that the cast sits on one side and Joe and staff face them.
dialog: The cast would include some of the dancers and also actors
text: whom wa have not yet met. Naturally, Audrey is present,
text: seated almost directly opposite Joe. A model of the set
text: is prominently displayed in front of Joe.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (up and bright)
dialog: OK,..now you've all seen the set
dialog: and costume designs...what I'd
dialog: like to do now is read through the
dialog: script tor-the-first—time. None
dialog: of us has ever heard it read aloud,
dialog: so I think it'll give us an idea
dialog: of what we have. Don't be nervous
dialog: v, ake—te—eesy...Don't try to act
dialog: .e.dust a simple read through.
text: OK...lights up, Audrey sings her
dialog: first number and now, Audrey, your
text: speech on page two.
dialog: NOTE: From here on the book reading sequ ence is entirely
text: Silent, A DUMB SHOW, except for exa' erated so ettects
dialog: involving Joe. For example, he iit Strike a match, Light
text: his cigarette and crack his knuckles.
text: The reading evokes great positive response from both the
text: cast and everyone else in the room except Joe and Audrey.
dialog: We see (and to remind you again ~~ do not hear a. ase
text: responses: laughter, applause, thigh-slapping, looks of
dialog: mutual joy and seli-satisfaction. Joe occasionally manu-
text: factures a sickly smile during a continuation of the
text: exaggerated sound effects, which further include coughing,
text: sniffling, heavy breathing, stubbing out cigarette in
dialog: ashtray, etc. The pleased, laughing response of the on=
dialog: lookers hag reached epic proportions, They have never
dialog: heard anything so funny. The more Joe hears of the book,
text: the more he realizes he and the show are in desperate
text: trouble. At the end of the reading, Joe forces the sick-
text: Test of smiles, touches his chest, massages his left arm
text: and closes his book. It is the last sound effect we hear.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS HALLWAY. KATIE, MURRAY, VICTORIA, 60A
scene_heading: OTHERS. DAY.
text: Coming from the elevator Katie starts toward the big
text: rehearsal room, She carries a rose. Victoria is getting
text: a cup of coffee from the machine. She and Katie see one
text: another. There is a moment of recognition and both cover
text: with insincere smiles _and_nods.
speaker_heading: REV.iG/11/73
dialog: 68-69
scene_heading: DELETE SC.60A BOTTOM OF PAGE 67.
scene_heading: DELETE SC.61. .
scene_heading: 62 INT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY AREA. OUTSIDE SMALL 62
scene_heading: CURTAINED EMERGENCY EXAMINING ROOM. AUDREY,
scene_heading: KATIE, DR. HYMAN, HECHT, CHRISTOPHER, GOLDIE -- DAY
text: They stand in a tight circle, all deeply concerned
text: and at a loss. Dr. Henry Hyman is Joe's regular internist.
speaker_heading: DR. HYMAN
dialog: {with honest bewilderment)
dialog: I checked him out a month ago...
dialog: cholesterol count was a little high,
dialog: but otherwise...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 62
speaker_heading: AUDREY .
dialog: {very tight, furiously,
dialog: to Hyman)
dialog: You mean, he conned you too! You
dialog: mean, you're his doctor and you
dialog: didn't know he gets no sleep...
dialog: takes dexedrine like they were
text: M & M's...smokes five packs of
dialog: unfiltered cigarettes a day...
dialog: poozes every night...
dialog: (a direct accusatory
dialog: look at Katie)
dialog: .eeand God knows what else he does!...
dialog: (back to Hyman)
dialog: You...didn't...know...all...that!?
dialog: uzns away
dialog: Some fuckin’ doctor!!!
dialog: 
dialog: Dr. Hyman has nothing to say.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL EXAMINING ROOM. - JOE, AUDREY, KATIE, 63
scene_heading: PRODUCERS, DR. HYMAN, DR. BALLINGER, Saeteeeet, DAY.
speaker_heading: NURSE PARSONS
dialog: Dr. Burton Ballinger is a cardi gh ais abo y3e* just
dialog: completed his examination. > is detaching
text: Joe from the cardiogram machine. Joe is obviously in
text: trouble, perspiring heavily and finding it difficult to
dialog: breathe.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: (who has had it with
dialog: Joe, addressing group)
dialog: All right...who'’s in charge of
dialog: this million-dollar show that
dialog: Mr, Gideon keeps talking about?
text: The producers lock at each other.
speaker_heading: BECHT
dialog: seed guess I am.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: (to Hecht)
dialog: Mr. Gideon has a very serious case
dialog: of angina that could possibly lead
dialog: to a massive coronary...
speaker_heading: JOE.
dialog: Oh, Eucki!!
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: (riding over)
dialog: «s-And it is my opinion that if
speaker_heading: (MORE) ~~
dialog: “Revised 8/1/78 71.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 63
speaker_heading: DR. BALLINGER (contd)
dialog: Mr. Gideon leaves this hospital
text: his life is in jeopardy.
text: A long pause.
speaker_heading: RECHT
dialog: ZI don't think there's any doubt
dialog: that Joe should stay.
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER :
dialog: Dr. Ballinger, could you give us
dialog: some idea of how long.....
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Why don't we step outside?’
text: He exits, followed by the three producers and Hyman. *
text: Nurse Parsons is still busy with the machine. Audrey
dialog: and Katie remain.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Dectors...what do they know?
dialog: (hits his chest)
dialog: The pain's gone. I feel fine.
text: He reaches for his shirt. Audrey stops him.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: ...please stay.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Joe...atay.
text: Joe looks at both of them. After a moment he reaches
text: in pants pocket, removes his container of dexedrine.
text: He beckons to Audrey. ~
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Here...
dialog: (hands her pills”
dialog: -- smiles) .
dialog: «..you can get a good price for
text: these in a schoolyard.
text: The two doctors and the three producers re-enter, *
text: _ the latter with somber expressions.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to doctors)
dialog: All right. I'll stay, but how
dialog: much time are vou talking about?
speaker_heading: 7 63 CONTINUED 63
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: We can't give you an exact date.
speaker_heading: DR. HYMAN “
dialog: We plan to move you upstairs to
dialog: a private room where you can get
dialog: complete rest.
scene_heading: . DR. BALLINGER
dialog: We want to put you on a machine
dialog: and see what happens. .
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Yeah, I get ya, but what are you
dialog: 1 talking about? One day?...Three
dialog: days...??
text: There's an exchange of looks among Hecht, Christopher and
dialog: Goldie.
scene_heading: . DR. BALLINGER
dialog: a At least two to three weeks.
speaker_heading: SOE
dialog: ' (exploding)
dialog: You've got to be kidding?!! I've
dialog: got a show to do. I've got a whole
text: cast sitting and waiting. Speak
dialog: up and tell him, will ya Jonesy.
text: When Hecht says nothing, Joe continues to doctors.
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: You've got to be out of your fucking
dialog: minds .
dialog: {clutches chest)
dialog: Oh, Christ!...Oh, shit!
speaker_heading: DR. HYMAN
dialog: What's wrong?!
text: Ad libs of concern from all the others in room.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: My chest!
text: ~~ It is obvious that Joe is having a massive coronary.
text: Dr. Ballinger turns to Nurse Parsons.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: Miss Parsons. Move!
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 63
text: She immediately rushes out to summon the emergency team.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (directing his rage
dialog: at beth doctors)
dialog: It's your goddamn fault!!!...It's
dialog: u. S who are doing this to me!!
dialog: = (ealiy screaming)
dialog: I wasn't sick until I got here!!
scene_heading: INT. ‘TAXI CAB, AUDREY AND MICHELLE S~DAY. 64
text: They sit in the cab. Michelle holds a bag of schoolbooks.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: What's wrong with him?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: It's...exhaustion.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK HOSPITAL. SINGLE ROOM IN CARDIAC 65
scene_heading: INTENSIVE CARE. JOE AND TECHNICIANS. DAY.
text: Sedated, Joe lies on a bed completely cut. He has been
dialog: connected to the proper monitoring machines, They click
dialog: and flash. This room
dialog: = Can new be observed From & window
dialog: betuaen fom = \enger reem.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE (V.0.)
dialog: You're lying to me.
speaker_heading: CROSS FADE:
speaker_heading: ‘ RATIE (V.0.)
dialog: No, I'm not a member of his
dialog: immediate family...
scene_heading: INT. THEATRE BACKSTAGE. KATIE. NIGHT. 66
text: In costume, Katie ig on the phone.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: I'm...I'm...his girlfriend...
dialog: (to herself}
dialog: -- sometimes...
scene_heading: RESUME JOE IN HOSPITAL. 67
text: Alone again, more machines going.
speaker_heading: KATIE (V.0.)
dialog: Well, can I leave a message?...
dialog: Please tell him...
dialog: 67
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: 70
dialog: 7
dialog: 74,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 67
speaker_heading: CROSS FADE:
text: Hecht's voice.
speaker_heading: HECHT (V.0.)
dialog: We have made a decision to post-
dialog: pone for four months.
scene_heading: INT. BROADWAY ARTS. LARGE REHEARSAL ROOM. 68
scene_heading: CU GIRL DANCER. DAY.
speaker_heading: FIRST GIRL
dialog: Well, there goes the new apartment.
scene_heading: RESUME JOE IN HOSPITAL. 69
dialog: Machines going. et
speaker_heading: RECHT (V.0.)
dialog: But we are assured that Jo# will
dialog: be fine...
scene_heading: RESUME BROADWAY ARTS. FEATURING HECHT. ENTIRE 70
speaker_heading: COMPANY AND STAFF,
text: A somber group listens to Hecht. Audrey sits nearby,
text: attempting to look optimistic.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: .».and the show will definitely
dialog: be done.
scene_heading: CU SECOND GIRL DANCER.
speaker_heading: SECOND GIRL
dialog: Let's go shopping and spend all
dialog: our money,
scene_heading: RESUME HECHT.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: We're aware of the financial
dialog: burdens this might impose on
dialog: some of you...
scene_heading: RESUME JOE IN HOSPITAL. DR. BALLINGER AND TECHNICIANS. 71
text: Dr. Ballinger is checking charts. Joe remains out.
speaker_heading: HECHT (V.0.)
dialog: «sand we are prepared to try to
dialog: get you temporary jobs, even lend
speaker_heading: (HORE) .
dialog: 7
dialog: 72
dialog: 73
dialog: 74
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
dialog: 75,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED , 7
speaker_heading: HECHT (V.0. contd)
dialog: you money. We don’t have a lot
dialog: of cash available...but what I'm
dialog: trying to say is we'd like to do
dialog: whatever possible to keep you all
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: CROSS FADE:
dialog: Audrey's voice,
speaker_heading: AUDREY (V.0.)
dialog: «eeAnd just an hour ago...
scene_heading: RESUME BROADWAY ARTS. FEATURING AUDREY. 72
speaker_heading: AUDREY :
dialog: «seat the hospital he was making
dialog: jokes...he said...
scene_heading: RESUME JOE IN HOSPITAL. - - 73
text: Nurse Parsons is exchanging intravenous bottles. Audrey
text: observes through the window, obviously deeply concerned.
speaker_heading: auprey (V.00)
dialog: «.-Be sure to tell all of you that
dialog: he has a great idea for a new and
dialog: hilarious hospital number...
scene_heading: CU FIRST BOY DANCER AND VICTORIA. 74
text: He's crying. Victoria, also crying, tries to comfort him.
scene_heading: RESUME JO£ IN HOSPITAL. 75
text: Joe is still out...machines clicking, etc,
speaker_heading: DANN (V.0.)
dialog: (joking)
dialog: .«eHospital number?? Which I
dialog: imagine will require me to write
speaker_heading: Qa NEWe.e
scene_heading: RESUME BROADWAY ARTS. FEATURING DANN. 76
speaker_heading: DANN
speaker_heading: o4eSONnge
dialog: (eressing to piano)
dialog: How does the title HOSPITAL HOP
dialog: grab you?
text: Over nervous laughter Dann bangs out a couple of bars of
dialog: ragtime.
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
dialog: Ravised 8/1/78 76.
scene_heading: RESUME JOE IN HOSPITAL. - 77
text: Joe is still out. we hear Dann improvising a few bars
dialog: of the ragtime.
scene_heading: RESUME BROADWAY ARTS. DANN AT PIANO. 78
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: (to all)
dialog: Hey!...I've got it already...
scene_heading: RESUME JOE IN HOSPITAL. DR. BALLINGER AND DR. HYMAN. 79
text: Joe is awake and reasonably alert.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: Things are looking better. We're
dialog: gonna move you upstairs to a
dialog: private room for awhile.
dialog: Joe nods "good. * -
speaker_heading: OMIT . OMIT 80
scene_heading: RESUME BROADWAY ARTS. FEATURING HECHT. 81
speaker_heading: HECHT ,
dialog: Really, what we all want you to
dialog: know is, we picked you...we love
dialog: you...You are, without question,
dialog: an absolutely...
dialog: 
scene_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO: Somes
scene_heading: INT. VIVIAN BEAUMONT THEATRE. DANN, LUCAS SERGEANT, “82
scene_heading: LIGHTING DIRECTOR. DAY. : *
dialog: Lucas Sergeant is a successful director: sharp,
text: energetic, and ambitious. At the moment he is
text: engaged in setting lights for a scene involving a *
text: brass bed set center stage. Nearby sits hig liyhting
text: ‘director who talks into an intercom to make the
text: various lighting changes. He holds in front of hin
text: a lighting plot. Sergeant and Dann sit a couple rows
text: behind him. The rest of the theatre is empty. During
dialog: the succeeding, the lighting designer will call cues
dialog: and make adjustments ("Let me see twenty-seven at half, .
dialog: now add twenty-eight..." atc).
speaker_heading: DANN .
dialog: +. eMarvelous cast! And now we've
dialog: got to sit around four months,
dialog: maybe evan lose them...
dialog: 82
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 77.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: {to Dann)
dialog: I can see where it would be difficult
dialog: to hold that cast together...It's:
dialog: really a shame...and even after
text: four months, with a heart attack,
dialog: there's really no guarantee he'll
dialog: be able to work.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: None...And he's the greatest.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: (neds)
dialog: Hmmm.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: And, Lucas, I think we have a sure
dialog: hit, a sure hit...reads like a
dialog: dream...
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: eeeI'd love to read it.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: I'll get a copy to you this afternoon.
dialog: . . (pause)
dialog: What's your schedule like? I mean,
dialog: I knew you don't need the dough...
speaker_heading: -LIGHT DIRECTOR
dialog: How about this, Lucas?
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: {glances at stage)
dialog: No, it should be more shadowy.
dialog: This is a seduction scene,.you know.
dialog: (to Dann)
dialog: How much is Joa getting?
speaker_heading: : DANN
dialog: (very quickly)
dialog: Five percent of the gross, until
dialog: payoff. Then he goes to six percent,
dialog: twenty percent of all subsidiary
dialog: rights, including a movie sale.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Well...my schedule is pretty full,
dialog: but...of course, you know how I feel
dialog: about you. and I love Joey. So...
dialog: if there's any way I can help...
dialog: 82
dialog: *
dialog: rm~ . Revised 8/1/78 78.
speaker_heading: oo 82 CONTINUED g2 *
text: The bed is now lit in a very seductive fashion. *
speaker_heading: : SERGEANT *
dialog: (to Lighting Director)
dialog: Better, better...I like that.
scene_heading: ABRUPT CUT. TO:
scene_heading: 83 _HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM, JOE AND ANGELIQUE. 83
dialog: | NIGHT. .
text: Joe is trying on various styles of glasses, a la Elton
text: John. She wears sunglasses. Off screen we hear music.
speaker_heading: . JOE
dialog: Soma people collect stamps...
dialog: some collect dead butterflies...
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: - And you? -
dialog: ao moe, JOE
dialog: , Me? I'm a dedicated collectc>
dialog: of injustices.
speaker_heading: . : ANGELIQUE
dialog: | Sometimes real, sometimes imagined.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: \ I always look for the worst in *
dialog: people...
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: «eea piece of you in them... . *
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Yeah...a piece of me...and generally *
dialog: I find it.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: It may take you years, but, you'll
dialog: find it. You're cute,.. You are
dialog: cute.
text: He laughs, looks at her a moment, his attraction to her
text: wn obviously deepening.
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT.
dialog: (84
dialog: as
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 79.
scene_heading: | EXT. ‘CALIFORNIA POOL. KIMBERLY. DAY. 84
text: Near hysteria, the beautiful co-star of the film THE
text: STANDUP is on a poolside lounge holding a telephone.
text: She wears a bikini and we see the trade papers somewhere
dialog: nearby.
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: (wailing)
dialog: I just read about it in the trades,
dialog: Joey...and I'm so upset. Don't
dialog: die, Joey!...Please don't die!!
dialog: «eet need you.
scene_heading: INTERCUT, BETWEEN: 85
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S BCSPITAL ROOM. CLOSE SHOT ON JOE ON PHONE.
speaker_heading: DAY. :
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Kimberly, please...calm down.
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: You're the only one who understands
dialog: me. What would I do without you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: as
dialog: 86
dialog: 80..
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 85
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: You'd do fine, believe me.
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: (even more hysterical)
dialog: Everyone I've ever loved leaves
dialog: me, They all leave me...they ail
dialog: leave met!” Please don't die, Joey!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Kimberly, I give you my sincere
dialog: word, I won't die. OK?...
scene_heading: WIDER ANGLE. THE ROOM. KATIE, PENN, RACKMIL, STACY, TWO
scene_heading: GIRL DANCERS, ONE BOY DANCER, DAY.
text: A party atmosphere. Flowers, books, a pile of scripts,
text: wall decorations which include a poster from THE STANDUP.
text: The television set is on although the sound has been
text: turned down. There is evidence of food-having been
text: delivered from an outside delicatessen. While Joe is on
text: the phone, talk among the people is subdued. Katie is
text: arzanging flowers which have just been delivered.
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: I have to get off now...
dialog: (lying)
dialog: eeethe doctors just came in.
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: I leve you, Joey. I love you, I
dialog: love you, I love you, I love you,
dialog: atc.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I love you, too, Kimberly,
text: He hangs up.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to all)
dialog: eeel wish I could have gotten that
dialog: performance out of her in the
dialog: picture,
text: They laugh.
scene_heading: RESUME KIMBERLY. ANGLE TO INCLUDE MALE COMPANION. 86
text: We now see a heavily muscled young man in the stringiest
text: of bikinis. He stands waist deep in the pool oiling
dialog: himself.
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 86
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: (still hysterical)
dialog: Jeay's dying!!...oh my God, Joey's
dialog: dying...
text: The young man just glances at her. Reaching to a table she
text: lifts a drink, takes a deep swallow.
speaker_heading: KIMBERLY
dialog: {never stopping
dialog: her crying)
dialog: How's the water?
text: Young man nods that it's fine. Rising, Iimberly crosses
text: to the edge of the pool removing the bikini top. She jumps
text: in. Sobbing she embraces the young man and they start to
dialog: make love.
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S ROOM, JOE AND KATIE. O'CONNER FLOOD ON 87
scene_heading: TELEVISION. NIGHT. _
text: Katie sits at the bedside as they both watch television.
text: Joe holds a remote TV control. On screen is an ebullient
dialog: O'Conner Flood performing hia role of variety-talk show
text: host. Flood is black. He is Mr. Showbiz and infinitely
text: hip. He wears beads arid other accoutrements that weigh
text: more than he does. Now he assumes the air of a man about
text: to announce the Second Coming. Throughout the introduction,
text: Joe makes mocking comments which cause Katie to laugh.
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: My next guest...the word superstar
dialog: is totally inadequate, man.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Whenever I do a benefit, I know I
dialog: can get on the horn and call this
dialog: dude...and ne-met+es-where—he—-ito
dialog: an-this—werkd, I can count on him
dialog: to be there with me...I feel humble
dialog: in his presence, , -ené—i-meen~that...
dialog: {tapping his chest)
dialog: »eefrom what's deep in here. Ladies
dialog: and Gentlemen.,.let me lay on you...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {keeping just a beat
dialog: ahead of O'Conner)
dialog: A great entertainer...
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: (a split second later)
dialog: eoea great entertainer...
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 87
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: «28 great humanitarian...
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLCOD
dialog: (a split second later)
dialog: «ee great humanitarian...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: «eeand my dear friend for twenty-
dialog: five years...
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: «seand my dear friend for twenty
dialog: years...
text: Joe clicks off set.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Missed it by five years. —
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Boy, do I hate showbiz,
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Joey, you love showbusiness.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Boy, do I love showbusiness.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I'll go either way.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT, 988
text: Joe has stopped experimenting with make-up and is staring
text: inte the mirror. Behind him is Angelique. Off screen we
dialog: hear MUSIC.
speaker_heading: JOE .
dialog: «eeLove showbusiness, hate show:
dialog: business...
text: Suddenly two girl dancers appear in scanty disco-type
text: costumes. They are there to get Joe's approval of their
dialog: costumes, :
speaker_heading: isT DISCO DANCER
dialog: Is this okay, Joe?
text: Joe inspects her, takes her waist, turns her around,
text: inspects her rear, turns her back, leaping on eye on
dialog: Angtique hoping to evoke a resmense,
dialog: 88
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 83,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED eo
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Fine.
speaker_heading: 2ND DISCO DANCER
dialog: How about mine?
text: He repeats the action, but this time makes a few adjust-
text: mants of a tassel, a strap or something.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I like it. I like it.
speaker_heading: TWO DANCERS
dialog: Oh good...good..
text: They disappear, He locks after them, then looks back to
dialog: Angelique.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: - (with an appreciative ~ *
dialog: sigh)
dialog: Women...to tell the truth, I got
dialog: into this business.....
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE *
dialog: (finishing)
dialog: +«-just to meet girls.
dialog: He's taken aback by her ability always to anticipate *
dialog: his thoughts.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Someone once asked Willy Sutton
dialog: why he robbed banks, and he said
dialog: "Cause...that's where the money
dialog: is."
dialog: (pause)
dialog: This is where the girls are.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE . *
dialog: You can't make me jealous, Joe.
speaker_heading: JOE *
dialog: So I see. .
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT.
speaker_heading: MONTAGE:
dialog: The following all takes place in_Joe's room and will
dialog: cover a per ot sevaral days. The time wi
dialog: a8 |
dialog: 89
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 83A.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 38°
dialog: vi from Day to Night. Sometimes Joe is heavily drugged
dialog: his Speech starred, at other times he is quite alert.
dialog: “he transition between each moment 13S mar. :
dialog: FADIN ts. At times the ression Wi. je that he
dialog: fas s close S eyes on one scene and reoper: 1m
dialog: to = another time.
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S ROOM. JOE AND PAUL DANN. NIGHT. 89
dialog: 
text: Dann has just set up a cassette machine at Joe's bedside.
dialog: Prom the number of cassettes he has brought, Dann slips
text: one into the machine. We hear the opening bars of The
dialog: rahms hony #4 in E Minor - 98, All non troppo
dialog: B: Sore x : Op t Sine ee 2
scene_heading: wW. con’ 28. OU! @ entire . @_attect
dialog: ‘ougnow: 3s ence Ww. @ of a musica ni . .
speaker_heading: - JOE
dialog: Brahms?,..I haven't listened to
dialog: Brahms in years.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 89
dialog: 90
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: 84,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 89
text: As the music swells, Joe closes his eyes.
speaker_heading: DANN
dialog: (anjoying the music: «
dialog: with him) 6-0.) wae:
dialog: And you don't have to tap dance
dialog: to it.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (blissfully)
dialog: -e-It's beautiful.
dialog: 
scene_heading: =~ FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 90
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK = FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 91
text: JOE'S POV, BOY DANCERS AND OTHER VISITORS.
text: A room full of people, including Hecht, Christopher and
text: cast members from N¥/LA. Two boy dancers in fuil ballet
dialog: make-up =~ eye shadow, false eyelashes, etc. <= are doing
text: a_campy pas-de-deux. Much laughter.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK -= FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TQ: NIGHT. 92
text: Katie is reading to Joe from a collection of e.e. cummings.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: “now i love you and you love me
dialog: (and books are shutter
dialog: than books
dialog: can be)"
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK ~=- FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGHT. 93
text: Propped up in bed, Joe reads from the same ¢.é. cummings
text: to First Poetry Girl. She is a pretty model-dancer type.
text: He looks soulfully into her eyes.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: "now i love you and you love me
dialog: (and books are shutter
dialog: than hooks
dialog: can be)" .
dialog: ~~
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: an
dialog: !
dialog: 95
dialog: ~~
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 93
text: He looks at her meaningfully. She is obviously moved.
scene_heading: . FIRST POETRY GIRL
dialog: Oh, Joey.e-
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK -- FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 94
text: In a smoke-filled bathroom with the door closed, Joe is
text: frantically puffing away. Suddenly the door opens to
text: reveal two stern nurses, Head Nurse, Miss Pierce, and
dialog: Floor Nurse, Miss Collins. Beyond’ them we should see a
text: room full of people. In total confusion, Joe tries to
text: flush the cigarette down the toilet.
speaker_heading: NURSE PIERCE
dialog: Mr. Gideon, what are you doing?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I caught someone smoking. I was
dialog: just getting rid of it. I told
dialog: them... ~
dialog: (pointing toward room)
dialog: ...a man in my condition shouldn't
dialog: even be around smoke.
dialog: (addressing guests)
dialog: Now, Goddamit, I don't want any
dialog: more smoking in this room!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DAY. 95
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: \wandeviane straightman)
dialog: No, Audrey...tell\me about the
dialog: egomanias with an inferiority
dialog: complex.
speaker_heading: \UDREY
dialog: He said..."Fuak you, I'm
dialog: Number Forty-saven!"
dialog: ut for
text: They resume the song and do a VWittle dance\step. Joe laughs.
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: 93
dialog: 86,
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK -- FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGHT. 96
dialog: Se
dialog: Student Nurse Capobianco <= young, virginal, attractive,
text: pusiness-like -- is giving Joe a massage, working on the
text: thighs. Enjoying the experience, he teases her.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: O-o-0-0...that feels good...I
dialog: might get an erection.
speaker_heading: NURSE CAPOBIANCO
dialog: (in real girlish panic)
dialog: Oh, don't do that.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Miss Capobianco, how much do you
dialog: charge for genitalia?
speaker_heading: NURSE CAPOBIANCO
dialog: The same as I do. for, Jews,, .
dialog: Mr. Gideon.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK -= FADE UP IMMEDIATELY Tt: DAY. 97
scene_heading: JOE'S POV. HECHT, CHRISTOPHER, GOLDIZ. DUMB SHOW TO
text: SOUND TO DUMB SEOW.
text: Animatedly they are talking business that presumably
dialog: interests Joe. The dumb show abruptly beccm=s “Live.”
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Ah, the hell with it. We'll do
dialog: a show...we won't do a show.
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: Right! The main thing is to get
dialog: you back on your feet. What's
dialog: the difference in the long run?
speaker_heading: GOLDIE
dialog: And speaking of long runs, Joey,
dialog: should we keep building the scenery?
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Just a joke...just a joke.
text: Back to DUMB SHOW.
scene_heading: PADE TO BLACK -- FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 98
scene_heading: JOE'S POV. PAN SHOT. DUMB SHOW.
text: The producers have been replaced by a group of racially-
text: mixed doctors led by a Resident, who is the only one talking.
dialog: 98
dialog: 99
dialog: 100
dialog: 101
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 98
dialog: Among the student doctors are two women, ~ equal fascina=
dialog: tion to a couple of male doctors se bEet sede of Kimberly,
text: part of an elaborate ad-campaign display for THE STANDUP.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK <= FADE UP_IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGHT. 99
text: Davis Newman perches in a chair at the side of the bed,
text: keeping a slight distance and observing.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: You're just like I am, It's got
dialog: you by the balls, If you can't
dialog: make it as a genius then fuck it,
dialog: why not die?...Right?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: oe eright.
text: He closes his eyes.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK == FADE UP_ IMMEDIATELY TOs DAY. 100
speaker_heading: JOE'S POV.
text: A large portable, monster-like X-ray machine is wheeled
text: into the room. A goggled technician operates the machine
text: as it sweeps across Joe. vee
dialog: seth iaeal
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK -~ FADE UP IMMEDIATELY To: NIGHT. 101
text: Propped up in bed, Joe reads from a collection of 2.e.
dialog: cummings to Second Poetry Girl, also 2 pretty model-cancer
text: type. He looks soulfully into her eyes.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: “and deep in the high that
dialog: Goes nothing but fall
dialog: {with a shout
dialog: each
dialog: around we go ail)
dialog: there's somebody calling who's we”
text: He looks at her meaningfully. She is obviously moved.
scene_heading: SECOND POETRY GIRL
dialog: eee'who's we'...Oh, Joey.
scene_heading: PADE TO BLACK -- FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 102
speaker_heading: JOE'S POV.
text: Audrey holds up a Michelle water-color of her father lying
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 102
text: in the hospital. In the drawing he has a big smile, The
dialog: drawing gays: "To Dad, Love From Michelle.”
scene_heading: E =F UP IATELY TO; NIGHT. 103
text: Stacy at his bedside, Joe is on the telephone.
speaker_heading: : JOE
dialog: (distracted by Stacy)
dialog: -.-They have this rule about
dialog: visitors where you have to be
dialog: at least sixteen.
dialog: (pause) .
dialog: I agree, Michelle...It is a dumb
dialog: rule. , ea
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK =~ PADE UP IMMEDIATELY 30: DAY. 104
text: The room is crowded, including Murray Nathan. The Head
text: Dietitian, an Oriental Woman, has the week's menus. Over
dialog: her speech Joe deliberately takes _a huge turkey-ca-rye
dialog: from Murray's _nand.
speaker_heading: DIETITIAN
dialog: I'll leave these menus with yeu,
dialog: Mr. Gideon. Pléase check off
dialog: what you want for the coming week.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (looks at menus, does
dialog: number for his audience,
dialog: putting sandwich in his
dialog: mouth and talking
dialog: through it)
dialog: Oh Monday I'll have the roast
dialog: beef, Tuesday chicken, Wednesday
dialog: steak, and Thursday I plan to be
dialog: dead so I'll just have something
dialog: light.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK <= FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGHT. 105
speaker_heading: NT,
text: Another visit from Davis, leaning into Joe.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: (intensely)
dialog: Shit, you're more obsessive than
dialog: I am,..and what's keeping you alive
dialog: is that hope, that one possibility
dialog: that once, just once, you'll create
dialog: a work of real importance. Right?
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
dialog: 107
dialog: 108
speaker_heading: CONTINUED : 105
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: ee eright.
text: He closes his eyes.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK == FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TQ: DAY. 106
speaker_heading: FADE TO 3)
text: Now the visitors are. Penn, Eddie Lerner, Stacy and Alvin.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: (little shrug)
dialog: eeeIt seems to be getting all
text: the laughs.
speaker_heading: RACKEMIL
dialog: The response at the screenings
dialog: has been sensational.
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: Joey, they love the picture.
dialog: You should hear what they say
text: coming out of the sscreenings.
dialog: Film freaks from.NYU..and..even
dialog: old couples in their thirties.
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: .eewhat makes me happy is we've
dialog: got Cinema I in New York and the
dialog: Westwood Village in LA.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK -- FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGHT. 107
text: Propped up in bed, Joe reads from a collection of e.¢.
text: cummings to Third Poetry Girl. She is also pretty and
text: black. He looks soulfully into her eyes.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: "(with a spin
dialog: leap
dialog: alive we're alive)
dialog: we're wonderful one times one"
speaker_heading: THIRD POETRY GIRL
dialog: (obviously moved)
dialog: And that made you think of me?
text: Joe gravely nods_yes.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK += FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 108
text: Nurse Bates draws what seems to be a lot of blood from
text: Joe's arm.
speaker_heading: 1038
dialog: 109
dialog: 116
dialog: ili
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 108
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Jesus, I didn't know I had any
dialog: left.
speaker_heading: NURSE BATES
dialog: Just one more, Mr. Gideon.
text: She gives another jab.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK = FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 109
speaker_heading: DUMB_SHOW:
text: The party is at its height. Katie is present as Joe clearly
text: enjoys a performance from Dann. He is belting out a number
text: with exaggerated showbiz gestures.
scene_heading: BLACK == FADE IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGET. 110
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Katie sits
dialog: reading to
text: t Joe's bedside Kassaging his left hayd and
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK ~~ FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGHT. 111
dialog: ee
text: Another visit from Davis, leaning into Joe.
speaker_heading: DAVIS oo. eye
dialog: Gideon, I've. got real insight into
dialog: you...There's a deep-rootad fear of
dialog: being conventional...First you left
dialog: your wife and just lived with a
dialog: woman. When society said that was
dialog: OK...you immediately broke off and
dialog: tried living with two women...
dialog: menages, all that shit. When
dialog: society started to accept that
dialog: as a life style...it threw you,
dialog: right?..,Where do you go from
dialog: there?...Three women? Ten?? TI
dialog: tell ya, Gideon, I've got real
dialog: insight into you...and what's
dialog: underneath is this dreadful fear
dialog: that you're ordinary, not special
dialog: «+eThat sex thing...1 wouldn't
dialog: say you're a faggot, but you have
dialog: a lot of feminine characteristics...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: ee eright.
text: Be closes his eyes. .
dialog: 
dialog: gl.
scene_heading: 112 FADE _TO BLACK -- FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 112
speaker_heading: FADE 10 3)
text: The party continues. From a seated position on the bed,
text: Joe jumps down and begins dancing a la Fred Astaire. Over
text: the dance there are scattered ad lib protests that he's
text: crazy, which he ignores.
scene_heading: 113 FADE TO BLACK <= FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: DAY. 113
text: Dr. Ballinger and Dr. Hyman surround Joe, who lies in bed,
text: and are obviously laying down the law to him. He keeps
text: nodding in mechanical assent.
speaker_heading: DR. HYMAN
dialog: You're not resting...you're having
dialog: teo many visitors.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: Your blood pressure is twenty
dialog: points over what wa'd hoped. Your
dialog: candiograne haven't improved one
dialog: - ite -
speaker_heading: DR. HYMAN
dialog: Joe, you're flirting with disaster.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: You've just got to rest.
speaker_heading: - JOE
dialog: (being a good boy}
dialog: I will... will.
scene_heading: 114 PADE TO BLACK <= FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO: NIGHT. 1214
text: At night, Joe in a sexual frenzy is pressing Stacy to the
text: wall. He has her dress up and.is pulling her pants down.
text: She giggles and tries to resist...but.act too seriously.
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: Joey, you're crazy...What are you
dialog: doing?...You're really crazy.e.
dialog: Do you want to kill yoursel£??!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (never letting up)
dialog: Sweetheart, this could be the
text: last act of a desperate man.
text: Nurse Bates enters and observes.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (over his shoulder)
dialog: Dr. Ballinger said I should exercise
dialog: a little.
dialog: 114
dialog: 115
dialog: Revised 8/1/78 92.
scene_heading: CONTINUED . . . 414
text: PADE TO BLACK.
dialog: She Brahms ALSO FADES.
scene_heading: END_OF_MONTAGE.
scene_heading: Inv. LOUNGE. DR. BALLINGER AND HOSPITAL STAFF. 115
speaker_heading: DAY.
text: With the lounge decor closed and no patients present,
text: Dr. Ballinger meets with the floor staff. A large ~
text: blackboard has been rolled out and is covered with
text: chalked notations dealing with other patients. The
dialog: subject now, however, is Mr. Gideon. In addition to
dialog: Dr. Ballinger, there are & resident and two male
dialog: interns plus all the nurses we have seen with the
text: addition of two or three more. Dr. Ballinger is
dialog: holding Joe's chart. :
scene_heading: - DR. BALLINGER — .
dialog: ‘(lowers chart) *
dialog: Well...obviously, everything he
dialog: does is a denial of his condition.
speaker_heading: : NURSE CAPOBIANCO
dialog: Dr. Ballinger, every time I go in *
dialog: the room he's always grabbing and
text: groping.
text: DR. BALLINGER .
dialog: Have any others had that problem?
text: All female nurses raise their hands slowly. Bemused,
text: Dr. Ballinger looks at a male interne.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: Bow about you?
scene_heading: PIRST INTERNE :
dialog: Not yet, but he's leoking at me
dialog: funny. :
speaker_heading: SECOND’ INTERNE *
dialog: He acts like he really deesn't *
dialog: care.
dialog: 115
dialog: 116
dialog: to
dialog: 120
dialog: 121
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED ‘ 115
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: Oh, he cares all right. Se-ceres
dialog: < . The measure of
dialog: his fear of death is how much he
dialog: denies its possibility by his
dialog: irrational behavior.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: e-~mueh—seernex, Starting now,
dialog: we Will-..limit his visitors to
dialog: no more than two.,.three at the
dialog: most.
dialog: (picks up another file)
dialog: Let's go to Mr. Cartwright in
dialog: fifteen twelve.
dialog: 116
speaker_heading: OMIT OMIT to
dialog: 120
scene_heading: INT, HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. JOE AND PENN, OTHER PATIENTS 121
scene_heading: AND VISITORS. NIGHT.
text: pressed in a robe, Joe walks along the corridor with Penn.
text: Joe holds a sheaf of newspaper reviews of THE STANDUP and
text: is reading one or two of them. Penn is excited as Joe
text: studies what are obviously good notices. In the background
text: are other patients and visitors, also strolling.
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: Joe, I wish you could have Seen
dialog: there. Nine thirty this morning,
dialog: before one review had come out,
dialog: the line at Cinema One was around
dialog: the block. I mean, Joe, the people
dialog: know! The people know! Broke
dialog: every first iy record. A block=
dialog: buster...a blockbuster...I mean
dialog: a-a-a blockbuster! And those guys
dialog: from California...you wouldn't
dialog: believe the phone calls... .
dialog: "Congratulations...Congratulations
dialog: wesI'm glad you took the time...
dialog: it was worth it...Every dollar we
dialog: spent is up there on the screen..."
dialog: They're talking a three million
dialog: dollar advertising budget...three
dialog: million dollars, can you believe
dialog: that? I mean, with that kind of
dialog: push this picture will go right
dialog: through the roof... right through
dialog: the roof. And look at those reviews.
dialog: We did it. We did it!
dialog: 
dialog: 121
dialog: 122
dialog: 94,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 121
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (reading, unexcited)
dialog: Where are the bad ones?
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: (lying)
dialog: There are no bad ones.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (leoking him right
dialog: in the eye)
dialog: Joshua?...
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: Well, there were a couple that
dialog: quibbled a little...I left them
text: in the office.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Joshua, do me one favor, ~
dialog: ~~ (smiling)
dialog: I don't ever want to see them...
dialog: not ever
text: They continue to walk -- now approaching Joe's room.
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: What about the televisions?
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S ROOM, CLOSE SHOT TELEVISION SCREEN. 122
scene_heading: LESLIE PERRY. NIGHT.
text: The television reviewer, Leslie Perry, is a young, attractive,
text: smiling-killer type.
speaker_heading: PERRY
dialog: (very brightly)
text: Pollowing Joe Gideon's triumphant
dialog: directorial achievement with 50
dialog: Beautiful Girls 50, when he won
dialog: avery possible award, it would
dialog: be nice to report...
scene_heading: WIDER ANGLE. JOE, KATIE, PENN, RACKMIL. NIGHT.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: O-o-ch, boy...here it
dialog: comes.
text: Joe lies in bed as the others
text: are scattered about the room
text: all watching the television.
dialog: 
dialog: 122
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
speaker_heading: PERRY
dialog: «sethat Mr. Gideon's latest
dialog: effort, The Standup, starring
dialog: Davis Newman was a better
dialog: film. The Standup, however,
dialog: does not quite stand up...
text: Leaning toward the frenetic,
text: Gideon falls into his charac-
dialog: teristic weakness of trying too
dialog: hard to please, to entertain.
dialog: Slickness obscures reality,
dialog: the old razzle-dazzle some-
dialog: times obliterates drama. Had
dialog: Gideon trusted the truth of
dialog: his story ~~ the trials and
dialog: tribulations of an alcoholic
dialog: nightclub comic -=- we might
dialog: have had a film to equal the
speaker_heading: ASE. ce
dialog: As an example, there is one
dialog: spectacular scene...
dialog: (behind her we see
dialog: "stills" projected
dialog: from the monologue)
dialog: «sewhere the has-been comic,
dialog: played impeccably by Davis
dialog: Newman, demonstrates his
dialog: former brilliance in a mono~
dialog: legue where, clearly, director
dialog: Gideon gave Mr. Newman free
text: rein. Rising above rather
dialog: commonplace material, the
dialog: actor creates a classic comic
dialog: aria, Would that Gideon had
dialog: allowed Newman more room
dialog: throughout the entire film,
dialog: but Joe Gideon, in his effort
dialog: to keep The Standup upright,
dialog: has resorted to the use of
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 
dialog: 95.
dialog: 122
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: Joey, turn it off.
dialog: Joe dees not respond but
text: keeps his eyes glued to the
dialog: screen,
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: (cueing off words
dialog: "not quite stand
dialog: up.")
dialog: Joey, turn the fucking
dialog: thing off!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: No, I want to hear it.
dialog: Immediately, in response to
dialog: the review, the others
text: become terribly indignant,
dialog: @irecting their anger at
text: the woman on the screen.
speaker_heading: OVERLAPPING
speaker_heading: REMARKS
speaker_heading: FROM ALL
dialog: (to be allocated
dialog: later)
dialog: ..-What the hell does
dialog: she know?
dialog: «seShe never gave any=
dialog: thing a good notice.e.
dialog: .e.The woman is totally
dialog: unqualified to eriticize
dialog: anything...
dialog: «eeShe doesn't know a
dialog: goddamned thing about
dialog: films...
dialog: $2208 anything for that
dialog: matterec.
dialog: «»sShe's not reviewing
dialog: a film...just showing
dialog: how clever she is...
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: 122 CONTINUED 122
speaker_heading: PERRY (contd)
dialog: crutches. Frantic cutting,
text: “an earsplitting sound track,
dialog: and his devotion to chopping RACKMIL
dialog: off the ends of scenes before You know how she got
dialog: the drama has played out, that job, don't you?
dialog: left this reviewer with :
text: bewilderment and a four- PENN
dialog: aspirin headache. There are «.eAt the screening she
dialog: certainly fine moments in told me she liked it...
dialog: the film, and an inspired
dialog: performance by newcomer Grimly Joe never takes his
text: Kimberly Welles... eyes off the screen. solds
dialog: (a smart-ass up his hands.
dialog: pause)
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Hold it!...I want to
dialog: hear it all.
dialog: I cannot say that The Standup In tense silence they wait
dialog: is on its knees...but 1t sure out je review.
dialog: does. stumble. we
text: The instant the review is over, Joe clicks off the set.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RACKMIL
dialog: Joey, her review doesn't mean
dialog: a damn thing.
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: No matter what she said...
dialog: (holding up reviews)
dialog: I guarantee it will de thirty
dialog: million domestic.
text: Joe jumps off the bed and starts to pace. Everyone watches
text: tensely.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (with inereasing rage)
dialog: Goddamn it! Two years work and
dialog: she just wipes it out in one
dialog: minute. ie
dialog: <down—the-soies! He—and-—the
dialog: Two years!! i
dialog: Fucking broad! I know it's a
dialog: awed picture and I made a lot
dialog: of mistakes, but it's a hell of
dialog: a lot better than most of the shit
dialog: you see around now! Two years!il
speaker_heading: (HORE)
dialog: 122
dialog: 123
dialog: 124
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 122
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: (to Penn}
dialog: You did say the line went around
dialog: the block, didn't you?
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: All day. All day.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to television)
dialog: Killer cunt!!!
dialog: {then to other people,
dialog: rising to a yet higher
dialog: level of rage)
dialog: r don't give a fuck what she says
dialog: or what anybody says!! I _ KNOW It's
text: A GODDAMN GOOD MOVIE.
text: ue breaks off abruptly, shocked awareness showing on his
dialog: ace. . -
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (softly, but intensely)
dialog: Wait a minute. You'd better get
dialog: somebody.
dialog: (holds chest)
dialog: I think I'm in trouble. —#eu-better
text: Deliberately he moves toward the bed, and begins to press
text: the call button, at the same time throwing several nitro=
text: glycerin tablets under his tongue. He eases himself into
text: a lying position. Out of a stunned silence, Penn reacts
text: “- runs out of the room.
scene_heading: ANGLE IN CORRIDOR. , 123
text: The Emergency Team charges down the corridor into Joe's reom.
scene_heading: RESUME ROOM. . 124
text: As the team enters the room, we see Joe in deep trouble:
text: cold sweat, trembling and troubled breathing. The four
text: friends stand in shocked silence and begin to move out as
text: team moves in.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {mumbling)
dialog: Fucking cunt did it to me...
scene_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT
dialog: Everyone out, please.
dialog: 124
dialog: 125
dialog: 126
dialog: wot
dialog: mm 98.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 124
text: They exit.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to team)
dialog: Get that goddamned television
dialog: set out of this room!
text: They begin the emergency procedures.
scene_heading: RESUME CORRIDOR JUST OUTSIDE LOUNGE. KATIE; PENN, 125
speaker_heading: RACKMIL.
text: Past them we can see that the door to Joe's room has been
dialog: elesed, The three are quite terrified and we should have
text: the feeling that none has said a word for a long time.
text: Unable to bear the tension any longer, but with utmost
dialog: seriousness:
speaker_heading: PENN
dialog: - Jesus...I never heard of anyone
text: dying from a bad notice.
text: No one responds.
scene_heading: te ANGIOGRAPHY ROOM. JOE AND SEVERAL TECHNICIANS. 126
dialog: Xe
text: In a Frankenstein setting, Joe is strapped to a table over
text: which is suspended a giant machine. Everything moves...
text: the table and machine turning and tilting. Finally, the
text: machine descends like some predatory monster. For the
text: first time we see Joe is obviously terrified.
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: Feeling okay?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: The truth?...I'm scared.
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: Everybody is. Don't worry about
dialog: it. You can expect a warm rush
dialog: of liquid all through your body
dialog: -+ebut don't be frightened by it.
text: A mo ent passes; suddenly he feels the pain.
dialog: «es0h, goddam...
speaker_heading: ABRUFT CUT TO:
dialog: 
scene_heading: 127 HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM.
dialog: 128
scene_heading: DRS. BALLINGER, HYMAN, GARRY.
text: Dr, Garry is a young surgeon.
scene_heading: JOE, ANGELIQUE, AUDREY,
dialog: 99,
dialog: 127
text: They. stand behind Joe, who
text: looks and listens with increasing confusion as instantly,
text: on the CUT, the three doctors start
dialog: 
text: sits next to Angelique.
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: The heart is the viscus
dialog: of cardiac muscle that
dialog: maintains the circula-
dialog: tion of the blood. It
dialog: is divided into four
dialog: cavities...two atria
text: and two venticles.
dialog: left atrium receives
dialog: oxygenated blood from
dialog: the lungs.
speaker_heading: DR. HYMAN
dialog: From there the
dialog: blood passes to
dialog: the left ven-
dialog: tricle, which
dialog: forces it via the
dialog: aorta through the
dialog: arteries to supply
dialog: the tissues of the
dialog: body. The right
dialog: atrium receives
dialog: the blood.
dialog: The
text: The babble ends abruptly.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (totally confused)
dialog: eeceee sHuh?7?!
scene_heading: TWO SHOT. AUDREY AND ANGELIQUE.
text: DRUM SOLO continues.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (to Angelique)
dialog: He had total blockage in two
dialog: arteries.
scene_heading: DRUM SOLO OUT.
speaker_heading: INT.
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
scene_heading: JOE'S HOSPITAL ROOM. CLOSE SHOT.
speaker_heading: RACKMIL.
dialog: liking at once.
dialog: The effect will be a babbie of medical information.
dialog: Audrey
text: Off screen we hear a DRUM SOLO.
speaker_heading: Dk. GARRY
dialog: After it has
dialog: passed through
dialog: the tissues and
dialog: given up moc. cf
dialog: its oxygen, the
text: blood then passes
dialog: to the right
dialog: venticle and
dialog: then to the lungs
dialog: to be oxygenated.
dialog: 128
text: He reads in a quick flat monotone from a will.
speaker_heading: RACKMIL
dialog: »eeall my just debts and my funeral
dialog: ges be paid as soon as prac-
dialog: ticable after my decease. Fourth:
dialog: I give and bequeath the sum of
dialog: Fifty Thousand Dollars to my former
dialog: wife, Audrey Paris Gideon. Fifth:
dialog: I give and bequeath the sum of
dialog: Pifteen Thousand Dollars to my
dialog: friend, Kate Jagger. Sixth: Tf
speaker_heading: {MORE)
dialog: 128
dialog: 129
speaker_heading: REV: 12/15/78
dialog: 100 -
speaker_heading: CONTINUED : 129 (CONT:
speaker_heading: RACKMIL (contd)
dialog: give, devise and bequeath ali of the
dialog: remainder of my estate, both real and
dialog: personal, to Michelle Hope Gideon.
text: WIDER SHOT TO INCLUDE JOE, DAVIS AND RACKMIL'S ASSISTANT.
text: Davis is sitting in a chair. The assistant signs all copies of the will.
speaker_heading: RACKMIL
dialog: We need another witness.
dialog: wot
dialog: Joe indicates Davis. anes ane
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: Wait a minute. I ain't signing nothin’
dialog: Tain't read.
text: Davis vegins to read the will, mumbling to himself as he reads.
speaker_heading: JGE
dialog: We'll be there al} night.
text: Finished reading, he rises and walks to the bedside with great deliberation.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: (quite seriously)
dialog: Gideon, I do not see my name
dialog: anywhere in this document.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: Davis, it never occured to me ...
dialog: I didn't think you ... I mean...
dialog: (apolagetically)
dialog: No... your name is ... not in the will.
speaker_heading: DAVIS
dialog: My name is not in the will?
dialog: pause)
dialog: Then, fuck you, Gideon! ... Live !!
scene_heading: INT. JOE'S HOSPITAL ROOM. JOE, KATIE, BLACK MALE ATTENDANT. 129
scene_heading: TIGHT SHOT OF RAZOR. NIGHT.
text: The razor descends and scrapes across Joe's chest as a male attendant
text: shaves his body hair preparing him for surgery. The television set is
text: on and over this we hear another O'Conner Flood introduction.
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD (V.Q.)
dialog: .s. this is the man who would be my first
dialog: choice as a modern day saint ...
scene_heading: WIDER SHOT. : .
text: We see Joe, katie and the Male Attendant. Joe holds tne remote control
text: as ne and Katie watch the Flood show.
dialog: lol.
speaker_heading: 129 CONTINUED 129
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: »s.when I was on those marches...
dialog: like Selma...this brother was
dialog: shuffling right along with me,
dialog: long before a lot of them other
dialog: eats saw civil rights as a hip
text: scene and jumped on the Blackwagon.
dialog: {with self pleasure,
text: he slaps his thigh
text: and stamps his foot
dialog: on the floor)
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen...let me
dialog: lay on you...
text: Katie gives the response, trying to evoke a laugh from Joe.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (keeping just a beat
dialog: ahead of O'Conner)
dialog: A great entertainer... -
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: (a split second later)
dialog: eoea great entertainer...
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: eee great humanitarian.s.:
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: (a split second later)
dialog: eeea great humanitarian...
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: «»sand my dear friend for...
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: e.eand my dear friend for...
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (purposely gargling
dialog: the numbor)
dialog: «..fassa-fassa years...
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLCOD
dialog: +..seventeen years.
text: Joe clicks the set off,
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: {still expecting
dialog: a laugh)
dialog: See how much I learned from you?
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: 129 CONTINUED 129
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (flatly)
dialog: I'm afraid you learned too much
dialog: from me. ”
text: Katie, puzzled, just looks at him, Finished, the Attendant
text: picks up his tools, runs his hand over Joe's chest.
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: There you are, Mr. Gideon, smooth
text: as Kojak's head.
dialog: (exiting)
dialog: Good luck tomorrow.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: What do you mean...I learned too
dialog: much from you?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: - Remember last Tuesday night?
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Tuesday...Tuesday?...No...no, I
dialog: don't,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: It was raining...very hard.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Oh, yeah...yeah, right.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I called you at midnight.
speaker_heading: RATIE ca
dialog: I must've been out walking the dog.
speaker_heading: + JOE
dialog: I called again at twelve-twonty.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Then at two-thirty. Pken-at
dialog: -three=-thirty.
dialog: (pause)
text: eesand again at five.
dialog: {long pause)
dialog: You were with someone.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: oo YES.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: And you made love to him.
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: 129 CONTINUED 129
speaker_heading: KATIE
speaker_heading: oo csYeS.
dialog: {she starts to cry)
speaker_heading: JOE (0.C.)
dialog: Hold that frame.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: 129A TRIPLE HEADED STEENBECK. FROZEN FRAME. 129A
text: We see three aspects of the previous moment FROZEN on the
dialog: machine.
speaker_heading: JOE (0.C.)
dialog: I shot it two ways. Put in the
dialog: version where she says “no."
text: fhe Steenbeck is reversed and stopped, then run forward.
speaker_heading: JOE 7
dialog: And you made love to him.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (with a sincere smile)
speaker_heading: oe eNO.
speaker_heading: JOE (0.C.)
dialog: Hold it. .
text: The Steenbeck stops abruptly.
speaker_heading: JOE (0,C.)
dialog: No, not right. It's not the way
dialog: it happened. Go back to the other
dialog: way.
text: The Steenbeck is run backwards, then forward.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: And you made love to hin.
speaker_heading: KATIE + tna
dialog: oe sYeSe ere
dialog: (she starts to cry)
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: 129B HOSPITAL ROOM. JOE AND KATIE. 1298
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: «We're finished...
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: 1298 CONTINUED 1298
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: _I don't know...how do you feel
dialog: about me?
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: (through a burst
dialog: of tears)
dialog: Joe..eL love you.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Well, then...we're not finished.
dialog: (a slight smile)
dialog: Because I really love you.
text: They embrace.
scene_heading: 129C HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE. NIGHT. 129¢
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: —did you mean that?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Oh, hell no! I was fuckin' pissed
dialog: off at her...I don't know...yeah,
dialog: sort of, Oh, hell, sometimes I
dialog: don't know where the bulishit ends
dialog: eesI just wanted to say something
dialog: nice to her, that's all. In case...
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
speaker_heading: aeeIM CaS@see
text: She moves to him, kisses him on the lips. He gently pushes
dialog: her back.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Hey, hold it! You're coming on
dialog: awfully strong...
scene_heading: 130 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. JOE AND SURGICAL TEAM. DAY. 130
text: A surgical team, consisting of about eight doctors and
text: technicians, wheels Joe down the corridor on a gurney.
text: They wear identical green gowns and caps, surgical masks
text: hanging from their necks.
speaker_heading: JOE'S POV.
text: He sees the team. . oes
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT JOE.
text: Effected by the sedative, his eyes close briefly. He re-
text: opens then. .
dialog: 130
dialog: 131
dialog: 132
dialog: 133
dialog: 134
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 130
speaker_heading: JOE* $ POV.
text: The team is gone. Taking their places are Audrey and Katie.
text: ‘They move along with him offering encouraging smiles.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT JOE.
text: As he looks from.one to the other.
text: ANGLE TO HOLD JOE, AUDREY AND KATIE.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to Audrey)
dialog: If I dia, I'm sorry for all the
dialog: bad things I did to you...
dialog: (then, to Katie)
dialog: And, if I live, I'm sorry for
dialog: all the bad things I'm gonna
dialog: do to you. :
scene_heading: QUICK FADE TO BLACK -= FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO:
scene_heading: INT. OPERATING ROOM. JOE, DR. GARRY, ANESTHETIST, 131
scene_heading: OTHER TECHNICIANS.
text: Dr. Garry is bent over Joe, the mask covering his face.
text: Joe is totally surrounded by a formidable medical team.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
speaker_heading: OMIT omit 132
scene_heading: CLOSE ANGLE, JOE'S UPPER TORSO. 133
text: Fully prepared now for the operation, his chest has been
dialog: marked for surgery.
dialog: Over this we HEAR a voice.
speaker_heading: INSURANCE MAN (V.0.)
dialog: (dryly, flatly)
dialog: «esas stated in the Declarations,
dialog: sustained directly and solely as
dialog: the result of injury...
dialog: The speech continues into:
scene_heading: INT. HECHT'S OFFICE. HECHT, CHRISTOPHER, GOLDIE, 134
scene_heading: INSURANCE MAN.
text: The four men sit around a table. In evidence are copies
dialog: of the Gideon Insurance Pelicy and Production Financial
dialog: 134
scene_heading: 135 RESUME OPERATING ROOM.
dialog: Statements.
text: wrapped candies. The meeting is entirely businesslike.
dialog: 106.
dialog: 134
text: There is also a large apothecary jar filled with
speaker_heading: INSURANCE MAN
dialog: ».eSickness, death of or permanent
dialog: total disability...
text: Hecht holds up his hand.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Excuse me, Mr. Clark, Larry, give
dialog: me our figures.
speaker_heading: GOLDIE
dialog: (veading from the
dialog: financial statement)
text: Well, the scenery is half built...
dialog: that's ninety-six thousand...
dialog: ~ 135
text: A surgical saw is passed from one pair of hands to another.
speaker_heading: GOLDIE (V.0.)
dialog: .+-costumes in the shop..,about
dialog: forty thousand.,.Equity Bond,
dialog: that's. fifty...rehearsal salaries
dialog: »..we have made some advances to
dialog: a few of the actors...about forty=-
dialog: three thousand...office expenses...
dialog: eighteen...advertising...thirty-
dialog: seven.,.author's advances...that's
dialog: another...forty thousand...we're in
dialog: for about three hundred twenty-four
dialog: thousand and change. :
scene_heading: 136 RESUME HECHT'S OFFICE, 136
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Now, let me try to understand, ~
dialog: Of that money, how much do we
dialog: recoup?
speaker_heading: CHRISTOPHER
dialog: Yeah, I'm confused, too...do we
dialog: get some, all...what?
speaker_heading: INSURANCE MAN
dialog: Simply, here are the options:
dialog: One..e
dialog: 137
dialog: 138
dialog: 139
dialog: 140
dialog: 107.
scene_heading: RESUME OPERATING ROOM. 137
text: The saw is switched on and is then moved to a point directly
text: over Joe's chest and starts toward the marking.
speaker_heading: INSURANCE MAN (V.0.)
text: eeeif Mr. Gideon recovers and
dialog: you resume production within the
dialog: one hundred eighty days, we are
dialog: not liable for any part of it.
dialog: Two: if Mr. Gideon...
text: Just before the saw hits the flesh...
scene_heading: RESUME HECHT'S OFFICE. 138
speaker_heading: INSURANCE MAN
dialog: »»eshould die and you resume pro-
dialog: duction with another director
dialog: within the one hundred eighty days,
dialog: we are still not liable. Three:
dialog: however... -
scene_heading: RESUME OPERATING ROOM. 139
text: The saw rips through flesh and bone cutting through the
dialog: sternum...
speaker_heading: . INSURANCE MAN (V.0.)
dialog: ee.if Mr. Gideon should die before
dialog: February One and you abandon the
dialog: production, we are liable for the
dialog: full million dollars.
dialog: «sefrom top to bottom.
scene_heading: RESUME HECHT'S OFFICE. 140
speaker_heading: INSURANCE MAN
dialog: (slyly)
dialog: That means, gentlemen, if Mr.
dialog: Goldie's figures are correct, and
dialog: God=forbid Mr, Gideon should expire
dialog: before February One, you could make
dialog: a profit of six hundred twelve
dialog: thousand dollars...
dialog: (leoking at Goldie)
dialog: «.eand change.
dialog: Long pause.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: oe00h, I se@.ee
dialog: 140
dialog: 141
dialog: 14ia
speaker_heading: 1415
dialog: 142
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 140
speaker_heading: INSURANCE MAN
dialog: (a tiny smile)
dialog: You sould be the first show on
dialog: Broadway to make a profit without
dialog: ever opening.
text: Another pause. Looks are exchanged.
speaker_heading: CLOSE SHOT JOE. 142
text: A_metal ‘spreader splits his chest as though he were a chicken.
scene_heading: RESUME HECHT'S OFFICE 141A
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Well, it's all very clear to me.
text: After a long contemplative silence, Larry Goldie reaches
text: into the apothecary jar, unwraps a piece of candy, puts it
text: in his mouth and begins slowly sucking on it. Simultaneously,
text: Hecht lights a cigarette. At the same time, Christopher
text: takes out a finger nail clipper and begins clipping his
text: nails. The Insurance Man watches all three silently.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE, NIGHT. 1415
text: He's staring in the mirror. She looks at him for a long
text: time, rises, comes slowly toward him. She gently touches
text: the back of her hand to his cheek. This is played in
dialog: absolute silence == no music, no sound effects whatsoever.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POST=SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE, FULL SHOT. JOE. 142
speaker_heading: NIG&T.
text: He lies completely still with tubes coming from every
dialog: conceivable orifice. .
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT JOE.
text: His eyes are closed. Slowly they open. His body begins to
dialog: tremble.
scene_heading: WHAT HE SEES. EYES SCANNING:
dialog: All the activity in the Poest-Surgery Intensive Care. Room:
text: Nurses, Male Attendants, even visitors. There is much
text: movement in the room; but it is all done quietly, effi-
text: ciently, swiftly. One of the swifter moving figures
dialog: 142
dialog: 143
dialog: 109
speaker_heading: CONTINUED | 142
text: crosses toward the bed and when she comes into FOCUS leaning
text: over Joe we see possibly the world's most beautiful nurse,
dialog: Miss Briggs.
speaker_heading: RESUME CU JOE.
text: Because of the tube down his throat, his mouth is taped —
text: tty ate stretched grotesquely. Trying to talk, he can
dialog: ° Ease
scene_heading: TWO SHOT. JOE AND NURSE BRIGGS.
text: Gently, sweetly, she leans to him.
text: NURSE BRIGGS .
dialog: Please don't try to talk.
text: Joe closes his eyes, then opens them. Hallucinatory Joe
text: appears.
speaker_heading: HALLUCINATORT JOE
dialog: Do you want to shoot it now?
text: Real Joe nods yes.
speaker_heading: CLAPPER MAN
dialog: (with slate)
dialog: Hospital Hallucination, Take one.
scene_heading: HOSPITAL HALLUCINATION SET. AUDREY, MICHELLE, KATIE, 143
scene_heading: JOE REAL, JOE HALLUCINATORY, DANCERS, HOSPITAL CREW,
speaker_heading: FILM CREW.
speaker_heading: HALLUCINATORY JOE
dialog: Are you on your marks?. Roll.
dialog: Speed. Flayback.
speaker_heading: AUDREY :
dialog: APTER YOU'VE GONE, AND LEFT ME CRYING
dialog: AFTER YOU'VE GONE, THERE'S NO DENYING
dialog: YOU'LL FEEL BLUE, YOU'LL FEEL SAD
scene_heading: KATIE & MICHELLE -
dialog: YOU'LL MISS THE BESTEST Pal YOU'VE
speaker_heading: AUDREY
speaker_heading: BVER HAD.
dialog: THERE'LL COME a TIME
dialog: NOW DON'T FORGET IT
dialog: THERE'LL COME a TOE
dialog: WHEN YOU'LL REGRET IT
speaker_heading: 143 CONTINUED
speaker_heading: AUDEEY
dialog: Scat sing
speaker_heading: 1210
dialog: i ee eee “143
scene_heading: AUDREY /MICHELIE /FATIE
scene_heading: SOMB - DaY ~ WHEN YOU GRCY LONELY
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: YOUR HEART WILL BREAK LIXE MINE
dialog: AND YOU'LL WANT MS ONLY
dialog: AFTER YOU'VE GONE
scene_heading: AUDREY /{ICHELLE/ZATIE
dialog: APTER YOU'VE GONE
speaker_heading: MICHELLE/ZATIE
speaker_heading: APTER
speaker_heading: YOU'VE GONE
speaker_heading: LEFT ME
speaker_heading: CRYING
speaker_heading: NO DE
speaker_heading: iG
speaker_heading: YOU'LL BE
dialog: (repeat)
scene_heading: AUDREY /MICHELLE/ZATIE
dialog: AFTER YOU'VE GONE _
dialog: APTER YOU'VE GONE....seceee
speaker_heading: AWAY,
speaker_heading: EALLUCINATORY JOE
dialog: Cut. Okay, print it. And, take two.
dialog: Playback.
dialog: (msic begins, he interrupts)
dialog: Hold it. Hold it. You're not on your
text: marks. Once more. Playback.
speaker_heading: (MUSIC INTRO begins)
speaker_heading: KaTtIs
dialog: . YOU'D BETTER CHANGE YOUR WaY OF LIVIN"
dialog: AND IF THAT AIN'T ENOUGH
speaker_heading: AUDREY ,
dialog: She's right, Joe, you'd better listen.
dialog: Katrs
dialog: YOU'D BETTER CRANGE THs WAY YOU STRUT YOUR STUFF
dialog: ‘CAUSE NOBODY WANTS YOU WHEN YOU'RE OLD aND GRAY
dialog: YOU'D BETTER CHANGE YOUR WaY, TODAY
scene_heading: . KATIE /AUDRSY/MICHELLE
dialog: YOU'D BETTER CHANGE YOUR ¥AT.
dialog: Early
dialog: Can you hear me Joe? [I'm talkin’ to you.
speaker_heading: AUDRET
dialog: You gotta lay off the booze, Joe.
dialog: 143
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: 143-
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: X the enphetamines.
speaker_heading: MICHELIZ,, |
dialog: You gotta stop screwing around, Daddy.
scene_heading: KATIE/AUDREY/MICHELLE
dialog: “YOU'D BETTER STOP —
dialog: YOU'D BETTER CHANGE —
speaker_heading: CHANGE
text: YOU'D BETTER STCP AND CHANGE YCUR WAYS TODAY
text: I SaTD STOP ~ CHANGE ~— STOP.
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Please.
text: Ten show girls with fans are in a line. Audrey, Michelle
text: and Katie sit on high ladders.
speaker_heading: SHOW GIRLS -
speaker_heading: WHO'S SORRY NOW
speaker_heading: KATIE
dialog: Tt burts, doesn't it?
speaker_heading: "SHOW GIRLS
speaker_heading: WEO'S SORRY NOW
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: I'll bet you're sorry now, huh Joe?
speaker_heading: SHOW GiRLs :
dialog: _ ¥HO'S HEART IS ACHING
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: dust look at you, Daddy.
speaker_heading: SHOW GIRLS -
text: FOR BREAXING EACH VOW.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Oh, all those broken vows.
speaker_heading: SHOW GIRLS
speaker_heading: WHO'S SaD AND BLUE
speaker_heading: xaTie
dialog: Faying the price, aren't you?
dialog: 143
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: 143
speaker_heading: SHOW GIRLS
scene_heading: WEO'S CRYING, TOO
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Deep inside you're crying, aren't you, Joe?
scene_heading: SHOW GIRLS/AUDREY/MICHELLE/ZaTIs
dialog: JUST LIKE WE CRIED OVER YOU
dialog: fae enamitc
speaker_heading: KAtIE
dialog: And we cried a lot
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Oh, a lot.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: Me, too.
speaker_heading: GEOW GIRLS
speaker_heading: BOO BOG:
scene_heading: AUDREY /MICHELLE/KATTE
speaker_heading: BOO BOO. _
speaker_heading: W GIRLS
dialog: RIGHT TO Tae NERD
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: and it's getting close, Joe.
speaker_heading: SHOW GIRLS
speaker_heading: JUST LIZS A FRIEND
speaker_heading: KATI£
dialog: Where were ya, Joe, where were ya?
speaker_heading: . SHOW GIRLS
dialog: We TRIED TO WARN YOU SOMEHOW
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: You didn't listen, daddy, you didn't
dialog: listen.
scene_heading: SHOW GIRLS/AUDREY/MICHELLE/KatIe
dialog: YOU HAD YOUR WaT
dialog: NOW YOU MUST Par
scene_heading: AUDREY /MICHELLE/ZATIS
dialog: You've only got one heart, Joe, one heart.
scene_heading: SHOW GIRLS/ AUDREY /MICHELIE /EAtIE
dialog: WE'RE GLAD THAT YOU'RE SORRT NOW.
speaker_heading: 143 CONTINUED
dialog: 143
text: EALLUCINATORY JOE approaches REAL JOE in bed. Seript girl
dialog: is with hin.
speaker_heading: HALLUCINATORY JOE
dialog: (addressing Real Joe, a little
dialog: angry,
dialog: . Tou forgot your line. You're supposed
speaker_heading: tO SAYces
dialog: farning ¢ to seript girl)
dialog: What's the line?
speaker_heading: mF
speaker_heading: SCRIPT GIRL
dialog: (reading from eript)
dialog: I don't want to die. I want to live.
text: REAL JOE grunts, pointing to his mouth,
dialog: music.
speaker_heading: EALLUCINATORY JOB
dialog: (a little peeved)
dialog: Oh, well, if you can't say it, you
dialog: can't say it. We'll just have to cut
dialog: it. Let's go to thw next set up.
speaker_heading: . MICHELLE
speaker_heading: SOME OF THESE Dats
dialog: YOU'RE GONNA FEEL SO LONELY
speaker_heading: AUDRET
dialog: YOU'LL MISS HER BUGGLIG
dialog: Eatis
dialog: YOU'LL MISS HER KISSING
speaker_heading: . MICHELLE
dialog: YOU'LL, MISS ME DaDDY
scene_heading: MICHELLE/AUDREY/ZaTIE
dialog: IF You Go awaY.
speaker_heading: MICHELLE
dialog: I'LL FEEL SO LONELY
scene_heading: MICHELLE/AUDREY/EATIE
dialog: JUST FOR YOU ONLY
speaker_heading: MICHELEE
dialog: FOR YOU KNOW, DADDY
dialog: TOU'VE HAD YOUR WAY.
speaker_heading: AUDREY /KATIS
dialog: A lot.
dialog: AND IF YOU LEAVE HER
dialog: TOU ENOW YOU. ENOY YOU'RE GONNa GONNA GOMA
speaker_heading: GCNNA GONNA GRISVS EP
dialog: 143
speaker_heading: 1434
speaker_heading: 1433
speaker_heading: CONTINBED 143
scene_heading: 7 MICHELLB/ AUDREY /EaTTS
dialog: YOU'RE GONNA MISS YOUR
scene_heading: SWEET LITTLE LOVIN' BABY DAUGHTER MICHELLE
scene_heading: SHOW GIRLS /MICHELLE /AUDREY/MIDEELLE
scene_heading: _ SOMB OF THESE DAYS
dialog: , MICHELLE.
dialog: Don't die, Daddy, don't die please.
speaker_heading: ALL
scene_heading: SOMB OF THESE DAYS
dialog: Katie
dialog: You can't leave this poor little kid
dialog: without a father. |
dialog: ste deed ®
speaker_heading: . ALL
scene_heading: SOME OF THESE DAYS
speaker_heading: "AUDREY
dialog: She needs ya, Joe, she needs ya.
speaker_heading: ALL
scene_heading: SOME OF. THESE-DATS.....0.sseeee
scene_heading: RESUME POST-SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE ROOM. JOE AND NURSE 14348
scene_heading: BRIGGS. NIGHT.
text: Nurse Briggs is still there. She lifts a pad and pencil.
dialog: © eyo wal BESS, saptning
dialog: you want to tell me
dialog: .fast write on this pad. ,
text: Joe takes the pad and pencil and laboriously and slowly he
dialog: 8S.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TOs
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOB AND ANGELIQUE. WIGHT. 1458
dialog: Her hand is exactly as we've seen it in the previous
text: moment between them.
speaker_heading: JOB
dialog: «eeL0ok, I think we've been flirting
dialog: with each other long enough...
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: And you can only flirt so long,
dialog: Joe, then you have to take the
dialog: next step...or atop.
speaker_heading: 1433
dialog: 143¢
dialog: 144
dialog: tore mete
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 1433
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Well, I really don't want to go
dialog: further.
dialog: (firmly) .
dialog: I think you should leave.
text: She removes her hand. :
speaker_heading: . ANGELIQUE
dialog: Are you sure?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Yes, I'm sure. Please goe
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (offering no objection)
dialog: oeeALL right, Joe.
scene_heading: RESUME POST-SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE ROOM. JOE AND NURSE 143¢
scene_heading: BRIGGS. NIGHT. _ —
speaker_heading: Hg tne eae
text: Turse Briggs takes the pad from Joe.
speaker_heading: NURSE BRIGGS
dialog: (reading)
dialog: "am I alive?"
dialog: (to Joe)
dialog: Yes, you are alive.
text: Joe closes his eyes.
scene_heading: IN_BLACK WE HEAR:
speaker_heading: DR. GARRY (7.0.)
dialog: This is going to burt a little.
speaker_heading: FADE UP.
scene_heading: INT. INTENSIVE CARE ROOM. JOE, AUDREY, DR. GARRY, 244
scene_heading: OTHER DOCTORS. Dar.
text: A rer) as the stitches are taken from Joe's chest.
text: ‘The e been removed from his throat. Behind
dialog: Dr. Garry are a number of residents and/or interns
text: watching the demonstration. Andrey stands next to
text: Dr. Garry. From Joe, a sharp exclamation of pain.
text: Dr. Garry examines the scar proudly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: REV: 12/15/78
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: 144 CONTINUED : 144 (CONT.
speaker_heading: OR. GARRY
dialog: (pleased)
dialog: Came out nice.
text: Audrey nods.
scene_heading: 148 INT. RESTAURANT (LINCOLN CENTER AREA). HECHT, CHRISTOPHER AND 145
scene_heading: SERGEANT. ACTRESS TO ENTER. DAY.
text: Hecht, Christopher and director, Lucas Sergeant, are finishing
text: lunch. A small pot of espresso is in front of each. Christopher
text: devours @ very thick desert throughout. the scene and cruises the
dialog: restaurant for celebrities.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: How soon do you think he'll be
dialog: able to work? :
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Well, he's out af intensive care
text: and back in a private room. It's
dialog: just a matter of rest. The word
dialog: is two months at the outside: "And
dialog: you know Jaey ... this morning be
dialog: -~ said he could hardly wait ... sai
dialog: he had a lot of new ideas.
dialog: (with a smile)
dialog: Not all sex stuff either.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: That's terrific. You must feel
dialog: very good about that, Jonesy.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: Relieved. We're all relieved.
dialog: (to Waiter)
dialog: Check, please.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: (taking attache case
dialog: from under table,
dialog: Qpening it)
dialog: Listen ... I did some thinking about
dialog: ++. your script, and I made a few
dialog: notes.
dialog: (hands Hecht several] pages
dialog: of obviously detailed notes)
dialog: «-. Use them, don't use them ...
dialog: ~~ you know ... whatever you want.
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: (glancing through notes)
dialog: Lucas, you put in an awful lot of work
dialog: on this. .
dialog: 
speaker_heading: -REV:12/15/78
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: 145 CONTINUED 145 (CONT
speaker_heading: -_~ SERGEANT
dialog: Look, what are friends for? We're
dialog: all rooting for each other. I'm
text: just pleased Joe is well again.
text: An aspiring ACTRESS approaches the table with menu and pen in hand.
text: She addresses Sergeant.
speaker_heading: ACTRESS
dialog: (apologetically)
dialog: I hate to bother you but are you
dialog: ves Lucas Sergeant?
speaker_heading: SER!
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ACTRESS
dialog: (offers him menu)
dialog: Would you mind?
speaker_heading: SERGEANT -
dialog: Net at all.
dialog: (signs menu)
dialog: ACTRESS . te
dialog: Next to Joe Gideon you!re mynu.s
dialog: favorite director. .
text: Sergeant gives her a hasty glance and quickly finishes autograph,
text: Underlining it heavily.
speaker_heading: ACTRESS
dialog: Thank you so much.
text: She leaves. As she does, the waiter puts the check on the table. As
text: Hecht starts to reach for it, Sergeant makes a quick grab. .
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: I'll get it. -
speaker_heading: HECHT
dialog: (reaching to retrieve check)
dialog: No, Lucas this is on me. ,
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: 1 said 1'1] get it!!
text: glances at check, turns
dialog: it over, begins to sign it)
dialog: oo ++. I'm really pleased for you,
dialog: Jonesy.
speaker_heading: F146
speaker_heading: REV: 12/15/78
speaker_heading: 113A.
dialog: 146
speaker_heading: “9 OMIT OMIT to
speaker_heading: 9A 1498
scene_heading: 150 INT. 2ND HOSPITAL ROOM. LONG SHOT. JOE, AUDREY, NURSE GIBBONS. NIGHT. 150
text: The room is in semi-darkness. Nurse Gibbons sits in the corner; Audrey
text: sits close to the bed. Joe is. asleep.
scene_heading: CLOSE SHOT JOE.
text: As Joe awakens, an his face is a look of total bewilderment.
speaker_heading: AUOREY (0.C.)
dialog: Joe, what's the matter?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (long moment)
dialog: T-can't-believe-it ...
text: WIDER SHOT TO INCLUDE JOE AND AUDREY.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (touching himself)
dialog: My chest ... my arm... my teeth ...
dialog: I'm having a fucking heart attack!
dialog: 150
dialog: 151
dialog: Ravised 8/1/78 114.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 150
speaker_heading: NURSE GIBBONS
dialog: ’ (moving in)
dialog: That's impossible, Mr. Gideon.
dialog: I just gave you your medication.
text: She has a cool, professional smile and is completely
text: impervious to logic.
speaker_heading: JOE AUDREY
dialog: «how can it be...? Goddamn it, he knows the
dialog: toms <
dialog: (to Nurse Gibbons)
dialog: Call somebody. Hurry!
speaker_heading: NURSE GIBBONS
dialog: He can't be in pain...let me
dialog: take his pulse.
speaker_heading: AUDREY - :
dialog: Goddamnit!...get somebody! I .
text: When Nurse Gibbons fails.to respond, Audrey runs out.
speaker_heading: NURSE GIBBONS
dialog: (taking pulse)
dialog: But you just had the medication,
dialog: twenty minutes ago...you couldn't
dialog: possibly be in pain...it was just *
dialog: twenty minutes ago.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR. NURSES' STATION. ‘AUDREY AND 151
scene_heading: NURSE CHANG. : yas .
text: With her back to Audrey, Nurse Chang is talking on the
text: telephone in an Oriental language.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: «+ Miss?
dialog: (neo answer -- Nurse
dialog: continuing conversation)
dialog: Miss!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: 151 CONTINUED 151
speaker_heading: NURSE CHANG
dialog: (after another few
dialog: sentences, breaks
dialog: into English)
dialog: eeejust a second, please.
dialog: (back to telephone
dialog: conversation)
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: Mr. Gideon needs help...he's
dialog: aving an atta
text: Nurse Chang casually completes conversation, hangs up the
text: phone, turns to Audrey.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: NURSE CHANG
dialog: Now, what is it you would like?
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: I would like to kick you right in
dialog: - your eggrolT...
dialog: (grabs Nurse's
dialog: arm, intensely)
dialog: «esbut what I need is help for
dialog: Mr, Gideon who is having a heart
dialog: attack.
scene_heading: 152 RESUME HOSPITAL ROOM. JOE, EMERGENCY RESIDENT, 152
scene_heading: NURSE GIBBONS. AUDREY WATCHING.
text: The Resident is praparing a shot. Joe is very frightened.
text: He trembles -~ sweats.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Jesus, it's getting worse...it's
dialog: getting worse...
speaker_heading: NURSE GIBBONS
dialog: Dector, I gave nim his medication...
text: impatiently, the Resident holds up “nia “hand te stop her.
dialog: He is caring and expert; he gives Jd@"the injection.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDE!
dialog: This should help, Mr. Gideon.
text: As Joe and Audrey watch the needle go in.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: (to Resident)
dialog: What's that?
dialog: 152
dialog: 153
dialog: 154
dialog: 155
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 152
scene_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT
dialog: {to Audrey)
dialog: «morphine.
scene_heading: RESUME CORRIDOR. MOVING SHOT. 153
text: The Emergency Team is moving Joe. A worried Audrey
text: accompanies to the elevator.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT
dialog: Feeling less pain?
text: Joe just shakes his head in growing panic. Down the
text: Corridor the @levator doors are already open. The gurney
text: is pushed onto the elevator. Audrey is left outside.
text: Before the doors close, Audrey gives Joe an encouraging
text: wave. The elevator doors close; Audrey is left standing
text: alone. Her smile fades to deep concern.
scene_heading: INT. LARGE ROOM. POSTSURGERY INTENSIVE CARE. 154
scene_heading: JOE, EMERGENCY RESIDENT, ICU TEAM, NURSE BRIGGS.
text: The Resident is preparing another shot as the ICU Team,
text: including Nurse Briggs, hooks Joe up to he various
dialog: apparatus.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT
dialog: {effort to lighten
dialog: the situation)
dialog: Well, at least you'ra getting a
dialog: lot of use out of the equipment,
dialog: Mr. Gideon.
text: He injects Joe with more morphine.
scene_heading: RESUME JOE'S ROOM. AUDREY AND NURSE GIBBONS. : 185
text: Audrey enters the room to get her coat. Nurse Gibbons
text: is preparing to leave. On the way out, Nurse Gibbons
text: hands Audrey a piece of paper. Audrey looks at it.
speaker_heading: AUDREY
dialog: eeewhat's this? . we 4
speaker_heading: NURSE GIBBONS
dialog: My name and address...you can send
dialog: my check there.
text: Outraged, Audrey lashes out with her hand, giving Nurse
text: Gibbons a resounding slap.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 156 RESUME POST-SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT
dialog: (to Joe, meaning pain)
dialog: oe eStill??
text: Joe nods. As another shot is prepared. Joe closes
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK == FADE UP IMMEDIATELY TO:
text: The Resident is still intensely concerned with Joe.
scene_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT
dialog: Any pain now? :
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (quite drugged)
dialog: oeen0.. epain...gone...but something...+
dialog: (touches chest) .
dialog: «»-something breaking up in there...
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: 157 HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. CLOSE UP. ANGELIQUE.
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (referring to make-up)
dialog: «Now, ther F hike,
scene_heading: WIDER SHOT, JOE AND ANGELIQUE.
text: Joe is in the middle of applying grotesque make<up.
text: screen we hear LAUGHTER and APPLAUSE. Startled, he
dialog: at her.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: What are you doing here? I told
dialog: you to leave. Now, please...
dialog: " get out!
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: 158 RESUME POST-SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (to Emergency Resident)
dialog: «seI can feel damage being done...
scene_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO: : Pe
dialog: 117.
dialog: 156
text: his eyes.
dialog: 157
dialog: oft
dialog: looks
dialog: 158
scene_heading: 159 RESUME HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE, 159
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: No, Joe, I'm staying. |
dialog: 159
dialog: 160
dialog: 161
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
dialog: lls.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 159
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: No...
text: LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE OUT.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: RESUME POST-SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE. CLOSE SHOT. 160
text: JOE'S ARMS AND HANDS.
text: He removes the IV from his arm.
speaker_heading: JOE (0.C.)
dialog: (very drugged)
dialog: No...go_ away! ...go away!
scene_heading: ANOTHER CLOSE ANGLE. HANDS.
text: His hands remove the tapes and wires that connect his chest
dialog: to the cardiac monitor. -
speaker_heading: JOE (0.C.)
dialog: oe .it can't happen now...
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. OUTSIDE PCST-SURGERY 161
scene_heading: INTENSIVE CARE. NIGHT.
text: In pajamas, Joe moves slowly down the corridor.
speaker_heading: JCE
scene_heading: 0 eNO eo eNO ee sNOe ae
scene_heading: RESUME POST=SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE. NURSE BRIGGS 162
speaker_heading: AND AIDES.
text: Nurse Briggs is crossing the room, suddenly pausing when
text: she sees Joe's empty bed. Turning to a male aide:
speaker_heading: NURSE BRIGGS
dialog: Where's Mr. Gideon?
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL STAIRWAY. JOE TO APPEAR. NIGHT. 163
text: Over the empty stairway, we hear Joe's voice.
speaker_heading: JOE (0.C.)
dialog: «eehere he is Ladies and Germs...
dialog: tops in taps...
text: Joe appears around the corner of. the staircase. He has
text: some difficulty in breathing and m ament and speaks as
dialog: loudly as the drugs will allow.” “~~
dialog: 
dialog: 163
dialog: 164
speaker_heading: ié4a
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 163
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: «e.tap dancer extraordinaire...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: If I were God, and sometimes I
dialog: think I am...
dialog: - (hesitates, bangs his
text: head on wall several
dialog: times; his forehead
dialog: bégins to bleed)
dialog: «»eit depends on how much morphine
dialog: I'va had...
dialog: (moving right to
dialog: CAMERA, arms out=-
dialog: spread)
dialog: «e.I would spare this terrific
dialog: tap dancer.
scene_heading: RESUME POST=SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE. CLOSE SHOT NURSE 164
speaker_heading: BRIGGS, NIGHT.
text: she's on the phone obviously agitated. .
speaker_heading: NURSE BRIGGS
dialog: I don't know!l,..We were busy with
dialog: an emergency and the next time I
dialog: noticed, he was gone,
scene_heading: INT, HOSPITAL BASEMENT CORRIDOR. LONG SHOT. TO CARRY 164A
scene_heading: JOE. NIGHT.
text: Seemingly endless coridors connect at a central point. Joe
text: approaches from the distance along one of them. Along the
text: walls are stacks of cartons containing hospital supplies.
text: Joe's voice echoes as he jumps from box to box singing his
dialog: own orchestral accompaniment.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Bawa...
dialog: (next box)
speaker_heading: oo oDUMe oe
dialog: {next box) 20 ows
dialog: «eeboom!! Fy Sane netted
text: He stops, spreads his arms, looks up.
speaker_heading: JOE (contd)
dialog: God!...don't take me out now!
text: He jumps two or three more boxes, still singing hia ba-rum-
text: boom accompaniment, stops once more, looks up plaintively.
speaker_heading: 164A
dialog: 165
dialog: 166
speaker_heading: 166A
speaker_heading: 166B
dialog: 120..
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 164A
speaker_heading: SOE (contd)
dialog: What's the matter? Don't you
dialog: like musical comedy?
text: He continues jumping from kex to box singing.
scene_heading: INT. ANOTHER HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. CLOSE SHOT ON DOOR 165
text: MARKED “NO ADMITTANCE, “
text: Joe reads sign. Then, without hesitation, he opens the
dialog: deor and enters,
scene_heading: INT. DISSECTION ROOM. JOE AND TWO TECHNICIANS, NIGHT, 166
text: Joe enters a room where bodies are dissected to save usable
text: organs. Two men are dissecting a body on a gleaming steel
text: table. They barely netice his presence. He crosses to a
dialog: shelf where we see organs which are being preserved in
dialog: formaldehyde: eyes, kidneys, etc.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (addressing entire sKelf)
dialog: Listen...I told you guys you
dialog: should take better care of your=
dialog: selves. Too much booze...too
dialog: much smoking...too much screwing
dialog: around...it'll get ya every time.
text: The two men turn in surprise, look at Joe.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (as he exits)
dialog: I'll be back.
scene_heading: INT. ANOTHER HOSPITAL CORRIDOR. CLOSE SHOT LEGA
scene_heading: REFLECTION OF JOE. NIGHT.
text: The reflection is in a shiny piece of hospital equipment
text: curving so the reflection looks distorted. He looks
dialog: terrible.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: What am I worried about? I'll fix
dialog: it out of town,
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL OFFICE, TIGHT SHOT. BALLINGER. NIGHT. 166B
dialog: . moe
text: He is. outraged. foes seat
scene_heading: DR. BALLINGER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Goddamn it, find him! I want that
dialog: man back in ICU. Right now!
dialog: 121.
scene_heading: 167 ANOTHER HOSPITAL CORRIDOR 167
text: As Joe slowly makes his way down the hall, he pauses when
text: he hears a woman moani loudly. The moaning comes from
text: a room directly across ths halfway . Curious, puzzled, he
text: crosses to the open door and looks in.
speaker_heading: 168 WHAT HE SEES: 168
text: A very old woman, practically skeletal and near death, lies
text: helplessly on a bed. Her moans continue.
scene_heading: INT. OLD WOMAN'S ROOM, JOE AND OLD WOMAN. NIGHT.
text: He crosses to the bed, looks at her tenderly for a moment.
text: Carefully he climbs onto the bed, raises the sheet to get
text: next to her and then enfolds her in his arms. He rocks her
dialog: gently.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I think...you are...the most
dialog: beautiful woman I have ever seen
dialog: - «eeand I love you. -
text: The moans subside, and she looks at him as though he has
text: evoked a memory from the past, He kisses her <-- as a lover.
text: The old woman closes her eyes and seems lost. ently, he
text: breaks the embrace. She opens her eyes as he rises from
text: the bed. He leans over her, holding her hand, caressing
text: her cheek. She closes her eyes slowly.
scene_heading: 168A INT. NURSES' STATION, TWO HISPANIC ATTENDANTS. NIGHT. 168A
text: One attendant is on the phone responding to orders,
speaker_heading: ATTENDANT
dialog: (thick accent)
dialog: Yes sir, yes sir, yes sir...
dialog: We do the best we can, sir.
dialog: (hangs up phone,
dialog: to other attendant
dialog: in Spanish)
dialog: I'm paid to give enemas not to |
dialog: chase lunatic patients.
speaker_heading: SECOND ATTENDANT
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Jesus Christ!
text: Both run off.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: 1688 INT. ANOTHER HOSPITAL CORRI:
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
dialog: (NOTE: Throughout all the hospit ‘ s@quences we‘have heard
text: the familiar paging voices for varidiis’ doctors, etc.)
dialog: ‘,
scene_heading: « MOVING WITR\JOE. 168B
dialog: 7 122.
speaker_heading: 1683 CONTINUED ~ 168B
dialog: 169
dialog: 
text: tgves down the\corridor, the’ voice over the PA is
dialog: now the same as that of the Projectionist we heard in
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: \
dialog: \
speaker_heading: ECTIONIST'S VOICE
dialog: Or do you want
dialog: 
dialog: you finishe:
dialog: bun it again?
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Yes, ag
dialog: I want to
dialog: again!
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA. JOE, CUSTOMERS, PERSONNEL. 169
speaker_heading: NIGHT.
text: The room is quite empty. At one table sits a Middle Aged
text: Couple. An Attendant is mopping up. There is only one
text: Woman Attendant at both the food counter and the cash
text: register. Joe enters, without hesitation walks to the
text: food counter, stops at the dessert display, ‘There are
text: single portions of pie, whole pies as well. Picking up
text: a piece of lemon meringue pie, he passes the cash register,
speaker_heading: WOMAN ATTENDANT
dialog: That will be forty cents.
dialog: (when Joe simply
dialog: walks away)
dialog: Sir!...Forty cents...
text: She looks bewildered as Joe crosses to a table right next
text: to the couple. He becomes increasingly fascinated in their
text: tetally mundane conversation.
speaker_heading: MIDDLE AGED WOMAN
dialog: The lowest estimate is eight hundred
dialog: and sixty dollars,
speaker_heading: MIDDLE AGED MAN
dialog: For _a_ sprinkler system?!
speaker_heading: MIDDLE AGED WOMAN
dialog: When we bought the house we both
dialog: agreed we wanted a nice lawn.
speaker_heading: MIDDLE AGED MAN
dialog: «ee would like a nice lawn...
scene_heading: ANGLE ON WOMAN ATTENDANT.
text: She's on the phone.
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: 169 CONTINUED 169
speaker_heading: WOMAN ATTENDANT
text: He's in pajamas, and he's acting
dialog: like a junkie.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Yeah...that's him.
scene_heading: RESUME JOE AND COUPLE.
speaker_heading: MIDDLE AGED MAN
dialog: «eecan we afford that?
speaker_heading: MIDDLE AGED WOMAN
dialog: If we don't get the new car this
dialog: year, we...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Get it.
dialog: They Look at him with surprise. -
speaker_heading: MIDDLE AGED MAN
dialog: Get what?
text: Carrying his yet untouched pie, he crosses to them and sits
dialog: down between them,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Get both. Get the automobile
dialog: «e.get the sprinkler. Don't
dialog: sostpone anv==thing
text: Laboriously, he pulls himself up on the table top. On all
text: fours he begins to sing and play spoons on the table as if
dialog: they were taps.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: PACK UP YOUR TROUBLES
dialog: IN YOUR OLD KIT BAG
dialog: AND SMILE SMILE SMILE
text: WHAT'S THE USE OF WORRYING
text: IT NEVER WAS WORTHWHILE
text: His hand hits the pie, he licks his fingers,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: «eeThis pie is stale!
text: Moving down off the table, carrying the plate of pie, he
dialog: crosses to the Woman Attendant,
dialog: 169
speaker_heading: 169A
speaker_heading: 169B
dialog: 124,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED 169
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: This pie is stale!
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Mister, I want you to stay right
dialog: there,
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I'm telling you...this pie is stale!
text: Nervously, she looks toward the door.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (stalling)
dialog: And you still owe me forty cents.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: This pie is stale!
speaker_heading: - WOMAN -
dialog: Man, I couldn't care less.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Doesn't anybody care about anything?
text: Joe picks up 2a whole lemon meringue pie. PLOP! He shoves
text: the pie flat into her face, ‘The final showbiz insult.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: TRIPLE HEADED STEENBECK 169A
text: We see the same action (Joe throwing pie) repeated in three
scene_heading: different ANGLES. PLOP. PLOP. PLOP,
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL CAFETERIA 1693
text: The Woman Attendant watches in shocked silence as Joe turns
text: and walks away, Before he reaches the door, the two Hispanic
text: male attendants enter. Swiftly, they move to his side,
text: talking seothingly to him as they subdue him.
speaker_heading: TWO ATTENDANTS
dialog: Mister, you come with us...
dialog: Nice and quiet, please...don't
dialog: cause no trouble...
dialog: Everything will be fine...
dialog: All right?
speaker_heading: . JOE
dialog: (soul of reagon)
dialog: All right. .
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: 1698 CONTINUED : 1698
text: He takes their arms and leads them off singing.
speaker_heading: JOE
text: WHAT'S THE USE OF WORRYING
text: IT NEVER WAS WORTHWHILE...
dialog: (spoken, to
dialog: attendants)
dialog: This is only a rough cut, ya know.
dialog: I don't have the titles yet...
dialog: and all of the underscoring is
dialog: not in...It's really not finished
dialog: yet...I need more time...
scene_heading: MONTAGE OF CUTS BETWEEN POST-SURGERY INTENSIVE CARE
speaker_heading: WITH JOE AND
scene_heading: HALLUCINATORY DRESSING ROOM. JOE AND ANGELIQUE.
dialog: 170 #1.
dialog: 170A 2.
dialog: 1708 3.
dialog: 170C 4,
dialog: 170D 5.
speaker_heading: L70E 6.
dialog: 170F 7.
dialog: 170G 8.
text: Joe is strapped to the bed. 170
text: We see Angelique applying finishing touches to 170A
text: his grotesque make-up.
dialog: Iv is being replaced. 1708
text: Angelique works on Joe's mouth. He smiles. 170¢
text: Heart monitor retaped to his chest. 170D
scene_heading: TIGHT SHOT, ANGELIQUE. 170E
text: Angelique smiles, obvicusly pleased with her
dialog: make-up job.
text: REPEAT ANGLE of OPENING SHOT of the film, L70F
text: A shot of morphine. ‘
speaker_heading: EMERGENCY RESIDENT (V.0.)
dialog: {repeating opening
dialog: dialogue)
dialog: Feeling any pain now?
speaker_heading: JOE (V.0.)
dialog: (quite drugged)
speaker_heading: ae eNOene
scene_heading: ECU JOE'S FACE IN INTENSIVE CARE. 1706
text: His eyes close as the morphine hits. His eyes open
dialog: again,
dialog: 126.
scene_heading: 170H JOE'S POV. THE CARDIAC MONITORING MACHINE. 1708
text: Showing the lines reflecting his heart action.
text: SLOWLY WE DISSOLVE AS THE CARDIAC MACHINE BECOMES A
scene_heading: TELEVISION SCREEN.
scene_heading: 171 ON THE SCREEN WE SEE: 171
scene_heading: FULL SHOT. O'CONNER FLOOD.
text: In the familiar setting about to make yet another intro-
text: duction. He holds a hand mixe and works in front of a
dialog: curtain.
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: Folks, what can I tell you about
dialog: my next guest?
text: . {he shakes his head
dialog: in wonder)
dialog: This cat...allowed himself to be
dialog: adored but not loved. Strictly
dialog: a pro since age thirteen, starting
dialog: in sleazy Chicago dives and bur-lee=-
dialog: cue...this cat rose to become a
dialog: leading director-choreographer on
dialog: the Great White Way and in flicks.
speaker_heading: 172 WE JUMP TO: 172
scene_heading: INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. MATCHING SHOT WITH ABOVE.
text: We are now "live" with O'Conner Flood as he continues.
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD
dialog: But success in showbiz was matched
dialog: by failure in the personal relation=-
dialog: ships bag... ,
dialog: _ (looks thoughtful)
dialog: And from all this experience he
dialog: came to believe that his whole
dialog: scene -=- work, showbiz, personal
dialog: life, even himself.,.all that jazz
dialog: eeewas bullshit, The cat swung
dialog: between heavy ego and very heavy
dialog: self doubt.. He had become Numero
dialog: Uno gameplayer -- like to where he
dialog: didn't know...
dialog: (doing Amos and Andy)
dialog: «e.wheah de games ended an' de
dialog: reality began.
speaker_heading: MORE)
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: 172 CONTINUED 172
speaker_heading: O'CONNER FLOOD (contd)
dialog: (out of Amos and Andy,
dialog: fakes great sadness)
dialog: Like to him the only reality...
dialog: is death, man.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Let me lay on you...a so=so
dialog: entertainer...not much of a
dialog: humanitarian...and he was never
dialog: nobody's friend...In his final
dialog: appearance on the great stage of
dialog: 1t@...Mist oa Gideon.
text: 173 O'Conner clears and exits, later, possibly, to appear 173
text: and participate in the succeeding number. The curtain
text: Parts to reveal a stage. Center stage is a hospital bed.
text: Standing close by is a Backup Rock Group, two Backup
text: Vocalists and two Backup Dancers, All are dressed in
text: contempora: flash. Surrounding the stage on three sides
text: are rising tisachers, completely filled. Same of the
dialog: audience, specifically, identified later, are characters
dialog: we have seen in this film.
text: The entire scene is at the moment completely motionless and
dialog: silent.
text: Upstage there is a scrim on which various lighting effects
text: and images can and will be projected, VERY SLOWLY the
text: CAME: MOVES IN until the hospital bed fills the SHOT.
text: Unseen until now, coe rises from under a sheet into a
text: sitting position. He is in ‘completed make-up and flash
dialog: costume,
dialog: Sat
speaker_heading: JOE (V.0.)
dialog: (amplified, reverberating)
dialog: e+eThis has gotta be the best one
speaker_heading: YOTese
scene_heading: BEAVY MUSIC INTRO.
text: He swings from the hed,
scene_heading: WIDE ANGLE. THE FULL SCENE.
text: The entire scene bursts into life.
text: The Rock Group playing, the dancers dancing as the entire
text: audience bursts into wildly enthusiastic applause.
text: Joe moves to front the Group.
text: THE CONCERT HAS BEGUN. The entire effect is a bizarre,
speaker_heading: 173 CONTINUED
dialog: =e 128.
dialog: 173
text: wild rock concert with PHOTOGRAPHY to match: zooms, strange
text: angles, flares, etc.
text: NOTE: THE FOLLOWING NUMBER, "BYE BYE LOVE," IS WRITTEN
scene_heading: BY FELICE AND BOUDLEAUX BRYANT, RECORDED BY STMOr ND
text: GARFUNKEL ON THE ALBUM "BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED WATER.”
text: WE HOPE THAT A NEW SONG CAN AND WILL BE WRITTEN THAT WILL
dialog: F ne ST ETT Sti THERE AND AEE .
speaker_heading: : ONSIDER L yA DI °
speaker_heading: MUSICAL NUMBER:
dialog: 
scene_heading: RARKRERERERRRRERERRERERERURRERRRERRRREREERERREERERARERREERARE
speaker_heading: JOB AND GROUP
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Bye bye life
dialog: Bye bye happiness
dialog: Hello loneliness
dialog: I think I'm gonna die
dialog: Bye bye love
dialog: Bye bye sweet caress
dialog: Hello emptiness
dialog: I feel like I could die
dialog: Bye bye my life, goodbye
dialog: There goes my baby
dialog: With someone new
dialog: She sure looks happy
dialog: I sure am blue
dialog: She was my baby
dialog: Till he stepped in
dialog: Goodbye to romance
dialog: That might have been
dialog: Bye bye life
dialog: Bye bye happiness
dialog: Hello loneliness
dialog: I think I'm gonna die
dialog: Bye bye love
dialog: Bye bye sweet caress
dialog: Hello emptiness
dialog: I feel like I could die
scene_heading: VARIOUS ANGLES JOE, GROUP,
speaker_heading: AUDIENCE.
text: General applause has ended.
dialog: Audience starts rhythmic
text: applause on the beat.
text: A smiling Katie, holding
text: hands with her new Lover.
scene_heading: RESUME ANGLE ON JOE.
text: Slowly, a macabre, Bosche~like
dialog: figure of DEATH resembling
text: Angelique bleeds through the
dialog: scrim.
text: ANGLE OFTSTAGE. We see
dialog: Angelique, thoroughly
dialog: enjoying the show.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE. JOE AND GROUP.
dialog: Death image excluded.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHORT CLOSE UPS:
dialog: Victoria, Stacy, other pretty
dialog: Women. They are clapping
dialog: rhythmically and enthusias-
text: tically...all with big smiles.
dialog: 173
speaker_heading: CONTINUED
dialog: 129.
dialog: 173
speaker_heading: JOE AND GROUP (contd). Tae
dialog: Bye bye my love, goodbye
dialog: I'm through with romance
dialog: I'm through with love
dialog: I'm through with counting
dialog: The stars above
dialog: And here's the reason
dialog: That I'm so free
dialog: My loving baby
dialog: Is through with me.
dialog: (Before Chorus)
dialog: Se Seema tena
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE, JOE AND GROUP,
dialog: Mere SHORT CUTS of more
dialog: prominent characters all
text: clapping in time.
text: WIDE SHOT OF AUDIENCE.
dialog: Rising enthusiasm, some
text: standing and squealing in
dialog: ecstasy.
dialog: Bye bye life RESUME JOE AND GROUP.
dialog: Bye bye- happiness -
dialog: Hello loneliness
dialog: I think I'm gonna die
text: Bye bve life ANOTHER SERIES OF CUTS OF
text: THE AUDIENCE.
dialog: Bye bye sweet caress
dialog: Hello emptiness
dialog: I feel like I could die
dialog: Bye bve my life, goodbye
dialog: Bye bye my life, goodbye
dialog: Bye bye my life, goodbye
dialog: Bye bye my life, goodbye
scene_heading: RESUME JOE AND. GROUP
text: AUDIENCE IN BACKGROUND.
text: The group begins a second instrumental chorus. The dancing
text: continues on stage as Joe, carrying a hand mike, moves into
text: the audience shaking hands, kissing people. Other people
text: are reaching out desperately to touch him. The following
text: will be INTERCUT with the action on the stage.
scene_heading: ISOLATE JOE AND STACY.
text: Stacy is completly ecstatic,
speaker_heading: STACY
dialog: (hugging him)
dialog: Joa, that was the best!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (whispering in her ear) _
dialog: No, Stacy, not the best. But it
dialog: was the best I could do.
dialog: 130.
speaker_heading: 173 CONTINUED 173
dialog: He moves to:
scene_heading: ISOLATE JOE, KATIE AND BOYFRIEND.
speaker_heading: mF
text: Embracing both of them, Joe pulls“ then together.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Be good.to each other.
text: Katie is obviously relieved at his acceptance. Responding
text: te Joe's terrific generosity, the audience bursts into even
text: wilder applause, He responds with a smile and outstretched
dialog: arms as if to say "Yes, I really ama swell felio:."
dialog: He moves to:
scene_heading: ISOLATE JOE AND VICTORIA.
speaker_heading: VICTORIA
dialog: (weeping copiously)
dialog: Joey, I don't know what I'll do
dialog: without you.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (gently chiding,
dialog: in her ear)
dialog: You're over-acting, Victoria.
dialog: He moves on to:
scene_heading: ISOLATE JOE, PAUL DANN, LUCAS SERGEANT.
text: Dann, sitting next to Sergeant, drops his head in embarrass-
text: ment as Joe approaches. Joe places his hand under Dann's
text: chin, lifts his head.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: {to Dann)
dialog: What are you worried about, Paul?
dialog: (indicating Sergeant)
dialog: You've got a great director there.
text: He embraces Dann, shakes hands with Sergeant.
speaker_heading: 30B
dialog: (to Sergeant) :
dialog: Give him a hit...give him a hit.
dialog: He moves on to:
scene_heading: ISOLATE JOE, MICHELLE AND AUDREY.
text: Joe embraces Michelle. She clings to him. He reaches cut
text: and touches Audrey's cheek. -
dialog: 131.
speaker_heading: 173 CONTINUED 173
dialog: 174
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: (half-laughing) :
dialog: At least I won't be able to lie
dialog: to you again.
text: As he starts back to the stage, he shakes hands and embraces
text: others among them Hecht, Penn, etc. and has brief exchanges
dialog: with them whether we hear them or not. For instance, Penn:
dialog: "What a.finish, Joe, what a finish.” .Joe, now back on stage
text: with group and dancers, finishes..number. There is riotous
text: applause. As he leaves the arena the audience stands
text: continuing the ovation throughout the following.
scene_heading: ANGLE OFF STAGE. JOE AND ANGELIQUE.
text: She, too, is applauding. He walks to her; she ovens her
text: arms. He hesitates momentarily, then walks toward her. She
text: embraces him tightly. He returns the embrace. They kiss.
text: It lasts for a long moment, then slowly out of the kiss into
text: an even deeper embrace. Their cheeks press together,
speaker_heading: ANGELIQUE
dialog: If you want tc be with me, Joe,
dialog: you know you can never be with
dialog: anyone else.
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE. CLOSE UP JOE.
text: As though in ecstasy, his eyes close. We HOLD for a moment.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I accept.
speaker_heading: ABRUPT CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. INTENSIVE CARE ROCH. CLOSE SHOT. JOE'S FACE. 174
speaker_heading: PROFILE.
scene_heading: CONTINUED APPLAUSE AND CHEERING THROUGH:
text: Motionless, eyes closed...he's dead. Hands lift the body
text: bag to cover his face.
text: QUICK cUT TO BLACK
speaker_heading: CREDITS ROLL
text: THE CHEERING AND APPLAUSE SEGUE INTO THE ETHEL MERMAN
text: RECORDING OF "THERE'S NO BUSINESS LIKE SHOWBUSINESS."
scene_heading: MERMAN'S BELTING, EBULLIENT RENDITION OF THE SONG CONTINUES
text: UNTIL THE CREDITS FINISH.
speaker_heading: PADE OUT TO:
dialog: 
