speaker_heading: UNTITLED
dialog: Cameron Crowe
dialog: December, 1998
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: UNTITLED
speaker_heading: 1 FADE IN 1
text: A close-shot of a yellow legal tablet. A young hand comes
text: into frame, holding a pencil. For a few moments, we hear only
text: the soft scratching of pencil on paper, as credits are written
text: in a series of dissolves. The hand carefully erases and
text: corrects an error or two along the way. And then the sound of
text: an old friend... the warm crackle of a vinyl record... as we
text: now hear Alvin and the Chipmunks' "Christmas Song."
scene_heading: 2 EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN -—- DAY 2
text: A lone palm tree rises up into a yellow afternoon sky. Behind
text: it, the sparkling blue of the Pacific Ocean and the city of
text: San Diego. A dry, hot Southern California day. Even the wind
text: is lazy, and a little bored.
scene_heading: 3 EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING CENTER -— DAY 3
text: Santa Claus wears shorts and sandals, ringing a bell as he
dialog: collects for the Salvation Army. This is Christmas in the
dialog: Southland. No snow, no winter wonderland. Just a pleasantly
text: thick heat and an unchanging season, as music continues.
text: Turning the corner, walking into frame is ELAINE MILLER, 35.
text: She is a tall woman, consumed by the fevered conversation she's
text: Having with her pale young son WILLIAM, late pre-teens. They
text: stand apart from the other shoppers. All around them is the
text: highly-charged salesmanship of the season... silver glittering
text: fake Christmas trees. She hurries her son through the
text: commercial juggernaut, continuing their lively intellectual
text: conversation, when something stops her. A Workman is affixing
text: letters to a store-front. He has already placed the MERRY...
text: now he's finishing the XMAS. Elaine is strong, but always
dialog: pleasant, always clear about her purpose in this life.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Excuse me, I'm a teacher. There is no
dialog: word in The English Language -- "Xmas."
dialog: It's either Merry Christmas... or Happy
dialog: Holidays.
text: The Workman nods thanks, with faux appreciation, as Mom turns
text: away. The Workman shares a look with William, who shrugs —
dialog: that's my Mom.
speaker_heading: TITLE: 1969
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 4 EXT. MINI-TRACT CONDO COMPLEX -—- DAY 4
dialog: This is the new professional-class. It's a mini-condo
text: community. Rows of Spanish-styled three-bedroom houses with
dialog: common walls. Move in on one of these homes, the one without
text: Christmas lights. At the door is a furtive 15 year-old Girl.
text: She checks her cheek, straightens her hair. She hides
text: something under her coat, and gathers the proper nonchalance
text: to enter. Music fades.
scene_heading: 5 INT. KITCHEN —- DAY 5
text: We now hear the dialogue between this lively Mother and her
text: son, as she cooks a pan full of soy-based health-food cutlets.
text: The meal simmers unappetizingly in the pan. Across the kitchen
text: we see William. He's a great listener, with a calm and curious
text: face that takes everything in.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: - so Livia -
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: -- killed everyone off so her son
dialog: Tiberius could inherit the throne.
dialog: (thoughtful pause)
dialog: Just like Nixon.
text: William nods, intrigued. He has a good disposition. The
dialog: world of knowledge engages him, and he loves what it brings
text: out in his Mom. There is a small clatter at the front door,
text: as the girl we've just seen enters, barely brushing some chimes.
text: She silently curses herself.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: Anita, is that you?
speaker_heading: ANITA'S VOICE
dialog: Hey Mom! I already ate.
text: Mom moves to the living room to greet William's sister. William
text: peers into the next room.
scene_heading: 6 INT. LIVING ROOM -- DAY 6
text: She's almost to her bedroom down the hall when mom catches
text: her. We now discover ANITA, 16, up-close. She is an alluring
text: young Natalie Wood, with a suspicious and sunny smile.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: You sure? I'm making soy cutlets.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: The words "soy cutlets" sends a small shiver through the girl.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I'm fine. Already ate.
text: William stands in the doorway now, watching, monitoring, as
text: Mom moves closer to his sister. She sees something curious
dialog: about her daughter.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Wait. You've been kissing.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (too quickly)
dialog: No I haven't.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (peering at her lips)
dialog: Yes... yes, you have...
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: No I haven't.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Yes you have. I can tell.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (boldly)
dialog: You can't tell.
text: Mom steps closer and examines the lips even more carefully.
text: To her, everything is a quest for knowledge.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Not only can I tell, I know who it is.
dialog: It's Darryl.
text: Anita is stunned silent. She turns slightly to look at herself
text: in a hall mirror, searching for clues, implicating herself
dialog: immediately.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: And what have you got under your coat?
dialog: This is the booty Anita didn't want to give up. Mom picks at
text: the corner of an album cover now visible under her jacket.
text: She withdraws the album. It's Simon and Garfunkel's Bookends.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (busted)
dialog: It's unfair that we can't listen to
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: our music!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (weary of the issue)
dialog: Honey, it's all about drugs and
dialog: promiscuous sex.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Simon and Garfunkel is poetry!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Yes it's poetry. It's the poetry of
dialog: drugs and promiscuous sex. Look at
text: the picture on the cover...
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BOOKENDS ALBUM COVER
text: Mom's fingers at the edges. We examine the insolent faces on
text: Richard Avedon's classic album cover. Even Simon and Garfunkle
text: look guilty under her scholarly inspection.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: honey, they're on pot.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: First it was butter, then sugar and
dialog: white flour.
dialog: (beat)
text: Bacon. Eggs, bologna, rock and roll,
dialog: motorcycles.
text: Nearby, William squirms as he watches the gently escalating
text: conversation. Anita glances at her brother. He silently
text: urges her to downshift. She can't.
speaker_heading: ANITA (cont'd)
dialog: Then it was celebrating Christmas on a
dialog: day in September When you knew it
dialog: wouldn't be "commercialized."
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: That was an experiment. But I
dialog: understand —
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: What else are you going to ban?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Honey, you want to rebel against
dialog: knowledge.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: I'm trying to give you the Cliff's
dialog: Notes on how to live in this world.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (simple and direct)
dialog: We're like nobody else I know.
dialog: These are the words that sting Mom most.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I'm a teacher. Why can't I teach my
dialog: own kids?
dialog: (pats chest)
dialog: Use me.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Darryl says you use knowledge to keep
dialog: me down. He says I'ma "yes" person
dialog: and you're trying to raise us ina
dialog: "no" environment!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (immediately, can't help
dialog: it)
dialog: Well, clearly, "no" is a word Darryl
dialog: doesn't hear much.
text: Anita gasps. Ever the peacemaker, William weighs in. Nearby
text: is a poster —- "No More War."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Mom —-
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Everything I say is wrong.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I can't live here! I hate you! Even
dialog: William hates you!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I don't hate her.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (to William)
dialog: You don't even know the truth!
text: William looks vaguely confused.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Sweetheart, don't be a drama queen.
text: Anita takes a breath and then out of her mouth comes the
text: strangled-sounding words of a kid swearing at her parent for
dialog: the first time.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Feck you! All of you!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Hey!
text: Anita runs down the hall to her room. Elaine turns to William,
text: relating to him more as a fellow parent than a child.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: Well, there it is. Your sister using
dialog: the "f£" word.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I think she said "feck."
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (sputtering)
dialog: What's the difference?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (encouraging)
dialog: Well. The letter "u"...
text: Shot moves in on the kid, as we hear the opening strains of
dialog: The Moody Blues' "Nights in White Satin."
scene_heading: 7 INT. SCHOOL DANCE/GYMNASIUM BATHROOM -- NIGHT 7
text: Music continues. Shot moves along a row of very mature-looking
text: male teenagers, examining themselves in the bathroom mirror.
text: There's the kid with a very mature-looking moustache, the kid
text: proudly sporting full-blown hormonal acne (he slaps on some
text: Hai Karate), the guy to whom puberty has already delivered the
text: face of an adult, complete with long jutting sideburns... and
text: then a blank space at the mirror, as the shot moves down, down,
text: down to find William. He is so much younger, without a zit in
text: sight. Puberty is so very distant on his horizon.
scene_heading: 8 INT. DANCE -- NIGHT -- UNDER-CRANKED 8
text: Song continues as we see William's perspective of these much-
text: older looking kids. Girls now are visible, and they are even
text: more mature than the boys we've just seen. They flirt and
text: glow, arms trailing across the shoulders of the boys.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Whispering in each other's ears, none of them looking down.
text: It's a troubling experience, to be this close to the alluring
dialog: world of older teenagers... and to be so invisible to them.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0O.S.)
dialog: Are you really in our grade?
scene_heading: 9 INT. JUNIOR HIGH LOCKER ROOM —- DAY 9
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Are you really in our grade?
text: William turns to see tall, adenoidal TIM TOBIN. The most mature
text: looking kid we've seen yet, he challenges William in a loud
text: theatrical tone. It is a voice right out of Guys and Dolls,
text: which incidentally is the school play in which Tobin had just
text: starred. William answers in a respectful voice. He is
text: desperate for acceptance.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: TOBIN
dialog: Hey guys! Check it out! William
dialog: doesn't have any pubes!
text: Others now begin to gather around, examining William. He has
dialog: never been more naked.
speaker_heading: GUY #1
dialog: How old are you man?
speaker_heading: TOBIN
dialog: He's not a man, he's a little baby
dialog: kid. He Doesn't even get zits yet.
speaker_heading: GUY # 2
dialog: How come you don't have any hair down
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: TOBIN
dialog: (in loud, funny voice)
dialog: Where are your pubes???!!
text: Their voices echo off the tiled walls. Now everyone is watching
text: the hairless William. He is confused by their meanness.
speaker_heading: GUY # 2
dialog: Yeah. Where are your pubes?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: All eyes are on him, waiting for a response. The kid's mental
text: wheels turn frantically. And from somewhere comes an attitude,
text: a swagger, and somehow the perfect line arrives from what could
dialog: only be a merciful deity.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (cool, dismissive)
dialog: I had 'em. JI shaved 'em off.
text: It is a new persona for the kid -- the witty guy. And it works.
text: Guy #2 cracks up, then others. William's new accuser is
text: suddenly surrounded by the impressed gales of laughter of these
text: older boys. Others turn away, on to other things. Tobin stares
text: at William, and then also turns away.
scene_heading: 10 INT. FAMILY CAR —- DAY 10
text: William jumps into the backseat of the white Ford Country Sedan
text: station wagon, carrying books. ("See ya pubes!") Mom continues
text: driving William and Anita home from school.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (cheerfully, by rote, to
dialog: William in back)
dialog: Put on your seatbelt. I don't want
dialog: you flying through the windshield.
text: Anita examines her own un-fastened seatbelt, which Mom hasn't
dialog: noticed.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: We got our annuals today --—
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (cheerful, automatic)
dialog: "Received" your annual.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (looking at his photo)
dialog: I look so much younger than everyone
dialog: else.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Enjoy it while you can.
text: Camera drifts from Mom to Anita, who can take it no longer.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Mom. It's time.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (pleasant, pointed)
dialog: Can this wait until we get home?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Mom, pull over. Tell him the truth.
dialog: Tell him how old he is.
text: Mom pulls over, and stares straight ahead with deep irritation.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (as in "be quiet")
dialog: He knows how old he is.
speaker_heading: ANITA
text: The other kids make fun of him because
dialog: of How young he looks. Nobody includes
dialog: him.
dialog: They call him "The Narc" behind his back...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: They do?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: What's a "Narc?"
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (bleeding for her brother)
dialog: A Narcotics Officer!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Well what's wrong with that?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (ever the peacemaker)
dialog: Come on you guys. It's no big deal.
dialog: I'm 12. It's okay. She skipped me a
dialog: grade, it's okay. Big deal. I'ma
dialog: year younger. They're 13, I'm 12 -—-
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Aren't I?
text: Their silence is eloquent.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (confessing, in a rush)
dialog: I also put you in first grade when you
dialog: were five and never told you.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (trembling)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: So... I'm... how old?
text: A heavy quiet. She and his sister ignore him, as they now
text: debate the subject with each other.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You lied to him! You make such a big
dialog: deal about the truth and you lied!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (that one hurts)
dialog: He never asked.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: What -- like he's going to ask if he's
dialog: as old as he thinks he is? Don't you
dialog: realize, this is going to scar him
dialog: forever?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Honey... sweetheart... don't be
dialog: Cleopatra. We have to be his mother
dialog: and his Dad.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You put too much pressure on him!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (apprehensive)
dialog: How... old...
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: And when he rebels in some strange and
dialog: odd way, don't blame me.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: am I?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (matter of fact)
dialog: I skipped you an extra grade. You're
dialog: eleven.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (horrified, voice crackling)
speaker_heading: ELEVEN?
text: He looks at his body, the information affects him physically.
text: New sounds come from way down deep inside. Mom now begins
text: speed-rapping, trying to stem the leak. She starts the car.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: So you skipped fifth grade. There's
dialog: too much padding In the grades. I
dialog: taught elementary school. 5th grade -
dialog: unnecessary. Nothing happens in the
dialog: 5th grade. All Teachers know it, no
text: one talks about it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (still in shock)
dialog: E - leven.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: And you skipped kindergarten because I
dialog: taught it to you when you were four.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
text: (still horrified, looking
dialog: at his body)
dialog: This explains... so much...
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You've robbed him of an adolescence!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Adolescence is a marketing tool.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: He's got no "crowd"... no friends...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay!
text: Anita reaches out to her brother. With the compassion of a
dialog: saint, she offers this:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Honey, I know you were expecting
dialog: puberty. You're just going to have to
dialog: shine it on for a while.
text: Deeply embarrassed, William shrinks down in the seat.
text: monitors his face constantly. She is raw and sincere...
dialog: yes, inspiring:
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Who needs a "crowd?" You're unique. You're
dialog: two years ahead of everybody. Take those
dialog: extra years and do what you want. Go to
dialog: Europe for a year! Take a look around,
dialog: see what you like! Follow your dream!
dialog: Mom
dialog: and
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: You'll still be the youngest lawyer in the
dialog: country. Your own great grandfather
dialog: practiced law until he was 93. Your dad
dialog: was so proud of you. He knew you were a
text: pronominally accelerated child.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: What about me?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (heartbroken, can't help
dialog: herself)
dialog: You're rebellious and ungrateful of my
dialog: love.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Well, somebody's gotta be normal around
dialog: here!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (blinking, still can't
dialog: believe it)
dialog: Eleven.
scene_heading: 11 INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM -— DAY 11
text: William finishes the last of many candy bars. A mound of
text: wrappers sit just below the mirror. He examines his face
text: hopefully for zits. Nothing coming. We begin to hear Simon
dialog: and Garfunkel's "America."
scene_heading: 12 INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY 12
text: Anita stands in the living room. The song continues playing
text: on the stereo.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I want to play you a song that explains
dialog: why I'm leaving, and try to listen.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: We can't talk? We have to listen to
dialog: rock music?
scene_heading: 13 EXT. FRONT LAWN -— DAY 13
text: William watches sadly. Anita's good-looking boyfriend DARRYL,
text: a dead ringer for young Stephen Stills, loads her suitcases
text: into a large turqouise Chevy. The suitcases are adorned with
text: plastic stick-on flowers. All coolness is leaving William's
text: life. Mom watches nearby, worried and helpless. (Their house
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: is more austere, less "fun" than the other front lawns.)
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Take good care of her in San Francisco,
dialog: man.
text: Darryl gives the kid a sub-human look. He's invisible, too
text: young to converse with.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: How can she leave such a loving family?
text: Anita turns and heads towards them. She focuses on William,
text: placing her hands on his young shoulders. Her face is very
text: close to him now, as she delivers this sage prediction of the
dialog: future.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: One day you'll be cool.
text: He nods stoically, hopefully. He is utterly lost. She leans
text: forward and whispers in his ear.
speaker_heading: ANITA (cont'd)
dialog: Look under your bed. It'll set you
dialog: free.
text: Anita shakes hands with Mom, and exits. As the car takes off:
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: She'll be back.
text: In the distance we hear the whoop of her daughter.
speaker_heading: ANITA
scene_heading: YEAHHHHH-HOOOOOOOO.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Maybe not soon...
text: William watches wistfully. He moves away from his mother.
text: She pulls him closer. Shot moves in on his slightly fearful
dialog: face.
scene_heading: 14 INT. DARRYL'S CAR — DAY 14
text: Anita looks back at the receding American Gothic-image of her
text: mother and brother. Sister waves to brother. She feels for
text: him. Music now shifts to The Who's "Sparks."
scene_heading: 15 INT. BEDROOOM —- NIGHT 15
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William locks the door. He reaches under his bed. It's a
text: black leatherette travel bag, with tartan design. He unzips
text: the bag -- it's filled with albums. He flips through the
text: amazing, subversive cache of music. Cream's Wheels of Fire...
dialog: the seminal Bob Dylan bootleg Great White Wonder... the Rolling
dialog: Stones' Get Yer Ya Ya's Out... The Beach Boys' Pet Sounds...
text: Abraxas by Santana... Jethro Tull's Stand Up... The Mother's of
dialog: Invention's We're Only In It For The Money... Led Zeppelin...
text: Crosby, Stills and Nash... Miles Davis' Bitches Brew... and
text: The Who's Tommy... with a note taped to it.
speaker_heading: ANITA (V.O.)
dialog: "Listen to Tommy with a candle burning
dialog: and you will see your entire future..."
text: The heady effect of all these albums registers, as we see him
text: lighting a candle.
speaker_heading: TITLE: 1973
scene_heading: DETAIL SHOT OF NOTEBOOK
text: A blue school notebook, with ballpoint pen renderings of the
text: names of groups like the Who and Led Zeppelin, complete with
text: carefully drawn thunderbolts. Also, the name LESTER BANGS.
scene_heading: 16 INT. JOURNALISM CLASS --— DAY 16
text: William, now 15, sits in class with book, Adventures in
text: Journalism. His hair is shoulder-length. A dedicated teacher,
text: PATRICIA DEEGAN, walks the aisles. Music continues.
scene_heading: 17 EXT. FOOD MACHINES -— DAY 17
text: William presses the food machine button, pulls an orange from
text: a vending container. He still looks younger than most of the
dialog: students... and these days, especially the girls.
scene_heading: 18 EXT. LUNCH COURT —- DAY 18
text: William sits apart from all the others, under a tree. He reads
text: intently, happily, as he eats the orange. It's a copy of Creem
text: Magazine. Music continues.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON PHOTOS IN MAGAZINE
text: Camera moves across the photos, catching the expressions and
text: fashions of the rock heroes of the day. Ian Anderson of Jethro
text: Tull, eyes wide and hair flying as he plays flute. Neil Young,
text: enigmatic with perfectly patched Levis. The Southern Rock Royalty
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: of The Allman Brothers Band, posing and laughing in front of
text: massive stacks of amps. Marc Bolan of T. Rex, his ringlet-hair
text: backlit by stage lights. David Bowie in skin-tight Japanese one-
text: piece attire, onstage with The Spiders From Mars. Pete Townsend
text: of the Who, slashing windmill-style at his guitar.
text: Drift down to a by-line - by Lester Bangs.
scene_heading: 19 EXT. PARKING LOT — DAY 19
text: William walks through the parking lot after school. Everybody
text: now congregates around the new arrival of their lives - their
text: own cars. Arms suddenly clap William on the back, friendly
text: faces smile strangely, laughing. He takes a few steps and
text: looks up to see... a school official is hurriedly removing
text: something from the high-school marquee.
scene_heading: HIGH-SCHOOL MARQUEE
text: which reads: WILLIAM MILLER IS TOO YOUNG TO DRIVE (OR FUCK)
text: All are laughing. He laughs with them, and turns as his face
text: goes slack. He shrugs, marches on.
scene_heading: 20 EXT. DOWNTOWN SAN DIEGO RADIO STATION —- DAY 20
text: The song we've been listening to is ripped off the turntable by
text: a highly-active man in a red promotional t-shirt proclaiming the
text: greatness of The Guess Who. He is a ferocious, lumbering, music—
text: driven presence, and he fills this small radio studio to the
text: very brim. This is LESTER BANGS, 25, the rarely-seen God of a
dialog: then new art-form —- Rock Journalism. A Disc—jockey with long-
text: long hair watches helplessly. William views all this through a
text: glass window. He stands on the corner of a downtown side
text: street, halfway up a steep incline. He is the only person on
text: the streets this early Saturday morning. Reveal that he is
text: watching a live radio show, audible to us through the small
text: p.a. speaker overhead.
speaker_heading: DISC-JOCKEY
dialog: Quite an honor to have the World's
dialog: Greatest Rock Critic... and editor of
dialog: Creem Magazine, back Home in San Diego
dialog: for a few days -- Lester Bangs.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: What is this hippie station?! Where's
dialog: Iggy Pop? Don't you have a copy of
dialog: Raw Power?!
speaker_heading: DISC-JOCKEY
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Lester, isn't it a little early for
dialog: this?
text: Bangs searches for the album -—- vinyl flying everywhere now,
dialog: with no regard for album jackets.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: Found it!!
scene_heading: 21 EXT. RADIO STATION —- DAY 21
text: William watches intently. Bangs thuds the needle onto a copy
text: of Raw Power. We're rewarded with a blast of Iggy and the
text: Stooges' "Search and Destroy." A closer shot on William now
text: watching the whirlwind of anarchy inside. Lester does an Iggy
dialog: Pop impression, acting out a story for the d.j. that we cannot
text: hear, never noticing the kid soaking in everything from the
text: other side of this double-glass window.
scene_heading: 22 EXT. RADIO STATION —- DAY -- LATER 22
text: Bangs walks with William on this sharply inclined San Diego
text: street. It's early, the streets are silent. Bangs is about
text: fifteen beer pounds overweight. His jeans are loose, his
text: paleness and messy moustache an emblem of the long days and
text: nights spent writing. In there somewhere is a good-looking
text: guy. His hands are thrust deeply into his pockets, and he
text: takes big sweeping steps.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: So you're the one who's been sending
dialog: me those articles from your school
dialog: newspaper —
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I've been doing some stuff for a local
dialog: underground paper, too.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: What are you like the star of your
dialog: school?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: They hate me.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: You'll meet them all again on their
text: long journey to the middle.
text: The kid nods, they walk.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: BANGS (cont'd)
dialog: Well, your writing is damn good. It's
dialog: just a shame you missed out on rock
dialog: and roll.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I did?
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: Oh yeah. It's over.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Over?
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: Over. You got here just in time for
dialog: the death rattle, the last gasp, the
text: last grope.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Well. At least I'm here for that.
text: Bangs looks at the much smaller kid, shaking his head. It's
dialog: too late for newcomers. But if the kid's age is an issue, he
text: doesn't mention it. Like a machine-gun:
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: What do you type on?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Smith-Corona Galaxis Deluxe.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: You like the new Lou Reed?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (automatic)
dialog: The early stuff. The new stuff, he's
dialog: trying to be Bowie, he should be
dialog: himself. I'm not a big Lou man.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: Yeah, but if Bowie's doing Lou, and
dialog: Lou's Doing Bowie, Lou's still doing
dialog: Lou.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (standing his ground)
dialog: If you like Lou.
speaker_heading: BANGS
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Take drugs?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: Smart kid. I used to do speed and
dialog: sometimes Nyquil and stay up all night
dialog: writing and writing, like 25 pages of
dialog: dribble about, you know, the Guess
dialog: Who, or Coltrane, just to write, you
text: know, with the music blasting...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Me too. The writing part...
text: For a moment, the serious demeanor dissolves and the oddest
text: thing happens. Bangs laughs. It's an odd and charming laugh,
dialog: the kind a tough guy keeps well-hidden. It surprised the kid,
text: who smiles back. Bangs stops at the corner, and offers a
text: pleasant but very final nod of the head.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: Well, alright. It's been nice to meet
dialog: you. I'll see you around. Keep sending
dialog: me your stuff.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay. See you.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: I can't stand here all day talking to
dialog: my many fans.
scene_heading: WIDE SHOT —- SOLITUDE
dialog: But neither have anywhere to go on this early downtown morning.
text: They stand for a beat, hands in pockets, on this deserted
text: street. They are alone together, there's nobody else in sight.
scene_heading: 23 INT. DINER -— DAY 23
text: William listens intently as Lester eat a sandwich. His face
text: is an open book filling with words.
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: -—- so anyway, you're from San Diego
dialog: and that's good. Because once you go
dialog: to L.A., you're gonna have friends
dialog: like crazy but they'll be fake friends,
dialog: they're gonna try to corrupt you. The
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: publicists! The bands! You got an
dialog: honest face, they're gonna tell you
dialog: everything. But you CANNOT make friends
dialog: with the rock stars.
text: The kid takes out a green collegiate notebook and gestures —-
text: can I make a note? Bangs nods.
speaker_heading: BANGS (cont'd)
dialog: Cannot make friends with the rock stars.
dialog: (savage bite)
dialog: That's what's important. If you're a rock
dialog: journalist, a true journalist -- first you
dialog: will never get paid much. But you will
dialog: get free records from the record company.
text: The kid's eyes widen. Bangs, in direct conflict with his brutal
text: writing style, is looking suspiciously like a compassionate
dialog: softie.
speaker_heading: BANGS (cont'd)
dialog: And they'll buy you drinks, you'll meet
dialog: girls... they'll try to fly you places for
dialog: free.... offer you drugs... I know. It
dialog: sounds great. But they are not your
dialog: friends. These are people who want you
dialog: to write sanctimonious stories about the
dialog: genius of the rock stars and they will
dialog: ruin rock and roll and strangle everything
dialog: we love about it.
dialog: Privately, William thrills. We. Our. It all sounds great to
text: him. He listens to the grouping of the words, every one of
text: them. He madly scribbles.
speaker_heading: BANGS (cont'd)
dialog: They are trying to buy respectability
dialog: for a form that is gloriously and
dialog: righteously —
text: The kid leans forward as Lester finds the right word.
speaker_heading: BANGS (cont'd)
dialog: - dumb! And you're smart enough to
dialog: know that. And the day it ceases to
dialog: be dumb is the day it ceases to be
dialog: real. Right? And then it will just
dialog: Become an Industry of Cool.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Industry... of... cool...
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: And that's what they want! And it's
dialog: happening right now. I'm telling you,
dialog: you're coming along at a very dangerous
dialog: time for rock and roll. The war is
dialog: over. They won. 99% of what passes
dialog: for rock now... SILENCE is much more
dialog: compelling. It's over. I think you
dialog: should turn around and go back and
dialog: be... a lawyer or something... but I
dialog: can see from your face that you won't.
dialog: I can pay you thirty-five bucks. Gimme
text: a thousand words on Black Sabbath.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (attempting cool)
dialog: An assignment.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: Yeah. And you should build your
dialog: reputation on being honest... and
text: unmerciful.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (writing in notebook)
dialog: Honest... unmerciful...
speaker_heading: BANGS
dialog: And if you get into a jam -- call me.
dialog: I stay up late.
text: Bangs reaches across the table, and William watches as he
text: scribbles his number on the back of the kid's green collegiate
text: notebook. The notebook has just become valuable. They sit
text: together, listening to the beautiful and compelling silence.
scene_heading: 24 INT. FAMILY CAR —- NIGHT 24
text: Mom drives William to the San Diego Sports Arena. She looks
text: out the window at the adrenalized concert-goers. She feels
dialog: protective not just of her son, but an entire generation.
text: William goes over his questions for Black Sabbath.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Look at this. An entire generation of
dialog: Cinderellas and there's no slipper
dialog: coming.
text: William looks out the window at the sign: TONIGHT - SOLD OUT -
text: BLACK SABBATH with special guest Stillwater.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: You can drop me off here.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Black. Sabbath. Just remember - you
dialog: wanted to be Atticus Finch in To Kill
text: a Mockingbird.
text: The kid doesn't answer. He silently goes over his questions.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: As long as I know this is just a hobby,
dialog: I'll go along with it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: All I have to do is listen. That's
dialog: what Lester Bangs said.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (dryly)
dialog: I'll be waiting right here at eleven
dialog: ‘o clock sharp. If you get lost, use
dialog: the family whistle.
text: He unhooks his seatbelt, stuffs his questions into an orange
text: canvas shoulder-bag and exits.
text: Elaine watches her son disappearing into the stony rock-concert
text: crowd. It's a windy night. Everything about this image
text: troubles her. She fights with herself, and then uses the family
text: whistle immediately. He turns.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: (sweetly, too loud)
dialog: Don't take drugs!!
text: Fifteen concert-goers turn around instinctively, at the sound
text: of a Mother, and then identify William as the object of her
text: concern. All around him, we hear:
scene_heading: HAPPY CONCERT GOERS
dialog: Don't take drugs!!
text: He winces, nods and moves forward. Music echoes from the open
text: windows of many other cars.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. SAN DIEGO SPORTS ARENA BACKSTAGE RAMP -— NIGHT 25
text: The kid tromps down the steep incline leading to a small steel
text: backstage arena door. He rings the buzzer. The door wheezes
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: open to reveal the keeper of the San Diego Sports Arena's
dialog: backstage list. Famous to all those who attempt to enter,
text: this is SCOTTY. He is a wiry, humorless man for whom
dialog: powerlessness is the theme of his life -- except for those few
text: hours he controls the list. Scotty is only forty but everything
text: about him screams that he's an angry sixty.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hi. I'm William Miller and I'm here
dialog: from Creem Magazine to interview the
dialog: band Black Sabbath.
text: Scotty, immediately suspicious, moves to a nearby podium and
text: snaps through three clipboard pages. He moves back to the
text: door and grabs the handle.
speaker_heading: SCOTTY
dialog: Not on the list.
text: He shuts the door with finality. The kid stands silently for
text: a moment. He looks over his shoulder, at two chattering
text: Groupies watching his dilemma from the top of the ramp. They
text: look at him sympathetically, but he turns away. William rings
text: the buzzer again, withdrawing a copy of Creem from his bag.
text: The door opens.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Sir, I'm a journalist, and here's a
text: copy of the magazine.
text: The magazine hangs in mid-air.
speaker_heading: SCOTTY
dialog: You're not on the list. Go to the
dialog: top of the ramp with the girls!
text: Slam. William stands there for a moment. Unsure of what to
text: do next, he looks back to the top of the ramp. Rejected by
text: him just moments earlier, the groupies now feign disinterest.
text: Bracing himself, William rings again. The door opens slowly
text: this time. Scotty stands peering at him.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (in a rush)
dialog: What -happens-after-I-go-to-the-top-of-
dialog: the-ramp with-the-gi -
dialog: Slam. Lock.
scene_heading: 26 EXT. TOP OF SPORTS ARENA RAMP -—- NIGHT 26
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William inches into the realm of the girls at the top of the
text: ramp. The wind whips. It's just him, and two Groupies in
text: their evening best. They now pretend to barely notice the
text: young journalist who has been banished to stand with them.
text: Chattering excitedly, with sophistication far beyond her 17
text: years, is ESTRELLA. She sports long unruly black hair. Her
text: partner hangs in the shadows, adjusting shoes. Estrella turns
text: to the kid with great disinterest.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: Who are you with?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (embarrassed to be alive)
dialog: Me? I'm with myself.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: No, who are you with? What band?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I'm here to interview Black Sabbath.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm a journalist. I'm not a... you
dialog: know...
text: Estrella stares at him. Moving into the parking lot light,
text: introducing herself, is a luminous girl in a green faux-fur
text: trimmed coat. This is PENNY LANE. There is an inviting warmth
dialog: and real interest in the way she asks:
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: you're not a what?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (enthralled)
dialog: Oh... I'm just... not a... you know.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: Not a "what"?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (charmed)
dialog: You know. A "groupie."
text: The two girls are deeply insulted by the word.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: Ohhh!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Sorry, I -
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: We. Are not. "Groupies."
text: Estrella indicates Penny with great reverence.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: This is Penny Lane, man. Show some
dialog: respect.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: -- sorry.
text: Penny steps closer, focusing completely on the kid. Behind
text: her, concert-goers throw a few woo-woos their way. She seems
dialog: not to hear them.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: "Groupies" sleep with rock stars because
dialog: they want to be near someone famous.
dialog: We are here because of the music. We
dialog: are Band Aids.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: She used to run a school for Band Aids.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: We don't have intercourse with these
dialog: guys. We support the music. We inspire
dialog: the music. We are here because of the
dialog: music.
text: William is nodding like a doll in a dashboard window.
text: Listening.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: Marc Bolan broke her heart, man. It's
dialog: famous.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: It's a long story. I'm retired now.
dialog: I'm just visiting friends.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: She was the one who changed everything.
dialog: She said "no more sex, no more
dialog: exploiting our bodies and hearts... "
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Right. Right.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: "J... just blow-jobs, and that's it."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay. Well, see, now I get the
dialog: difference.
text: Shot drifts off him and picks up, out of the darkness, another
text: breathless girl teetering on tall shoes. She is in the vicinity
text: of 16. Her black hair is cropped short and died red, just
text: like the cover of Bowie's Aladdin Sane. She is POLEXIA, the
dialog: voluptuous one, from Riverside.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (the usual greeting)
text: It's all happening. It's all happening.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: Polexia!! Did you tell Sabbath we
dialog: were going to be here?
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: I talked to Dick with Stillwater, I
dialog: talked with Sabbath. They're all dying
dialog: to see us. It's all happening.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: This is our journalist friend.
dialog: Journalist Friend, meet Estrella Starr,
dialog: and Polexia Aphrodisia. And you are --
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: William.
text: Silent beat. His name lands like a thud.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Here comes Sabbath!
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: Ozzy!!! Tony!!! It's us!!
text: A long black limo with darkened windows swishes past, beeps
text: twice. The metal backstage gate rises and the limo rolls
text: inside. And then silence again. The girls do not discuss
text: being rebuffed.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA (cont'd)
dialog: I think I saw Sapphire in there.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (can't hold it in any longer)
dialog: Okay. I was with Ian Hunter all night
dialog: at Rodney's Last night. Wanna see his
dialog: spoo? I saved it in a baggie.
text: She opens her purse and shows the girls something inside.
text: William edges away.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: (peering into purse)
dialog: I'm really happy he's doing so well.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (regarding what's in purse)
dialog: Yeah. I know he's such a talented
dialog: guy. I mean, look at him. Who deserves
dialog: it more?
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (looking in purse)
dialog: Nobody -- he's so sweet.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: (with compassion)
dialog: Don't you just root for him, you know.
dialog: To go that little distance between
dialog: good and great?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Wait. That's not his. I would know
dialog: his.
text: A very odd look on his face, William now cranes for a discreet
dialog: look. What's in that purse?
scene_heading: BAM -- THE BACKSTAGE DOOR OPENS
text: Out steps SAPPHIRE, 19, a tall girl with taller platforms. Heavy
text: eye-makeup. Her accent is Texan, with odd traces of English.
text: In one hand is a half-drained bottle of champagne. In the other,
text: a fistful of backstage passes.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Does anybody remember laugh-tah?
dialog: (as they turn)
dialog: Come and GET 'EM!
text: The girls scream and happily head down the ramp to Sapphire.
text: Penny looks back and grabs William with a well-placed arm hooked
text: around his. He joins the clacking sea of legs moving down the
text: ramp. Sapphire slaps passes on the girls. As Scotty (The
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Keeper of the Backstage List) watches, Penny now slips William
dialog: forward for a pass.
speaker_heading: SCOTTY
dialog: Oh no. Not this one -—-
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: (off William)
dialog: Who brought Opie?
text: The kid looks over his shoulder. Who's Opie?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: He's with us.
speaker_heading: SCOTTY
dialog: (hand blocking William)
dialog: He wasn't with you.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: (to Scotty)
dialog: Are you going to turn this into a
dialog: Thing?
speaker_heading: SCOTTY
dialog: All of you can wait outside! Top of
dialog: the ramp!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I don't want to cause a Thing. I'll
dialog: wait.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (privately, to William)
dialog: I'll go take care of this.
text: Sadly, they leave him behind. The thundering arena sound of
text: the collecting crowd, the p.a. system blasting Yes'
text: "Roundabout"... purposeful roadies carrying guitar cases...
dialog: the glimpse of backstage rock and roll... everything he wants
text: to be a part of is on the other side of this door. And then
text: it shuts. He stands alone.
text: At the top of the ramp, a tour bus unloads. It reads -—-
text: STILLWATER TOUR 73. Moving loudly out of the bus is the opening
text: band. This is Stillwater. Four road-weary band members, and
text: their road manager. Voices booming.
text: RUSSELL HAMMOND, 27, presses the buzzer with the nose of his
text: guitar-case. It's obvious from moment one. This is the star
text: of the band, the charismatic one. He's tired. They're late.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William recognizes him instantly, as the guitarist stretches.
text: The buzzer goes unanswered. The kid is invisible to him, as
text: the others now arrive behind Russell.
text: Tour/band manager DICK ROSWELL, 27, follows, loudly banging on
text: the steel door. He has the flaxen-haired look of a former
text: hippie, but he carries the emblem of a real pro -—- the newest
text: silver Halliburton briefcase covered with backstage passes.
dialog: His direction is always - forward.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Let us in, we're Stillwater! We're on
dialog: the show!!
text: William is surrounded by them now. They stand together under the
text: single lightbulb, familiar faces, a live-action album cover. JEFF
text: BEBE the singer, his shiny black hair hanging in sheets around his
text: head. ED VALLENCOURT the quiet drummer, his long arms hanging
text: limply at his sides. His is a face made for the background. LARRY
text: TURNER the compact bass-player. Dick now kicks at the door with
text: his foot, as William produces a copy of Creem Magazine.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (to Dick)
dialog: Hi, I'm a journalist. I write for Creem
dialog: Magazine.
text: Once again, the magazine hangs there. He can't give it away.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: The enemy! A rock writer!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (struggling forward)
dialog: I'd like to interview you or someone
dialog: from the band.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (busy, running behind)
dialog: I'm sorry but could you please fuck
dialog: off?
text: William blinks a little, takes it in stride. Russell sizes
text: him up, moving in the background.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay. Okay. I could do that.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: You guys never listened to our records.
dialog: You're all just frustrated musicians.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Do you know what your magazine SAID
dialog: about us? What was it - "the singer's
text: incessant cater walling distracts From
dialog: an assault with no clear purpose."
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (in background)
dialog: That was Rolling Stone.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Yeah. Okay. Fuck off anyway. We
dialog: play for fans, not critics.
text: Stung, William shrugs. It's been a terrible night, but at
dialog: least thrillingly so.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Russell. Jeff. Ed. Larry.
dialog: (can't help it)
dialog: I really love your band. I think the
dialog: song "Fever Dog" is a big step forward
dialog: for you guys. I think you guys
dialog: producing it yourselves, instead of
dialog: Glyn Johns, was the right thing to do.
text: And the guitar sound was incendiary.
dialog: (gestures with fist)
dialog: Way to go.
text: He turns and leaves, beginning his long trek back up the ramp.
text: Russell looks at the others. That kind of love is hard to
dialog: give up.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (good humored, yelling)
dialog: Well don't stop there.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Yeah, come back here!! Keep going!
text: They wave him back, as the backstage door opens again. The
text: kid moves back down the ramp. They herd him in with them,
text: through the door. Scotty quickly spots the kid and squares
dialog: off.
text: Russell notes the kid's swirling emotional state, shoves him
dialog: forward.
speaker_heading: SCOTTY
dialog: Not this one.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: He's with us.
speaker_heading: SCOTTY
dialog: He's not with you. He's not with them.
text: He's not on the list. He's not coming
dialog: in. And this is my arena. And
dialog: furthermore —
text: Russel craves the confrontation and moves forward closer to
dialog: Scotty.
speaker_heading: SCOTTY (cont'd)
dialog: —- have a good time tonight. Welcome
dialog: to San Diego.
scene_heading: 27 INT. BACKSTAGE HALLWAY -—- NIGHT 27
text: The band moves quickly down the hallway, with William moving
text: to keep up. A young and grizzled red-haired roadie, RED DOG,
text: catches them on the way. The band swarms around him.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Red Dog!
speaker_heading: RED DOG
dialog: We're playing here tomorrow night.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (aside, to the kid)
dialog: This is Red Dog, the Allman Brothers
dialog: Band's number one roadie.
text: Russel clamps an arm around Red Dog's neck.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: How're the guys?
speaker_heading: RED DOG
dialog: Havin a ball, man. When we have a
dialog: party, we have an Allman Brothers Band
dialog: party. Everybody boogies. Everybody
dialog: gets off. It's family, man. We all got
dialog: These now.
dialog: (flashes new mushroom tattoo
dialog: on forearm)
dialog: We'll see you guys in Boston, right?
dialog: (specifically to Russell)
dialog: Dicky and Gregg send you their love.
text: Camera catches flash of envy on the face of Jeff Bebe, as
text: Stillwater sweeps forward into a small dressing room.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 28 INT. DRESSING ROOM --— NIGHT 28
text: Dressing room activity swirls around him, as William simply
text: listens. He holds a small microphone. His stoic look gives away
text: little of the full body rush he's experiencing. As the other
text: band members drift across frame, Russell Hammond, a true rock and
text: roll believer, speaks as he straps on his guitar and gets ready
dialog: for the show. To the kid, every word is reckless gem.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: and it's okay, because rock and
dialog: roll is a LIFESTYLE... anda way of
dialog: thinking and it's not about money and
dialog: "popularity!"
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Some money would be nice.
text: Jeff sprays some shaving cream into his palm, and rubs it into
text: his scalp - poor man's mousse.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: - but it's a voice that says here I
dialog: am... and FUCK YOU if you can't
dialog: understand me.
text: Russell smooths the strings of his guitar with a small cloth
text: from his guitar case. The kid notices all these close-up
text: details of rock.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: And one of those people is gonna save the
dialog: world and that means that ROCK AND ROLL
text: CAN SAVE THE WORLD -- all of us together.
text: The kid's eyes dance. He checks to make sure he's getting the
text: recording. He listens intently.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: And the chicks are great.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: But we didn't do it for that! We are
dialog: here because we needed to fuckin be
dialog: here, not just 'cause we needed to
dialog: away from Troy, Michigan, WHICH WE
dialog: DID... but what it all comes down to
dialog: is that thing. The Indefinable Thing,
dialog: when people catch something from your
dialog: music, the thing you put into it. I'm
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: talking about... what am I talking
dialog: about?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (elegantly)
dialog: The buzz?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: THE BUZZ! And the chicks, the
text: whatever, is an off-shoot of THE BUZZ.
dialog: And like -- you saying you liked "Fever
dialog: Dog?" That is the fucking buzz, man.
dialog: All we get are these fucking old-ass
dialog: interviewers who don't understand,
dialog: don't LISTEN, don't appreciate why we
dialog: are here, which is the fuckin' BUZZ.
text: William nods, holds his microphone steady. Russell tunes his
text: guitar, ripping through unamplified guitar licks as he speaks.
text: Jeff hustles to reclaim his own connection to the interviewer.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: The next album will be even better.
dialog: More texture.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: But... it's not what you put in, is
dialog: it? It's what you leave out. Listen
dialog: to... listen to Marvin Gaye...
text: Russell's face grows rapturous as he discusses this piece of
dialog: music.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: A song like "What's Going On." That
text: single "woo" at the end of the second
dialog: verse — you know that woo - that single
dialog: "woo."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (proudly)
dialog: I know that, "woo."
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (he does it)
dialog: That's what you remember. The silly
dialog: things, the little things... there's
dialog: only one, and it makes the song. It's
dialog: what you leave out. That's rock and
dialog: roll.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William nods, says nothing, keeps the microphone pointed.
text: Activity surrounds him.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (impressed)
dialog: We used to talk more about this stuff.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Okay. See, this is maybe the most
dialog: honest we've ever been in an interview
dialog: because you know our music. You're
dialog: the first press guy we've made friends
dialog: with. We don't normally talk like
dialog: this to them. And you're supposed to
dialog: be The Enemy! What are you - 18?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: There you go. Still young enough to
dialog: be honest.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (walkie talkie crackling)
dialog: Ten minutes 'till showtime, anyone who
dialog: isn't in the band -- out!
text: Russell takes a last swig of beer. A roadie whisks his guitar
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: All this luggage is going to L.A.!
text: William is swept out in the chaos of the pre-show ritual,
text: past the pile of luggage by the door. It's a colorful heap of
text: suitcases, featuring colorful laminated band tags, each with a
dialog: number.
scene_heading: 29 INT. BACKSTAGE STEPS -- NIGHT -- MINUTES LATER 29
text: William sits on the backstage steps, writing feverishly in his
text: notebook. Behind him, two steps higher, Penny Lane scoots
dialog: into place.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: I found you a pass.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (amped, distracted)
dialog: Thanks. I got in with Stillwater.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (as he writes)
dialog: The guitarist, Russel Hammond, he
text: just thoroughly opened up. He is by
dialog: far the best and most honest interview
dialog: I've ever done.
dialog: (she nods)
dialog: I've only done two, but you know.
dialog: He's number one.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: You're learning. They're much more
text: fun on the way up.
text: William nods, still scribbling. She eases down into place on
text: the step next to him. Her proximity cause him to look at
text: her, his eyebrows rising. She smooths them down with two single
dialog: fingers.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE (cont'd)
dialog: How old are you?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Eighteen.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: Me too.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How old are we really?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Seventeen.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: Me too.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Actually I'm 16.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: Me too. Isn't it funny? The truth
dialog: just sounds Different.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (confesses)
dialog: I'm 15.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: You want to know how old I really am?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (immediately)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: No.
text: She looks upstairs, soaking in the sound of another band tuning
dialog: up. Music is her religion.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: How did you get started in all this?
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: It's a long story.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (quick study)
dialog: Right. Right.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: We live in the same city. We should
dialog: be friends.
text: She takes his backstage pass form his shirt and puts it on his
text: thigh - the cooler location. Nearby, the dressing room door
text: opens, and the Stillwater exits. Excitement level rises as
text: they mass in the hallway with instruments. We hear the amped
text: voice of Russell growing nearer.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: The Enemy!
text: He approaches, as William stands. Penny watches, hanging out
text: of Russell's eyesight.
text: Standing in the supercharged hallway, the kid is anxious to
text: introduce his new friends.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Russell, this is Penny Lane.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: (stepping into view)
dialog: Pleasure.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Penny Lane? Like the song, right?
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: Have we met?
speaker_heading: THEY SHAKE
dialog: And do not let go, for too long. There is history in their
text: shake. Their eyes tell all. Shot takes us to William, who
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: puts two and two together. It isn't hard. They clearly know
dialog: each other. Well.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Well, I guess you've... you've met.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Penny Lane! God's gift to rock and
dialog: roll!! You're back!
dialog: (privately)
dialog: Marc Bolan. Please.
text: Other band members pass, adjusting clothes for show time,
text: waiting in the hallway... and now singing the Beatles song
dialog: "Penny Lane."
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Come on, let's go.
dialog: (noting kid's shyness)
dialog: Both of you.
scene_heading: 30 INT. BACKSTAGE -— NIGHT 30
text: House lights go down. Cheers rise. Dick's flashlight dances
text: on the ground just in front of them, guiding their way in the
text: dark to the stage steps.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
text: — get in the huddle.
text: Russell pulls William into the band's huddle.
text: SHOT LOOKING UP AT THEM
text: Their band ritual, psyching together, arms on each other's
text: shoulders in a circle. They sing a dew lines of the classic
dialog: "Train Kept A-Rollin'" (or "Go See Cal" from the Cal Worthington
text: ad) They all touch feet, and then break, heading for the stage.
text: Russell directs Penny to his side of the stage. The kid follows.
text: Plugging in, still in darkness, Russell hits a practice chord —-
text: thwack. He steps on effects pedal. Applause. (Adlib onstage
dialog: private patter, between members, goading each other -- the stuff
text: no audience ever hears) Twenty feet away, Dick prepares to
text: address the crowd from the darkened stage. It is his favorite
text: moment of the evening, the highlight of his job.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: From Troy, Michigan. Please welcome -—-
dialog: (importantly)
text: Stillwater.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Light hits the stage, and the band launches into their opening
text: song, "If You Say Nothing." Audience response is strong.
text: Shot lingers on the face of William as he soaks in the most
dialog: undeniably exciting moment of any concert, the first thirty
dialog: seconds.
text: Jeff the singer grabs the microphone and launches into some
text: vocal pyrotechnics. Russell looks over to Penny and William,
text: at stage right, grinning, pretending to trip on his cord, an
text: elegant show-off move of a musician who is now where he
text: belongs... before seriously stepping forward for the first
text: guitar lead of the night. The kid looks over to see Penny
dialog: watching Russell.
scene_heading: 31 EXT. BACKSTAGE -—- NIGHT -- LATER 31
text: Cases are shut and rolled toward the trucks. Stillwater heads
text: for their bus. Jeff the singer says goodbye to Estrella Starr,
text: like a sailor leaving port. Russell lingers behind, saying
text: goodbye to William, loading his own equipment. Black Sabbath
text: passes with entourage, heading to the stage.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (privately)
dialog: So. You want to come up to L.A., we'll
dialog: be at the "Riot House" all week.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: "The Riot House?"
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: The Continental Hyatt House! It's on
dialog: Sunset Strip.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (attempting cool)
dialog: Right. Right.
text: All the while, just over the kid's shoulder, Russell scans the
text: backstage crowd of hangers-on. Looking perhaps for Penny Lane.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Let's blow this burg!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (exiting)
dialog: Well tell your friend Miss Penny Lane
dialog: to Call Me. Tell her "It ain't
dialog: California without her. We want her
dialog: around like last summer." Say it
dialog: like that.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Got it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (returns, whispers)
dialog: Oh, I'm under the name - Harry Houdini.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (exiting, to William)
dialog: The Enemy!! Yeah!! Come to L.A.,
dialog: we'll take some more.
text: Russell joins Jeff, exiting and laughing. A good show is still
text: in the air.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Later Jeff! See you, Dick. Larry.
dialog: Ed.
dialog: (and now the roadies)
text: Mick, Gregg, Red Dog, Scully, Frosty,
dialog: Estrella, The Wheel!
speaker_heading: ROADIES DICK
dialog: Laterrrr! We'll see you down the
dialog: line.
text: William is deliriously happy, hands upraised. He turns to see
dialog: Penny.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
speaker_heading: PENNY!
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (calming him)
dialog: Hey. Hey. Be cool.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: You just missed Russell! He says he's
dialog: at the "Riot House" all week and to call
text: him. He's under the name Harry Houdini.
dialog: Do you know about the "Riot House?"
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: I think I've heard of it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: He had a message for you! He said,
dialog: "It's not California without you. We
dialog: want you around like last summer."
dialog: (consults notebook)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Actually he said "ain't." "It ain't
dialog: California - "
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: I get the gist.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: How well do you guys know each other?
text: She smiles privately.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: I got it. No problem. Long story.
dialog: Alright! I gotta go.
text: Elsewhere in the arena, Black Sabbath is performing "Sweet
dialog: Leaf." The kid could care less. He has bonded with Stillwater.
text: He heads for the door. Penny walks with him. He's loving it.
text: They pass a still-scowling Scotty, flashing passes, as they
text: exit out into the ramp area.
scene_heading: 32 EXT. SPORTS ARENA -— NIGHT 32
text: Penny takes out an eyeliner pencil, writes her number on the
text: back of his green notebook.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: Call me if you need a rescue. We live
dialog: in the same city.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I think I live in a different world.
text: They stand in the night air. The parking lot is largely silent
text: now, save for the thudding bass sounds of Black Sabbath. In
text: the distance, we hear Elaine's insistent whistle.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Speaking of the world. I've made a
dialog: decision.
dialog: (a very serious secret)
dialog: I'm going to live in Morocco for one
dialog: year. I need a new crowd.
text: He nods. He is a rapt audience for this flashy girl.
speaker_heading: PENNY (cont'd)
dialog: Do you want to come?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yes.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: In the distance, we hear the family whistle growing louder.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: It's a plan. You've got to call me.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: It's all happening.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: It's all happening.
text: He nods cooly. He waits until she turns, and the sprints
text: through the parking lot, to the distant family whistle.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT:
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 33 ON TAPE RECORDER 33
text: William's fingers work the clunky keys, pressing rewind. We
text: hear a snippet of the intense and lively Stillwater interview,
text: full of overlapping and barely discernible voices.
text: Meticulously, he untangles the voices, especially Russell's,
text: as he transcribes.
scene_heading: INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM — DAY
text: The work of a journalist, as William sits at his Smith-Corona
text: Galaxis. There is a knock at the window, and William scoots
text: back in his chair to see a familiar face. It is Darryl, his
text: sister's old boyfriend. William opens the window.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hey Darryl.
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: Hey.
text: Darryl climbs in the window, looks around the room that was
text: once the site of his previous glory.
speaker_heading: DARRYL (cont'd)
dialog: So she's a stewardess now.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah. She and Mom are still sorta...
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: I'd say "not speaking," but I don't
dialog: know if they ever did.
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: Your sister. A stewardess.
dialog: (nods to himself)
dialog: The things your sister and I did inside
dialog: these four walls...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: That's okay. I don't want to know.
dialog: It's my room now.
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: We flew the friendly skies —
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay —
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: I don't want to put you in the middle
dialog: of anything. We don't have to talk
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: You seem cooler.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah. I'm thinking about going to
dialog: Morocco.
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: Lemme know if you need a little help
dialog: with your Mom.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: A little might not be enough.
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: She still freaks me out.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (nods, an old issue)
dialog: Yeah -
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: She's famous.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Listen —
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: Go ahead and do what you were doing.
dialog: I just wanna hang in here for a moment.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Cool. Alright.
text: William nods and continues his work, self-consciously, as Darryl
text: sits on his bed and soaks in the memories of the room. A long
text: moment passes. Darryl pats his thighs, and rises.
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: Okay, man.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay, man.
scene_heading: 34 INT. LIVING ROOM -—— EVENING 34
text: William slips on corduroy jacket, over a tie-dyed shirt. Well,
text: it's definitely a look. Mom appears more nervous than her
dialog: son.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I worry about the drunk drivers.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Mom. I'm 15.
dialog: (beat, vague panic)
dialog: Right?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Yes, you're 15. "And here's that money
dialog: I owed you."
text: She reaches in a small box near the door, gives him twenty
dialog: bucks. It's their routine.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: Your dad's favorite joke. I don't do
dialog: it as well.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I thought it was pretty good.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Keep the small bills on the outside.
dialog: And call me if anyone gets drunk.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I will call you if anyone
dialog: anywhere gets drunk.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Good.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (anticipating her, like a
dialog: parent)
dialog: And don't take drugs.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (stoic)
dialog: Ha ha. Very funny. See -—- sense of
dialog: humor. Have fun at the dance. I'm
dialog: glad you're making friends.
text: They move to the door, and he steadies her, as if to remind
text: her she's not going. He opens the door. She's a wreck, and
dialog: she knows it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Mom?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Yeah -
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
text: (loving but firm, as if to
dialog: a dog.)
dialog: Stay.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Oh... okay.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I-love-you-bye.
text: He opens the door. Neil Young. "Sugar Mountain." Watching
dialog: him leave is always a killer. She's not getting any better at
text: it either. She folds her arms tightly across her chest.
scene_heading: 35 EXT. WILLIAM'S HOUSE -—- NIGHT 35
text: Penny waist by her car, down the hill, sporting a different
text: more elegant look. She cups her hands and yells up to him.
text: He hikes down the hill, squishing down the water plants, almost
text: falling, the first time we've seen him happy in his own skin.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 36 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD --— LATER NIGHT 36
text: Miss Penny Lane's yellow Vega makes the big swing onto Sunset
text: Boulevard. She sings along to the obscure words of Led
text: Zeppelin's "Dancing Days." William takes it all in from the
text: passenger seat. Huge billboards advertise not cigarettes or
dialog: beer, but albums. It's a wondrous piece of geography for any
text: rock fan. Shot moves in as William, watches, takes it all in.
text: He moves his head outside the window to see fully. Her
text: windshield is cracked along the side.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: The Continental Hyatt House. Also known
dialog: as The Riot House.
dialog: (does tour guide voice)
dialog: Every band stays here, all the ones
dialog: that matter. The Who. Zeppelin.
dialog: Alice. Bowie. English bands. American
dialog: bands. We all know each other. Twenty-—
dialog: four hour room service. Like us, they
dialog: were outsiders. They were so outside,
dialog: they're inside, and insiders never
dialog: even knew it, because they're outsiders
dialog: and they are inside a place outsiders
dialog: will never be. And why are we even
dialog: talking about it? If you're really an
dialog: insider, you're never gonna say it.
dialog: You know what I mean?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (beat, working it out)
dialog: Yeah. Yes.
text: She makes a swift turn into a secret parking spot near the
dialog: hotel.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: And we're not gonna hang out with
dialog: Russell. You can, but not me.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What is it with you and Russell?
scene_heading: 37 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD -— NIGHT 37
text: Neil Young and Crazy Horse's "Cinnamon Girl" ricochets across
text: the Strip. It's blasting from cars tuned into KMET. Penny
text: now wears her green faux-fur trimmed coat. She grabs William's
text: hand, steadying her hat at the same time. They dart across
text: the busy street. She stumbles a little on her platforms. He
text: steadies his taller date. They are a good team as they pass
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: one of several humming tour busses parked out front.
scene_heading: 38 INT. HYATT HOUSE LOBBY --— NIGHT 38
text: Penny blasts into the Continental Hyatt House, William on her
text: arm. The lobby of this bastion of seventies rock is more alive
text: than most clubs. It's a swirling mass of Roadies carrying
text: Halliburton briefcases plastered with tour stickers, mingling
text: Rockers, and more than a few Groupies with lower-ambitions and
text: taller-platforms than Penny Lane. The feeling is communal,
text: illicit, intoxicating. The secret community of rock. Penny
text: attracts a hailstorm of friends and comrades.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: It's all happening.
dialog: (grabbing him like a shield)
dialog: And I'm about to use you as protection.
speaker_heading: ROADIE # 1
dialog: Penny Lane!!
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: (aside)
dialog: These guys are with Alice Cooper. I'm
dialog: going to pretend I don't know them.
scene_heading: ENGLISH ROADIE # 2
dialog: Penny!! Does Alice know you're here?
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: I'm just showing my very dear, very
dialog: wonderful friend around. He's a very
dialog: important writer - he knows Lester
dialog: Bangs.
dialog: (English accent)
dialog: I'm responsible for his moral conduct
dialog: while he's abroad.
speaker_heading: ROADIE # 3
dialog: (arriving, mock drama)
dialog: Penny Lane!! God's gift to rock and
dialog: roll!!
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: I'm retired.
dialog: (uses English accent)
dialog: And don't argue with me!
speaker_heading: ROADIE # 3
dialog: Again?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: (moving, English accent)
dialog: Have we met?
text: Effortlessly touching an arm here and there, charming all —
text: she had four men suddenly circling her.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE (cont'd)
dialog: I've made a decision. I'm going to go
dialog: traveling in India. Then I'm going to
dialog: learn how to play the violin. Then
dialog: I'm going to go to college for one
dialog: year.
text: William looks at her, perplexed and a little hurt. What about
dialog: Morocco?
speaker_heading: ROADIE # 2
dialog: (exiting, not buying it)
dialog: There's nothing they could teach you
dialog: in college, darling.
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Call Alice. He's under the name Bob
dialog: Hope.
speaker_heading: ROADIE # 1
dialog: I heard you were with Russell from
text: Stillwater.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Please. I throw the little ones back.
text: Lusty laughs circle William. Overlapping this dialogue is the
dialog: appearance of our friend Polexia.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (in tears, in pieces,
dialog: emotional)
dialog: Ian Hunter is a fucking asshole!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Polexia!
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Opie!!!
text: She hugs him like a long-lost friend, knocking the air out of
text: him. And now overlapping this action, appears Superfan RIC
text: NUNEZ, 14. His eyes are forever moist, but he's oddly formal
dialog: and never feels worthy of the rockers he idolizes. Tonight he
text: wears a custom homemade t-shirt with iron-on block letters.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: It features the four Led Zeppelin symbols and the words: "TO
text: BE A ROCK AND NOT TO ROLL." A felt-tip pen is still in his
text: quivering hand. Nunez walks with them, backpedaling as he says:
speaker_heading: RIC
dialog: It's all happening. I just saw them
dialog: on the seventh floor! Mr. Jimmy Page...
dialog: Mr. John Paul Jones...
dialog: (displays squiggle on shirt)
dialog: Mr. Robert Plant signed my shirt in
dialog: the elevator!! Five minutes ago, he
dialog: touched this pen. Please don't smear
dialog: it. And Bonzo's gotta new motorcycle
dialog: in the hotel!
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Ric is a Zeppelin fan.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah, I picked that up.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: He tours with them, but not "with"
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: RIC
text: They're on the 12th floor, but there's
dialog: guards there! So you gotta go to the
text: tenth floor and go up the back steps.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: This is my very dear, very close, very
dialog: wonderful friend William Miller, he is
dialog: very close with Lester Bangs.
speaker_heading: RIC
dialog: It's all happening!! See you in
dialog: Cleveland!
text: Ric rushes back to the elevators.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: I'm retired! Doesn't anybody believe
dialog: me!?
scene_heading: 39 INT. HYATT HOUSE LOBBY PHONE -- NIGHT -- MINUTES LATER 39
text: Penny nearby as William picks up the house phone. He shouts
text: over the din.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Harry Houdini, please.
text: As he waits, he discreetly pockets the matches, hotel pad and
text: pencil next to the housephone.
scene_heading: 40 INT. HALLWAY/RUSSELL'S HOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT 40
text: William, Polexia and an ambivalent Penny walk the hallway,
text: looking for the room. William looks in the passing open doors,
text: each one a different window into another world.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: Okay. Time to put on the lampshade.
text: Up ahead, the door to their smallish hotel room is open.
text: Inside, a band party in full swing. A clunky early-model boom
text: box segues from James Brown's "Make It Funky" to Led Zeppelin's
text: "Gallows Pole." Russell Hammond is the center of this party,
text: jabbing out the chords, playing along on guitar. Much singing
text: echoes all around. It's a hotel-room Hootenanny, and all
text: members of the band are present. Penny Lane takes a breath
text: and enters, with arms extended and pointing in opposite
text: directions. She does a flawless stewardess imitation, with
text: proper hand gestures, to a loud party ovation.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE (cont'd)
dialog: "Ladies and Gentlemen. Please
dialog: extinguish all smoking materials and
text: notice that the captain has turned on
dialog: The No Smoking sign. Your seat and
dialog: tray tables should be locked in their
dialog: full and upright positions."
speaker_heading: RUSSELL/OTHERS
dialog: PENNY!! PENNY LANE! !
text: She is instantly and overwhelmingly, the life of this party.
text: Russell joins William.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (impressed to see him)
dialog: Alright.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (happy to be there)
dialog: Alright.
text: Russell places a beer in William's hands, and exits.
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: (continuing)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: "In the unlikely event of a water
dialog: landing, the seat below you will serve
dialog: asa -"
dialog: (give up)
dialog: Oh, the hell with it.
text: They all applaud her, laughing. William watches her with
text: wonder, as she turns his way and winks. Jeff approaches the
text: alluring Polexia, and goes to get her a beer. Meanwhile,
text: Polexia sidles up to William. She sees him watching Penny at
text: the other side of the room.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (privately)
text: Act One, in which she pretends she
dialog: doesn't care about him.
text: POV shot travels to Russell, strumming the guitar that is always
text: a part of his body. Russell is watching Penny Lane
text: surreptitiously.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA (cont'd)
text: Act Two, in which he pretends he doesn't
dialog: care... and goes right for her.
text: Russell moves towards Penny.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA (cont'd)
dialog: Act Three, in which it all plays out
dialog: the way she planned it. She'll eat
text: him alive.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (worried)
dialog: We've got to stop them.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Stop them? You were her excuse for
dialog: coming here.
speaker_heading: ON PENNY
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: I need ice!
text: Penny disappears out the door, across the hallway. Russell
text: follows a moment later. The kid's eyebrows rise. Polexia
text: regards the kid with affection, adjusting his collar and peeling
text: a hair off his jacket.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: I just worry about people using her.
dialog: You know? 'Cause she brings out the
dialog: good side in everybody else, but what
dialog: do they do for her? Life kills me.
dialog: Do you have any pot?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Not on me.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Do you smoke?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No.
dialog: (attempting to fit in)
dialog: But I... I grow it. I grow it.
text: Polexia looks at the kid, laughing at his poor job of lying.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: You're funny. You know, if you were
text: only taller, English, rich, a guitar-—
dialog: player and older...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I'd be someone else.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Yeah. Good point.
text: Jeff appears with her beer, and she whispers in the kid's ear
text: before she exits with Jeff Bebe.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA (cont'd)
dialog: Bless me father for I may sin tonight.
text: The kid watches, as the boom box plays an obscure favorite of
text: Russell's, Eddie Giles' "Losin' Boy." There is the sound of a
text: motorcycle somewhere down the hallway.
scene_heading: 41 INT. ICE ROOM —- NIGHT 41
text: The ice machine makes new cubes with a grinding noise. Penny
text: puts ice in her glass. Behind her, Russell moves into frame,
text: hands delicately riding the sides of her body. A motorcycle
text: roars by, just outside the door, as Penny moves away from
text: Russell's exploring hands.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (with real indignation)
dialog: How does it end?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You know — the story about the girl
text: who dumps the guy who has an ex-ex
dialog: wife -- the one we don't talk about —--
dialog: and gets a hundred... okay, five letters
text: from him, and then doesn't even leave
dialog: a pass in San Diego. Wake up! I'm
dialog: retired and I never believed you anyway.
dialog: You're too talented and too good-looking
dialog: to be trusted and everybody knows it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (smiling, loves it)
dialog: You're retired like Frank Sinatra is
dialog: retired.
text: She makes a scoffing noise. He moves to the ice machine, with
text: a glass of his own.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Miss Penny Lane. Let me tell you what
dialog: rock and Roll will miss the day you
dialog: truly retire.
text: He tosses cubes in his glass, one by one. After the first cube:
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: The way you turn a hotel room into a
dialog: home.
dialog: (cube)
dialog: The way you pick up strays wherever
dialog: you go. Like Pied Piper.
dialog: (cube)
dialog: The way you know the words to every
dialog: song. Every song. Especially the bad
dialog: ones. Mostly the bad ones.
dialog: (cube)
text: That green coat in the middle of summer.
dialog: (cube)
dialog: The real name you won't reveal.
dialog: (cube)
dialog: And. I'd keep going, but my glass if
dialog: full.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Damn.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: He kisses her powerfully, hands at his sides. She fights to
text: keep her hands off him. Bonham's motorcycle rips by, just
text: outside the door.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Come to Arizona.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Never.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: We leave Thursday morning. 9 AM. And
dialog: pack light this time. Jesus.
text: They kiss. The motorcycle speeds by again, just outside.
scene_heading: 42 INT. HALLWAY --— NIGHT 42
text: The hallways are crowded, as William looks at the closed door
text: of the ice room. He leans against the wall, alone now. Trying
text: to look like he belongs. Behind him, most of the band has
text: disappeared into other rooms, leaving only hangers-on in their
dialog: places.
scene_heading: 43 INT. ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE —- DAY 43
text: Music. We pan across cubicles bustling with laid-back fervor.
text: These are the San Francisco-based main offices of Rolling Stone
dialog: Magazine. We have arrived for the waning days that this
dialog: magazine could still be called, with a straight-face, an
text: "underground" publication. Their mounting success crowds the
text: edges of every frame. Camera catches the Annie Leibowitz
text: portraits that hang on the walls -- Lennon, Jagger, Rod Stewart,
dialog: James Taylor.
text: We find editor BEN FONG-TORRES, 29, in his cramped cubicle.
text: Sitting nearby is curly-haired and mustachioed Star Staff
text: writer, DAVID FELTON, 32, who smokes his cigarettes with a long
text: holder. Felton reads one of William's articles, chuckling.
scene_heading: BEN FONG-TORRES
dialog: William Miller?
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
scene_heading: INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM -— DAY
text: William is on the phone in his own small room.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: This is he.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Crazy. William, this is Ben Fong-
dialog: Torres. I'm the music editor at Rolling
dialog: Stone Magazine. We've got a copy of
dialog: your stories from the San Diego Door.
dialog: This is the same William Miller?
text: William instantly, nervously alters his voice to sound older.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yes it is.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (rifling through tearsheets)
dialog: Voice of God, howling dogs, the spirit
dialog: of rock And roll... this is good solid
dialog: stuff.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (immediately, suddenly
dialog: deeper)
dialog: Thanks... thanks.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You should be writing for us. Any
dialog: ideas?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (voice now to deep)
dialog: How about Stillwater?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Crazy. New album... their third...
text: starting to do something.
text: Ben shuffles through papers, looking for a tour itinerary on
text: his promotional-material laden-desk, automatically plotting
dialog: the piece aloud.
speaker_heading: BEN (cont'd)
dialog: (pleasant, terse)
dialog: Stillwater. Hard-working band makes
dialog: good. Get 'em to respond to the critics
dialog: who dismissed the first two albums as
text: workmanlike. Guitarist is the clear star
dialog: of the band. Crazy. Let's do three—
dialog: thousand words. You'll catch up to them
dialog: on the road. We'll set up billing --
dialog: don't let the band pay for anything.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (affecting casualness)
dialog: Sounds good.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: We can only pay —- lemme see, three-
dialog: thousand words -- seven hundred dollars.
text: The kid's eyes widen.
speaker_heading: BEN (cont'd)
dialog: Alright, a grand. What's your
dialog: background? You a journalism major?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (deeply)
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What college -—-
scene_heading: INT. ELAINE'S HOUSE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Elaine now gets on the extension.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Honey, I need you to do that thing
dialog: that fixes the garbage disposal --
text: She hangs up.
scene_heading: INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM --— CONTINUOUS
text: The kid is paralyzed.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Well, I know how my lady gets when I
dialog: don't Snap to it -
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Crazy.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Crazy! I'll let you go. Call me at
dialog: the San Francisco office tomorrow.
scene_heading: 44 INT. LESTER BANGS HOME -- LATE NIGHT 44
text: The great Lester Bangs stands in the promotional album-clogged
dialog: bedroom of his Birmingham, Michigan, home/office at Creem
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Magazine. There is nothing in frame that does not deal with
text: music. In the background, a scratchy and chaotic Coltrane
dialog: record.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: Beware Rolling Stone Magazine. They
dialog: will change your story, they'll re-
dialog: write it and turn it into swill.
dialog: Beware! !
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: But besides that, what would be wrong
dialog: with it?
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: (laughs, entertained)
dialog: You have starry eyes, my friend.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Look. Do the story. It's a good break
dialog: for ya. But remember this —-
text: The kid listens intently, and makes notes.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS (cont'd)
dialog: don't do it to make friends with
dialog: people who are trying to use you to
dialog: further the big business desire to
dialog: glorify worthless rock stars like
dialog: Stillwater. And don't let those swill
dialog: merchants re-write you.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (still copying)
dialog: swill merchants...
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: Now. What are you listening to?
scene_heading: 45 EXT. TEACHER'S LOUNGE -- DAY 45
text: William knocks on the teacher's lounge door. A Teacher answers,
dialog: protective of their sanctuary.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (urgently)
dialog: I need to talk to Mrs. Deegan, from
dialog: Journalism.
text: Mrs. Deegan appears in the doorway.
scene_heading: 46 EXT. WILLIAM'S HOME —- LATE AFTERNOON 46
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: The sun is still shining. It's late afternoon, as Elaine Miller
text: exits her car and arrives home. She sees a few extra cars in
text: the driveway, is immediately suspicious.
scene_heading: 47 INT. LIVING ROOM -- LATE AFTERNOON 47
text: Elaine arrives to find William, Mrs. Deegan and Darryl awaiting
text: her in the living room. It's a 1973-style intervention. They
text: wear sunny, compassionate smiles.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Whatever it is, the answer is no.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: Elaine, we need to talk to you.
dialog: Nothing is wrong. I am a teacher.
dialog: You're a teacher. We speak the same
dialog: language.
text: Mom sits down. She is fully engaged and worried, her natural
dialog: state.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN (cont'd)
dialog: Now I'm not a jump-—up-and-down person,
dialog: but something wondrous has happened to
dialog: William. And you have every reason to
dialog: be happy...
dialog: (knows her)
dialog: and calm.
text: Carefully gauging Elaine's face, the teacher continues.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN (cont'd)
dialog: William has been gifted with a shining
dialog: opportunity in the world of journalism.
dialog: Through a love of music, and at an
text: oddly-young age, he has received a major
dialog: assignment from a national publication
dialog: called Rolling Stone Magazine.
text: Mrs. Deegan produces a copy, and places it on Elaine's lap.
text: It sits there like the plague.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN (cont'd)
dialog: Now you are rather famously not a fan
dialog: of rock music, but such are the ironies
dialog: of life, that happens to be the very
dialog: topic of William's assignment —
dialog: (cheerfully)
text: - rock music. A band.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (warily, to Darryl)
dialog: Honey, what are you doing here?
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: Moral support.
text: Mom looks evenly at her son, seated opposite
dialog: living room.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: What's involved?
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: Well. It's a great opportunity. He'll
dialog: be well-paid, and published nationally -—-
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: -- and he'll go on tour with a rock
dialog: band for four days. No small planes...
text: he travels on a bus.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Is it time for me to say something?
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: And in anticipation of that response —
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: —- William has prepared --
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (rueful)
dialog: "Lo, that which I have feared has come
dialog: upon me."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (lightening fast)
dialog: "He who jealously guards his fears,
dialog: quietly yearns to bring them about!"
dialog: her in this small
text: Mrs. Deegan admires their high-strung intellectual parrying,
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: makes an impressed noise.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (with compassion)
dialog: No. I have raised him to be an honor
dialog: student, which he is. We have agreed
dialog: on all our goals. We raised him to be
dialog: a lawyer, we moved here to be near the
dialog: finest law school in the West. Plus,
dialog: he has finals coming up, and in one
dialog: week he graduates with all his friends
speaker_heading: DARRYL
dialog: He's got no friends!!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Darryl. Please.
text: Nearby, having anticipated all of the above, William nods to
text: Mrs. Deegan, and stands.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: Elaine, may I present to you... your
dialog: own son.
text: William takes a lawyerly stroll, turns to face his mom.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Lady of the Jury.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I wish to disprove the prevailing false
dialog: belief that rock music is based on drugs
dialog: and sex. True, perhaps at one time...
dialog: but rock music is different now. It is
dialog: now performed by hard-working
dialog: intellectuals, with... with blazing
dialog: intellectual pursuits, and I am going to
dialog: play for you a piece of music designed
dialog: to show you that my thesis is correct.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: This is going to be hell.
text: Across the room, Darryl takes his position near the stereo.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: The song is based on the literature of
dialog: Tolkien... and it's mystical attempt
dialog: to elevate humanity has been successful
dialog: throughout the world... this song
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: will change your life.
text: Mom stifles a cough. William nods to Darryl, who reverentially
text: drops the needle with a thud. Mom is trapped, as we listen to
text: silent static... and then... the opening notes of Led Zeppelin's
text: "Stairway to Heaven." William gives his Mother the album
text: cover's inner-sleeve with lyrics.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: We ask you only to listen.
text: Camera passes across their serious and expectant faces. The
text: intro in not short. We listen, just watching their faces, as
text: Elaine becomes increasingly impatient.
speaker_heading: ELAINE WILLIAM
dialog: When is it going to start — Soon.
text: Immediately, overlapping, the vocal begins. ("There's a lady
dialog: who's sure all that glitters is gold.")
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 48 SUN MOVING SLOWLY ACROSS THE SKY 48
text: Sprinklers click across the lawns. ("... and it makes me
dialog: wonder... ")
scene_heading: 49 INT. LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON 49
text: Mom adjust herself in the chair, listens politely, checks her
text: watch. She looks at William.
scene_heading: 50 EXT. HOME — AFTERNOON 50
text: Sprinklers continue. ("If there's a bustle in your hedgerow...
dialog: ")
scene_heading: 51 INT. LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON 51
text: Mom listens fitfully. The song continues.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 52 EXT. HOUSE -- STILL LATER AFTERNOON 52
text: Sprinklers shut off. Music is now blasting. ("To be a rock,
dialog: and not to roll... ")
scene_heading: 53 INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER AFTERNOON 53
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Mom's face remains stoic to the bitter end. ("... and she's
text: buying the Stairway to Heaven.") The song ends. Silence.
text: All look to Elaine. They wait on her response. We hear the
text: turntable arm return to its cradle.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: What am I supposed to say? You say
dialog: it's Tolkien, fine. They sound like
dialog: nice kids. Is it meant to elevate
dialog: humanity? "Sure, let's elevate
dialog: humanity. After we sell you drugs and
dialog: sex." All I have is my honesty. That's
dialog: what I believe, and that's what I know.
dialog: (flipping through magazine)
dialog: Oh. Here's a nice ad.
text: She holds up the magazine. And ad reads, in large bold type:
text: BUY THIS FUCKING ALBUM.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: You've clearly ganged up on me, and I
dialog: still say no. No no no no no no no.
text: She shuts her eyes, and blurts out something against her better
dialog: judgement.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
text: NO MORE THAN FOUR DAYS AND I WANT A
text: PHONE NUMBER FOR WHERE YOU ARE EVERY
dialog: MINUTE AND I WANT YOU TO CALL ME TWICE
dialog: A DAY AND YOU'D BETTER NOT MISS ONE
text: TEST -— AND NO DRUGS.
text: William nods gratefully, and exits frame. Hold on the empty
text: chair, as drums herald the beginning of the Allman Brothers
text: Band's "Trouble No More" from Live at Fillmore East.
text: SHOT MOVES IN ON ELAINE
dialog: who feels a very particular kind of loneliness. It's the
dialog: loneliness she got married, and then raised a family, to escape.
scene_heading: 54 INT. STILLWATER TOUR BUS -—- DAY 54
text: An empty Heineken beer bottle rolls up and down the aisle,
text: taking us to William. William picks up the bottle and places
text: it in the seat back pocket in front of him. He has joined the
dialog: circus, and the feeling of being here is a lot more lonely and
text: forbidding than he expected. The bus struggles to make it up
text: the hill, back rows shuddering loudly, as music continues.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: C'mon, Doris! Darling Bus. You can
dialog: make it!
scene_heading: 55 EXT. NEVADA DESERT HIGHWAY -- DAY 55
text: The Stillwater Tour Bus rumbles down the desert highway. The
text: destination banner reads - ALMOST FAMOUS -—- TOUR 73. Music
dialog: continues.
scene_heading: 56 INT. BUS -— DAY 56
text: William strains for a look at Russell five rows up. He plays
text: slide guitar, working out a part. Next to Russell is Penny
text: Lane. Penny raises an early-model Polaroid camera and - flash
text: — takes a picture of a nearby sleeping Jeff Bebe.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Gotcha.
text: Jeff grumbles from the depths of a hangover. Penny stuffs the
text: shot in her pocket. William watches, his private heart pounds.
text: Polexia appears and sits next to him, noticing his shyness.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Do you have any pot?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No. I'm a journalist.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Well, go do your job then. You're on
dialog: the road, man. It's all happening! Get
dialog: in there. Go talk to ‘em!
text: Challenged, William rises and approaches Russell. He fixes
text: the charismatic guitarist in his sights. Shot takes him down
text: the aisle to the jamming star guitarist. He crouches in the
text: aisle and talks to Russell who immediately seems moody. His
text: mood is in the air.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (very professional)
dialog: Russell. Do you think we might be
dialog: able to find some time to talk when we
dialog: get to Phoenix? I want to interview
dialog: everyone separately... and I felt we'd
dialog: start with you and me.
text: Nearby, Jeff now listens in, feeling immediately jealous.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Absolutely.
text: Russell turns away. The kid squats uncomfortably in the aisle,
text: babbling on.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Because I've got a thing in a couple
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: What.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (self-conscious)
dialog: It's a... thing where... uhm... you go
dialog: there to graduate. School.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: I never graduated. And look what
dialog: happened. You're here interviewing me.
text: Good point. Laughs from everybody listening nearby. It's a
text: good line. William makes a quick jot in his notebook.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: No no no. Don't put that in Rolling
dialog: Stone. My bio says I graduated. We'll
dialog: come up with something better later.
dialog: Just enjoy the ride.
text: Russell eyes the notebook suspiciously before turning away.
text: Penny notices William's discomfort, laughing warmly, all while
text: grabbing a Coke and giving one to nearby bassist Larry.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: How did you know I was thirsty?
text: He didn't even realize he was thirsty, but he is. He nods
text: thanks to Penny, the perfect road companion for all. And then
text: Penny gives the other Coke, her Coke, to William. He accepts
text: it too, and starts back to his seat. He's been blown off, and
text: he knows it, but before he exits Penny grabs his arm and
text: whispers in his ear:
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: I may need to stay in your room tonight.
dialog: Russell's in a bad mood. He's very
dialog: Bob Dylan in Don't Look Back today.
text: He's trying to write.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William nods cooly -- they are comrades -- and returns to his
text: seat. A large joint passes in front of him, across him, to
text: Polexia, as everyone cheers Doris the Bus rumbling up another
dialog: hill.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (inhaling deeply)
dialog: Want some?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No thanks.
text: A wall of pot smoke is exhaled, right into his face. It
text: surrounds him like a cloud. The bus shudders, as Russell
text: continues playing slide up ahead.
scene_heading: 57 INT. WILLIAM'S LIVING ROOM — NIGHT 57
text: Elaine sits in her living room, filled with her books. Large
text: Department store photos of her children on the wall. She feels
text: her own loneliness, and his too, as she dials a phone number.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Has William Miller arrived yet? He
dialog: hasn't. Could you give him a message
dialog: as soon as you see him? -
scene_heading: 58 INT. BUS -—- NIGHT 58
text: Several hours later on this ride. Outside, night and desert.
text: Inside, a few cigarettes, a joint of two glow in the darkness
text: of the bus. The end of the Led Zeppelin classic "Whole Lotta
text: Love" plays from the bus stereo, full blast. Everybody is
text: free and anonymous in the dark. They sing at full-volume.
text: William looks out the window in wonder.
speaker_heading: ZEPPELIN/ALL
dialog: "Way down inside... (woman)
dialog: woman... you need... "
text: The ten-ton guitar chord of Jimmy Page.
speaker_heading: ZEPPELIN/ALL (cont'd)
scene_heading: "LooooOOCOCDDDDD0000000000000VVVe... "
text: John Bonham's drums thunder through the bus, everybody still
text: singing as they dip down into the city ahead, Phoenix. William
text: watches the living documentary around him. He writes furiously
text: in the green notebook, scribbling in the dark, trying to steady
text: his writing on the bumpy bus. Behind him, someone is beating
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: along to the song on his seat. He never want to leave this world.
scene_heading: 59 INT. ARIZONA RAMADA INN LOBBY -- NIGHT 59
text: All enter the lobby like warriors, in a pack. The hotel chairs
text: are spotted with curious hangers-on, decked out and lounging.
text: Dick is already stationed, as always, at the front desk. The
text: sad state of hotel service grates on a road dog like Dick. He
dialog: is forever teaching others their jobs.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Jeff, Tony... Keys... keys... keys...
dialog: room list...
dialog: (re: luggage, to hotel
dialog: bellman)
dialog: If it doesn't have a number on it, it
dialog: ain't ours!
text: He gives key and a stack of messages to Russell, and turns to
text: William who he makes feel more important. Penny is nearby with
text: her suitcase and tackle box purse. William watches Russell's
text: guitars whisked away - they are luggage-numbered 1, 3, and 4.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: The Enemy! Here you go, here's the key to
dialog: your palatial suite, room list, plus let me
dialog: give you a luggage tag. You're Number 42.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Is this Mr. Miller? You have a message
dialog: from Elaine.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (confidentially)
dialog: She's a handful.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I know.
text: William cooly takes the folded message, doesn't look at it,
text: and tries to pretend this embarrassing moment didn't happen.
text: Jeff exchanges a look with Russell. Nearby, the walking
text: commotion arrives, clacking through the lobby. It's Sapphire.
text: Last night's clothes are now today's. She holds a travel case,
text: and hanger with some odd blouses.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Finally, you're here!! They kicked me
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: out of my room! Fuck Ozzy!
text: She hugs Penny Lane. Estrella appears, happy to have help
dialog: with Sapphire.
speaker_heading: ON RUSSELL
text: who approaches William.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Come by in a few minutes. We'll do
dialog: the interview.
text: The kid exits and goes to join Penny, who is still comforting
text: Sapphire. Russell looks through his messages. The guitar,
text: now in a case, never leaves his hand. Jeff Bebe approaches,
text: regarding William standing with Penny and the girls. Intrigue
text: is swirling in the lobby.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: I'm worried, man.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Naw, we can trust him. He's a fan.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: But it's Rolling Stone. He looks
dialog: harmless, but he does represent the
dialog: magazine that trashed Eric Clapton,
dialog: broke up Cream, ripped Led Zeppelin,
dialog: and wrote that lame story about the
dialog: Allman Brothers Band that bummed Duane
dialog: out before he died. Don't forget the
dialog: Rules. This little shit is the Enemy.
text: He writes what he sees.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But it would be cool to be on the cover.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Leave it to me. We'll get a good story.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Plus our girlfriends read this magazine
dialog: and —
dialog: (looking at Band-aids)
dialog: -- you know.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You made your point. I'll take to
dialog: him.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: ON WILLIAM BY ELEVATOR
text: Penny speaks confidentially to him. If she is slightly bossy,
dialog: it is only because she's good at logistics, emotional and
dialog: otherwise.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Can Sapphire stay in your room tonight?
text: She had a big fight with Ozzy, and
dialog: Polexia's not working out with Jeff
dialog: Bebe.
dialog: (to Sapphire and Polexia)
dialog: You just have to remember... these
dialog: guys are jealous, insecure, talented,
dialog: egocentric, and manipulative geniuses...
dialog: they're lead-singers. They can say
dialog: "I love you" to 20,000 people... but
dialog: any fewer is a real problem.
dialog: (girls nod, comforted, she
dialog: continues to the kid)
dialog: Jeff Bebe has so much jealousy over
dialog: Russell that he can't express. Plus,
dialog: he never slept last night. You keep
dialog: Sapphire and I'll stay with Russell.
text: William covers his disappointment over losing Penny as a
dialog: roommate. Cooly:
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Sure. I'll take her.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Me too?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Sure.
text: Estrella arrives with travel bag, equally homeless, looking
dialog: hopeful.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: If there's room —
text: Penny squeezes him. He feels cool... but the girl he really
text: wanted to stay in his room now joins Russell, disappearing
text: into the elevator. He looks down at the message in his hand,
text: and opens it.
text: It reads: DON'T TAKE DRUGS! He snaps it closed quickly, before
dialog: anyone can see.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 5S9A IN. RUSSELL's ROOM -—- NIGHT 59A
text: Russell plays acoustic guitar, a notebook cradled on his lap.
text: Trying to write. It's coming slowly. Shot moves off him,
text: past a flickering television, onto Penny who silently and
text: intently watches Russell as if he's a rare and beautiful bird.
text: He looks over at her - she turns away quickly. He goes back
text: to work. Tries to catch her watching him again. She turns
text: away just in time.
scene_heading: 60 INT. WILLIAM'S HOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT 60
text: Stillwater's "Fever Dog" plays from the t.v. radio. William
text: on the bed, a thick local phone book on his lap. His hotel
text: room. He watches self-consciously as the girls go about the
text: ritual of inhabiting a room on the road. Sapphire flutters a
text: paisley scarf over the room lamp. Polexia puts a towel along
text: the crack of the door, blows out the glowing embers on too-
text: many sticks of incense, and moves to the phone. Estrella has
text: joined them as well, complete with a bag full of shoes.
text: Instantly, we have atmosphere and not much room left in this,
text: the smallest room in the hotel. William thumbs through the
text: phone book with fascination.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: All these people.
dialog: (wondrous, off phone book)
dialog: And they all live in Phoenix.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Hi Dad!! I can't talk long! I'm here in
dialog: Paris. I'm staying in another Youth Hostel
dialog: with no phone and no address for mail!!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (still wondrous, from phone
dialog: book)
dialog: Alex. Lowbatz.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: (emerging from bathroom)
dialog: I was the one who told him what to
dialog: tattoo on his fingers, I was the one
dialog: who made his shirts... I was there
dialog: when his wife left him.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Charles. C. Swoop.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (on phone)
scene_heading: I CAN SEE THE EIFFELL TOWER. DO YOU
text: KNOW THERE ARE 578 STEPS TO THE TOP?
text: She's reading from a European tour book.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Paul and Debbie Finger.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: (looking out window)
dialog: Oh my God. Simon Kirke of Bad Company
text: is by the pool.
text: The girls mobilize by the window. William is increasingly
text: aware that he is an outsider in his own tiny room. He tries
text: to organize his stuff in the corner.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: I GOTTA GO! I'LL CALL FROM ROME!
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: Is anybody here as worried about Penny
dialog: and Russell as I am?
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (the perfect daughter)
text: AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MAGGIE!!
dialog: I LOVE You!!
text: She winks at William, who looks away.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: (to Polexia and William)
dialog: Ooo, watch out - whoever you look at
dialog: when you say that - that's who you
dialog: really mean.
text: Polexia hands up and throws a pillow at Sapphire, the kid
text: watches these girls like a tennis match.
scene_heading: 60A IN. PENNY AND RUSSELL'S ROOM — SAME TIME 60A
text: Russell puts down his guitar.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You know. We should talk about what
dialog: we don't talk about.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: We don't have to.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: No, I - I went to Catholic school. I
dialog: believe in guilt and... you know, if
dialog: there's any to be had, I pretty much
dialog: want to roll around in it.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: I don't believe in attachments. No
dialog: boundaries. Just the music.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I'm just saying, it's okay to talk
dialog: about it.
text: Penny stands and turns. She speaks the word.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Leslie.
text: Russell nods. The name is out in the open.
speaker_heading: PENNY (cont'd)
dialog: Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie.
dialog: Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (somehow satisfied)
dialog: Alright - now we're talking.
text: But she continues, saying the name in a multitude of different
text: ways, in different accents, and with different degrees of
text: indifference and passion and lust and play-acting and mock-—
dialog: drama.
dialog: PUSH IN ON HIS FACE
text: As he listens and studies this ethereal creature for meaning.
text: Is she mocking him? In love with him? Taunting him? Seducing
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Lesssssslie.
dialog: Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie.
dialog: Leslie. Leslie. Leslie. Leslie.
dialog: LESlie. Leslie...
text: She continues saying it until it no longer has meaning. And
text: finally she sits next to him.
speaker_heading: PENNY (cont'd)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Now. Have I helped you get that off
dialog: your chest?
text: They kiss.
scene_heading: 60B INT. WILLIAM'S HOTEL ROOM - SAME TIME 60B
text: The girls continue their settling-in process.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Opie, can I order room service?
text: The nickname "Opie" re-opens a nagging wound. Polexia hangs
text: up, and begins to dial again.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay. You guys. Wait. Put down the
dialog: phone, Polexia.
dialog: (she does, sadly)
dialog: First, this is my room...
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Come on, you're a fan like us. You're
dialog: on our side of the line.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Second. I'm not Opie. Alright? Opie
dialog: is a little boy. I'm here to doa
dialog: job. I ama professional.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: (flipping luggage tag)
dialog: Ooooo0o0, sorry, Mr. 42.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Third!
dialog: (has their attention now)
dialog: this phone is a big, big deal. In
dialog: a minute, I have to go interview
dialog: Russell. Do not answer this phone if it
dialog: rings. I have family members with
dialog: severe anxiety Problems. She will not
dialog: understand.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (wounded )
dialog: But what if Ozzy calls Sapphire? And
dialog: I gave Jimmy Page this number.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Or a guy who looked like Jimmy Page.
text: William looks at their troubled faces, full of too much-longing
dialog: and too much make-up.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Okay. I have a solution. Answer the
dialog: phone. But if anyone without an English
text: accent is on the phone...
dialog: (winging it)
dialog: Just hang up. Or say it's the wrong
dialog: room.
text: They nod. It's a good plan.
scene_heading: 61 EXT. HALLWAY —- NIGHT 61
text: The hanging sign on the door reads: DO NOT DISTURB. William
text: knocks on Russell's door. A maid pushes up against him with
text: her cart, which now blocks the hallway.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: SHOULD I COME BY LATER?
text: A group of golf conventioneers are now trapped behind the maid
text: cart. They ease past William as he negotiates with Russell
text: through the door.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (0.S.)
dialog: YES, I'M IN TOO TRUTHFUL A MOOD!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
text: MAYBE THAT'S A GOOD THING!!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (0.S.)
text: I'LL SEE YOU AT THE RADIO INTERVIEW
scene_heading: LATER!! TEN-THIRTY IN THE LOBBY.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
speaker_heading: OKAY!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: GO AWAY!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
speaker_heading: OKAY!
text: We hear Penny's giggle. Then the door opens, and it's Penny
text: looking ravishing. In the background, Russell sits shirtless
text: at the table. He playfully pelts the kid with crumpled up
text: wads of hotel stationery.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Don't worry. Some to the radio
dialog: interview.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No, I'm fine. I'll just interview
dialog: Jeff Bebe some more.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (as in "you're on of us")
dialog: GO AWAY!
text: She shuts the door quickly. It hurts a little. He picks up
text: the wadded pieces of paper, stuffs them in his pocket. He
text: leaves the door and helps himself to some soap and pencils and
text: matches from the nearby maid's cart. Then he returns to
text: Russell's door. He can't help but listen to the muffled sounds
text: of laughter, just for a moment, escalating. He flips the sign
scene_heading: over: HOUSEKEEPING PLEASE ENTER — CLEAN ROOM.
scene_heading: 62 INT. OUTER RADIO STATION — NIGHT 62
text: Humble Pie. "Thirty Days in the Hole." Russell and band enter
text: the radio station, passing through the now-empty front office.
text: As always, Russell sets the tone. He's feeling good.
text: Stillwater takes over -- they feel mighty, like the Beetles,
text: as they climb across chairs, rearrange wall hangings and gold
text: records and head down the small hallway to the control room
text: interview. Rolling with the flow are William and Penny in her
text: green coat. He tries to distance himself from her -- stilla
text: little stung by the earlier hallway rebuff -- but she will
dialog: have none of it. She privately shares every great passing
text: moment with him. He tries not to succumb to these charms.
text: It's hard. Music segues to Stillwater's own "Fever Dog."
scene_heading: 63 INT. RADIO CONTROL ROOM — NIGHT 63
dialog: Stillwater's own record spins, and it sounds good to everyone
text: in this room. Russell takes a seat near the open mike. Jeff
text: Bebe is quick to take the other seat, arranging himself to be
text: just as close to the microphone as Russell. William watches
text: all as he sits at the dark back of this control booth.
text: Stillwater sits with late-night progressive disc-—jockey QUINCE
speaker_heading: ALLEN, 25.
text: Quince takes a long hit from a joint and does not pass it.
text: The entire Stillwater band is now collected in the studio and
text: ready for the interview. William can't avoid looking at Penny
text: Lane, who looks great tonight. She catches him, and he barely
text: looks away in time. Polexia, newly reconciled with Jeff,
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: notices. The very mellow disc-jockey eases up to the
text: microphone, as the finale of "Fever Dog" is just ending.
speaker_heading: QUINCE ALLEN
dialog: The guitar of Russell Hammond. "Fever
dialog: Dog"... The band is Stillwater.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Watch with your mind as they
dialog: materialize.
text: Band members gets closer to the microphone, preparing to speak.
text: Quince lowers his head, shutting his eyes and getting into the
text: music as the song plays out.
scene_heading: 64 INT. HOTEL ROOM —- NIGHT 64
text: The phone rings. Estrella answers.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
text: William's room.
scene_heading: INT. ROLLING STONE OFFICE -—-— NIGHT
text: Ben Fong-Torres is calling from Rolling Stone.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Can I please speak to him? This is
dialog: Ben Fong-Torres at Rolling Stone.
text: Estrella panics, hangs up quickly, as if the phone has just
dialog: caught fire.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: I think I just messed up!
scene_heading: 65 INT. RADIO STATION -— NIGHT -- SAME TIME 65
text: Quince raises his head and continues on-the-air. The same
text: song is still ending.
speaker_heading: QUINCE
dialog: Look at the dogs, wearing the funny
dialog: hats. Juggling just for you. Freaks
dialog: and family...
dialog: Penny shoots William a look. Do you believe this guy?
speaker_heading: QUINCE (cont'd)
dialog: It's Quince, with Stillwater. Here.
dialog: Live. It's the Night Circus.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: The band scoots closer to the microphone, ready to talk. Quince
text: continues, looking meaningfully at the band. They are
text: waiting... eager for a chance to speak.
speaker_heading: QUINCE (cont'd)
dialog: Every minute a baby is born somewhere..
text: Life. Death. Hermetically sealed
text: bags of human emotion. Bags of love...
dialog: bags of kindness?
dialog: (suddenly, turns)
dialog: How'd you get together?
text: As Jeff eagerly speaks, Quince lowers his head and listens...
dialog: feels... the words of his guests.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Well... not to get into a "me" thing...
dialog: this is Jeff talking... but I did start
dialog: the band, some time, actually, ago.
dialog: This is back when we were the Jeff
dialog: Bebe band, and I placed an ad ina
dialog: magazine called Peaches looking for a
dialog: guitarist and Russell Hammond answered.
text: Quince nods, head bowed, swaying slowly.
speaker_heading: QUINCE
dialog: (with deep understanding)
dialog: Peaches.
text: Jeff watches Quince's head lower. It's hard to know when to
text: talk with Quince. The depth of his mellowness is tough to get
text: in rhythm with.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: I think he was a gift from God,
dialog: actually. Nobody plays like Russell
dialog: Hammond.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (sorta moved)
dialog: Well, shit. Thank you.
text: He instantly realizes he's slipped, on the air.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
text: Ooops. Better hit the delay button.
text: All eyes turn to Quince, whose head stays down, grooving to
text: some inner beat. He says nothing. The band looks at each
dialog: other. We become increasingly aware that Quince may now be
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: asleep. Long silence. William shares an amazed look with
text: Penny. Quince is definitely asleep. Russell leans forward
text: and continues talking quietly, with hilarious sincerity.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Okay - we're talking now, right? Why
dialog: the fuck do you wait until and interview
dialog: in Arizona to say something nice about
dialog: me. Why don't you say it to my fucking
dialog: face sometime? Because I tell you
dialog: every time I think you nailed something.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Everybody pays you compliments. It's
dialog: not my fucking job to kiss your fucking
dialog: ass all the time.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Well then who's fucking job is it?
dialog: Because my ass is dying for a kiss.
dialog: And I know yours is too.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: It's my fucking job. You're all
dialog: geniuses. And let me just add this
dialog: thought - smegma.
text: Penny covers her mouth as offers a look of absurdity to William.
text: He offers one back, as laughs are stifled throughout the room.
text: William shares a look. Quince is still deeply asleep, as the
text: usually quiet tony leans forward to speak.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Feces.
text: He cracks himself up, silently. Quince snaps awake, fully in-
dialog: stride.
speaker_heading: QUINCE
dialog: The dong is called "Love Thing." Your
text: mind is Starting to take effect.
dialog: They're all here to see you swallow
dialog: fire. You scream soundlessly... on the
dialog: Night Circus. It's Quince, with
text: Stillwater.
text: "Love Thing" takes over, as Quince swivels in the chair.
speaker_heading: QUINCE (cont'd)
dialog: I thought that went well.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 66 INT. RENTAL CAR —- NIGHT 66
text: Adrenalized laughter. The whole band is crammed into a medium—
text: sized rental car. Penny half on William's lap, half on
dialog: Russell's.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (to William)
dialog: See, this is what nobody writes about!
dialog: The in-between times! This! Us!
dialog: Right now!!
scene_heading: 67 INT. WILLIAM'S HOTEL ROOM 67
text: The phone is ringing. Estrella emerges from the bathroom with
text: no make-up and a t-shirt. She picks up the phone. Across the
text: room, Sapphire signs for room service. Now she is far too
text: made-up. The t.v. radio plays Free's "Fire and Water" in the
dialog: b.g.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: (suspiciously)
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
scene_heading: INT. WILLIAM'S HOUSE --— NIGHT
text: It's Mom on the phone.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (measured, very proper)
dialog: May I speak with William please?
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: (cheerfully)
dialog: He's not here. I think he's in the
dialog: bar with the Band. They just got back
dialog: from the radio station. Is this Maryann
dialog: with the pot?
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA (cont'd)
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: No this isn't Maryann with the pot.
dialog: This is Elaine... his Mother.
text: Estrella physically recoils.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: (cringing)
dialog: I thought you were English.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Could you please give him a message?
dialog: Could you tell him to call home
dialog: immediately? And could you also tell
dialog: him -
dialog: (at full power)
dialog: I know what's going on.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: Alright. Okay. But I'm just going to
dialog: say this, and I'm going to stand by
dialog: it.
dialog: (can't help herself)
dialog: You should be really proud of him.
dialog: "Cause I know guys... and I'll bet you
dialog: do too. And he respects women, and he
dialog: likes women, and let's just pause and
dialog: appreciate a man like that. You
dialog: created him out of thin air, and you
dialog: raised him right, and we're all looking
dialog: out for him. And that's more than
dialog: I've ever said to my own parents, so
dialog: there you go.
dialog: (silence)
text: This is the maid speaking, by the way.
scene_heading: 68 INT. HOTEL LOBBY -— NIGHT 68
text: Russell and William sit in two large red-leatherette seats in
text: the hotel lobby. William shuffles through many pages of
text: questions written in small script. His tape recorder microphone
text: sits balanced on the chair.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (very professional)
dialog: Now that you're starting to be
dialog: successful, you had twenty-six years
dialog: to write your first Album... and you'll
dialog: have maybe four months for the second.
dialog: Do you worry that the pressure of the
dialog: business will get in the way of the
dialog: original joy of making your music? Or
text: Russell blinks. The all-consuming issues of his life are right
text: in front of him.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Whoa!
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: I need three more beers and my guitar
dialog: before I can answer that question.
dialog: Let's take a walk.
scene_heading: 69 EXT. HOTEL POOL AREA — NIGHT 69
text: Russell walks the outskirts of the pool area with William.
text: William follows him through the sliding glass door to his room,
text: facing the pool. Russell grabs his guitar. They stand for a
text: moment, unheard by the others, and regard the living portrait
text: twenty yards in front of them. The off-limits after-hours
text: pool area has been overtaken by the Stillwater tour members.
text: Jeff Bebe sits in a chair nearby. Dick laughs at a joke.
text: Always the life of the party, Penny Lane dispenses stolen towels
text: from a maid cart. And she is the first to slip into the pool
text: for some after-hours, against-the-rules swimming. Effortlessly,
text: she turns a collection of people into a party. They regard
text: her, well out of earshot of the others.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: For a minute I thought you were actually
dialog: a real journalist... which is... you
dialog: know, it's great.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Shut that thing off, and I'll tell you
dialog: the truth.
text: William shuts his tape recorder off.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: It's off.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Look. I trust you. I'm going to lay
dialog: this right on you. Just make us look
dialog: cool.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I will quote you warmly and accurately.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: That's what I'm worried about. See -
dialog: some of us have girlfriends back home.
dialog: Some of us have wives. And... some of
dialog: the people you meet on the road are
dialog: really amazing people...
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: They both watch Penny Lane, sparkling, fresh from the pool.
text: She places hotel furniture into the shallow end and inviting
text: all, even other curious hotel guests, to join them in the pool.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Like you. And some of the things that
dialog: happen are good for just a few people
dialog: to know about - as opposed to, say, a
dialog: million people.
text: Dawn is breaking for William.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Ohhhh. Oh. Yeah.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You know what I mean?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Right. Yeah.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: See, you're dangerous. Most people
dialog: are just waiting to talk, but you
dialog: listen.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Right. Right.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: So your question you asked me. I think
dialog: about It every fucking night. The
dialog: "business." I hate it!
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: I grew up with these guys, okay? I
dialog: can't play all that I can play, I'm
dialog: past these musicians, do you understand?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I do.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: The more popular we get, the more I
dialog: can't walk on them, the bigger their
dialog: houses get, the more pressure... you
dialog: forget, man. You forget what it was
dialog: like to be real, to be a fan. You can
dialog: hear it in a lot of bands who've been
dialog: successful - it doesn't sound like
dialog: music anymore. It sounds like...
dialog: like lifestyle maintenance.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (suddenly confessional)
dialog: I used to be able to hear the sounds
dialog: of the world. Everything, to me, used
dialog: to sound like music. Everything. Now
dialog: I don't hear it. You know what I'm
dialog: trying to say?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (ruefully)
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Man, it feels good to say this stuff
dialog: out loud. But what am I doing? I'm
dialog: telling secrets to the one guy you
dialog: don't tell secrets to.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (feeling included)
dialog: No, that's okay. We'll do the interview
dialog: tomorrow.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: This is good. So there's the "friend"
dialog: and then there's the "interview guy."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: So tonight it's "friend".... and when
dialog: we wake up tomorrow —- "interview guy."
dialog: We'll figure it out as we go, buddy.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hey - for whatever it's worth - you
dialog: guys are really good.
text: Russell laughs at the kid's easy naivete. He hands his guitar
text: to the kid, and joins the party. William watches, part of the
text: crowd... somehow feeling a little compromised. He doesn't
text: care. Penny gestures for him to join them.
scene_heading: 70 EXT. SUN STADIUM — AFTERNOON 70
text: William interviews Larry in the seats of the empty arena. On
text: stage, Ed soundchecks his drums.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: How would you describe your role in
dialog: Stillwater? What is the chemical that
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: you add to the chemistry?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I'm the bass-player.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (pressing for some poetry)
dialog: Right. And when you take that away...
dialog: what would be missing? Stylistically?
dialog: What chemical?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (not getting it)
dialog: The bass?
text: Larry doesn't give him much.
scene_heading: 71 EXT. SUN STADIUM —- NIGHT 71
text: It's raining. The pre-show huddle breaks up, William a part
text: of them. Penny Lane adjusts Larry's look. She takes the scarf
text: from around his neck and ties it around his leg. He looks
text: instantly better. William watches in the darkness as Dick
text: takes the microphone. The best part of his day has arrived.
dialog: In his important voice:
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Good evening Phoenix.
dialog: (applause)
dialog: From Troy, Michigan. Please welcome,
text: Stillwater.
text: Lights come up, as the band launches into "Fever Dog." Jeff
text: begins singing. Russell reaches to adjust the microphone for
text: a back-up vocal and is hit with something unexpected.
text: A sharp electrical shock.
text: It's just a slight pop in the loud din of music, but within a
text: moment something is clearly wrong. Russell holds onto the
text: microphone stand with a surprised look, conducting high-voltage
text: for two seconds and then he snaps his hand off the metal. His
text: face is white, he takes off his guitar and walks off-stage,
text: collapsing a couple steps later.
scene_heading: 72 EXT. BACKSTAGE -- NIGHT 72
text: Dick is waving wildly for the band to board the bus, which has
text: been pulled up into the backstage area. He guides a sagging
text: Russell, assisted by Penny Lane, into the bus.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Get in, get in!!
text: William boards the bus, as the extremely agitated PROMOTER
text: arrives to confront Dick.
speaker_heading: PROMOTER
dialog: Are you the manager of this band?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: That, and more. Get in!
speaker_heading: PROMOTER
dialog: You didn't even play a full set!
text: Dick whirls and unleashes an anger we've not yet seen, gesturing
text: with the silver briefcase that does not leave his hand.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Your shoddy stage set-up almost killed
dialog: our guitarist!
speaker_heading: PROMOTER
dialog: You trashed the dressing room —- you
dialog: didn't play your thirty-five minutes.
dialog: You didn't fulfill your contract —
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Everybody in! Get in the bus!
speaker_heading: PROMOTER
dialog: I'll report you to every promoter in
dialog: the country! I'm gonna talk to Frank
dialog: Barcelona!
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: YOU DON'T FUCK WITH MY BAND'S SAFETY!
speaker_heading: PROMOTER
dialog: I hope you have a good lawyer.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I AM A LAWYER!
text: He swings into the bus, as the bus revs.
speaker_heading: PROMOTER
dialog: LOCK THE GATE ON 'EM!
scene_heading: 73 INT. BUS -—- NIGHT 73
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Russell sits, pale, next to Penny at the front of the bus. He
text: examines his singed hand, shaking it a little to emphasize the
dialog: positivity of her words.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Don't worry. It's happened to all the
dialog: greats. Thank God you didn't hold the
dialog: mike stand with both hands, you'd still
dialog: be holding it. This is a good thing.
dialog: It's a good, good, good thing.
text: William sits nearby, watching Russell, making notes out of eye-
text: sight of others. The ever-wary Jeff, unseen by William, cranes
text: to see that he's writing in his notebook.
text: Dick swings into the seat across from Russell. The bus door
text: shuts, as the promoter is still yelling.
text: Doris is slow to gain speed, as Estrella appears, running
text: alongside. She knocks on the window next to William.
speaker_heading: ESTRELLA
dialog: I forgot to tell you! Your mom says
dialog: to call home immediately. She says
dialog: she knows what's going on!
dialog: (receding)
dialog: See you guys in Topeka! I'll catch a
dialog: ride with Sabbath!
text: William nods with embarrassment, waves to her, as the bus races
text: toward the now closing gate.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (casually, to Russell)
dialog: Wanna buy a gate?
text: Before Russell can answer - BASH. Doris barrels through the
text: steel-gate, snapping it like a chopstick to great cheers inside
dialog: this bus.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: You just bought a gate.
dialog: (to the bus)
dialog: C'mon Doris!! Get us out of town!!
text: The bus struggles up a slight incline, everybody rooting for
text: Doris, as she eases out of the parking lot and onto a
dialog: thoroughfare.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What did it feel like to be
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: electrocuted?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
text: It burns. It feels like a dose of
dialog: lead shooting through your body... and
dialog: then you see God, and he says, "How
dialog: bad do you want to be legendary?" And
dialog: god damnit. I let go.
dialog: (shaky grin as all laugh
dialog: warmly)
dialog: Rock and roll.
text: Jeff watches this charisma with thinly veiled envy. The kid
text: scribbles in his notebook. We hear Led Zeppelin's "That's the
dialog: Way."
scene_heading: 74 INT. BUS —- EARLY MORNING 74
text: Song continues. Almost everybody is asleep. William takes
text: the camera and snaps a Polaroid of a sleeping Penny. She wakes
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Give that to me.
text: She grabs for it, they have a brief play-fight. He grabs some
text: other Polaroids from her pocket. He hustles to the back of
text: the bus, pockets the photo, and settles down to watch the
text: passing landscapes. She chases him down the aisle. Music
text: continues as she sits down next to him. Out the window, a
text: long-distance running team of Girls keeps pace with the bus
text: for a bit. They wave. Penny watches them over sunglasses,
text: waves briefly to the real world.
speaker_heading: PENNY (cont'd)
dialog: (breathing heavy, owning
dialog: the world)
dialog: When we go to Morocco, I think we should
dialog: wear completely different clothes, and
dialog: be completely different people.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What will our names be?
text: She snaps a Polaroid of a nearby sleeping Silent Ed, pockets
text: the Polaroid. She regards Russell up ahead, also sleeping.
text: Her attention has already wandered from Morocco.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: What do you think of Russell?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I like him.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You're coming to Cleveland, right?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Cleveland, Ohio? Oh no no no. I gotta
dialog: get my interview with Russell before
dialog: Greenville. And you've got to help
dialog: me. Okay? Friends... remember?
text: Penny is still watching Russell.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You should give him a break. There
dialog: are real problems in the band. off
dialog: the record.
text: Gravely noting the word "problems", the kid joins Penny in
text: watching Russell, who is splayed haphazardly, sleeping
text: restlessly up ahead.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What problems?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Okay. I got it. I think your name
dialog: should be Spencer, and mine will be
dialog: Jane.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I can't keep up with you.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: No one can.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What's your real name?
text: She looks at him briefly. She puts her arm around him. It's
text: intoxicating, but he doesn't quite know how to act. With her
text: free hand, she gestures with a hanger. As they regard Russell
dialog: sleeping nearby:
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Here's the thing about Russell. He's
dialog: my last project. I only do this for a
dialog: very few people. And I think we should
dialog: do it together —- he is almost great.
dialog: We've got to take him there. You and
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: me — we can do it. Deal? Because the
dialog: other guys are good - but he could be
dialog: great. He's my last project.
text: He looks at her. She imitates his face back to him.
speaker_heading: PENNY (cont'd)
dialog: It's all happening.
scene_heading: 715 INT. TOPEKA ARENA BACKSTAGE —-— NIGHT 715
text: William sits interviewing Silent Ed by some equipment cases.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What do you love about music?
text: Ed looks at him thoughtfully. It is an eloquent moment. He
text: thinks. He shrugs. The kid tumbles with more questions.
dialog: These interviews are not going well.
scene_heading: 76 INT. BATHROOM — NIGHT 76
text: William, looking concerned over the state of his interviews,
text: walks into the backstage bathroom. He makes a few surreptitious
text: notes in his notebook before noticing that Jeff is standing
text: there, clearly just finishing a quick hit of cocaine offered
text: by a Local Hanger-On. Seeing the kid, he immediately hides
text: the coke spoon.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Hey.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hey.
text: William pretends he sees nothing as he turns to the urinal,
text: and shot stays on Jeff, who looks a little high and a little
dialog: worried.
scene_heading: 77 INT. BACKSTAGE PAY PHONE — NIGHT 77
text: William is on the pay phone with his Mother. The show booms
text: in the background.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I know. I know. I know.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I know. Mom. Mom... Mom.
scene_heading: 78 INT. STAGE — NIGHT 718
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Stillwater on-stage. A great show. Russell on fire.
scene_heading: 719 INT. BACKSTAGE PAY PHONE — NIGHT 719
text: William on the phone. Estrella leans on him, fixing her shoe.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Right now -—- Topeka. Then Greenville.
dialog: Then home.
text: He winces slightly, holds the phone away from his ear for a
dialog: moment.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: I'm sorry I didn't call yesterday!
dialog: It's not like you can just carry a
dialog: phone around with you.
scene_heading: 80 INT. ELAINE'S SCHOOL OFFICE --— AFTERNOON 80
text: Mom sits in her school office, a miniature version of her home
text: - a fortress in which she is surrounded by books. The sun is
text: going down. She can't resist a sentimental moment.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I guess I just miss you, and I don't
dialog: understand why I've driven both my
dialog: kids so far away from me. By all
dialog: practical rules don't I get you for
dialog: three more years?
text: He is touched by her vulnerability, more visible now than ever,
text: as music continues in b.g.
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
dialog: Was I not fun?
scene_heading: 81 INT. BACKSTAGE PAY PHONE -—- NIGHT 81
text: William has his finger in his ear. The din if Stillwater's
text: set now blots out all other noise. It is not the time to answer
dialog: this question.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I missed the last thing you said.
text: Mom takes a pause.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I LOVE YOU.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Penny now enters, watching.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
speaker_heading: WHAT?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (angry, louder)
dialog: I MISS YOU AND I LOVE YOU!
text: William now notices Penny standing nearby, picking at a salad
text: from a paper dish. Looking at her, he lets loose with what he
dialog: believes is a private confession.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I LOVE you!!
text: Penny smiles knowingly, collecting his affection like another
text: backstage pass, and turns away. Camera stays on William. He
text: is suddenly and deeply embarrassed. He's just told her that
text: he loves her and she knows it. He hangs up, traumatized.
scene_heading: 82 INT. TOPEKA DRESSING ROOM —- NIGHT 82
text: Russell's hair is slicked with sweat from a show just finished.
text: He is shirtless with a towel around his shoulders. Luggage
text: for the next city is stacked by the door.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Fire away. I'm ready. I'm on the
dialog: "You" Train. Take me there.
text: The kid plugs in his microphone. Russell listens as he springs
dialog: his first question.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Do you have to be depressed to write a
dialog: sad song? Do you have to be in love
dialog: to write a love song? Is a song better
dialog: if it really happened to you? Like,
dialog: "If You Say Nothing"... where did you
dialog: write that and how did it come about?
text: Russell admires the many questions. Says nothing. He looks
text: at his hand, thinks.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: When did you get so professional?
text: In the background, Penny Lane irons Silent Ed's shirt.
text: Grinning, she cuffs his shoulder. To the shirtless silent
text: drummer, waiting for his shirt.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY
text: I'm almost done with my shirt.
text: Ed watches her appreciatively, drumming silently on a rubber
text: pad. Penny kisses Russell, who swings her onto his lap. In
text: the corner, Jeff watches them all with a vague feeling of being
text: underappreciated. And now Dick enters with a large cardboard
dialog: box.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Russell, your dad showed up again.
text: And on a lighter note.
dialog: (importantly)
dialog: Gentlemen. Your first t-shirts have
dialog: arrived.
text: There is an immediate buzz in the room, as Dick yanks open the
text: box filled with new white t-shirts. He untangles the first fresh
text: shirt, and displays it proudly. A silent beat as all examine it -
text: their first t-shirt. Faces fall. Ed stops drumming. There has
text: been a mistake. It is a fuzzy band photo with the group name
text: emblazoned below. Only Russell, who stand out front, is colored—
text: in and emphasized on the shirt. He turns away, making a noise.
text: Jeff stares at the t-shirt. He's just about in tears. There is
text: a long silence and then... Ed resumes drumming on the rubber pad.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: It's the record company's mistake.
dialog: And they will pay. Shirts gone, band
dialog: happy.
text: He drops the offending shirt into the trash, as if it were
text: contaminated, and exits with the box. William watches as the
text: two men, Russell and Jeff, move to opposite sides of the room.
text: Russell puts on a shirt, so does Jeff. The vibe is thick.
text: Russel turns to see Jeff staring at him.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Can we just skip the vibe and go
dialog: straight to us laughing about this?
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (bitterly)
dialog: Yeah. Okay.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (trying for a joke)
dialog: Because I can see by your face - you
dialog: want to get into this —
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: How can you tell? I'm just one of the
dialog: out-of-focus guys.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Here we go.
text: William watches as Russell fishes the t-shirt out of the trash.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Here. Take it. You LOVE this shirt -
dialog: it lets you say everything you want to
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Well, it speaks pretty loudly to me.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
text: It's a t-shirt.
text: Russell turns away.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: I'm always gonna tell you the truth.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Are you doing coke again?
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Oh yeah. All the time.
text: The kid looks down.
speaker_heading: JEFF (cont'd)
dialog: This is big stuff, man. From the very
dialog: beginning -- we said -- I'm the front
dialog: man and you're the guitarist with
dialog: mystique. That's the dynamic we agreed
dialog: on -- Page, Plant... Mick, Keith. But
dialog: somehow it's all turning around. We
dialog: have got to control what's happening
dialog: to us. There's a responsibility here -
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Excuse me, but didn't we all get into
dialog: this to avoid responsibility?
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Forgive me.
dialog: (continuing, on shirt)
text: But this is the slow-moving train of
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: compromise that will kill us.
text: Russell makes a disgusted noise. Penny Lane exits discreetly,
text: looking back at William.
speaker_heading: JEFF (cont'd)
dialog: I can't say anymore with a writer here.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You can trust him, you can say whatever
dialog: you want.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (eyes suddenly moist)
dialog: I works as hard or harder than anybody
dialog: on that stage. You know what I do - I
dialog: connect. I get people off. I look
dialog: for the guy who isn't getting off, and
dialog: I make him get off.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Actually, that you can print.
dialog: (continues to Russell)
dialog: And yet, why do I always end up feeling
dialog: like I'm a joke to you? I feel nothing
dialog: but love for you. We're a family.
text: He looks at the t-shirt and starts to cry. Embarrassed, he
text: grows angrier.
speaker_heading: JEFF (cont'd)
dialog: You want to pretend this isn't going
dialog: to be a very big band. Well it is. You
dialog: call yourself a leader of this band, but
dialog: your direction allowed the t-shirt, when
dialog: you allowed Dick to manage us, ‘cause
dialog: he's your friend... don't you see? The
dialog: t-shirt is everything. It's everything.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Is it my turn? Because I think we
dialog: should, for once, say what we really
dialog: mean.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Oh, this is the part where you quit -
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (stiffening)
dialog: Right. I'm so predictable.
speaker_heading: JEFF
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: No I gotta tell the truth -- I want
dialog: you to like me. But sometimes I feel
dialog: like you collect people who love you
dialog: and then very skillfully... you make
dialog: them feel bad that they're not good
dialog: enough for you.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Stick to singing, brother, 'cause you
dialog: ain't gonna make it as a shrink.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Deal with it! And let me just say
dialog: what nobody Else wants to say to you —
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Your looks have become a problem.
scene_heading: 82A EXT. BACKSTAGE — NIGHT 82A
text: Russell walks swiftly past a happy silver-haired man, who holds
text: court with beer in hand. He dresses too young for his age,
dialog: late fifties. He is DAD.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Son!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (dutifully)
dialog: Hello Harry.
text: Dad introduces a woman much younger, who eyes Russell hungrily.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: He got all the good genes, huh? Meet
dialog: Deirdre. We're getting married in
dialog: July.
scene_heading: 83 EXT. ARENA -— NIGHT 83
text: Russell walks fast outside the arena. William hustles to catch
text: up. The two men walk in long silent strides in the cold night
text: air, beyond the backstage area. Fans begin to recognize and
text: follow at a discreet distance.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: You okay? You alright?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Russell doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (resolute, wound up)
dialog: From here on out, I'm only interested
dialog: in what's real.
text: The kid nods. They walk.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Real feelings. Real people. That's
dialog: all I'm interested in... From here on
dialog: out. What is REAL? You're real.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Thanks.
text: A wave of warmth comes over Russell.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You know, you know all about us and I
dialog: don't know shit about you.
dialog: (struggling to be personal)
dialog: What's your... your family like? Tell
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Well, my dad died of a heart attack
dialog: and my sister believes that my Mom is
dialog: so intense that she might have
dialog: contributed to it. Plus -
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (immediately)
dialog: Okay, that's good. That's enough.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: It's good to talk about it. Really
dialog: good.
text: Russel now sees some hero worship in the kid's face, and it
text: makes him nervous.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: Hey, man, maybe we should go back.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: If they want me, they can find me.
text: William turns and sees nobody following but fans.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: So listen. I have to go home tomorrow.
dialog: I know this is a bad time to finish
dialog: our interview.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Hey, man, you know what? Write whatever
dialog: you want. I trust you.
text: A big square Chevy van slows down. A CONCERT-GOER hands his
text: head out the window.
scene_heading: CONCERT-GOER
dialog: (battle-cry)
dialog: Wooooco0o0000!!! You're Russel from
dialog: Stillwater!!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: On my better days, yes. I am "Woooooo,
dialog: Russell from Stillwater!"
scene_heading: CONCERT-GOER
dialog: Wanna go to a party at my friend Aaron's
dialog: house?! I know you're a big rock star,
dialog: but do you want to hang with some people
dialog: looking to have a good time?
text: Russel regards the van full of kids. More fans crowding
text: around. The kid behind the wheel unknowingly says the magic
dialog: words.
speaker_heading: CONCERT-GOER (cont'd)
dialog: We're just real Topeka people, man.
dialog: He has said the magic word.
scene_heading: A84 EXT. AARON'S PARTY -— NIGHT A84
text: Russell arrives at the party in the rural outskirts of Topeka.
text: William nearby.
scene_heading: 84 INT. AARON'S HOUSE -—- NIGHT 84
text: William watches as Russell slugs from a Jack Daniels bottle.
text: They sit in the bedroom of a mindblown fan, 17 year-old AARON.
text: He has long frizzy brown hair, tied in a spray behind him.
text: Many from the neighborhood are now pouring into the home.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (eyes glowing)
dialog: You. Aaron. Are what it's all about.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: You are real. Your room is real.
dialog: Your friends are real. You are more
dialog: important than... than... all the silly
dialog: machinery. And you know it! In eleven
dialog: years it's gonna be 1984, man. Think
dialog: about that!
speaker_heading: AARON
dialog: Wanna see me feed a mouse to my snake?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: KID # 1
dialog: Can I have your belt?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Take it!
text: Russel whips off his belt, gives it to the fan. A joint goes
text: by, headed for Russell. William intercepts it and passes it
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Aaron? Where's your bathroom? I want
dialog: to live here. I want to eat your food,
dialog: and live in your city and fuckin rock
dialog: like I used to. I want to learn
dialog: everything there is to know about your
dialog: city and your town. And your way of
dialog: being real.
dialog: (stunning realization)
dialog: I used to be you.
speaker_heading: AARON
text: Down the hall by the washing machine.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: AARON
dialog: The bathroom.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Okay. Good to know.
text: Russell rises and squeezes past fans and heads down the hall.
scene_heading: 85 INT. AARON'S HALLWAY - NIGHT 85
text: William follows Russell protectively.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PASSING FAN # 1
text: wOOCOOO00! !
text: A QUIET GIRL, 14, turns and watches Russell pass. We linger
text: on her face for just a moment, full of wonder.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: We should probably head back sometime.
text: Russell ignores him.
speaker_heading: PASSING FAN # 2
dialog: (holding red cup)
dialog: Watch out, there's acid in the beer
dialog: that's in the Red cups.
text: Russell looks at the cup in his own hand. It's white. Then,
text: with his other hand, he grabs the red cup and drains it.
text: William winces. They move on.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Topeka. Check it out.
text: Russell enters the bathroom. William stands guard. With a
text: finger outstretched from each hand, he lectures the fans massing
text: in the hallway.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Please don't give him any more acid.
scene_heading: 86 INT. LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT -- TWENTY MINUTES LATER 86
text: William watches as a wobbly Russell Hammond, in sunglasses
text: now, goes through Aaron's record collection. He places the
text: albums over his face, like masks.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Faces. Stones. Sa-weet Baby James!!
dialog: None of these people are gonna be around
dialog: in twenty years! Plastic begets
dialog: plastic!! Black plastic.
text: Partygoers are strangely fascinated by the rock star in their
dialog: living room.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
scene_heading: 87 INT. BACK BEDROOM -- NIGHT 87
text: William waits anxiously to use the phone, keeping an eye on
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Russell. Russell is now strangely twisting/dancing with four
text: girls in the living room, as more cars arrive outside.
speaker_heading: KID ON PHONE
dialog: He's here right now! Go ahead and put
dialog: it Out over the radio, tell people to
dialog: bring food And beer and chicks. We're
dialog: at Rural Route # 4 -
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No no. Nope. No.
text: William takes the phone and hangs up. Keeping an eye on Russell
text: in the next room, he dials from a tour itinerary sheet.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: Dick Roswell, please?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Dick!! I got him!! He's okay... I've
dialog: been Looking after him. He's on acid,
dialog: though. I can't Really tell. How do
dialog: you know when it's "kicked in?"
scene_heading: 88 EXT. AARON'S BACKYARD -— NIGHT 88
text: Russel stands on the jutting corner of the house rooftop.
text: The unlit, unheated greenish family pool beckons to him below.
text: It's kicked in.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (bellowing to the heavens)
dialog: I AM A GOLDEN GOD!!
text: Russell cackles at the joke of it all. William yells up from
dialog: down below.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hey Russell —
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I AM A GOLDEN GOD!!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Don't jump, okay?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: And you can tell Rolling Stone Magazine
dialog: my last words were -
text: He spreads his arms, and tries to think of last words.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: -- I'm on drugs!!
text: The kids cheer. William looks around, remains cool. Yells
text: upward in the cold night air.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I think we should work on those last
dialog: words.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Critic!!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No, I'm not —
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Okay I got it. I got it. I got it.
dialog: I got it. This is better. Last words
dialog: (spreads his arms, his
dialog: greatest realization)
dialog: I DIG MUSIC!!
text: It gets a skimpy reaction from the partygoers.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: (immediately)
dialog: I'm on drugs!!
text: They applaud again.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Just come on down!!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: Okay.
text: He jumps from the roof into the cold, algaed water below. He
text: sinks immediately. One kid jumps in, then another, then more.
dialog: Everybody wants to save Russell.
scene_heading: 89 EXT. AARON'S NEIGHBORHOOD -- EARLY MORNING 89
text: It's getting lighter. Cars line the street. And now, finally
text: turning the corner, is Doris the Bus.
scene_heading: 90 INT. KITCHEN -— MORNING 90
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William watches the effects of personal charisma. Wet
text: partygoers surround Russell, bottle of Jack Daniels still in
text: hand, wrapped in towels. Now a bond has passes between them,
text: all of them. Algae drips from the corner of Russell's face
dialog: and neck.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Thanks for saving my life. I won't
dialog: hold it against you.
dialog: Twenty different kids thank him for the opportunity. ("Glad
dialog: to do it," "Right on," "Damn straight.")
scene_heading: 91 INT. LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN -- MORNING 91
text: Door opens. Dick enters. Finding the guitarist in the kitchen,
text: he clicks into time-tested road-managerial maintenance. Easing
text: Russell out of his towel, slipping his own jacket around him,
text: from Russell's hands.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (privately)
dialog: They've been crying for you like a
text: bunch of whimpering pussies ——
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (woozy)
dialog: The band is over. This is my family
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: OTHERS
dialog: Right on. He's staying with us.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (soothing)
dialog: Definitely. It's all over. We'll
dialog: just ride on to Greenville, listen to
dialog: some great music, finish the tour, and
dialog: leave those ungrateful fools behind.
dialog: And then we'll come back here, where
dialog: you'll live.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I know what you're doing... and I like
dialog: it.
dialog: (noticing William)
text: Look at him. He's taking notes with
text: his eyes.
dialog: (beat, to Dick)
dialog: How do we know he's not a cop?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William laughs painfully, as Russell moves in, eyes flaring
text: with sudden paranoia.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: He could be selling information!
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (to Russell)
dialog: Easy. He's your Guardian Angel.
text: Russell turns away. William shrugs with style, but his
text: lingering look is filled with hurt. Dick guides Russell to
text: the door, grabbing the kid and talking very directly to him as
dialog: they move.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: Don't worry. He only means half of
dialog: what he says.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Which half?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Good question.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (very direct)
dialog: I have a lot more. Just help me get
dialog: my interview so I can go home from
dialog: Greenville. I have to go home.
dialog: (pulls him back)
dialog: I have to go home.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Hey. You saved the tour. That's
dialog: good enough for now.
text: Frustrated but feeling important, William hands him some of
text: Russell's wet clothes. William deftly retrieves Russell's shoes
text: and smoothly plucks the guitarist's sunglasses from the
text: partygoer who also wears his belt. They move to the door ina
text: pack. We hear the beginning of Elton John's "Tiny Dancer."
text: Dick faces the crowd and addresses them in his "important"
text: stage voice.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: Ladies and Gentlemen, the evening is
dialog: over! We hope you've enjoyed
dialog: yourselves, and we'll See you again in
dialog: 1974!! Good evening!!
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William gives Russell his sunglasses to face the sunlight.
text: Russell stumbles out of the house to great cheers. The Quiet
text: Girl breaks free to catch Russell on the way out.
speaker_heading: QUIET GIRL
dialog: I'll never forget you.
text: Dick pats William's arm one more time -- good work. They leave
text: Aaron's house as legends.
scene_heading: 92 INT. TOUR BUS —- MORNING - 5 AM 92
text: "Tiny Dancer" continues on the bus stereo. Russell sits up
text: front, swathed in a large robe, alone and silent. The others
text: have given him a wide berth. He feels silly, and they know
text: it, and he hates that they know it, which makes him feel
text: foolish. He sits silently. William watches him from four
text: rows back, next to Penny. She kisses the top of his forehead,
text: a hero's welcome. He yawns. The song's vocal begins. There is
text: only more silence. Then, after a beat, we hear a voice or
text: two, fighting the quiet and singing along. Then others...
text: waking up... joining in. Then Jeff. Russell hears them and
text: starts to sing along too, louder now, without turning around.
dialog: It's a voice everyone wants to hear. Like it or not, this is
dialog: his family.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 93 EXT. HIGHWAY —- DAY 93
text: Passing signs announce Greenville, North Carolina.
scene_heading: 94 INT. LESTER BANGS BEDROOM — DAY 94
text: Lester on the phone. He is paler than ever, in a room clogged
text: with vinyl, happily listening to the MC5 in the background.
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: How's it going?
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
scene_heading: 95 INT. WILLIAM'S HOTEL ROOM — DAY 95
text: It's a small wooden-walled hotel room in Greenville. Polexia
text: tries on clothes. William barely notices as he talks to Lester
text: on the phone.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Rolling Stone is calling me. I don't
dialog: have my key interview. I don't know
dialog: what to say.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
text: (pacing, assembling thoughts
dialog: with his hands)
dialog: You're flipping out. That's good.
dialog: Alright. This is how you blow their
dialog: minds. He'll ask you - this is Ben
dialog: Fong-Torres, right? -— he'll ask you
dialog: how the story's going. Here's what
dialog: you do - let's fry his mind. Tell him
dialog: "it's a think piece about a mid-level
dialog: band struggling with their own
dialog: limitations in the harsh face of
dialog: stardom." Ha ha!! This is fun!
text: William scrambles to make notes.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (madly copying)
dialog: think... piece...
text: CLOSE ON WRITING
text: Longhand small script on yellow legal tablets.
scene_heading: 96 INT. HOTEL BATHROOM -—- NIGHT 96
text: William sits in the tub, without water. It's his makeshift
text: office, he's surrounded with scraps of notepaper. He writes
text: savagely, and now, savagely throws it away.
scene_heading: 97 INT. HOTEL BEDROOM --— NIGHT 97
text: In the bedroom, Sapphire, Polexia and Penny watch The Midnight
text: Special. Sapphire looks at a room service menu.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: It says the food is hearty and
dialog: adventurous.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: (yawns )
dialog: Greenville. I'm bored.
text: Penny yawns too, it's catchy, and rises to visit the bathroom.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA (cont'd)
dialog: Hey let's deflower the kid.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Now Sapphire yawns, looks in her purse.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Who his the quaaludes from me?
scene_heading: 98 INT. HOTEL BATHROOM —- NIGHT 98
text: Penny enters to see William writing in the tub. She sits on
text: the toilet to pee. Flustered:
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Wait. I'll leave.
text: He gets up, knocking his carefully organized notes onto the
text: floor. He is brimming with things to say. More than he is
dialog: even able to communicate.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: You know, I think this is going
dialog: backwards for me.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Backwards?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: I don't know. I just thought we could
dialog: hang out, maybe do some stuff back
dialog: home, regular stuff, get to know each
dialog: other better... and then I'd see you
dialog: pee. I mean, that's the way I usually
dialog: do it.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You're one of us. It's no big deal.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I'm not one of you.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Oh! If you go to Cleveland, Bowie's
dialog: going to be there at Swingo's, the
dialog: greatest hotel in America. I'll
dialog: introduce you to him, and his security
dialog: guy Dennis.
text: William stops at the door.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Don't you have any regular friends?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Famous people are just more interesting.
text: He looks at her. Even sitting on the can, she's elegant and
text: totally focused on him.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (carefully)
dialog: Well, I would be worried that they
dialog: were using me. And not that anybody's
dialog: using you, but —
text: She swoons a little, touched and moved.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Boy, if this was the real world and
dialog: some guy talked to me like that -
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Let me finish.
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I'm not famous.... but you could always
dialog: use me. If anything happens. And I
dialog: would never use you. Even if I got
dialog: famous. So you know, you always have
dialog: that from me... in the real world. If
dialog: you ever have to go back there, for
dialog: anything.
text: She looks at him curiously, as the door blasts open. Sapphire
dialog: and Polexia head for William.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Your time has come.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Did he call?
dialog: (realizes their intention)
dialog: What are you -- stop it -- we're talking
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
text: Pants him. Opie must die.
text: They swarm him, dragging him kicking into the bedroom.
scene_heading: 99 INT. HOTEL BEDROOM --— NIGHT 99
text: Steely Dan, looking pale and somehow snappy, perform "Do It
text: Again" on The Midnight Special. The girls force William onto
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: the bed, and envelope him. Their sexuality is fun, untroubled.
text: Shot moves past bodies crossing frame, onto William's face.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON PENNY
text: Across room, sitting and watching.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Just relax. Take a vacation from
dialog: yourself. Leave this to professionals.
text: Estrella and Polexia kiss each other playfully. William looks
text: confused. Across the room, Penny laughs, turns up the TV,
text: blows him a kiss.
text: Penny's eyes. Across the room.
text: His eyes.
text: His sexual awakening may be downtime amusement for them, but
text: to him it's an embarrassingly intense moment he shares only
text: with Penny Lane -- across the room. She turns away, smiling,
text: disappears into the next room.
scene_heading: ON STEELY DAN
text: On the television.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 99A INT. BEDROOM — NIGHT - TWENTY MINUTES LATER —- HANDHELD 99A
text: Post-sex pajama party. Sapphire, Estrella, and Polexia girltalk
text: about their first rock and roll conquests. Penny is conspicuous
text: by her absence. William is under the sheets, listening, feeling
text: different, now a man and somehow one of the girls too.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 100 INT. BEDROOOM -- NEXT MORNING 100
text: William is awake. Sunlight floods in from the corners of the
text: window-shades. He is surrounded by the fallen cavalry of the
text: night before... Sapphire and Polexia. The phone rings, and
text: Sapphire instantly snaps it up, still asleep. Lost in her
text: dreams, she offers the sexiest hello ever.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: (half-English accent)
dialog: Hello. Hi, Ben-Fong-Torres from Rolling
dialog: Stone.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William snatches the phone.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (lowers voice)
dialog: Hello.
scene_heading: 101 INT. BEN FONG-TORRES' KITCHEN --— SATURDAY MORNING 101
text: Ben Fong-Torres is up bright and early.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Hello William, this is your editor at --
text: He offers the name of the magazine with a swirl that implies
dialog: high-level importance.
speaker_heading: BEN (cont'd)
dialog: Rolling Stone. How's the story?
scene_heading: INT. GREENVILLE HOTEL ROOM —- CONTINUOUS
text: William snaps into his very professional tone of equally grave
dialog: importance.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I'm getting good stuff out here.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Sounds like it.
text: Next to him, Polexia yawns herself awake.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Man, I need some —
text: He clamps a hand over her mouth.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (jocular but tough)
dialog: Now listen. Get it together. We're
dialog: both professionals, I don't have to
dialog: tell you this. You're not out there
dialog: to join the party -- we already have
dialog: one Hunter Thompson. You're out there
dialog: to interview and Report. You got me?
dialog: This isn't Creem Magazine, it's Rolling
dialog: Stone. We need this story in four
dialog: days. Now I want to know how it's
text: shaping up.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
text: It's a think-piece about a mid-level
text: band grappling with their limitations
text: in the face of the harsh glare of
dialog: success.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I like what we're saying. Let me try
dialog: and get you a thousand more words.
dialog: It's in consideration for the cover,
dialog: but don't tell the band.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (conflicted)
dialog: Crazy.
text: The kid hangs up, now shouldering even more pressure. He
text: unclamps Polexia's mouth.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: — coffee.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Me too. Greenville is so boring.
dialog: (to William)
dialog: Any other city in the world and you'd
dialog: still be a virgin.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I'm going out to find Russell.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Will you take the laundry?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (to the girls)
dialog: What am I to you? Tell me right now!
dialog: What. Am. I. To. You.
scene_heading: 102 INT. HOTEL HALLWAY —- DAY 102
text: Circles have sprouted up under William's eyes. The orange bag
text: strapped over his shoulder, he lugs a huge bag of laundry. He
text: consults room list. A variety of noises and smells drift from
text: the band rooms. He sees Room Service arrive at Dick's door,
text: and it's Estrella who opens the door. (Dick in the
text: background.) She smiles sweetly to William -- good morning --
text: as the door shuts.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Houdini... Houdini...
text: He arrives at Russell's door. Two exclamation points have
text: been Sharpie-markered to the words Do Not Disturb on the sign
text: is gaffer-taped to his door. He looks through the crack, at
text: the bottom of the door. Carefully and politely, he knocks.
dialog: Instantly:
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (0.S.)
dialog: GO AWAY!
text: Pissed, the kid flips off the door. He sits down on a chair
text: directly across from the room. Push in on William, who is
text: more pent-up than ever. He tries hard not to cry, taking
text: gulps of air as a maid cart swishes past, revealing... he's
text: failed. He cries.
text: FADE UP FROM DARKNESS
text: A super-energized Russell Hammond looks into William's sleepy
text: face. William's eyes open. His own sleepy face is evident in
text: Russell's sunglasses. The bag of laundry is still at his feet.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: We'll do the interview in Cleveland!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No. I can't. You've got to help me.
dialog: I have to go home.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Come on man, we'll have more time there.
dialog: Don't be tense!!
text: He begins rubbing the kid's shoulders. He's waking up. There's
text: Penny, also rubbing his shoulders. It is degrading... and
dialog: somehow cool too.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (to Penny)
dialog: You said you'd help me.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (massaging)
dialog: Come to Cleveland.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (massaging, hypnotically)
dialog: Come to Cleveland... Come to
dialog: Cleveland...
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I can't!!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Can we help it if we like having you
dialog: around!
text: William is a bundle of nerves and exhaustion now. Embarrassed
text: and frustrated.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Cleveland, my man. You can't miss out
text: on the Rock Mecca of the midwest —
dialog: you're with us. It's all happening!
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Rock and roll!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (weary)
dialog: Rock and roll.
text: We hear David Bowie's live version of "Waiting for the Man."
scene_heading: 103 INT. HOTEL ROOM —- DAY 103
text: They sit together, hair askew, in sunglasses, resting against
text: the headboard. Carefully, Russell identifies his thoughts.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I feel... like his parents.
text: Penny runs a worried hand through her hair.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I wonder how that happened.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You ever notice that all our sentences
dialog: begin with "I?"
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I hadn't, no.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: "Cause we should work on that.
text: He looks at her, plays the guitar a little.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 104 EXT. HIGHWAY — NIGHT 104
text: Night. Doris rocks toward Cleveland on a muggy summer night.
text: The windows of passing houses offer rich Edward Hopper glimpses
dialog: of lives and people William will never meet.
scene_heading: 105 INT. WILLIAM'S BUS BUNK — NIGHT 105
text: William watches from his bus bunk at the back, head on elbow.
text: Looking up, he sees the rhythmic motion of bodies on the
text: mattress above him, as music continues.
text: William gets up, nods hello to the Roadie and his Date on the
text: bunk above. He moves down the aisle... to the seats near the
text: front. A sleeping Russell sits upright, hugging his guitar.
text: Penny asleep next to him, Polaroid in her hand of... Russell
text: sleeping. The kid moves on. He sits with the Bus Driver,
text: whose CB crackles with chatter from other tour buses headed to
dialog: Cleveland.
text: ON THE FIRST SIGN — LATE NIGHT
text: Cleveland signs. Music rises. Heads pop awake.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Cleveland!
scene_heading: 106 EXT. DOWNTOWN CLEVELAND - LATE NIGHT 106
text: Like a slow-moving shark, Doris pulls into empty downtown
text: Cleveland. The streets are empty. They pass the Agoura
text: Ballroom, where a man with a long stick arranges the letters
text: Stillwater on the marquee. Applause in the bus.
scene_heading: 107 INT. SWINGO'S CELEBRITY INN - LATE NIGHT/EARLY MORNING 107
text: Russell and band enter like warriors, in a pack. William sags
text: with the heavy bags in hand and over his shoulder. Here, in
text: the middle of the midwest, is an explosive rock mecca, just as
dialog: promised. The feeling of belonging invades all those in this
text: lobby. Fans and other touring rockers mingle together.
text: Outside in the real world, everyone else is going to work.
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: It's Bowie!
text: The lobby ignites, as William stands near Penny and Russell.
text: Bowie races from a limousine through the lobby and into the
text: elevators. He is shrouded by a jacket. Just the top of his
text: electric red hair travels the lobby, as he's hustled by security
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: man Dennis in the elevator. And out of the chaos comes...
scene_heading: 108 INT. HOTEL ROOM — DAY 108
text: Jeff Bebe and Polexia smash against the wall of the Swingo's
text: hotel room, making love.
scene_heading: 109 INT. HOTEL ROOM — DAY 109
text: Russell and Penny Lane smash against their own wall.
scene_heading: 109A INT. ARENA - NIGHT 109A
text: Dick squats at the front of the stage, and talks to a few fans
text: in the front row of this crowd.
scene_heading: 110 INT. BACKSTAGE CLEVELAND PAY PHONE — NIGHT 110
text: A wild Cleveland crowd in the building. The cities on this
dialog: tour are getting bigger, and so are the audiences. And there
text: is a whiff of business now too. Men in satin tour jackets and
text: some Disc-jockey types cruise the backstage. A Hysterical Fan
text: is led screaming to the nearby medic room. Few even react —
text: it's Cleveland - as the shot finds William, tired and yawning,
text: on the backstage pay phone. He is absolutely ready for the
dialog: worst.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hi Mom. I'm in Cleveland.
text: He listens stoically. Larry and Ed watch nearby.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM -—- NIGHT
text: Moms sits in silence.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: (rehearsed)
dialog: I'm fine! I'm fine! I'm flying back on
dialog: Monday Morning. I'll only miss one
dialog: test. I'll make it up.
text: Russell listens in, holding his guitar, laughing.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Tell her you're a slave to the groove
dialog: - you can't help it!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (covers phone)
dialog: No.
text: Russell grabs the phone, talks to the silent mother on the
dialog: other end.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Hi Mom! It's Russell Hammond, I play
dialog: guitar in Stillwater! It's my fault.
dialog: How does it feel to be the mother of
dialog: the future of rock journalism?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hello?
text: Silence. Penny passes and stands near William, smoothing her
text: pass. They watch a new pack of groupies prowl the road-crew.
text: They are more glam, more trashy and less selective. They glare
text: insolently at Penny Lane. This is the future.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: You've got a great kid -- nothing to
dialog: worry about! We're taking care of
dialog: him! And you should come to a show
dialog: sometime! Join the Circus!
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Listen to me. Your charm does not
dialog: work on me. I'm onto you. Of course
dialog: you like him.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: He worships you people and that's fine
dialog: with you, as long as he helps make you
dialog: rich.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (a nerve is struck)
dialog: Rich? I don't think so -
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Listen to me. He's a smart, good-
text: hearted, 15 year-old kid, with infinite
dialog: potential.
text: Russel looks over at the kid, eyes narrowing as he processes
dialog: the truth. He's 15?
speaker_heading: ELAINE (cont'd)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: This is not some apron-wearing mother
dialog: you're talking to. I know about your
dialog: Valhalla of Decadence, and I shouldn't
text: have let him go. He is not ready for
dialog: your world of compromised values, and
dialog: diminished brain cells that you throw
dialog: away like confetti. Am I speaking
dialog: clearly to you?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Yes, ma'am.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: If you break his spirit, harm him in
dialog: any way, keep him from his chosen
dialog: profession -- which is law, Something
dialog: you may not value but I do -- you will
text: meet the voice on the other end of
dialog: this telephone. And it will not be
dialog: pretty. Do we understand each other?
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Yes... yes...
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: (always the teacher)
dialog: I didn't ask for this role, but I'll
dialog: play it. Now go do your best. "Be
dialog: bold and mighty forces will come to
dialog: your aide!" Goethe said that. It's
dialog: not too late for you to be a person of
dialog: substance. Get my son home safely,
dialog: I'm glad we spoke.
text: She hangs up. Russell hangs up, oddly affected and shook up.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Some people get her. Some don't.
text: Russell is still recovering. William feels embarrassed by his
dialog: mother, once again.
scene_heading: 111 ON THE HUDDLE 111
text: William with the band. He yawns, as the band breaks. Cleveland
text: awaits. We follow Dick, who guides the band onto the stage
text: platform, still in darkness. Already, stomping and applause
text: is mounting. Russell turns to William before taking the stage:
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Your Mom kind of freaked me out.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: She means well.
text: Still rattled, he takes the stage. We see the unbridled
text: enthusiasm of the faces on the front row. A wave of cigarette
text: lighters stretch out before them.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (importantly)
dialog: From Troy, Michigan...
text: Russell thwacks a couple chords. Audience thunders. He turns
text: to other members, feeling chills. It's in these moments that
text: everything else disappears. They bow and wave, still in
text: darkness... each member seems to have his own fans. Dick lets
dialog: all this play out before finally adding...
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: Would you please welcome to Cleveland...
dialog: More applause. This is very very very very fun.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
text: Stillwater.
text: Lights come up. A full blast of audience love hits them right
text: in the face, as they begin "Fever Dog." The band charges
text: headlong into their set, as various fans are squeezed up out
text: of the crowd and onto the stage.
scene_heading: HANDHELD ON RUSSELL
text: Who is in the middle of playing, as he smoothly whips off his
text: guitar, and uses the instrument to send a Frenetic fan back
text: into the crowd. He slips back under the strap, laughing.
text: More stage climbers spring up where that fan came from, and
text: Russell now watches as Jeff Bebe dodges a fan and comes over
text: to Russell to lean on him. Russell turns to share the moment
text: with Penny, dancing with arms in the air at the side of the
dialog: stage.
scene_heading: 112 INT. DRESSING ROOM -- NIGHT 112
text: William in the dressing room, eyes red with exhaustion, finally
text: interviewing Russell. He holds the mike stoically.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: So when you play a great show like
dialog: tonight...
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Dick enters with great urgency.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Okay. I need everybody's attention.
text: The kid shuts his eyes. He knew this would happen.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: Alright, well, the rumors are true.
dialog: The record company has sent a big-time
dialog: manager here to try and talk you into
dialog: replacing me. His name is Dennis Hope.
dialog: I know you've all heard of him. He's
dialog: got all the big bands. He's right
text: outside. He wants five minutes with
dialog: you right now. I think we gotta do
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: Then bring him in.
text: William shuts off his tape recorder.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (arrogant)
dialog: Bring him in! We'll send him out on a
dialog: rail!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (to William)
dialog: We'll finish on the way to Boston.
dialog: You can fly home from Boston.
text: William nods, exhausted, as Dick opens the door. In walks a
text: small general of a man in a baseball t-shirt, well-trimmed
text: beard and bowl cut. He holds the super-new Halliburton
text: briefcase. He is DENNIS HOPE, 25. A man from the midwest,
text: with a vision of the future of rock and roll. Already in his
dialog: head are all the things that will come to pass. Higher ticket
dialog: prices. Merchandising deals. Greater distribution and
text: accounting of album sales. He shrugs hello to the band.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: (completely unthreatening)
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: We already have a manager. He's been
dialog: with us from the beginning.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Hope appreciates the lack of small talk. He strides the room
text: with the joyful enthusiasm of a kid who wants to build a fort.
text: Russell watches, dismissive, holding his guitar.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: Respectfully. We all have our roots.
dialog: I believe in bands holding onto their
dialog: roots. But those roots need to be
dialog: augmented. I'm gonna tell you the truth
dialog: —- I may enrage some and enthrall others.
dialog: I don't really give a fuck. Your
dialog: manager here needs a manager. Example.
dialog: If you hadn't run out on the contract in
dialog: Phoenix, you could have sued over
dialog: Russell's hand... but you left, negating
dialog: the contract, forfeiting the deposit,
dialog: and you effectively traveled a long
dialog: way to pay that promoter... to
dialog: electrocute you.
text: Russell looks at his hand.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE (cont'd)
dialog: We can all work together. Your damages
dialog: have put you way into the hole for
dialog: this tour. Right now you owe the record
dialog: company more than you've got. But
dialog: your record's selling, there's money
dialog: to be made. So I've brought a plane
dialog: in, we can add more shows to make-up
dialog: the difference. Respectfully.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (immediately)
dialog: We travel by bus.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Doris is the soul of this band! That
dialog: bus has been our home since we were
dialog: the Jeff Bebe Band.
text: Dick watches his loyal band with admiration.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: Hey man -- it's travel on a pogo stick
dialog: if I thought we'd make more money.
dialog: You can play more dates with a plane...
scene_heading: 112A INT. CLEVELAND ARENA — NIGHT — SAME TIME 112A
text: Penny Lane stands on stage facing the empty arena. The roadies
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: have packed up and moved on. She is alone in the poetic and
text: trash filled structure that was just hours ago filled with
dialog: people. (Behavior to come)
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: 112B INT. DRESSING ROOM -- NIGHT 112B
text: The band meeting continues.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (passionate)
dialog: Hey man, it's not about the money! It's
dialog: about Playing music, and turning people
dialog: on!
text: The band agrees.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: (delicately)
dialog: Yes, of course. Clearly.
text: Respectfully. But on the distasteful
dialog: subject of money. Just know. You're
dialog: making it -- right now -- and it's all -—-
text: He gestures to infinity.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE (cont'd)
dialog: -- out there. I'm just talking about
dialog: bringing it -—-
text: Bringing his hand together in a fist, he returns it, close to
dialog: his heart.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE (cont'd)
dialog: —- back here.
text: The band looks at Dick, who manages not to be speechless.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: But why should we pay you for something
dialog: we can do ourselves?
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: (immediately)
dialog: Do you know how to keep from getting
dialog: charged for the ice below the
dialog: floorboards of Chicago Stadium?
dialog: Do you know how to do a headlining
dialog: tour, do you Claire Rothman at the
dialog: L.A. Forum? Do you know Bobbi Cowan,
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Lisa Robinson, Jim Ladd, Frank
dialog: Barcelona?
dialog: (look around, amazed)
dialog: This is Cleveland. Where's Kid Leo??
dialog: (basics)
dialog: Do you know how you get a record not
dialog: pressed but played? Do you know? I
dialog: didn't invent the rainy day, man. I
dialog: just own the best umbrella.
text: He laughs. It's fun. Band members are now listening, curiously
text: spellbound.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE (cont'd)
dialog: Because as much as you may believe that
dialog: it will last forever, it does not last
dialog: forever... your biggest fan right now
dialog: soon they're going to go to college,
dialog: gonna wanna buy clothes, spend that money
dialog: some other way, and you know what?
dialog: (the final insult)
dialog: They'll tape your record from a friend's
dialog: copy.
text: Russell stops fingering his guitar. Shot moves across the
text: faces of the band members. Pain.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE (cont'd)
dialog: You've got to take what you can, when you
dialog: can, while you can. And you've got to do
dialog: it now. That's what the big boys do.
text: The band squirms, but listens.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE (cont'd)
dialog: Because if you think Mick Jagger will
dialog: still be out there trying to be a rock
dialog: star at age fifty, you're sadly sadly
dialog: mistaken.
text: Now he's reaching them. Their slackened roar-weary faces stare
text: back at the young dynamo.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: Yeah, well... we'll think about what
dialog: you said.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: (casually)
dialog: No no. You don't understand. I'll
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: think about it. I'm not auditioning.
dialog: I came here to decide whether I want
dialog: to represent you. So I'll stand outside
dialog: for a moment, and think about whether
dialog: I want to stay.
text: He leaves the room with a pleasant shrug. Stunned silence.
text: William watches their body language. No one wants to talk
dialog: first. Their faces read as -- who was that guy, and how can
dialog: we talk him into staying?
scene_heading: 113 INT. PLANE -— DAY 113
text: William watches as the band stands inside the new plane. Dennis
text: Hope looks on.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: This is not us. This is too much.
text: He looks around for support. Grim nodding faces.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: (impressed at seat)
dialog: This is too much.
text: William watches as Russell reclines. Russell grabs Penny, and
text: she falls into the seat next to him. We hear the loud oncoming
text: sound of the plane in flight, as Dennis cooly asks for Penny's
dialog: seat.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: Do you mind?
scene_heading: 114 EXT. PRIVATE AIRPORT —- DAY 114
text: Doris the bus stays behind in the parking lot, abandoned near
text: a field. The new plane lifts off in the background, as the
text: bus sits alone, as if crying steel tears. Bus Banner reads
text: simply: CLEVELAND. Reprise ending of Whole Lotta Love.
scene_heading: 115 INT. PLANE NIGHT 115
text: The girls sit on the jumper seats at the back of the plane,
dialog: with William.
scene_heading: 116 INT. BOSTON HOTEL ROOM HALLWAY -—— DAY 116
text: William trudges the hallway with tape-recorder and notebook,
text: trolling for Russell. He passes Boston travelogue posters on
text: the walls. A few room doors are open, he looks for any sign
text: of the guitarist. William veers into Dick's room, where a
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: poker game full of Roadies is in progress. The room is thick
text: with exotic smoke. They are a bunch of road-hardened snobs,
text: smoking cigars and other items, famous to themselves, listening
dialog: not to rock and roll... but Sarah Vaughn.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Anyone seen Russell?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: The Enemy!
text: Door widens to reveal Russell.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Hey! Welcome to the Road Crew Poker
dialog: Party. This game's been going of for
dialog: two years.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: That's Mick - he's with The Who. That's
dialog: John - with J. Geils. And that's
dialog: Richard with the Eagles... and you know
dialog: The Wheel.
speaker_heading: THE WHEEL
dialog: Hey.
text: Grumbling roadies continue playing. Like an old pro, the kid
text: turns down a Cola-can hash-pipe. This hand is down to Dick,
text: and a roadie named REG from Humble Pie.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Side proposition. For fifty dollars
dialog: and a case of Heineken, I will put
dialog: into the pot... three Lovely Ladies,
dialog: Including the famous Penny Lane... the
dialog: Band-Aids, who need to exit our tour
dialog: before New York...
speaker_heading: REG
dialog: It's a deal. Show 'em.
text: Dick lays down three tens. Reg lays down three Kings. Dick
dialog: loses.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Three Lovely Ladies... now in the
text: custody of Humble Pie.
speaker_heading: REG
dialog: Alright, so we owe you fifty dollars
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: and a case of Heineken.
text: Embarrassed, Russell notices the kids face. He leans over,
text: and speaks confidentially to him.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Look. Nobody's feelings are getting
dialog: hurt here. She already knows Leslie's
dialog: coming To New York tomorrow. They all
dialog: understand. This is the Circus.
dialog: Everybody's trying not to go home.
text: Nobody's saying goodbye.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No, I got it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: These are the Rules that come with
dialog: every electric Guitar and every
dialog: amplifier. They're not just written
dialog: anywhere. Rock and roll, brother. No
dialog: attachments. No boundaries.
text: But the kid feels bad, and Russell knows it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Quit looking at me like that.
scene_heading: 116A INT. HALLWAY —- AFTERNOON 116A
text: The kid is still stuck on the road. He is in hell now.
text: Wearily, with deep circles under his eyes, he shuts his eyes
text: for a moment. Another band is moving through.
speaker_heading: SABBATH ROADIE
dialog: Keep this hallway clear!
scene_heading: 117 INT. BACKSTAGE TRAILER/DRESSING ROOM -- AFTERNOON 117
text: William and Penny sit on opposite ends of a blue locker-room
text: bench. It's a small dressing room, crowded with roadies,
text: guitars and men in stages of half-dress. Piles of luggage
text: headed for New York sit by the door. The door suddenly opens
text: and Dick arrives with champagne and a cake decorated with a
text: sparkler. It is placed in Penny's lap. It reads: Unforgettable
text: Penny... Age Unknown. Boston, 1973. They gather now as the
text: cake sits before a surprised and enchanted Penny Lane.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Happy Birthday from us.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William watches her face as she reads the message on the cake.
text: It hasn't sunk in yet.
text: Russell produces a piece of hotel stationery. He reads a poem.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: So Penny our friend has gained another year.
dialog: But long ago, she threw it in gear.
dialog: She rocked the south
dialog: The East and West.
dialog: Could you please get off this endless tour
dialog: Where we're Black Sabbath's fucking
dialog: special guest?
text: Laughter.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: She says she's retired
dialog: Though we've heard that before.
dialog: She chose us...
dialog: And in Penny Lane we trust
dialog: She is a fan of this band.
dialog: Much more so than us.
text: William watches her face. Still enchanted, she hands out slices
dialog: of the cake.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: (to the point)
dialog: Sorry the plane isn't bigger.
text: It hits her. She looks at William for a clue. His truthful
text: face does not look away. Now she knows. She turns to the
text: others -- the plane isn't bigger? Shot moves in on Penny as
text: she blinks just a little, cutting into the cake, still mugging
text: for everybody, covering it all with a layer of sweet giddy
text: laughter. Shot comes to rest behind her, her head turning to
text: connect with band members. Each of them look away, nobody
text: maintaining eye contact with her except the one she now doesn't
text: look at. William. She blows out the candles, vamping Marilyn
text: Monroe-style, and sucks off the frosting seductively, to cheers.
text: Russell watches, as we push in on Penny. She notices all the
text: luggage is gone, only her two cases remain by the door.
scene_heading: 118 EXT. CONCORD PAVILLION BACKSTAGE -— EARLY MORNING 118
text: William exits a backstage Portosan. Penny catches him by the
text: grilling area where catering is preparing for the outdoor event.
text: Their laminated passes swing from around their necks. Thuding
text: in the distance, Stillwater plays for a cheering outdoor crowd.
text: The sound of summer insects in the air.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: So it wasn't a birthday party, it was
dialog: a farewell.
text: William doesn't answer. He looks at her, blowing some hair
text: out of her face.
speaker_heading: PENNY (cont'd)
dialog: You think you can fool me. I read
dialog: you. I know what you're thinking.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (touched)
dialog: You're worried about me and Russell.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah. I gotta work on that.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You're so sweet. God -- if there was
dialog: more of you in him...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Don't tell me this stuff. I want to
dialog: like him.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (concerned for him)
dialog: Did you miss your test or something?
text: He shakes his head. It's so beyond a test.
speaker_heading: PENNY (cont'd)
dialog: I know I'm not on the plane, and I'm
dialog: not going on some other band's bus. I
dialog: mean, I could go with the Sabbath road
dialog: crew, but that would be pathetic. The
text: girls are all going with Humble Pie.
dialog: If you could find out from Russell --
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Penny -
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (a decision)
dialog: Forget it. I'm flying to New York
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: myself. I have a bunch of partial
dialog: tickets. I know his ex-wife, current
dialog: girlfriend's going to be there —
text: William's eyebrows rise. She examines his face for clues.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: —- I'm not sure that's a good idea.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (overlapping)
dialog: What? What are you saying? What do
dialog: you know? Did Russell say something?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I don't know anything.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: I know he wants me there. He gave me
dialog: a cake. He wrote me that sweet poem.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Wake up! Don't go to New York!
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: What are you telling me?
text: She looks so achingly beautiful to him.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Because you're not who you said you
dialog: were! I thought you were retired!
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You're right. I'm not who I said I
dialog: was. I'm just like you. I love music,
dialog: so this is my family. Some people
text: like tractors, and they hang out with
dialog: tractor people. What's the worst that
dialog: could happen if I go to New York?
dialog: (little girl)
dialog: "I get my little heart broken?"
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Oh no. Never you! You eat people
dialog: alive!
text: She tears some leaves off a tree. He looks at her, unable to
text: formulate a response.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (accusatory)
dialog: I'm sorry I told you so much. You
dialog: have some way of making everybody tell
dialog: you all their secrets.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: That's a good one. Tell me too much
dialog: and make it my fault.
text: He continues walking, she follows. They have ventured outside
text: the backstage area, onto adjoining Boston farmland. The show
text: booms in the background.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Come on. You've seen what's happened.
dialog: Russell and I fell in love. How much,
dialog: I don't know... but this is the first
dialog: time I've fallen for someone, really
dialog: fallen... since Iggy, and I'm not happy
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You slept with Iggy Pop!?
text: She says nothing.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: (sputtering)
dialog: Why don't you just tell me now, who
dialog: else -- so when I go to the record
dialog: store, I know who to be jealous of.
dialog: Because right now, it's looking like
dialog: the whole store!
text: He's upset. She stares at him.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (teasing, defiant)
dialog: You'll remember me forever. I was
dialog: there when you lost your virginity.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (upset at the memory)
dialog: So was Steely Dan! It was a crowded
dialog: room.
text: She laughs, can't help it. Then:
speaker_heading: PENNY
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: You make me laugh. I think I'm gonna
dialog: cry.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I thought we were going to Morocco!
dialog: There's no Morocco. There's never been
dialog: a Morocco. There's not even a Penny
dialog: Lane. I don'teven know your real
dialog: name.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: If I ever met a guy in the real world,
dialog: who looked at me the way you just looked
dialog: at me...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: When and where does the real world
dialog: occur? I am really... confused here.
dialog: Fuck! All these Rules And all these
dialog: sayings... and nicknames...
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You know -- you're too sweet for rock
dialog: and roll.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Where do you get off... where do you
dialog: get "sweet?" I'm not sweet. I'm dark
dialog: and mysterious and pissed-off and I
dialog: could be very dangerous to all of you...
dialog: I'm not sweet, and you should know
dialog: that about me! I am The Enemy.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You're not any of those things and
dialog: that's what I love about you.
text: William stands there in disbelief, unable to look at her.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: You fall in love to keep from falling
dialog: in love.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: I don't want to go home!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Well, I have to go home. And you never
dialog: helped me.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Yes I did.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: That disc-jockey in Arizona got a better
dialog: interview than me... and he was asleep.
text: He starts walking back to the stage. She follows. They are
text: two very young kids thrashed by the seas of rock and roll.
text: His frustration increases. She just doesn't get it. Applause
text: in b.g. She grabs his shirt.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Look. You should be happy for me.
dialog: You don't know what he says to me in
dialog: private. Maybe it is love. As much
dialog: as it can be with someone who —-
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (blurts)
dialog: -- sold you to Humble Pie for fifty
dialog: dollars and a case of beer? I was
dialog: there!
text: He is instantly sorry. Her world privately crumbles, but she
text: tries to remain stoic and carefree.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: What kind of beer?
scene_heading: 119 INT. HUMBLE PIE CREW TRUCK -—- DAY 119
text: Sapphire, Polexia, and Estrella bump along to the music and
text: the road. They strain to maintain dignity in these decidedly
text: third-class surroundings. There's only one small blurry window.
speaker_heading: POLEXIA
dialog: Who did this to us?
scene_heading: 120 INT. WILLIAM'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 120
text: Mom on the phone.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Then don't come home. Don't do this
dialog: to me. If you're going to miss
dialog: graduation, don't come home.
text: She hangs up.
scene_heading: 121 INT. PRODUCTION OFFICE -—- NIGHT 121
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William on the phone. Speechless.
scene_heading: 122 INT. COLLEGE CLASSROOM —— DAY 122
text: Elaine faces her Humanities class. She stands in an
text: amphitheater-style, inner-city college classroom, decorated
text: with colorful unorthodox artifacts from her home. These earnest
text: city college students listen to her. But she cannot continue.
text: There is a thundering upset inside her.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I'm sorry. I can't concentrate.
dialog: (beat, confesses, unhinged)
dialog: Rock stars kidnaped my son.
scene_heading: 123 INT. BAND PLANE —- DAY 123
text: Music. Russell and band bounces down in NYC. Russell listens
text: to music on headphones plugged into large boom box.
scene_heading: 124 INT. LIMOUSINE -— DAY 124
text: William watches, facing the band from the jump seat of their
text: limousine, heading into New York. Up ahead, Manhattan looms,
dialog: beautiful and scary.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: "New York. Just like I pictured it...
dialog: "
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: " skyscrapers and everything."
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (to William)
dialog: We showed you America. We did
dialog: everything but get you laid.
text: Beat. They look at each other curiously. How much does the
dialog: other guy know?
scene_heading: 125 EXT. ST. REGIS —- DAY 125
text: Russell and band spill out of limo. The New York cluster of
text: hardcore Stillwater fans wait outside. They hold collector's
dialog: sleeves covering albums to be autographed, and fresh magic
text: markers in hand. William in tow crawls out of the limo last.
text: Dick goes to work, pulling luggage from the trunk. A serious-
text: looking Fan (LENNY) approaches Russell with an autograph card.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: I'm from the Church of Lenny. We bow
dialog: to his will and all that it represents
dialog: — The King of the King of Kings.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Make it out to - ?
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: To Lenny.
text: Russell nods -- of course. He signs, as Dick approaches with
text: a well-placed word in his right ear.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: She's here.
text: William turns, expecting to see Penny. Instead we see the
text: long-limbed, athletic, pretty and collegiate LESLIE. She
text: holds a Nikon camera, and snaps their picture.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Leslie!
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Your room is completely stocked, far
text: away from any noisy ice machines,
text: elevators or maid quarters. The air-—
dialog: conditioning is already on. And here
dialog: is your security key -- by the way,
dialog: you look stunning.
speaker_heading: LESLIE
dialog: (taking treatment for
dialog: granted)
dialog: ThanksI'llseeyoulater.
text: Nearby, the young journalist studies the tour's subtle shift
text: in welcoming Leslie. Dick's New York side is almost military.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: Bags in five! Cars leave for the party
dialog: at six!
text: William studies Leslie, everyone saying hello to her, everyone
text: knowing the subtext. Nobody saying a word. William pulls his
text: heavy bag out of the back of the limousine.
text: The bag breaks, and the contents spill out onto the New York
text: sidewalk. Bars of soap, ashtrays, hotel keys, crumpled paper,
text: the contraband t-shirt, "Do Not Disturb" signs, notes, towels
text: and thick telephone books from every city.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: DICK (cont'd)
dialog: You know. There are lighter souvenirs.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (embarrassed)
dialog: Well -- I kept thinking I was going
dialog: home the next day --
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I did too. Fifteen years ago.
text: All help him with his spilled souvenirs. Russell shares a
text: private look with the kid. Nearby Leslie greets other band
dialog: members.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Ric!
dialog: It's Super Zeppelin fan Ric Nunez.
speaker_heading: RIC
dialog: (whispers)
text: It's all happening. Zeppelin is at
dialog: the Plaza. So's four other bands.
dialog: They're partying up there right now.
dialog: Sapphire, and Miss Penny Lane too...
dialog: She wants you to call her.
dialog: (William reacts)
dialog: They're all staying under the name
dialog: Emily Rugburn.
text: William takes in the information, while regarding Ric's new
text: custom shirt, which features the words to Zeppelin's "The Rain
dialog: Song."
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (exiting with Leslie)
dialog: After the party. I'11l come to your
dialog: room —- I promise. We'll talk. This
dialog: is Leslie, by the way. Leslie, this
dialog: is our wayward friend from Rolling
dialog: Stone. The Enemy.
text: They shake, she smiles randomly.
scene_heading: 126 INT. ST. REGIS FRONT DESK -- NIGHT 126
text: William checks in.
speaker_heading: CLERK
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: William Miller? Sir, you have an urgent
dialog: call from a Mr. "Ben Fong-Torres."
dialog: He's holding for you, right now.
text: William takes the phone. The Clerk watches curiously as the
text: kid adopts a new persona.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (deep voice)
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT
scene_heading: INT. JANN'S OFFICE -- SAN FRANCISCO -- AFTERNOON
text: On a rainy day in San Francisco, Ben Fong-Torres stands in the
text: copy-strewn office of the young editor/publisher JANN WENNER.
text: Several other editors are also present in the background,
text: including David Felton with cigarette-holder in mouth, and a
text: prep-school Fact-Checker named ALLISON.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Congratulations. It's gonna be a cover.
dialog: Neal Preston will shoot 'em next week
dialog: in L.A. we need you back in San
dialog: Francisco tomorrow. We'll finish the
dialog: story here.
text: William is overwhelmed with many emotions, fear topping the
dialog: list.
speaker_heading: BEN (cont'd)
dialog: You can tell the band. Allison, our
dialog: fact checker, needs you to transmit
dialog: whatever you have of the story, tonight,
dialog: now, along with your notes. There is
dialog: a mojo at the Daily News they'll let
dialog: us use —
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Mojo?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: A mojo. It's a very modern machine
text: that transmits pages over the telephone.
dialog: It only takes eighteen Minutes a page...
scene_heading: 126A EXT. NEW YORK STREETS -- NIGHT 126A
text: The sound of feet on pavement. William looks at addresses,
text: hustling to the Daily News office.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 126B INT. DAILY NEWS COPY STATION -—- NIGHT 126B
text: William tears pages from his notebook and feeds them into the
text: large and clunky earliest model fax machine -- "The Mojo." We
dialog: hear David Bowie. "The Jean Genie."
scene_heading: A127 EXT. MAX'S KANSAS CITY -- NIGHT Al27
text: William weaves, exhausted, into the Stillwater press party at
text: this legendary New York nightspot. The Doorman, who checks
text: i.d.s, sees the kid and expresses great doubt.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: He's okay, he's with us —
text: Hope shoves him past the Guard, and sends him into a very mature
dialog: new world.
scene_heading: 127 INT. MAX'S KANSAS CITY -- NIGHT 127
text: The famous hub of New York rock and roll. A strong whiff of
text: decadence mixes with youthful naivete. Not a hippie in sight.
text: William walks through, looking for familiar faces. Overhead
text: we hear Stillwater. "If You Say Nothing." The party is filled
text: with scenesters, long silver-haired glamsters, some British
text: journalists, and many hunched young skinny bodies in leather
text: jackets. Russell grabs him by the arm.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Ah ha! There you are, ya little fucker.
speaker_heading: Come on ——
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I have some good news.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: -- I'll piss to that. Follow me.
scene_heading: A128 INT. MAX'S BEDROOM A128
text: They enter the small bathroom. Russell bolts the door, faces
text: the urinal and pees. His own music throbs in the next room.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Dennis Hope took me aside, and wants
dialog: to manage Me solo. Says to lose the
dialog: band by February. Should I do it? I
dialog: have no perspective anymore.
text: William pees in silence.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: At what point do I just take the hint?
dialog: Nobody Loves this band. People like
dialog: us, do they love us?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I do.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (then pissed)
dialog: Oh —- get this - somebody told Penny
dialog: Lane I sold her for beer. The network
dialog: of these chicks! Like I would do that.
dialog: It's Jeff who told her, right? Not
dialog: you, right? None of these guys can
dialog: just calm down and be a fuckin adult.
dialog: Now she's here, freaking out. Leslie
dialog: can smell it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (exiting)
dialog: Wait. I've got something to tell -
text: But he finds himself trailing Russell to the back room bar.
scene_heading: 128 INT. GIRL'S BATHROOM —- NIGHT - SAME TIME 128
text: Leslie in the bathroom. Penny enters and watches her
text: discreetly. They stand together, side-by-side at the mirror.
text: Leslie looks once, turns and then turns back at Penny. She
dialog: knows.
scene_heading: 129 INT. BACKROOM --— NIGHT 129
text: William sits with the band. Over Jeff's head, Penny hangs
text: nearby, at the outskirts, drinking and dancing. They share a
text: look, feigning casualty.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: You guys -—- you guys —-—
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You're gonna be on the cover of Rolling
dialog: Stone.
text: Stunned and overwhelmed, the band waits a beat, lets it sink
text: in... and goes wild. Russell, stunned too, looks at the kid.
text: It's big news. Jeff stands immediately, eyes moist, glass
dialog: raised.
speaker_heading: JEFF
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: (tears welling, instantly)
dialog: The cover of Rolling Stone. And we
dialog: made it together. They don't just put
dialog: somebody with one little hit on the
dialog: cover of Rolling Stone Fucking Magazine,
dialog: man. We made it.
text: The band nods solemnly, importantly.
speaker_heading: JEFF (cont'd)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Damn it -- I'm gonna enjoy this. The
dialog: first time I bought that magazine The
text: Beatles were on the cover. Four of
dialog: them. Four of us. Together.
dialog: TOGETHER!
text: They begin singing the then-current Dr. Hook and the Medicine
dialog: Show hit, "The Cover of the Rolling Stone" to William.
speaker_heading: LESLIE
dialog: Who is that girl? She's creeping me
dialog: out. She's not with any of you, is
dialog: she?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM/DICK
dialog: She's with me.
text: And now Leslie has confirmation. A symphony of looks, as Dick
text: gets to his feet and moves to confront Penny. Penny Lane's
text: eyes fill and she runs out. Russell stands... and sees William
text: also stand. William turns and follows her. Russell stands
text: watching, and does not leave. We hear Elton John's "Mona
dialog: Lisas and Mad Hatters."
scene_heading: 130 EXT. MAX'S KANSAS CITY -- NIGHT 130
text: William exits as a crush of Partygoers arrives. He doesn't
text: know where she is. He takes off to examine the cabs stuck in
text: traffic. Song continues.
speaker_heading: POV WILLIAM
text: He looks in the backs of cabs. None of them her.
text: Music continues. He runs down the streets, looking for her.
text: Alone in New York City.
scene_heading: 131 INT. PLAZA HOTEL -- NIGHT 131
text: William on the house phone.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Emily Rugburn, please.
scene_heading: 132 INT. HOTEL HALLWAY --— NIGHT 132
text: William approaches Suite 702. The door is open. He hears new
text: band voices, and sees new faces. MUSICIAN # 1 intercepts him.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hi. I'm a friend of Penny Lane's.
speaker_heading: MUSICIAN # 1
dialog: Aren't we all -
text: Musician types are leaving.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Where is she?
text: Room Service arrives. Some appetizers and a large expensive
text: bottle of champagne on ice.
scene_heading: ROOM SERVICE GUY
dialog: Can somebody sign for this?
dialog: William does.
speaker_heading: ROOM SERVICE GUY (cont'd)
dialog: Thank you Mr. Rugburn.
text: Two more Musicans (English) exit the back room party. The
text: room is clearing out.
speaker_heading: ENGLISH MUSICIAN
dialog: She's sick. Let's get out of here.
scene_heading: ENGLISH MUSICIAN # 2
dialog: She used to be so much more together.
text: William watches all, champagne in hand, and finds her in the
text: backroom. She's addled and nearly passed out.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE
dialog: I'm not good at goodbyes.
text: She sags. He grabs the phone.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PENNY LANE (cont'd)
dialog: You're the last of my old-time friends.
dialog: Polexia went to England with Deep
dialog: Purple... can you believe that? Even
text: Sapphire's out someplace else. All
dialog: she left was her quaaludes.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Oh -- wonderful.
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Front desk? Please send a doctor.
dialog: Room... what room? 703. 702. Both
dialog: rooms, either room. This is Mr. Rugburn,
dialog: Yes. My wife's had an accident with
dialog: some quaaludes. Yes - I'll do that.
text: The room has emptied out. Just them, and the remnants of a
text: movable party that has moved elsewhere.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: Wake up!
text: He struggles to get her on her feet. She tips over on her
text: strappy platform shoes. He struggles to untie them.
scene_heading: 133 EXT. GRADUATION -— DAY 133
text: The School band plays "Colour My World." School PRINCIPAL at
text: the podium.
speaker_heading: PRINCIPAL
dialog: And now... out graduating class! Jane
dialog: Abbott!
text: A peppy student bounds up and grabs her diploma. Elaine Miller
text: watches dolefully in the audience.
scene_heading: 134 INT. HOTEL ROOM —- NIGHT 134
text: William holds Penny in his arms. Finally she is close to him.
scene_heading: 135 EXT. GRADUATION CEREMONY -—-— DAY 135
speaker_heading: PRINCIPAL
dialog: Victor Sanchez!
text: Warm applause for another student who grabs his diploma. He
text: takes off his mortar board to flash an American flag bandana.
text: He raises his diploma in victory.
scene_heading: 136 INT. HOTEL ROOM —- NIGHT 136
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: William holds Penny Lane, and keeps her moving. It's a sagging,
text: messy slow dance.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: "In the unlikely event of a water
dialog: landing... "
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: "J... you will be required to wear a
dialog: safety vest."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Keep going.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: "Please place all stowable luggage in
text: the overhead compartments... out in the
dialog: seat in front of you."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (prompting)
dialog: "Seat and tray tables."
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: "And seat-backs and tray-tables should
dialog: be in their full and upright and locked
dialog: positions... "
scene_heading: 137 EXT. GRADUATION CEREMONY -—-— DAY 137
speaker_heading: PRINCIPAL
dialog: And now... out "Pending" Graduates!
dialog: (pause)
dialog: William Miller... not present.
text: Elaine applauds her son, stoically. It is a dagger through
text: her heart. A sympathetic look from a nearby Mother continues
dialog: the pain.
scene_heading: 138 INT. HOTEL — NIGHT 138
text: They move slowly, she's fading.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: "In the tragic event of a water
dialog: landing..."
scene_heading: 139 EXT. GRADUATION — DAY 139
dialog: The Principal shares a few thoughts:
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: PRINCIPAL
dialog: And to the class of 1973, we say --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't forget to remember yourself as
dialog: you are today... Full of hope... and
dialog: the dream that everything is possible...
dialog: Remember this, twenty years from now,
dialog: when we all own home computers and we
text: all travel in shiny electrical cars
text: that move swiftly, high above the
dialog: city...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: They key to the future is keeping today
dialog: alive forever.
text: Elaine's head lowers slowly in a sea of happy parents. The
text: day will never end. Mrs. Deegan slips into the seat next to
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: First. Release the guilt.
dialog: (Elaine nods)
speaker_heading: Second —
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: Please let there be only two, because
dialog: I can't get past Number One.
speaker_heading: MRS. DEEGAN
dialog: Second. Leave a little room for the
dialog: other teachers in this world. He's
dialog: out there looking for mentors.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: He's got twelve of them. They're lined
dialog: up. He's just tired of me.
scene_heading: A140 INT. HOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT A140
text: William holds Penny. She is very woozy.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: you will be required to..."
dialog: (gives up)
dialog: I'm tired.
text: She is very groggy, as he holds her.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Well. Now that I have your attention.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: And you may not remember this later, I
dialog: just want to make it clear that... Hey!
text: (she blinks, barely awake
dialog: again)
dialog: I know you've heard this before. And
dialog: I have never said this to anybody, not
dialog: really - well, nobody who didn't legally
dialog: have to say it back to me, but —
dialog: (tries to be casual)
dialog: I love you. And I have a hard time
dialog: sharing you with all of rock and roll
dialog: because I - why am I nervous? —- You'll
dialog: never remember this -— HEY! —-
dialog: (she blinks)
dialog: I love you, and I'm about to boldly go
dialog: where... Many men have gone before...
text: He kisses her. A doctor and nurse come crashing into the room.
text: They push past William and pull Penny into the bathroom. He
text: sits on the edge of the bed, looking into the bathroom, as
text: they work on her. We hear Stevie Wonder. "My Cherie Amor."
scene_heading: 140 INT. BATHROOM — NIGHT 140
text: Doctor places a tube down Penny Lane's throat. A bored nurse
text: holds a water-bag, lowering it to ground level.
scene_heading: WILLIAM'S POV INTO BATHROOM
text: Her feet sticking out, wriggling. He watches, as music
dialog: continues.
text: ON THE BATHTUB
text: Her amber-colored stomach contents look like a Jackson Pollack
text: portrait of the era, with three partially dissolved pills.
text: Doctor hands enter frame and remove them. Music continues.
scene_heading: 141 INT. HOTEL ROOM — LATER NIGHT 141
text: The Doctor re-appears, and sits down next to William, as the
text: Nurse exits. The Doctor withdraws a three-page report form.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Your wife will be okay for now —
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Thank you Doctor.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: However, she says you're her brother.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (eyes report)
text: She's a little confused.
text: The ice shifts in the champagne bucket nearby. The Doctor
text: sizes up the situation.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Nice champagne.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I don't have a driver's license. With
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Tomorrow's my wedding anniversary.
dialog: I'd prefer to take care of this without
text: facing the dawn at the police station.
dialog: So if you can find a way to get this
dialog: girl - your wife - back home to her
dialog: parents, I'd let you pay me anything
dialog: you can afford. Because you don't
dialog: appear to be related to the famous
dialog: Rugburns of Rhode Island.
text: His eyes flick to the champagne. The kid takes a hint, reaches
text: over to the champagne.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Happy Anniversary.
text: The Doctor puts the champagne in his bag.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: She won't be good company, but keep
text: her awake for another four hours.
scene_heading: 142 INT. AIRPORT TICKET COUNTER -— MORNING 142
text: Song continues. William and Penny drag themselves through the
text: airport. He guides her to the ticket counter. Penny wears
text: her green coat, large sunglasses. He sorts through her many
text: partial tickets. They are both so tired. She shakes off her
text: coat -- she's suddenly very hot -- and he grabs it and loops
text: it through her bags. She's irritable, and ready to go home.
scene_heading: 143 INT. AIRPORT GATE — MORNING 143
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: (baring her soul)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: When I was 14, my Mom and her boyfriend
dialog: took me to a Rolling Stones concert —
dialog: and I freaked out and I rushed up to
text: the front of the stage and then a
dialog: thousand people had the same idea at
dialog: the same time and I was getting crushed.
dialog: And I couldn't breathe and that thought
text: flashed through me - almost like a car
dialog: accident - I thought I might die. And
dialog: it was in the middle of "Midnight
dialog: Rambler" and Keith Richards saw me.
text: And he came over, and came to the front
text: of the stage, and he pulled me out.
dialog: And they took me backstage and they
dialog: gave me coke with ice and a - anda
dialog: lemon. And I never went home.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What about your Mom?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: She always said - "Marry Up." Marry
dialog: someone grand. That's why she named
dialog: me Lady.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (horrified)
dialog: She named you Lady?
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: Lady Goodman.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: You never really get used to it, either.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Well -- this -- this just explains
dialog: everything.
text: He wishes it did. She rubs her stomach. It's a rocky morning.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (cont'd)
dialog: See you back in the real world.
speaker_heading: PENNY
dialog: See you back there.
text: She kisses his forehead, and takes off down the accordian
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: leading to her plane. She drops her coat again, bending down
dialog: to retrieve it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hey Lady!
text: Four Woman turn, but not Penny. She disappears.
scene_heading: 144 INT. AIRPLANE — DAY 144
text: Penny Lane settles into her seat on the airplane. She notices
text: William watching from the terminal window, and waves.
speaker_heading: STEWARDESS
dialog: Please extinguish all flammable items,
dialog: and return all seats and tray tables to
text: their full and upright locked positions.
text: She mouths along with the words. There is no one to share the
text: joke with. And then a few blurry memories come back to her.
text: She gestures to him... understanding him more fully... as he
dialog: disappears.
scene_heading: 145 INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL -— DAY 145
text: William walks alongside her plane, moving from terminal window
text: to terminal window. Catching her glance again, he's picking
dialog: up steam. What's she saying?
scene_heading: 146 INT. PLANE — DAY 146
text: She keeps watching as he runs alongside, still keeping up with
text: her plane. She now fully remembers, and places her outstretched
text: fingers on the window. She mouths the words: I'll see you
dialog: back home!
speaker_heading: ON WINDOW
text: He us running through her fingers.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON WILLIAM
dialog: Who can run no further.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: FADE UP
scene_heading: 147 INT. BAND PLANE —-— DAY 147
text: Russell and William are in mid-interview. The kid's microphone
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: is out. It's a little bit of a rough flight. William wears
dialog: the same clothes.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Why didn't you come back to the party?
text: Bob Dylan showed up. He was sitting
dialog: at our table for... had to be an hour,
dialog: right? Just Rapping. Bob Dylan! I
dialog: kept looking for you. I was going to
dialog: introduce you.
text: The kid feels pain.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: What happened to you last night?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: It's a log story.
text: A sharp jolt of turbulence. Russell begins pounding on the
text: card table in rhythm.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (singing Buddy Holly)
dialog: "Peggy Sure... Peggy Sue...
dialog: "
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Please.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: "Pretty pretty pretty pretty Peggy
dialog: Sue... "
text: A moment of laughter, and then bam. Jeff's drink rises and
text: suspends briefly in mid-air. The plane takes another mighty
dialog: knock.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: We shouldn't be here.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Doris, we miss you!
text: Fear is creeping in around the edges. William, already an
text: uneasy flier, looks down.
speaker_heading: PILOT'S VOICE
dialog: This is Craig, your pilot. It appears
dialog: we've caught the edge of that electrical
dialog: storm we were trying to outrun. Buckle
dialog: up tight now. We're gonna do our best
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: to getcha out of this.
text: The rocking of the plane worsens, as all buckle up.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: "Electrical storm?"
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (strapping in for a roller
dialog: coaster)
dialog: Rock and roll.
text: The sky darkens abruptly. William looks up, increasingly
text: nervous, stares straight ahead. The plane suddenly drops and
text: stabilizes. Everyone is silent but Russell.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Wooooco0o Baby!
text: A moment later, an ashen-faced CO-PILOT emerges, balancing
text: himself with hands on the ceiling of the shuddering plane.
speaker_heading: CO-PILOT
dialog: We're gonna try to land in Tupelo.
dialog: We're going to have to cut the inside
text: lighting for the next several minutes.
dialog: We found a field to land in.
text: The kid notices Silent Ed is rubbing a small crucifix.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: A field?
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: I can't breathe.
text: Push in on Russell. We hear a series of unfamiliar electrical
text: sounds. The plane screwballs through the sky.
speaker_heading: CO-PILOT
dialog: It might be a rough set-down. We should
dialog: be fine.
dialog: (cracking at the edges)
dialog: But what we do say in a situation like
dialog: this is - We would pass but before the
text: plane ... disassembled. However, God
dialog: help us, if there's anything you want
dialog: to say to each other, any secrets,
dialog: anything like that, now would be a
dialog: good time. But just hang in there.
dialog: We'll get you out of this.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: He returns to the cockpit. The weather worsens, as the hail
text: suddenly pelts the plane, and it comes down hard. Inside lights
text: shut off. William stares straight ahead, as the cockpit door
text: swings open - total chaos visible inside - and then shuts again.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: And everyone thinks it's so glamorous
dialog: out here.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (oddly detached)
dialog: He just told us we're gonna die.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (insecurities running wild)
dialog: We're gonna crash in Elvis' hometown —-
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Shut up.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: —- we can't even die in an original
dialog: city!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: C'mon Dennis, get us a better city.
text: Nervous laughter. Another sheet of hail hits the plane.
speaker_heading: LESLIE
dialog: Oh my God.
scene_heading: PUSH IN ON WILLIAM
text: Just shaking. Nearly in tears. Hyperventilating.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: If something should happen. I love
dialog: all of you. I don't think we have to
dialog: do the secrets thing.
text: The plane shakes. Now lightening strikes very close. A
text: flashing wall of electricity rolls through the plane and
text: evaporates with a burning smell still in the air. In the
dialog: darkness:
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: I once hit a man in Dearborn, Michigan.
text: A hit-and-run. I hit him and kept on
dialog: going. I don't know if he's alive or
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: dead, but I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: LESLIE
dialog: (gripped with fear)
dialog: Oh my God.
text: The plane wildly rises, and falls. It stops for a moment. A
text: strange smooth patch.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I love you all too, and you're my
dialog: family. Especially since Marna left
dialog: me. But if I ever took an extra dollar
dialog: or two, here and there, it was because
dialog: I knew I'd earned it.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I slept with Marna, Dick.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: I did too.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I waited until you broke up with her.
dialog: But me too.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: I also slept with Leslie, when you
dialog: were fighting.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You... slept with Jeff?
speaker_heading: LESLIE
dialog: Yes, but it didn't count. It was the
dialog: summer we decided to be free of all
dialog: rules.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (to Jeff)
dialog: And you say you "love me."
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (the truth)
dialog: I don't love you, man. I never did.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Please. Enough.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: NONE of us love you. You act above
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: us. You ALWAYS HAVE!!
speaker_heading: LARRY
text: Finally. The truth.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: You just held it over us, like you
dialog: light leave... like we're lucky to be
dialog: with you. And we had to live with it.
dialog: I had to live with you, and now I might
dialog: die with you and it's not fucking fair.
text: William watches, catatonic.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (to Larry and Ed)
dialog: You hate me? You too?
text: Larry stares at him. Ed says nothing.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: All this love. All this loyalty.
dialog: (incredulous, giddy)
dialog: And you don't even like me.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: And I'm still in love with you Leslie.
text: Bam. The plane is pulling sideways, and dropping altitude.
speaker_heading: LESLIE
dialog: I don't want to hear anymore. Shut
dialog: up! Shut up! Shut up!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (to Jeff)
dialog: Whatever happens, you're dead.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Don't be self-righteous, Russell, not
dialog: now. You were sleeping with Penny,
dialog: that groupie. Last summer, and up
dialog: until yesterday. Why don't you tell
dialog: Leslie THAT?
text: Russell tries to get up and attack him. The force keeps him
text: in his seat. He yells. Loud.
speaker_heading: DENNIS
dialog: (freaking out)
dialog: I quit.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: The turbulence worsens. William finds his mouth saying
text: emotional words he cannot control.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: "That groupie?" She was a Band-Aid.
dialog: All she did was love your band. And
dialog: you all -- you used her, all of you.
dialog: You used her and threw her away. She
dialog: almost died last night, while you were
dialog: with Bob Dylan. You're always talking
dialog: about the fans, the fans, the fans.
dialog: She was your biggest fan and you threw
dialog: her away. And if you can't see that,
dialog: that's your biggest problem.
text: Russell and Jeff stare at each other. The plane is rocking
text: very very hard. Leslie is crying.
speaker_heading: ED
dialog: I'm gay.
text: They all turn to the silent drummer. (It's his first spoken
dialog: dialogue of the movie.)
dialog: Then.
text: The plane pops out from below the clouds. Sunshine spikes
text: through the embattled windows of the plane, as they float
text: downwards to the city of Tupelo, Mississippi. A very very
text: uneasy silence fills the plane. No one can look at each other.
text: Out bursts the Co-Pilot, giddy with victory.
speaker_heading: CO-PILOT
dialog: Thank God above, WE'RE ALIVE!! WE'RE
dialog: ALIVE!! WE'RE GONNA MAKE IT!!
text: Shot of all the occupants, ending with Russell. Suddenly, the
text: alternative seems far more attractive. We hear Rod Stewart's
text: "Jo's Lament" as music plays over their still-shocked faces.
scene_heading: 148 INT. TUPELO AIRPORT CORRIDOR -—-— DAY 148
text: Music continues, as they walk together like ghosts in a long
text: and very pregnant silence, ignoring the kid. Everything is
text: different now. The kid peels off and throws up in a dumpster.
text: We continue with the band, unhappily moving forward. William
text: hustles back to catch up. They ignore him. There are much
text: bigger thoughts in play. No one wants to speak.
speaker_heading: JEFF
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Well, I think we can build on this new
dialog: honesty.
text: Boom. Russell attacks him, and they're pulled apart. The
text: band continues moving forward, arriving at a fork in the airport
text: terminals. William stops. This is where he must part company.
text: He stands at the mouth of the next terminal, as the band
text: continues, unaware he's split off. He watches their backs,
dialog: they've forgotten him.
text: Then Russell turns, sensing something missing. William. All
text: now stop and turn. Still shell-shocked, they summon a pre-
text: occupied but heartfelt goodbye. William waves. Music
dialog: continues.
scene_heading: ON AIRPLANE DEPARTURE SCHEDULE
text: William's finger finds San Francisco.
scene_heading: 149 INT. CAB -- SAN FRANCISCO -- DAY 149
text: The kid checks the address as he arrives at the MJB Building,
text: and its next-door neighbor, the San Francisco headquarters of
text: Rolling Stone Magazine. He still wears the same clothes from
dialog: last night in New York.
scene_heading: 150 INT. ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE —- DAY 150
text: William arrives at the front desk, gets the once-over from a
text: friendly RECEPTIONIST, a paragon of new cool.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Leave your package at the desk.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I'm not a messenger. I'm one of your
dialog: writers. William Miller.
text: He is zombie-tired, with heavy duffel case and his orange bag.
scene_heading: 151 INT. ROLLING STONE OFFICES -—-— DAY 151
text: William walks down the center aisle. Editors and writers look
text: at him, standing at the front of their cubicles to see this
text: exhausted 15 year-old writer. At the end of the aisle, like a
dialog: human finish line, stand Ben Fong-Torres.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You're William Miller?
text: The secret emerges not with a bang but with a slight and tired
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: nod of the head.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yep.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (putting it all together)
dialog: Oh baby.
text: Ben leads him into the office of Jann Wenner, the editor-
dialog: publisher.
scene_heading: 152 INT. JANN WENNER'S OFFICE -— DAY 152
text: William sits. Editors are feverishly discussing the next issue.
text: The big concerns of a national magazine are in the air.
text: Everyone is focused and quick. The conversation is machine-
text: gun like. Jann Werner turns to the kid.
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: We can't run this piece.
text: The kid's eyes travel to his story -- a stack of fuzzy-looking
text: sheets on the table.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You obviously saw more than you wrote
text: about. After eight days on the road
dialog: with these guys.
speaker_heading: DAVID FELTON
dialog: Didn't anything happen?
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: And where are you in this piece? What
dialog: did you want to write? Because this
dialog: reads like what they wanted you to
dialog: write.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What happened to your highly-touted
dialog: think piece on limitations of a middle-
dialog: level Band in the face of success?
text: William sits speechless. It's sinking in. Failure.
text: Conversation continues at a fast pace:
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: We can push up Chet's Who cover -
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Good 'cause it's going to take me three
dialog: days to get through this research.
text: It's all handwritten, on little slips.
dialog: Plus, they all refer to woman as
dialog: "Chicks." I mean, as a woman I have a
dialog: problem with that. I know it's a side
dialog: issue.
speaker_heading: DAVID FELTON
dialog: (sympathetic, loquacious)
dialog: It's a "puff piece." you fell for
text: ‘em. It happens. A relationship forms.
dialog: You want them to like you.
dialog: (wistful, chewing cigarette
dialog: holder)
dialog: Happened with me and Charlie Manson.
dialog: He was a very charming... lively...
dialog: charismatic...
text: Felton catches himself swooning. The other are staring at
text: him. He snaps out of it.
speaker_heading: DAVID FELTON (cont'd)
dialog: mass—murderer.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Please let me finish it. Give me
dialog: tonight to work on it.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
text: Chet's piece is all fact-checked and
dialog: ready.
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: (to William)
dialog: Get some sleep. We'll do another story
dialog: sometime. We'll get you a kill fee.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
dialog: His research is all on little bits of
dialog: paper. Did I say that?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Ben. You told me to send what I had.
dialog: It's not finished.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
dialog: That's being charitable.
text: Ben looks at the kid, then at Jann. Jann scans the kid's face
text: for a beat, nods.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: Let him use the big office. It's
dialog: where Hunter used to write.
text: William rises, gratefully. He shakes Jann's hand.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
dialog: (pointed re: his age)
dialog: You can type.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yes. It took it in grade school.
scene_heading: 153 INT. BIG OFFICE —- NIGHT 153
text: William sits in the "big" office. It's a small white tank.
text: After all the sound and fury, there is only the hum of a large
text: electric typewriter. His research, transcripts and some band
text: photos sit nearby. He takes a bite of a candy bar, a sip of
text: coffee. He looks at the phone.
scene_heading: INT. LESTER BANGS' BEDROOM -—- NIGHT
text: Crazy jazz is playing. Lester Bangs on the phone.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: Aw, man. You made friends with them!
dialog: See, friendship is the booze they feed
dialog: you. They want you to get drunk on
dialog: feeling like you belong.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT:
scene_heading: INT. ROLLING STONE --— NIGHT
text: William in the empty Rolling Stone office.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (ruefully)
dialog: Well, it was fun.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: They make you feel cool. And hey. I
dialog: met you. You are not "cool."
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I know. Even when I though I was, I
dialog: knew I wasn't.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: That's because we are uncool! And
dialog: while women will always be a problem for
dialog: guys like us, most of the great art in
dialog: the world is about that very problem.
dialog: Good-looking people have no spine!
dialog: Their art never lasts! They get the
dialog: girls, but we're smarter.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I can really see that now.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: Yeah, great art is about conflict and
dialog: pain and guilt and longing and love
text: disguised as sex, and sex disguised as
dialog: love... and let's face it, you got a
dialog: big head start.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I'm glad you were home.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: I'm always home! I'm uncool!
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Me too!
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: (leveling)
dialog: The only true currency in this bankrupt
dialog: world if what we share with someone
dialog: else when we're uncool.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (distraught)
dialog: I feel better
speaker_heading: LESTER
dialog: My advice to you. I know you think
dialog: those guys are your friends. You want
dialog: to be a true friend to them?
text: William takes a deep breath. Looks at the research cassettes and
text: notebooks. The empty page.
speaker_heading: LESTER BANGS
dialog: Be honest and unmerciful.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You're doing great. Call me later is
dialog: you want. I'm always up.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 154 INT. ROLLING STONE OUTER OFFICE -— MORNING 154
text: Ben Fong-Torres and David Felton look at William's new
text: manuscript with great interest.
speaker_heading: FELTON
dialog: Read me the opening line.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (reads aloud)
dialog: "I am flying high over Tupelo,
dialog: Mississippi, with America's hottest
dialog: band, and we are all about to die."
speaker_heading: FELTON
dialog: Mmmmm.
dialog: (as if sampling wine)
text: Dark. Lively.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yeah, and it gets better.
dialog: (impressed)
dialog: Did this all really happen?
text: William sleeps restlessly nearby, mouth agape, sitting upright
text: in a plastic chair.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
text: (jealously reaches for
dialog: manuscript)
dialog: Give it to me. I'll call and check
dialog: the quotes.
scene_heading: 155 INT. NEW TOUR BUS —- DAY 155
text: The band rides in a new tour bus. The palpable tone in the
dialog: air is -—- PANIC.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: Look. Let's just piece together our
dialog: information... because the fact-checker
dialog: asked us all about different parts of
dialog: the story.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What did he write about? What's he
dialog: using?
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: It. All. He's using it all.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: So what?
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: So what?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We come off like amateurs... some
dialog: average band... trying to come to
text: grips, jealous and fighting and breaking
dialog: up — we're buffoons!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Maybe we just don't see ourselves the
dialog: way we really are.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: He was supposed to be our friend.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (ruefully, remembering)
dialog: I told him to write what he wanted.
text: All eyes look to Russell.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Russell)
dialog: By the way, he has you on acid,
dialog: screaming "I Am A Golden God" from a
text: fan's rooftop.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (immediately remembering)
dialog: Oh my God.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: They used him to fuck us.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (still back at "Golden
dialog: God")
dialog: I didn't say "Golden God." Or did I?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: We never took him seriously, and now
dialog: it's serious.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I liked him as a person.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: He was never a "person!" He was a
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: journalist!
text: Russell nods. He looks at Silent Ed, drumming soundlessly on
text: a rubber pad.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: You. You had the right idea all along.
text: Ed silently nods thanks.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: (nervously)
dialog: How about the plane flight?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: It's all in there. But don't worry,
dialog: it's all unspecific who say what. No
dialog: names are mentioned in the more
dialog: embarrassing sequences, it's just
dialog: completely obvious who's who! We're
dialog: fucked!
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I forgot he was there.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: Well, they haven't talked to Russell -
dialog: he can always deny the key stuff to
dialog: the fact checker. Then they can't
dialog: print it.
speaker_heading: JEFF
dialog: (brightening)
dialog: Is that true?
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE
dialog: It's war, my friend. If you'd met me
dialog: earlier, he would have never been on the
dialog: around.
text: Dennis hands Russell the phone.
speaker_heading: DENNIS HOPE (cont'd)
dialog: He'll live.
scene_heading: 156 INT. ROLLING STONE OFFICES -— DAY 156
text: William is still being congratulated by his new peers. We see
text: him woozy but beaming, as Allison the Fact Checker comes out
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: of her office, waving the manuscript. She works her way through
dialog: the cluster of editors.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
dialog: The band just denied 90% of the story.
dialog: It's a fabrication.
text: Everyone looks at William, who is speechless and confused.
dialog: Their congratulations stop on a dime. The fact checker can't
text: resist twisting the knife a little.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER (cont'd)
dialog: You weren't honest. And worse, you
dialog: wasted our time.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Did you talk to Russell?
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
dialog: Russell Hammond is the one who denied
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (darkly)
dialog: Crazy.
speaker_heading: FACT CHECKER
dialog: (one last shot, to William)
dialog: We're going with the Who - !
text: The kid has been sandbagged. The machine of a big-time magazine
text: whirs into action on another story, as the cluster moves down
dialog: the hall.
speaker_heading: SOMEONE'S VOICE
dialog: He's just some fan... what did you
dialog: expect?
text: William sits there, as only David Felton stay behind,
text: brandishing his cigarette-holder. He sits down next to the
dialog: kid.
speaker_heading: FELTON
dialog: Well, I believe you.
text: He looks at the kid, decides to offer a personal parable.
speaker_heading: FELTON (cont'd)
dialog: Jim Morrison once came to my house and
dialog: drank a beer. The beer is still on my
dialog: mantle. I'm 35 years old with Jim
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Morrison's beer as a shrine. I wanted
dialog: to be Earnest Hemingway. Instead. I
dialog: have Jim Morrison's beer.
dialog: (shrugs, he's learned to
dialog: live with it)
dialog: If you didn't make your story up, good
dialog: for you. If you did make it up... good
dialog: for you.
text: The kid looks at him, too tired and still in shock.
speaker_heading: FELTON (cont'd)
dialog: Say something, so I know you're alive.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Goodbye.
text: He exits.
speaker_heading: FELTON
dialog: Powerful word. Strong. Final.
scene_heading: 157 INT. BACKSTAGE CREW MEAL — NIGHT 157
text: Russell Hammond sits down on a plastic chair with a paper-plate
text: filled with buffet-style food - steak and baked potato.
text: Preoccupied, and several seats away from other crew members.
text: He drinks a glass of milk. Out old friend Sapphire takes the
text: seat next to him, holding a skimpy paper plate of vegetables.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I feel bad.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Well, at least you feel. That puts
dialog: you in a higher class of asshole.
text: They eat in silence. Sapphire looks around. The new breed of
text: groupies eye her, as they cruise Russell on the periphery.
text: They're bolder, flashier. She eyes them back with seniority.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: What did I do?
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Well - you can do what the big boys
dialog: do.
dialog: (he looks at her)
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: Yeah.
text: The girls still circle Russell nearby. He's unaware.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: You believe these new girls? None of
dialog: ‘em take birth control, and they eat
dialog: all the steak.
text: She looks sadly at her plate of vegetables. An ever-sharp
text: mind in last night's clothes, she commands Russell's respect.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE (cont'd)
dialog: They don't even know what it id to be
dialog: a fan! To blindly love some silly
dialog: piece of music... or some band so much
dialog: that it hurts... please, they're all
dialog: just after the money. Shoo -—-
dialog: (in their direction)
dialog: Go rob a bank! It's more honest!
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Is Penny okay?
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: The Quaalude Incident. Yeah, it wasn't
dialog: pretty. She could have died. I always
dialog: warned her about letting too many guys
dialog: fall in love with her. I guess I was
dialog: wrong.
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: On of 'em saved her life.
text: Russell nods.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
text: Well, it's finally over with Leslie.
dialog: I'm going to call her.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Let her retire.
dialog: (he doesn't respond)
dialog: You want to lock her up in a house in
dialog: Michigan? Please.
dialog: (he doesn't respond)
dialog: Write her a song someday. She deserves
dialog: it. Something about that girl brought
dialog: out the best in a lot of...
dialog: (looks around backstage)
dialog: pretty average people. She deserves
dialog: it...
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: Russell stares into his crew meal, nodding a little.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE (cont'd)
dialog: (forward thinking)
dialog: because something tells me twenty
dialog: years from now, we'll remember her...
dialog: and not much else.
text: Russell smiles to himself, knows it's true. Dick passes,
text: placing hands on Russell's shoulders, massaging a little.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Have a good vacation. I hope the band
dialog: stays together. Before it all went
dialog: down the shitter, it was starting to
dialog: get really good.
text: Dick claps Russell on the back, and moves on. He turns to
dialog: Sapphire.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I'm not going to blame myself. I do
dialog: make people happy. They just shouldn't
dialog: get to know me... 'cause it appears to
dialog: spoil everything.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Don't be so easy on yourself.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: What gives you the right to get this
dialog: personal with me.
speaker_heading: SAPPHIRE
dialog: Let's not reminisce.
scene_heading: 158 INT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT -- NIGHT 158
text: William moves like a zombie through the airport, and collapses
text: in a seat. He sits still in the crowded flow of human traffic.
text: A cluster of Flight Attendants pass. One stops, a stylish young
text: woman wearing a tall bubble-shaped PSA hat with swirling colors.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: William?
text: He looks at her. He feels like he's on Mars, and she looks
text: like a Martian.
speaker_heading: ANITA (cont'd)
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: You guys this is my brother!
scene_heading: MALE FLIGHT ATTENDANT
dialog: (ad if meeting a celebrity)
dialog: "The Narc?!"
text: William looks woefully at them, like a dog who's been hit by a
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You guys, I'll deadhead back later. I
dialog: think I'm needed.
scene_heading: MALE FLIGHT ATTENDANT
dialog: Nice to finally meet you.
scene_heading: FEMALE ATTENDANT
dialog: You have a good day!
text: Anita looks in her brother's face.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You look awful, but that's great.
dialog: You're living your life! You're finally
dialog: free of... her.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Hey. I'll take off work. Let's have
dialog: an adventure together. You and me,
dialog: finally. Anywhere you want to go.
dialog: Anywhere in the world.
scene_heading: 159 EXT. WILLIAM'S HOME —- DAY 159
text: William whistles the family whistle. Sister and brother trudge
text: up the steps.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: This is not my idea of a good time.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Just get me to my bed.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (resigned)
dialog: I'll deal with her.
text: William whistles again. Mom meets them at the door. She looks
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
text: at her trashed son who has finally come home. For the first
text: time, she hugs Anita first, and it's not lost on Anita.
text: It's a clumsy neck-hug, neither wanting to commit. The kid
text: passes to his Mother's left, with suitcase, intentionally
text: nudging her into his sister. Anita takes this as an aggressive
text: act of love, and hugs her mother back. Tears stream down Mom's
text: face. Their cheeks touch. Mom pulls away, and sees her own
text: tears on Anita's face. Thinking that she's also crying, she
text: grabs a tissue for them both.
scene_heading: 160 INT. ELAINE'S HOUSE --— CONTINUOUS 160
text: The kid stands in the hallway listening, shaking his head,
text: poised to enter his room, unseen by them.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (so worried)
dialog: What are we going to do about him?
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I don't know. Whatever happened to him, I
dialog: just wish it could have happened to me.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: The magazine killed his story.
text: Now they really hug, Anita gulping back real tears. William
text: watches them bonding over the oddest thing - his failure.
text: William goes into the bedroom, the final three feet to sleep,
text: and shuts the door. A hand places a hotel sign on the door -
text: DO NOT DISTURB. Slight push in.
speaker_heading: ON BED
text: He collapses with all his clothes on, almost instantly asleep. His
text: walls, just as he left them, boast a pantheon of rock heroes...
text: with a very lonely Abraham Lincoln (or Atticus Finch) in the center.
scene_heading: 161 INT. ROLLING STONE OFFICES -—-— DAY 161
text: The elevator doors ding open, and out walks Russell Hammond.
dialog: The Secretary has just finished answering the phone, "Straight
text: Arrow Publishers." She puts the caller on hold.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Hi, I'm Russel Hammond.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: You're here regarding?
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: My life.
scene_heading: 162 INT. EDITORIAL OFFICE — DAY 162
text: Russell stands with the editors, observing the fine portraits
text: on the walls. He's behind enemy lines, and he knows it.
text: Everything in the room fascinates him.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I don't care what happens. I don't
dialog: care if you put us on the cover. But
dialog: you sent us a kid and... and he was a
dialog: fan. And we all made friends with
dialog: him - absolutely, to get a good story.
dialog: But then we actually liked him. We
dialog: thought he's... show us our lives in
dialog: some mythic way and I guess... we're
dialog: not mythic. We panicked.
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: You denied most of the story.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Yeah, well, here's the problem with
dialog: the truth. It's too true —
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Well, we appreciate the visit. The
dialog: last time an artist came here, it was
dialog: Buddy Miles and he punched me.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: I'm not punching anybody. I am
dialog: personally, as of 2 pm yesterday, ona
dialog: voyage of self-reinvention. This is
dialog: about William Miller.
dialog: (counting off fingers)
dialog: He lives with us, he lost his virginity,
dialog: he saw us at our worst, appreciated
dialog: our best, he saved two lives, including
dialog: mine... he smuggled about a half-pound
dialog: of pot into Boston, and we never even
dialog: told him -
text: Nearby, David Felton looks at another editor, raising an
dialog: eyebrow.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: -- we told him too much, we told him
dialog: everything... He almost died with us
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: over Tupelo... if the band survives
dialog: him, it'll be a miracle... but you
dialog: know, he tried to keep up, and that's
dialog: a journalist to me.
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: It's too late. We're going with a
dialog: different cover.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: (immediately)
dialog: Thank God.
text: But Russell looks around at the numerous portraits if dead
text: legendary rock stars, fixing on the one photo closest to all of
text: them, a very vulnerable-looking Janis Joplin. A second thought.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: You tell me it's too late. But I could
dialog: go back to my hotel room and... and
dialog: O.D. tonight and something tells me
dialog: you'd find a way to put me on the cover
dialog: of the next issue. Am I right?
text: He looks at their faces. They cannot disagree.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: I'm learning the game.
dialog: (beat, shrug)
dialog: We fucked up. We made friends with him.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Next time we'll all be more
dialog: professional.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Maybe so.
dialog: (beat, an odd thought)
dialog: But God forbid, the day comes when
dialog: selling yourself is as important as
dialog: the music you make.
dialog: (rueful, to Hendrix on the
dialog: wall)
dialog: You might have died at the right time,
dialog: my friend.
speaker_heading: JANN
dialog: Thank you for visiting. Good luck.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL
dialog: Do what you want, but the story is
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: true.
scene_heading: LONG SHOT RUSSELL
text: at the entrance. Raises his hand.
speaker_heading: RUSSELL (cont'd)
dialog: Good evening!
scene_heading: 162A EXT. SAN FRANCISCO — DAY 162A
text: Russell stands outside, a traveling man with no where to go.
text: Oddly, and in a way that surprises him, the world begins to
text: speak to him again... little noises everywhere, turning into a
text: music of its own. It's a beautiful and compelling "silence."
text: He thrusts his hands deep in his pockets, and takes a breath
text: of life. His head filling again with the music of the world,
text: he begins to walk down the street. Very naturally, and quite
text: randomly, he is noticed by young passersby. They can't help
text: it. He looks like a star. They can't quite figure out who it
text: is, but it's someone, and they begin to follow him down the
text: street. Unbeknownst to him as he walks along, deep in thought,
text: a small crowd begins to form... following him.
scene_heading: 163 INT. BREAKFAST TABLE — DAY 163
text: A quiet kitchen. Anita has been cooking. A substantial
text: breakfast has been placed on the table. Sausage, orange
text: juice... and now Anita sets down a plate of pancakes, with
text: syrup and butter, in front of her mother. William watches his
text: mother facing an old enemy - white sugar.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: They're called pancakes. Who knows
dialog: when we'll be together again. Splurge.
dialog: It's what most people call breakfast.
text: Mom looks at her children, and takes a breath.
speaker_heading: ELAINE
dialog: I went through your records. And I
dialog: found a song to play for you.
text: She goes to the stereo and puts on a record. The two children
dialog: eye each other - what's coming next? (Song to be chosen)
text: The two kids eye each other again. Self-consciously avoiding
text: their gaze, Mom sits and toys with her breakfast. It's a song
text: she clearly wants them to hear. It's a song from the heart.
text: They look at her, amazed. Elaine looks up, regards her family.
text: Somehow they're back at this table. They continue eating
dialog: breakfast.
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
scene_heading: 164 ON SIDEWALK 164
text: Bam. A bundle of bound Rolling Stone Magazines lands on the
text: newsstand pavement with a thud. Someone reaches in to cut the
text: cord, as the magazines puff up into view. It's the new issue,
text: with Russell Hammond on the cover. The title: Stillwater Runs
text: Deep. Just another stack of magazines waiting to be places in
text: the racks.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
text: Music segues to Led Zeppelin's "Four Sticks." Penny Lane's
text: sleeping Polaroid shots of our characters, featuring a few
text: self-portraits.
speaker_heading: THE END
scene_heading: Script provided for educational purposes. More scripts can be found here: http://www.sellingyourscreenplay.comillibrary
dialog: 
