dialog: Rev. Feb. 1, 1979
speaker_heading: ALTERED STATES
dialog: by
dialog: Paddy Chayefsky
scene_heading: COLUMBIA PICTURES INDUSTR™.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: PRODUCER: HOWA GOTTFRIED
scene_heading: EX. PRQ DANIEL MELNICK
scene_heading: DERECTOR: KEN RUSSELL
dialog: thru
speaker_heading: ALTERED STATES
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: thru
text: WIDE ANGLE SHOT of a sound-attenuated room. The walls 6
text: are porous, blue steel. The lighting is hidden and
text: subdued; the room is mostly in shadow. Dominating the
text: room, standing as it does in the middle of it, is a
text: large, covered, wooden tank, painted black, looking
text: sacrificial and sinister. The CAMERA just stares at it --
speaker_heading: NARRATION
dialog: The tank itself was nothing more
text: than a large tomb-like bathtub made
text: out of plywood and lined with aluminun,
dialog: and half-filled with a ten percent
dialog: solution of magnesium sulfate in
dialog: water to increase buoyancy --
scene_heading: LEGEND: THE CORNELL MEDICAL COLLEGE IN NEW YORK CITY
dialog: - 1967
text: ANOTHER ANGLE. Our eyes have become accustomed to the
text: subdued lighting. We notice a few valves sticking out
text: of the tank, a few cables and hoses trailing across the
text: floor from it. There is a small worktable against a
text: wall and two wooden footstools, four feet high, near
text: the tank. We note some clothing in a shadowed corner
text: of the room -- a pair of jeans, a T-shirt, a pea-jacket,
text: underwear, socks, shoes, a large bath towel.
speaker_heading: NARRATION
text: Inside the tank, the subject
dialog: floated in utter darkness and utter
dialog: silence, effectively deprived of
text: sensory stimulation, alone, isolated.
dialog: At first, it had been presumed that
dialog: such conditions would produce
dialog: feelings of paranoia, but for the
dialog: most part, that didn't happen. Of
dialog: the twenty-three students tested,
dialog: only two showed signs of anxiety --
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ITSELF
text: Cheat just enough light to distinguish the whitish form
text: of a naked MAN, floating in the darkness, just below
text: the surface of the inky water, like a huge dead fish
dialog: with it's belly up --
text: CLOSEUP LOOKING DOWN on the Man's face, a white mask
text: of a face, eyes closed, an austere Calvinist face -- a
dialog: young man, twenty-eight years old. We may notice eight
text: EEG leads issuing out of his scalp.
dialog: thru
speaker_heading: NARRATION (cont'd) 6
dialog: -- The others reported experiences
text: ranging from pleasant to exhilarating.
text: The SCREEN suddenly goes utterly BLACK --
speaker_heading: NARRATION (cont'd)
dialog: It seemed that depriving a man of
dialog: external stimuli simply triggered
dialog: a whole new set of internal
dialog: stimuli --
text: Suddenly, the briefest of IMAGES flicks across the
text: BLACK SCREEN, a sudden narrow band of color, mud-brown,
dialog: much too brief for us to identify anything except that
dialog: it happened --
speaker_heading: NARRATION (cont'd)
dialog: Dr. Jessup found the encephalographic
dialog: evidence especially interesting --
text: CLOSEUP of JESSUP'S monastic face again, for identifi-
dialog: cation purposes -=
speaker_heading: NARRATION (cont'd)
text: Within minutes after the activating
dialog: experience, well organized alpha
dialog: waves of forty to fifty micro-volts,
dialog: eleven to twelve seconds, appeared
dialog: in all regions +--
text: Again, a fleeting band of IMAGERY, a broader BAND,
dialog: lasting just long enough for us to see that the grains
text: in the wood that form the interior walls of the tank,
text: behind the black aluminum interior lining of the tank,
text: are SINUATING, as if they were alive --
speaker_heading: NARRATION (cont'd)
dialog: -- After fifteen minutes, there
dialog: was an increase in the alpha
dialog: amplitude, as much as thirty to
dialog: seventy micro-volts, predominantly
dialog: in the frontal and central regions --
text: The SCREEN suddenly, briefly, takes on a GRAY sheen,
text: and then, as abruptly, it foes BLACK again --
speaker_heading: NARRATION (cont'd)
text: At the half hour mark, rhythmical
dialog: waves of seven to eight seconds
dialog: appeared, and then, suddenly --
text: ANOTHER FLEETING IMAGE: too quick to be really dis
text: tinguishable, a vivid, baked--oranged FLASH with some~
text: thing WHITE and RED in it. It's on-SCREEN just long
dialog: enough for us to possibly recognize the white as some
dialog: kind of animal --
dialog: thru
dialog: 6
dialog: thru
speaker_heading: NARRATION (cont'd) 6
dialog: ~- rhythmical theta trains, six to
dialog: seven seconds, seventy to one
dialog: hundred micro-volts. This EEG
dialog: pattern was startling similar to
dialog: those of Zen priests in zazen. Dr.
dialog: Jessup founa this fascinating,
dialog: and, one Saturday afternoon in
dialog: April 1967, he decided to try
dialog: the experience for himself --
text: The IMAGES begin to come with increasing quickness now --
text: IMAGE: A stunted, dwarfed FIG TREE, shedding it's fruit --
text: IMAGE: A rocky TERRAIN, the barren Judean hills --
dialog: IMAGE: The ANIMAL we saw so briefly before, this time
text: perhaps recognizable as a lamb, a white lamb, with seven
text: eyes and seven horns. Its throat is slashed. It is
dialog: dripping blood --
text: IMAGE: The entire SCREEN is suddenly WHITE, radiant
text: white, near-to-blinding white --
text: SOUND: A sudden blare of CATHEDRAL NUSIC, organ music,
text: a snatch of Bach. A second later, it stops --
text: IMAGE: A twisted Biblical street, empty, a crooked,
text: narrow, cobbled street, twisting between the pitted
text: white walls of small stone buildings --
text: IMAGE: The SCREEN is utterly BLACK again --
scene_heading: SOUND: Jessup's BREATHING --
text: IMAGE: A fluttering image of a GREEN VERONICA, one of
dialog: those religious handkerchiefs with the face of Christ
text: painted on it, a chalk-white face of an anguished Christ
text: with little red kewpie doll spots on his cheeks, a crown
text: of thorns on his brow --
text: IMAGE: An expanse of surreal landscape -- an endless
text: stretch of brilliantly white beach -~
text: IMAGE: The sacrificial WHITE LAMB again, this time
text: lying on a rude stone altar. A curved KNIFE, held in
text: a white hand, comes slashing down and cuts the lamb's
text: throat. A BURST OF BLOOD =~
text: INAGE: A HAN lying dying on a white hospital bed in a
dialog: lemon-colored hospital room ~--
text: IMAGE: A CLOSER VIEW of the Man's FACE, a waxen~mask.
text: A bubble of air forms on nis lips which barely move;
text: ne is trying to say something. It‘s inaudible.
dialog: thru
dialog: 4,
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: thru
text: IMAGE: The green Veronica with the white Christ-face 6
text: painted on it.
text: IMAGE: Beads of red BLOOD dripping from above against
dialog: a white SCREEN --
text: IMAGE: A hailstorm of HAIL and BLOOD --
text: IMAGE: The SCREEN is BLACK again, the blackness of
text: space. A humming, droning SOUND, resonating, getting
text: louder, the drone of primal energy. A PINSPOT of
text: twinkling light, a distant star it would seem moving
text: toward us. After a moment, we recognize it isn't a
text: star, but an enormous bird, a black bird. It seems to
text: have a human face, the face of a suffering saint, an
text: agonized, martyr's face, complete with halo. The bird
text: is ba, the eternal soul of pharaonic Egypt. The face
text: is St. Sebastian's. It veers in its flight and comes
text: swooping horribly at us, filling the screen with its
dialog: enormous black wings --
text: IMAGE: The rude stone altar with the sacrificial white
text: LAMB on it. The blood drips from its slashed throat.
text: PAN DOWN the altar to the ground where a large pool of
text: blood has formed. A YOUNG WOMAN kneels at the edge of
text: the pool of blood. Her back is toward us. She is naked,
text: is washing a white Biblical robe in the pool of blood.
text: She becomes aware that she is being watched. She looks
text: over her shoulder at us. She is exquisitely beautiful.
text: She stands, faces us, a strikingly white young woman,
text: holding her robe, which, despite its bathing in blood,
text: is white and pure. PAN UP the altar to the sacrificial
text: lamb lying atop it. Its throat is still cut, its blood
text: still dripping, but its face is now the face of Christ
text: that was on the green Veronica, the chalk-white face
text: with the red kewpie doll spots on its cheeks and the
text: crown of thorns on its head.
text: IMAGE: Total, silent BLACKNESS. Suddenly, an EXPLOSION,
text: a shattering flash of brilliant whiteness fills the
text: SCREEN. A high-pitched SCREAMING DRONE of energy.
text: Waves of different colors pulsate and throb across the
text: SCREEN. One such wave bends, wrinkles, pinches up, and
text: the first particle of matter is created. The SCREEN
text: is instantly filled with innumerable FLASHES, as the
text: most primitive bits of matter smash and whirl maniacally.
text: Flares of collision. The blinding luminoslty of an
text: earlier Universe fades into the soft glow of a cooling
dialog: cloud of primordial hydrogen --
text: IMAGE: A small room with bare walls. Jessup and the
text: beautiful young Woman in a momentary fever of sexuality.
text: He has seized her from behind. His hands clutch her
text: breasts. He ravishes her neck with kisses and biting.
text: She has thrown her head back, her neck arched in
dialog: voluptuous pleasure --
dialog: thru
dialog: thru
dialog: 10
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
dialog: 13
dialog: 5.
speaker_heading: 1
text: IMAGE: A quick series of flickering images as Jessup thru
dialog: experiences an ontological dematuration -- Jessup as
dialog: embryo of eight months, then as of two weeks, then as
text: a zygote, then as a single original cell; and then back
text: up again until, with a SCREAH, Jessup re~experiences
dialog: the moment of his birth, his expulsion from his mother's
text: uterus, gasping, suffocating, screaming --
text: IMAGE: The small room with bare walls. A BED. On the
text: bed, Jessup and the Young Woman, naked, in the throes of
text: exuberant intercourse. Jessup plunging, thrusting.
text: Jessup's sweating face, his eyes wide open, his mouth
dialog: agape, as if this experience was one of shattering
text: metapnhysicality. Beneath nim, the white body of the
text: Young Woman twists, responds, her legs lock themselves
text: around Jessup's waist. Her head twists this way and
text: that. Her face, we suddenly notice, is the face of
text: Christ on the handkerchief, chalk-white with red spots
text: on her cheeks and a crown of thorns on her head. CAMERA
text: MOVES IN on the Christ-face. OVER this, the SOUND of
text: Jessup's breathing, the short, staccato panting of a man
dialog: on the verge of orgasm --
dialog: 7
speaker_heading: OMITTED thru
dialog: 10
text: We are suddenly back inside the tank. Jessup's white 11
text: mask of a face, eyes closed, cushioned in the BLACKNESS
dialog: Of the interior of the tank. OVER this, Jessup's dis-
text: embodied sexual PANTING continues, rising to crescendo.
text: At which point, his body suddenly thrashes; his legs
text: kick and splash the black water on which he floats.
text: The white mask of a face remains serene and unciianged.
text: Suddenly, everything is silent again, silent and black,
text: except for Jessup's white, sleeping face. Slowly, his
dialog: eyes open --
scene_heading: INT. ISOLATION TANK ROOM - DAY 12
text: WIDE ANGLE SHOT of the room, the black tank sitting 13
text: isolated in the middle, shrouded in shadow.
text: CLOSER SHOT LOOKING DOWN onto the tank, as the lid is
text: raised, and Jessup stands in the tank up to his waist
text: in water. He removes the EEG leads from his scalp. The
text: door in the back of the room opens, and ARTHUR ROSENBERG,
text: a thin, dark, wiry young man in his late twenties, wearing
text: casual clothes, enters, crosses down to the tank to help
text: Jessup clamber out. The conversation is matter-of-fact.
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG 13
dialog: How do you feel?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Not bad. I hallucinated like a
text: son-of-a-bitch. A variety of
dialog: dream states, mystical states,
dialog: a lot of religious allegory, mostly
dialog: out of Revelation.
text: He's at the corner of the room now where his clothing
text: is, toweling himself, putting on his shorts and pants
text: as he and Rosenberg chat.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: You were in there close to five
dialog: hours.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: It felt like an hour.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: I'd like to try that myself sometime.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: You should, you'll like it.
text: Trousered but still toweling, he heads for the door in
text: the back through which Rosenberg had entered. He goes
dialog: into --
scene_heading: INT. MONITORING ROOM ~ DAY 14
text: ~~ a small room, compactly fitted up with an oscillator
text: and a variety of recording machines, most noticeable a
text: 16 styli EEG machine. Five hours of polygraph paper
text: have piled into the cardboard bin at its side. Jessup
text: rummages about in the bin for the beginning of the
text: sheet, puts on a pair of wire-rimmed glasses, and studies
dialog: the tracings --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (as he reads)
dialog: Did we have any communication?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (standing in the
dialog: doorway behind)
dialog: Oh, sure, I kept checking you out
dialog: like you told me to.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: How'd I respond?
speaker_heading: 14 ROSEWBERG 14
dialog: Very orderly. At one point, you
dialog: were crying.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: You mean, really crying?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: You were sobbing, you had tears
dialog: on your face. I asked you what
dialog: was going on. You said you were
dialog: re-experiencing your father's death.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Did you make notes?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (indicating a loose-
dialog: leaf notebook)
dialog: It's all there.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'd like to do this again next
dialog: week, Arthur. Could you make it
dialog: again next week?
scene_heading: 14A EXT. CORNELL MEDICAL BLDG. - YORK AVE = LATE AFTERNOON 14A
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: What're we looking for?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Hell, I don't know. There's
dialog: really very little literature on
dialog: this kind or research. There's
dialog: some good people in the field --
dialog: Tart, Ornstein, Deikman -- but
dialog: most of it is radical-hip stuff,
dialog: Grug-culture apologias. Obviously,
dialog: the first thing to do is set up
dialog: some sensible methodology, see if
dialog: we can't study these experiences
dialog: under controlled laboratory
dialog: conditions. It won't interfere
dialog: with the work we're doing with
dialog: Hobart.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: What're we getting into, sensory-
dialog: deprivation? Isolation studies?
dialog: I mean, where will we be going
dialog: with this tank stuff?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: We're not writing up a grant, Arthur.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 14a
dialog: 15
dialog: 16
dialog: and
dialog: 17
dialog: 8.
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd) 14A
text: Strictly bootlegging just for kicks.
dialog: I figure as long as we've got the
dialog: use of this tank, let's play
dialog: around with it, let's find out
dialog: where it takes us. This is
dialog: fascinating stuff, Arthur, and I
dialog: think we ought to get into it --
scene_heading: INT. ROSENBERG'S APARTMENT - SUNDAY BRUNCH - DAY 15
dialog: A party of young intellectuals of the 1960's -- a lot
text: of denim and jeans, subdued Janis Joplin on the stereo
text: and joints being passed around. About a dozen PEOPLE,
dialog: all in their late twenties or early thirties, except
text: for a sculptress who is a sray-haired and aggressive
text: fifty. There is a geneticist and his wife, a biochem-
text: ist and her husband, a couple of clinical psychiatrists.
text: The Rosenberg apartment consists of four small rooms
text: clustered around a central hallway in one of those
text: battered old buildings on West End Avenue in the 90s.
dialog: There is a great deal of movement in and out of the
dialog: rooms —--
scene_heading: INT. ROSENBERG APARTMENT - HALLWAY - DAY 16
dialog: and
text: Arthur Rosenberg and ALAN HOBART, a clinical psychia- 17
text: trist in his early thirties, are sharing a joint with
text: a very pretty, confident young woman in jeans who
text: doesn't even look her twenty-four years. Her name is
text: EMILY FULBKIGHT. She is a physical anthropologist.
dialog: She is our heroine. In b.g., general party activity.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: -- I didn't even know they had one
dialog: of those isolation tanks at New
dialog: York Hospital ~-
speaker_heading: HOBART
dialog: Must be some guys in the psychology
dialog: department doing sensory-deprivation
dialog: studies. What's Jessup doing with
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: You got me. He's been taking
text: students out of nis classes and
dialog: testing them. He's been doing
dialog: this for three, four months, did
dialog: you know he was into this kind of
dialog: stuff?
speaker_heading: HOBART
dialog: Not till you just told me.
dialog: Rev. 3/6/79 9.
dialog: 16
dialog: and
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
dialog: 20
text: In b.g. the front doorbell RINGS, and SYLVIA 16
text: ROSENBERG, who is seven months pregnant, appears in and
text: the hallway, coming out of the kitchen, and makes for 17
text: the door, calling to her husband:
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: I'll get it, honey --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (who had started
dialog: for the door, re-
text: turns to Emily and
dialog: Hobart )
dialog: He's the last guy in the world I
dialog: figurea to be screwing around with
dialog: anything as flaky as altered states
dialog: of consciousness.
speaker_heading: HOBART
dialog: Well, let's face it, Jessup is
dialog: pretty flaky himself.
text: Across the three of them down the length of the hall-
text: way to the front door where Sylvia Rosenberg is now
text: admitting Jessup with much hugging and affection --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (to Emily)
dialog: That's him.
text: Emily is clearly interested in the man. She openly
text: appraises him from her end of the hallway, apparently
text: likes the bespectacled, monkish, fine featured face.
text: SYLVIA ROSENBERG herds Jessup into the living room.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY OF ROSENBERG'S APARTHENT - THE PARTY - 16
scene_heading: TWENTY WINUTES LATER ~ DAY
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY NEAR LIVING ROOM - DAY 19
text: Emily comes out of the kitchen, crosses into --
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - DAY 20
text: where she stands a moment, surveying the room. We're
text: having Jimi Hendrix on the STEREO now. The room doesn't
text: have too much furniture -- an overstuffed chair on which
text: Sylvia is heavily emplanted, and a sofa, at one end of
text: which Jessup is seated. At the other end of the couch,
text: the Sculptress is sort of making a play for the genet-
text: icist's Wife. There 1s an open space on the couch next
dialog: to Jessup for which Emily heads, not all that easy a
text: journey since the rest of the people in the room are
text: lounging about on Levantine cushions on the floor or
text: perched on the enormous round coffee table in the middle.
dialog: 20
dialog: 10.
text: Jessup seems a bit out of things, distracted by his own20
dialog: thoughts.
text: A joint is being passed around. When it
text: reaches Jessup, he declines to puff but passes it along
text: to the biochemist sitting on a wooden folding chair at
text: his elbow.
dialog: She waits
text: Emily slides into the open seat beside him.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Arthur says you're very shy, and
dialog: he wants me to draw you out.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Draw me out? Doesn't sound like
dialog: Arthur.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Well, what he actually said was
dialog: you were a high-handed, arrogant
dialog: prick, a little nuts but brilliant,
dialog: and that if I ever got you talking,
dialog: I would find you fascinating.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: That sounds more like Arthur.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: He says you're doing some work
dialog: with him and Alan Hobart at
dialog: Payne-Whitney.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What sort of work?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Toxic metabolite stuff.
text: for more; he presses on with little enthusiasm.
speaker_heading: “ JESSUP
dialog: We're more or less replicating
dialog: Heath's and Friedhof's strategies,
dialog: trying to find maverick substances
dialog: specific to schizophrenia. I
dialog: think we're chasing our tails.
dialog: What do you do?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm a physical anthropologist.
text: I'm sweating out my dissertation.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Columbia.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES - Rev. 3/5/79 ii.
dialog: 20
speaker_heading: 20A
speaker_heading: JESSUP 20
dialog: Holloway and that bunch?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: You're kind of young for a Ph.D.,
dialog: aren't you?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm twenty-four.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: That's still pretty good. I
dialog: didn't get my Ph.D. until I was
dialog: twenty-five, and I'm supposed
dialog: to be a whiz kid.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm a whiz kid too.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Where's Arthur? Where's the
dialog: mustard?
text: Emily shows Jessup where the mustard is.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Anthropology seems to attract
dialog: good-looking women.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Thank you.
text: They smile agreeably at each other; they have obviously
dialog: hit it off well.
scene_heading: EXT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY CAMPUS - SEVERAL HOURS LATER 20A
speaker_heading: - DUSK
text: Emily and Jessup walk across campus. They are engrossed
dialog: in each other.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I've always been interested in
dialog: interior experiences, especially
dialog: the religious experience. The
dialog: only reason I'm working with
dialog: schizophrenics now is because the
dialog: religious experience is so
dialog: significant in schizophrenia.
dialog: Rev.
dialog: 20a
speaker_heading: 3/6/79
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: ... And there's just so much you
dialog: can do with animals. I worked with
dialog: monkeys for two years. But
dialog: monkeys can't tell you what's going
dialog: on in their consciousness. You
dialog: need human beings for that. And
dialog: you're not allowed to ablate human
dialog: beings, and you can't stick
dialog: electrodes in their skulls. So I
dialog: have to use some kind of trance-
dialog: inducing technique, and the
dialog: isolation tank seemed the least
dialog: risky.
text: Their eyes catch. There is clearly something alive
dialog: between them.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Listen, I'd like to go home with
dialog: you tonight, will that be all
dialog: right with you?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I have a roommate, we'll be
text: confined to the living room couch.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: What's wrong with the living room
dialog: couch?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You tend to slip off a lot.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'm sure we'll manage.
speaker_heading: EMIYY
dialog: I'm sure we will.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: So whenever you want to go there,
dialog: let me know.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: How about right now?
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: 20A
scene_heading: ALTERED STATEg - Rev. 3/5/79
dialog: 21
dialog: thru
dialog: 23
scene_heading: INT. EMILY'S FLAT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Dark. Two white bodies thrashing on the dark sofa.
text: Culmination. Emily thrusts up, burying her face in
text: Jessup's shoulder to avoid crying out. His moonlit
text: back beaded with sweat. She subsides back onto the
text: sofa, opens her eyes --
text: HER POV - Jessup's transfixed face. His eyes are wide
text: open, rigidly staring into space, entranced.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What are you thinking about?
text: For a moment, he doesn't seem to hear her. Then, the
text: entranced look dissipates --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (mutters )
dialog: God, Jesus, crucifixions.
text: He rolls off her, slides down onto the floor, his back
text: against her legs.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Well, just so long as it wasn't
text: another woman.
dialog: Nevertheless, it had been a curious moment and an odd
text: thing to say. She tries to see his face in the dark-
text: ness, finally slips off the sofa and joins him sitting
text: on the floor leaning back against the sofa.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: As a rule, do you usually think
dialog: about Christ and crucifixions
dialog: under sexual stress?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (takes a moment to
dialog: consider his answer)
dialog: When I was nine years old, I used
dialog: to see visions, visions of saints
dialog: and angels, even Christ himself.
dialog: I saw him with the eyes of faith,
text: hanging on the cross, his vesture
dialog: dipped in blood. I had a whole
dialog: cult that grew up around me.
dialog: People came from all over to see
dialog: this kid who had visions of Christ.
dialog: I got mixed up with a little
text: Pentacostal church in South Yonkers.
dialog: In the middle of services, I would
text: suddenly become transfixed, begin
dialog: to babble in voices, and I would
dialog: prophesy. Of course, I don't do
dialog: that any more, not since I was
dialog: sixteen.
dialog: 13.
dialog: al
dialog: thru
dialog: 23
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES - Rev. 3/5/79 13A.
text: 21 She studies his shadowed face in the dark room, 21
dialog: thru thru
speaker_heading: 23 EMILY 23
dialog: Were your parents religious?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Anything but. My father was an
dialog: aeronautical engineer, my mother
dialog: a clinical psychologist.
speaker_heading: Rev. 3/6/79
text: 21 She watches him, fascinated.
dialog: thru
speaker_heading: 23 EMILY
dialog: What happened? I mean, how did
text: a little kid who saw visions of
dialog: Christ turn into a physiologist
dialog: teaching at the Cornell Medical
dialog: College?
text: He looks at her for the first time, agreeably but
text: strangely detached.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I stopped believing. It was very
dialog: dramatic. My father died a
dialog: protracted and painful death of
dialog: cancer. I was sixteen years old
dialog: and very fond of my father. I
dialog: used to race to the hospital
dialog: every day after school and sit in
dialog: his room doing my homework. He
text: was very heavily sedated. The
dialog: last few weeks he was in coma.
dialog: One day, I thought I heard him say
text: something, I looked up. His lips
text: were moving, but no sound came out.
text: There was his yellow-waxen face
text: on the white pillow, and his lips
text: were moving.. A little bubble
text: formed on his lips. I got up and
text: leaned over him, my ear an inch
dialog: away from his lips. "Did you say
dialog: something, Pop?" Then, I heard
dialog: the word he was desperately trying
text: to say, a soft hiss of a word. He
dialog: was saying: “Terrible -- terrible!"
dialog: So the end was terrible, even for
dialog: the good people like my father. So
dialog: the purpose of all our suffering
dialog: was just more suffering. By dinner
dialog: time, I had dispensed with God
dialog: altogether. I never saw another
dialog: vision. I haven't told anybody
dialog: about this in ten years. I'm
dialog: telling you now because I want you
dialog: to know what sort of a nut you
dialog: might be getting mixed up with.
text: They stare at each other in the dark room.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Arthur was right. You are a
dialog: fascinating bastard.
dialog: 14.
dialog: 21
dialog: thru
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: EXT. 68TH AND YORK AVENUE - DECEMBER 1967 - DAY 24
text: Bright, sunny day. Emily, in winter coat and jeans,
text: flusned a cheerful red by the cold weather, crossing
text: the courtyard in front of New York Hospital. She turns
dialog: up a pathway to Payne-Whitney; we know it's Payne-
text: Whitney because there is a sign clearly marked: Payne-
dialog: Whitney Psychiatric Clinic.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - PAYNE-WHITHEY ~ DECEMBER 1967 - DAY 25
text: Long institutional corridor. A white-coated DOCTOR
text: (aged 45) brings a WOMAN PATIENT down the hall. The
text: Woman is twenty-eight years old, wears ordinary street
text: clothes, a blouse and jeans, but is manifestly mad. She
text: has that razor-sharp look, and she glgsles and shuffles
text: as the Doctor moves her along.
text: A stairway door opens, and Emily enters, pauses by the
text: door to let the Patient and Doctor pass; they disapoear
text: into a room down the hall. Emily heads for the door
dialog: just before that one.
scene_heading: INT. AN OBSERVATION ROOM = DAY 26
text: as Emily enters. Jessup is already there, standing,
text: observing through the one-way window. He wears a
text: rumpled sports jacket, slipover sweater, shapeless
text: chinos. Through the window, we can see into a family-
dialog: therapy room where the Patient we had seen in the hall-
text: way a moment before is now being seated on a leather
text: chair, the sort of chair which can unfold back into a
text: reclining chair. Alan Hobart, in a long doctor’s coat,
dialog: is being reassuring to the Patient. We can HEAR his
text: friendly voice via a speaker on the wall.
speaker_heading: HOBART'S VOICE
dialog: (on speaker)
dialog: You're looking really fine today,
text: Phyllis, much less agitated than
dialog: last time. Are you feeling better?
text: The Patient giggles, shuffles her feet, stares vaguely
text: at the floor.
text: Emily joins Jessup at the window; they exchange a brief
dialog: smile.
text: In the therapy room, Rosenberg, also in a long white
text: doctor's coat, is reading from the Patient's records
text: on a clipboard. A MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, (young woman,
text: aged twenty-five), also in doctor's coat, is preparing
text: the EEG leads. They also greet the Patient affably:
text: the Patient sits, giggling, her head bobbing.
dialog: 
dialog: Rev.
dialog: 26
dialog: 3/6/79 16.
speaker_heading: HOBART'S VOICE (cont'd)
dialog: (on speaker, affable,
dialog: reassuring)
dialog: We're going to do all the tests
dialog: we did last time, do you remember
dialog: them? Doctor Antonini is standing
dialog: right here in the room with you,
dialog: so there's nothing to worry about.
dialog: We'll put the EEG leads on you now,
dialog: if it's okay with you.
text: The Patient responds to nothing, stares emptily at the
text: floor. Hobart tells the Technician to go ahead with
text: the application of the leads, which she does. Rosenberg,
text: holding blood pressure equipment, pulls up a chair with
dialog: an amiable ~=-
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG'S VOICE
dialog: (over the speaker)
dialog: How's it going, Phyllis?
text: He wraps the blood pressure cuff around her arm, takes
dialog: her pressure.
text: In the Observation Room, Emily and Jessup stand sil-
text: ently, side by side at the window, observing.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (after a moment)
dialog: Well,.it's settled. Metcalfe
dialog: spoke to Spencer again this morning,
dialog: and it's definite -- the job's
dialog: mine. So I'll be in Nairobi doing
dialog: my post-doec work iiay, June and
dialog: July, and, in September, I'll be
dialog: teaching at Harvard.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Terrific.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: So it looks like we'll both be
dialog: teaching at Harvard in September.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Looks that way.
text: Unable to keep her cool any longer, Emily turns to face
text: Jessup, her face glowing with delight.
speaker_heading: ENILY
dialog: ily God, Eddie, you can't get any
dialog: tidler than that! We're going to .
dialog: be together in Goston and I think we *
dialog: should get married.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I wish you hadnit said that.
speaker_heading: ALTERED STATES
dialog: 26
dialog: Rev. 3/8/79 17.
speaker_heading: EMILY 26
dialog: The idea had to come up sooner or
dialog: later, you must've known that.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: You know, of course, I'm supposed
dialog: to be at least a little bit nuts.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: A little bit! You're a mad monk,
dialog: an unmitigated madman. -- So you
dialog: don't have to tell me how weird
dialog: you are. I know how weird you are.
dialog: I'm the girl in your bed the last
dialog: three months and even sex is a
dialog: mystical experience for you. You
text: carry on like a flagellant, which
dialog: can be very nice, but I sometimes
dialog: wonder if it's me that's being
dialog: made love to. I feel like I'm being
text: harpooned by some raging priest in
dialog: the act of receiving God.
text: She would go on but is interrupted by VOICES issuing
text: from the loudspeaker.
speaker_heading: HOBART'S VOICE
dialog: ~= the same? ~-
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG'S VOICE
dialog: (rewarpping the
dialog: sphygmomanometer )
dialog: -- Yeah --
text: Hobart makes a note in his notebook.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: -- You're -- a Faust freak, Eddie.
dialog: You'd sell your soul to find the
dialog: great truth. Well, human life
dialog: doesn't have great truths. We're
dialog: born screaming in doubt, and we
dialog: spend our lives persuading ourselves
dialog: we're actually alive. One of the
dialog: ways we know we're alive is we love
dialog: each other. Like I love you. I
dialog: can't imagine living without you.
dialog: So let's get married, and if it
dialog: turns out to be a disaster, it'll
dialog: be a disaster, and we'll shake
text: hands and say good-bye.
text: In the therapy room, Rosenberg is giving the Patient
dialog: 26
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: JESSUP 26
dialog: (to Emily)
text: He's giving her dimethyltryptamine.
text: It takes effect in about a minute,
dialog: and she'll trip out for about
text: half an hour.
text: He abruptly leaves Emily's side and exits into the
text: therapy room, visible instantly through the one-way
text: window, moving in the b.g. of the room to stand over
text: the portable EEG machine, watching the tracings. In
text: f.g., we begin to see a noticeable change in the Patient.
text: She stops her giggling and shuffling, sits stiffly,
text: more controlled, and the vaguely terrified vacuity
text: of her expression abruptly changes to one of intense
text: concentration, almost trance-like. Hobart is asking
dialog: her his soft questions again --
speaker_heading: HOBART'S VOICE
dialog: (over the speaker)
dialog: Do you feel different now?
speaker_heading: PATIENT
dialog: (startlingly re-
dialog: sponsive)
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: HOBART
dialog: Less anxious?
speaker_heading: PATIENT
dialog: Much less.
speaker_heading: HOBART
dialog: Do you have any special feelings?
speaker_heading: PATIENT
dialog: (after a moment)
dialog: I feel like my heart is being
dialog: touched by Christ.
text: Jessup is back again in the monitoring room. They
text: watch Hobart draw a triangle on a slate and ask the
text: Patient to duplicate it. She manages to draw one leg
text: of the triangle but seems stumped after that.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: There's a lot of religious
text: delusion among acute schizophrenics.
dialog: Some guys say scnizophrenics are
dialog: physically different from the rest
dialog: of us. It's almost as if they were
dialog: trying to change their physical
dialog: selves to adapt to their
text: schizophrenic image of themselves.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: Rev.
dialog: 26
speaker_heading: 26A
dialog: 27
speaker_heading: 3/6/79
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd)
dialog: Look, we'll get married since it's
dialog: that important to you. I don't
dialog: want to lose you. I'm not
dialog: comfortable with wowen, and I'm
dialog: not likely to find anyone half as
dialog: remarkable as you again. I think
dialog: I can make a reasonably good husband.
dialog: You understand I'd rather not get
dialog: married, but I'll go along with it.
dialog: I don't want to lose you, you see.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I suppose that's the closest thing
dialog: to a declaration of love I'll ever
dialog: get out of you.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Am I really that weird in bed?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Sometimes.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Shall I try to change?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: No, I kind of like it.
scene_heading: EXT. PINCKNEY STREET - BOSTON - APRIL 1975 -
speaker_heading: SATUHDAY ~ DAY
text: Jessup is walking down Pinckney Street. He is seven
dialog: years olaer, and, when we see him closer on, we will
text: see he is beginning to bald just a bit. At the moment,
text: ne is trunaling his two-year-old DAUGHTER in a stroller
text: with his left hand and holding a large supermarket bag
text: of groceries with his right. Hopping along behind is
text: his five-year-old DAUGHTER. Jessup is in animated
text: discussion with a big, fully bearded, booniing bear of
text: aman, aged thirty-eight, MASON PARRISH. Two young
text: professors on a Saturday afternoon, and they look every
text: bit of it. Parrish smokes a pipe. Jessup wears 2
text: sleeveless sweater and neatly pressed slacks. They
text: pause for a KID on a bicycle to wheel his way past them
text: out onto the street. Jessup even waves to a NEIGHBOR
text: sitting on nis stoop.
scene_heading: EXT. BOSTON ~ MYRTLE STREET -. APRIL 1975 - SATURDAY
speaker_heading: P.M. ~ DAY
text: A pretty, tree-lined block in the Beacon Hill district,
text: red-brick, ivy-covered townhouses, Volkswagens and
text: station wagons parked along the curbs.
dialog: 26
dialog: 19.
dialog: 26a
dialog: 27
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 20.
dialog: 27
text: Arthur Rosenberg, seven years older, and a bit less 27
text: Bohemian, leans against a station wagon. He wears a
text: sports jacket with leather patches, a tieless shirt,
text: is bent forward amiably engaged in conversation with
text: his six-year-old SON. He cuffs the kid affectionately.
text: The kid trots back and up the stoop and into the house
text: bhey are standing in front of. Rosenberg looks up the
dialog: block --
text: ROSENBERG'S POV = Down at the end of the block, Jessup
text: can be seen turning the corner off Revere. It is simply
dialog: too suburban for words, and Rosenbeg can't help smil-
text: ing. The two men are so engrossed in their talk they
dialog: don't notice Rosenberg, even when they are practically
dialog: on top of him --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: If I didn't see this, I wouldn't
dialog: believe it.
text: Jessup stops, stares --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: My God! You weren't supposed to
dialog: be here till next week! You got
dialog: bald. *
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: So did you. *
text: They pump each other's hands.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Are these new?
dialog: (refers to *
dialog: Jessup's glasses)
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: My God! This is sensational!
dialog: (to Parrish)
dialog: Mason, this is the Rosenberg I'm
dialog: always telling you about!
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (an .ebullient good
dialog: old boy from West
dialog: Virginia, grabs
dialog: Rosenberg's hand)
dialog: It sure is!
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: When did you get into town?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: About three days ago. Are these
dialog: your kids?
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
dialog: thru
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: ho
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: They are. Where's Sylvia, is she
dialog: with you?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
text: She's inside with Emily --
speaker_heading: OMITTED
scene_heading: INT. THE JESSUP APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Sylvia Rosenberg, pregnant again, rising from the
text: kitchen table where she's been having coffee with
text: Emily, shrieking with delight as Jessup, Rosenberg,
text: (carrying the two-year-old Jessup kid who is erying)
text: Parrish, the groceries, the stroller are all making
text: their way in from the entrance foyer. Sylvia tears
text: across the living room to embrace Jessup, tears in
text: her eyes. Everybody talks at once --
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: Oh, my God, oh, my God, you look
dialog: so wonderful!
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (notices as he
text: embraces her, she
dialog: is pregnant )
dialog: When did this happen? Have you
dialog: found a place yet?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Yeah, we got a nice little place
dialog: near Huntington Field --
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: Oh, my God, it's been seven years!
dialog: Since we moved to San Francisco!
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (to Parrish, who is
dialog: bearing the
dialog: groceries to
dialog: the kitchen)
dialog: Arthur's going to teach at Boston U --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (exiting into the
dialog: kitchen as a beam-
dialog: ing Emily comes out)
dialog: So Eddie's been telling me --
dialog: 21.
dialog: 27
dialog: 28
dialog: thru
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: 4o
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: 4o
text: The Rosenberg BOY comes out of the kids' room,
text: silently regards all this adult effusion. At that
text: moment, the Jessup five-year-old slips into the
text: room. Parrish, back from the kitchen, swoops her
text: up to her shrieking delight.
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: (releasing Jessup)
dialog: I can't believe it's been seven
dialog: years since we've actually seen
dialog: you people.
dialog: 21a.
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: ho
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES ~ Rev. 3/5/79 22.
text: 38 Rosenberg stands and beams at this jolly scene of re- 38
dialog: thru union. The apartment -- the ground floor, three rooms,thru
text: 4o two baths, kitchen -- is a scholarly shambles. Piles 40
text: of books clot the entrance foyer and are strewn around
text: the floors in every room. Emily apparently has set up
text: a ccrner for herself in the living room, a bridge table
text: for a desk, a typewriter barely visible among the welter
dialog: of papers, periodicals, scholarly journals, students!
text: theses, one of which is now fluttering off the bridge
text: table down onto the floor. Everybody is talking at
dialog: once --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (across the room
dialog: to Emily)
dialog: I hear you just got associate
dialog: professor <-
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Yeah, terrific!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (to Jessup)
dialog: You guys must be loaded, two
dialog: professors in the family --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Listen, we've got a place in Maine
dialog: you can use for the summer. I'n
dialog: going to Africa again in June.
dialog: Eddie'll be in Mexico.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (plunking himself
dialog: down in one of
dialog: the torn over-
dialog: stuffed chairs)
dialog: Listen, do you know a guy named
dialog: Eccheverria, University of Mexico,
dialog: says he worked with you in California?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (removing some books,
dialog: so he can sit in
dialog: the other chair)
dialog: Sure. A very bright young guy.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: He's here in Boston at the Botanical
dialog: tiuseum. We'll all have to get
dialog: together. I'm going back to
dialog: Mexico with him in June.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: What's in Mexico?
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 23.
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: 4o
speaker_heading: JESSUP 38
dialog: Well, Eccheverria's got this witch thru
dialog: doctor down there, the Hinci 4o
text: Indians. An isolated tribe in
dialog: Central Mexico who still practice
dialog: the ancient Toltec rituals, sacred
dialog: mushroom ceremonies, that sort
dialog: of thing. Apparently, they use
dialog: some kind of hallucinatory drug
dialog: that's supposed to evoke a common
dialog: experience for all users.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Sounds improbable.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (enters)
text: Eddie, Maggie has fallen asleep
dialog: on the couch. Will you take care
dialog: of her?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (takes a beat
dialog: to register)
dialog: Sure.
text: Jessup scoops up his two year old daughter sprawled
text: on the couch.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Did you ever get into an isolation
dialog: tank since New York?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: No, have you?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: No, but I've just found out they've
dialog: got one here at the medical school.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: No kidding. I thought those things
dialog: went out in the sixties.
text: He carries the sleeping child across the living room
text: toward the back corridor. Rosenberg gets up to
text: Behind them, Emily comes out of the kitchen
text: with a tray of coffee cups and Toll House cookies.
text: Parrish is lying on the living room floor pretending
dialog: to have been knocked cold by the Rosenberg boy and
text: the older Jessup girl; the kids are amused.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (en route carrying
dialog: his kid)
dialog: I thought we did some pretty
dialog: interesting stuff in that tank in
dialog: New York...
speaker_heading: (MORE )
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: 4o
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd)
dialog: «+. for the couple of months we
dialog: played around with it. When I
dialog: come back from tiexico, maybe
dialog: we'll get into it again.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Why not?
dialog: 23A.
dialog: #
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: 40
dialog: 38
dialog: thru
dialog: 4o
dialog: 41
dialog: 24,
text: Jessup disappears into the kids' bedroom. Rosenberg 38
text: pauses outside the master bedroom to watch his preg~ thru
text: nant wife tidying up in front of the mirror. This room4o
text: isn't much more orderly than the living room. Jessup's
text: work area is here, an honest three-drawer filing cabinet,
text: an escritoire, a wall lined with bookshelves and packed
text: with texts and journals and Jessup's own notes, thick
text: hardbound looseleaf notebooks, neatly labeled. The
text: rest of the room is in chaos. The large double bed
text: is still unmade, and yesterday's clothing is flung
text: over the backs of chairs or piled on the floor.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (notes to his wife)
dialog: A terrific housekeeper she's not.
text: Sylvia beckons him into ~~
scene_heading: INT. THE MASTER BEDROOM - DAY 4L
text: Rosenberg joins his wife at the bureau.
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: They're getting divorced, you know.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (startled)
dialog: Who? What're you talking about?
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: I don't know if they're actually
dialog: getting divorced; they're splitting
text: up. She and the kids are moving
dialog: to a furnished place in Cambridge,
dialog: and that's why the place is such
dialog: amess. They're moving her stuff
dialog: into storage tomorrow. Then she's
dialog: going to Africa with the kids for
dialog: a year, and he's going to iiexico,
dialog: and, when she comes back, she’s
dialog: going to live in Cambridge, and
dialog: he's staying here. It's him wants
dialog: the divorce, not her. Listen,
dialog: I'm surprised they stayed together
dialog: this long.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: When did all this happen?
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: She just told me five minutes ago.
text: Rosenberg stares at his wife, then leans out into the
text: corridor and looks down to the kids' room where Jessup
text: can be seen gently covering up his two-year-old daughter
text: with a blanket.
dialog: yy
dialog: 42
dialog: 43
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG 4.
dialog: What happened to all those letters
dialog: she kept writing us how happy they
dialog: were?
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: Don't ask me. She's still crazy
dialog: about him, and he's still crazy.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: . (mutters ) .
dialog: Jesus Christ --
dialog: He goes into --
scene_heading: INT. THE BACK CORRIDOR - DAY 42
dialog: and down that to --
scene_heading: INT. THE KIDS' BEDROOM ~- DAY 43
text: -~ where he stands in the doorway watching Jessup, now
text: at the window lowering the shade, darkening the room.
text: Even in the lesser light, the room is obviously in a
text: state of being packed. There are opened cardboard
text: eartons here and there and little girls' dresses still
text: on their hangars on the beds and toys piled in haphazard
dialog: heaps. :
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Listen, Sylvia just told me you're
dialog: getting divorced.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Well, we're separating anyway. We
dialog: probably won‘t get around to the
dialog: divorce till next year.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Look, it's none of my business,
dialog: but why? You're married to one
dialog: of the great women of the world,
dialog: who adores you. You're obviously
dialog: a devoted father. My God, if
dialog: anybody's got it made, you have.
dialog: You're a respected and admired
text: figure, a full vrofessor on the
dialog: faculty of the Harvard Medical
dialog: School --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (good-naturedly )
dialog: Oh, for God's sake, Arthur, is
dialog: that how you imagine me -- a
dialog: respected and admired figure?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 43
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd) 43
dialog: A devoted father? A loving husband?
dialog: Well, I've also published nearly
dialog: two papers a year for the last
dialog: seven years, and not a fundamental
dialog: piece of work in the lot. And I
dialog: don't know why you're so startled
dialog: we're getting divorced. You're
dialog: the one who thought she was crazy
dialog: to marry me in the first place.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Well, that's true.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Well, don't be too upset. It's
dialog: an amicable separation. Nobody's
dialog: mad at anyone, and the marriage
dialog: itself was sufferable, as sufferable
dialog: as any of the others around. I
dialog: think I've played my part well.
dialog: I take the kids to the zoo. I stay
dialog: up with them when they're ill,
dialog: I romp with them when they're well.
text: I sit around the living rooms of
dialog: other young married faculty members
text: talking infantile masturbation,
text: who's sucking up to the head of
dialog: the department and whose tenure is
text: hanging by a thread. Emily's
dialog: quite content to go on with this
text: life. She insists she’s in love
dialog: with me, whatever that is. What
dialog: she means is she prefers the
dialog: senseless pain we inflict on each
dialog: other to the pain we would other-
dialog: wise inflict on ourselves. But
dialog: I'm not afraid of that solitary
dialog: pain. In fact, if I don't strip
dialog: myself of ali this clatter and
dialog: clutter and ridiculous ritual,
dialog: I shall go out of my fucking mind.
dialog: Does that answer your question,
dialog: Arthur?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: What question was that?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: You asked me why I was getting
dialog: divorced.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Listen, it's your life. I'm sorry
dialog: I even asked.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 27.
dialog: 43
dialog: 4h
dialog: *
text: He turns to go. Behind him, Jessup stands on the far 43
text: side of his daughter's bed, his eyes suddenly white
text: in the grayness of the room. The monkish, zealot
text: cast of his face has never been more evident.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I want to be alone again, renounce
dialog: the rubbish of it all, mortify my
dialog: flesh, scourge my spirit. I want
dialog: to get down to the embedded rock
dialog: of life, what Saint John would call
text: the bare and barren soul.
text: He suddenly smiles, emerges out of the grayness of
text: the room to where Rosenberg stands in the spill of
text: light by the doorway. He is honestly fond of
text: Rosenberg. He rests his hand on his friend's shoulder.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Why don't I call Eccheverria, and
dialog: we'll all go out and have dinner --
scene_heading: INT. DOM'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT ay
text: A noisy, cheerful table, eight voluble academics, all
text: in their mid and late thirties, gabbling away, swill-
text: ing their wine, stowing their pasta down. They are
dialog: all talking at once, and we don't need to hear any-
dialog: thing clearly, but this is what they are saying --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (to Parrish's girl
dialog: for the night, a
dialog: second year med
dialog: student from
dialog: Massachusetts General)
dialog: -~ What differentiates man from the
dialog: chimpanzee, for example, is that
dialog: man needs tools for survivial and
dialog: therefore evolved a cortical
dialog: structure that could make use of
dialog: tools --
dialog: (to Rosenberg who
dialog: is thrusting a
dialog: petition form and
dialog: a pen at her)
dialog: Oh, for God's sake, Arthur, you
dialog: haven't been in Boston a week, and
dialog: you're already a member of the
dialog: Committee of Concerned Scientists --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Just sign the damn thing, Emily --
dialog: 44
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: EXILY 44
dialog: (signing and rattling
dialog: on to Parrish's girl
dialog: as she does)
dialog: A chimpanzee might use a stick to
text: dig into a termite hill, but he
dialog: can survive as a species without
text: it. A baboon, whose diet is almost
dialog: exclusively vegetarian, will take
dialog: half an hour to dig up a root. It's
dialog: just never occurred to baboons
dialog: they could shorten that time to
dialog: five minutes if tney used a stick.
dialog: Originally, man was just another
dialog: savanna-living primate like the
dialog: baboon --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (flirting with
dialog: Eccheverria's girl,
dialog: a botanist from the
dialog: Botanical Museum)
dialog: -- Nobody really knows hew memory
dialog: works, Apparently, we remember
dialog: everything we sense for about fifty
text: milliseconds. Then it disappears
dialog: or is selectively fixed in our
dialog: consciousness. Now, you being a
dialog: botanist, sure as hell know puromycin
dialog: can wipe out a memory, and
dialog: sympathomimetic drugs like
dialog: strychnine, dextroamphetamine,
dialog: et cetera can sti:ulate the
dialog: retention of memory. But these
dialog: are all poisonous, addictive,
dialog: induce convulsions, and are alien
text: to the body. The fact that a small
dialog: chain of amino acids, ACTH four to
dialog: seven, a natural substance of the
dialog: body, is instrumental in fixing
dialog: memory is, I think, particularly
dialog: interesting. This, however,
dialog: raises another question. ACTH is
dialog: a peptide. Its secretory rates
dialog: are influenced by stress. Does
dialog: ACTH actually code learning or
dialog: does it only relate to hormonal
dialog: substances that formed aue to
dialog: stress? You really interested in
dialog: this shit, honey? Because, if you
dialog: are, I'll be glad to go into it
dialog: more deeply any night this week --
dialog: 44
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG 44
dialog: (now around to harras-
dialog: sing Eecheverria, an
dialog: elegant senor, with
dialog: his petition)
dialog: ~- We scientists have a moral
dialog: obligation to the public as well
dialog: as to our own research. Some of
dialog: those shotgun fragments could
dialog: augment a bacterium's ability to
dialog: produce disease. For God's sake,
text: they're chopping up fruitflies
dialog: and inserting the segments into
text: E coli and mass-producing bacteria.
dialog: We're dealing with a fistful of
dialog: unknowns. We can only identify
dialog: a couple of the genes. And now
dialog: there's a lot of talk about
dialog: sticking a P-3 lab here in
dialog: Cambridge. They've already got
dialog: them at Stanford and the U or H,
dialog: and the whole thing with tumor
text: viruses is already out of hand at
dialog: Woods Hole. We could wipe out
dialog: the planet if we don't watch out,
dialog: so Just sign the damn thing,
dialog: Eduardo --
dialog: If we can make anything out of all this esoteric jabber,
dialog: it will be Jessup's discourse to Sylvia Rosenberg, sit-
text: ting at his right. Jessup, who is having a lot more
text: wine than he usually does, is loaded and talking
dialog: loudly --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (to Sylvia
dialog: Rosenberg)
dialog: -~ As a matter of fact, the year
dialog: I spent in India was disappointing.
dialog: No matter how you slice it, yoga
dialog: is still a state-specific
dialog: technology operating in the
dialog: service of an a priori belief
dialog: system, not much different from
text: other trance-inducing techniques.
dialog: What dignifies the yogic practices
dialog: is that the belief system itself
dialog: is not truly religious. There is
dialog: no Buddhist god per se. It is the
dialog: Self, the individual Hind, that
dialog: contains immortality and ultimate
dialog: truth --
dialog: Ay
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: EMILY 4a
dialog: (interrupting her
dialog: own colloquy to
dialog: shout from her end
dialog: of the table)
dialog: What the hell's not religious
dialog: about that? You've simply replaced
dialog: God with the Original Self!
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: : (shouts back)
dialog: Yes, but we've localized it! At
dialog: least, we know where the Self is!
dialog: It's in our own minds!
dialog: (he stands, not
dialog: too sturdily)
dialog: It's a form of human energy! Our
dialog: atoms are six billion years old!
dialog: We've got six billion years of
dialog: memory in our minds! Hell, our
dialog: hydrogen atoms are even older!
dialog: (he has begun to
dialog: weave a bit in
dialog: and out of his
dialog: Place at the
dialog: table)
dialog: Memory is energy! It doesn't
dialog: Gisappear! It’s still in there! --
dialog: (he wheels to
dialog: Rosenberg, ig-
dialog: noring the ner-
dialog: vous interest he
dialog: is causing at
dialog: neighboring tables)
dialog: There's a physiological pathway to
dialog: our earlier consciousnesses! There
dialog: has to be! snd I'm telling you it's
dialog: in the goddamned limbic system -- !
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (roaring happily)
dialog: Jessup, you are a whacko!
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: What's whacko about it, Mason?
dialog: I'm aman in search of his true
dialog: self. How archtypically American
dialog: can you get? Everybody's looking
dialog: for their true selves. We're all
dialog: trying to fulfill ourselves, under-
dialog: stand ourselves, get in touch with
dialog: ourselves, face the reality of
dialog: ourselves, explore ourselves, expand
dialog: oursclves,. fver since we dispensed
dialog: with God, we've got nothing but our
dialog: selves ts oxplain this meaningless
dialog: horror of life.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: Kw wrirgey
dialog: 31.
scene_heading: 45 EXT. ZAPATECUS PROVINCE, MEXICO - JULY 1975 - LONG 45
dialog: 46
speaker_heading: SHOT - DAY
text: The terrifying sierras of Central Mexico. As far as the eye
text: can see, from horizon to horizon, rugged crags and violently
text: plunging gorges, seemingly uninhabitable.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN TERRAIN (ON THE WAY TO SACRED MUSHROOM FIELDS)- DAY 46
text: Precipitously surrounded by the brutal mountains. Shattering
text: splashes of color -- blue agave and yellow chaparral, and the crags
text: of the blue-black mountains are almost orange in the sun.
text: ANOTHER ANGLE ACROSS Jessup in T-shirt and khaki shorts, and Eccheverria,
text: talking while they climb. Making their way up the mountain, Jessup
text: carries a Sony tape recorder. Eccheverria is holding samples of
dialog: leaves and roots --
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: (while climbing)
dialog: — the mushrooms are almost certainly
dialog: certainly amanita muscaria, a very
dialog: powerful psychedelic and a little
dialog: dangerous. It contains some
dialog: belladonna alkaloids, atropine,
dialog: scopolamine. The sinicuiche plant
dialog: is highly regarded among a number
dialog: of Indian tribes. I've seen it
dialog: as far north as Chihuahua. It
dialog: should be especially interesting
dialog: for you. The Indians say it
dialog: evokes old memories, even ancient
dialog: ones. The Hinchis call it the
dialog: First Flower.
speaker_heading: JESSUP ,
dialog: First in the sense of primordial? | .
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA / i |
dialog: Yes, in the sense of the most '
dialog: ancient.
text: Jessup and Eccheverria have reached the top and WE SEE THEIR POV
text: a plateau-like valley, precipitously surrounded by the brutal
text: mountains. Shattering splashes of color --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'd like to try it. Do you think
dialog: they'll let me join in their ritual?
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: They seem like agreeable people.”
scene_heading: ” 47 EXT. THE HINCHL HOME VALLEY - DAY
dialog: 48
text: Moving slowly across the plateau like cotton-pickers,
dialog: the Hinchi tribe, all sixty of them, in their
text: loincloths and cotton shirts and print dresses, are
text: filling their burlap bags with mushrooms, branches of
text: small slender trees, leaves, petals, seed pods and white
text: tuberous roots, the last of which have to be dug out of
text: the ground with bare hands.
scene_heading: 49 EXT. THE HINCIL VALLEY - OUTSIDE THE BRUJO'S SHACK - DUSK
text: A SHOT or TWO showing some of the HINCHI TRIBE sprawling
text: around their shacks and tents, swigging corn beer and
text: getting smashed. A couple of mangy dogs lope in and
text: out of view.
text: ACROSS THREE CHOSEN WOMEN in their shapeless cotton
text: dresses, squatting and kneeling, grinding roots and
text: buds and leaves and petals into varying degrees of
text: fineness. In b.g., the BRUJO'S shack, a ramshackle
text: clapboard shanty with a shaky overhang held up by two
text: rotting pilasters. Around a fire in a little clearing
text: in front of the shack sit Jessup and Eccheverria and
text: FOUR ESCOGIDOS, the chosen men.
text: 50 ACROSS the men. around the fire with the shack in b.g.,
dialog: thru from which the fifth escogido, the man of power, the
text: 56 BRUJO, is emerging, carrying a small burlap bag. He is
text: a shaggy old man in his late 60's, whose earlier con-
text: tact with white civilization is affirmed by the shape-
text: less gray single~breasted jacket he wears, the white
text: like-the fringes of a prayer shawl. The fire they are
text: all sitting around is actually a primitive hearth
text: ground. Jessup has his notebook out and is putting a
dialog: fresh cassette into the tape recorder --
text: The Brujo smooths out the small blanket lying near
text: the fire and then begins to empty his burlap bag item
text: by item and, spacing them with some ceremony on the
text: blanket. The first item is a hunting knife, nearly
text: a foot in length and glistening blue in the fading
text: afternoon sunlight; then a soft, brown leather pouch;
text: with age, from which he extracts the ceremonial pipe,
text: a dark-reddish stem about ten inches long and a
text: blackened bowl.
text: Before placing each item on the blanket, the Brujo
text: addresses the four directions with the object,
text: chanting in a low whine. The other Escogidos,
text: squatting and sprawling around the fire, have been
text: and are biting peyote buttons, and they are stoned out
text: of their skulls. Jessup's tape recorder WHIRS and turns.
text: DUSK is now descending quickly; the valley is in heavy
dialog: shadow now --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: ky. W033
speaker_heading: ‘AT
dialog: 48
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: thru
dialog: 56
text: 50 The Brujo takes the last item out of the burlap bag,
text: thru a bundle of bound, white plant roots. He draws one
text: 56 of them out, splits it down the middle with hia knife
text: till it forms a Y, humming his droning chants as he
text: does. He leans to Eccheverria —
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: (to Eccheverria)
dialog: Quierene su amigo participar aun?
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: (to Jessup)
dialog: He wants to know if you still
dialog: want to participate.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Yes, of course.
text: The old Brujo goes back to his soft chant, now binding
text: together the forked ends of the split root with
text: tendrils of a vine. Behind them, two of the Chosen
text: Women are bringing a large iron pot out of the house
text: and set it on the hearthstones over the fire. Jessup
text: leans forward to examine the yellow sludge-like substance
text: inside it.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Ask him what kind of an experience
dialog: I can expect.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: Que clase de experiencia pude
dialog: esperar mi amigo?
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: Su alma regresara a su primera
dialog: alma,
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: (to Jessup)
dialog: Your soul will return to the
dialog: First Soul.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Ask him what this First Soul
dialog: will look like.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: Como es le primera alma?
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: Es la Materia Increada.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: (to Jessup)
dialog: It is Unborn Stuff.
speaker_heading: ~ _ (CONTINUFD)
dialog: fo. S29
dialog: 33.
dialog: 50
dialog: thru
dialog: 56
speaker_heading: Kar. SH2/95
dialog: 34,
text: 50 Jessup looks up to study the Brujo and finds himself 50
text: thru being studied in return by the old man's cat-like eyes. thru
text: 56 The Brujo begins to speak, Eccheverria translating 56_
dialog: quickly between --
text: Jessup nods.
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: Entonces, usted se lanzara en
dialog: el vacio ~-
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: Then, you will propel into the
dialog: Void ~~
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: Usted vera una mancha --
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: You will see a spot —
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: La mancha se convertira en una
speaker_heading: grieta —
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: The spot will become a crack — -
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: Esta es la Grieta Entre la Nada -~
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: This is the Crack Between the
dialog: Nothing --
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: De esta Nada saldra su Alma
dialog: Increada --
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: Out of this Nothing will come
dialog: your Unborn Soul —
dialog: ‘The last of the sun has disappeared. The
text: valley is in heavy shadow.
text: CUT TO VILLAGE with JESSUP and ELDERS in a procession through
text: the stone mushrooms toward the BRUJO'S CAVE which they ENTER.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: 50 INT. BRUJO'S CAVE - NIGHT 50
dialog: thru
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO 56
dialog: Digale que extienda la palma
speaker_heading: de la mano —
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: He wants you to hold the root.
dialog: Put out your hand with your palm
dialog: up --
text: Jessup edges closer to the old man and sticks out his
text: hand palm up. The Brujo carefully places the root
text: across the flat of Jessup's palm. Suddenly, he
text: separates Jessup's third and fourth fingers and deftly
text: slashes the joint with his hunting knife. Jessup,
text: shocked, screams, He is so startled, he just squats
text: there with his bleeding hand outstretched. The Brujo
text: seizes his wrist and pulls the bleeding hand over the
text: pot. He twists Jessup's wrist so that the stark
text: white root falls into the pot. He holds Jessup's
text: hand over the pot until a few drops of blood fall into
text: the blackness of the ground behind him, shocked and
text: spent, sick with a sense of outrage --
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: (leaning over him)
dialog: Are you all right?
text: Jessup nods.
text: The Brujo and one of the other men are now carrying the
text: pot to the ritual blanket. In the night, they seem
text: like monstrous shadows. Jessup tries to examine his
text: bleeding hand in the darkness --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (mutters)
dialog: Jesus Christ --
text: A form looms over him. He looks up. It's the old
text: Brujo holding out a cup of the liquid, expressionlessly.
text: Jessup sits up, takes the cup, and drinks. He gets
text: up on his knees and then stands and EXITS THE CAVE INTO EXTERIOR
text: the darkness. Behind him, he hears the Brujo and
dialog: Eccheverria mumbling in Spanish --
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO (VOICE OVER)
dialog: (referring to the tape recorder)
dialog: Esta trabajando la grabadora?
dialog: Esta fumando tres partes de
dialog: polvo de honguitos con una parte
dialog: de polvo de sinicuiche y una parte
dialog: de pipoloxochital --
dialog: 50
dialog: thru
dialog: 56
dialog: 36.
text: Jessup's body suddenly becomes two bodies. 50
text: One remains huddled on its knees vomiting; the other thru
text: slowly takes shape outside the first body and then 56
text: as suddenly WHOOSHES UP into the sky until he is
text: hardly more than a spot, visible only because of a
text: curious LUMINOSITY about him. Down around the fire,
dialog: the other men seem entirely innocent of this extra-
text: ordinary event. A mangy dog wanders into the ring
text: of sprawling men, sniffs at Jessup's first body, still
text: on its knees; in the darkness a few yards away from
dialog: the others --
text: The SCREEN is now a dull, matted WHITE, streaked, as
text: if painted on with heavy impasto wipes of a big
text: brush. The yellow of the lizard slowly leaks out into
text: the whiteness, staining it. Losing its color, the
dialog: lizard disappears --
text: On the yellowing whiteness of the screen, a strange
text: pulpy shape appears, fissured and creviced, a grayish
text: blob, recognizable perhaps to biologists as a human
text: brain, which instantly folds and slithers into itself
text: to take on other pulpy shapes, changing into soft,
text: pulsating globules of matter, insinuatingly sexual in
dialog: appearance, oleaginous in movement; what we are, in
dialog: fact, watching is a de-evolution of the brain, as it
text: passes backward across the evolutionary continuum
text: through the brain of an alligator, to that of a cod-
text: fish, until it oozes into the primitive, linear ridged
dialog: nervous system of a worm -- It all disappears --
dialog: Another biological dematuration process -- blobs of
text: substance, grayish in color, slowly, constantly fold-
text: ing and unfolding into different momentary shapes,
text: from the curled up, loaf-like cracked and creviced
text: adult brain, oozing into the more simplified shapes
text: of the brain of a 6-month embryo; to the bulging
text: vermiform structure of the brain of a 7-week embryo;
text: a bulbous, shapeless thing; turning into -- finally
text: -- the brain of a 3-week embryo, hardly more than a
text: hose-like structure with something stuck in its
text: gullet, the bulging tip of a prosencephalon hanging
text: down at the end of the thick snake-like thing as if
dialog: it were ashamed --
text: The SCREEN, all of everything, begins to get DARKER
text: and DARKER until everything, all of the SCREEN, is
text: silently, impenetrably BLACK --
text: Infinitely down below a tiny flickering spot, per-
text: haps the last conscious image of the fire Jessup had
dialog: been sitting around --
text: Then ~~ suddenly -- an unbearable, blinding FLASH of
text: pure white light incandesces the entire SCREEN a
text: fraction of a second of explosion of pure energy --
text: Then, it is all BLACK again --
dialog: 50
dialog: thru
dialog: 56
dialog: 37.
text: Enormous FLAMES, unbeiievably hot, out of which 50
text: emanate sudden, violent EXPLOSIONS and flares -- wee
text: Suddenly, one of these white-orange flares zigzags
text: across the flaming face of the SCREEN, like a
text: crevasse opening up in arctic ice --
text: Suddenly, nothing is left to see but this jagged
text: crack stretching obliquely up and across the SCREEN,
text: as if the screen were about to crack open --
dialog: Everything else is BLACK --
text: The crack is flaming red, then purple, then blue --
text: A violent series of sudden images, none of which last
dialog: longer than a second --
text: A flaming cloud of gases, hydrogen and helium, WHOOSHES
text: across the black screen at 90,000,000 mph, throbbing
text: as it cools and contracts with gravity -- another such
dialog: cloud -- another ~-
text: A huge spiral-shaped cloud WHOOSHES across the SCREEN,
text: condensing into blue, condensing into trillions of
dialog: stars, an embryo galaxy --
text: A blue cloud of gases, now getting hotter and hotter
dialog: and redder and redder as its trillions and trillions
text: of atomic bits crush in on each other because of
dialog: their mutual gravitational attraction -- the cloud is
text: now a flaming ball -- a star, a sun. At the eritical
text: level of 20,000,0000F. it ignites and burns -- nuclear
dialog: EXPLOSION follows nuclear explosion --
text: One of the spiral arms of the Mikly Way galaxy -- the
text: swirling tendrils of the primal mist -- a water
text: molecule freezing into a crystal of ice -- a flaming
text: yellow globe-like mass, the sun, Surrounded by an
text: iridescent halo of ice crystals and grains of rock or
text: iron ~- the coalescence of small fragments into a
text: larger fragment as the central fragment sweeps its
dialog: neighboring fragments into its &ravitational pull --
text: An endless expanse of cold, airless, waterless rock --
text: It begins to leak bubbles and beads of boiling radio-
text: activity -- a cloud of yellow sulphurous steam -- A
dialog: falling of yellow rain --
text: A silent, sable SEA of water, motionless, fills the
speaker_heading: SCREEN --
text: All the above flickering imagery has taken place
text: across the blue, jagged crack that seems to be split-
text: ting the SCREEN. The crack never disappears, it is a
dialog: constant presence --
dialog: 50
dialog: thru
dialog: 56
dialog: 38.
text: The crack suddenly ERUPTS spewing blinding light out 50
text: like lava, the First Cabalistic emanation of thru
dialog: light -- 56
text: Everything abruptly condenses back into BLACKNESS
text: again. The blue crack has disappeared. In its place,
text: a brownish figure, if it could be called a figure,
text: more of a molten mass of substance which appears to
text: have arms and legs and a head, but so protean of form
dialog: that the limbs and other distinguishing features keep
text: dissolving into itself and extruding out of itself,
text: bubbling up here and there, swelling and contracting.
text: It moves in surf-like emanations of itself, expanding
text: and lapping out of itself in slow exorable waves --
text: A high-pitched SCREAM of exultancy --
text: The molten mass emerges larger and larger. Its sub-
text: stance seems to be iridescent, flaring with tiny
dialog: flames --
text: Behind it, the SCREEN is now GOLD --
text: A sudden CLOSER VIEW of the molten mass -- The tiny
text: flames are tiny exploding neural matter.
text: At his feet, the large yellow iguana, its pre-historic
text: jaws slightly agape, its tongue flicking in and out --
text: The lizard waddles across the expanse of GOLDEN SCREEN
text: towards the pulsating, flaring mass of brown substance
text: -- It stops about halfway; the lizard is suddenly wary,
text: frightened -- It edges on slowly, cautiously --
text: Suddenly, it is engulfed by the flaming molten sub-
text: stance -- Its limbs are wrenched, ripped with a
text: sickening SCREAM of bone and muscle, out of their
text: sockets. The pieces of the lizard are lifted up with-
text: in the molten substance by the improvisations of arms,
text: and the shapeless head bows to devour the lizard --
text: It slowly surges around him --
text: The golden SCREEN takes on a reddish hue. The brown,
text: orange, yellow objects on it lose their definition in
dialog: the merger of colors --
text: Again, the high-pitched SCREAM of exultancy --
text: The SCREEN is totally BLACK again --
text: There is the feeling of a bottomless shaft -- a WHOOSH
dialog: of precipitous descent --
text: We seem to be seeing things now in a BLACK LIGHT. The
text: SCREEN seems filled with the branches of a tree -- In
text: the black distance, there seems to be a campfire
dialog: flickering in the wind --
text: Jessup's white face, squinting to avoid the poking of
dialog: thea Ayranchec
dialog: 57
dialog: thru
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: thru
dialog: 65
dialog: 39.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HINCHI VALLEY - OUTSIDE THE BRUJO'S SHACK - 57
speaker_heading: NIGHT ” ar
text: Nighttime in a valley in the mountains of Central
dialog: Mexico. Eccheverria, the Brujo, the other four
text: Escogidos, sprawled around their fire, a couple of
text: them asleep. About 20 yards away in the darkness,
text: just on the fringe of the light of the fire, barely
text: visible, Jessup is standing in a bosk of bushes. He
dialog: is urinating. --
text: REVERSE ACROSS Jessup as he zips up his shorts and
text: shuffles back to the others around the fire.
text: Eccheverria looks up briefly. Otherwise, nobody
text: notices his return. In b.g., under the overhang of
text: the Brujo's shack, two of the Chosen Women sit in
text: shadowy bundles of sleep. A dog drifts through the
text: bodies around the fire, momentarily illuminated by the
text: firelight.
text: Jessup silently joins the group, sinks onto the ground,
text: lies back and is instantly asleep --
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSIDE THE BRUJO'S HOUSE - NEXT A.M. - DAY 60
dialog: thru
text: Cheerful bright sunlight floods the valley. Jessup, 65
text: stripped to the waist, is doing his morning wash
text: from an improvised tin washtank beside the Brujo's
text: shack. He is chatting with Eccheverria who is lean-
text: ing against the shack. Jessup seems in excellent
text: spirits. Two of the Escogidos are still sleeping it
text: off around the dead fire. A third Escogido is off
text: in b.g. urinating. The Brujo comes out of his shack,
text: watches Jessup towelling his face off, ambles over to
text: where Jessup and Eccheverria are standing --
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: Obtuvo la experience predicha?
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: He wants to know if you had the
dialog: experience that was predicted
dialog: for you.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (nods hello to the
dialog: Brujo, smiles)
dialog: Tell him I did, and I also nad
dialog: an experience that was not
dialog: predicted for me.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: El tuvo una experienca que no
dialog: habio sido predicha.
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: (smiles briefly)
dialog: El se comio una lagartija.
dialog: 60
dialog: thru
dialog: 65
dialog: The Brujo
dialog: yo.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA 60
dialog: (to Jessup) thru
dialog: He says you ate a lizard. 65
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (glances at the
dialog: Brujo)
dialog: How does he know I ate a lizard?
speaker_heading: : ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: Como sabes que el se comio una
dialog: lagartija?
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: Yo lo vio comerse la lagartija.
dialog: Todos lo vimos comerse la
dialog: lagartija.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: He says he saw you, they all saw
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Does that mean he was with me in
dialog: my hallucination? Does he have
dialog: the ability to get into another
dialog: man's mind?
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: Estaha usted con mi amigo en
dialog: su sueno?
text: stares blankly at him.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: Tiene usted la abilidad de entrar
dialog: en el sueno de otro hombre?
speaker_heading: THE BRUJO
dialog: (to Jessup)
dialog: Yo lo vio. Todos lo vimos.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: He says they all saw you.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: But I ate the lizard in my
dialog: hallucination. I didn't actually
dialog: eat the lizard around the fire
dialog: here. If he saw me eat the
dialog: lizard, he must've somehow joined
dialog: me in the hallucination.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: El se comio la lagartija en su
dialog: sueno.
dialog: 60
dialog: thru
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: thru
dialog: 68
dialog: 41.
text: The old shaman scowls at Jessup and then shuffles 60
text: off for the bushes where Jessup had returned from thru
text: his hallucination, some 15 yards away. He turns 65
text: back after a few steps and clearly wants them to
text: follow. Jessup and Eccheverria start after him. The
text: Brujo pushes his way into the scratchy bosk, spread-
text: ing the branches, holding them aside for Jessup and
text: Eccheverria to pass by. After a few paces, the Brujo
text: stops and points to the ground about ten yards to
text: their right. Jessup and Eccheverria turn to look --
text: ACROSS Jessup and Eccheverria. It is not quite clear
dialog: just what it 1s that is lying on the ground, somewhat
text: shrouded as it is by all the network of branches and
text: hidden by four dogs who are swarming over it, eating
text: it with the savagery of jackals. Jessup pushes into
text: the thick tangle of bush, a few more paces, followed
text: by Eccheverria. Then, they both stop, as the realiza-
text: tion of what they are going to see strikes them both.
text: They both involuntarily close their eyes for a moment.
text: Eccheverria turns away. The Brujo behind them shouts
text: at the dogs who back slowly away snarling. One of them
text: has the leg of something in his mouth --
text: JESSUP'S POV. Lying in a gel of dried blood and
text: leaves is the ravaged dismembered torso cf what had
text: been a green crested iguana, terrifyingly legless, the
text: empty white bone of the leg sockets white and flecked
text: with blood. Half the torso has been stripped of its
text: greenish skin, and gobbets of raw flesh and exposed
text: viscera are open to view. Over this, the SOUND of a
text: man wretching, and the shouts of the Brujo keeping
text: the dogs off. The dogs can't wait to get back to the
text: feast. A dog lunges in, grabs one of the lizard legs
text: lying a foot away and makes off with it --
text: Eccheverria is bent over, holding onto a branch of a
text: bush, vomiting. Jessup has turned aside and is shad-
text: ing his eyes against the sight. The dogs immediately
text: plunge back to the feast. The Brujo turns and makes
text: his way back out of the busnes into the clearing --
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSIDE THE BRUJO'S HOUSE - DAY 66
dialog: thru
text: Jessup is checking out his gear, his sleeping bag, 68
text: tape recorder, notebooks. Eccheverria is packing his
text: sleeping bag. In b.g., occasional signs of tribal
dialog: activity --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (no longer in
dialog: good spirits)
dialog: First of all, iguanas are not
text: mountain lizards.
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: I know.
dialog: 66
dialog: thru
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: thru
dialog: 84
dialog: 4,
speaker_heading: JESSUP 66
dialog: They are shore and jungle lizards. thru
dialog: Somebody must've brought that 68
dialog: iguana up here, and this whole
dialog: hideous business is just 2 joke
dialog: the Indians have played on me
dialog: just to make the gringo look
dialog: like a fool --
speaker_heading: : ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: You asked me what happened, and
dialog: I told you. You were crawling
dialog: around on your hands and knees
dialog: for awhile. Then, around seven-
dialog: thirty, you got up and went to
dialog: those bushes, to urinate, I
dialog: thought. Then it sounded like
dialog: some of the dogs had jumped you.
dialog: There was a great deal of yelping
text: and snarling and growling. Then
dialog: you screamed. Or something
dialog: screamed. And I and a couple of
dialog: the women went to see if you were
dialog: in any trouble. We had just about
dialog: gotten to the bushes when the
text: screaming stopped, and the old
dialog: Brujo yelled at us to come back
dialog: and forget it --
text: Jessup scowls, frowns, packs all his gear into one
dialog: bundle, lashes it tightly --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Do you think they'd let me take
dialog: some of that mixture I smoked
dialog: back to Boston?
speaker_heading: ECCHEVERRIA
dialog: We can only ask.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'd like Arthur to analyze, maybe
dialog: synthesize it --
scene_heading: ABRUPT SHOCK EFFECT CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. A BIO-FEEDBACK ROOM 69
dialog: thru
text: A vast volcanic terrain wrenches and crevasses -- 84
text: Agonizing SOUND of rock being wrenched out of place
text: -- suddenly, out of one of the crevasses, an enormous,
text: boiling white, steaming shaft of rock roars up, immedi-
text: ately followed by another shattering emergence of rock,
text: the size of a small skyscraper, crushing the first
text: shaft of rock, forcing it to fold and crack and bend
dialog: under the new weight --
dialog: Rev. 3/6/79 43.
dialog: 69
dialog: thru
dialog: 84
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE (OVER) 69
dialog: My God! It's cracking, it's thru
dialog: cracking, the whole thing is 84
dialog: eracking! Enormous masses of
dialog: rock!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG'S VOICE (OVER)
dialog: Are you okay, Eddie?
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE (OVER)
dialog: I'm fine! Get this stuff! This
dialog: is new! --
text: The black water of a vast lake is heaving and bubbling;
text: suddenly out of this sable sea, an enormous volcanic
text: cone of rock surges up, ERUPTING with flame and boiling
text: rock, hundreds of tons of plutonic EXPLOSION, a fantastic
text: fountain of rock and scalding water rising two thousand
text: feet into the air -- another plutonic EXPLOSION --
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE (OVER)
dialog: -- Deafening! The noise is
dialog: deafening! Can you hear me
dialog: above this noise! My God! --
scene_heading: DEAFENING, VIOLENT, AGONIZED SOUND -- Everywhere now,
text: out of the sea, throughout the expanse of breaking land,
text: monumental ERUPTIONS of earth crust, rupturing of rock
text: and mantle -- each eruption of rock, piling on top of
text: each other, steaming, white hot, folding, buckling,
text: building. The air is filled with poisonous gases --
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE (OVER)
dialog: -- the most unbelievable thing
dialog: I've ever seen! I'm watching
dialog: the birth agony of a mountain!
dialog: I can't believe this! --
scene_heading: INT. A BIO-FEEDBACK ROOM - BRIGHAM HOSPITAL - 8TH
speaker_heading: FLOOR - NIGHT
text: ACROSS Jessup lying on a large leather relaxing chair.
text: He wears a T-shirt and jeans; his feet are bare. 8 EEG
text: leads issue from his scalp. His face is contorting into
text: fierce grimaces, his mouth opening into silent, strangu-
text: lated rictus. The room is sound-attentuated, empty
text: except for the chair. The lighting is subdued. In b-g.,
text: through the observation window (2-way), we can see
text: Rosenberg and Parrish in the observation room --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: -- My God! Can't vou hear it!
text: The noise is stupifying -- 8
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES = Rev. 2/12/79 ay,
dialog: 69
dialog: thru
dialog: 84
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY 69
dialog: thru
text: Compactly and densely fitted out with all kinds of 84
text: recording equipment. Three sheepskin-lined coats are
text: piled on the floor. Rosenberg fiddles with some
text: controls. Parrish stands at the window observing
text: Jessup in the sound-proofed room. Parrish is a little
text: disturbed by what he's observing --
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: (over the amplifier)
dialog: -- A whole mountain range is being
dialog: born in front of my eyes! --
scene_heading: INT. THE BIOFEEDBACK ROOM - DAY
text: REVERSE across Jessup, eyes wide open now, bulging,
text: staring madly out --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: -- And the sun became black as
dialog: sackcloth! The full moon became
dialog: like blood! And a great mountain,
text: burning with fire, was thrown into
text: the sea! And the beast ascends
dialog: from the bottomless pit! And the
dialog: angel of the bottomless pit -- his
dialog: name in Hebrew is Abaddon!
text: Sudden. silence.
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROOM ~ DAY
text: Sudden silence. Through the window, we can see
text: Jessup's face is serene again. The wheels of a
text: cassette in a Sony tape-recorder slowly whirr.
speaker_heading: ROSNEBERG
dialog: (clicks the intercom)
dialog: Are you okay, Eddie?
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: (calm, disembodied,
dialog: dispassionate)
dialog: I'm fine. Really, I'm fine.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (disturbed by the
dialog: experience)
dialog: Jesus Christ --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (into intercom)
dialog: Do you want me to bring you down?
text: There is no response, an uneasy silence settles over
dialog: the room.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 45.
speaker_heading: 69 PARRISH 69
dialog: thru What happens now? thru
dialog: 84 84
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG ~
text: He's blacked out. These blackouts
dialog: can get very freaky. Sometimes, they
dialog: last as long as four hours. When he
text: comes out of it, he's as chipper as
text: a bird, but he doesn't remember
dialog: a thing.
text: Parrish checks the EEG recording machine.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
text: All the vital signs are normal.
text: He just blacks out.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: How did you explain my coming over
dialog: here tonight?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: I told him you called and asked how *
dialog: everything was since we hadn't seen
dialog: each other in so long and I said,
dialog: why don't you come over tonight and
dialog: bullshit for awhile and you said
dialog: terrific,
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (cutting him off) .
dialog: Just how dangerous is this stuff he
dialog: brought back from Mexico?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: I didn't say dangerous; I said it
dialog: was weird. It hangs around too
dialog: long. It goes to all the wwong
dialog: places. This stuff doesn't degrade.
dialog: I must've shot up two dozen rats by
dialog: now. We're retrieving sixty,
dialog: seventy, sometimes eighty percent.
dialog: And what's really screwy is it heads
dialog: straight for the brain. I never saw
dialog: a psychoactive drug that didn't wind
text: up in the liver or in the kidney.
dialog: There's nothing in that stuff I
dialog: don't know. A lot of alkaloids,
dialog: Principally cryogenine, some harmine --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: They're all known hallucinogens.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (snorts, cuts *
dialog: Rosenberg off)
dialog: Well, I don't believe this!
speaker_heading: (MORE )
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES - Rev. 2/9/79
dialog: 69
dialog: thru
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
speaker_heading: PARRISH (cont'd)
dialog: You ;uys are shooting up with an
text: untested drug that stacks up in the
text: brain and works in the nucleus of
dialog: the cell -- and you don't call that
dialog: dangerous?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: For the record, we don't actually
text: shoot up. Eddie drinks a ten
dialog: milligram per cc solution of the
dialog: stuff.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Well, it's going to stop right now!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: What're you yelling at me for? I've
dialog: been trying to get him to stop for
dialog: months.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: You guys are supposed to be
dialog: reputable scientists, for God's
dialog: sake, not two kids in the dorm
dialog: freaking out on Mexican mushrooms!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Let's see you stop him. What do
dialog: you think I called you for?
text: INT, THE OBSERVATION CHAMBER OF THE BIOFEEDBACK
speaker_heading: - DAY
text: They're cleaning up the room, getting ready to leave,
text: gathering up the rolls of polygraph paper, putting on
text: their sheepskin coats. Parrish already has his on --
speaker_heading: . PARRISH
dialog: (who has been arguing
dialog: for some time and
dialog: with some temper)
dialog: -- This ain't LSD, goddammit! This
dialog: ain't no serotonin antagonist you're
dialog: drinking! How many grams of that
dialog: stuff do you figure you've already
dialog: got in you -- two, three? You
dialog: could be working up one hell of a
dialog: case of cancer with a truckful of
dialog: antimetabolites in you like that!
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (heading for the docr)
dialog: The Hinchi Indians have ceen smoking
dialog: that stuif for centures with no
dialog: special incidence of cancer.
text: Parrish follows Jessup out into --
speaker_heading: ROOM
dialog: 46.
dialog: 69
dialog: thru
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 47.
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
scene_heading: INT. FOURTH FLOOR CORRIDOR - DAY : 86
text: ~- where Jessup slips into his sheepskin coat --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Fuck the Hinchi Indians. You don't
dialog: know anything about those mushrooms.
dialog: It sounds to me like they have
dialog: fantastic staying powers.
text: Rosenberg turns off the lights in the biofeedback
text: room and comes out into the corridor, the tape re-
text: eorders slung over his shoulder and carrying his air-
text: line bag. Jessup locks up. They all head up the
dialog: corridor ~--
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: We've shot up at least thirty rats
dialog: with that stuff. Some of them have
text: a whopping load in them, and none
dialog: of them have been noticeably affected --
text: He leans into the Departmental Office, which is the
text: only lit room the floor. He drops off the key --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (to whomever
dialog: is inside)
dialog: Thanks -~
scene_heading: EXT. HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL ~ CENTRAL COURT - DAY 87
text: The three coated, dark figures of our heroes crossing
text: the quadrangle for B Buildings. Parrish is still
dialog: quite exercised ~-
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: -- Now what's all this shit about
dialog: an isolation tank now! For God's
dialog: sakes! You guys get flakier every
dialog: time I see you! I thought all that
dialog: isolation tank stuff went out in
dialog: the Sixties with Timothy Leary and
dialog: all the other gurus! Where is this
dialog: dumb isolation tank! --
text: They plod up the steps of B Building and into --
scene_heading: INT. HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL - B BUILDING - 88
scene_heading: ENTRANCE FOYER -- DAY
text: -- and head for the stairway, where they pause as
dialog: Jessup expounds --
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES ~ Rev. 2/9/79 48.
dialog: 88
dialog: 89
dialog: 90
speaker_heading: 90A
speaker_heading: JESSUP 88
text: Mason, shut up for a minute, and
dialog: let somebody else say something.
dialog: What happens during this blackout
dialog: period is you get the feeling of
dialog: Phenomenal acceleration, like
dialog: you're shot out over millions,
dialog: billions of yeers. Time simply
dialog: obliterates. You sense the
text: hallucination is going on, but
dialog: you get no imases. Well, I want
dialog: to break through that blackout
dialog: barrier, I'd like to know what
dialog: those images are that I know are
dialog: going on but I can't see --
text: He opens the door to --
scene_heading: INT. THE STAIRWELL = DAY 89
text: ~- as they go clattering down the steps -~
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: -~ We can't raise the dosage of
dialog: the drug because we're close to
dialog: toxic levels now. So the only way
dialog: we can intensify the experience
dialog: is to take the two hundred milligrams
dialog: in conjunction wita the tank --
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR - B BUILDING - DAY 90
text: They go striding up a long broad tiled basement cor-
text: ridor stretching the length of B Building with similar
text: corridors debouching off to connect up with the other
dialog: buildings of the Medical School and eventually to
dialog: the Brigham Hospital.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR - DAY 90A
text: It has a basement look, a row of lockers along one wall
text: here, some cartons and crates spotted along that wall
text: there. It's about 9:00P.M., so there aren't many
dialog: other people about, perhaps two or three --
speaker_heading: PARISH
dialog: There's a lot of things I'd like
dialog: to do to that drugs before you take
dialog: any more. We should do a half-life
dialog: determination, I'é like to know
dialog: the transport system. I'd like to
dialog: find some analogues.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 4g,
speaker_heading: 90A
dialog: 91
speaker_heading: JESSUP 90A
dialog: And that could take us a year! All
dialog: I know is this Mexican stuff is an
dialog: extraordinary substance, and every
dialog: instinct I have says I'm on to
dialog: something hot here. And another
dialog: two hundred milligrams isn't going
dialog: to kill anybody.
text: He's found the room. He tries the door; it's locked.
text: He inserts one of several keys he's brought out of his
text: coat pocket. It turns. He opens the door. He enters -—
scene_heading: INT. THE ISOLATION TANK ROOM - DAY 91
text: He flicks the wall light on. Overhead fluorescent
text: lighting comes on, To the left, a brightly lit ob-
text: servation room, small and emptied of most of its equip-
text: ment. With the exception of an EEG machine and its
text: panel running up one soundproofed wall, the aluminum
text: shelving around the room that once was compact with
text: equipment is all bare. Directly in front, the door
text: leading to the tank room itself. Jessup inserts
text: another kev, opens it. The room is pitch black. He
text: finds the switch on the wall, one of those round ones
text: that allows for graduated levels of light. Subdued,
text: hidden light comes up slowly. There seems to be a
text: bed with a naked striped mattress and pillow in the
dialog: middle of the room -~
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: They were doing sleep studies here.
text: The lights in the tank room have been brightening
text: steadily until the room is well lit. Beside the bed
text: in the middle of the room, there are some cartons and
text: empty animal cages along one wall, and, along the
text: back wall, a coffin-shaped black box, four by four by
text: eight feet long —
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: There it is.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Oh, it's horizontal. It's smaller #
dialog: than the one we had in New York.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I don't think anybody's used it in
dialog: years. But I connected it up
dialog: yesterday, and it works. It won't
dialog: take a week to get this place
text: cleaned out and functioning.
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: thru
dialog: 97
dialog: 98
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: PARRISH 91
dialog: You could get your ass in a sling
dialog: if it ever gets out you're using
text: an untested drug on human subjects.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Don't worry so much, Mason. Nothing's
dialog: going to happen to me -= Let's go get
dialog: a quick hamburger. I told a kid in
dialog: one of my classes I might see her
dialog: tonight --
text: He heads back to the door, turning the light switch.
text: The room darkens --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (exploding as he
dialog: . follows )
dialog: All right! Do what you want to do!
dialog: I think you're both irresponsible
dialog: as hell! So don't call me any more,
dialog: Arthur, to tell me you're worried
dialog: about Eddie putting all this shit
dialog: into him! I'm telling you now =
dialog: don't put any more of that shit into
dialog: him till you find out a hell of a
dialog: lot more about it! I offered you
dialog: the use of my lab and all the rats
dialog: you can use! And that's as much as
dialog: I want to be implicated in your dumb
dialog: experiments! And go get your own
dialog: hamburger! I got my own date I'm
dialog: already an hour late for! -~
text: He storms out into the outer corridor --
dialog: 92
speaker_heading: OMITTED thru
dialog: 97
scene_heading: INT. C BUILDING ~ HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL - TWO WEEKS 98
scene_heading: LATER - PARRISH'S LAB = DAY
text: An endocrinology lab. A small Christmas tree is in
text: evidence. Parrish, a Grad Student, and an Endocrino-
text: logy Fellow are standing by a scintillation counter, a
text: large square aluminum contraption that looks like a
text: dishwasher except it has a digital recording device
text: which is rattling off red digits at the moment. In
text: b.g., a Second Grad Student and two Lab Technicians,
text: each at their desks, cutting microtomal sections or
text: tending to the rats (there are five cages of them),
dialog: or whatever one does in endocrinology labs. They are
text: variously dressed. Parrish has his long, white
text: doctor's coat on.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 51.
dialog: 98
dialog: 99
dialog: 100
dialog: thru
dialog: 102
text: He has been doing rounds today, a stethoscope sticks 98
text: out of his side Pocket, an opthalmoscope, a pen light,
text: fountain pens stick out of his breast pocket. In one
text: hand, he holds a stack of computer programming cards.
text: Parrish glances at his watch on his free arm, scowls --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (to the endocrinology
dialog: Fellow, extending the
dialog: computer cards)
dialog: You want to do these today?
scene_heading: ENDOCRINOLOGY FELLOW
dialog: (taking the cards)
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 99
scene_heading: INT. ISOLATION TANK ROOM - BASEMENT - B BUILDING - 100
speaker_heading: DAY thru
dialog: 102
text: Brightly lit. The bed is gone, the crates and cages
text: are gone. There is nothing in the room but the black
text: tank. Rosenberg is on a footstool bent over the tank
text: checking the EEG leads on Jessup's skull. The open
text: doorway in b.g. suddenly fills up with Parrish, un-
text: buttoning his coat. Rosenberg, backing off the foot-
text: stool, carefully leading out the wire leads, notices
dialog: him --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Couldn't resist, right?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (moving into the room)
dialog: Somebody's got to keep an eye on
dialog: you two sorcerers.
text: He looks down into the tank, CAMERA looks with him.
text: Jessup lies in the tank, floating nakedly just below
text: the surface of the inky black water, motionless, a
text: faint almost imperceptible shimmering of white. His
text: ankles are resting on what seems to be a surgical dam,
text: his head on a headrest. He smiles up at Parrish.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: What have you got in there, some
dialog: kind of salt solution?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Ten percent magnesium sulfate, for *
dialog: buoyancy.
dialog: (bringing the lid
dialog: of the tank from
dialog: the wall)
dialog: Give me a hand with this, Mason.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 - 52.
dialog: 100
dialog: thru
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
dialog: thru
dialog: 105
text: REVERSE looking up from Jessup's POV. Parrish and 100
text: Rosenberg loom up over the tank, carefully fitting thru
text: the lid into its hinges. They slowly lower it. 102
text: The SCREEN goes shocking BLACK ~- >
text: Parrish stands looking down at the covered black
dialog: coffin of a tank --
speaker_heading: - PARRISH
dialog: Weird, man --
scene_heading: INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY - 103
dialog: thru
text: The lights suddenly dim to a very subdued level. 105
text: Rosenberg has flicked them off and is already back
text: in the observation room.
text: There is a polygraph paper in the EEG machine, and the
text: styli are already scrawling. An audio speaker is
text: perched on the top shelf in a corner. A one-way
text: window looks out into the tank room where the black
text: coffin-like tank lies in penumbral shadow. Jessup's
text: and Rosenberg's sheepskins are piled on the floor in
text: a corner. Parrish adds his to the pile. Rosenberg
text: elicks the intercom on.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (into the mike)
dialog: One-two~three-four --
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: (on the speaker)
dialog: One-two-three-four -=
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (on the mike) -
dialog: Okay, you're fine --
dialog: (clicks the tape
dialog: recorder on,
dialog: murmurs into it)
dialog: Wednesday, January seventh, four
text: twenty-eight PM.
text: Jessup's VOICE chants over the speaker perched on the
dialog: top shelf --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
speaker_heading: (indicates the EEG
dialog: recording machine)
dialog: He went into theta like a shot, no
dialog: spindling, nothing.
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: (overriding)
dialog: Hey, this is terrific!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: *
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 53.
dialog: 103
dialog: thru
dialog: 105
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE (cont'd) 103
dialog: A plateau or a lowland, grasslands, thru
dialog: savannas -- I feel I'm actually 105
dialog: alive and inside this landscape --
text: Parrish stands, looks through the one-way window. The
text: black coffin-like tank lies silently in the subdued
text: shadows of the tank room, He can see his own and
text: Rosenberg's reflections superimposed on the tank.
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
text: ~~ a density of woodlands about a
dialog: mile away, beyond that mountains
text: that seem to be smoking, newly-born
dialog: mountains, Cenozoic, latter Tertiary,
dialog: I'm in an edge-area -- utter
text: tranquility, but alive, life in the
text: trees, life in the sedge, paradise,
dialog: the Garden of Eden, oh, my God!
dialog: the birth of man! That's it! The
dialog: birth of man! That's got to be it!
text: REACTION SHOT of Parrish getting nervous. To his
text: left, Rosenberg writing notes in a notebook...
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: -- My God! There it is! A proto-
dialog: human! The first and original truly
dialog: human form! Tiny! Perhaps four
text: feet high! Barely visible above
dialog: the sedge grass! Completely furred,
text: chimp-like, but erect, no knuckle-
text: walking, shorter arms, moving along
dialog: rather gracefully -- there's two,
text: three of them! bipedal, tiny,
text: little furred humanoid creatures,
text: a rock, some kind of basaltic
text: rock, a chunk of lava in their hands,
dialog: they're stalking or hunting, that's
dialog: it! It's a hunt, they're hunting
dialog: something -- it's me! It's me
dialog: they're hunting! It's me! --
text: Parrish looks nervously over to Rosenberg who is pre-
text: paring a new cassette in a second tape recorder --
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: -~ Beautiful! Beautiful! I'm
dialog: racing through the grass! I'm
dialog: trying to get to the trees! They're
dialog: on my flank! I'm struck by a stone!
dialog: I'm down! They're on me! No,
dialog: just one of them! It's his kill!
dialog: The others have to wait their
dialog: portion! He's beating me with the
dialog: lava! He's gouging me. #
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 54.
dialog: 103
dialog: thru
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
speaker_heading: PARRISH 103
dialog: For Chrissakes -- thru
dialog: 105
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (clicking his mike)
dialog: Are you okay, Eddie?
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: ~- Ripping at my flesh! I'm the
dialog: hunter now! I'm the killer! I'm
dialog: killing! I'm eating! I'm eating
dialog: the blood -= hot flesh of a giant
dialog: goat! I'm eating a goat I just
dialog: killed! I'm eating a goat! --
dialog: a
text: The hysterical fluency of Jessup's report abruptly
text: deteriorates into a curious CROAK and then a series
text: of quick CLICKING NOISES and then a strangulated sort
text: of HOWL. It's too much for Parrish. He wrenches the
text: door open, strides into --
scene_heading: INT. TANK ROOM - DAY 106
text: ~- wher he crosses to the tank, pulls the hinged head~
dialog: section up.
text: PARRISH'S POV -- Jessup's white mask of a face,
text: cushioned in the rectangle of blackness, as serene as
dialog: a saint's.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (murmurs )
dialog: it's beautiful, beautiful --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (now right behind
dialog: Parrish)
dialog: Do you want to come down?
dialog: 106
dialog: 107
dialog: 108
dialog: 109
speaker_heading: 556
speaker_heading: JESSUP 106
dialog: No.
text: Rosenberg lowers the hinged lid. Parrish pulls out
text: his cigar case, extracts a cigar, heads back to the -~
scene_heading: INT. OBSERVATION ROOM ~ DAY 107
dialog: -- as Rosenberg enters --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Sounded like he was having a bad
dialog: trip to me.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Some of these tank trips can get
dialog: pretty creepy.
text: Suddenly, the speaker emits another of the croaking
text: GRUNTS, a series of CLICKING SOUNDS and then some
text: LIP-SMACKING SOUNDS. Parrish rises nervously from
dialog: his chair.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: What the hell was that?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (into the mike)
dialog: You okay!
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Beautiful.
text: Parrish lights his cigar --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Do you want to stop this?
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Do you want me to leave you alone?
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 108
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - B BUILDING - BASEMENT - NIGHT 109
text: Parrish coming out of the men's room, adjusting nis
text: trousers. He comes walking back down the corridor,
text: glancing at his watch. He goes into -~
dialog: 110
dialog: ill
dialog: 112
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: INT, ISOLATION TANK ROOM - ENTRANCE - NIGHT 110
dialog: -- and left into -~
scene_heading: INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT lil
text: -- where Rosenberg is perched on his stool, reading a
dialog: mystery novel --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: I thought you said these things
dialog: don't last more than four hours.
dialog: It's a quarter to nine ~-
text: A strange GRUNT suddenly erupts from the speaker.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (into mike)
dialog: Are you okay, Eddie?
dialog: (looks through one=
dialog: way window)
dialog: He's coming out --
scene_heading: INT, THE TANK ROOM - NIGHT 112
text: ACROSS the isolation tank as Jessup stands up in it,
text: holding the lid and setting it down on the floor
text: against the side of the tank. Parrish and Rosenberg
text: come in. Rosenberg helps him clamber out of the tank.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (removing the
dialog: EEG leads)
dialog: I don't like being out of contact
dialog: for these long periods of time,
dialog: Eddie.
text: Parrish hands Jessup a hooded terrycloth robe. Jessup
text: slips into the robe, begins towelling his hair. He
text: nods at Rosenberg, a strange monkish figure in the
text: dark room, shrouded in the dark robe, its hood cowled
text: over his head, only his white, wet eyes visible in the
text: coped blackness of his face. He seems to be trying
text: to say something. His jaws move, but nothing comes
text: out except a rasping kind of GRUNT. His eyes stare
text: mutely at them. He tries to talk again but can only
text: produce CLICKING SOUNDS. He sinks slowly to his knees,
text: his faceless white wet eyes staring in blank shock
text: out of the black oval formed by the robe's cowl.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: I think he's in shock.
text: He turns the light switch on. Light slowly rises.
text: Parrish pulls the hood of the robe back.
dialog: 112
dialog: 113
dialog: 57.
text: As the LIGHT comes on increasingly strongly, we see 112
text: Jessup on his knees in the middle of the room, his
text: robe hanging limply on his white body, his face staring
text: blankly up, his cheeks and mouth wet with red blood,
text: smeared where he had towelled his face, looking for
text: all the world as if he had recently ravened a carcass.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
text: He must've bit his lip.
text: He towels away some of the blood, then slips out of
text: his lab coat, strips off his shirt, leans over to the
text: tank,, wets it in the tank, uses it to clean Jessup's
text: face. By now, the LIGHT is fully on, and the room is
text: well lit. Parrish fetches his examining light from
text: his lad coat, pokes it into Jessup's mouth and up his
dialog: nose.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (mutters )
dialog: Must've had a seizure, hit his head
dialog: or something.
text: Jessup seems to be coming out of his shock. He is
text: trying to talk again. All that comes out is a WHISTLE
text: and a CLICKING SOUND. He reaches out his hand to
text: Rosenberg tO be helped up. His two friends finally
text: get him standing. The shock is clearly gone now. His
text: eyes respond intelligently; in fact, they glisten with
text: excitement. He is smiling. He heads for the observa-
text: tion room, indicating that since he can't talk, he
dialog: wants to communicate by writing --
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT 113
text: By the time Parrish and Rosenberg get there, Jessup is
text: seated on Rosenberg's chair and has scrawled something
text: in Rosenberg's notebook. Rosenberg leans over to
dialog: read the message --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: What do you want blood tests for?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Can you hear me? Can you understand
dialog: me?
text: Parrish reaches forward to palpate his neck. Jessup
text: angrily brushes Parrish's hand away, scrawls a long.
dialog: message in Rosenberg's notebook --
speaker_heading: PARKISH
dialog: What's he say?
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 ‘ 58.
speaker_heading: 113 ROSENBERG 113
dialog: (reading as
dialog: Jessup writes)
text: He says: ‘A buccal smear and blood
dialog: for a karyotype. Also blood samples
dialog: for the Goodman and Sarich labs.
dialog: Pictures of my neck. A whole series
dialog: of films. Now. Before I
dialog: reconstitute. Exclamation point.'
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (slipping back
dialog: into his long
dialog: white lab coat)
dialog: Before he what?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
text: Before he reconstitutes.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Well, take his damn blood, and then *
dialog: maybe he'll let me take a look at
dialog: him.
text: Rosenberg, who carries his stuff around in an old air-
text: line bag, fetches out a vacu-tainer and some tubes and
text: a rubber tourniquet. He sets about taking blood
text: samples from Jessup's left arm.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: _ (to Jessup)
dialog: Do you mind if I examine your neck
dialog: for a moment?
text: Jessup, who is clearly in a state of high excitement,
text: rolls his eyes in exasperation but allows Parrish to
text: palpate his neck.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (inserting the
dialog: syringe)
dialog: Any masses?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: No.
text: Parrish auscultates Jessup's neck, shines his opthal-
text: moscope into Jessup's eyes. To all this, Jessup sub-
text: mits with little grace and only because he is confined
text: by Rosenberg drawing blood. He is obviously in con-
text: siderable inner turmoil. He sits on the chair in his
text: bulky robe, his legs crossed, one swinging nervously.
text: He finally pushes Parrish aside and begins scrawling
text: in the notebook again with his right hand. Parrish
text: leans over to read the message.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES Rev. 3/8/79 59.
dialog: 113
dialog: 114
speaker_heading: PARRISH 113
dialog: (losing his own temper)
dialog: Oh, stop talking shit! Are you
dialog: saying your dumb hallucination has
dialog: externalized?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (inserting a new tube)
dialog: What'd he write?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (reading)
dialog: Not common aphasia. Time-space
text: fallout from the hallucination.
dialog: (bends so that he
dialog: is nose-to-nose
dialog: with Jessup)
dialog: You are a fucking flake, Jessup,
dialog: so get dressed, and I'm taking you
dialog: over to the Brigham to do a
dialog: complete work-up on you!
dialog: (as Jessup shakes
dialog: his head, Parrish
dialog: explodes )
dialog: You are a very sick dude, you dumb
dialog: son of a bitch! And I want to look
dialog: down your throat, get some skull
dialog: films, do a CAT scan, maybe even
dialog: an arteriogram, and I'd like an
dialog: unbiased eye to look at those EEG
dialog: tracings!
text: Jessup shakes his head a very arctic and imperious no.
text: He writes a brief message in Rosenberg's notebook and
text: stabs it with two exclamation points.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (inserting a new tube)
dialog: What's he say?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: He says he just wants x-rays. Okay,
text: finish up with him, Arthur, and
dialog: let's get him over to x-ray.
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ROOM - TEN MINUTES LATER ~ NIGHT’ 114
text: Parrish, wearing his sheepskin jacket now, is cleaning
text: up in the tank room. He rolls his torn shirt into a
text: ball with Jessup's bloody robe, then goes over to make
text: sure the valves have been shut tight, then goes into --
dialog: 115
dialog: 116
dialog: 117
dialog: 118
dialog: 60.
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT 115
text: -- where Rosenberg and Jessup are also tidying up, pack-
text: ing the stack of polygraph paper, etc.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (indicating
dialog: Jessup's robe)
dialog: I'll be right back. I just want to
dialog: get rid of this stuff.
text: He exits.
scene_heading: INT. SUB-BASEMENT TUNNEL - NIGHT 116
text: Empty except for the three of them, a quixotic trio,
text: shambling, bulky Parrish, tiny Rosenberg carrying his
text: airline vag, Jessup in Levis, his shirttails not
text: entirely tucked in. They ar- -soving through the
text: bowels of the building. The iu..lls are lined with huge,
text: thick, hot water pipes. They pass the open incinera-
text: tors, wells dug deep into the foundations of the build~
text: ings. Flames leap up from the depths.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (as they go)
dialog: Is it possible it's purely mechanicai?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Well, neurologically, he's grossly
dialog: intact, and, if it isn't neurological,
dialog: then it's got to be mechanical --
text: They push through swinging doors. Parrish pulls an
dialog: exit door open --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: I'd like to get a look at his cords
dialog: and do a barium swallow --
scene_heading: INT. A STAIRWELL - NIGHT 117
dialog: -- as they head upstairs --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Maybe I'll run down to Emergency
dialog: and pick up an ENT bag --
scene_heading: INT. THE ERIGHAM HOSPITAL ~ A CORRIDOR - NIGHT 118
text: The three of them coming down tne othervise empty
text: yellow-tiled hospital corridor to a door which has
text: a little wooden marker sticking cut of the wall above
text: it, reading X-RAY. They turn into --
dialog: 61.
scene_heading: 119 INT, THE BRIGHAM - X-RAY DEPARTMENT - OUTER ROOM - 119
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: A TECHNICIAN looks up at this late interruption --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: I want some plain films of this
text: guy's neck, a PA, a lateral and an
dialog: oblique.
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: Jesus, Doctor, I'm backed up to my
dialog: ass for tonight --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (snapping)
dialog: Take the damn pictures! This is
dialog: an emergency!
text: The Technician leads Jessup * ‘5 an x-ray room, closes
text: the door. Parrish leans back against a wall --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: I guess we had better not tell
text: Eddie he had blocd on his face when
dialog: he came out of the tank. He'll
dialog: claim it was goat's blood from
dialog: that goat he was eating in his
text: hallucination.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Oh, for Chrissakes! You really are
dialog: getting as weird as he is.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Well, what do you think happened?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (fishes a cigar from
dialog: his cigar case)
dialog: He's not the type for an hysterical
dialog: conversion, so I'm thinking seizure.
text: He came out of the tank in a fugue
dialog: state, and he had blood all over
text: his face. He must've had a seizure
text: in the tank, bit his tongue while
text: convulsing and is post-~icticly
dialog: aphasic. I thought maybe he had
dialog: a vascular insult, a stroke or
dialog: flipped an embolus. But ,
text: neurologically, he's intact, so
dialog: I'm thinking seizure now --
scene_heading: 120 INT. X RAY ROOM - NIGHT
text: The Technician clipping up the x-rays to be
dialog: 120
dialog: examined.
dialog: 120
dialog: 121
dialog: 62.
text: Parrish, Rosenberg and Jessup huddle in front of them. 120
text: Jessup points with excitement to the throat area --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (growls)
dialog: Take it easy. None of us are so
text: terrific at reading x-rays.
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: What're you guys looking for?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (indicates the x-rays)
dialog: Put these things in an envelope,
dialog: and who's reading tonight in
dialog: radiology?
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: Doctor Wissenschaft.
text: Jessup puts his hand on Parri:.'s arm and shakes his
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (just about control-
dialog: ling his temper)
dialog: I want someone to look at those
dialog: x-rays who can read them, Eddie.
text: Jessup indicates he wants to talk outside. He and
dialog: Parrish go out into --
scene_heading: INT. THE CORRIDOR OUTSIDE ~ NIGHT 121
text: The two of them standing in a long, empty hospital
dialog: corridor ~~
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'd rather not have everybody in
dialog: the Brigham in on this. It's bad
dialog: enough we've got this nosy x-ray
dialog: technician.
text: It taxes Parrish a moment to realize Jessup is talking
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Are you all right?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'm fine, Mason. I tried to
dialog: indicate this was just a transient
dialog: thing.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: A transient ischemic attack, that's
dialog: what it was --
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 121
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: PARRISH (cont'd) 121
dialog: (leans into the
dialog: x-ray department,
dialog: says to Rosenberg)
dialog: He's got his voice back,
text: Rosenberg comes out into the hallway carrying the large
text: manila envelope containing the x-rays.
dialog: Parrish
speaker_heading: : JESSUP
dialog: It wasn't an ischemic attack, it
dialog: wasn't a seizure. You saw the
text: X-rays, Mason. There was a clear
dialog: fusion of the digastric muscles to
text: the hyoid bone, and the larynx
dialog: was in an unusually forward
dialog: position. I'm not sure, but I
dialog: think the digastric muscles which
dialog: are looped in humans, are fused
dialog: directly to the bone- tn apes. I
dialog: obviously regressed tc some quasi-
dialog: simian creature.
text: takes the envelope of x-rays from Rosenberg.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (trying not to explode)
dialog: I'm taking these over to someone
dialog: who can read them risht. We're
dialog: reading them wrong, that's all
dialog: there is to it. Because nobody's
dialog: going to tell me you de-differentiated
dialog: your goddam genetic structure for
dialog: four goddam hours and then
dialog: reconstituted --
dialog: (the more he tries
dialog: to keep his voice
dialog: down, the more
dialog: apoplectic he gets)
dialog: I'm a professor of endocrinology
dialog: at the Harvard Medical School. I'm
dialog: an attending physician at the Peter
dialog: Bent Brigham Hospital, a consulting
dialog: editor to the American Journal of
dialog: Endocrinology, a fellow and vice-
dialog: president of the Eastern
dialog: Association of Endocrinologists,
dialog: the president of the journal club --
text: (he erupts into
dialog: full-blown rage)
dialog: -~ and I'm not goings to listen to
dialog: any more of your cabalistic, quantum,
dialog: frigging, dumb, limbo mumbo jumbo!
dialog: (he brandishes
dialog: the envelore)
dialog: I'm going to show these to a
dialog: radiologist!
dialog: o™
dialog: 121
dialog: 122
dialog: 64,
text: He turns, strides down the hallway to the next door 121
text: which is marked RADIOLOGY, thrusts the door open,
dialog: strides into --
scene_heading: INT, DEPARTMENT OF RADIOLOGY - NIGHT 122
text: where DR. WISSENSCHAFT, an unhappy resident, is poring
text: over a stack of x-ray pictures --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (getting himself back
dialog: in control, extends
dialog: the envelope to the
dialog: radiologist)
dialog: Do me a favor, take a look at these.
speaker_heading: WISSENSCHAFT
dialog: (extracting the films)
dialog: What's the story in “"’s case?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Thirty-five year old white man,
dialog: acute onset of aphasia, no history
dialog: of trauma.
speaker_heading: WISSENSCHAFT
dialog: (affixing the x-rays
dialog: against the light)
dialog: What're you looking for?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: It looks to me like the architecture
dialog: is somewhat abnormal.
speaker_heading: WISSE:SCHAFT
dialog: (peers at the film)
dialog: Somewhat? This guy's a fucking
dialog: gorilla.
scene_heading: 122A INT. JESSUP'S FLAT - BEDROOM - NIGHT 122A
text: Dark. CLOSEUP of Jessup, asleep. His eyes slowly
text: open. Despite the heavy shadow, we can see his eyes
text: glisten with terror. His mouth opens slowly till it
text: is agape with terror, as if he were about to screan.
text: CAMERA SUDDENLY PULLS BACK as he abruptly half-rises,
text: simultaneously throwing the blanket from off him.
text: He stares horrified at his body. He is wearing only
text: his pajama trousers, and scmething terrible seems to
text: be happening to his body. It seems to be swelling
text: and contorting as if forces inside his body were try-
text: ing to break out.
text: We can see now that a young woman, presumably the
text: Medical Student mentioned above, is asleep on the
text: other side of the bed, turned with her back to us.
speaker_heading: 122A
speaker_heading: 122B
dialog: 65.
text: She is naked, and, in her sleep, tries to cover her 122A
text: exposed back with the blanket Jessup had pulled away
text: in his terror.
text: CLOSER ANGLES of Jessup's body. His arm suddenly
text: shrivels into a bent little furred arm, much like a
text: rat's paw. Suddenly, his feet are webbed; a split-
text: second later, they are furred as well; a split-second
text: later, they are back to normal. His face is a mask of
text: pain. He touches his head, feeling the bones of his
text: skull -- his jaw, the bones just above his eyebrows,
text: which seem to be moving under his skin, reassembling
text: into new formations. He suddenly bends forward,
text: clutching the back of hls neck as if he had been
text: brutally struck there. His chest surges into massive
text: musculature and subsides. Cracks appear and suddenly
text: spread throughout his body. The Med Student stirs,
text: still trying to cover her nakedness --
speaker_heading: MED STUDENT
dialog: (murmurs drowsily)
dialog: Are you okay, Dr. Jessup?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (on his elbows, no
dialog: longer in pain, merely
dialog: observing the changing
dialog: deformations of his
dialog: body )
dialog: Yes.
text: He forces himself into a sitting position, his legs
text: hanging over the side of the bed. He almost falls to
text: his knees beside the bed. Slowly, carefully, he
text: makes his way around the bed to the bathroom, all the
text: while his body crumbling, crackling and buckling, as
text: if he were made of dry earth, as if seismic forces
text: were at work within him. He gets himself into the --
scene_heading: INT, THE BATHROOM - NIGHT 122B
text: -- closes the door, flicks on the light and stares at
text: himself in the full-length mirror on the back of the
text: bathroom door.
text: His POV -- what he sees in the mirror in the dull
text: yellow bathroom light. A series of disjunctive evolu-
text: tionary images of himself, flickering one after
text: another, none of the images lasting longer than a
text: fraction of a second. The images are mostly hominid
text: and protohuman, Ramapithecine figures, in which he is
text: no more than three feet tall. Several of the reflec-
text: tions snow him in the shape of a delicately-fingered,
text: insect-eating, lemur-like animal, perched in a tree,
text: clutching a branch, and staring out through enormous
text: soft eyes.
speaker_heading: 122B
dialog: 122¢
dialog: 123
dialog: 124
dialog: thru
dialog: 126
dialog: 66.
text: Suddenly, he is his realistic self in the mirror, a 122B
text: slight, white-skinned young man in his late 30s, wear-
dialog: ing pajama pants. The whole thing lasted perhaps five
dialog: seconds.
speaker_heading: MED STUDENT (0.s.)
dialog: (calling from
dialog: behind the door)
dialog: Are you all right, Dr. Jessup?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
text: (staring at his
dialog: reflection)
dialog: I'm fine.
text: He opens the door, comes out into --
scene_heading: INT. THE BEDROOM - NIGHT 122c
text: -- where the Med Student stands, holding the blanket
text: vaguely around herself, more asleep than awake. Jessup
text: heads for his desk on the wall facing the bed --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I just want to make a few notes --
text: He sits at the desk, clicks on the desk lamp, reaches
text: for a notebook, opens it, begins to write. Behind him,
text: the Med Student sinks back onto the bed and is in-
text: stantly asleep again. Jessup writes -- then pauses to
text: stare at his naked right arm on the desk. CAMERA PANS
text: DOWN to the arm. A protoplasmic substance bulges out
text: and moves up his arm under the skin like a moie and
text: disappears into his elbow. He regards this phenomenen
text: in blank astonishment and then returns to his meticu-
dialog: lous writing down of what has just happened to him -~
scene_heading: EXT. LOGAN AIRPORT - APRIL 1976 - SUNNY DAY 123
text: A KLM jumbo jet touching down on the runway ~-
scene_heading: INT. LOGAN AIRPORT - CUSTOMS AREA - ARRIVAL GATE 124
dialog: thru
text: Emily and the kids, browned by a year of African sun. 126
dialog: A great deal of luggage, a year's worth, plus cartons
dialog: and crates and bags -=
text: A Porter wheeling a handtruck filled with just their
text: luggage, heading for the arrival gate where a crowd
dialog: is awaiting the arriving passengers --
text: REVERSE from Emily to the gate where Jessup can be
text: spotted among the pack of waiting greeters. Emily
text: points out their father to the girls who break into a
text: run and race to him.
dialog: 67.
text: 124 He seizes them both, hugs them individually, then to- 124
text: thru gether, then turns to Emily wno has just come through thru
text: 126 the gate and embraces her. / 126
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: My God! You all look so marvelous!
text: Emily studies his face. There is a feverish quality
dialog: in all this enthusiasm.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: How've you been, Eddie?
text: He takes a moment to answer.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I don't know. Strange things have
dialog: been happening.
text: He whirls, seizes both sauealing kids, one under each
text: arm and strides off.
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Are you going to drive us to our
dialog: new house?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (striding along)
dialog: You bet your life. And I'm going
dialog: to help you unpack, and, depending
dialog: on how nice you are to me, I may
dialog: take you all to a Chinese restaurant.
text: Emily, concerned, made anxious by the strange, almost
text: mad, uncharacterisite exuberance of her husband,
text: follows along with the Porter and the luggage --
scene_heading: 127 INT. EMILY'S NEW HOME ~ LIVING ROOti - SEVERAL HOURS 127
speaker_heading: LATER - DUSK
dialog: The room, indeed the whole flat -- the bottom floor of
text: a Cape Cod house on Avon Hill in Cambridge -- is a
text: wild disarray of packed and unpacked luggage. Cartons,
text: small crates, valises, carrying bags lay open in every
text: room, half-emptied; clothing is piled on beds, in
text: heaps on the floor; books and notebooks, cans of film
text: and stacks of tape recorder cassettes and reels are
text: massed in mounds on beds, chairs and tables. Through
text: the windows, we can see dusk is descending outside. We
text: might even catch glimpses of the Jessup children on
text: the front porch. Through all this disarray, Emily
text: moves following her own private pattern of efficiency,
dialog: piling this bunch of things here and carrying that
text: pile of clothing across the entrance foyer of the house
text: into the bedrooms where she dumps them on other piles
text: of clothing. She turns on a lamp in the room.
dialog: 127
speaker_heading: 127A
dialog: 68.
text: It has an orange shade, and it casts an orange light. 127
text: All the while she chats away with Jessup whom we can
text: see in the kitchen to the rear of the living room,
text: sitting at the formica-topped table, legs crossed, sip~-
dialog: ping a cup of coffee --
speaker_heading: EMILY
text: (as she goes through
dialog: all the above)
dialog: -- Anyway, don't let anybody tell
dialog: you baboons aren't occasionally
dialog: carnivorous. I personally observed
dialog: two instances of predation which
dialog: involved the unmistakeable behavior
text: of hunters. A pair of baboons
dialog: killed young Thomson gazelles and
dialog: ate them. There was a rudimentary
dialog: communication between the two
dialog: baboons that was noticeably
dialog: different from the usual baboon
dialog: vocalizations. So I've become
dialog: fascinated with the work on non=
dialog: verbal communication being done
dialog: with apes. I've been corresponding
dialog: with the Gardners at the University
dialog: of Nevada. I may just go out and
dialog: spend a couple of weeks there this
dialog: summer. I've got nothing else to
dialog: do except write up my report.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I don't suppose you recorded any
dialog: of those baboon sounds.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Yes, of course, I did, why?
dialog: She comes into --
scene_heading: INT. THE KITCHEN - DUSK 127A
text: ~-- where she pours herself a cup of coffee --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'd like very much to hear them.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Of course.
text: She pulls up a chair, joins him at the table.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Mrs. Tully said she'll be here
dialog: tomorrow morning at ten-thirty to
dialog: help you put everything away.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: Rev. 3/6/79 69.
speaker_heading: 127A JESSUP (cont'd) 127A
dialog: She wanted to know if you wanted
dialog: her to come back to work steady,
dialog: and I said I was sure you would.
text: She nods. A silence falls between them. They sip
text: at their cups. She steals a glance at him.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I got a letter from Mason about a
dialog: week ago, just before we left
dialog: Nairobi. He says that over the
dialog: past year you've taken about two
dialog: grams of that drug yourself and
dialog: that you had a very unusual
dialog: instance of genetic regression
dialog: about three months ago, which he
dialog: thinks was an incipient neoplastic
dialog: process, and that you've probably
dialog: got leukemia or lymphoma. He's
dialog: been trying to get you into the
dialog: hospital for a complete workup,
dialog: but you refuse to go. He's worried
dialog: stiff that you're cracking up. He
dialog: thinks you're behaving very
dialog: strangely, and he begged me to
dialog: talk to you about this when I
dialog: got back.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
text: Mason is pathologically incapable
dialog: of keeping his mouth shut about
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: He's worried about you.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: He's also a stupid, starched,
dialog: doctrinaire idiot.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Mason is a first~rate doctor.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: It's not leukemia or any other
dialog: kind of cancer!
text: He stands, flushed with fury, his hands visibly trem-
text: bling with the effort of controlling his mounting rage.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
text: I let him do a liver-spleen scan
dialog: on me and a CAT scan. I've been
dialog: probed, scoped and palpated!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: Rev. 3/6/79 70.
speaker_heading: 127A
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd) 127A
dialog: Parrish has had a mirror down my
dialog: throat or up my ass every half
dialog: hour for three months! And there
dialog: is no evidence, no suggestion
dialog: whatsoever of cancer!
text: She says nothing; he strides off into the living room
text: and is as suddenly back.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: What else did he write you? What
dialog: else did he tell you about that
dialog: genetic regression I went through
dialog: three months ago?
text: She says nothing for fear of provoking another outburst.
text: Jessup disappears into the living room. After a moment ,
text: she stands, goes to the doorway.
dialog: Tl.
scene_heading: 127B INT. EMILY'S LIVING ROOM - DUSK 127B
text: ACROSS Emily looking into the living room where Jessup
text: is hunched over by the porch window, trying to read the
text: labels on a stack of audio cassettes by the fading
dialog: daylight.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Which of these has the baboon
dialog: vocalizations on them? I'd like
dialog: to hear them.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (smiles briefly)
dialog: Did Mason write you that during
dialog: that incident of regression I went
dialog: through, I had an aphasic experience
dialog: for about four hours? The only
dialog: sounds I could get out were clicks
dialog: and grunts. I've got a gut hunch
dialog: they're very much like the baboon
dialog: vocalizations you have on your
dialog: tapes.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Mason says that you took blood tests,
dialog: and the lab report showed some
dialog: characteristics of simian blood
dialog: group systems.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: They also picked up antigens,
dialog: specific to man.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'd like to see that data.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: We also took a buccal smear. The
dialog: chromosomal count was forty-eight --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Are you serious?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: And the structure of the karyotype
dialog: was also non-human.
text: They stand, staring at each other across the room.
text: Three year old Margaret straggles into the room and
text: wraps herself around her father's knees. Jessup
text: fondles the tow head absently.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES - Rev. 3/5/79
speaker_heading: 127B JESSUP
dialog: Look, Emily, an incomprehensible
dialog: instance of regression has occurred,
dialog: literal, physical regression:
dialog: muscles, bones, chromosomes and genes.
dialog: We have a small body of evidence
dialog: that cannot be explained away as
dialog: leukemia or lymphoma. There was
dialog: a transformation of piological
dialog: structures, that's clear. Beyond
dialog: that, all we've got is a
dialog: singularity, a physical event
dialog: that is out of context of all
dialog: known theory.
dialog: (picks his daughter
text: up, clutches her to
text: him, whispers into
dialog: her hair)
dialog: Everybody thinks your father's going
dialog: nuts --
dialog: (strides around the
text: room, clutching the
text: ehild, talking in
text: bursts like a man
dialog: out of breath)
dialog: I mean, for God's sake, the thing
dialog: to do is for me to get back in
dialog: that isolation tank and try it
dialog: again! Let's see if it happens
dialog: again! I mean, none of us really
dialog: believes it happened! After three
dialog: months, I'm beginning to wonder if
dialog: it ever happened myself! But, oh
dialog: no! They won't go back in the
dialog: tank! Mason's taken over the
dialog: whole project! He's got Arthur
dialog: up in his lab every day,
dialog: fractionating rats' brains! What
dialog: the hell am I supposed to do while
dialog: they're fractionating rats! brains!
dialog: I am convinced the regression was
text: triggered by an act of consciousness!
dialog: While I was in the tank, I entered
dialog: another consciousness! I became
dialog: another self! A more primitive
dialog: self! And the drug, in some way,
dialog: triggered the externalization of
dialog: that other, more primitive self!
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: 1278
dialog: 73.
text: 127B His daughter begins to cry. 127B
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Put her down, Eddie. You're
dialog: frightening her.
text: Jessup gently restores the girl to the floor. Emily
text: picks up the frightened child. When she looks up to
text: her husband, he is sitting on the soft chair under the
text: lamp, his eyes closed, his face masklike.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: At least, look at my data.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Of course. Maybe tomorrow afternoon.
dialog: Would tomorrow afternoon be all
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Don't patronize me.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm not --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (stands, shouting)
dialog: It's just possible I'm not mad, you
dialog: know! I'm asking you to make a
dialog: small quantum jump with me! To
dialog: accept one deviant concept -~ that
dialog: our other states of consciousness
dialog: are as real as our waking state
dialog: and that that reality can be
dialog: externalized!
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You're screaming.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I know! But I've been getting this
dialog: patronizing shit from Arthur and
dialog: Mason for three months now, and I'm
dialog: sick of it. We've got millions of
dialog: years stored away in that computer
dialog: bank we call our minds! We've got
dialog: trillions of dormant genes in us,
dialog: our whole evolutionary past!
dialog: Perhaps I've tapped into that!
dialog: For God's sake, all I'm saying is
dialog: I want to get back to that tank
dialog: and repeat the experiment! The
dialog: most elementary laboratory behavior!
dialog: Repeat the experiment! Confirm it!
dialog: I would like other responsible
dialog: scientists with me when I do it!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: 127B
dialog: 128
dialog: thru
dialog: 132
dialog: 133
dialog: 134
dialog: 135
dialog: 7h.
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd) 1273
dialog: I'd like a little consensual
dialog: validation on this! We may have
dialog: demonstrated a whole new force in
dialog: nature. My God, doen't you agree
dialog: 4t merits further investigation?
dialog: We're talking about an achievement
dialog: comparable to Newton, Darwin,
dialog: Einstein!
text: He sits again, crosses his legs, folds his hands in
text: his lap. The orange light of the lamp slashes across
text: his face.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (dementedly calm)
dialog: I've got all the tapes, notes and
dialog: everything at my place. What time
dialog: would you like to come over and
dialog: look at the stuff tomorrow?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Two, two-thirty?
dialog: (smiles nervously)
dialog: I just want to get Grace. I'll be
dialog: right back,
text: Carrying Margaret, she goes out into --
dialog: 128
speaker_heading: OMITTED thru
dialog: 132
scene_heading: INT. ENTRANCE FOYER - DUSK 133
text: She is very nervous, a little frightened. She opens
text: the front door and goes out onto --
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT PORCH - EMILY'S HOUSE - DUSK 134
text: -- where she stands scouring the area for her other
text: daughter. She spots her down the block a bit and
text: across the street talking to a woman, a NEIGHBOR, with
text: a@smaj1 ROY. She moves quickly down the porch steps
dialog: and out to --
scene_heading: EXT. AVON HILL - DUSK 135
text: ~- where she sets Margaret down and heads across the
dialog: street.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (calls)
dialog: Grace --
dialog: 135
dialog: 75.
text: The woman turns to her smiling -- 135
speaker_heading: NEIGHBOR
dialog: I'm Linda Sandys. I belong to that
dialog: house over there -~
text: She points to a gray clapboard house down the block.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm Emily Jessup.
speaker_heading: NEIGHBOR
dialog: And you've just come back from
dialog: Africa today. Grace has been
dialog: telling me and Georgie all about
dialog: it. My husband's in French Classics.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm in Anthropology.
speaker_heading: NEIGHBOR
dialog: Would you like to come over and have
dialog: some coffee?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (forcing a smile on)
dialog: I'd love to really, but I've got
text: a hungry husband back in the house.
dialog: (to her daughters)
dialog: We're going to a Chinese restaurant.
text: The children race back to their house.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: We're still unpacking --
speaker_heading: NEIGHBOR
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: PMILY
dialog: I'll take you up on that coffee
dialog: tomorrow morning, if I may.
speaker_heading: NEIGHBOR
dialog: Please. The gray house there.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Thank you, excuse me.
text: She hurries back down the Street. When she gets to
text: the front path, both kids are coming out of house -
text: onto porch.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (frightened)
dialog: Is your father all right?
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Where is he?
dialog: 135
dialog: 136
dialog: 137
dialog: 138
dialog: 139
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: EMILY 135
dialog: Oh, God -~
speaker_heading: GRACE
dialog: Are we still going to the Chinese
dialog: restaurant?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Yes, of course. I just want to make
dialog: a few phone calls -- Let's get
dialog: inside,
scene_heading: INT. ISOLATION TANK ROOM - NIGHT 136
text: The SCREEN IS BLACK. A door in the back of the black-
text: ness opens, and Jessup enters silnouetted in the
text: ‘rectangle of light made by the open doorway. A
text: moment later, soft, subdued lighting comes on. We
dialog: are in --
scene_heading: INT. ISOLATION TANK ROOM -- NIGHT 137
text: -- looking across the black tank to Jessup entering in
text: beg. He is wearing the jacket, sweater and shapeless
text: chinos he was wearing in the previous scenes and is
text: carrying Rosenberg's airline bag. He turns on a
text: water valve. Water RUMBLES into the tank. He checks
text: the thermostat, opens the airline bag, extracts a jar
text: of magnesium sulfate, pours it into the gathering
text: spume at the bottom of the tank. He strips off his
text: jacket and sweater, keeps checking the water level
text: in the tank. He takes a Mason jar of clear liquid out
text: of the airline bag, measures off 4 ec of the liquid
text: into a syringe, squirts that into a beaker. He drains
text: the beaker in one gulp, walks to a shadowy corner of
text: the room where a white porcelain bowl is sitting,
text: stripping off his shirt as he soes. He drops the
text: shirt on the pile made by his jacket and sweater. He
dialog: goes into --
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROOM ~ NIGHT 138
text: -- where he sits, checks the time on his watch and makes
text: a.notation in a notebook. He unclips his watch, stands,
dialog: walks back into -~
scene_heading: INT, THE TANK ROOM ~ NIGHT 139
text: -~ where he drops the watch on his clothing, checks
text: the water level in the tank.
speaker_heading: TT.
scene_heading: 140 EXT. #22 AVON HILL - EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT 140
text: A taxi pulls up. The door opens, and Grace and
text: Margaret come tumbling out and race up the path to
text: the porch. A moment later they are followed by their
dialog: mother.
scene_heading: 141 EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - PORCH - NIGHT 141
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (unlocking the
dialog: front door)
dialog: It's eight-thirty, so get washed
dialog: and changed right now, and I'm in
dialog: no mood for any trouble from either
dialog: of you tonight, do you understand?
text: The phone is RINGING inside. She gets the door open,
text: and the kids scoot in. Emily hurries across --
scene_heading: 142 INT. FRONT FOYER - NIGHT 142
dialog: -- and into --
scene_heading: 143 INT. THE LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT 143
text: The phone is still RINGING. She picks it up, flicking
text: on the lights as she does --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Yes, hello... Oh, Mason, thank you
dialog: for calling. I assume you've spoken
dialog: to Arthur... No, I just got back
dialog: from dinner with the kids... Well,
dialog: I just don't know what to say. I
dialog: think you're absolutely right. I
dialog: think he's on the verge of a
dialog: breakdown, He was here all afternoon
text: and carried on like a madman and then
dialog: just disappeared. Ordinarily, I
dialog: wouldn't be this panicky, but I
dialog: just am --
scene_heading: 144 INT, THE OBSERVATION ROO: - NIGHT 144
text: We are looking through the one-way window into the
text: tank room, where the black coffin-like box of the tank
text: sits shrouded in shadow. ‘le just watch it for a
text: moment. ‘Then the lid starts to rise. It's being
text: raised by what seems to be a furred arm --
speaker_heading: LAS
dialog: 146
dialog: 147
dialog: 148
dialog: 149
dialog: 78.
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ROOM - NIGHT 145
text: ANGLE SHOT looking down on the tank as the lid is
text: raised completely out of its grooves and pushed tnudding
text: to the floor, revealing standing waist-deep in the
text: water in the tank a small, perhaps four foot high
text: creature, finely furred, human stance, bipedal if
text: perhaps a bit sloping in the shoulders, definable human
text: features except for a massive projecting ridge of bone
text: above the eyebrows and a prognathic jaw, a somewhat
text: flattened skull, a low brow, chinless; a creature
text: Just tall enough so that its little red eyes can barely
text: see over the walls of the tank. It GRUNTS, makes a
scene_heading: CLICKING SOUND -~
scene_heading: INT. B BUILDING - MEDICAL SCHOOL - CADAVER ROOM - 146
scene_heading: AN HOUR LATER - 9:30 P.M.
text: HECTOR ORTEGA, 39 years old, one of the janitors’
text: staff at the medical school, gathering the trashbags
text: in the room. This is the room where they keep the
text: cadavers hanging on hooks like sides of beef for the
dialog: morning's dissection classes. There are two such
text: naked, death-wnite cadavers hanging now. Ortega
text: carries the trashbags out into --
scene_heading: INT. B BUILDING BASEMENT - CORRIDOR ~ NIGHT 147
text: -~- where he unloads them into the can of his cleaning
text: cart. Then he trundles the cart down the corridor,
text: trying doors as he goes. They are all locked until he
text: gets to the door of the Isolation Tank Room, which is
text: marked Llectroencephalography and is unaccountably
dialog: open. Interested, Ortega goes into --
scene_heading: INT. THE ISOLATION TANK ROOM ~ ENTRANCE FOYER - 148
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: The lights are on here and in the observation room.
text: The door to the tank room itself is closed. Ortega
dialog: goes into -=
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT 149
text: He looks through the one-way window into the tank room
text: which is barely lit, just enough light to make out
text: that sinister coffin-like uncovered tank. Ortega
text: shrugs, starts to go back into the corridor, opens
text: the corriaor door, changes his mind, turns and opens
text: the door to the tank room. He is immediately knocked
text: against the wall by a hurtling, ferocious little
text: animal, which, in his confusion, Ortega takes to be
text: a dog; at least, he mutters imprecations in Spanish
dialog: as to who the hell is keeping a fucking dog down here.
dialog: 149
dialog: 150
speaker_heading: 1
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: 79.
text: The animal has gotten out the corridor door just 149
text: before it closes. Ortega yoes back out into --
scene_heading: INT. B BUILDING CORRIDOR - NIGHT 150
text: What he sees now about fifteen yards down the corridor
text: is an apelike creature, covered with a fine fur, that
text: is, however, unmistakably human. It stands upright.
text: Its eyes are small and red, but not deep-socketed like
text: an ape's, and seem to have a human intelligence in them.
text: The creature is no bigger than Ortega's own nine-
text: year old son, but it is fierce-looking and is making a
text: threatening, savage, rumbling NOISE, curling its lip
text: and baring its teeth which are yellow, even, and very
text: human in appearance. Ortega is getting a little scared.
text: He reaches for his janitor's broom and begins to un-
dialog: screw the long handle --
speaker_heading: ORTEGA
dialog: (calling to a col-
dialog: league hopefully
dialog: nearby)
dialog: Hey, Jameson! Hey, Jameson, are
dialog: you still there? Come here!
text: His voice echoes in the empty basement corridors.
text: There is no response. Holding the broom pole, he takes
text: a step toward the strange animal, which watches him
dialog: carefully.
speaker_heading: ORTEGA
dialog: Hey, Jameson, in the name of God,
dialog: come over here and see this!
text: (brandishes his pole
dialog: at the creature)
dialog: Es mejor que salgas de aqui antes
dialog: que cometa una locura!
text: The creature's face suddenly flares with rage. It
text: raises both furred fists and screams in fury. Ortega
text: turns and bolts back up the corridor to the first
text: corridor that debouches to the left and leads to D
dialog: Building --
scene_heading: INT, CONNECTING CORRIDOR TO D BUILDING = NIGHT 151
text: Ortega comes tearing halfway down to a door marked
text: Security Office. Behind him, he can hear enraged
text: SCREECHES bouncing off the walls. He knocks on the
text: door of the Security Office, looks back up the connect-
text: ing corridor, clutching his broomstick. The corridor
text: is empty but still echoing. The door opens, and the
text: bulky finure of Sergeant GEORGE OBISPO, a tall, uni-
text: formed man, appears.
speaker_heading: i5l
dialog: 152
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: OBISPO 151
dialog: Que pasa?
speaker_heading: ORTEGA
dialog: (still treathing hard,
text: takes a moment to
dialog: figure out just
dialog: what is the matter)
dialog: Hay un animal suelto en el edificio
dialog: B.
speaker_heading: OBISPO
dialog: Que clase de animal es?
speaker_heading: ORTEGA
dialog: (takes a moment
dialog: to sort his
dialog: ansver out)”
dialog: Un mono, creo.
text: From the distant bowels of B Building, the echoing
text: SHRIEK of rage sounds again, caroming off the walls
text: of the empty corridors.
speaker_heading: OBISPO
dialog: (mutters )
dialog: Carajo.
text: He goes striding up the corridor, unbuckling his night-
text: stick. Ortega follows, holding nis broom pole. Half-
text: way down, they both pull up short because about twenty-
text: five yards in front of tnem, where their corridor is
text: erossed by the B Building corridor, the strange little
text: creature suddenly lopes into view, silhouetted in the
text: diffused yellow light. It rewards the two men a
text: moment, then bursts into a shrill BARK or SNARL,
text: clearly signifying frustration with its situation.
text: It moves off witn startling quickness. Obispo and
dialog: Ortega break into a trot to get to ==
scene_heading: INT. B BUILDING CORRIDOR ~ NIGHT 152
text: They pause, look down the length of the corridor to
text: the right. It is empty. There is an exit door at
dialog: the far end.
speaker_heading: OBISPO
text: (pulls out his walkie-
text: talkie, talking as he
dialog: slowly moves up B
dialog: Corridor into the set)
dialog: Charlie, Charlie Thomas, where are
dialog: you, in the librery?... Who you with?
dialog: «.-Okay, listen, we got an animal
text: loose in B Building basement, so
dialog: you and Mingus come over here right
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 152
dialog: 153
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: OBISPO (cont'd) 152
dialog: We'll be in the north corridor that ~
dialog: goes back to the nurses! residence,
dialog: so you guys come down the other way,
dialog: and we'll meet you at the door.
dialog: We'll keep him cornered, but he's
dialog: a pretty good-sized ape, and I
dialog: better call the animal rooms and
dialog: see what he's doing down here.
dialog: But be very careful because he
dialog: looks dangerous. And come in fast
dialog: because I don't know how long we
dialog: can hold him down here.
dialog: Obispo and Ortega have reached --
scene_heading: INT, NORTH CORRIDOR - NIGHT 153
text: Empty. This area is poorly lighted. One of the over-
text: head neon tubes is blown. This corridor also serves
text: as a sometime storage area. A corrugated metal door
text: leads to the Longwood Street loading platform on the
text: left side. Several huge empty cardboard cartons stand
text: against this door. The area is also an auxiliary
text: changing room for the students, and both walls are
text: lined with green and gray lockers. About sixty yards
text: down, tnere is a set of doors witn wire-reinforced
text: windows in the upper halves,
speaker_heading: ORTEGA
text: He's hiding in there somewhere.
speaker_heading: OBISPO
dialog: No se.
dialog: (nods at tne
dialog: exit door)
dialog: You think he could've got out that
dialog: way?
text: Ortega tugs at the door, which is heavy and stuck. It
text: takes all of Ortega's strength to get it open.
speaker_heading: ORTEGA
dialog: He could never open this door.
text: Nevertheless, he leans into the stairwell and looks up
text: to the street level and down to the sub-basement level.
text: Behind him, Sergeant Obisno has put his walkie-talkie
text: back into its case, and, holding his club, moves slowly
text: into the shadows between the enfilade of lockers,
text: poking each locker with his club. CAMERA DOLLIES with
text: him, Suddenly, vith a terrifying SHRIEK, the creature
text: leaps down upon him from the top of the lockers.
text: Sergeant Obispo falls to the floor with a shout of
text: terror, his club clattering on the cement --
dialog: 154
dialog: 155
dialog: 156
dialog: 157
dialog: 158
dialog: 159
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: INT, THE STAIRWELL - NIGHT 154
text: Ortega, who has gone half a landing down, stops,
text: petrified by the SHRIZKS. He starts climbing back
text: up the stairs, tugs open the heavy door and bolts
dialog: into the --
scene_heading: INT. THE NORTH CORRIDOR - NIGHT 155
text: -- where he stops, stares --
text: ACROSS Ortega to where fifteen yards down the corridor
text: the hideous little creature is battering away at the
text: fallen SCREAMING Sergeant Obispo with the Sergeant's
text: own nightstick. The creature spots Ortega, whirls, and
text: comes charging at the poor man, who bolts for his life
dialog: down the B Building corridor --
scene_heading: INT, THE NORTH CORRIDOR - THE OTHER SIDE OF THE 156
speaker_heading: DOORS ~ NIGHT
text: Security Officers THOMAS and MINGUS breaking into a
text: run as they hear Obispots SCREAMS. Thomas is pulling
text: out his chain of keys as he runs, tries to unlock the
text: doors. It is difficult for them to tell what is going
text: on on the other side of the doors because the wire-
text: reinforced windows deform the view.
text: THEIR POV through the windows -- a confused flux of 157
text: shapes on the floor. We hear the creature's high-
text: pitched SCREAM and Obispo's BELLOWS of pain. Suddenly,
text: the rectangular window in one of the doors is filled
text: with a savage, hairy face, made even more horrible by
text: the deforming quality of the glass.
text: Thomas and ilingus startle back from the door. Mingus 158
text: starts pulling at his gun holster. Thomas finally
text: gets the door open. The two guards fling themselves
text: into the other side of the corridor. Obispo is on
text: his knees, a hulking black silhouette, holding his head
text: which is bleeding badly. He slowly sinks unconscious
text: to the floor. Down at the juncture of the corridors,
text: the heavy exit door is slowly wheezing shut. The
text: creature, whatever it was, is gone.
scene_heading: EXT, ROXBURY - CEDAR STREET - NIGHT 159
text: Three wild DOGS slink alons the black streets of this
text: black Boston ghetto. The houses are one-family frame
text: and old brick. The houses are lit, and we hear the
text: faint sounds of television. Cars are parked at the
text: curb. There is a row of shops along one side of the
text: street. On the corner, a bar with a neon sign.
dialog: 159
dialog: 160
dialog: &
dialog: 161
dialog: 162
dialog: 83.
text: The rain has almost stopped. A handful of BLACKS 159
text: lounge in the doorway of the bar. One of them throws
text: an empty beer can at the dogs slinking down the
text: street. The can misses the dogs, clanks tinnily on
text: the street. The dogs barely notice, slink on, wet,
text: dangerous. scruffy. They pad softly down the street
text: past the row of store fronts. After they have gone
text: about thirty yards, almost disappearing into the dark-
text: ness of the night, a form slips out of one of the
text: recessed store fronts and goes trotting along after
text: the dogs. It is the creature last seen clubbing
dialog: Sergeant Obispo.
scene_heading: EXT. ROXBURY - ANOTHER STREET - NIGHT 160
dialog: &
text: A burn-out area. An occasional six story tenement 161
text: with smashed, gaping black windows. One side of this
text: street has been demolisied to rubble and scree. The
text: three dogs pick and slink their way across this open
text: expanse. Some thirty yards behind them comes Jessup,
text: loping along, pausing to pick up a piece of jagged
text: brick. A strange, savage surreal scene in the derelict
text: heart of the city, three wild dogs and a small apelike
text: ereature, slinking through the black, abandoned streets
dialog: hunting for prey.
scene_heading: EXT. ROXBURY - BLUE HILL STREET - FRANKLIN PARK ZOO 162
speaker_heading: - NIGHT
text: On the west side of the street, the high iron fence of
text: the Franklin Park Zoo; on the other side of the street,
text: a row of small apartment houses. Jessup stands hold-
text: ing his club and his piece of brick. He is standing
text: on the zoo side of the street. Behind him, on the
text: . other side of the fence, he hears the TRILLS and CROAKS
text: of birds. The dogs on the other side of the street
text: are marauding some garbage cans and plastic garbare
text: bags and sniffing up alleys and down basement steps,
dialog: looking for rats.
text: There is suddenly a small, snarling flurry among the
text: dogs as they threaten each other over something they
text: have found. It's over in a few seconds. A car goes
text: by, headlights, windshield wiper whisking back and
text: forth, and is gone. The dogs cone slinking across the
text: street to the zoo side, filthy, skulking animals.
text: Jessup watches them, not moving a muscle, tense, alert.
text: They are some twenty yards to the south of him, poking
text: about at the foot of the zoo's fence, looking for a
text: hole. One of them suddenly wheels toward Jessup, its
text: yellow eyes wide and its lin drawn back, exposing
text: the teeth. The other dogs snarl softly, turn their
text: heads to regard the curious little apelike figure.
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
dialog: thru
dialog: 166
dialog: 84,
text: With a shrill SHRIEK, Jessup dashes a few steps at 162
text: the dogs, brandishing his stick and stone. The dogs
text: scatter, slink back, keeping their distance. Jessup's
text: shriek rouses the birds in the zoo. There is a sudden
text: FLUTTERING of distant wings and birds CALLING danger
dialog: to their fellows.
text: The lead dog, a MONGREL MASTIFF with white markings
text: on its brow, growls softly, pads into the street,
text: moving up on Jessup's flank. Jessup watches him
text: warily, makes a threatening SNARL of his own. The
text: mongrel attacks, leaping for Jessup's throat. Jessup
text: batters at the red-tongued maw of the dog's throat.
text: The other two dogs lunge in. Jessup wheels on them,
text: SHRIEKING with fury, smashing at them with his club
text: and piece of brick. There is a SCREECHING of tires,
text: and a car, headlights blazing, comes wheeling around
text: the corner, dispersing the dogs and interrupting the
text: feral little battle. The car disappears up the
dialog: street.
text: A moment of silence, and then the dogs come slinking
text: back to continue the battle. But the apelike creature
text: is gone. They spot him soon enough; he is perched,
text: Squatting on the stonework that forms the top of the
text: zoo fence, and, apelike, taunts the dogs with
text: CACKLING. He tires of this after a few moments and
text: then climbs down the fence on the zoo side with
dialog: agility.
scene_heading: EXT. THE Z00 - NIGHT 163
dialog: thru
text: Jessup finds himself on ground and grass. Spill from 166
text: the street lights of Blue Hill Street allows Jessup
text: to see bushes and trees. It is familiar terrain; he
text: GRUNTS with pleasure.
text: He can see a low wattled fence and grass receding un-
text: ward into blackness and silence. The zoo is asleep,
text: hushed. There seems to be a RED GLOW on the crest of
text: the slope, and Jessup stands stock-still, listening,
text: for he thinks he has just heard the distant BURR of a
text: crane. He shuffles forward through the grass, finds
text: himself on one of the wallkways that wind through the
text: park. He is puzzled by the hard feel beneath his
text: feet, but he follows the path for a few moments. He
text: sees a small body of water (the wild fowl pond),
text: glistening blackly in the night. He stands, waits,
text: senses. The air hangs heavy and fetid with the smell
text: of animals, silent with the massive sensation of
dialog: sleep.
text: He moves further along, cutting between trees and
text: bushes. He is suddenly in an open area, startled
text: by the abrupt rearing up of a stone building, faintly
text: visible only by the relative lightness in color of
dialog: the stone.
dialog: 163
dialog: thru
dialog: 166
dialog: 85.
text: He moves on. He sees the RED GLOW again, off to his 163
text: right. He slips softly in that direction. What he thru
text: comes to see are the night lights of a building 166
text: which glows red because of the tinting of the
text: windows and the glass of the doors (the small mammals
text: building). He slowly approaches this long low stone
text: pbuilding, rising in a soft, red haze out of the night.
text: He peers into the interior --
text: His POV. A long empty hall bathed in a soft red light
text: that shows rows of cages on each side. In the cages
text: are mice, porcupines, slotns and shrews, curled up in
text: balls of sleep with an occasional movement here and
text: there as one of the small animals slithers across its
text: cage to its watering trough. It is all incompre-
text: hensible to Jessup; he is quickly bored.
scene_heading: EXT. THE ZOO ~ ANOTHER SECTION - NIGHT
text: Jessup making his way around large empty round cages
text: with thick iron bars (the great apes building), down
text: macadam paths lined with protective iron railings.
text: He hears the croaking BURR of a crane, much closer
text: now. He stops, freezes, waits, listens. To his left,
text: a large stone outcropping, barely discernible;
text: directly ahead, a large, round, iron-fenced area (the
text: giraffe cages). On his right, suddenly, behind the
text: fence of wooden wattles, he senses movement, and then
text: a CROWNED CRANE moves stiffly into nis vision, nearly
text: invisible in the darkness, lit sufficiently by the
text: red reflections of the building behind it to be recog-
text: nized by the glistening red and white spots on its
text: face and the stiff, large, straw-colored topknot of
text: feathers on its head. It stands, staring blankly
text: out of its button eyes, then turns and disappears
text: into the darkness. Jessup stands unmoving, holding
text: his club and bit of prick. He moves softly to the
text: low wooden fence and peers into the darkness trying to
text: see the crane again, but it's gone. He moves on.
scene_heading: EXT, THE ZOO - THE AFRICAN PLAINS - NIGHT
text: Jessup stands in front of what seems to be a four~foot
text: hedgerow but which actually disguises a wooden fence
text: that encloses this section of the park. It is almost
text: impenetrably dark, but he can hear SOUNDS -- the sounds
dialog: of the East African grasslands, the movements of
text: animals, the sudden, startled flurry of veering herds.
text: He forces nis way through the bramble of the hedgerow,
text: crawls between the horizontal poles of the fence, finds
text: himself on the edge of a shallow moat, about four feet
text: deep and ten feet wide. Now there is some spill of
text: STREETLIGHTS from the Seaver Street side of the park,
text: so that Jessup can make out that he is on high ground,
text: and a tract of savanna stretches out before him, dark
dialog: and silent.
dialog: 163
dialog: thru
dialog: 166
dialog: 86.
text: Far down at the bottom of the slope, he can see a 163
text: waterhole. On his right, a slight slope of sparse thru
text: woodland and a sleeping group of blesboks. He 166
text: grunts with pleasure.
text: He lets himself down into the moat, which is as high
text: as he is tall. It is utterly black in here. He walks
text: along the moat a number of yards till he finds an
text: overhanging limb by which he pulls himself up onto
text: the other side. He is on a small stone outcrop. His
text: appearance startles a herd of perhaps forty mouflon
text: that are huddled for the night near the wooden pali-
text: sade of their paddock. The whole herd of sheep
text: skew madly out into the open grass. Jessup stands
text: Stock still, holding his club and broken bit of brick,
dialog: waiting for his presence to become part of this world.
text: Silence. On his left, the waterhole, and what seems
text: to be a single hartebeest humped forward, lapping
text: quietly at the water,
text: Jessup moves silently through the wet grass, heading
text: for the end of the waterhole furthest from the harte-
text: beest. He pauses at the edge of the waterhole, trying
text: to sense the presence of predators. The hartebeest
text: raises its head, watches him, ready to bolt. Jessup
text: gets down on his knees, bends forward and begins to
text: lap the water. After a moment, the hartebeest returns
text: to its own drinking. For a moment, we watch the two
text: animals, sharing the waterhole, each drinking silently,
dialog: warily.
scene_heading: EXT. THE 200 ~ THE AFRICAN PLAINS - NIGHT
text: Jessup, standing on the dark slope, watching the herd
text: of mouflon, huddled in a sparse little grove of trees,
text: about twenty yards off, edgy, trembling even as they
text: sleep, a skittish few on the periphery of the flock,
text: flicking here and there like butterflies. The zoo
dialog: sleeps.
text: Nothing moves anywhere. The air is heavy and wet.
text: He waits. A flicker of movement in the sheep herd.
text: A lamb leans and bounds this way and that, rejoins the
text: herd. Abruptly, three sneep leap, run, whirl,
text: fluttering shadows of movement. Silence. Jessup
text: waits. He holds his club and his bit of brick in one
text: hand. In his other hand are two round stones which he
text: suddenly pitches into the trees where the herd lies.
text: With the first rustle of leaves, the herd explodes
text: dementedly, racing, leaping, scattering. Half a dozen
text: leap and skitter wildly past Jessup. He is after them
text: with a SHRIEK, driving their agitated mad shadows
text: before nim, past the waterhole, straight for the moat.
text: At the lip of the moat, all but one veers and shoots
text: off into darkness. The one tries to leap the chasm.
dialog: 163
dialog: thru
dialog: 166
dialog: 167
dialog: 87.
text: It falls in a heap to the bottom of the moat, > 163
text: crippled. Jessup jumps into the moat and with one thru
text: stroke of his club smashes in the animal!s skull. 166
scene_heading: EXT. THE Z00 - THE MOAT
text: Jessup scrapes away at the sheep's hide with his jagged
text: chip of brick, stripping a good-sized piece off the
text: sheep's haunch. He stops, pauses, looks up, senses
text: danger. He hears a low GROWL not too far away. He
text: stands, picks up his kill by a leg and moves softly,
text: quickly up the wide, dark moat. He finds an over-
text: hanging branch. He puts the sheep carcass on the
text: lip of the moat and hauls himself up beside it. He
text: picks up his club and brick, stands, checks the ter-
text: rain. Nothing. He squats down, raises the carcass
text: _to his face, clamps his teeth into the hot, wet,
text: bloody flesh. He twists his head back and forth,
text: wrenching the gobbet of flesh free, and chews at it.
text: He looks up again sensing danger.
text: The three dogs, led by the mastiff with the white mark-
text: ings, are moving up the slope from the waterhole,
text: lumps of black movement, in the black grass. They halt
text: a few yards from him, moving around, GROWLING.
text: Jessup makes a threatening NOISE of his own,
text: brandishes his club. They keep their distance.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK just enough so that we get the image
text: of Jessup, squatting in the wet grass, eating the
text: sheep in the night with a great, sullen satisfaction,
text: occasionally warding off the snarling dogs with a
text: snarl of his own, a primal animal at one with his
dialog: elemental world.
scene_heading: EXT. THE ZOO ~ 2:00 A.li. - NIGHT ~ CLEAR - MOON 167
text: A jeep crawling along the pathways in the night, park-
text: ing lights only. A zoo SECURITY GUARD on night duty.
text: He spots some movement on the African Plains. He
text: stops the jeep, lets it idle, gets out, peers over the
text: Rotterdam (wire) fence that encloses the area on this
dialog: side.
text: ACROSS the Guard looking up the slope. There is
text: certainly something going on. The rain is long over.
text: The moon is out. The activity up on the slope looks
text: like three dogs ravening at something.
text: The Guard up on the slope ciimbs over the fence and
text: starts up the slope, drawing his revolver. The dogs
text: see him and scatter. He moves on further to see what
text: they were ravening at. It is the remeins of the
text: mouflon. The Guard looks around to see if the dogs
text: are still skulking around: they are gone.
dialog: 167
dialog: 168
dialog: 169
dialog: 88.
text: The Cuard's eye is caught by a WHITE BLUR in the dark 167
text: erass under a tree about twenty yards away. He cocks
text: his gun, moves cautiously forward. It is a naked
text: man. He continues forward. It is Jessup. He is
text: sleeping. His chest rises and falls evenly. There is
text: a beatific smile on his face.
scene_heading: INT, THE FRANKLIN PARK PRECINCT STATION SQUAD ROOM 168
scene_heading: 3:30 A.M. ~ NIGHT
text: Typical battered old police station house. A COP
text: brings Jessup out of the bowels of the building,
text: dressed and carrying an empty overnight bag which he
text: hands to Emily who, with Parrish, has been anxiously
dialog: waiting for him -~
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (murmurs )
dialog: See what you can do about getting
dialog: me out of here.
speaker_heading: EMILY
text: It's all done. Mason has his car
dialog: outside --
scene_heading: EXT. THE PRECINCT STATION = NIGHT 169
text: Jessup setting into the front passenger seat --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (he seems vague,
dialog: stunned)
dialog: I'd like to stop by the medical
dialog: school. I left all my clothes
text: in the tank room.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (sliding into the
dialog: car beside him)
dialog: Let's just get you home. It's
text: three-thirty in the morning.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I have my watch and my wallet there.
dialog: My keys are there. I'll need
text: them to get in the apartment.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I've got my keys. I had to stop
dialog: off to get you some clothes.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (sliding behind
dialog: the wheel)
dialog: I'll go back ane get your stuff later.
text: Parrish starts the motor, and they move off --
dialog: Rev. 3/6/79 89.
dialog: 170
dialog: 171
scene_heading: INT. PARRISH'S CAR - £N ROUT - NIGHT 170
text: Emily steals an anxious glance at her husband, who is
text: sitting between her and Parrish. He seems to be ina
text: state of shock, distracted, oddly placid, lobotomized,
text: staring through the windshield, almost unaware of her
dialog: or Parrish.
speaker_heading: EMILY .
dialog: What were you doing in the tank
dialog: room?
dialog: (he doesn't seem
dialog: to hear her)
dialog: Do you remember anything at all
dialog: about last night?
text: Ee stares at her blankly.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (after a moment)
dialog: I remember large fragments of what
dialog: happened, but not all of it.
dialog: You'll have to be patient with me.
text: He turns back to stare out the windshield again.
speaker_heading: EMILY .
dialog: I've had Mason looking all over a
dialog: Boston for you all night. .
text: She lets her head sink onto his chest and cries.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (murmurs into
dialog: her hair)
dialog: It's okay, I'm alright ~-
scene_heading: INT. JESSUP'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT 171
text: Emily sitting at the kitchen table, sipping coffee and
text: nibbling at cookies from a pox. She looks up as
text: Jessup enters, swathed in a towel-robe, patting him
text: self dry. He makes himself a cup of instant coffee.
text: He seems in a very good mood, excited, exhilarated.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (affably)
dialog: I suppose getting a call from the
text: police at three o'clock in the
dialog: morning to the effect your husband
text: has been found sleeping naked in
dialog: the city zoo might have caused
dialog: you some concern,
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Yes, I think you could say that.
dialog: 171
dialog: 172
dialog: 173
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: JESSUP 171
dialog: And Mason's been writing you all
dialog: this time telling you I'm having
dialog: a nervous breakdown, and you
dialog: figured I finally flipped out
dialog: altogether.
text: He sits down across from her and would say something,
text: but he begins to laugh, a full, cpen, exuberant
text: laugh. After a moment, he wipes his eyes.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'm sorry, Emily, forgive me. I
dialog: know what a harrowing day I've
dialog: caused you. I'm sure you've been
dialog: sitting here all this time while
dialog: trying to figure how to get me to
dialog: a psychiatrist.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: As a matter of fact, I have.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I don't know how you've put up with
dialog: me all these years.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I loved you.
text: He stands, cries out in exultation --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Oh, my God, Emily! TI don't know
dialog: how to tell you this! I really
dialog: don't! Bear with me, Emily! The
dialog: implications are staggering!
text: He strides off into the living room. She follows to
dialog: the doorway --
scene_heading: INT. THE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 172
dialog: &
text: He is moving erratically around the room with such 173
text: intense inner exhilaration that his arms and legs
dialog: seem out of controi -=
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (trying to keep
dialog: his voice calm)
dialog: I don't remember all of it.
dialog: Apparently, I entered a very
dialog: primitive consciousness, and all
dialog: I can remember of last night is
dialog: what was comprenensibie to that
dialog: consciousness.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 172
dialog: &
dialog: 173
dialog: gl.
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd) 172
dialog: I don't remember, at least not &
dialog: clearly, how I got out of the tank 173
dialog: room. The first thing I remember
dialog: are the dogs. I remember the dogs
dialog: very well.
dialog: (he perches on the
dialog: arm of the over-
dialog: stuffed chair)
dialog: On a. strictly physiological level,
dialog: I suspect we achieved an observable
dialog: momentum at enough nuclear locations
dialog: to alter the actual form. The drug
dialog: probably affects the bonding.
text: He is up again, excited, moving around the room in a
dialog: gathering frenzy of creativity. -
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: But even if we could establish a
dialog: biochemical setting for this, so
dialog: what? Suppose we get some cells,
dialog: erack them open, get some assays.
dialog: Okay, so we get all kinds of whacked
text: out polyribosomal profiles.
dialog: Pantastic enzymatic activity. I'm
dialog: making proteinat anunbelievable
dialog: pace. I mean, let's face it! This
dialog: whole thing is biologically
dialog: impossible! We're not just talking
dialog: about one cell or even a colony of
dialog: cells going wild. We're talking
dialog: about a massive mutation of my
dialog: entire biological system, a process
dialog: that took millions of years to
dialog: evolve reversing itself in a matter
dialog: of hours if not moments! Some
dialog: extraordinary transfer of energy
dialog: has occurred. ‘We may be into some
dialog: kind of exotic relativistic physics
dialog: here in which consciousness snapped
dialog: me into some new sharp attribute.
dialog: Don't we have a physicist in our
dialog: eircle of friends? I'd like to
dialog: bounce this off a quantum guy.
dialog: Because, you see, Emily, what I
dialog: think happened is I somenow got
dialog: into a quantum state where there
dialog: is no matter, only the potential
dialog: of matter. It makes sense,
dialog: doesn't it. Some original and
dialog: universal state of energy potential.
dialog: I somehow tapped inte that original
dialog: consciousness of pure potential.
dialog: My God, what an implacably beautiful
dialog: thought!
dialog: 172
dialog: &
dialog: 173
dialog: 92.
text: He stands slowly, glowing, radiant. He stands 172
text: frozen by his vision, his eyes closed, staring into &
text: eternity, his face as masklike as an ikon's. He 173
dialog: mutters:
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: It must be true. Anything that
dialog: beautiful must be true.
dialog: (doesn't even know
text: she's in the room
dialog: any more)
text: He sighs as if in sexual consummation and sinks back
text: into the embrace of the soft chair.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You still haven't told me what
dialog: happened tonight.
text: He sprawls in the soft chair, seems almost to be
dialog: asleep.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (murmurs )
dialog: After I left you this afternoon,
dialog: I went to the isolation tank room,
dialog: took two hundred milligrams of the
dialog: stuff, got into the tank, and at
dialog: some point during the evening, I
dialog: transformed my matter into some
dialog: form of early human life.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (nervous )
dialog: What the hell do you mean you
dialog: transformed your matter?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I followed a pack of wild dogs to
dialog: the zoo. That's how I got there.
dialog: In the zoo, I hunted down, killed
dialog: and ate a small sheep. I was
dialog: utterly primal. I consisted of
dialog: nothing more than the will to
dialog: survive, to live through the
dialog: night, to eat, to drink, to sleep.
dialog: It was the most supremely
dialog: satisfying time of my life.
text: The doorbell RINGS.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: That must be Mason.
text: She sits, frightened by the madness she has just heard.
text: The doorbell RINGS again. Emily stands, starts for
dialog: the door.
dialog: 172
dialog: 173
dialog: 174
speaker_heading: JESSUP 172
dialog: I may have killed a man tonight, &
dialog: or damn near killed him. I remember 173
text: beating somebody bloody.
text: Emily pauses at the door, sighs, then opens it.
text: Parrish booms into the room, carrying Jessup's cloth-
text: ing over his arm.
speaker_heading: : PARRISH
dialog: Man! You don't know the trouble
dialog: I had getting these clothes! I
dialog: had to go to the security office
dialog: for them! They want you to call
dialog: them right now. There was some
dialog: Kind of ape in your isolation tank
dialog: room tonight, do you know anything
dialog: about that? This ape almost killed
dialog: a security guard. You didn't
text: bring an ape down to the tank room
dialog: tonight, did you? Your watch and
text: stuff are in the jacket pocket.
dialog: (dumps the clothing
dialog: on a chair, senses
dialog: something is wrong)
dialog: Is everything all right? Is he
dialog: okay?
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (moving to the
dialog: kitchen)
dialog: If he's okay, the rest of us are in
dialog: a lot of trouble.
dialog: (pauses in the
dialog: doorway )
dialog: Tell Mason what you've been telling
dialog: me. I'd like to hear Mason's views
dialog: on all this.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I think Mason's views will be
dialog: predictable.
scene_heading: EXT. EvILY'S HOUSE - FRONT PORCH - TWO DAYS LATER 174
scene_heading: - SUNDAY - DAY
text: Pleasant Sunday afternoon in April. Emily, Parrish,
text: the Rosenbergs lounging on the stoop and perch.
text: Sylvia Rosenberg is nursing an infant. The Jessup
text: kids and the Rosenberg ooys are occasionally seen
dialog: in b.g. Parrish's predictable views are being ex-
text: pounded by him at the moment --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (to Rosenberg)
dialog: -- He wigged out, had a toxic
dialog: delirium...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: Rev. 3/6/79
dialog: 174
speaker_heading: PARRISH (cont'd)
dialog: ... Yan around the streets of Boston
text: naked and wound up sleeping in the
dialog: zoo. This is hardly the first
dialog: instance of drug-induced delirium
dialog: any of us have heard of.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: What worries me is he actually
dialog: believes his hallucination. I mean,
dialog: he actually thinks he turned into
text: an apeman. He can't tell
dialog: hallucination from reality any
dialog: more.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: As for that strange ape they found
dialog: in the tank room that night, I'm
dialog: sure it'll turn out to be some
dialog: local kid who broke in to steal
dialog: some drugs, or something like that.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I called him yesterday morning and
dialog: last night, and I spoke to him this
dialog: morning again. He sounds absolutely
dialog: fine. He's going over to M.I.T.
dialog: to brainstorm with some physicists
dialog: on Wednesday. I told him he ought
dialog: to spend some time with the kids.
dialog: He hasn't seen them in a year,
dialog: they've been asking for him. This
dialog: has got to be the most hideous
dialog: weekend I ever lived. I'm still
dialog: not unpacked. My husband has had
dialog: a breakdown, and do you know the
dialog: only thing I can think about right
dialog: now is I've got to place the kids
dialog: in a school tomorrow morning?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: And now he wants to do it again,
dialog: and he wants us to watch him.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: For God's sake, you're not going
dialog: to let him do it again.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: How do you plan to stop him?
dialog: Listen, if you're worried about
dialog: his flipping out again, we can
dialog: always bring him down with a
dialog: little benzodiazepine.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 94.
dialog: 174
dialog: 174
dialog: 175
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG (cont'd) 174
dialog: But the point is there is no way
dialog: we're going to talk him out of
dialog: going into that tank again, He's
dialog: going to do it with us or without
dialog: us, and I think it'd be a hell of
dialog: a lot better if it was with us.
text: The point is unarguable.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (to Emily)
dialog: Whentre you going over to look at
dialog: his data?
speaker_heading: EMILY
text: Thursday, while he's with the kids.
scene_heading: INT. JESSUP'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY 175
text: Emily on the sofa, reaching up to turn the standing
text: lamp on. It's still daylight outside, but the room
text: is getting dark for reading. Emily is reading a sheaf
dialog: of papers -- the blood analysis reports from the
text: Goodman labs. Jessup's notebooks, X-rays and stacks
text: of audio cassettes are stacked on the coffee table in
text: front of her. There is a tape playing now, as she
text: studies the Goodman lab report. It is the tape of
dialog: Jessup's aphasic experience -=
speaker_heading: JESSUP 'S VOICE
dialog: (on cassette)
dialog: -~ He's beating me with his chunk
text: of lava! He's gouging gobbets of
dialog: me with his chunk of lava!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG'S VOICE
dialog: (on cassette)
dialog: Are you okay, Eddie?
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
dialog: (on cassette)
dialog: No pain! No pain! I tell you,
dialog: no pain! --
text: We can see now that Emily is not actually reading, that
dialog: her entire interest has been Caught by the theatri-
dialog: cality of the tape --
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE
text: He's devouring me! Ripping at my
dialog: flesh! Of course! It's me! It's
dialog: PY primordial me devouring me!
dialog: I'm returning to my original me!
dialog: Unbelievable sensation! Ineffable!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 175
dialog: 176
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: JESSUP'S VOICE (cont'd) 175
dialog: Beatitude! Absolutely transcendental!
dialog: I'm it, and it's me! I'm the hunter
dialog: now! Itm the killer! I'm killing!
dialog: I'm eating! I'm eating the blood-
dialog: hot flesh of a giant goat! I'm
dialog: eating a goat I just killed! I'm
dialog: eating a goat!
text: Jessup's voice breaks into a CROAK and some CLICKING
text: NOISES, then a HOWL. Emily lets the tape run just
text: long enough to know there's nothing more. She quickly
text: rewinds and plays the GRUNTS and CLICKING SOUNDS and
text: HOWL again. She rewinds again, plays it back again,
dialog: listens with the most intense interest --
scene_heading: INT. A McDONALD'S RESTAURANT - NIGHT - 9:30 P.M. 176
text: The Jessuos, a typical American family in a large
dialog: dining room of typical American families. ‘It's late;
text: Emily and Jessup are down to their coffee, and
text: Margaret is cranky and whining and Jessup has to hold
text: her. He is talking, and Emily is fascinated --
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Physicists see the whole tning in
dialog: terms of particles and energy states.
dialog: You get situations in particle
dialog: physics, where you have something
text: in one state and then suddenly
dialog: you'll find it appearing in another
text: state. It has apparently zipped
dialog: through a forbidden region between
dialog: the states, What I may have done
dialog: is reduce my uncertainty in energy
dialog: to zero or near enough to zero so
dialog: that the time available to me to
dialog: tunnel through had been infinite.
text: In b.g., Grace, who has been roaming around the
text: restaurant, falls and cries. Jessup rises and gets
text: her, talking as he does -~
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Where I differ from the physicists
dialog: is they conceive of consciousness
text: as a particular force exerted by a
dialog: particular person. I see it as a
dialog: cosmic, perhaps the cosmic force.
dialog: Our universe expToded into being
dialog: some twenty billion years ago, a
dialog: fantastic explosion of hydrogen,
dialog: so it all began with an actual act
dialog: of creation. What did the creating?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 176
dialog: 177
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd) 176
dialog: That original creative force is
dialog: what I call consciousness. You can
dialog: call it God if you like, but there's
dialog: a difference. Consciousness is
dialog: not a noumenal process; it's
dialog: phenomenological, it can be reached,
dialog: tapped, manipulated. Lord knows,
dialog: I believe I tapped into it.
speaker_heading: : EMILY
dialog: I think I better get the kids home.
text: She moves about getting the sleepy kids jacketed and
text: standing. Jessup watches her movements -~ the saucy
text: ass, the long legs, her natural physical sensuality.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'd like to go home with you tonight,
dialog: would that be all right with you?
text: She pauses, turns, smiles at hin.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Do you know, I think that's exactly
dialog: what you said to me the first night
dialog: we met, do you remember? In Arthur
dialog: and Sylvia's apartment back in New
dialog: York?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Yes, and you said we'd have to make
text: do with the couch. The couch is
dialog: still okay with me.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (slipping into
dialog: her own jacket)
dialog: I've finally made my peace with
dialog: this divorce, Eddie. It's been a
dialog: very painful year for me, and I
dialog: think it would be dumb to
dialog: reintroduce sex between us. So
dialog: thank you for what really has
dialog: been a fascinating day. I'll
dialog: drop you off.
scene_heading: INT, EMILY'S APARTMENT - HER BEDROOM - . NIGHT 177
text: Dark. Emily asleep. Suddenly she sits bolt upright,
text: propelled out of her sleep by what must have been an
text: insufferable nightmare, for the terror lingers in her
text: eyes. After a moment, she lies back again, but her
text: eyes are open; there is no sleep for her now.
dialog: 177
dialog: 178
dialog: 179
dialog: 180
speaker_heading: 181
dialog: 98.
text: She sits, swings her legs over the side of the bed, 177
text: just slumps there in her pajamas, trying to subdue
text: her feur. She looks at her watch on the bedtable,
dialog: stands, goes out into --
scene_heading: INT. THE HALLWAY - NIGHT 178
text: -- and goes down to the door of her kids' room where
text: she stands, watching them sleep. After a moment, she
text: heads back down the hallway and across the entrance
dialog: foyer into --
scene_heading: INT. THE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 179
text: -- where she slumps into a soft chair; but she is
text: immediately up again wandering around the dark room,
text: distraught, until finally she goes to the phone and
dialog: dials --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Did I wake you? It's Emily...
dialog: Eddie, I'm in kind of a wild panic.
dialog: I need to talk to you -=
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE ~ CAMBRIDGE - NIGHT 180
text: Jessup's Toyota pulls into the driveway, and he gets
text: out, cuts across the lawn to the porch, up the stoop
text: to where Emily is waiting for him with the front door
dialog: open, They go into --
scene_heading: INT. THE ENTRANCE FOYER - NIGHT 181
text: Dark, but the lamplight from the living room spills
text: over a bit.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I don't know how even to put this
dialog: into words, but I'm beginning to
dialog: think that what happened to you
dialog: last Friday night was not just a
dialog: hallucinatory experience. I've
dialog: got this gut feeling something
dialog: phenomenological did actually
dialog: nappen, that there was some kind
dialog: of genetic transformation. I
dialog: don't know why I think that in
dialog: defiance of all rationality, but
dialog: Ido. And now that I do, I'm
dialog: terrified, I mean, really
text: terrified, petrified.
speaker_heading: 181
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: JESSUP 181
dialog: So am I.
speaker_heading: ENILY
dialog: (has no sooner
dialog: closed the door)
dialog: I don't want you doing this
dialog: experiment again next week.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: We've got to find out if it actually
dialog: happened, Emily.
text: They move to the threshold of the living room, where
text: they pause again in the half-shadow.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm suggesting that you put the
dialog: experiment off until we understand
dialog: a little more in order to minimize
dialog: the risk.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: There is no way we can understand
dialog: this before the event. We can only
text: work back from the event itself.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You may be causing yourself
dialog: irreversible genetic damage.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I don't think we're dealing with
dialog: genetics. We're beyond mass and
dialog: matter here, beyond even energy.
dialog: What we're back to is the first
dialog: thought.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Something monstrous is going to
dialog: happen.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: All our evidence indicates nothing
dialog: irreversible is going to happen.
dialog: None of my experiences have lasted
dialog: longer than four hours, and I have
text: always reconstituted completely.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm trying to tell you I love you.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I know that. And I'm trying to
dialog: tell you this is an all-bets-are-
dialog: off sort of thing!
speaker_heading: (MORE )
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES - Rev. 2/9/79 100.
speaker_heading: 181
dialog: 182
dialog: 183
dialog: 1834
speaker_heading: 183B
speaker_heading: JESSUP (cont'd) 181
dialog: We may be opening a olack box that
dialog: could scrap our whole picture of
dialog: space-time! We might even have a
dialog: link to another universe! For
dialog: God's sake, Emily, you're a
dialog: scientist! You must know how I
dialog: feel!
dialog: And, of course, she does.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (sighs)
dialog: Yes, I know how you feel. It's
dialog: very late, Eddie. Would you like
dialog: to stay here tonight? I could do
dialog: with a little love and a little
dialog: reassurance right now. You'll
dialog: stay, won't you?
scene_heading: EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - FRIDAY, APRIL 30 ~ 7:30 P.M. - 182
scene_heading: RAIN- THUNDER - NIGHT
text: A defittingly Gothic night. Thunder RUMBLES. Rain
text: lashes through the streets. Lightning bleaches the
text: SCENE. Emily comes out of her house, raincoated and
text: umbrellaed, braves her way to her car.
scene_heading: INT. MEDICAL SCHOOL - B BUILDING - BASEMENT - NIGHT 183
text: Emily comes in through the exit door at the end of the
text: corridor, raincoated and shaking her umbrella out.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR TO THE TANK ROOM - NIGHT 183A
text: She heads up the corridor to the tank room. There is
dialog: considerable traffic of hospital personnel on this
text: rainy night, all going about their individual bus-
text: inesses. Emily turns into -~
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROO.! 183B
text: where Rosenberg is standing’ beside an examining table
text: with an attached IV stand; Rosenberg is loading up the
text: IV. On the examining table, there are a marrow tray,
text: a biopsy tray, a prep kit, a 35 mm Nikon and a video-
text: tape setup, camera and console. Also two gooseneck
text: standing lamps. Through the window we can see Parrish
text: standing by the isolation tank talking to Jessup who
text: is strippins off his shirt. He smiles at her. She
text: responds witn a nervous smile of her own.
scene_heading: ALTERED STATES ~ Rev. 2/9/79 101.
speaker_heading: 183B
dialog: 184
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG 1838
dialog: (indicates the IV
dialog: he’s loading up)
dialog: If it happens, we'll give hima
dialog: big bolus of amytal for starters --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (raw nerves,
dialog: explodes)
dialog: What do you mean if it happens, if
dialog: it-happens! Everybody keeps saying
dialog: if it happens. Do you think some-
dialog: thing's going to happen, Arthur?
dialog: Because if you do, then I think --
dialog: I'm sorry, Arthur. ,I'm nervous
dialog: as hell.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Listen, so am I.
dialog: She goes in --
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ROOM ~ NIGHT 184
text: Subdued, shadowed lighting. Parrish is standing by
text: the uncovered tank, staring down into the water. Jessup
text: is taking off his clothes.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (to Parrish)
dialog: If I come out of that tank
dialog: ‘anthropoid, I'll be in a very
dialog: primitive consciousness and
dialog: impossible to relate to, so
dialog: sedate me while I'm still in the
dialog: tank. Otherwise, you'll have to
dialog: chase me around and subdue me.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (mutters )
dialog: Okay.
dialog: 184
dialog: 185
dialog: 186
dialog: 187
dialog: &
dialog: 188
dialog: 189
dialog: 190
dialog: &
dialog: 191
dialog: 102.
text: Jessup goes into the observation room to continue 184
text: undressing. Emily comes down to examine the tank
text: which she's seeing for the first time --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (mutters )
dialog: I'll tell you this, if he comes out
dialog: of that tank looking like an ape,
dialog: I'm going straight over to Mass
dialog: Hental and commit myself --
speaker_heading: OMITTED 185
scene_heading: INT, ISOLATION TANK ROOM - OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT 186
text: -- where Emily and Parrish are sitting, Emily just
text: lighting up a cigarette. Rosenberg enters with
text: brown paper bag.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Anything happen?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: I just checked him ten minutes ago.
text: Parrish has apparently just come back from the local 187
text: deli, He is unloading containers of coffee and sand- &
text: wiches and Danish. Emily abruptly goes into -~ 183
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ROOM - NIGHT
text: -- where she goes down to the tank, lifts the hinged
text: headpiece, looks down.
text: Her POV. From deep within the square blackness ex-
text: posed by the open lid, Jessup's white face stares
text: blankly out, framed, cadaverous, like a plaster cast
text: sunk into a cushion of blackness.
scene_heading: INT. MEDICAL SCHOOL - B BUILDING ~ CORRIDOR - 189
scene_heading: SEVERAL HOURS LATER - NIGHT
text: Emily, manifestly agitated, walks aimlessly about the
text: corridor smoking. She looks at her watch, crushes
text: out the cigarette, goes back into --
scene_heading: INT, ISOLATION TANK ROOM - OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT 190
dialog: &
text: -- wnere Parrish is cleaning up the mess of the deli, 191
text: gathering half-eaten sandwiches and Danish, empty
text: containers of coffee, etc., into the brown paper bag;
dialog: Rosenberg is reading a mystery novel --
dialog: 190
dialog: &
dialog: 191
dialog: 192
dialog: thru
dialog: 195
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: EMILY 190
dialog: (no longer even &
dialog: trying to control 191
dialog: her agitation)
dialog: Look, I've got nearly ten. That's
dialog: more than two hours now. Is there
dialog: any way we can stop this? I tell
dialog: you frankly, I'm really frightened.
dialog: We could be screwing around with
dialog: his whole genetic structure. How
dialog: do we stop this? --
scene_heading: SUDDEN HALLUCINATORY BLIP - a WHITE-ORANGE JAGGED 192
text: FLAME shears diagonally across the entire length of thru
text: the screen, seeming to rip the screen in half, the 195
text: same JAGGED CRACK that occurred in Jessup's Mexican
text: hallucination. Neither Emily, Rosenberg nor Parrish
dialog: seems aware of this extraordinary invasion of their
dialog: reality.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Can you bring him down, Arthur?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: He’s going to be sore as hell.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (in full-fledged panic)
dialog: We never should've let him do it!
dialog: How did we let him talk us into this!
dialog: We were humoring him. But we know
dialog: he's not crazy! And we all know
dialog: deep in our hearts he may be on to
dialog: something that is beyond our own
dialog: comprehension. Because I believe
dialog: him! I want this stopped!
text: SUDDEN HALLUCINATORY BLIP -=- Suddenly, out of a sable
text: sea, ai enormous VOLCANIC cone of ROCK surges up,
text: ERUPTING with FLAME and boiling ROCK, hundreds of
text: tons of plutonic EXPLOSION, a fantastic FOUNTAIN of
text: ROCK and SCALDING WATER rising two thousand feet into
text: the air --- Again, the others seem unaware they are
dialog: being invaded -~
text: Rosenberg clicks on the mike --
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (on mike)
dialog: How're we doing, Eddie?
text: He waits for a response: there is none.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, Jesus --
dialog: 192
dialog: thru
dialog: 195
dialog: 196
dialog: thru
dialog: 200
dialog: 104.
scene_heading: SUDDEN HALLUCINATORY IMAGE -- an EXPLOSION, a shat- 192
text: tering FLASH of brilliant WHITENESS fills the thru
text: SCREEN, Emily, Rosenberg and Parrish are made 195
text: almost invisible, bleacned out. We see just enough ~
text: of Emily to realize she is slowly becoming aware of
text: the reality of her husband's hallucination.
text: A high-pitched SCREAMING DRONE of energy. The WHITE-
text: NESS has disappeared. We are back to the reality of
text: the observation room again, except that WAVES of
text: different COLORS pulsate and throb across the SCREEN.
text: Neither Rosenberg nor Parrish seem aware of this or
text: of the SCREAM: but Emily is staring blindly ahead
text: seeing and hearing it all. The SCREAM abruptly stops.
text: Suddenly, over the speaker on the top shelf, we hear
text: a rasping kind of GRUiiT and a series of CLICKING
text: SOUNDS. Emily turns to the two men, her face drawn
dialog: in panic and pleading --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (almost screaming)
dialog: Please!
text: Parrish unwinds himself from his sprawled position,
dialog: stands and goes into -
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ROOM ~ NIGHT 196
dialog: thru
text: -- where he moves to the tank and lifts the head- 200
dialog: piece.
text: ACROSS Parrish looking down into the tank. This time,
text: we are looking down into the sleeping mask of a some~-
text: what gorilla-like face, its skin a black and shining
text: hide. There is almost no brow, the close-cropped
text: scalp hair coming down almost to the heavy simian
text: ridge that bulges sligntly across the brow. The
dialog: facial fur is finer than that found on apes and does
text: not entirely cover the ears. The lower part of the
text: face is prognathic, the lips extended and open, re-
text: vealing strong yellow but very human teeth. The eyes,
text: even closed, are also more human then apelike, larger
text: and not sunken into deep sockets. The neck, shoulders
text: and that part of the chest that can be seen are
text: covered with a fine, short fur.
text: REVERSE REACTION SHOT looking up to Parrish. His
text: only reaction is a sigh.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: There is no way no how that this
dialog: can be explained on any physical
dialog: level.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 196
dialog: thru
dialog: 200
dialog: 201
dialog: 202
dialog: 203
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: PARRISH (cont'd) 196
text: (raises his voice, thru
dialog: but keeps it calm) 200
dialog: Have you got your needle ready,
dialog: Arthur? He said to nail him while
text: he was still in the tank.
text: A moment later, the door behind Parrish opens and
text: Rosenberg stands framed in the brighter light behind
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (nervous )
dialog: What do you mean?
text: ACROSS Parrish looking down into the tank. The eye-
text: lids of the creature are slowly opening, revealing
text: malevolent little red eyes.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (staring down into
dialog: the tank)
dialog: Goddammit, Arthur, bring your goddamn
dialog: syringe over here.
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT 201
dialog: Emily, who 1s standing at the one-way window, peer=
text: ing into the tank room, reaches over to hand
text: Rosenberg his airline bag. ‘ie HOLD on Emily just
text: long enough to see tears are streaming down her face,
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ROO: - NIGHT 202
dialog: &
text: As Rosenberg, unzippering his airline bag, comes 203
text: quickly down to join Parrisn at the tank, where he
text: stops and just stares at the proto=human face staring
text: out at him.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (begins to babble)
dialog: How -- how do you define this?
dialog: I mean, there is no coherent schemata
dialog: for this. We need a whole new
dialog: language, holy God Almighty, we
dialog: need a whole new space-time picture.
dialog: We ~-
text: He abruptly stops because of a penetrating DRONING
text: SOUND emanating from somewhere avout them. He and
text: Parrish both look up to face in Growing terror a
text: line of BLUE LIGHT moving across the increasingly
text: darkening room towards then.
dialog: 202
dialog: 203
dialog: 204
dialog: 205
dialog: thru
dialog: 210
dialog: 106.
text: Then suddenly the BLUE light sweeps through the tank 202
text: in SHOCK WAVES, and the four walls of the tank fly &
text: apart, as if a nuclear blast had been detonated in- 203
text: side of it. Both Parrish and Rosenberg are flung
text: back against the walls. The water in the tank GEYSERS
text: up to the ceiling in a SCREAMING MUSHROOM CLOUD,
text: CRASHING with a CLAP as loud as thunder, and then
text: floods through the room to ankle depth. INFRA-RED
text: WAVES of light sweep back and forth across the room,
text: accumulating. in intensity to ORANGES and YELLOWS that
text: seem hotter than the sun, and the whole of the tank
text: room FLARES molten with heat.
scene_heading: INT. THE OBSERVATION ROO!i - NIGHT 204
text: Emily stands stunned to stupefaction, staring into the
text: tank room. We see what she sees --
text: Where the tank had been is a pulsating MASS of 205
text: WHITE SUBSTANCE, rising out of the thin layer of thru
text: BOILING WATER, An enormous gouge has been ripped 210
text: out of the front of this grotesque, unformed white
text: thing, showing a section of skeletal structure.
text: Emily SCREAMS, beside herself with terror. SCREAMING,
text: she lunges at the door that separates her from the
text: tank room, and SCREAMING, she wrenches it open and
text: plunges into --
scene_heading: INT. THE TANK ROOM - NIGHT
text: -- splashing ankle deep into the room to stop and ~=
text: like Rosenberg and Parrish pressed against the far
text: wall -- gape stupefied at what is going on in the
text: middle of the room.
text: The MASS of SUBSTANCE seems to be trying to assume a
text: form. Stumps of arms and leas, misshapen and mis-
text: placed, BULGE out of the mess and RECEDE back into
text: it. The substance itself changes color, begins to
text: BUBBLE and BOIL as if cooked by an interior fire.
text: It begins to SCREAM a PIERCING and AGONZIED SCREAM.
text: Emily's hysterical immobility is ended by this SCREAM.
text: She splashes towards her husband. The room has
text: become COSMIC BLACK, a BLACKNESS that PULSES with
text: WAVES of force, SHUDDERING BANDS of RADIATION. The
text: room DRONES with ENERGY. The space RESONATES and
text: RIPPLES. Jessup's form, still recognizably human,
text: seems to be caught in a PINCH of ENERGY WAVES and
dialog: temperature differences, twisting and swirling
text: around him, changing his coloration from LUMINOUS
text: WHITE to FOGGY INFRA-RED to the BURNING RED of ultra-
text: violet radiation to blurred CHIARCSCURO BLACKS and
text: GRAYS of the quality of x-rays.
dialog: 205
dialog: thru
dialog: 210
dialog: 211
dialog: 107.
text: His form appears to be DISSOLVING in SHIMMERING 205
text: VIBRATIONS into the pulsating waves of energy thru
text: penetraing him. Suddenly, nis body SWELLS until it 210
text: DISTENDS into a sphere of gas, a shocking YELLOW GAS
text: turning RED, and, as suddenly, collapsing in under
text: the crushing weight of its own gravity. His bowels
text: erupt into flames, rekindling the maniacal CARNAGE
text: of COLORS, now so phenomenally hot he is BLINDING
text: WHITE. He begins to SCREAM again in hideous terror,
text: sinking to his knees as if he were melting, imploding
text: as if he were being sucked into a black hole of his own,
text: Emily flings herself upon this SHUDDERING, increas-
text: ingly SHAPELESS anti-matter of her husband and embraces
text: him. Not fifteen seconds have elapsed since the first
dialog: explosion.
text: In Emily's arms, Jessup's form THROBS and CRACKS and
text: RESONATES, and he SCREAMS his anguished primal SHRIEK
text: again. His eyes stare blindly out on some existential
text: and unspeakable horror. Then, the fluctuating ex-
text: tensions of matter that still retain the barely dis-
text: tinguishable shape of arms flow out and unfold them-
text: selves around his wife, and they kneel together on
text: the flooded floor of the room, two terrified figures
text: alone in the dense black spaceless DRONE of energy,
text: elutching each other against the horror of human
dialog: origins.
text: Abruptly, the demented throbbing HUM of entropic
text: forces stons. The COSMIC BLACK recedes as if it had
text: been snatched up. Emily holds pressed against her
text: the now entirely reconstituted naked form of her
text: husband. They remain locked in their desperate
text: embrace amid the wreckage of the tank room. Fragments
text: of the wooden tank are everywhere, the smaller pieces
text: floating listlessly in the several inches of water
text: that covers the floor. Jessup is no longer screaming.
text: There is NO SOUND at ali; the silence is palpable.
text: Emily locks down at the ashen face resting on her
text: breast; he is breathing but manifestly in coma. She
text: turns her own harrowed face to where Rosenberg and
text: Parrish are slowly lumbering to their feet, mutely
text: asking them for help. Parrish sloshes over to her.
text: He disengaszes Jessup's limp form from his wife's
text: embrace and carries it to the door.
scene_heading: EXT, MYRTLE STREET ~ JESSUP'S HOUSE - 45 MINUTES 211
scene_heading: LATER .- NIGHT
text: Parrish's car pulls up to the curb at the nearest park-
text: ing spot he can find. Between him and Emily, they
text: get Jessup, now clothed, out of the car so that
text: Parrish can pick him up. Jessup is still in total
dialog: shock.
dialog: 2ll
dialog: 212
speaker_heading: 212A
dialog: 213
dialog: 214
dialog: 215
dialog: 216
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: PARRISH 211
dialog: Bring my bag.
text: Emily reaches back into the car for Parrish's doctor's 212
text: bag, leads the way up the walk. Parrish follows,
text: carrying Jessup. Emily opens the front door. They go
dialog: in --
scene_heading: INT. JESSUP'S HOUSE - FRONT FOYER AND HALLWAY - NIGHT 212A
text: Carrying Jessup, Parrish follows Emily to the door of
text: the apartment, which she unlocks. They go into --
scene_heading: INT. JESSUP'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM ~ BEDROOM - 213
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: Emily flicks on the living room lights, then the bed-
text: room light. Parrish follows, carrying Jessup.
text: He lays him down on top of the bed, opens his black
text: bag, gets out his stethoscope et al, perches on the
text: edge of the bed, takes Jessup's pulse and begins to
text: examine him. Emily goes out into --
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 214
dialog: -- which she crosses to the --
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT 215
text: -- where she rummages about for the instant coffee
text: makings and then just stands there in the middle of
text: the kitchen, dazed and with tears streaming down her
dialog: face.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING RCOM - FIFTEEN MINUTES LATER 216
text: Mason sprawled on the couch, sipping from a mug of
text: coffee which he rests on his stomach between sips.
text: Emily moves aimlessly arond the room; hysteria is
dialog: imminent --
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: His signs are all good. He'll
dialog: probably sleep a day or two, come
text: out of it a little stuporous.
dialog: He's got a whopping load of drugs
dialog: in him. It's not uncommon for a
dialog: psychedelic experience to whack
dialog: you out for a couple of days.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: You'd hardly call this just a
dialog: psychedelic experience.
dialog: She goes into --
dialog: 217
dialog: 218
dialog: 109.
scene_heading: INT. THE BEDROOM - NIGHT 217
text: Dark. She stands looking down at her husband who lies,
text: eyes closed, absolutely motionless and yet somehow not
text: asleep. She turns back to --
scene_heading: INT. THE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 218
speaker_heading: . PARRISH
dialog: His heart's good, his pulse is good,
dialog: his pressure's good. I'm more
dialog: worried about you than I am about
dialog: hin.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (sinks into the
dialog: soft chair)
dialog: I'm all right, Mason.
text: Obviously, she's net; she is suddenly racked by a
text: spasm of shudders and she doubles forward as if
text: gripped by cramp, her head on her knees, and she cries.
text: Parrish slowly rises, moves to her, places a comforting
text: hand on her back; and she starts to her feet like a
text: frightened doe.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (erying out)
dialog: Of all the Goddamned men in this
dialog: world, why do I have to love this
dialog: one! I can't get him out of me!
dialog: Do you know how many men I tried
dialog: to fall in love with this past
dialog: year? But it won't work! No
dialog: matter whom I'm in bed with,
dialog: I have to imagine it's him, or
dialog: nothing happens! No matter
dialog: whom I'm eating with or walking
dialog: with, there's always that pain
dialog: because it isn't him! I'm
dialog: possessed by him! It's crazy!
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: I think that's the way it's supposed
dialog: to be.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: He doesn't give a damn abovt me.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Oh, Emily, you're the only thin,
dialog: he really cares about outside
dialog: his work.
text: She sits momentarily contained, but the sensation of
text: hysteria remains imminent.
dialog: 218
dialog: 219
speaker_heading: 220
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: EMILY 218
dialog: No, Mason, he's a truth-lover, a
dialog: God-fucker. I was never real to
dialog: him. Nothing in the human
dialog: condition was ever real to him.
dialog: Reality to Eddie is only that
text: which is changeless, immutably
dialog: constant. What happened to him
dialog: tonight -- that was Eddie's idea
dialog: of love. That was consummation.
dialog: He finally got it off with God.
text: He finally embraced the Absolute,
text: was finally ravished by Truth.
dialog: And it fucking near destroyed him!
text: (she's on her feet
dialog: again, yielding
dialog: to the hysteria)
dialog: He never loved me! You knew him
dialog: as well as I did! We were all bits
dialog: of transitory matter to him!
text: She sits abruptly on the couch, frozen, staring rigid-
text: ly down at the floor. Parrish observes her a moment.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: You're going into shock, I'm
dialog: going to give you something.
scene_heading: INT. JESSUP HOUSE - ENTRANCE FOYER AND CORRIDOR - 219
scene_heading: SEVERAL HOURS LATER - NIGHT
text: Rosenberg coming down the hall to the apartment door,
text: starts to ring the bell, thinks better, knocks. Waits.
text: After a moment, just as he's about to knock again, the
text: door opens and Parrish stands in the doorway. They
dialog: murmur :
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: How is he?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Same. She's a wreck though.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Who isn't?
dialog: He goes into --
scene_heading: INT. THE LIVING ROOM -~ NIGHT 220
text: Emily is stretched out on the couch, resting.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Did you get the place cleaned up?
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Yeah. What a mess.
speaker_heading: 220
dialog: lll.
speaker_heading: EMILY 220
dialog: (from the couch)
dialog: There's sandwich stuff and coffee
dialog: in the kitchen, if you want
dialog: anything, Arthur.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: No, I'm okay. How're you doing?
speaker_heading: : EMILY
dialog: I'll be all right. I called
dialog: Sylvia to tell her not to worry
dialog: about you.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Thanks.
text: He sits. Parrish sits. They are all of them silent,
text: “subdued, still overwhelmed by the extraordinary events
text: of the night. All the lights in the room are on, the
text: overhead lights and the two lamps, but it does little
dialog: to relieve the tenebrous sensation that makes the air
text: around them dense.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (suddenly)
dialog: Look, it's got to be said. What
dialog: the three of us witnessed tonight
dialog: was one of the most fantastic
dialog: instances in the history of science.
dialog: Analageus perhaps to the first
dialog: time somebody looked through a
dialog: microscope lens and discovered
dialog: solid matter wasn't solid. We
dialog: reached a point tonight where
dialog: physical science just breaks
dialog: down. We're in blue skies.
dialog: Tonight was history, and what're
dialog: we going to do-about it?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: I'm doing nothing about it.
dialog: Tonight scared the hell out of me,
dialog: and all I want to do is go home
dialog: and so to sleep and wake up and
dialog: forget about the whole Goddamn
dialog: thing.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: Maybe you're right. Maybe we
dialog: ought to drop it till tomorrow.
text: He stands, goes into --
dialog: 221
dialog: 222
dialog: lle.
scene_heading: INT. THE KITCHEN ~ NIGHT 221
text: -- where he starts to slap together a cheese sandwich
text: from the bread and cheese and mayo on the kitchen table,
text: but the suppressed excitement within him takes over,
text: and he drops the sandwich and comes back into --
scene_heading: INT. THE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 222
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (getting increasingly
dialog: excited)
dialog: That tank just blew up. Whatever
dialog: happened inside that tank released
dialog: a hell of a lot of energy.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (flaring)
dialog: For God's sake! Let's drop the
dialog: Goddamn thing! I don't want to
dialog: talk about it!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (flaring in return)
dialog: I can't help it! You may want
dialog: to go to sleep, but the way I
dialog: feel right now I don't expect to
dialog: go to sleep for a year! I'm on
dialog: fucking fire! I'm in there mopping
dialog: up that Goddamned tank rooia, and
dialog: I've got to know why! Do you believe
dialog: in supernatural agencies, Mason?
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: No!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Then what we saw tonight was a
text: physical phenomenon, an inexplicable
dialog: physical phenomenon, and, if it's
dialog: phenomenological, it's got to be
dialog: explicable, and I've got to know
dialog: why! Let me talk, for Chrissakes!
dialog: I've been in there mopping up that
dialog: tank room for three hours, and I
dialog: want to tell you what I'd like to do.
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: Arthur, I've had all I can take
dialog: tonight! Just leave me alone!
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG
dialog: We've got to repeat this! We've
dialog: got to repeat this with other
dialog: human subjects!
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 222
dialog: 223
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: ROSENBERG (cont'd) 222
dialog: We need a selective sample! We'll
dialog: put up a notice for volunteers in the
dialog: Student Union, something like that,
dialog: get five or six subjects, and just
dialog: go back to square one with them, step
dialog: up the doses of the drug ina
dialog: graduated fasnion, check them against
dialog: Eddie's values! I'll bet you we
dialog: could even get a grant! We'll give
dialog: them some kind of bullshit about
dialog: checking this drug for renal
dialog: clearance, some shit like that!
speaker_heading: PARRISH
dialog: (bellowing)
dialog: God Almignty! This is Arthur
dialog: Rosenberg talking, right! The
dialog: conscience of the scientific
dialog: community! The guy with all the
dialog: petitions against genetic
dialog: engineering and protests against
dialog: nuclear power! The big, moral,
dialog: science~for-the-people man! And
dialog: here he’ is, ready to test an
dialog: untested drug on innocent human
dialog: beings!
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (stands, cries out)
dialog: Please stop shouting!
text: The others subside grumpily. She moves across the
dialog: room into --
scene_heading: INT. THE BEDROOM ~ NIGHT 223
dialog: -- to see if all the yelling has had any effect on
text: Jessup. Apparently not, he lies as motionlessly as he
text: had before. She closes the door, the room darkening.
text: She moves silently around the bed to the window, raises
text: the shade and looks out into the sleeping dark backyards
text: of the houses on the next street. After a moment, she
text: turns to look at her husband.
text: ACROSS Emily to Jessup on the bed. He has turned his
text: head on the gray-shadowed pillow, his eyes are open,
text: and he is looking at her. For a moment, she is
text: immobilized by the fact he is awake; they just look at
text: each other. Then she kneels cn both knees by the bed
text: and examines his long, ashen face.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (murmurs )
dialog: How are you?
dialog: 223
dialog: 224
dialog: 225
dialog: 226
dialog: thru
dialog: 228
dialog: 1214.
speaker_heading: JESSUP 223
dialog: (barely whispers)
text: Wiped out.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Would you like to go back to sleep?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Would you mind if Mason had a quick
dialog: look at you?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (can barely
dialog: whisper)
dialog: Good idea.
text: His eyes close. She gets to her feet, gently touches
text: his face, starts for the door to Parrish. She opens it.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - DOORWAY 224
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (to the others
dialog: in the living
dialog: room)
dialog: He's awake. Maybe you ought to
text: have a look at him, Mason.
scene_heading: INT. THE BEDROOM - SEVERAL HOURS LATER - 6:00 A.M. - 225
speaker_heading: DAY
text: The shade on the window is still up, and the first gray
text: passionless light of day filters into the room.
text: On the bed, Jessup awakens; his eyes open, and he lies
text: there letting the sanity of daylight enter into him.
text: The door to the living room is open, but the apartment
text: is utterly still, the stiliness of sleep. He sits up
text: slowly, moves his legs over the side of the bed and
text: stands. He seems okay. He is barefooted, wearing
text: the T-shirt and jeans he had slept in. He moves to
text: the door to the living room --
text: ACROSS Jessup from the doorway, looking into the 226
text: living room. Rosenberg and Parrish are obviously thru
text: gone. His wife lies sleeping on the couch, one 223
text: long white leg protruding from under a twist of
text: blanket which is half on the floor along with a
text: small puddle of her clothing, her blouse, jeans and
text: sneakers. The blinds are drawn and she seems very
text: white in the still darkness. Her face is drawn in
text: pain. Her sleep is clearly not a pleasant one.
dialog: 226
dialog: thru
dialog: 228
dialog: 229
dialog: 230
dialog: thru
dialog: 247
dialog: 115.
text: REACTION SHOT on Jessup, filled with solicitude for 226
text: her. There is even a tear on his face. He wipes it thru
dialog: away. 228
text: He moves to the stuffed chair just to his right on the
text: wall opposite her and sinks down into it and watches her.
text: She turns in her sleep, and what little part of the
text: blanket that had covered her slips down onto the floor.
text: She curls up into herself, feeling the sudden chill of
text: her nakedness, even in her sleep. He gets up, crosses
text: the room, picks up the blanket and covers her again,
text: and, then, lifting her head, squeezes onto the couch
text: under her, taking her into his arms, warming her with
text: himself. She shudders and, still desperately asleep,
text: she begins to whimper and cry, and, sleeping still,
text: she suddenly clutches at him out of the terror of her.
text: own nightmare, fevered by some frightened sensuality,
text: making awkward, strangulated cries and arching panic-
text: stricken up within his embrace, her cheeks streaked
text: with tears, her eyes clenched closed, until she is
text: sucking at his mouth with the rapacity of a vampire.
text: He locks her in his arms. Quickly, the moment is over.
text: Her head sinks back onto his chest and then back: down
text: to his lap again, instantly, innocently asleep.
scene_heading: INT. THE KITCHEN - TWO HOURS LATER - DAY 229
text: Jessup in the kitchen, sitting at the table, legs
text: crossed, eating a sandwich, sipping coffee. He is in
text: the depths of thought. He doesn't even know he's
text: eating. The sun is higher and brighter now and breaks
text: through the slats of the blind on the window. The
text: phone RINGS in the living room. It takes a moment for
text: the sound to penetrate Jessup's brown study. It RINGS
text: again. He starts from his seat, moves to the living
dialog: room door but -~-
scene_heading: INT. THE LIVING ROOM - DAY 230
dialog: thru
text: -- Emily is already sitting up on the couch. She 247
text: smiles briefly at him, sighs --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Oh, God, I hope it isn't the
dialog: kids --
text: She stands, crosses the room, gracile, shamelessly
text: naked except for her almost indiscernible panties,
text: picks up the phone, ending its THIRD RING, perches
text: on the arm of the chair.
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: 230 EMILY 230
dialog: thru (on phone; thru
dialog: 247 listens) 247
dialog: Everything's fine, Arthur. He's
dialog: fine.
dialog: (to Jessup)
dialog: It's Arthur. Are you fine?
text: Jessup nods, goes back into the kitchen.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: I was sleeping... No, I don't
dialog: know if he's eaten anything...
text: She looks up as Jessup returns from the kitchen, bring-
text: ing her a mug of coffee. She nods her thank you --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (to Jessup)
dialog: Arthur, the indestructible Jewish
dialog: mother, wants to know have you eaten
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Arthur, I'll call you back when
dialog: I'm more awake. Everything's fine.
text: She returns the phone to its cradle, notes the sun
text: fragmenting itself through the slits of the blinds.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: God, what time is it? I should
dialog: call the kids. Eddie, could
dialog: you throw that blanket over here?
dialog: I'm freezing.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I can't tell you how much you
dialog: mean to me, how much I need you
dialog: and the kids. I just wanted
dialog: you to know that.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Why don't you just come back to
dialog: us?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
text: It's too late.
text: He picks up the fallen blanket, brings it to her,
text: drapes it across her and the chair. She tries to
text: read his shadowed face as he bends over her.
dialog: 230
dialog: thru
dialog: 247
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: JESSUP 230
dialog: I think it's too late. I don't thru
dialog: think I can get out of it any more. 247
text: The silence hangs between them; she doesn't quite know
dialog: what he means.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I've committed myself to it. I
dialog: don't think there's any way out.
text: He tucks the blanket around her and returns to his
text: dark corner of the couch. The widening shaft of
text: slatted sunlight divides them. She looks down at her
text: coffee mug.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: The point is what happened last
dialog: night was more of a religious
dialog: experience than a scientific one.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: Yes, I know.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: You saved me. You redeemed me
dialog: from the pit. I was in it, Emily!
dialog: I was in that ultimate moment of
dialog: terror tnat is the beginning of
dialog: life! I found the final truth!
dialog: I found it, touched it, ate of its
dialog: flesh, drank its blood! I've seen
dialog: it face to face, and it is hideous!
dialog: It is insufferable! The pain
dialog: cannot be described! It is nothing,
dialog: simple, hideous nothing! The final
dialog: truth of all things is that there
dialog: is no final truth! Truth is what's
dialog: transitory! It's human life that
dialog: is real!
text: He emerges out of the cucullate shadows in the far
text: corner of his couch to stand in the band of dust-moted
text: white light streaking across the floor from the
text: slatted window.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I don't want to frighten you,
dialog: Emily, but what I'm trying to
dialog: tell you is that that moment of
dialog: terror is a real and living
text: horror living and growing within
dialog: me now, eating of my flesh, drinking
dialog: of my blood. It's real because I
dialog: have made it real. It's alive.
dialog: It's in me. It is me. And the
dialog: only thing that keeps it from
dialog: devouring me is you.
dialog: 230
dialog: thru
dialog: 247
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: EMILY 230
dialog: I think you're trying to tell me thru
dialog: you love me. 247
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I'm trying to tell you why I love
dialog: you, that without you I would
dialog: have disappeared into unspeakable
dialog: terror.
text: She stands, pulling the blanket around her.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I suppose that's why anybody loves
dialog: anyone.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: For God's sake, Emily, don't be
dialog: so facile.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: I'm not being facile! My God, do
dialog: you think you're the only one
dialog: who has experienced despair? The
dialog: only one who has felt the utter
dialog: nothingness of life? We are all
dialog: creatures of despair, Eddie!
dialog: Life for all of us is a flight
dialog: from the unspeakable terror!
dialog: Life is an act of faith for all
dialog: of us! That's why we love each
dialog: other! It's the only act of
dialog: faith most of us are capable of!
dialog: At least, it's the only act of
dialog: faith I'm capable of!
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: I can't live with it, Emily. The
text: pain is unbearable.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: We all live with it. That
dialog: unspeakable doubt is what makes
dialog: us such singular creatures. We
dialog: hide from it, we flee from it,
dialog: we succumb to it, mostly we defy
dialog: it! We build fragile little
dialog: structures to keep it out. We
dialog: love, we raise families, we work,
dialog: we make friends. We write poems,
dialog: we paint pictures, we build
dialog: beautiful things. We make our
dialog: own universe, our own truth, we
dialog: believe in our own reality. And
dialog: every now and tnen, someone like
dialog: you comes along who goes out and
text: challenges it face to face.
dialog: Passionate men.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 230
dialog: thru
dialog: 247
dialog: 119.
speaker_heading: EMILY (cont'd) 230
dialog: Poets, philosophers, saints and thru
dialog: scientists. What the hell do you 247
dialog: think makes me love you so much?
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: You don't understand.
text: They stare at each other. He is openly crying, his
text: face glistening with tears.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: It's too late, you see.
text: He slowly raises his right arm and extends it for her
text: to see. The vivid sunlight bleaches it, makes it look
text: sepulchrally white. A bulge of protoplasmic substance
text: is moving slowly up his arm under the skin like a mole.
text: She stares, stunned. We hear a HUM, a resonating drone,
text: the throbbing SOUND of the pulsing primal energy forces
dialog: we had heard in the tank room the night before.
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (screams )
dialog: Defy it, Eddie! You made it real!
dialog: You can make it unreal! If you
dialog: love me, Eddie, defy it!
text: He stands immobilized, crying helplessly. His body
text: begins to RUMBLE, CRACK and buckle as if forces inside
text: it were about to break through tne surface. He begins
text: to rapidly change forms, some recognizable, some
text: merely monstrous. He seems to have no more substance
text: than a photograph, a projected illusion, a demented
text: kaleidoscope of instant, transitory, transparent images,
text: flackering madly in the wide shaft of sunlight. The
text: hideous DRONE has become insufferably penetrating. She
text: clutches her ears. She sees a quick fleeting image of
text: her husband reaching out his arms to her for help, dut
text: she is petrified, utterly immobilized. His arms turn
text: into stumps. She finally forces out a hissing
dialog: sibilant SOUND --
speaker_heading: EMILY
dialog: (barely a whisper)
dialog: If you.love me, Eddie!
text: She is suddenly convulsed herself, clutching at her
text: stomach as some great pain explodes with her. The
text: blanket falls from her shoulders to the floor at her
text: feet. Her arms begin to bulge and swell and discolor.
text: A jagged crack appears on her forearm and shoots up
text: the length of her arm as if it were splitting open.
text: She slowly forces her arm up as if to show it to her
text: husband. It is now a stump, and even that stump is
dialog: losing its definition as the lines that define it be-
text: come wave-like and seem to melt into the shrieking air.
dialog: 230
dialog: thru
dialog: 247
dialog: 120.
text: She feels a massive shock just inside her skull above 230
text: her eyes. A RED-HOT FLAME erupts from her bowels. thru
text: She seems to be burning alive. Her EYES DISAPPEAR. 247
text: She would scream except her mouth has disappeared as
dialog: well.
text: The SCREEN has become total, impenecrable BLACKNESS.
text: Then, out of the blackness, we HEAR a distant echo of
text: a scream, lightyears away in the ultimate blackness.
text: It grows louder. It is no longer a scream; it is now
text: rather a roar of rage, the fury of a raging animal.
text: Light begins to penetrate the total blackness. Forms
text: begin to take shape. We begin to recognize Jessup's
text: human form, flickering in and out of the madness of
text: all his other shapes, reasserting itself.
text: The blackness is all gone now. ‘We are back in the
text: living room of Jessup's flat. He is standing, a
text: completely human form again, naked, as immobile,
text: enmarbled as a statue, stark white. He is staring at
text: his wife, who is disintegrating into the shapeless
dialog: anti-matter that had been his condition the night
text: before. With a shocking wrench of effort, he takes a
text: step toward her, forcing humanness into himself. One
text: step, two -~ he reaches out to embrace the shapless-
dialog: ness of his wife.
text: It is instantly, abruptly over. The drone, the lunacy
dialog: of illusion, the whole shattering moment is done. What
text: we see, standing in the sunlight in the middle of their
text: living room is a young married couple -- a slight,
text: light-haired man of thirty-seven, beginning to bald
text: just a bit but looking boyish at the moment in his
text: Jeans and T-shirt; and a slim, gracefully naked young
text: woman, her face pressed against her husband, her arms
text: wrapped around his waist, a pair of young living
text: humans, standing embraced in the white sunlight of their
dialog: living room.
speaker_heading: JESSUP
dialog: (after a moment)
dialog: I love you, Emily.
speaker_heading: ROLL CREDITS
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
