dialog: February 14, 2011
dialog: Writers Draft
dialog: American Horror Story
dialog: written by
dialog: Ryan Murphy
dialog: &
dialog: Brad Falchuk
dialog: directed by
dialog: Ryan Murphy
scene_heading: RYAN MURPHY TELEVISION
scene_heading: ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. COPYRIGHT © 2011 TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM
scene_heading: CORPORATION. NO PORTION OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE PERFORMED, PUBLISHED, REPRODUCED, SOLD, OR
text: DISTRIBUTED BY ANY MEANS OR QUOTED OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM, INCLUDING ANY WEB SITE,
scene_heading: WITHOUT PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORPORATION. DISPOSAL OF THIS
text: SCRIPT COPY DOES NOT ALTER ANY OF THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH ABOVE.
dialog: TITLES UP: San Francisco, 1978. The words dissolve, and we
text: hold on blackness. Hear soft eerie wind chimes. CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE -- AFTERNOON
text: PUSH across a leaf-strewn lawn to find a GIRL, eight, with
text: long braids, staring at an abandoned Victorian house that has
text: fallen into grave disrepair. Shutters missing, paint
text: peeling...an ingenue turned dowager by the march of time.
text: Suddenly, a rock whizzes by the girl’s head and SHATTERS an
text: upper story window. She turns and we finally SEE her face.
text: This is ADELAIDE, and she has Down Syndrome.
text: TWO BOYS, TEN, bash a gate open with a baseball bat and strut
text: into the yard. This is Troy and Bryan...the Rutger twins.
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: Hey, retard.
text: They head into the empty derelict house, on a mission.
text: Adelaide suddenly speaks.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: Excuse me.
text: They stop, turn.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE (CONT'D)
dialog: You’re going to die in there.
text: They stare at her a beat, the moment is shocking. Then Troy
text: runs to her, viciously pushes her to the ground. He regards
text: her, spits on her, then heads back into the house.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- AFTERNOON
text: CLASSICAL music plays. FLASHLIGHT BEAMS illuminate stunning
text: Victorian fixtures as they are shattered by the bat. Leaded
text: stained glass, intricate moldings...the destruction is
text: horrifying and complete, punctuated by the loud gunshot
text: firecracker sound of SNAP and POPS the boys throw everywhere.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- AFTERNOON
text: Troy bashes stunningly beautiful leaded cabinets, shattering
text: the glass. Suddenly, with alarm from another room --
speaker_heading: BRYAN
dialog: Troy!
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON
text: We are on Troy’s face as he slowly makes his way across the
text: empty room. All we HEAR is the sound of flies...a faint
text: buzzing, then a cacophony. He finally stops near where his
text: brother is standing and kneels down.
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: Awesome.
text: He is looking at a dead gutted POSSUM...someone, something,
text: has feasted here. The possum’s face is frozen and twisted in
text: fear. ANGLE: the boys crouching reflection in the gray flat
text: dead eye of the animal. Just then, a NOISE. Faint childish
text: LAUGHTER. Adelaide? The boys investigate.
text: They walk down the hall, when suddenly a BASEMENT DOOR at the
text: other end slowly creaks opens. The boys freeze, then --
speaker_heading: TROY (CONT'D)
dialog: (afraid)
dialog: Go.
speaker_heading: BRYAN
dialog: You go, shithead.
text: A dare. Troy moves forward. His brother follows.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT -- CONTINUOUS
text: A murky soup, the flashlights cut a swath.
text: The beams illuminate the odd stray cobweb, nothing much down
text: here. The boys split up to investigate, Troy throwing the odd
dialog: snap and pop. Until --
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: Check it out.
text: Bryan approaches and stares with wonder. The flashlights
text: illuminate a wall of dusty SPECIMEN JARS filled with yellow
text: viscous fluid. Within the fluid: monstrosities. Severed
text: deformed hands, feet, a twisted jaw...a horrifying tableau in
dialog: the style of Joel Peter Witkin.
text: Next to the jars: a neat line of surgical equipment. Clamps,
text: disembowelers, spreaders...all caked in rusty blood.
text: A moment of awe from the boys. WE SEE (but they don’t)
text: something move behind them. A flash of white.
text: Troy picks up one of the jars, studies, it.
speaker_heading: BRYAN
dialog: Don’t.
text: But Troy smashes it against a wall, it shatters.
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: It stinks down here. It stinks like
dialog: shit.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Last summer, when we had a raccoon
dialog: stuck in the chimney? That’s what
dialog: it smells like. Let’s go find it.
speaker_heading: BRYAN
dialog: No, it smells bad. I’m going.
text: Bryan starts off. Troy starts investigating, throwing the
text: snap and pops. Bryan is half way up the stairs, when the snap
text: and pops ABRUPTLY STOP.
speaker_heading: BRYAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Troy?
text: There is no sound. Then, a faint childish laugh.
speaker_heading: BRYAN (CONT’D)
dialog: (freaked)
dialog: Who’s down here!
text: Silence. He moves down the creaking steps. Until his
dialog: flashlight beam finds...
text: Troy...eyes wide with fear...his throat ripped out.
text: Terrified, Bryan feels something behind him. He hears a
text: noise: breathing. He slowly turns, his beam ILLUMINATES:
text: A blonde two year old BOY, wearing a Lindberg-era white
text: christening gown with seed pearls long yellowed. His mouth
text: and face is smeared with blood, his skin is wrinkled like an
text: ancient man. The INFANTATA smiles, gurgles...
text: Then ATTACKS.
text: The lightlight falls to the ground.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
text: A SINGLE WORD POPS UP: TODAY
scene_heading: INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE -- DAY
text: THE SOUND OF RUNNING WATER. Come up on a TRAY of
scene_heading: INSTRUMENTS.
text: A stainless steel SPECULUM, a large SYRINGE with NEEDLE,
text: COTTON SWABS, COTTON BALLS, RUBBER GLOVES. The water stops
text: and the hands of DR. DAY come into view. He towels them off,
text: pulls on the gloves.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: Are your periods regular again?
text: He messes with the instruments as a WOMAN speaks. It’s VIVIEN
speaker_heading: HARMON.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Pretty much. Every other month.
text: Dr. Day turns. REVEAL Vivien, gowned, on her back, her legs
text: in STIRRUPS. She’s pretty, forty, but she looks thirty five.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not complaining. After all of
dialog: that blood.
text: Day inserts his gloved fingers into Vivien, beginning his
text: exam. She takes in a sharp breath.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Ben hates blood.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: How are you two doing? Sexual
dialog: relations?
text: Day is clinical. He’s not looking to get off here.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Sometimes.
text: He inserts the speculum. She exhales. It hurts a little.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: You having trouble with arousal?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: A little. Thought maybe it was pre-
dialog: menopause.
text: He pulls out the speculum, takes off his gloves.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: Could be. Any issues achieving
dialog: climax?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I don’t know, it depends. When I’m
dialog: alone it’s fine.
text: He nods.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: Well, things look great from a
dialog: physical standpoint. Are you
dialog: anxious about having sex? About
dialog: something happening?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: You mean like getting pregnant?
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: It would be a normal response.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Well, I would like to go back on my
dialog: birth control pills.
text: He takes out her FILE. Writes --
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: I want to wait a beat on those.
dialog: They can cause irregularities in
dialog: your hormone levels and I think
dialog: you're already having some issues
dialog: in that department. Your cycle, the
dialog: sexual issues.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I don’t have sexual issues.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Maybe I’m just depressed.
text: Day takes a beat, then keeps writing -- that’s not his field
dialog: of expertise.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: I’ve recently had some success with
dialog: women your age using bioidentical
dialog: hormone treatments. Estrogen,
dialog: progestin.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Wait, so I am going through
dialog: menopause?
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: I don’t think so. This is more of
dialog: a pre-emptive strike. Your body is
dialog: like a house, you can fix the tiles
text: in the bathroom and the kitchen but
dialog: if the foundation is decaying,
dialog: you're wasting your time.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Are there any side effects?
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: The bHRT’s are great for your skin,
dialog: your organs. Most of the women I
dialog: give these to tell me they make
dialog: them feel ten years younger.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I don’t let my family use plastic
dialog: bottles or hold their cell phones
dialog: to their ears, now you want me to
dialog: put something in my body and not
dialog: tell me side effects? Don’t they
dialog: make those things with horse pee?
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: Feel and look ten years younger.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: The arousal issue is mine, not
dialog: Ben’s. I’m just reconnecting with
dialog: my body after what happened, I
dialog: don’t want to give it away again.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: You’re worried about losing
dialog: control, I’m offering you something
dialog: to help you get it back.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m not a house.
speaker_heading: DR. DAY
dialog: Vivien, what are you so afraid of?
dialog: Off Vivien, unsure of the answer --
scene_heading: INT. BACK BAY BROWNSTONE -- DAY
text: Vivien comes home with GROCERIES. Goes into the KITCHEN.
text: Starts unloading. Along with the food is a LITTLE PHARMACY
text: bag. She pulls out the hormone pills and creams, looks at
text: them, thinks, then HEARS A NOISE from upstairs. A piece of
text: furniture being moved? Her eyes go wide. Then, the sound
text: again, longer, louder. She’s TERRIFIED, dials the phone. 911.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: 911 operator, what is your
dialog: emergency?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: There’s someone in my house.
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Are you sure it’s not a member of
dialog: your family?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No. My daughter is at school and my
dialog: husband is at work. I think someone
dialog: is robbing us. Someone robbed the
text: brownstone next door two weeks ago.
dialog: What do I do?
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: We're sending a patrol car.
text: She hears a THUNK -- like a body hitting the floor. She
text: hangs up. Thinks. Grabs a KNIFE and starts upstairs.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR -- CONTINUOUS
text: ANGLE: on the gleaming knife at her side. More sounds. Vivien
text: slowly makes her way to the door, takes a deep breath and
text: CREAKS it open. On her face, the blood rushing out of it.
speaker_heading: GIRL’S VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Oh shit.
text: Vivien backs out into the hallway, almost goes over the
text: railing. She’s going to throw up. Before she can, her
text: husband, BEN comes out, naked. He’s 42, fit, handsome as she
dialog: is pretty.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Vivien....
text: He goes to hug her. She instinctively SLASHES at him with the
text: knife. It SCRAPES his arm. Both of them look at the small,
text: yet real wound, shocked. She drops the knife. He takes her
text: in his arms and keeps repeating with hysteria...
speaker_heading: BEN (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m sorry I’m sorry I’m sorry...
text: She lets him hold her for a beat, then breaks away in tears
text: and runs down the stairs. Off a naked, bleeding Ben we SMASH
text: TO BLACK.
scene_heading: INT. CAR -- DAY
scene_heading: DRIVING OVER THE GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE, SIX MONTHS LATER. Hard
text: SUNLIGHT through the windows. Ben’s driving.
text: Vivien in the passenger seat, staring out the window. Their
text: fifteen year old GOTH daughter VIOLET in the back with six
text: month old DOG, HALLIE.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Isn’t it beautiful?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
text: The light is different from Boston.
dialog: Feels like I can see more. I
dialog: thought it was supposed to be all
text: foggy.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I need to go to the bathroom.
speaker_heading: BEN
text: It’s just a little while longer.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I need to go.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Where would you like me to pull
dialog: over, sweetie -- the Bay or the
dialog: Pacific?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: (re: the dog)
dialog: Bet if baby substitute had to shit
dialog: you'd find somewhere.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I don’t like that word, Violet.
text: A beat, then Violet looks out the window. Thoughtfully --
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Thirteen hundred people have jumped
dialog: off of this thing -- at least
dialog: that’s what they think. They don’t
dialog: see them all and they stopped
dialog: counting right before a thousand.
dialog: I looked it up. Twenty six of them
dialog: survived. You know what all of
dialog: them said was their first thought
dialog: after they stepped off?
dialog: (then, mischievous)
dialog: Oh shit.
text: Her mother’s discomfort makes Violet grin.
speaker_heading: VIOLET (CONT'D)
dialog: Kind of how I feel about this move.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I’m not going to like the school.
dialog: San Francisco is filled with
dialog: hippies and freaks and drug
dialog: addicts.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I’m glad we named you Violet
dialog: instead of our second choice.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Which was?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Sunshine.
text: They all kind of crack up. A fleeting moment of family
text: togetherness. Ben shares a smile with his wife, then reaches
text: out his hand to hold hers, but she PULLS it AWAY.
scene_heading: EXT. OLD VICTORIAN HOUSE -- DAY
text: They pull into the driveway. Everyone takes a good look --
dialog: it’s looking better than it did the last time we saw it. New
text: paint, shutters, gutters. There’s a FOR SALE sign on the
text: lawn. All three of them take it in as they come to a stop.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: This is it.
text: Vivien is unsure. Violet is intrigued. MARCY, the RELATOR
text: greets them from the front porch with a WAVE.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- DAY
text: Marcy shows them around. The FOYER is epic, beautiful,
text: soaring ceilings and a grand STAIRCASE. House porn.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: It’s the finest Queen Anne on the
dialog: market. Venetian chandeliers,
dialog: original moldings. The stained
dialog: glass is some of the only of it’s
dialog: kind that survived the great quake.
dialog: As you can see the previous owners
dialog: really loved the place like a
dialog: child. They restored everything.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Gay?
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: Sweetheart, it’s San Francisco,
dialog: they’re all gay.
text: Light laughter. Except from Violet, who rolls her eyes. Ben
text: sees this and fights a laugh. They head into the KITCHEN.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: It’s beautiful. Looks original except with all of the modern
text: bells and whistles.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: Do you cook?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Viv is a great cook. I got her
dialog: cooking lessons a few years ago for
dialog: her birthday and she ended up
dialog: teaching the teacher a few things.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: Cooking lessons. Romantic. You're
dialog: a psychiatrist?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Psychologist. You said something on
dialog: the phone about there being a study
dialog: upstairs that I could use as a home
dialog: office? I’m planning on seeing
dialog: patients here so I can spend more
dialog: time with the family.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: How refreshing.
text: Vivien shakes her head.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY -- DAY -- CONTINUOUS
text: Hallie sniffs around, PEES in a corner, then SENSES
text: SOMETHING. Explores, then -- STARTS BARKING LIKE CRAZY.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Violet is staring out the window at the BACKYARD.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Violet, will you go see what’s
dialog: going on with Hallie?
text: Violet storms out. Teenager.
dialog: 11.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY
text: Violet finds Hallie, barking madly at the BASEMENT DOOR.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Shut up!
text: She won’t. Violet looks at the door. It’s BOLTED SHUT. Old
text: school bolted. Two heavy bolts and two HUGE PADLOCKS.
dialog: Someone doesn’t want to let anyone in -- or maybe out.
text: Violet wiggles the doorknob, trying to pry it open.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT -- DAY
text: From the BOTTOM of the steps. POV of something watching the
text: door move, the knob jiggle. We hear it’s raspy breathing.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY
text: Violet tries the door a few more times, then yanks on the
text: locks. No luck. She stares at the door, oddly drawn to it.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY -- DAY
text: Marcy shows Vivien and Ben the BEAUTIFUL GOTHIC LIBRARY.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: This is my favorite room in the
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (to Vivien, trying)
dialog: When I saw the pictures of this
dialog: room online I thought maybe you
dialog: could use it as your music room.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: You’re a musician?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I was.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: She’s a cellist. She played in the
dialog: Boston philharmonic.
text: She heads over to the WALL. Something isn’t right.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: Why did you quit?
dialog: There’s an answer, but we’re not going to get it.
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
text: This wallpaper is coming off.
text: She goes to the wall, grabs a tiny PEELING PIECE of seagrass
text: wallpaper and gently pulls it off. It opens a small window to
text: the ORIGINAL WALL, no bigger than a couple of postage stamps.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: I think there’s a mural under here.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: The last owners must have covered
dialog: it up. They were modernists.
dialog: (then, with difficulty)
dialog: Speaking of the last owners, full
dialog: disclosure requires me to tell you
dialog: about what happened to them.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Oh God, one of them didn’t die in
dialog: here, did they?
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: Yes, actually. Both of them.
dialog: (off their shock)
dialog: Murder suicide. I sold them the
dialog: house, too. Just the sweetest
dialog: couple. You never know I guess.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: So that’s why it’s half the price
dialog: of every other house in the
dialog: neighborhood.
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: I have a very nice painted lady not
dialog: too far from here but you’re going
dialog: to get a third of the house for
dialog: twice the price if you go that way.
text: Vivien and Ben aren’t sure. Violet comes in carrying Hallie.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Where did it happen?
speaker_heading: MARCY
dialog: The basement.
text: Another beat. Violet grins.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: We'll take it.
dialog: Off Ben and Vivien --
dialog: 13.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE - EVENING
text: As MOVERS finish bringing the last boxes in, Marcy pulls the
text: IN ESCROW sign off of the FOR SALE sign and replaces it with
text: one that says SOLD.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Ben comes out the bathroom in his pajamas, happy. Vivien is
text: still unpacking, there are boxes everywhere. He comes in
text: behind her, kisses her, she gently moves away.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Come to bed, we'll finish this in
dialog: the morning.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m worried about Violet. She’s
dialog: right about kids being different
dialog: out here. She can’t handle another
dialog: year of not fitting in.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You mean you can’t.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I treat kids like Violet every day.
dialog: In three months she'll have lost
dialog: all of the dark eye make up and
text: combat boots and be walking around
text: in Birkenstocks with unshaven pits
text: smelling like patchouli.
text: She laughs. He takes her in his arms.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: It doesn’t freak you out at all?
dialog: What happened here?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My repulsion is tempered by the
dialog: fact that this house is worth four
dialog: times what we paid for it.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: But it’s not like some old lady
text: died in here. A murder-suicide.
dialog: Gives me the creeps just thinking
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: So don’t think about it.
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: That’s your professional advice,
dialog: doctor?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No place is perfect. No place and
dialog: no person.
dialog: (then)
dialog: All I know is that for the first
dialog: time in months I feel at home
dialog: somewhere. Moving here, buying this
dialog: house was the right thing to do for
dialog: our family. It’s a good thing and
dialog: frankly, we deserve some good after
dialog: all the shit we’ve been through.
dialog: (then, realizing)
dialog: Sorry.
text: She nods, not sure, but desperate to trust him. He kisses
text: her. Another fleeting moment, this one of marital bliss, but
text: she can’t sustain it. She pulls away, leaves him to go do
text: more unpacking.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL COURTYARD -- DAY
text: Violet walks through the commons, SMOKING. She surveys the
text: scene -- a few kids reliving their grandparents’ Haight
dialog: Ashbury fashion mistakes but most are unmemorable. Upper
text: middle class high school in an upscale urban neighborhood.
text: She passes THREE pretty girls -- seniors dressed like they're
text: twenty-five -- talking up some boys -- LEAH, BECCA and ABBY.
dialog: Overhears their conversation --
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: So I let him.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Do coke off of your nipples?
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: They were numb for like two days.
text: They all crack up. Violet tries to disappear into her sweater
text: as she passes, but --
speaker_heading: LEAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey! Student council passed a rule
dialog: against smoking in public spaces.
text: The girls step in front of her.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Second hand smoke kills.
dialog: 15.
text: Violet puts the cigarette out.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I didn’t know. I’m new.
text: Violet nervously flicks her butt into a planter. Leah flips.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: What the hell is the matter with
dialog: you? People sit here. They eat
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: You don’t know me. Why are you
dialog: doing this?
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Leah’s grandma died of lung cancer.
dialog: She takes this stuff pretty
dialog: seriously.
text: Leah holds the butt out to Violet.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: Eat it.
dialog: (off Violet’s shock)
dialog: Eat it. Or I’m going to kick the
dialog: shit out of you.
speaker_heading: ABBY
dialog: Come on, Leah, it’s enough.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: No, I want to see her eat it.
text: She grabs Violet’s face.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Seriously, Leah, she’s like twelve.
text: Leah starts trying to shove the cigarette into Violet’s
text: mouth, but Violet resists, then instinctively SPITS in Leah’s
text: face. That stuns everyone. Abby and Becca can’t help but
text: laugh. A beat, then Violet takes off running.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: (calling after her)
dialog: You're dead! DEAD!
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- MUSIC ROOM -- DAY
text: Vivien drops the NEEDLE on an old record player. Classical
text: cello plays as she sets out her INSTRUMENTS -- a large bowl
text: of water, scraping tool, small knife. Slowly and carefully,
text: she starts removing the old wallpaper.
text: As she does, the GOYA-ESQUE MURAL begins to reveal itself.
text: She can’t quite make out the first image -- until she pulls
text: off one more sliver or paper to see -- A WOMAN, her face bent
text: in pain, her body twisted and tortured.
text: Vivien stares at the image, transfixed and disturbed when
text: suddenly a HAND touches her shoulder. She jumps out of her
text: skin, turns, sees ADELAIDE, the child with Down Syndrome we
text: saw earlier, now a woman in her forties.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: You’re going to die in here.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE (0.S.)
dialog: Adelaide!
text: Constance, Adelaide’s mother enters from the kitchen carrying
text: a BOX. Constance is a chain smoker, and she sounds like it.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE (CONT’D)
dialog: Adelaide. I put that “Dora the
dialog: Explorer” on for you so you would
dialog: sit and watch it.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: It was “Go Diego Go.” I don’t like
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: Brown cartoon characters -- you
dialog: can’t tell the difference.
dialog: Vivien doesn’t know what to make of this. Finally --
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE (CONT’D)
dialog: Hi. Hi. I’m Constance your neighbor
dialog: -- the tear down next door. This
dialog: is my girl Adelaide. Go home Addy.
dialog: Now!
text: Adelaide storms out.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE (CONT’D)
dialog: That girl is a monster. I love her
dialog: and I’m a good Christian but Jesus
dialog: A.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE (CONT’D)
dialog: Christ, if they’d invented some of
dialog: those tests a few years earlier...
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: How did you get in my house?
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: You left your back door open,
dialog: though I have to warn you Addy
dialog: seems to always find a way in.
dialog: She’s got a bug up her ass for this
dialog: place, always has. You got a dog?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Yes. Is that a problem?
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: Better for me. I run a little
dialog: kennel out of my house. Doggy day
dialog: care kind of thing. Don’t bother
dialog: calling the cops on me -- I’m in
dialog: with one of the city managers and
dialog: he always looks the other way.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Look, it’s very nice to meet you
dialog: but I wasn’t really prepared for
dialog: company.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: I’m gone. Brought this for you,
dialog: housewarming. Addy wanted to cook
dialog: you a pie but she tends to spit in
dialog: the cooking so I figured this was
dialog: better -- should help you get rid
dialog: of some of the bad ju-ju.
text: She hands Vivien the box.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE (CONT’D)
dialog: Those homosexual boys were nice
dialog: enough and I say live and let live,
dialog: but I can’t help but think that
dialog: that lifestyle drove them to do
dialog: what they did.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I can’t remember your name.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I didn’t tell you. I’m Vivien
dialog: Harmon.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: Anyway, enjoy, relax, let me know
dialog: if you need help with your pup.
dialog: Glad you’re getting rid of that
dialog: wallpaper. Thought those people
dialog: were supposed to be stylish.
text: She exits. Vivien can’t help but laugh a little at their
text: oddity. She shakes her head, opens the box to see a TIGHTLY
text: WOUND BUNCH OF SAGE. A beat, then -- through the window she
text: sees Constance walking back to her house.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE (CONT’D)
dialog: (calling back)
dialog: It’s Sage. For cleansing the
dialog: spirits in the house. Too many bad
dialog: memories in there.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- SAGE MONTAGE -- NIGHT
text: Vivien moves through the house, the burning sage bundle in
dialog: her hand. She’s not sure if she buys this whole cleansing the
text: spirits thing, but she’s committing. She moves into an
scene_heading: UPSTAIRS HALLWAY --
dialog: She hasn't spent much time in this part of the house yet.
text: It’s barely decorated and there are even a few EMPTY BOXES
text: stacked at the dead end. Suddenly, the flame in the sage
text: bundle is BLOWN OUT. Odd. She looks UP for the source and
text: discovers a DRAFT coming from a TRAP DOOR IN THE CEILING.
dialog: The attic.
text: She puts down the sage, pulls over a chair. Standing on it,
text: she pulls the DRAWSTRING.
scene_heading: INT. THE ATTIC -- LOOKING DOWN ON VIVIEN
text: The DOOR opens and STAIRS extend into the hallway. Common in
text: these old houses. She climbs in. DARKNESS, SILENCE. Her eyes
text: adjust. Miraculously, she finds a LIGHT CORD, pulls it.
text: The single bulb turns on and she’s standing face to face with
text: a BLACK RUBBER MAN.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Ben is on the bed, reading when he hears his wife SCREAM.
scene_heading: INT. ATTIC
text: Ben rushes up the stairs, finds Vivien sitting on some STACKS
dialog: of old newspapers.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What happened? Are you okay?
text: She points to the rubber man -- he’s actually just a large
text: rubber suit -- known as a RUBBER ASPHYXIATION SUIT hanging
text: from a hook. The suit is black, covers the entire body and
text: has a mask with two small eye holes and two tiny breathing
text: straws that can be pinched to temporarily suffocate the
dialog: wearer.
speaker_heading: BEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Guess those guys were into the
dialog: kinky stuff.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Should I try it on?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Stop it. It’s not funny.
text: But they laugh. A beat, then Violet peeks her head in.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: What happened?
dialog: (seeing the suit)
dialog: Holy shit.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Get it out of here.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE -- NIGHT
text: Ben tosses the suit in the GARBAGE.
scene_heading: INT. BEN’S HOME OFFICE -- DAY
text: TIGHT on various items as we hear a therapy session. Ben’s
dialog: diploma from Yale; psychiatric books he has written.
speaker_heading: BEN’S VOICE
dialog: These fantasies started, two years
dialog: ago, three years ago...?
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: Two years.
text: We see Ben, very calm and professional in his shrink chair.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Is there a structure to the
dialog: thoughts...a pattern...
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: It’s always the same, it starts the
dialog: same way.
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: I prepare for the noble war.
text: We REVEAL TATE LANGDON...17, handsome, charismatic as
dialog: hell...he could be a cult leader or a movie star.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: I get a taste for the
dialog: bloodletting...and I pack up my
dialog: weapons of mass destruction.
speaker_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S BEDROOM -- SIMULTANEOUS
text: Violet neatly unpacks razor blades, raises one, examines it.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE -- SIMULTANEOUS
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Guns?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Obviously.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: And then?
scene_heading: INT. HIGHSCHOOL HALLWAY -- DAY
text: Tate walks through a crowded hallway, smiling sweetly,
text: wearing a trenchcoat and holding a duffel bag.
speaker_heading: TATE’S VOICE
dialog: I’m walking through the halls, I’m
dialog: calm, I have the secret, I know
dialog: what’s coming and I know no one can
dialog: stop me, including myself.
speaker_heading: BEN’S VOICE
dialog: Do you target people who have been
dialog: mean to you? Unkind?
speaker_heading: TATE’S VOICE
dialog: No. I kill people I like.
text: In the hall, a SWEET INNOCENT 16-YEAR-OLD GIRL smiles at him.
text: He smiles back.
speaker_heading: BEN’S VOICE
dialog: Do you feel sympathy?
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: TATE’S VOICE
dialog: No. I’m helping them.
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM -- DAY
text: Typical algebra tedium. Until Tate enters.
speaker_heading: TEACHER
dialog: Can I help you?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: No.
text: He RAISES HIS GUN, shoots the teacher. She instantly goes
text: down. Tate looks at the shocked students, who are paralyzed.
text: He starts roaming the aisles and just shooting.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE -- DAY
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Some of them beg for their life,
dialog: but I don’t feel sad, I don’t feel
dialog: anything. Its a filthy world we
dialog: live in, a filthy goddamned
dialog: helpless world, and honestly? I
dialog: feel I’m taking them away from all
dialog: the shit and piss and vomit that
dialog: runs in the streets, you know? I’m
dialog: helping to take them somewhere
text: clean and silent and kind.
scene_heading: INT. CLASSROOM -- DAY
text: The entire classroom has been massacred, the walls are blood
text: smeared. The sweet girl from the hallway has been badly
text: wounded, but she’s not dead. He stops in front of her, aims
text: the gun. She raises her shaking hand, we SEE him through a
text: gaping bullet hole.
speaker_heading: INNOCENT GIRL
dialog: Please...
text: He shoots her dead.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE -- DAY
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: There’s something about the blood,
dialog: man. All that blood. I drown in it.
scene_heading: INT. SCHOOL -- DAY
text: Tate is bounding down the stairwell, to escape. He hears
text: something, stops turns.
dialog: 22.
text: A TORRENT OF BLOOD, A WALL OF IT, races down the stairwell at
text: him. He spreads his arms, to welcome it. It envelopes him, he
text: is obliterated.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE -- DAY
text: Ben shows no emotion, writes SOCIOPATH on his tablet.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: The Indians believed that blood
dialog: holds all the bad spirits, they
dialog: would cut themselves once a month
dialog: in ceremonies, let the spirits go
dialog: free. There’s something smart about
dialog: that. Very smart. I like that.
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S BEDROOM -- SIMULTANEOUS
text: Violet cuts herself with the razor blade. She stares at the
text: crimson gash on her arm with no emotion.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE -- DAY
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: You think I’m crazy?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: No. I think you’re creative, and I
dialog: think you have a lot of pain you're
dialog: not dealing with.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: My mother’s worried about me.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: She’s a cocksucker. I mean,
dialog: literally, she’s a cocksucker. She
dialog: sucked the guy off next door all
dialog: the time, my dad found out, he
dialog: left. He left me alone with a
dialog: cocksucker, can you imagine? How
dialog: sick is that?
text: Tate for the first time shows vulnerability.
speaker_heading: TATE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m not crazy, dude. Don’t you
dialog: think it’s interesting? The idea of
dialog: letting the bad blood out? The
dialog: worlds a filthy place. A goddamned
dialog: horror show. So much pain. So much.
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S ROOM -- DAY
text: Violet makes another cut.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: You’re doing it wrong.
text: She whirls around, revealing --
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: If you’re trying to kill yourself,
dialog: cut vertically. They can’t stitch
dialog: that up.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: (freaked)
dialog: How’d you get in here?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: If you’re trying to kill yourself
dialog: you might also try locking the
dialog: door.
text: He leaves. She stares.
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Middle of the night. So quiet you can hear the buzz of the
text: DIGITAL CLOCK. Ben and Vivien in bed. Suddenly, from above
text: we see BEN’S EYES SPRING OPEN. There’s no life behind them
text: though. He gets up, SLEEPWALKING.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- STAIRWELL -- NIGHT
text: Ben, NAKED, walks down the stairs. The house CREAKS, GROANS.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- LIBRARY -- DAY
text: IN THE SHADOWS we can make out some more of the mural. It’s
text: a HELLSCAPE. QUICK CUTS as Ben KNEELS down, turns on the GAS
text: in the fireplace, LIGHTS a ROLL OF NEWSPAPER, tosses it on
text: the logs, IGNITING A HUGE FIRE.
text: He stands, watches the fire. The room and his naked form
text: GLOWS. As if he was reaching for a long lost love he reaches
text: out to the fire, closer. Then --
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (0.S.)
dialog: Ben!
text: Ben pulls his hand back, turns to see his wife. He’s still
dialog: not with it.
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing? You’re naked.
dialog: Come back to bed.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Am I in a dream?
text: Vivien softens, goes to him, starts leading him back.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No, you're sleepwalking.
text: She leads him out, turns to look at the fire as she does and
text: catches a glimpse of the MURAL as we...
speaker_heading: END ACT ONE
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: ACT TWO
scene_heading: EXT. BACKYARD -- DAY
text: Vivien hangs BEDSHEETS up on clothes lines, drying them.
text: It’s peaceful, golden light, an easy breeze. A TALL WOMAN, in
text: her sixties comes around into the backyard.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Can I help you?
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: I’m Moira O'Hara, I’m the
dialog: housekeeper.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I didn’t know the place came with
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: Why are you hanging your sheets?
dialog: Perfectly good electric dryer
dialog: inside.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I don’t like the chemicals in
dialog: fabric softener and the organic
dialog: ones don’t work. This is the only
dialog: way to dry them without static
dialog: cling.
dialog: Moira’s impressed.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: I work Monday through Thursday.
dialog: Four hundred a week. If you have a
dialog: dinner party and you want me to
dialog: serve or straighten up, it’s extra.
dialog: Thanksgiving on, Christmas off.
dialog: That was the deal with the last
dialog: fellows.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m sorry, I’m just not sure if we
dialog: need a maid.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: What have you been using to clean
dialog: the floorboards?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Murphy’s oil soap.
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: No. White Vinegar. Oil soap kills
dialog: the wood. Have you ever owned a
dialog: house this old?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: It has a personality, feelings.
dialog: Mistreat it and you will regret it.
dialog: Trust me, madam, you need me.
dialog: (then)
dialog: May I come in? My cab’s left and
dialog: I’d like to call another.
dialog: Off Vivien --
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Vivien brings Moira some TEA.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: You worked for the previous owners?
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: And the ones before that. I’ve been
dialog: the housekeeper here for years.
dialog: They come, they go, I stay. My
dialog: husband has been ill for some time
dialog: so I’m the breadwinner.
dialog: (then)
dialog: They were both nice boys, the ones
dialog: before you. I found the bodies.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: What happened? I mean, I hate to
dialog: gossip.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: I don’t know. They fought a lot.
dialog: Money I think. Who can know when
dialog: something so horrible happens?
dialog: Sometimes people just go mad.
dialog: (then, hushed)
dialog: I cleaned the mess. You’d never
dialog: know.
text: Ben enters.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Ben, this is Moira O’Hara, she’s
text: the last owner’s housekeeper.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, actually she’s been working
dialog: here for years.
text: Moira turns to greet Ben. Ben’s POV -- she’s a STUNNING
text: TWENTY-FIVE-YEAR OLD. Tiny waist, succulent breasts.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Nice to meet you, Moira.
text: They shake. Moira smiles, so hot. Her eyes cry sex. There's
dialog: the sound
text: She exits.
speaker_heading: of a CAR HORN.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: That’s my cab. I'’11 use the
dialog: lavatory first if you don’t mind.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Wait, you want to hire her?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: She’s a bit of character but she’s
dialog: also the first person I’ve met
dialog: since we moved here that I actually
dialog: like.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (a beat, confused)
dialog: How long has she been working here?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I don’t know exactly. The point is
dialog: that she knows the house, she seems
dialog: honest and I could use the help.
text: Ben is baffled. She smiles as Moira comes back in. Vivien
text: talks to her so Moira is old again.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Can you start tomorrow?
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: Thursday’s better but I’1l1 make it
dialog: work.
text: She nods to both of them -- they both see different Moira’s --
dialog: and leaves.
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: (noticing something)
dialog: What?
text: Ben takes her in his arms.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Nothing. You just always surprise
dialog: me.
text: She likes that. He kisses her. Things get passionate. She so
text: wants to give in, but can’t. She pulls away.
speaker_heading: BEN (CONT'D)
dialog: You know, you’re going to have to
dialog: forgive me one day.
text: He’s hurt, exits. She shakes her head, disappointed in
dialog: herself. How long does she have to hold on to this?
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM -- LATER
text: Vivien digs through the VANITY, finds the old PRESCRIPTION
text: BAG. Tears it open, removes the HORMONE REPLACEMENT MEDS Dr.
text: Day gave her. She fills a cup with water, SWALLOWS A PILL.
scene_heading: EXT. BASEMENT -- DAY
text: TIGHT on bolt-cutters slicing through the locks.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT -- DAY
text: Ben and Violet enters to investigate. There’s really nothing
text: here now but dust and an odd piece of unloved furniture.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Crap.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: This is where those dudes killed
dialog: themselves, right? I thought maybe
dialog: we'd find a body or something.
text: Ben looks at her, laughs. So does she. A beat, he puts his
text: arms around her shoulders. Brightly --
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Okay! I’ve really enjoyed this
dialog: father daughter bonding time.
text: He leaves. Violet takes a beat, then follows.
dialog: 29.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY -- LATE AFTERNOON
text: Vivien carefully works the WALLPAPER off the wall. The mural
text: is becoming more clear. A WOMAN is dragged into HELL by a
text: GRINNING DEMON. A BEAUTIFUL MAIDEN is splayed out on a bed
text: with a MONSTER sitting on her chest. She tries not to take
text: the images in, she has a job to do.
text: THE RUBBER MAN appears in the doorway behind her. SOMEONE has
text: put on the suit. He slowly moves towards her.
text: POV -- from within the mask. His BREATHING. He’s almost upon
dialog: her. She’s oblivious -- Jesus fucking Christ, turn around!
dialog: Finally, she does --
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Violet! Can you take Hallie out?
text: He’s gone. Nothing. She senses something odd, but then
text: brushes it off, goes back to her work.
scene_heading: INT. BEN’S HOME OFFICE -- DAY
text: Tate is in session, Violet spies through a partially cracked
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: BEN’S VOICE
dialog: Are you taking the medications?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Yes.
text: He is aware of Violet, turns and looks at her. She takes in a
dialog: little gasp, he’s so handsome.
speaker_heading: BEN’S VOICE
dialog: Thoughts of suicide?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Not lately. I met somebody.
text: Off Tate and Violet, eye-locked --
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S ROOM -- LATER
text: Post session. Music by The Smiths plays. Tate and Violet sit
text: on the floor, their sleeves rolled up. He’s showing her his
dialog: cutting scars.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: This one I did when my dad first
dialog: left. I was ten I think.
dialog: (points to another)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: TATE (CONT'D)
text: This one a year later. New school.
dialog: Got beat up.
text: Violet shows him her most recent cutting.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Last week, first day at my new
dialog: school which sucks.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Westfield?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Yep.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: The worst. I got thrown out of
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I hate it here. I hate everyone.
dialog: All their bougie designer bullshit,
dialog: the east coast was much cooler. At
dialog: least we had weather.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: I love it when the leaves change.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Me too.
text: They stare at each other, wildly attracted.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Why’d you move here?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: My dad had an affair. My mom
text: literally caught him in the act.
scene_heading: INT. BOSTON HOUSE -- DAY -- FLASHBACK
text: Vivien climbs the stairs. She pushes the door open with the
dialog: knife, we see what was withheld from us. HER POV: Ben fucking
text: a blonde GIRL in her earlier 20s. Ben looks at her, we see
text: the pain in his face. The regret and self-loathing.
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S ROOM -- DAY
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: That’s horrible. If you love
dialog: someone you should never cheat on
dialog: them, or leave them. Never.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Right? I know. And the worst part
dialog: is that six months earlier my mom
dialog: had, like, this brutal miscarriage.
dialog: The baby was seven months old, we
dialog: had to have this macabre funeral.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: I’m sorry.
text: He takes her hand. She’s thrown at being touched.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Why are you seeing my dad?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Don’t ask questions you already
dialog: know the answer to. You’re smarter
dialog: than that.
text: She nods, it’s true. She looks down at her hand in his,
text: feels self-conscious. The song ends on her iPod player.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: You like Craven? It’s a new band.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: I’ve never heard of them.
text: She gets up to play them.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: They’re really cool, they’re from
dialog: Oregon, the lead singer is dyslexic
dialog: and a vegan...
text: She turns. Tate has left the room.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- DAY
text: Vivien comes in, is shocked by Moira’s OLD LADY ASS. She’s on
text: her hands and knees, SCRUBBING THE FLOOR.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Um...Moira, you don’t need to do
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: These old floors are finicky. You
dialog: have to treat them right.
text: The SPIDER VEINS are showing through Moira’s panty hoes.
text: Vivien tries not to look.
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Ok, well, Ben’s in the shower.
dialog: While I’m gone will you finish
text: unpacking the guest room and make
dialog: up the bed?
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: Expecting company?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No, just want to finish settling
dialog: in.
text: She exits. Moira stares after her, smiles tightly.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY -- DAY
text: Ben, wearing a robe and towel drying his hair --
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Vivien? I can’t find my razor
dialog: blades.
text: No answer. Where’d she go? He sees the door to the guest
text: bedroom OPEN -- someone is in there. He approaches, CREAKS
text: open the door.
dialog: IN THE BEDROOM --
text: Young, beautiful Moira is on the bed, MASTURBATING. It looks
text: like she’s climaxed a few times already and is on her way to
dialog: another.
text: Ben watches. Breathless. She opens her eyes, sees Ben and
text: GETS EVEN MORE TURNED ON. Beckons him. He almost goes to her.
text: Desperate not just for sex but for some kind of affection.
text: Then, he steps back, closes the door on the temptation.
speaker_heading: SMASH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Ben comes in, locks the door, opens his robe and starts
text: masturbating himself. He’s OUT OF CONTROL. He finishes
text: quickly, catches his breath. After a beat, a tear falls down
text: his face.
text: Ben sits on the bed. Things are starting to fall apart
text: again. Before he can ruminate,he looks out the window. There,
text: amongst the FLOWING, DRYING SHEETS is an OLD MAN, his face
text: covered in HIDEOUS BURN SCARS. He’s looking RIGHT AT Ben.
text: Ben jumps up, heads out --
dialog: 33.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE -- BACKYARD -- DAY
text: Ben runs out, searches for the man through the sheets, but
text: he’s gone. It’s like he was never there.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- KITCHEN -- DAY (LATER)
text: The kitchen, gleams, spotless. Vivien enters with a bag of
text: groceries, takes a second to appreciate her ordered home.
text: She sets the bag on a counter, takes out a jug of orange
text: juice. There is the sudden firecracker sound of SNAP and
text: POPS. Vivien jumps out her skin, turns and SCREAMS.
text: ZOOM WIDE: every cabinet door and drawer HAS BEEN OPENED.
text: Reveal Adelaide, giggling maniacally at the screen door. As
text: she covers her mouth, amused by the horror we...
speaker_heading: END ACT TWO
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: ACT THREE
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- DAY
text: Adelaide sits quietly with her mother, looking intensely at
text: Hallie, who is eating her dinner in a corner. Vivien and Ben
text: sit across from them. Vivien leans in, intense.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I want you to stay out of my house,
dialog: do you understand?
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: Can I smoke in here?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Adelaide, answer me please.
text: Adelaide suddenly looks up at them, like an innocent child.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: Can I pet your dog?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No. I want you to stop coming into
dialog: my house and opening things and
dialog: telling me I’m going to die.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: She said that?
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: She says that to everybody. Addie,
dialog: say you’re sorry.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: No. I didn’t do anything wrong.
dialog: They did it.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: The Mischief twins.
text: Constance takes a beat, this lands. She quickly covers by
text: twirling her finger around her ear, the universal symbol for
dialog: crazy.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE (CONT'D)
dialog: Can I pet your dog?
dialog: 35.
text: Vivien snaps. She takes Adelaide’s face in her hands and
dialog: focuses her.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Adelaide, listen to me. I want you
dialog: to stop coming in my house without
dialog: permission, am I clear?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (she’s gone too far)
dialog: Vivien.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Am I clear?
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Thank you.
text: She releases her. Adelaide goes to the door to leave, but
text: then suddenly races over to pet the dog. Hallie, eating and
text: territorial, bites her.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Hallie!
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: Are you okay?
text: Adelaide stands there for a beat, her face darkens.
speaker_heading: ADELAIDE
dialog: She shouldn’t have done that.
text: She exits. Constance quietly gets up, heads for the door.
speaker_heading: CONSTANCE
dialog: Sorry about all this.
dialog: (then, to Vivien, matter
dialog: of factly)
dialog: Touch my kid again, I‘1l break your
dialog: goddamned arm.
dialog: She leaves.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- OFFICE -- DAY
text: Ben, in his chair. Into his TAPE RECORDER, about Tate --
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: BEN
text: Patient shows numerous signs of
dialog: sociopathic behavior -- grandiose
dialog: sense of self, lack of remorse.
dialog: High intelligence makes it
dialog: difficult to determine if symptoms
dialog: are actual or created as a front
dialog: for deeper psychosis...
text: Young, sexy Moira comes in with her BUCKET.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: May I clean in here?
dialog: Ben shifts, uncomfortable --
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: It’s not a good time, Moira.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: It’s Thursday and I’m off in twenty
dialog: minutes. If I don’t do it now, it’s
dialog: not getting done until Monday.
text: She enters, starts cleaning. A beat, then Ben grabs his
text: things, starts out.
speaker_heading: MOIRA (CONT'D)
dialog: (wanna fuck?)
dialog: Am I distracting you?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: These dictations are confidential.
text: She moves to him, predatory.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: Why don’t you touch me a little?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Get out.
speaker_heading: MOIRA
dialog: What are you afraid of? I won’t
dialog: tell. I didn’t tell when you saw me
dialog: playing with myself the other day.
dialog: Did you touch yourself after you
dialog: saw me?
dialog: (reading his face)
dialog: You did. Do it again, show me.
text: She’s right up against him. He’s tempted. It’s been so long.
text: He looks up -- sees Violet at the door. Fuck.
dialog: 37.
text: From Violet’s POV -- OLD MOIRA is coming on to her dad. She
text: flees. Ben pushes past a grinning Moira.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- HALLWAY -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Ben grabs Violet, spins her around.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: You are so sick! Will you just
dialog: stick your dick in anything?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Hey! Do not talk to me like that!
dialog: Nothing happened in there. She was
dialog: coming on to me -- I was rejecting
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: So fire her. Get her out of the
dialog: house. She creeps me out anyway.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I can’t do that.
dialog: (off her confusion)
dialog: I’ll have to tell your mother why
dialog: I’m letting her go. After all
dialog: that’s happened she’s not going to
dialog: believe I was totally innocent.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: (confused)
dialog: With her? Yes she will.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Your mom and I are walking a
dialog: tightrope right now -- but we’re
dialog: making progress. I don’t want to do
dialog: anything to screw it up.
dialog: He’s so emotional. Violet gets it. Still --
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I don’t want that bitch cleaning my
dialog: room anymore.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL -- COURTYARD -- DAY
text: Violet, smoking, minds her business when she’s SHOVED from
text: behind. She stumbles, drops her cigarette. Turns to see Leah
dialog: and her bitch friends.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: I told you not to smoke out here.
dialog: 38.
text: Violet stands tall, no fear.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: What is your problem, bitch?
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: She just call me a bitch?
speaker_heading: ABBY
dialog: Sounded like bitch.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Seriously. Mommy drink too much?
dialog: Daddy love your brother more? Your
dialog: uncle play with your titties when
dialog: you were a kid? I’m not scared of
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: You should be.
text: Staredown. Then Violet sees it: a twitch in Leah’s face --
text: Violet might not be scared, but Leah is. Violet CHARGES her,
text: grabs Leah around the waist linebacker style and DRIVES her
text: into the concrete. OTHER STUDENTS notice, form a circle.
speaker_heading: STUDENTS
dialog: Fight, fight, fight!
text: Violet gets two punches in before Abby and Becca attack.
dialog: Three on one -- not very good odds for Violet. She gets the
dialog: shit beaten out of her, but she still puts up a pretty good
text: fight. Leah gets her down, punches through Violet’s raised
text: hands. Violet reaches out, grabs her STILL LIT CIGARETTE from
text: the ground and pushes it into Leah’s arm. Leah SCREAMS, jumps
text: off. Violet scurries to her feet.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: She freaking burned me!
text: Kids disperse, there are teachers coming. Violet sees them.
text: Takes off.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Vivien works on her wall. She’s making progress, more images
text: are being revealed -- all of them depicting some form of
text: PAIN, some of them with a strangely SEXUAL component. PULL
text: BACK to reveal Ben, standing behind her, looking.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My professional opinion is that
dialog: whoever painted that wall had some
dialog: deep psychological issues.
dialog: 39.
text: She turns, surprised to see him.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I thought you had a patient.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: They bailed. You want some help?
text: She motions to her tools. He grabs one. Starts working. They
text: steal looks at each other.
speaker_heading: BEN (CONT'D)
dialog: This thing doesn’t freak you out?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: It’s weird -- I know it should but
dialog: for some reason I find it kind of
dialog: comforting.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: One of my psych professors told me
dialog: that people tell stories to cope
dialog: with their fears. All art and myths
dialog: are just creations to give us some
dialog: sense of control over the things
dialog: we're scared of. Afraid of dying?
dialog: Create reincarnation. Afraid of
dialog: evil? Create a benevolent God who
dialog: sends evil doers to Hell. I’ve
dialog: treated soldiers with PTSD by
dialog: having them draw pictures of what
dialog: happened over there.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I think I just like that I don’t
dialog: have to think while I do it.
text: He stares at her, smiles. She doesn’t understand.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I always thought you were the
dialog: prettiest like this -- no make up,
text: hair in a messy braid.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m old.
text: He puts down his scraper, moves in close --
speaker_heading: BEN
text: Violet won’t be home for an hour.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No, Ben. Okay? No.
dialog: 40.
text: She pulls away. A beat, then he SWEEPS all of her tools and
text: water off the table. He’s in a RAGE.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: How long, Vivien? How long are you
dialog: going to punish me?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m not punishing you, you
dialog: narcissistic asshole -- I’m having
dialog: trouble forgiving you for sleeping
dialog: with one of your goddamn patients!
dialog: You want me to have sex with you?
dialog: When I can’t even look at your face
dialog: without seeing the look on it when
dialog: you were pile driving her in our
dialog: bed?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I screwed up! I’m sorry! I was
dialog: hurting too!
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m sorry, did the life you were
dialog: growing die inside of your belly
dialog: and did you have to carry that
dialog: corpse inside of you? Did you have
dialog: to go into labor? Give birth to
dialog: your dead baby?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: My baby died, too! He was my son,
dialog: too!
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: And you buried your sorrow in some
text: twenty-year-old’s pussy.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I can show you statistics on how
text: many men cheat after a miscarriage.
dialog: I was there for you. I was patient
dialog: and understanding and caring and I
dialog: put your feelings first.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: My hero.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (so frustrated)
dialog: I don’t know how to say this
text: without coming off like an asshole.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Never stopped you before.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You’re angry at me -- fine, yell at
dialog: me. Six months in therapy of you
dialog: crying and apologizing was all
dialog: bullshit. Give me the real story
dialog: now.
text: A beat, and then it comes out --
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You got a dog! I needed you and you
dialog: got a dog! It was me you should
dialog: have been curling up with at night!
dialog: I needed you. I was suffering and
dialog: you weren’t there.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Now it all makes sense. She was
dialog: revenge.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: We haven’t had sex in almost a
dialog: year.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: You're keeping track?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: October 20th. And we had great sex,
dialog: Viv. It was loving and sexy and
dialog: personal and even a little...weird.
text: She laughs lightly through her tears.
speaker_heading: BEN (CONT'D)
dialog: I love you. I moved across the
dialog: country for you because in all my
dialog: life the only thing I’ve been truly
dialog: scared of is losing you. Losing
dialog: this family.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Something horrible happened to us.
dialog: More horrible than anything on this
dialog: wall and then we handled it even
dialog: more horribly. But this place is
dialog: our second chance. It’s not
dialog: supposed to happen overnight but
dialog: it’s like this wallpaper, a little
dialog: bit at a time. I just need to know
dialog: that you want it, too.
dialog: 42.
text: She looks up at him, her eyes wet. She can’t move. Wants to
text: run to him but she’s paralyzed by the fear of being
text: vulnerable to him again.
text: He makes his move, kisses her. She’s overwhelmed. His touch,
text: finally letting herself feel it after so long.
text: Both of them crying as they fall to the floor. Kissing.
text: Clothes coming off. Buckles and zippers fumbled with.
text: There, on the floor, they make love again. As they both reach
dialog: climax, we CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY -- LATER
text: On the floor, post coitus. Him behind her. She’s looking up
text: at the wall.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Thanks.
dialog: (off his look, smiling)
dialog: Not for the sex, idiot.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: (kissing her neck)
dialog: For what, then?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Giving up your practice, moving us
dialog: out here, finding this house.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I want you to feel chosen.
text: She pulls him close.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I always wanted a house like this
dialog: growing up. You’ve been to my
text: parents house out on the Island.
dialog: Post war prefab hell. The whole
dialog: place rattled when you walked down
dialog: the hall. I used to dream about old
dialog: places like this. A place with a
dialog: soul.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What do you want to do about this
dialog: wall?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I know it’s disturbing...like,
dialog: deeply disturbing.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: But I don’t know...something about
dialog: it inspires me.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: To pillage a small hamlet?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: To make art again...to play again.
dialog: That gets his attention. Forget the sex, her playing music
dialog: again would be a true breakthrough.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Your cello is up in the attic. You
dialog: want me to get it down for you?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Relax, cowboy. If I want it, I’1l
dialog: get it down myself.
text: They share a smile, kiss.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I really think we’re going to be
dialog: happy here.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Me too.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT (LATER)
text: Vivien straightens up, hopeful for the first time in a long
text: time. Violet tries to sneak by unseen, fails.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: What happened to your face?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I fell down.
text: Vivien stops her, takes a good look. She’s a mess.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: (kind)
dialog: Sit down.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I’m fine.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: If you don’t clean those up
dialog: properly they’1ll get infected.
dialog: 44,
text: Fine. Vivien grabs a FIRST AID KIT, runs hot water on some
text: hand towels, sits. Tends to Violet.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Was it a girl or a boy?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Girls. Three of them.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Hope they look worse.
dialog: You know their names?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I’m not narcing.
text: Vivien just keeps at the cuts and scrapes. A quiet beat.
text: Just a mother taking care of her daughter’s boo-boos.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: You want dad and I to look into
dialog: switching schools? There are some
dialog: good private schools in the area.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I’m not running away -- I’m not
dialog: scared of them.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: You’re not scared of anything.
dialog: When you were in kindergarten you
dialog: had me come pick you up from a
dialog: sleepover party because the other
dialog: girls insisted on keeping a night
text: light on.
text: Violet almost smiles.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: You got the short end of the stick
dialog: with this one, kiddo. The move.
dialog: Dad and I have been pretty hard to
dialog: live with for a while now.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I just don’t get why you guys won't
dialog: get divorced if you’re so
dialog: miserable.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: We still love each other.
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Really? Could have fooled me. I
dialog: thought you hated each other --
dialog: well, at least you hated him. I
dialog: don’t blame you. He was a shithead.
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: It’s all right -- he was a
dialog: shithead.
text: Shared smiles. Vivien finishes up. Violet starts out, turns.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: What are you scared of?
dialog: You said I’m not scared of
dialog: anything. But what scares you?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Everything.
dialog: (then)
dialog: That’s why we’re not getting a
dialog: divorce. You’re dad’s the only one
dialog: who keeps me from feeling afraid
dialog: all the time.
text: Violet gets it, exits. Off Vivien --
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S ROOM -- DAY (LATER)
text: Violet is pacing, in a teenage rage. Tate quietly watches as
text: she spews.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I hate her. I want to kill her.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: Then do it. One less highschool
dialog: bitch in the world making the lives
dialog: of the less fortunate more
dialog: tolerable is, in my opinion, a
dialog: public service.
text: Violet pauses, then laughs. He breaks her mood. She lights up
text: a joint, inhales, hands it to him.
speaker_heading: TATE (CONT'D)
dialog: No thanks. I like to stay pure.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Why?
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: I want to feel what I’m feeling.
dialog: A moment of connection, then --
speaker_heading: TATE (CONT'D)
dialog: Look, you want her to leave you
dialog: alone? Stop making your life a
dialog: living hell? Short of killing her,
dialog: there’s only one solution: scare
dialog: her. Make her afraid of you, that’s
dialog: the only thing bullies react to.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: It’s simple. You simply walk up to
dialog: her and say --
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHSCHOOL -- DAY
text: Leah is whirled around by a calm Violet.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Here’s the deal. I need you to stop
dialog: harassing me. I’ve got what you
dialog: want. Drugs. Come to my house
dialog: tomorrow, get your free sample. I’m
dialog: a dealer, and a good one. I’ve got
dialog: the best shit in town.
text: Violet smiles darkly, leaves. Leah is intrigued.
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S ROOM -- DAY
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: She’s a cokehead. I don’t have
dialog: coke.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: You won’t need it. That’s just an
dialog: excuse to get her here. She’1l
dialog: leave empty handed and terrified
dialog: and I promise you, you’1ll never be
text: bothered by her again.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: How am I gonna terrify her?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: That’s where I come in.
text: He smiles sexily. She laughs. It’s a plan.
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- KITCHEN -- NIGHT
text: QUIET. The clock on the wall TICKS from twelve-ten to twelve-
scene_heading: eleven AM. MOVE THROUGH THE HOUSE --
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY -- NIGHT
dialog: Dark.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY -- NIGHT
text: Lit by a single LAMP. The silence broken by Vivien’s
text: excessive SCRAPING. She peels off the LAST SCRAP of
text: wallpaper. Stands back to take in the WALL.
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Ben has fallen asleep reading. His eyes OPEN. The same
text: unconscious zombie-like awake he was the night of the
dialog: fireplace.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY
dialog: SLOW PULL BACK to finally reveal...The WALL -- if the Anti-
dialog: Christ had a Sistine Chapel, this is what would adorn the
text: ceiling. It’s a painted prayer to PAIN. Vivien is oddly
text: undisturbed by the images of torture, murder, RAPE.
text: As she loses herself in the mural we see Ben SLEEPWALK behind
text: her, unseen, into the KITCHEN.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN
text: Ben, at the stove. TURNS ON THE BURNERS -- all of them.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: A TOILET FLUSHES and Vivien, in her pajamas, comes out of the
text: bathroom, rubs lotion on her arms. Ready for bed.
text: She looks up, jumps when she sees THE RUBBER MAN standing
text: silently in the doorway. A beat, then a smile --
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Hot. I thought I told you to throw
dialog: that thing away.
text: The Rubber Man is silent.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT
text: Ben leans down. Eye level with the BLUE FLAMES. They HISS.
text: He reaches his hand out.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: The Rubber Man just stands there. Vivien laughs.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I have to admit, I’m giving you
dialog: points for creativity.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You were pretty hot this afternoon.
dialog: Wanna go for a two-peat?
text: She gets into bed. Pulls off her pajamas. Rubber Man moves
text: towards her.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN (CONT'D)
dialog: You going to take the suit off?
dialog: (off his head shake “no”)
dialog: Okay, whatever, I can be kinky.
text: The Rubber Man approaches, RIGHT INTO CAMERA.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT
text: Ben lowers his hand, into the flames. It BLISTERS, CRACKS.
text: No response. Like it’s happening to someone else.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: The Rubber Man, on top of Vivien. FUCKING HER. It feels so
text: good, but it HURTS -- not just physically. She can feel the
text: darkness of the Wall inside of her. Her head is back, a tear
text: rolls down her cheek. He FINISHES and stops moving.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT
text: Ben’s hand is being burned by the flames. His flesh bubbles.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: The Rubber Man is gone. Vivien pulls up her pajama pants.
text: She’s emotional, vulnerable. Gets under the covers, turns out
text: the light as Ben enters, still SLEEPWALKING. He gets into
text: bed. She rolls over. On her face.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Good night. I love you.
text: Ben stares off into space.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Love you, too.
speaker_heading: END ACT THREE
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: ACT FOUR
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE -- AFTERNOON (LATER)
text: A hand pushes open the gate. REVEAL Leah, who stops and
text: stares at the house.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY -- DAY
text: Vivien takes her cello out of its case, looks at it. She
text: hesitates, sits with it, slowly begins to play a John Cage
text: solo. It’s passionate, full of all her unexpressed feelings.
text: An exorcism. INTERCUT the dramatic bowing of her cello with --
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- BASEMENT
text: From the bottom of the stairs, looking UP at the door. The
text: sounds of muffled talking. The locks being UNLOCKED. The door
text: opens. Violet and Leah look down from above.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: What’s down there?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: My stash. My parents toss my room
dialog: every week.
text: Leah’s not sure. Violet, playing it cool, starts down.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: If you’re screwing with me...
text: Violet disappears down the stairs. Leah does NOT want to go
text: down there. Violet reaches the bottom -- turns --
speaker_heading: VIOLET
text: It’s just a basement.
text: Fuck it. Leah comes down. Leah’s POV, following Violet.
speaker_heading: VIOLET (CONT'D)
dialog: I found the best hiding place.
dialog: This is great shit, too. A lot of
dialog: the coke coming into the US from
dialog: Central America is smuggled in on
dialog: lobster boats in Gloucester. I used
dialog: to show my boobs to one of the
dialog: lobsterman in return for a key or
dialog: two before they cut it.
text: They come around a corner, find TATE, sitting on a RUSTED
speaker_heading: MEAT FREEZER.
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: Who the hell are you?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: So this is the coke whore.
text: SLOW MOTION -- Leah looks eyes with Violet. She can see it in
text: Violet’s face -- things are about to get scary for her. She
text: flees. Too slow. Tate grabs her.
speaker_heading: TATE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Violet)
dialog: Get the light!
text: Violet TURNS OFF the light.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY
text: Vivien’s solo moves toward a crescendo. The bow almost burns.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT
text: Now it’s just sounds. Leah fighting. Tate laughing.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: It’s enough, Tate.
text: Violet’s BUMPED to the ground. We can hear the wind being
text: knocked out of her. Leah’s screams become more desperate.
speaker_heading: LEAH
dialog: Oh, God! Get it off of me! Please
dialog: God get it off of me!
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: What’s happening? Tate it’s enough!
text: Violet fumbles for her cell phone as screams continue. Turns
text: on her NIGHT VISION APP. SEARCHES for Leah with the phone.
text: Finds her. There’s something on attacking her. The thing
text: turns. It’s the INFANTATA. It HISSES at Violet.
text: Violet SCREAMS, shocked, the phone falls to the floor, we see
text: her kick her way to the wall. Turns on the light. Nothing is
dialog: here now. It’s all happened in milli-seconds.
text: Leah scampers to her feet. Her face is slashed. CLAW MARKS.
text: She runs up the stairs, out of the house.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: I don’t think she'll be bothering
dialog: you anymore.
dialog: 51.
text: He goes to Violet. She backs away.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: What was that? Something was on
dialog: her. What did you put on her?
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: What are you talking about? She
dialog: kneed me in the balls and got away.
text: She must have run into a wall or
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I saw something. With my phone. It
dialog: was like a monster or something.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: You're talking crazy. Violet, this
dialog: is cool. We just showed that bitch.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Get out. I don’t want to see you
dialog: again.
text: He tries to hug her. She backs away, moves up the stairs,
text: never taking her eyes off of him. She’s going to CRY.
speaker_heading: TATE
dialog: (deadly)
dialog: I thought you weren’t afraid of
dialog: anything.
text: She doesn’t like this guy anymore. She TRIPS backing up the
text: stairs, gets her footing and runs out. Off Tate, a devilish
text: grin on his face....
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY
text: Vivien finishes. She’s flushed and smiling, this was a
text: personal triumph for her. She hears the front screen door
text: slam -- Leah exiting. Off Vivien, enjoying a moment of rare
dialog: happiness --
scene_heading: INT. SAN FRANCISCO DOCTOR’S OFFICE -- DAY
text: TIGHT on blood filling a syringe. As the draw continues --
speaker_heading: FEMALE VOICE
dialog: Agitation, difficulty
dialog: sleeping...anything else?
text: REVEAL Vivien, having her blood drawn, talking to a new
text: physician, DR. EMILY FLEMING.
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: A little trouble sleeping, yes.
speaker_heading: DR. FLEMING
dialog: Any hallucinations?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m sorry?
speaker_heading: DR. FLEMING
dialog: The hormone cocktail you are on can
dialog: sometimes cause hallucinations,
dialog: euphoria...
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: No. No hallucinations.
speaker_heading: DR. FLEMING
dialog: How long have you been taking it?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: A couple of weeks?
speaker_heading: DR. FLEMING
dialog: Any sexual activity?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: Yes. Finally. It’s helped with
dialog: that.
text: Another laugh. The doctor finishes the blood draw.
speaker_heading: DR. FLEMING
dialog: Okay. Well we’ll do a blood panel,
dialog: see what’s going on.
text: The doctor calms Vivien, who nods. Everything's going to be
dialog: okay.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL -- COMMONS AREA -- DAY
text: Violet enters, apprehensive. Abby and Becca -- Leah’s buddies
text: -- come up and surround her.
speaker_heading: ABBY
dialog: What did you do to Leah?
text: Violet is ready to rumble.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I didn’t do anything.
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Bullshit. Something happened to her
dialog: at your house.
text: Violet tenses her fist. It’s about to go down.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: So?
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: So it was awesome! She totally
dialog: dropped out of school, you
dialog: terrorized her! Great job.
text: The girls are laughing.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I thought you were her friends.
speaker_heading: ABBY
dialog: We hung out with her because her
dialog: parents were always away so we
dialog: could party at her house.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Killer pool.
speaker_heading: ABBY
dialog: She was a total bitch.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Hard core.
speaker_heading: ABBY
dialog: Anyway. We’re hitting up The Bagel
dialog: after school. It’s a pretty cool
dialog: deli down in the Mission if you
dialog: want to come. A lot of the kids
dialog: from here go there.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: Serious dude-age.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: Sounds all right. Should I meet
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: ABBY
dialog: No, I got my dad’s car. We're be
text: out front at three.
text: Violet nods. The girls heads off. As they go --
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: BECCA
dialog: You think I could pull off that
dialog: Taylor Momsen black eye shadow
dialog: thing?
text: Violet takes it all in, smiles. Holy crap -- she has friends.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSE -- DAY
text: Ben stretches. Ready for a RUN. Senses something. He
text: covertly turns. Spies the BURNT MAN in a car, lurking. A
text: beat, then Ben starts his run. The car pulls out, following
dialog: him.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK -- DAY
text: Ben runs into GOLDEN GATE PARK. The Burnt Man follows.
text: Parks. Continues on foot. He’s slow, but he cuts through the
dialog: TREES to keep up.
text: Ben SPEEDS UP. Runs out of frame. We’re with the Burnt Man
text: now. Out of breath. Searching for Ben. He’s lost him, then --
text: Ben grabs him. Spins him around violently.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Who are you? Why are you following
dialog: me?!
text: The Burnt Man cowers. We can see how old he is now,
dialog: vulnerable, afraid.
speaker_heading: BURNT MAN
dialog: Please. Your family is in danger.
text: Ben calms. Backs off. After a beat we CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PARK -- DAY (LATER)
text: A bench underneath the Bridge. Ben sits beside the Burnt
text: Man. We get a good look at him now -- his face is mangled,
text: so are his hands. Burns that severe can’t heal. The Burnt Man
text: notices Ben’s hand.
speaker_heading: BURNT MAN
dialog: What happened to your hand?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What happened to your face?
speaker_heading: BURNT MAN
dialog: It’s not just my face. Seventy
dialog: percent of my body. You don’t
dialog: survive something like that -- and
dialog: this was the sixties.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: BURNT MAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (then)
dialog: I’m Larry Harvey -- and you have to
dialog: get out of that house.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I could have you arrested, you
dialog: know? Peeking in peoples’ windows
dialog: is a crime -- even in San
dialog: Francisco.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: They’re not going to put me back in
dialog: jail. I have brain cancer --
dialog: terminal and inoperable.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Don’t be. That’s the only reason
dialog: they let me out.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Homicide. Triple homicide. San
dialog: Quentin for forty-two-years without
dialog: a cold then two months ago they
dialog: diagnose me with these tumors in my
dialog: head. Some people would call that
dialog: fate.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: God gave you cancer so you could
dialog: get out of prison and tell me to
dialog: move?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Maybe. I don’t know. I’ve seen
dialog: stranger things.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Sounds more like a man who is
dialog: searching for a chance at
dialog: redemption for the awful things
dialog: he’s done.
text: Larry chuckles. There’s no redemption for him. He pauses,
text: then looks at Ben directly.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I made it six months in the house
dialog: you live in now before I started
dialog: hearing the voices. My wife thought
dialog: I was working too hard. My daughter
dialog: Angie -- she was six. The older one
dialog: Margaret was ten.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: LARRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Looked like her mother. Funny how
dialog: it skips a generation like that.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Look, I get that you’re lonely and
dialog: you're struggling. Getting out of
dialog: prison after all of those years.
dialog: I’m sure...
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I killed them all.
dialog: Off Ben, shocked we FLASH TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE HOUSE -- NIGHT -- FLASHBACK
text: A CAN OF GASOLINE. Larry's carrying it up the stairs. Ina
dialog: trance.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Loraine was ill that night. My
dialog: wife. She took a pill and went to
dialog: bed early. I put the girls down.
dialog: Then the voices started.
text: We see him enter his children’s room --
scene_heading: INT. KIDS’ ROOM -- NIGHT
text: He pours the GASOLINE.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: They told me what to do. I was like
text: an obedient child.
text: We're on his face. His eyes are BLACK. DEAD. He lights a
text: match. TOSSES it. Stay on his face as the FLAMES illuminate
dialog: the room.
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Larry gives his wife the same treatment. He watches her
text: BURN. Then, suddenly, she SPRINGS UP. Engulfed in flames.
text: SCREAMING. She grabs him. He snaps out of it. Realizes what
text: he’s done. It’s too late. He throws her off but now he’s ON
speaker_heading: FIRE.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE -- STAIRWAY -- NIGHT
text: SLOW MOTION as Larry, a ball of fire, runs down the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: And through the living room, past the MURAL.
scene_heading: FLASH BACK TO --—
scene_heading: EXT. BENCH -- DAY
dialog: 57.
text: Ben is shocked. Larry is crying. He takes a beat.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I don’t know how I put the myself
dialog: out. I remember the night, but it’s
dialog: like a movie. Have you been
dialog: sleepwalking?
text: The question hits Ben hard.
speaker_heading: LARRY (CONT’D)
dialog: I’ve seen your family. Pretty wife.
dialog: You seem like good people. If you
dialog: don’t get out of that house you’re
dialog: all going to die in there.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: There are some pretty serious side
dialog: effects to brain tumors. People
dialog: hallucinate, act strangely, invent
dialog: whole worlds in their heads.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Look up my case. Read the
dialog: transcripts.
text: Ben gets up.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: I’m a doctor. They might not put
dialog: you back in jail but I could
dialog: certainly get you committed to a
dialog: state mental institution. Trust
dialog: me, those places make prison look
dialog: like Club Med. Leave my family
dialog: alone.
text: Larry jumps up, desperate.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Please. Please get out of there.
dialog: That place is evil.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Get off of me! I’m not kidding,
dialog: leave us alone.
text: Ben starts off. A beat before Larry calls after him --
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You never answered me -- what
dialog: happened to your hand?
text: Ben looks down at his hand. Fear plays across Ben’s face
text: before he jogs off -- speeding up as he goes.
scene_heading: INT. BEN’S HOME OFFICE -- DAY
text: A LOCK is picked. Reveal Violet, on a mission. She feverishly
text: goes through a drawer, looking for a patient file.
text: She finds Tate’s, pulls it, exits.
scene_heading: INT. VIOLET’S ROOM -- DAY
text: Violet pours over the information. She is riveted by words
text: her father has used to describe his patient. TIGHT ON THEM:
scene_heading: SOCIOPATH...MURDER FANTASIES...VIOLENT.
text: Violet pauses. She goes to her computer, types Tate’s name in
text: Google search. A beat. Her eyes goes wide.
text: REVEAL a flurry of headlines.
dialog: “Student, 17, Kills Fifteen in San Francisco Bloodbath.”
dialog: “Shooter described as ‘Charming’ and ‘A Loner.’
text: There are several photos of grieving parents, and a school ID
text: picture of Tate. Finally, Violet gasps.
dialog: Another headline:
dialog: “Student Takes Own Life After High School Massacre.”
dialog: REVEAL the year of the shootings: 1994.
dialog: Tate died seventeen years ago.
dialog: Off Violet --
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN -- DAY
text: Ben sits at the table, stunned, shaken. Vivien enters, comes
text: up behind him, kisses him. It comforts him. He hides his
text: burnt hand under the table.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: What do you want for dinner?
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: Whatever Violet wants.
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
text: She’s going out with some friends.
text: They share a look -- really? Ben smiles.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: VIVIEN
dialog: I’m kind of in the mood for Indian.
speaker_heading: BEN
dialog: You only like Indian food when
dialog: you're pregnant.
text: She smiles, tears forming in her eyes. He’s stunned.
speaker_heading: BEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Really?
text: She nods, emotional. She’s pregnant.
text: Her face opens up in a huge grin, the first time we’ve seen
text: her truly happy. He bolts up, hugs her, kisses her. Finally,
dialog: after all this effort, they’re back.
text: MOVE off them. Out of the kitchen. Into the LIBRARY. We look
text: at the wall for a beat before The RUBBER MAN appears, a jolt.
text: Off his face, looking right through us, we SMASH TO BLACK.
dialog: Over credits, Prodigy’s “Firestarter.”
speaker_heading: END PILOT
dialog: 
