speaker_heading: AMERICAN ULTRA
dialog: Bravo
dialog: Charlie
dialog: Delta
speaker_heading: Echo
speaker_heading: Foxtrot
dialog: Golf
dialog: Hotel
dialog: India
dialog: Written by
dialog: Juliet
dialog: Kilo
dialog: Lima
dialog: Max Landis
dialog: November
dialog: Oscar
dialog: Papa
dialog: Quebec
dialog: Romeo
dialog: Sierra
dialog: Tango
dialog: Uniform
dialog: Victor
dialog: Whisky
dialog: X-Ray
dialog: Zulu
dialog: 4/15/13
scene_heading: INT. INTERROGATION ROOM 1
text: The room is spotlessly clean and empty, save for a steel
text: table and two chairs. In one of them is a slumped figure.
text: We see his bloody, slightly burnt finger tips drumming away
text: on the table, but other than that, he’s motionless.
text: The door opens, and a young CIA ANALYST, in a suit and
text: looking very official, comes in carrying a file, and sits
text: down across from the figure.
speaker_heading: ANALYST
dialog: Normally we would do this
dialog: digitally, but as you know, I am
dialog: not permitted to bring in any kind
text: of blunt or pointed object.
dialog: (glances through the file)
dialog: I’m sure you’ve noticed the seats
text: are bolted to the floor...
text: The figure doesn’t move or speak.
speaker_heading: ANALYST (CONT'D)
dialog: So we’re going to do this the old-
dialog: fashioned way.
text: He opens the file, and spills out a number of very high
text: definition photographs, and begins sorting and separating
text: them, sliding them around on the smooth metal surface.
text: He stares down at the ordered photos.
dialog: Among others, we see:
text: A bloody iPhone. A bloody ring of car keys. A completely
text: demolished kitchen, swiss cheesed with bulletholes. A body
text: hanging from a resistance training machine. A bloody spoon.
text: A teddy bear with an exploded head and a shotgun shoved up
text: its ass. A burning Wal-Mart.
text: His face is blank, staring at them, and then he allows a
text: small expression of “hm, what the fuck” to peek out.
speaker_heading: ANALYST (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay. Where do you want to begin?
scene_heading: STARTLING SLAM
speaker_heading: IN ON
text: A 737 taking off! WHOA! SHIT! LOUD! 2
scene_heading: INT. PORTLAND INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DEPARTURE GATE 3
text: Sitting alone, silently crying, IS
text: PHOEBE Larson, 28, petite, strange and beautiful in her knit
text: monkey cap and tomboyish, defeminizing stoner-garb, looking
text: very small in her big puffy thermal winter coat.
speaker_heading: GATE ATTENDANT (INTERCOM)
dialog: This is the final boarding call for
text: Flight 1204, departing for Oahu,
dialog: Hawaii.
text: She sits there in silence, turning her unused boarding pass
text: over and over again in her hands. She wipes a tear.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: .--Goddamnit, Mike.
scene_heading: INT. PORTLAND INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - MEN'S ROOM 4
text: Sitting alone in a stall, panting in quick, panicked breaths,
text: leaned over a toilet, is
text: MIKE Howell, 29, unkempt and scruffy all over, looking like a
text: lot of a mess. He comes across as kind of a smudge of a
text: person; a charcoal sketch of the American slacker.
text: He grunts, and then bangs the wall of the stall in
dialog: frustration.
scene_heading: EXT. LIMAN, OREGON - COUNTRY ROAD 5
text: Phoebe is driving her 1998 Civic up the snowy country road,
text: Mike sitting shotgun, his head pressed against the window.
text: She looks pale and heartbroken. Mike dares a look at her.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I really am sorry, Pheebs.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: S’okay.
text: Mike looks back out the window, but then summons up courage.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: It’s not okay-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: S'fine.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No it’s not, because I- this is
dialog: something, we wanted, right, and I
dialog: ruined it, and now-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: -didn’t ruin it-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I did, it’s my fault, and you can,
dialog: you should be, y’know- mad at me,
dialog: or punish me-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: -not going to punish you-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Well- ugh, like why not?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Because you can’t help it.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah- I- but when you say it like
dialog: that it just makes me sound
dialog: retarded, Phoebe, I want-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: YOU WANT ME TO SHOUT AT YOU MIKE?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Ah- no fuck no-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: THEN MAYBE YOU SHOULD LEAVE ME
scene_heading: ALONE, MAYBE I’M JUST PROCESSING
scene_heading: THIS OKAY? MAYBE I’M—
text: There’s the whoop of a police siren, and Phoebe sees police
text: headlights in her rearview.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: OH COME ONNNNNNN
dialog: (to Mike)
dialog: Are you holding?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No, hell no, we were going on a
dialog: plane-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Are you holding?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I- maybe in the trunk, yeah-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Fuck. Mike. Fuck.
text: Phoebe pulls over.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m sorry.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Stop apologizing.
text: Behind them, Sheriff Bernie WATTS, 44, who looks exactly as
dialog: you'd expect a 44 year old man named Bernie Watts to look,
text: gets out of his car, and slowly sidles up to the Honda.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Hi Phoebe.
dialog: (beat, leans in)
dialog: Hi Mike.
text: They're both silent. Mike waves awkwardly.
speaker_heading: WATTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Heard you two were going on
dialog: vacation? Ha-wai-ee.
text: Mike shifts self-consciously.
speaker_heading: WATTS (CONT'D)
dialog: You have another one of your little
dialog: episodes, Mike?
dialog: (laughs )
dialog: You know Phoebe I once had to drive
dialog: your boy home cause he was having
text: one of them ep-i-sodes out on the
dialog: freeway tryna leave town. Isn’t
dialog: that right, Mikey?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Is there a reason you pulled us
dialog: over?
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Easy on the tone there, Miss
dialog: Larson.
text: Phoebe looks down, silent.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: I'd hate to search this car.
dialog: Getting to the point that your
dialog: boyfriend here should start leaving
text: a toothbrush over at the overnight
text: down at the station.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Ain’t that right Mike?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ...-That’s right, Sheriff Watts.
text: Watts stands up and stretches, looking around the empty,
text: snowy road, then sighs.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Welcome back to town, hope you
dialog: enjoyed your vacation, all three
dialog: hours of it, HA! Just kiddin’.
dialog: Just checkin on you. You know I
dialog: like to keep you safe.
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
text: Moments later. Watts is gone; they’re driving into town.
text: Phoebe is clearly still furious, silent.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (imitating Watts)
dialog: Oh I’m just checkin on you, trying
dialog: to fuck your life up just a bit,
dialog: hope you don’t mind while I fuck up
dialog: your whole deal-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I’m not gonna do this.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ...What?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I’m not gonna make fun of him with
dialog: you, I’m mad at you. I’m not on
dialog: your side right now.
text: Mike’s quiet as they pull into the driveway of Phoebe’s
dialog: little one-bedroom.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: But if you're not on my side...then
dialog: my side is just me.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You wanted to be punished. So
dialog: there it is.
text: Phoebe gets out, and slams her car door. Mike gingerly
text: closes his, and follows her into the house.
scene_heading: INT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - LATER 7
text: Night has fallen on the town of Liman, Oregon. Phoebe’s
dialog: kitchen is a complete fucking mess, clearly due to Mike;
text: there are half empty beer bottles and cans everywhere, as
text: well as wrappers and boxes from quickie-meals.
text: Phoebe is furiously washing dishes, fully focused on her
text: task. Mike sticks a quickie-meal in the microwave (with a
text: fork), presses ON, and then goes and sits down on the ruddy
text: couch in the living room.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Home sweet home.
text: He takes out his bong, lights it, and takes a hit. He looks
text: at Phoebe in the kitchen. She looks pissed.
text: He reaches into his pocket, and pulls out a small ringbox.
text: He opens it, looking at the classy, single stone engagement
text: ring inside.
text: He takes another hit on his bong, and then turns to Phoebe.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Phoebe?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (not looking up)
dialog: What.
text: There's a flash from inside the microwave. Mike notices,
text: Phoebe doesn’t. He clumsily hops over the couch, going to
dialog: the microwave.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hey, you think it’s true what they
dialog: say about microwaves?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (not looking up)
dialog: What do they say about microwaves?
text: There’s another flash from inside the microwave.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You know that if you put metal in,
dialog: it- ...cancer or something?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Why, did you- shit Mike! Mike-
text: Phoebe rushes across the kitchen and yanks opens the
text: microwave; the fork is sparking, and billows black smoke.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Shit I’m sorry I'm sorry-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What the hell are you doing, dude!
text: Phoebe picks up a rotting beer and throws it into the
text: microwave to put out the fire. Mike stands helplessly by,
text: muttering apologies.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s broken, man, you broke my
dialog: microwave. You broke my-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m sorry- I didn’t- I-
text: Phoebe groans, throwing up her hands.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
text: STOP FUCKING UP! FOR TEN SECONDS,
dialog: JUST STOP FUCKING UP, OKAY?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m sorry-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
text: AND STOP APOLOGIZING!
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Phoebe is sitting on the couch, now in her sweatpants, 8
text: watching TV; some Discovery channel show. She picks up the
text: bong, and takes the biggest rip off of it you’ve ever seen.
text: She notices BOO-BOO BEAR seated on a barcolounger opposite
text: her. It’s a stuffed carnival bear; ugly and stupid looking.
dialog: Sharp eyes might recognize that we’ve seen this bear before.
text: With its head blown off and a shotgun shoved up its ass.
text: Mike begins rubbing Phoebe’s shoulders from behind the couch.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: That feels nice.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah?
text: Mike climbs over the couch to sit next to her.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No you don’t get to cuddle me now
dialog: I’m mad at you.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oh no?
text: Mike leans in, kissing her neck.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’m seducing you.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No I’m mad at you.
text: Mike pushes the kissing up her neck, and they start to make-
text: out. Phoebe begins feebly bashing at Mikes head with her
text: fists as they continue kissing.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: See, I’m hitting you because I’m
dialog: mad at you.
text: Mike begins hitting her too.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m hitting you now too-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: We're mad at each other- we’re
dialog: hitting each other
text: Mike rolls over on top of her.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: How are we ever going to work
dialog: through all of this aggression?
text: The making out gets much heavier. Mike lifts her pajama top
text: and starts kissing down the length of her body, til his head
text: is at her crotch.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: This isn’t going to make me less
dialog: mad.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah, well. Give it a minute.
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE PENTAGON - LASSETER’S OFFICE 9
text: Diane LASSETER, 47, sits alone in her office. She looks like
text: someone who’s been alone in their office for most of their
dialog: life, although there’s something striking about her presence
dialog: that says “the office I’m alone in isn’t normally this small,
dialog: buster.”
text: She's reviewing different files on her computer, as well as a
text: few hard documents, large portions of them blacked-out.
text: She looks at one page, on which the only not blacked out
text: words are “car,” “melon” and “Harry Potter.”
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: (muttered)
dialog: The fuck am I supposed to read
dialog: this? This is retarded.
text: She sighs in frustration, and someone knocks on her
text: doorframe. It’s
text: Petey DOUGLAS, 34, latino, energetic and babyfaced, looking
text: sharp in his CIA suit.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: You still here, Lasseter?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Til the break of dawn, that’s how
dialog: we're running it. You aren’t my
dialog: assistant anymore, what’re you
dialog: doing down here?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I just miss you. You know, you're
dialog: not on the big desk now, you can
dialog: let some things slide-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Thanks for reminding me about the
dialog: size of my desk, Petey, you can go.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I’m sorry, I just-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Enough, Agent Douglas.
dialog: 10.
text: Douglas stands there awkwardly.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I just- your son called, and he
dialog: said that he was staying at his
dialog: girlfriend’s house, so- did you
dialog: want me to feed Mister Timothy,
dialog: tonight?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I’m sorry, his girlfriend’s house?
dialog: And you said that was okay?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I didn’t know, if you know, you
dialog: said it was okay-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Jesus christ. He’s- shit. Okay,
dialog: fuck, Mister Timothy. God, yes,
dialog: feed him, thank you Petey.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Okay, I got it Miss Lasseter.
text: Douglas heads out. Lasseter sighs, looking at her file, and
text: then takes out her cell phone, the background of which is an
text: adorable picture of her cat, Mister Timothy.
text: She dials “Scott.”
text: Her son, SCOTT Lasseter, 15, picks up IN HIS GIRLFRIEND’S
text: ROOM, pushing his AMOROUS GIRLFRIEND away from him; they’re
text: clearly mid hook up.
text: We CUT BACK AND FORTH between them.
speaker_heading: sScoTtT
dialog: Hey mom-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Sharp move there passing the bill
dialog: off on my Douglas hot shot-
speaker_heading: sScoTtT
dialog: Mom it wasn’t a “move” I thought
dialog: you'd be okay with it-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I'm sick of people making plays
dialog: behind my back-
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: sScoTtT
dialog: I’m upfront I swear I thought you’d
dialog: be cool-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Well I’m not “cool,” Scott-
speaker_heading: sScoTtT
dialog: Obviously not.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Oh yeah very clever-
speaker_heading: sScoTtT
text: (winking at his
dialog: girlfriend)
dialog: I thought so.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: We’re gonna see who’s clever
dialog: tomorrow morning bucko, I-
text: There’s a buzz from inside Lasseter’s desk.
speaker_heading: sScoTtT
dialog: ..-Mom? Are you okay?
text: The buzz comes again. Lasseter gasps.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I- Scott, I’1ll call you back. I
dialog: love you.
speaker_heading: scoTtT
dialog: Mom what's going on-
text: She stops dead.
text: Lasseter hangs up. She unlocks her desk, and takes out a
text: cell that’s been plugged into her hard-drive from inside.
text: She presses a button on her desk; her door shuts, then locks.
text: The mood has completely changed. Lasseter is clearly on the
text: edge of her seat, her mind racing, as she raises the phone to
text: her ear.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Lasseter.
speaker_heading: DISTORTED VOICE (ON PHONE)
dialog: Toughguy is active. Initiative
dialog: base is Wiseman. Thought you
dialog: should know.
dialog: 10
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: What?
text: There’s silence on the other end. Lasseter, shifts in her
text: seat, frantically trying to find something to do, but is
text: clearly already out of ideas.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: But that's American soil, that’s
dialog: treason, who is it, Yates, he can’t-
speaker_heading: DISTORTED VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Toughguy is active. Initiative
dialog: base is Wiseman. It’s already
dialog: happening. That is all.
text: The Voice hangs up.
text: Lasseter sits alone in her office, staring straight ahead.
text: Everyone else has gone home, and she’s there, alone, her
text: heart pounding in her chest.
scene_heading: INT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE 10
text: Mike snorts awake on the couch as Phoebe’s car starts in the
text: driveway. She’s headed to work.
dialog: WE MOVE INTO A
speaker_heading: MONTAGE
text: Set to INXS’s “Disappear” as we watch Mike’s morning routine.
text: He showers, eats eggo waffles with his hands while smoking
text: weed, gets dressed, hops in his car, a yellow 1977 Chevy
text: Chevette, and heads to
speaker_heading: STOP AND SHOP
text: The grocery market where he works. We watch Mike working tHe
text: register, stocking items, doing little dances as the day goes
dialog: by, generally being a mediocre to shitty employee.
text: Once the store is closed, he walks through, “cleaning up,”
text: which Mike simply translates to “walking around, eating fresh
dialog: produce,” until
speaker_heading: IT’S NIGHT
text: And he’s gathering the carts in the dark parking lot. He 12
text: looks around to make sure no one’s watching, and then fires
dialog: up a blunt from his pocket...But we
dialog: ZOOM OUT AND UP
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: 15
dialog: 16
dialog: 13.
text: Into a computerized grid, covered in data read-outs and
text: information, Mike standing at the center of it-
speaker_heading: UP HIGHER
text: To cloud level, more data scrolling in every direction; thrice
scene_heading: BLACK TROOP TRANSPORT HELICOPTERS BLOW PAST, descending
dialog: towards the town-
speaker_heading: INTO SPACE
text: Where a spy satellite passes, the world neatly separated iritto
text: a million different coordinates on a massive grid, data read-
text: outs blurring the screen until-
speaker_heading: SLAM BACK TO
text: Mike, coughing up some smoke from his joint.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Ack- ckkk- ugh that’s nasty, that
dialog: was some nasty shit.
dialog: (tosses away the joint)
dialog: Yipes.
text: Mike turns, and starts pushing the carts inside. 15
dialog: SLAM TO TITLE:
speaker_heading: AMERICAN ULTRA
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE PARTY - NIGHT 16
text: It’s a youngish, hipstery house party; it’s as hipstery as
text: Liman, Oregon gets, anyway. People are drinking, smoking,
dialog: playing beerpong.
text: Phoebe is talking to her friends, GRETCHEN and HOOPER.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No, we were gonna go, but Mike- you
dialog: know, had one of his things-
speaker_heading: GRETCHEN
dialog: He should get help, that’s not
dialog: normal-
speaker_heading: HOOPER
dialog: Wait, I’m behind, what things-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: It’s nothing, he-
dialog: 17
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: GRETCHEN
dialog: Ohmafugahd, how do you not know
dialog: about this? Mike can’t leave town.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Gretchen-
speaker_heading: GRETCHEN
dialog: It’s like a super serious thing, he
dialog: can't leave it ever, he has like,
text: nervous breakdowns and throws up-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: It’s not- he’s not-
speaker_heading: GRETCHEN
dialog: That’s why he never goes to any
dialog: concerts or anything, because he
dialog: can't leave Liman, like, ever,
dialog: didn’t you wonder about that?
speaker_heading: HOOPER
dialog: I just sorta thought that he was-
dialog: y'know, lazy, or whatever-
speaker_heading: GRETCHEN
dialog: No, it’s like a serious, super
dialog: serious mental disorder.
text: Gretchen and Hooper keep talking, but Phoebe looks over to
text: where Mike is standing uncomfortably in the corner.
text: Mike notices Phoebe looking, and tries to fake enjoying
text: himself and dancing. Phoebe laughs, and Mike starts doing
text: impressions of various people at the party, making Phoebe
dialog: laugh harder.
text: One of the guys notices Mike making fun of him, and turns
text: around and shoves him into a shelf full of stuff, which
text: breaks and comes apart.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Oh shit Mike!
scene_heading: EXT. LIMAN, OREGON - DARK ROAD - NIGHT 17
text: Mike and Phoebe are sitting in Phoebe’s car, parked on the
text: side of the road, smoking weed. Up on a hillside far ahead
dialog: of them, there’s been a bad car accident.
text: A Porsche has gone off the road and hit a tree, sending the
text: driver through the windshield.
dialog: 15.
text: Emergency vehicles are tending to the scene, lighting the
text: area in flashing reds and yellows.
dialog: Mike nods,
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: So then Rocket Monkey and Chip the
dialog: Brick are both like, “what the heck
dialog: just happened,” right? And it
dialog: turns out Spicy Tomato was in
dialog: charge the whole time, and they’ve
dialog: been duped, so in the next book
text: they have to go after him.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Are you ever gonna write this stuff
dialog: down?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I- yeah, man, soon, I just gotta
dialog: finish the drawings. I just- I
dialog: just like talking about it, and
dialog: thinking about it, Rocket Monkey
dialog: and his adventures-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No I like when you talk about it
dialog: too, but I mean...There’s gonna be
dialog: a point where you could maybe make
dialog: money off this or whatever. Tell
dialog: your stories to other people than
dialog: me...and all that.
text: thinking, listless, looking out at the accident.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You know what skeebs me out?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (coughing)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Like, that car has moved so much.
dialog: It was built in a factory, okay, on
dialog: a production line, then it got
dialog: shipped-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
text: Right and then the guy was driving
dialog: it-
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Right, but all this time, for like
dialog: years, for decades, this one tree
dialog: has been sitting in this one place
dialog: doing nothing. And then, tonight,
dialog: it stops this car.
dialog: Phoebe’s into it.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Right, okay, yeah...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: So it’s like this car was always
dialog: going, right, but this tree was
dialog: always...stopping? Like it’s just
dialog: been stopping there for years and
dialog: then tonight it meets something
dialog: that’s going and it’s like NO.
text: STOPPING. And then suddenly this
dialog: tree that’s never done anything is
dialog: fuckin’ destroying this beautiful,
dialog: fast thing-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Are you crying?
text: Mike quickly tries to cover this up, and Phoebe reaches
text: across to him, giving him an awkward front-seat hug.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: No, no, why are you crying-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Because, like...Am I that tree?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What, no, no-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Am I that tree and you’re that car
dialog: and I’m just stopping you and the
text: guy goes through the windshield-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No, Mike, stop-
text: Mike’s crying way harder now, he looks fresh retarded.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: My roots, you’re tangled in my
dialog: roots—
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No Mike you're not a tree!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (wailing)
dialog: I ama tree! I’m a bad tree!
text: AHHHH! WAHHHHHH!
scene_heading: 18 INT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM 18
text: Mike and Phoebe lay in bed, Mike holding her. They’re both
text: almost asleep.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I love you. You feel good. You
dialog: make me feel good.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Phoebe I’m so sorry Hawaii-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Hey, it’s okay. It really is, it’s
dialog: okay. I know you’re going to beat
dialog: this, I know you’re going to get
dialog: through it. You are the kindest,
dialog: sweetest person I’ve ever met. I
dialog: believe in you, I have faith in
dialog: you. I love you. I can wait.
text: He holds her tight, and then blows a raspberry into the back
text: of her neck, and Phoebe laughs.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: You're a fuckin’ mess, man.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I know.
scene_heading: ABRUPT SLAM TO:
scene_heading: 19 INT. THE PENTAGON - MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 19
text: A meeting room full of people is clearing out; among them is
dialog: Adrian YATES, 29, a young hot-shot if you’ve ever seen one.
text: He’s straight top-gun, squared-away, half poli-sci geek and
dialog: half fratboy douche, with a haircut that makes you want to
text: shoot him three times in the chest.
text: Lasseter intercepts him, and they talk as she pesters him up
text: the hallway.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Yates!
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Oh for christsakes- yes, Diane?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I got word Toughguy was moving on
dialog: the old Wiseman assets?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Where’d you hear that?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Is it true?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: It doesn’t concern you-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Wiseman is my baby-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Yes, and it was stillborn, so
dialog: what’re you crying about?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You're coming after my stillborn
dialog: baby-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Can we take this into my office?
dialog: They go into
speaker_heading: HIS OFFICE
dialog: 20 Much nicer than Lasseter’s. 20
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Wiseman is dead as a doornail, you
dialog: don’t even have ops on any of the
dialog: assets-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: That’s not true, Selburg-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Fuck Selburg, Selburg’s gone
dialog: native. Why are you so upset,
dialog: you’re the one who closed the
dialog: program down-
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Because it was a flawed model, I
dialog: didn’t know your yuppie ass was
text: going to ride in on a vulture and
dialog: pick the bones of my operation-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I was made supervisor fair and
dialog: square-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: TEMPORARY supervisor, because you
dialog: kissed the right asses-—
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: No because I’m the best guy for the
dialog: job-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: According to who, Daffy Duck!?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: According to Krueger, and I’m
dialog: clearly doin somethin’ right cause
dialog: it’s been two years-—
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: And it was supposed to be two
dialog: months! I- look I don’t care how
dialog: long you've been here, you don’t
dialog: have the experience nor the
dialog: intelligence to run an operation
dialog: like this-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: (conversation-ender )
dialog: We're clearing the portfolio.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Clear the- but they’re human beings-—
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: They’re assets-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: -they’re American citizens-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: -They’re government property-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: -you can’t argue semantics-
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I can and will, you want to go in
dialog: on semantics we can talk all day
dialog: and all of Wiseman will still be
text: dead by midnight tomorrow.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I- but-
dialog: (frantic)
dialog: What about Selburg?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Selburg’s part of the portfolio,
dialog: vis-a-vis-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You are not clearing an embedded
dialog: asset in the field, there is no way
dialog: you could get a go-ahead on that,
dialog: that’s insanity, let me call it in-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Call it in TO WHO, exactly?
dialog: Krueger? He’d laugh in your face.
dialog: How many ops on homesoil actually
dialog: ever get fully cleared? It doesn’t
dialog: stop them from happening, the
text: wheels are in motion-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Are you fucking insane?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Language please.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Listen to me, King Idiot, you are
dialog: riding a very thin line of legality-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: No you listen to me, you snipey,
text: overbearing cunt.
text: Lasseter falters, shocked.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: We're nine down as of right now.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I- nine!?
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Yes, and you can’t do shit.
dialog: What’re you going to do, go over
dialog: me? You even having this
dialog: information is a massive security
dialog: breach. You'll be detained and
dialog: tortured to reveal your source,
text: indited as a traitor and locked
dialog: away forever, even if you found out
dialog: I didn’t have proper sanction or
dialog: protocol you'd still be ina
dialog: bureaucratic catch 22 where you're
dialog: the bad guy. You're my fucking dog
dialog: here, I could walk you, behave. My
dialog: program works, yours doesn’t, my
dialog: security clearance is go, yours is
dialog: stop, my direction is up, yours is
dialog: down and falling, you’re gonna come
dialog: in my fuckin’ office and shout at
dialog: me? Are you fucking kidding? You
dialog: only stand to screw yourself over
dialog: royally. So essentially you're
dialog: fucked, you were better off not
dialog: knowing, and there is absolutely no
dialog: move you can make without putting
dialog: yourself deep, deep, deep in the
dialog: red. Got that?
text: Lasseter stares at him, quaking with anger.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Get the fuck. Out of my. Off-eez.
text: Lasseter stands up, and marches straight out of the office.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Boom.
scene_heading: INT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING 21
text: Phoebe’s car starts in the driveway, waking Mike up.
scene_heading: EXT. 7-11 - OUT BACK - MIDMORNING 22
text: Mike’s car is parked, and he’s waiting. After a moment, a
text: lifted-truck, candy-painted green with pink stripes like a
text: watermelon from hell, rolls up blasting terrible rap.
text: Mike gets out of the car, to greet
dialog: 22.
text: ROSE, early 30s, a frightening dealer-type with tattoos
text: covering his neck and face. They slap hands.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Rose, hey man!
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Mike, sup nigga. Got that for me?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah, here.
text: Mike fumbles in his coat, drawing out a folio.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: I really appreciate you doing this
dialog: for me, man.
text: Rose opens the folio, and looks at the picture inside; it’s
text: an illustration of Rose, smoking a huge joint, riding a
text: dragon that has the lower body of a motorcycle, killing a
text: bunch of police officers as he flies through space.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Aw man. Aw shit man. This is
dialog: siiiiiiiick!
text: Rose slaps hands with Mike, who smiles, but seems to be
dialog: waiting for something-
speaker_heading: ROSE (CONT’D)
dialog: Aw here man it’s cool I got you, I
dialog: got you nigga-nogga.
text: Rose goes to the back of his truck, pulling down a big box.
speaker_heading: ROSE (CONT'D)
dialog: This is more illegal than the shit
dialog: you usual get, feel me? Possession
dialog: of this shit is serious shit up in
dialog: a bitch, yeah? Bitch shit to be
dialog: shit bitching all over this shit,
dialog: fuck, you know what I mean nigga?
text: Mike has opened the box, and is looking down at a two dozen
text: high-explosive illegal mortar fireworks.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Perfect. Rose, they’re perfect.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You gonna make it real romantic for
dialog: that pussy.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 23
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: ROSE (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s some serious proposal
dialog: engagement wedding type life
dialog: changer shit.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: That’s the plan.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You one sensitive nigga, bitch.
dialog: That’s gonna be cute.
text: Mike laughs and hugs Rose.
scene_heading: INT. STOP AND SHOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS 23
text: Mike is ringing out the last couple customers. He’s quietly
text: sketching a picture of his two characters, ROCKET MONKEY and
text: CHIP THE BRICK, dancing around an engagement ring, as the
text: next customer comes up.
text: He smiles down at his two creations, and then looks up to see-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Chariot progressive. Listen.
text: Finally, our threads intersect. Mike’s head jerks oddly; he
text: stares at her across the counter, completely blank.
text: Lasseter, looking harried and dishevelled, stands across the
text: counter from him.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
text: Mandelbrot set is in motion. Echo
dialog: Choir has been breached, we are
text: fielding the ball.
text: Mike blinks, confused.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Is that- what is that, is that a
dialog: lyric from something-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Fuck. No. Chariot progressive,
dialog: listen. Mandelbrot set is in
dialog: motion-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah man were you gonna get
dialog: anything, or-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Mike you're not listening to me-
dialog: 24
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Cause you're buying a carton of
dialog: milk and a cup’a’noodle, what's
dialog: that supposed to be about-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Chariot progressive-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Lady, enough with the...stuff,
dialog: okay? I’m supposed to be closing
dialog: up, I can’t...What’s wrong?
text: Lasseter is staring at him helplessly, tears streaming down
text: her face.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: You're crying.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: (breaking down)
dialog: I'm sorry Mike. I’m so sorry, I
dialog: tried. I tried.
text: Lasseter leaves, Mike looking after her, bewildered.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (noticing)
dialog: Don’t you want your soup?
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER
text: Mike is cleaning up, walking through the store, eating
text: produce. He seems distracted and fidgety; he’s playing with
text: the engagement ring again, while he eats the cup’o’noodle.
scene_heading: EXT. SHOP AND STOP —- PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER 24
text: Mike exits the store, locking it up, and then notices
dialog: something odd.
text: Under the one light in the parking lot, his 1976 Chevy
text: Chevette is being accosted by TWO MEN in all black.
text: They look fairly scary.
text: Mike stares at them, eating the Cup’A’Noodle and then starts
text: walking towards them, casually.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hey.
dialog: 25.
text: They don’t notice him. They’re too busy doing something to
text: the underside of his car.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: H-
text: Mike notices that the men have pistols in shoulder holsters.
dialog: Holy shit. What’s this about?
text: But Mike isn’t stopping his forward progress. He seems
text: almost trancelike, dropping the hand holding the spoon down
text: to his side.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: (quietly, muttering)
dialog: Got guns. ..smy soup.
text: He’s still walking, calmly, flipping the spoon. He’s almost
text: to the car now. One of the two men looks up, seeing him, and
text: signals to the other.
text: They advance on Mike.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, stop doing shit to my car-
text: One of the men LUNGES AT MIKE- the flash of a tactical knife
dialog: in the street light-
text: Mike fades back, dodging three swipes of the knife easily,
text: before throwing the steaming cup’a'noodle into the man's
text: face, grabbing his arm and kneeing the elbow-
text: The arm breaks, and Mike brings the spoon around hard into
text: the side of the man’s head, breaking his jaw-
text: The other man lunges, but Mike lurches towards him, knocking
text: his arms away and slamming the spoon down into the bridge of
text: the man's nose, breaking it-
text: He spins, and as the man with the broken jaw stands, raising
dialog: a pistol-
text: Mike kicks the pistol out of his hands, palms the man’s jaw
text: and jabs the spoon into his neck, crushing his windpipe. The
text: man staggers back, gagging, and Mike turns-
text: The man with the broken nose is back up, also raising a gun-
text: Mike STABS THE SPOON INTO HIS EYE, then into his ear, then
text: shoves the man away, casually snatching the gun and firing a
text: single round into the man’s head.
dialog: 25
dialog: 26.
text: He drops, dead. The other man lays on the ground, choking,
text: and then dies.
text: Mike stands alone, holding the spoon.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: What the FUCK just happened!?
scene_heading: INT. 24 HOUR BAIL BONDS 25
text: Phoebe sits at her desk at the front counter. She’s looking
text: down at the Oahu boarding pass, staring at it.
text: She sighs, and then slides it off her desk, into the garbage.
text: Her cell phone rings. “MIKE SO CUTE.” She answers it.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Hey honey-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I just killed two dudes!
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: ...-What?
speaker_heading: WE CUT BACK AND
speaker_heading: FORTH BETWEEN
text: Phoebe, and MIKE SITTING IN HIS CAR. The two dead dudes are
text: visible in the background.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: Two dudes were trying to get into
dialog: my car at work, and they had knives
dialog: and guns and deadly shit, and this
dialog: weird old chick, not super old,
dialog: fuckable old but she was weird- and
dialog: then I took a spoon and shoved it
dialog: through these two dudes-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Slow down, okay, you need to slow
dialog: down for a second-
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: I CAN'T SLOW DOWN I JUST KILLED MAD
text: DUDES IN THIS PARKING LOT-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Did you call the police?
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No man cause I'm the kill-guy, I'm
dialog: the murder...I'VE GOT MUSHROOMS AND
text: WEED AND SHIT IN MY CAR AND I JUST
text: KILLED TWO DUDES WITH A spoon, I
dialog: NEED YOU TO COME HERE RIGHT NOW OR
dialog: I'M JUST GONNA START PISSING MAN,
text: I'M GONNA PISS MY FUCKING PANTS-—
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
text: Phoebe is in the parking lot, staring at the two dead dudes.
text: Mike, head in hands, stands behind her, leaning on his car.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: How the fuck did this happen?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: One dude I shot in the head and the
dialog: other guy I just, I don’t know,
text: spooned him in the neck and his
dialog: shit ENDED-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No I mean who the fuck are these
dialog: two guys, Mike, like who the shit
dialog: ARE they actually-
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: I DON'T KNOW
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You just killed two guys man!
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: They WERE GONNA STAB MY SHIT,
speaker_heading: PHEEBS-—
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Why are people trying to stab you!?
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: I DON’T KNOW, I’M FREAKING OUT BABE
text: I'M ALL OVER THE FUCKIN’...PLACE!
text: There’s the whoop of a police siren.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Oh fuck me.
text: A police car slowly rolls into the parking lot. A spotlight
text: hits each of the dead guys, then settles on Mike and Phoebe.
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: MIKE
scene_heading: I’M SORRY.
scene_heading: 26 INT. THE PENTAGON - YATES’ OFFICE 26
text: Yates is freaking out via videochat with OTIS, 30, a stern-
dialog: faced military type.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Two casualties. What do you mean
dialog: two casualties.
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: We lost two assets attempting to
dialog: neutralize Wiseman designate Howl.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: .--How is that possible?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Howl engaged Toughguy assets Diesel
dialog: and Potter outside of callsign
dialog: sigma-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: “Engaged,” clarify please-
speaker_heading: OoTis
text: He was armed with a spoon sir. He
dialog: engaged and neutralized-
speaker_heading: YATES
text: A CA- A FUCKING SPOON? ...WHAT?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: We aren’t sure yet the exact nature
dialog: of the confrontation-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: He’s been fucking activated, do you
dialog: not see that? This is Lasseter, it
text: has to be. She’s in the town.
dialog: Lock it down and find her, now!
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Sir yes sir. The whole town?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Yes the whole town. Liman is as of
dialog: right now, a hot zone. Contain it.
dialog: I'm sending you a fake-out, use it.
dialog: 27
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: oTis
dialog: -Sir yes sir-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Where’s asset Howl now?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: He’s been arrested, sir.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: ARRESTED- I- YOU- okay. We go in,
dialog: and we take him out. Employ assets
dialog: Crane and Laugher.
speaker_heading: OTis
dialog: The station is under watch by
dialog: civilian police officers, sir-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Civilians? Who gives a f- bulldoze
dialog: the place. We cannot have an code
dialog: orange rogue Wiseman asset, that is
dialog: outside mission parameters.
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Sir yes sir.
text: Yates closes his laptop, fidgeting.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: What the fuck. What the fuck.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No, you know what, no.
text: Yates opens and then re-slams closed his laptop, turns off
text: his computer, unplugs his cell...
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Nuhnuhnuh NO NO.
text: Yates grabs his coat and heads out the door.
scene_heading: INT. LIMAN SHERIFF’S STATION - HOLDING CELL - NIGHT 27
text: Phoebe is laying out on one of the cots in one of the sparse
text: holding cells, looking miserable. Mike is pacing rapidly
dialog: back and forth.
text: Deputy KRANTZ, 20s, portly, is keeping watch on them.
text: Mike, facing away from Phoebe, is playing with the engagement
text: ring box.
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (muttering to himself)
dialog: This-
dialog: (glances at Phoebe,
dialog: quietly)
dialog: This is the wrong moment.
scene_heading: 28 EXT. LIMAN SHERIFF’S STATION - CONTINUOUS 28
text: Deputies JORDAN, 20s, and LaBUTTE, 40s, are standing next to
text: an ambulance.
text: Sheriff Watts drives up in his station wagon, clearly woken
text: up, drinking coffee from a thermos as he gets out.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Okay, jesus, I’m awake, what’s the
dialog: big emergency.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY JORDAN
dialog: We got-
speaker_heading: DEPUTY LABUTTE
dialog: We've got two bodies in there. No
dialog: IDs, no nothin. We're running the
dialog: prints now, but-
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Bodies? What, you mean, corpses?
dialog: Dead human beings?
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
text: 29 Watts is in the ambulance, looking at the two dead guys. #9
text: pokes one of them.
speaker_heading: WATTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Christ. This guy is huge.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY LABUTTE
dialog: They were both armed, we got the
text: guns in evidence. Glocks, lookin’
dialog: factory fresh.
text: Watts pulls down one of the guy’s collar, seeing a huge red
text: splotch on the neck.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: What did this?
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY LABUTTE
dialog: We don’t know, sir. No weapons on
text: scene but two knives and the two
text: glocks.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: And you say Mikey Howell did this?
text: LaButte and Jordan are both quiet.
text: BACK IN THE CELL
text: 30 Mike is kneeling in front of Phoebe, talking to her quiet1yg0
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Tell me one more time, Mike-
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: I hit him with a spoon and his
dialog: lungs exploded.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: It wasn’t his lungs-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: That’s what happened, he couldn’t
dialog: breathe, I got him in the neck-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Your lungs aren't in your neck
dialog: they're in your chest.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Okay that doesn’t even make any
dialog: sense to me right now!
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You said an old lady said something
dialog: to you, what did she say?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I don’t- I don’t even remember,
dialog: just some like blahblah nothing-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike we’re in jail right now, okay?
dialog: I am in jail. You need to focus
dialog: for me, okay? Please just remember
dialog: what the lady said.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (thinks)
dialog: She said.
dialog: (rapidly)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 31
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
text: Mandelbrot set is in motion. Echo
dialog: Choir has been breached, we are
text: fielding the ball.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What the fuck does that mean?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I don’t know, but that was crazy, I
dialog: like- I remembered the whole thing
dialog: like it- wait, holy shit, I like
dialog: remember everything, like every
dialog: single thing that happened in the
dialog: last ninety four minutes- ninety
dialog: four minutes, how did I know that
dialog: exact number, that’s crazy-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike, slow down.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Yeah Mike.
text: They turn to see Watts standing at the bars.
speaker_heading: WATTS (CONT'D)
dialog: You slow waaaaaaaaay down.
scene_heading: EXT. LIMAN SHERIFF’S STATION - SHORTLY THEREAFTER 31
text: The night is cold, snowy, windy and dark. There’s a faint
dialog: sound; “thukathukathuka.” If that’s a helicopter, it’s
text: whisper quiet.
text: And then, two figures step into frame; dark outlines against
text: the lights of the station.
text: The first of them carries a massive SAW Machine gun. He
text: moves sort of jerkily, like his joints ache.
speaker_heading: This is CRANE.
text: The second figure, closer to us, appears empty handed,
text: nothing more than a silohuette. He makes a horrible coughing
text: sound, then stops, motionless, and throws back his head...
text: ...-Letting out a bizarrely quavering, trilling laugh, that
text: echoes out against the wind; it’s unnerving, seizure-like, a
dialog: noise this man clearly can’t control.
dialog: It could only come from a true lunatic.
dialog: 32
dialog: 33.
dialog: This is LAUGHER.
text: The laughter gets louder and louder and then
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
scene_heading: INT. LIMAN SHERIFF’S STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM 32
text: Mike and Phoebe are sitting across from Sheriff Watts, who
text: looks deeply troubled.
text: Mike, handcuffed, takes Phoebe’s hand under the table. She
text: pulls away. Mike hangs his head.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: How many times you been in this
dialog: station, Mike. Since you were
dialog: twenty two, how many times you
dialog: think.
text: Mike’s silent.
speaker_heading: WATTS (CONT'D)
dialog: Would you believe thirty? Would
dialog: you believe that?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I had you in here on trespassing.
dialog: I had you in here on public
dialog: intoxication. I had you in here on
dialog: disorderly conduct, and possession,
dialog: holy hell, possession.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Now you and I both know you’re the
dialog: luckiest man alive. Your probation
dialog: officer must be the Michael Jordan
dialog: of bullshitters, because I never
dialog: see you gone for more than four
dialog: days before you’re back at that
dialog: market, back toolin around town...
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: Tell me you didn’t kill these
dialog: people, Mike.
text: Mike’s silent.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: They attacked him.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Excuse me?
dialog: 33
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: They attacked Mike, it was self
dialog: defense-
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: You're his girlfriend, his mother,
text: his maid, his landlord and now
dialog: you're his lawyer? Phoebe, let the
dialog: man speak for himself.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Don’t be a dick. It was just a
dialog: thing, it was a thing that happened-
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: A thing? Mike two men are dead-
text: There’s a knock, and Deputy Krantz leans in.
speaker_heading: WATTS (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: DEPUTY KRANTZ
dialog: We've got a problem.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: We got plenty of problems-
speaker_heading: DEPUTY KRANTZ
dialog: Nah man we got a big weird problem
dialog: out here.
text: Watts thinks for a moment.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Okay, take’em back to the cell.
dialog: This ain’t over.
speaker_heading: OUT IN THE
speaker_heading: STATION
text: Phoebe and Mike are being led by Krantz. They reach the 33
text: cell, Krantz opens it; he starts to uncuff Mike, but then
text: gets a text.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hey man, come on.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY KRANTZ
dialog: Huh. Somethin’s up with my phone.
text: The iPhone screen is scrambled and malfunctioning.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What the hell, that’s not normal.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY KRANTZ
dialog: ---It ain’t?
text: IN THE FRONT OF
speaker_heading: THE STATION
text: 34 LaButte, Jordan and Watts are huddled over a computer. 34
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: I don’t get it.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY JORDAN
text: Every line out of the station is
dialog: down, radio, internet, the phone
dialog: lines-
speaker_heading: DEPUTY LABUTTE
dialog: We tried cells, too, nothin works,
dialog: not even the computer-
speaker_heading: DEPUTY JORDAN
dialog: Yeah I said the internet was down-
speaker_heading: DEPUTY LABUTTE
dialog: Yeah but the computer’s mail is
dialog: down too.
speaker_heading: WATTS
dialog: Is it a power shortage or-
text: All of the lights in the station SHUT OFF.
text: BACK AT THE CELL
text: Krantz, lit by the screen of his iPhone, looks around,
text: confused, when his NECK IS ABRUPTLY SNAPPED-
text: Mike catches his cellphone before it hits the ground-
text: Phoebe SCREAMS, and Mike steps in front of her, holding up
text: the iPhone for light. There’s silence in the darkness. Mike
text: frantically moves the light around...
dialog: ...there’s nobody.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (whispers )
dialog: Phoebe get the keys, the keys for
text: the handcuffs.
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: 36.
text: Phoebe kneels, getting Krantz’s flashlight as Mike swings
text: around the iPhone. She begins yanking on the keys.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Shit- shit-
dialog: And then, from the darkness...
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
scene_heading: EeeheheheheheHEEHEEAHHAHAHAHAHA
speaker_heading: BACK AT THE
speaker_heading: FRONT
text: Watts, LaButte and Jordan, their flashlights out, spin at tite
text: horrible sound.
speaker_heading: WATTS
text: WHAT IN THE FUCK IS GOING-
text: HOLY SHIT, CRANE IS IN THE ROOM! HE BEGINS TO FIRE THE
text: MACHINE GUN, INSTANTLY KILLING JORDAN, BULLETS SHREDDING HIM!
text: Watts and LaButte drop behind desks, drawing guns.
text: BACK AT THE CELL
text: Phoebe and Mike turn at the sound of the gunfire, and LAUGHER
scene_heading: POUNCES ONTO MIKE-
dialog: Oh shit KRAV MAGA close quarters exchange!
text: Laugher and Mike go back and forth impossibly fast- attack,
dialog: block, counter, attack, counter, attack-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike! MIKE!
text: As the back-up generator to the police station hums to life,
text: casting everything in flim-flash flickers of light, Phoebe
text: frantically unholsters Krantz’s revolver, as Laugher grabs
text: Mike into a deadly headlock-
text: But Laugher’s distracted by Phoebe, and he turns and kicks
text: the gun out of her hands-
text: But Mike twists his way free, turns and brings up Krantz’s
text: iPhone, quickly puts it up against Laugher’s front teeth, and
text: then SLAMS HIS PALM INTO THE BACK OF IT-
text: -KNOCKING LAUGHER'S TEETH DOWN HIS THROAT! WHOA! EW!
text: Laugher staggers backwards, but Mike catches his head and
text: slams it against the bars repeatedly-
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
dialog: 37.
text: Laugher screams and BREAKS FREE, elbowing Mike in the throat,
dialog: then the nose, WHAM-
text: And Mike KICKS HIM INTO THE JAIL CELL! Phoebe pops up and
text: slams the door! HAH! GOTCHA!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Ha! NICE!
text: Mike notices Krantz's gun is in the cell.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: THE GUN, THE GUN!
text: Laugher dives for it, grabbing it, but Mike rolls, grabbing
text: Phoebe and pulling her out of the way down the hall JUST AS
text: LAUGHER OPENS FIRE.
text: He pulls her
text: OUT TO THE MAIN 37
speaker_heading: ROOM
text: Where Crane immediately turns and opens fire on them with the
dialog: machine gun!
speaker_heading: WE SEE 38
text: Outside the station, bullets blowing out through the windows
dialog: and walls!
scene_heading: BACK INSIDE 39
text: Mike and Phoebe dive behind a partition, scrambling as Crane
text: continues firing, DECIMATING the station.
text: The gun runs out of ammunition, and Crane frowns at it.
text: They lay flat, as LaButte pops up and takes a shot at Crane-
text: -Who ducks it, and then swings the gun like a baseball bat,
text: SMASHING LaBUTTE IN THE FACE!
text: LaButte goes down, and Watts pops up, firing twice- Crane
text: tilt dodges both shots draws a pistol and shoots Watts twice
dialog: in the chest-
text: Watts goes down, and Crane starts slowly approaching Watts.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (pulling at mike)
dialog: C’'mon- c’mon-
dialog: 40
dialog: 38.
text: Crane turns at the sound, and fires three times at the desk
text: Phoebe and Mike hide behind. There’s dead silence.
text: Crane shifts, and again we see the odd, jerky way he moves as
text: he pops every joint in his body, shaking himself out.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: .»+-Bonjour. Jambo. Hello. Hola.
dialog: Salut.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: What the hell is he-
text: Crane tosses aside his gun and CHARGES THE DESK, MOVING WAY
speaker_heading: TOO FAST-
text: But Mike, hearing his approach, pops up, grabs a laptop off
text: the desk and FLINGS IT LIKE A FRISBEE, CATCHING CRANE FLUSH
dialog: IN THE CHEST!
text: Crane is knocked off his feet, landing flat on his back, OW!
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: SHIT!
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Come on!
text: Phoebe grabs Mike and pulls him towards the front door.
scene_heading: EXT. LIMAN SHERIFF’S STATION - CONTINUOUS 40
text: Mike and Phoebe burst out, running, and seconds later Crane
text: comes CRASHING THROUGH THE GLASS DOORS.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: (loudly)
text: WAIT.
text: Mike instinctively stops and turns, looking at Crane.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What?
text: Crane flings a grenade at Mike- who catches it and throws it
text: back- Crane catches it and throws it back- MIKE FLIPS AND
text: SPIKE KICKS THE GRENADE BACK AT CRANE, who ducks, it passes
text: him and goes into the police station-
text: BOOM THE GRENADE GOES OFF, KNOCKING CRANE DOWN!
dialog: 4l
dialog: 39.
text: Mike hurries to his feet to see Crane CHARGING AT HIM, moving
text: herky-jerky, bloody from cuts from the explosion.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh no no no-
text: Crane begins beating the snot out of Mike, huge haymakers BAM
text: BAM BAM, but Mike recovers, throwing a handful of snow in his
text: face and knocking him away, countering a few punches-
text: Crane knocks him down, and Mike grabs Krantz’s keys out of
text: his pocket, balls them in between his fingers to give himself
text: claws and then SLASHES CRANE REPEATEDLY-
text: No CRANE COMES BACK, counter strike, counter, reversal,
dialog: counter- this makes Bourne Identity look like Power Rangers-
text: Mike weaves through another barrage of big hits, then brings
text: up the loose handcuff still locked on his wrist, and, using
text: it like a pair of brass-knuckles, BASHES CRANE IN THE FACE!
text: Crane stumbles backwards, and then falls dead.
text: Mike stares at him, and then looks up at the police station:
text: the front office is on fire from the grenade, smoke leaking
text: out of the shattered glass doors.
text: Mike turns and grabs Phoebe. We hear Laugher, distant,
text: cackling from inside the station.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Come on!
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike, wait-
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: NAH MAN, NO WAITING, LET’S GO, NOW.
scene_heading: INT. CIA JET 41
text: Yates sits on a CIA private jet, in flight. He’s sitting
text: calmly, looking out the window and sipping a rum and coke.
text: His satellite phone rings, and he takes it out. His eyes
text: widen, and he smiles, answering.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Hello darling.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 42
dialog: 40.
text: Lasseter, on her own satellite phone, is
speaker_heading: AT THE EDGE OF 42
speaker_heading: TOWN
text: Where we can see white trucks with orange flashing lights,
text: and men in Disease Containment suits setting up a checkpoint.
text: Lasseter is pulled over in shadow at the edge of the road.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Why am I looking at FEMA trucks.
dialog: Why are there men in HAZ-Mat suits
dialog: walking around like
dialog: extraterrestrials. What in the
dialog: shit are you doing.
speaker_heading: YATES
text: A dog with rabies got loose. A
dialog: real old bitch-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You prick-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I’m a prick? Thanks to your
dialog: actions, two CIA assets are DEAD,
dialog: you're trying to blow my whole
dialog: operation-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Your “operation” is murder!
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Oh cry me a fucking river why don’t
dialog: you! This is the last time you and
dialog: me talk. There’s a reckoning
dialog: coming for you, Diane-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: This is about me?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: “this is about me” YES IT’S ABOUT
dialog: YOU. You think I’m stupid, you
dialog: think I don’t think I know what
dialog: you're doing, you’re trying to make
dialog: me look like an asshole-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You're doing a fine job of that
dialog: yourself-
dialog: 43
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I tried to play nice about this,
dialog: back in my office-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: What, when you called me a cunt?
text: Yates splutters, flustered.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: I am taking you down, Yates. I’m
dialog: bringing this whole thing crashing
dialog: through the floor do you hear me?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: “Bring it through the floor",
dialog: really, that’s big talk for a
dialog: fortysomething year old woman with
dialog: what, a CELL PHONE, you can’t touch
dialog: me, you can’t-—
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Did you hang up? Tell me you
dialog: didn't hang up.
dialog: 41.
text: Yates flings the phone away from him in anger. He then waits
text: a beat, grabs his rum and coke, and flings that, too.
scene_heading: EXT. STOP AND SHOP - NIGHT
dialog: 43
text: Phoebe and Mike rapidly approach the Stop and Shop parking
text: lot, heading towards Mike’s car, Mike pulling Phoebe along by
dialog: the arm.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Where are we going?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: We'll get my car, and we’ll go to
dialog: Rose’s house-
text: Phoebe pulls away from him.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Rose!? That’s your plan?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Rose has guns and shit, plus maybe
dialog: he can get us out of the town-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Out of the town- Mike you can’t do
dialog: that, you know you won’t be able to-
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Well I didn’t have people trying to
dialog: kill me before, Phoebe-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You are not- you are not ina
dialog: position to be making plans-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Then who is? I’ve killed THREE
dialog: PEOPLE tonight, man, the cops are
dialog: dead, who’s qualified to handle
dialog: shit right now?
text: Phoebe takes a breath. Mike shrugs. Phoebe’s tone changes.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: ..-If the guy’s in the thing, in
text: the cell, and he doesn’t see the
dialog: gun, don’t point at the gun and say
dialog: “GUN! GUN!”
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I know-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: And if someone who just tried to
dialog: kill you says “WAIT,” YOU DON'T
text: STOP TO SEE WHAT THEY WANT TO TALK
speaker_heading: ABOUT-—
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: STOP YELLING AT ME!
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I’M SCARED MIKE!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: NO, YOU'RE FINE! YOU'RE FINE,
speaker_heading: OKAY?
text: Mike grabs Phoebe and pulls her to him.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Listen to me, you're fine, it’s
dialog: done, we made it out of there,
dialog: okay?
text: There’s a strong wind, and Mike holds Phoebe close. The wind
text: rattles a shopping cart in the parking lot, and it rolls
text: forward, gently bumping Mike’s car-
dialog: 44
dialog: 43.
text: IT EXPLODES INTO A MASSIVE FIREBALL, knockINnc
text: BOTH PHOEBE AND MIKE FLAT ON THEIR ASSES. I guess that thing
dialog: the guys were doing to the car was...uh...a bomb.
text: Dazed, they stare at the burning wreckage.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: ...Let’s take my car.
scene_heading: INT. WASHINGTON DC NIGHTCLUB —- CONCURRENT 44
text: The music is too loud, the club is too dark and the lights
text: that are on are too damn bright, lasers and strobes blotting
dialog: out all the sense.
text: Petey Douglas, Lasseter’s erstwhile assistant, is dancing.
dialog: Dancing crazy. Night of his life.
text: A REALLY SEXY GIRL approaches.
scene_heading: REALLY SEXY GIRL
dialog: Hey!
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
speaker_heading: HI!
scene_heading: REALLY SEXY GIRL
dialog: My friends and I were talking about
dialog: your dancing!
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Yeah man, I’m a machine tonight!
scene_heading: REALLY SEXY GIRL
dialog: Do you want to come sit with us?
text: Petey looks. It’s a whole table of SUPER HOT WOMEN.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Yeah man, maybe I can teach you
dialog: some moves. I’ma hit the bathroom
dialog: and I’1l be over in a jiffy.
scene_heading: REALLY SEXY GIRL
dialog: Jiffy, huh?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Yeah man, I’m the jiff-master
dialog: tonight!
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
scene_heading: INT. WASHINGTON DC NIGHTCLUB - THE BATHROOM
text: Douglas is peeing at a urinal, when his phone rings.
text: answers it without looking.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: This is the jiff-master, how can I
dialog: help you.
scene_heading: EXT. LIMAN SHERIFF’S STATION - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 44,
dialog: 45
dialog: He
dialog: 46
text: Lasseter stands over Crane’s dead body, in front of the
text: burning police station.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Be somewhere you can talk. Now.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Shit.
scene_heading: EXT. WASHINGTON DC NIGHTCLUB - ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER
text: Douglas comes out into the alley behind the nightclub.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Okay Diane, what’s-
dialog: 47
speaker_heading: WE INTERCUT
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I’m in Liman.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: -Say what now-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Yates is using the Toughguy assets
dialog: to eliminate the Wiseman assets.
dialog: I'm trying to save asset Howl and
dialog: derail the operation but now Yates
dialog: has got the town quarantined by the
dialog: cpc and I am looking at the town’s
text: Sheriff Station, which is on fire
dialog: with the entire civilian police
text: force dead inside it.
text: Douglas takes a beat, and actually pulls his phone away from
text: his face, staring at it in shock.
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I don’t understand, why would you-
dialog: I shouldn't be talking to you if
dialog: you're there, that’s-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I need a weapon. And I need to
dialog: know where Yates was pulling the
dialog: subjects for Toughguy. This
text: behavior doesn’t make sense.
text: Douglas is quiet.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: There is no reason for that police
dialog: station to be ON FIRE, okay? Do
dialog: you see what I’m saying? If
dialog: they're trained assets they should
dialog: be doing this quickly and quietly-
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I have to hang up, I’m sorry-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Don’t hang up don’t hang up don’t
dialog: hang up-
text: Douglas groans, seeing the hot girl group departing from the
text: front of the club.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: He’s boxing me into this town and
dialog: he’s going to trap me like a rat
dialog: and kill me, Pete, do you
dialog: understand that? I will be
dialog: murdered and he will be protected
dialog: by our own secrecy laws for
text: MURDERING ME.
text: Firetruck sirens begin rapidly approaching the burning
text: sheriff's station, and Lasseter quickly goes around to the
text: side of the station, hiding from the arriving trucks.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: You shouldn’t have gone.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: No, wrong response.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: There is a machine at work here,
dialog: Douglas.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT'D)
text: A big, bad machine, and it’s gone
dialog: off the rails, you are witnessing
dialog: the wrong guy in charge, that's
dialog: what’s happening, Madness of King
dialog: George do you understand-
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Yes shakespeare sure-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: No, actually happening right now,
dialog: tonight, now!
text: Helicopters blow past overhead. The firefighters who’ve
text: congregated around Crane’s dead body, and look up, confused.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: This is fire and brimstone, this is
dialog: sinister lunacy sanctioned by
dialog: arbitrary nothing, I need you on my
dialog: side, the side of good and order
dialog: and NOT DEATH AND CHAOS, fuck the
text: chain of command. On MY SIDE,
dialog: RIGHT NOW, understand?
text: Douglas is silent. He looks around the alley. There’s a
text: couple hooking up by a dumpster. He glances again, and
text: realizes they are full on fucking.
dialog: Whoa, gross.
text: He sighs, mustering his courage, looks up at the sky...
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: Did you hang-
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: You've got me.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: .-.-I’m with the side of good and
dialog: order.
text: Lasseter breathes hard, processing this.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Okay. Okay.
dialog: 48
scene_heading: EXT. ROSE’S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Mike and Phoebe pull up to Rose’s house, which is a two-story
text: deal out in the woods, isolated, a little bit hood but a
text: little swanky too, in its way.
text: They park on a landbridge over a ruddy little ravine.
text: looks over to Mike, who looks totally miserable.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You seem like...spooky quiet-
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: I am spooky quiet. I’m in
dialog: the...anaphalactic shock-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: -that’s not what it’s called-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Like, I’m trying to think of stuff,
dialog: and I can’t think of anything,
dialog: Phoebe. Like I never even- I can’t
dialog: remember where I went to school, or
dialog: my parents...
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What? You can’t remember your
dialog: parents? What’re you talking
dialog: about, you sound crazy, dude-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m like overwhelmed! Pheebs...Did
dialog: we even ever talk about my parents?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I mean...no I guess but-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Shit, what if I'm like...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: A robot? Do you think that’s
dialog: possible that I’m a robot? With the-
dialog: gigabytes of memory recall, and the
dialog: karate programming where I use
dialog: house hold objects to kill assholes-—
dialog: Oh shit I’m freaking out again-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Okay stay calm. Mike. Listen.
dialog: You are not a robot.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Are you sure?
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I’m sure, you are not a robot.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: How can you know that?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: ...-Because that is obviously
dialog: retarded.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ..-Right, yes, you’re right. Shit-
text: A GAS MASKED FIGURE POPS UP NEXT TO THE CAR WITH A SHOTGUN
scene_heading: POINTED IN.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE MIKE
dialog: AHH! FUCK!
text: TWO MORE GUYS POP UP ON EITHER SIDE OF THE CAR WITH A COUGAR
scene_heading: MAGNUM AND AN UZI.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: (under gas mask)
scene_heading: YO FREEZE MOTHAFUCKAAA- OH HI MIKE!
text: Rose lifts his gas mask, smiling.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (freaked out)
scene_heading: JESUS CHRIST.
scene_heading: EXT. GOVERNMENT FIELD OPS CENTER - NIGHT 49
text: The field ops center is set up in a Wal-Mart parking lot, in
text: a big tent. It’s clearly still in the process of being set
text: up; computers and government operators everywhere.
text: Several teenagers are hanging out, smoking cigarettes nearby.
text: Yates rapidly walks up.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: What the fuck is this?
scene_heading: INT. GOVERNMENT FIELD OPS CENTER - MOMENTS LATER 50
text: Yates bursts in, and immediately several officers stand and
text: salute. Among them is Otis.
speaker_heading: oTis
dialog: Mr. Yates sir-
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I said SUBTLE, I said COVERT, not
text: PITCH A TENT IN A PARKING LOT.
speaker_heading: oTis
text: Sir the tent is covered by FEMA
text: protocol, the tent is covert as a
dialog: disease control tent sir-
speaker_heading: YATES
text: IT'S A BIG WHITE TENT. It’s covert
dialog: as a fucking elephant!
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Sir civilians will not recognize
text: the big white tent as a government
dialog: operation, they’1ll- mistake it for-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I get the concept, but there are-
text: Yates pops out of the tent into the
speaker_heading: PARKING LOT
dialog: And references the teenagers.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
text: HIPSTERS HANGING OUT TEN FEET FROM
speaker_heading: THE OP CENTER!
text: Otis looks out.
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: They’re punks sir.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: ...What?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: They are not hipsters, sir, they
dialog: look to me like skate punks sir,
dialog: possibly grunge-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Ohmigod.
text: One of the kids takes a camera phone picture of them.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Get that phone. Now. Thank you.
text: Immediately several soldiers take a running start at the
dialog: teenagers, who are like “oh shit.”
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Where are the assets?
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
scene_heading: 51 INT. EIGHTEEN WHEELER - SECONDS LATER 51
text: It’s dark, and then the door opens, revealing fifteen men
text: sitting in darkness, completely motionless. Yates peers in,
text: Otis behind him.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Just a truck? We’ve got them all
dialog: sitting in a truck?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: This is the best we could get for
dialog: the available money sir. You said
dialog: as barebones as possible, this-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Shit, shit. Right.
text: He sees LAUGHER, who’s covered in soot and slightly burned.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Laugher. What happened to you, I
dialog: heard you were KIA?
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: No sir.
text: Laugher lets out a weird giggle which he tries to stifle.
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: We recovered him from the police
dialog: station thirty minutes ago.
text: Yates climbs up into the truck, sitting across from Laugher.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: You saw him. Howl. “Mike.” What
dialog: was it like?
text: Laugher just stares.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: I mean, was he...how was he, were
dialog: his protocols all...I mean was he
dialog: kicking ass out there?
text: Laugher giggles, but then stifles it.
dialog: 52
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: Hit me with a phone. He took my
dialog: teeth.
text: Laugher holds up two bloody cracked teeth.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER (CONT'D)
dialog: But I got them back.
text: Yates stares at him.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Okay, good. Okay that’s...good.
dialog: You still wanna take this guy down?
text: Laugher painfully stifles a laugh.
speaker_heading: MOMENTS LATER 52
text: Yates hops out of the truck. He stares down at his shoes for
text: a moment.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Do we have a location on Howl?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Sir yes sir, he’s at his friend’s
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: We roll in waves, yeah? Activate
dialog: Newton, Laugher and Bourbon. Is
dialog: the press package ready?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Alright, activate it. And...And
dialog: I’m clearing use of bugspray.
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Yes sir.
text: Yates takes a moment, looking in the sky. Is the situation
dialog: out of control? No, no of course not. He has this.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: We're pulling this together and
dialog: ending it in an hour. Clean sweep.
scene_heading: CLEAN. SWEEP.
dialog: 53
dialog: 52.
scene_heading: INT. ROSE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM 53
text: Rose’s house is filled with hip-hop and porn posters, but
dialog: actually kind of nice, in a ghetto way.
text: There are three big screen TVs playing the news, CNN and
text: local, an emergency broadcast with a FEMA scroll running
text: along the bottom, and a third playing music videos.
text: Rose leads Mike and Phoebe inside, his two lackies with the
text: revolver and the uzi following.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: This is Big Harold and Quinzin.
dialog: Niggas this is Mike and Phoebe.
speaker_heading: QUINZIN MIKE
dialog: Me and Mike know each other- I know Quinzin-
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: Oh haha JINX-
speaker_heading: QUINZIN
dialog: We do fantasy football together.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What? And you ain’t tell me? Mike
dialog: you don’t even like football.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: He likes to do fantasy.
speaker_heading: ROSE
scene_heading: OH DOES EVERYONE KNOW? EVERYBODY
scene_heading: GOT A FANTASY FOOTBALL LEAGUE TEAM
dialog: BUT ROSE IS WHAT YOU'RE SAYIN, ROSE
dialog: JUST SITS ALONE I GUESS
speaker_heading: BIG HAROLD
dialog: I don’t know about fantasy football-
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: That doesn’t make me feel better,
dialog: nobody tells you shit!
speaker_heading: BIG HAROLD
dialog: ...s’hurtful.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: It’s all conspiracies tonight,
dialog: baby...
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What’re you talking about? Why’re
dialog: you wearing those gas masks, what's
dialog: going on?
text: Rose lifts up the gas mask a little bit.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Didn't you hear, man, the town is
dialog: under government wildfire outer-
dialog: space shit, straight Andromeda
dialog: Strain disease bacteria shit-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Rose, slow down-
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You haven't seen, fuckin’ look at
dialog: the TV man!
text: Phoebe and Mike turn to the TVs.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Bruno Mars. How is he involved?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: The other TVs Mike.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oh, of course.
text: On CNN, they are showing shots of CDC and FEMA roadblocks and
text: safety helicopters flying over the town.
speaker_heading: CNN REPORTER
dialog: -Reports continue to come in of a
text: full-on level six quarantine around
dialog: the town of Liman, Oregon, where a
dialog: break out of what is being
dialog: described as “Super Malaria” began
dialog: earlier this evening. All roads
dialog: out of the town have been blocked,
dialog: and media access to the town has
dialog: been suspended.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: It’s not real. It can’t be real-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Look. Us.
text: Indeed; Mugshots of Mike and Phoebe are being displayed on
text: the local channel. Phoebe just looks at him: “HOLY FUCK.”
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: CNN REPORTER
dialog: -believes the beginning of the
dialog: outbreak can be traced back to
dialog: these two individuals.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: It’s some kind of- fake thing, fake
dialog: freaky thing made up by the people
dialog: who are after you, Mike-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hey, that’s the lady.
text: On TV, they’re showing a picture of Lasseter.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Which lady? Why the fuck ya’ll on
dialog: TV?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: The woman from the grocery store?
dialog: Who said that stuff to you?
text: Rose is starting to get heightened, giving Big Harold and
text: Quinzin a look.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: -described by FEMA representatives
dialog: as a “mad scientist,” this woman,
dialog: Diane Lasseter is responsible for
dialog: the outbreak. It is believed this
dialog: act of terrorism was triggered by
text: Lasseter’s illicit love affair with
dialog: several doomed test monkeys-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yeah dude that’s definitely her.
speaker_heading: ROSE
text: WHY DO YOU KNOW THAT MONKEYFUCKIN
dialog: MOTHERFUCKER? WHAT AIN'T YOU
dialog: TELLIN ME NIGGA?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Rose just calm down-
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Fuck a calm down!
text: Rose and his lackies raise their guns on Mike and Phoebe.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: WHOA! WHOA!
dialog: 54
dialog: 55
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I want answers, now!
text: Mike and Phoebe exchange a look.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m sorry Rose, but we don’t have
dialog: any.
text: Rose didn’t expect this, and is now in the awkward position
text: of holding guns on his friends.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Okay. Okay. Then for the moment,
dialog: you two gotta go into quarantine.
scene_heading: INT. ROSE’S HOUSE - WORKOUT ROOM 54
text: Mike and Phoebe are roughly pushed into Rose’s workout room,
text: tripping over the gym equipment.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Please Rose, let’s just talk about
dialog: this-
speaker_heading: ROSE
scene_heading: NUH UH MIKE. NERH URH.
text: Rose slams the door, and the lights turn off, activating
text: blacklights, revealing dozens of elaborate drawings of naked
text: ladies on the walls.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ...-It’s okay. We’ll-
text: He turns to see Phoebe standing on a piece of workout
text: machinery, punching loose one of the ceiling tiles.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No, Mike. It’s not okay. We're
dialog: getting the hell out of here.
scene_heading: INT. LASSETER’S HOUSE - NIGHT 55
text: All the lights are off, but we can faintly see the outlines
text: and shadows of a tasteful, if somewhat messy home. The door
text: unlocks, and Scott, Lasseter’s son, tries to sneak in, but
text: the alarm immediately goes off.
speaker_heading: sScoTtT
dialog: Shit shit shit-
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
dialog: 56.
text: Scott hurriedly punches in a code, deactivating it, and then
text: turns around, apologizing already.
speaker_heading: SCOTT (CONT'D)
dialog: Mom I know I said I’d make it home
dialog: tonight, but things got really
dialog: complex, and I promise if you just
dialog: give me a chance and listen
dialog: you'll...
text: Scott realizes no one is challenging him. The house is
text: silent. Mister Timothy, Lasseter’s cat, steps out of the
text: darkness and meows hungrily.
speaker_heading: SCOTT (CONT'D)
dialog: . . Mom?
scene_heading: EXT. LIMAN, OREGON - THE WOODS - MOMENTS LATER 56
text: Lasseter clumsily makes her way through the dark woods,
text: following a GPS device in her hands. It leads her to a
text: blinking package. She takes out a knife and cuts away the
dialog: little parachute.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: ...Fucking mud. There is MUD in my
dialog: hair...
text: She opens it.
text: It’s a Heckler and Koch Mark 23 pistol. She takes it out,
text: loads it, and we watch in a series of quick cuts as she
text: quickly attaches a weapon light, laser sight, silencer,
text: gunner grips...
text: The gun ends up looking completely awesome. She goes deeper,
text: pulling out a Mossberg 500 shotgun. She attaches a strap,
text: and throws it over her shoulder.
text: She sees a paper at the bottom of the package. Lasseter
text: lifts it, and reads it.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: «..Oh my god.
scene_heading: INT. THE PENTAGON - CUBICLES 57
text: Douglas sits alone at his desk in the cubicles. He’s still
text: clearly a little drunk; the office is empty, and a janitor is
text: vacuuming loudly behind him.
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: JANITOR
dialog: Working late, Petey?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I guess that’s right.
speaker_heading: JANITOR
dialog: You boys work hard to keep our
dialog: country safe.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Yeah, I-
text: His phone rings, and he picks it up.
speaker_heading: WE INTERCUT
text: Between Yates, who’s in the Wal-Mart parking lot, and Douglas
text: in his office.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Why am I hearing that there was a
dialog: supply drop made over Liman?
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I- uh-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Did you use my authorization code
dialog: to send something to Lasseter. Say
dialog: yes or say no.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: ...Yes.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Do you understand that you are
speaker_heading: assisting the efforts of a ROGUE
dialog: CIA OPERATIVE acting against
dialog: national security? Do you know
dialog: what they call that, when someone
dialog: is actively working against the
dialog: interests of their own country?
text: Douglas is silent.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: And what's the punishment for
dialog: treason? We shoot you in the head,
dialog: don't we Petey.
text: Douglas, alone in the office, is terrified. Despite how
text: silly Yates is, there’s an odd, compellingly homicidal edge
text: we've seen glimpses of before, and it’s on full display now.
dialog: 58.
text: The janitor’s vacuum seems deafeningly loud.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Now I know, I am sharply aware that
dialog: you have a degree of loyalty to
dialog: Lasseter. But you’re not to help
dialog: her again.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: No, you nothing. She’s trying to
dialog: put me over a barrel, here-
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: A barrel?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Put you over a barrel, it’s an
dialog: idiom, it means you fuck someone
text: over, someone bent over a barrel,
text: their ass is in the air, they get
dialog: fucked in the ass. That's what
dialog: she’s trying to do is fuck my ass.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: I- yes sir-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Well no, fuck her. You make a
dialog: report to central for
dialog: insubordination, you have them
dialog: search her office, yeah, we find
dialog: out her source, and we FUCK HER IN
dialog: THE ASS. She thinks she can put me
dialog: over a barrel, no, fuck her, BIGGER
dialog: BARREL, I’m taking it up the line,
dialog: I got barrels for fuckin days! We
text: are in a full-on hardcore barrel
dialog: escalation situation, Douglas,
dialog: don't you forget it!
text: Yates hangs up, and then does a little fist pump.
speaker_heading: BACK WITH
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
text: Douglas sits in mortified silence, and then his phone rings.
text: He stares at it, not wanting to answer, but then picks it up.
dialog: 58
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I’ve got a lead on Howl from
dialog: Selburg’s tracking device, I’m
dialog: going to pursue it, but in the
dialog: meantime we have to go public.
dialog: Call Krueger, tell him-
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Public- like how public?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Like all the way.
text: Douglas sits in silence.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: Pete? Peter are you there-
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Yates just officially put you on
dialog: the watch list. It is my duty to
dialog: inform you that should you go
dialog: public with this operation-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Your duty, what the fuck are you
dialog: saying right now-
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: If you go public with this
dialog: operation you are committing
dialog: treason and will be treated as a
dialog: traitor to the United States of
dialog: America.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I’m sorry. I can’t help you any
dialog: more.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Petey wait PETER-
text: Douglas quickly hangs up. Then, after a short beat, unplugs
text: his phone, and cradles his head in his hands.
speaker_heading: WITH LASSETER
text: Lasseter, standing along in the woods, stares numbly at hes8
text: phone. After a moment, she regains her composure, and begins
text: walking with fast, hard purpose.
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 60.
scene_heading: INT. ROSE’S HOUSE - GYM 59
text: Phoebe is up in the ceiling, her legs dangling out, trying to
text: get further in, while Mike keeps watch.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: We shouldn’t be doin’ this. We
dialog: should just wait, Rose’1l come
dialog: around, he’s a good guy, you’ll see-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No, Mike, we are not waiting around
dialog: here on the judgment of your DRUG
dialog: dealer.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Well what are you gonna do?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I’m gonna crawl- unh- further in
dialog: and see if I can get to the next
dialog: room, and then-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Shh.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Do you hear that?
scene_heading: INT. ROSE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM 60
text: Rose, Harold and Quinzin turn, watch as some sort of curtain
text: drops down over all the windows to the outside.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: ...the fuck is this?
scene_heading: EXT. ROSE’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 61
text: The entire house has been tented, like for fumigation.
text: BOURBON, an asset with marine-style red mohawk, stands
text: outside of Rose’s tented house. He’s activating some sort of
text: fumigator, which is pouring a green fog into the house
speaker_heading: BOURBON
dialog: Puff, the magic dragon, lived by
dialog: the sea...
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 61.
text: A second figure steps into frame.
scene_heading: INT. ROSE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 62
text: The fog is starting to come in.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: What the fuck is going on...
text: Rose stands, and there’s a noise at the door- ALL THREE MEN
text: OPEN FIRE ON THE DOOR, BLASTING IT TO PIECES AS THE GREEN FOG
text: BEGINS TO ROLL IN-
speaker_heading: IN THE GYM
text: Phoebe’s almost all the way up in the ceiling as the sounds3
text: of gunfire blare out from the living room.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oh no. Not again man, not again!
speaker_heading: IN THE LIVING
speaker_heading: ROOM
text: Rose, Harold and Quinzin are out of ammunition, frantically4
text: reloading their guns.
speaker_heading: QUINZIN
dialog: Were we shooting at nothing-
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Nah, hell nah, there’s something,
dialog: there’s-
text: The lights cut off for a moment. When they come back up, a
text: new figure stands in the room.
text: It’s a skinny, muscular man wearing a sleeveless bullet proof
text: vest. His skin is covered in do-it-yourself tattoos, the
text: scribbling of an insane person, but his hair is short,
text: military cropped.
text: This is NEWTON. He raises a sawed off shotgun.
speaker_heading: ROSE (CONT'D)
dialog: ...now who’s this freaky motherfu-
scene_heading: NEWTON BLASTS ROSE.
dialog: 65
dialog: 62.
text: Rose is knocked violently backwards by the blast, Big Harold
text: raises the magnum, and Newton dodges three shots, sharply
text: tilting and leaning his body as he swiftly crosses the room
text: to Big Harold, hopping over furniture and strikes him once in
text: the face, killing him, then tucks rolls and somersaults up to
text: strike Quinzin, who’s still trying to reload once in the side
text: of the head, killing him as well.
text: Newton killed everyone in the room in roughly four seconds.
text: He pulls on a gas mask, and turns to the gym door as green
text: fog rises all around him.
scene_heading: INT. ROSE’S HOUSE - GYM - CONTINUOUS 65
text: Phoebe pulls herself all the way up into the ceiling as the
text: door BURSTS OPEN and Newton comes into the blacklights.
text: He raises Quinzin’s magnum, and Mike dodges two blasts as
text: they both move towards each-other; again BAM BAM BAM krav
text: Maga exchange of hits before Newton KICKS MIKE TO THE GROUND!
text: Phoebe, in the ceiling above him, pulls an amazing “oh shit”
text: face. Her flinching makes enough noise for Newton to notice,
text: and he looks up and starts shooting into the ceiling.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: FUCK! FUCK!
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: PHOEBE NO!
text: Mike attacks Newton again, and again there’s an incredible
text: rapidfire sequence of hits and counters, which ends with
text: Newton flinging Mike into the mirrored wall, shattering it.
text: Mike lands next to the free-weights.
text: Newton advances on Mike when suddenly Phoebe plunges out of
text: the ceiling behind him in a cloud of dust and plaster. She
text: turns and sees the green fog pouring into the room.
dialog: Newtown turns but-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: His mask, Mike get his mask!
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: HEY!
text: Newtown turns back to Mike-
text: Mike smashes Newton in the sternum with the free weight, then
text: immediately jerks it up into the bottom of his chin, cracking
text: his jaw! Mike YANKS OFF HIS MASK!
dialog: 66
dialog: 63.
text: Newton staggers backward, coughing and spitting out blood and
text: teeth, and Mike FLINGS THE FREEWEIGHT INTO HIS FACE, SMASH-
text: He falls backwards, covered in blood, and Mike quickly grabs
text: the pull-hook of the bench press machine, and SLAMS IT INTO
text: NEWTON’S THROAT; the weights drop, ripping out Newton's
text: throat and LYNCHING him on the machine!
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: HA! FUCK! YOU!
text: In yelling this, Mike inhales the green gas, and staggers,
text: gagging. Phoebe catches him, having put on the gas mask.
scene_heading: EXT. ROSE’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER 66
text: Bourbon is standing out front, waiting. Phoebe bursts out of
text: the front of the tent, holding Mike, who’s vomiting, tears
text: running out of his eyes.
text: Bourbon laughs, drawing a knife.
speaker_heading: BOURBON
dialog: Oh dear me. Look at you, octopus-—
text: Phoebe fires the shotgun from in between Mike's legs, blowing
text: Bourbon away. Phoebe leans Mike against the house, and pats
text: down Bourbon'’s corpse, grabbing something.
text: Phoebe hurriedly pulls the staggering Mike
text: UP THE DRIVEWAY
text: Towards where their car is parked, next to the ravine, but
text: Mike is staggering too badly, and collapses. Phoebe drops
text: down next to him, throwing aside the gas mask, and then
text: injects Mike with the thing she grabbed from Bourbon.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Stay awake baby please okay stay
dialog: awake. That gas was Riofloxin K I
dialog: gave you something that’1l help but
dialog: you just have to stay awake, look
dialog: at me, look at me baby-
text: Mike is pallid and sweaty.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I feel sleepy-
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No Mike if you sleep you die, if
dialog: you sleep you die, that’s the way
dialog: it works is it shuts down your
text: senses one by one, eyes open-
text: Mike is losing it.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: Mike please stay awake, okay?
dialog: Please? Listen if you die, what
dialog: about Rocket Monkey, Mike? What
dialog: about Chip the Brick? If you die
dialog: what happens to all your stories
dialog: they disappear, right? You don’t
dialog: want that, you never even got to
dialog: write them down! You want to stay
dialog: awake because if you die, Rocket
dialog: Monkey dies- Please Mike I love you
dialog: oh please please stay awake, I love
dialog: Rocket Monkey I don’t want him to
dialog: go away, please I love you I love
dialog: you if you just stay awake for ten
dialog: more seconds—
text: Mike turns suddenly and vomits. He lays there heaving on the
text: edge of the ravine. Phoebe tries to comfort him, but he
text: swats her away.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: wHy. THE FUCK. bo you KNOW
dialog: WHAT THAT GAS WAS?
text: Phoebe is silent.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
text: What the FUCK IS GOING ON, PHOEBE.
text: Phoebe bites her lip, tears welling in her eyes.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike-
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON AHHHHH
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike...I’m CIA, okay, I-
speaker_heading: MIKE
scene_heading: AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
dialog: 67
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I’m your handler, I was assigned to
dialog: you five years ago, and I-
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: FUCK! FUCKKKKK! WHAT ARE YOU
text: FUCKING SAYING RIGHT NOW!
text: AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!
text: Mike storms back to the car, getting in.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike wait, wait-—
text: She gets into the passenger side.
speaker_heading: IN THE CAR
text: Mike’s sitting there in silence. Phoebe looks at him, and 67
text: then, hesitantly...
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: Mike just listen to me, I think I
dialog: can explain everything that’s
dialog: happening right now-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Why should I believe anything you
dialog: say, you're full of fuckin'-
dialog: garbage, you're a garbage liar
dialog: piece of shit person-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I know, I know-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You don't know! You don't care
dialog: about me, you're a fuckin' bitch,
dialog: man, you're an asshole-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (hard)
dialog: Just let me explain.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No don’t use your fuckin’ grown up
dialog: voice with me fucking CIA douchebag
dialog: liar, you don’t get to like debrief
dialog: me or whatever! I’m IN LOVE WITH
dialog: YOU, you’re my whole life! You're
dialog: the whole reason I do anything,
dialog: just to spend more time with you,
dialog: you’re the only reason I even ever
dialog: left the house-
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (weaker)
dialog: Mike, stop-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: So you were just sitting there
dialog: fucking laughing at me, taking
dialog: orders, and I always wondered how
dialog: the fuck could someone so wonderful
dialog: and perfect come into my life, I
dialog: thought there’s no way I could ever
dialog: deserve someone like you, and you
dialog: know what, you had me going, you
dialog: had me thinking that I could do
dialog: shit, man, for you, and with you,
dialog: but that’s all BULLSHIT isn’t it?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I don’t even know who the fuck you
dialog: are, I probably don’t know your
dialog: fucking real name! Ugh I want to
dialog: fucking vomit just thinking about
dialog: you, and shit! SHIT! You fucked
dialog: me so many times, was that your job
dialog: too, you’re just a fucking like
dialog: government nanny prostitute...
text: Mike trails off, seeing that Phoebe is overcome with emotion,
text: silently weeping, staring at him.
text: Mike stares back, unsure of what to do, then shakes his head
text: violently and repeatedly punches the steering wheel.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: No! No no NO! You don’t get to
dialog: just fucking fake cry, okay- I know
dialog: how this works, I know they fucking
dialog: train you to do this shit and play
dialog: with my emotions, so stop. Just
dialog: stop. Stop.
text: Phoebe continues crying in silence staring at him.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: STOP.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Selburg.
dialog: 68
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ...What?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: My last name is Selburg, Phoebe is my
dialog: real name, but my last name is Selburg,
dialog: Phoebe Selburg-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Get out.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE MIKE
dialog: Mike, no- Get out of my car!
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: It’s my car-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: GET OUT OF THE CAR!
text: Phoebe is completely breaking down now in tears.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: No no you have to listen to me it’s
dialog: not like you think it is-
speaker_heading: MIKE PHOEBE
dialog: GET OUT! No I don't care! (sobbing)
dialog: STOP TALKING AND GET OUT OF Please Mike just please- No
dialog: THE CAR! I'M DONE WITH YOU you have to listen- listen
scene_heading: JUST FUCK OFF! PLEASE-
text: Phoebe goes silent. They sit there staring at each other.
scene_heading: CRASH. CAR IMPACTS THEM FROM BEHIND AND
text: SENDS PHOEBE’S CAR CAREENING OFF THE ROAD.
text: SLAM TO BLACK.
scene_heading: SECONDS LATER.
text: The car is upside-down on the edge of the ravine, off the 68
text: road, next to a rusty tin-waterpass pipe.
text: Mike snaps awake, dazed; he turns to see that Phoebe is being
text: dragged out the passenger side window, kicking and screaming.
text: She's gone. Suddenly, an assault rifle pokes through the
text: window, accompanied by a CRAZY LAUGH- Mike dives
speaker_heading: OUT OF THE CAR
dialog: 69
dialog: 68.
text: As bullets spark all around him, Mike plummets down into tl
text: mucky ravine water. He scrambles up to see Laugher standing
text: atop the upside-down car, raising an M-16.
text: He opens fire, forcing Mike to scramble headfirst into the
text: cramped pipe, which slants diagonally down.
text: It’s EXTREMELY claustrophobic, but Mike sees light at the end
text: of the tunnel, and crawls towards it...and gets stuck midway,
text: his arms sticking out of the tunnel on the other side.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: SHIT! FUCK! WHAT IS THIS WINNIE
dialog: THE POOH SHIT!
text: Laugher walks up, and squats down, looking into the pipe, at
text: Mike’s legs. Mike, hearing him approach, goes quiet,
text: squeezing his eyes shut and putting a finger to his own lips.
text: Laugher’s face is oddly serious as he stares down at Mike.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: I don’t really understand who you
dialog: are.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: They showed me...they showed me how
dialog: to do so many things. I was so
dialog: lost. I think the government is my
dialog: friend? I don’t know. They told
dialog: me they were doctors? Showed me
dialog: how to do karate. I did so much
dialog: training, they showed me how to use
dialog: all different guns...I saw a swan
dialog: earlier...I don’t know. I think we
dialog: have to take the Easter Eggs
dialog: to...Someone, but-—
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Dude what the fuck are you talking
dialog: about.
text: Laugher goes quiet, looking at Mike’s legs.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: I’m going to do something very bad.
text: Laugher trudges off. Mike immediately begins struggling but
text: it’s funny and pathetic instead of being helpful. From above
text: him, he can hear Laugher moving around, and then, softly:
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (0.S.)
dialog: Mike, I’m sorry. I’m sorry.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: «+-YOU'RE A DICK.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (0.S.)
dialog: I didn’t want this to happen, I-
text: There’s the abrupt sound of a brutal impact; Phoebe goes
dialog: silent.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Phoebe?
text: There’s a distant laugh.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you there, what’s- what smells
dialog: like gas?
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: Gas.
text: Laugher is standing up on the road, pouring out a can of
text: gasoline into the ravine, which pours down into the pipe onto
text: Mike’s legs.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No way man what the shit-
text: Laugher throws back his head and let’s out that trilling,
text: lunatic’s laugh.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: I’m gonna burn you in a shithole!
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No! Don't!
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: I AM! I WILL!
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: NO STOP DON’T
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: NO I WILL I WILL
text: Laugher lights a flare.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: AHHH I FUCKIN HATE YOU MAN!
text: Laugher tosses the flare down into the ravine, which IGNITES
text: THE GASOLINE, the fire RAPIDLY SPREADING DOWN INTO THE PIPE,
text: pouring straight towards Mike’s helpless legs and groin!
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
dialog: 70.
text: Lasseter suddenly appears, reaching up-
dialog: -and pulls out Mike-
text: -Who comes crashing down on top of her, sending them both
dialog: splashing into the gross pond!
text: Mike struggles up, shoving her away, and she quickly makes
text: the SHH motion and pulls him to cover as burning gas pours
text: out of the pipe.
text: Mike stares at Lasseter, who keeps her finger up. Above
text: them, we can here Laugher’s car screech away.
text: Mike runs up to the road; Laugher’s already far gone.
text: Phoebe’s nowhere to be seen.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: shit.
speaker_heading: IN THE CAR
text: Phoebe sits in the back seat, her face covered in blood, 70
text: holding her broken nose. lLaugher, in the front seat,
text: chuckles and starts whistling.
speaker_heading: WITH MIKE
text: Lasseter comes up on the road behind him, approaching him 71
text: slowly as he looks after the disappearing tail lights.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: «Do you know who I am? Do you
dialog: recognize me?
text: Mike turns, looking at her.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You- You-
dialog: (remembers, long beat)
dialog: You're that woman who fucked those
dialog: monkeys!
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I- you- ...WHAT.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: On TV, they said you gave the town
dialog: malaria because you wanted to fuck
dialog: the disease test monkeys!
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: ..-Yates you little-
dialog: 72
dialog: 71.
scene_heading: INT. GOVERNMENT FIELD OPS CENTER - SHORTLY THEREAFTER 72
text: Laugher pushes Phoebe through the doors into
text: who’s at a computer, hurriedly stands up and
text: gives him the finger. Yates laughs, quickly
text: tossing her a roll of paper towel, which she
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Ha! Hello Phoebe Selburg.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Hello dickless.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Wha- wow, that’s not polite-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Your assets are unreliable. Where
dialog: did you find these guys?
text: Yates doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Laugher, where’s Howl?
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: Dead.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: the tent. Otis,
dialog: salutes; Phoebe
dialog: approaching,
text: swats away.
dialog: Yeah, where’s your confirm on that?
dialog: With the two dead assets we left at
dialog: the house? I didn’t see a body.
dialog: The clown here poured a bunch of
text: gasoline down a hole and lit it on
dialog: fire. Did he look in the hole, no.
dialog: But you know that, don’t you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't you?
text: Yates stands there chewing gum.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Are you not even in audio contact
dialog: with your assets during ops?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: We can’t risk being overheard-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Via what, why not use secure
dialog: channels-
dialog: 73
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Because we don’t have- we don’t
dialog: have full satellite support-
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: WHAT? Who authorized this?
dialog: Where’s Krueger, why the fuck is
dialog: Diane Lasseter on television-
text: Some of the techs working at computers are looking up. Some
text: of the soldiers too. Yates stands there chewing gum for a
dialog: moment, regarding Phoebe.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: You’re gonna ask me about my
dialog: authorization? Phoebe fucking
dialog: Selburg, she who’d rather suck some
dialog: stoner’s cock than turn herself
dialog: back in for debrief is going to
dialog: question MY authority?
dialog: (approaches her)
dialog: Oh you think I don’t know? This
dialog: isn’t The fucking Notebook, I've
dialog: read your file, you have no secrets
dialog: me. Oh I’m sorry the lab-rat
dialog: retard made you cum a bunch of
text: times in the back of a Taco Bell,
dialog: that’s worth throwing away the most
dialog: promising CIA undercover in my
dialog: class? Look at where I am now, I’m
dialog: in charge of a major operation,
dialog: look where you are, under
dialog: departmental arrest for
dialog: insubordination awaiting trial as
dialog: of RIGHT NOW where you’1ll be found
text: guilty and shot by a firing squad,
dialog: and your nose is broken, and I’m
dialog: gonna fucking get the comp on the
dialog: kill, your boyfriend has been
dialog: burned alive, and if he hasn't,
dialog: guess what, I’m next leveling. You
dialog: want to see my authorization?
text: Here, MEASURE MY DICK.
text: Yates reaches into his pants...and pulls out his phone.
scene_heading: INT. THE PENTAGON - DOUGLAS’ DESK — CONTINUOUS 73
text: Douglas has his head down on his desk. The phone rings, and
text: he scrambles up, answering it.
dialog: 74
dialog: 75
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I need a MQ-9 in the sky in one
dialog: hour. Can you get me that? The
dialog: answer is yes, thank you. Call me
dialog: when it’s entering my airspace.
text: Yates hangs up. Douglas stares at the phone.
scene_heading: INT. GOVERNMENT FIELD OPS CENTER - CONTINUOUS 74
dialog: (same)
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: BOOM, DRONE ON ITS WAY. I will
dialog: clear this town the fuck out, we’re
dialog: already six civvies down you think
dialog: if I give a fuck we lose ten more?
dialog: This has gone past a training
dialog: exercise, you’ve got you out there
dialog: now, a rogue agent, you’ve got your
dialog: boy-toy killing government assets,
dialog: and you’ve got Lasseter, HA,
dialog: fucking Lasseter’s menopause ridden
dialog: ass betraying this country at THE
text: HIGHEST LEVEL. This is it. The
text: kid gloves are off.
text: Phoebe, looking at Yates, realizes he’s insane. She looks to
text: Otis, like “Can you believe this?” Otis looks at her hard,
text: emotionless, and Phoebe realizes just how fucked she is.
speaker_heading: MIKE (V.O.)
dialog: So what the dick is going on.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION PARKING LOT 75
text: Lasseter and Mike are sitting in the parking lot of a gas
text: station, around by the dumpsters. Mike is drying off his
text: hair with an old McDonalds wrapper, as Lasseter paces
dialog: nervously.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Your name...isn’t Mike Howell.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oooohhhh shiiiiiiiit.
text: Fuckin...twist. TWIST. In REAL
speaker_heading: LIFE.
text: Lasseter falters. He looks at Lasseter, deadly serious.
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Did you- do me like Ghost Protocol?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Ghost- what?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You did me a Ghost Protocol and now
dialog: I’m alone on the mission-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: No, what’s- there is no mission,
dialog: just stop talking and listen-
speaker_heading: MIKE LASSETER
dialog: AM I A ROBOT, IS THAT WHAT Wh- NO, Mike, stop.
dialog: THIS IS ABOUT-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Okay, sorry, okay, I’m going
dialog: through a lot right now-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Do you remember when you were
dialog: arrested?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: When- which time-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: When you were eighteen. The acid.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Oh, yeah.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: That was your third strike. Now I
dialog: know you don’t remember this, but
dialog: that was when we first met. I was
dialog: recruiting people for a Program
dialog: called Wiseman-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: A computer program?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: No, how could you possibly- no. It
dialog: was a program designed to take
dialog: third strike misdemeanor offenders
dialog: and- Listen, Mike, have you
dialog: familiar with MK Ultra?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: The videogame?
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: No not the- there’s a?- no.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: MK Ultra was a classified
dialog: government research operation
dialog: throughout the 1950s, the objective
dialog: being the perfection of behavioral
dialog: engineering.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Behavioral enginee-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Training brain function, physical
dialog: strength and stamina, strategic
text: thinking, language, sharpening
dialog: reflexes, response times and memory
dialog: to a degree that would seem, to a
dialog: normal person...super human.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: A variety...a variety of ways.
dialog: Chemicals...drugs, along with
dialog: hypnosis, sensory deprivation,
dialog: isolation, and various...various
dialog: procedures that could be described
dialog: as...torture-—
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You did this to me? This is me,
dialog: one of the super-soldiers?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You were in the program for four
dialog: years. The directive of my
dialog: program, Project Wiseman, was to
dialog: take third strike offenders who
dialog: volunteered and-
scene_heading: GAS STATION ATTENDANT
speaker_heading: HEY!
text: Lasseter and Mike look up.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: What?
scene_heading: GAS STATION ATTENDANT
dialog: YOU'RE THE LADY FROM TV!
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: What? No?
scene_heading: GAS STATION ATTENDANT
dialog: .--You fuck monkeys!
text: Lasseter reaches down into her coat and draws her pistol,
text: firing it at his feet; the bullets plink off the asphalt, and
text: he runs back inside.
speaker_heading: GAS STATION ATTENDANT (CONT’D)
dialog: SHIT! YOU'RE CRAZY!
text: The gas station attendant runs inside. Lasseter turns back
dialog: to Mike.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You were by far the stand out of
dialog: the program; most of the assets
dialog: were failures, but you, your test
dialog: results were off the chart. But
dialog: one success simply wasn’t enough.
dialog: The program was cancelled, and all
dialog: the agents were wiped.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ...-You erased my memories. Fucked
dialog: with my head and left me here as
text: mayor of Idiotville, with a fake
dialog: ass girlfriend to watch over me.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Why do you think you never go to
dialog: court? Why do you think you've
dialog: never even thought of contacting
dialog: your parents, why do you think
dialog: you're afraid to leave the town?
dialog: You have been living half a life.
text: Mike looks straight ahead, miserable.
scene_heading: INT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS 76
text: The gas station attendant is on the phone.
scene_heading: GAS STATION ATTENDANT
dialog: No, I guarantee you, it’s the lady
dialog: from TV!
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS 77
text: Lasseter leans in, concerned.
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: (trying to comfort him)
dialog: This isn’t you, you know? This
dialog: wasn’t always you. The anxieties,
dialog: the phobias, we did that to you, to
dialog: protect you. You understand? To
dialog: protect not just our investment,
dialog: but your life.
text: There’s a long beat.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Turned me into Boner T. Moron, cuz
dialog: you were done with me. Boner T.
dialog: Moron, the Mayor Of Idiotville.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: No, you were...You were always SORT
dialog: of like this, but-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Why are they trying to kill me now?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: ...After my program was deemed a
dialog: failure, it was handed to a man
dialog: named Adrian Yates to be
dialog: dismantled; it was meant to be a
dialog: temporary assignment, he was only
dialog: supposed to help shut the program
dialog: down, but Yates developed a new
dialog: system, around my guidelines-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
text: There is VERY LITTLE oversight at
dialog: this level of top secret,
text: especially on a cancelled program.
dialog: Yates restructured, he cut corners;
dialog: he wants to make a big impression-
dialog: (off Mike’s blank look)
dialog: He’s using my old wiped agents as
dialog: training targets for his new ones-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What!? They’re just murdering
dialog: people who have no idea what's
dialog: going on?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: .-.-That’s right. Yates is-
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: But those guys, they shot police,
dialog: they murdered Rose-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: That’s because they’re
dialog: unpredictable. The new assets
dialog: aren’t first strike offenders. And
dialog: they’re not military volunteers.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: To get around regulations, Yates is
dialog: pulling from a different criminal
dialog: pool. ...O0ffenders deemed unfit to
dialog: stand trial.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: So you're saying...Mental patients?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Yes...Schizophrenics, severe
dialog: bipolar, clinical psychotics-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Crazy people? This dude was giving
scene_heading: HIGH TECH NINJA MATRIX TRAINING to
text: FUCKING CRAZY PEOPLE?
text: Lasseter reluctantly nods.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: WHAT THE FU-
scene_heading: EXT. KRUEGER’S HOME - DAWN 78
text: The sun is just starting to come up over the home of Raymond
text: KRUEGER. We can faintly hear music.
scene_heading: INT. KRUEGER’S HOME - KITCHEN 79
text: “TEACH ME HOW TO DOUGIE” is playing very loud on an iPod
text: speaker. BUGGY Krueger and ADRIANA Krueger, respectively 9
text: and 15, black, are dancing in the kitchen while eating
dialog: breakfast.
text: Raymond KRUEGER, 62, white, paunchy and broad, the
text: quintessential CIA higher-up, is dancing with them, being
dialog: taught how to do the Dougie.
dialog: He’s actually a pretty good dancer.
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: BUGGY
dialog: You gotta put more lean into it dad-
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: (more lean)
dialog: Like this?
speaker_heading: BUGGY
dialog: Yeah that’s right.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: I put some hips into it like this-—
speaker_heading: ADRIANA
dialog: Oh no, you got sex appeal now-
speaker_heading: KRUEGER ADRIANA
dialog: See, I get the hands too- Ah yeah, boom boom-
dialog: hands- elbows- boom boom-
speaker_heading: BUGGY
dialog: Dad you’re a good dancer!
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: Well I-
text: There’s an odd, loud tone from the landline. Krueger’s
text: expression changes, the smile dropping from his face as he
text: stares at it. In fact, the smile doesn’t just disappear,
dialog: it’s replaced.
text: Replaced by an otherworldly chill, a look so intense and
text: frightening it could only come from a cold, hardened killer.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER (CONT'D)
dialog: Wake up your mother. Tell her
dialog: she’s going to have to drive you to
dialog: school today.
text: The two children go quiet. They know he means business. He
text: walks into the
speaker_heading: STUDY
text: And closes, then locks the door, before finally picking up
text: the beeping landline.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER (CONT'D)
dialog: Kilo Baritone Polo. This is
dialog: Krueger.
speaker_heading: HARDCUT TO:
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 80.
text: Douglas sits in his cubicle, clearly shitting his pants. 80
text: After a long beat:
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
speaker_heading: Hiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.
scene_heading: INT. GOVERNMENT FIELD OPS CENTER 81
text: Yates is sitting and looking at a picture of Mike on a
text: laptop, drumming his fingers. He notices Phoebe, who’s
text: seated over to the right of him, being watched by Laugher.
text: Yates stares at her and she stares back.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What is the number, now?
text: Yates is quiet.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: What are the numbers on this op?
dialog: Do you even know?
text: One of the techs, at a computer, speaks up.
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: Sir, we've got a sighting. Both
text: subjects, headed east on Perryman
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
text: Looks like he’s still alive after
dialog: all.
text: Yates flinches, and then throws a pen at Laugher; it plinks
text: off his face.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: They're going back to the house.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: He wouldn’t go back to the house.
dialog: He’s stupid, not retarded.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: (ignoring her)
dialog: Otis, we still have Beedle on the
dialog: house right?
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: That’s right.
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: You go. You go YOURSELF and
dialog: oversee the capture or termination
text: of Lasseter and Asset Howl.
speaker_heading: oTis
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: NOW THANK YOU, NOW.
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: Sir yes sir.
text: Otis heads out. Yates, straightens his hair, and then lights
text: a cigarette. He looks up to see Phoebe staring at him.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: The fuck are you looking at?
text: Phoebe doesn’t react. Yates looks around, and sees all the
text: techs are looking at him too.
text: There’s a beep, and a tech speaks up.
speaker_heading: TECH
text: MQ-9 just entered Liman’s airspace.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Can we call it from here?
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: No sir, only central can call it.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: But I’ve got the authorization,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Right. Tell them to ready a strike
dialog: on Asset Hotel Hotel.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You're...you’re going to blow up my
dialog: house.
text: Yates smirks, tapping his forehead.
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: 82 EXT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE - DAWN 82
text: Mike approaches, Lasseter following him, angry. The sun is
text: just starting to rise.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I am begging you, BEGGING you not
dialog: to go in there, he could have
text: snipers taking aim at us right now-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Then let them shoot us, who cares-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I CARE, I don’t want to die, and I
dialog: don’t want you to die either-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m going home, I’m going to sleep-
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT? Mike
dialog: you can’t do that, we have to keep
dialog: you alive until someone at the
dialog: Pentagon can see what’s happened,
dialog: can rectify-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: WAIT? That’s your plan? You’re as
dialog: stupid as the other guy! Did you
dialog: call anyone? Is anyone even
dialog: listening to you? Have you ever
dialog: been on like, missions and shit,
dialog: are you a secret agent or just
dialog: like, a desk person? Do the people
dialog: at the Pentagon even know you’re
dialog: here? Does anyone even care?
text: Lasseter is silent.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: You're both fuckin crazy, crazy
dialog: people. I have accepted that I am
dialog: going to die, okay? I’m not even
dialog: the person I thought I was, and my
dialog: whole life is total bullshit, so
dialog: who cares, right? WHO CARES? If I
dialog: die, I’m gonna die stoned, in my
dialog: bed, you can go or you can stay.
text: Mike unlocks his front door, and Lasseter steps back, raising
text: her shotgun.
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
dialog: 83.
text: But he enters without incident. Lasseter looks around,
text: helpless, and then follows him inside.
scene_heading: EXT. THE SKY - CONTINUOUS 83
text: The MQ-9 strike drone banks and turns around in the sky.
speaker_heading: AT THE PENTAGON
text: Yates sits with a laptop, communicating with Airforce commatd
dialog: via video chat.
speaker_heading: AIRFORCE COMMAND
dialog: Repeat, confirm target coordinates
dialog: 58-91-10 local.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Confirm.
speaker_heading: AIRFORCE COMMAND
dialog: Targeting in progress, awaiting
dialog: confirmation to strike.
text: Douglas’ cell phone rings, and he lifts it, answering it
text: without looking.
speaker_heading: scoTtT
dialog: Hey Pete, it’s Scott.
text: Douglas’ face freezes, realizing he made a mistake answering.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH
text: Scott at home.
speaker_heading: SCOTT (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you know where my mom is? She
dialog: didn’t come home last night-
text: Douglas hurriedly hangs up, and then chucks the phone across
text: the office; a young CIA woman is coming in, and it smacks her
text: in the face; she spills her coffee and falls on the ground.
text: Douglas instinctively ducks behind his desk.
speaker_heading: AIRFORCE COMMAND
dialog: Douglas? Agent Douglas?
text: Douglas peeks up over the desk.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Still here.
dialog: 85
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: INT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE - BEDROOM 85
text: Mike picks up the horrible stuffed bear, and goes into the
text: bedroom. He sits down on the bed, hugging it. He stares at
text: his feet. After a moment he begins crying.
speaker_heading: IN THE LIVING
speaker_heading: ROOM
text: Lasseter is standing awkwardly with her shotgun, looking
text: around, nervous. She notices all the pictures of Rocket
text: Monkey and Chip the Brick on the ground.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Who’s Rocket Monkey?
text: Mike, still crying in the other room, shouts back a response.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: He’s a monkey astronaut, I made him
text: up. He goes on adventures.
text: Lasseter looks down, ashamed, sad.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You know, Selburg was supposed to
dialog: come back in.
text: Mike blinks, annoyed.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: When you were in the program, she
dialog: was your number one. As all the
dialog: other assets in the program failed
dialog: out, you just kept suceeding...She
dialog: had so much faith in you. She
dialog: believed in you, and you showed her
dialog: kindness, warmth, even then.
dialog: Phoebe didn’t have a lot of that,
dialog: growing up...
text: We become subtly aware that there is another person in the
text: room with her; a VERY MUSCLEBOUND military asset, who has
text: camouflaged himself into the mess.
text: This is BEEDLE. As Lasseter speaks, Beedle slowly extracts
text: himself from the camouflage.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: She was just supposed to help you
dialog: get set up in the town, and then
dialog: she was going to leave you. Over
dialog: time, her faith in you, the nature
dialog: of it had...changed.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: We were going to fake her death and
dialog: give her a promotion, but
dialog: she...I’ve actually never seen this
dialog: in undercover work, she decided to
dialog: stay with you. She gave up
dialog: everything, her whole ‘real life.’
text: Mike sits up, listening, wiping his tears.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: I thought you should know that. I
dialog: don’t suppose it means much now but-
scene_heading: BEEDLE SILENTLY STRIKES LASSETER FROM BEHIND-
scene_heading: IN THE BEDROOM
text: Mike perks up, even though there’s barely a sound. 86
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Miss Lasseter?
speaker_heading: IN THE LIVING
speaker_heading: ROOM
text: Beedle slams Lasseter against the wall, and begins beating 87
dialog: the holy hell out of her-
text: It’s terrifying. We are witnessing a super agent toying with
text: a forty five year old woman like a cat torturing a lizard,
dialog: it’s horrible to watch, WHAM WHAM WHAM WHAM!
text: Mike is suddenly in the room next to Beedle, hurling a lamp
text: at him! Beedle dodges, and Mike flings the Playstation at
text: him, then beer bottle after beer bottle, rotten microwave
text: meals; the mess state of the kitchen gives Mike a LOT of
dialog: stuff to throw.
text: Beedle suddenly advances, and lands some huge, bone-jarring
text: hits on Mike, but Mike grabs the ratty rug under, him, and
speaker_heading: PULLS IT OUT-
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: HA FUCK YOU
text: Beedle staggers, and Mike GRABS HIS ARM-
scene_heading: EXT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 88
text: Otis drives up in a jeep, just as Beedle comes CRASHING OUT
text: THE FRONT WINDOW. Mike appears in the window, wielding the
text: shotgun, and fires at Otis three times.
dialog: 89
dialog: 90
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: 86.
text: Otis drops out of the jeep, taking cover and unslinging an AR-
text: 10 assault rifle. He returns fire, and Mike drops, ducking
text: out of sight, as Beedle starts to stand.
text: Otis raises his walkie-talkie.
speaker_heading: oTis
text: ASSET HOWL CONFIRMED ON SIGHT, I AM
text: ENGAGED NOW.
scene_heading: INT. GOVERNMENT FIELD OPS CENTER - CONTINUOUS 89
text: Yates nods.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Copy that.
text: (sets down his walkie-
dialog: talkie)
dialog: Drone strike is a go, call it.
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: But what about-
speaker_heading: YATES
text: STRIKE IS A GO, CALL IT NOW.
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: We are go for strike.
speaker_heading: AT THE PENTAGON
text: Douglas, slumped behind his desk, moans nervously. 90
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Go for strike.
speaker_heading: AIRFORCE COMMAND
text: Moving into attack position.
speaker_heading: IN THE SKY
text: The drone banks, and swoops low, zooming in over the suburk#in
dialog: neighborhood
speaker_heading: IN PHOEBE’S
speaker_heading: HOUSE
text: Mike flips Lasseter her over, dragging her to the bedroom 92
text: door, grabs her pistol out of her holster, hops over her and
text: tosses her the shotgun as the front door flies off the
text: hinges. Lasseter hides into bedroom, as Mike dives for cover
text: in the kitchen.
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 95
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: 98
dialog: 99
dialog: 87.
text: Otis begins SHREDDING THE KITCHEN WITH GUNFIRE, as Mike hugs
text: the ground, destroyed garbage falling all around him.
scene_heading: IN THE BEDROOM
text: Beedle comes crashing through the bedroom window, and 93
text: Lasseter rolls under her the bed. Beedle hops over the bed,
text: and goes to the doorframe, not seeing her, but Mike, pinned
text: down by Otis, takes a shot at him.
scene_heading: IN THE KITCHEN
text: Otis, seeing that he has Mike pinned on both sides, smiles 94
text: slightly and continues swiss-cheesing the kitchen. Pots and
text: pans fall all around him.
speaker_heading: AT THE 95
speaker_heading: GOVERNMENT
speaker_heading: COMMAND CENTER
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Fire.
speaker_heading: IN THE PENTAGON
text: Douglas sits with his head in his hands. 96
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: I SAID FIRE.
scene_heading: IN THE BEDROOM
text: Lasseter comes up on the other side of the bed, unseen by 97
text: Otis, shoves the shotgun up Horrible Bear's ass, swings it up
text: one handed into Beedle’s face just as he turns-
scene_heading: IN THE KITCHEN
text: There’s a soft “whud” from the bedroom. 98
speaker_heading: OoTis
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Beedle?
text: Mike pops up and turns on the broken microwave- WHICH
text: EXPLODES INTO FLAME, STARLING OTIS, who starts firing blindly-
text: Mike closes his eyes, takes a deep breath, and then grabs a
text: saucepan and throws it straight up into the air-
dialog: WE GO INTO SLOW 99
speaker_heading: MOTION AS
dialog: 100
dialog: 101
dialog: 102
dialog: 88.
text: It arcs up, flipping and turning; Otis looks at it confused,
dialog: and then, we
scene_heading: LAUNCH BACK INTO100
speaker_heading: NORMAL SPEED
text: As Mike fires a single shot up into the airborne pan, and it
text: RICOCHETS OFF, STRIKING OTIS IN THE CHEST.
text: WHAT. THAT WAS SO AWESOME.
text: The pot clatters to the ground, and Otis falls.
text: Mike sits there motionless, then peeks out, seeing Otis
text: laying on the floor..
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Whoa-ho-ho. Hooooo0. Hoooococof.
scene_heading: INT. GOVERNMENT FIELD OPS CENTER - CONTINUOUS 101
text: Yates, having heard the gunshot, lifts his communicator.
speaker_heading: YATES (ON PHONE)
dialog: Drop it now, the fuck are you
dialog: waiting for you idiot!? DROP IT
speaker_heading: NOW.
speaker_heading: IN THE PENTAGON
text: Douglas slumped staring into the distance.
speaker_heading: AIRFORCE COMMAND
dialog: Please confirm deployment.
text: Douglas slams closed his laptop, and then hangs up the phone.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: (quietly to himself)
dialog: No. Fuck you.
scene_heading: EXT. PORTLAND INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - TARMAC - SUNRISE 102
text: Krueger is standing alone in cold light of the Oregon
text: sunrise. He checks his watch.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: Okay.
text: He clicks his watch, starting a timer.
dialog: 103
dialog: 89.
scene_heading: INT. PHOEBE’S HOUSE - KITCHEN 103
text: Mike is standing in his kitchen, smoking a bowl. He surveys
text: the destruction of the living room, and sighs.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Whoa, this room’s fuuuuucked up.
text: Lasseter limps out of the bedroom.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Did you kill the big jacked guy?
text: Lasseter gives a pained nod, and then slumps against the
text: wall, falling to the floor. She sees Otis, who’s dying.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Otis. How'd you get tied up into
dialog: this?
speaker_heading: oTis
dialog: (weak, dying)
dialog: They told me the call came in.
dialog: They told me it was the new
dialog: Wiseman.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: But you must’ve known. All this
dialog: insanity, you must've known-
speaker_heading: oTis
dialog: It’s not my job to “know,” you know
dialog: that. Who was I gonna call, Miss
dialog: Lasseter? ...top secret...Who was
dialog: I gonna...call...
text: Otis dies.
text: The kitchen landline starts ringing. Lasseter, pained, rolls
dialog: over.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Don’t answer that.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What if it’s the mean government
dialog: people?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: It definitely is.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: What about Phoebe?
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Selburg will be fine, but you can’t-
text: Mike awkwardly puts a finger to her lips, silencing her.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You have been a good mom to me. I
dialog: don’t really remember my mom and I
dialog: assume that’s kind of your fault
dialog: but I want you to know if I hada
dialog: mom that I remembered I’d hope she
dialog: fought jacked dudes and was a top
dialog: secret bad-ass just like you,
dialog: except didn’t fuck me over and
dialog: replace my memories and make my
dialog: life all fake too. I am proud of
dialog: you, fake-mom. You are a real
dialog: stupid idiot.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Mike wait-
text: Mike answers the phone.
speaker_heading: YATES (ON PHONE)
dialog: ...Hello?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: YATES (ON PHONE)
dialog: Who's this?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: You first?
speaker_heading: WE CUT BACK AND
speaker_heading: FORTH BETWEEN
text: Yates at the command center and Mike.
speaker_heading: YATES (ON PHONE)
dialog: .-.-Aw shit. Aw...fuuuck. It’s
dialog: you, isn’t it, it’s Mike Howell-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes. Is this...the bad
dialog: guy?...speaking?
text: Lasseter facepalms.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Is the house not all...on fire?
dialog: Big crater?
dialog: gl.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Uhhh...No man, the house is
dialog: basically normal.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: occ e rec ee ee nancae Okay....
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: So...what are you doing?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: What’s the plan now?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: I’m sorry what?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Like do you wanna...be friends, or-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: NO I DON'T WANNA FUCKING BE
dialog: FRIENDS. Do you understand- can
dialog: you comprehend the scale of fuck-up
dialog: you are causing!? This is all your
dialog: fault, you're the goddamn fart in
dialog: the machine-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Don’t call me a fart YOU’RE a fart-
speaker_heading: YATES
speaker_heading: I AM NOT
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Yes you are you're a dickfart-
speaker_heading: YATES
speaker_heading: NO YOU
speaker_heading: MIKE
speaker_heading: NO YOU
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: OKAY WHAT FUCK, stop, shit, jesus.
dialog: Look, okay, let’s be friends. You
dialog: want to be friends, we can be
dialog: friends. Okay. This is retarded,
dialog: oh my god. Okay.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You wanna come visit us, we’re at
dialog: the Wal-Mart.
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: On Wilson?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Why, I mean, what would we do?
text: Yates eyes Phoebe.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: You wanna talk to Phoebe?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: No, fuck her.
text: Yates draws his pistol, and points it at Phoebe’s head.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Fuck her? So if I shot her in the
dialog: head right now, you’re chill,
dialog: you're chill with that, it’s all
dialog: chill, ooh shaggy-doo, it’s all
dialog: cool dude?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (long, conflicted beat)
dialog: No, that wouldn’t be cool.
text: Yates laughs, and tosses Phoebe the phone. She catches it,
text: and stares at it.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Go on. Say something.
text: Phoebe steels herself.
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike, Mike just listen okay. I'm
dialog: sorry I lied to you, I'm so sorry
dialog: but listen, don't let them win,
dialog: don't let them kill you, and I know
dialog: you won't but they're going to kill
dialog: me if you don't come get me, and if
dialog: you hate me then I'll understand,
dialog: and if you come get me you're
dialog: walking into a trap, and I know
dialog: you're scared but Mike, if you
dialog: think you can do this, you CAN,
dialog: okay, you're better than these
dialog: guys, and I believe in you Mike, I
dialog: always did, I believe in you and I_
dialog: love you and you can come or not
dialog: come either way just please forgive
dialog: me I love you I love you I-
text: Yates takes the phone, and hangs up. Phoebe sits sobbing,
text: and breathing hard. He stands watching her.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Is he coming or not?
speaker_heading: SLAM TO:
text: Mike stands in his bullet riddled kitchen, tears streamind04
text: down his face. He sets down the phone, staring at it.
text: He mutters something, inaudible, then straightens himself,
dialog: pulling his shit together.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Mike? What are you doing?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Don't fucking...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't fuck with my girlfriend.
scene_heading: INT. THE PENTAGON - OFFICES 105
text: Douglas is sitting in a meeting room, laying on the desk.
text: He’s taken off his shoes, and lays staring at the ceiling,
text: repeatedly tossing and catching a koosh ball.
text: The koosh ball is SNATCHED OUT OF THE AIR. The room is
text: FILLED with government agents, holding guns on him.
speaker_heading: DOUGLAS
dialog: Okay. Great. This is just
dialog: perfect. What a shitty night.
dialog: 94.
scene_heading: 106 EXT. WAL-MART 106
text: Yates stands looking out at the dawn light, smoking a
dialog: cigarette.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: This sucks. This truly sucks. But
dialog: you're okay, you’re gonna get it
dialog: done. There’s winners and there’s
dialog: losers. You’re a winner. You’re
dialog: gonna get it done. That’s what
dialog: winners do, we get it done, we-
text: Techs begin walking past him, hauling equipment. They’re
text: dismantling the base.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: What is this? Where are you going?
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: They pulled the operation, they’re
dialog: saying anyone who doesn’t report
dialog: back to debrief is acting against
dialog: interests of POTUS.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: POTUS? How the fuck is the
dialog: President involved, he’s not-
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: He is now, sir.
text: Yates stands there, flummoxed, and then turns and hurries to
text: the big eighteen wheeler, opening the door.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: ALL ASSETS OUT, NOW, you are all
text: CODE THREE, on ME.
text: The remaining thirteen men begin unloading from the truck,
text: swarming around Yates; they all look like what they are,
text: highly trained psychotic supersoldiers.
text: Yates turns, and sees Otis’ jeep coming up the street, very
dialog: quickly.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Otis’ jeep? What the fuck is-
text: ILLEGAL FIREWORKS BEGIN LAUNCHING FROM THE edge of the
text: parking lot, AT GROUND LEVEL.
text: Lasseter is FIRING THEM FROM COVER.
dialog: 107
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: FUCK! WHAT? NO SHIT FUCK!
text: Yates turns, and starts back towards the tent, which is
text: STRUCK BY A FIREWORK AND EXPLODES, flooring Yates as the
text: jeep, driven by Mike, comes skidding into the lot.
text: Fire works start streaking in all over the place, exploding
text: at ground level; the chaos of light and sound this causes is
scene_heading: INCREDIBLE.
text: The tent COLLAPSES, techs running everywhere in panic.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Laugher! BRING SELBURG! WITH ME,
dialog: Now!
text: Yates shoots out the front door of the Wal-Mart. Laugher,
text: dragging Phoebe, approaches, with the rest of the assets
dialog: following.
text: THE JEEP IS DRIVING STRAIGHT TOWARDS THEM, FIREWORKS FIRING
dialog: OFF FROM INSIDE IT!
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
text: Shit, shit, FALL BACK, FALL BACK!
dialog: Form a defensive line, we’1ll take
dialog: him out inside!
scene_heading: INT. WAL-MART - CONTINUOUS 107
text: The Wal-Mart is dark as Yates and the assets enter. Yates,
text: with Laugher dragging Phoebe in tow, hurries towards the back
text: as the rest of the assets follow loosely and then-
text: THE JEEP COMES crashing through the front doors of the Wal-
text: Mart, fireworks EXPLODING INDOORS.
text: The assets are dazed. Mike HOPS OUT, and we enter a THE MOST
text: EPIC TRACKING SHOT YOU EVER DID SEE:
text: Mike encounters an asset immediately at check-out; he hops
text: the counter, throws a magazine in the guy’s face, and then
text: SMASHES HIM WITH THE DIGITAL CASH REGISTER-
text: Mike moves into the first aisle, cosmetics, an asset rushing
text: up to him- Mike fights him for a moment before knocking him
text: away, grabbing hairspray off the shelf, raises a lighter-
text: BOOM THE GUY'S ON FIRE- Mike grabs eyeliner pencil and SLAMS
scene_heading: IT INTO THE ASSETS EYE-
text: He ducks around the corner-
dialog: 96.
text: An asset attacks- Mike fights him before grabbing dish soap
text: off the shelf and spraying him in the face, then nabbing a
text: dustpan-dustbrush combo- another asset rushes him and after a
text: few blocks Mike slams the dustpan into his neck, slicing it,
text: then turns and DRIVES THE DUSTBRUSH into the side of the
dialog: blinded agent’s face-
text: He grabs some Lemon Pledge off the shelf, and a mop and moves
text: to the next aisle, nearly catching up to Yates-
speaker_heading: YATES
text: HOLY FUCKING SHIT! HOLY SHIT!
text: Yates shoves three assets at him, and Mike faces them ALL
text: with the Lemon Pledge, and then begins beating them with the
text: mop before realizing he’s in kitchenwares, and grabs a set of
text: kitchen knives, dumping it out onto the floor-
text: Everyone scrambles to pick up the knives and Mike QUICKLY
text: GRABS KNIVES, PINNING TWO OF THE ASSETS HANDS TO THE FLOOR,
speaker_heading: THEN STANDS-—
text: And is slashed THREE TIMES by the remaining asset. Mike
text: staggers back, then pops up and SLAMS A MEAT CLEAVER INTO THE
text: ASSET’S HEAD, before curbstomping one of the downed assets
dialog: and punting the other-
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: RAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!
text: Mike charges into the next aisle, grabbing a teapot as he
text: goes, and Yates takes a shot at him; he ducks to cover and is
text: ATTACKED BY AN ASSET, punches and kicks before MIKE JAMS THE
text: TEAPOT STRAIGHT INTO THE GUY’S FACE, KILLING HIM.
dialog: wow, this is a lot of action to write out, let’s hope you’re
dialog: having more fun reading it than if I just wrote “Mike goes
dialog: ape on these motherfuckers.”
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You can’t stop him Yates, just let
dialog: me go! He doesn’t care about you,
dialog: he just-
text: Yates PUNCHES PHOEBE IN THE FACE.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: COME ON, we’re going out the back!
dialog: YOU TWO, STOP HIM PLEASE.
text: Laugher drags her along. Back with Mike, he’s confronted by
dialog: three assets-—
dialog: 108
dialog: 97.
text: He’s in the garden aisle. Everyone realizes where they are,
text: and immediately goes to grab weapons- MIKE CHARGES THEM WITH
text: A PITCHFORK. One goes down, but the other two pincher Mike,
text: repeatedly kicking and punching him-
text: He grabs a can of RAID of the shelf and GETS THEM BOTH IN THE
text: FACE, then picks up a garden sheers and STABS A DUDE IN THE
text: HEART. The other asset, he sprays with more Raid and then
text: bashes him with the can before jumping over him into
text: THE HARDWARE AISLE, where he’s confronted by the remaining
dialog: four assets-
text: MIKE DRAWS OUT ONE OF THE ILLEGAL FIREWORKS AND LIGHTS IT-
speaker_heading: KABOOM!
text: When the smoke clears, noise is gone, replaced by a piercing
text: ringing, and everything is colorfully on fire. Mike stands
text: up, grabbing a rubber mallet off a burning shelf, and walks
text: through the assets, SMASHING THEIR HEADS LIKE WHACKAMOLE as
text: they start to recover.
text: Yates, seeing Mike approaching looking like the mother-
text: fuckering terminator, grabs Phoebe by the hair and yanks her
text: to her feet.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (to Laugher)
dialog: For fucksakes, KILL HIM.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: Yeah okay.
text: Laugher starts towards Mike, as Yates retreats back into an
dialog: Employees Only hallway.
text: ...-But Mike is suddenly gone. Laugher looks around,
dialog: confused.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER (CONT'D)
dialog: -..-Don’t hide. Come out. Don’t
dialog: hide. I want to talk to you.
scene_heading: INT. WAL-MART - EMPLOYEES ONLY HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 108
text: Yates hurls Phoebe into the hallway, she hits the walls hard,
text: her head banging off, leaving a smear of blood. Yates slams
text: the door behind him, locking it.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
speaker_heading: OwW- OW--—
text: Yates tries to grab her and she swats his hand away.
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: I FUCKING HATE YOU!
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: You're the worst fucking- CHRIST do
dialog: you see how stupid you are? You
dialog: can't even see it you're still sure
dialog: that you're going to come out on
dialog: top, WELL YOU'RE NOT, ADRIAN.
dialog: YOU'RE GOING TO FUCKING DIE. IS
dialog: THAT REAL TO YOU YET, DO YOU SEE
text: THE FIRE, DO YOU SMELL THE FUCKING
dialog: SMOKE, YOU'RE GOING TO DIE-
text: Yates grabs Phoebe’s head, and smashes it against the wall,
text: SPLAT, and she drops to her knees.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Look at you. Pathetic, And you
dialog: “hate me?” What are you, fucking
dialog: fourteen years old-
text: Yates tries to grab her head again and Phoebe blocks and goes
text: for the throat. Yates jumps backwards, startled.
text: Phoebe looks at him through bangs of bloody hair.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Fuck. What's that about, fuck you-
text: Yates tries to smash her head again, and AGAIN PHOEBE BLOCKS
text: AND GOES FOR THE THROAT- SHIT MAN, FUCK!
text: Yates leaps back.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: Man, fuck this. And fuck you,
dialog: Selburg. They’1ll be fucking
dialog: laughing at your dead pothead ass
text: tomorrow morning in the debriefing.
dialog: Tarzan, you can fucking burn with
dialog: your ape.
text: Yates spits on her, and starts to walk away. Phoebe, on her
text: knees, concussed and bloody, let’s out a weird low laugh.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: (sing song)
dialog: You're gonna diiiiieeeeee
dialog: (laughs )
dialog: ADRIIIIANNNN, you're gonna diiieee-
dialog: 99.
scene_heading: 109 INT. WAL-MART - CONTINUOUS 109
text: Laugher is looking around the burning Wal-Mart.
speaker_heading: LAUGHER
dialog: Were you crazy too? Were you a
dialog: person who was exceptional like me
dialog: or are you a different type of
dialog: exceptional, do you...can you move
dialog: me? Will you move me? I feel like
dialog: I need to be moved, you know,
dialog: please move me-
scene_heading: MIKE ATTACKS- LAUGHER BLOCKS-—
dialog: Listen, I’ve written a lot of action here. You know it, I
dialog: know it, and I want this script to be under 110 pages
dialog: because, c’mon, it’s Stoner Bourne, not Kafka. This isn’t
dialog: Kafka, okay?
dialog: They have guys...There are like, fight coordinators, guys who
dialog: can make this look awesome. This isn’t a comic book. We all
dialog: know ultimately it’s going to come down to what we can shoot
dialog: on the day anyway, right?
dialog: So just take my word for it that the fight between Mike and
dialog: Laugher makes any of the action in the new James Bond films
dialog: look like fucking 1960s Batman. It’s violent, it’s
dialog: incredible, they beat the living shit out of each other, and
dialog: it ends with them
text: REPEATEDLY STABBING EACH OTHER WITH SCREWDRIVERS before Mike
text: BURIES A CLAW HAMMER INTO LAUGHER'S FOREHEAD, and then
text: collapses, seemingly dead.
scene_heading: 110 EXT. BACK OF WAL-MART - CONTINUOUS 110
text: Yates is running, frantic. He gets about twenty feet,
text: repeatedly looking behind him, spinning and running STRAIGHT
scene_heading: INTO KRUEGER.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: Hello Adrian.
scene_heading: 111 INT. WAL-MART - CONTINUOUS 111
text: Phoebe slowly moves through the back of the burning Wal-Mart,
text: discovering Mike laying face down on the ground.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Mike. Mike. Hey.
dialog: 112
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Hey Phoebe.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: Do you want to...leave Wal-Mart?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: ...Yeah...I guess, yeah.
scene_heading: EXT. WAL-MART - MOMENTS LATER 112
text: Phoebe, supporting Mike, exits Wal-Mart, and is immediately
text: HIT BY MULTIPLE SPOTLIGHTS.
text: She squints against the light, and turns, seeing Krueger,
text: nearby, surrounded by Seal Team 6, with Lasseter and Yates
text: handcuffed on their knees in front of him.
text: Phoebe looks around, dazed.
text: The Wal-Mart burning behind them, Black Hawk choppers in the
text: air overhead, dozens of military vehicles and cop cars are
text: parked into the lot, it’s CRAZY. They are ready to take down
dialog: God himself out here.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I wanted you to break your
dialog: training. You know that right? I
dialog: wanted you to come to Hawaii with
dialog: me, I hoped you'd be able to get
dialog: through it, I believed in you-
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I know. Lasseter told me.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: What? Lasseter, you saw Lasseter-
text: Mike drops to one knee, clearly about to pass out.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE (CONT'D)
dialog: Mike, are you-
text: He produces the ring box.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Are you want to...marry me?
text: Phoebe looks around, breathing hard, and immediately begins
text: to cry, wiping blood off her face.
dialog: 113
dialog: 114
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: MIKE (CONT'D)
dialog: Don’t cry. It’s perfect. This is
dialog: all just...this is perfect.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: I'm sorry...
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Don't say sorry. Just say yes.
speaker_heading: PHOEBE
dialog: ...Yes.
text: THEN A SYMPHONY OF CLICKING GUNS.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (thrilled)
dialog: Hey! SHE SAID YES! WwOOO-
text: Mike is HIT WITH A BOUT A MILLION TAZERS, DROPPED INSTANTLY.
speaker_heading: HARDCUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. INTERROGATION ROOM 113
text: The room is spotlessly clean and empty, save for a stainless
text: steel table and two chairs. In one of them is Mike.
text: He’s been cleaned up and bandaged, but he’s still a total
text: mess. Bloody, slightly burnt finger tips drumming away on
text: the steel, but other than that, he’s motionless.
text: The door opens, and a young CIA ANALYST, in a suit and
text: looking very official, comes in carrying a file, and sits
text: down across from the Mike.
speaker_heading: HARDCUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GOVERNMENT CAR - BACKSEAT 114
text: Yates and Lasseter, still all fucked up, are being driven
text: somewhere. They’re let out ina
speaker_heading: SNOWY FIELD
text: In the middle of the woods. It’s about noon on a cold, gray
text: day. Both of them are shivering.
text: They stand there with one another in silence. Krueger clears
text: his throat, startling them.
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: Diane Lasseter. Adrian Yates.
speaker_heading: YATES LASSETER
dialog: Hello sir- Good morning-
speaker_heading: KRUEGER (CONT'D)
dialog: Shhhhhhhh.
text: Krueger regards them both, shivering there in the cold, while
text: he himself is dressed warmly, and looks comfortable.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER (CONT'D)
dialog: All right.
text: He checks his watch. The timer is at 3 HOURS 40 MINUTES.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER (CONT'D)
dialog: Let's wrap this up.
text: Lasseter can’t hide an involuntary chill.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: I just want to say, sir, that Peter
dialog: Douglas should not have his actions
dialog: in the past twenty four hours held
dialog: against him. I manipulated Douglas-
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: To betray the United States and the
dialog: direct orders of his commanding
dialog: officer?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: Douglas will be dealt with when
dialog: he’s dealt with. You, on the other
dialog: hand directly interfered in a
dialog: government operation.
text: Unsanctioned, without notification,
dialog: without authorization, you killed
dialog: an American Government Operative,
dialog: and share indirect accountability
dialog: for the deaths of seven civilians
dialog: and seventeen government assets.
dialog: Is that correct?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Yes, but sir, I felt Yates was-—
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: Shhh.
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Thanks to Lasseter alerting asset
dialog: “Howl,” seven American citizens
dialog: were killed in the-
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: -Operation you created and
text: spearheaded, without any direct
dialog: authorization-
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Yes sir, but you have to
dialog: understand, I was self starting.
dialog: You see opportunities, you take
dialog: them; what am I supposed to do
dialog: other than take opportunities? You
dialog: weren’t gonna authorize some
dialog: multibillion dollar test in Europe,
dialog: Asia, so I started here, with
dialog: people we already had deemed
dialog: expendable. Yes, maybe I took
dialog: shortcuts, maybe I made mistakes,
dialog: but in the end, I was doing what I
dialog: understood that I needed to do to
dialog: create a cost-efficient exploit of
dialog: a system already put in place. I
dialog: know maybe I didn’t have
dialog: “permission” or whatever, but if
dialog: I'd pulled this off, you'd be
dialog: thanking me. You'd be fucking
dialog: THANKING ME, right? Am I right?
text: After a beat, Krueger nods. CIA is shady like that.
speaker_heading: YATES (CONT'D)
dialog: This is what the problem is, is
dialog: that somebody created an
dialog: environment where I was made to
dialog: look foolish. It was an
dialog: unpredictable environment; I didn’t
dialog: account for Diane Lasseter and
dialog: Phoebe Selburg betraying their
dialog: country, their ideals, and this
dialog: agency in defense of a wash-out
dialog: stoned nonfunctional asset, I acted
dialog: to the best of my abilities and in
dialog: the best interest of national
dialog: security-
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: And was this before or after you
dialog: created a fake malaria panic,
dialog: attempted to order a drone strike
dialog: on a American soil and wiped out an
dialog: entire small town police force?
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: Well sir, it’s complicated.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: No it isn’t.
speaker_heading: YATES
dialog: With all due respect, yes it is.
dialog: With all due respect, you weren't
dialog: fucking there. You haven’t read
dialog: the file, there is no file yet, you
dialog: haven't read the logs, you have no
dialog: fucking clue the kind of bullshit
dialog: I've been dealing with from these
dialog: two psycho bitches, and I-
text: Krueger draws a pistol and shoots Yates three times in the
dialog: chest.
text: Lasseter stifles a scream. Yates drops, falling onto
text: his back.
text: Yates lays in the snow, shocked, bleeding, dying, and Krueger
text: goes and stands over him.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: YOU ARE FUCKING STUPID. YOU GO
text: BEHIND THE BACK OF THE DIRECTOR AND
scene_heading: AUTHORIZE A CLANDESTINE OPERATION
text: USING MURDERERS AND LUNATICS TO
text: KILL AMERICAN AGENTS? THAT'S HIGH
scene_heading: TREASON, MORON. WHAT THE FUCK ARE
text: WE COMING TO THAT A PSYCHOPATH LIKE
text: YOU WAS PUT IN CHARGE OF ANYTHING! ?
dialog: You cost the taxpayers money, and
dialog: worse than that, you KILL
dialog: TAXPAYERS, and then you're going to
dialog: tell ME I don't have a clue? I'm
dialog: so happy and relieved that I just
dialog: killed you, because now there's no
dialog: paperwork, you just FUCKING DIE,
text: AND IN DOING SO, BECOME LESS OF A
text: FUCKING PROBLEM.
text: Yates dies.
text: Krueger straightens himself, and turns to Lasseter, who's
dialog: shaking.
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Sir. I don’t know if this is
dialog: appropriate to say, but please,
dialog: please, please do not kill me.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: You know there’s a strong chance
dialog: that’s exactly what’s going to
dialog: happen.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: Yes sir.
text: There’s a beat, Krueger staring Yates’ body.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: I’m your source.
text: Lasseter widely hides any kind of reaction.
speaker_heading: KRUEGER (CONT'D)
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: When I called you to notify you the
dialog: sweep was happening, I did it out
dialog: respect and courtesy. You’ve made
dialog: me regret that now.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: There is a universe where this is
dialog: all my fault. But since no one
dialog: knows that am I am your source, and
dialog: no one will ever know that I am
dialog: your source, we are not living in
dialog: that universe, understood?
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: -yes sir-
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: My intention was not for you to act
dialog: like fool child moron and try to
dialog: save your puppy, the puppy was
dialog: being put down, I was notifying you
dialog: of the puppy’s death, not asking
dialog: you to save the puppy, nor implying
dialog: that I’d vindicate you saving the
dialog: puppy. Well the puppy just shit
dialog: all over everything and lit a Wal-
dialog: Mart on fire. You have a crazy,
text: scary, rabid puppy that murders
dialog: people. It’s a bad puppy, and will
dialog: still need to be put down. You
dialog: understand that, correct?
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: ..-yes sir-
speaker_heading: KRUEGER
dialog: Douglas, hell, Douglas might be
dialog: okay. He called me. You better
dialog: pray you can find a way to turn
dialog: this into a win. You better pray
text: and sweat and pull a miracle out of
dialog: your ass, a fucking Bethlehem make
dialog: me believe shock the world miracle,
dialog: because if you can’t...
dialog: (indicates Yates)
dialog: That’s you. That’s you.
text: Krueger turns, getting ready to walk away, trudging up the
text: hill. Lasseter steels herself.
speaker_heading: LASSETER
dialog: You already have your miracle, sir.
text: Krueger stops dead, and turns back to Lasseter.
speaker_heading: LASSETER (CONT’D)
dialog: My project worked. Wiseman
dialog: returned on its investment, even if
dialog: it wasn’t in the way we expected.
dialog: Mike Howell dismantled the entire
text: Toughguy program singlehandedly.
dialog: That makes him the most effective
dialog: asset ANY of the Ultra programs
dialog: have ever seen. In sixty years.
dialog: (Krueger is listening)
dialog: Pardon me for saying this sir, but
dialog: that is a puppy worth saving. That
dialog: is a two hundred million dollar
dialog: puppy.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And you have him sitting in a
text: holding cell right now.
text: Krueger just stares at her. Yates lays dead between them.
text: The wind howls on the snowy field. Yates reaches down, and
text: clicks off the timer on his wristwatch.
scene_heading: INT. LASSETER’S HOUSE - LATER 115
text: Scott is sitting up on the couch, watching the news, which is
text: debunking the “false malaria panic” created by a “disgruntled
text: CDC employee.” He’s clearly been up all night.
text: The door opens, and the alarm goes off, startling him. Scott
text: rushes over the foyer, and sees Lasseter coming in.
dialog: 107.
dialog: scott
dialog: Mom?
text: Lasseter turns, clearly exhausted, and Scott rushes and hugs
text: her tight. Lasseter hugs him back, and begins crying, more
text: exhausted than emotional.
text: She laughs, repeatedly kissing the top of Scotts head.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
scene_heading: EXT. BELIZE - BEACH - MONTHS LATER 116
text: It’s a stunningly beautiful beach in Belize. Mike and Phoebe
text: are sitting out on the beach, holding hands, drinking
dialog: Bellinis.
text: Mike and Phoebe look great. Healthy, rested. Mike’s hair is
text: a little longer. Mike gets up, and Phoebe waves to him as he
text: walks up to the bathrooms.
text: Mike gives her thumbs up, and goes inside, only to be
scene_heading: SNATCHED BY GOONS-—
speaker_heading: HARDCUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. INDUSTRIAL KITCHEN 117
dialog: It’s all clean steel surfaces, and whites; we’re in a very
text: high end industrial kitchen. Mike, on his knees, has a bag
text: pulled off his head, and finds himself facing an
text: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL, impeccably dressed, looking like one
text: of Ocean's Eleven. Goons flank him on all sides. One of
text: them approaches the boss.
speaker_heading: GOON
dialog: All he had on him was this.
text: The goon shows the International Criminal a napkin with a
text: picture of Rocket Monkey drawn on it that says “FUCK YOU.”
scene_heading: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL
dialog: This is it? This is him? How far
dialog: has the CIA fallen, that they send
dialog: one man. Who are you? Are you
dialog: James Bond? Did they really think
dialog: they could sneak up on ME? I am
dialog: Robertito Lazaniafrespasda. And
dialog: what do they send? A TOURIST.
dialog: 108.
text: The goons laugh. Mike looks around the room; knives on the
text: counter, skewers in a cupboard, pans hanging, sausages
text: hanging, open flame on the grills, a tray of dirty forks
text: knives and spoons, a pile of plates.
speaker_heading: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL (CONT’D)
text: One man. One UNARMED man.
text: Mike laughs to himself weirdly.
speaker_heading: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL (CONT’D)
dialog: Something funny?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: I’m sorry.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I’m just so fucking high right now.
text: The criminal reacts: “What?” And then MIKE SUDDENLY LUNGES
speaker_heading: FORWARD-—
text: SLAM TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: CUE: “EXTREME
scene_heading: WAYS” BY MOBY
text: THE END.
text: AFTER CREDITS...
scene_heading: INT. THE MAURY POVITCH SHOW 118
text: MAURY Povitch is interviewing Rose, who’s seated next to a
text: big fat chinese woman who looks mad. Up on a big screen
text: there’s an image of a half-chinese baby.
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: Well, the test results are in.
dialog: Rose, do you still deny you are the
dialog: father?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: That's right, it is unfeasible that
dialog: that baby could be mine.
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: Unfeasible, really?
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Yes sir. Yes sir Maury, I was
text: involved in an incident, a violent
dialog: incident ten months ago,
dialog: clandestine and sworn to secrecy,
dialog: but it has left me unfertile.
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: Unfertile?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Yes sir unfertile and barren.
speaker_heading: MAURY
dialog: Okay. In the case of one month old
dialog: baby Dim Dom Kwang...
dialog: (opens folder)
dialog: You are NOT the father!
text: Heavy music comes on, the camera moves all around as Rose
text: jumps up and starts dancing.
text: SLAM TO BLACK.
dialog: 
