scene_heading: "AMERICAN SPLENDOR"
dialog: by
dialog: Robert Pulcini and Shari Springer Berman
speaker_heading: PRODUCTION DRAFT
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY’S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: A BEDROOM MIRROR.
text: The room is dark. A perfectly square mirror hangs crooked on
text: a wall.
text: Suddenly, out of the darkness, the reflection of a man's
text: face comes into focus. He stares straight ahead, perhaps
text: studying his own unrecognizable reflection. It's quite clear
text: this is a portrait of sickness; the man's pallor is gray,
text: his eyes are confused. There is something most definitely
dialog: wrong.
text: Tentatively, the figure steps away from the mirror, leaving
text: the frame empty and dark.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON BED
text: Like a ghost, the naked man (Harvey) stands over his bed
text: staring down at his sleeping wife (Joyce). In the eerie light,
text: he's almost translucent.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (faintly)
dialog: Joyce... Joyce?
text: Joyce springs up, alarmed.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: What's wrong, Harvey? What are you
dialog: doing up?
text: Harvey just stands there for a moment saying nothing.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (delirious, out of
dialog: breath)
dialog: Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who
dialog: writes about himself in a comic book?
dialog: Or am I just -- am I just a character
dialog: in that book?
text: Joyce rubs her eyes.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey...
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: If I die, will 'dat character keep
dialog: goin'? Or will he just fade away...
text: Joyce just stares at him, unsure how to answer. Suddenly
text: Harvey collapses.
text: Joyce leaps from the bed, nervous, hysterical. She gets down
text: on the floor and shakes him.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
scene_heading: CLOSE ON HARVEY'S FACE
text: His eyes remain closed, his expression far, far away.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
scene_heading: EXT. CLEVELAND ROW HOUSE - FALL - 1956 - DAY
speaker_heading: FADE UP ON:
text: A surreal kaleidoscope of black, white and red. Similar to
text: the mirror scene above, the colors slowly come into focus,
text: revealing the chiseled features of a familiar face. But this
text: time we see that it is not a real face, but rather a plastic
text: mask of the D.C. Comic hero -- SUPERMAN.
scene_heading: INTERTITLE: CLEVELAND OHIO, 1956
scene_heading: CLOSE ON SUPERMAN MASK
text: It glows eerily in the light of a porch lamp. A child's pupils
text: glare through the eye holes...
text: The camera pans from SUPERMAN to the masked face of another
text: caped-crusader: BATMAN. Batman turns toward his loyal sidekick
text: ROBIN, who clutches a plastic, trick-or-treat pumpkin.
text: Next, we find THE GREEN LANTERN as he reaches up to ring the
text: doorbell. The camera finally rests on the last boy: an unkempt
text: KID wearing no costume at all. Looking irritated and removed
text: from the rest of the group, the KID shoves his hands in the
text: pockets of his shearling coat.
text: He spits and rolls his eyes as a lady answers the door.
text: The brick home is as working class as it gets. The lady at
text: the door is a 1950's HOUSEWIFE.
speaker_heading: BOYS
dialog: (in unison)
dialog: Trick or treat!!
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: Well, look at this! All the
dialog: superheroes on the porch! Ain't that
dialog: cute.
text: The Lady drops a candy apple in each boy's container.
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: (still yelling)
dialog: We got Superman here, Batman, his
dialog: sidekick ROBIN, ohh, The Green Lantern
dialog: even...
text: She finally stops at the costumeless KID. He halfheartedly
text: holds up a ratty, stained pillowcase.
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: And what about you young man?
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: What about what?
text: The other boys giggle. The kid flashes them a "kick yer ass"
dialog: look.
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: Who are you supposed to be?
text: The kid shrugs.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: I'm Harvey Pekar (pronounced "Pee
dialog: Car").
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: Harvey Pekar? That doesn't sound
dialog: like a super hero to me...
speaker_heading: BOYS
dialog: (mumbling)
dialog: Pecker, Pecker...
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: I ain't no super hero, lady. I'm
dialog: just a kid from the neighborhood,
dialog: alright?
text: The Housewife stares at him, confused.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Ahh, forget this...
text: Frustrated, the kid throws his pillowcase down. He trudges
text: off as the others watch in confusion.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Why is everybody so stoopid?
scene_heading: BEGIN NERVOUS JAZZ SCORE
text: WE FOLLOW the schlumpy kid (aka HARVEY PEKAR) as he sulks
dialog: down the street...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CLEVELAND ROW HOUSE - FALL - 1975 - DUSK
scene_heading: INTERTITLE: CLEVELAND OHIO, 1975
text: A grown-up version of HARVEY PEKAR (now mid-thirties) stomps
text: along the same Cleveland street. Unfortunately, 20 years
dialog: have made this rust belt neighborhood a bit rustier. The
text: "GROWN UP HARVEY" dons the same shearling coat, sports the
text: same disheveled hair, and wears the same curmudgeonly
dialog: expression.
scene_heading: CREDIT SEQUENCE - ANIMATED SEQUENCE INTERCUT HARVEY WALKING
text: WITH COMIC BOOK PANELS OF THE CARTOON HARVEY IN ACTION. This
dialog: is not your typical super-hero stuff.
text: Instead it features our man engaging in such daredevil feats
dialog: as:
scene_heading: INT. CITY BUS - FALL 1975 - DAY
dialog: --Riding the city bus.
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL - DAY
text: --Working as a file clerk at the Veteran's Hospital.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT / KITCHEN - DAY
dialog: --Trying to wash dishes.
scene_heading: INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY
text: --Waiting on line at the supermarket.
scene_heading: EXT. GARAGE SALE - DAY
dialog: --Buying used records from a garage sale table.
scene_heading: INT. GREASY SPOON DINER - DAY
text: --Eating junk food at a greasy spoon.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Harvey fixes a rip in his coat with Elmer's Glue.
dialog: (Note: Each "Cartoon Harvey" looks similar but unique... A
text: variation on a theme. This is because his cartoons are drawn
dialog: by different comic artists.)
text: Intermittently, bold cartoon credits flash across the screen:
text: FROM OFF THE STREETS OF CLEVELAND COMES...
dialog: Followed by the explosive title:
speaker_heading: AMERICAN SPLENDOR
text: The high-energy music and upbeat titles -- in direct contrast
text: to the sulking image of Harvey -- continue through the
dialog: remainder of the credits.
scene_heading: EXT. CLEVELAND STREET OVERLOOKING FACTORIES - DAY
text: We're now on HARVEY'S back as he continues his forlorn
text: journey. We move forward, past him, to peer over the hill at
text: the factories below.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Okay. We're throwing a lot at ya
dialog: here, so lemme step in an' help ya
dialog: catch up. This is the story about
dialog: comic books, an' a guy who made a
dialog: whole life outta them. You could
dialog: even say comics saved his life. This
dialog: guy here, he's our man, Harvey Pekar --
dialog: all grown up and goin' nowhere.
dialog: Although he's a pretty scholarly
dialog: cat, he never got much of a formal
dialog: education. For the most part, he's
dialog: lived in shit neighborhoods, held
dialog: shit jobs, and is now knee deep into
dialog: a second disastrous marriage. So if
dialog: yer lookin' for romance or escapism
dialog: or some fantasy figure to save the
dialog: day, guess what? Ya got the wrong
dialog: movie.
scene_heading: SUDDENLY EVERYTHING -- THE MUSIC, THE CREDITS, THE IMAGES --
text: COMES TO A HALT.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SOUND STAGE - PRESENT - DAY
scene_heading: HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
text: The REAL HARVEY PEKAR (not the actor who trudged through the
text: credits) sits behind a microphone, supplying the "voice over"
text: above. He clutches a movie script in his hand.
text: The frame is spare, with a few well-chosen items to indicate
text: that he's in a recording session.
text: Although he is significantly older than the man who portrays
text: him, the "Real Harvey" is every bit as much of a sad sack...
text: maybe even more. He is large and slightly threatening with
text: knitted brows and wild eyes. Yet there is something kind and
dialog: vulnerable about him -- a teddy bear who could kick your
text: ass. Off Camera, WE HEAR the voices of the male and female
dialog: directors (us -- BOB and SHARI) coaching the "Real Harvey"
text: through his voice over. Harvey's irritable and contrary,
dialog: saying that the whole Halloween incident never even happened.
dialog: "But I don't care man. I'm just doing this for the dough."
text: We learn that Harvey is a reluctant participant in a film
dialog: being made about his life.
text: SUDDENLY, his third wife JOYCE BRABNER -- an intelligent
text: control freak obsessed with all things negative -- joins in
text: the conversation. Pushing back her huge glasses, she
dialog: reprimands Harvey like he is an infant: "Harvey you are
dialog: talking too loud, Harvey you are being difficult." Harvey
text: just rolls his eyes. Joyce gets offended. It is clear they
dialog: have had this argument a million times. As Joyce storms off...
text: Harvey explains that his wife is trying to take over the
text: movie. He laments that she is his third wife, and he has no
dialog: luck with women. "Man, chicks just don't dig me." That's why
dialog: he marries anyone who will have him. "And I marry them fast
dialog: before they get to know the real me..."
scene_heading: END HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - WINTER - 1975 - DAY
speaker_heading: INTERTITLE: 1975
text: HARVEY sits on a table in his T-shirt and underwear. A DOCTOR
text: unwraps a tongue depressor.
text: Harvey's voice is hoarse, raspy and barely audible. It sounds
text: like it hurts for him to talk. Yet, he can't stop ranting.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Doc, you gotta help me. My old lady's
dialog: dumping me 'cause I can't talk. She
dialog: says I'm a social embarrassment. Now
dialog: that she's got her PhD, she's some
dialog: hot shit academic star an' I'm nuthin'
dialog: but a file clerk with nothin' ta say
dialog: an' no voice ta say it. But me bein'
dialog: a file clerk was fine when I wrote
dialog: the damn check for her tuition --
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: Harvey, stop talking please, and
text: open wide.
text: He points the tongue depressor at Harvey's mouth but he just
text: keeps on going.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I just don't get it... We were doin'
dialog: okay for a while. Then we took that
dialog: stupid belated honeymoon. I started
dialog: losin' my voice on the plane. Can
dialog: you believe that... On the plane,
dialog: doc?
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: Bad timing, I guess. Now please say
dialog: "Ah," Mr. Pekar.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: "Ahhh."
dialog: (without missing a
dialog: beat)
dialog: "Ahhh" ruined the trip. I got crazy,
dialog: started to worry my voice would never
dialog: come back. I mean, my wife didn't
dialog: know me so long before we got hitched.
dialog: What if she totally forgets what I'm
dialog: like? Man, it's torture --
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: Shhh...
text: The Doctor shines a penlight into Harvey's mouth and looks
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: Uh-huh.
text: He raises an eyebrow. Harvey catches this. Hypochondria
text: overtakes him.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (the penlight in his
dialog: mouth)
dialog: What? Is it bad, doc?
text: The Doctor removes the penlight.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: It's not good.
text: Harvey jumps off the table.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: It's cancer? First I got marital
dialog: problems and now yer tellin' me I
dialog: got throat cancer? Omigod...
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: Harvey, calm down. It's not cancer.
dialog: You have a nodule on your vocal
text: chords. Probably from screaming and
dialog: yelling too much. And if you don't
dialog: stop talking and give it a rest,
dialog: you're gonna lose your voice
dialog: completely.
text: Relieved, Harvey calms down. He nods, agreeing to be good.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Whew... Okay, okay. But fer how long?
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: A few months.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (loudly)
dialog: Months!!
text: Suddenly Harvey's voice cracks under his effort to raise it.
text: He sheepishly grabs his throat.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #1
dialog: See? More of that and you'll do
dialog: permanent damage. Now go home, keep
dialog: your mouth shut, and hopefully we
dialog: won't have to operate.
text: Operate? Harvey gets nervous again. The Doctor throws him
dialog: his clothing.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CLEVELAND STREET - WINTER - 1975 - DAY
text: A silent sequence. A dejected HARVEY walks home alone along
text: an empty lot. Day-old dirty snow clings to the ground.
text: He wanders through a down-in-the-heels neighborhood, passing
text: run-down stores and ramshackle apartments.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS STOP - WINTER - 1975 - DAY
text: Harvey approaches TOBY -- a dumpy 20-something going on 60-
text: something in ridiculous, mismatched polyester clothing. He
text: is odd, awkward and talks with a monotone, robotic voice. In
dialog: short, he is a super dork.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Hi Harvey. You weren't in work today.
dialog: Are you okay, Harvey?
text: Harvey barely looks up. He nods his head "yes" and keeps
dialog: walking.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: (yelling after him)
dialog: I'm heading downtown to the White
dialog: Castle. Wanna come, Harvey?
text: Harvey leaves Toby behind and turns the corner.
scene_heading: EXT. DELI - WINTER - 1975 - DAY
text: Two WOMEN argue loudly over a payphone.
speaker_heading: SPANISH WOMAN #1
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: I already told you, I'm waiting for
dialog: a call!
speaker_heading: SPANISH WOMAN #2
dialog: Oh yeah? Since when is this your
dialog: private office?!
speaker_heading: SPANISH WOMAN #1
dialog: Since you can kiss my ass.
text: Harvey stops in his tracks and stares at them, jealous of
dialog: their ability to speak.
scene_heading: CLOSE UP: SPANISH WOMAN #1's MOUTH
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Look at 'em yakkin'. How do they do
dialog: it?
text: Out of the corner of her eye, WOMAN #2 notices Harvey
text: eavesdropping.
speaker_heading: WOMAN #2
dialog: (yelling at Harvey)
dialog: Ay, what are you looking at? Maricone!
text: Startled, Harvey moves on.
scene_heading: EXT. ACROSS FROM A PARK - WINTER - 1975 - DAY
text: He passes a group of KIDS playing in the snow. They scream,
text: yell and laugh with abandon.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: They all make it seem so easy.
text: Then, BAM! Harvey is awakened from his reverie by a snowball.
text: The kids laugh loudly. He wipes away the snow and walks on.
text: A VOICE OVER interrupts the scene.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Here's our man walking home from the
dialog: doctor's. He's got the weight of the
dialog: world on him. And fer what, really?
dialog: 'Cause his throat's a little screwy?
dialog: Man, people in India are starvin' to
dialog: death every day. His problems are
dialog: nothin'.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE OVER TRAIN TRACKS - DAY
text: Totally dejected, HARVEY crosses over train tracks on his
dialog: way home.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Still, he can't help feelin' paranoid,
dialog: like some supernatural force is
text: conspiring against him to rob him of
text: his voice.
scene_heading: EXT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - WINTER - 1975 - DAY
text: Harvey sulks up the steps of his brick low-rise apartment
text: building. He passes an ELDERLY NEIGHBOR coming down the walk
text: with her shopping cart. Harvey unlocks the door.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Maybe his old lady will go easy on
text: him today, when she sees how upset
dialog: he is.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - WINTER - 1975 - DAY
text: Harvey's second wife LANA -- a hippyish chic with long hair
text: and a bad attitude -- pulls books off a shelf and selectively
text: throws them onto the floor or packs them into a milk crate.
text: An overstuffed suitcase sits beside her. She's obviously
text: leaving him. HARVEY enters the room.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Ay... What is this?
text: Harvey's voice breaks up.
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: Exactly what it looks like.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (loud)
dialog: Whattya mean!! You mean yer dumpin'
dialog: me?! Fer what?
dialog: (his voice really
dialog: rips)
dialog: Ah, shit!
text: That last yell did it. Harvey grabs throat in pain, torn
text: between his throat discomfort and trying to stop his wife
dialog: from leaving.
speaker_heading: LANA
dialog: Look, your plebeian lifestyle isn't
dialog: working for me anymore. Cleveland's
dialog: not working for me anymore. I gotta
dialog: get out of here before I kill myself.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: But --
text: She gathers her bags and heads for the door. Harvey trails
text: her, trying to reason.
text: He opens his mouth, but nothing comes out.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (mouthing, just a
dialog: wheeze)
dialog: Please! Wait, honey... Just listen
dialog: to what I got to say...
text: She turns and stares at him. Harvey tries to say something.
text: But now nothing at all comes out of his mouth. Only wheezes
dialog: air.
text: He tries again. No sound at all.
text: Finally LANA gives up, turns back towards the door and leaves.
dialog: SLAM!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL - 1975 - DAY
text: At his cubicle in the file room, Harvey fills a cart with
text: files. He's physically at work, but mentally in a daze.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Here's our man -- yeah alright, here's
dialog: me -- or the guy playin' me, anyway,
dialog: though he don't look nothin' like
dialog: me, but whatever. So it's a few months
dialog: later an' I'm workin' my flunky,
text: file-clerk gig at the V.A. Hospital.
dialog: My voice still ain't back yet. Things
dialog: seem like they can't get any worse...
text: A nurse pops her head in. Harvey hands her a file.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Thank you, Harvey dear.
text: He doesn't hear her, still stewing about LANA. He shoves the
text: last files in the cart and pushes it away.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Plebeian... where the hell did she
dialog: get that shit?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FILE ROOM -- A FEW MOMENTS LATER
text: We see rows and rows of endless files...
text: Still in a daze, Harvey removes the files from the cart and
text: puts them on the shelves.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS (O.S.)
dialog: Avoid the reeking herd! Shun the
dialog: polluted flock! Live like that stoic
dialog: bird, The eagle of the rock!
text: Harvey turns around. Mr. Boats -- a portly, African-American
text: maintenance worker wearing a bow-tie -- steps into Harvey's
text: row. He has a tool box.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Huh? Oh. Hiya, Mr. Boats.
text: Harvey resumes shelving.
speaker_heading: BOATS
dialog: You know what that means, son?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah. It's from an Elinor Hoyt Wylie
dialog: poem. It means stay away from the
dialog: crowds of common ordinary people an'
dialog: do yer own thing.
text: Mr. Boats laughs.
speaker_heading: BOATS
dialog: Nope, it means don't compromise
dialog: yourself for women. Ain't gonna do
dialog: you no good! Get away from 'em as
dialog: soon as you can!
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Well I ain't got no woman now. So
dialog: I'm living like the stoic bird, man.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: The only way to live, son.
text: Somehow this doesn't make Harvey feel any better about his
dialog: life.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY -- DAY
text: Harvey carries an armful of files. Mr. Boats still trails
text: him, lugging his tool box.
text: Suddenly, Mr. Boats points out a young African-American FILE
text: CLERK wearing a pair of big headphones on his afro. He moves
text: as if he's listening to music.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: Look at that fool over there. What's
dialog: he wearing?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Huh? That's an A.M.-F.M. radio he's
dialog: listening to... They got 'em fixed
text: up now like a pair of earmuffs.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: (inappropriately
dialog: angered)
dialog: MMPH! Isn't that somethin! People
dialog: have gone crazy. They'll buy any
dialog: kinda junk! Probably listening to
dialog: that loud rock stuff. Junk, junk,
dialog: it's all junk!
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Well, I don't know. Rock music's got
dialog: some good qualities. I mean it ain't
dialog: jazz or nothin'.
text: Mr. Boats looks at him like he's crazy.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: Say, when you gonna bring me in some
dialog: good records? Some Nat "King" Cole
dialog: with Strings...
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I don't got any of that, Mr. Boats...
text: Mr. Boats stops and yells down the hall at Harvey.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: Yeah, you got it... You're keepin'
dialog: it at home, though! You won't turn
dialog: loose the good stuff... You just
dialog: sell the junk!
text: Harvey shakes his head as Mr. Boats finishes his diatribe.
text: Mr. Boats turns into a room.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Mona Lisa, Mona Lisa. Men have named
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SOUND STAGE - PRESENT - DAY
scene_heading: HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
text: Harvey sits on outdoor furniture. A few props are featured
text: in the frame indicating a garage-sale-like setting (including
text: a record player). Directly in front of Harvey are boxes of
dialog: used records.
dialog: HARVEY shows us his prodigious record collection. Thousands
dialog: of LP's -- rare jazz, blues, fusion, klezmer, etc. -- are
text: piled in floor-to-ceiling bookcases.
dialog: He tells us about his love of jazz and how he started writing
text: jazz reviews and music articles. He finds the first record
text: that he reviewed and puts it on his turntable. As the music
dialog: plays...
text: Harvey talks about how he started buying and selling records.
text: This leads into how he first met ROBERT CRUMB.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CLEVELAND GARAGE SALE - FALL - 1962 - DAY
speaker_heading: INTERTITLE: 1962
text: HARVEY (a little more hair but the exact same style) and a
text: bunch of his BUDDIES sift through old records at a junk sale.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: In the early sixties I was with some
text: buddies at a junk sale looking for
dialog: some choice sides when I met this
dialog: shy, retiring cat from Philadelphia
dialog: named Bob Crumb. You know the guy;
dialog: Fritz the Cat, Mr. Natural an' all --
dialog: they made a movie about him, too.
text: One of Harvey's pals -- MARTY -- pulls a record out of a
dialog: box.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: C'mon, Harv. You dig Jay McShann.
dialog: You gonna buy that or what?
text: Harvey jumps up from his search to check out the LP.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I don't know, Marty. It's got a
dialog: lamination crack in it...
dialog: (checking out the
dialog: price)
dialog: A quarter. Maybe I can get him down.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: You are one cheap bastard Harvey.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah, I know I'm tight, man, but I
dialog: live on a government wage.
text: A skinny guy with a big nose, glasses and a ratty trench
text: coat taps Harvey on the shoulder. He is soft-spoken, a bit
text: shy and very odd -- a young ROBERT CRUMB.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: You collect Jay McShann, man?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah, man. How 'bout you?
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Yeah but most of my records are back
dialog: in Philly.
text: A greaser-type guy in a leather jacket, PAHLS, joins them.
speaker_heading: PAHLS
dialog: Harv, meet my buddy Bob Crumb. He
dialog: just moved to town. He's an artist
text: at American Greeting Card Company.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: That's cool.
speaker_heading: PAHLS
dialog: You should see his comics, Harv.
text: They are outta sight.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (interested)
dialog: Yeah? I'm into comics myself.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - FALL - 1962 - DAY
text: A disheveled mess that gives new meaning to the term bachelor
text: pad. Records and books are strewn everywhere.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: So Crumb showed me this comic book
dialog: novel he was working on -- THE BIG
dialog: YUM YUM BOOK. I'd never seen anything
dialog: like it.
text: HARVEY marches back and forth holding Crumb's illustrated
text: comic novel. CRUMB sits on the floor nursing a beer and
text: sorting through vintage comic books. Harvey's bursting with
text: so much enthusiasm, it's almost aggressive.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: It's terrific, man! I really dig
dialog: your work.
text: Crumb ignores Harvey's praise.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: (holding up a vintage
dialog: comic)
text: This PETER WHEAT book is by Walt
dialog: Kelly... It's pretty rare.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah? Can I get good bread for it?
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Nah! Not yet.
text: Harvey flops down in an overstuffed chair. Stuffing flies
text: out. He sips his beer.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Listen man, let's get back to your
dialog: book. What are you gonna do with it?
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: (looking up)
dialog: I hadn't thought about it. It's just
dialog: an exercise.
text: Harvey flips through the book.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: It's more than an exercise. It's
dialog: breaking ground, man. There's some
dialog: wild shit in here.
text: Crumb is immune to Harvey's enthusiasm.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: You're spitting on me, Harvey.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - FALL - 1962 - LATER
text: CRUMB lies on the couch sketching while HARVEY reads more of
text: THE YUM YUM BOOK. A scratchy jazz record plays.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Crumb and I hung out a lot back then.
dialog: We had records and comics in common.
text: ANGLE ON CRUMB'S DRAWING
text: We see Crumb is actually sketching Harvey, slumped in a chair
text: reading a book. Crumb makes Harvey look like a smelly, sweaty
text: madman with ratty clothing.
text: Crumb holds the sketch of Harvey up to show him.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Check it out, man. Pretty scary.
text: Harvey glances up at his portrait, completely unselfconscious.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah, ya don't know the half of it.
text: Harvey goes back to reading. Crumb back to sketching.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Eventually people got hip to Crumb's
dialog: art work and he started hangin' out
text: with a Bohemian crowd. After a while,
dialog: he got sick of greeting cards and
dialog: moved away to San Francisco where he
dialog: got the whole underground comic scene
text: off the ground.
text: Crumb slowly evaporates from the room, leaving Harvey totally
dialog: alone.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON 45 RECORD SPINNING AND SPINNING
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: He'd come back ta Cleveland every
dialog: few years, an' people'd treat him
dialog: like a celebrity.
text: The record spins and spins...
speaker_heading: END FLASHBACK
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BUS STOP - 1975 - DAY
scene_heading: ANOTHER R. CRUMB DRAWING OF HARVEY (Now circa 1975)
text: On a sketch pad we see a deranged, tormented Harvey sitting
text: alone on a park bench. He pulls at his hair, and looks as
text: though he may murder the next person who walks by.
scene_heading: INTERTITLE: BACK TO 1975
text: As the pencil adds shading to Harvey's face, WE HEAR:
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Once he came to visit when I was
dialog: really feelin' bad. It was right
dialog: around the time of my throat
dialog: operation, an' right after my second
dialog: wife left me. At first it was pretty
dialog: weird. I mean, here my life was
dialog: falling apart an' everything was
dialog: going great for him. I was on my
dialog: second divorce an' he was a big hit
dialog: with the chicks. I was a nothin'
dialog: file clerk and he was this famous
dialog: cartoonist.
text: HARVEY and R. CRUMB sit on a park bench together by a bus
text: stop. A distraught Harvey whines while Crumb just sketches.
text: Harvey's voice is still raspy.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I dunno, man. On the one hand most
dialog: women gettin' graduate degrees
dialog: wouldn't give a guy like me the time
dialog: a' day. An' she married me an'
dialog: everything, so I gotta give her some
dialog: kinda credit. But then she got so
dialog: mean to me in the end. An' it ain't
dialog: like I tried t'keep her captive or
dialog: anything like that, y'know?
text: Crumb may or may not be listening to Harvey. It's hard to
dialog: tell.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: An' then on top of it I lost my voice
dialog: for three months. I still sound like
dialog: shit, but before I had nothin'. Man,
dialog: talk about hell. I started forgettin'
dialog: what I sound like, y'know? So I
dialog: started writin' stuff down -- stories
dialog: an' things, my points a' view, ideas.
dialog: I even published a couple jazz record
dialog: reviews. I guess that ended up bein'
dialog: a good thing.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Uh-huh.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: But don't think I buy into this
dialog: "growth" crap. Everybody talks about
dialog: how bad experiences can cause ya
dialog: t'grow, an' all that clichéd stuff.
dialog: I've had enough bad experiences and
dialog: growth to last me plenty.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Right now, I'd be glad to trade some
dialog: growth for happiness.
text: For a moment, they both just sit there saying nothing to
text: each other, each man in his own private universe.
text: Finally Harvey looks over to Crumb.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: So how long are ya stayin' in
dialog: Cleveland?
text: Crumb never looks up from his picture.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: I dunno, man. I gotta go visit this
dialog: chick in New York. And I'm really
dialog: busy with the comic book stuff. It's
dialog: good bread and all man but I'm getting
text: fed up with the whole scene.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What are ya talkin' about? Yer makin'
dialog: a good living doin' yer art? Sheesh.
dialog: How many guys get that lucky in their
dialog: life, huh?
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Yeah, I dunno.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Ya know man, people are startin' to
dialog: know the name "Crumb." When you croak
dialog: you're gonna leave something behind.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Yeah, my ashes and some crappy
dialog: doodles. It's not like I'm Blind
dialog: Lemon Jefferson or Big Mama Thornton.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: C'mon, man. It sure beats workin' a
dialog: gig like mine -- being a nobody flunky
dialog: and sellin' records on the side for
text: a buck.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Yeah, well that's true...
text: Harvey nods in agreement, mulling this over. He's not at all
dialog: offended.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL - 1975 - DAY
text: CLOSE ON A FILE DRAWER MARKED: "RECENTLY DECEASED."
text: A hand reaches into the frame and opens the drawer.
text: By rote, HARVEY fumbles with a large stack of "expired
text: patient" files. He places each into the appropriate
dialog: alphabetical "deceased" drawer.
text: Attempting to grab another batch, Harvey accidentally knocks
text: the entire pile onto the floor.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Damn it!
text: He crouches down to survey the mess -- a collage of "expired
text: lives" laid out before his eyes.
text: We move past dozens of anonymous names -- William Anderson,
dialog: Louis Collins, Mark D'Amico, Tyrone Moore, Franklin Ray,
text: etc... Each file has a red "Deceased" stamp.
text: Depressed, HARVEY is transfixed by the files surrounding him
text: on the floor. Suddenly he stops and picks one up.
text: ANGLE ON FOLDER: It is marked, "CHARLIE MARSHALL."
text: He opens the folder and reads the stats...
dialog: Born: 1920 in Cleveland Died: 1920 in Cleveland Occupation:
dialog: Clerk
text: ANGLE ON HARVEY: He swallows hard as he reads about Charlie's
text: small, invisible and now vanished life... He tosses the folder
text: back onto the pile.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1975 - MORNING
scene_heading: CLOSE ON: TWO STICK FIGURES IN AN EMPTY FRAME
text: HARVEY sits at a table with a pen in hand and a blank sheet
text: of paper in front of him. Nothing seems to come to him.
text: He flips through a pile of comic books -- everything from
dialog: D.C. Comic Super Heroes to underground works such as Crumb's
text: Mr. Natural and Zap Comix. No inspiration. Harvey throws
text: them down in frustration.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm starvin'.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SUPERMARKET - 1975 - DAY
text: HARVEY pushes a cart through the cramped aisles of a crowded
text: supermarket. He pulls a few cans of Beef-A-Roni off the shelf
text: and heads off to pay. Reaching the check-out area, he
text: evaluates the situation.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CHECK-OUT COUNTERS:
text: There are three lines to choose from. Two of the counters
text: have long waits. The third is much shorter but there is an
text: OLD JEWISH LADY next in line.
text: SUDDENLY, THE SCREEN SPLITS IN TWO:
text: The LEFT SIDE OF THE FRAME remains Harvey at the supermarket
text: deliberating over the check-out lines.
text: However, the RIGHT SIDE OF THE FRAME now contains a CRUMB
scene_heading: STYLE COMIC PANEL DEPICTING THE EXACT SAME SCENARIO. A BUBBLE
text: appears over CARTOON HARVEY'S head revealing his thoughts.
text: It reads: "Pickin' the right check-out line is an art...
dialog: There's a lot of things you gotta consider."
text: ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THE FRAME... Harvey decides to get behind
dialog: the Old Lady.
text: MEANWHILE ON THE RIGHT HAND SIDE OF THE FRAME... Cartoon
text: Harvey stands behind the Old Lady.
text: A new BUBBLE reads: "It may be the shortest line but I am
dialog: takin' a chance 'cause she's an Old Jewish Lady."
text: BACK TO THE LEFT SIDE OF THE FRAME... The CASHIER rings up
text: the Old Lady's purchases -- a few kitchen glasses.
speaker_heading: OLD JEWISH LADY
dialog: (Yiddish Accent)
dialog: Listen, goily, dese glasses are six
dialog: for $2.00 because I couldn't carry
dialog: twelf... But I vanted twelf so today
dialog: I'm buying six more... But you should
dialog: only charge me $1.50 for dem... It's
dialog: ok, you can esk de meneger.
text: Harvey rolls his eyes and stamps his foot impatiently. He
dialog: knows he's in trouble now.
speaker_heading: CASHIER
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Frank! I need a price check.
scene_heading: SUDDENLY, THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE SCREEN BECOMES FULLY
text: ANIMATED... Instead of still comic panels with balloons, the
text: Cartoon Harvey now rants directly into the camera.
speaker_heading: CARTOON HARVEY
dialog: Man, Old Jewish Ladies will argue
dialog: forever with a cashier about anything.
dialog: Get behind them in a line an' yer
dialog: gonna wait forever!
text: The Human Harvey seems oblivious to his cartoon replica. He
text: impatiently leans on his cart, waiting and seething.
speaker_heading: CARTOON HARVEY
dialog: I mean, I'm a yid myself, an' the
dialog: women in my family are like that...
dialog: But I never got used to it... I may
dialog: be cheap, but I got limits!
text: ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE OF THE SCREEN... The MANAGER finally
text: arrives. The Old Lady haggles with him, too.
speaker_heading: OLD JEWISH LADY
dialog: Please. Let me 'splain von more time.
text: MEANWHILE ON THE RIGHT HAND SIDE... The Cartoon Harvey turns
text: to address the Human Harvey, who actually looks him in the
text: eyes. It now seems Human Harvey can actually hear his cartoon
dialog: alter ego.
speaker_heading: CARTOON HARVEY
dialog: Wake up! You're whole life's gettin'
dialog: eaten away by this kinda crap! What
dialog: kind of existence is this? Is this
dialog: all a workin' stiff like you can
dialog: expect? Ya gonna suffer in silence
dialog: fer the rest a' yer life?! Or ya
dialog: gonna make a mark. Huh? Huh?
text: IN AN INSTANT, THE CARTOON HARVEY DISAPPEARS AND THE LIVE
text: ACTION SCENE TAKES OVER THE WHOLE FRAME.
text: Suddenly motivated by an odd notion, Harvey abandons his
text: grocery cart and runs out of the supermarket.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT
text: Bursting with ideas, Harvey (wearing his undershirt and
text: boxers) starts story-boarding his first comic with stick
dialog: figures.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S KITCHEN - 1975 - MORNING
text: A bleary-eyed HARVEY, still clad in an undershirt and boxers,
text: dozes off over a bowl of Corn Flakes. On the table next to
text: some spilled milk are a stack of papers covered with
text: scribbling. He clearly has been slaving over this work all
dialog: night.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON PAPERS:
text: At the top is a quickly scribbled title, "Standing Behind
dialog: Old Jewish Ladies In Supermarket Lines." These are ad hoc
text: versions of a comic book. The pages are divided like a tick-
text: tack-toe board. Each square is filled with crude stick figure
text: drawings and lots of writing.
text: An alarm clock goes off. Harvey's eyes fly open.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Shit. Work.
text: Harvey yawns, then notices the pile of papers. He peruses
text: them, proud of his work. He gets up and looks out the window.
scene_heading: I/E. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - HARVEY'S POV - 1975 - MORNING
text: It is yet another grey day in Cleveland. The neighborhood is
text: run-down. Garbage is strewn everywhere.
text: The following scene unfolds through the window:
text: Two UNSIGHTLY WORKERS lug an old, smelly mattress from a
text: garage towards the garbage cans on the curb. Their
text: conversation is distant, but entirely audible.
speaker_heading: MATTRESS GUY #1
dialog: So how smart is she?
speaker_heading: MATTRESS GUY #2
dialog: I dunno. I guess she's about average.
speaker_heading: MATTRESS GUY #1
dialog: Average? Hey, man. Average is dumb!
text: They drop the mattress in place. With the window framing
text: these guys, the scene FREEZES, looking just like a comic
dialog: book panel.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Harvey turns around from the scene and ponders it. He moves
text: back towards his pile of stick-figure drawings.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON PAPER
text: Harvey scribbles the words "AMERICAN SPLENDOR" at the top of
dialog: the page.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CLEVELAND DINER - 1975 - DAY
text: The following scene is shot through the restaurant window.
text: We see reflections of people walking by.
text: A tense HARVEY starts at CRUMB as he eats a burger and reads
text: Harvey's mock-ups. Harvey doesn't touch his burger deluxe
text: and nervously talks in his laryngitis-afflicted voice.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: See, ever since I read your stuff,
dialog: man I've been thinking I could write
dialog: comic book stories that were different
dialog: from anything being done.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: (munching on a fry)
dialog: Uh-huh.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm thinkin', the guys who do animal
dialog: comics and super-hero stuff are really
dialog: limited 'cause they gotta try to
dialog: appeal to kids. And underground comics
dialog: like yours have been really subversive
dialog: or opened things up politically. But
dialog: there is still plenty more ta be
dialog: done with 'em, too, y'know?
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Pass me the ketchup?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I mean with pictures and words, it
dialog: could be more of an art form. Like
dialog: those French movies are. Or De Sica
dialog: over in Italy, y'know?... So I tried
dialog: writin' some things about real life.
dialog: Stuff the everyman's gotta deal with.
text: Crumb finally looks up from Harvey's work.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: These are about you.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Er, yeah...
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: You turned yourself into a comic
dialog: hero?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Sorta, yeah. But no idealized shit.
dialog: No phony bullshit. The real thing,
dialog: y'know? Ordinary life is pretty
dialog: complex stuff.
text: Crumb reads more. Harvey waits anxiously. Finally Crumb starts
text: to chuckle.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: These are really good, Harv.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (insecure)
dialog: Really? Ya think so?
text: Crumb shuffles through more.
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Yeah. This is great stuff, man. I
dialog: dig it. Can I take them home and
dialog: illustrate them?
text: Harvey is practically bursting.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Wow!!
text: Harvey's voice breaks like a kid in puberty. He clears his
text: throat. And something miraculous happens...
text: When Harvey opens his mouth to speak his LARYNGITIS IS GONE!
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: You'd do that for me, man? That'd be
dialog: great! I can't draw a straight line!
speaker_heading: CRUMB
dialog: Hey, what's up with your voice, Harv?
dialog: All of a sudden it sounds fine.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (thrilled)
dialog: I don't know, man! I guess you cured
dialog: me!
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL - SNACK ROOM HALLWAY - DAY
text: HARVEY bounds towards the snack room where a group of hospital
text: workers and patients hang out. He bangs on the window to get
text: their attention. When they look up, Harvey waves a comic
text: book in the air.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL - SNACK ROOM - DAY
text: A GLOSSY, FULL-COLOR COMIC BOOK FEATURING THE TWO MATTRESS
text: GUYS: Scrawled across the top in big red letters reads,
text: "AMERICAN SPLENDOR. Vol. #1" A man's finger points to the
text: words, "All Stories by Harvey Pekar. Art by R. Crumb." The
text: comic book sits atop a table in the dreary snack room.
text: A crowd of HOSPITAL WORKERS, PATIENTS, DOCTORS, MAINTENANCE
text: WORKERS, etc. (under ten total) gather around a proud HARVEY
text: who shows off his work. For the first time, he seems almost
dialog: happy.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (beaming)
dialog: See that? All stories by yours truly.
text: A WWII VET PATIENT with a portable IV cranes to get a glimpse.
speaker_heading: WW II VET PATIENT
dialog: Hot off the presses, huh? We got a
dialog: regular Hemingway here.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: No way, Jack, I don't go in for that
dialog: macho crap.
text: DOCTOR #3 chimes in.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #3
dialog: I didn't know you could draw, Pekar.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Nah! I don't draw. I just write the
dialog: stories. A buddy of mine and some of
text: his friends do the art work.
text: TOBY, the supernerd from the bus stop, grabs the comic book
text: off the table and peruses it.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Harvey, am I in here? You promised I
dialog: would be in here.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah! Yeah! You're in there, alright?
dialog: Jeez, Toby.
text: SUDDENLY, MR. BOATS -- Harvey's philosophical co-worker --
text: pushes his way thorough the crowd. He snatches the comic out
text: of Toby's hand.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: Let me see this.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Mr. Boats, it's not polite to grab
dialog: things. Next time --
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: Son, you done good. Ya know, I was
dialog: up in Toronto a few weeks back an' I
dialog: saw the Red Chinese Ballet...
text: As Mr. Boats talks, the crowd starts to disperse.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: Now that was beautiful. The way those
dialog: people were dancing together. Those
dialog: Chinese work hard. I tell ya, they
dialog: work hard -- Where is everybody goin'?
text: Mr. Boats hands the comic book back to Harvey and turns on
text: his heels. Through the window he notices TWO VETS IN
text: WHEELCHAIRS moving down the hall.
speaker_heading: MR. BOATS
dialog: Where these sickly men rushin' off
dialog: to? They ain't goin' nowhere for
dialog: now. Maybe not for a long time. But
dialog: damn if they ain't in a rush to get
dialog: there.
text: Harvey stands there, his moment of glory passed. But it's
text: okay. He flips through his comic and smiles.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET CORNER - ASSOC. OF POLISH WOMEN - 1975 - DAY
text: A motley group of GUYS hang out on a street corner in front
text: of the Association of Polish Women. HARVEY heads towards
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Hey look guys, here comes Captain
dialog: America.
text: Harvey rolls his eyes.
speaker_heading: PAHLS
dialog: (yelling out)
dialog: You gonna hang with the boys now
dialog: that yer a comic book star?
text: Harvey turns red. He's embarrassed but part of him loves the
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Cut it out. Man, I ain't nothin' yet
dialog: compared to Bob Crumb.
speaker_heading: GUY #3
dialog: Ah, listen to him. One lousy comic
dialog: book and he wants to be Crumb.
text: The GUYS laugh.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON SILENT GUY
text: A SILENT GUY crouches by the wall, reading his CLEVELAND
text: BROWNS trading cards.
speaker_heading: PAHLS
dialog: Hey Harvey, if ya wanna make comics
dialog: for adults, ya oughtta put some dirty
dialog: stuff in it.
speaker_heading: GUY #3
dialog: Yeah, you can write about Marty's
dialog: sex life.
text: Harvey hangs with the guys but he doesn't engage. He seems
text: to be observing them more than interacting with them.
speaker_heading: GUY #3
dialog: Right Marty? I heard ya went out
dialog: with Bonnie yesterday.
speaker_heading: PAHLS
dialog: Yeah. Howdja do? Wudja git offa her?
speaker_heading: MARTY
dialog: Ah, lousy. All's I got wuz armaround.
text: The guys all stare at him for a moment. Then they crack up.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SOUND STAGE - PRESENT - DAY
scene_heading: HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP:
scene_heading: A COPY OF AMERICAN SPLENDOR #2: A FULL-COLOR CARTOON VERSION
text: OF THE ABOVE SCENE GRACES THE COVER.
text: A MARTY LOOK-ALIKE is bombarded with questions about his
dialog: date with Bonnie. He complains that all he got was "arm-
text: around." The REAL HARVEY holds the above comic book in his
text: hand. The stage is set with a few items that indicate a comic
text: book store. HARVEY talks about a couple of "American Splendor"
dialog: issues and how they impacted his life -- recognition as a
dialog: writer, etc. He gives his philosophy about the comic book,
text: etc. A MONTAGE OF AMERICAN SPLENDOR COVERS (ISSUE #3, #4,
scene_heading: #5, #6, ETC.) THEY INDICATE A PASSAGE OF TIME...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S CUBICLE - V.A. HOSPITAL - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY sits alone in his cubicle. He doodles stick figures
text: on a pad -- some ideas for a new comic. His posture's
text: miserable. He rubs his temples like he's in anguish.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Here's our man eight comics later, a
dialog: brand new decade, same old bullshit.
dialog: Yeah sure, he gets lots of recognition
dialog: for his writin' now. Sure his comics
dialog: are praised by all the important
dialog: media types tellin' people what to
dialog: think. But so what? It's not like
dialog: he makes a livin' at it like Bob
dialog: Crumb. He can't go an' quit his day
dialog: job or nothin'.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT SEQUENCE
text: Several shots of Harvey just thinking, scratching his face
text: with a pencil, tapping his foot nervously.
text: Each shot is separated by a second or two of black (an homage
text: to Harvey's wordless panels). Finally, he goes back to
dialog: writing.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Who am I kiddin'. Truth is I'd be
dialog: lost without my work routine.
scene_heading: FLASH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: Alone in bed, Harvey wakes up in a cold sweat from a
text: nightmare. He looks horrified, short of breath.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (calming himself down)
dialog: I got a job... I got a job...
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S CUBICLE - V.A. HOSPITAL - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY scratches his head.
text: CLOSE UP ON HIS DOODLING
dialog: Harvey writes "I got a job" in a balloon over the stick
text: figure's head.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: So -- to stave off desperation and
dialog: feelings of uselessness -- I resigned
dialog: myself to a menial existence. But
dialog: hey, maybe the guy who's had a happy
text: life feels worse just before he dies
dialog: than th' guy who had a sad one. Or,
dialog: maybe not. I dunno. Maybe I just
dialog: needed a woman.
text: Toby comes in, decked out in plaid and stripes. He has an
text: empty messenger bag.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Hi, Harvey. Do you want these gourmet
dialog: jelly beans? I gave up sweets for
dialog: lent.
text: Harvey turns around. He seems down, depressed.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Huh? Sure, I'll take 'em.
text: Toby watches Harvey eat a few.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey, watermelon. That's pretty good.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: I recommend the piña coladas. They
dialog: are excellent and very authentic
dialog: tasting.
text: Toby heads down a file row and proceeds to take a few off
text: the shelves, stuffing his bag. Harvey gets up and comes after
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey Toby, can you eat lentils during
dialog: lent?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Sure. I don't see why not. You can't
dialog: eat meat on certain days, but lentils
dialog: should be acceptable anytime.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Ya think there's any connection
dialog: between lentils and lent?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: I don't think so but I'll ask Sister
text: Mary Fred at church on Sunday.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Sister Mary Fred, huh? Is she cute?
dialog: Sounds kinda mannish but who am I to
dialog: be picky.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Harvey, you're funny. She's a nun.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: So what? Maybe she became a nun
dialog: because she couldn't get a guy.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Harvey, she became a nun because she
dialog: had a higher calling.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Higher calling. That is such a crock
dialog: of shit. I don't know why you waste
dialog: your time prayin' anyway.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Well, Harvey, I like the ritual. And
dialog: I'm a very spiritual person. You
dialog: know, you should try believing in
dialog: something bigger than yourself. It
dialog: might cheer you up.
text: Toby turns on his heels and walks off.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (calling after him)
dialog: What? Do I seem depressed, Toby?
text: Toby doesn't respond.
text: Harvey shrugs and digs deep into the jelly bean bag. He pulls
text: out a fistful.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON HARVEY'S HAND
text: Jellybeans in every imaginable color. Harvey fingers a few
text: and then picks a blue one.
speaker_heading: BOB THE DIRECTOR (V.O.)
dialog: Cut!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL "SET" - PRESENT - DAY
scene_heading: HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
text: A few items from the previous scene are present on the sound
text: stage indicating that it's a set of AMERICAN SPLENDOR -- The
dialog: Movie.
text: THE ACTOR HARVEY stands alone, his hand filled with Jelly
dialog: beans.
scene_heading: BOB THE DIRECTOR
dialog: Okay, that was great. The bakery
text: scene is next...
text: ACTOR HARVEY steps out of the frame, revealing a craft service
text: table behind him. At the table, the REAL HARVEY and the REAL
text: TOBY load up on donuts. The two discuss the food on the set.
text: Ironically, the Real Toby is actually more extreme than the
text: Actor who plays him -- even more robotic, and completely
dialog: incapable of eye-contact.
text: The REAL TOBY discusses the finer points of nerdom and
text: evaluates the Actor's nerd quotient. The Real Harvey explains
dialog: to Actor Toby that nothing -- not even gourmet jelly beans --
dialog: would have cheered him up at that point in his life.
text: He was too lonely and depressed.
scene_heading: END HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - MORNING
text: Light pours through the curtained window.
text: Naked and disheveled, HARVEY tosses and turns in bed.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: My loneliness was unbearable, man.
dialog: Weekends were the worst. Sometimes
text: in my sleep, I'd feel a body next to
dialog: me like an amputee feels a phantom
dialog: limb.
scene_heading: EXT. PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE -- DAY
text: Extreme wide shot: a city-street overpass spans across the
text: entire frame. The lone figure of Harvey sulks there in the
text: middle, watching traffic pass below.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Sure my comics were bringin' me
dialog: notoriety, but my personal life was
dialog: in shambles. I thought a little
dialog: attention would make me feel better.
dialog: It only made me feel worse.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BAKERY SIDE STREET - SPRING - 1980'S - MORNING
text: It is a beautiful, sunny day. The trees are in bloom.
text: There's the first scent of spring in the air. Kids play in
text: the street. Music pours out of passing cars. Everyone seems
text: to have a smile on his or her face except HARVEY. He walks
text: on the shadowy side of the street.
scene_heading: EXT. BAKERY STREET - SPRING
text: Establishing shot of HARVEY trudging into the bakery.
scene_heading: INT. BAKERY - SPRING - 1980'S - MORNING
text: A couple of WOMEN order bread and cookies from TWO COUNTER
speaker_heading: GIRLS.
text: HARVEY surveys the donuts.
speaker_heading: COUNTER GIRL #1
dialog: (yelling to Harvey)
dialog: Next!
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (to the Counter Girl)
dialog: Yeah! I'll have two crullers, a jelly
dialog: donut with powdered sugar... And you
dialog: got any "day old bread"?
text: A woman with attractive Irish looks brushes past Harvey on
text: her way to the door. This is ALICE QUINN, roughly Harvey's
text: age but there is a tired, weary look in her eyes.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Hey, you're Harvey Pekar.
text: Half in a daze, Harvey stares at the chick.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Alice Quinn. From school.
text: Harvey studies her face. Suddenly, it clicks.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Oh yeah. College. We had a couple
dialog: lit classes together.
text: Harvey pays and receives his items. They step back towards
dialog: the door.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What happened to you? You just
dialog: disappeared after one semester.
text: Harvey scratches his armpit.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I know, man. I got good grades and
dialog: all but there was this required math
dialog: class. I can't do math, an' that
dialog: required class hangin' over my head
dialog: made me crazy. Eventually the pressure
dialog: got to be too much.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Well, you're doing okay anyway. I
dialog: heard all about your jazz reviews
dialog: and your comics.
dialog: This perks Harvey up.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Ya did?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Sure, you're famous. Meanwhile I got
dialog: my degree but I'm just a plain old
dialog: wife and mother.
text: Harvey stares at her wedding ring. His face drops.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah. I'm not doing as great as ya
dialog: think. My second wife divorced me
dialog: and I work at a dead end job as a
dialog: file clerk. Sometimes I hang out
text: with the guys on the corner but most
dialog: of the time I just stay home by myself
dialog: and read.
text: Alice laughs.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You're luckier than you think. My
dialog: husband and kids make it impossible
dialog: for me to cuddle up with a good book.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BAKERY - SPRING - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY and ALICE continue their conversation as they stroll
text: towards her car.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm reading this book by Dreiser now --
scene_heading: JENNIE GERHARDT.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's one of my favorites.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I hope it don't end like so many a'
dialog: those naturalist novels... With
dialog: someone getting crushed ta earth by
dialog: forces he can't control.
text: Alice smiles.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I think you'll be pleasantly
dialog: surprised. It's certainly not a
dialog: Hollywood happy ending, but it's
dialog: pretty truthful. Which is rare these
dialog: days...
text: This hits home with Harvey. He can't believe he's made such
dialog: a connection with this woman.
text: Alice stops in front of a beat-up station wagon.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: This is me.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Nice car. I don't have one yet.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Can I give ya a lift somewhere?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Nah. It's a nice day. I'll just walk.
text: Harvey looks down, a little sad.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Well, we should have you over sometime
dialog: for dinner.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Sure, I'd be glad t'come. But if you
dialog: really wanna do me a favor, introduce
dialog: me to some a' your single girlfriends.
dialog: I bet they're all smart like you.
dialog: I'm no catch, though, so I'll take
dialog: anything you can get me.
text: Alice pecks Harvey on the cheek.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'll work on it.
text: She gets into the car.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Nice seeing ya Harvey.
text: Harvey watches as she drives off.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: When I got home, I finished reading
dialog: JENNIE GERHARDT. It was real good,
dialog: way better than I expected. That
dialog: Alice wuz right.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - SPRING - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: The room is moody, dark and lonely. The shadowy figure of
text: Harvey sits on the floor devouring JENNIE GERHARDT.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Sure Lester -- the main character --
text: croaks in the end, but at least he's
text: old and dies a natural dignified
dialog: death.
text: THE CAMERA TRAVELS AROUND THE ROOM TO FIND: Harvey again,
text: now silhouetted in the door frame, still clutching the book
text: and obsessed by his thoughts.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: I was more alone that weekend than
dialog: any. All I did was think about JENNIE
dialog: GERHARDT an' Alice Quinn an' all the
dialog: decades of people I have known.
text: THE CAMERA TRAVELS AGAIN TO FIND Harvey sitting on a chair
text: in the corner of his room. His head is bowed. His shoulders
text: slump over, as if he's struggling with something weighty.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: The more I thought, the more I felt
dialog: like cryin'; Life seemed so sweet
dialog: an' so sad an' so hard t'let go of
text: in the end.
text: THE CAMERA TRAVELS A FINAL TIME TO FIND: Harvey sprawled
text: across his couch. But he's not asleep; he's still obsessing.
text: The book lies on his chest like a lover.
text: CLOSE UP of Harvey's troubled face. Beneath the pain, we see
dialog: hope and determination.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: But hey, man. Every day's a brand
dialog: new deal, right? Just keep on workin'
dialog: and sump'n's bound ta turn up.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. COSMIC COMICS STORE - DELAWARE - 1980'S - DAY
text: An urban comic book shop on a dicey but bohemian street. A
text: title over picture reads, "MEANWHILE, IN DELAWARE."
scene_heading: INT. COSMIC COMICS STORE - 1980'S - DAY
text: JOYCE BRABNER, a depressive nudge with a perpetually peptic
text: expression frantically searches the store for something. Her
text: partner, a granola type named RAND, finishes unloading a
text: stack on the shelf.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: What happened to the new American
dialog: Splendor?
speaker_heading: RAND
dialog: We sold 'em, babe.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: All of them?
speaker_heading: RAND
dialog: Yep.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (accusatory)
dialog: Damn it! I put one aside for myself,
dialog: next to the register. I didn't even
dialog: get a chance to read it.
speaker_heading: RAND
dialog: Whoa, sorry, Joyce. I didn't know
dialog: you were such a Splendor fan. Next
dialog: time take it home.
text: Joyce leans against the counter. She pushes up her glasses
text: and looks really upset.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Maybe I'll call the publisher. But
dialog: they take so damn long. Shit! Why
dialog: does everything in my life have to
dialog: be such a complicated disaster...
text: Joyce starts slamming things around the store. Finally Rand
text: grabs his stuff.
speaker_heading: RAND
dialog: Okay, I'm gonna hustle before the
dialog: vibe in here gets any worse.
text: Rand leaves. Joyce barely notices, still brewing.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. JOYCE'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: The mess in this room rivals Harvey's. A few cats add to the
text: clutter. Joyce lies on her disheveled bed and writes a letter.
speaker_heading: JOYCE (V.O.)
dialog: Greetings from the second smallest
dialog: state in the union, an endless
dialog: plastics and nylon plantation
dialog: controlled by giant chemical
dialog: corporations.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - VESTIBULE - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY takes his mail out of the box. He finds an oddly
text: decorated envelope.
speaker_heading: JOYCE (V.O.)
dialog: To make matters more dismal, there
dialog: are no decent comic book stores in
dialog: my town, which is why my partner and
dialog: I opened one ourselves.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BATHROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY finishes reading the letter sitting on the toilet. A
text: cat runs around him.
speaker_heading: JOYCE (V.O.)
dialog: Despite our steadily faltering
dialog: business, my partner managed to sell
dialog: the last copy of American Splendor
dialog: #8 out from under me. I'm a big fan
dialog: and I hate to wait for a new order.
dialog: Is there any way I can get it from
dialog: you direct? Sincerely, Joyce Brabner.
text: Harvey scratches his head. He mutters to himself.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: ...man, she's got good lookin'
dialog: handwritin'...
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - NIGHT
scene_heading: BEGIN MONTAGE -- HARVEY AND JOYCE COMMUNICATING
text: We see Harvey in his bed writing.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Dear Joyce, Thanks for the letter.
dialog: Whattya do besides sellin' comics?
text: THE SCREEN SPLITS TO ACCOMMODATE:
scene_heading: INT. DELAWARE PRISON CLASSROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: We see Joyce standing in front of a GROUP OF PRISONERS.
speaker_heading: JOYCE (V.O.)
dialog: I'm a sometime activist and I teach
dialog: writing to prisoners. I try to help
dialog: them build an interior life and make
text: art out of their monotonous,
text: suffocating routine.
text: THE SCREEN GIVES WAY TO ANOTHER FRAME
scene_heading: INT. BUS - 1980'S - DAY
text: Harvey scribbles a letter while riding on the bus.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Sounds familiar. So you married or
dialog: what?
scene_heading: INT. JOYCE'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - DAY
text: Joyce empties her can of cat food in a plate and slides it
text: towards her kitty.
speaker_heading: JOYCE (V.O.)
dialog: I'm divorced, thank god.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - EVENING
text: Now we see Harvey (full screen) in bed in his underwear
text: talking on the PHONE. He's clipping his toe nails.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Look, I think you an' I got a lot in
dialog: common. How am I gonna get you to
dialog: come visit me in Cleveland?
speaker_heading: JOYCE (V.O.)
dialog: Cleveland? You think that's a good
dialog: idea?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: It's a great idea. You should meet
dialog: me, 'cause I'm a great guy. Despite
dialog: the way my comics read, I got a lot
dialog: of redeeming characteristics.
text: CLIP! He clips off a big one.
text: THE SCREEN SPLITS TO REVEAL
scene_heading: INT. JOYCE'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: Joyce sits on her equally disheveled bed dunking a tea bag.
text: Her hair is wet from a shower.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I don't know. Where would I stay?
speaker_heading: HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: With me. Don't worry, I'm not gonna
dialog: put no moves on you or anything.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I'm not worried about that...
dialog: (fumbling with a tea
dialog: cup)
dialog: Hold on, I just spilled chamomile
dialog: tea all over my bathrobe.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: So what are ya worried about then?
text: Joyce sighs and lies down. A variety of AMERICAN SPLENDORS
text: are across her bed. Different interpretations of Harvey stare
text: up at her.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (sipping)
dialog: Well, the way all those different
dialog: artists draw you, I don't quite know
dialog: what to expect. I mean sometimes you
text: look like a younger Brando, but then
dialog: the way Crumb draws you -- like a
dialog: hairy ape with all those stinky,
dialog: wavy lines radiating off your body --
dialog: it's kind of scary.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Those are motion lines. I'm an active
dialog: guy. Anyway, just come out here an'
dialog: I'll try to be anyone you want me ta
dialog: be.
text: Joyce smiles for the first time.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: That's a dangerous offer. I'm a
dialog: notorious reformer...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AIRPORT - ARRIVALS GATE - 1980'S - DAY
text: A nervous JOYCE walks off the plane into the arrivals area.
text: She scans the crowd of friends, family, lovers and limo
text: drivers waiting to meet the disembarking passengers. Where
dialog: is Harvey? What will he look like?
text: As Joyce surveys the unfamiliar faces, she imagines different
text: versions of an animated, illustrated Harvey among the people.
text: She double-takes as sees the R. CRUMB HARVEY -- hairy, scary,
text: smelly and picking his nose. Joyce rubs her eyes.
text: Next she sees the BRANDO HARVEY (Gary Dumm), but unfortunately
text: he disappears fast.
text: Disappointed, Joyce notices the realistic DREW FRIEDMAN HARVEY
text: walking towards her. She smiles as he dissolves into:
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: Hey. Are you Joyce?
text: Joyce turns around. The flesh and blood HARVEY PEKAR stands
text: before her -- not quite as bad as the Crumb version, not
text: quite as good as the Dumm version, but still acceptable. She
text: sighs with relief.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Hi, Harvey. We finally meet in person.
text: She politely offers her hand. Harvey shakes it, but he looks
text: overwhelmed, worried and pessimistic.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hiya. Look, before we get started
dialog: with any of this, ya might as well
dialog: know right off the bat. I had a
dialog: vasectomy.
text: Joyce lets go of his hand. She stares at him in disbelief.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TGIF STYLE RESTAURANT - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: The most awkward date in history. Seated in an ultra-yuppie
text: restaurant filled with business lunchers, Harvey and Joyce
text: hide behind their menus. While everyone else looks slick and
text: successful, these two compete for the world's worst posture.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Somethin's wrong. Yer lookin' around
dialog: everywhere.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I guess I never imagined you eating
dialog: in a place like this.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Me? I never been here. I thought
dialog: you'd like it. But obviously ya don't,
dialog: do ya?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: It's fine. What difference does it
dialog: make?
text: Harvey shakes his head, feeling more pessimistic.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I dunno. None, I guess.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: They sure got a lot of meat on this
dialog: menu.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: You're a vegetarian?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Kinda. I mean ever since I got a pet
dialog: cat, I couldn't eat animals anymore.
text: Joyce grabs a bread stick.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Hmm. I support and identify with
dialog: groups like PETA, but unfortunately
dialog: I'm a self-diagnosed anemic. Also, I
dialog: have all these food allergies to
dialog: vegetables that give me serious
dialog: intestinal distress. I guess I have
dialog: a lot of borderline health disorders
dialog: that limit me politically when it
text: comes to eating.
text: Harvey just stares at her.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Wow. Yer a sick woman, huh?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Not yet. But I expect to be. Everyone
dialog: in my family's got some kind of
dialog: degenerative illness.
text: A cheery waitress bounces over.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: (sing song)
dialog: Good afternoon! I'm your server Cindy!
dialog: What can I bring you two today?
text: They slowly look up at her.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: JOYCE and HARVEY enter the apartment. The place is a mess,
dialog: as usual.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Look, I was gonna clean up, but why
dialog: should I give you any false notions?
dialog: The truth is I got a serious problem
dialog: with cleanliness. I could wash a
text: dish ten times and it'd still dirty.
dialog: They even kicked me outta the Army
dialog: 'cause I couldn't learn ta make a
dialog: bed.
text: Joyce puts down her bag.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I've seen worse.
text: She slumps down on the sofa as if she's been here a million
text: times. She rubs her head. Harvey sits next to her.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey, go get me water and a few
dialog: aspirin.
text: Harvey just bounces back up and obeys.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What, ya got a headache?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: No, but I want to avoid one.
text: Harvey empties the aspirin bottle in his palm. For some
text: reason, he's feeling more comfortable.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Well lemme tell ya Joyce, it sure is
dialog: nice ta have company. I mean, despite
dialog: all your problems, you seem like a
dialog: great person. An' hey, sorry if my
dialog: dating skills are kinda rusty, but
dialog: I've just been through hell and back
dialog: with women. I mean that last one
dialog: turned out to be a real nasty bitch.
text: Harvey arrives back with the aspirin. He hands it to Joyce.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I had a nice time with you, too.
text: Joyce swallows the pill. Harvey sits down next to her.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah? You had a nice time?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Don't make people repeat themselves.
dialog: It's annoying.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Oh, sorry.
text: They're inches away from each other.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: C'mere...
text: She pulls him close. Harvey plants a kiss on her.
text: They slowly separate. Joyce's eyes are closed. She likes
text: him. He kisses her again. They start making out, moaning a
dialog: bit.
dialog: But before it gets heavy --
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah?
text: Joyce opens her eyes. She looks uneasy.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Which door's the bathroom?
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM DOOR - 1980'S - DAY
text: Harvey stands by the bathroom door, despondent. From inside
text: we hear the sounds of moaning and flushing.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey, Joyce! What's wrong? What is
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BATHROOM - DAY
text: FLUSH! Joyce is doubled over on the toilet. She's looking
dialog: green.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Ugh! I don't know. I think that yuppie
dialog: food did me in.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM DOOR - DAY
speaker_heading: OUTSIDE THE DOOR
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I feel terrible. Lemme at least do
dialog: something for you.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BATHROOM - DAY
text: Joyce gets to her feet and puts her glasses back on. She
text: picks up a can and sprays air freshener around the room.
text: Then she looks at the can and realizes it's WD-40.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Can I make ya something? How about
dialog: some chamomile tea?
text: Joyce puts the can down.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Chamomile tea? What the hell's a guy
dialog: like you doing with that? I thought
dialog: you drink soda pop for breakfast.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: I dunno. I noticed you drank a lot
dialog: of it when we started talkin' on the
dialog: phone. So I stocked up on herbal
dialog: teas for your visit.
text: Joyce turns her head to the door. She's truly surprised by
text: what Harvey's just said. And very moved. She smiles to
dialog: herself.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM DOOR - DAY
text: Harvey stands there waiting.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: The girl at the Food Co-op picked me
dialog: out all kinds of herbal stuff. One
dialog: of 'ems good for stomachaches. Grandma
dialog: Bear's Tummy Mint, I think. Are you
dialog: still there?
text: Joyce slowly opens the door. She leans against the door frame
text: like she's just been through a war.
text: She takes off her glasses and cleans them off with her shirt.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey, we better skip this whole
dialog: courtship thing and just get married.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: Harvey and Joyce are in bed, lying in each other's arms.
text: They look quite contented.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Man, am I glad I talked you into
dialog: comin' up here. Any more time alone
dialog: and I mighta lost it fer good.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Me too.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: So you don't have any problems with
dialog: movin' to Cleveland?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Not really. I find most American
text: cities depressing in the same way.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: An' yer okay with the vasectomy thing?
text: She shrugs.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - V.A. HOSPITAL - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY approaches the building. Instead of dragging his feet
text: like usual, he seems to be floating on a cloud. We haven't
dialog: seen Harvey this happy since... well, since never.
text: He stops by a junker car and peeks in the window, finding
text: TOBY eating lunch alone. He has an entire White Castle
text: smorgasbord spread across the front seat.
text: Harvey knocks on the window. Toby rolls it down.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Ay Toby.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: (mouth full)
dialog: No you can't have any of my White
dialog: Castle hamburgers so please don't
dialog: even ask.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Can I have a fry?
text: Harvey reaches for a handful of Toby's fries.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Okay, but just a couple, Harvey. I'm
dialog: not going to eat dinner until very
dialog: late and this has got to hold me
dialog: over.
text: Harvey leans in, always amused by Toby. He steals another
dialog: fry.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (munching)
dialog: Whattya got, a church function?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: No, I'm driving to Toledo to see a
dialog: movie. Would you like to come?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Nah. I gotta fly to Delaware tonight.
dialog: I'm gettin' married.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Oh. Why Delaware?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: The chick I'm marryin' is from
dialog: Wilmington. Plus, I gotta help her
dialog: move her stuff here.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Why you drivin' ta Toledo to see a
dialog: movie?
speaker_heading: TOBY
text: It's not playing at the Mapletown.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I didn't know you had a girlfriend,
dialog: Harvey.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah. We met last week.
text: Harvey opens the car door and slides in with Toby.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Toby, what movie could possibly be
dialog: worth drivin' 260 miles round trip
dialog: for?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: It's a new film called "Revenge of
dialog: the Nerds." It's about a group of
dialog: nerd college students who are being
dialog: picked on all the time by the jocks,
dialog: so they decide to take revenge. I
dialog: already saw it once.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Wow, ya really dig this movie.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: I like it a lot, Harvey.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What are these nerds like? How would
dialog: you describe them?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Hmm... Nerds are smart but they look
dialog: and act differently than other people.
dialog: Like nerds might wear polyester button-
text: down shirts and flood pants where
text: their ankles and their socks are
dialog: showing.
text: Toby spills some catsup on his polyester button-down shirt.
text: He stands up to get a napkin, revealing his flood pants.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: So what yer sayin' is you identify
dialog: with those nerds?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: (rubbing out the catsup)
dialog: Yes, I consider myself a nerd. And
dialog: this movie has uplifted me. There's
text: this one scene where a nerd grabs
text: the microphone during a pep rally
text: and announces that he is a nerd and
text: that he is proud of it and stands up
dialog: for the rights of other nerds. Then,
text: he asks the kids at the pep rally
dialog: who think they are nerds to come
dialog: forward... So nearly everyone in the
dialog: place does. That's the way the movie
dialog: ends.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: So the nerds won, huh?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Yes.
text: Harvey grabs the rest of Toby's fries and opens the door to
dialog: leave.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Wow. You got this movie an' I'm
dialog: gettin' hitched. We both had a good
dialog: month, huh?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: (finishing his last
dialog: burger)
dialog: Right. Harvey, how long are you going
dialog: to be in Delaware because I'd really
dialog: like to see this movie with you?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm only goin' for a week but then
dialog: I'll have a wife, so I'll have to
dialog: take her along. Is it a girl flick?
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Depends on the girl. What kind of
dialog: girl is your new bride? Is she a
dialog: nerd?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I don't know, man. Maybe. She's into
dialog: herbal teas.
text: Toby watches Harvey saunter off. He returns to his last
text: hamburger.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MOVIE THEATER - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: A brightly lit marquee reads, "REVENGE OF THE NERDS." The
text: doors to the theater open and a crowd pours onto the street.
text: HARVEY, JOYCE and TOBY are among them. Toby proudly wears a
text: "Genuine Nerd" button on his striped shirt.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I agree with Toby. I think it's a
dialog: story of hope and tolerance.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Yes. It's about time that the people
dialog: who get picked on get to be the
dialog: heroes.
text: Harvey scrunches his face in disbelief.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: It's an entertaining flick an' I can
dialog: see why you like it Toby, but those
dialog: people on the screen ain't even
dialog: supposed to be you! They're college
dialog: students whose parents live in big
dialog: houses in the suburbs. They're gonna
dialog: get degrees, get good jobs and stop
dialog: being nerds.
text: Joyce hits Harvey.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey, what did I say about loud
dialog: talking? Use your inside voice.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (whispering loudly)
dialog: Look Toby, the guys in that movie
text: are not 28-year-old file clerks who
dialog: live with their grandmothers in an
dialog: ethnic ghetto.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: That's enough, Harvey.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: They didn't get their computers like
dialog: you did -- by trading in a bunch of
dialog: box tops and $49.50 at the
dialog: supermarket.
text: Joyce folds her arms in disapproval. Toby starts to laugh.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: You're funny Harvey.
text: Harvey looks at him, disappointed. He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Sure, Toby. Go to the movies and
text: daydream, but "Revenge of the Nerds"
dialog: ain't reality. It's just Hollywood
dialog: bullshit.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TOBY'S CAR -- A FEW MOMENTS LATER
scene_heading: ANGLE ON TOBY'S CAR (THROUGH WINDSHIELD)
text: Toby and Joyce continue to analyze the movie in the front
text: seat as Toby starts the ignition.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TOBY'S CAR
text: ANGLE ON HARVEY IN BACK SEAT
text: Slouched, grumpy and alone on the back seat, Harvey's still
text: annoyed by the movie.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Okay, maybe I was bein' so harsh on
dialog: Toby onna count a' my own problems.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY
dialog: Y'see, I wasn't even married a month
dialog: and my old lady was already showin'
dialog: signs a' trouble. Granted, I tend ta
dialog: get married fast 'cause I'll take
dialog: any woman that'll have me, but this
dialog: time I really met my match...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. REHEARSAL STUDIO - PRESENT - DAY
scene_heading: HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
text: A few items indicating film production are in the frame.
text: At a table in the foreground, BOB THE DIRECTOR discusses the
text: character of Joyce with the ACTRESS playing her. The actress
text: just nods as the director goes on.
text: We can see THE REAL JOYCE sitting with THE REAL HARVEY in
dialog: the distance.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Okay, I think the thing with Joyce
dialog: is that as manic as Harvey can be,
text: she matches him with depression. In
dialog: that way they complete each other. I
dialog: mean, she's obviously a very smart
dialog: woman, but she has a lot of trouble
dialog: functioning in a world she can't
dialog: control. And she's totally obsessed
dialog: with all things negative; y'know,
dialog: diseases, dysfuctions, etc.
text: THE REAL JOYCE and REAL HARVEY listen curiously -- sometimes
text: pleased, sometimes displeased -- as their personalities are
text: dissected and boiled down to a few phrases.
scene_heading: CLOSER SHOT OF REAL JOYCE AND HARVEY
text: The REAL JOYCE puts in her two cents about the actress playing
text: her. She rants about what it's like to be portrayed in a
text: movie, and having a character arc imposed on her life.
text: She moves into talking about her relationship with Harvey,
dialog: and the first years of their marriage -- how impossible it
dialog: was to live with him.
text: The REAL HARVEY just rolls his eyes.
scene_heading: END HIGH DEFINITION VIDEO DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: JOYCE is on a cleaning rampage. She rummages through piles
text: upon piles of records while HARVEY paces nervously.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: What about these 78's, Harvey? Can't
dialog: you sell them to one of those
dialog: collectors?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Are ya kidding? No way, man. I ain't
dialog: getting rid of my 78's.
text: Joyce throws down the records in frustration. Harvey runs
dialog: over to check if they're scratched.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Forget it then. I give up! How can I
dialog: make more storage space, if you won't
dialog: get rid of anything?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'll get rid of stuff. Just not my
dialog: good stuff.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Everything's your good stuff. How am
dialog: I supposed to live here, if there's
dialog: no room for me?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Aw come on, baby. I'll make room for
dialog: ya. You just have to give me time.
dialog: I'm not so good at these kind of
dialog: things.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: That's because you're obsessive
dialog: compulsive Harvey.
text: A DOOR BUZZER rings. Harvey slams it to unlock the front.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: C'mon. I don't wanna hear that
dialog: psychobabble crap!
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I don't care if you wanna hear it or
dialog: not. You're the poster child for the
dialog: DSM III. I'll have you know that I
dialog: come from a very dysfunctional family.
dialog: I can spot personality disorders a
dialog: mile away...
text: A KNOCK ON THE DOOR interrupts their argument. Joyce storms
text: away to answer it.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON THE DOOR:
text: Joyce opens it to face a smiling TOBY -- dressed as usual in
text: a loud polyester fashion don't. He talks in his strange
text: robotic voice and avoids all eye contact.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Hello Joyce. Is Harvey home?
text: Joyce turns to Harvey and points to Toby.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Borderline autistic!
text: This scene shrinks into a square up in the corner. The next
text: few scenes (NEUROSIS MONTAGE) further divide up the full
text: screen like a comic book.
scene_heading: INT. CLEVELAND COMIC BOOK STORE - 1980'S - DAY
text: R. CRUMB leaps from behind an autograph table (where he's
text: signing comics) to hop on the back of ZAFTIG BABE, who offers
text: him a piggy-back ride.
text: Joyce turns to Harvey.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Polymorphously Perverse.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - V.A. HOSPITAL - 1980'S - DAY
text: JOYCE picks up Harvey from work. HARVEY enters the car, waving
text: goodbye to the ranting MR. BOATS.
text: She points to Mr. Boats.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Paranoid Personality Disorder.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: THE TELEPHONE RINGS. A disheveled, tired-looking JOYCE flips
text: through a novel and lets the machine pick up.
scene_heading: ANSWERING MACHINE
dialog: Please leave a message.
dialog: (Beep)
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Hey Joyce, it's me. You're not gonna
dialog: believe this but some LA producer
dialog: called an' he wants to do a play
dialog: about my life. Call me!
dialog: (Click)
text: Joyce flips the page.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (to herself)
text: Delusions of grandeur.
scene_heading: END NEUROSIS MONTAGE (return to full screen)
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THEATER - 1980'S - EVENING
text: HARVEY and JOYCE sit in a packed theater watching a play.
text: Joyce looks exhausted.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON STAGE
text: A STAGE ACTOR HARVEY and a STAGE ACTOR JOYCE share a couch
text: on the sparse stage.
scene_heading: STAGE ACTOR HARVEY
dialog: See, I think comics can be an art
dialog: form. With pictures an' words, a guy
dialog: can do pretty much anything!
scene_heading: STAGE ACTOR JOYCE
dialog: That's true, Harvey. But I didn't
dialog: come all the way from Delaware to
dialog: talk about comics ...
text: The "Stage Actor Joyce" lunges over and plants a kiss on
dialog: him.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON HARVEY AND JOYCE IN AUDIENCE
text: Harvey digs it but Joyce looks disgusted.
dialog: BACK TO STAGE
text: We now see STAGE ACTOR HARVEY clutching a tea cup, as STAGE
text: ACTOR JOYCE kneels before a toilet bowl. Off to the side of
text: the stage, A SPOT LIGHT illuminates a GUITAR PLAYER, who
text: adds music to the scene.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AIRPORT - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY and JOYCE walk through the terminal. Harvey brims
text: with energy but Joyce looks exhausted.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: If ya think readin' comics about yer
dialog: life seems strange, try watchin' a
dialog: play about it. God only knows how
dialog: I'll feel when I see this movie. But
dialog: truth be told, the play wasn't half
dialog: bad, and we got a free trip outta
dialog: it. Things were goin' pretty good
dialog: for a change. Variety called me "The
dialog: Blue Collar Mark Twain," and Doubleday
dialog: was interested in publishing an
dialog: anthology of "American Splendor."
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AIRPORT - BAGGAGE CLAIM - 1980'S - DAY
text: Harvey nervously taps his foot as he waits for the bags.
text: Joyce leans against the carousel staring at a YOUNG MOTHER
text: with a BABY in a Bjorn.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I hate checkin' bags, man. It always
dialog: takes forever.
text: He checks his watch. Joyce remains quiet and distant.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Jesus, look at the time. The bus is
dialog: gonna leave soon and there won't be
dialog: another one for an hour. That means
dialog: I gotta shell out an extra thirty
dialog: bucks for a cab.
text: Harvey spots a bag that he thinks is his.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey wait, there's our --
text: (a well-dressed man
dialog: grabs it)
dialog: Figures. That lucky Yuppie's gonna
dialog: get on the bus in time.
text: Suddenly, Joyce mumbles something to Harvey.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Y'know Harvey, vasectomies are
dialog: reversible.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (ignoring her)
dialog: Damn Yuppies get everything.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (raising her voice)
dialog: Are you listening to me? I said
dialog: vasectomies are reversible.
text: Heads turn.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What? Whattya talkin' about? I don't
dialog: want kids. An' I came clean about my
dialog: vasectomy the first time I set eyes
dialog: on ya', right here in this airport.
text: More heads turn.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I know but things have changed. I
dialog: think we can be a family.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Family?! What kinda family could we
dialog: possibly be? I ain't no good with
dialog: kids. I can barely take care of
dialog: myself.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I'll take care of the kid and you.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: No way Joyce. Forget it. I can't do
dialog: it; I can't have no kids.
text: Joyce folds her arms... dejected, defeated. The audience of
text: eavesdroppers looks disappointed as well.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
dialog: If the place was a disaster before, believe it or not, it's
text: gotten worse. JOYCE seems to have given up on her
dialog: organizing... and everything else for that matter.
text: HARVEY hysterically searches through the mess for a record
text: album. Joyce just lies listlessly on an open futon on the
text: middle of the room; it looks as if she hasn't been up in
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Where the hell is that Ornette Coleman
dialog: album, Joyce? I got a review due
dialog: tomorrow.
text: Joyce rolls over.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I didn't touch it, Harvey. Would you
dialog: let me sleep?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: But it's one o'clock! How late can a
dialog: person sleep?
text: Joyce sits up. This time she means business.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: It happens to be Saturday you selfish
dialog: sonofabitch! And don't you go telling
dialog: me what to do. I'm the one who moved
dialog: into your city, into your home, into
dialog: your vasectomy and into your screwed-
dialog: up life. The least you could do is
dialog: allow me to live here my way.
text: She rolls over and covers her head with the pillow. Harvey
text: just stands there staring at her.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SUPERMARKET - 1980'S - DAY
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: I tried everything but nothin' could
dialog: get this woman outta bed.
text: HARVEY peruses the aisles. He pulls box upon box of herbal
text: tea off the shelves.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: I mean she wouldn't get a job,
dialog: wouldn't go out, wouldn't make
dialog: friends, nothin'.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY throws boxes of herbal teas at JOYCE as she sprawls
text: listlessly on the futon. She just yawns and turns over on
dialog: her side.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Joyce diagnosed herself as "clinically
dialog: depressed." I don't know what the
dialog: hell she was goin' through but it
dialog: was sure takin' it's toll on me.
text: A frustrated Harvey tries once more to cheer her up.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (upbeat)
dialog: We can go out for dinner tonight.
dialog: How 'bout catching a bite at Tommy's?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (mumbling)
dialog: I'm not hungry.
text: Harvey throws his hands in the air and walks off.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I give up.
text: As he passes the answering machine, he notices it's blinking.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey Joyce, we got a message here.
dialog: Why didn't you pick up.
text: Joyce doesn't respond.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Useless.
text: He presses the play button.
text: ANGLE ON ANSWERING MACHINE: A loud "beep," then ...
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: Hi, this is a message for Harvey
dialog: Pekar. My name is Jonathan Greene
dialog: and I'm a producer for LATE NIGHT
dialog: WITH DAVID LETTERMAN. We'd like to
dialog: talk to you about coming on the show
dialog: to plug your comics. Please give me
text: a call at 212-555-3333.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: What the hell?
text: Joyce sits up. Harvey's finger hits the "Replay" button.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: Hi, this is a message for Harvey --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN SKYLINE - 1980'S - DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT
text: The impressive skyline glistens in the spring sun.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
text: Joyce finally got off the futon...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - NEW YORK - 1980'S - DAY
text: Armed with shopping bags from Bleecker Bob's Record Shop,
dialog: the Strand Book Store and Forbidden Planet Comic Book
text: Emporium, HARVEY and JOYCE eat lunch on a park bench. Harvey
text: chomps on a knish and watches oddball New Yorkers stroll by
text: as Joyce nibbles on her hot dog.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL HALLWAY -- DAY
text: CLOSE UP ON AN ICE BUCKET
text: Cut back to reveal Harvey, schlepping an ice bucket down a
text: hall in his underwear. A FEMALE BUSINESS TRAVELER passes and
text: stares at him. He enters a room with a "DO NOT DISTURB" sign.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK HOTEL ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: The PEKARS have already wreaked havoc on their luxury hotel
text: room. It looks like a tornado touched down on the New York
dialog: Hilton.
text: HARVEY tries on outfits for the big show. He pulls a wrinkled
text: T-shirt over his head and models it for JOYCE who is spread
text: out on the bed surrounded by piles of clothing, scissors and
text: sewing supplies. She glances up at Harvey's getup and shakes
dialog: her head no.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Aw, c'mon. Who the hell cares?
text: Harvey tosses his shirt over to Joyce, who snatches it and
text: starts cutting it with a scissor.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey, whattya doin?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Merchandising.
text: She resumes her mysterious sewing project; she seems to be
text: making some kind of doll.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: Backstage, JOYCE watches LATE NIGHT WITH DAVID LETTERMAN on
text: a monitor as HARVEY awaits his turn to go on camera. He has
text: changed out of his wrinkled T-shirt into a slightly more
text: formal look -- a denim shirt and a ratty seersucker striped
dialog: jacket.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
scene_heading: ANGLE ON MONITOR (NOTE: THIS IS ACTUAL STOCK FOOTAGE OF THE
speaker_heading: SHOW)
text: A 1980's DAVID LETTERMAN wisecracks.
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: Neither Joyce nor Harvey look particularly impressed with
dialog: the whole deal.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: People like this show?
text: Harvey paces.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm gettin' hungry back here. They
dialog: oughtta leave ya donuts or somethin'.
text: A nervous STAGE MANAGER wearing a headset peeks his head in.
speaker_heading: STAGE MANAGER
dialog: Dave's ready for you now, Mr. Pekar.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey, you got anything ta eat? My
text: stomach's growling.
speaker_heading: STAGE MANAGER
dialog: (checking his watch)
dialog: There's no time to eat now.
text: Harvey glances at the monitor just as Letterman announces
dialog: his next guest.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Okay. Our next guest works as a file
text: clerk in a Cleveland hospital.
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: The stage manager grabs Harvey by the arm. Joyce stops them.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Wait a minute. Where's the doll?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: He's got it at the desk. Will you
dialog: relax about that already?
speaker_heading: STAGE MANAGER
dialog: Guys, guys, we're in a hurry here.
text: The Stage Manager physically pushes Harvey out of the Green
text: Room. Joyce turns back to face the monitor.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON MONITOR
text: Letterman holds up a copy of a full-size glossy AMERICAN
scene_heading: SPLENDOR ANTHOLOGY.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: ...He also writes comic books which
dialog: detail his day-to-day pains and
dialog: pleasures, and this is an anthology
dialog: of nine of those comics. It's entitled
text: AMERICAN SPLENDOR... From off the
dialog: streets of Cleveland, please say
dialog: hello to Harvey Pekar.
text: THE HARVEY PEKAR WHO WALKS ONTO THE SET IS NOT THE ACTOR
text: PORTRAYING HIM BUT RATHER THE REAL HARVEY PEKAR (only about
text: 15 years younger). THIS IS ACTUAL STOCK FOOTAGE FROM HARVEY'S
scene_heading: FIRST LETTERMAN APPEARANCE.
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - DAY
text: Joyce watches as Harvey shakes Letterman's hand and takes a
dialog: seat.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
text: He smiles as the audience warmly greets him. It seems Harvey's
text: grooving on this attention. But as soon as the audience quiets
text: down, Harvey turns to his host and starts his offensive:
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm ready for those Cleveland jokes.
dialog: Go ahead...
text: Taken off guard, Letterman laughs.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Alright settle down Harvey. Settle
dialog: down.
dialog: (the Audience laughs)
dialog: Now let's explain to folks who may
dialog: not be familiar with your work what
dialog: it is you do here, exactly. You have
dialog: comic books about you in your daily
dialog: life in Cleveland.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: And are they embellished at all or
dialog: is it pretty much factual?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (patronizing)
dialog: No. It's all true, David. All true.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: And you also have a regular job in
text: Cleveland working at a hospital.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: That's right. Aiding the sick, yes.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Aiding the sick. Well that's certainly
dialog: noble work.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Thank you. Thank you.
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: ANGLE ON JOYCE WATCHING
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (unimpressed)
dialog: Such brilliant repartee...
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Now it seems to me Harvey that you
dialog: have a very successful career here.
dialog: This is being published by a major
dialog: publishing company, Doubleday. Why
dialog: do you maintain the day job?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: To make a living!
dialog: (big laughs)
dialog: I don't make a living as a writer.
dialog: I've been writing for many years,
dialog: David. Maybe more years than you've
dialog: been alive.
text: Now, Letterman cracks up.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: A LETTERMAN REGULAR (Tony Randall?) comes in with some food.
text: He stops by the monitor to watch a moment with Joyce.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah, I know that my youthful
dialog: appearance belies, you know, my actual
dialog: age. But, I've been around for a
dialog: long time --
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR
speaker_heading: (to JOYCE)
dialog: You know this guy?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I'm beginning to wonder.
text: The Letterman Regular takes a seat as he watches the monitor.
text: He seems more intrigued than Joyce.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: But I have a feeling though, if you
dialog: wanted to, you could probably get by
dialog: on what you make selling your work.
dialog: Because I know people are after you
dialog: to write other things. You're
dialog: publishing this anthology...
text: This hits a sore spot. Harvey goes from politely condescending
dialog: to cantankerous in one second flat!
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Who? What people? What people? What
dialog: are you talking about? Where the
dialog: hell do you get that stuff?
text: Letterman cracks up. The Audience laughs even harder.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm no show biz phoney. I'm telling
dialog: the truth. Come on, man.
text: The Audience can't believe this guy's holding his own with
dialog: Letterman.
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
scene_heading: ANGLE ON LETTERMAN REGULAR
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR
dialog: (to Joyce)
text: At least he's keeping up with
dialog: Letterman.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Pandering is more like it.
text: Suddenly, Joyce walks over to the monitor and looks for the
text: channel. She hits a button, but it only changes the frame of
dialog: the show.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Damnit.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR
dialog: Excuse me, but what are you doing?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I'm trying to get some news. You
dialog: know there's a big story about to
dialog: break about the US selling arms to
dialog: Iran and the Contras.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR
dialog: That's a monitor.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Ugh. Just forget it.
text: Joyce gives up. She sinks back into her seat and pulls a
text: book from her bag. The Letterman Regular stares at her like
dialog: she's from Mars.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
scene_heading: ANGLE ON THE MONITOR
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Harvey, I know you've got a job.
dialog: I've got a job. We're both very lucky.
dialog: We both have jobs.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Then what's the matter?
text: Once again laughs and a big round of applause. Letterman
text: pulls out Joyce's mysterious doll and props it up on the
dialog: table.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: We've gotta go. Harvey I like you.
dialog: I'm on your side. I enjoy the comic
dialog: books. And here, quickly tell us
dialog: about the little doll here.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: My wife made it.
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: BACK TO JOYCE.
text: She suddenly perks up.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Finally something good.
dialog: (to Letterman Regular)
dialog: Watch this.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE CLOSE-UP OF THE DOLL
text: It is an absolutely horrific but oddly evocative "Harvey Rag
text: Doll." His face is inspired by Crumb's drawings of Harvey
text: but even more extreme. His little T-shirt reads, "American
text: Splendor." The Audience is in stitches.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: They're made out of your old clothing.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: And what do these go for?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Thirty-four bucks.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: Thirty-four dollars? Thirty-four
dialog: dollars for this?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What are ya cheap. You cheaper than
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Would you pay thirty-four dollars
dialog: for that?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: No but I'm not asking it. My wife
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: JOYCE stares at the monitor, expressionless. The STAGE MANAGER
text: sticks his head in.
speaker_heading: STAGE MANAGER
dialog: He's a natural.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR
dialog: He is. Good stuff.
text: The Stage Manager grabs the Regular.
speaker_heading: STAGE MANAGER
dialog: C'mon. Your turn.
text: A smiling HARVEY (the actor now) waltzes in straight from
dialog: his command performance.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Whad'ya think?
text: Joyce taps her finger on Letterman's image on the monitor.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Megalomaniac.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK HOTEL ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY tries on a ripped T-shirt for Joyce who lies on the
dialog: bed.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: It became clear pretty fast that I
dialog: was invited on the show just for
dialog: laughs. But what the hell did I care?
dialog: Letterman was an okay guy. Let him
dialog: take pot shots at me, s'long as I
dialog: got paid an' got to plug my comics.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
text: MONTAGE: A series of actual HARVEY appearances on LATE NIGHT
scene_heading: WITH LETTERMAN.
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: JOYCE, whose different outfits reflect time passage, watches
scene_heading: each time from the GREEN ROOM. LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE
text: HARVEY, in a ratty T-shirt, spars with LETTERMAN.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Harvey, you are the embodiment of
dialog: the American dream...
text: The Audience laughs.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Funny thing is, somethin' about me
text: and Letterman clicked for the viewers.
dialog: He kept wantin' me back.
scene_heading: LETTERMAN SHOW - STOCK FOOTAGE - ANOTHER SHOW
text: LETTERMAN introduces his favorite guest.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: It is my pleasure to welcome back
dialog: our next guest, the lovable Harvey
dialog: Pekar!
text: HARVEY walks out with a box of donuts. He starts giving
text: Letterman an earful right off the bat.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Here was this slick, ambitious guy
dialog: with millions, winnin' over the
dialog: country by makin' light of everything.
dialog: And then there was me... A messy
dialog: loser with no dough who takes
dialog: everything too seriously.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN
dialog: Tell me Harvey, what do you do to
dialog: get away from the pressure of being --
dialog: well, a file clerk?
dialog: (laughter)
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Go ahead and laugh, folks. But he
dialog: has more contempt for you than I do!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WHITE CASTLE - 1980'S - DAY
text: The burger joint has been transformed into a film set with
text: lights, cameras and lots of trendy MTV types.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: An it wasn't just me gettin' all the
dialog: attention. As a result of my
dialog: appearances on Letterman, my buddy
dialog: Toby Radloff landed a gig on MTV
dialog: extolling the virtues of White Castle
dialog: burgers...
dialog: OFF TO THE SIDE:
text: Two HOT BABES slave over TOBY as he gets his hair and make-
dialog: up done.
text: HARVEY wanders onto the set. He finally spots Toby in the
text: corner. As he heads over to say hello, Harvey bumps into the
text: MTV DIRECTOR -- a new wave fashion victim who looks like a
text: lost member of A FLOCK OF SEAGULLS.
speaker_heading: MTV DIRECTOR
dialog: Christ! Watch where you're going!
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: Fuckin' yuppie or whatever kinda
dialog: freak you are.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: That day on the set with those MTV
dialog: jerks, I had an epiphany. It seemed
dialog: that real, salt of the earth people
dialog: like Toby an' me were bein' coopted
dialog: by these huge corporations. We were
text: gettin' held up and ridiculed as
dialog: losers in the system. What can I
dialog: say, it was the 80's man.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: MTV PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT
text: TOBY, dressed in dark sunglasses and a turtleneck, stands in
text: front of a White Castle. He delivers his lines in his
text: trademark robotic style. There's an MTV logo on the bottom
text: of the screen.
speaker_heading: TOBY
dialog: Hamburgers are a safer addiction
dialog: than drugs. Say no to drugs. Say yes
dialog: to White Castle!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CLEVELAND DINER - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY and JOYCE eat breakfast together. Harvey reads a
text: Katherine Mansfield book as JOYCE reads a newspaper.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: (looking up from the
dialog: paper)
dialog: Harvey, I've been reading about these
dialog: kids who grew up in war zones...
dialog: Palestinians, Israelis, El
dialog: Salvadorians, Cambodians... These
dialog: kids are amazing and they're --
text: A YUPPIE in a jogging suit walks up to Harvey, interrupting
text: Joyce in mid-sentence.
speaker_heading: YUPPIE
dialog: Hey, you're that guy from the
dialog: Letterman show, right?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Yeah, that's me.
speaker_heading: YUPPIE
dialog: That's so excellent. You and Stupid
text: Pet Tricks are a riot.
text: Harvey's not smiling anymore. This guy's a jerk.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah? Then why dontcha buy one of my
dialog: comics, man. That's the only reason
dialog: I go on that dumb show anyway.
speaker_heading: YUPPIE
dialog: Right, sure. Later, Harvey Pekar!
text: The Yuppie rushes out.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Asshole.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Anyway, I want to do a political
dialog: comic book about these kids. There's
dialog: a conference in Jerusalem in a few
dialog: weeks, and I can start by doing
dialog: interviews there.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Whoa whoa, wait a second. Jerusalem?
dialog: I can barely drag you off the futon
dialog: to go to the Letterman show.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Y'know why? 'Cause I don't give a
dialog: damn about the Letterman show. I
dialog: want to work on something important
dialog: to me. Something that matters.
text: Joyce hits a nerve.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Hey! You know I only go on the show
dialog: for the extra bread!
text: People start to look over.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey... you're yelling...
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Maybe if you got yer lazy ass up and
dialog: got a job, I could work on something
dialog: that matters, too, huh?!
text: Joyce doesn't dignify Harvey with an answer. She stares at
text: him, her eyes well with hurt.
text: He sighs, calming down. He looks around sheepishly.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I'm sorry, baby. I -- I'm sorry...
text: He grabs her hand.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - DAY
text: Harvey and Joyce stroll across the lawn holding hands. They
text: move towards a waiting cab. Harvey carries his wife's bags.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: I guess it was good ta finally see
dialog: Joyce excited about somethin' of her
dialog: own. Sure I was happy for her. But I
dialog: was still upset for me.
text: They stop by the cab.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: This is crazy. Can't ya just do
dialog: somethin' here in Cleveland?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey, you'll survive a few weeks
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Alright... Be careful. I love you,
dialog: baby.
text: They kiss. Harvey grudgingly puts her bags in the car. He
text: watches as the cab pulls away.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: It was later that night when I first
dialog: found the lump.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: Wearing only his shorts, Harvey lies alone in the communal
text: futon, flipping through a book. He reaches into his underwear
text: to scratch his nuts.
text: Suddenly he stops. He feels something odd...
text: For a moment he just freezes. His eyes register panic.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: I was determined to put it outta my
dialog: mind until Joyce got back. Easier
dialog: said than done.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL - 1980'S - DAY
text: An enraged HARVEY fights with his co-worker MIGUEL.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What do I care! Just gimme the chart
dialog: already!
speaker_heading: MIGUEL
dialog: What is your problem today?!
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Look, Miguel! I just don't wanna
dialog: keep comin' back here for it, okay?!
speaker_heading: MIGUEL
dialog: Harvey, that patient's due t'be
dialog: admitted a week from now! Why do you
dialog: always have to be picking fights
dialog: with everybody?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: How many times do we gotta go through
dialog: the same bullshit. Just gimme the
dialog: fuckin' chart!
text: Offended, Miguel storms off.
speaker_heading: MIGUEL
dialog: We'll see what the doctor says about
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: Alone and slumped over his table, HARVEY draws comic ideas
text: with stick figures. Nothing's coming to him. He looks like
text: he's in anguish.
text: Frustrated, Harvey crumbles the idea and throws it on the
text: floor. He knocks over a chair.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: He tosses and turns in bed. No way he's sleeping.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY is yelling into the telephone. It is a bad connection.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (loudly into phone)
dialog: Whadya mean? Another two weeks? Ya
dialog: gotta come home some time! Hello?
speaker_heading: DAMNIT!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BACK STAGE - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: Without Joyce, a surly Harvey waits in the wings for his
text: introduction. He sneaks a peek as Letterman finishes up the
text: "stupid pet tricks" segment. We hear dogs barking and audience
dialog: laughter.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR (O.S.)
dialog: And there you have it, folks! Another
dialog: enlightening episode of Stupid Pet
dialog: Tricks!
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: I was startin' ta lose it. Between
dialog: the lump, the loneliness -- I felt
dialog: like everything wuz closin' in on
dialog: me. And with Joyce over there savin'
dialog: the world, I never felt more like a
dialog: sell-out hack in my life.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR (O.S.)
dialog: Y'know ladies and gentlemen, when
dialog: Thoreau wrote that most men lead
dialog: lives of quiet depression, he
dialog: obviously had not met our first guest,
text: who happens to lead a life of whining
dialog: desperation...
text: Harvey clenches his fists.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (threatening)
dialog: Okay, asshole. You'll pay for that
dialog: one...
text: Harvey takes off his shirt. He pulls another t-shirt out of
dialog: the bag and changes ...
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN REGULAR (O.S.)
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome
dialog: back, Harvey Pekar.
text: Harvey's new t-shirt reads "ON STRIKE AGAINST NBC." He takes
text: off for the stage, fists clenched, a soldier marching off to
dialog: war.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. GREEN ROOM - NBC STUDIOS - 1980'S - DAY
text: We're positioned behind the monitor, so we can only hear the
scene_heading: show. THE STAGE MANAGER AND TWO PRODUCTION ASSISTANTS
text: straighten up in the room.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: Hey, Dave! You wanna know what my
dialog: politics are? I'm a strident leftist,
dialog: Dave.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN (O.S.)
dialog: I could have guessed half of that.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: You coulda guessed all of it, man!
dialog: So why don't we talk about your parent
dialog: company, G.E., huh? Let's talk about
dialog: anti-trust violations and nuclear
dialog: reactors!
speaker_heading: STAGE MANAGER
text: Joe, put more sodas in the fridge,
dialog: there. And let's clean up the
dialog: counters. That Pekar guy's a pig.
text: As the P.A.'s walk back and forth in front of the monitor,
text: we hear the Letterman / Pekar banter grow louder.
text: Suddenly PRODUCTION ASSISTANT #2 stops and checks out the
dialog: monitor.
scene_heading: PRODUCTION ASSISTANT #2
dialog: Whoa... you guys. Check this out.
scene_heading: INT. TOBY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: TOBY and his GRANDMOTHER watch HARVEY raise hell on Letterman.
text: Again, we can't see the screen.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: You're a cop-out, Letterman. You're
dialog: nothin' but a shill for G.E.
text: Toby's grandmother passes him a plate of cookies.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN (O.S.)
dialog: First of all, Harvey, what you are
dialog: saying is not true. Second of all,
dialog: this is not the place to say it. If
dialog: you want to talk about this, go
dialog: somewhere else, because you're not
dialog: talking about it here!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. MR. BOAT'S KITCHEN - 1980'S - DAY
text: Dressed in a bathrobe, Mr. Boats eats a lonely, late-night
text: snack (cake and milk) at his kitchen table. A 12" TV on the
text: table has Harvey and Dave on.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: Don't worry, Dave. I won't come back
dialog: unless you beg me.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN (O.S.)
dialog: You're not coming back at all.
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: What do I care --
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Because we've given you many, many
dialog: chances to talk about things that
dialog: would be of general interest to people --
speaker_heading: HARVEY (O.S.)
dialog: So what?!
text: Mr. Boats shakes his head.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR - 1980'S - DAY
text: We see Harvey alone, slumped in the back seat of a Town Car,
text: heading back towards his hotel. City lights pass over his
text: troubled face. We still hear the show, as if it's now in his
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: LETTERMAN (V.O.)
dialog: -- And also to promote your little
dialog: Mickey Mouse magazine. Your little
dialog: weekly reader! But you've blown every
dialog: chance you've got. You're a dork,
dialog: Harvey!
speaker_heading: HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Dave, you're fulla shit! You're fulla
dialog: shit!!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - 1980'S - NIGHT
scene_heading: CLOSE ON AN AMERICAN SPLENDOR COMIC
text: The cover depicts a snarling LETTERMAN yelling, "YOU FUCKED
text: UP A GREAT THING!" at a smirking, self-satisfied HARVEY.
text: JOYCE lies in bed reading the comic, chuckling. HARVEY cuddles
text: up against her.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I guess you did it this time.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Who cares. He wasn't helpin' my sales
dialog: anyway.
dialog: (moving closer)
dialog: Baby, don't go away anymore. I just
dialog: can't take bein' alone.
text: Joyce puts the magazine down.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: If you met those kids over there and
dialog: saw what they go through, you wouldn't
dialog: ask that of me.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: But if you go again I'm really gonna
dialog: lose it.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: It's not open for discussion, Harvey.
dialog: I need this in my life right now.
text: She cuddles up close to him.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: But I do appreciate the fact that
dialog: you missed me so much. C'mere...
text: She starts to kiss him. He kisses her back. Her hands wander
text: down. Suddenly she feels something strange.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey, what is that?
text: Harvey looks at her and gulps.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY and JOYCE sit in the office holding hands, like two
text: terrified high school kids. A DOCTOR stands before them.
dialog: They just got bad news...
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: I don't understand, does "tumor"
dialog: mean the same thing as "cancer"?
text: The doctor gently nods.
text: Joyce covers her mouth. Harvey holds onto his head. He looks
text: positively dizzy. The doctor starts to talk, yet the words
text: don't seem to match his mouth. He looks dubbed. Strange
text: phrases just weave together, echo and bounce off the wall,
text: making no sense at all.
dialog: ...we know the growth is malignant. What we don't know is
dialog: how far it may have spread. Once we have the results of the
dialog: biopsy, we can make more informed decisions about treatment...
dialog: blah, blah, blah...
text: The whole office seems to spin.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - LATER
text: Joyce and Harvey sit on the stoop of their apartment house,
text: in a daze. The words keep echoing around them. Harvey holds
text: his head.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR #2
dialog: ...cat scan... diagnosis... MRI...
dialog: cancer... cancer... cancer...
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: How can I have cancer? I don't feel
dialog: sick at all.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: That's a positive thing.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: My cousin Norman died of lymphoma.
dialog: He was twenty-nine. He was a brilliant
dialog: oncologist.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Stop it! You're not going to die,
dialog: Harvey. You're not.
text: Harvey turns to Joyce.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: What's going to happen to you, baby?
dialog: Who's gonna take care of you if I'm
dialog: not around?
text: Joyce stands up, determined.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey, look at me and focus. We are
dialog: going to get through this. I
dialog: understand illness. I know how to
dialog: handle these things.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: But that's you. I'm not strong enough.
dialog: I don't know how ta be positive. I
dialog: can't do it. I can't.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Yes, you can. And I'll tell you how.
dialog: You'll make a comic book out of the
dialog: whole thing. You'll document every
dialog: little detail. And that way you'll
dialog: remove yourself from the experience
text: until it's over.
text: Despite Joyce's passionate pitch, Harvey shakes his head.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I can't do that. I'm just not strong
dialog: enough... I just wanna die.
text: Joyce folds her arm.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Fine. I'll do it without you.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY and JOYCE lay there quietly, both exhausted. Joyce
text: turns over so her back faces Harvey. He puts his arm around
dialog: her.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON JOYCE'S FACE
text: A tear drips down her cheek.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - DAY
text: Joyce is straightening up the apartment. The place actually
text: looks halfway decent.
scene_heading: THE DOORBELL RINGS
text: Joyce opens the door. A guy in his 30's named FRED -- Hells
text: Angels tough guy meets sensitive artist -- stands at the
text: door. He's accompanied by a seven-year-old girl, DANIELLE.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Hey, I'm Fred. You called me about
dialog: the comic book?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Right -- the artist. Come on in.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: This is my daughter, Danielle. I had
dialog: to bring her along. I hope you don't
dialog: mind.
text: Joyce leans down and addresses the girl, who holds a toy
dialog: horse.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Hi, Danielle. What's that you're
dialog: holding?
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
text: A pony.
text: It's immediately obvious that Joyce is great with kids.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: A pony? What's his name?
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: She's a girl. Clarissa.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Oh, I see. Well, I'm Joyce. Nice to
dialog: meet both you and Clarissa.
text: They all walk towards the table which is covered with papers.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: I'm really sorry to hear about Harvey.
dialog: Is he here?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: He's going to work until next week,
dialog: when he starts the chemo. That's why
dialog: I wanna get this project started
dialog: now. Once he's stuck here, I know
dialog: he'll take over.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - LATER
text: Miserable and in a daze, HARVEY walks up to his front door.
text: He looks like a man whose days are numbered. When he reaches
text: the door, he searches his pockets for keys.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON POCKET
text: Harvey's hand comes up empty.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Shit!
text: Harvey tries the doorknob, but it's locked.
text: He steps back on the lawn and looks around. Could he have
text: dropped them? He retraces a few steps.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Damnit!
text: Harvey yells up at the window.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Joyce, open the door! I lost my keys
dialog: again! Joyce!!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON FRONT DOOR
text: HARVEY'S ELDERLY NEIGHBOR struggles with her shopping cart
text: through the door.
text: Harvey pushes past her to get in.
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT VESTIBULE
text: Harvey knocks again. Nothing. Now he punches the door.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Joyce!! Open the fucking door!!
text: Suddenly the door opens. Loud music pours out. But it's not
dialog: Joyce, it's FRED, the artist.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Hey, Harvey.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Fred?
text: Harvey just stares at him. Fred opens the door to reveal:
text: JOYCE and DANIELLE dancing together with the stereo blasting.
text: They're having a ball.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - DAY
text: At the kitchen table, HARVEY looks over FRED'S sketches.
text: JOYCE and DANIELLE are now building a house of cards on the
text: living room floor.
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Here are some ideas we batted around.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
text: Sheesh. Joyce doesn't know what she's
dialog: doing. There's too many words in
dialog: these frames. When are ya comin'
dialog: back?
speaker_heading: FRED
dialog: Uh, she said something about next
dialog: Tuesday, which is fine with me. Only
dialog: thing is, I might have the kid again.
dialog: My ex-wife's supposed to take her,
dialog: but I don't have much faith in her
text: showing up. She is in worse shape
dialog: than me these days.
text: Harvey looks away at Joyce and Danielle playing. They're
text: oblivious to the world.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Next week my treatment begins. Do me
dialog: a favor. Bring the kid with you.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: CLOSE UP: A PENCIL SKETCHING
text: FRED'S PENCIL completes a sketch of Joyce pushing Harvey in
text: a wheelchair. The word "cancer" appears everywhere, floating
text: all around the image.
scene_heading: COMIC ART / REAL LIFE MONTAGE
text: The following montage chronicles Harvey's illness by cutting
text: between comic art depicting key events and shots of HARVEY,
text: JOYCE and FRED creating the book.
text: The montage is set to the simultaneously dulcet and discordant
text: tone of Miles Davis' "Blue in Green" (or something similar).
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - 1980'S - DAY
text: Close on Harvey's face as he's getting pushed down the hall
text: in a wheelchair.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: M.R.I. COMIC PANEL
text: A panel of Harvey entering the M.R.I. machine.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - DAY
text: We see Harvey, Joyce and Fred sitting around a table. Joyce
text: fights to keep Harvey focused on the project.
scene_heading: BACK TO MORE COMIC PANELS:
text: 1) An enraged Harvey throws things around the house.
text: 2) Joyce on the bed crying, a cat licking her back.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S SHOWER - 1980'S - DAY
text: A balding Harvey depressed in the shower. He holds a clump
text: of hair in his hand.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: COMIC PANEL OF THE ABOVE SCENE
text: Harvey in the shower. The balloon above his head reveals his
text: inner turmoil over losing his hair and his face swelling.
scene_heading: MORE COMIC PANELS FOLLOW
text: Harvey in agony. Various positions of him in bed, on all
text: fours, covered with a case of shingles. "I feel like I'm on
text: fire" appears over his head.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S KITCHEN - 1980'S - DAY
text: Joyce and Fred go over some more comic art. Joyce carries
text: the idea over to Harvey (wearing a baseball cap), who can't
text: get out of the couch. He looks it over and nods. Danielle
text: brings Harvey a glass of water.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: MORE COMIC PANELS:
text: Harvey crawling up the steps. "I'm so weak I can't make it,"
dialog: he thinks...
text: Harvey and Joyce in a hospital waiting room. He's slumped
text: over, she has her hand on him.
text: A delirious Harvey surrounded by nurses and Joyce. "She's
dialog: torturing me, she won't let me die, I wanna die..."
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BATHROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: A balding Harvey lies on his bathroom floor. His cat walks
text: all over him.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I wanna die... just let me die...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: MORE COMIC PANELS:
text: Joyce attempts to wake Harvey up. She curses at him. She
text: slaps him. "Why are you doing this to me!"
text: A drawing of Joyce, doubled over, crying. "I can't take this
dialog: anymore..."
text: THE MONTAGE ENDS WITH A SCENE IN HARVEY'S BEDROOM
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - NIGHT
text: A repeat of the opening scene... Like a ghost, a naked HARVEY
text: stands over his bed staring down at a sleeping JOYCE.
text: In the eerie light, he's almost translucent.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (faintly)
dialog: Joyce... Joyce?
text: Joyce springs up, alarmed.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: What's wrong, Harvey? What are you
dialog: doing up?
text: Harvey just stands there for a moment saying nothing.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (delirious, out of
dialog: breath)
dialog: Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who
dialog: writes about himself in a comic book?
dialog: Or am I just -- just a character in
dialog: that book?
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Harvey...
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: When I die, will 'dat character keep
dialog: goin'? Or will he just fade away.
text: Joyce just stares at him, unsure how to answer. Finally Harvey
text: collapses.
text: Joyce leaps from the bed, nervous, hysterical. She gets down
text: on the floor and shakes him.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
scene_heading: CLOSE ON HARVEY'S FACE
text: His eyes remain closed, his expression far, far away. The
text: sound of Joyce's voice fades until it seems like a distant
dialog: echo.
text: Then PANELS from Harvey's comics begin to float over his
text: head, his life literally passing before his eyes in comic
dialog: book form.
text: Slowly, the comic images and the unconscious Harvey evaporate,
dialog: giving way to:
speaker_heading: GREEN SCREEN
scene_heading: A SURREAL DREAM SEQUENCE
text: We are now in a large, empty room similar to a blank comic
dialog: book panel.
text: A healthy, fully dressed Harvey appears in the corner of the
text: frame. He is very far away, barely recognizable. We slowly
text: dolly towards him as he delivers a formal soliloquy to the
dialog: camera:
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: My name is Harvey Pekar. It's an
dialog: unusual name -- Harvey Pekar...
text: As Harvey speaks, one-dimensional comic book images from his
text: life pass over the screen once again. This time in front of
text: him, behind him, everywhere. We dolly in towards him.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: 1960 was the year I got my first
dialog: apartment and my first telephone
dialog: book. Imagine my surprise when I
dialog: looked up my name and saw that, in
dialog: addition to me, another Harvey Pekar
dialog: was listed!
text: Images of Harvey's childhood float by, followed by his young
dialog: adult years.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I was listed as Harvey L. Pekar...
dialog: My middle name is Lawrence... He was
dialog: listed as Harvey Pekar -- no middle
dialog: initial... Therefore, his was a purer
dialog: listing.
text: We see Harvey age in the images: he's hanging on the street
text: corner with friends, collecting records, hanging with Crumb.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Then, in the seventies, I noticed
dialog: that a third Harvey Pekar was listed
dialog: in the phone book! This filled me
dialog: with curiosity.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: How could there be three people with
dialog: such an unusual name in the world,
dialog: let alone in one city?!
text: Now, numerous images of Harvey's many years at the V.A.
text: Hospital float by: Harvey filing, Harvey arguing with his
dialog: boss, Harvey and Toby, etc.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Then one day, a person I worked with
dialog: expressed her sympathy to me
dialog: concerning what she thought was the
dialog: death of my father. She pointed out
dialog: an obituary notice in the newspaper
dialog: for a man named Harvey Pekar. One of
dialog: his sons was named Harvey. These
dialog: were the other Harvey Pekars.
text: The comic images fade out. Harvey is once again alone in the
text: empty room.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Six months later, Harvey Pekar Jr.
dialog: died. Although I'd met neither man,
dialog: I was filled with sadness. "What
dialog: were they like," I thought. It seemed
dialog: that our lives had been linked in
text: some indefinable way.
text: We slowly move in on his face. Extremely close. As close as
dialog: the camera can get.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
text: But the story does not end there.
dialog: For two years later another Harvey
text: Pekar appeared in the directory.
dialog: What kind of people are these? Where
dialog: do they come from, what do they do?
dialog: What's in a name?
scene_heading: END DREAM SEQUENCE
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S BEDROOM - 1980'S - DAY
dialog: BACK TO BEDROOM:
text: We are close on HARVEY'S face as he lays passed out and
text: delirious on the floor. Over this WE HEAR...
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Who is Harvey Pekar?
text: His face slowly fades to black.
text: A MOMENT OF BLACK, AND THEN...
scene_heading: INT. TOWER BOOKS - 1980'S - DAY
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: CLOSE UP: A GLOSSY, FULL-COLOR, NOVEL-SIZED COMIC COVER.
text: Scrawled across the top in yellow and red it read, "Our Cancer
text: Year." The drawing depicts Harvey doubled over on the front
text: lawn, groceries in the snow, with Joyce attempting to help
text: him up. A hand flips the book open and signs the inside leaf.
text: JOYCE and a healthy-looking HARVEY sit at a table signing
text: copies of their opus. About fifteen or so people mill about
dialog: with copies.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Here's our man a year later. Somehow
dialog: I made it through the treatments,
dialog: an' the doctors are optimistic. I
dialog: guess Joyce was right about doin'
dialog: the big comic book. We published the
dialog: thing as a graphic novel -- our first
dialog: collaboration -- and ended up with
dialog: rave reviews. We even won the American
dialog: Book Award. Go figure...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S LIVING ROOM - 1980'S - DAY
text: The place is still a mess but somehow it has a better vibe
dialog: than it had before. This might be due to the presence of
text: DANIELLE. She sits crossed legged on the floor making jewelry
text: out of beads. JOYCE guides her.
text: HARVEY shuffles into the room. He watches for a moment as
text: Joyce and Danielle play.
text: ANGLE ON JOYCE: There is an awkward expression almost
text: resembling a smile on her face. He interrupts them.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Hey Joyce.
text: Joyce looks up. Harvey looks like he's trying to hide
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: JOYCE
dialog: What is it Harvey?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: That was the doctor.
text: Joyce stops what she's doing and gulps. She hangs on Harvey's
dialog: every word.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: He said I'm all clear.
text: Tears well in Harvey's eyes. Joyce breathes a sigh of relief
text: and Danielle jumps up and runs over to Harvey. She hugs him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CLEVELAND ICE RINK - 1980 - DAY
text: HARVEY sits in the bleachers, watching JOYCE teach DANIELLE
dialog: to ice skate.
text: Harvey's got a box of pizza next to him. He picks up a slice
text: and chomps on it. The cheese drips out of his mouth onto his
dialog: shirt.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: The weirdest thing that came outta
dialog: my illness was Danielle. With her
dialog: real mother runnin' around who knows
dialog: where, an' seein' how well her and
dialog: Joyce got on, Fred decided she'd
dialog: have a better life with us. I was
dialog: scared at first but then I thought,
dialog: what the hell. She's a good kid. So
dialog: we ended up takin' her an' raising
dialog: her as our own.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HARVEY'S APARTMENT - 1980'S - DAY
text: HARVEY and DANIELLE lie on the futon together. Harvey's comics
text: are strewn around the room everywhere. Danielle flips through
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Ya keep readin' 'em backward.
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: I like reading them backward.
dialog: (holding up a comic)
dialog: Is that you?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: I keep tellin' ya, all of 'ems me,
dialog: man.
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: You look like a monster.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah, well wait'll ya see what you're
dialog: gonna look like.
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: Me??
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Sure. Yer part of the story too,
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: What story?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: The story of my life.
text: Danielle makes a face.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Yeah, I know I'm not as interesting
dialog: as The Little Mermaid and all that
dialog: magical crap...
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: Maybe I want to write my own comic.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Oh yeah? What about?
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: I don't know yet. But not about you.
dialog: You have enough already.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SCHOOL BUS STOP - FALL - PRESENT - DAY
text: HARVEY walks towards the bus stop to send DANIELLE to school.
text: He holds her hand.
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: Ya know, you should write about things
dialog: in your own life. Like school and...
dialog: ponies... I don't know, girl stuff...
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: (to Harvey)
dialog: Do you have to hold my hand?
speaker_heading: HARVEY
dialog: (wounded)
dialog: What, are you embarrassed a' me? I
dialog: know, I'm embarrassing. I felt the
dialog: same way about my father.
text: Danielle looks up at Harvey like he's crazy.
speaker_heading: DANIELLE
dialog: No Harvey. You're just squeezing it
dialog: too hard.
dialog: (shaking her head)
dialog: Joyce is right. You are obsessive
dialog: compulsive.
text: Danielle drops his hand and rushes onto the bus with other
dialog: kids.
text: Harvey waves and watches as it pulls away.
text: He turns and walks by himself down the busy Cleveland street --
text: -- a familiar image from the opening. He's still hunched
text: over. He's still Harvey.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: Yeah, so I guess comics brought me a
dialog: lot. But don't think this is some
dialog: sunny, happy ending. Every day is
dialog: still a major struggle. Joyce an' I
dialog: fight like crazy, an' she barely
dialog: works. The kid's got A.D.D. and is a
dialog: real handful. My expenses have gone
dialog: up so much that I'm writin' freelance
dialog: 'round the clock, just to make my
dialog: bills. My life is total chaos.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BUS STOP - FALL - PRESENT - DAY
scene_heading: DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE -- SHOT ON FILM
text: NOW THE REAL HARVEY walks down the same busy Cleveland street
dialog: towards his job.
speaker_heading: REAL HARVEY (V.O.)
dialog: With a little luck, I'll get a window
dialog: of good health between retirin' an
dialog: dyin'. The golden years, right? Who
dialog: knows. Between my pension and the
dialog: chunk of change I got for this movie,
dialog: I should be able to swing somethin'.
dialog: Sure I'll lose the war eventually,
dialog: but the goal is to win a few
dialog: skirmishes along the way. Right?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. V.A. HOSPITAL - PRESENT - DAY
scene_heading: DOCUMENTARY FOOTAGE -- SHOT ON FILM
text: THE REAL HARVEY slumps at the desk now, flipping through a
dialog: comic book.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DOOR
text: THE REAL TOBY comes into the file room, carrying a cake with
text: sparklers. He's followed by a group of Harvey's REAL COWORKERS
text: and JOYCE and REAL DANIELLE.
text: Harvey moves the comic off his desk so Toby can put the cake
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON CAKE
text: The festive cake reads "HAPPY RETIREMENT HARVEY." REAL JOYCE
text: cuts the cake and passes slices to the group.
text: ANOTHER WORKER pops a bottle of champagne.
text: CLOSE on a glass of champagne getting filled. The glass sits
text: next to the comic Harvey was reading.
scene_heading: CLOSE UP ON COMIC BOOK COVER
text: HARVEY'S new edition of AMERICAN SPLENDOR is subtitled, "OUR
text: MOVIE YEAR." It features an illustration of HARVEY, JOYCE
text: and DANIELLE surrounded by cameras, lights and crew.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT:
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
