dialog: American Bullshit
dialog: By
dialog: Eric Warren Singer
dialog: 9/2/10
dialog: The following is a true story based on a whole lot of
dialog: bullshit...
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - OUTSKIRTS OF ATLANTIC CITY - NIGHT
text: HIGH ANGLE OVER a dark street lined with industrial buildings
text: and warehouses. Behind the street, The Jersey Turnpike --- we
text: can see billboards advertising Atlantic City.
text: A SILVER CADILLAC DEVILLE appears, rolls down the street, turns
text: into the lot of the "Allied Amusements" warehouse and HONKS.
dialog: SUPER: "December 29, 1979 - Atlantic City"
scene_heading: INT. CADILLAC DEVILLE - CONTINUOUS
text: MEL WEINBERG in the back seat stuffed in between TWO LARGE
text: GINZO BONEBREAKERS. Immaculately dressed in a Pierre Cardin
text: suit and overcoat, Mel's wear ing a pair of gold Cazal eyeglasses
text: with just enough tint to hide the fear in his eyes.
text: SONNY BLITZ, a nattily dressed wiseguy, is behind the wheel.
text: Riding shotgun is the Capo of this crew, DOMINICK CASALE, a
text: stalwart man with the jovial facade of a grandfather.
text: We see FIVE MOB GOONS emerge from the warehouse and approach.
text: Blitz gets out, confers with the lead soldier and nods to the
text: Bonebreaker on Mel's left who then opens the door and exits.
text: Looking to Dom, Mel makes a silent appeal to him with his eyes
text: but is ignored --- so he gets out.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - ALLIED AMUSEMENTS - CONTINUOUS
text: Blitz flashes Mel a vicious grin as the Goons take custody of
text: him and escort him towards the warehouse.
scene_heading: INT. ALLIED AMUSEMENTS - SECONDS LATER
text: MOVING with Mel as the Goons manhandle him through the dark
text: warehouse filled with slot machines and arcade games --- down a
text: flight of stairs --- through a door and into...
scene_heading: INT. RUMPUS ROOM - ALLIED AMUSEMENTS - CONTINUOUS
text: A formica wood-paneled rumpus room. Mel is ushered over to a
text: card table seated at which is a little switchblade of a man,
text: NICKY SCARFO. He’s reading the Wall Street Journal and marking
text: his stock picks with a mechanical pencil.
text: On the table: a plate of Italian cheese, a bottle of Barolo
text: glasses and the Milton Bradley Game of Operation ready to play.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: You know who I am?
text: Mel nods. Gesturing him to take a seat, Scarfo pours a glass of
text: wine and slides it towards him. Mel declines.
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: Well then try some of this Belicino ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How about you just tell me what I’m
dialog: doing here, Scarfo?
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: Come on Mel, I insist. Try the goat
dialog: cheese. It’S world famous.
dialog: (slides plate towards Mel)
dialog: Comes from my family’s farm in Sicily’s
dialog: Belice Valley...
text: Feigning disgust, Mel slides the plate back.
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: What’s the problem?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I know a guy, a fuckin’ cheesemonger ---
dialog: he told me all about the goat cheese
dialog: from that part of Sicily. He says he
dialog: won’t touch it. Says it’s tainted...
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: Fuck do you mean it’s tainted?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Tainted with that, uh, that animal
dialog: disease, you know --- Anthrax...
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: What !?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah. The cheesemonger says they got
dialog: serious anthrax problems in that area
dialog: of Sicily, like an epidemic, cause
dialog: all the Tarmers there --- after they
dialog: assfuck their i 90ats they all assfuc
dialog: each other. s like a vicious circle.
text: Scarfo flashes a lethal grin and eats a piece of cheese.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: You like to play games Mel?
text: From the darkened, far corner of the room a lighter is ignited
text: and a cigarette lit --- in the brief illumination Mel catches a
text: glimpse of the dim outline of a SHADOW MAN seated in a chair
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: Friend of mine down in Florida -- you
dialog: know the guy you’re into some business
dialog: with -- he calls me the other day,
dialog: says that you like to play games.
text: This revelation hits Mel like a fucking sledgehammer --- and
text: the fear that was contained begins to seep out.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Bullshit --- why would the guy in
dialog: Florida say that you?
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: Cause he knows that I’m an avid
dialog: gamesman myself and he thought that
dialog: I'd enjoy playing with you. Monopoly,
dialog: Clue, Parcheesi, (MORE) S| and fucking
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: Ladders --- I love ‘em all --- but
dialog: the game I love the most is this one
dialog: right here, Operation. (Beat) So
dialog: whaddya say Mel, wanna play?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I don’t think so...
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: Mel, what do I do for a living?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: --- You paint houses.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: That’s right ---
dialog: (slides him ‘Doctor’ cards)
dialog: Now pick a fuckin’ card.
text: Mel hesitantly picks the card: ‘WISHBONE, $300.’
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: Tough break. Wishbone’s a bitch.
text: On edge, Mel takes the tweezers connected to the wire and plucks
text: the Wishbone out without touching the metal.
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: Bravo ---
text: Scarfo picks his own card, ‘CHARLIE HORSE’ and then masterfully
text: plucks the piece from the gameboard. He gestures to Mel who
text: picks another card: ‘WRITER’S CRAMP, $200’ with an illustration
text: of a pencil in someone’s arm.
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: Lucky prick, that’s a fuckin’ gimme.
text: Struggling for the pencil, Mel’s finger twitches, he hits the
text: metal -- the patient’s nose FLASHES RED as the BUZZER SOUNDS.
text: And like a COBRA STRIKING --- Scarfo PINS Mel’s left arm to the
text: table and PILEDRIVES his metal pencil through Mel’s WRIST like
text: an icepick. Mel screams in agony as blood SPURTS from the wound.
text: Scarfo’s Goons hold Mel down, keeping his arm pinned.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: WHADDYA DOING?!
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: Whaddya mean? We’re playing the game.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You don’t need to tune me up. Whatever
dialog: you want --- we can talk ---
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: My friend in Florida, he’s through
dialog: talking Mel. He never got the Arab’s
dialog: money ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (screaming at SHADOW MAN)
dialog: There was nothing I could do ----
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: Who you talking to, Mel? There's nobody
dialog: there. It's just you and me.
text: Mel SCREAMS as Scarfo GRINDS the pencil into the wound.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya want?!
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: Whaddya think I want? The truth.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The truth? (Beat) The truth...
text: CLOSE ON MEL’S FACE AS SCARFO PUNCHES HIM IN THE SKULL
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.) (CONT'D)
dialog: (calm, meditative
dialog: The truth is bullshit.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
text: CLOSE ON THE TERRORIZED FACE OF MEL'S FATHER, NATHAN WEINBERG:
text: Nathan screaming a millisecond before a thick pane of clear
text: glass is savagely smashed and broken over his face ---
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.) (CONT'D)
dialog: I learned this lesson at a very early
dialog: age from the most honest man I ever
dialog: knew, my father Nathan...
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. GLASS INSTALLATION SHOP - BRONX - DAY
dialog: SUPER: "1954 - Bronx, New York"
text: A warehouse filled with panes of glass glazier’s tools, etc.
text: Nathan is splayed out on the floor; help ess to stop LUCKY
text: BARRETTI from stomping his ass out.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: Nate had a successful glass business
dialog: in the Bronx --- that is until Lucky
dialog: Barretti decided to start a local
dialog: glaziers union --- and then everything
dialog: just went to shit...
speaker_heading: BARRETTI
dialog: Smatter with you Weinberg?
dialog: (stomps him in the balls)
dialog: Why won’t you just fall in line like
dialog: everyone else!?
text: CAMERA CONTINUES PULL BACK through warehouse as Barretti’s crew
text: of FIVE UNION GOONS destroy everything in sight.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: My father wouldn't get in line cause
dialog: even though joining the union would’ve
dialog: insured his business, Barretti_was
dialog: gonna take a piece of every dollar he
dialog: clocked --- making it so that the
dialog: only way he could earn for himself
dialog: would be to cheat his customers ---
dialog: which is something Nathan Weinberg
dialog: would never do...
text: THE CAMERA FINALLY PULLS BACK INTO:
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - GLASS INSTALLATION SHOP - CONTINUOUS
text: An ELEVEN YEAR OLD MELVIN WEINBERG hides behind the steering
text: wheel and cries -- watching the violence in helpless terror
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: And so they tuned his ass up ---
dialog: wrecked his shop --- tried to knock
dialog: him outta of the box...
scene_heading: INT. WEINBERG APARTMENT - KITCHEN - BRONX - NIGHT
text: Mel is seated at the kitchen table, a birthday cake in front of
text: him, his face cast aglow by the twelve candles. He’s flanked by
text: his SISTER and MOTHER, everyone singing “Happy Birthday”.
text: Mel blows out the candles and with excited anticipation looks
text: across the table with at his battered and bandaged father.
speaker_heading: NATHAN
dialog: Mel, I know I promised you a bike for
dialog: your birthday but business is ---
dialog: (starts to choke up)
dialog: I’m sorry Mel ---
text: The heartbroken expression on Mel’s face is too much for his
text: father who breaks down and starts to cry.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: It was a terrifying thing for me to
dialog: see my father like that. But more
dialog: than fear, there was the anger. I
dialog: mean just look at this poor schmuck.
text: Here he is on verge of losing his
dialog: livelihood, security for his family,
dialog: the respect of his son ---
scene_heading: INT. WEINBERG APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT
text: It’s late, all the lights are out and everyone is asleep.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: ...And for what?
text: We see Mel slink out of the shadows and sneak out the front
text: door, fully dressed to brave the cold winter night.
scene_heading: EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - BRONX - MINUTES LATER
text: A winter-swept street lined with row houses... We see Mel
text: approach the rear cab of his father’s work-truck.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: What’s the point of having integrity?
text: CLOSE ON TRUCK: Mel unlocks a storage chest, takes two boxes of
text: bolts and stuffs them into a shoulder-slung bag.
speaker_heading: MEL V.0. (CONT’D)
dialog: Integrity ain’t gonna get you what
dialog: you want outta this world.
scene_heading: EXT. CLASSIC NEW YORK CITY STOREFRONT WINDOW - BRONX - LATER
text: CLOSE ON an old school store front window: MANNY’S MEATS.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: Why pledge allegiance to the truth?
text: Mel’s reflection suddenly appears in the glass. Only a few feet
text: away from the window we can see that Mel has a slingshot in his
text: hand. He loads it with a bolt, takes aim and fires --- the huge
text: glass window SHATTERS with a terrible violence...
speaker_heading: MEL V.0. (CONT’D)
dialog: The truth can’t save you...
scene_heading: EXT. WEBB AVE. - BRONX - SECONDS LATER
text: HIGH ANGLE OVER Webb Avenue as Mel rolls down the street; using
text: his slingshot and bolts to break every window in sight.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: That night, I musta broke every window
dialog: in my neighborhood. I broke so many
dialog: fuckin' windows they had to import
dialog: glass in from Jersey to replace them
dialog: all... And I kept on breaking glass
dialog: until business got better --- and I
dialog: got my bike... Fuck the square life.
dialog: Fuck integrity. Fuck the truth. (beat)
dialog: The truth is bullshit.
scene_heading: CUT TO BLACK:
text: Over the blackness we HEAR the shrill DESCENDING WHISTLES AND
text: EXPLOSIONS of 4th of July fireworks going off...
text: ROLE TITLE: Big, bullshit letters... “AMERICAN BULLSHIT”
scene_heading: INT. JFK AIRPORT - EASTERN AIRLINES CONCOURSE - MORNING
scene_heading: FOLLOWING CLOSELY BEHIND THE BALL-CRUSHINGLY RAPTUROUS FIGURE
text: OF A WOMAN tightly wrapped in a chic Chanel skirt-suit ---
text: striding down the middle of the bustling flight concourse.
scene_heading: SUPERIMPOSE OVER ASS: “September, 1978 --- New York City”
text: REVERSE ANGLE: In her late twenties, MAXINE GARDNER is a ravenous
text: beauty whose scorching blue eyes give her a visceral, blow-torch
text: appeal. Ann Margaret meets Dorothy Parker.
text: Max approaches the gate of an arriving flight as PASSENGERS
text: flow into the terminal. HAROLD PIEDMONT, a craggy blue-blood
text: steps off the jetway, sees the orchid broach pinned to Max’s
text: lapel and greets her with an unctuous grin.
speaker_heading: PIEDMONT
dialog: Ms. Gardner --- ?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (finishing school accent)
dialog: Please Harold, it's Max... So good to
dialog: finally meet you in person ---
dialog: (taking him by the arm)
text: Now come along, the car is waiting..
scene_heading: EXT./INT. LIMO - A LITTLE LATER
text: Stretch limo making its way into the city. Piedmont and Max are
text: seated directly across from each other.
speaker_heading: PIEDMONT
dialog: I must confess, I’m not comfortable
dialog: dealing with loan brokers like
dialog: yourself. I’ve heard stories, unseemly
dialog: stories about the kind of capital you
dialog: people represent ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Please, Harold, there’s really no
dialog: need to be so vituperative e shop
dialog: we’re meeting with only deals with
dialog: the most reputable lenders ---
text: Piedmont looks out the window as they cin a gas station and
text: sees a long line of cars waiting to fill Someone has
text: spray-painted the words: “FUCK OPEC” over the station’s sign.
speaker_heading: PIEDMONT
dialog: That god damn peanut farmer in the
dialog: White House is running this economy
dialog: into the void! Stagflation, inflation ---
dialog: credit markets are all locked up ---
dialog: (eyes return to Max)
dialog: I mean when institutional bankers
dialog: like Chase Manhattan won't lend to a
dialog: Piedmont, you know this country's in
dialog: serious trouble.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (clever grin)
dialog: And yet despite all of this I’m still
dialog: confident that your luck is about to
dialog: change.
scene_heading: EXT. SKYSCRAPER - MID TOWN MANHATTAN - LATER THAT MORNING
text: Max and Piedmont enter a stunning, Fifth Ave. skyscraper.
scene_heading: INT. 10TH FLOOR - SKYSCRAPER - MINUTES LATER
text: Max and Piedmont approach a door: “LONDON INVESTORS - New York
text: London, Zurich”. We MOVE with them as they enter...
scene_heading: INT. LONDON INVESTORS - SKYSCRAPER - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: . The sumptuously appointed reception area of a very smart
text: looking establishment that exudes an air of success and
text: reputability. Max can see that Piedmont is impressed.
scene_heading: INT. MEL’S OFFICE - LONDON INVESTORS - SECONDS LATER
text: The RECEPTIONIST ushers Piedmont and Max into a handsomely
text: decorated office whose walls are gilded with fine art, pictures
dialog: of Mel Weinberg with prominent luminaries and awards from various
dialog: civic and business organizations.
text: Clad in a beautiful bankers suit, Mel greets Piedmont with an
text: earnest smile and handshake.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Mel Weinberg...
text: Mel then gives Max a cordial peck on the cheek.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi ya Max... How are things?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Lovely --- and you?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Capital.
text: Mel directs Max and Piedmont to sit --- and as she moves to the
text: couch Mel tilts his head slightly to the right and admires the
text: swing of Max's ass. He then sits across from Piedmont.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Not to be rude but I’ve got a back to
dialog: back day as I’m sure you do as well ---
dialog: so if we could just cap to the climax ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Well have you looked at the setup?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, fantastic deal. Top shelf
dialog: property. Perfect location for a
dialog: shopping center ---.
dialog: {takes out cigarette)
dialog: Now, I don’t know what Max has_told
dialog: you about London Investors so let me
dialog: just give you the quick of it ---
dialog: (lights up, takes a drag)
dialog: I work very closely with a consortium
dialog: of off shore banks that are expanding
dialog: their loan portfolios. On their end I
dialog: help them find worthy deals that the
dialog: mainline lenders have missed. On your
dialog: end I help you put a_ loan package
dialog: together and hand-hold the deal through
dialog: the process --- using all my weight
dialog: to get the loan approved ---
speaker_heading: PIEDMONT
dialog: Can you guarantee an approval?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Of course not. That being said you
dialog: should know I never take on deals I
dialog: can’t close.
speaker_heading: PIEDMONT
dialog: How much is all this going to cost
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Six points on the backend, after you
dialog: get yours. Only thing I ask is that
dialog: you cover my costs with processing
dialog: your package, which in your case will
dialog: e about twenty-five thousand ---
speaker_heading: PIEDMONT
dialog: If you don’t get me the financing do
dialog: I get the twenty-five thousand back?
text: Mel flashes Max a “the fuck’s wrong with this guy?” look.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No. The twenty five is non-refundable,
dialog: just like my time...
text: With an anxious sigh Piedmont gives Mel a desperate glare.
speaker_heading: PIEDMONT
dialog: I just need to know that you can get
dialog: me the money ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Look, I’m not Willy Loman. I’m not
dialog: here to sell you --- that being said---
dialog: (leans forward earnestly)
dialog: You should know that I believe in
dialog: cash and happy endings. I mean when a
dialog: businessman needs money, he needs
dialog: Money --- not an aspirin and a fuckin'
dialog: prayer. That’s how I make my living ---
dialog: (gets up from chair)
dialog: Anyway, think it over. I hope we can
dialog: do some business together. If not
dialog: best of luck down the block.
text: Piedmont and Max stand, Mel ushers them towards the door. Mel
text: gives Max a peck on the cheek and then shakes Piedmont's hand.
scene_heading: EXT. SKYSCRAPER - MID TOWN MANHATTAN - LATER THAT DAY
text: We see Mel behind the wheel of a forest green, Lincoln Mark-V
text: as it exits the garage and heads down the street.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - MANHATTAN - CONTINUOUS
text: VARIOUS ANGLES of Mel driving --- sultry late afternoon. We
text: see him pull up to the valet of the PIERRE HOTEL and exit...
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PIERRE HOTEL - MINUTE LATER
text: Mel enters the elegant residential suite. Late afternoon sunlight
text: is flooding in through the huge window which overlooks the par
text: There is a Shirley Temple waiting for him on the bar. He grabs —
text: it, sits on the couch and sips as he gazes out.
text: The room darkens as the sun sets behind the skyline of buildings
text: across the park --- and Mel suddenly sees the reflection of a
dialog: 10.
text: woman in the window’s glass. The woman is standing in the doorway
text: of the bathroom behind him.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What’s up, pussycat. Is he hooked?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Heavy as lead.
text: Walking towards Mel, the woman reveals herself to be Max. She
text: hands Mel a check from ‘Harold Piedmont’ made out to London
text: Investors for ‘$25,000.’ --- And gives him a sensual kiss.
text: Pulling up an armchair, Max positions it directly in front of
text: Mel and sits down provocatively, her skirt hiked up to her
text: anties. Kicking off her heels, she perches her feet on Mel’s
text: nees and lazily spreads her legs wide open.
speaker_heading: MAX (CONT'D)
dialog: (foxy grin)
dialog: I also got him to front me three points
dialog: on_ that Bank of Sark CD I’ve been
dialog: holding.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What is it with you Max? Always
dialog: wanting. I mean we talked about this.
dialog: You never send a guy to the river ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oh please. Don’t show me the moves if
dialog: you don’t want me to make them.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I just want you to make them smartly ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Life is short and so is money ---
text: Max reclines into the chair; totally relaxed, completely
text: uninhibited. Then beckons Mel with a pleasure seeking grin.
speaker_heading: MAX (CONT'D)
dialog: So why not go out on a limb? I mean ---
dialog: (slides hand over crotch)
dialog: ...Isn’t that where the fruit is?
text: Mel moves in but Max shoves him back with her feet.
speaker_heading: MAX. (CONT'D)
dialog: (off Mel’s look)
dialog: You know, it occurred to me earlier
dialog: today --- that once I walk into your
dialog: office I’m just a spectator...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya mean?
text: OVER THE SHOULDER of Max; Keeping Mel pinned back with one leg,
text: she slides her underwear off the other
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I always have to just sit there with
dialog: my mouth shut and watch you get
dialog: yourself off as you close the deal.
dialog: (begins playing with herself)
dialog: Well, now it’s your turn to watch me --
text: Max’s legs contort, feet bend and flex. Her body slowly twists
text: and turns like a corkscrew as she gets herself off.
text: Mel’s grin swells into a stupefied, life affirming smile.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. STELLA'S SUPPER CLUB - FIFTY SEVENTH STREET - LATER
text: A fully packed and incredibly noisy but chic restaurant filled
text: with a mixture of wiseguys, hustlers and celebs. Like the Copa
text: but without the shows. Clearly the place to be seen.
text: ANGLE CLOSE on two hustlers standing at the end of the bar; SY
text: LENTZ (very gay) and RONNY DAMONE.
speaker_heading: RONNY
dialog: Get out. Guy was chief of staff to
dialog: Nixon. Fuckin NATO Supreme Commander.
speaker_heading: SY
dialog: And men of his stature can’t be
dialog: faggots? Cause I’m telling you, they
dialog: can, they are and thank God for it.
text: Mel carrying an attaché, approaches and greets them with a nod.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Fellas... what’s up?
speaker_heading: RONNY
dialog: Sy says that Al Haig’s a shitstabber.
speaker_heading: SY
dialog: Oh, Haig doesn’t engage in sodomy.
dialog: No, he's strictly into helmeting ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The fuck is helmeting?
speaker_heading: SY
text: He gets off from having bald men try
text: to stick their heads up his ass.
text: Mel laughs --- Ronny is horrified.
speaker_heading: RONNY
dialog: That's the worst thing I ever heard ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (rubs Ronny's head)
dialog: Don't knock it till you try it, Ron.
dialog: (to Sy
dialog: You got anything tasty for me?
speaker_heading: SY
dialog: Setups on the packages we’re bringing
dialog: in through Artie Kessler in Pittsburgh ---
dialog: 12.
text: Sy hands Mel some files which he puts into his attache.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Just keep feeding me the action fellas ---
dialog: and spread the word, cause I’m hungry.
text: SONNY BLITZ suddenly rolls up next to Mel.
speaker_heading: SONNY
dialog: Well, if it ain’t the golden Hebe
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So Sonny ---_I guess that makes you
dialog: the nickel plated ginzo?
speaker_heading: SONNY
dialog: Don't get smart with me jagoff ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Zip your fly, Sonny ---
text: Sonny looks like he’s about to stab Mel but is stopped by the
text: sight of his boss, DOMINICK CASALE. Blitz quickly backs down.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Hey, there he is --- how are ya Mel ---
text: Taking Mel by the arm, Dom ushers him towards the back door
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What is it with your fucking crew ---
dialog: always breaking my balls ---
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Whaddya expect? You’re a compulsive
dialog: earner -- Ya make 'em look bad.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - ALLEY - BACK OF STELLA'S - MINUTE LATER
dialog: 
text: Dom and Mel lean up against Dom's Cadillac.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Anything you need me to take care of?
dialog: Problems, beefs, whatever ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Nothing ---
text: Mel takes a cash stuffed envelope out of his attaché, hands it
dialog: to Dom.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: July.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: (smiles, impressed)
dialog: Heavy.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: These things come in streaks. And
dialog: it’s been seven come eleven for me
dialog: lately.
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Luck is the residue of design, Mel.
dialog: (lights a cigarette)
dialog: While everyone else is out there
dialog: scrambling for the big score --- you ---
dialog: you Figured out that the real money's
dialog: in small scores at a high volume. You
text: took the front end scam off the street
dialog: opened up a front office where your
dialog: marks are delivered to you by your
dialog: own network of feeders --- you're
dialog: like the McDonald's of con merchants.
dialog: A real innovator ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Thanks Dom ---
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: I just don't get how you keep it all
dialog: going. Thirty-forty marks a week
dialog: none of them is getting their loan
dialog: and no one’s making a beef?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Almost all of these assholes applying
dialog: for a loan cook the numbers on their
dialog: financial statements --- gives me the
dialog: perfect blow off: “Hey douchebag, you
dialog: didn’t get the loan cause your
dialog: financials are bullshit".
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: But what if they're legit?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Keep the fees low and for most people
dialog: it ain't worth the time or headache
dialog: to go to court or the cops ---
dialog: (smiles at Dom
dialog: But on_ the rare occasion that I have
dialog: a problem, I always got you ---
scene_heading: EXT. MEL’S HOUSE - LONG ISLAND, NY - LATER THAT NIGHT
text: Driving down an upper-middle class street of ranch houses, Mel
text: pulls into his driveway, parks next to a station wagon. We can
text: see the name WEINBERG on the mailbox.
scene_heading: INT. MEL’S HOUSE - LONG ISLAND, NY - MINUTES LATER
text: The house is in the midst of a REMODEL. Walking into his home,
text: Mel navigates his way through a maze of construction materials
text: and into the living room where he finds his wife, ESTELLE
text: WEINBERG, asleep on the couch in front of the TV. Clad ina
text: lightweight nightgown, Estelle is a petite and attractive woman
text: in her late thirties.
text: Mel turns the TV off and scoops her up in his arms and WE MOVE
text: with them as he carries her to the bedroom.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: (sleepy, eyes closed)
dialog: Long day at the office ---?
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: MEL
text: Braindead. Been locked in a room
dialog: crunching numbers with my accountants
dialog: since this afternoon.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Sorry.
dialog: Hey, nobody ever” Said a life in finance
dialog: was gonna be exciting.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: (tired smile
dialog: But it beats installing glass...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (affectionately)
dialog: Yeah...
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - MEL’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: He gently lays her down on the bed...
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Dinner's in the fridge and please
dialog: look over the bid for the pool ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Go back to sleep, we’ll talk in the
dialog: morning.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MEL’S HOUSE - MINUTE LATER
text: Mel opens the fridge, sees the sandwich and a child-scrawled
scene_heading: note: “YANKEES 8 - OREOS 5. YOU OWE ME FIVE BUCKS, WILLIE”.
text: Smiling at the note, Mel grabs the sandwich and is about to sit
text: when_the backdoor suddenly opens --- and in shuffles little
scene_heading: WILLIE WEINBERG, age 12 il
text: Mel lights vp like a pinball machine when he sees his son ---
text: his eyes filled with pure adoration and joy.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey boychick --
speaker_heading: WILLIE
text: ie’s wearing nothing but boxers.
dialog: (groggy
dialog: I’m sleeping in the hammock. Too hot
dialog: to be inside. Mom says it's okay.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I gotta pee.
text: Willie sleepily marches over to the bathroom off the kitchen.
text: Mel watches him lift up the seat and pull down his boxers.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How was camp today?
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Don’t talk to me. You know I can’t go
dialog: if you talk to me.
text: Mel shuts his mouth and smiles inwardly. Willie finally pees
text: flushes, washes his hands --- and shuffles out.
speaker_heading: WILLIE (CONT'D)
dialog: You get my note?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah. I got your note. What happened?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Top of the eighth, Reggie Jackson
dialog: took it downtown off a high and hard
dialog: one.
text: Willie holds out his hand with a grin which Mel returns as he
text: hands him the cash.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Willie-boy, if you were purple then
dialog: purple would be my favorite color.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Likewise, Pop.
scene_heading: EXT. FIFTH AVE. - MIDTOWN MANHATTAN - DAY
text: REVERSE TRACK ON JIMMY BOYLE as he strides up Fifth Ave. clad
text: in a suit and tie, carrying a briefcase. In his early thirties
text: Boyle has hard boiled good looks of a book-smart boxer and exudes
text: the edgy, alluring intensity of a man on the make.
text: An ATTRACTIVE WOMAN in front of him suddenly gets her high heel
text: caught in a ventilation grill. Boyle smoothly swoops in to help
text: her, effortlessly pulls the heel out and then flashes the woman
text: a self-assured smile --- before moving on and entering the
text: skyscraper Mel’s office is in.
scene_heading: INT. LONDON INVESTORS - SKYSCRAPER - TWENTY MINUTES LATER
text: Boyle is waiting in the reception area. The Cute Receptionist
text: gets up from her desk and nods to Boyle.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Do you mind if I use your phone for a
dialog: second?
text: The Receptionist turns her phone around --- Boyle dials and
text: then flashes the Receptionist a flirtatious smile which she
text: can't help but return.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (PHONE) (CONT’D)
dialog: It’s me. Let her call in five.
text: Hanging up, Boyle FOLLOWS the Receptionist though a door and
text: into Mel’s office and closes the door behind him...
scene_heading: INT. MEL’S OFFICE - LONDON INVESTORS - SKYSCRAPER
text: Mel gives Boyle a hearty handshake.
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: James Boyle ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (gesturing Boyle to sit)
dialog: Mel Weinberg...
text: Boyle takes a seat and Mel sits across from him.
speaker_heading: MEL. (CONT'D)
dialog: So who are you coming to me through?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Maxine Gardner ---
text: Boyle hands Mel Max's business card and surveys the office.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Funny, Max never mentioned your name ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I didn't see the point in giving her
dialog: a fee for just walking me in ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The point is that I know her and I
dialog: don't know you.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I'm strapped for cash, Mel ---
text: Mel eyes Boyle with a subtle wariness, sizing him up.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Well as Max might of mentioned I have
dialog: a strong relationship with a consortium
dialog: of offshore banks that are expanding
dialog: their loan portfolios ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: How do I know your banks are real?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Real? These are all legally chartered
dialog: reputable, second tier lenders.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Just because they’re chartered doesn’t
dialog: mean they have money. For all I know
dialog: your bank is just some guy in the
text: Bahamas with nothing more than a phone,
text: Telex, and a box of stationary.
text: Mel leans back and tenses up --- upset by Boyle's comment.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: I don’t mean to be rude. It’s just
dialog: that I know people who’ve been burned
dialog: by scam artists posing as money brokers ---
dialog: guys who take front end fees by
dialog: promising loans from banks that don’t
dialog: exist...
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: If you have questions about my lenders
dialog: I can get you financials, counter
dialog: party references, whatever --- and if
dialog: ave concerns about me --- take a
dialog: ook around, does it look like I’m
dialog: some five and dime hustler dealing
dialog: out of my hat?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (looks around)
dialog: No, I’ vd ot to hand it to yoy" Mel.
dialog: This really is an unbelievabl
dialog: convincing setup. It’s the detail
dialog: work, the little things --
dialog: (gesturing)
dialog: Like the picture of you with Spiro
dialog: Agnew. That’s what pulls it al
dialog: together. Makes everything feel so
dialog: legit --- and safe
dialog: (locking eyes with Mel)
dialog: You’ve got a real gift.
text: Mel sits back. An uneasy silence as they stare each other down.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Who you with?
text: The phone on the table next to Mel suddenly RINGS. Mel doesn’t
text: pick it up, just sits there glaring at Boyle
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You’re going to want to take that
dialog: call.
speaker_heading: MEL (INTO PHONE
text: (finally picks up phone
dialog: Yeah, okay put her through... What’s
dialog: up, Max? --- When?
dialog: (gives Boyle a glare
dialog: No, don’t say anything. I’1l take
dialog: care of it. Where have they got you? ---
dialog: Alright, just sit tight...
text: Mel hangs up the phone, lights a cigarette, takes a drag.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Special Agent Jimmy Boyle --- FBI ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So what’s on your warrant for me?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Bank fraud, wire fraud, securities
dialog: fraud, criminal conspiracy. (Beat)
dialog: But whether or not I execute it, that
dialog: all depends.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah okay, whatever, kid --- you mind
dialog: if I call my lawyer now?
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Sure, but how about you let me buy
dialog: you a drink first? |
dialog: (off Mel’s silence)
dialog: C’mon Mel. You lawyer up then I have
dialog: to arrest you. Why not at least hear
dialog: me out? I know a place right around
dialog: the corner.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - MIDTOWN MANHATTAN - A LITTLE LATER
text: MOVING with Mel and Boyle as they stroll down Fifth Avenue.
text: Boyle takes off his tie and unbuttons his shirt.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: This goddamn heat is oppressive ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So then why the fuck are we out here?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Cause I wanted you to feel it.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (annoyed)
dialog: Jesus... Whaddya wanna talk to me
dialog: about, Boyle?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Love.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Love?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Yeah, right, love. (Beat) You see the
dialog: bitch of it for me is that you do it
dialog: all so smart. I mean trying to build
dialog: up enough evidence to make a case on
dialog: you, it’s like trying to pick up
dialog: Mercury with a fork. But then I
dialog: realized ._---
dialog: {uittze smile at Mel)
dialog: Who needs evidence when you’ve got
dialog: love?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What is this? Do you wanna to fuck me
dialog: or arrest me?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I've been watching you for the past
dialog: few months --- Your wife Estelle,
dialog: your son Willie --- I know that your
dialog: amily has no idea who and what you
dialog: really are. They think you’re a
dialog: completely legit guy --- A loyal
dialog: husband --- Adoring father --- Pillar
dialog: of the community, right?
text: They hit 42nd Street and Boyle steers Mel to the right, towards
dialog: Bryant Park.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: I don’t know how you do it, Mel. I
dialog: mean the energy it must take to sustain
dialog: the lie. Day %, day out. (beat) And
dialog: it tells me things --- like how much
dialog: you want to protect them --- how much
dialog: ou care about what they think ---
dialog: ow much you love them ---
text: They roll up to a hot dog stand on the outskirts of the park.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: You want anything?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Lemme have a Tab.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (to vendor)
dialog: Gimme a Tab and a Yoohoo.
text: The hot dog vendor pulls out the drinks out from the cooler,
text: gives them to Boyle, who pays and then hands Mel his soda. Moving
text: to a bench in the park, Boyle and Mel sit.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: And then there’s Maxine Gardner.
dialog: (taking a swig of Yoohoo)
dialog: When I watch you two together you
dialog: know what I see? I see a man that's
dialog: head over heels. And who could blame
dialog: you? She’s a phenomenal woman.
text: Reaching into his pocket, Boyle pulls out and hands Mel a Justice
text: Department indictment summary that, point by point, lays out
dialog: their case against Max.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Unfortunately she’s greedy --- and
dialog: not as careful as you are.
text: As he reviews the document, we can see Mel’s cool facade begin
text: to melt into one of restrained anxiety.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Now you might be able to beat your
dialog: rap down to a banker’s bit, maybe
dialog: even probation -- but as you can see
dialog: our case against Max is a lock.
dialog: (takes summary, from Mel)
dialog: She’s going away and I mean for
dialog: at least a nickel --- and there’s no
dialog: fix Dominic Casale can put in that's
dialog: gonna make this go away.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (after long hard beat)
dialog: Whaddya want?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Five high-line white collar busts ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You talking confidential
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: No, you’d be a_cooperatin
dialog: that way I could use you
dialog: Broad strokes; you close
dialog: you_and Max plead out on
dialog: we’ll get the judge to su
dialog: execution of the sentence
dialog: after you help me close f
dialog: you and Max can skate on
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (dubious)
dialog: Just like that?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: right, just like th
dialog: (off Mel's doubt)
dialog: Come on Mel, what’s the a
dialog: Max is being a stand up
dialog: now but what do you thin
dialog: happen after she’s done a
dialog: Attica? What do you think
dialog: happen to your wife when
dialog: slap her with a warrant,
dialog: house, ask her all kinds
dialog: and show her pictures ---
dialog: Max Sucking face all over
dialog: And what about your son
text: happens when he reads abo
dialog: the papers and learns tha
dialog: i ?
dialog: nothing But a eeOU Shoo,
dialog: Yeah,
dialog: inis
dialog: You don’t take the deal,
dialog: everything that you love
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (after a long hard
dialog: I gotta think about it.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I’1l give you until noon
dialog: 20.
dialog: informant?
dialog: g witness,
dialog: at the trials.
dialog: up your shop,
dialog: all counts ---
dialog: spend the
dialog: --- and
dialog: ive cases
dialog: probation.
dialog: at.
dialog: ternative?
dialog: irl right
dialog: ’s going to
dialog: year at
dialog: ’s going to
dialog: my agents
dialog: toss your
dialog: of questions
dialog: of you and
dialog: the city.
dialog: Mel? What
dialog: ut you in
dialog: t his father’s
dialog: burps)
dialog: you lose
dialog: the most.
dialog: beat)
dialog: 
dialog: tomorrow.
text: Mel just sits there stewing in the nightmare. Boyle gets up and
text: hands Mel his card.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: You call me and let me kn
dialog: going to fuck or fight.
dialog: ow if you’re
text: Mel gives Boyle a nod and watches him leave.
scene_heading: EXT. MET CORRECTIONAL CENTER - DOWNTOWN - WAITING AREA - LATER
text: Mel sits impatiently on a bench in the bustlin
text: the city's federal remand center. He has a pin
text: Moishe's 2nd Ave. bake shop on his lap.
text: We HEAR the electric buzz of the door being unlocked ---
text: Max is escorted out by a FAT BAIL BONDSMAN. She looks like hell.
dialog: waiting room of
speaker_heading: BAKERY BOX from
dialog: 21.
text: Mel and Max lock eyes --- both relieved to see each other. Mel
text: approaches and can see that she's shaken up. Max sees the bakery
text: box in Mel's hand and her face brightens up slightly.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Chocolate rugelach from Moishe's?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Your favorite.
text: Deeply touched by the gesture, Max throws her arms around Mel
text: and gives him a soulful and tender hug.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I am now.
scene_heading: EXT. MEL'S LINCOLN - A LITTLE LATER
text: We are gazing through the Lincoln's windshield at Mel and Max.
text: Mel's driving and Max is riding shotgun, eating the rugelach.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You should reach out to Dom ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I can't. I get this anywhere near Dom
dialog: and suddenly this thing has predicates ---
dialog: FEDS will try to fold it into a RICO
dialog: statute ---
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Then call Bernie Meyerson, you always
dialog: said he's the best defense in town ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya think Bernie's gonna do except
dialog: take his fee? He can't fix this ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: How do we know until we talk to him?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Cause that snot-nosed little feeb
dialog: showed me their summary against you --
dialog: it's open and shut. Tapes of you
text: closing over the phone. Signed letters
dialog: of commitment that you sent through
dialog: the mail. Your prints on The Sark
dialog: paper. I mean I couldn't believe it ---
dialog: (disappointed look at Max)
dialog: And the worst part about it is that
dialog: you knew better. I taught you better...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What do you want me to say? You're
dialog: right? I'm sorry? We all know better
text: despite doing worse.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Don't get all fucking abstract on me.
dialog: I'm talking here and now ---
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: So am I. This is my calamity, I'll
dialog: deal with the consequences ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Can you deal with doing five years in
dialog: shit city?! (Beat) One week inside
dialog: you'll be ready to talk ---
text: An enraged Max PUNCHES Mel in the mouth hard enough to draw
text: blood. Mel slams on the brakes and the car screeches to a halt.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: The fuck is wrong with you?!
text: Max gets out of the car and starts marching up Broadway barefoot.
text: As she walks away Mel dabs his lip, looks at the blood on his
text: fingers and then gazes out at Max --- tilting his head slightly
text: to the right to admire the swing of her ass.
text: He pulls the car over, gets out. We see him catch up to her
scene_heading: EXT. WEST BROADWAY - TRIBECA - CONTINUOUS
text: Mel tries to grab her but she swats his hand away.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I didn't mean how that sounded ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yes you did. You're so fucking scared
dialog: that I'd rat you out you'd become a
dialog: rat yourself just to stop me ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: That's how it works with the Feds
dialog: They come after the things you care
dialog: about the most and turn ‘em on you ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Which is why you can't take this deal
dialog: Mel. You can't trust them.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So what am I supposed to do Max? Just
dialog: let these fucks put you away? Let
dialog: them out me to my family?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Taking this deal won't stop that --
text: it just postpones the inevitable.
dialog: Once you make your cases for them
dialog: it's all gonna come out at the trials!
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No, not everything. Not you and me.
dialog: And this will buy me some space between
dialog: now and then.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: The only thing this is gonna buy you
dialog: is more trouble.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: MAX (CONT'D)
text: locking eyes with Mel
dialog: Tell Estelle the truth, tell the Feebs
dialog: to fuck off --- let's go to court and
dialog: fight this thing together.
text: Mel's silent, overwhelmed by the terrible choice he's gotta
dialog: make...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I don't know...
scene_heading: EXT. MEL’S HOUSE - LONG ISLAND, NY - LATER THAT MORNING
dialog: 
text: Mel pulls in his driveway, parks and gets out of the car sporting
text: a fat lip --- looking totally strung out.
scene_heading: INT. MEL’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Estelle is in the kitchen’s laundry alcove loading the washer.
text: Willie’s at the table, eating cereal and watching cartoons.
text: Mel moves to the kitchen cabinet, grabs a bottle of J&B and a
text: glass --- and then sits.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Hey Pop.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: What’re you doing home? I thought you
dialog: were staying in the city ---
text: No response. Estelle comes out, sees the sorry state of Mel and
text: the booze. Tensing up with concern, she turns the tv off. Mel
text: shoots the glass of whiskey, then Looks up at Estelle.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: What is it? What's wrong?
text: The weight in his eyes makes it clear that Mel's on the verge
text: of confessing everything to her --- but then he pulls back...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I’m shutting down London Investors.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: What?! Why!?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Financing I_was counting on pulled
dialog: out at the last minute and some very
dialog: big deals fell through. The only way
dialog: I can avoid a Chapter 11 is to fold
dialog: the company up.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Jesus, Mel --- I mean --- four years
dialog: you spend building a business and
dialog: it’s over in one day?
text: Mel says nothing and has another drink.
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: What about the vacation to the Bahamas?
dialog: What about the remodel?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: We're gonna have to tighten our belts.
dialog: Put everything on hold for a little
dialog: while ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: On hold?! Mel, look around --- how
dialog: can we live like this?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I’m sorry, Estelle. I just need a
dialog: little time to figure things out.
text: Beyond upset, Estelle blows out of the kitchen. Not wanting to
text: look vulnerable in front Willie, Mel puts on a brave face and
text: gesture's Willie to come over to him. Mel then reassur ingly
text: puts his hands on his son's shoulders and locks eyes wit im.
speaker_heading: ; MEL (CONT'D).
dialog: Everything’s gonna be all right. I
dialog: promise --- okay?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Sure pop ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Go get dressed.
text: Willie exits kitchen. Mel takes Boyle’s business card out and
text: stares at it for a long beat. He then finishes his drink gets
text: up, moves to the kitchen’s phone and dials.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Okay Boyle ---- let’s fuck.
scene_heading: CUT TO BLACK:
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVEYARD - THE BRONX - DAY
text: A light drizzle falls over an overcast expanse of tombstones
text: and trees. In the distance we see Mel’s Lincoln cut along a
text: road towards the center of the screen and park.
dialog: SUPER: “November, 1978”
text: CLOSE ON THE GRAVESTONE OF NATHAN WEINBERG: Standing solemnly
text: at the tombstone of his father, Mel notices that his father’s
text: grave is dirty with grime and leaves -- but the grave next to
text: it is immaculate. Mel then sees that there’s a small “Perpetual
text: Care” plaque affixed to the bottom of the clean gravestone.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT TO:
scene_heading: SECONDS LATER - ANGLE CLOSE ON OPENED TRUNK_OF MEL’S CAR: |
text: Reaching into a tool box, Mel pulls out a flat-head screwdriver
text: hammer and tube of super glue.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT TO:
dialog: 25.
scene_heading: MINUTE LATER - ANGLE ON GRAVE NEXT TO MEL’S FATHER: Mel uses
text: the screwdriver and hammer to chisel off the Perpetual Care
text: plaque. He then squeezes out the entire tube of super-glue on
text: the back of the plaque and affixes it to his father’s stone.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: From me to you Pop...
speaker_heading: _ MAN'S VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: (grating New England accent)
dialog: Put it back ---
text: Spinning around, Mel sees a STIFF: clad in a raincoat, suit and
text: tie; marching towards him. In his late forties, the Stiff has a
text: face like a foot --- and exudes the tight-ass, awkward energy
text: of a man who is so painfully ill at ease with himself he makes
text: everyone around him uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: STIFF
dialog: I saw what you did. Now put it back.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Put what back? I don’t know what you’re
dialog: talking about.
speaker_heading: STIFF
dialog: Empty your pockets.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Fuck you, jaggoff ---
text: The Stiff suddenly makes an aggressive move to reach for one of
text: Mel’s pockets --- and Mel SHOVES him back so hard the Stiff
text: slips on the slick grass and falls on his ass.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (0.S.)
dialog: (hollering)
dialog: What the hell is this?
text: Both men look and see Boyle getting out his Crown Vic and storm
text: towards them. The Stiff scrambles to his feet, embarrassed.
text: Boyle is being followed by two men: SPECIAL AGENT BURT GROSSWALD
scene_heading: and SPECIAL AGENT ALVIN ACKERMAN.
speaker_heading: STIFF
dialog: I observed the 2-0-9 as he removed a
dialog: perpetual care marker from this grave
dialog: and put it on that grave and when I
dialog: ordered him to put it back he denied
dialog: everything and assaulted me.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Assaulted you? This asshole tried to
dialog: stick his hands in my pockets and ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I don’t want to hear it, Weinberg...
dialog: (gets into Mel’s face)
dialog: If an FBI agent tells you to do
dialog: something, anything --- tells you to
dialog: pour gasoline on your cock and balls
dialog: ight them on fire so he can warm his
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: hands around it --- you do it, or you
dialog: are done.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: This hump is with you?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (gesturing to Stiff)
dialog: That’s Special Agent Bob Polk.
dialog: (to Grosswald)
dialog: Special Agent Brut Grosswald...
dialog: (to Ackerman
dialog: And Special Agent Alvin Ackerman ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (chuckling to Ackerman)
dialog: Holy 's shit! I don’t believe it! A
dialog: fuckin' Jew_in the Bureau!?
dialog: (smiles, offering hand)
dialog: Hey, nighpokheh --- mazel tov, babe ---
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: I’m not Jewish...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: Yeah, sure you're not...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: These agents along with myself will
dialog: be handling you.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Terrific --- so what now?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Tony Denato.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Tony the Nutcracker --- ?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (nods)
dialog: He's one of the city’s biggest
dialog: butterfly dealers --- stolen
dialog: counterfeit securities, funny paper ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Fuck that. The deal was for me to
dialog: help you make cases against con
dialog: merchants like me --- not a mobbed up
dialog: maniac like Denato.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: Maniac!? Guy’s a lawyer for chrissake.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, he’s a lawyer who worked his
dialog: way through law school by doing hits
dialog: for the Bino’s. Got his nickname by
text: puttin’ guy’s balls in a nutcracker
dialog: and squeezing them till they popped ---
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: This is the target Mel --- and you're
dialog: going to deliver him ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You won’t put me on salary --- how do
dialog: you expect me to deliver anything
dialog: when I gotta put food on the table?
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: You must've made three million last
dialog: year. Where’d it all go?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: My overhead was murder ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Bullshit.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I wanna get paid.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Until you produce Denato we’ve got
dialog: nothing to talk about. |
dialog: (starts back to his car)
dialog: Thanksgiving’s in a couple of weeks ---
dialog: I want to hear some ideas for an
dialog: approach the following Monday.
text: Mel stands there with a_ “fuck me” expression on his face. As
text: Ackerman and Grosswald follow Boyle back to the car. After a
text: beat, Mel sees that Polk is staring at him.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What the fuck’s with you?
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: The marker --- put it back.
text: Mel just walks off.
scene_heading: EXT. CHELSEA HOTEL - MANHATTAN - LATE THAT AFTERNOON
dialog: The venerable old hotel for artists and stoners of the day...
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - CHELSEA HOTEL - A LITTLE LATER
dialog: 
text: The worn, bohemian charm Chelsea is a stark contrast to the
dialog: elegance of the Pierre...
text: Mel's fully dressed and lies on the bed, smoking a cigarette ---
text: clearly strung out with high anxiety.
text: In the full-sized mirror affixed to the opened bathroom door we
text: can see the reflection of Max soaking naked in the tub, smoking
dialog: a joint.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (lamenting)
dialog: I miss the Pierre. I miss the days
dialog: that I_ could just reach under my bed
dialog: and pull out forty thousand dollars
dialog: in cash.
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: For chrissake, it’s been a_coupla
dialog: months and you’re talking like it was
dialog: ten years ago.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Well it feels like it was.
dialog: (beat, takes a long drag)
dialog: I've got no action, can’t make any
dialog: Moves --- running out of cash. I don’t
dialog: know what to do with myself...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (snaps)
dialog: Spare me, Max. I got bigger problems
dialog: to deal with right now than your
dialog: inertia.
text: In the mirror, we see Max get up out of the tub --- and without
text: toweling herself off, she slinks out of the bathroom towards
text: Mel. Her eyes filled with sexy resolve, she straddles him.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey -- you're all wet!
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (grabbing Mel's dick)
dialog: I know ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (shoves Max off
dialog: What the fuck are you doing?
text: The pain and humiliation of Mel's rejection cuts across Max's
text: face --- the intensity of its sting shocks her. Not wanting Mel
text: to see her vulnerability, she storms into the bathroom ---
text: slamming the door shut behind her.
text: Mel shuts his eyes with dread --- gets up and walks over to the
text: door only to find that it's locked.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Come on Max --- Open the door ---
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: Fuck off, Mel ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I'm sorry, okay? It's just I'm tense ---
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: Yeah, I know. Which is why I was trying
dialog: to help you, shitbag ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: If you really wanna help, then help
dialog: me figure out this Denato thing.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: Help you help the Feds? I think not.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey, you’ re the one that got me into
dialog: this
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: I told you not to take the deal. I
dialog: knew that they'd screw you ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (locking eyes with himself
dialog: in the mirror) | .
dialog: No matter what happens in life there's
dialog: always some asshole who knew it would ---
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.
dialog: Whatever, Mel. If you had any balls
dialog: or brains you’d stop wasting your
dialog: time thinking of ways to help them
dialog: and start thinking of ways to help
dialog: yourself! Now leave!
text: Mel grabs his jacket and leaves.
scene_heading: EXT. CHELSEA BAR - A LITTLE LATER
text: Gazing through the window of a local pub, we see Mel sitting at
text: the bar next to a COUPLE OF BARFLIES.
speaker_heading: MIKE WALLACE (V.O.)
dialog: Tonight on 60 minutes, the shadowy
dialog: world of Arab oil and the fabulous
dialog: wealth it’s creating in the Middle
dialog: East ---
scene_heading: INT. CHELSEA BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: Mel nurses his drink, lost in his thoughts while kind of watching
text: the TV behind the bar at the same time.
text: ON THE TV Mike Wallace presents a_60 MINUTES intro to a segment
text: about the Arab sheiks that control OPEC. IMAGES ARE INTERCUT OF
text: white-robed Arabs, Rolls Royces, gas fields in Saudi Arabia and
dialog: gas lines in the United States, etc...
speaker_heading: MIKE WALLACE (ONSCREEN)
dialog: --- From their extravagant homes,
dialog: their opulent yachts, their incredible
dialog: lifestyles... all of it powered by
dialog: the world’s most valuable commodit
dialog: Petroleum. Are the men that contro
dialog: OPEC getting filthy rich at the expense
dialog: of the rest of the world? Tonight on
dialog: 60 Minutes!
text: The show cuts to a commercial and Mel sits up as if stung by an
text: inspired notion. His wheels begin to turn...
speaker_heading: BARFLY ONE
dialog: Fucking Arabs keep getting richer and
dialog: I gotta wait forty five minutes just
dialog: to fill up my goddamn tank!?
speaker_heading: BARFLY TwO
dialog: They got all the money in the world,
dialog: whadda they need more for?
dialog: 30.
text: The exchange between the Barflies triggers something in Mel and
text: we suddenly see his face light up with an inward smile as his
text: inspired notion blooms into an ingenious scheme.
speaker_heading: MAN’S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: You had such a good thing going with
dialog: London. It’s a fuckin’ shame ---
scene_heading: INT. MEL’S HOUSE - OFFICE - DAY
text: MOVING ACROSS MEL’S DESK which is covered with a mosaic of
text: library books, note-filled legal pads, Xerox’d news stories,
dialog: magazine articles, etc. --- and all of it about Middle East
dialog: oil, OPEC, the men who control it, etc.
speaker_heading: MEL (INTO SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: Hey, when God closes one door, he
dialog: opens a window ---
text: The phone on the desk is hooked to a SPEAKER-PHONE.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: What’s up?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I'm into some new deals with an Arab
dialog: sheik ---
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: An Arab sheik!?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, from the Emirates ---
text: CAMERA PANS UP to reveal Mel seated at his desk, glancing at a
text: volume of “THE MIDDLE EAST ECONOMIC DIGEST” as he chats.
text: Unbeknownst to him ESTELLE is standing in the door behind Mel ---
dialog: listening to him talk...
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: Come on Mel, you being serious?
speaker_heading: ; _ MEL
dialog: Serious as prick cancer ---
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: Anything for me?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You gotta line on any paper? CD’s
dialog: securities, b-bonds, notes, whatever ---
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: Maybe. Why?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The Sheik can’t earn interest on the
dialog: money he’s got in his country’s banks
dialog: cause of the Arab laws against usury ---
dialog: and he's scared that the shitstorm
dialog: they got in Iran is coming his way.
dialog: He wants to get all his cash out now,
text: before it’s too late.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: But how does funny paper help him do
dialog: at?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: If the sheik signs over a million
dialog: dollar CD to his bank --- they’1l
dialog: allow him to withdraw the cas
dialog: equivalent --- ya see, cause as far
dialog: as the bank’ s concerned, the sheik’s
dialog: money isn’t really leaving their
dialog: vaults. Get it?
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER_ SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: Yeah, yeah. How much you lookin for?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: As much as you can get your hands on.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (OVER SPEAKERPHONE )
dialog: Yeah, okay --- lemme get back at you ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You do that Mick, and spread the word
dialog: cause I’m hungry.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. MEL’S MARK V_- STEINWAY ST - ASTORIA - DAY
text: Mel slowly cruising down Steinway Street in the Little Egypt
text: section of Astoria, Queens. Mel scans both sides of this small
text: neighborhood thoroughfare lined with Arab shops and restaurants ---
text: clearly looking for something.
scene_heading: EXT. BASIR’S TOBACCO SHOP - STEINWAY STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: The TOBACCO SHOP PROPRIETOR, a stately fooking EGYPTIAN in his
text: sixties, play s backgammon on a card table with ANOTHER EGYPTIAN
text: MAN. They’re surrounded by their FIVE RESPECTIVE SONS. Everyone
dialog: speaking Arabic.
text: We see Mel’s LINCOLN roll down the street. Mel locks eyes on
text: the men, quickly sizes them up, pulls over and parks. The chatter
text: goes quiet as the wary-eyed Egyptians watch Mel get out of his
text: car and approach.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Salam wa aleikum, fellas.
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: Aleikum ah salam. Can I help you?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Well, if eyouere interested in making
dialog: a few she els, then yeah...
scene_heading: EXT. STELLA’S SUPPER CLUB - NIGHT
text: A BLACK ROLLS ROYCE PHANTOM pulls up in front of Stella’s. A
text: CHAUFFEUR gets out and opens the door.
text: Donning his best suit, Mel steps out and stands aside as _ the
text: Tobacco Shop Proprietor exits the car iy’ fol a beautiful white
text: thobe and kingly headdress. He is_ quickly followed by his
text: entourage of three sons who are also clad in Arab garb.
dialog: 32.
scene_heading: INT. STELLA’S SUPPER CLUB - LITTLE LATER
text: Mel and the Egyptians are seated at the best table in the house ---
text: a private corner booth at the far end of the room.
text: It’s obvious that everyone is checking them out. Mel occasionally
text: waves or nods to people he knows -- carefully and respectfully
dialog: keeping everyone at bay and away from his "Sheik"
text: CLOSE ON TABLE; The Proprietor’s sons are chatting in Arabic
text: and having a good time but all in deference to their father who
text: sits back with a reserved and regal posture.
text: Son #2 accidentally spills some red sauce on his robe...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (screaming whisper )
dialog: Hey, shmuck, careful will ya. Costume
dialog: shop’s gonna jam me on the dry cleaning ---
text: Mel is abruptly interrupted by the sight of BOYLE walking into
text: Stella's. He approaches the booth and sits down next to Mel,
text: leans in close. The two men talk in hushed but angry tones.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: The fuck you doing here?!!!
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Let me ask you a question Mel --- do
text: I look like some bog-trotting, shanty
dialog: asswipe from Hackensack?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What?
text: Boyle suddenly and stealthily gives Mel a quick but savage sucker
text: punch in the groin. Mel does his best to maintain his composure
dialog: ut is obviously in pain ---
text: Tobacco Shop Proprietor is alarmed and confused...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Answer the question Mel. Do I look
text: like some bog-trotting, shanty asswipe
dialog: from Hackensack?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What the hell are you talking about!?
text: Boyle gives Mel another even_harder tightening fast dick-punch.
text: He keels forward and Boyle, like a concerned friend, pats him
text: on the back as if he's having digestion trouble.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I’m talking about it hasn’t even been
dialog: two weeks since we started up and
dialog: you’re already back into business for
dialog: yourself !?
dialog: (off look on Mel’s face)
dialog: Yeah, I know about you and the Arab.
dialog: Everyone knows. It’s all over the
dialog: street!
text: The freaked out Tobacco Shop Proprietor starts to get up to
text: leave but Mel forces him to sit back down.
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The fuck you going?
speaker_heading: PROPRIETOR
dialog: I do not want a problem ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Then sit your ass down and keep your
dialog: mouth shut ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: What the hell are you into here?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How do you think this works Boyle?
dialog: You think I just call up a wiseguy
dialog: like Denato and say let’s make a deal?
dialog: No. You gotta put out the honey-pot
dialog: and let the flies come to you ---
dialog: (smiling nod to Proprietor)
dialog: ..And what better honey-pot is there
dialog: than an oil-rich Sheik? You got some
dialog: jacked paintings? Yeah, sure, the
dialog: Sheik’s a fuckin' art lover!’ Stolen
dialog: securities, bullshit CD’s? Just what
dialog: the camel-jockey ordered! You see
dialog: where this is going? The Sheik can be
dialog: all things to all hustlers --- a scam
dialog: for all seasons...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: The bullshit with you is so constant
dialog: it gets to be a kind of a truth.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whatever Boyle, I been lining things
dialog: up. Just say the word and I can deliver
dialog: twelve buy-busts for you by the end
dialog: of the day --- all cock solid cases.
dialog: 
text: Reeling, Boyle shakes his head in furious disbelief.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Are you out of you're fucking mind!?
dialog: Everything you do, EVERYTHING has to
dialog: be authorized before you do it ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You said you wanted five cases, I got
dialog: you twelve.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: This isn't the Mel Weinberg show. You
dialog: don't decide what cases we run with.
dialog: I do.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Don’t get badge heavy with me. I
dialog: produced.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Produced what? I said I wanted Denato ---
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (gesturing to the bar)
dialog: And there he is, sitting p pretty
dialog: three hundred mil in bullshit to? 5 ---
text: Following Mel's line of Sight to the bar Boyle sees TONY DENATO,
text: a hefty, hatchet-faced fuck with a wandering left eye.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You're approaching him here, now?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I was until you walked in ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Well then I’m going with you.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: C’mon, Boyle, that’s retarded. Guy's
dialog: gonna take one look at your choirboy
dialog: ace and know ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Know what? He knows only what you
dialog: tell him, fuckstick ---
dialog: (off Mel's look)
dialog: Look, Weinberg, this isn’t the first
dialog: time I’ve been under. I know how to
dialog: handle my shit ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Here’s how Yong handle your shit, Boyle.
dialog: You say not follow my lead and
dialog: let me do all the talking. But if you
dialog: gotta speak only three things should
dialog: e coming out of your mouth: yes, no,
dialog: or none of your fuckin' business.
text: Mel takes out a pair of sunglasses and puts them on Boyle.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: And leave these on no matter what.
dialog: (to Proprietor)
dialog: I’ li be back, ; Just keep doin' what
dialog: you're doin'
text: Mel and Boyle get up and WE MOVE WITH THEM as they cut across
text: the restaurant to the bar --- near but not next to Denato...
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (shouts to BARTENDER)
dialog: Pack of Pall Malls ---
text: After a few beats Denato cuts over and nudges up to Mel.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Mel ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey --- Tony D --- how are you?
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Yeah, okay ---
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: DENATO (CONT'D)
dialog: (gesturing to table)
dialog: So do I get to meet the Arab?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No Tony --- the Sheik doesn't wanna
dialog: talk to anyone --- that's what he's
dialog: paying me for ---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: (turns to eyefuck Boyle)
dialog: You never said anything about bringing
dialog: company ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, well, this is, uh, James Hoyle,
dialog: a special advisor to the sheik ---
text: Denato gives Boyle the once over while hustling his balls ---
text: and then throws Mel a suspicious glare.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, you don’t like it? I can take
dialog: the Sheik's money down the block. But
dialog: this guy’s gotta have eyes on
dialog: everything I do.
speaker_heading: h DENATO
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya mean why? Fucking Arabs don’t
dialog: trust Jews.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Well I guess that’s one thing the
dialog: Sheik and I have in common ---
dialog: (turns back to Boyle)
dialog: Too bright in here for your, Mr. Hoyle?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: None of your fucking business.
text: Mel cringes --- but Denato chuckles.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT IN BACK OF STELLAS - MINUTE LATER
text: We MOVE with Mel and Boyle as they emerge from Stella's back
text: door and follow Denato through the maze of cars parked in the
text: alley. They approach Denato's brown Seville --- when suddenly ---
text: A savage, rabid-eyed, scar-ravaged PITBULL hurls itself up
text: against the Caddie's backseat window, in full-attack mode. Scares
text: the shit out Mel and Boyle --- but Denato doesn't flinch.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: My bride and joy. Fifteen bouts and
dialog: still undefeated ---
text: There's a blood-like substance dripping from the dog's mouth
text: and he stains the window with it as he tries to bite his way
text: through the glass.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What is that shit --- blood!?
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Uh uuh. It's my own little cocktail
text: of hot sauce, gravy and gunpowder.
text: Helps maintain his heightened sense
dialog: of rage ---
dialog: (gesturing to dog)
dialog: Those steel trap jaws of his can
dialog: deliver over two thousand pounds of
dialog: pressure per square inch and once he
dialog: ocks them into some flesh, there’s
dialog: only one way to unlock them.
dialog: (motions with index Finger )
dialog: You gotta stick your finger all the
dialog: way up his ass and press on his
dialog: prostate.
dialog: (eye- fucking Mel)
dialog: You ever Stick your finger up a rabid
dialog: Pit Bull’s ass?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Uh... No. Tony I haven’t.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Neither have I.
text: Denato opens his trunk, pulls out a pair of plastic gloves and
text: hands them to Mel who puts them on. Unlocking a steel briefcase,
text: Denato takes out a CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT FROM THE BANK OF
text: SCOTLAND. The CD is sealed in a clear plastic sleeve --- he
text: hands it to Mel who takes the CD out of its sleeve and carefully
text: inspects every aspect of it. He's impressed.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (hands CD back)
dialog: Beautiful, Tony --- really.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: I got one hundred security backed
dialog: units at a half a mila pop --- all
text: vouchable through Bobbie Allenwood’s
dialog: new shop in the Bahama’s ---
dialog: (grins with pride)
dialog: Stuff is so clean you’1l have at least
dialog: a six month lead before anyone figures
dialog: they’re bullshit ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya want?
speaker_heading: DENATO
text: Nine and a half on the dollar, cash.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I’ll give you four million --- for
dialog: all of it. When can you deliver them?
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: (in a state of shock&awe)
dialog: Uh, couple of weeks ---
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Call me when they're ready and we'll
dialog: arrange the meet...
text: Mel and Boyle begin to head back when Denato hurriedly closes
text: everything up in his trunk and scurries after them.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Hey, Mel --- Mel --- lemme ask you --
dialog: if the Arab’s really got that kind of
dialog: money, where’s he gonna put it all
dialog: once he gets it out of the desert?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Someplace where it can earn for him ---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Atlantic City, Mel... You know they
dialog: just legalized gambling there ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah --- I spent my birthday losing
dialog: my ass at the tables at Resorts...
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: You along with every other hump in
dialog: the tri-state area. Resorts is
dialog: projecting their first year drop to
dialog: e over two hundred mil. That’s more
dialog: than any joint 's ever made anywhere
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: in the story of the world.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: That’11 change once some other joints
dialog: open up ---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: No, you see as things stand there
dialog: aren’t going to be any other casinos
dialog: opening up.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How is that possible?
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Jersey gaming laws require a joint be
dialog: approved twice by the Casino Control
dialog: Commission --- the first license before
dialog: they start construction and only after
dialog: they’re done, a permanent license to
dialog: operate. So here you’ve got the banks
dialog: being asked to invest 80 mil in
dialog: construction without knowing if the
dialog: casino's gonna' get their permanent
dialog: license --- and that’s all she wrote.
dialog: No one's willing to put up the money
dialog: cause of the risk of a default if the
dialog: permanent license is denied.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: What about the Teamsters?
text: Mel and Denato turn to Boyle, both surprised by his sudden leap
dialog: into the discussion.
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Uh uuh. Department of Labor stripped
dialog: the trustees of their control over
dialog: the pension --- (beat) Everyone’s
text: scrambling to find a white knight and
dialog: they’re witling to do whatever it
dialog: takes to hire his money. You could
dialog: whack up the interest rates, take a
dialog: stake in the joint, a piece of the
dialog: skim, whatever ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Interesting...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (glaring at Boyle)
dialog: No. It isn't --- cause the Sheik ain’t
dialog: a schmuck and there's no way he’s
dialog: gonna risk his cash without _the
dialog: guarantee of the permanent license ---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: And what I’m telling you is that I
dialog: can get him that guarantee ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Bullshit ---
text: Boyle takes off his sunglasses, his eyes wide with excitement
text: as he tries to read Denato.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: I gotta guy who owns three of the key
dialog: votes on the Casino Control Commission.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Look, we're getting way ahead of
dialog: ourselves. We came here for the paper ---
dialog: I don't have the authority to get
dialog: into anything like Atlantic City ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: But I do.
text: Mel flashes Boyle a "what the fuck are you doing" look --- which
text: Boyle ignores.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Denato)
dialog: Who’s your guy?
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Kiss my sweaty wop ass, that’s my
dialog: guy.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I won’t take this to the Sheik without
dialog: a name...
text: Denato stares at Boyle for a beat, hustles his balls and winces.
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: DENATO
text: Errichetti. Mayor Angelo Errichetti.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - MANHATTAN - EARLY EVENING
text: Boyle waits on a bench across the hall from a closed courtroom
text: door. The door suddenly opens and Boyle stands as people start
text: to roll out --- among them, ASSISTANT US ATTORNEY JOSEPH “TOOCH”
text: TUCCIO. Head of the Organized Crime Strike Force for NYC's
text: Southern District, Tuccio is a bald and stocky man in his late
dialog: thirties
text: Surprised to see Boyle --- the two men approach each other when
text: suddenly a DEFENSE ATTORNEY gets to Tuccio first.
scene_heading: DEFENSE ATTORNEY
dialog: Joe, can’t we work something out?---
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: (Jersey accent)
dialog: Sure. Your client either testifies,
text: or he's on the bus to Marion where
dialog: he’1l be spending his days eating th the
dialog: crust out of his cellmate’s shithol
scene_heading: DEFENSE ATTORNEY
dialog: C’mon, my guy’s just an accountant ---
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: So what? I’1l ask for the max, get
dialog: it, eat a ham sandwich and then come
dialog: back and do the same thing to the
dialog: next asshole I catch washing cash for
dialog: the Colombos --- and it won’t mean a
dialog: goddamn thing to me cause I’ve got
dialog: More important stuff to do with my
dialog: time, like getting my hair cut.
text: On that note, Tuccio walks over to Boyle who's smiling.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Nice.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
text: It's seven-thirty on a Friday night.
dialog: Don't you have a life, Boyle? A
dialog: girlfriend? Something?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I don't want the load right now. How
dialog: are things with you?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Just a never-ending river of crap ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (points just below eye
dialog: Know what these are? The world’s
dialog: smallest fucking tears weeping for
dialog: you. Thirty five and already head of
dialog: an Organized Crime Strike Force for
dialog: Justice --- everyone should have your
dialog: problems.
dialog: 40.
text: Tuccio gives Boyle and smiling nod. MOVING with the two men as
dialog: they walk...
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: What’re you doing here?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Angelo Errichetti, the Mayor of Camden ---
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: What about him?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You tell me.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Errichetti's about as heavy as they
dialog: come in Jersey ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Guy's the fucking mayor of Camden ---
dialog: how much weight can he possibly carry?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Factor in that he's also the most
dialog: owerful senator in the state
text: egislature and the backroom boss of
dialog: the Jersey Democratic machine... And
dialog: I’d say a lot...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: What about Errichetti's connections
dialog: in Atlantic City?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: He's Resorts International's velvet
dialog: steamroller --- one of the ke
dialog: legislators that got the gamb1ing
dialog: referendum passed in Jersey ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You think he helped Resorts get their
dialog: casino license?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Somebody did.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Why do you say that?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Everyone knows Resorts was started by
dialog: Meyer Lansky's group --- shit, as we
dialog: speak the Bahamian government is trying
dialog: to expropriate Resorts' Paradise Islan
dialog: Hotel for everything from money-
text: laundering to tigging games. And yet
dialog: in spite of all of the overwhelming
dialog: evidence against them, Resorts not
dialog: only gets a casino license, they get
dialog: it before anyone --- ?
text: Tuccio can see Boyle's wheels turning...
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Got any old Jersey ‘Suddies that can
dialog: give us the inside and out on
dialog: Errichetti?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Sure, I know a guy in the A.G.'s office ---
dialog: but what's going on Jimmy? What are
dialog: you into?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (flips Tuccio a quarter)
dialog: Give him a call -- find out what you
dialog: can -- and then I’1l buy you that ham
dialog: sandwich and tell you all about it.
scene_heading: INT. SEAFOOD RESTAURANT - LONG ISLAND - DAY
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (restrained rage)
dialog: You guys are un-fucking-believeable!
text: CLOSE ON MEL at a_table in an upscale restaurant, eating shrimp
text: cocktail as he talks. Also present are Boyle, Tuccio, Grosswald,
text: Ackerman and Polk, but they aren’t eating.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: I put myself out on the line, spend
dialog: my own money setting up a scam that
dialog: gets you Denato --- and now you wanna
dialog: piss it all away!?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: We’re not pissin' it away, we’re just
dialog: doubling down on Denato for Errichetti ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Well then Denato should count as one
dialog: of my busts. What's right is right,
dialog: Boyle.
text: Boyle looks to Tuccio who nods --- then Boyle nods to Mel.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (gesturing to Tuccio)
dialog: Who the fuck are you again?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Tuccio ---
dialog: I run the Organized Crime Strike Force,
dialog: Southern District.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Just think of him as my lawyer ---
text: This discussion is interrupted by a ruckus at the next table
text: where a DOUCHEBAG BERATES HIS WIFE. This continues throughout
text: the scene. They are all annoyed, but do nothing.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: I want Errichetti, Mel ---
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah? I wanna tit-bang Racquel Welch
dialog: while eatin a Porterhouse steak --
dialog: still don’t mean it’s ever gonna
dialog: happen.
text: A WAITER arrives with Mel’s main course and puts the dish in
text: front of him --- it’s a lobster missing its right claw.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, what happened to the other claw?
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Maybe he lost it in a fight with
dialog: another lobster...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (hands waiter the plate)
dialog: Well then bring me the fucking winner.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Denato said he’d set up the Errichetti
dialog: meeting ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: We're supposed to give the guy four
dialog: mil for his paper end of next week
dialog: He ain’t gonna set up anything till
text: he sees his.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: f mon, we all know you could stall
dialog: im ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Even if I could, still wouldn’t matter.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Cause Errichetti’s been playing his
dialog: game and winning since you were
dialog: shittin’ yellow.
dialog: (off Boyle’s look)
dialog: First thing he’s gonna do is check
dialog: you out. Wi addya think’s gonna happen
dialog: when it comes back that James Hoyle
dialog: don’t exist?
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: I could call Bill Tager in Undercover
dialog: Safeguards. See if he can rush a full
dialog: package job for us. Backstopped
dialog: onafides, creds...the works.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You guys just don’t get it? Only way
dialog: to bag an elephant like Errichetti is
dialog: to give him the big show ---
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: For those of us that don’t speak
dialog: fucking mutt, you wanna translate?
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: A con’s nothing more than a big
dialog: Broadway show. I’m talking about living
text: theater with sets and props, costumes
dialog: actors, special effects. I mean Boyle
dialog: you saw it for yourself when you came
dialog: to my shop.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: It didn’t take a Broadway show to
dialog: nait you, just some good old hard
dialog: work.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Polk, better to keep your mouth shut
dialog: and just look stupid than open it and
dialog: remove all doubt.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: Hey, up yours mister ---
text: Mel just laughs and shake his head...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Will you stop with him and stay on
dialog: point.
speaker_heading: ME
dialog: If you get the meet with Errichetti,
dialog: where are you gonna have it?
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: What difference does it make?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You're supposed to be repping a
dialog: billionaire Sheik. Errichetti’s gonna
dialog: expect the Presidential Suite at the
dialog: Ritz or a swank office. He’s gonna
dialog: wanna experience the Sheik’s wealth
dialog: and through it the magnitude of his
dialog: own impending good fortune --- and
dialog: for that you need a stage.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Say we could figure something out ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Fine. Now where are you gonna get the
dialog: money to convince him?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: The bribe money won't be a problem ---
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I'm not talking about the bribe money,
dialog: I talking about the convincer.
dialog: (off everyone's clueléssness)
dialog: For Errichetti to be convinced that
dialog: the Sheik's real enough to bankroll
dialog: casino construction you gotta show
dialog: him that the Arab’s sittin_on hundreds
dialog: of millions in cash. Actual cash.
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Couldn’t we mock-up some bank account
dialog: statements ---?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Fuckin' account statements? Whaddya
dialog: in the second grade? Before he ever
dialog: agrees to get in a room you gotta
dialog: assume Errichetti’s gonna call the
dialog: bank, verify the Sheik’s deposits.
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: (after a beat
dialog: Good friend of mine from college is
dialog: now the Senior VP at Chase Manhattan ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Can you trust him?
text: Ackerman nods. The men exchange a look of resolve and then turn
text: to Mel for a sign of encouragement -- but get none.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Come on Mel, this can work...
text: The wife of the Douchebag at the table next to them succumbs to
text: her husband’s abuse and egans to cry hysterically --- just as
text: the waiter delivers Mel’s lobster
text: Overloaded by the insanity, Mel looks over to the crying wife,
text: looks at the lobster, looks up at the agents -- disgusted.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: All my life I been lookin' over my
dialog: shoulder worried about the Feds, and
dialog: for what? If I knew how fuckin’ stupid
dialog: you guys really were I woulda stole
dialog: the world.
text: And with that, Mel stands up and as he does, he accidentally-on-
text: purpose KNOCKS HIS DRINK, spilling it on the Douchebag.
speaker_heading: DOUCHEBAG
dialog: WHAT THE HELL!?---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Oh, I am so sorry. Total accident. I
dialog: feel terrible. Listen, I’1ll tell ya
dialog: what, let me buy lunch --
dialog: (Mel cuts Douche off)
dialog: No, I insist --- I’m taking care of
dialog: everything. What’s your name?
speaker_heading: DOUCHEBAG
dialog: Ted.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Okay, Ted, I’m gonna talk to the
dialog: maitre’d. So when you see me point
dialog: you out to him just wave your hand so
dialog: e knows who I’m paying for. Ok?
speaker_heading: DOUCHEBAG
dialog: Yeah okay sure, thanks.
dialog: 45.
text: We MOVE with Mel and the others as they cut to the front of the
text: restaurant. Mel quickly flashes a look at the MAITRE'D’s nametag
dialog: as he approaches ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey Michael, you see that guy sitting
dialog: there --- my good friend Ted?
dialog: (points to Douche)
dialog: Ted lost a little bet so he’s picking
dialog: up my tab for lunch today, okay?
text: When Mel and the Maitre'D look at the Douche, he waves back at
text: them --- smiling and nodding his head.
speaker_heading: MAITRE’D
dialog: No problem.
text: Mel gives the Maitre'D a smile and exits. Boyle and Tuccio
text: standing in the doorway, having witnessed the whole thing.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Hey, you can’t do that ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No, you can’t do that. And that’s why
dialog: this will never work.
text: Mel blows past them and heads for his car...
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - SEAFOOD RESTAURANT - LONG ISLAND - CONTINUOUS
text: We MOVE with Boyle and Tuccio as they head for theirs...
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: He's got a point, Jimmy --- Bureau’s
dialog: experimented with this kind of thing
dialog: before, it’s always ended in disaster.
text: Boyle stops and squares off with Tuccio.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I'm well aware of the risks on this
dialog: one. But I mean, you yourself said
dialog: that Errichetti's corrupt as fuck ---
dialog: a king's man to Resorts and the Lansky
dialog: roup --- and we both know that the
text: amilies are moving into Atlantic
dialog: City. This could be our backdoor into
dialog: all of it.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Maybe --- but that's swinging for the
dialog: bleachers --- and right now, you've
dialog: got Tony Denato set up for a buy bust
dialog: that'll put him away for a dime. Make
dialog: you look like a_ superstar. You really
dialog: want to risk all that for the "what-
dialog: if" of Errichetti?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You don't think I can handle it.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: It's not that ---
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (angry) . .
dialog: Then why are you coming at me like
dialog: this?!
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Because I'm your friend. (beat) There
dialog: are consequences to taking a shot at
text: a heavy like Errichetti and missing.
dialog: Now me, I'm not afraid to do it. I'm
dialog: a lawyer. I've got options beyond my
dialog: tour at Justice --- But the Bureau is
dialog: your life Jimmy ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: So what?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: So you’re thirty years old and already
dialog: on your way. In ten years you have a
dialog: good shot of becoming a big swinging
dialog: Bureau dick ---
dialog: (nods to Grosswald by car)
dialog: Now you see Grosswald over there?
dialog: He’s the same age as you --- and in
dialog: ten years he’s got a chance to be
dialog: forty.
dialog: (locks eyes with Boyle)
dialog: I don’t want you to end up being the
dialog: guy with a great future behind hil
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA HOTEL - MANHATTAN - NIGHT
text: We gaze across 5th Ave., at the elegant Plaza Hotel.
dialog: SUPER: “March 10th, 1979”
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
text: The small hotel room has been converted into the operation’s
text: makeshift command center.
text: Ackerman and Grosswald are quietly conferring in the corner
text: Behind them, Tuccio and an FBI TECHIE are at a table on top of
text: which are two TV monitors connected to two video recorders.
text: ON EACH OF THE MONITORS: A crude, low resolution, black & white
text: image being telecast via a pinhole camera secretly laced in
text: the suite adjoining this hotel room. We can see Boyle, Polk and
text: a few FBI TECHIES moving about.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: (anxious, to Techie)
dialog: Can you brighten up this image so we
dialog: can use these tapes at the trials?
dialog: (looks back to Grosswald)
dialog: What's the ETA on Errichetti?
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: Thirty-forty minutes...
text: Tuccio puts on headphones connected to monitors, nudges Techie.
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: I can't hear anything...
text: Techie adjusts volume and we suddenly HEAR Mel's voice over the
text: headphones.
speaker_heading: MEL (HEADPHONES)
dialog: --- Fuckin' joke! I ask for champagne
dialog: and caviar and you gimmee chopped-
dialog: liver, Shlitz, and the shittiest suite
dialog: in the joint.
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
text: The living room area of this shoe-box suite is so small and
dialog: awkwardly shaped it's laughable.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Best thing I can say about you guys
dialog: is that you're cheap ---
text: Mel suddenly catches sight of something --- grabs a small stack
text: of paper off the desk and angrily holds it up.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: What the fuck is this!?
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: It’s the sheik’s stationary...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You think a billionaire Sheik is gonna
dialog: have his stationary printed on Xerox
dialog: paper?! Shit no! Egyptian cotton! Two
text: pound, four ply, Ivory Monarch.
dialog: Embossed, motherfucker!
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Will you calm down? It’s nothing ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No, it’s everything Boyle. Get it
dialog: through your thick fucking skulls ---
dialog: It’s all in the details!
text: Mel drops the stack of paper on on the desk and STORMS out of the
text: room. Boyle flashes Polk a look
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Lose the paper.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - A LITTLE LATER
text: Everyone in a pregame huddle.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Alright, Mel, the rules of entrapment ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (rolling his eyes)
dialog: Jesus, how many times you gonna break
dialog: my balls about this?
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Just shut up and give it to him will
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (annoyed, reciting by rote)
dialog: It's okay to put out the honey pot by
dialog: tellin trric etti we're gonna pay
dialog: him off for certain favors. But I
dialog: can't induce him to commit specific
dialog: illegal acts. The flies gotta come to
dialog: the honey pot outta their own volition.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Exactly --- without a clean admission
dialog: we’ve got nothing. So before any money
dialog: gets handed to Denato, Errichetti
dialog: needs to make it clear that he’s the
dialog: one ultimately getting the payort in
dialog: exchange for the casino license.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: Uh --- the payoff isn’t being made
dialog: directly to Errichetti?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Lemme explain Bob, cause it's obvious
dialog: that you're dumber than a box of
dialog: fuckin' hair --- Denato's the Mayor's
dialog: bagman, his insulation ---
dialog: (off Polk's cluelessness)
dialog: If we try to give the money directly
dialog: to the Errichetti we’1l blow the whole
dialog: show.
text: Suddenly, we HEAR an AGENT over a WALKIE-TALKIE ---
speaker_heading: FBI AGENT (OVER WALKIE TALKIE)
text: Control, the package is in the lobby.
text: The room EXPLODES with FRANTIC ACTIVITY, everyone rushing into
text: position. Tuccio hustles Boyle, Polk and Mel to the door.
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PLAZA HOTEL - MINUTES LATER
text: Mel is anxiously pacing --- Boyle and Polk are sitting ona
dialog: couch together.
text: There is a KNOCK at the door and everyone stiffens up as Mel
text: answers it revealing: Tony Denato and MAYOR ANGELO ERRICHETTI.
text: With his handsome, Sinatra-esque appeal, Errichetti exudes the
dialog: kind of raw, unapologetic bravado and power reserved exclusively
dialog: for a backroom boss.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (shakes with Denato)
dialog: Tony --- how are ya?
dialog: (shakes with Errichetti)
dialog: Pleasure to finally meet you in person
dialog: Mr. Mayor --- Mel Weinberg.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: It's Angie, Mel --- please.
dialog: 49.
text: Mel ushers the men into the room, and by the look on their faces
text: it becomes very clear to everyone that they are not onl
text: unimpressed by the chickenshit set up, but put off by it.
text: Boyle and Polk approach --- greeting Denato and the Mayor with
text: smiles and handshakes.
dialog: a DENATO ;
dialog: And this is James Hoyle, special
dialog: advisor to the Sheik.
speaker_heading: ERICHETTI
dialog: James, beltway buddies of mine speak
dialog: very highly of you. West Point into
dialog: Military Intelligence --- then DIA.
dialog: Impressive resume for such a young
dialog: man.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Thank you, Sir ---
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Everyone crowded around the monitors --- headphones on.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (ON MONITOR)
dialog: (gesturing to Polk)
dialog: And this is Bob Dolk, President of
dialog: Abdul Enterprises, the Sheik’s
dialog: investment company.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (ON MONITOR)
dialog: Bob, I understand you’re an alum of
speaker_heading: HBS?
text: ON MONITORS: Polk hesitates, unsure of what he's talking about.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: (under breath)
dialog: Harvard Business School. Harvard
dialog: Business School...
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (ON MONITOR)
dialog: (off Polk’s silence)
dialog: Harvard Business School.
speaker_heading: POLK (ON MONITOR)
dialog: Oh, yes. Of course. Class of 63.
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
text: As the men take their seats, Polk retrieves an ATTACHE CASE and
text: gracelessly places it on the coffee table in front of Errichetti ---
text: and then sits himself. Mel restraining his irritation at Polk.
text: Mel can see Errichetti's not sure what to make of any of it,
text: his face a mixture of bewilderment and discomfort.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So I assume Tony’s explained what the
dialog: Sheik’s intentions are here.
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: He has, Mel. And let me just say that
dialog: I welcome and appreciate the Sheik’s
dialog: interest in Atlantic City; which I
dialog: believe is one of the greatest
dialog: investment opportunities in the world
dialog: today. Beat), Wanna know why?
dialog: off Mel's nod)
dialog: Cause life for Americans is always
dialog: becoming, never being. Al Einstein
dialog: said that, he was a fucking genius.
dialog: And because it's only a_short piece
dialog: from Philly, New York, Boston,
dialog: Baltimore --- AC gives more gamblers
dialog: a chance to become somebody than any
dialog: other place on Earth.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: The Sheik couldn't agree with you
text: more, and is eager to get involved.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Provided that he can overcome certain
dialog: obstacles ---
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: If the Sheik does the right thing,
dialog: there won't be any obstacles, only
dialog: opportunities...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (gesturing to attache)
dialog: He's ready and willing to put his
dialog: consideration for you on the table,
dialog: Angie. But we’d like to know how it's
dialog: gonna work for him ---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Fellas, we’ve discussed this in detail---
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: (stiffly interrupting)
dialog: Mr. Denato, if you please, we’ve only
dialog: discussed this with you. Now we have
dialog: a hundred thousand dollars for Mayor
dialog: Errichetti and we need to hear from
dialog: the Mayor exactly how he intends to
dialog: guarantee us the casino licenses ---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: No, you please. I thought ya did hear
dialog: And if you didn’t, ya should have,
dialog: cause we’ve been over it enough times ---
text: In a calming gesture, the Mayor puts his hand on Denato.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Look, Bob, first rule in politics is
dialog: never make a promise you can’t keep.
dialog: Now I’ve been in public office for
dialog: over thirty years because I always
dialog: abided by that rule --- and I give
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (CONT'D)
dialog: you my word --- the Sheik will get.
dialog: everything that he needs in Atlantic
dialog: City. Alright?
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Everyone’s eyes glued to the TV MONITORS --- when suddenly Polk
dialog: for no apparent rhyme or reason, stands up...
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: The hell is he doing?!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Polk awkwardly grabs the attache case, leans forward --- but
text: instead of handing it to Denato, he attempts to hand it directly
text: to Errichetti --- who sits there motionless, refusing to even
dialog: acknowledge the existence of the case.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: (tries to take case)
dialog: That’s supposed to go to me.
dialog: ... But Polk won’t let him have it --- and once again attempts
text: to hand it to Errichetti, who is visibly put off.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Bob, whaddya doing? Give Tony the
dialog: case.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: But this money’s for the Mayor.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: (still grabbing for case)
dialog: I’1l make sure it gets to the right
dialog: place.
text: Refusing to relinquish the money to Denato, Polk jerks the case
text: back towards himself at which point Errichetti’s had enough.
text: Disturbed and pissed, he stands up, grabs his coat.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: I thought everyone here had an
dialog: understanding. Clearly you don’t.
text: And with that, Errichetti walks out of the room...
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Everyone frozen in horror. Tuccio has his hands on his head ---
text: if he had any hair, he’d be pulling it out right now.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: This is not happening.
speaker_heading: DENATO (ON MONITOR)
dialog: What the hell is wrong with you people?
dialog: We had an agreement---
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: MEL (ON MONITOR)
dialog: getting up . .
dialog: Lemmee go talk to Angie --- I’1ll fix
dialog: everything. Sit tight.
text: ON MONITORS: Mel rushes out of the room.
speaker_heading: DENATO (ON MONITOR)
dialog: . (to Polk)
dialog: This how they teach you to do deals
dialog: at Harvard?
scene_heading: EXT. ENTRANCE - PLAZA HOTEL - MINUTE LATER
text: Mel exits the hotel and catches up to Errichetti who is about
text: to hail a cab.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey, Angie --- I’m sorry about how
dialog: that went down. It was a total
dialog: misunderstanding ---
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Misunder standing? I can’t afford to
dialog: do business with people that don’t
dialog: know how to do business.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, yeah, I know. But you gotta
dialog: realize Dolk and Hoyle, these guys
dialog: are squares, alright? Barefoot pilgrims ---
dialog: and Dolk was just following orders
text: from up on high.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: The Sheik told him to do that?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah. Ragheads don’t like to deal
dialog: with middlemen. Everything’s direct.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Well we’re not in the Middle East ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Angie, don’t be a shmuck. I know you
dialog: called Chase about the Sheik’s
dialog: deposits. So you know the Arab’s got
dialog: over four hundred million friends in
dialog: the bank there. You really wanna turn
dialog: your back on that kind of money?
dialog: (off Errichetti’s silence)
dialog: Look, I’m not supposed to tell you
dialog: this, okay? But the Sheik’s got big
dialog: plans for Atlantic City. Much bigger
dialog: than simply financing one joint.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Whaddya mean?
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: He wants to own the entire town: buy
dialog: all the choice casino sites and then
dialog: offer would-be owners prepackaged
dialog: deals at whacked up prices. Everything
text: wrapped up in a bow: the land, the
dialog: financing, and the gambling licenses.
text: Mel sees Errichetti's hardened face soften with greed --- and
text: moves in close for the kill.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: All the deals would flow through you
dialog: and you'd get a piece, a serious piece,
text: at both ends.
dialog: (locks eyes)
dialog: But first we gotta grease you, and
dialog: then your casino commissioners
dialog: directly. No middle men, no builshit.
dialog: It’s the Arab way, Angie
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: What about Denato?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Up to you. He’s your guy, comes out
dialog: of your pocket ---- or not.
text: Errichetti stands in silence, not sure what he's going to do.
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PLAZA HOTEL - MINUTES LATER
text: Denato, Polk and Boyle sit in an uneasy silence. Mel enters the
text: Study and breaks the anxious trance.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: rony, I tried talking to him. He
dialog: wouldn’t listen. Maybe you can get
dialog: him back in the room?
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Where is he?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I think he caught a cab to Penn Station ---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Jesus Christ.
dialog: (getting up gesturing)
dialog: Gimme the case, I 11“see what I can
speaker_heading: oO.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Get him back in here, lemme make sure
dialog: everything’s okay, and the case is
dialog: yours. You got my word on that.
text: Denato storms out of the room, slamming the door behind him.
text: Collapsing into a chair, Boyle deflates in "fuck me" defeat.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: I swear to God Polk, if it was raining
dialog: pussy you’d get hit by a cock...
dialog: 54.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: __ MEL (ON MONITOR)
dialog: --- I mean, if you knew nine more
dialog: things, you'd be a fuckin' idiot ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE (ON MONITOR)
dialog: Shut up, Mel ---
text: Tuccio angrily TURNS OFF the volume on the monitors.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Fucking disaster. Unmitigated disaster ---
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: --- You're a double threat --- can't
dialog: hold your tongue or your booze ---
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: You don't know what you're talking
dialog: about Mister!
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Oh no? You think eating onions is
dialog: enough to cover that stink coming
dialog: outta your mouth ---?
text: Polk finally snaps with anger and lunges for Mel --- but Boyle
text: is already there to stop him.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: I’m sorry Jimmy--- I didn’t --- we
dialog: didn’t have the admission ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: We had a deal! Had you just stuck to
dialog: it and given the case to Denato, I
dialog: woulda gotten you the admission ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Will you back off?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: He has no business being on stage.
dialog: with us and you know it. I want him
dialog: out ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Out of what?! Our hand’s been played,
dialog: we blew it. It's over.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I'm glad you feel that way Boyle ---
text: Mel lights a cigarette, takes a drag and flashes Boyle a grin ---
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Cause as soon as you can accept the
dialog: possibility of loSing philosophically,
dialog: you automatically improve your chances
dialog: of winning.
dialog: 55.
text: Boyle looks at Mel quizzically. Suddenly there is a KNOCK at
text: the door. Boyle seizes up.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: A dejected Tuccio quietly confers with Ackerman and Grosswald.
text: Grosswald looks over at the monitors and sees Errichetti walking
text: back into the room.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
speaker_heading: (SCREAMING WHISPER)
dialog: Look --- Errichetti’s back ---!!!!
text: Everyone RECOILS back into action --- rushing over, putting
text: headphones on --- as Errichetti marches back into the room,
text: takes the attache case and sits down with a broad smile.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (OVER HEADHONES)
dialog: Bob, James... Mel’s explained
dialog: everything to me. So I’m gonna tell
dialog: you in no uncertain terms, here, now ---
dialog: I’m in.
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: I’1l_ deliver the casino commissioners
dialog: the licenses, zoning variances, union
dialog: concessions --- everything the Sheik
dialog: needs will be his cause I’m gonna be
dialog: his fucking rabbi. I tell you ---
dialog: without any bit of imagination or
dialog: whatever have you --- Atlantic city;
dialog: the fucking town is ours.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So what's the next step?
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: (getting up to leave)
dialog: Just sit tight --- I'll have things
dialog: rolling in a week.
text: An amazed Boyle flashes Mel a subtle grin --- his eyes filled
text: with rekindled excitement and deep gratitude.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM - COMMAND POST - PLAZA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Everyone staring at the screen with dumbstruck smiles --- like
dialog: they just witnessed some incredible magic trick.
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: Have we given this op a name yet?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Yeah. ABSCAM.
scene_heading: INT. NYC METROPOLITAN MUSEUM - KING TUT EXHIBITION - DAY
text: LONG SHOT OF AN EGYPTIAN PHARAOH’S TOMB: This massive museum
dialog: 
text: gallery has been done up like a set from Cleopatra --- the
text: artifacts from King Tut’s tomb on display. A river of museum
text: PATRONS flow down the gallery’s concourse towards us --- everyone
text: stopping to look at the treasures.
dialog: 56.
text: Although we can’t see them yet... the VOICES OF MEL AND MAX can
text: be HEARD over the din of the crowd.
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: You're really sick, you know that?
speaker_heading: MEL (0.S.)
dialog: Sick how?
speaker_heading: MAX (0.S.)
dialog: Doesn’t really matter if you’re
dialog: hustling for yourself or the Feds,
dialog: does it? You just love the action
text: like a junkie loves his dope.
speaker_heading: MEL (0.S.)
dialog: Hey, if I’ve got action, it’s like
dialog: anything’s possible.
text: We suddenly see Mel and Max emerge from the crowd --- they stroll
text: down the gallery and peruse the artifacts...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Just because they’re forcing you to
dialog: play doesn’t mean you have to win.
speaker_heading: MEL
text: only the existentially terrified play
dialog: reak even, Max --- and besides ---
dialog: I'm telling you, this thing was like
dialog: “springtime or Hitler.” It shouldn’t
dialog: have worked but it did.
dialog: ckling)
dialog: When he took the cash and declared,
dialog: even I couldn't believe it.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Oh no?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: To hook a gmar tly like Errichetti
dialog: with the p ay we made --- ?
dialog: ‘cht ling)
dialog: Boyle went crazy. Thinks I'm Harry-
dialog: fucking-Houdini. Kid was so happy he
dialog: takes me out for a porterhouse at
dialog: Peter Luger' S everything on him. You
dialog: believe that?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (stops to confront Mel
dialog: So that's why you never showed up
dialog: last night? Because you were bouncing
dialog: with your new playmate?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Guy invited me out to dinner... what
dialog: was I supposed to do?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Tell him to fuck off and die! This is
dialog: the prick that ruined our lives!
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The kid's just doin' his job. It's
dialog: not personal.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Yes it is. It couldn't be more
dialog: personal.
text: Max resumes her stride, her face filled with anger... Mel gently
text: grabs her by the arm and stops her.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What is it with you? You've been acting
dialog: crazy for the last few months and
dialog: it's just getting worse.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I don't want to do this here.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You don't wanna do what?
dialog: (off her silence)
dialog: Come on Max. Talk to me.
text: Mel sees that Max's eyes are filled with an intense fear.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: MAX
text: (after a beat, looks away)
dialog: I need some space --- away from you.
text: Mel is caught completely off guard by this revelation and it
text: takes a few beats for it to fully register..
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So I'm out here on the wire doin'
dialog: what I'm doin' cause of you ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (angrily interrupting)
dialog: Oh don't even go there Mel! You're
dialog: doing this for yourself!
text: And with that, Max storms off and out of the gallery.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT STEPS - METROPOLITAN ART MUSEUM - MINUTE LATER
text: Max emerges onto the museum steps. Mel chases her down.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Max, please. You're the only erson I
dialog: can be myself with --- the only one I
dialog: can talk to without having to think
dialog: about what I'm gonna say first ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You can pay a shrink fifty bucks an
dialog: hour to do that...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Come on. You know what I mean.
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: No, I don't.
dialog: (locks eyes with Mel)
dialog: What are we without the scam? What am
dialog: I to you? A great fuck? A shoulder to
dialog: cry on? (beat) Seriously Mel, what am
dialog: I to you?
text: We can see the intense fear in Max's eyes spread to Mel's.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: I don't know. I mean, what am I to
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I asked you first.
text: Tears well up in Max's eyes as she waits for Mel to answer. But
dialog: he can't.
text: Leaving Mel on the steps, Max gets into a cab and disappears.
scene_heading: EXT. HILTON HOTEL - JFK AIRPORT - NIGHT
text: Gazing at a massive hotel located next to the airport.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE (V.0.)
dialog: ...AS Vice Chair of the Casino
dialog: Commission, I have tremendous sway
dialog: over every aspect of the licensing
dialog: process ---
scene_heading: INT. SUITE - HILTON HOTEL - JFK AIRPORT - CONTINUOUS
text: Boyle, Polk, Mel, Errichetti --- and KENNETH MACDONALD, VICE
text: CHAIR OF N.J. CASINO COMMISSION --- sit around a coffee table...
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: And he's here to help us...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: We're glad to hear that ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (Hands bag of cash to
dialog: _ Macdonald)
dialog: phe Sheik appreciates people that can
dialog: elp.
speaker_heading: MACDONALD
dialog: I’1l talk to two of my fellow
dialog: commissioners. You’1l be able to make
dialog: the same arrangement with them ---
dialog: which gives you all the votes you
dialog: need.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: And the first package I’d like us to
dialog: bring to the Sheik is a deal to buy
dialog: and revamp the old Shelburne Hotel ---
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (CONT'D)
dialog: (hands Mel pictures and
dialog: setup of property)
dialog: We can turn it into the swankiest
dialog: joint in A.C. and do it for half the
dialog: cost than anyone else.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: I've given Harrison Rand a piece of
dialog: the action to fix things...
text: Boyle and Mel flash each other a quick look of astonishment...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Do you mean Senator Harrison Rand?
text: Errichetti nods. Boyle and Mel's astonishment quickly shifts to
dialog: restrained excitement...
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Harry’s gonna push some buttons and
dialog: get a declaratory ruling that’1l allow
dialog: us to renovate the property instead
text: of tearing it down and Starting over.
dialog: That'll save forty mil right o the
dialog: top.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No shit?
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: CLOSE ON TV PLAYING SURVEILLANCE VIDEO FROM SUITE:
text: The timecode on the tape: “May 18, 1979.”
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (ON MONITOR)
dialog: Yeah. Harry can do things for us in
dialog: Trenton and D.C. --- he's lifestyle.
dialog: He's beautiful. He's with us, okay? ---
dialog: and he’s easy to handle.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (ON MONITOR)
dialog: What do you mean by that?
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - FBI HQ - WASHINGTON, D.C. - DAY
text: Boyle and Tuccio are seated at a conference table watching the
text: TV Monitor with LAWRENCE HOUSEMAN, THE DIRECTOR OF THE FBI.
dialog: SUPER: "May 23, 1979 - FBI Headquarters, Washington D.C."
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (ON MONITOR)
dialog: Guy’s a lush and a whoremaster. Harry’d
dialog: fuck a snake if you held its head for
dialog: him. He’s good people ---
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: Just turn it off. I've read the
dialog: transcripts ---
text: Tuccio STOPS the tape. An uneasy silence overtakes the table.
dialog: We can see that Tuccio and Boyle are both very nervous in the
text: presence of Houseman and look a little out of their depth.
text: Houseman LIGHTS a cigarette, takes an anxious drag.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Errichetti’s claims about Rand...?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Yes sir. We think they're credible.
dialog: There’s too much money at stake for
dialog: him to lie to us.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: You know Rand's not only the fourth-
dialog: ranking Democrat in the Senate, he's
dialog: the co-chair of CJS Appropriations...
dialog: (off their blank looks)
dialog: That's the Subcommittee that controls
dialog: our budget.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: If Rand's involved in influence
dialog: peddling, it’s a federal crime---
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: I'm well aware.. But I also have to
dialog: be mindful that Congress is a vengeful
dialog: institution and will see this
dialog: investigation as an attack.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: This isn’t the first time we’ve
dialog: targeted political corruption.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: It’s the first time we’ve used such a
dialog: radical approach...
dialog: (gets up and paces)
dialog: You're talking about pushing the
dialog: envelope of inducement with the man
dialog: that controls our purse strings ---
dialog: and the guy who you've positioned to
dialog: run point is a criminal whose stock
dialog: and trade is bullshit!
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: All due respect, but Mr. Weinberg’s
dialog: gift for bullshit is precisely why
dialog: we've been so successful.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Are you telling me that you actually
dialog: trust Weinberg?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: a telling you that I can control
dialog: im.
dialog: 61.
text: Staring Boyle down, Houseman lets that hang in the air fora
text: few beats. He then takes a seat at his desk and reviews a file.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: So Rand has agreed to take a payoff?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: That's what we've been told --- but
dialog: the caveat is that the Senator won't
dialog: take until he meets the sheik face to
dialog: ace.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: We found an agent out of the Chicago
dialog: office of Saudi descent who we think
dialog: can play the part.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: When and where will the meet take
dialog: place?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Well, what's being discussed isn't
dialog: exactly a meeting, sir. (beat) Mayor
dialog: Errichetti wants to throw a coming-
dialog: out party for the sheik in Atlantic
dialog: City.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: A coming out party?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Along with the Senator, all the key
dialog: players would be there; casino owners
dialog: union leaders, politicians, organized
dialog: crime elements ---
speaker_heading: TUCCIO ;
dialog: It could be an intelligence jackpot
dialog: for us ---
text: Houseman leans back in his chair, anxiously runs his hands
text: through his hair.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: What kind of resources would you need?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: We'd need you to designate Abscam a
dialog: "Bureau Special"
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: (after a considered beat)
dialog: You'll coordinate everything through
dialog: my office --- and I want to see al.
dialog: of your intel as it becomes available ---
dialog: (looks at Tuccio)
dialog: But I trust you'll be circumspect
dialog: about what it is you're showing me.
dialog: Are we clear?
speaker_heading: ; TUCCIO
dialog: Yes sir.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Fine. Now go to work.
text: Tuccio and Boyle stand up to leave.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Sir, there is one more thing. Mayor
dialog: Errichetti has requested that the
dialog: sheik deposit two million dollars in
dialog: an account at his friend's bank ---
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: It would be a personal favor to the
dialog: Mayor. If do this, the bank will give
dialog: him a sweetheart loan on a house he
dialog: wants to buy in Boca Raton, Florida.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Is this an ask or a demand?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: It's an ask. But we think the gesture
dialog: could buy us a tremendous amount of
dialog: goodwill and credibility.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Table it until after the party. I
dialog: want to see what the Mayor does for
dialog: us before we do for him.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MEL’S HOUSE - AFTERNOON
text: It’s pouring rain outside. The house is still completely
text: unfinished. Birthday decorations in the living room.
text: Mel's drinking a beer and setting up a brand new Atari 2600
dialog: videogame system. We can see that he's put on about fifteen
dialog: pounds --- and the accumulated stress of the past few months ---
text: it's all in his face.
text: Hearing a car pull into the driveway, Mel rushes to turn the TV
text: and game on. Estelle, Willie and his TwO BEST FRIENDS come in
text: through the front door.
text: Mel smiles with anticipation as Willie, his friends and Estelle
text: enter the room. They're all surprised to see him. Willie flips
text: out over the Atari.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Aww man, no way! I thought my present
dialog: was the Knicks game?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah well, that too. Happy Birthday
dialog: boychick.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (giving Mel a big hug)
dialog: Thanks Pop.
text: Estelle glares at Mel. The tension between them is heavy.
dialog: 63.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - MEL’S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER
text: Estelle's making sandwiches. Mel comes in, opens the fridge,
text: grabs another beer.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I wish you wouldn't drink in front of
dialog: his friends.
speaker_heading: EL
dialog: Come on, you don" t think they've seen
dialog: their fathers drink a beer?
text: Mel cracks open the beer, takes a sip.
speaker_heading: _ ESTELLE
dialog: I thought we didn't have money for
text: extras --- like videogames.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: We don't. But it's his birthday---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Some birthday --- we can't even have
dialog: a proper party for our son --- because
dialog: I'm too embarrassed for his friends'
dialog: arents to see how we're living ---
dialog: ike a bunch of shlumps ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You really wanna start?
text: The phone on the kitchen counter starts to RING. She answers.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE (INTO PHONE)
dialog: Hello? Yeah, just a moment---
text: Estelle hands the phone to Mel.
speaker_heading: MEL (INTO PHONE)
dialog: Yeah ---
dialog: (suddenly tenses up)
dialog: Tony? --- Yeah --- Why y you calling me
dialog: at ome? --- Whaddya ta
dialog: king about? ---
dialog: I can’t, it’s my kid's birthday
dialog: Why can’t this wait until tomorrow? ---
dialog: Tony, you need to calm down.
text: We hear Denato SCREAMING over the phone line and see Mel's face
dialog: tighten with fear.
speaker_heading: MEL (INTO PHONE) (CONT'D)
dialog: No --- I’1l meet you someplace halfway ---
dialog: there’s a bowling joint outside
dialog: Freeport, Victory Lanes, right off
dialog: the 27 --- 5:30 --- Tony, you're laying
dialog: this on me at the last minute. I don't
dialog: know if I can get Hoyle there, he's a
dialog: busy guy ---
text: Mel hangs up the phone, a worried look on his face. He looks
text: over to Estelle, who has heard everything and is furious.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I don't believe you ---
dialog: 64.
dialog: You really think. fh d be doing this if
dialog: it wasn't that important?
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: More important than your son? Your
dialog: family?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I gotta serious problem. I gotta meet
dialog: this guy ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: What problem?! What guy? What are you
dialog: doing, Mel?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Oh, so now you suddenly care?
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I've always cared ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Don't hand me that. My comin' and
dialog: goin' never bothered you before ---
dialog: as long as the money was rollin' in ---
dialog: but now that times are a little rough
dialog: you wanna know everything!?
text: Mel moves towards the door to exit the kitchen --- but Estelle
text: steps in front of him, preventing him from leaving.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I just wanna know when it's gonna get
dialog: better, Mel. When can we finish the
dialog: house?
dialog: (locks eyes with Mel)
dialog: When are things gonna be like they
dialog: were?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Estelle, please --- it's all gonna be
dialog: okay --- but you just gotta trust me ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Trust you? Ever since you closed London
dialog: Investors, it's like you aren't even
dialog: you anymore.
speaker_heading: ; / MEL
dialog: You're being crazy.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: You don't think I hear you in your
dialog: office lying to those people you talk
dialog: to on the phone? Talking about the
dialog: sheik's private jets --- going to
dialog: Geneva, London? It's all lies. You're
dialog: not in business with some zillionaire
dialog: Arab Sheik.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You don't know what you're talking
dialog: about ---
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I don't? Well then how come we're
dialog: living like we're on the edge? I mean
dialog: where's all the Sheik's hundreds of
dialog: millions?
speaker_heading: MEL
text: It's locked up in the banks in his
dialog: country! I'm helpin' him get it---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: (cuts him off, gesturing)
dialog: Just stop.
text: There's a devastating silence between them.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Look, Mel, what you and I got, I know
dialog: it's not some big love affair ---
dialog: It's a respect for each other ---
dialog: that's what's made our marriage work
dialog: for the past fifteen years.
dialog: (tears in her eyes)
dialog: But you can't have respect without
dialog: trust.
text: We can see Mel wants to confess but just can't do it.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Everything that I am doing right now,
dialog: I am doing for our family.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: How am I supposed to know that when
dialog: I've got no idea what you're doing?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: It's complicated.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Then explain it to me. Give me
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (angry frustration)
dialog: I can't. Not right now.
text: Estelle stands aside to allow Mel to walk out of the room.
scene_heading: EXT. VICTORY LANES BOWLING ALLEY - LONG ISLAND - LATER
text: HIGH ANGLE OVER a bowling alley situated along a two-lane
text: highway. It’s still raining. We see Mel pull into the lot, park
text: get out of the car and enter the bowling alley.
text: Moments later, a brown Cadillac El Dorado rolls into the parking
text: lot and parks next to Mel’s car
scene_heading: INT. CADILLAC EL DORADO - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS
text: We can see that Polk is strung out with anxiety. Reaching into
text: his glovebox, he grabs a small bottle of whiskey and takes a
text: few big swigs. Polk then pulls an onion out of a brown bag,
text: bites into it, and chews.
dialog: 66.
scene_heading: INT. BAR - VICTORY LANES BOWLING ALLEY - MINUTE LATER
text: An empty shot-to-shit bar overlooking the vacant lanes. Mel
text: takes a seat across from Denato at a table in the back. Both
text: men glare at each other unhappily.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Is Hoyle coming?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: He’s in DC on business _but Dolk should
dialog: be here. And I can tell you right now
dialog: he’s not happy about the shit you’re
dialog: pulling.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: The shit that I'm pulling?! First you
dialog: fucks blow me off_on my CDs... Now I
dialog: find out your dealing directly with
dialog: Errichetti, cutting me out of the
dialog: thing that I set up --- and I’m the
dialog: asshole?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No one’s cutting you out of anything,
dialog: Tony. You just gotta understand that---
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: No, you gotta understand, Weinberg...
text: Denato leans back to hustle his balls and reveals a belly-
text: holstered REVOLVER.
speaker_heading: DENATO (CONT'D)
dialog: . That I am a guy best left unfucked
dialog: with.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Jesus. No one's gonna fuck with you.
dialog: Now put that away will ya?
text: They see Polk enter the far side of the lounge and approach.
text: Denato puts the gun in his jacket pocket.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: Gentlemen ---
dialog: (takes off raincoat)
dialog: I’1l be right back, I just need to
dialog: use the john.
text: Hanging his coat on the chair, Polk heads for the bathroom.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Look, Tony, we’re all businessmen
dialog: here. We’re gonna get this thing
dialog: straightened out ---
text: Polk’s coat suddenly slides off the chair and DROPS to the
dialog: ground.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: ...But you gotta gear down. I mean
dialog: Dolk’s a civilian, a square---
dialog: 67.
text: CLOSE ON DENATO: he leans down under the table, out of Mel’s
text: line of sight and grabs the tail of the coat --- roughly picking
text: it up --- Causing a WALLET to fall out of a pocket.
speaker_heading: MEL (0.S.) (cont'd
dialog: You try to put the fear on him an
dialog: flash your piece? He'll flip out --
text: Mel sees Denato rise back up and lock eyes with him --- a
text: homicidal expression on his face.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: You know I know where you hang your
dialog: hat, right Mel? Where your wife and
dialog: kid sleep?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What the fuck Tony? Why would you say
dialog: something like that?
text: Denato answers his question by holding up an opened wallet and
text: revealing --- POLK’S FBI BADGE AND ID --- his other hand is on
text: the gun inside his pocket and he's pointing it at Mel.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: Get up. We’re leaving.
text: Mel’s initial shock and horror are quickly overpowered by an
text: all-consuming rage -- he suddenly erupts to his feet but instead
text: of heading for the exit, he marches towards the bathroom.
speaker_heading: DENATO (CONT'D)
dialog: Mel ---2?! --- Mel!!!
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - VICTORY LANES BOWLING ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER
text: CLOSE ON POLK: at a urinal stall in the midst of flushing ---
speaker_heading: oO
text: when Mel suddenly and savagely smashes him face first in the
text: steel piping above the urinal.
dialog: 
text: Blood spurts out of Polk's nose as he drops to the floor ina
text: shellshocked daze. Mel continues his brutal beat down as he
text: viciously stomps Polk in the stomach and solar plexus.
text: Denato enters and is stunned, confused and alarmed to find Mel
text: whaling on the bloodied, semi-conscious FBI agent...
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: The fuck you doing!?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The fuck does it look like?
dialog: (stomps Polk)
dialog: Whatever he's got, it's shit without
dialog: his testimony. Now gimme your piece.
speaker_heading: DENATO
dialog: You_ can't whack a fucking feeb! Not
dialog: while I'm around!
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Help me or not Tony --- I'm gonna
dialog: tell everyone that you did.
dialog: 68.
text: Mel drops down to his knees, gets Polk in a strangle-hold and
text: begins choking him out. In a panic, Denato rushes over, grabs
text: from behind and pulls him off Polk ---
text: Using Denato's momentum, Mel drives the bastard backwards
text: hammers him into the sink counter --- then grabs Denato's ankles
text: and sweeps him off his feet --- Denato's head smacking the
text: counter-top as he and Mel fall to the floor
text: Mel flips over and tries to pin Denato down while reaching for
text: his pocketed gun. Denato counters the attack by grabbing Mel's
text: balls and squeezing --- Mel screams --- looks over to Polk who
dialog: is coming to ---
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Bob --- he's gotta gun...
text: Denato's eyes go wide with shock and fury as he suddenly realizes
dialog: that Mel's attack on Polk was bullshit.
text: Polk moves to help --- and Mel uses the distraction to grab the
text: gun out of Denato's pocket...
text: Denato smacks the gun out of Mel's hand --- the revolver slides
text: across the bathroom floor --- out of reach of everyone.
text: As Polk goes for the gun, Denato brutally hammers his elbow
text: into Mel's esophagus ---
text: Sputtering off of Denato, Mel struggles to breathe --- Denato
text: scrambles to his feet and BOLTS out of bathroom --- just as
text: Polk grabs hold of the gun ---
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (wheezes to Polk)
dialog: He's got your badge---
text: Polk explodes out of the bathroom in pursuit of Denato.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - VICTORY LANES BOWLING ALLEY - SECONDS LATER
dialog: 
text: Polk blows out the backdoor, sees Denato making a mad dash for
text: his black Seville --- about sixty yards ahead of Polk -- and is
dialog: almost there ---
dialog: 
text: Polk points the gun at Denato's back and screams ---
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: STOP!!
text: Ignoring the warning, Polk watches as Denato reaches his car
text: and is about to grab the door ---
text: Polk squeezes off two quick shots --- BAM --- BAM --- the bullets
text: whizzing by Denato --- too close for comfort --- he FREEZES,
text: puts his hands up in a surrendering gesture.
speaker_heading: POLK (CONT'D)
dialog: (screams)
dialog: Get on your knees! Lock your hands
dialog: behind your head!
text: Denato drops to his knees and locks his hands behind his head.
dialog: 69.
text: As Polk begins to carefully approach Denato, Mel suddenly comes
text: barreling out of the bowling alley's back door.
text: Looking ahead, he sees Polk slowly moving in on Denato --- and
text: out of the corner of Mel's eye, he also sees Grosswald and
text: Ackerman rushing towards them from a cover car parked across
text: the highway, their guns in hand.
text: MOVING WITH POLK: He's drawing closer to Denato --- when suddenly
text: Denato reaches for the handle of the Seville's back door ---
speaker_heading: OPENS IT ---
text: DENATO'S PITBULL EXPLODES OUT OF THE CAR like a bullet froma
text: gun --- and makes a rabid blitz straight for Polk ---
text: completely unprepared, Polk is only able to squeeze off one
text: SHOT at the charging dog --- which misses --- before the beast
text: pitches into him --- RAMMING Polk to the ground with so much
text: Force it causes him to drop the gun. The pit begins to viciously
dialog: maul him ---
text: Jumping into the Seville, Denato starts the engine and kicks up
text: a spitstorm of mud as he spins his car around and heads for the
dialog: ighway.
text: Mel, Grosswald and Ackerman rush to help Polk ---
scene_heading: INT. DENATO'S SEVILLE - CONTINUOUS
text: Denato peels out of the parking lot and just before hitting the
text: highway, takes a quick glance into his rear-view mirror
text: He sees his pit bull going berserk on Polk ---
text: Denato cuts a grin of pride --- just as ---
text: THE THUNDERING BLAST of an approaching truck's airhorn overtakes
dialog: the moment ---
text: Looking out his driver's side window with horror, Denato sees a
text: KENWORTH SEMI BARRELING TOWARDS HIM FULL BORE --- and that's
dialog: all she wrote --- there's no time for Denato to do anything but
text: close his eyes before THE CATACLYSMIC IMPACT...
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT - VICTORY LANES BOWLING ALLEY - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: As Mel, Grosswald and Ackerman continue to rush towards Polk ---
text: Behind them we see the Kenworth RAM INTO DENATO'S SEVILLE WITH
scene_heading: DEVASTATING VIOLENCE ---
text: Polk's screams of agony overtaken by the sounds of SCREECHING
scene_heading: BRAKES --- EXPLODING GLASS --- CRUMPING, SHEARING METAL ---
text: All three men stop to look as the semi wades deep into the
text: driver's side of the Seville, finally flipping it over on its
text: roof and sending it sliding down the rain-slicked highway...
text: until both vehicles finally come to a stop --- at which point ---
text: Polk's SCREAMS regain their attention and the men resume their
text: dash towards him...
text: ANGLE CLOSE ON POLK: He and the pit bull are wildly thrashing
text: about in the mud --- Polk punching and clawing the pit bull
dialog: 70.
text: which has its jaws locked deep into his left thigh --- blood
dialog: gushing out ---
text: Grosswald and Ackerman are the first to arrive on the scene,
text: quickly followed by Mel.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: GET IT OFF ME!
text: Grosswald tries to get a clean shot on the dog and is about to
text: take it --- but Ackerman suddenly stops him ---
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: A forty-five slug will go right through
text: the dog and into Bob.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: What do we do?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You gotta stick your finger up its
dialog: ass, press on its prostate.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: WHAT! ?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Only way to get it to unlock its jaws!
dialog: Stick your finger up its ass---
text: Overwhelmed by the suggestion, the agents hesitate --- and so
text: Mel acts. Jumping down on top of Polk and the dog he cringes
text: with disgust as he JAMS his finger up the pit bu i's ass and
text: presses as hard as he can.
text: The pit bull's eyes go wide with alarm, the abrupt anal intrusion
text: causing the dog to release its grip on Polk's thigh---
text: As Polk rolls out of the way, the pit bull lashes back and moves
text: to attack Mel --- but is stopped dead in its tracks by a BULLET
dialog: from Grosswald's gun ---
text: A quick beat of silence and inaction as the dust settles.
text: Ackerman takes his belt off, and tightens it around Polk's thigh
text: using it as a tourniquet.
speaker_heading: | ACKERMAN
dialog: Just hang tight, Bob. Help's on the
dialog: way.
text: Mel gets up and heads for Denato's car. Grosswald follows.
text: ANGLE ON HIGHWAY CRASH SITE: The shaken TRUCK DRIVER is
text: approaching the Seville. Mel and Grosswald overtake him.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: (to Trucker)
dialog: Just sit down on the side of the road
dialog: till the paramedics get here.
text: ANGLE CLOSE ON THE DECIMATED SEVILLE: Mel and Grosswald lean
text: down, look inside, and see Denato's crumpled, mutilated body
text: lying there motionless. Grosswald reaches in, pulls Denato
text: through the shattered window, then checks for a pulse.
dialog: 71.
text: Seeing the grim expression on Grosswald's face, Mel knows that
text: Denato is dead. He shuts his eyes in dread and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD (CONT'D)
dialog: What the fuck happened in there?
text: Mel reaches into Denato's pocket, pulls out POLK'S FBI BADGE
text: and hands it to Grosswald.
text: Covered in a cold sweat and green with nausea, Mel gets up
text: staggers towards his car.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD (CONT'D)
dialog: Mel, where you going!?
text: Mel doesn't answer, just gets into his car and peels away.
scene_heading: EXT. CHELSEA HOTEL - MANHATTAN - LATER THAT NIGHT
dialog: 
text: Gazing down the street, we see Mel walk down the block and enter
dialog: the Chelsea.
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY - CHELSEA HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Mel holds his jacket closed, hiding his bloodstained shirt.
text: High anxiety in his eyes, like he's on the verge of a breakdown.
text: He approaches the FRONT DESK MANAGER.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Can you ring Room 708 --- Miss Gardner?
text: The Desk Manager, clearly put off by the state Mel's in, gives
text: him a suspicious glare and then looks at his guest log.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: I'm sorry but Miss Gardner is no longer
dialog: staying with us.
text: This revelation hits Mel like a sledgehammer to the gut.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya mean she's not here?! When
dialog: did she check out?
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: I'm sorry sir, but we're not allowed
dialog: to divulge that information.
text: Mel angrily pulls out a C-Note, and slips it to the Manager
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: | MANAGER
dialog: Five weeks ago.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Did she leave a forwarding address?
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: (after checking)
dialog: No, she did not.
text: Mel staggers away from the desk in shell-shocked despair.
dialog: 72.
scene_heading: EXT. BURNSIDE BATHHOUSE - LONG ISLAND - LATER THAT NIGHT
text: Boyle pulls _in behind a GREY CROWN VIC which is parked behind
text: Mel's Lincoln. Getting out, Boyle walks over to the Vic inside
text: of which are TWO FBI AGENTS.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: How long has he been in there?
speaker_heading: DRIVER AGENT
dialog: Bout an hour ---
scene_heading: INT. STEAMBATH - BURSIDE BATHHOUSE - MINUTES LATER
text: Clad in a towel, Mel sits hunched forward on a bench --- sweating
text: it out in the Russian Banya style steambath.
text: Boyle enters, also wearing a towel. He spots Mel through the
text: wet haze and takes a seat next to him.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You okay?
text: Mel looks up at Boyle before returning to his hunched position.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Look, before we get into everything,
dialog: I just want to say ---
dialog: (locks eyes with Mel)
dialog: What you did, for Polk, the operation ---
dialog: you really showed us something and I
dialog: just ---
dialog: J (offers his hand, sincere)
dialog: Thanks Mel... Really...
text: Mel doesn't shake. Turning on the cold water tap next to him,
text: he fills a bucket and dunks the water over himself.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I did what I did for me and my family ---
dialog: end of story.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Really? What'd you pulling the pit
dialog: off Polk have to do with your family?
dialog: (off Mel's silence)
dialog: Look_man, what went down tonight was
dialog: completely fucked up --- should've
dialog: never happened ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Tonight was pre-ordained! How many
dialog: times did I tell you about Polk?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: And I'm taking him out of the game,
dialog: effective immediately---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Point is, he shouldn't have been
dialog: playing in the first place and you
dialog: fucking knew it ---
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Polk's got almost twenty years on the
dialog: job and I'm supposed to back you
dialog: against him!?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Spare me this bound by allegiance
dialog: crap cause I'm out here in the real
dialog: world. This is life and death and you
dialog: guys could fuck up a cup of coffee.
text: (dunks himself with another
dialog: water bucket)
dialog: Freak accident --- fuckin' Mack truck,
dialog: that's all that stopped things from
dialog: going from bad to worse. (beat) what
dialog: appens the next time?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: We've been doing the best we can with
dialog: what we've got, but that's all going
dialog: to change now.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Let's get dressed --- I want to show
dialog: you something ---
scene_heading: EXT. VESCO TOWNHOUSE - A LITTLE LATER
text: Boyle parks across the street from an elegant, four story
text: townhouse located on 69th between Fifth Ave. And Madison.
text: The two men exit the car. Mel follows Boyle to the townhouse's
text: front door.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What is this place?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (unlocking front door)
dialog: Used to belong to Robert Vesco ---
dialog: Bureau seized all his assets when he
dialog: fled the country ---
scene_heading: INT. VESCO TOWNHOUSE - FOYER - CONTINUOUS
text: Although the place is dormant, both men are wowed by the size
text: and grandeur of the sumptuous Ly decorated townhouse...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What are we doing here?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: This is our new home, the Sheik's new
dialog: home ---
dialog: (off Mel's stunned glare)
dialog: We hit the majors, Mel. ABSCAM has
dialog: been made a "BUREAU SPECIAL."
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: That supposed to mean something to
dialog: me?
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: It means anything we want, we get.
dialog: This op is now_a top priority. Fucking
text: Director himself is overseeing.
text: Boyle takes out an envelope, hands it to Mel. Mel opens it and
text: pulls out a CHECK for $5,000.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Your monthly salary ---
text: At first Mel is stunned --- but then he just shakes his head
dialog: with dismay.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey, don't tell me it's not enough
dialog: cause that's more than twice what I
dialog: get paid...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You just don't get it, do you? The
dialog: Money ain't the issue.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Then what?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: I been a con merchant for over two
dialog: decades --- tonight was the closest
dialog: I've ever come to gettin' clipped
dialog: First time I ever Saw a guy get killed.
dialog: Thirteen years of marriage and never
dialog: once has Estelle ever suspected that
dialog: I was into anything shady --- not
dialog: until I started up with you. I mean
dialog: here I am working with the good guys
dialog: and now she thinks I'm up to no good.
dialog: And then Hey” beat
dialog: Max broke thangs off ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: You and Max split up?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: She skipped town without even n letting
dialog: me know where she was going.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Why didn't you say something?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Cause fuck you. That's why You_could
dialog: give a shit about the problems I got.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: That's not true ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So you’ re my new best friend, is that
dialog: it, le? My Compadre? I don't even
dialog: know W io you are!
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: And what do you want to know? That I
dialog: come from a family of drunks? That my
text: hobbies are beating off, Tegestology
dialog: and taking long walks on the fucking
dialog: beach? That I got nobody and nothing
dialog: except for the job?
text: An awkward beat between the men...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What the hell is Tegestology?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Coasters. I collect beer coasters.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (amusingly disturbed)
dialog: You're right Boyle, the less I know
dialog: about you the better ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Will you stop breaking my balls!?
text: This thing is turning into the Bureau's
dialog: biggest investigation but I can't do
dialog: it without you...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Bet that must drive you fuckin' crazy.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You have no idea.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Look, I appreciate you coming through
dialog: on the case-dough but ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (cutting Mel off)
dialog: But what? Come on man --- what do I
dialog: need to do to make things right?
text: Mel flashes Boyle a pregnant look
scene_heading: EXT. MEL’S HOUSE - LONG ISLAND, NY - DAY
text: A BLACK LIMO, pulls up to Mel's house. A CHAUFFEUR gets out and
text: opens the door for Boyle who is clad in a sport coat and slacks.
text: As Boyle approaches the front door, it opens and Willie is the
text: first to come out dressed in a sport coat and slacks.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (shakes hands)
dialog: I'm Jimmy.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Willie Weinberg.
dialog: (noticing the limo)
dialog: Wow. Is that your car?
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (stepping out the door)
dialog: No, it's the sheik's limo. But Mr.
dialog: Hoyle here gets to use it.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Cool! Never been in a sheik's limo
dialog: before.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Why don't you go check it out...
text: Willie runs over and disappears into the limo.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Glad you could make it, Jimmy.
text: Estelle steps out the front door looking prettier than we've
text: ever seen her and greets Boyle with a warm smile.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Hello --- I'm James Hoyle ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: (eagerly shaking hands
dialog: Estelle. It's really such a pleasure
dialog: to finally meet you in person ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, Estelle was beginning to think
dialog: you didn't exist.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: (embarrassed smile)
dialog: Stop it.
text: An awkward beat, Boyle clearly uncomfortable with the charade.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (heads towards limo)
dialog: Come on, we're gonna be late ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: (following with Boyle)
dialog: Do you enjoy horse racing? Mel's just
dialog: crazy about the ponies. Never missed
dialog: opening day at Belmont since I've
dialog: known hil
scene_heading: EXT. BELMONT RACETRACK - DAY
scene_heading: VARIOUS ANGLES of opening day at Belmont Racetrack --- THE
text: RINGING OF THE OPENING BELL! Horses ERUPTING from the gates ---
text: Hooves MASHING through dirt --- scrambling and fighting for
dialog: position on the one-mile oval ---
scene_heading: INT. BELMONT ROOM - BELMONT RACETRACK - CONTINUOUS
text: An elegant, members only club/bar/restaurant --- with huge glass
text: windows which overlook the finish line.
text: Mel_ and Willie are standing at the window, watching the horses
text: roll into the final stretc Behind them, Estelle and Boyle are
text: seated at a table watching father and son as their horse comes
dialog: 77.
dialog: in_--- and they both go CRAZY --- we can see this pure joy on
dialog: Mel's face to be with his son ---
text: An ebullient Mel and Willie come back to the table.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Can my boy pick 'em or can my boy
dialog: pick ‘em?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: How much did we win?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Well, he was a false favorite at 6-1,
dialog: and we bet a hundred bucks... So how
dialog: you gonna figure that out, champ?
text: Willie trying to figure it out the math on a napkin---
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Six hundred bucks!
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You wanna collect? Or you wanna lay?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I roll with you Pop.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (smiling wink at Estelle)
dialog: We'll be back in a little while.
text: Boyle and Estelle watch them walk towards the betting windows.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: It's nice to see this side of your
dialog: husband.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: nods)
dialog: This is the side I married.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: He really seems like a wonderful
dialog: father.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: He is, when he's around ---
dialog: (pointed at Boyle)
dialog: Which hasn't been much lately ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Yes, well I'm sorry about that ---
dialog: Mel's been working very hard ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Doing what, exactly?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Uh --- Mel helps us find worthy
dialog: business opportunities to invest in.
dialog: He's a tremendous asset to our
dialog: organization ---
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: (locks eyes with Estelle)
dialog: I'm sure you'd be very proud of the
dialog: work he's doing.
scene_heading: INT. CASHIER'S WINDOW - BELMONT RACETRACK - MINUTES LATER
dialog: 
text: Mel's waiting in line at the cashier's window with Willie.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (showing the racing form)
dialog: These are my picks for the fifth---
dialog: Whaddya think?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I like Daddy Longlegs.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: He's a roughy! Look at the stats on
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yeah, but his name is cool.
text: Mel laughs when suddenly a HAND comes down on Mel's shoulder.
text: Mel spins around and sees DOMINIC CASELE and SONNY BLITZ.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Hey, there he is --- openin' day at
dialog: Belmont --- I knew you were gonna be
dialog: here --- How are ya, Mel?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Okay, Dom ---
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Okay's okay. You're a tough man to
dialog: get a_hold of Mel. I been reachin'
text: out, left a few messages.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, and I ---
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: When I call, it's for a reason. We
dialog: need to talk.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Look, Dom, I got my kid and the wife
dialog: with me. It's almost post time. How
dialog: bout I come down tomorrow.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: No, now.
dialog: (grabbing Mel by the arm)
dialog: This won't take long. Bring the kid.
scene_heading: INT. PADDOCK - HORSE STAGING AREA - MINUTES LATER
dialog: 
text: A wide green open lawn area where the horses are saddled and
dialog: kept before post time.
text: As Dom paces in front of Mel --- Mel watches anxiously as Sonny
text: Blitz chaperone's Willie amongst the jockeys and horses.
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Haven't seen you_in a_long time, Mel.
dialog: Never call back let alone call ---
dialog: stopped kickin' up.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I thought you understood. I mean I
dialog: shut down London cause the heat was
dialog: all over me. Last thing I wanted to
dialog: do was get any of it near you. So I
dialog: stayed away, been laying low.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: So this thing you got going with the
dialog: Arab. You call that layin' low?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No, no, Dom. You got it all wrong.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Do I? Cause I'll tell you, Mel -- few
dialog: months back when I heard about you
dialog: showin' up at Stella's with this
dialog: fuckin' sheik, whoever -- I thought
dialog: for sure you were runnin' a ringer on
dialog: a new scam. I didn't know what, but
dialog: somethin' ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: It's not like that ---
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: So you're going on record with me,
dialog: this deal with the Arab is legit?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Due respect, but what does any of it
dialog: gotta do with you?
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: I'll tell you what. I gotta call from
scene_heading: Somebody -- IN MY FUCKIN' LIFE -- I
dialog: never thought I'd hear from. Okay?
dialog: Never wanted to hear from. And this
dialog: somebody was askin' me 'bout you,
dialog: Mel.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Far_as you're concerned, might as
dialog: well be Satan himself! Might as well
dialog: be fuckin' God Almighty! That's who
dialog: and how heavy -- and He wants to know
dialog: if this deal with the Arab is for
dialog: real.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Dom- - -
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: (cuts him off)
dialog: Before you open your mouth I want you
dialog: to listen. If you are into somethin'
dialog: you shouldn't be, workin' one of your
dialog: "specials". This is your one fuckin'
dialog: chance to get out clean. Just tell me
dialog: and that'll be that.
text: The gravity of the situation weighs on Mel as he gazes out and
text: sees Sonny Blitz with his son. After a long beat..
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No misunderstanding Dom. I mean, we're
dialog: buying, not selling ---
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: So you're goin' on record with me?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, the Sheik is for real.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Okay, Mel. Well, then there are some
dialog: friends of ours that wanna have a sit
text: down with him when he comes in for
dialog: the Atlantic City party next month.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What friends?
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: The guy that called me about you ---
dialog: is the guy that runs the table --- in
dialog: Vegas, in A.C. --- everywhere...
text: The realization of who Dom is talking about seizes Mel like a
dialog: vice.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The Little Man?
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Lansky's sending his heir apparent,
dialog: Arthur Zelnick to sit down with the
dialog: Sheik ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I don't know if he'll deal directly
dialog: with these guys ---
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: Well then you need to explain how
dialog: things work to him Mel. If the Sheik
dialog: wants to play in A.C., he's gotta
dialog: meet with Zelnick and they gotta come
dialog: to an understanding . .
dialog: (WHISTLES at Blitz, waves
dialog: him over) .
dialog: You hear what I'm saying?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah.
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: DOM
dialog: They'11 be in touch.
text: Dom leaves and Blitz joins him. Willie comes over to his father
text: and can see that he's shaken.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Who were those guys Pop?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Nothing, nobodies. But let's keep
dialog: this between us.
scene_heading: EXT. MEL'S HOUSE - LONG ISLAND, NY - LATER THAT NIGHT
text: The limo is in front of Mel's house. Everyone's out of the car
text: Willie shakes hands with Boyle and heads for the house.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Estelle, it was a pleasure meeting
dialog: you. Thanks for a wonderful afternoon.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I'm so glad you could join us --- and
dialog: I hope we can do this again soon.
text: Estelle gives gammy a hug and kiss and then trails after Willie,
text: letting him into the house. Then Boyle angrily snaps on Mel.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Can't believe I let you drag me into
dialog: your bullshit. One of the worst things
dialog: I've ever done --- like I wanna go
dialog: home and take a shower. You have a
dialog: beautiful family --- you have to tell
dialog: them Mel...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I am.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: ; ; MEL
dialog: Tonight, right now --- cause I'm done
dialog: Boyle.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Done with what?
speaker_heading: MEL .
dialog: You, the operation, this whole thing ---
dialog: I am out.
text: Boyle eyes Mel for a beat, and sees that he's dead serious ---
text: and suddenly his indignation shifts to alarm.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Is this cause of what I just said?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Dominic Casale cornered me at the
dialog: track today --- this is cause of what
dialog: HE said ---
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: EXT. FBI HEADQUARTERS - WASHINGTON DC - DAY
text: Hard rain is falling over the DC and the FBI building.
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - FBI HEADQUARTERS - CONTINUOUS
text: Boyle, Mel and Tuccio sit silently at the table, waiting... Mel
text: looks about as comfortable as a priest in a pussyhouse.
text: On the wall behind Boyle and Tuccio is a large FBI insignia
text: under which are the words: "FIDELITY, BRAVERY, AND INTEGRITY."
text: The door suddenly swings open and in marches FBI Director
text: Houseman --- all business, no time to waste. Both Boyle and
dialog: Tuccio stand, Mel does not.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Good morning gentlemen ---
text: Waving the men to sit, Houseman takes a seat next to Mel.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I have to be on the Hill in thirty so
dialog: let's get to it, shall we?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Absolutely --- no. Fuck no.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The answer is no --- as in I am done.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Mister Weinberg, I understand that
dialog: you have some trepidation in continuing
dialog: this operation but the work you've
dialog: been doing is important --- and given
dialog: these latest developments it's become
dialog: even more vital ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: ey, you wanna continue, I'm all for
dialog: t -- so long as it ain't with me.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: ABSCAM doesn't work without you, Mel ---
dialog: and with it we have a rare opportunity
dialog: t
dialog: c
speaker_heading: Bex
dialog: o make a lasting impact on organized
dialog: rime and political corruption. Surely
dialog: this must mean something to you.
text: Mel gives Houseman a "not really" shrug.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN (CONT'D
dialog: What if we were to offer you a fifteen
dialog: thousand dollar bonus for every case
dialog: you make from here on out --- plus an
dialog: additional one hundred thousand
dialog: once the trials are done ---
dialog: 
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: There's no amount of money you can
dialog: ay me to line up against an emperor
dialog: e Meyer Lansky or his people ---
dialog: you're talkin' suicide.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: The Bureau can protect you and your
dialog: family ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, okay --- I'll pass.
text: Houseman leans back in his chair and eyes Mel like a butcher
text: sizing up a piece of uncut meat.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Your plea agreement specifies five
dialog: cases. You've only made four
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You're right --- and if you wanna
dialog: send me to shit city, so be it ---
dialog: I'll do the three years.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Three years? Well, when all is said
dialog: and done I think it's going to be
dialog: considerably longer than that Mel ---
text: Boyle and Tuccio flash each other a look, troubled by this turn.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya talkin' about? --- My sentence
dialog: stipulation was signed off on by a
dialog: Federal Judge. It's permanent.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: It's permanent, for now.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, okay, you wanna try to fuck
dialog: with my deal? Fine. I'll see you in
dialog: court.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: I have no intention of "fucking" with
dialog: your deal", but what I am going to do
dialog: is out you to every 2-0-9 on the East
dialog: coast, and make sure the street knows
dialog: that you've been cooperating with the
dialog: Bureau on several high profile 0.C.
dialog: ops. Then I'm going to contact the
dialog: editor of every major paper in the
dialog: country --- and have them run a story
dialog: about you on the front page of their
dialog: business section which will describe
dialog: in detail your criminal exploits and
dialog: accomplices --- like Miss Gardner ---
dialog: and urge anyone that's been defrauded
dialog: by one of your scams to contact the
speaker_heading: Justice Depar tmeMonEy
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (leans forward)
dialog: Given your talent I have no doubt the
text: phones will be ringing off the hook.
dialog: One month and we'll have enough cases
dialog: and evidence to put you and your
dialog: confederates away for life ---
dialog: (hardcore)
dialog: Although I doubt Dominic Casale will
dialog: ever let you get to trial.
text: Tuccio and Boyle are stunned and appalled by Houseman's tactics.
speaker_heading: / _ BOYLE
dialog: Sir, please, is this really necessary?
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: (snaps at Boyle)
dialog: Yes it is Agent Boyle, but you most
dialog: definitely are not.
text: Mel chortles cynically and gestures to the words on the wall ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Fidelit bravery, integrity, huh?
dialog: Buncha bullshit. ~-- ’
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: It's up to you --- either continue
dialog: with ABSCAM and play to the best of
dialog: your ability or don't and suffer the
dialog: consequences ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I don't know what makes you such a
dialog: hateful fuck, Larry --- but whatever
dialog: it is, it really works...
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: I understand this is difficult, Mel ---
dialog: and I don't blame you for being upset ---
dialog: but when it comes to protecting the
dialog: foundations of our democracy ---
dialog: (dry, almost empathetic
dialog: smile) ar
dialog: ...Sometimes you need to take it in
dialog: the ass for the team.
dialog: 
text: And with that Houseman gets up and exits --- jeaving Mel sitting
text: there looking like he's on the edge of a full-on meltdown.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Mel ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (muttering to himself)
dialog: I gotta get outta here ---
text: Mel gets up and starts staggering towards the door. Boyle jumps
text: out of his chair and cuts Mel off.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Outta my fuckin' way or I'll lay you
dialog: out right here and now!
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Mel, you gotta believe that Joe and I
dialog: had no idea this was coming.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The fuck's the difference? It came.
text: Mel tries to get past Boyle and Boyle pushes him back.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: Boyle, please, I gotta get outta here.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Where you gonna go?
speaker_heading: MEL
text: Anywhere. Somewhere. Just away from
dialog: you douchebags.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (after a heavy beat)
text: Max is at the Beverly Hills Hotel.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What---? How do you know?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I made some calls. Reached out to a
dialog: few people.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You did that for me?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Yeah. (beat) Take the rest of the
dialog: week but you got to be back on Monday.
text: Mel doesn't say anything, just blows out the door
scene_heading: EXT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - EARLY MORNING
text: We see a cab pull up to the front of the big pink hotel. A VALET
text: opens the door and Mel gets out.
scene_heading: INT. FOURTH FLOOR HALLWAY - BH HOTEL - MINUTES LATER
text: As Mel strolls down the hall, looking for the right room number
text: he approaches a_housekeeping CART, sees a KEY RING hanging from
text: a hook and deftly SWIPES it.
text: Finally finding the room, Mel UNLOCKS the door and WE MOVE WITH
text: HIM as he enters...
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - BH HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Mel steps into the dimly lit diving room area of the suite. A
text: few shafts of early morning sunlight illuminate this disaster
text: area_strewn with the rubble of an all night party. Champagne
text: bottles, dirty dishes, cigarette butts, a mirror dusted with
text: blow on’ the coffee table.
text: Looking round, Mel suddenly becomes aware of the sickening,
text: gargly SNORE OF A MAN EMANATING FROM THE BEDROOM.
dialog: 86.
text: WE MOVE WITH HIM as he follows the snore into...
text: THE BEDROOM: Where Mel is stupefied and disgusted by the grisly
text: sight of MAX in bed with WAYNE NEWTON.
text: Both are splayed on either side of the bed, crashed out cold
dialog: and completely naked. And let me just say this before we
dialog: continue... Wayne Newton has the most disgusting bitch-titted
dialog: body you've ever seen in your life. Just fucking revolting.
text: Gazing at Max for a few beats, the party fatigue and depression
text: is evident on her face.
text: Mel walks over to Newton and nudges him to wake up but gets no
text: response. So Mel SMACKS him on the cheek. Guy sti 1 won't wake
text: up --- but the smack rouses Max, who leans up and is shocked
text: and mortified to find Mel there.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hiya, pussycat.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: This isn't what it looks like.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (bittersweet chuckle)
dialog: It never is for us, is it Max?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: What are you doing here?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Well, I've been thinkin'. Thinkin'
dialog: bout that question you asked me before
dialog: you left ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Mel ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (cuts her off
dialog: You're my anchor. And I didn't know
dialog: it till you were gone but without you ---
dialog: I'm adrift.
speaker_heading: ae MAX .
dialog: This is insane, you're insane --- I
dialog: mean I appreciate you telling me, but ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: But what? Look at yourself, you're
dialog: just as lost without me as I am without
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I'm fine ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Come on Max. There's one mark you can
dialog: never beat --- that's the mark inside.
text: Mel can see Max's facade begin to break...
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: You were right about the Feebs ---
dialog: about everything ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (bittersweet )
dialog: Well, no matter what happens in life
dialog: there's always some asshole who knew
dialog: it would --- huh Mel?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I need you Max. (beat) And I need
dialog: your help.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: With what?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (sly grin, raised eyebrow)
dialog: Gettin' back to my roots. (beat) Come
dialog: back to New York with me.
text: A beat as Mel and Max stare at each other, silently trying to
text: find reconciliation in each other's eyes --- when suddenly ---
text: Newton, with a SICKENING SNARL, inexplicably convulses back
text: into consciousness and recoils into an upright position ---
text: terrified and confused to see Mel standing in front of him.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Wayne fuckin' Newton. Man just gotta
dialog: say. You seriously have the most
dialog: disgusting body I have ever seen.
speaker_heading: WAYNE NEWTON
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Your arch-fuckin'-enemy.
dialog: fturaing to Max)
dialog: So whaddya say, pussycat? You hooked?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: (ebullient smile)
dialog: Heavy as lead.
scene_heading: EXT. ATLANTIC CITY AIRPORT - ATLANTIC CITY, NJ - DAY
text: A stately, black Mercedes limo with diplomatic flags waits on
text: the tarmac --- parked in the middle of a Presidential-looking
text: motorcade complete with police escort.
dialog: SUPER: "July 8, 1979 - Atlantic City"
text: Mel, Boyle, Errichetti and four FBI Agents posing as the Sheik's
text: personal BODYGUARDS stand outside the limo watching as a LEAR
text: JET lands and begin to taxi towards them...
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: The two mil I been asking you to
dialog: deposit in the Boardwalk Bank, have
dialog: you cleared it with the Sheik yet?
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: ; BOYLE
dialog: We're working on it, Angie
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: You keep tellin' me that but nothin's
dialog: happening I mean what's at issue?
dialog: All I'm talkin' about is just parking
text: some money in an account.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Dolk was the issue but now that he's
dialog: been transferred to the London, things
dialog: are gonna be different.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Well thank God for that. It's not
dialog: that I'm trying to be pushy --- but
dialog: for me to do certain things for you ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: We're gonna get the two mil for you,
dialog: Angie. You can bank on that.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Good... So, uh, what --- how do I
dialog: address him? Your eminence?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: They call him Shake, we call him Sheik.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Sheik --- call him Sheik ---
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: I'm gonna say my friend, Hello my
dialog: friend...
text: The Jet pulls up to the motorcade, kills its engines, opens its
text: door and the stairs drop out. Boyle and Mel enter the jet.
scene_heading: INT. LEAR JET - CONTINUOUS
text: They find the FBI Agent who is playing the part of the Sheik ---
text: SPECIAL AGENT SAM SHADDABI, a 30-something Arab whose proud
text: bearing gives him a noble appeal. Shaddabi is wearing a regal-
text: looking keffiyeh headdress and white thobe
dialog: (For the purpose of clarity, Agent Shaddabi will be referred to
text: in the script as_"FBI SHEIK") Agent Ackerman and three other
text: FBI Agents are also on the plane.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: _ (shakes with Fbi Sheik)
dialog: Sam, Jimmy Boyle. It's good to meet
dialog: you in person. You look terrific.
dialog: (gesturing to Mel)
dialog: This is Mel Weinberg, our 2-0-9..
text: The two men acknowledge each other with a nod but don't shake.
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: Any word on the meeting with Lansky's
dialog: guy Zelnick?
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: It's gonna go down sometime tonight
dialog: or tomorrow but we're still waiting
dialog: on specifics. One of their people is
dialog: supposed to reach out to us...
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: What about Senator Rand?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Errichetti's saying he'll be there...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (to FBI Sheik)
dialog: Ackerman get you all up to speed?
speaker_heading: . FBI SHEIK
dialog: (Chicago accent)
dialog: Yeah, I've been fully briefed.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Well your role is real simple. Act
dialog: stupid like you understand English
dialog: but can't speak it. Say as little as
dialog: possible and follow my lead.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: (insulted, to Boyle)
dialog: Are you running this operation or is
dialog: e?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Forget about it. He doesn't mean to
dialog: be an asshole, he was just born that
dialog: way, okay?
dialog: (off FBI sheik's nod)
dialog: Alright, it's showtime --- once we
dialog: step out that door, so --- anything
dialog: you'd like to go over?
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Yeah, I'd just like to say that I
dialog: think the name and premise of your
dialog: operation is fucking offensive, plays
dialog: into the worst kind of stereotype ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey--- stereotype wouldn't be a
dialog: stereotype unless it was true.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Yeah? So how would you feel about an
dialog: FBI op called JEWSCAM where Ackerman
dialog: posed as a greedy, conniving Israeli?
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: My father was Jewish but my mother
dialog: was not. WHICH MEANS I AM NOT JEWISH!
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: He's right --- technically speaking.
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Will you both shut the fuck up!?
dialog: (turns to Fbi Sheik)
dialog: Look, Sam, I see your point but if
dialog: this was a problem, you should've
dialog: told us before now ---
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: You don't have to worry about me,
dialog: okay? I'll do the job --- but I just
dialog: wanted you to know that I'm not happy
dialog: about it ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Join the club.
scene_heading: EXT. TARMAC - ATLANTIC CITY AIRPORT - MOMENTS LATER
text: Errichetti excitedly watches as the Fbi Sheik and his entourage
text: of Feds posing as bodyguards and advisors approach. He greets
text: the FBI Sheik with a retarded bow as if he were a king.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Sheik, my friend. It is such an
dialog: superior honor and what have you. On
dialog: behalf of all Americans and the great
dialog: Garden state of New Jersey, I welcome
dialog: you to Atlantic City, my friend.
text: Slipping into character, the Fbi Sheik puts his hand over his
text: heart and speaks broken English with a thick Arab accent.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Salam wa aleikum, my friend. Yes.
dialog: Yes. Thank you. Please.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF ATLANTIC CITY - A LITTLE LATER
text: VARIOUS ANGLES of the Sheik's motorcade making its way into the
text: ghetto shithole that is Atlantic City. An absurd contrast between
text: the procession's pomp and circumstance and the dire poverty
text: that surrounds it --- Burned out, boarded up buildings. Vacant
text: lots. Trash-littered streets. Impoverished residents.
scene_heading: EXT. RESORTS CASINO & HOTEL - ATLANTIC CITY - A LITTLE LATER
text: The entrance to the hotel has been roped off like a movie
text: premiere in anticipation of the sheik's arrival. A High School
text: MARCHING BAND plays "Hail to the Chief." Local newspaper
text: PHOTOGRAPHERS and TV CREWS. Big-titted SHOWGIRLS dressed as
text: glittery peacocks...etc...
text: And at the center of it all, a reception line consisting of
scene_heading: ATLANTIC CITY'S MAYOR, the PRESIDENT OF RESORTS INTERNATIONAL,
text: other prominent LOCAL POLITICIANS.
text: The motorcade rolls up. The limo stops in front of the welcome
text: party, the door is opened and out steps the Sheik followed by
dialog: Errichetti.
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - RESORTS CASINO - CONTINUOUS
text: Boyle exits the limo but Mel holds back a beat.
dialog: 91.
text: Reaching into his pocket, Mel pulls out a prescription bottle
text: of DEXEDRINE amphetamines, pops it open, shakes out five ---
text: and swallows them dry before getting out of the car.
text: THE FIRST GROOVY OPENING NOTES of Eddie Fisher singing the
text: classic "I'm a Born World Shaker" can be heard as we watch Mel
text: follow the Sheik, Boyle, and Errichetti down the reception line.
scene_heading: INT. PARTY - HOTEL SUITE - RESORTS CASINO - LATER THAT NIGHT
text: A_ swank, 4,000 square foot suite on the top floor of Resorts
text: with massive windows that overlook the boardwalk and water.
text: The place has been fully tricked-out for the occasion and is
text: packed with a motley assortment of politicians, movers and
text: shakers, hookers and the biggest players in the casino business.
text: Everyone either talking shop or rocking out to EDDIE FISHER on
text: a small stage erected in the back of the room.
text: ANGLE ON ERRICHETTI AND MEL: Watching the action from the corner.
text: Errichetti is clearly a little shitfaced.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: This is fantastic, Angie. The party,
dialog: the spread --- everything...
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: (wistfully joyous)
dialog: Mel, I'm fifty years old, seen a lotta
dialog: things, dreamed a lotta things; but
dialog: this is the most un-fuckin-believable
dialog: thing I've ever been into my whole
dialog: life --- and it just keeps coming up ---
dialog: (puts his arm around Mel)
dialog: You and me are gonna do beautiful
dialog: things together---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How bout a toast to the guy that
dialog: brought us together?
text: They raise their glasses of champagne together.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Hey-- to Tony Denato. May the poor
dialog: bastard rest in peace.
text: Just then, a scantily clad COCKTAIL WAITRESS struts on by.
text: Errichetti reaches out and PINCHES her on the ass. She angrily
text: WHIPS around and confronts Errichetti.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Did you do that?
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Hey, I love you baby. I write you
dialog: oems; Roses are red. Violets are
dialog: ue. I like spaghetti. Let's fuck.
text: The shocked and offended waitress storms off, leaving Mel and
text: Errichetti LAUGHING hysterically.
text: ANGLE ON: THE BAND ONSTAGE SUDDENLY SHIFTS INTO a tamped-down
text: royal fanfare and drumroll...
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: EDDIE FISHER
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen... Coming in_all
dialog: the way from the Emirates, may I lay
dialog: onto you, a_great man and humanitarian ---
dialog: I feel humbled in his presence ---
dialog: jonignt | s guest of honor, Sheik Kambir
dialog: Abdul Rahman!
text: A portable spotlight swings from the stage to the FBI Sheik and
text: his procession who enter the party. Everyone CLAPS as the FBI
text: Sheik moves through the crowd, waving as if he were a rock star.
scene_heading: RAPID FIRE FLASH-CUT MONTAGE OF SURVEILLANCE PHOTOS: grip and
text: grin snapshots of the FBI Sheik with: TEAMSTER BOSS, N.J.
scene_heading: ASSEMBLYMEN, MAYOR OF UNION CITY, PRESIDENT OF CAESAR'S WORLD,
text: PENTHOUSE'S BOB GUCCIONE. Each photo is labeled with the names
dialog: of the subjects.
text: DEN - LATER: this small, intimate den is brightly lit compared
text: to the dim nightclub atmosphere of the party. Although the den
text: is connected to the main room, it has been roped off.
text: Errichetti, the FBI Sheik, Mel and Boyle are all seated on
text: couches. they an are ‘talking to BUCKY ROACH, MANAGER OF THE
scene_heading: TROPICANA IN VEGA:
speaker_heading: ROACH
dialog: I've been runnin the Tropicana for
dialog: ten years so I know whereof I speak ---
dialog: and I never lie to my friends. You
dialog: bring me and my crew in to run your
dialog: new joint at the Shelburne --- we
dialog: break bread? You'll never have a
dialog: problem. If you're a point holder ---
dialog: you're golden...
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK (MONITORS)
dialog: Point holder? Yes. Please what does
dialog: it mean?
speaker_heading: ROACH (MONITORS)
dialog: Every casino has one hundred secret
dialog: ownership points, each of which
dialog: represent a percentage of the skim ---
text: CAMERA PANS FROM THE SHEIK TOWARDS THE WALL BEHIND MEL AND THEN
text: ZOOMS IN ON THE WALL...
scene_heading: SURVEILLANCE CLOSET - CONTINUOUS: The utility closet abutting
text: the den has been converted into a makeshift observation post.
text: Three monitors observe three different angles: one of the main
text: room and two others dedicated to the den/meeting room. The tiny
text: Closet has been heavily soundproofed and as a result, is like a
dialog: sweatbox.
text: Grosswald and the FBI TECHIE watching the meeting on the
text: MONITORS. They're in t-shirts and shorts --- wearing headphones.
speaker_heading: MEL (MONITORS)
dialog: If you're the majority point holder
dialog: of a joint, your name won't appear
dialog: anywhere, but you are an owner ---
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: ROACH (MONITORS
dialog: That's right... And my boys and me,
dialog: we got our systems down to a science.
dialog: We can clip the drop seven ways from
dialog: Sunday « You come to me and say you
dialog: need Tiv six hundred thousand taken
dialog: off? It'll be there. Cash. Tax free ---
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: (cracks an excited smile)
dialog: Fuck, this is great shit ---
text: PARTY - LATER: In another part of the room, Errichetti
text: introducing the FBI Sheik to Eddie Fisher.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Sheik, this is a very famous
dialog: entertainer. Sold millions of records.
dialog: Had his own TV show. Mr. Eddie Fisher.
speaker_heading: FISHER
dialog: An honor to meet you, sir ---
text: Mel quickly jumps in to shake Fisher's hand himself.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey Eddie, Mel Weinberg. I just_had
dialog: to shake the hand that got to play
text: with Liz Taylor's pussy.
text: Everyone except for Fisher starts to LAUGH. Even the Sheik.
scene_heading: RAPID FIRE FLASH-CUT MONTAGE OF SURVEILLANCE PHOTOS: grip and
text: grin snapshots of FBI Sheik with: A.C. COUNCILMEN, PRESIDENT OF
scene_heading: BALLY'S, MAYOR OF NEWARK, N.J. STATE SENATORS, PLAYBOY'S HUGH
speaker_heading: HEFNER.
scene_heading: DEN - LATER: Mel and Errichetti sit with the senior U.S. SENATOR
scene_heading: FROM NEW JERSEY, HARRISON RAND.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: --- The Sheik's really been looking
dialog: forward to this sit down with you
dialog: Senator Rand ---
speaker_heading: SENATOR RAND
dialog: As have I, Mel ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: He's not gonna say much. He's ashamed
dialog: of his English but he understands
dialog: everything ---
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: And it's important you understand
dialog: what he wants to hear from you ---
speaker_heading: SENATOR RAND
dialog: About the Shelburne deal?
scene_heading: SURVEILLANCE CLOSET - CONTINUOUS: Grosswald and FBI Techie
text: intently watching the meeting on the monitors...
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: MEL (MONITORS)
dialog: No. Don't go into specifics about the
dialog: casino. All you have to do is tell
dialog: him how powerful you are ---
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (MONITORS)
dialog: In no uncertain terms, Harry ---
speaker_heading: MEL (MONITORS)
dialog: Fourth ranking Democrat in the Senate
dialog: ear of the President, Chairman of
dialog: whatever committee, who you know ---
dialog: mention names --- what you can do ---
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI (MONITORS)
dialog: Come on as strong as possible. You
dialog: won't offend him, it's the Arab way ---
scene_heading: DEN - CONTINUOUS:
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Right, without you there is no casino.
dialog: Explain to him that because you gotta
dialog: stake in the deal you're gonna use
dialog: all your power and influence to get
dialog: him everything he needs: declaratory
dialog: ruling to renovate instead of build,
dialog: special tax incentives ---
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Whatever he needs. You are the fuckin'
dialog: man...
speaker_heading: SENATOR RAND
dialog: I understand --- not a problem...
text: Boyle escorts the FBI Sheik into the den and all three men stand--
text: we can see that Boyle is carrying a BRIEFCASE filled with cash.
speaker_heading: ERRICHETTI
dialog: Sheik, my friend. I would like to
dialog: introduce you to the senior U.S.
dialog: Senator from New Jersey -- Harrison
dialog: Ri
speaker_heading: SENATOR RAND
dialog: It's a pleasure to meet you.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: (shaking hands with Rand)
dialog: Yes. You are welcome.
scene_heading: HIGH ANGLE OVER HOTEL SUITE - PARTY - LATER: We see Mel,
text: Errichetti, Boyle, the FBI Sheik and Rand emerge from the Den ---
text: everyone smiling. RAND IS HOLDING THE BRIEFCASE OF CASH.
text: They all shake hands and Rand leaves. Errichetti walks the Sheik
text: over to another group of people and begins introductions.
text: ANGLE CLOSE ON Boyle and Mel as they get a drink at the bar
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: It shouldn't be this easy.
dialog: 
dialog: 95.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: It isn't that it's that easy, it's
dialog: that we're that good ---
text: Mel and Boyle are suddenly approached by HOWARD CRIDEN. At age
text: fifty-six, Criden is a swollen seer of a man who wears thick
text: rimmed glasses with coke-bottle lenses --- and carefully examines
text: everything he touches: plates, handshakes, doorknobs, everything.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: Good evening, I'm Howard Criden. I
dialog: believe you've been expecting me.
dialog: (off their blank looks)
dialog: I'm Mr. Zelnick's attorney.
text: Mel and Boyle stiffen up and shake hands with him.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Is Mr. Zelnick here?
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: No. If you could please get the Sheik
dialog: there's a helicopter waiting for us
text: on the roof.
text: Both Mel and Boyle are shocked by this revelation.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: No one ever told us that we were going
text: to be leaving the premises.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: I'm telling you now.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Well I'm telling you, there's no way
dialog: the Sheik's gonna get on a chopper
dialog: and fly off for points unknown ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Sheik's a paranoid guy. He don't like
dialog: surprises and he don't like powerplays ---
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: These steps were taken to ensure your
dialog: employer's safety, not imperil it.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: And we're supposed to just take your
dialog: word for that?
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: Not my word. Mr. Zelnick's.
dialog: (glances at his watch)
dialog: vou have twenty minutes before I take
dialog: off.
text: Criden smiles and leaves. Boyle and Mel exchange an extremely
text: anxious look.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. HELICOPTER - OFF THE COAST OF ATLANTIC CITY - LATER
text: A helicopter flying over the ocean.
dialog: 
dialog: 96.
text: Criden, Mel, Boyle, the FBI Sheik and TWO FBI AGENTS POSING AS
text: BODYGUARDS are seated in the back of the copter. They aze out
text: the window and the see the dimly lit outline of a LARGE 150FT
text: YACHT anchored about a mile off the Atlantic City coast.
text: There's a ring of brig ht lights illuminating a landing pad
text: situated on the yacht® s stern deck. The men exchange a tense
text: look as the helicopter begins its descent...
scene_heading: EXT. YACHT - OFF THE COAST OF ATLANTIC CITY - CONTINUOUS
text: The moment the helicopter touches down and kills its engine the
text: landing pad lights are turned off. While TWO DECKHANDS quickly
text: lock down the copter's skids to the pad --- a THIRD HAND opens
text: the door for the FBI Sheik and his entourage --- and ushers
text: them toward ARTHUR ZELNICK.
dialog: Zelnick's a _power-player whose causal elegance masks the cold
text: intensity of his bottom-line demeanor. With a practiced
text: refinement, Zelnick greets the ap pproaching FBI Sheik by touching
text: the tips of his right fingers to his forehead while bowing the
text: head slightly. The FBI sheik responds with the same gesture.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Shake Kambir Abdul Rahman --- Ahlan
dialog: wa-sahlan.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Ahlan Beek.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Esmee Arthur Zelnick. Motasharefon.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Anta lateef.
text: The two men finally stop shaking hands and Zelnick immediately
text: places the palm of his right hand over his chest.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Kaifa haloka?
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Al hamdu lillah, bi khair. Wa ant?
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Ana bekhair, shokran.
text: The FBI Sheik is startled and a little freaked by Zelnick's
text: fluency. Mel and Boyle are gravely concerned.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: You speak Arabic very well Assayed
dialog: Zelnick.
text: Zelnick thanks the Sheik with a nod --- gently takes him by the
text: arm and ushers him along the starboard deck.
text: We MOVE WITH Criden, Boyle and Mel as they follow ---
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: I understand that you're from the
dialog: United Arab Emirates?
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Which Emirate?
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Why should you ask?
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: I'd like to get to know you better ---
dialog: especially in lieu of the fact that
dialog: none of my contacts at the State
dialog: Department have any record of a Shake
dialog: Kambir Abdul Rahman from the UAE...
text: The atmosphere suddenly goes from tense to severe. Boyle and
dialog: Mel flash each other an ‘oh fuck' look: is the jig up?
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: I'm not surprised. The American
dialog: intelligence apparatus in my part of
dialog: the world is pathetic at best ---
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Well then please enlighten me ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The Sheik didn't come here to be
dialog: interrogated ---
text: Zelnick stops and gives Mel a vicious glare.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Was I talking to you, Mr. Weinberg?
dialog: (off Mel's silence)
dialog: When I want your opinion, I'll ask
dialog: for it ---
text: The FBI Sheik gives Mel a patronizing, diminutive hand-gesture
dialog: to stand down.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: I hardly call asking someone where
dialog: they're from an interrogation.
dialog: turns back to Zelnick)
dialog: My blood, the blood of my father's
dialog: runs from the Bani Bakhit tribal region
dialog: of Ras al-Khaimah ---
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Ras al-Khaimah --- that sits in the
dialog: East, yes? Along the Gulf of Oman?
text: The FBI Sheik stops and glares at Zelnick who stands steadfast.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Laa. It is in the North, and sits
dialog: along the Persian Gulf. But then you
dialog: know this ---
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Forgive me Shake, I hope you understand
dialog: a man in my position cannot be too
dialog: careful ---
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Yes -- but for the sake of our
dialog: discussion things would go much
dialog: smoother if you could dispense with
dialog: the, how do you say..? Bullshit ---
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - ZELNICK'S YACHT - A LITTLE LATER
dialog: 
text: A sprawling and elegant living room with windows overlooking
text: the water. The Sheik, Mel and Boyle sit across a large coffee
text: table from Zelnick and Criden. The table is covered with a
dialog: traditional Arab feast: kabasa, flat breads, fruits, etc...
text: Mel, the FBI Sheik and Boyle notice that in the far corner of
text: the room, there is a SHADOW MAN sitting in a chair, watching
text: from the dark.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Shake, as I'm sure you are aware, the
dialog: casino business is controlled by a
dialog: consortium of hidden interests ---
dialog: (off Sheik's nod)
dialog: Well, I help oversee the organization
dialog: which manages this consortium, as
dialog: well as almost every other aspect of
dialog: our industry. We're the ones that
dialog: make sure that nobody cheats or steals.
dialog: We keep track of everyone's secret
dialog: points. We handle the weekly skim
dialog: from each casino and distribute it to
dialog: the point holders. We take care of
dialog: the credit, set the odds, operate the
dialog: cages and the pits, run the unions,
dialog: political protection --- everything.
dialog: Hal tafham?
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Afham.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Good --- because Atlantic City is the
dialog: product of a considerable investment
dialog: of time and money by the group I
dialog: represent --- and we have no objection
dialog: to you profiting from the fruits of
dialog: our labor so long as you're willing
dialog: to do it our way ---
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Please explain ---
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: If you want to become a casino owner
dialog: and member of our group --- you must
dialog: first become a U.S. citizen.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: And why must I do this?
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: The Gas crisis has created an enormous
dialog: amount of anti-Arab sentiment. As
dialog: soon as you apply for a license,
dialog: they'll legislate against it.
speaker_heading: ; ZELNICK ;
dialog: But, if you're a U.S. citizen, it
dialog: gives us the political cover we need.
text: We suddenly hear the METALLIC SNAP of _a Zippo lighter being
text: opened and ignited as the Shadow Man lights a cigarette.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Excuse me...
dialog: (gesturing to Shadow Man)
dialog: Who's that person?
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Nobody you need to concern yourself
dialog: with. |
dialog: (back to Sheik)
dialog: Mister Criden will handle everything
dialog: through our friends in Congress, who
dialog: will introduce a private bill providing
dialog: you and your family political asylum.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: The process will be no different than
dialog: it's been for you in Atlantic City
dialog: with the local and state officials.
dialog: Do the right thing with the right
dialog: the
dialog: people, re won't be any problems.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: And in exchange for your political
dialog: contacts and influence --- what is it
dialog: that I must do for you?
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: We'd like you to assume twenty one
dialog: million in Teamster mortgages on
dialog: various resort properties in Atlantic
dialog: City, the Poconos and Miami.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: I'm confused. I came here to discuss
dialog: projects in Atlantic City -- not Miami
dialog: or this other place he speaks of.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Shake, what you need to understand is
dialog: that New Jersey is only the beginning
dialog: of our plans. Statistics show that
dialog: the vast majority of gamblers reside
dialog: on the east coast... and so we are in
dialog: the process of taking the Atlantic
dialog: City model and transplanting it along
dialog: the entire Eastern seaboard; the
dialog: Poconos. Miami. New Orleans. Savannah.
dialog: We're currently ARETE campaigns for
dialog: 
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK (CONT'D)
dialog: legalized gambling referendums in six
dialog: different states, acquiring all the
dialog: political support we need --- tying
dialog: up all the best properties in the
dialog: areas we're looking to exploit ---
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: (cutting him off)
dialog: This is_all very interesting. But
dialog: again, I am here to discuss
dialog: opportunities in Atlantic City.
text: Mel can see that Zelnick is put off by the FBI Sheik's
text: closemindedness.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: (sternly)
dialog: Doing things our way means investing
dialog: in our whole vision. Not part of it.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Be that as it may, I would rather
dialog: start with Atlantic City and see how
dialog: things progress.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: (irritated and suspicious)
dialog: Why is it you're so fixated on Atlantic
dialog: City when there's so much more money
dialog: to be made elsewhere?
text: Mel flashes the FBI Sheik a glare, trying to signal him to just
text: play along with Zelnick --- but the FBI Sheik doesn't get it.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Because I only invest in what is. Not
dialog: what might be ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (cutting in)
dialog: Money is like manure, Sheik. If you
dialog: spread it around, it can do a lot of
dialog: good. Make things grow. But if you
dialog: pile it all up in one place and let
dialog: it sit there sta panty it won't do
dialog: anythin ut sme ike shi
dialog: y Ygesturing to sereteky
dialog: All Mr. Zelnick here is saying is
dialog: that the smart move is to spread it
dialog: around --- and I couldn't agree with
dialog: him more.
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: Ah yes, I see. Thank you for that Mel ---
dialog: once again your eloquence illuminates
dialog: the path of my understanding...
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Shake, I know you are new to this
dialog: country and my business. But please
dialog: believe me when I tell you that my
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: ZELNICK (CONT'D)
dialog: organization is perhaps the most
dialog: trustworthy and dependable operating
dialog: in the world today. We always honor
dialog: our agreements and we always make
dialog: money for our partners --- and you
dialog: can be sure that this is true because
dialog: if it weren't --- I'd be dead.
speaker_heading: _ FBI SHEIK
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Ana fahim ---
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: Good. Then should you decide to move
dialog: forward with us, we cannot formally
dialog: engage until your citizenship has
dialog: been secured --- but I'd like you to
dialog: pledge the twenty-one million in an
dialog: escrow account as a sign of good faith ---
speaker_heading: FBI SHEIK
dialog: And if I don't agree to these terms?
speaker_heading: ZELNICK
dialog: You can either be at the table, or
dialog: you can be on the menu. The choice is
dialog: yours.
text: WE HEAR CLAPPING AND CHEERING AS WE CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT COMMAND CENTER - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - NEXT DAY
text: The small group of FEDS making up the ABSCAM team clap and cheer ---
text: giving Mel, Boyle, and the FBI Sheik pats on the back as they
text: walk into a large basement which has been converted into the
text: investigation's off-site Command Center.
dialog: 
text: Beers are passed out as everyone celebrates the success of the
text: Atlantic City party. A jubilant Grosswald throws his hands around
text: both Boyle and Mel --- giving them a simultaneous bear hug.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: Holy shit!!! You guys did it! I mean
dialog: you really did it!!!
text: Boyle and Grosswald start to laugh with excited glee.
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: (raising his beer to toast)
dialog: Everyone shut up! I want to say
dialog: something
dialog: he room quiets down)
dialog: From thd very beginning I was convinced
dialog: that this whole op was going to be a
dialog: goddamn train wreck. Boyle, I thought
dialog: you were crazy. And Mel, I knew_you
dialog: were nothin ut full of shit. I
dialog: remember telling Grosswald that this
dialog: was going to be the end of our careers --
dialog: 102.
dialog: a hi GROSSWALD
speaker_heading: augnin
dialog: He did --- Ke aed,
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: Now here we are, the day after what
dialog: has got to be one of the most insane
dialog: episodes in FBI history --- but also
dialog: one of the most successful. Last night
dialog: was a smash hit in every way. And I
dialog: just a ---
dialog: Jus got Fa Ag up his beer)
dialog: You guys made a believer out of me!
text: Everyone joins in TOASTING and CHEERING Mel, Boyle, and the FBI
text: Sheik --- but the good vibes are quickly extinguished when...
text: Tuccio STORMS into the room and angrily SLAMS THE DOOR, glaring
text: at Mel like he wants to eat him. Unfazed, Mel begins to take a
text: sip from his beer. Before it reaches his lips Tuccio ANGRILY
text: SMACKS IT out of his hands.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The fuck's with you?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Like you don't know.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya talking about?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: What's up, Joe?
text: Tuccio hands Boyle a HIGHLIGHTED transcript.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: It's from last night. Mel's little
dialog: pep talk with the Senator. Read the
dialog: ighlights.
text: As Boyle reads, his face contorts into a mixture of rage and
dialog: anxiety...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What the hell is everyone's problem?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
text: (looks up at Mel, explodes)
dialog: You! You're the fucking problem! How
dialog: many times have we been over the rules
dialog: of entrapment?! Chapter and verse---
dialog: how many times?! And then you go and
dialog: fucking do this? | .
dialog: (reading from transcript)
dialog: "Explain to him that because you gotta
dialog: stake in the deal you re gonna use
dialog: all your power and influence to get
dialog: him everything he needs"! !??
text: Boyle angrily HURLS the transcript at Mel.
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What?! I was just trying to make sure
dialog: you guys got what you needed.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: You were coaching him, putting words
dialog: into his mouth ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I didn't force the Senator to take
dialog: the money or say what he said!
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (picking up transcript
dialog: What's the potential impact of this?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: There's nothing potential about it.
dialog: The impact is actual, systemic and
dialog: toxic. Mel's pep talk not only
dialog: undermines the case against Rand, it
dialog: cripples virtually every case connected
dialog: to this operation because every single
dialog: defense attorney will use this
dialog: transcript as evidence that Mel did
dialog: the same with their clients.
text: A heavy silence overtakes the room.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: It's bad. But it's not fatal. We can
dialog: fix this. We just need another_meeting
dialog: where we can get a clean, unsolicited
dialog: admission from Senator Rand.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: (after a thoughtful beat)
dialog: It doesn't solve the problem, but it
dialog: might minimize it to an acceptable
dialog: evel ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: And how we Supposed to_get another
dialog: meeting when the guy already took?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You fucked this up, Mel. You're going
dialog: to figure it out.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Houseman's office has been calling
dialog: all morning. He wants the transcripts.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: The Director sees this --- and that's
dialog: it! We're over.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: (after a long, hard beat)
dialog: Look, Houseman isn't asking for the
dialog: warm-up with Rand. He's aski for
dialog: the transcript from the actual game ---
dialog: hard look at Boyle)
dialog: So let's give it to him.
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: Wait a minute. Are you suggesting we
dialog: bury Mel's pep talk
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: No. I'm suggesting that we show it to
dialog: Houseman after we get a clean admission
dialog: from the Senator.
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN
dialog: I don't know if I'm comfortable with
dialog: that. You're talking about knowingly
dialog: withholding vital information from
dialog: the Director of the FBI.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Come on, Al. There's too much at stake
dialog: here to let this stop us from serving
dialog: the greater good.
dialog: 
text: Ackerman stands there with everyone in the room staring at him
text: waiting for him to protest --- but he doesn't.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: (looking at everyone)
dialog: If anyone else here has a problem,
dialog: speak now or forever hold your shit.
text: No one says anything. After a beat, Mel speaks up.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What about Zelnick? He's expecting an
dialog: answer from the Sheik.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Reach out tomorrow and let Criden
dialog: know the Sheik wants to move forward ---
dialog: and get him to start setting meetings
dialog: with their politicians ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How you gonna do that without puttin'
dialog: up the twenty one mil Zelnick's askin'
dialog: or?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Cause we're gonna stall him for as
dialog: long as we can --- and see how deep
dialog: we can get before he calls our bluff.
scene_heading: EXT. LEXINGTON AVE. - MIDTOWN MANHATTAN - EARLY EVENING
text: Mel cuts across early morning traffic on Lex Ave. He's carrying
text: another one of those pink BAKERY BOX'S from Moishe's. We see
text: him enter a low rent, run-down office building.
scene_heading: INT. SEVENTH FLOOR - LEX AVE. OFFICE BUILDING - MOMENTS LATER
text: Mel exits the elevator and we MOVE WITH HIM as he walks down
text: the hallway. He reaches a nondescript office door and we FOLLOW
text: HIM as he enters.
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - SEVENTH FLOOR - CONTINUOUS
text: Mel enters a small, cluttered temporary office. Reclining behind
text: a desk in the middle of the room sits Max. She's on the phone,
text: but gives Mel a huge smile when she sees him.
text: Mel catches a few fleeting glimpses of the walls which are
text: covered with an array of info --- as he comes over to the desk
text: puts the bakery box in front of Max and gives her a quick but
text: sensuous kiss on the lips.
speaker_heading: MAX (INTO PHONE)
dialog: Yeah, Teddy, do what you have to do,
dialog: but just make sure the trucks are
dialog: there on time ---
text: As Maxine wraps up her call, Mel reaches into his pocket and
text: takes out his bottle of DEXEDRINE, pops out a couple of pills,
text: swallows. Max hangs up and rises to embrace and kiss Mel.
speaker_heading: MAX (CONT'D)
dialog: Thanks for the rugelach --- but you
dialog: really shouldn't be here.
text: The phone starts ringing again.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Need to answer that? ---
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I'll let the service get it. How did
dialog: everything go?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So far so good. How's everything goin'
dialog: with you?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It'd be going a lot better if I had a
dialog: hard date.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I'm workin' on it, pussycat. I'm
dialog: workin' on it.
text: Max reaches into Mel's pocket and pulls out the bottle of
text: Dexedrine and holds it up.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: Since when did you start using speed?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You know how many plates I'm spinnin
dialog: right now. I let any of them drop an
dialog: we're fucked to forevermore.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: You need to take better care of
dialog: yourself. I mean you look really strung
dialog: out.
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey, strung out comes with the
dialog: territory.
dialog: (gives her a tender grin)
dialog: But it's nice to know you give a shit.
scene_heading: EXT. VESCO TOWNHOUSE - MANHATTAN - DAY
text: Late afternoon sunlight washing over the elegant townhouse.
speaker_heading: BOYLE V.O.
dialog: Uh, you ready --- are we taping?
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN (OVER WALKIE-TALKIE)
dialog: Yeah, wait, okay --- go ahead Jimmy...
scene_heading: INT. STUDY - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Boyle sits behind a desk situated in an elegant mahogany paneled
text: study. In front of him are ten packets of cash. Looking directly
text: into a hidden camera, Boyle speaks stiffly, self consciously.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (clears his throat)
dialog: This is Special Agent James Boyle.
dialog: Federal Bureau of Investigation. The
dialog: date is August 19th, 1979. Time,
text: 5:16PM. Location, a townhouse in New
dialog: York City. In a short while, I am
dialog: expecting a meeting with attorney
dialog: Howard Criden and U.S. Congressman,
dialog: "Ozzie" Myers. Also participating in
dialog: this meetin will be Mel Weinberg.
dialog: (and ca ing oO Gash)
dialog: I have in front of me fifty thousand
dialog: dollars in five packets of one hundred
dialog: dollar bills. .
dialog: (puts cash in desk drawer)
dialog: I am now placing the money in this
dialog: drawer where it will remain until it
dialog: is given to Representative Meyers.
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN (OVER WALKIE-TALKIE)
dialog: Okay --- we got it ---
speaker_heading: MEL (0.S.)
dialog: You sound like the spawn of
dialog: Frankenstein and fuckin' Howard Cosell.
dialog: Loosen up, will ya?
text: We hear a big brassy, bombastic orchestra begin to play Franz
text: Von Suppe's "Bellman March" --- as the...
text: THE BULLSHIT MONTAGE BEGINS: Music playing over montage.
text: CLOSE ON TYPEWRITER: We can see the TABLE OF CONTENTS of a top-
text: secret FBI memo being typed out... The memo is entitled:
scene_heading: "OPERATION ABSCAM: SPECIAL REPORT TO THE DIRECTOR OF THE FEDERAL
text: BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION..."
scene_heading: SURVEILLANCE VIDEO FROM TOWNHOUSE STUDY: Timecode: “August 19,
text: 1979.” Present in the video are Boyle, Weinberg, Criden and
scene_heading: U.S. CONGRESSMAN MICHAEL "OZZIE" MYERS.
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: MEYERS
dialog: Lemmee tell you what you're getting
dialog: for what you"re giving --- I control
dialog: the whole bloc of Congressman from
dialog: Philly and will make sure they all
dialog: back an asylum bill for the Sheik.
dialog: With me in his corner, his chances
dialog: are a 100% ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I'm really glad to hear that
dialog: Congressman, because this is a lot of
dialog: money ---
text: Boyle takes out the fifty thousand in packets of cash and hands
text: them to Meyers with an envelope.
speaker_heading: MYERS
dialog: You're going about this the right
dialog: way... Money talks and bullshit walks
dialog: and it's the same way down in D.C.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (nods, smiles)
dialog: Spend it well.
text: Myers tries to stuff the cash into the envelope. It won't fit.
speaker_heading: MYERS
dialog: I'm gonna need a bigger envelope.
text: CLOSE ON TYPEWRITER: The table of contents of the top-secret
text: memo continues to be typed out. We see a list of names --- U.S.
dialog: Congressman Michael"Ozzie Meyers, 1st District, (D-PA.) ---
dialog: U.S. Congressman Raymond Lederer, 3rd District (D-PA.) ---
scene_heading: SURVEILLANCE VIDEO FROM TOWNHOUSE: Timecode: September 7, 1979.
text: We see Criden introducing U.S. CONGRESSMAN RICHARD KELLY to
dialog: Boyle and Mel.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN (ON MONITOR)
dialog: This is Richard Kelly. Representative
dialog: from the 5th District in Florida ---
scene_heading: CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL BASEMENT COMMAND CENTER: Tuccio,
text: Ackerman, Boyle sitting around a table in the command center
text: watching the Kelly video over beers and burgers.
text: We can see Mel in the background, talking on the phone. After
text: hanging up, Mel pops a few Dexedrine and then approaches.
speaker_heading: ; TUCCIO
dialog: So what did Angie say?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: He just having trouble understanding
dialog: why we need another meeting with Rand.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Well then give him some of your
dialog: bullshit and make him understand!
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (savagely barking back)
dialog: Hey, I'm dancin’ as fast I can
dialog: mot erfucker --- but Errichetti said
dialog: he won't do shit unless we make good
dialog: on our word and deposit that two mil
text: in his friend's bank.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: So if Houseman green-lights this and
dialog: we make the deposit --- Angie will
dialog: set up the meet?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah. No question.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (off Tuccio's reticence)
dialog: There's zero risk for us, Joe ---
dialog: it's our account. Money's just gonna
text: be sitting there, earning interest.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: I'll ask, but it's Houseman's call.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON TYPEWRITER: The name currently being typed out --- U.S.
dialog: Congressman John Wilson Jenrette, Jr., 6th District (D-S.C.)
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT COMMAND CENTER - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - DAY: Tuccio,
text: Ackerman and Grosswald are crowded around the TV MONITORS
text: watching the meeting between Boyle, Mel, Criden and U.S.
scene_heading: CONGRESSMAN JOHN W. JENRETTE JR. Timecode: “November 11, 1979.”
scene_heading: CONGRESSMAN JENRETTE
dialog: -If you invest in my district it
dialog: will give me the cover I need with my
dialog: people --- explains why I'm helping
dialog: Sheik Kaboom or Sheik Kabaam ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: So you'd rather us commit to invest
dialog: in your district than take the cash?
scene_heading: CONGRESSMAN JENRETTE
dialog: You kidding? I got larceny in my blood.
text: Tuccio and the rest are all shocked and disgusted as they watch
text: Jenrette scoop the packets of cash off the desk and stuff them
text: in his jacket and pant pockets.
scene_heading: SURVEILLANCE VIDEO FROM TOWNHOUSE: Timecode: November 20th
text: 1979. Criden introducing U.S. CONGRESSMAN FRANK THOMPSON to
dialog: Boyle and Mel.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: Representative Frank Thompson from
dialog: New Jersey's 4th District ---
text: CLOSE ON TYPEWRITER: The list of names on the memo's table of
dialog: contents continues grow. The name currently bein types) is:
dialog: U.S. Congressman John M. Murphy, 16th district, Yo-N
scene_heading: INT - HOTEL SUITE - JFK AIRPORT HILTON - DAY: Boyle, het and
text: Criden sit in the living room of the suite. Boyle's on the phone.
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN (CONT'D)
dialog: It's already the end of November ---
dialog: Zelnick wants to know when he can
dialog: expect the money from the Sheik ---
text: Mel doesn't answer. He looks to Boyle.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Uh, soon --- very soon ---
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: Jimmy, we've been following through
dialog: on our end. He wants a hard date ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: How about the end of December --- the
dialog: latest.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
dialog: Why don't we just say, December 29th.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Why the 29th?
speaker_heading: CRIDEN
text: It's Zelnick's birthday.
text: Boyle gives Criden a nod. We can see the high impact of this
text: hard date agreement on Mel's face.
text: There's a knock at the door. Mel gets up, answers it and ushers
text: CONGRESSMAN JOHN MURPHY into the suite.
text: As Mel and Congressman Murphy shake hands in the background, we
text: see Criden take out a list of typed names and hand it to Boyle.
speaker_heading: CRIDEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Here's what I'm trying to line up
dialog: over the next month.
text: Putting the list in his pocket, Boyle and Criden rise to greet
text: the Congressman as he approaches.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT COMMAND CENTER - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - DAY:
text: Mel, Boyle, Tuccio, Ackerman and Grosswald.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (reads from Criden's list)
dialog: John Murtha, Co-chair of the House
dialog: Ethics Committee. Pete Rodino, Chairman
dialog: of the House Judiciary Committee.
dialog: Speaker of the House, Tip O'Neil ---
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: Tip O'Neil?!
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Yup. But I saved the best for last.
dialog: (beat) The President's Chief of Staff
dialog: Hamilton Jordan...
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Get the fuck out!
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO (CONT'D)
dialog: (takes list and reads)
dialog: How deep does this thing go?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Greed's a bottomless pit. Always has
dialog: been.
text: Boyle, Tuccio and Grosswald are definitely thunderstruck ---
text: but the expression on Ackerman's face is one of abject fear
text: CLOSE ON TYPEWRITER: The TABLE OF CONTENTS of the Memo being
text: completed --- The Memo being SEALED into a TOP-SECRET FOLDER ---
scene_heading: INT - DIRECTOR HOUSEMAN'S OFFICE - FBI HQ - WASHINGTON: FBI
text: Director Houseman sits behind his desk, reading from the open
text: ABSCAM SPECIAL REPORT. He has a profoundly disturbed look on
text: his face as he reads the list of potential new targets.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: (muttering, horrified)
dialog: Jesus Christ.
text: Houseman pulls out a cigarette and lights it, takes a deep and
text: anxious drag. Cringing with fear and dismay as if he'd just
text: been punched in the face by some unseen hand, Houseman gazes
text: out his window at the illuminated dome of the Capitol Building.
scene_heading: END MUSIC AND BULLSHIT MONTAGE.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BOARDWALK - ATLANTIC CITY - MORNING
dialog: SUPER: "December 27, 1979 - Atlantic City"
text: An epic shot of the morning sun rasing over the ramshackle
dialog: majesty of the Atlantic City boardwal
scene_heading: EXT./INT. LIMO - STREET - ATLANTIC CITY - CONTINUOUS
text: Grosswald's behind the wheel --- looking at the addresses on
text: buildings as he passes them. Boyle and Mel are in the backseat.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (to Boyle)
dialog: Zelnick's having Criden call me every
dialog: day now ---
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD
dialog: (hollers back at Mel)
dialog: The bank's address --- ?
speaker_heading: MEL
text: (looks at a piece of paper
dialog: Fifty-six twenty-four --- Supposed to
dialog: be on a corner.
scene_heading: EXT. BOARDWALK BANK - ATLANTIC CITY - A LITTLE LATER
text: Situated on the corner of St. James and Broadway, the Boardwalk
dialog: Bank is just your average local bank. We see the limo pull up
text: to_the front of the bank. Mel and Boyle exit the car. Boyle has
text: a large suitcase handcuffed to his wrist.
dialog: 141.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: ...I don't know what to tell him any
dialog: more --- I got no stalls left to give
dialog: these guys. And even if I did, they
dialog: ain't hearin' em ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Who are we meeting with?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (looking at paper)
dialog: Marvin Donaldson, bank's President.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: And he knows we're coming?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, yeah, Angie set it all up ---
text: WE MOVE WITH BOYLE AND MEL as they enter...
scene_heading: INT. BOARDWALK BANK - ATLANTIC CITY - CONTINUOUS
text: The inside of the bank is just as bland as the outside. Phones
text: are ringing. Customers lined up at the teller windows. Your
dialog: ne
text: typical We sday morning. Mel and Boyle speak in hushed tones.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I get that Zelnick's on a short fuse ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Short fuse? That was yesterday. Today
dialog: they're ready to blow ---
text: Boyle looks over to an ACCOUNT MANAGER at his desk.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Where's Marvin Donaldson's office?
text: The account manager points to a back corner office and we
text: continue to MOVE WITH MEL AND BOYLE as they make their way
text: towards Donaldson's office. A SECRETARY sits at her desk next
text: to the door.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Zelnick's deadline is only a few days
dialog: away. You gotta bring down the curtain
dialog: on this show!
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: And we will.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (to secretary
dialog: Please tell Mr. Donaldson that James
dialog: Hoyle and Mel Weinberg from Abdul
dialog: Enterprises are here to see him.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Of course. Just one moment.
dialog: 112.
text: She disappears into the office.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: When, Boyle?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: As soon as we get our meeting with
dialog: Rand, we're done. It's over. Tooch
dialog: wild move on the indictments the next
dialog: ay.
text: The Secretary comes back out, followed by MARVIN DONALDSON: a
text: fat, bald, forty-something man in a Brooks Brothers suit.
text: Donaldson greets them both with a hearty smile and handshake.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: Gentlemen, Marvin Donaldson. A real
dialog: pleasure to meet you both.
dialog: (ushering them inside)
dialog: Please come in.
scene_heading: INT. DONALDSON'S OFFICE - BOARDWALK BANK - A LITTLE LATER
text: Donaldson's secretary sits at_a conference table, watching as
text: the last packet of hundred dollar bills is processed through a
text: CASH COUNTING MACHINE. The two million in cash sits next to the
text: machine in a neat stack.
text: Behind her, we see Donaldson at his desk with Boyle, walking
text: him through a series of SIGNATURES.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: James, if I could just have three
dialog: more signatures --- right here, here,
dialog: and here --- and date the last one ---
text: Boyle signs the last documents. The Secretary nods at Donaldson
text: affirming that all the money is there.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON (CONT'D)
dialog: Please take it to the vault.
text: As the Secretary leaves the office with the money, Donaldson
text: gathers up all the documents.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm just going to make copies of these.
dialog: I'll be right back.
text: Donaldson quickly exits the office.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Jimmy, I vouched for you guys. I went
dialog: on record with Dom who went on record
dialog: with Lansky. Now you know what that
dialog: means. If we don't end this before
dialog: the 29th, I'm a dead man on the street.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (locks eyes with Mel)
dialog: Mel, mark my words: I'm not going to
dialog: let anything happen to you or your
dialog: family.
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Mark ‘em yourself --- cause the only
dialog: thing that'll protect me is if arrests
dialog: are made and indictments handed down.
text: Donaldson returns to the office and hands the documents over
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: Here are your copies of the account
dialog: documentation --- Your receipt for.
dialog: your deposit --- Temporary checks if
dialog: you wish to draw on the account ---
speaker_heading: _ BOYLE / /
dialog: We're not going to be drawing on this
dialog: account.
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: Well, in any case, you'll be receiving
text: a checkbook by the end of next week.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: So that's it?
speaker_heading: DONALDSON
dialog: (broad smile)
dialog: That's it. I'd like to thank you both
dialog: and the Sheik, for doing business
dialog: with us here at Boardwalk Bank. And
dialog: as a token of our appreciation, I'd
dialog: like to present you with this gift.
text: Donaldson hands Boyle a box. Boyle opens it and sees a cheap
text: gold-plated PEN and a MECHANICAL PENCIL with the bank's name
text: engraved on the side of them. Mel LAUGHS.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: We just deposited two mil in cash and
dialog: this is what we get?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I'd rather have the toaster
text: Boyle gives the pen set back to Donaldson.
scene_heading: EXT. BOARDWALK BANK - ATLANTIC CITY - MINUTE LATER
text: They exit the bank and walk towards the limo.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: So when are you going to tell Estelle?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I dunno. I gotta find the right moment.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Along with the bad, you've done some
dialog: good Mel. When this breaks it's going
dialog: to change things for the better. And
dialog: you can be proud of that.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Proud of what? Whaddya think it is
dialog: we've done, Boyle?
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: We've rooted out organized crime and
dialog: political corruption at the highest
dialog: evels ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: We've been shoveling smoke ---
dialog: nothing's gonna change. Not really.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: How can you say that?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Not believing in bullshit is like not
dialog: believing in gravity --- it's part of
dialog: who we are in this country --- and
dialog: it'll always be there --- cause
dialog: Americans, they don't want the bad
dialog: truth. They want the good lie.
scene_heading: EXT. ALIBI CLUB - WASHINGTON, DC - LATE AFTERNOON
text: A light snow falls over a townhouse that is home to the most
dialog: exclusive and oldest social club for Washington's power elite.
text: Behind the townhouse looms the illuminated dome of the Capitol
dialog: uilding.
dialog: 
text: We see a CAB pull up in front of the club and Tuccio gets out
text: and enters the club.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - ALIBI CLUB - WASHINGTON, DC - CONTINUOUS
text: We follow Tuccio into a large and handsome panelled library.
text: Small groups of men have quiet conversations throughout.
text: Stopping for a beat to look around, Tuccio sees FBI Director
text: Houseman in the far corner of the room seated in front of a
text: crackling fireplace. Someone is sitting in the chair opposite
text: the Director, but Tuccio can't see who it is.
text: Houseman waves Tuccio over and we move with him as he approaches.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Joseph. I appreciate you coming on
dialog: such short notice. But I'm afraid
dialog: this face to face simply couldn't
dialog: wait.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Of course sir -- What's the problem?
text: Houseman pulls out a transcript and holds it out to Tuccio.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
text: Mr. Weinberg's pep-talk with Senator
dialog: Rand ----
text: This revelation drops on Tuccio like a fucking bomb.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I know you had your reasons for
dialog: withholding this MORE) me --- but now
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: that I've been made aware, I've got
dialog: to do something about it.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: How'd you get it?
speaker_heading: ACKERMAN (0.S.)
dialog: I gave it to him, Joe.
text: We PAN WITH TUCCIO as he whips around and is shocked to discover
text: that the person seated across from Houseman is Agent Alvin
dialog: Ackerman.
text: Rage welling up in Tuccio like lava...
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Don't hold it against him. Agent
dialog: Ackerman was simply responding to the
dialog: unfortunate circumstances created by
dialog: an out of control informant, an over-
dialog: ambitious U.S. attorney and an
text: inexperienced supervising agent.
scene_heading: INT. MEL'S BEDROOM - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - MANHATTAN - NIGHT
dialog: 
text: Mel's lying on the bed, watching television --- a segment on
dialog: the Presidential campaign trail and the run-up to the election
text: dovetails into a segment about President Carter attending new
dialog: years eve fund raiser celebration in New York.
text: He glances at his watch: 1:30 AM. Turning off the TV, Mel gets
text: out of bed and pops a few Dexedrine. He then opens the door,
text: and peers out into the hallway.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALL - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: WE MOVE WITH MEL as he slips through the darkened hallway ---
text: approaching the upstairs den where he hears a group of men
text: KIBITZING and LAUGHING.
text: Stealing a peek into the room, Mel can see that Boyle, Grosswald
text: and three other agents are having a late-night poker game. Mel
text: tiptoes past them without anyone noticing and disappears down
text: the back stairs to the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT COMMAND CENTER - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - A MINUTE LATER
text: Closing the basement door behind him, Mel creeps down the Steps
text: moves to a huge steel shelf in the back of the room lined wit
text: rows and rows of labeled and dated videotapes. He scans the
text: tapes until he finds the one he' § booking for --- "CONGRESSMAN
dialog: MYERS -- August 19, 1979" --- pulls it ---
text: Moving to two half-inch video recorders connected to each other
text: Mel puts the labeled tape into one machine, a blank tape into
text: the other, and begins DUPING the Myers tape.
text: Mel then cuts across the room to a portable refrigerator, reaches
text: around to its back, and unhooks a hidden key ring. He uses one
text: of the keys to open up a locked filing cabinet.
dialog: 
dialog: 116.
text: Mel rifles through the files until he finds the one he's looking
scene_heading: for --- "OPERATION ABSCAM: SPECIAL REPORT TO THE UNITED STATES
scene_heading: ATTORNEY GENERAL..."
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR DEN - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: Your typical ballbreaking banter and bullshit. Tuccio suddenly
text: APPEARS at the door, looking fucked up and far from home.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: (to Boyle)
dialog: I need to talk to you.
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT COMMAND CENTER - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - MINUTES LATER
text: Mel is XEROXING off the report when he hears the muffled sound
text: of men ARGUING in the townhouse's study right above him.
text: Curious, Mel stops Xeroxing, moves to the video monitors, flips
text: them on and sees the crude, hidden camera images of Boyle and
text: Tuccio having it out in the study. Mel puts on the headphones.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: How could Ackerman do this to us!?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: He pussied out --- couldn't handle
dialog: it. So he decided to save himself.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (ON MONITOR)
dialog: So that's it? Houseman won't even
dialog: approve another meeting with Senator
dialog: Rand?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO (ON MONITOR)
dialog: You're not hearing me, Jimmy.
dialog: Houseman's going to pull the plug on
dialog: the whole thing -- and he's positioning
dialog: us to take the fall.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (ON MONITOR)
dialog: And so Errichetti, casino
dialog: commissioners, six Congressmen, the
dialog: fuckin' Senator --- Zelnick and Lansky?
speaker_heading: . TUCCIO (ON MONITOR)
dialog: They're going to dump it all.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Boyle rubs his head and paces, trying to get a grip on it all.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: And this is all because of what? ---
dialog: Mel's pep-talk with Rand?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: It's not just that. Everything about
dialog: this operation scares Houseman ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Oh, but he's not scared about the
dialog: fact that Atlantic City's corrupt to
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: the core --- or alarmed that U.S.
dialog: Congressmen and Senators can be so
dialog: easily bought off?! He's not shitting
dialog: his pants over how many politicians
dialog: Zelnick and Lansky might have locked
dialog: up in their pocket and why?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: He's playing politics Jimmy. It's an
dialog: election year ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (thundering)
dialog: Bullshit! This has nothing to do with
dialog: politics and everything to do with
dialog: the worst kind of cowardice ---
dialog: cowardice in the face of absolute
dialog: guilt.
text: Tuccio stands there in devastated silence.
speaker_heading: BOYLE (CONT'D)
dialog: What about Mel? Without the arrests
dialog: and indictments he's out there naked
text: on the street.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: As far as Houseman's concerned, Mel's
dialog: a fucking Dixie Cup, a throwaway.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: We can't just leave him out there.
speaker_heading: / TUCCIO
dialog: pimmy we're going to have enough
dialog: trouble covering our own asses.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (after a long beat
dialog: I don't know if I can swallow it.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: You've got no other choice.
speaker_heading: ; BOYLE
dialog: I_can pick up a whistle and start to
dialog: blow --- To the Times, the Post ---
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Houseman will crucify you and he'll
dialog: force me to help him.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Then fuck him and fuck you.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Jimmy --- you of all people know if
dialog: there's one thing the Bureau's good
dialog: at, I mean really good at, it's
dialog: character assassination.
dialog: 118.
text: Moving to one of the armchairs in front of the massive Mahogany
text: partner's desk, Boyle grabs the top of the chair and leans down
text: as if he's overwhelmed with nausea.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO (CONT'D)
dialog: It'd be like running into a machine
dialog: gun.
text: We see and HEAR Boyle's GRIP TIGHTEN INTENSELY ON THE WOOD. And
text: then in a sudden and visceral EXPLOSION OF TOWERING FRUSTRATION
text: AND RAGE, he swings the chair above his head and begins SMASHING
dialog: IT against the partners desk
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT COMMAND CENTER - VESCO TOWNHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Mel is mesmerized by the si ht of Boyle wielding the chair like
text: a battlehammer --- using at of his strength to try to DESTROY
text: the desk, but the only thing he ends up destroying is the chair.
text: Mel TURNS THE TV OFF...
scene_heading: EXT. MEL'S STREET - LONG ISLAND - DAY
dialog: 
text: Mel pulls into the driveway of his house, gets out of his car
text: carrying a briefcase.
dialog: SUPER: "December 29, 1979"
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - MEL'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Mel walks in and finds Willie on the floor playing video games.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How you doing boychick?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (preoccupied with videogame)
dialog: Hey Pop.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Where's Mom?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
text: I think she's in the bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - MEL'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER
text: Mel places his briefcase on his desk, removes the duped tapes
text: and the copy of "OPERATION ABSCAM: SPECIAL REPORT."
text: He then unlocks a filing cabinet and pulls out a LARGE PARCEL
text: BANKER'S BOX. Inside the box are even more duped videotapes,
text: audiotapes, and documents that Mel has apparently accumulated
dialog: over the course of the investigation.
text: Mel puts the videotapes into the box and then places the SPECIAL
text: REPORT on top of everything, as if it's to be read first.
text: Grabbing some packaging tape out of his desk, he seals the box,
text: then appiics a ADDRESS STICKER to it. Typed on that sticker:
scene_heading: "CONFIDENTIAL; LESLIE MAITLAND, NEW YORK TIMES...
text: Before leaving his office, Mel shakes out a HANDFUL OF DEXEDRINE
text: and washes them down with a swig of whiskey.
dialog: 119.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - MEL'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER
text: Estelle's on the bed, reading People Magazine. Mel walks in.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey --
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I didn't know you were here---
speaker_heading: ME
dialog: Yeah, I'm in and out. I just came
dialog: home to change for an important
dialog: meeting... But I'll be back in a few
dialog: hours...
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: ME
dialog: Any chance you an 1 I could go out to
dialog: dinner tonight, alone?
text: Estelle can see the tension in Mel's face.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: What's wrong?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Nothing. I just wanna talk. Get some
dialog: things off my chest.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: I'll see if I can get the sitter
scene_heading: EXT. MEL'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER
text: Mel comes out dressed in his best suit and coat. He has the
text: ABSCAM BANKER'S BOX in his arms. He locks the box in the trunk
text: of his car and walks towards the driver's side door...
text: A silver Cadillac Deville suddenly pulls up in front of his
text: driveway and stops.
text: Sonny Blitz is the first to get out of the car. He throws Mel a
text: vicious smile as Dominic Casele emerges from the Caddie along
text: with two of his Bonebreakers.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey--- Dom --- Whaddya doing here?
speaker_heading: (h ) DOM
dialog: eav
dialog: What I'm fold,
scene_heading: EXT. MEL'S STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: FROM DOWN THE STREET we see Mel get into the back seat of the
text: DeVille, Bonebreakers on either side of him. The car peels away
text: from the curb and disappears around a corner.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLIED AMUSEMENTS - OUTSKIRTS OF ATLANTIC CITY - LATER
text: The same dark and dingy street of industrial warehouses we began
dialog: the film with.
dialog: 120.
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: Whaddya want?!
speaker_heading: SCARFO (V.0.)
dialog: Whaddya think I want? The truth.
text: THE CAMERA SLOWLY ZOOMS ON the Allied Amusement's warehouse ---
text: as we pick up the scene where we last left it...
speaker_heading: MEL (V.0.)
dialog: The truth? (Beat) The truth... The
dialog: truth is bullshit!!
scene_heading: INT. RUMPUS ROOM - ALLIED AMUSEMENTS - CONTINUOUS
text: Scarfo's SAVAGE SKULL PUNCH sends Mel hurling to the floor.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: The truth's bullshit? You're bullshit!
dialog: (STOMPS Mel in the guts)
dialog: Commitments were made based on the
dialog: deal with the Arab. Financial
dialog: commitments --- that the man in Florida
text: is now on the hook for.
text: Scarfo takes out a GUN, crouches down to Mel, and puts the muzzle
dialog: on his left KNEE ---
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: What kind of game is the sheik playing,
dialog: Mel? Why didn't he get the money up?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Because there is no sheik ---
text: Without missing a beat, Scarfo PULLS THE TRIGGER --- AND BOOOOM ---
text: BLOWS MEL'S KNEE TO SHIT --- Mel SHRIEKS --- the mind-numbing
text: agony overloads his circuits and he begins to go into shock.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: I don't want him tapping out.
text: Two Goons peel Mel off the floor, sit him in the chair and hold
text: him up. The third Goon takes out a glass pellet of smellin
text: salts, snaps it open and waves it under Mel's nose. Mel takes
text: one whiff and RECOILS back into consciousness.
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: It's gonna be like this all night ---
dialog: piece by piece. Until you gimme a
dialog: straight answer.
text: Scarfo puts the muzzle of his gun to Mel's other kneecap.
speaker_heading: SCARFO (CONT'D)
dialog: The truth, Mel.
text: Mel HYPERVENTILATING his way through the pain...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I'm tryin' to tell you. The sheik ---
dialog: everyone surrounding him --- they're
dialog: all Feebs.
dialog: 121.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: (pulls gun hammer back)
dialog: Keep fucking with me ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I swear on the soul of my son, the
dialog: whole thing's an FBI sting operation.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: I don't believe it. No way the Feebs
dialog: coulda pulled something like this
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No, not unless they had someone show
dialog: them how ---
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: You crazy rat motherfucker.
dialog: (puts gun to Mel's mouth)
dialog: You shoulda walked away when Dom gave
dialog: you the chance.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You're right ---
dialog: (tears welling up)
dialog: But the Feds have @ got nothing on
dialog: Zelnick or any is key people,
dialog: except for arden and the politicians ---
dialog: and they ain't gonna move against
dialog: them either.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: You're full of shit, Weinberg. That
dialog: don't even make any sense.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: It's politics. Sense don't enter into
dialog: the equation.
text: Mel leans forward as if he were about to throw up ---
speaker_heading: SHADOW MAN (0.S.)
dialog: (gruff Yiddish accent)
dialog: How do I know you're telling us the
dialog: truth?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (cackles)
dialog: That's all I got left ---
text: The Shadow Man suddenly emerges from the darkness. We can only
text: see him from behind as he walks up to Mel and examines his face.
speaker_heading: SHADOW MAN
dialog: Know what, Mel? I believe you.
text: Mel starts to LAUGH deliriously. Feverish with pain from his
text: knee and arm, he suddenly seizes up and grabs his LEFT CHEST as
text: if he were just stabbed there with an icepick -- and then
text: COLLAPSES TO THE FLOOR -- overwhelmed by the onset of a massive
scene_heading: HEART ATTACK.
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: The fuck is this..?
speaker_heading: GOON
text: Look's like he's having a heart attack.
speaker_heading: SCARFO
dialog: You gotta be shittin me.
text: MEL'S POV: Looking at the Shadow Man's shoes...
speaker_heading: SCARFO (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Whaddya wanna do?
speaker_heading: SHADOW MAN (0.S.)
dialog: Take care of him.
text: Darkness overtakes Mel's vision as we...
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
scene_heading: CLOSE ON BLACK TELEVISTON SCREEN:
text: The TV is SWITCHED ON. A stupid 70's commercial plays, before
text: the channel is switched to the CBS Evening News. DAN RATHER
scene_heading: BREAKS THE ABSCAM STORY ---
text: CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK TO REVEAL:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - ATLANTIC CITY HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: Seated in the room are Boyle, Estelle and Willie. Boyle's jacket
text: is off and the FBI BADGE clipped to his belt is in plain view.
text: Although they're all watching the TV, the tension between Estelle
dialog: and Boyle is so extreme you can cut it with your finger
text: A DOCTOR suddenly appears. Everyone gets up.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Agent Boyle --- He'd like to speak
dialog: with you first.
text: Boyle follows Doctor to an ICU ROOM being guarded by two COPS.
scene_heading: INT. ICU ROOM - ATLANTIC CITY HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS
text: Boyle finds Mel in bed, his leg in a cast, elevated by a sling.
text: His wrist is bandaged. There's a gruesome STITCH WOUND running
text: vertically through the center of his chest from open heart
text: surgery. He's hooked up to all manner of monitoring machines.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What happened? These stiffs won't
dialog: tell me anything.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You were dumped at Emergency in
dialog: critical condition. They had to crack
dialog: you open --- do a bypass.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: How long I been out?
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Been touch and go for the last five
dialog: days. .
dialog: (moving close to the bed)
dialog: Mel, who tuned you up?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I tuned myself up ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: That's not good enough.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (hard look)
dialog: It's all your ever going to get.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (after a heavy beat)
dialog: This was all my fault... I broke my
dialog: promise --- I'm sorry ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I know --- and I'll get over it as
dialog: long as my family is okay ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Everyone's fine. Estelle and Willie
dialog: are right outside... Maxine wanted to
dialog: come, but...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: What does Estelle know?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: That I'm an FBI agent --- that you
dialog: were working for us, not some Sheik ---
dialog: and now that the story's leaked to
dialog: the press, she knows why ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Somebody leaked the story --- ?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Yeah it's all over the news. CBS even
dialog: got videos of the some of the payoffs.
dialog: Washington's going batshit --- like
dialog: it was fucking Watergate --- they all
dialog: think you did it.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah, well they're only half wrong. I
dialog: was gonna do it but got picked up
dialog: before I could finish the job ---
dialog: (with a raised eyebrow)
dialog: Had to of been someone else ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (blowing off Mel's look)
dialog: Well in any case it all worked out.
dialog: Arrests have been made, indictments
dialog: are in the works, grand juries should
dialog: be convening in a couple of weeks.
dialog: 124.
text: Mel grins, closes his eyes with relief.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Blowing the whistle took a lot of
dialog: left tit Jimmy --
text: (opens his eyes and locks
dialog: with Boyle's)
dialog: I'm proud of you ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: What makes you so sure I'm the one
dialog: that did it?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Cause you're the only bog-trotting,
dialog: shanty asswipe I know that's noble
text: enough to run into a machine gun.
text: Boyle's smile is his silent admission --- which Mel acknowledges
text: with a grateful nod. After the shared moment...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You ready for Estelle and Willie?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: The fuck am I going to tell them?
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: That's the good thing about the truth
dialog: Mel. You don't have to think about
dialog: it. It just is.
text: The expression on Mel's face goes fragile with fear.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I don't want to lose them, Jimmy.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: If you don't do this, you will.
text: Mel shuts his eyes in dread and nods. Boyle disappears. A few
text: seconds later, Estelle and Willie come into the room. Estelle
text: is overwhelmed by a storm of conflicting emotion ---
text: Willie sees the state his father is in and starts to cry. Mel
text: reaches out for him, takes his hand, pulls him in close and
text: tenderly consoles him.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: It's okay boychick, I'm okay. But I
dialog: gotta tell you something ---
speaker_heading: h WILLIE
dialog: What?
text: Mel gently lifts up Willie's chin to look him in the eye.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: This is the hardest thing I've ever
dialog: had to say cause it's gonna be the
dialog: hardest thing you've ever had to hear ---
dialog: but you need to know that I -- me --
dialog: your father ---
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: (deep breath)
dialog: All that I have, all that I know, I
dialog: stole. (Beat) If I saw you holding a
dialog: cigarette a certain way, and I ed
dialog: it, I'd steal it. I'm nota
dialog: businessman, never have been. I'ma
dialog: bullshit artist, a hustler, a thief ---
dialog: and that's the truth of me. It's all
dialog: a lie, my whole life --- everything ---
dialog: Except 1h hokey willie.
dialog: There's (oching truer in this world
dialog: than my love for you. You're the only
dialog: honest thing I've ever done.
text: Mel breaks down and starts to CRY. Willie hugs his father. Mel
text: looks over at Estelle --- they exchange a soulful, heartbreaking
text: glance before she leaves the room.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT - MANHATTAN - LATE AFTERNOON
dialog: 
text: It's a cold and windy day in New York
dialog: SUPER: "Three Months Later"
scene_heading: INT. TUCCIO'S OFFICE - JUSTICE DEPARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The floor of Tuccio's office is awash in a ocean of stacks of
text: files --- the walls are covered by charts, time-lines, etc. --
dialog: everything pertaining to the upcoming ABSCAM trials.
text: Boyle, Tuccio and Mel are seated around a small table covered
text: with transcripts. Although not fully recovered, Mel looks well
text: on his way -- in a wheel chair, leg still in a cast.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Look Mel, the defense is going to try
dialog: to nail us on this, so when they ask
dialog: you if Boyle specifically authorized
dialog: you to make the approach on Tony Denato
dialog: at Stella's --- you need to answer in
dialog: the affirmative.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: (chuckling)
dialog: In the affirmative... So you want me
dialog: to bullshit.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: No. We don't lie. We never lie. We
dialog: just put our own interpretation on
dialog: the truth.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I like that, that's good. I shoulda
dialog: used that line with Estelle.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: How's she doing?
dialog: 126.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Okay --- Considering --- I dunno, I
dialog: think somehow everything finally’ coming
dialog: out, it freed her up.
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: And youre sure she's going to wait
dialog: until after the trials to serve you
dialog: with the divorce papers?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah--- I gave her everything anyway.
text: Suddenly, the door to the office BURSTS OPEN and in storms FBI
text: Director Houseman looking like a man out for blood. Boyle and
text: Tuccio are surprised and disturbed to see him in this state.
text: Houseman's holding a FILE in his hand --- focusing all of his
text: barely controlled fury on Mel. Tuccio opens his mouth to say
dialog: i
text: something, but is immediately silenced by Houseman's stone cold,
dialog: "shut the fuck up" glare.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Where's the money, Mel?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Money?
dialog: (he looks around the table)
dialog: What money?
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: The two million.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Two million?
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: The two million dollars that I
dialog: authorized --- that you were supposed
dialog: to have deposited in ythe Boardwalk
dialog: Bank --- where is it?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Whaddya mean where is it? It's ina
dialog: bank account ---
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: No, Mel, I don't think so ---
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Sir, excuse me, but I personally
text: deposited the money in the bank.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
text: WHAT BANK! THERE IS NO FUCKING BANK!!!
text: Boyle and Tuccio are freaked and totally confused.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: I don't understand ---
dialog: 
text: Houseman angrily throws a paper-clipped stack of PHOTOS at Boyle.
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Those were taken early this morning
dialog: when agents from the Atlantic City
dialog: office went to close the Abscam
dialog: account.
text: ANGLE CLOSE ON A SERIES OF PHOTOS as Tuccio and Boyle flip
text: through them. The snapshots reveal that where there was once
text: the Boardwalk Bank, there is now just an EMPTY, UNOCCUPIED SHELL
text: OF A BUILDING.
text: Boyle and Tuccio are mortified and speechless.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: Did you do this?
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Of course he did! That's who he is!
dialog: That's what he does!
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Look, I wanna be very clear right
dialog: now. I have absolutely no idea what
dialog: you're talking about.
dialog: (raised eyebrow)
dialog: But let's just say for argument's
dialog: sake --- hypothetically speaking ---
dialog: that I did take your fuckin' money.
dialog: (Beat) Whaddya you gonna do about it?
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: I'm going to prosecute you to the
dialog: fullest extent of the law!
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You're onty a few weeks out from the
text: start of the trials. Seven Congressmen.
dialog: One Senator. Biggest case in FBI
dialog: history --- and you wanna go after
dialog: your linchpin witness? Hey, I'm not a
dialog: awyer but wouldn't doing that play
dialog: right into the defense's strategy?
dialog: i 2
dialog: Under ming VEY Agar ete ot
dialog: Think about it Larry. I'm your Golden
dialog: Hebe. Without my credibility everything
dialog: falls apart. So I dunno, maybe the
dialog: smartly move here is to just pretend
dialog: like this never happened? ---
text: Mel slides the photos towards Houseman.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D
dialog: Cause if you fuck me, you fuck yourself ---
text: hypothetically speaking.
text: Houseman stands there palpitating with rage, the desperation of
text: his predicament like a scar disfiguring his face.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: I wish the heart attack killed you.
dialog: 128.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I understand that this is difficult,
dialog: and I don't blame you for being upset.
dialog: But it's like you said, Larry, when
dialog: it comes to protecting’ the foundations
dialog: of our democracy.
dialog: (cuts a grin)
dialog: Sometimes you need to take it in the
dialog: ass for the team.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - MARRIOT HOTEL - MANHATTAN - DAY
text: Mel's cast is off and he's completely recovered. He stands in
text: front of a mirror in the bathroom --- adjusts his tie and primps
text: himself like an actor about to go on stage.
text: Max appears in the mirror in an open robe, nothing under it.
text: She comes up behind Mel and gives him a hug.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It's gonna be a helluva show.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah.
text: She hands Mel a small, thin BOX which has been wrapped.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It's that thing you wanted me to wrap
dialog: for Jimmy.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Oh right, thanks.
dialog: (smiles, gesturing to box)
dialog: Hey -- This was a beautiful touch to
dialog: the play, Max. One of those genius
dialog: little details I never woulda come up
dialog: with on my own.
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: It wasn't that big of a deal.
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: No, I was there --- It was a moment.
dialog: (locks eyes in mirror)
dialog: I couldn't have pulled this off without
dialog: you.
text: Mel turns around to face Max --- locks eyes with her.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: I love you Max.
text: A vulnerable, soul-stirring expression cracks across Max's face ---
text: and she gives Mel a deep, sensuous kiss.
text: We suddenly hear a BANGING on the door.
speaker_heading: GROSSWALD (0.S.)
dialog: Come on, Mel! We're gonna be late.
dialog: 129.
text: Giving Max a final kiss, Mel begins to head out of the bathroom ---
dialog: but is stopped my her voice...
speaker_heading: MAX
dialog: I love you too.
text: They exchange a terrified smile before Mel is out the door.
scene_heading: EXT. FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - MANHATTAN - DAY
text: The courtroom steps are a MEDIA CIRCUS --- Reporters, TV Crews,
text: Photographers all covering the first ABSCAM trial.
text: A_BLUE VAN pulls up. The doors open. Grosswald, Polk, and Boyle
text: all get out and form a human SHIELD around Mel. Mel uses a cane
text: to walk as they cut their way through the ocean of flashbulbs,
text: microphones and insanity.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - MANHATTAN - A LITTLE LATER
text: As Mel is ushered down the hall he suddenly catches sight of
text: Estelle, Willie and FRANK, Estelle's boyfriend, waiting by the
text: door to the witness chamber. Mel and Willie see each other and
text: huge smiles crack across both their faces...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Hey boychick, glad you made it ---
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Me too Pop ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So Grosswald here has got some prime
dialog: seats for you --- you're gonna be
dialog: sitting with all the FBI agents ---
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Cool ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: why don't you go with him now ---
dialog: I'll catch up with you later...
text: Grosswald ushers Willie down the hall and into the courtroom ---
text: leaving Mel standing there with Estelle, Boyle and Frank...
text: After an awkward beat, Mel looks to Frank and Boyle.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Could you guys give us a second?
text: Boyle and Frank step away giving them some privacy. Mel takes a
speaker_heading: oO.
dialog: beat to admire Estelle --- she oks fabulous, better than we've
dialog: ever seen her --- as though she's bloomed.
speaker_heading: MEL (CONT'D)
dialog: You look fantastic. Really ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Thanks, I feel good ---
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: You know I really appreciate you
dialog: bringing Willie down here --- so he
dialog: can see me like this ---
dialog: 130.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: He's your son ---
text: Mel nods... and then gestures to Frank...
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: So how are you and Frank doing?
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Things are good --- this is better
dialog: for me --- you know?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: I'm happy for you ---
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: You'll drop Willie off at school
dialog: tomorrow morning?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: ESTELLE
dialog: Break a leg up there...
text: With that, Estelle walks to Frank and they exit the courthouse
text: together. Boyle comes over and gives Mel an anxious look...
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: You ready?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: Yeah.
text: Mel hands Boyle the gift box.
speaker_heading: BOYLE
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: MEL
dialog: A little souvenir. Nothing fancy. But
dialog: I thought you'd appreciate it.
text: Mel gives Boyle a smile and wink and disappears into the Witness
text: Chamber, the Bailiff closing the door behind him.
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM - FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - MANHATTAN - LATER
text: The gallery's packed. Tension is thick. Congressman Ozzie Myers
text: and his Defense Team quietly confer on one side of the aisle.
text: Tuccio and his Staff are in a pregame huddle.
text: ANGLE CLOSE ON BOYLE, who's sitting in the last aisle opening
text: the gift. First he takes off the bow, then tears the paper
text: revealing a VELVET PEN BOX --- when suddenly ---
text: A solemn looking JUDGE appears behind the high bench.
speaker_heading: COURT BAILIFF
dialog: All rise! This court is now in session
dialog: the Honorable Judge Henry Pratt
dialog: residing.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The court settles down, everyone takes their seat.
dialog: 131.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: ; _(to bailiff)
dialog: Bring in the jury.
text: The jury files in and takes their seats.
speaker_heading: JUDGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
dialog: Mr. Tuccio, do the people wish to
dialog: call their next witness?
speaker_heading: TUCCIO
dialog: Yes, your Honor. The people call Melvin
dialog: Weinberg.
text: As the Bailiff leads Mel into the courtroom and ushers him
text: towards the witness stand, Boyle OPENS THE BOX in his hands.
text: Revealing; a cheap, gold-plated PEN and MECHANICAL PENCIL with
text: "BOARDWALK BANK" engraved onto the sides.
text: Boyle rubs his head --- like he doesn't want to smile --- he
text: doesn't want to laugh --- but he can't help it. He looks up at
text: Mel, shaking his head in reluctant awe and affection ---
text: ANGLE CLOSE ON MEL standing in the witness stand.
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: Raise your right hand.
dialog: (Mel raises right hand)
dialog: Do you swear to tell the truth, nothing
dialog: but the truth, so help you God?
text: Mel turns, looks straight into the camera and cuts a razor-thin
text: almost imperceptible smile --- like a knife gleaming briefly
text: from concealment.
text: WE CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: AMERICAN BULLSHIT
dialog: The ABSCAM operation ultimately resulted in an unprecedented
dialog: number of arrests, but it was the indictment and conviction
dialog: of six U.S Congressmen and one U.S Senator that came to
dialog: define its legacy as one biggest political scandals in
dialog: American history.
dialog: In almost every case the accused claimed they were entrapped
text: by the FBI and used the tape of Mel’s “pep talk” with the
dialog: Senator to support this allegation. Nevertheless, the
dialog: defense was not able to overcome the power of the video
text: evidence of the defendants taking bribe money.
dialog: ABSCAM marred the public’s trust of Congress and its effect
dialog: on the Democratic Party was especially severe. The scandal
dialog: was one of the key factors that helped deliver the 1980
dialog: Presidential election to Ronald Reagan, which launched a
dialog: quarter-century long period of Republican rule in America.
dialog: ABSCAM’s impact on organized crime was no less significant
dialog: in that it helped undermine the Mafia’s master plan to
dialog: expand and control the gambling industry. After the scandal
dialog: broke every single ballot measure to legalize gambling was
dialog: defeated by the voters -- six different campaigns in six
dialog: different states.
dialog: As a result, the mob lost hundreds of millions of dollars
dialog: and the secret point holders were eventually forced to sell
dialog: their interests in Atlantic City casinos to the same
text: conglomerates who muscled them out of Las Vegas.
text: Today Mel Weinberg and Maxine Gardner reside in Florida.
dialog: 
