dialog: 
speaker_heading: AMERICAN GANGSTER
dialog: Written by
dialog: Steven Zaillian
scene_heading: FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT
dialog: July 27, 2006
scene_heading: 1 EXT. JAZZ CLUB - DAY 1
text: A tall, handsome man in a dark suit emerges from a Lincoln
text: Towncar and enters a small, basement R&amp;B/Jazz club.
scene_heading: 2 INT. JAZZ CLUB - DAY 2
text: He approaches a booth, says something in the din to the men
text: there, then calmly shoots them and exits.
speaker_heading: AMERICAN GANGSTER
scene_heading: 3 EXT. HARLEM STREET - DAY (NOVEMBER) 3
text: Bumpy Johnson, an elderly but still sturdy black man,
text: elegantly dressed - cashmere overcoat, gloves, Homburg -
text: stands in falling snow atop a flatbed truck - as he does
dialog: every Thanksgiving - tossing down turkeys to the poor -
text: like a benign king.
dialog: Legend: Harlem
text: A younger man, the gunman from the club - Frank Lucas -
text: Bumpy's driver/bodyguard/collector/protege - watches from
dialog: below.
scene_heading: 4 INT/EXT. STREET / DISCOUNT EMPORIUM - DAY (NOVEMBER) 4
text: Whispering gunfire from a television set veiled by
text: foreground snow: Soldiers in the jungles of Vietnam in
text: 1970. A rich, cultured, authoritative voice offers:
speaker_heading: BUMPY O/S
dialog: This is the problem. This is what's
dialog: wrong with America.
text: The war footage multiplies by twenty: a stack of TVs with
text: price tags dangling from the knobs behind a display window.
speaker_heading: BUMPY O/S
dialog: It's gotten so big you can't find your
dialog: way.
text: People on the sidewalk, out of respect or fear, part to let
text: Frank and Bumpy and Bumpy's German shepherd pass.
speaker_heading: BUMPY
text: The corner grocery's a supermarket.
dialog: Candy store's a MacDonald's. And this
dialog: place.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 2.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 4 CONTINUED: 4
speaker_heading: BUMPY (CONT'D)
dialog: Where's the pride of ownership here?
dialog: Where's the personal service? Does
dialog: anybody work here?
text: Inside, the emporium is vast, with aisles that seem to
text: stretch off into infinity. The TVs give way to a display
text: window full of Japanese stereo componentry.
speaker_heading: BUMPY
dialog: What right do they have cutting out the
text: suppliers, pushing all the middlemen out,
dialog: buying direct from the manufacturer -
dialog: Sony this, Toshiba that, all them Chinks -
dialog: putting Americans out of work?
text: He's not really asking Frank, so Frank doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: BUMPY
dialog: What am I supposed to do with a place
dialog: like this, Frank? Who am I supposed to
dialog: ask for, the assistant manager?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: This is the problem. This is the way it
dialog: is now: You can't find the heart of
dialog: anything to stick the knife.
text: Bumpy stops before a display of cameras and stares in.
text: They're all pointed at him as a pain grips his chest and he
text: sinks to his knees. Frank kneels down.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What is it?
text: Bumpy seems unable to speak, looks to Frank confused.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Somebody call an ambulance!
text: But the store suddenly seems empty. Frank yells into the
text: emporium but can't be heard above the Muzak and the cash
text: registers ringing up sales Bumpy will never see a piece of.
text: Looking up at Frank, Bumpy manages weakly -
speaker_heading: BUMPY
dialog: Forget it, Frank. No one's in charge.
scene_heading: 5 EXT. BUMPY'S APARTMENT - DAY 5
text: Limousines from the funeral disgorge mourners: family,
text: friends, celebrities, politicians. Cops on horseback move
text: through the enormous crowd that has gathered to watch. FBI
text: agents in cars snap pictures with long lenses of Italian
dialog: mobsters like Albert Tosca.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 3.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 5 CONTINUED: 5
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: - whose passing has brought together a
dialog: who's who of mourners on this chilly
text: afternoon. The Governor has come down.
dialog: The mayor of New York - its Chief of
dialog: Police and Commissioner - sports and
dialog: entertainment luminaries -
text: A white Bentley pulls up, disgorging Jackie Fox - the
text: original Superfly - and his entourage. With his trademark
text: tinted Gucci glasses on, he happily poses for anyone with a
text: camera - including the Feds - before going inside.
scene_heading: 6 INT. BUMPY'S APARTMENT - LATER 6
text: The report continues on a TV no one's really watching here:
dialog: a March of Time-like history of Bumpy Johnson, famed Harlem
text: gangster, Robin Hood and killer.
speaker_heading: REPORTER ON TV
dialog: He was a Great Man, according to the
text: eulogies. A giving man. A man of the
dialog: people. No one chose to include in their
dialog: remembrances the word most often
dialog: associated with Ellsworth Bumpy Johnson:
dialog: Gangster.
text: Sitting off by himself in Bumpy's elegant garden apartment,
text: heretofore his private sanctuary, Frank surveys the mourners
text: circling the place like vultures:
text: Tango Black, a huge brute, scavenging the catered food and
text: tended bar ... Jackie Fox, surrounded by his ever-present
text: coterie of sycophants ... Albert Tosca, an elegant Italian
text: capo, and an underling, Rossi, at the bar.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: White wine, please.
text: A white man who looks like a banker - and is - sits down
text: next to Frank.
speaker_heading: BANKER
dialog: How you doing, Frank?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: All right.
speaker_heading: BANKER
dialog: What a loss.
dialog: (Frank nods)
dialog: How are you otherwise? Things okay
dialog: financially?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 4.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 6 CONTINUED: 6
text: Frank doesn't say. It feels unseemly to him to be talking
text: about money here. He watches Tango carelessly set a watery
text: glass of ice on an antique inlaid chess table.
speaker_heading: BANKER
dialog: Bumpy set something up for you?
text: Frank excuses himself without an answer, crosses to where
text: Tango left the glass, and sets it on a coaster.
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: Hey, Frank, get me an ashtray while
dialog: you're at it.
text: Bumpy's German shepherd watches as Frank reaches into his
text: jacket, revealing a gun nestled in its shoulder holster. He
text: takes out a handkerchief, wipes the condensation dry, opens
text: a drawer and removes an ashtray. He holds it out to Tango -
text: who isn't sure it's not a dare and decides to wander off.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I know you're hurting, Frank. So am I.
text: Frank sits back down with Charlie Williams, an older dope
dialog: man.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: You going to be all right?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: I'm sure Bumpy never told you, but he
dialog: made me promise, anything ever happened
dialog: to him, I'd make sure you didn't go
dialog: without.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'll be fine, Charlie. Half the people
dialog: here owed Bumpy money when he died. A
dialog: lot of money. If they think I'm going
dialog: to forget to collect, they're wrong.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: That's the spirit. Go get them.
text: On the TV, over archive film and photographs of crime
dialog: figures from the 1940's and `50's, the opinion is offered
dialog: that Bumpy's death "marks the end of an era ..."
dialog: 5.
dialog: 
scene_heading: A7 INT. CLASSROOM - NIGHT A7
text: A figure, his back to us, walks slowly toward a blackboard
text: like a man to the gallows.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V.O.
dialog: I live in fear of hearing my name
dialog: called.
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: Mr. Roberts, Give us U.S. vs. Meade -
speaker_heading: RICHIE V.O.
dialog: Of walking up there, turning around,
dialog: knowing every one of them knows more
dialog: than I do -
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR
dialog: Subject, issues, what the determination
dialog: was and what it means to us today.
text: Richie Roberts turns and faces his classmates, all of them a
dialog: decade or more younger than him.
scene_heading: 7 EXT. MOTEL - NEW JERSEY - DAY 7
text: Harlem's jagged teeth skyline juts across the river at the
text: other end of the George Washington Bridge. On this side - a
text: sledgehammer gripped in Richie's fist, on the move, suddenly
text: fills the frame.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You know the Number 1 fear of most
text: people isn't dying; it's public speaking.
text: They get physically ill. They throw up.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: And that's what you want to do for a
dialog: living.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I don't like being like that. I want to
dialog: beat it.
text: Armed with the sledgehammer, Richie and his partner - Javy
text: Rivera - come past a seedy motel office where a TV shows
dialog: another report about Bumpy Johnson.
dialog: Legend: New Jersey
text: A motel clerk looks up, glimpses the sledgehammer -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 6.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 7 CONTINUED: 7
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Hey -
text: Rivera flashes a New Jersey detective's shield without
text: breaking stride. Takes a subpoena out of another pocket.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Who's going to do this?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: He knows me, he'll take it from me.
dialog: I've known him since high school.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Just throw it in, he doesn't take it.
dialog: That's good service.
text: They reach a particular motel room door. Rivera knocks.
text: The door opens the length of a chain, revealing a wise guy
text: in an undershirt, who, when he sees the subpoena, start to
dialog: close the door -
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Throw it -
text: As Richie flings the subpoena in, the door slams on his
text: hand. He wails in agony, tries to shoulder it open, hears
text: the dead bolt lock on the other side, feels Campizi's teeth
text: bite into his fingers, watches his blood run down the frame.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Down -
text: Richie hangs down from his hand as the sledgehammer swings
text: past his head shattering the door -
scene_heading: 8 INT/EXT. MOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 8
text: The door rips from its hinges and the detectives crash in.
text: The wise guy - Campizi - hurries for the bathroom, slams the
dialog: door. This one's hollow and the detectives more easily
dialog: break through it -
text: Campizi tries to climb out the bathroom window. Richie
text: grabs him, throws him into the shower stall, taking the
text: plastic curtain down with them, smearing it with blood as
text: Richie beats at him before Rivera can pull him off.
scene_heading: 9 INT. AMBULANCE - MOVING - DAY 9
text: A male paramedic attends to Campizi's bloodied face while a
text: female paramedic cleans Richie's bloodied hand.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 7.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 9 CONTINUED: 9
speaker_heading: CAMPIZI
dialog: I swear to God, Richie, I didn't know it
dialog: was you. I would never slam a door on
dialog: your hand. Knowingly.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You bit my fuckin hand -
text: Richie lunges at him, hits him again with his injured hand -
dialog: which hurts Richie more than it does Campizi. The
text: paramedics manage to pull him away.
speaker_heading: CAMPIZI
dialog: What can we do, Richie? You don't want
dialog: to do this. For old times sake, what can
dialog: we do? Who do you want? Who can I give
dialog: you? You want Big Sal's bookie? You want
dialog: his accountant? I'll give him to you.
text: Richie regards him a moment. A policy ring's accountant
text: wouldn't be bad. He glances back to his paramedic dabbing
text: at his bloody hand, and notices she's not bad-looking. She
text: smiles back.
scene_heading: 10 INT. NY POLICE HQ - ENTRANCE/STAIRS - DAY 10
text: Four men in long black leather coats stride toward like
dialog: they own the city. It's impossible to tell if they're cops
dialog: or gangsters.
dialog: Legend: New York City
scene_heading: 11 INT. NEW YORK POLICE ANNEX - PROPERTY ROOM - DAY 11
text: One of the same undercover cops - Detective Trupo -
text: scribbles a signature and badge number different from the
text: one on his gold shield lying next to the voucher requesting
dialog: evidence needed in court.
text: He pushes the voucher under a sign - "All Handguns and
text: Narcotics Before 10am Next Window" - to a clerk who takes it
text: past floor-to-ceiling shelves covered with files, plastic
text: bags bulging with handguns, knives and gambling receipts.
text: Bulkier items - like shotguns and baseball bats - lie
text: unwrapped with dangling tags.
text: The clerk reaches a chain-link cage where the most valuable
text: items are locked up - narcotics, pornography, cash - checks
text: the voucher against tags, takes down an old green suitcase.
dialog: 8.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 12 EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 12
text: Trupo's car - a Shelby Mustang - roars up. He climbs out,
text: crosses to a warehouse with the suitcase as the other three
text: SIU Princes of the City follow from another car, cradling
dialog: grocery bags.
scene_heading: 13 INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 13
text: Trupo snaps the suitcase open revealing five half-kilo bags
text: of uncut heroin in clear plastic bags. The other cops pull
text: from the grocery bags: a Pyrex mixing bowl, flour sifter,
text: boxes of milk-sugar, latex kitchen gloves, a medical scale,
text: and yellow baggies.
text: Hands peel back the distinctive black and green "evidence"
text: tape on the clear plastic bags. Dump the heroin into twenty
text: yellow baggies. A half-kilo of lactose is poured into each
text: of the now-empty property room bags.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
text: Now just enough for the reagent test.
text: He removes one tablespoon of heroin from each of the
text: baggies, and the now-almost-heroin-free powder is mixed
text: through the flour sifter, poured back into the clear bags,
text: the tape resealed, the bags returned to the suitcase.
scene_heading: 14 INT. NY COURTROOM - DAY 14
text: The suitcase and "heroin," and some weapons and money, have
text: been arranged on an evidence table with the care of a Macy's
text: display window. Trupo - the officer in charge of the case -
dialog: watches the jury files in -
scene_heading: 15 EXT. UNDER EXPRESSWAY - DAY 15
text: A Lincoln Continental pulls up. Trupo climbs out of his
text: Shelby with a sports bag, crosses to the Lincoln, climbs in
text: back where an Italian wise guy - Rossi - sits. Trupo unzips
text: the bag revealing the recut heroin - in the yellow plastic.
speaker_heading: ROSSI V/O
dialog: This is the French Connection dope.
dialog: The same dope Popeye Doyle and Sonny
dialog: Grasso took from us.
speaker_heading: 16 OMIT 16 OMIT
dialog: 9.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 17 INT. ITALIAN BAR - NY - DAY 17
text: Frank comes into an empty bar, chairs up on tables. A
text: middle-aged man mopping up glances up at him as he crosses
text: to a back room.
speaker_heading: ROSSI V/O
dialog: They seize it, arrest everybody,
dialog: whack it up and sell it back to us.
dialog: Our dope. They been living off it for
dialog: years, these New York cops.
scene_heading: 18 INT. ITALIAN BAR - BACK ROOM - NY - DAY 18
text: Several ounces of the dope sits in foreground on a table.
speaker_heading: ROSSI
dialog: They basically control the market with
dialog: it. What the fuck has happened to the
dialog: world, Frank?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Fuckin crooks.
text: Rossi, who looks more like a middle-aged accountant than the
text: Italian dope supplier he is, makes two espressos.
speaker_heading: ROSSI
dialog: Sad about Bumpy.
text: Behind Frank, a TV airs a report by Walter Cronkite on the
dialog: heroin problem among GIs in Vietnam.
speaker_heading: ROSSI
dialog: Things are never going to be the same in
dialog: Harlem. The girls, the clubs, the music -
dialog: walk down the street, nobody bothers you
dialog: because Bumpy's making sure of it.
dialog: (hands Frank one of the
dialog: espressos)
dialog: How bad is it there now?
text: 18pt FLASHCUTS TO HARLEM 18pt
text: Guys barge into a room, steal money from a crap game at
text: gunpoint - Cops push guys against a bar, empty their pockets
text: - A dealer shoots another dealer in an alley -
scene_heading: 18pt BACK TO THE HOTEL ROOM 18pt
speaker_heading: FRANK
text: It's chaos. Every gorilla for himself.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 10.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 18pt CONTINUED: 18pt
speaker_heading: ROSSI
dialog: Who can live like that? There has to
dialog: be order. That would never happen with
dialog: Italians. More important than any one
dialog: man's life - is order.
scene_heading: 19 EXT. HARLEM - DAY 19
text: A street sign on a corner: 116th and 8th Avenue.
scene_heading: 20 INT. DINER - HARLEM - DAY 20
text: As is his custom, Frank eats breakfast alone. A middle-
text: aged waitress appears when he's done, picks up his plate
text: and refills his coffee.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Thank you, Charlene. Last one.
speaker_heading: CHARLENE
dialog: It's all right with me, Frank, you can
dialog: stay all day if you want, but I wouldn't.
dialog: It's nice outside.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Then maybe I'll have to go for a walk.
dialog: Just cause you said so.
text: She smiles and leaves. Frank pours some sugar in his
text: coffee. Someone taps on the window and he looks up, sees
text: two servicemen - one in uniform - one he recognizes.
scene_heading: 21 INT. REDTOP'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY 21
text: Frank leads the servicemen up the stairs of a building.
scene_heading: 22 INT. REDTOP'S APARTMENT - DAY 22
text: Corner apartment above the street. A girl sits smoking at
text: a work table covered with drug-cutting apparatus. Another -
text: Frank's cutter and sometimes-girlfriend, Red Top - sets a
text: couple of packets of heroin in front of the servicemen.
speaker_heading: RED TOP
dialog: On the house for our men in uniform.
speaker_heading: SERVICEMAN 1
dialog: Why, thank you, sugar, that's very kind.
speaker_heading: RED TOP
dialog: Thank Frank.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 11.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 22 CONTINUED: 22
dialog: Frank nods, you're welcome before the man can thank him.
text: The servicemen start cooking up the dope.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: How's Nate? You seen him?
speaker_heading: SERVICEMAN 1
text: All the time. Nate is everywhere.
dialog: He's good. Got himself a club now.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Where, Saigon?
speaker_heading: SERVICEMAN 1
dialog: Bangkok.
speaker_heading: SERVICEMAN 2
dialog: I don't think he's ever coming home.
text: Regarding the dope as the servicemen shoot it up -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You're gonna have to boot it a couple
dialog: times. Cops keep cutting it, selling it,
dialog: cutting it -
speaker_heading: SERVICEMAN 1
dialog: I don't want to say anything cause the
dialog: price is right - but the shit in Nam is
dialog: way, way, way, way, way -
text: He begins to nod out before he can finish the sentence.
speaker_heading: 23 OMIT 23 OMIT
scene_heading: 24 EXT. SOCIAL CLUB - NEWARK - LATE AFTERNOON 24
text: Across the river, Richie, Rivera and Campizi sit in the car
text: parked across from a closed social club. A man carrying a
text: grocery bag comes out and Campizi ducks lower in the seat.
speaker_heading: CAMPIZI
dialog: That's him.
text: Newsboy Moriarty's mob accountant puts the grocery bag in
text: the trunk of a car, climbs in behind the wheel.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. NEWARK - SCRAP METAL YARD - LATE AFTERNOON 25
text: From the parked car they observe the accountant putting
text: another bag in his trunk.
dialog: 12.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 26 EXT. STREET - NEWARK - LATE AFTERNOON 26
text: He comes out of another place with another bag. To Campizi -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: All right. Get lost. Get out.
text: Campizi slinks out of the car. Richie and Rivera follow
text: after Newsboy Moriarty's accountant's car.
scene_heading: 27 EXT. PARKING LOT - LATE AFTERNOON 27
text: They tail the car into a lot, park and watch the accountant
text: leave his car and get into another car that's parked there.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: We gonna stay with him or the car?
dialog: Whatever they do, they'll have to decide quick.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Let's see who comes for the car.
scene_heading: 28 EXT. PARKING LOT - NEWARK - NIGHT 28
text: All the other cars are gone. Rivera climbs into Richie's
text: with coffee and a Coke in a bag, hands him the can.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Think he made us?
text: Richie doesn't know. Glances at his watch. Cranes in his
text: seat to look behind them.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You called for the warrant? Where are
dialog: they?
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: I just called. I called and walked back
text: here and ten seconds has gone by.
text: Richie watches an attendant lock up, listens to the street
text: lamps buzz, grows impatient. Indicating the other car:
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: We saw him with the slips, Javy.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: You saw policy slips? You saw grocery
dialog: bags. You don't know what's in them.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 13.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 28 CONTINUED: 28
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Yes, I do, and so do you, don't give me
dialog: that bullshit -
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: What's the rush? Half an hour the
dialog: warrant'll be here -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I got night school.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Guess you're going to miss it.
text: (Rivera sips at his coffee;
dialog: then:)
dialog: You know, what you were saying before
dialog: - about throwing up in front of people -
dialog: money will take that feeling away.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Not when it's less.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Less than what.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Than what I make now.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: No lawyer on earth makes less than a cop.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
text: They do in the Prosecutor's Office.
dialog: Three thousand less.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: You're fuckin kidding me.
text: Richie isn't kidding. Rivera stares at him like he's crazy.
text: Richie checks his watch. He's waited long enough.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Fuck this -
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Richie -
text: Richie gets out, opens the trunk, grabs a Slimjim and
text: bolt cutters, cuts through a gate chain and strides to the
text: accountant's car, Rivera following. Richie trips the
text: passenger door lock and pulls at the trunk release, and, as
text: he comes around back to search it -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 14.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 28 CONTINUED: 28
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Check inside.
dialog: Rivera may as well; the damage to the case, if there is one
text: anymore, is done. He crawls inside the car to look under
text: the seats and in the glove compartment. Gravely -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Javy ...
text: Richie's staring into the trunk like there's a body inside.
text: Rivera comes over, takes a look, sees it's money: stacks of
text: it rubber-banded together, spilling from grocery bags - more
text: than either of them has ever seen. As the trunk closes -
scene_heading: 29 EXT. PARKING LOT / RICHIE'S CAR - LATER - NIGHT 29
text: Richie and Rivera sit in their car in silence, staring out
text: at the car with the money in it. Eventually -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: This isn't a couple of bucks.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: It's the same thing. In principle.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: We're talking about principle?
speaker_heading: RIVERA
text: Richie, a cop who turns in this kind of
dialog: money says one thing: He'll turn in cops
dialog: who take money. We'll be pariahs.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: We're fucked either way.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Not if we keep it. Only if we don't.
dialog: Then we're fucked, you're right. But not
dialog: if we keep it.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: (more to himself)
dialog: Yes, we are.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Goddamn it, did we ask for this? Did we
dialog: put a gun to someone's head and say, Give
dialog: us your money? Cops kill cops they can't
dialog: trust. We can't turn it in.
text: They regard each other again in silence ...
dialog: 15.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 30 INT. NEWARK POLICE STATION - LATER - NIGHT 30
text: As a police captain counts the stacks of money, Lou Toback,
text: Richie's superior from the prosecutors office, walks in, his
text: night out interrupted by this emergency. He crossed to where
text: Richie and Rivera sit alone in a corner. Quietly:
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: How much.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Nine hundred and eighty thousand.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: What happened to the rest?
text: It's a joke but isn't funny, not even to Toback. He regards
dialog: his men who turned it in, then the other cops in the place -
text: who are watching them and the money being counted. Toback
text: walks over to the captain, and, quietly:
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: What're you doing counting this in front
dialog: of everybody? Are you out of your fuckin
dialog: mind? Take it into a room. Now.
dialog: Richie's glance to Rivera says, You're right, we're fucked.
scene_heading: 31 INT/EXT. NEWARK POLICE STATION - PRE-DAWN 31
text: As Richie leaves alone, he's aware of all the eyes on him -
text: knowing the other cops' looks don't signify awe or respect,
text: but contempt and fear, like Rivera predicted. Neither will
text: ever be trusted again. He climbs into his car, drives off.
scene_heading: 32 INT. DINER - HARLEM - DAY 32
text: Tango and his bodyguard come in and approach Frank's table
text: where he reads the morning paper as he eats breakfast.
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: Didn't you see the jar, Frank?
dialog: I think you walked right past it.
text: Frank ignores him, forks at his eggs, eats. Tango sits.
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: The money jar. On the corner. What I
dialog: got to do, put a sign on it?
text: Frank indicates that he would answer if his mouth wasn't
text: full. He swallows finally, but then only reaches for his
text: coffee cup to take a sip, further irritating Tango.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 16.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 32 CONTINUED: 32
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: Bumpy don't own 116th Street no more,
dialog: Frank. Bumpy don't own no real estate in
dialog: Harlem no more. I'm the landlord now and
dialog: the lease is twenty-percent.
text: Frank dabs at his mouth with a napkin and gives Tango a look
dialog: that says that won't be happening.
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: Then don't sell dope, Frank. Get a
dialog: fuckin job. You need a job? You can be
dialog: my driver, drive me around, open my door,
dialog: yes, sir, no sir, where to, sir, right
dialog: away, Massa Johnson, sir.
dialog: Right now Tango is dead. No doubt about it. On the
text: surface, though, Frank remains cool.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Twenty percent?
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: Of every dollar. Every VIG, every
dialog: truckload, every girl, every ounce. In
dialog: the jar.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Twenty percent's my profit. If I'm
dialog: giving it to you then what am I doing?
dialog: Twenty percent puts me, and everyone you
dialog: know, out of business, which puts you out
dialog: of business.
dialog: (reaches for his breakfast
dialog: check)
dialog: There are ways to make money
dialog: legitimately, and then there's this way.
dialog: Not even Bumpy took twenty percent.
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: Bumpy's fuckin dead.
text: Frank regards Tango a moment, gets up, takes out his money
text: clip, covers the check on the table with a five, peels off a
text: $1 bill from the clip, tosses it down in front of Tango.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: There. That's twenty-percent.
text: As he turns and leaves, Tango watches after him ...
dialog: 17.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 33 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 33
text: Stitched-up, black and blue hands dump a can of soup in a
text: pot, put it on the stove.
scene_heading: 34 INT. FRANK'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - INTERCUT 34
text: A pencil clutched by long fingers scribbles figures. But
dialog: no matter how many times Frank does the arithmetic, there's
text: not much left, he calculates, after he pays the Italian
dialog: suppliers and, if he were to, Tango.
scene_heading: 35 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - CONTINUED 35
text: Richie has moved to a small desk cluttered with law
text: textbooks. He cracks one open to study for the New Jersey
text: Bar exam as he eats the soup out of the pot he heated it in.
text: Above him on the wall is a framed photograph of Joe Louis
text: standing over a sprawled-on-the-mat Billy Conn.
scene_heading: 36 EXT. CONEY ISLAND - BEACH - DAY - INTERCUT 36
text: A bleak day. Seagulls fighting over scraps on the sand as
text: others hover overhead, flapping and cawing. Alone near the
text: water, Frank tosses a stick for the German shepherd he
dialog: inherited.
scene_heading: 37 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - INTERCUT 37
text: Richie opens a small wooden box in his bleak apartment,
text: revealing an ounce of marijuana, rolling papers and clips.
text: As he rolls a joint -
speaker_heading: BUMPY V/O
dialog: A leader is like a shepherd -
scene_heading: 38 EXT. CONEY ISLAND - BEACH - DAY - CONTINUED 38
text: The sounds of the gulls and surf and roller coaster begin to
text: fade as Frank throws the stick again.
speaker_heading: BUMPY V/O
text: Sends the fast nimble sheep out front,
text: and the others follow as the shepherd
text: walks quietly behind -
text: The dog retrieves the stick, but this time - somehow - it's
text: to Bumpy's hand he returns it. Frank listens attentively.
speaker_heading: BUMPY
dialog: He's got the stick - the cane - and
dialog: he'll use if he has to.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 18.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 38 CONTINUED: 38
speaker_heading: BUMPY (CONT'D)
text: But most of the time he doesn't have to.
text: He moves the whole herd - quietly.
text: Bumpy smiles and tosses the stick.
scene_heading: 39 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - INTERCUT 39
text: The smoke from the joint rises to the ceiling as Richie
dialog: studies.
scene_heading: 40 EXT. CONEY ISLAND - BEACH - DAY - CONTINUED 40
text: The dog trots back to Bumpy and Frank with the stick.
scene_heading: 41 EXT. BOARDWALK - CONEY ISLAND - LATER 41
text: Hot dog stand. Bumpy hands a hot dog to Frank, holds out
dialog: another to the shepherd. To camera:
speaker_heading: BUMPY
dialog: What right do they have cutting out the
dialog: suppliers, the middlemen, buying direct,
dialog: putting Americans out of work ... This
dialog: is the way it is now, Frank.
text: Frank nods. The vender hands him a napkin. The shepherd
text: is still with him, but Bumpy is gone, and the gulls and the
text: people on the roller coaster squeal as Frank comes out of
text: his meditative trance with an idea.
scene_heading: 42 CLOSE-UP: (DOCTOR'S OFFICE) 42
text: A needle pierces the crook of Frank's arm. Slight grimace.
text: A cotton ball is pushed onto the puncture. Malaria shot.
scene_heading: 43 CLOSE-UP: (PHOTOGRAPHY SHOP) 43
text: A strobe lights up Frank's face: a passport photo.
scene_heading: 44 CLOSE-UP: (POST OFFICE) 44
text: The photo and a duplicate are stapled to a passport
dialog: application.
scene_heading: 45 INT. CHEMICAL BANK - SAFETY-DEPOSIT ROOM - DAY 45
text: Keys turn the locks of a safety-deposit box. The lid lifts
text: revealing decks of cash. Frank takes it all out, slips one
text: slender packet into Bumpy's banker's jacket pocket.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Get yourself a new suit.
dialog: 19.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 46 INT. CHEMICAL BANK - VICE PRESIDENT'S OFFICE - DAY 46
text: Under portraits of bank Vice Presidents before him, the man
text: types out a Chemical Bank check for Frank for $400,000.
scene_heading: 47 - 48 OMIT 47 - 48 OMIT
scene_heading: 49 EXT. PARK - NEWARK - DAY - SAME TIME 49
text: The sound of the plane growls and fades overhead as Richie's
text: ex-wife keeps an eye on their son playing on a grassy area.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: I don't know, Richie.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: It couldn't be avoided. Next weekend
dialog: I'll be able to take him.
text: She regards him with a weary look, but he's looking over at
text: one of the other - better-looking - moms in the park.
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: I'm moving.
text: He looks back, not sure he heard right.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What? Where?
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: To the St. Regis, what do you care.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: My sister's.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Your sister's. In Vegas?
text: He glances away to a sound: shattering glass. Some teen-
text: agers breaking bottles on the ground.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You can't move to Vegas. Not with
dialog: Michael anyway.
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: What am I supposed to do with him? Leave
dialog: him with you? There's a picture.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 20.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 49 CONTINUED: 49
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: (to the vandals)
dialog: Hey, you want to shut up over there?
text: The teenagers ignore him. He tries to ignore them, but it's
text: hard with the constant noise.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: No court will allow it for one thing.
dialog: I won't allow it.
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: You?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: When am I supposed to see my son?
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: Last weekend!
text: Their son glances over at them. Richie looks over at the
text: teenagers again breaking bottles, then back to Laurie.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Laurie, you can't raise a kid in Las
dialog: Vegas.
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: Oh, like this is a good environment.
dialog: Around your friends. There are less
text: creeps in Vegas.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What's he going to grow up to be in a
dialog: mobbed up place like that? What are you
dialog: thinking?
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: I'm thinking - Richie - of him!
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Goddamn it -
text: The noise of the glass is driving him crazy. He strides
text: over to the teenagers, who look at him like, What are you
dialog: gonna do, old man, it's four against one.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I told you nice to shut the fuck up.
dialog: Now I'm gonna kill you.
text: He pulls out his gun and aims it at one of them, then the
text: others. All instinctively try to cover their heads.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 21.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 49 CONTINUED: 49
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Pick up the fuckin glass!
text: As they dive to their knees to do what they're told, Laurie
text: walks away with her son, who looks back over his shoulder at
text: his father with his gun out.
scene_heading: 50 EXT. BANGKOK - NIGHT 50
text: Frank sits in the back of a motor samlor. Bicycles dart
text: around it like flies.
scene_heading: 51 - 52 OMIT 51 - 52 OMIT
scene_heading: 53 INT. SOUL BROTHERS BAR - NIGHT 53
dialog: The clientele is almost exclusively black servicemen on R&amp;R
text: and Asian women. A trio of ex-GI's plays authentic Southern
text: blues on a small stage. Ham hocks and collard greens come
text: out of the kitchen. Smoke chokes the place.
text: Frank, one of the few men not in uniform, and not drunk or
text: stoned, sits alone at a table with a Coca-Cola and surveys
text: the activity: Dope being rolled. Dope being smoked. Dope
text: being shot. GI's and prostitutes climbing a staircase.
text: His eyes follow an Army Master Sergeant, moving among the
text: tables as if checking on the GI's well being. But at some,
text: his hand takes money, leaves in its place packets of powder.
text: The Sergeant feels eyes on him and glances up, catching
text: Frank watching him from across the room. He squints through
text: the smoke at the figure at the table in the shadows, and, in
dialog: a kind of shock, more to himself -
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Frank - ?
text: Frank half-lifts his glass to wave, and Nate beams.
scene_heading: 54 INT. SOUL BROTHERS BAR - NIGHT 54
text: Frank has guests at his table now: his cousin Nate the
text: Sergeant, and two young Asian wise guys. They talk about
dialog: him in Thai (subtitled):
speaker_heading: THAI
dialog: He say how much he wants?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: He said "a lot." What that means, I
dialog: don't know. Four or five keys?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 22.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 54 CONTINUED: 54
text: The Thais regard Frank a moment, size him up.
speaker_heading: THAI
dialog: He's your cousin.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: My cousin-in-law. My ex-wife's cousin.
speaker_heading: THAI
dialog: Ask him how much he wants.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: How much you gonna want, Frank?
speaker_heading: FRANK
text: A hundred kilos.
text: Nate blinks like there's something in his eye ...
scene_heading: 55 EXT. BANGKOK - STREET VENDER - DAY 55
text: Steam and neon. Frank and Nate at a crowded stand.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: No one I know can get that much. It'd
dialog: have to be pieced together from several
dialog: suppliers and none of it's gonna be 100-
dialog: percent pure.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: That's not what I want.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I know that. But that means dealing
text: with the Chiu-Chou syndicates in Cholon
dialog: or Saigon - if they'll deal with you -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: No, even then it's too late. It's been
dialog: chopped. I want to get it where they get
dialog: it. From the source.
text: Nate stares at him ... then laughs. Frank doesn't.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You're gonna go get it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Why not.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: You're gonna go into the fuckin jungle -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 23.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 55 CONTINUED: 55
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I've lived in jungles all my (life) -
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: No. This is the jungle. Tigers.
dialog: Vietcong. The fuckin snakes alone will
dialog: kill you.
scene_heading: AA56 INT. NEW JERSEY BOARD OF BAR EXAMINERS - DAY AA56
text: A room of student-type desks and no character. Richie,
dialog: and fifty others, have been here for hours taking the exam
text: less than half of them will pass.
scene_heading: A56 EXT. JUNGLE - DAY A56
text: A motley bunch of Thai thugs and black American soldiers
text: with automatic weapons ride mules through the dense jungle
text: with Nate and Frank, who - armed with a pistol, a rifle and
text: ammo bandolier like Pancho Villa - is enjoying himself.
text: From his POV, the jungle canopy suddenly opens up on a poppy
text: field the size of Manhattan. Frank stares down at it.
scene_heading: B56 EXT. JUNGLE RISE / OPIUM FARM - DAY B56
text: On the ground now with their small private army, Nate speaks
text: with one of the Thais, then translates for Frank.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: He says this whole area's controlled
dialog: by the Kuomintang - Chiang Kai-Shek's
text: defeated army.
text: Some of whom they can see down below on the opium farm -
text: Chinese soldiers with outdated weapons. Frank tips his head
dialog: to Nate at some other figures below -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: They ain't Chinese.
text: A handful of better-armed American sentries at the perimeter
text: of the farm. CIA. Frank, Nate and the others hang back as
text: one of the Thais steps ahead to speak to the guerillas.
scene_heading: C56 EXT. OPIUM FARM - LATER C56
dialog: The processing center for the entire region. The Thai
text: translator is with Frank to negotiate with a vanquished
text: Chinese general. Other Americans and Thais guard them
text: while the Chinese with their CIA advisors guard them.
dialog: 24.
dialog: 
scene_heading: D56 INT. BAMBOO DWELLING - LATER - DAY D56
text: The Chinese general examines Frank's papers - passport,
text: visa, bank receipts - and lots of cash - then studies Frank.
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: How would you get it into the States?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What do you care?
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: Who do you work for in there?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What do you care?
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: Who are you really?
speaker_heading: FRANK
text: It says right there. Frank Lucas.
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: I mean, who you represent?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Me.
text: The man doesn't believe it, but lets it go.
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: You think you're going to take a hundred
dialog: kilos of heroin into the US and you don't
dialog: work for anyone? Someone is going to
dialog: allow that?
text: Frank shrugs. The general regards one of his men. In
dialog: Chinese, subtitled:
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: I don't believe a word of this.
dialog: The general regards the cash and paperwork again for a
dialog: moment. And, to Frank:
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: After this first purchase, if you're not
dialog: killed by Marseilles importers - or their
dialog: people in the States - then what?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 25.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: D56 CONTINUED: D56
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Then there'd be more. On a regular basis.
dialog: Though I'd rather not have to drag my ass
dialog: all the way up here every time.
text: The man regards Frank for a long moment. Glances back to
dialog: the cash and paperwork again. Finally -
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: Of course not.
scene_heading: E56 EXT. JUNGLE ARMY LZ - VIETNAM - DAY E56
text: Torrential monsoon rains. Dripping camouflage. Nate and
text: Frank climb down from the Huey. Frank no longer wears the
text: bandolier. Now a press card dangles from his neck.
scene_heading: F56 INT/EXT. TENT / JUNGLE ARMY LZ - LATER - DAY F56
text: Stripes on the uniform of a black colonel with Nate under a
text: canopy. Outside, in the distance, in the rain, Frank hangs
text: out with some other black servicemen.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: Where's it now?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Bangkok. I can bring it here or anywhere
dialog: in between.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
text: A hundred kilos.
dialog: (Nate nods)
dialog: I never seen that much dope in one place.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: It's bigger than an Amana refrigerator-
dialog: freezer.
scene_heading: G56 INT/EXT. JUNGLE ARMY LZ - LATER - DAY G56
text: Nate and Frank watch the colonel emerge from the tent and
text: cross through the rain on duck-boards to another tent to
text: speak with a white officer, a 2-star general.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Fifty grand. In advance. That'll
text: cover them, the pilots and the guys on
dialog: the other end.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Give them a hundred.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 26.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: G56 CONTINUED: G56
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Fifty, to cover them all.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: A hundred. And it's all I got left. So
dialog: if that dope doesn't arrive, for whatever
dialog: reason -
dialog: (embraces Nate and whispers)
dialog: Cousin or no cousin - don't let me down.
text: He holds out a business envelope fat with money. Nate
text: hesitates, knowing Frank has just said he'll kill him if
text: things don't go right, then takes it.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: I'll let you know when it's in the air.
scene_heading: 56 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - NEWARK - DAWN 56
text: The nurse/paramedic who stitched up his hand is in Richie's
text: bed making so much noise he's worried someone will call the
text: cops. The phone rings. And won't stop. Neither will the
text: nurse as Richie answers it -
speaker_heading: RIVERA V/O
dialog: Richie? Richie, I'm in trouble. This
dialog: fuckin guy "made" me - I don't know how
dialog: but he did. He went for his gun. I had
dialog: to do it, I swear to God. Now they're
dialog: going to kill me.
text: Richie can hear in Sander's voice how serious it is and
text: manages to disentangle himself from the woman.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Who.
speaker_heading: RIVERA V/O
dialog: There's a hundred people out there heard
dialog: the shots. You gotta help me. You gotta
dialog: do something.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Is he dead?
speaker_heading: RIVERA V/O
dialog: He's dead. I'm dead. They're gonna kill
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Where are you? Javy, where are you?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 27.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 56 CONTINUED: 56
speaker_heading: RIVERA V/O
dialog: That's the problem.
scene_heading: A57 INT. RICHIE'S CAR - MOVING - EARLY MORNING A57
text: Richie on his police radio, which cuts in and out -
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER
dialog: There are no cars in that area,
dialog: Detective Roberts.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Bullshit. I got a man in trouble and I
dialog: need back-up.
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER
dialog: I missed that - you're breaking up -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I said, put the fucking call out again -
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER
dialog: I just did. No one responded. I'll try
dialog: again, but -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Fuck you, too.
text: He slams the mic down.
scene_heading: 57 EXT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 57
text: As Richie's car turns a corner, the Stephen Crane Projects -
text: the most foreboding place on earth - rises up: three dark
text: 30-floor towers planted on war-torn grounds where a long-ago
text: torched and abandoned patrol car sits like a monument.
text: He parks and moves through an agitated all-black crowd, past
text: an ambulance outside one of the towers, through oppressive
dialog: heat. It's riot weather.
scene_heading: 58 INT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 58
text: Drugs on a coffee table. Body on the floor. Rivera,
text: despondent, on the couch. The male paramedics, scared.
dialog: Richie on the phone -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Sergeant, I'm not asking, I'm fuckin
dialog: telling you: Get some patrolmen over
dialog: here now.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 28.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 58 CONTINUED: 58
text: Dial tone: the police sergeant has hung up on him. Richie
text: throws the phone. The paramedics stare at him.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: You got no back-up? Why is that?
dialog: The only other person who would know the answer to that is
text: Rivera, who just shakes his head in despair.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
text: Bandage his head.
speaker_heading: PARAMEDIC
dialog: Detective ... he's dead.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I know he's fucking dead. Bandage his
text: head, clean him up, put him on a gurney
text: and prop it up so he's sitting. And open
text: his eyes.
scene_heading: 59 EXT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 59
text: Richie comes out ahead of the gurney, moving quickly like
text: it's a matter of life and death (which it is), motioning at
text: the crowd to allow a path to the ambulance.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Step back, injured man coming out. Let
dialog: them do their job and he'll be all right.
dialog: Ma'am. Excuse me. Step back. Sir.
dialog: Please.
text: The people step back when they see the victim on the gurney:
text: tubes in his nostrils, IV in his arm, eyes open. Before they
text: can look any closer, he's put in the ambulance. As it pulls
text: out, siren wailing, Richie leads Rivera safely away -
scene_heading: A60 EXT. ALLEY NEAR STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING A60
text: They cross through an alley near the Projects and Rivera
text: finally breathes a sigh of relief.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Thank you -
text: The words aren't out of his mouth before Richie shoves him
text: up against a car.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You robbed him, didn't you.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 29.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: A60 CONTINUED: A60
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: What? What are you talking about?
text: Richie rips Rivera's jacket pockets. Money spills out.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: This. Where'd this come from?
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: What. That's my money. I've never
dialog: taken dirty money in my life.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You lying piece of shit -
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Maybe the occasional gratuity. Like
dialog: anybody else. You're going to tell me
dialog: that's wrong?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: No, it isn't. It's part of the salary
dialog: for getting shot at. For that, certain
text: courtesies are shown. In gratitude -
text: Richie, disgusted with him, lets go of him. Rivera is
text: embarrassed, almost crying, pleading -
speaker_heading: RIVERA
text: A discount on a TV, a Doughboy in the
dialog: backyard, a new dress for your girlfriend
dialog: maybe once a year. I'm talking about not
dialog: living in fucking poverty. You want to
dialog: call that wrong, call it wrong.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: It's wrong.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: Then goddamn it, pay me fifty grand a
dialog: year, you son of a bitch. Pay me what I
dialog: deserve for getting shot at. No? Fine.
dialog: Next time four guys come into your place
dialog: with sawed-off shotguns, you take care of
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You robbed him, and then you shot him,
dialog: and I helped you get out of there. How
dialog: many more you shot?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 30.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: A60 CONTINUED: A60
text: Rivera suddenly tries to get tough -
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: You know what, Richie? Fuck you, you
dialog: make that kind of accusation against your
dialog: own kind. And you know why.
text: He takes out his car keys, turns to leave. Comes past
text: Richie who grabs his arm and pushes the sleeve up exposing a
text: line of puncture scabs and scars.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You're a disgrace.
speaker_heading: RIVERA
dialog: I'm a leper. Because I listened to you
dialog: and turned in a million fucking dollars.
dialog: You know who'll work with me after that?
dialog: Same as you. No one.
text: Richie squeezes Rivera's hand around the car key.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Don't look down there. Look here.
dialog: (at Richie's eyes)
dialog: You ever fuckin threaten me again, I'll
dialog: kill you.
text: Richie squeezes Sander's hand so hard the car key cuts
text: through the skin, drawing blood.
scene_heading: 60 - 69 OMIT 60 - 69 OMIT
scene_heading: 70 EXT. ARMY BASE, NEW JERSEY - DUSK 70
text: Silence. Marshland. A beat-up Chevy parked alongside a
text: perimeter fence. Frank waits by the car as a military Jeep
text: with its lights out comes across a firing range. It slows,
text: stops. In it, the silhouettes of three servicemen, black,
text: armed with M-16's. Silence again, before:
speaker_heading: ARMY CAPTAIN
dialog: Open the trunk.
text: Frank does it, then stands aside as the other servicemen
text: drag four large taped-up duffel bags from the Jeep to his
text: car, lift them into his trunk and slam it shut.
scene_heading: 71 INT. FRANK'S APARTMENT - LATER - NIGHT 71
text: The duffel bags, still closed, on a table. Frank regards
text: them, nursing a drink, putting off the moment of discovery
dialog: that he has perhaps spent his life's savings on nothing.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 31.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 71 CONTINUED: 71
text: The German shepherd watches as Frank removes the tape from
text: one of the bags. He pulls it open - has almost no reaction -
text: except to breathe again - then opens the next, and the next.
text: And we see: Several brick-like packages of No. 4 heroin
text: wrapped in paper marked with Chinese writing, stamped with
text: a label: two lions on their hind legs, paws on a globe,
text: and, in English: DOUBLE UOGLOBE BRAND 100%.
scene_heading: A72 INT. FRANK'S APARTMENT - LATER - DAWN A72
text: The duffel bags are elsewhere. The only evidence of any
dialog: drugs is the small amount Frank has given a chemist - who
text: looks like a Harvard student - to test. It responds
text: instantly. The young man looks at Frank.
speaker_heading: CHEMIST
dialog: Typically what I see is 25 to 45
dialog: percent pure. I've never seen anything
dialog: like this. No alkaloids, no adulterants,
dialog: no dilutents. It's a hundred percent.
dialog: May I?
text: The chemist opens a leather travel syringe kit to shoot up,
text: but Frank gives him some to take home instead.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Take it with you. I don't want to have
dialog: to call the coroner.
text: The chemist gathers his things to leave, offering a last
dialog: piece of advice -
speaker_heading: CHEMIST
text: Store it in a cool, dark place.
scene_heading: 72 EXT. GREENSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA - DUSK 72
text: A clapboard house set down on a piece of land that was
text: probably once worked by sharecroppers. An elderly woman
text: framed in a lit kitchen window, doing dishes.
text: Dark yew trees and scavenged, discarded cars and car parts
text: like patches of rusty snow. Crickets and bullfrogs. From a
text: mound of dirt, a young man hurls a baseball to another with
text: a catcher's mitt exactly sixty feet away. The kid's got a
dialog: major league arm.
dialog: Legend: Greensboro, North Carolina
text: A glow spills out from a detached shed where a short man in
text: his early 30's works on a stock car.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 32.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 72 CONTINUED: 72
text: A greasy phone on the workbench rings and another
text: disreputable-looking man, thumbing through a magazine,
dialog: answers.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: Yeah ... for you.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Who is it?
text: Jimmy doesn't know, sets it down. Teddy comes over wiping
text: his hands on a rag, takes the phone.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: FRANK V/O
dialog: Teddy.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Who's this?
speaker_heading: FRANK V/O
dialog: Frank.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Frank who?
speaker_heading: FRANK V/0
dialog: Frank your brother.
scene_heading: 73 INT. COURTROOM - DAY 73
text: Divorced couples in custody battles wait with their
text: attorneys in a packed courthouse. An lawyer carrying papers
text: clipped with a $10 bill, comes past Richie, who's sitting
text: with his lawyer, a woman he's probably slept with.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: I'm not talking about your proclivities,
dialog: Richie. Those I only know too well. I'm
text: talking about being a cop.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: About taking money? I don't care about
dialog: money. I don't do that.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Because it'll come out. You're going to
dialog: have to sit down with shrinks and social
dialog: workers, her lawyers, the judge, lots of
dialog: questions.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 33.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 73 CONTINUED: 73
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What's going on there?
text: The judge's assistant rearranging the pre-trial cases in
dialog: order of the amount of gratuity clipped to each - $5, $10,
dialog: $20 bills.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Scheduling.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: No, the money.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Scheduling. What about your friends
dialog: from the neighborhood? You still hang
dialog: out with them?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I play softball on Sundays with some
dialog: guys.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Wise guys. That's going to look good.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I grew up with them, big deal.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: What about Anthony Zaca?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What about him?
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Richie, I'm just trying to understand
dialog: things your wife has said. If they're
dialog: not true, tell me.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Yeah, Tony's one of them.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Is he also your son's godfather?
text: Richie nods. Sheila glances over to where Richie's ex-wife
text: sits with her own lawyer across the room.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Do you really care about this? Or do
dialog: you just not want her to win - ever. How
dialog: often do you see your son as it is?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 34.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 73 CONTINUED: 73
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Not enough. But she wants to make it
dialog: never.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Yeah, all right. Give me a twenty.
dialog: (Richie doesn't reach for
dialog: his wallet)
dialog: Well, I'm not going to sit here all day.
text: She takes a twenty from her purse and carries it up to the
text: judge's assistant clipped to their paperwork.
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: All rise -
scene_heading: 74 EXT. HOUSE - TEANECK, NEW JERSEY - DAY 74
text: Frank and the dog in the back yard of a suburban house.
text: His neighbors - those he can see - are white. He hears a
text: sound - cars arriving - and crosses toward the house where
text: a sold "For Sale" sign leans against a half-built kennel.
text: Out front, a caravan of cars and pickup trucks - North
text: Carolina plates - loaded with boxes and suitcases - has just
text: arrived. Exhausted from the drive but excited to be here,
text: the travelers climb out: Frank's five brothers, their wives
text: and kids, and their mother.
dialog: Teddy thinks it's the right place. The others aren't as
dialog: sure. The house is too nice. There's a new Lincoln Towncar
text: parked outside the garage. They'll probably be shot for
dialog: trespassing.
text: The front door opens and Frank comes out, trailed by his
text: dog. He first gathers his mother in an embrace, then each
text: of his startled brothers.
scene_heading: 75 INT. FRANK'S TEANECK HOUSE - LATER - DAY 75
text: The house is alive with the noise of family and scent of
dialog: home-cooked food as the extended Lucas clan - there's more
text: than twenty of them - sits around a big dining room table
text: passing the platters around. Frank, at the head of the
text: table, clearly loves having them all here.
speaker_heading: TURNER
text: He got an arm on him. Major League arm,
dialog: ain't that right.
text: Everyone agrees as Turner's son - Frank's nephew - the 18-
text: year-old boy seen pitching in the North Carolina back yard -
text: tries to shrug.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 35.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 75 CONTINUED: 75
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You show me after supper.
speaker_heading: TURNER
dialog: You can't catch him. He'll take your
dialog: head off. We're talking 95-mile-an-hour.
dialog: You know how fast that is? You see the
text: ball leave his hand, and that's the last
dialog: you see it before it knocks you down.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (smiling; happy)
dialog: Is that right.
scene_heading: 76 INT. FRANK'S TEANECK HOUSE - LATER - DAY 76
text: The wonderful noise continues downstairs as Frank leads his
text: mother on a tour of the upstairs. The place is a showroom
dialog: of traditional Americana.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: This is your room.
text: Mrs. Lucas is in awe of the splendor of the bedroom and its
text: furnishings. It's unlike anything she's used ever seen -
text: not Graceland exactly - but not far off. Her eyes settle on
text: an old vanity dotted with French perfume bottles.
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: How did you ...
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I had it made. From memory.
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: You were five when they took it away.
dialog: How could you remember it?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I remember.
text: She's stunned. Touches the reproduction of the vanity her
dialog: son last saw more than thirty years ago.
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: It's perfect.
dialog: (looks at the room)
dialog: It's all perfect.
dialog: (she looks at him)
dialog: I'm so proud of you.
dialog: 36.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 77 EXT. HUDSON RIVER - DAY 77
text: The Statue of Liberty against the New York skyline.
speaker_heading: FRANK V/O
dialog: The man I worked for ran one of the
dialog: biggest companies in New York City for
dialog: almost fifty years.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. HARLEM - DAY 78
text: As Frank leads his brothers down the sidewalk, the Towncar
text: that was parked at the Teaneck house, driven by Frank's body-
text: guard, Doc, follows alongside at the same pace they walk.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I was with him every day for fifteen of
text: them, looking after him, taking care of
text: things, protecting him, learning from
dialog: him.
text: The brothers can't help but notice the storekeepers who wave
text: to Frank, the women who smile, the men who step out of his
text: path like there's a red carpet under his polished shoes.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Bumpy was rich, but never white man rich.
dialog: Why? Because he didn't own the company.
dialog: He thought he did. He didn't. He only
dialog: managed it. Someone else owned it. So
dialog: they owned him.
scene_heading: 79 INT/EXT. REDTOP'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HARLEM - DAY 79
text: Frank leads his brothers up the stairs and down the hall.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Nobody owns me. Because I own my
dialog: company.
text: INTERCUT: Feminine hands stamp small packets of blue
dialog: cellophane with the words `Blue Magic' -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: And my company sells a product that's
dialog: better than the competition's at a price
dialog: that's lower.
text: Frank stops outside an apartment door.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: What are we selling, Frank?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 37.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 79 CONTINUED: 79
text: Frank pushes the door open, revealing -
scene_heading: 80 INT. REDTOP'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS - DAY 80
text: Five naked women at work tables, their faces veiled by
text: surgical masks, cutting heroin with lactose and quinine in a
dialog: precise mixture of controlled purity. The Lucas brothers
text: stare as the supervisor of the activity - clothed, with red
text: hair - comes over.
speaker_heading: REDTOP
dialog: Hi, Frank.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Honey, these are my brothers.
scene_heading: 81 EXT. HARLEM - LATER - DAY 81
text: Tango strolls down the street like he's the Godfather of
text: Harlem, girl on his arm, bodyguard at his side.
scene_heading: 82 INT. DINER - SAME TIME 82
text: As his brothers eat lunch, Frank - who can see Tango outside
text: - uncaps a glass sugar container.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What matters in business is honesty,
dialog: integrity, hard work, loyalty, and never
dialog: forgetting where you came from.
text: For reasons his brothers can't imagine, Frank empties all
text: sugar from the container onto his plate.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You are what you are and that's one of
dialog: two things. You're nothing ... or you're
dialog: something. Understand what I'm saying?
text: The brothers nod tentatively, stare at the now-empty glass
text: container. Frank wipes his mouth with a napkin, gets up.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'll be right back.
scene_heading: 83 EXT/INT. DINER - MOMENTS LATER 83
text: He comes out of the diner, crosses the street toward Tango,
text: who's buying fruit. Greets him cheerfully -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Hey, Tango, what's up. I was just
dialog: thinking about you.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 38.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 83 CONTINUED: 83
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: I was looking at the jar and you know
dialog: what? I didn't see nothing in it.
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: The fuck you want, Frank -
text: Before the last word is out of Tango's mouth, Frank's got a
text: gun pressed against his forehead. Silence. Everyone backs
text: away - the bodyguard, too. Tango's girl pulls her arm from
text: his and takes off. Eventually -
speaker_heading: TANGO
dialog: What're you going to do, boy? Shoot me
dialog: in broad daylight? In front of everyone?
text: It's as if life on the street has stopped. No one moves;
text: everyone is looking at Frank; maybe that's what he wants.
text: As Tango laughs at the thought -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Yeah, that's right.
text: Frank pulls the trigger and the big man falls back like
text: someone hit with a board. Frank stands over him and empties
text: the gun in his chest, the shots echoing down the street.
text: Then it's quiet again. Everyone's still looking him, but
text: Frank doesn't run. Instead, he calmly reaches into Tango's
text: suit pocket, takes out a money clip thick with cash, drops
text: it in the "jar" and sets it next to the body.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: For the cops. Should be enough.
text: Frank returns to the diner and sits back down, ignoring the
text: astonished stares from his brothers and everyone else in the
text: place. Tries to remember where he was in his lecture as he
text: tucks the napkin back in his shirt collar.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: That basically's the whole picture right
dialog: there.
scene_heading: 84 INT. MORGUE - NIGHT 84
text: A cadaver drawer slides open revealing - not Tango - but
text: Rivera, staring up lifeless, his arms, stomach, legs and
text: toes dotted with the scabs of a longtime addict.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: Did you know his girlfriend? Good-
text: looking girl. One of his informants.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 39.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 84 CONTINUED: 84
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Beth.
text: The medical examiner slides open another cadaver drawer
text: containing her body. Richie stares at it.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: Should've seen their place. Like animals
dialog: lived there.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I have seen it.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: (to the examiner)
dialog: Chose a good night, huh? Grand Central
dialog: Station in here.
speaker_heading: MEDICAL EXAMINER
dialog: It's been like this. I'm lucky I get
dialog: home before midnight; lots of careless-
dialog: ness.
text: Richie regards Rivera's personal effects resting on his
text: chest in a plastic bag: few bucks, the Corvette key, a half-
text: empty packet of heroin in blue cellophane. Richie takes the
text: blue cellophane from the bag and, as the drawer closes
text: entombing Sanders, holds it in his hand ...
speaker_heading: REPORTER V/O
dialog: Heroin addiction is no longer exclusive
dialog: to big city neighborhoods; it's epidemic -
scene_heading: 85 TIME CUT. A TELEVISION: 85
text: The reports shows lawmakers on Capitol Hill juxtaposed
dialog: against images of inner-cities, junkies, homicide victims
text: and, perhaps most telling, white suburbia.
speaker_heading: REPORTER ON TV
dialog: Since 1965, law enforcement has watched
text: its steady increase and with it a rise in
text: violent crime. Now unaccountably, it has
dialog: exploded, reaching into cities as a whole
dialog: - our suburbs and towns - our schools.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE GYM - DAY
text: The TV is in a small police gym where Richie lifts weights,
text: very much aware of his pariah status as out-of-shape cops
text: come in, only to leave again when they see him.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 40.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: REPORTER ON TV
dialog: Someone is finally saying: enough.
dialog: Federal authorities have announced their
dialog: intention to establish special narcotics
dialog: bureaus in Washington, New York, Los
dialog: Angeles, Chicago, Boston, Newark and
dialog: other major cities -
text: Toback comes in, watches Richie, alone, working out.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
text: It's a dog and pony show.
speaker_heading: TOBACK V/O
dialog: It's not being advertised as one.
scene_heading: 86 INT. POLICE GYM - LATER - DAY 86
text: Richie's changing into his street clothes.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: But it's federal. I'd have to answer
dialog: to who? FBI?
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Me and the U.S. Attorney. No one else.
dialog: No FBI. Hoover knows better than to mix
dialog: his men with dope. Too much temptation
dialog: for the feeble-minded.
dialog: Though he's not in much of a position to refuse the
text: assignment, Richie still isn't convinced it's a good idea.
dialog: Toback levels with him -
speaker_heading: TOBACK
text: Richie, a detective who doesn't have
dialog: the cooperation of his fellow detectives
dialog: can't be effective.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You know why I don't have it.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Doesn't matter.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: No, they're all on the take and I'm not
dialog: and it doesn't matter to anyone. Instead
dialog: of giving you a medal for turning in
dialog: money, they bury you.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 41.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 86 CONTINUED: 86
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: It's fucked up. You're right. Maybe
dialog: this's an opportunity away from all that.
dialog: They regard each other. Eventually -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'll do it, but only like this: I
dialog: don't set foot in a police station again.
dialog: I work out of a place of my own. And I
dialog: pick my own guys. Guys I know wouldn't
text: take a nickel off the sidewalk.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Done.
scene_heading: 87 EXT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 87
text: An old building that was once an Episcopal church.
scene_heading: 88 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 88
text: The place has been long abandoned. The city maintenance
text: worker who let Richie in watches him move through the debris-
text: strewn church.
scene_heading: 89 INT. PENTHOUSE - NEW YORK - DAY 89
text: A real estate broker watches Frank consider the high-
text: ceilinged spaciousness of a grand, unfurnished 50's modern
dialog: Upper East Side penthouse -
scene_heading: 90 INT. BASEMENT - NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - DAY 90
text: Richie regards the colored light thrown down by the stained
dialog: glass windows -
scene_heading: 91 INT. PENTHOUSE - NEW YORK - DAY 91
text: Frank regards light streaming in from the garden terrace -
scene_heading: 92 INT. MAIN FLOOR - NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - DAY 92
text: Richie picks up a faded photograph of a priest in a broken
dialog: frame. To the maintenance man:
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: This is the only floor we'll be using.
scene_heading: 93 INT. PENTHOUSE - NEW YORK - DAY 93
text: Frank distractedly opens and closes a 12' high curtain in
dialog: one of the rooms -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 42.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 93 CONTINUED: 93
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: No loan, no contingencies. Cash sale.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT 94
text: Wet streets and neon. Well-dressed crowd behind a velvet
text: rope outside the club. The Apollo in the background: James
text: Brown on the marquee.
scene_heading: 95 INT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT 95
text: A still-powerful older man in a nice suit rises from his
text: chair to wild applause. From the stage -
speaker_heading: SINGER
dialog: Mr. Joe Louis, ladies and gentlemen.
text: Joe bows graciously, gives a little wave to the crowd, and
text: sits back down as the band starts up again.
text: At another table, Frank sits with Charlie Williams and
text: Rossi, slightly older dope men. Like Frank, they favor
text: expensive tailored suits. Their dates, too, are nicely
text: dressed - not too much make-up or jewelry. Frank's glance
text: moves from Joe Louis and his wife to a beautiful young woman
text: at the table.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Who's the beauty queen?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: She is a beauty queen. No kidding.
dialog: Miss Puerto Rico.
text: Her glance crosses Frank's briefly but is yanked to the
text: entrance of the club when Frank's brothers come in with
text: their wives and girlfriends. Teddy's in a parrot green
text: suit, gold chains, hat, acting like he owns the place.
scene_heading: 96 INT. BACK ROOM - SMALL'S PARADISE - LATER 96
text: Frank hustles Teddy into an empty back room.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What is this?
text: He turns Teddy so he's facing a mirror.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: What. These are clothes. This is a very
dialog: nice (suit) -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 43.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 96 CONTINUED: 96
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'm wearing clothes. These are clothes.
dialog: Those -
dialog: (Teddy's in the mirror)
text: - are a costume. With a sign on it that
dialog: says Arrest me. You look like fuckin
dialog: Jackie Fox.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: What's wrong with Jackie. I like Jackie.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You like Jackie? You want to be
dialog: Superfly? Go work for him, end up in a
text: cell with him.
text: Teddy pulls himself from Frank's grasp. Smooths his shirt,
text: adjusts his hat. Frank tries to explain to him:
speaker_heading: FRANK
text: The guy making all the noise in the room
dialog: is the weak one. That's not who you want
dialog: to be.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: He wants to talk to you by the way. I
dialog: told him I'd tell you.
text: Frank stares at his brother's reflection in the mirror.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You and Jackie were talking about me?
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Not about you. We were talking. He said
dialog: he wanted to talk to you about something.
text: Frank clearly wants nothing to do with Jackie Fox.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'm taking you shopping tomorrow.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: I went shopping today.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You go shopping every day. Like a girl.
scene_heading: 97 EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - LATER - NIGHT 97
text: A creme Bentley pulls up and out pour Jackie Fox and his
text: entourage.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 44.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 97 CONTINUED: 97
text: He's got an armful of New York Times Magazines -with him on
text: the cover, flaunting Gangster Chic. He starts handing them
text: out to the crowd on his way into the club.
scene_heading: 98 INT. SMALL'S PARADISE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 98
text: Joe Louis has come over to speak to Frank at his table.
speaker_heading: JOE LOUIS
dialog: It's a tax thing. It's a mistake my
dialog: lawyers will straighten out, but for the
dialog: time being it's a headache -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: How much you owe?
speaker_heading: JOE LOUIS
dialog: It's nothing, like - fifty grand.
text: Frank isn't sure if it's an honor or a curse to have a
text: celebrity like Joe Louis asking to borrow money, but nods.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Sure. Don't worry about it.
speaker_heading: JOE LOUIS
dialog: Thank you. I'll pay you back soon as -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Joe. It's a gift. Not a loan. You
dialog: don't owe me nothing.
text: Jackie glides into the club with his magazines and
text: entourage. Frank watches him make the rounds, lingering at
text: Miss Puerto Rico's table and holding her hand longer than he
text: should with his girlfriend on his arm. Frank glances to
text: Teddy wearily, then to Doc, alone at the next table like a
text: sentry. Frank doesn't have to say he's ready to leave. Doc
text: knows the look. Gets up.
scene_heading: 99 INT. SMALL'S PARADISE - LATER - NIGHT 99
text: Frank comes into the coat check area where Doc waits with
text: his overcoat. As Frank slips into it, Miss Puerto Rico -
text: returning from the ladies room - comes through.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Hi. I'm Ana.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'm Frank.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 45.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 99 CONTINUED: 99
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: You're Frank and this is your place.
dialog: (he doesn't say whether
dialog: it is or not)
dialog: Why's it called Small's? Why don't you
dialog: call it Frank's?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Because I don't have to.
text: He smiles, and it's hard to tell which is more enchanted
text: with the other.
scene_heading: 100 INT. NIGHTCLUB - NEWARK - SAME TIME - NIGHT 100
text: A club across the river. Not nearly as nice as Small's -
text: much louder - but like Small's, almost all black. Richie
text: shares a booth with a black undercover detective.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'm reluctant to bring anyone in I
dialog: don't personally know.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: You know me, and I vouch for them.
text: Richie nods, Yeah, he knows that, but remains unconvinced.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: Richie, we work together. You want me,
dialog: you got to take them, too.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Where are they?
text: Spearman looks out across the crowded dance floor.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
text: That's Jones. With the skinny white
dialog: woman.
text: Richie's glance finds a young black man dancing wildly with
text: his skinny white date.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: That's Abruzzo, with the fat black one.
text: Richie sees a young Italian with tatoos - the only other
text: white man in the place - dancing with a heavy black woman.
text: Both Jones and Abruzzo look more like criminals than cops.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 46.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 100 CONTINUED: 100
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: Both are good with wires. Have good
dialog: informants. They're honest. And they're
dialog: fearless. They'll do anything. They're
dialog: insane, Richie, like you.
scene_heading: 101 INT. FRANK'S CAR - MOVING - NEW YORK - DAY 101
text: Frank sits in back alone. Peers ahead through the
text: windshield. His face relaxes as he sees -
scene_heading: 102 EXT. RIVERSIDE - DAY 102
text: Ana waiting on a corner, dressed nice, handbag. The Towncar
text: pulls to the curb.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I got it.
text: Frank gets out before Doc can, and escorts Ana to the car.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I hope you weren't waiting long. A
dialog: woman as beautiful as you shouldn't have
dialog: to wait for anything.
text: He opens the door for her like a perfect gentleman, slides
dialog: in after her.
scene_heading: 103 EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 103
text: Outside the house, Doc sits in the car reading a newspaper.
scene_heading: 104 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 104
text: Ana considers some family photographs on a mantle.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: This is your father?
text: Frank shakes his head no. It's a picture of Bumpy.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You really don't know who that is?
dialog: (she doesn't)
dialog: It's Martin Luther King.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: It is not.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You're right. He was as important as Dr.
dialog: King, though.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 47.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 104 CONTINUED: 104
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: What'd he do?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: A lot of things. He had a lot of
dialog: friends. He served New York and it
dialog: served him.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: What was he to you?
text: Frank has to think. Bumpy was more than his employer.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Teacher.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: What'd he teach you?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: How to take my time ... how if you're
dialog: going to do something, do it with care
dialog: ... do it with love.
dialog: And it's working here. It's seductive.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Anything else?
speaker_heading: FLASHCUTS -
text: Sudden bursts of violence - guys beat up - others shot - one
text: being poured with gasoline as Bumpy looks on calmly -
text: BACK TO FRANK'S LIVING ROOM
text: The same calm, benign face in the photograph. Frank nods.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: How be a gentleman.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: That's what you are?
text: Ana smiles like she knows better. Any second now, like
dialog: every other guy she's ever met, she's sure he'll try to take
text: her upstairs.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I got five different apartments in the
dialog: city I could've taken you to. I brought
dialog: you here instead -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 48.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Ana glances to the stairs which Frank's mother is coming
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: To meet my mother.
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: Is this her? Oh, she's beautiful,
dialog: Frank. Look at her. She's an angel
dialog: come down from heaven.
text: Mrs. Lucas embraces Ana like family.
speaker_heading: 105 OMIT 105 OMIT
scene_heading: 106 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 106
text: A single, half-empty packet of heroin, the same one from the
text: morgue, in distinctive blue cellophane, tacked to a bulletin
text: board. Richie, perched on a desk in front of it.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Our mandate is to make major arrests.
dialog: No street guys - we want the suppliers -
dialog: the distributors.
text: Spearman, Jones and Abruzzo sit in the back, looking like
text: delinquent students. Of everyone in the open ground-floor
dialog: that's been only slightly renovated - and there are about
text: fifteen of them - they're the most disreputable-looking.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Heroin, cocaine, amphetamines. No
dialog: grass under a thousand pounds. Less than
dialog: that, someone else can waste their time.
text: Jones nudges Abruzzo to pay attention. Abruzzo elbows him
text: back. Richie just waits like a teacher for their attention.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: We'll be handling big shipments, big
dialog: money, big temptation.
dialog: (Jones raises his hand)
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: There's a story about you. About
dialog: turning in some money. A lot of money.
dialog: Is it true?
dialog: Jones isn't the only one here curious to know. Simply:
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 49.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 106 CONTINUED: 106
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: It's not true.
scene_heading: 107 INT/EXT. CAR / STREET - NEWARK - DAY 107
text: Abruzzo, looking like a junkie, dirty jeans, wool cap,
text: approaches a dealer on the corner. The perspective shifts
text: to Richie, Spearman and Jones in a car, watching as Abruzzo
text: chats briefly with the dealer before the exchange takes
dialog: place: $10 for a blue-cellophane packet.
scene_heading: 108 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - LATER - DAY 108
text: Richie and the others watch Jones tests the heroin.
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: Stuff's ten percent pure. Strong
dialog: enough to smoke for all those suburban
dialog: white kids afraid of needles.
text: The other detectives are exchange a glance. None has ever
dialog: heard of anything on the street that pure.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You paid ten bucks for it?
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: And it's all that's out there.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Now, how is that possible? Who can
dialog: afford to sell shit twice as good for
dialog: half as much?
text: Richie glances to a Table of Organization: Surveillance
text: photos haphazardly thumb-tacked to a bulletin board - known
dialog: dope men in the hierarchies of their individual crime
text: families - almost all of them Italian.
scene_heading: WOMB TO TOMB SEQUENCE:
text: An R &amp; B song begins and continues over -
speaker_heading: 109 CLOSE-UPS: 109
text: A poppy bulb being pierced, the white liquid oozing,
text: changing into filthy liquids in wooden bowls, and finally
dialog: a gray paste ...
scene_heading: 110 INT. BANK VICE PRESIDENT'S OFFICE - CHEMICAL BANK - DAY 110
text: Frank sits with the bank Vice President who wires a transfer
dialog: to:
dialog: 50.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 111 INT. BANGKOK BANK - DAY 111
text: Where Nate sits with the same Thai bank president as before
dialog: who converts the transfer to cash.
scene_heading: 112 INT. SOUL BROTHERS BAR - BANGKOK - DAY 112
text: Nate slides cash across a table to a couple of Chinese
dialog: gangsters.
scene_heading: 113 EXT. JUNGLE ARMY BASE - VIETNAM - DAY 113
text: A tent: Nate hands more cash - the military brass's cut -
dialog: to the 2-star general from before.
text: An airstrip: Slicing propellers. Wounded soldiers on
text: stretchers, helped onto a transport plane. Nearby, four
text: large crates - Japanese TVs - under cargo netting. The
text: pilot stuffs more cash in a pouch and salutes Nate.
speaker_heading: 114 TV IMAGE: 114
text: General Westmoreland returns a salute (archive).
scene_heading: 115 EXT. ARMY BASE - NORTH CAROLINA - DUSK 115
text: The same plane on the tarmac here, taxiing. A pile of
text: discarded TV boxes outside a supply warehouse.
text: At the perimeter of the base, black servicemen transfer
text: heavy taped-up duffel bags from an Army Jeep to a station
text: wagon, hoisting those that won't fit inside onto a roof
text: rack. Two Lucas brothers tie them down with twine.
scene_heading: 116 INT/EXT. CAR / HIGHWAY - NEAR WASHINGTON DC - DUSK 116
text: The station wagon heading north on a rain-slicked highway,
text: the canvas tarpaulin on top flapping. In the distance, the
text: spire of the Washington monument glows.
scene_heading: 117 EXT. DISCOUNT DRUGSTORE - HARLEM - DAY 117
text: A black woman pushes a shopping cart containing a baby,
text: Pampers, and cases of milk sugar across a parking lot.
scene_heading: 118 INT. RED TOP'S APARTMENT - HARLEM - DAY 118
text: Empty milk sugar boxes. Redtop and her five table workers
text: - clothed now, the surgical masks dangling from their necks -
text: wiping down table surfaces, scales and apparatus. Tens of
text: thousands of blue-cellophane packets of heroin neatly cover
text: two of the folding tables.
dialog: 51.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 119 EXT. HARLEM STREET - DAY 119
text: August. Hot. Kids wrench open a fire hydrant and with an
text: empty soda can direct the water into a fountain. The water
text: sprays down onto the windshield of a beat-up Chevy coming
text: slowly through, revealing when it clears, Frank behind the
text: wheel. He parks. Glances at his watch.
scene_heading: 120 INT. NYPD 23RD PRECINCT - LOCKER ROOM - DAY 120
text: Clock on the wall of a locker area: 3:58. Shift change.
text: Cops in t-shirts. Fans blowing the humid air around.
scene_heading: 121 INT/EXT. NYPD 23RD PRECINCT GARAGE - DAY 121
text: Blue and whites arriving and leaving, shirts coming off as
text: the cops alight.
scene_heading: 122 INT. BUS - MOVING ON 116TH STREET - DAY 122
text: The driver checks his watch: 3:59. Turns his almost-empty
dialog: bus up 8th Avenue.
scene_heading: 123 INT/EXT. FRANK'S PARKED CHEVY - HARLEM - DAY 123
text: Air conditioner full blast. Radio announcing the time: 4
text: o'clock. Frank glances out the wet windshield of the Chevy
text: and watches 116th Street transform:
text: It's as if an outdoor market has just opened its stalls.
text: Junkies and dealers emerging from the alleys, storefronts,
text: tenements and side streets - from the street itself it seems
text: - snarling the cars and delivery trucks caught unaware.
text: Small blue cellophane packets - and only blue - are pulled
text: from pockets and change hands. In alleyways it's cooked up
text: and sucked into syringes, and in dank, grim, indescribably
text: filthy rooms, plunged into veins -
scene_heading: 124 AND THE REVERSE: 124
dialog: 10 and 20 dollar bills changing hands - decks of cash
text: rubber-banded together - put into envelopes and delivered
dialog: to the Lucas brothers, to:
text: 125 LESTER at his metal door shop. 125
text: 126 EUGENE at his dry cleaners. 126
text: 127 TURNER at his tire service shop. 127
text: 128 EARL at his electrical shop. 128
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 52.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 123 CONTINUED: 123
text: 129 TEDDY at his body shop. 129
scene_heading: 130 INT. REDTOP'S APARTMENT - DAY 130
text: Piles of cash. The brothers try counting it all, but it's
text: just too much. It's actually tiring.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: We're going to be here all night if we
dialog: count every bill.
text: TIME CUT: A money-counting machine flips through the
text: bills, its counter flying. The brothers rubberband it all
dialog: in $100,000 decks. Jot down the numbers. Put the money
text: in newly-assembled file boxes. Tape them shut.
scene_heading: 131 INT. CHEMICAL BANK - SAFETY-DEPOSIT ROOM - DAY 131
text: Alone in the room, Frank transfers stacks of $100's from the
text: file boxes into several open safety-deposit boxes.
scene_heading: 132 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE APARTMENT - NIGHT 132
text: The penthouse is now richly decorated. The R &amp; B music
text: playing through a state-of-the-art stereo system. It's a
dialog: kind of office party for Frank's brothers, cousins, wives
dialog: and girlfriends, distributors like Rossi and other East
text: Harlem guys, Charlie Williams, couple of cops on Frank's
text: payroll, and the Chemical Bank Vice President.
speaker_heading: BANKER
dialog: You got a stockbroker, Frank?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I deal with enough crooks as it is.
text: The banker jots down a name and phone number on the back of
text: one of his business cards.
speaker_heading: BANKER
dialog: This one couldn't be more honest. Ask
dialog: around. He's got a lot of clients in the
dialog: business. You can't leave all your money
dialog: in safety deposit boxes; give him a call.
text: The banker hands him the card and moves on. Frank's trying
text: to have a good time, but the level of noise and revelry is
text: beginning to make him uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Frank. This is Mike Sibota.
text: Sibota tries not to look as nervous as he feels.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 53.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 132 CONTINUED: 132
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Mr. Sibota. What can I get you?
speaker_heading: SIBOTA
text: A left-hander from what Charlie tells me.
dialog: Your nephew?
text: Frank points to his nephew, Stevie, across the room.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: It's been his dream all his life to play
dialog: for the Yankees - and he's good enough.
speaker_heading: SIBOTA
dialog: So I hear. You have him come see me.
dialog: We'll give him a try-out.
text: As the scout hands his card to Frank, we whip over to where
text: Teddy, his driver Jimmy Racine and their girlfriends, coked
text: up, are laughing as a black cop, flashing his detective's
text: shield, pretends to frisk Jimmy.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: What's this?
dialog: (taking a .45 from Jimmy's
dialog: pocket)
dialog: Oh, that's it, I'm taking you in.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: (joking)
dialog: You can't take me in for that, I got a
dialog: license for that, motherfucker.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: (gives the gun back)
dialog: This then -
dialog: (the pile of coke on the
dialog: coffee table)
dialog: But first -
text: The cop sucks up a line before pretending to cuff Jimmy.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: All right, now I'm arresting you.
text: Everybody laughs. Teddy peels $100's from a money clip.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Let him go. This is for you.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: What is that, a bribe? Oh, now you're
text: all under arrest.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 54.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 132 CONTINUED: 132
text: The cop pretends to arrest them all, but what he doesn't
text: pretend is the hand he puts on Jimmy's girlfriend's breast
text: as he frisks her.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: What is that?
text: It was quick but Jimmy saw it, even though his girlfriend
text: didn't react. The cop, oblivious, is cuffing Teddy now.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: I'm taking you all in.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: I said, what the fuck was that?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: What was what?
text: The room explodes with a boom and the detective crumples to
text: the floor, clutching at his leg, blood running through his
text: fingers onto the carpet. Frank stares.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: Oh, he's all right. I just shot him in
dialog: the leg. You got a health plan, what are
dialog: you complaining about. He's fine. Here -
dialog: (peels off some money)
dialog: Five hundred all right? Six? Look, he's
dialog: feeling better all the time.
text: Suddenly, Frank grabs Jimmy and throws him against the wall.
scene_heading: 133 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE APARTMENT - NIGHT 133
text: As Ana tries to clean the blood stain on the rug with salt
text: and soda water, Frank sits with his five brothers in the
text: debris-strewn aftermath of the party. Silence before:
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I can't have this kind of stupidity.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: It was an accident. He feels terrible
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: He doesn't feel shit, coked up all the
dialog: time. Get rid of him.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 55.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 133 CONTINUED: 133
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Frank. He's your cousin. What's he
dialog: gonna do? Go back home? I'll talk to
dialog: him. I'll straighten him out.
text: Frank looks at Teddy in his tinted Jackie Fox-like goggle
text: glasses - like he's going to straighten anybody out.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Gimme those glasses.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: What? Why?
text: Frank pulls them from Teddy's face and crushes them.
scene_heading: 134 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 134
text: Richie sifts through the morning mail at his desk. Stops
text: on an envelope from the New Jersey Bar Association. As he
text: works up the nerve to open it, Spearman, Jones and Abruzzo
dialog: organize the Italian wise guys' photos on the T.O.
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: Ice Pick Paul goes here -
speaker_heading: ABRUZZO
dialog: No, he's under Benny Two-Socks -
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: No, you're thinking of Benny the Bishop.
dialog: Benny Two-Socks is Tosca's deadbeat son-
dialog: in-law.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: Jonesy's right.
text: Richie comes over, studies the Table of Organization a
text: moment, then begins untacking the photos from the top down -
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: What're you doing? We just -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: For a cop the uppermost thing is the
dialog: arrest. For a prosecutor, the arrest is
dialog: nothing without the evidence to convict.
dialog: We don't have any real evidence on anyone
dialog: on this board, so they're coming down.
text: We're starting over from the street.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 56.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 134 CONTINUED: 134
speaker_heading: ABRUZZO
dialog: What are you, a prosecutor all of a
dialog: sudden?
text: Richie tacks his exam results onto the T.O. He passed.
scene_heading: 135 EXT. STREET - NEWARK - DAY 135
text: Richie and the Amigos observe a buy from a parked car, the
text: blue cellophane changing hands. Ignoring the buyer as he
text: walks away, they keep watching the seller.
scene_heading: 136 EXT. GAS STATION / CAR WASH - NEWARK - DAY 136
text: The seller is observed coming out of a mechanics garage.
text: Richie ignores him as he walks away, watching instead the
text: garage. Eventually, a mechanic wiping his hands on a rag
text: steps out, and Richie raises a camera. The image of the
dialog: mechanic - a supplier - freezes -
scene_heading: 137 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 137
text: A slightly-blurred photo of the mechanic goes up on a new,
text: almost bare Table of Organization.
scene_heading: 138 EXT. GAS STATION / CAR WASH - NEWARK - DAY 138
text: Atop of a telephone pole, Abruzzo, dripping with lineman
text: equipment, works to attach a `slave' to the lines -
scene_heading: 139 INT. STOREFRONT APARTMENT - DAY 139
text: Bare room. Richie, Jones and Spearman eating take-out food
text: as tape recorder reels turn.
speaker_heading: PHONE VOICE
dialog: Those snow tires you give me last time
dialog: come in yet? I'm going to want some more
dialog: of them, gimme one and a half more of
dialog: them.
text: The detectives laugh.
scene_heading: 140 INT. PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE - DAY 140
text: Toback has Richie sign a voucher for $20,000 cash.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: This is more than a year's salary,
dialog: Richie. If it disappears, I won't be
dialog: able to get it for you again.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 57.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 140 CONTINUED: 140
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: It'll never be out of my sight.
scene_heading: 141 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 141
text: Jones tapes a tape recorder the size of a pack of cigarettes
text: to Richie's bare chest.
scene_heading: 142 INT. GAS STATION GARAGE - DAY 142
text: Undercover in a wise guy's cashmere sweater and slacks,
text: Richie watches the mechanic count the $10,000 he's given
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: It's got to be `Blue Magic.'
speaker_heading: MECHANIC
dialog: Yeah, yeah, it's `Blue.' You can pick
dialog: it up here tomorrow. Where's the rest of
dialog: the money?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: That's half. I'll give you the other
dialog: half tomorrow when you give -
speaker_heading: MECHANIC
dialog: No, no, no, I don't do that. Go fuck
dialog: yourself.
text: Richie rather reluctantly hands over the rest of the 20K.
scene_heading: 143 INT/EXT. SPEARMAN'S CAR - MOVING - NEAR GW BRIDGE - DAY 143
text: Spearman watches the pickup truck driven by the mechanic
text: change lanes up ahead - heading for the George Washington
text: Bridge - and glances over concerned to Richie, who is
text: changing the cashmere sweater for an old t-shirt.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: He's going into New York. Are we?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What are they going to do, arrest us?
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: They could. New York cops. They can
dialog: do worse than that.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: We're not losing that money. Go.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 58.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 143 CONTINUED: 143
text: As Spearman follows the truck, the George Washington Bridge,
text: linking Jersey to Manhattan, looms in the windshield ...
scene_heading: 144 EXT. EAST HARLEM STREET - DAY 144
text: The pickup pulls to the curb outside a Pleasant Avenue
text: grocery store. As the guy enters the place, Spearman's car
text: stops long enough for Richie to climb out, and continues on.
text: Richie crosses the street, tries to see who the guy is
text: talking to inside, but he's just buying a cup of coffee to
text: go. Spearman's car turns the corner to circle around the
text: block. As soon as it's gone, the man emerges from the
text: restaurant with the coffee and walks straight at Richie who
dialog: has to double back quickly not to be seen
text: Richie sees a delivery truck double-parked, guys unloading
text: crates. Hears a horn and knows it's must be Spearman stuck
text: on the side street. The mechanic starts his truck.
text: Desperate not to lose him (and his money), Richie hurries
text: over to a taxi stopped at a light, flashes his badge.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Get out.
speaker_heading: TAXI DRIVER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Get the fuck out of the car!
text: The driver realizes the man outside his taxi is crazy and
text: tries to get his window rolled up. Reaching in, Richie gets
text: his arm stuck, pulls at the lock, yanks the door open, drags
text: the driver out, breaking the cabbie's arm, and jumps in.
text: He swings the cab into opposing lanes to get around traffic,
text: screeches around the corner, glimpses the truck far up ahead
text: - guns the engine, flies through a red light, glances at his
text: mirror at the cars that just missed him almost colliding -
text: The truck turns up ahead, and Richie barrels through another
text: red light, turns the corner and keeps the truck, a couple
text: car-lengths ahead - in sight.
scene_heading: 145 EXT. EAST HARLEM - DAY 145
text: Richie curbs the cab as the guy goes into a dingy pizza
text: parlor. Richie climbs out, crosses the street. Coming past
text: the place, he tries to look inside without breaking stride.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 59.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 145 CONTINUED: 145
text: From around a corner, striding toward him, come four men
text: looking like Gestapo thugs in leather coats, manicured hair -
text: the Princes of the City. Richie detours into an alley as
text: they enter the restaurant.
text: Richie peers in at the restaurant kitchen through a grimy
text: basement window. Watches Trupo and his SIU detectives burst
text: in, guns drawn. They rough everybody up, get some down on
text: the floor. One detective gathers the money and stuffs it in
text: a bag. Another gathers the dope. The mechanic tries to
text: protest and Trupo slaps him down with his pistol.
text: Richie keeps watching as the NY cops arrest no one - but
dialog: take the dope and the money (Richie's money) - and stride
text: out as abruptly as they appeared, like bandits. As they
dialog: come past Richie -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: That's my money.
speaker_heading: SIU DET 1
dialog: The fuck are you. What money?
text: Richie shows them his Bureau of Narcotics ID.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: The bills are sequenced and registered
dialog: with the Essex County Prosecutors Office.
dialog: All begin with CF3500. Take a look.
text: One of them checks some of the bills and sees he's right.
speaker_heading: SIU DET. 2
dialog: Goddamn it, I thought we had a score.
dialog: I thought I had a fucking Chris-Craft
dialog: sitting in my driveway.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Honest mistake. Just give it back to me.
speaker_heading: SIU DET. 1
dialog: This time.
text: Three of the four cops laugh. It's an affable gang of
text: thieves. The one who doesn't laugh hangs back as the others
text: start off. He examines Richie's New Jersey ID.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: When's the last time I was in Jersey?
dialog: Let me think. Never. What're you doing
dialog: coming over here without letting anybody
dialog: know? You don't know you can get hurt
dialog: doing that?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 60.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 145 CONTINUED: 145
speaker_heading: TRUPO (CONT'D)
dialog: (Trupo smiles; Richie smiles)
dialog: You got your money. Now, never, ever,
dialog: come into the city again unannounced. You
dialog: come in to see a fuckin Broadway show you
dialog: call ahead first to see if it's okay with
dialog: me.
text: Trupo pats him on the back and leaves with the others.
speaker_heading: TOBACK V.O.
dialog: What do we hate most? Isn't it the
dialog: transgressions of others we fear we're
dialog: capable of ourselves?
speaker_heading: 147 - 148 OMIT 147 - 148 OMIT
scene_heading: 149 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - LATER - NIGHT 149
text: It's very late. Richie and Toback are alone. Eventually -
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Richie - cops are like -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Yeah, I know, like everyone else.
dialog: Some of them will steal no matter what.
dialog: There can be a camera on them they'll do
dialog: it. Some'll never do it. The rest are
dialog: capable of either, depending how their
dialog: department leans ... Only theirs isn't
text: leaning, it's fallen over. The patrol
dialog: cars don't even stop in Harlem, just roll
text: down the window so the dealers can throw
dialog: the money in. I saw drops made on
dialog: precinct steps.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: What were you doing there?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: It's where this dope is coming from.
dialog: Blue Magic. Out of New York. What am
dialog: I supposed to do, ignore it?
speaker_heading: TOBACK
text: The cab driver's filed aggravated assault
dialog: and grand theft charges -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: He wouldn't stop. Motherfucker almost
dialog: ran me over.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 61.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 149 CONTINUED: 149
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: - which he may reconsider depending on
dialog: the amount the State of New Jersey offers
dialog: to settle -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I told him I was a cop. I showed him my
dialog: identification.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: You stole his cab and broke his arm.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I was chasing your 20 thousand dollars.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: I don't want to hear about you going
dialog: into New York anymore.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Then my investigation's over.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: You're not listening to me. I said:
dialog: I don't want to hear about it ... You do
dialog: whatever you have to do, go wherever you
dialog: have to go to find out who's bringing
dialog: this shit into the country ... Just don't
dialog: tell me.
dialog: (turns to leave)
dialog: Get some sleep.
speaker_heading: A150 - 152 OMIT A150 - 152 OMIT
scene_heading: AA153 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - MORNING AA153
text: Richie - in robe and underwear - opens the door to find a
text: woman in the hall holding a briefcase.
speaker_heading: VIDA
dialog: Mr. Roberts? I'm here for our
dialog: appointment.
text: He has no idea who the black woman is. An old girlfriend
text: he's forgotten maybe. Behind him, Vida can see a stewardess
text: buttoning up her uniform by a little travel case on wheels.
text: The apartment itself, she can also see, is a mess.
speaker_heading: VIDA
dialog: From Child Social Services?
speaker_heading: A153 - 155 OMIT A153 - 155 OMIT
dialog: 62.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 156 EXT/INT. TONY ZACA'S BACKYARD &amp; POOL HOUSE - DAY 156
text: Barbecue after their Sunday softball game. Richie and his
text: O.C. friends - wise guys - still in their brown and orange
text: Weequahie jerseys, drinking beer, cooking hamburgers.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: When you asked me to be your son's
dialog: godfather, I took it very seriously.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I know.
text: Richie and Tony Zaca relax in the den-like pool house.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I said yes, I'd take on this
dialog: responsibility, take care of your son,
dialog: God forbid something happened to you -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Tony, the things she's telling Child
dialog: Social Services make me look very bad:
dialog: Out all night. Lowlife informants
dialog: hanging around. Women -
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Old friends like me.
text: Richie feels horrible doing this. Silence. Then:
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: It's all right. I understand. They
dialog: ask me, I'll tell them what you want me
dialog: to tell them. I'll lie for you.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: Tony nods, You're welcome. Can tell there's something else
text: on Richie's mind.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You don't have to talk about it, you
dialog: don't want. What do you hear about Blue
dialog: Magic? Anything?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: A lot of sorrow and misery from guys
dialog: being put out of business. That's all.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 63.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 156 CONTINUED: 156
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Nothing about who's bringing it in?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Guys down south is all I heard.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Down south, Florida? Cubans? What.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I don't know. All I can tell you is
dialog: whoever it is, they're upsetting the
dialog: natural order of things.
text: Among the framed family photos around them, is a picture
dialog: of Tony's uncle, Albert Tosca.
scene_heading: 157 EXT. LIVINGSTON, NEW JERSEY - DAY 157
text: A Napoleonic statue of the same man on horseback in a
text: fountain outside a castle-like mansion. Next to it "ride"
text: three others on marble horses - a woman and two children.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Pull -
text: A clay pigeon sails out across the manicured garden. A
text: shotgun blast shatters it. The man with the gun - Albert
text: Tosca - hands another to Frank. As Frank sets to shoot, Ana
text: can seen behind them, with Tosca's wife in the opulent
text: house, looking uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: MRS. TOSCA
dialog: The whole place was imported brick by
dialog: brick from Gloucestershire.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: It's very nice.
text: Mrs. Tosca nods. Ana nods. A strained silence thicker than
text: the tapestries settles over them until -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Pull -
dialog: The shotgun booms -
scene_heading: 158 INT. TOSCA'S MANSION - LATER - DAY 158
text: As servants stand by, Tosca and his wife and their only
text: guests - Frank and Ana - finished with lunch, get up from
text: the table in the formal Formal dining room.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 64.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 158 CONTINUED: 158
text: As Mrs. Tosca leads Ana off to give her a tour of the house,
text: the men head off the other way.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: She's a lovely girl. You should marry
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Too many things to look after right now
dialog: to think about that.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Frank. That's a mistake. If I may say.
dialog: Don't take her for granted, girl like
dialog: that.
text: They enter a rich, wood-paneled study lined with books.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: You interested in history, Frank? The
dialog: events that have brought us to where we
dialog: are today? You know who was? Bumpy.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Bumpy was interested in a lot of things.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: I always wonder if people know when
dialog: history's being made. And what they're
dialog: doing at the time. This, for instance,
dialog: could be a historic moment, and you're
text: sipping a glass of ice water.
text: Droplets snake down Frank's glass. He senses Tosca has
dialog: finally gotten around to why he was invited here.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Bumpy and I did a lot of business
dialog: together, as you know. Whatever he
dialog: needed, he'd come to me and I'd do my
dialog: best to provide it. He came to me, I
dialog: didn't go to him, is the point I'm trying
dialog: to make. You know why?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: He didn't have what you needed. You had
dialog: what he needed. We've always had to come
dialog: to you.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Yes. Until now.
text: Tosca studies Frank, who is a study in inscrutability.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 65.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 158 CONTINUED: 158
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Monopolies are illegal in this country,
dialog: Frank, because no one can compete with a
dialog: monopoly. If they let the dairy farmers
dialog: do that, half of them would go out of
dialog: business tomorrow.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'm just trying to make a living.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Which is your right. Because this is
dialog: America. But not at the unreasonable
dialog: expense of others. That's un-American.
dialog: (he studies Frank)
dialog: You know the price you pay for a gallon
dialog: of milk doesn't represent its true cost
text: of production. It's controlled. Set.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I set a price I think is fair.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: It's very unfair, in fact. Your
dialog: customers are happy, but what about your
dialog: fellow dairy farmers? You're not
dialog: thinking of them.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (very calmly)
dialog: I'm thinking of them as much as they ever
dialog: thought of me.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: All right. I can see you're getting
dialog: excited. Don't get excited. That's not
dialog: why I invited you to my home. To get
dialog: excited.
text: Frank doesn't look excited at all. He's the picture of
text: calm. Tosca smiles benignly and gets up.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Here, I got something for you.
scene_heading: 159 INT. TOSCA'S SMOKING ROOM - LATER - DAY 159
text: Tosca opens a humidor, takes out a couple of Cuban cigars.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Now what if - I'm just thinking out loud -
dialog: you sold some of your inventory wholesale
dialog: and I helped with the distribution.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 66.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 159 CONTINUED: 159
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I don't need it. I already got
dialog: everything from 110th Street to Yankee
dialog: Stadium, river to river.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Which is a little mom and pop store
dialog: compared to what I'm talking about. I
dialog: could make you bigger than K-Mart. L.A.,
dialog: Chicago, Detroit, Vegas. I'm speaking
dialog: nationwide. And I'd guarantee you peace
dialog: of mind. You know what I mean by that.
text: Frank does. It's a backhanded threat. Tosca clips the
text: cigars with a gold guillotine
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Frank. You can see I'm a Renaissance
dialog: man. Unfortunately not all my people are
dialog: as enlightened. Ask them, What is civil
dialog: rights, they don't know. They're not as
dialog: open to change from the way things are
dialog: done and who's doing it. But I can talk
dialog: to them so there won't be any
dialog: misunderstanding. That's what I mean by
dialog: peace of mind.
text: Frank knows, in truth, he's not being given any choice in
dialog: this matter. Still, maybe it's not so bad.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You pay what a kilo now, 75, 80? I'd
dialog: consider 50. And I can get you as much
dialog: as you want.
text: Tosca slips on his best poker face. Fifty thousand a kilo
dialog: would be an extraordinary coup for him.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: You see, I was right. This is a
dialog: historic moment. You're going to be
text: bigger than Bumpy himself.
text: He hands Frank one of the cigars, expertly prepared.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Can't smoke it here, unfortunately.
dialog: Grace doesn't like it. Take it with you.
dialog: 67.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 160 INT/EXT. TOSCA'S MANSION - LATER - DAY 160
text: Doc waits by the car as Frank and Ana walk toward him.
text: The Toscas wave goodbye from the front step of the mansion.
text: Frank slips the cigar into his top pocket as they climb in.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Why would you trust these people, the way
dialog: they look at you?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: They look at me like it's Christmas and
dialog: I'm Santa Claus.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: They looked at us like we're the help.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (kisses her cheek)
dialog: No. They're working for me now.
scene_heading: 161 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 161
text: A TV: Muhammad Ali, the black man's black man, and Joe
text: Frazier, the white man's black man, at their 1971 Madison
text: Square Garden press conference where Ali says as much.
text: Most of the guys watching it. Richie isn't. He comes
dialog: over to Table of Organization. Tacks his Bar Association
text: notice to it. Regards the photographs, like tentacles of
text: octopus yet to have a head.
dialog: Only the lowest section is made up of blacks (including
dialog: Charlie Williams and Jackie Fox, but not Frank Lucas). The
text: rest of the faces are white and stop about midway up.
text: They've hit a wall they can't get past.
scene_heading: 162 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - DUSK 162
text: Another TV here: Howard Cosell, ringside at the Garden as
text: the first early fans arrive, pointing out that the fight,
dialog: because of the political stand Ali's taken, is less about
dialog: boxers than war versus anti-war.
text: Frank chooses a linen jacket from his extensive color-
text: coordinated racks of Phil Cromfeld suits as Ana, in her
text: lingerie, puts on make-up at a vanity. He comes up behind
text: her and sets down a small jewelry box.
scene_heading: 163 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - SAME TIME 163
text: The TV in the background as Richie puts a camera with a long
text: lens in a sports bag and reaches for his coat -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 68.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 163 CONTINUED: 163
speaker_heading: 164 OMIT 164 OMIT
scene_heading: 165 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - CONTINUED 165
text: Ana's reflection in the vanity mirror as Frank slips the
text: engagement ring on her finger. She wipes at a tear, then
text: gets up and hugs him.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Yes.
text: She kisses him. Admires the ring. And -
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: I bought you something, too.
text: She crosses past the TV, takes a garment bag down from her
text: side of the closet, lays it on the bed next to Frank's suit
text: jacket. She takes hold of the zipper but doesn't
text: immediately pull it, hoping perhaps to create some dramatic
dialog: tension.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What is it?
text: She unzips the bag like she's unveiling great art. But
text: instead of seeing what's inside, we're allowed only Frank's
text: reaction: his smile of anticipation slowly changing to
dialog: chagrin.
scene_heading: 166 INT/EXT. MADISON SQUARE GARDEN - BACK ENTRANCE - NIGHT 166
text: Richie observes celebrities and gangsters arriving in
text: limousines - Sammy Davis Jr. and his wife, Joe Louis and
text: his, Tosca and some of his guys - then enters the arena as
text: another limo pulls up. Ana climbs out.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Come on. You look great.
dialog: (no one else emerges)
dialog: You want to miss the fight? Come on.
text: Finally, a patent leather shoe pokes out, sets down on the
text: curb. Then its mate beside it. The shoes step away from
dialog: the limo and -
scene_heading: 167 INT. MADISON SQUARE GARDEN - NIGHT 167
text: Pre-fight. Richie, blended in with the a group of press
text: photographers, regards the organized crime figures ringside.
text: He takes a few pictures with the long lens camera as -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 69.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 167 CONTINUED: 167
text: The owner of the gleaming patent leather shoes is shown to
text: his second row ringside seat just behind the sports writers,
text: and we move up the full-length chinchilla coat to Frank's
dialog: uneasy expression -
text: Richie's camera roams the faces of the prime ticket holders
dialog: ringside: organized crime figures, celebrities, politicians,
text: women with plunging necklines and platinum hair -
speaker_heading: JOE LOUIS
dialog: Excuse me -
text: Richie can't believe it's Joe Louis brushing past him -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Mr. Louis -
text: Joe looks back as Richie approaches him -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'm sorry, but I just have to tell you,
dialog: sir, you were a hero to me growing up. I
text: still push elevator buttons eight times
dialog: for the rounds you beat Billy Conn in.
dialog: For luck.
text: Louis acknowledges Richie only slightly more than not at
text: all. Turns away to join his friends. Richie watches after
text: him, stung by Louis's disregard.
text: He snaps a picture of an Italian wise guy he doesn't
text: recognize ... sifts the camera's view past Frank in the
text: chinchilla coat ... then returns to him, watches as Tosca
text: and his guys sit down behind Frank. Richie can't hear -
dialog: but can see - their good-natured exchange -
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: Hey, Frank, you keep that hat on, I'm
dialog: gonna miss the fight -
dialog: The odd thing to Richie is, Chinchilla's seat is better
text: than all the Italians'. Detective Trupo notices this, too.
text: Richie focuses on the Chincilla's date, a stunning girl, a
text: beauty queen, then shifts back to her boyfriend who's now
text: shaking the proffered hands of other Italians, then Don
dialog: King. Joe Louis himself - who barely acknowledged Richie's
text: existence - comes over and playfully exchanges "punches"
text: with the man in the chinchilla coat.
text: A sudden roar from the crowd as the lights go out except
text: for the spot on the ring. Ali and Frazier are coming down
text: the steps through the crush of fans and reporters, preceded
dialog: by soldiers carrying flags -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 70.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 167 CONTINUED: 167
text: Richie tries to find the guy in the chinchilla coat, but
text: he's hidden by a flag. Then he glimpses him again just as
text: Ali shakes his hand before climbing into the ring -
text: Flashbulbs pop throughout the arena as Robert Goulet
text: begins the National Anthem. Ali pointedly doesn't sing
text: along. Richie frames the shadowy figure in the chinchilla
text: coat, focuses as sharp as he can in the bad light, and
dialog: snaps the shutter -
scene_heading: 168 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 168
text: Richie tacks the photograph of the man in the chinchilla
text: coat to his Table of Organization - low and off to the side
text: by other pieces of the puzzle that don't fit, other new
text: faces with no names. Spearman holds a scrap of paper -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: That's is the plate number on the limo.
dialog: Check with the company, who rented it.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
text: He's a supplier at most. Or just a pimp.
dialog: We'd've heard of him otherwise.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: No, he's bigger than that. His seats
dialog: were phenomenal; better than Al Tosca's.
text: Joe Louis and Ali shook his fuckin hand.
text: They look from Tosca's high position on the board to Frank's
text: low one, and a wedding march played in traditional fashion
text: on organ begins and carries over:
scene_heading: 169 INT. BAPTIST CHURCH - DAY 169
text: From above, a sea of ladies' hats, all coral and pink.
text: Below, Frank stands at the altar, waiting for his bride.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: His name is Frank Lucas ...
scene_heading: 170 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 170
text: Toback sifts through documents Richie has gathered:
text: limousine company records, Frank's thin arrest record, mug
text: shots of him years younger, the photograph from the fights
text: and some more from subsequent surveillances.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Originally from Greensboro, North
dialog: Carolina. Couple of arrests years ago.
text: Gambling, robbery, unlicensed firearm.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 71.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 170 CONTINUED: 170
speaker_heading: RICHIE (CONT'D)
dialog: For fifteen years he was Bumpy Johnson's
dialog: collector, bodyguard and driver. He was
dialog: with him when he died.
scene_heading: 171 INT. BAPTIST CHURCH - CONTINUED 171
text: Ana's family and friends on one side of the aisle, the
text: extended Lucas family - on the other. Frank's mother looks
text: at her eldest son at the altar with pride.
scene_heading: 172 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 172
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Five brothers, he's the oldest, lots of
text: cousins, all living here now, spread out
dialog: around the boroughs and Jersey. The
dialog: brothers are -
scene_heading: 173 INT. DRY CLEANERS - DAY 173
text: A Lucas brother hands some dry cleaning to Spearman -
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: Eugene Lucas in Brooklyn -
scene_heading: 174 INT. ELECTRICAL SHOP - DAY 174
text: Another Lucas brother examines a lamp with a frayed cord
dialog: brought in by Jones.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: Earl Lucas in Newark -
scene_heading: 175 INT. METAL DOOR SHOP - DAY 175
text: Another brother at the register, hands Abruzzo a receipt -
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: Lester Lucas in Queens -
scene_heading: 176 EXT. TIRE SERVICE SHOP - DAY 176
text: Another brother is photographed by Spearman from a parked
text: car as he changes tires on a car up on a hoist.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: Turner Lucas, the Bronx -
scene_heading: 177 EXT. STREET - NEWARK - DAY 177
text: Richie kicks a dent into the fender of his old car.
dialog: 72.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 178 EXT/INT. BODY SHOP - DAY 178
text: As an appraiser writes up an estimate, Richie observes
text: Teddy, attending to paperwork inside.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: And Teddy Lucas, in Bergen County.
scene_heading: 179 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 179
text: A photograph of Teddy goes up on the T.O. next to Frank and
dialog: the other brothers and some cousins -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Except for the chinchilla coat, which
dialog: no one can explain, Frank's life seems
dialog: orderly and legitimate.
scene_heading: 180 INT. BAPTIST CHURCH - CONTINUED - DAY 180
text: Best Man Teddy standing next to Frank at the altar as the
text: bride is escorted down the aisle by her father. Tight on
text: Frank in a beautiful tuxedo -
scene_heading: 181 EXT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE BUILDING - DAWN 181
text: A light goes on in a penthouse window. Down below, by his
text: parked car, Richie shivers in the early morning cold.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
text: He gets up early. Five a.m.
scene_heading: 182 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 182
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Has breakfast at a Midtown place,
dialog: usually alone.
scene_heading: 183 INT/EXT. DINER - MORNING 183
text: Richie tosses a glance inside a restaurant as he passes the
text: window to where Frank sits eating at a table, Doc nearby.
scene_heading: 184 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 184
speaker_heading: RICHIE
text: Then goes to work. Meeting with his
dialog: accountant, or lawyer, dropping in on one
text: of the several office buildings he owns.
speaker_heading: 185 OMIT 185 OMIT
dialog: 73.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 186 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 186
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Nights, he usually stays home. When
dialog: he does go out, it's to a club or dinner -
dialog: with his new wife - friends, celebrities,
dialog: sports figures - never O.C. guys.
scene_heading: 187 EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - NIGHT 187
text: Richie sits in his car across from Small's where bouncers
dialog: keep out people like him. Frank, Ana, Wilt Chamberlain and
text: his wife emerge from the restaurant together.
speaker_heading: 188 OMIT 188 OMIT
scene_heading: 189 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 189
speaker_heading: RICHIE
text: Sundays he takes his mother to church.
text: Then drives out to change the flowers on
dialog: Bumpy's grave. Every Sunday, no matter
dialog: what.
scene_heading: 190 INT. BAPTIST CHURCH - CONTINUED - DAY 190
text: Frank's mother tearfully watches her son slip a ring onto
text: Ana's finger next to the fat engagement diamond - before
text: Ana, in turn, puts a gold band on Frank's. The minister
text: pronounces them husband and wife, the veil is lifted, and
text: they kiss to great applause -
scene_heading: 191 EXT. BAPTIST CHURCH - DAY 191
text: As a photographer takes the official photograph of the
text: wedding party on the steps of the church -
scene_heading: 192 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 192
text: Lou Toback looks from a surveillance photo of the wedding
text: party in his hands, to Richie's Table of Organization: The
text: Lucas brothers and cousins - in the streets of New York and
text: New Jersey, arranged in some imagined hierarchy.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Not your typical day in the life of a
dialog: dope man, Richie.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Neither was Bumpy Johnson's and he owned
dialog: Harlem.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 74.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 192 CONTINUED: 192
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: You think Frank Lucas took over for Bumpy
dialog: Johnson? His driver? That's a little
text: far-fetched.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Is it? Everything he does, he does like
dialog: Bumpy.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Bumpy never wore a chinchilla coat in his
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: We haven't seen that again. That
dialog: apparently has been retired to the
dialog: closet.
scene_heading: 193 EXT. BAPTIST CHURCH - DAY 193
text: Frank and Charlie look on as Ana throws the bouquet.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: She's the most beautiful bride I ever
dialog: saw, Frank.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I wish Bumpy could've met her. I wish
dialog: she could've met him.
scene_heading: 194 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 194
dialog: Looking at the Lucas Table of Organization -
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: What do you got on him you can use in
dialog: court? Because this isn't it. You try
dialog: this without informants and powder, no
dialog: one's going to jail.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Won't get any informants. Not inside.
dialog: It's like a Sicilian family. Like he's
dialog: structured his own family the same way to
dialog: protect himself.
scene_heading: 195 EXT. BAPTIST CHURCH - CONTINUED 195
text: Exactly like one, like a scene from The Godfather as Frank
text: dances with Ana before the reception guests.
dialog: 75.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 196 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 196
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Being with Bumpy long as he was, he
dialog: would have been around Italians a lot.
dialog: Enough to learn that much.
scene_heading: 197 EXT. BAPTIST CHURCH - CONTINUED 197
text: Rice rains down on the bride and groom as they climb into
text: the back of the Towncar. Doc comes around to the driver's
text: side, gets in and slowly pushes through the crush of guests
text: waving and throwing kisses.
scene_heading: 198 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - CONTINUED 198
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: But it's not even Frank Lucas I want. I
dialog: want to know who he's working for: Which
dialog: Italians are bringing the heroin in.
scene_heading: 199 INT/EXT. TOWNCAR / NEW YORK - TWILIGHT 199
text: Flanked front and rear by Frank's security, the marriage
text: car moves along a rain-slick street. The newlyweds cuddle
text: in back. Another car pulls up alongside - Trupo's Shelby -
text: and Doc's right hand instinctively comes off the steering
text: wheel to settle on his holstered gun. Trupo smiles and
text: shakes his head, no.
scene_heading: 200 EXT. CENTRAL PARK - LATER - TWILIGHT 200
text: The Lincoln and security cars and Trupo's Shelby parked.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (to Ana)
dialog: Stay in the car
text: As Frank and Doc climb out, Frank motions to his other
dialog: security men to remain calm, he'll handle this.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Hello, Frank.
text: If Frank is surprised Trupo knows his name, he doesn't show
text: it, or anything else except an air of professional courtesy.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Detective.
text: Trupo looks in at Ana in the back seat, smiles at her. She
text: turns her head away and closes the door. Trupo leads Frank
dialog: away for a private conversation -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 76.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 200 CONTINUED: 200
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: You sure you done the right thing?
dialog: She's a beautiful girl - there's no
dialog: question - but she's got an attitude
dialog: on (her) -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Listen to me. Before you say another
dialog: word - about her - or me - remember that
dialog: you're saying it on the most important
dialog: fuckin day of my life.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
text: Man walks around in a fifty thousand
dialog: dollar chinchilla coat and he never even
dialog: bought me a cup of coffee? Something
dialog: wrong there.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I don't know what you're talking about.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: You pay your bills, Frank?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You want to keep talking, talk to my
dialog: lawyer, here's his card. You call him,
dialog: because we're done here -
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Do you pay your bills, I asked you.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: If you're not getting your share, it's
dialog: not my fault, go ask the chief of police.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: What's my share? You don't even know me.
dialog: Maybe I'm special.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: No, you're all the fuckin same.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: (shows his shield)
dialog: What does that say?
dialog: (Frank ignores him)
dialog: Special - Investigations - Unit. See
dialog: that word there? "Special."
text: (he takes out a restaurant
dialog: business card)
dialog: Ten grand, first of each month, delivered
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 77.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 200 CONTINUED: 200
text: Frank ignores the card, stares at Trupo like he's a fool.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Detective ... There are some things you
dialog: don't do. This is one of them. Not on a
dialog: man's wedding day.
text: Frank's resolve throws Trupo off his rhythm. He manages:
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Have a nice honeymoon.
scene_heading: 201 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - LATER - NIGHT 201
text: Frank doesn't carry Ana across the threshold. He strides in
text: leaving her at the front door, throws a match in the gas
text: fireplace, comes back from the bedroom a moment later with
text: the $50,000 chinchilla coat and throws it on the flames.
scene_heading: 202 TELEVISION IMAGE: 202
text: A march on Washington, protesting the war (archive).
scene_heading: INT. JIMMY RACINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: The report continues on a TV here as Teddy's driver, Jimmy
text: Racine, yells at his girlfriend -
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: Where is it?
speaker_heading: DARYLYNN
dialog: Fuck you, I'm not telling you.
text: She comes past the TV and into the kitchen past a table
text: covered with dope paraphernalia.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: Where is my fuckin dope? You and your
dialog: girlfriends take it again? I'll fuckin
dialog: kill you.
text: She yanks open a drawer, grabs a knife and slashes it at
text: him. He grabs a gun and she runs for the stairs -
scene_heading: 203 EXT. JIMMY RACINE'S - APARTMENT - NIGHT 203
text: He chases her into the street, yelling, raises the gun and
text: fires, and she goes down, clutching at her butt, moaning -
dialog: 78.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 204 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - SAME NIGHT 204
text: Moaning here, too. Richie's lawyer-ex-girlfriend, in bed
dialog: with him.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Richie, yes, fuck me like a cop, not
dialog: a lawyer -
dialog: (the phone rings)
dialog: Oh, God, Richie, no - don't answer it -
text: (he reaches to pick it up)
dialog: No, no, no -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Yeah -
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN V/O PHONE
dialog: Richie. Newark just picked up one of the
dialog: celebrities on our Wall of Fame: Teddy's
dialog: driver. For attempted murder.
scene_heading: 205 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - NIGHT 205
text: Richie's had Jimmy Racine brought over. Sits with him as
text: the Three Amigos watch from the shadows. Just coming off
text: his high, and the attempted murder, Jimmy looks disoriented
text: as he sits in cuffs in the dungeon-like basement.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Because it's an attempted homicide,
dialog: that's Grand Jury. Now, that Grand Jury
dialog: could come in very favorably. Might turn
text: out to be Attempted Manslaughter. Self
text: Defense even. She had a knife. Depends
dialog: on how I want to deal with you. You see
dialog: where this is going.
text: Jimmy looks around at the basement dungeon with concern.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: The fuck is this place?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Let's say you beat it somehow. What do
dialog: you think Cousin Frank'll think of that?
dialog: He knows you had to sit here listening to
dialog: something like this. And then you beat
dialog: an attempted murder? Is he stupid?
dialog: He'll assume you talked.
text: Jimmy can easily imagine that scenario and it frightens him.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 79.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 205 CONTINUED: 205
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You fucked up, Jimmy. But nobody knows.
dialog: Frank doesn't know. Yet. Do you want him
dialog: to read about it in the paper? Or do you
dialog: want to walk out of here - no bail, no
dialog: trial - just walk out, now.
scene_heading: 206 EXT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAWN 206
text: Jimmy has thought about it all night and walks out of the
text: building into the chilly morning air.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: Jimmy? Look at me -
text: Jimmy looks over his shoulder as if Richie just called to
text: him from it, which he didn't. There's no one in sight -
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: Any time I want to change my mind? I
dialog: don't like the quality of your work? I
dialog: can find a witness saw you shoot your
dialog: girlfriend. It just took me a while. I
dialog: even know what he'll look like. He'll
dialog: look just like you.
scene_heading: 207 EXT. MEAT PACKING DISTRICT - DAY 207
text: Teddy's car comes around a corner and down the street.
scene_heading: 208 INT. TEDDY'S CAR - MOVING - DAY 208
text: Jimmy Racine, wired, looks in the rear view mirror at Teddy
text: in the back seat, and, behind him, Richie's car following.
scene_heading: 209 INT. RICHIE'S CAR - SAME TIME 209
text: Richie keeps Teddy's car in view ahead. Glances in his
text: mirror at the cars following him. His detectives.
scene_heading: 210 EXT. MEAT PACKING DISTRICT - LATER - DAY 210
text: The detectives' cars parked behind a warehouse. Richie
text: peers into binoculars at: Teddy's car parked by Frank's
text: outside another warehouse loading dock. Frank gets out,
text: discusses something with his brother, comes past Jimmy to
text: some men in bloody white coats.
text: He talks to them, returns to his car, takes a valise from
text: the trunk. He snaps it open revealing stacks of cash, hands
text: it over and walks to a semi-truck, glancing once in Richie's
text: direction. Though he can't see anyone there he gives a wave
dialog: to them - or is it to the truck driver to pull out -
dialog: 80.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 211 EXT. HARLEM STREET - DAY 211
dialog: Like Bumpy used to do every Thanksgiving, Frank and his
text: brothers, from the back of the truck, hand out hundreds of
text: freshly-butchered turkeys to the poor.
scene_heading: 212 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 212
text: Frank, in an apron, carries in a huge cooked turkey as the
text: extended Lucas family gathers around the table. It's like
dialog: Norman Rockwell painting -
scene_heading: 213 INT/EXT. ALLEY / ROOMS HARLEM - SAME TIME - DAY 213
text: Another Thanksgiving picture: addicts shooting up and
text: nodding out in alleys and dingy rooms. Tight on needles,
dialog: veins, spoons, filth -
scene_heading: 214 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - SAME TIME - DAY 214
text: Richie alone at his kitchen table with a sandwich and a
text: beer. The Macy's parade plays silently on his TV.
scene_heading: A215 INT/EXT. TRUPO'S HOUSE - SAME TIME - DAY A215
text: A doorbell summons Trupo. He comes through his entry.
text: Opens the front door. Finds no one there - except a large
text: live turkey on the doorstep. He stares at it nonplussed,
text: then looks up to a sound - a whoosh - as flames engulf the
text: interior and spit out the windows of his Shelby Mustang ...
scene_heading: B215 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY B215
text: The big knife in Frank's hand slices into the turkey and
text: lifts meat onto a plate that's passed from hand to hand, the
text: family engaged in several conversations at once, laughing -
scene_heading: 215 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 215
text: Bathroom. Jimmy Racine, shirt off, wired, changes the
text: batteries of the little tape recorder.
scene_heading: 216 EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 216
text: Jimmy comes out, tries to take a chair not too far from
text: Frank who's watching his nephew toss pop-up flies for the
dialog: younger kids to catch.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Stevie. Come over here.
dialog: (the nephew comes over)
dialog: I heard you didn't show up.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 81.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 216 CONTINUED: 216
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: You're too busy to meet with Billy
dialog: Martin? After I set it up?
text: Stevie shifts around, not wanting to make Frank mad ...
speaker_heading: STEVIE
dialog: I don't want to play pro ball, I decided.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What're you talking about? This is your
dialog: dream since you were their age -
dialog: (the younger kids)
dialog: Maybe I can set it up again.
text: Stevie just stands there, uncomfortable. Finally -
speaker_heading: STEVIE
dialog: It's not what I want. I want to do what
dialog: you do, Uncle Frank. I want to be you.
text: Frank stares at him unhappily. Teddy comes over but Frank
text: barely notices.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: We got a problem.
scene_heading: 217 INT. TEDDY'S CAR - MOVING - LATE AFTERNOON 217
text: Jimmy Racine behind the wheel. Frank and Teddy in back,
text: speaking quietly.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: He's been cutting it so much it's down
dialog: to two, three percent pure.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You tested it. You're sure.
text: Teddy nods. Frank notices Jimmy looking at them in the rear
dialog: view mirror.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: The fuck you looking at?
scene_heading: 218 EXT. JACKIE FOX'S CLUB - NEW YORK - DUSK 218
text: The car pulls up in front of a building in the clothing
text: district. Jimmy stays while Teddy and Frank go inside.
dialog: 82.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 219 INT. JACKIE FOX'S CLUB - DUSK 219
text: Jackie's club looks like a set from a blaxploitation film.
text: Frank and Teddy, led by a bodyguard, come past some turkey
text: carcasses and other remnants of Thanksgiving to where Jackie
text: and a couple friends cavort with some naked girls.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: Frank. Welcome.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: We need to talk.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: Great. Girls, get out.
text: The girls gather their things and leave. Frank wipes at a
text: modern leather chair with his handkerchief, throws it away,
text: sits. Jackie lays out a couple lines, offers Frank a rolled
text: up hundred dollar straw. Frank shakes his head, no thanks.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: You talked to Charlie. You want to hear
dialog: more about my Black Coalition. Let me
dialog: explain it to you -
dialog: But first, let me suck up a line of coke -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: That's not why I'm here.
text: (Jackie glances up from the
dialog: powder. No?)
dialog: Everybody's happy, Jackie. Charlie, Baz,
dialog: the cops, the Italians, everybody.
dialog: Everybody except you.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: I'm happy.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Then I don't understand. Why do you have
dialog: to take something that's perfectly good
dialog: the way it is, and wreck it?
text: Jackie doesn't seem to understand.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Brand names mean something, Jackie.
dialog: Consumers rely on them to know what
dialog: they're getting. They know the company
dialog: isn't going to try to fool them with an
dialog: inferior product. They buy a Ford, they
dialog: know they're gonna get a Ford.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 83.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 219 CONTINUED: 219
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: Not a fuckin Datsun.
dialog: (his look says, right?)
dialog: Blue Magic is a brand name; as much a
dialog: brand name as Pepsi. I own it. I stand
dialog: behind it. I guarantee it and people
dialog: know that even if they don't know me any
dialog: more than they know the chairman of
dialog: General Foods.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: What the fuck are you talking about,
dialog: Frank?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What you're doing, as far as I'm
dialog: concerned, when you chop my dope down to
dialog: five percent, is trademark infringement.
dialog: That. That's what this is about. Jackie nods, but -
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: With all due respect, Frank, if I buy
dialog: something, I can do whatever I want with
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: That's not true. That's where you're
dialog: wrong.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: If I buy a car, I can paint it, God damn
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Jackie, you don't need to. You don't
dialog: need to make more money than you can with
dialog: Blue the way it is. No one does. At a
dialog: certain point it's just greed.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: What do you want, Frank? You want me to
dialog: call it something else?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I have to insist. You call it Blue
dialog: Magic, that's misrepresentation.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: Fine. I'll call it Red Magic, even
dialog: though it doesn't sound as good.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: That's all I'm saying. Wrap it in red
dialog: cellophane and -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 84.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 219 CONTINUED: 219
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: Pink Magic. Black Magic -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Whack it down to nothing, tie a bow
dialog: around it and call it Blue Dogshit if you
dialog: want, just don't let me catch you doing
dialog: this again.
text: Jackie regards Frank for a long moment ...
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: Catch me? Insist? Infringement? I
dialog: don't like these words as much as please -
dialog: thank you - sorry to bother you, Jackie.
dialog: These are better words to use you come
dialog: into my place without an invitation.
text: Jackie waits to hear a kinder word but Frank doesn't offer
text: one. Jackie nods, Fine, okay, but it's more like a warning.
scene_heading: 220 INT. JACKIE'S CLUB - DUSK 220
text: Frank pulls a girl off Teddy's lap and points him toward
text: the door. Jackie watches them leave.
scene_heading: 221 EXT. JACKIE'S CLUB - DUSK 221
text: They emerge from the building to where Jimmy waits.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Give me the keys; take a cab home.
scene_heading: 222 INT. TEDDY'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT 222
text: Frank and Teddy driving in silence. Eventually -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You don't go over there any more.
text: Teddy doesn't like it, but nods. Suddenly his face is
text: illuminated by light reflecting in the rear view mirror, an
text: unmarked police car behind them, flashing its brights.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: It's all right, pull over, what are they
dialog: going to do? Give us a ticket?
text: But Teddy isn't as calm as he begins to pull over.
dialog: 85.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 223 EXT. GARMENT WAREHOUSE DISTRICT - NY - LATE AFTERNOON 223
text: As Trupo and his partner climb out of their car and approach
dialog: Teddy's -
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Frank? Some of it's in the trunk.
text: Frank regards him with utter disbelief. Teddy shies as if
text: he expects to get hit. The SIU detectives arrive.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Hello, Frank.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Detective. How's it going? You have a
dialog: nice Thanksgiving?
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: I did not, as a matter of fact. Get out
dialog: of the car.
text: The Lucases climb out.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Where's the Shelby?
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: The Shelby's gone, Frank.
text: Trupo reaches in the driver's side window, takes the keys
text: from the ignition and comes around to the trunk. Frank and
text: Teddy exchange a glance as it opens. Silence. Then -
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Want to come over here a minute, Frank?
text: Six kilos of heroin are illuminated by the trunk light.
text: Frank and Trupo regard it in silence. Then -
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Now what are we gonna do about this?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: We're gonna shut the trunk and say good
dialog: night, forget you pulled us over.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: I got a better idea.
text: Trupo reaches into the trunk, picks up two of the heroin
text: bricks, tucks them under his arm and looks at Frank -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 86.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 223 CONTINUED: 223
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Or would you rather I took it all and
dialog: threw you and your brother in the fuckin
dialog: river?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I don't know, would you rather it's your
dialog: fuckin house blows up next time?
text: They hold each others' stare for a long moment.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: I loved that car.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I know.
text: Trupo closes the trunk and walks away with his cut of the
text: heroin, calling to his partner -
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Let's go.
text: As the SIU cops walk to their car, the perspective shifts,
text: through binoculars: Richie watching.
scene_heading: A224 INT. TEDDY'S CAR / STREET - LATER - NIGHT A224
text: From outside the driver's side, Teddy's head, inside the
text: car, suddenly smashes against the window, cracking it. His
text: groan is interrupted by Frank's muffled voice -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Don't you ever put me in a car with dope
dialog: in it.
scene_heading: 224 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 224
text: Richie comes in, opens the fridge and stares in, his mind
text: elsewhere. A ringing phone pulls him out of it.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Yeah. Tony. How's it going?
scene_heading: 225 INT/EXT. TONY ZACA'S HOUSE - DAY 225
text: Tony's wife and daughters can be seen in the suburban
text: backyard. Here in the kitchen Tony and Richie watch kernels
text: of popcorn bounce off the inside walls of the first Amana
text: microwave oven. It's noisier than modern ones.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: The fuck is a `micro' wave?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 87.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 225 CONTINUED: 225
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: It's a scientific force like atomic
text: energy. It rearranges the molecules.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Of what.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Of anything. Of popcorn. You don't
dialog: want to put your head in there.
text: Tony rakes out the plain, `pre-microwaveable' popcorn,
text: using his hand. Gives some to Richie. Half of it's burnt.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I can get you one of these. Just like
dialog: this, brand new. I'll have it delivered.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: No, thanks. I don't want one.
text: Tony hands Richie some snapshots: The Zaca family on the
text: slopes of a resort, and in and outside a beautiful snow-
text: dotted cabin.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: This is nice, where's this?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Aspen. Just got back. Had a great time.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'd like to ski Aspen some day.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Know who we met? Burt Reynolds. I'm not
dialog: kidding. Lot of people from Hollywood go
dialog: up there now, buying up everything.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: This is your place?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Are you kidding? You know what it's
dialog: worth? Ski-in-ski-out, five bedrooms,
dialog: sauna, everything. We were guests.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: No ... No, that's your place.
text: Everything seems to stop. Richie becomes aware of the
text: sounds around them, the girls splashing around outside ...
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 88.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 225 CONTINUED: 225
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Isn't there something we can do - about
dialog: leaving the big guy alone? You know who
dialog: I mean.
dialog: What Richie knows is that no matter what he does or says at
dialog: this point he's got a problem.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: If I don't report what you just said
dialog: to me, you know I could be in a lot of
dialog: trouble. If I do, then it's you.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I'm hoping you won't do that.
text: Richie considers the room itself, measuring the odds of
text: microphones and a recorder being in it somewhere.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I'm not taping it. How do you know?
dialog: Because we're friends and I'm telling
dialog: you. This is a real offer.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: From who, your uncle?
dialog: (Tony doesn't say)
dialog: Why would you do this? Why would you
dialog: risk our friendship?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Because I care what happens to you.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You shouldn't have done it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I had to. I had no choice. Neither do
dialog: you. Leave Frank Lucas alone.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: He's not important enough for you to do
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Yes, he is.
text: Richie stares at Tony, then puts the pictures in his hand.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Tell Marie I'm sorry I had to leave.
dialog: You can tell her why.
dialog: 89.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 226 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - LATER - NIGHT 226
text: Alone in the empty building, he stares at the T.O.: The
dialog: higher echelon Italians like Tosca; lower echelon Harlem
dialog: guys like Charlie Williams and Frank Lucas.
text: He gets up then, untacks Frank's photograph from its lowly
dialog: position and moves it to a place no black has ever occupied -
text: to the top of the pyramid - above the mafia.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 227 - 230 OMIT 227 - 230 OMIT
scene_heading: A231 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - DAY A231
text: Toback regards Frank's picture at top of the Lucas T.O.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: INS, FBI, IRS - I can't get anything out
dialog: of them. Nothing on his travel, his bank
dialog: accounts, property holdings - nothing.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: That's because they all think you're on
dialog: the take and you think they are.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: They don't want this to stop. It
dialog: employs too many people. Cops, lawyers,
dialog: judges, probation officers, prison
text: guards. The day dope stops coming into
dialog: this country, a hundred thousand people
dialog: lose their jobs.
dialog: Toback isn't as sure the corruption of the official world is
dialog: that complete.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: Richie. Excuse me.
text: Spearman gestures to a couple of men in suits who want to
dialog: talk to him.
scene_heading: B231 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - LATER - DAY B231
text: Richie and Tobacke regard the two stone-faced FBI agents -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Who took it out?
dialog: (nothing from the agents)
dialog: If there's a contract on me, it would be
dialog: nice to know who took it out.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 90.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: B231 CONTINUED: B231
speaker_heading: FBI AGENT
dialog: We can't say without compromising our
dialog: source. You understand.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: No. I don't. Not when it's my life.
speaker_heading: FBI AGENT
dialog: If you want, we can assign someone to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Who? FBI? You're going to protect me?
text: Richie almost laughs at the thought, looks to Toback. In
dialog: fact, none of this is funny.
scene_heading: C231 EXT. STREET - NEWARK - NIGHT C231
text: Walking toward his apartment down its dark street, bag of
text: groceries in arm, Richie becomes aware someone is following
text: him. He slows to let the figure get closer, closer, then
text: turns fast, drops the guy and puts a gun to his head.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Don't shoot! For God's sake.
text: Richie keeps the gun pressed against the guy's forehead.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Talk.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Are you Richard Roberts? I got a
dialog: subpoena.
scene_heading: 231 INT. COURTROOM - NEWARK - DAY 231
text: Richie and Laurie sit with their respective lawyers, waiting
text: for the judge to appear. He leans over -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Laurie. I'm sorry I couldn't give you
dialog: the kind of life you wanted. I'm sorry
dialog: it was never enough. But don't punish me
dialog: for being honest. Don't take my son
dialog: away.
text: She stares at him in disbelief. Then responds in a louder
dialog: voice than his -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 91.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 231 CONTINUED: 231
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: What are you saying? That because you
dialog: were "honest" and didn't take money like
dialog: every other cop, I left you?
text: The bailiff looks over, but she doesn't care.
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: You don't take money for one reason:
dialog: to buy being dishonest about everything
dialog: else. And that's worse than taking money
dialog: nobody gives a shit about - drug money,
dialog: gambling money nobody's gonna miss.
dialog: (more people look over)
dialog: I'd rather you took it and been honest
dialog: with me. Or don't take it, I don't care.
dialog: But don't then go cheat on me. Don't
dialog: cheat on your kid by never being around.
dialog: Don't go out and get laid by your
text: snitches and secretaries and strippers.
dialog: I can tell just by looking, she's one
dialog: of them.
text: His lawyer. Which is true. Everyone's watching them now.
speaker_heading: LAURIE
dialog: You think you're going to heaven because
dialog: your "honest." You're not. You're going
dialog: to the same hell as the crooked cops you
dialog: can't stand.
speaker_heading: BAILIFF
dialog: All rise -
scene_heading: 232 INT. COURTROOM - LATER - DAY 232
text: The same judge who sends a collection plate around sits
text: before Richie and Laurie and their attorneys.
speaker_heading: SHEILA
dialog: Your honor, a lot has been said here
dialog: today about how unsavory Mr. Roberts'
dialog: environment is for a child. How
dialog: dangerous it is. I'm sorry, but this is
dialog: our world. This is where we live and we
dialog: tell him, Protect us. We give him that
dialog: responsibility, and then say, Oh, but we
dialog: don't trust you to raise a child. We
dialog: don't think you're fit for that.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'm not.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 92.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 232 CONTINUED: 232
text: Silence. Sheila looks at him, but he's looking at Laurie,
text: and speaks to her like they're alone in the room:
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You're right. This is no place for him.
dialog: Around me. Take him. The further away
dialog: the better. For him.
speaker_heading: 233 OMIT 233 OMIT
speaker_heading: 234 TV IMAGE (ARCHIVE): 234
text: The lights on the Rockefeller Christmas tree blink on to
text: applause. A carol begins and continues over:
speaker_heading: A235 OMIT A235 OMIT
scene_heading: 235 INT/EXT. FRANK'S CAR / FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 235
text: Seats covered with Christmas presents. Doc, driving, sees
text: Trupo's car parked out front Frank's penthouse.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Frank -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Yeah, I see them.
text: Doc pulls to the curb outside Frank's building. As the
text: doorman helps Doc with the big Christmas tree tied to the
text: roof of the car, Frank crosses to Trupo's car with a couple
text: of bottles of Crystal tied with holiday bows.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Here you go, boys. Merry Christmas.
speaker_heading: 236 OMIT 236 OMIT
scene_heading: 237 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 237
text: Charlie has come to visit. A Christmas carol plays as Frank
text: strings the tree with some lights.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Paying cops is one thing, I understand
dialog: that. I been paying them since I was ten
dialog: - put more of their kids through college
dialog: than the National Merit Award. This is
dialog: different, this Special Investigations
dialog: Unit. They think they are special.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 93.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 237 CONTINUED: 237
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: They're fucking crooks. No code of
dialog: ethics.
text: Frank plugs the cord in and the tree lights up.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Someone's been following me. Besides
dialog: cops. I see cars where they shouldn't
dialog: be. Guys I don't know -
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Me, too.
text: They regard each other. The carol continues over:
scene_heading: 238 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - LATER - NIGHT 238
text: Ana hangs tinsel on the tree as Frank gives the shepherd
text: some dog toy presents he's bought. More to himself:
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Bumpy hardly ever went out at a certain
dialog: point. He stayed in - read - watched TV -
dialog: played chess. I thought he chose to lead
dialog: a quiet life. He didn't. He couldn't go
text: out without something happening.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: We can still go out.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Where? With who? Everyone I know is
dialog: under surveillance. I can't even be with
dialog: my family at Christmas anymore.
text: He gets up, pets the dog, and looks out the window at
text: Christmas angels stretched across the street, at people on
text: the sidewalk, wondering perhaps which of them are undercover
text: cops, at Trupo's car, still parked outside.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Why don't you just pay who you have to
dialog: pay?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I do pay them, I pay them all. Cops,
dialog: accountants, lawyers, who don't I pay?
dialog: Everybody. I pay them a fortune, it
text: doesn't matter. It doesn't satisfy them.
dialog: The more you pay, the more they expect.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 94.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 238 CONTINUED: 238
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: You can't start with them because they
dialog: can't stop. It's like dope. They
dialog: always want more.
text: Ana looks vulnerable. Frank almost feels bad that it's his
dialog: life and problems that have put them here. Eventually, to
dialog: try to turn it around -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Put on something nice, we're going out.
scene_heading: 239 INT/EXT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE BUILDING - NIGHT 239
text: Frank and Ana emerge from a service elevator, come down a
text: dark hall and out the back door to an alley to where Doc
text: waits with the car in the falling snow.
speaker_heading: 240 OMIT 240 OMIT
scene_heading: 241 EXT. SMALL'S PARADISE - LATER - NIGHT 241
text: Frank's car approaches Small's just as Jackie, with a
text: Santa Claus hat on, climbs out of a sky blue Bentley with
text: his entourage. Frank groans to Doc -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Keep going.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Around back?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Fuck that. I'm not going to sneak into
dialog: my own club. Just drive.
speaker_heading: 242 OMIT 242 OMIT
scene_heading: 243 INT. CHINESE TAKE-OUT PLACE - NIGHT 243
text: Waiting for a take-out order under harsh fluorescent lights -
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: I'm going to wait in the car.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Go ahead, Frank. I'll wait for it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You can carry it all? We ordered a lot.
text: Doc nods, go on, go with Ana. Frank hands him a couple
text: twenties. Ana's already outside.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 95.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 243 CONTINUED: 243
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Don't forget the yellow sauce.
speaker_heading: 244 OMIT 244 OMIT
scene_heading: 245 EXT. STREET - CHINATOWN - NIGHT 245
text: Ana's half a block ahead, waiting outside the locked car by
text: the time Frank arrives and realizes -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Doc's got the keys. Let's go back.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: The lights give me a headache, you go.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'm not leaving you on the street.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Get the keys, Frank, it's cold.
text: He starts back through cascading snow. Notices a car coming
text: slowly down the street -
scene_heading: 246 INT. CHINESE PLACE - CONTINUED 246
text: The cook dumps sizzling vegetables into a take-out container
dialog: and puts it in a bag -
scene_heading: 247 EXT. STREET - CHINATOWN - CONTINUED 247
text: The car passes, continues to the end of the block, turns the
dialog: corner.
speaker_heading: 248 OMIT 248 OMIT
scene_heading: 249 INT. CHINESE PLACE - CONTINUED 249
text: Doc hands over money, waits for his change -
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: Gimme some of that yellow sauce.
scene_heading: 250 EXT. STREET - MIDTOWN - CONTINUED 250
text: Frank sees the car again, coming around the corner, walks
text: briskly back to where Ana waits. The car is almost upon
text: them as he grabs her by the wrist and pulls her hard along
text: the sidewalk. The car guns its engine -
speaker_heading: 251 OMIT 251 OMIT
dialog: 96.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 252 INT/EXT. CHINESE PLACE - CONTINUED 252
text: As Frank pushes in past the doors with Ana, the windows
text: explode. They dive to the floor, bullets ripping through
dialog: the place.
text: Doc draws his two guns and fires back at the car, hitting
text: it a couple times as it screeches off. He gathers Ana and
text: Frank off the floor like a presidential bodyguard, hustles
text: them out to the car. Frank's shoulder is bleeding.
speaker_heading: DOC
dialog: You hit?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What the fuck was that?
text: They pile in and Doc screeches away from the curb.
speaker_heading: 253 OMIT 253 OMIT
scene_heading: 254 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 254
text: Heavy security in the hallways: Frank's own men and some
text: cops he's got on the payroll. Ana steps from the elevator
text: and hurries past, early edition New York paper in hand.
scene_heading: 255 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT 255
text: The brothers watch as a private doctor attends Frank's
text: wounds. He seems all right fine except for the fact that
dialog: someone had the fucking nerve to take a shot at him - and
text: Charlie he sees in the newspaper - gunned down, dead, lurid
text: Weegee-like photo of him on the front page.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Was it Jackie?
dialog: (Frank doesn't say)
dialog: I'll fuckin kill him whether it was or
dialog: not, you tell me to.
dialog: (nothing from Frank)
dialog: What do you want us to do, Frank? We
dialog: can't just sit here and -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Who didn't like Charlie? Everybody liked
dialog: Charlie ...
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Who shot at us?
dialog: (Frank can't tell her)
dialog: It doesn't matter. We're leaving.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 97.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 255 CONTINUED: 255
text: She pulls a drawer open. Takes out their passports.
text: Begins packing. The brothers watch, not sure what to do,
dialog: or say. To them -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Go home. Go see your kids.
text: He obviously wants to talk to Ana alone. Pulls away from
text: the doctor. They all leave. Ana keeps packing.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What are you doing? Where've you been?
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: We're leaving from here. Money's in
dialog: the car.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What money?
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Everything from your mother's house.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: In your car?
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Where's the car?
speaker_heading: ANA
text: Out front.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: With ten million dollars in it?
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: I didn't count it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Are you crazy? Take it back to Teaneck.
dialog: What are you doing driving around without
dialog: security? Doc'll take you back.
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: We're not going there, we're going to the
dialog: airport. We're leaving the country.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: To go where? No, we're not.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 98.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 255 CONTINUED: 255
speaker_heading: ANA
text: Frank, Charlie's dead. They tried to
dialog: kill us. What else has to happen - ?
text: He grabs her and holds her to calm her down.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Shhh. Come on, now. Shhh.
text: He holds her close, waits for her breathing to slow before:
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Where are we going to go? Spain?
dialog: China? Which fuckin place is it going
dialog: to be?
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: We can go anywhere we want. We can live
dialog: anywhere.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: We can run and hide is what you're
dialog: saying.
text: He slowly shakes his head: that's something he'll never do.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: This is where I'm from. This is where
dialog: my family is. My business. My mother.
dialog: This is my place. This is my country.
dialog: This is America.
scene_heading: 256 - 263 OMIT 256 - 263 OMIT
scene_heading: 264 EXT. HUDSON RIVER - MORNING 264
text: The Statue of Liberty in morning light and mist rises from
dialog: the waters of the Hudson River.
scene_heading: A265 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - MORNING A265
text: Richie, at his desk, looks up to see Trupo walking through
text: the squad room, followed by Spearman.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: Said he'll only talk to you.
scene_heading: B265 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - LATER - MORNING B265
text: Trupo's attitude has completely changed from the first time
text: they met. He talks to Richie now like a fellow conspirator -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 99.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: B265 CONTINUED: B265
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: From what I hear, it was the Corsicans.
dialog: The French Connection, Fernando Rey, the
dialog: exporters Frank has put out of business.
dialog: Now, I can take care of him in New York,
dialog: but I don't want to have to worry every
text: time he drives across the bridge to
dialog: Jersey someone's gonna take another shot
text: at him.
text: Richie gives nothing away even as it stuns him that Trupo
dialog: would speak to him this blatantly.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: We need to start working together. We
dialog: need to step up our efforts. Next time
dialog: their aim could be better. We need to
dialog: keep this cash cow alive.
text: Jimmy Racine comes in - sees Trupo - and leaves - but not
text: before Trupo has seen him. And now he sees the Lucas Table
dialog: of Organization he didn't notice when he came in. Gets up
text: and walks over to it now and takes a closer look. Sees
text: Frank's picture at the top, like Enemy Number 1.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Jesus. What the fuck you doing here?
dialog: You actually going to arrest Frank Lucas?
dialog: What's the matter with you?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'm crazy. Can't you tell that? I'm
dialog: crazy enough to shoot someone and make it
dialog: look like an accident next time he comes
dialog: over the bridge without my permission.
dialog: Get the fuck out of New Jersey.
text: They regard each other a moment before Trupo turns to leave.
scene_heading: C265 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - DAY C265
text: A large TV shows chaotic scenes in Saigon. The US is
text: pulling out of Vietnam. Tosca has come to see how Frank is
text: recovering, and finds him, agitated, too long in bed even
text: though it's only been a day, changing into a nice shirt,
dialog: putting on his shoes -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: "I can guarantee you peace of mind,"
dialog: you said. Do I look like a man with
dialog: peace of mind to you? They shot at my
dialog: wife. Who does that?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 100.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: C265 CONTINUED: C265
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
dialog: Who was it, which one of your people?
dialog: I'll take that gun away and shove it up
dialog: their ass.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: I don't know that it was any of them,
dialog: Frank. Neither do you.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Then maybe I'll kill them all just to
dialog: make a fuckin point.
text: Tosca seems more philosophical about it - like Bumpy might
dialog: have been - but it wasn't him who was shot at.
speaker_heading: TOSCA
dialog: You want to know who it was? I can
dialog: tell you. It was a junkie. Or a rival.
dialog: Or some dumb ass kid trying to make a
dialog: name for himself. Or someone you forgot
dialog: to pay off. Or slighted without
dialog: realizing it. Or someone you put out of
dialog: business by being too successful.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Success has a lot of enemies. Your
dialog: success is who took a shot at you. How
dialog: you gonna kill it? By being
dialog: unsuccessful? You can be successful and
dialog: have enemies, or unsuccessful and have
dialog: friends. It's the choice we make.
scene_heading: 265 INT. MASSAGE ROOM - SOUL BROTHERS BAR - NIGHT 265
text: A call has interrupted Nate's massage (and later activities)
text: with a bevy of Thai girls. He wraps himself in a robe,
text: takes the phone.
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: Hello?
scene_heading: 266 INT. REGENCY HOTEL - SAME TIME - DAY 266
text: Frank on a pay phone in a comfortable alcove with a stack
text: of quarters. Other guests are gathered around a TV in the
text: lounge that shows images of helicopters plucking diplomats
text: off the roof of the American Embassy in Saigon.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'm watching the news. Where the hell's
dialog: everyone going?
speaker_heading: NATE
text: Home. The war's over.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 101.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 266 CONTINUED: 266
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Just like that? We're going to leave the
dialog: fuckin country to the communists?
speaker_heading: NATE
dialog: We been here since 1961, Frank.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I haven't!
speaker_heading: HARD CUT TO:
scene_heading: 267 EXT. JUNGLE - DAY 267
text: Frank and Nate and their "army" of black servicemen and Thai
text: thugs wind through the jungle with pack mules.
scene_heading: 268 INT. BAMBOO DWELLING - OPIUM FARM - DAY 268
text: The same farm and hut as before. Frank and the Chinese
text: General sip tea. The four million dollars in cash Frank
text: brought sits on the table.
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: Opium plants are hearty enough to
dialog: outlive any war. They'll still be here
text: long after the troops are gone. But what
dialog: are you going to do for transportation
dialog: when the last US plane goes home?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'll figure something out. You'll see
dialog: me again.
dialog: The General seems fond of Frank, and not only because of all
text: the money on the table.
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: It's not in my best interest to say
dialog: this, Frank ... but quitting while you're
dialog: ahead is not the same as quitting.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: That's what my wife thinks.
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: But you don't think she's right.
text: Frank doesn't say.
dialog: 102.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 269 EXT. OPIUM FARM - DAY 269
text: Mules are loaded up with burlap bags containing 3,000 kilos
dialog: of heroin.
scene_heading: A270 EXT. OPIUM FARM / JUNGLE - DAY A270
text: The mule train approaches the jungle that surrounds the
text: opium farm. Nate's Thai thugs, left behind in sniper
text: positions in the trees, stand ready to open fire if they
text: have to as Frank, Nate, the soldiers and mules pass below.
scene_heading: B270 EXT. JUNGLE - LATER - DAY B270
text: They seem to have made it, winding back down through the
text: jungle with the mules. Suddenly a barrage of gunfire erupts
text: from the trees - a couple of Nate's men are hit as the rest
text: dive for cover, shouting "Vietcong," and returning the fire.
text: Frank drops down from his mule, gets a pistol out and shoots
text: into the trees. Bullet-severed palm fronds rain down.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Give them half!
text: Nate, pinned down by the mules, can't hear him over the
dialog: noise.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Cut half of them loose! The mules!
text: Nate cuts the mule-train tether in the middle, slaps at the
text: animals. As the freed mules disappear into a wall of trees
text: the shooting subsides, then stops altogether. Smoke from
text: all the gunfire rises like mist around the half dozen Thais
text: and Americans lying dead on the ground.
scene_heading: 270 EXT. STREET - NIGHT 270
text: Teddy makes out with a girl in the back seat of his car.
text: The pay phone just outside on the corner rings, and he gets
text: out, steps past Jimmy, answers it -
scene_heading: 271 INT. SOUL BROTHERS BAR - BANGKOK - INTERCUT - DAY 271
text: A Thai singer attempts Otis Redding on the little stage.
text: Frank, at a table here, with a drink and a phone.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Newark. Short Term Parking Lot 3.
speaker_heading: TEDDY V/O
dialog: When you need it? Today?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 103.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 271 CONTINUED: 271
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Tomorrow will be fine.
scene_heading: 272 EXT. STREET - CONTINUED 272
text: Jimmy loiters close enough to the open pay phone, to hear
text: Teddy's side of the conversation.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Short Term Lot 3. This the Mustang were
dialog: talking about ... Camero? ... What's the
dialog: plate number?
dialog: (writes on a napkin)
dialog: Yeah, I got it ... I got it, Frank ...
dialog: (sighs; reads from the
dialog: napkin:)
speaker_heading: KA 760.
scene_heading: 273 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 273
text: Jimmy's come over to share his news with the detectives.
text: But Richie isn't pleased with it - or with Jimmy.
speaker_heading: ABRUZZO
dialog: There's no Short Term Lot 3 at Newark.
dialog: They're lettered, A, B, C, D -
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: I'm just telling you what I heard -
speaker_heading: ABRUZZO
dialog: Then you heard wrong!
text: Jimmy shies back a step in case Abruzzo takes a swing.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: Maybe he means the time? 3 o'clock?
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: And this isn't a Jersey plate. Or New
dialog: York. Not with just two letters. It's
dialog: three and three, not two and three -
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: It's what he said -
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: Then what the fuck is it -
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: The fuck should I know -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 104.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 273 CONTINUED: 273
speaker_heading: ABRUZZO
dialog: You're fuckin lying -
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: It's what he said. I'm sure.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
speaker_heading: KA 760 -
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: Yes!
text: Silence. They all look at each other. After a moment -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: None of you ever been in the service?
dialog: It's an Air Force tail number.
scene_heading: 274 EXT. SKY - DAY 274
text: The plane, with that tail number, descends through clouds.
scene_heading: 275 EXT. NEWARK AIRPORT - DAY 275
text: Richie's entire staff of detectives, along with Toback, the
text: DA and several customs agents, stand on the tarmac, watching
text: the military plane taxiing toward them -
scene_heading: 276 EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 276
text: Quiet sounds of suburban domesticity - chirping birds, a
dialog: distant lawn mower -
scene_heading: 277 EXT. NEWARK AIRPORT - CONTINUED 277
text: The cabin door slides up, the passengers begin emerging:
dialog: Military officers, embassy personnel and families. Richie's
text: detectives and Toback watch him with concern as the official
text: passengers, met by a bevy of assistants, file past -
scene_heading: 278 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - CONTINUED 278
text: The kitchen. Frank's mother shows Ana some old photographs
text: of Frank as a boy as they sip coffee. There's a tap on the
text: glass French door. The women look up and see Trupo just
text: outside it, and other police moving past. He waves.
speaker_heading: 279 OMIT 279 OMIT
scene_heading: 280 EXT. NEWARK AIRPORT - CONTINUED 280
text: An Army captain approaches Richie's law enforcement group.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 105.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 280 CONTINUED: 280
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Captain, I'm Richard Roberts, Director of
dialog: the Essex County Narcotics Bureau.
scene_heading: 281 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - CONTINUED 281
text: Front door. Trupo sort of waves a search warrant at Julie
text: as invites himself in. The NY cops follow, fan out. Trupo
text: and his detectives head upstairs -
scene_heading: 282 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - LATER 282
text: The plane has been brought into a hangar where it's being
text: taken apart like a car stripped by thieves. Inside the
text: cabin, seats are removed and inspected, carpeting pulled up,
text: panels unscrewed, lavatories dismantled.
scene_heading: 283 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - CONTINUED 283
text: Downstairs - Ana and Frank's mother, guarded, can hear
text: Trupo and his detectives, upstairs, ransacking a bedroom.
text: Upstairs - the SIU detectives pull open drawers, throw
text: clothes from the closets. Trupo picks up an invitation to
text: a United Nations ball, tosses it down again. Finds a safety-
text: deposit box key in a sock drawer, puts it in his pocket.
scene_heading: 284 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - CONTINUED 284
text: The engines and landing gear are disassembled, the tires
text: opened up and searched. A nozzle plunges into a toilet and
text: pumps out the contents into barrels detectives fish through
dialog: with gloved hands -
scene_heading: 285 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - LATER - DAY 285
text: Ana is taken upstairs, brought before the SIU detectives
text: who wait for the NYPD cops to leave the room. The place
text: has been torn apart.
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: Your husband's illustrious career is
text: over. The Feds are going to come in and
dialog: take it all. Everything. But not before
dialog: I get my gratuity. Where's the money?
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: There was some on that dresser, but it's
dialog: gone now so I guess you (took it) -
speaker_heading: TRUPO
dialog: The money! The getaway money Frank and
dialog: every other gangster keeps in his house!
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 106.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 285 CONTINUED: 285
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: If you leave now, there's a chance
dialog: Frank might not kill you -
text: Trupo slaps her hard across the face -
scene_heading: 286 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - LATER 286
text: Richie, off by himself, watches with a growing sense of
text: panic as the mechanics, detectives and customs agents begin
text: removing the metal skin from the plane. Coffins are being
text: off-loaded.
scene_heading: 287 INT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - LATER 287
text: Downstairs, Mama Lucas puts washcloth on Ana's swollen
text: cheek. They can hear the search continuing upstairs: things
text: being ripped from the walls, the walls themselves splintered
text: apart with sledgehammers, glass breaking. To Mama Lucas -
speaker_heading: ANA
dialog: I'm sorry.
scene_heading: 288 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - LATER 288
dialog: They've looked everywhere and found nothing. The plane,
text: in fact, hardly resembles a plane anymore - no panel left
dialog: that hasn't been removed, no cavity not probed - except -
text: Richie's glance settles on the military caskets as they're
text: loaded onto a truck, armed soldiers standing guard -
scene_heading: 289 INT/EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 289
text: Frank's bedroom has been destroyed. Trupo, standing at a
text: window glances out at the sound of a barking of a dog to see
text: Frank's German shepherd down in its kennel.
scene_heading: 290 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - CONTINUED 290
text: Richie gets up slowly and approaches the coffins as -
scene_heading: 291 EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - DAY 291
text: Trupo crosses the lawn toward the kennel and barking dog -
scene_heading: 292 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - CONTINUED 292
text: Richie stands over the nearest coffin -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Open it.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 107.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 292 CONTINUED: 292
text: The army captain regards the detective for a long moment.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: The warrant permits me to search the
text: plane and its cargo.
text: The captain doesn't comply. Richie moves to open the coffin
text: himself and every soldier's shouldered rifle immediately
text: comes into firing position, aimed at him.
speaker_heading: ARMY CAPTAIN
dialog: But you don't have my permission.
text: Richie stares at the weapons and the uniformed men holding
text: them, safeties off, fingers on the triggers; all they're
text: waiting for is their commander's order to fire.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I don't need it.
scene_heading: 293 EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - CONTINUED 293
text: Trupo regards the shepherd snarling at him from behind the
text: kennel fence. Comes around back. Pushes at the frame. It
text: moves a little, like it's levered -
scene_heading: 294 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - CONTINUED 294
text: With the rifles still pointed at him, Richie kneels down,
text: pulls the latches of the coffins, half expecting to hear an
text: accompanying barrage of gunfire. He lifts the lid. Sees a
text: long black body bag inside -
scene_heading: 295 EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - CONTINUED 295
text: Trupo comes around to the front of the kennel again with his
text: gun out and aims it at the dog. As he fires -
scene_heading: 296 INT. AIRPORT HANGAR - CONTINUED 296
text: Richie pulls at the zipper, parting the plastic body bag,
text: revealing the remains of a young soldier -
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: That's enough.
scene_heading: 297 EXT. MAMA LUCAS'S TEANECK, N.J. HOUSE - CONTINUED 297
text: The dead dog slides against the fencing as Trupo overturns
text: the kennel to reveal Frank's stash of cash.
dialog: 108.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 298 INT. AIRPORT HANGER OFFICE - MINUTES LATER - DAY 298
text: Richie and Toback sit before the Federal Attorneys and
text: customs agents. The US Attorney hangs up a phone ... then:
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: That was a military transport plane. If
dialog: there was heroin on board then someone in
dialog: the military would have to be involved.
dialog: Which means that even as it fights a war
dialog: that's claimed 50,000 Americans lives,
text: the military is smuggling narcotics.
text: Richie's in serious trouble and knows it. As does Toback.
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: That's how these events are being
dialog: interpreted by General Easton in that
dialog: call to me. That someone employed by the
dialog: this office believes the United States
dialog: Army is in the drug trafficking business -
text: and is trying to prove it by desecrating
dialog: the remains of young men who've given
dialog: their lives in the defence of democracy.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: There are drugs on that plane -
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: Shut the fuck up.
text: Richie does, but can't conceal the contempt he feels for
dialog: these men who've never spent a minute on the street but act
dialog: as if know more than him, and who are, in the unfortunate
dialog: organization of his world, his superiors.
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: Is it any wonder then, because of your
dialog: actions, the entire federal narcotics
dialog: program is now in jeopardy of being
dialog: dismantled as completely and enthusiastic-
dialog: ally as that fucking transport plane?
dialog: That's what you've accomplished Mr.
text: Roberts. Single-handedly.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I had good information the target of my
dialog: investigation was bringing dope in on
dialog: that plane.
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: And that target is?
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 109.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 298 CONTINUED: 298
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Frank Lucas.
text: No one in the room, except Richie and Toback, has ever
text: heard the name. The federal men regard one another blankly.
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: Who? Who's Frank Lucas?
dialog: (no one seems to know)
dialog: Who's he work for? Which family?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: He's not Italian. He's black.
text: Now there's a longer, even deeper silence, before -
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: Is that supposed to be some kind of joke?
dialog: You're this close to the end of your
dialog: career in law enforcement, you're making
dialog: jokes?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I believe Frank Lucas is above the mafia
dialog: in the dope business. I believe he buys
dialog: direct from the source in Southeast Asia,
text: cuts out all the middlemen, and uses US
dialog: military planes and personnel to bring
dialog: pure No. 4 heroin into United States.
text: Richie is looking at faces that are still trying to make
text: sense out of his ridiculous theory. Toback tries to come to
dialog: his defense -
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Richie has a lot of experience -
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: Does he. And how many arrests has he
dialog: made in his so-called investigation?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I was promised when I took this job, it
dialog: was about real arrests.
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: Does that mean `none?'
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I have cases against most of Frank's
dialog: organization. Not him -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 110.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 298 CONTINUED: 298
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: (more to the others)
dialog: Frank's organization -
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: No fucking nigger has accomplished what
dialog: the American Mafia hasn't in a hundred
dialog: years!
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Yeah, you'd know, sitting here, having
dialog: never been on the (street) -
speaker_heading: US ATTORNEY
dialog: Lou, get this fucking kike out of here -
text: Richie goes for him and lands several punches before Toback
text: and the others can pull him off.
speaker_heading: 299 OMIT 299 OMIT
scene_heading: 300 INT/EXT. AIRPORT HANGAR OFFICE - DAY 300
text: Richie and Toback walk briskly across the lobby -
speaker_heading: TOBACK
text: He was out of line, Richie.
text: Richie isn't really listening. Strides past his detectives
text: on his way out of the building. To Spearman -
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: It's over. You're shut down.
text: Toback watches as the detectives follow after Richie
text: striding toward his car.
scene_heading: 301 - 302 OMIT 301 - 302 OMIT
scene_heading: A303 INT/EXT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - NIGHT A303
text: Frank comes out with an airline representative to find Doc
text: waiting for him. He can tell immediately something's wrong.
scene_heading: B303 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT B303
text: Frank slaps a cartridge into the butt of a pistol.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Ten million dollars means nothing to me.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 111.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: B303 CONTINUED: B303
text: Ana stares at the floor. It all just seems to get worse and
dialog: worse. They had their chance to get out and missed it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: This - is his death warrant.
text: He lightly touches his wife's bruised face and walks out.
scene_heading: C303 INT. FRANK'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT C303
text: He comes down the stairs to where Doc waits. As they head
dialog: for the door -
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: Frankie -
text: Frank glances to where his mother sits in the living room.
dialog: Nods to Doc to say, Get the car, I'll be out in a minute.
text: Goes over to his mother.
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: Sit down.
text: He sits. She studies him in a way she hasn't since he was
dialog: little. Eventually -
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: If you'd have been a preacher, your
dialog: brothers would be preachers. If you'd
dialog: been a soldier, they'd be soldiers. Do
dialog: you know that?
dialog: (he doesn't say)
dialog: They all came here because of you. You
dialog: called and they came running. They look
dialog: up to you. They expect you to always
dialog: know what's best.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: But even they know you don't shoot
dialog: cops. Even I know that. Ana knows it.
dialog: You seem to be the only one who doesn't.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Is that where I'm going?
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: I never asked you where all this came
dialog: from because I didn't want to hear you
dialog: lie to me. Don't lie to me. Don't do
dialog: that, too.
text: She's not pleading, she's telling. Silence. Then -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 112.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: C303 CONTINUED: C303
speaker_heading: MRS. LUCAS
dialog: Do you really want to make things so
dialog: bad for your family they'll leave you?
dialog: Because they will. She will -
dialog: (points upstairs)
dialog: I know I will.
text: Frank has some trouble looking at her. But then gets up.
text: Walks toward the front door to leave. Hesitates near it a
text: long moment. Then turns and walks upstairs. Trupo will
dialog: live, at least for now, because of her.
scene_heading: D303 INT. ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT D303
text: Down in the basement, the body bags are lifted from the
text: wooden coffins. Set down on tables. The bags unzipped and
text: the bodies removed.
text: A rack of clean uniforms is brought in. The morticians
text: begin dressing the corpses and applying make-up on the dry
text: gray skin.
text: New white military caskets are trundled in. Gold handles
text: lifted. The bodies, clothed and painted now, are deposited
text: on the silk linings. The lids of the coffins come down and
text: cellophane bags containing folded flags are taped on top.
scene_heading: 303 - 309 OMIT 303 - 309 OMIT
scene_heading: 310 EXT. ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT 310
text: The white caskets are taken to a loading dock, put in a
text: military truck. Papers are signed, copies exchanged. As
text: the truck drives off -
scene_heading: 311 INT. ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT 311
text: Two black privates on janitorial duty come into the room
text: where the original plain wooden coffins have been discarded.
text: They remove the lids, then the finely-crafted false bottoms,
text: revealing in 4-inch cavities of each, tightly-packed bricks
text: of Double UO Globe heroin. As they take them out, a gospel
text: choir begins and continues over:
scene_heading: 312 EXT. ARMY HOSPITAL - MORNING 312
text: A laundry truck idles. Stevie, the Lucas nephew who could
text: have played for Yankees, jumps down, helps the two privates
text: toss several laundry bags into the back of the truck.
dialog: 113.
dialog: 
scene_heading: A313 EXT. BAPTIST CHURCH - MORNING A313
text: A minister on the steps welcomes the congregation which
dialog: includes Frank, his mother, and Ana -
scene_heading: 313 EXT. PERIMETER OF THE ARMY BASE - MORNING 313
text: The laundry truck comes past a guard gate, leaves the base,
text: drives past a stand of trees. As it passes, Richie, parked
text: by his detectives' cars, recognizes the young driver - who's
text: wearing the same Yankee baseball cap in his T.O. photo.
text: As Richie and his detectives climb into their cars, two
text: Lucas cars fold in behind the laundry truck. The detectives
dialog: follow at a distance -
speaker_heading: A314 OMIT A314 OMIT
scene_heading: 314 INT. BAPTIST CHURCH - MORNING 314
text: The sea of ladies' hats from above move in time with the
text: gospel choir. As always, no matter what else is going on in
text: his complicated life, Frank sits with his mother and Ana in
text: their usual pew. The gospel music continues over:
scene_heading: A315 EXT. BAPTIST CHURCH - MORNING A315
text: Frank emerges from the church, kisses his mother and Ana and
text: put them in a car with a driver. He climbs into Doc's
text: alone. His mother watches, wondering perhaps if he intends
text: to go kill Trupo after all. As Doc's car leaves, so does
dialog: another.
scene_heading: 315 - 318 OMIT 315 - 318 OMIT
scene_heading: 319 INT/EXT. RICHIE'S CAR - MOVING - NEAR GW BRIDGE - MORNING19
dialog: 3
text: The laundry truck approaches a ramp leading to the George
text: Washington Bridge. Richie, a couple of car lengths behind,
text: follows. The truck continues straight.
speaker_heading: 320 OMIT 320 OMIT
scene_heading: 321 EXT. NEWARK - MORNING 321
text: From overhead, the laundry truck, the gun car and the van -
text: and the detectives' cars following them all - converge from
dialog: different directions -
dialog: 114.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 322 EXT. NEWARK - NEAR STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 322
text: Red Top's van makes a turn. As Abruzzo's makes the same
text: turn behind it, the infamous Stephen Crane Projects rise up
text: in his windshield.
text: His foot comes off the gas. As the gun car passes, he
text: sees Jones's car slow. Teddy's car approaches from another
text: direction into the Projects, and Abruzzo sees Spearman pull
text: over. Then the laundry truck turns in, and Richie's slows
text: to a stop, like Abruzzo's, outside the grounds of the
text: foreboding towers. The gospel music ends.
scene_heading: A323 EXT. CEMETERY - MORNING A323
text: Doc waits in the car while Frank buys some flowers at a
text: cemetery flower stand. The surveillance car cruises past.
scene_heading: 323 INT. TOBACK'S HOUSE - MORNING 323
text: Toback, in his bathrobe, glass of milk in one hand, phone in
dialog: the other ...
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: Where is it?
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
text: Somewhere in the South tower.
speaker_heading: TOBACK
dialog: You know that it's there. You're sure.
speaker_heading: RICHIE V/O
dialog: Positive.
scene_heading: 324 EXT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - SAME TIME 324
text: Richie, on a pay phone across down the street from the
text: Projects, looks up at the dark South tower.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Lou. We're ready to go in there
dialog: knowing there's a good chance we won't
dialog: all come out. That's what we're willing
dialog: to do. All I'm asking you to do get me a
dialog: warrant.
text: Silence on the other end of the line ...
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: We don't have a lot of time to fuck
dialog: around -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 115.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 324 CONTINUED: 324
speaker_heading: TOBACK V/O
dialog: I'll call in the warrant. And some
dialog: backup. Don't go in before either gets
dialog: there.
dialog: This call disconnects.
scene_heading: 325 INT. APARTMENT, THE PROJECTS - MORNING 325
text: The girls spread and tape plastic sheeting to tabletops,
text: then begin changing for work, which means undressing.
scene_heading: 326 EXT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 326
text: Richie and his guys wait for the warrant by their cars.
speaker_heading: JONES
dialog: How long we gonna wait for it?
scene_heading: 327 INT. APARTMENT, THE PROJECTS - MORNING 327
text: Pharmaceutical scales balance to their counterweights as
text: the five naked, masked women cut the heroin with quinine to
text: Frank's exacting standards. Red Top puts on some coffee.
scene_heading: 328 EXT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 328
text: Richie stares down the street, waiting for whatever it is
text: they're waiting for. Spearman looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: It'll be here.
scene_heading: 329 INT. APARTMENT, THE PROJECTS - MORNING 329
text: A paper-cutter blade slices a sheet of blue cellophane.
text: The girls at the tables, with the expertise of Cuban cigar
text: makers, wrap pieces of the cellophane like tobacco leaves
text: around precisely-measured 1/4-ounce drifts of Black Magic.
scene_heading: A330 EXT. CEMETERY - MORNING A330
text: Frank's car winds up the road of the cemetery. The
text: surveillance car comes through the main gate and parks.
scene_heading: 330 EXT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 330
text: Several black and white and undercover cars approach,
text: sirens off. Toback himself climbs out of one of the cars
text: and hands Richie the search warrant.
dialog: 116.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 331 EXT. STEPHEN CRANE PROJECTS - MORNING 331
text: The tall buildings cast long shadows of dread on every
text: activity below, no matter how routine: A woman pushing a
text: stroller, guys shooting hoops, a couple arguing, kids on
text: bikes, old men resting on a graffiti-covered bench.
text: The unmarked cars drive slowly through it all. The place
text: teeters on the brink of violence you can feel as gangs move
text: under the shadow of the towers.
scene_heading: 332 INT. GROUND FLOOR, SOUTH TOWER, THE PROJECTS - DAY 332
text: Richie removes the cover plate of an elevator, cuts the
text: wires, disengaging it, then leads the Amigos, followed by
text: more detectives to a stairwell. The place is like Beirut.
text: Debris-strewn, graffiti-covered.
scene_heading: A333 EXT. CEMETERY - CONTINUED - DAY A333
text: Frank walks past graves to Bumpy's. Replaces some dried
text: flowers with fresh ones. Looks around for something to sit
text: on. Sees some wooden folding chairs around a fresher grave
text: nearby. Doc waits by the car in the distance.
scene_heading: 333 INT. STAIRWELL - FLOORS - SOUTH TOWER - DAY 333
text: Floor by floor, they work their way up the tower like
text: commandos, the squalor and decay and hopelessness somehow
text: intensifying the higher up they go.
text: Reaching the 17th floor, they listen to a strange sound
text: before easing the fire door open enough to see a kid on a
text: Big Wheels pedalling straight at them. He passes and the
text: sound fades.
scene_heading: 334 INT. 17TH FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY 334
text: Half the apartment doors are gone. TVs and radios echo,
text: voices argue, infants wail. The detectives come around a
text: corner and see at the end of it: a couple of guys with a
text: sawed-off shotguns sitting outside a closed door.
text: They step back. Consider one other. Spearman volunteers
text: with a nod, continues on alone as the others wait. He walks
text: up to the guys with the guns.
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: I got to talk to Teddy.
scene_heading: GUY WITH GUN
dialog: Get the fuck out of here.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 117.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 334 CONTINUED: 334
speaker_heading: SPEARMAN
dialog: What the fuck is that? I got business
dialog: with Teddy and it's none of your fuckin
dialog: business except to knock on the fuckin
dialog: door and get him.
text: As the guy stands, pumping the shotgun, Spearman yanks it
text: hard against his throat like a garrote, forcing him to the
text: floor. The shotgun explodes, showering plaster and pellets.
text: Jones and Abruzzo are instantly all over the other guy as
text: Richie swings the sledgehammer into the door -
scene_heading: 335 INT. APARTMENT, THE PROJECTS - CONTINUOUS 335
text: The door splinters - the room already in chaos - Teddy,
text: panicked, runs for the bedroom - the detectives crash in
text: yelling at the girls to get down - a shot from somewhere
text: inside wings Abruzzo - Jones and Spearman firing back -
text: crawling across the floor like an infantrymen -
text: Richie comes into the darkened bedroom leading with his
text: pistol. But Teddy's gone. He sees a tapestry of a tiger on
text: a wall. Pulls at it, finds a big hole knocked into another
text: dark apartment, climbs through, sees an open door -
scene_heading: 336 INT. THE PROJECTS BUILDING - CONTINUOUS 336
text: As Richie rushes out to the hallway he can hear footfalls
text: echoing in the stairwell. He starts down, taking the stairs
text: five at a time, chases Teddy down two flights -
text: Teddy yanks open a door, runs down a corridor, bangs into
text: an apartment. Richie reaches the apartment just as Teddy is
text: goes out onto an exterior balcony -
text: Richie continues along the interior corridor, running
text: parallel to Teddy on the balcony, who trips over some debris
text: and garbage, looking over his shoulder for Richie -
text: Richie cuts through another apartment to head him off, but
text: the door to the balcony is nailed shut. So are the windows.
text: Richie looks around, grabs a small portable television and,
text: just as Teddy runs past, hurls it through a window at him,
text: hitting him in the head.
text: He falls hard, dazed. Richie hurries through the broken
text: window. Teddy comes to and fights back, until Richie breaks
text: his femur with his bare hands. Teddy howls in excruciating
dialog: pain -
scene_heading: 337 INT/EXT. DRY CLEANERS - DAY 337
text: Police cars outside. Eugene Lucas is cuffed and led away.
dialog: 118.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 338 EXT. METAL DOOR SHOP - DAY 338
text: More police outside Lester's place. They cuff him.
scene_heading: 339 EXT. TIRE SERVICE SHOP - DAY 339
text: New Jersey troopers cuff Turner Lucas and lead him away.
scene_heading: 340 EXT. ELECTRICAL SHOP - DAY 340
text: Cuffed, Earl Lucas is put in the back of a patrol car.
scene_heading: 341 EXT. CEMETERY - CONTINUED - DAY 341
text: Frank, on a wooden folding chair at Bumpy's grave, hears
text: the gunning of engines and barking of cops. He turns to see
text: Doc being handcuffed on the ground by the Towncar. Glances
text: to a lone figure walking toward him over a rise. Richie.
text: Richie arrives at the grave. Regards the monument to
text: Ellsworth Johnson, and Frank sitting calmly regarding him.
text: Richie glances around the peaceful surroundings ...
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What kind of trees are these?
text: Frank looks at the trees, then at Richie, with equal
dialog: serenity.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You think you got Frank Lucas. You
dialog: got nothing.
scene_heading: A342 INT. RICHIE'S APARTMENT - DAY A342
text: Richie cuts the tags off a new, inexpensive suit. Slips
text: the jacket on, which seemed somehow to fit a little better
text: at the store. Cuts the tags off a tie.
scene_heading: B342 INT. COURTHOUSE MENS ROOM - DAY B342
text: Someone throwing up in a stall. The toilet flushes, the
text: door opens and Richie steps up to a sink, regards his face
text: in the mirror. Under the fluorescent lights - maybe under
text: any kind - his skin is a shade of death. He splashes water
text: on it and tries to gather himself.
scene_heading: 342 INT. COURTROOM - DAY 342
text: At the prosecutors table, Richie steals glances at the
text: battery of expensive attorneys over at the defense table.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 119.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 342 CONTINUED: 342
text: The courtroom doors swing open and Richie sees Frank Lucas,
text: in a tailored suit, escorted in without cuffs by an amiable-
text: looking federal marshal.
text: As Frank moves through the gallery, Richie sees it's full of
text: the gangster's friends, many of them celebrities, who smile
text: and greet and fawn as if the Pope has arrived.
text: Richie has evidence tables covered with cash, weapons,
dialog: stocks, bonds, property deeds, pictures of Frank's holdings,
text: heroin in blue cellophane.
dialog: Frank has celebrities, community leaders, Joe Louis himself
text: who will testify to Frank's benevolent character. The Champ
text: hugs the heroin trafficker warmly in front of everyone and
text: Richie wonders if he should just give up now.
text: Richie sees it in slow motion: the hands reaching out to
text: Frank, the pats on his back, lipsticked mouths of beautiful
text: women offering kisses and words of encouragement, his old
text: mother giving him a hug.
text: He watches Frank's head turn slowly, his eyes passing his
text: phalanx of attorneys, the jury, finally settling on Richie
text: in his cheap suit seated at the prosecutors table.
text: Frank's eyes smile as they regard Richie, and seem to ask,
dialog: Can you see this - can you see what you're up against - can
dialog: you see how insignificant you are?
text: Reaching the end of the welcoming line finally, Frank
text: brushes by Richie and disappears from view somewhere within
text: the protective husk of his multi-million-dollar legal team.
speaker_heading: JUDGE
dialog: Mr. Roberts -
text: Richie slowly lifts himself from his chair, steps forward,
text: turns to look at the jury that's studying him, finally finds
dialog: his voice:
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Thank you, your Honor. Ladies and
dialog: gentlemen -
scene_heading: 343 INT. COUNTY JAIL - INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 343
text: Wire mesh separates Frank from his battalion of lawyers.
text: He glances over them to Richie being led through the large
dialog: Visiting Room.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Here he is, let me talk to him alone.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 120.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 343 CONTINUED: 343
text: The attorneys get up and leave. Richie takes their place.
text: Frank regards him a moment, offering the same knowing smile
text: from the courtroom. Richie offers nothing.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I just heard something. I said it
dialog: couldn't be true. You didn't really
dialog: turn in a million dollars you found
dialog: in the trunk of a car, did you?
text: Richie doesn't say. Frank searches his face for some clue
dialog: to where on earth he's from.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Want me to tell you what happened to
dialog: it? It ended up in cops' pockets.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Maybe? No. It did. All you did was
dialog: give it to them for nothing in return.
dialog: Not nothing: You got their contempt.
text: Frank studies him.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Why'd you do that? What're you trying
dialog: to prove, you're better than them? You're
dialog: not better than them. You are them.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I don't have the time or interest to
dialog: listen to (this) -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You did it because it was right.
dialog: That's all. Why's that hard to say?
dialog: The question is would you do it again?
dialog: That was a long time ago. It'd be very
dialog: easy to find out. Tell me you want to
dialog: find out, tell me the address, and a car
dialog: will be there, the trunk loaded.
dialog: Richie knows Frank isn't kidding ...
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: No, thanks.
text: Frank suddenly explodes -
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 121.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 343 CONTINUED: 343
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Who the fuck are you to say no to
dialog: that? You think that impresses me?
text: Guards look over, then glance away once it's clear the
text: outburst is through. Richie remains serene. Eventually -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Let me ask you something. You think by
dialog: putting me in jail, you're going to stop
dialog: even one junkie from dying? Because you
dialog: won't. If it isn't me, it'll be someone
dialog: else. With me or without me, nothing's
dialog: going to change.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Then that's the way it is.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You have any sort of case? Or just
dialog: that idiot drives for my brother. Is he
dialog: your case? Because if it's just him and
dialog: the powder, it's not enough.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Then you got nothing to worry about.
text: But Frank is worried, most of all by this cop who doesn't
text: take money sitting placidly in front of him.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: My brothers won't talk to you. My
dialog: cousins. None of my family. No one but
dialog: that mother fucking driver.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I got more than that. I got a line of
dialog: people wanting to testify that stretches
text: out the door and around the block.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Bullshit.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Is it? Tony the Bug. Benny Two-Socks.
dialog: Carmine Camanetti.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Who the fuck are they? I don't know
dialog: them and they don't know me.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 122.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 343 CONTINUED: 343
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: They sell dope for the Mazzano crime
dialog: family. Which you all but put out of
dialog: business.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: This is who you're going to put on the
dialog: stand? Guys who don't know me? Who got
dialog: nothing to do with me?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: They have everything to do with you.
dialog: And the only thing they hate more than
dialog: you is what you represent.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I don't represent nothing.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You don't? Black businessman like you?
dialog: Of course you do. But once you're gone,
dialog: things can return to normal.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Look at me. You looking? Can you tell
dialog: by looking it would mean nothing to me if
dialog: tomorrow you turned up dead?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Get in line. That one stretches around
dialog: the block, too.
dialog: Frank has never been so frustrated by anyone in his life.
dialog: He wants to work something out with Richie obviously, but he
text: can't figure out how. Frank studies him.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What can we do?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You know what you have to do.
text: Frank does, but doesn't like it, and doesn't know if he can
dialog: do it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I could give you cops, but that's not
dialog: who you want, is it. You want organized
dialog: crime names.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I'll take them, too. I want them all.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 123.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 343 CONTINUED: 343
text: Frank isn't sure he heard right.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You'll take them, too? You'd go after
dialog: cops? Are you serious? You'd do that?
dialog: Lock up your own kind?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: They're not. Not the ones in business
dialog: with you. They're not my kind any more
dialog: than the Italians are yours.
text: They regard one another in silence. Richie can tell Frank
text: sees daylight.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What can you promise me?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I can promise you if you lie to me about
dialog: one name, you'll never get out of prison.
dialog: Lie about one dollar in one offshore
dialog: account, you'll never get out. You can
dialog: live rich in jail the rest of your life,
dialog: or poor outside it, that's what I can
dialog: promise.
text: Frank is silent for several moments. Finally -
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You know, I don't care if the feds take
dialog: all my buildings, my stocks, my off-shore
dialog: accounts. They can take it all, I don't
dialog: care - use it to build battleships, paint
dialog: bridges, whatever the fuck they want.
dialog: Fight another war. But those other
dialog: motherfuckers - the cops - put my money
text: in their pockets. Millions.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I believe it.
text: Frank debates with himself the step he's about to take ...
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I want to know everyone you've met for
dialog: the last twenty years. Everyone you sold
dialog: to. Every cop you ever paid off. Every
dialog: one who ever stole from you. Every one
dialog: you remember.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 124.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 343 CONTINUED: 343
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Oh, I remember them all. That's not the
dialog: problem.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What is?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: The jail's aren't big enough.
scene_heading: 344 INT. COUNTY JAIL CELL / STREETS OF NEW YORK - DAY 344
text: Surveillance photographs of cops seen earlier taking
text: envelopes of money on 116th Street and other drops go up
text: on a new, elaborate Table of Organization - of cops.
scene_heading: 345 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 345
text: Richie dismantles the Lucas Table of Organization here,
text: taking down the photographs. As it collapses -
scene_heading: 346 INT. COUNTY JAIL CELL - CONTINUED 346
text: Frank puts up photographs of detectives -
text: 347 QUICK CUTS of the same detectives, in handcuffs, led through
speaker_heading: 347
text: police stations past other cops watching with dread like
dialog: maybe they're next -
text: A surveillance photograph of the four Princes of the City
text: striding down a sidewalk goes up on the cell wall -
text: 348 FLASHCUT as three of the four SIU cops are led away in cuffs
speaker_heading: 348
dialog: from a golf course -
text: 349 A surveillance photograph of Trupo in a black hand - 349
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You go up here. Your "special."
text: As Frank tapes the picture of Trupo at the top of the
dialog: pyramid of corruption -
scene_heading: 350 INT/EXT. TRUPO'S GARAGE - MORNING 350
text: Trupo, coffee in hand, comes into his garage from his
text: kitchen. Opens the garage door and sees two squad cars
dialog: parked outside ...
dialog: 351 A TV: A report on the indictments handed down by the 351
text: Manhattan DA's office against 53 NYPD and SIU detectives -
dialog: 125.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 352 INT. PRISON CELL - DAY (YEARS LATER) 352
text: Frank gathers his few personal belongings and puts them in
text: a box. Stands with the box and waits for the cell door to
text: open. The Table of Organization and files are gone.
dialog: Legend: Frank Lucas was convicted of Conspiracy to
text: Distribute Narcotics and sentenced to 70 years.
dialog: He served 15 of them.
dialog: Legend: Federal authorities confiscated over 250 million
dialog: dollars from him in real estate, equities and cash
dialog: in US and foreign banks.
scene_heading: 353 INT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAY 353
text: Richie, too, is packing, putting personal items into boxes.
dialog: Legend: The day after he convicted Frank Lucas and 30 of
dialog: his Country Boy relatives, Richard Roberts borrowed
dialog: $400 from his credit union to help pay for a 3-day
dialog: vacation to the Bahamas.
text: Richie, carrying the box, switches off the lights and closes
text: the door behind him on his way out.
dialog: Legend: Six months later, he quit the Prosecutors Office
dialog: to become a defense attorney. His first client was
dialog: Frank Lucas.
scene_heading: 354 EXT. PRISON - DAY (1990) 354
text: Frank steps out into sunlight, free but owning nothing but
text: the cardboard box in his arms. Looks out across the parking
dialog: lot to see if anyone has come to pick him up. Sees Richie
text: by his car, hand raised above his head like a flag.
scene_heading: 355 EXT. 116TH STREET, HARLEM - DAY 355
text: The two of them stand outside Richie's car on the same
text: corner Frank shot Tango. Frank looks up at the street signs
dialog: that used to say 116th Street and 8th Avenue. Now they say
text: 116th Street and Frederick Douglass Boulevard.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Frederick Douglass Boulevard? What was
dialog: wrong with just plain 8th Avenue?
text: He considers the street itself. It too has changed. The
text: corner groceries, as Bumpy prophesied, really are gone now.
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 126.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 355 CONTINUED: 355
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I used to sit here with Ana in my old
dialog: car. She hated it. Now I don't even
dialog: have a car. Or her.
text: Frank glances to where his favorite diner used to be, and
text: across the street to where he shot Tango. It isn't a fruit
dialog: stand any more.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Just do what?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: The fuck is that? Just do what?
text: It's a Nike store with huge paintings of Michael Jordan and
dialog: the admonition "Just Do It."
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Sneakers. Expensive ones.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Who the fuck would buy those?
text: A car equipped with sub-woofer bass comes booming past.
text: Frank stares at it with the same pained look Bumpy had at
dialog: the discount emporium.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: Your brothers know you're out?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I haven't talked to them in years. It's
dialog: better that way. For them. I don't know
dialog: where they are. Went back to Greensboro
dialog: when they got out, I guess.
text: Richie nods. Frank looks back at the new storefronts.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What am I going to do now, be a janitor?
dialog: What do I know how to do? How am I going
dialog: to live?
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: I told you I wouldn't let you starve.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You told me but you can barely take care
dialog: of yourself.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONT)
dialog: 127.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 355 CONTINUED: 355
speaker_heading: FRANK (CONT'D)
text: (glances to a pay phone on
dialog: the corner)
dialog: You know, one phone call, Richie, I could
dialog: be back in business.
text: The look Richie gives him calmly assures Frank if he did
dialog: that it'd be the last phone he made outside prison - ever.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I won't. I'm just saying I could.
text: He buttons the cuffs of the fake Members Only windbreaker
text: Richie bought him off the street.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Thanks for the clothes.
speaker_heading: RICHIE
dialog: You're welcome.
text: Frank glances away to three young hoods coming toward them
text: like they own the sidewalk and everything around it - baggy
text: pants, bandanas tied around their heads.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Uh-oh. Look out. Here come the
dialog: gangsters.
text: Frank's right in their path but doesn't move, forcing one
text: of them to squeeze between him and a parking meter. The
text: gangsta looks back, is about to say something, or do
text: something, but, examining the expression of quiet menace on
text: Frank's face, thinks better of it. The others stop.
speaker_heading: GANGSTA 2
dialog: What.
text: The first one is still staring at Frank, but finally has the
dialog: good sense to let it go.
speaker_heading: GANGSTA 1
dialog: Nothing.
text: They move on. Frank glances to Richie.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Every idiot gets to be young once.
text: Frank zips up his Members Only jacket, props up the collar
text: and points himself in the other direction.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Let's get out of here.
dialog: 
