speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK CITY SKYLINE ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THE NEW YORK CITY SKYLINE AT NIGHT, THE LIGHTS
text: OF THE CITY SHINING BRIGHTLY.
scene_heading: EXT. WORKOUT AREA ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF MASTER KWAN'S SCHOOL, A RAMSHACKLE BUILDING IN A
text: BURNED OUT ROW OF STORES.
text: His is the only one still occupied, and it doesn't look that
text: permanent. In the window is a cardboard, handwritten sign that reads
text: "Kwan's Shaolin Kung Fu". What remains visible behind the poster and
text: the security grate is an IMPRESSION of people moving and milling
dialog: around.
scene_heading: INT. WORKOUT AREA ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF KWAN'S SHAOLIN KUNG FU SCHOOL.
text: The students are doing their own thing, and they are a mixture of old
text: and young, men and women. They are not dressed alike, as they would
text: be in a Karate school: they are dressed in old T-shirts and tattered
dialog: sweat pants. This is not a wealthy school, by any means, and that is
text: typified by the appearance of SIFU KWAN, who is walking through the
text: students as they train. He is wizened old man, 70 years old if he is
text: a day, and he is dressed in a fraying Chinese jacket, scruffy cloth
text: shoes and a discolored Chinese T-shirt.
text: ANGLE ON A YOUNG ADULT
text: Struggling through a horse stance, his face in real pain. He is
text: trying his best to hold the stance, but his legs are quivering. He
text: drops out of the stance onto his knees. Master Kwan is right beside
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ADULT
dialog: Sifu Kwan, was that long enough? It's been 10 minutes...
text: Sifu Kwan shakes his head and puts his hands behind his back as he
text: walks past the student.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: At Shaolin Temple, in misty Songshan mountains, We monks
dialog: trained in iron palm until our hands bled...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ... then we trained some more.
text: He walks on, leaving a puzzled student behind.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ADULT
dialog: (getting back into horse stance)
dialog: I guess not...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON KWAN
text: As he walks around the different people training. As one woman is
text: moving through an intricate series of movements, he sighs and
text: rearranges her hands.
speaker_heading: KWAN
text: Tiger grasps his tail, not hamburger!
text: He moves on, studying the room with his eyes, often glancing toward
text: the door, and then toward the small clock on a table near the door.
text: It is late, and Kwan is obviously waiting for someone to arrive. As
text: he is waiting, a young STUDENT comes up to Kwan.
speaker_heading: STUDENT
dialog: Master Kwan, when can I learn flying kicks? I see Bruce
dialog: Lee...
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: Bruce Lee actor, we fighters, warriors. A sparrow in
text: flight is beautiful, but a side kick to the ribs is
dialog: effective. Show me.
text: The boy shrugs and then starts throwing side kicks. Kwan is half
text: looking at the boy and half looking towards the door and the clock.
text: The boy throws three or four kicks and then stops. He is watching
text: Kwan watching the door. Kwan sees him, and turns back to him.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (shaking his head)
text: A Shaolin warrior lets nothing intrude. Continue, never
dialog: mind.
text: He continues to kick, and Kwan continues to look at the door.
text: Finally, the student stops kicking, half-heartedly bows to the
text: master, and then moves to the side of the workout room. Kwan doesn't
text: know he's gone. Kwan turns around, forgetting for a moment what he is
text: doing, and comes face to face with the mother of a student, MRS.
text: RODRIGUEZ, and she is holding a uniform of some sort. She smiles
text: widely at him and holds up the uniform. It is beautiful, obviously
text: hand made, and on the back is embroidered: "Kwan's Shaolin" and
text: underneath that is "Drew Carson". Kwan takes in the entire outfit,
text: while the rest of the class is gathering around to have a look. They
dialog: are all very impressed.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Never in my days at the Shaolin Temple have I seen
dialog: uniform as beautiful as this. Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez.
dialog: I wish Drew were here to thank you himself. Ta ma de!
text: This last he says looking at the empty door.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: I only hope it brings him luck in the tournament.
speaker_heading: KWAN
text: Luck is no concern, Mrs. Rodriguez. Shaolin warriors
dialog: depend on heart and soul ­ that's how they saved the
dialog: T'ang emporer.
text: He looks again at the door, then claps his hands together, gathering
text: his students around him.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Xie Xie, Mrs. Rodriguez.
dialog: (to class)
dialog: During my time training at the Shaolin Temple, the birthplace of the
dialog: martial arts, I was lucky (glance at Mrs. Rodriguez)... er...
dialog: fortunate to have the best instructors in the world train me. But,
dialog: there was also time for individual training ­ where skills were honed
dialog: like the blade of a sword. Now, it is that time for you.
text: He turns to go.
text: One of the students, before he can leave, clears his throat.
speaker_heading: STUDENT 2
dialog: What do you want us to do?
speaker_heading: KWAN
text: When the blind follow the blind, they both fall over the
dialog: cliff. Understand?
speaker_heading: STUDENT 2
dialog: No.
text: The others mutter "No" and shake their heads, confused.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: No matter.
text: He exits, leaving his students staring vacantly after him.
text: They look at each other, honestly not knowing what to do.
scene_heading: EXT. DREW GARAGE ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF OLD GARAGE.
text: It is kind of spooky, and there are no lights on outside. There is
text: candlelight inside, and it is moving around ­ an effect not unlike a
text: ghost carrying a candelabra.
scene_heading: INT. DREW GARAGE ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF INTERIOR.
text: The area is dilapidated, but very clean, with all kinds of kung fu
text: and Chinese paraphenalia lying around. Around the corner comes the
text: spooky light, and (with music building to a crescendo), we see DREW
text: CARSON, a muscular 16/17 year old, bowls of flaming wax on his bare
text: shoulders, moving through the garage, practicing his kung fu
text: maneuvers. He is kicking, punching, etc., occasionally spilling hot
text: wax on his skin (INSERT).
text: In the background is a TV, and on it is showing a martial arts movie.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON KWAN
text: Who is quietly settling into a shadowy corner of the garage, watching
dialog: Drew.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he continues to move around the workout area, his arms and body
text: moving as he tries to match the movements on the TV.
text: Suddenly, Kwan jumps out of the shadows, attacking. Drew reacts
text: instantly, evading the attack, the wax sloshing around in the bowls
text: but not spilling (INSERT SHOT HERE). Kwan continues the attack, and
text: Drew evades, their movements matching the movements on the TV almost
text: move for move. It is a beautiful ballet, and Drew ends it by sweeping
text: Kwan down to the ground. When Kwan hits the ground, hard, his face is
text: lit by the TV screen.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who, for the first time, sees that it is Kwan.
speaker_heading: DREW
speaker_heading: MASTER KWAN!
text: He hurries over to his master, a concerned look on his face.
text: He leans down to help Kwan up, forgetting about the bowls of hot wax.
text: It pours down on Kwan, scalding him, as well as running down Drew's
text: chest. Kwan struggles to get up, while at the same time trying to
dialog: wipe the hot wax off.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Master Kwan! I'm sorry, very sorry!
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: (blustering)
dialog: I'm OK, never mind! What are you doing anyway?
speaker_heading: DREW
text: Is taking the glued-on cups of wax off his shoulders, while peeling
text: the already hard wax off his chest.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Practicing. I saw it in this movie...
text: Kwan shakes his head and walks over to Drew, standing in front of
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: Why didn't you come to class? Why waste time with this...
dialog: Should study tapes of opponent.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'll still win. Besides, the Shaolin monks never had
dialog: tapes to study... they did it this way... right?
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: Not quite ­ our drills at the temple had meaning. If we
dialog: had tapes, we would have watched them.
text: Drew starts to protest, but Kwan doesn't even let him start.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: "The warrior who knows himself and his opponent will win
dialog: 100 times in 100 battles." Study the tapes I gave you.
dialog: All these years of one on one training ­ you're the best
dialog: I've ever taught.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: The best?
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: Best white boy, maybe. Just fight like a Shaolin warrior
dialog: ­ the rest will take care of itself.
dialog: (picks up tape)
dialog: Face reality, before it breaks your jaw!
text: Drew holds out his hand for the tape, and Kwan slaps it into his
text: hand. Drew smiles a defeated smile and turns toward the VCR, when
text: Drew's stepfather, BOB, walks in. He is a big, overweight man, and he
text: is very angry.
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Are you screwing around with this stuff again?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Look, Bob, I'm not bothering you, am I?
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: It's your attitude that bothers me, son.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm not your son, Bob. Lay off.
text: It is a threat, one that Bob almost takes up. Kwan feels the tension
text: in the room, and starts to say something.
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: (cutting him off)
dialog: Don't say a word, yellow man.
scene_heading: REACTION SHOT OF KWAN
text: Closing his already opened mouth.
speaker_heading: BOB (CONT'D)
dialog: You're here because I told your Mom I'd see you were
dialog: taken care of... after. At least respect my wishes, and
dialog: make something of yourself... Stop wasting your time!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: When I'm the best fighter in the country, I'm not going
dialog: to let you be part of my entourage...
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: You mean when you're in jail...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Just leave me alone, Bob, OK? I NEVER asked for anything
dialog: from you.
text: He spins and kicks one of the hanging bags, then walks out of the
text: workout room, leaving Bob and Kwan standing alone.
text: Kwan looks at Bob, who towers over him, and smiles sheepishly.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: Pressure. Big tournament this weekend.
text: He starts to walk out, but Bob follows him.
speaker_heading: BOB
dialog: How would you have liked having to take care of a kid you
dialog: never really wanted... ?
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: I wish I had the chance...
dialog: Kwan exits, and we...
scene_heading: EXT. TREVOR ESTATE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TREVOR GOTTITALL ESTATE, A HUGE PALATIAL SPREAD.
text: The grounds are immaculate and huge, exquisitely kept and beautifully
text: laid out. A gathering is around the pool and lawn area, where TREVOR
text: and his team are having an exhibition for their guests. Polite
dialog: applause is
text: COMING FROM THE CROWD, ALL WELL-DRESSED AND OBVIOUSLY WELL-HEELED.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: As he knocks out an opponent.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON CROWD
text: Applauding.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: Taunting a different opponent. Trevor executes a beautiful technique
text: and puts the guy down and out.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TEAM
text: (Psychologist, therapist, masseur, etc.) who are cheering Trevor on.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: As he plays with the next fighter.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: They said you were good... ha!
text: He knocks the guy out with a picture perfect kick. There is no
dialog: denying that he's a superior fighter.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Can't you get me any quality sparring partners?
text: The next guy comes up, but before they can start, the psychologist,
text: DR. PFEELGUT, calls for "Time" and motions Trevor over.
speaker_heading: PFEELGUT
dialog: It's not enough just to win, Trevor. You have to destroy
dialog: your opponent completely, mentally and physically. Beat
dialog: him once, he's a threat. Humiliate him, and he'll fear
dialog: you forever.
text: Trevor listens to this, nods his head once, and when Pfeelgut goes to
text: leave, Trevor pushes him into the pool.
text: Pfeelgut comes to the surface, smiling.
speaker_heading: PFEELGUT (CONT'D)
dialog: Exactly!
text: Trevor goes back to the ring. He really takes it to this guy,
text: alternately playing with him and hurting him. As the guy tries to
text: hold his own, the string to his pants comes loose and they start to
text: fall down. He grabs for them with both hands, and Trevor starts to
text: back up, laughing with the rest of the group.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON PFEELGUT
text: Toweling off, who is yelling to Trevor.
speaker_heading: PFEELGUT (CONT'D)
dialog: GET HIM! NOW!!
text: Trevor looks at him for a moment, not really understanding, then sees
text: what the psychologist is saying. He lunges immediately forward and
text: (in SLOW MOTION) knocks the guy out while he is still trying to pull
text: his pants up.
text: ANGLE ON CROWD AS THEY ENJOY THE SHOW IMMENSELY
text: Trevor has learned the lesson of the day, and he walks off.
scene_heading: INT. TREVOR HOUSE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TREVOR BEING PAMPERED BY HIS ENTOURAGE
text: The masseur is massaging his shoulders, a woman is doing a pedicure
text: and another is doing a manicure. An exercise physiologist is going
text: over a computer print out with Trevor, when an old Korean master,
text: MASTER KIM, comes into the room.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: Ah, Master Kim.
dialog: (to physiologist)
dialog: I'll look at these stats later.
text: Trevor indicates a seat near him, much lower than the one he is
text: sitting in. The Korean master prefers to remain standing.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Are all you guys named Kim? So, what did you think?
speaker_heading: KIM
dialog: (thick accent)
dialog: You velly good fighter...
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Learn English, will ya? And, tell me something I don't
dialog: know...
speaker_heading: KIM
text: A mountain lion doesn't ponder his weakness, and is
dialog: therefore vulnerable.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: Well, I'm pretty damn tired of this fortune cookie crap.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You're history. Chaunce, get ride of the bum.
text: The butler, CHAUNCY, comes forward and walks up to Master Kim.
speaker_heading: CHAUNCY
dialog: Very good, sir.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: Don't come here any more, you hear? Over a little more to
text: the left, Sam.
text: The masseur nods and adjusts his technique accordingly.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: It's hard being me, you know. So much pressure...
scene_heading: EXT. COLISEUM ­ DAY
text: People are streaming into the large building. The marquee out front
text: reads "Diamond Nationals".
scene_heading: INT. COLISEUM ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING MONTAGE OF TOURNAMENT: CROWDS AND COMPETITORS.
scene_heading: (SOME IDEAS, NOT IN ORDER)
text: Competitors warming up (wall front stretch, very high; one guy
text: kicking another in the head ­ tap, tap, tap; two man routine
text: practicing ­ another one jumps in?; two beautiful girls sparring;
text: crowd assembling; group of kids waiting ­ call comes over public
text: address system, they run off; stand outside selling high tech
dialog: equipment; different styles of fighter's clothes ­ camo, stars &amp;
text: stripes, "headhunter"; stern 9 year old girl doing kata; two toddlers
text: barely seen through their safety equipment fighting furiously; two
dialog: twins doing identical kata; breaking; etc.)
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND KWAN
text: Walk into the area ­ Drew is dressed in the ill-fitting handmade suit
text: by Mrs. Rodriguez. People recognize him as he walks past.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: Making his entrance. He is in a perfectly laundered and pressed suit,
text: and his assistant is carrying another suit pressed and ready to go.
speaker_heading: COMPETITOR
dialog: Hey, Trevor! What's the 2nd uniform for?
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: The finals.
speaker_heading: COMPETITOR
dialog: (after he's gone)
dialog: Cocky bastard...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: As he wins a fight.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he wins.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: Drew watching, as he wins again.
speaker_heading: DREW AGAIN
text: Winning. The stage is set for the finals.
text: ANGLE ON THE RING
text: Drew and Trevor are already inside, waiting. Drew fights in a mish
text: mosh of gear (different colors, different makes), while Trevor is
text: decked out in designer, personalized gear.
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
dialog: Fighting for the Grand Championship: Trevor Gottitall and
dialog: Drew Carson. 3 rounds, max point. Gentlemen, bow to the
dialog: ref, to each other...
text: The referee gives them a signal and the fight begins. Drew is holding
text: his own, but Trevor is scoring. After several flashy moves, the round
text: is over.
text: Score: 6 - 1. We see Trevor's cheerleaders cheering.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR'S CORNER
text: Where he is given mineral water to drink, his shoulders are massaged,
dialog: etc.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DREW'S CORNER
text: Kwan sheepishly offers him a sip of water from a battered paper cup.
dialog: 2nd round: Drew's getting beaten worse than the first round. Nothing
text: he tries works. The score at the end of the round is 15 - 4, in favor
dialog: of Trevor.
speaker_heading: ROUNDBREAK
text: Drew is exhausted, frustrated and worried. Trevor is pumped and ready
dialog: to go on forever.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: You only lose if you give up.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR'S CORNER
text: The psychologist is exhorting him to destroy Drew. Trevor leans back
text: on his padded stool, smiling.
text: The 3rd round starts. In this round, Trevor is destroying Drew,
text: making him look ridiculous. A clinch comes, and
text: (INSERT HERE) before they can break, Trevor grabs the drawstring
text: around Drew's waist and pulls.
text: They face off ("20 seconds" comes the call), and Trevor charges. As
text: Drew blocks, his pants begin to sag. Trevor, not trying to score,
text: just trying to keep Drew's hands busy, keeps coming.
text: Drew's pants drop lower and lower.
text: When they get around his knees, he finally notices them, and reaches
text: down to get them. Trevor drives and picks him up in a throw,
text: effectively showing Drew's bare ass to the world.
text: CUT AWAY to crowd laughing, girls shocked, cameras poised and
text: recording, one mom puts her hands over her daughter's eyes, etc.
text: Trevor dumps Drew and scores the final point, just as time runs out.
text: A buzzer goes off, signaling the end of the round.
text: Trevor thrusts his fists into the air in celebration. Drew tries to
text: crawl out of the ring, and everyone is watching him.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: As he is being interviewed by tv reporters.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: I was never worried. He's no match for me. I just hope
dialog: the 2nd place trophy is a belt!
text: Crowd laughs, Trevor's entourage laughs the hardest.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he packs up his stuff.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK BRIDGE ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW AND KWAN WALKING ALONG A BRIDGE, THE ENTIRE
scene_heading: NEW YORK NIGHT SKYLINE IN THE B.G.
text: They are not talking, they are just walking, Drew kicking a can and
text: contemplating the future, and the past.
scene_heading: INT. KWAN HOUSE ­ SAME NIGHT
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SMOKING ACUPUNCTURE NEEDLE, ITS TIP EMBEDDED IN
scene_heading: DREW'S FOREARM.
text: Kwan's hand COMES INTO FRAME and flicks the needle, sending it
text: vibrating back and forth.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL Drew sitting at the table in Kwan's
text: house, the acupuncture needle in his arm and his face pensive and
text: sad. Kwan busies himself around the needle, trying to alleviate the
text: pain of Drew's bruises.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: Next time we get that guy...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: No next time, Master. Maybe...
dialog: (big sigh)
dialog: ... you should find a new student. I just can't do it ­
dialog: I'm not getting any better!
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't talk like that. At Shaolin...
text: He pauses, and decides not to tell another Shaolin Temple story. Drew
text: looks at him funny ­ this is very against his character.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I saw a Shaolin monk once. I was only 5 years old at the
dialog: time, but I remember it like it was yesterday. I was
dialog: coming back from the market with my father. Soldiers
dialog: stopped us and were taking the food we had just bought.
dialog: It was all we had left to eat ­ no more money. These were
dialog: hard times in China, people were selling their children
dialog: for food, and the soldiers had no right. Who can stop
dialog: soldiers with guns, though? Yes?
text: He pauses, and takes a sip of tea, checking the needle, adjusting it
text: and turning it slightly this way and that.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
text: Just as the soldiers were leaving, a monk stepped out of
text: the crowd and told them very calmly to put the food back.
dialog: Well, naturally, they didn't. They pushed the monk, and
dialog: the next thing I knew the soldiers were in the street,
dialog: and the food was back in my father's arms. 5 soldiers,
text: and they were in a heap on the ground, their blood mixing
text: with the dust of the street.
text: Kwan smiles with the memory ­ it is a sweet and heroic one.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
text: The crowd whispered "Shaolin", and he bowed to us,
dialog: touched my cheek and smiled, then just walked on. I
text: watched him until he disappeared in the distance. He was
dialog: larger than life, a hero to a little boy of 5. I vowed
dialog: then and there to become like him, fight for right like
dialog: the Shaolin.
text: He pauses again, looking at Drew. Drew meets his gaze, wondering why
text: he is telling him this story.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I never did, though. My family left China and ended up
text: here in New York, a young boy's dream left behind in
dialog: China.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: You mean... all the stories...?
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Made up. I never trained at the Shaolin Temple. When I
dialog: realized my dream couldn't come true, I convinced myself
dialog: that it had anyway. It was a small step to convince other
dialog: people.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Why are you telling me this?
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: I've given you all I can, and it's not enough. It was
dialog: never enough. You're like a son to me, Drew, and you have
dialog: all the potential in the world, but I can't take you
dialog: where you want to go.
text: Kwan takes the needle out of Drew's arm, and then rubs the spot where
text: it was with a cotton ball.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: There, that should control the swelling.
text: He watches Drew, who is pondering what Kwan has said.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: So you're not a Shaolin?
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Never were?
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: No.
text: Drew nods, an idea forming in his head. A slight smile forms on his
text: face. Kwan was expecting him to be angry, he never expected this.
speaker_heading: KWAN (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: If you are not a Shaolin warrior, then I will become one.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm going to the Shaolin Temple ­ they can train me so I
dialog: will never lose like that again.
text: Kwan feels Drew's forehead. A long beat here as Kwan studies Drew's
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: He hit you so hard, you're delirious. I'll get a cold
dialog: cloth.
text: He starts to get up, but Drew grabs his arm and forces him back down.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (eyes intent)
dialog: Don't you see? You said yourself I needed the right
dialog: training ­ where better than the Shaolin Temple? What's
dialog: holding me here? I have the chance to do what you
dialog: couldn't. I will go to the Shaolin Temple.
text: Kwan looks at him, realizes he's serious. He nods his head, giving
text: the idea serious consideration. He smiles along with Drew.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: I must pay for your ticket...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No! I'll make it there myself.
speaker_heading: KWAN
dialog: I grew up on the stories of the Shaolin, and you can be
dialog: those stories. You can live my dream for me ­ at least
dialog: let me help you. Let an old man make up for the trouble
dialog: he's caused.
text: Kwan touches Drew's bruised cheek, fatherly love in his eyes. Drew
text: nods his head, then bows in the traditional Chinese manner.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Master...
scene_heading: MONTAGE OF DEPARTURE
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND KWAN AS KWAN HANDS HIM A "NORTHWEST AIRLINES"
text: TICKET.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he packs for China.
text: ANGLE ON KWAN AND DREW
text: As Kwan drops drew off at the AIRPORT. Drew takes his suitcase and
text: walks into the airport.
scene_heading: EXT. CHANG AN LU ­ DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW RUNNING ALONG BEIJING'S CHANG AN LU, A SEA
text: OF BICYCLES AROUND HIM.
text: Bicycle bells ring loudly as figures dressed in the same drab clothes
text: ride around him, their faces covered with scarves and surgical masks
dialog: against the northern China dirt.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL TIAN AN MEN SQUARE and the huge photo of
text: CHAIRMAN MAO on the front of the Meridian Gate of the Forbidden City.
text: Drew continues his run, past a group of western-dressed lyou mang,
text: who watch him run by through dark glasses.
text: Drew runs through a large city park, stopping to watch a group of
text: older citizens going through Tai Zhi routines under the weeping
text: willow trees there.
text: Drew runs through an open air food market, picking his way through
text: flipping fish, dead frogs and all kinds of fruits and vegetables.
text: People yell at each other, trying to get the best price. Young man
text: brushing his teeth in the street. A group of toddlers, strung
text: together with rope, walks down the street, their split pants showing
text: glimpses of bare bottoms as they walk.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN STATION ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SERIOUSLY OVERCROWDED TRAIN, PEOPLE PUSHING AND
text: SHOVING TO GET ON.
text: Drew walks up to it, a huge backpack on his back. He hesitates a
text: moment, then starts forcing his way onto the train like everyone
text: else. He manages to get in through a window.
scene_heading: INT. CROWDED TRAIN ­ SAME DAY
text: There are no seats. Drew takes his pack off and sits on it.
text: Next to him is an old man, his teeth red and rotted from betel nut
text: juice. The man smiles at Drew.
scene_heading: EXT. CHINA COUNTRYSIDE ­ DAY
text: TRAIN RUSHING THROUGH THE COUNTRYSIDE.
scene_heading: DREW POV EXT. COUNTRYSIDE ­ DAY
text: Drew watches the countryside go by. Temples, farms and rice paddies
text: slide by, with an occasionally glimpse of the Great Wall.
scene_heading: EXT. GREAT WALL ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW, BACKPACK ON, AS HE WALKS ON THE GREAT
speaker_heading: WALL.
scene_heading: EXT. CHINA COUNTRYSIDE ­ NIGHT
text: TRAIN RUSHING THROUGH DARKENED COUNTRYSIDE.
scene_heading: INT. LUOYANG TRAIN STATION ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW GETTING OFF THE TRAIN.
text: He stops on the platform for a moment, a huge colorful Chinese
text: billboard in the b.g. A transit cop quickly comes up to him and prods
text: him into motion. Drew walks on, passing a sign that reads "Luoyang".
scene_heading: EXT. CHINESE STREETS ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW MAKING HIS WAY TOWARD THE SHAOLIN TEMPLE.
text: He stops at a drink stand and orders one. As soon as he stops, he is
text: ringed with people watching his every move ­ he feels almost like a
text: movie star. The woman in the stand hands him a drink, and takes the
text: money out of his hand.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Where is the Shaolin Temple? Shaolin?
text: The woman just smiles and shakes her head, not comprehending.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Walking aimlessly. He comes to an intersection and sees a sign that
text: says "Shaolin Temple" with an arrow. He goes in the direction that
text: the arrow points.
scene_heading: EXT. GIRL'S SCHOOL ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GROUP OF GIRLS STANDING OUTSIDE THEIR SCHOOL.
text: Drew walks up and says hello.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Hello, ladies! Can you tell me how to get to the Shaolin
dialog: Temple?
text: They titter with laughter, covering their mouths with their hands.
text: Drew is not really amused, however, he is frustrated and tired.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: The Shaolin Temple? How hard can that be? Geez, doesn't
dialog: anyone speak English here?
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON ASHEMA
text: As she pushes her way to the front of the group. She is a strikingly
text: beautiful young woman.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: I do. But wouldn't it make more sense for you to speak
dialog: Chinese than to expect us to speak English?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (flustered)
dialog: You're right. I apologize ­ I've just been trying to get
text: to the temple for a long time now.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: Why do you want to find the temple?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (not without pride)
dialog: I am going to join the temple as a monk.
text: Ashema translates this for her friends, and they titter anew. They
text: gesture to Drew's longish hair and laugh, and then make some attempts
dialog: at martial arts movements.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm going that way ­ I can take you.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: You have a car?
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: The next best thing.
dialog: (beat)
text: This is a Chinese car.
text: She pulls out her standard-issue black bicycle ­ she has customized
text: it, however, with some colorful additions.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Hop on.
text: Drew does, and they take off, the girls from the school tittering as
text: they drive off.
scene_heading: EXT. CHINESE STREETS ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF ASHEMA PEDALING DREW.
text: It is not the most stable ride ­ Ashema is struggling to keep moving,
text: while Drew is doing his best to stay on the bike.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CHINESE STREETS ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW PEDALING ASHEMA.
text: He is riding strongly, and she is comfortable in the back. They are
text: getting stares from the people they pass, but Ashema seems to be
text: enjoying the attention. Drew hits a bump, and Ashema holds his waist
text: a little tighter. Neither of them mind ­ in fact, Drew starts looking
dialog: for more bumps.
text: He pulls around the corner into a wide area lined with drink and food
dialog: stands.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: We are here.
text: DREW STOPS THE BIKE AND LOOKS BACK AT HER. ASHEMA GESTURES TO THE
text: TEMPLE FRONT, AND DREW TURNS IN AWE.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THE TEMPLE.
dialog: This is it ­ the temple he came halfway around the world to see. The
dialog: Shaolin Temple, the birthplace of the martial arts.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Whoa!
text: Ashema climbs off the back and takes the bike from Drew, marveling at
text: his awe-struck face.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: I have to help my grandfather with our stand. If you get
text: a chance, come by later.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (distracted)
dialog: I'll try, but monks aren't allowed to be around girls.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: Good luck.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Shaolin monks don't need luck...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Hey, thanks a lot for the ride. I hope I see you again.
text: They wave at each other, and Ashema pushes her bike off.
text: Drew turns back to stare at the front of the temple. He is letting it
dialog: all sink in.
text: After a moment, he picks up his backpack and heads for the front
text: door. He pulls it open and disappears inside.
scene_heading: INT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TEMPLE INTERIOR AS DREW OPENS THE HEAVY DOOR.
text: The muted half light inside is in direct contrast to the sunlight of
text: the day outside. Drew quietly closes the front door, and the half
text: light takes over.
text: He walks through the temple proper, and what follows is a MONTAGE of
text: temple shots, establishing the feeling of the
text: temple: the famous Shaolin monk painting, the depressions in the
text: floor of the training hall, the incense blackened walls of the
text: temple, the temple figurines, the red lanterns hanging from the
text: ceiling, a huge wooden carving of
dialog: Bodhidharma, etc.
text: No one is around.
text: Drew continues to explore, looking for someone to talk to. He wanders
text: into another hall, following the O.S. sounds of CHANTING.
text: Once inside this hall, he sees a group of monks, amid hanging incense
text: burners and paper lanterns, sitting down on the floor chanting in
text: rhythm. No one notices that Drew is standing there. The monks eyes
text: are open, but they don't seem to see him.
text: He stands there for a moment, then shrugs and walks out of that hall.
text: He goes into a corridor, then passes the "Wooden Man Chamber".
text: HE STICKS HIS HEAD IN, AND SEES ALL KINDS OF WOODEN STATUES LINED UP.
text: HE ALMOST STARTS IN, BUT IS DISTRACTED BY THE SOUNDS OF TRAINING
text: OUTSIDE (O.S.). HE WALKS OUT IN SEARCH OF THE SOUNDS.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TRAINING AREA.
text: All manner of training equipment is standing outside (wooden men,
text: posts, hanging targets, heavy bags, iron palm jugs, balance beams,
dialog: etc.).
text: A monk, the DRILL SERGEANT (hereafter D.S.), is standing in front of
text: a wooden post, driving his hand into the wood.
text: The post TREMBLES with every strike.
text: Drew stands next to the monk, watching him intently. Again, the monk
text: takes no notice of him.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Excuse me, Master.
dialog: No answer.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Hello? Busy, huh?
text: Still no answer. The man is just slamming his hand into the post,
text: over and over.
text: Drew sighs and walks on. He goes down a path, and flowering bushes
text: are on either side of him. He can see the "pagoda forest" in the
text: distance. At the end of the path, a monk, SAN DE, is sweeping up the
dialog: path.
text: Drew walks up to the monk and bows.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Master, may I ask you a question?
text: No answer nor response. Drew's kind of tired of this treatment.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: What's the deal here? Is everybody deaf in this temple?
dialog: Even if you heard me, you wouldn't understand, would you?
dialog: Huh, baldy? Shine your head for a quarter?
text: He walks off frustrated, wondering what he has to do to get noticed.
text: He walks back into the chanting chamber.
scene_heading: INT. TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: The monks are still chanting. Drew stands there, listening some more,
text: moving with the beat, until they stop chanting.
text: Drew, thinking it was some kind of performance, claps his hands.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: That was great! Great!
text: The monks finally take notice of him, and they are shocked.
speaker_heading: MONK 1
dialog: No tourists! Temple closed!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: So you can see me?!?
text: Several monks rush up and start herding Drew towards the exit.
speaker_heading: MONK 1
dialog: (very agitated)
dialog: No tourists! No tourists!
text: Drew stops their progress and makes sure he has the monk's attention.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm not a tourist! I want to be a monk!
text: The monk stops, his face a mask of shock. He calls to another monk,
text: and they have a short conversation in Chinese.
speaker_heading: ADMISSIONS MONK
dialog: That's not possible.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What do you mean, sir?
speaker_heading: ADMISSIONS MONK
dialog: The training is too difficult. Besides, Shaolin policy is
dialog: no foreigners.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I didn't come all this way, from America, to get turned
dialog: away. I want in. I want to become a Shaolin monk.
speaker_heading: ADMISSIONS MONK
dialog: What people want and what they can have are often not the
dialog: same.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Not in this case.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Oh, yes, especially in this case.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm not leaving.
text: Drew starts to sit down, intent on staying, almost like a kid who is
text: going to hold his breath until he turns blue.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: You give me no choice.
dialog: (to other monks)
dialog: Remove him.
text: He continues in a stream of Chinese, and the other monks grab Drew
text: and physically force him to stand up and start moving him towards the
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I just want to be a monk!
text: Drew is forced through the courtyard to the front door.
text: They pass the monk who was sweeping up in the back of the temple. He
text: watches with interest as they open the door and force Drew through
text: it, out of the temple.
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN COURTYARD ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW LANDING ON THE FLAGSTONES OF THE COURTYARD
dialog: WITH A THUMP!
text: A group of people stop and watch the foreigner. The temple door
text: closes with a solid boom.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Hey! What about my...
text: The temple door opens again, and out comes Drew's backpack.
text: It lands next to him, but spews out a couple of pairs of underwear,
dialog: and some socks.
text: The people standing around laugh.
text: Drew gathers up the clothing and stuffs it back into his pack. He
text: sits there for a moment, then gets up and heads for the small shops
text: and stands ringing the courtyard.
text: He walks past a couple of the stalls, looking at the people running
text: them. He doesn't see Ashema. He passes a tea stall, where one old man
text: is sitting down sipping his tea.
text: The old man looks at Drew and smiles, and Drew is about to walk on,
text: when Ashema stands up from where she was squatting behind her stall.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: Drew?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Hi.
text: Drew sits down heavily, putting his pack down next to him.
text: Ashema places a cup of tea down in front of him, the steam rising
dialog: from it.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Make it a double. Rough day.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: They kicked me out...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE STAND ­ EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW, ASHEMA AND OLD MAN, STILL SITTING AT THE
text: TABLE, NOW LIT BY CANDLES AND A LANTERN.
text: A bunch of tea bowls are scattered in front of Drew, as if he's been
text: drinking heavily. He points to his teacup, and Ashema shakes her
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: You've had enough.
text: Drew's shoulders slump even more.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA (CONT'D)
dialog: Maybe it's for the best, Drew. You belong in America. New
dialog: York.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I have to do this. I can't go home, not until I'm a monk.
dialog: I'd be even more of a disgrace...
text: The old man talks to Ashema for the first time. He chatters in
text: Chinese, motioning towards Drew.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: Not now, Bau Bau.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Bau Bau?
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: My nickname for him. He wants to tell you a story about
dialog: the temple.
text: The grandfather keeps talking, even though Ashema and Drew really
dialog: don't want to listen.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA (CONT'D)
text: He is telling a story about a monk who was refused
dialog: admission into the temple. It broke his heart not to be
dialog: allowed to be a monk.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What did he do?
text: Ashema says something to him, and he continues in Chinese.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
text: He decided not to leave. He stayed in the courtyard until
dialog: they let him in.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
text: A long time ­ through the worst weather. He just sat
text: there, unmoving, through rain, sleet, snow.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Did they let him in?
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: No.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Of course they did ­ what kind of story do you think my
dialog: Bau Bau would tell? He stayed in front of the temple
dialog: until they could no longer say no. He went on to become
dialog: one of the most famous monks in the history of the
dialog: temple.
text: Drew sits there, thinking, letting it all soak in. He then gets up
text: and smiles.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Please tell your grandfather, your Bau Bau, he is a wise
dialog: man. And that he tells a good story.
text: The grandfather smiles at him, nodding his head.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: What are you going to do? Are you going home?
text: Drew shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm camping out.
text: He starts away from the stand.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
text: In front of the temple.
text: He walks off into the Chinese night.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ EARLY MORN
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF MIST-LADEN COURTYARD.
text: The sun is barely coming up, and only a few shafts of light are
text: illuminating the darkness. A figure can be seen sitting cross-legged
text: in front of the door.
text: It is Drew, backpack at his side.
text: The front door opens and a monk pokes his head out to look around,
text: and he sees Drew sitting there. His eyes widen in shock, then he
text: quickly disappears inside.
text: Almost immediately, the door opens again, and the Admissions Monk is
text: standing there, surprised and angry to see Drew sitting there.
speaker_heading: ADMISSIONS MONK
dialog: Go home! You cannot stay here!
text: No response from Drew. He just sits there, staring straight ahead.
speaker_heading: ADMISSIONS MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you hear me? Go away!
text: Drew doesn't move.
text: San De, the sweeping monk, walks out of the open door, a monk behind
text: him carrying a suitcase. He walks past Drew, noticing him sitting
text: there. He walks on.
text: The Admissions Monk slams the door, angry.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ MONTAGE SECTION
text: ANGLE ON DREW SWEATING IN THE HOT SUNSHINE
text: Sweat is running into Drew's eyes, and he is trying to keep them from
dialog: stinging.
text: ANGLE ON DREW BEING TORMENTED BY LOCAL KIDS
text: They are playing games around him, throwing stones at him, messing
text: with his hair and his clothes, touching the things in his backpack
dialog: (frisbee, football, walkman), etc.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DRILL SERGEANT
text: As he comes out of the temple, chasing away the kids.
text: When they are gone, he turns to Drew.
speaker_heading: DRILL SERGEANT
dialog: Will you give up? I think so.
text: ANGLE ON DREW SHIVERING IN THE DEAD OF NIGHT
text: His eyes are closed, and it is obvious he is very uncomfortable.
text: ANGLE ON SPIDER AS IT CRAWLS OUT TO SEE DREW
text: It lingers for a moment, then goes away.
text: ANGLE ON DREW BEING FED BY ASHEMA
text: She is giving him food, and all he is moving is his mouth. They do
dialog: not speak.
text: ANGLE ON DREW SITTING IN THE RAIN
text: He is miserable, and he is looking at the relative comfort of the
text: stands around the temple, where there is food, warmth and light. His
text: spirit is wavering.
text: ANGLE ON DREW BEING FED BY ASHEMA AGAIN
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: Give this up, Drew! Please?
text: No response from Drew. Just a small smile.
text: ANGLE ON SPIDER, WHO IS BACK
text: This time it stays even longer. Drew looks down at it and smiles.
text: ANGLE ON MONKS FROM TEMPLE
text: Looking out the windows at the crazy foreigner in their courtyard.
text: ANGLE ON DREW IN COURTYARD
text: As a school group comes through the temple.
text: The children are tied together with a rope, and the teacher motions
dialog: to the crazy American. Drew has become an attraction!
text: ANGLE ON DREW, SURROUNDED BY OLD MEN
text: They are marveling at his perserverance.
text: ANGLE ON DREW, WIND AND RAIN
text: This time it doesn't seem to bother him so much.
text: ANGLE ON DREW WITH ASHEMA AND HER BAU BAU THERE
text: Bau Bau speaks quickly in Chinese.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA (CONT'D)
dialog: My Bau Bau says, keep it up! He is proud of you...
text: Drew nods.
text: ANGLE ON DREW SURROUNDED BY KIDS
text: They are no longer tormenting him, they are playing around and with
text: him. Drew is not moving, but he is part of their group.
text: ANGLE ON DREW, THE SPIDER NOW SITTING ON HIS HAND
text: Drew stares at the spider, his companion in the vigil.
text: ANGLE ON DREW, BIRDS ALL AROUND HIM
text: The birds are keeping him company, and they are singing for him.
text: ANGLE ON DREW, THE FULL MOON IN THE B.G.
text: Drew's form is firm and solid, the determination in his eyes easily
text: seen as he stares at the moon. He will see this through.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW STILL SITTING IN THE COURTYARD.
text: The old monk, San De, comes back, the same monk following behind him
text: with the suitcase. He looks at Drew, a little surprise showing in his
text: face at seeing the American still there. He doesn't stop, though. He
text: goes into the temple, shaking his head.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Same as the first shot, all alone in the temple.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF COURTYARD, DREW ALL ALONE.
text: The door to the temple opens and out comes San De, alone this time.
text: He walks over to where Drew is, stares at him for a moment, then sits
text: down across from him.
text: Drew tries not to look at him.
text: San De runs his hand across his bald pate and smiles.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: My head is shiny enough already, don't you think?
text: Drew, in shock at his ability to speak English, sputters
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: You... You speak English? I'm sorry, I was just
dialog: goofing... I apologize, master. I didn't mean to make fun
dialog: of you...
text: San De shrugs it off. Apology accepted.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: What are you trying to do?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I want to become a monk ­ they won't let me in... Hey,
dialog: you're just a grunt, a janitor sweeping up and all, don't
dialog: sweat it. It's not your problem...
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Why are you sitting here?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I got the idea from a story about a monk who wouldn't
dialog: leave. I thought...
dialog: San De nods.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Has it been hard?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: It was at first. I was uncomfortable, in pain, actually,
dialog: but as time went on, I got... into it, I guess. The
dialog: sacrifice made me feel... in control, you know what I
dialog: mean?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: (nodding)
text: Much of the training at the temple is in that direction ­
dialog: self sacrifice. Tell me more.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: At first I was really bored, and very lonely. But then,
dialog: things changed. Maybe it's like hitting the wall in
dialog: running ­ it was like I became part of the courtyard, and
dialog: I felt powerful. Even the spider became my friend...
text: Drew opens up his hand to reveal a spider sitting in his palm.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: It was an incredible experience ­ I said I'd do it, and I
dialog: did it.
text: San De, watching Drew intently, smiles at this last. He stands up and
text: bows to Drew. Drew bows back, from his seated position.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: I wish you all the best.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Same to you.
text: San De turns and goes into the temple, leaving Drew still sitting in
text: the courtyard, the setting sun in the b.g.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF COURTYARD, DREW ALL ALONE.
text: O.S. comes the sounds of gongs and drums.
text: A crowd has gathered in the courtyard. Ashema and her grandfather are
text: in the crowd, and they work themselves up to where Drew is.
text: Drew turns his head, and a procession of kids about his age (some
text: older and some younger) come walking into the courtyard.
text: The front door to the temple opens wide, and a column of monks, all
text: in their best saffron robes, are lined up waiting to receive them.
text: The young men who are walking in all still have hair, and they are
text: carrying some baggage. They begin to enter the temple.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: They are disciples. This is the last class for fighting
dialog: monks at Shaolin.
text: Drew, very concerned, watches as the monks-to-be file through the
text: temple doors.
text: The mothers and fathers of the boys watch proudly as the last ones go
dialog: through.
text: The temple doors close.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who is crushed. His chance is gone.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm sorry, Drew. It was a good effort.
text: Drew is sitting there, trying to understand what is happening when
text: the door to the temple opens again. The Drill Sergeant appears in the
text: doorway and impatiently motions for Drew to come in.
text: The crowd has stopped and is watching the drama unfold.
text: Drew gets up warily, expecting some trick.
text: The Drill Sergeant motions again, wanting Drew to hurry up.
text: Drew looks at Ashema and her Bau Bau and smiles. He picks up his
text: backpack and starts towards the temple, limping from sitting for so
dialog: long.
text: The crowd goes crazy, clapping and yelling.
text: Drew runs into the temple. The door closes behind him.
scene_heading: INT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF INTERIOR OF TEMPLE.
text: The line of disciples has stopped, waiting for Drew. Drew, back pack
text: in hand, takes his place at the end of the line.
text: They parade past a line of monks assembled in the courtyard inside
dialog: the temple.
text: As they walk by, some of the monks look nonplused, while a few are
text: put out by the fact that Drew is among them.
text: Several of the disciples turn around to look at Drew, and a couple
text: are openly hostile to him.
text: They file up to a raised platform, on which stand 20 monks, each
text: holding a scroll in their hands, one monk for every new disciple.
text: A gong sounds, and the questions begin.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON FIRST DISCIPLE
dialog: Who is asked...
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Do you accept the authority of the Shaolin patriarchs?
speaker_heading: DISCIPLE 1
dialog: Yes, without pause.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Do you renounce the earthly world?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Sure do, master. You bet.
text: The monk pauses, for that is not the ritual answer to the question.
text: The Drill Sergeant comes up to him and whispers in his ear, and the
text: monk then continues.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Will you abide by the rules of the temple, even if it
dialog: means death?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I do.
text: The Drill Sergeant comes up behind Drew and WHACKS him in the side
text: with his elbow.
speaker_heading: DRILL SERGEANT
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Answer "Yes, without pause."
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (rubbing his side)
dialog: Yes, without pause.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON ANOTHER DISCIPLE
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Who is the patriarch of the Shaolin Temple?
speaker_heading: DISCIPLE 2
dialog: Bodhidharma.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Do you accept the shr fu at the Shaolin Temple as your
dialog: spiritual leaders?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Yes, without pause.
text: The Drill Sergeant nods his head.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Will a fighting monk ever use his skills for personal
dialog: gain?
text: Drew pauses, looking at the Drill Sergeant. The D.S. nods, urging him
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Yes, without pause.
text: The D.S. puts his hands over his eyes.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I mean, no, of course not.
text: Then, another gong sounds, and the quizzing is concluded.
text: A figure moves down a corridor in beautiful robes. Everyone bows
text: down, their eyes on the floor, to the figure, who is moving towards
text: the raised platform in the center.
text: Drew, also bowed down, sneaks a peak at the figure.
dialog: It is San De!
text: San De catches his eye and smiles slightly. He winks at Drew, then
text: clears his throat.
text: Everyone stands up again.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Do these disciples accept the authority of the Shaolin
dialog: Temple?
speaker_heading: DRILL SERGEANT
dialog: Yes, without pause, Master San De.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
dialog: Who now knows that the monk he called a "Janitor" is the headmaster!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: I'll be damned!
text: The DISCIPLE next to him, GAO, pokes him sharply in the ribs.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Shut up!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (holding his side)
dialog: Oh, unbelievable, in the same place...
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Are they ready to begin their training?
speaker_heading: DRILL SERGEANT
dialog: They are.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Then, let us welcome them into our ranks!
text: Gongs go off, firecrackers are set off, and a special flag is raised
text: on the flag pole. A roar comes from the crowd outside.
text: ANGLE ON THE DISCIPLES
text: All of whom are happy. All, that is, except for Gao, who is staring
dialog: at Drew.
text: Drew, notices the stare.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: You got a problem, man?
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: You, American...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: When the noise subsides.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Your training begins tomorrow. For now, your shr fu will
dialog: introduce you to our temple. Welcome to Shaolin.
text: San De walks away, and the disciples are split into several
text: "platoons". Drew is matched up with the Drill Sergeant, and Gao is
dialog: also in his group.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Great, just great.
text: They are motioned to follow Gao out of the courtyard and into the
dialog: temple proper.
scene_heading: INT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: Drew walks behind the other disciples, who are lining up to get their
text: robes. As he takes his place in line, a monk comes up to take Drew's
text: backpack. Drew resists, and a tug of war ensues.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What are you doing, man?
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: You must surrender this.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No way, man! Get your own...
text: The Drill Sergeant sees the scuffle and walks over.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: It is unseemly to argue like this. Take the backpack into
dialog: the sleeping quarters.
dialog: (to Drew)
dialog: Do not cling to material things ­ it is not good for your
dialog: soul.
text: He walks away, and Drew reluctantly gives up his backpack.
text: Drew lines back up, and is about to get his robes, when Gao slides
text: over and takes them from him. Drew immediately shoves him and tries
text: to grab the robes back. Gao smiles and moves away, holding the robes
text: up and away from Drew.
text: Drew is pissed and ready to go after Gao. Before he can, however, LI,
text: another disciple, grabs another set of robes from the table and gives
text: it to Drew, pulling him away from the confrontation.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: What's with that guy?
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Watch out for Gao. He's trouble.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Really? I hadn't noticed... Why'd they let him in,
dialog: anyway?
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Who knows? Maybe for the challenge?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No, that was me...
text: They both smile and walk off.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF MONKS HAVING THEIR HEADS SHAVED.
text: THE CAMERA MOVES DOWN the line of monks, as their hair is shaved off
text: in clumps. Drew is standing next to his chair, arguing with the D.S.
dialog: about the haircut.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Mr. James designs my hair, master. I don't think...
dialog: D.S.
dialog: This will symbolize your final break from the outside
dialog: world.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Can't I just wear a patch?
text: The D.S. shakes his head, and Drew sits down, unhappy.
text: The barber starts on Drew's head, big clumps of hair falling down to
dialog: the floor.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN COURTYARD ­ EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF MONKS, THEIR HEADS NEWLY SHAVED, STANDING OUT IN
text: THE COURTYARD.
text: They are running their hands over their heads. Drew comes out of the
text: building, his head shaved completely clean.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What outside world? I don't want to be seen by anybody...
text: He rubs his hand over his head, and then sees the others.
text: Li is smiling.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: If I look half as stupid as you guys do, I'm really in
dialog: trouble...
scene_heading: INT. DORM ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THEIR SLEEPING QUARTERS, AS THE MONKS FILE IN,
text: LED BY THE D.S.
text: A number of cots are lined up side by side. The D.S. has assigned a
text: bed to each monk. Drew finds his bed, which is right next to Gao's.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: I want another bed.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: GAO (CONT'D)
dialog: I won't sleep next to the American.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: We are no longer Chinese or Americans, Han or Mongol. We
dialog: are Shaolin. Everyone is a monk.
speaker_heading: GAO (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, this monk smells!
text: Drew unconsciously smells himself. He shakes his head.
text: Li goes up to the D.S. and points to the bed he was assigned.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: I will switch with Disciple Gao.
text: D.S. nods, and then starts for the door.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Go to sleep. No talking! We have an early day of training
dialog: tomorrow.
text: Gao collects his stuff and starts off to the new bed, hitting Drew
text: with his shoulder. Drew trips him as he walks away, all done very
text: secretively since the D.S. is watching.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Jerk!
text: Li comes over to the new bed, and in silence they get climb into
text: their respective beds. D.S. switches off the lights, then leaves, and
text: Drew stares up at the ceiling.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Thanks for what you did.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Where are you from?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: New York City. You?
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Beijing. What is New York like?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Amazing. I'll tell you about...
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Shut UP!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Blow me!
text: Drew waits for a moment, fearful that the D.S. will be coming back
text: in. He doesn't.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Good night, Li.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Wan an.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: ANGLE ON DREW, SLEEPING
text: All is quiet.
text: Suddenly, a huge stick ENTERS FRAME, and it pauses for a moment above
text: Drew, before THUMPING down on top of him.
text: Drew cries out when he is hit, and jumps out of bed, looking all
text: around him. No one is there. A few of the disciples are moving around
text: because he yelled, but there is nothing else there.
text: Drew, belatedly, gets into a fighting stance, but no other attack is
dialog: coming.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: Who seems to be sleeping peacefully.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he climbs back into bed, bone-weary. He lies back down to sleep.
scene_heading: INT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF LATRINE.
text: Drew stumbles in, bleary-eyed, to relieve himself. He stands at the
text: urinal, relaxing as he starts. Suddenly, a huge stick WHACKS Drew
text: across the rear end, the SOUND reverberating through the latrine.
text: Drew yelps and jumps, looking around for the attacker.
text: No one is there, and his underwear is now all wet.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM ­ SAME DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING TIGHT SHOT OF RICE GRUEL ("WATER RICE"), A SPOON
scene_heading: STIRRING THE MEAGER MIXTURE.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL Drew sitting with Li and some other
dialog: disciples.
text: Drew makes a face.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: You got to be kidding.
text: The D.S. comes up behind and grabs the bowl from him.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: You don't like it, don't eat it.
text: He takes the bowl away.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn't say I wasn't going to eat it... Geez!
text: He turns to the rest of the disciples.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, at least we start training today, right, guys?
text: A chorus of Yeahs.
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DORM ROOM, ALL THE DISCIPLES CHANGING INTO THEIR
scene_heading: WORKOUT CLOTHES.
dialog: They are the standard fighting monk issue ­ suitable for martial arts
dialog: training.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Wonder what they'll start us with first?
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Iron Palm?
speaker_heading: SHU
dialog: Wooden Man, I think.
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: No, it'll be basics, first day. Horse stance, kicks and
dialog: punches...
text: When they are all dressed, they run out of the room.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF ALL THE DISCIPLES LINED UP, READY FOR THE
text: TRAINING.
text: In the b.g. are the fighting monks, going through their routines.
text: ANGLE ON FIGHTING MONKS
text: As they go through forms or free sparring. There are SHOTS of monks
text: throwing stars, working with weapons, etc. It is all very exciting.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who is more excited than all the others.
text: ANGLE ON THE D.S.
text: As he walks to the front of the group. In his hand he is carrying a
dialog: shovel.
dialog: D.S. Bodhidharma, the patriarch of the Shaolin Temple taught us that
dialog: to train the mind, we first have to train the body.
text: ANGLE ON WU, WHO SHIELDS HIS MOUTH AND WHISPERS
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: Basics, I told you.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON D.S.
text: Who motions to one of the monks behind him, who has a wheelbarrow
text: filled with shovels.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Each one of you take a shovel.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: We're using the shovels as weapons?
dialog: D.S.
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Weapons...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ... in the war on infection.
text: D.S. motions with his hand, and in the distance is the latrine
dialog: building.
speaker_heading: D.S. (CONT'D)
dialog: You will be digging today, digging our new latrines.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Latrines? Why?
dialog: D.S.
text: A Shaolin fighting monk-in training does not ask
text: questions. He just obeys.
text: The D.S. leads the way to the latrine building, and the disciples
text: follow, each of them carrying a shovel. Drew is trudging along, not
dialog: believing what they are doing.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I came halfway around the world to dig latrines? I could
dialog: have just joined the army...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: LATRINE WORK AREA ­ MONTAGE
text: MONTAGE SEQUENCE OF WORK DETAIL.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND THE OTHER DISCIPLES
text: Digging with their shovels. Their training clothes are already
text: sweated through and dirty. Their shirts are off, and their arm
text: muscles are bulging and shining in the hot sunshine.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he lifts up two heavy buckets of dirt on a pole, then places the
text: pole on his shoulders, the muscles in his arms, shoulders and back
text: straining. He walks off to the side of the area to dump it.
text: As he dumps the dirt, a pole appears and CRACKS across his back. He
text: drops the buckets and falls to the ground. He gets up as quickly as
text: he can, but there is no one to be seen.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND DISCIPLES
text: As they are working hard on the latrines. Drew is teaching them an
text: American song as they work.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: "Ain't no cure for the Shaolin Temple Blues... "
speaker_heading: OR
dialog: "Working on a Chain Gang"
speaker_heading: OR (CONT'D)
dialog: "I fought the law and the law won"
speaker_heading: OR (CONT'D)
dialog: "16 tons"
text: The monks are singing along with him. All except for Gao.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND DISCIPLES AS THEY EAT THEIR LUNCH
text: It is again very meager: a bowl of rice, a bowl of soup and a piece
text: of scrawny meat. Drew looks at it for a moment. The
text: D.S. is standing over his shoulder.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Any problems?
text: Drew shakes his head and starts to eat, quickly.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he loads up a two baskets of dirt onto his pole. He gets it up
text: onto his shoulders, in pain, and starts to walk. Immediately, the
text: D.S. is there in front of him.
text: He examines the baskets. They are not full.
text: He moves quickly and dumps both baskets of dirt.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: What'd you do that for?
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Do a job well or don't do it.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON GAO AND THE DISCIPLES
text: As they are in line for water. They each drink a large glass full,
text: then move back to their work area. Drew is the last in line. When
text: Drew gets to the front, the D.S. smiles and shakes his head.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Sorry, all gone. Get some more.
text: Drew stares at all the water spilled onto the ground, then looks up
text: at the D.S., then forces a smile. He takes the proferred buckets of
text: water (made of wood, with pointed bottoms and large handles). The
text: D.S. indicates that they are to be held straight out to the sides, to
text: work on the shoulder muscles. Drew turns and walks away, muttering to
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm gonna get you, man. Oh, yeah...
text: Gao is laughing as he watches Drew go.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW FILLING THE BUCKETS IN THE STREAM.
text: Once they are filled, he starts back for the temple. His shoulders
text: are straining from the weight of the buckets.
text: He goes over the path to the temple, having to negotiate logs over
text: chasms, etc. After various trials and tribulations, Drew arrives at
text: the temple, his arms incredibly tired. The D.S. is there waiting for
dialog: him.
text: Drew, determined not to show any weakness, raises the buckets a
text: little bit higher. He comes to the D.S., proud and defiant. The D.S.
text: motions for him to put the buckets down.
text: Without thinking, Drew, puts the buckets down, and they both fall
text: over, spilling their contents onto the ground. Drew tries to stop
text: them, but he's too late. The water has all spilled out onto the
dialog: ground.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Don't tell me, I know. Get more water...
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES ALL IN BED.
text: They are exhausted from their work. Drew is lying in bed, his eyes
text: wide open, ready to get attacked.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As his eyes go closed, finally.
scene_heading: EXT. WORK AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WALKING ON A RIDGE BETWEEN TWO LARGE HOLES,
text: CARRYING HUGE BASKETS OF DIRT ON HIS POLE.
text: He is balancing as he walks.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: Who is working at the other end. He starts across the same ridge.
text: They come to the middle: a stand off.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Back up and let me pass.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No chance, Gao. You back up.
text: Gao smiles and shakes his head. Gao starts forward, and WHACKS Drew
text: in the leg with a leg sweep. Drew tries to keep his balance, and
text: fights a valient, but losing battle. He falls over the side, the dirt
text: in his buckets flying everywhere. Gao wipes his hands off and
text: continues walking.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP ON DREW'S BLOODY HAND
text: A huge splinter sticking out of it. He is in real pain. The D.S.
text: walks over and looks at the splinter, and in one move pulls it out.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: (heartlessly)
dialog: Shaolin monks feel no pain. Rub some dirt on it and you
dialog: will be fine.
text: He walks away.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND THE DISCIPLES
text: On a work break. They are watching the monks training in the
text: distance. It is all the more desirable because it is unattainable.
text: In the distance, a monk can be seen walking between two other monks.
text: They are leading him out.
text: The monk continues walking until he walks right in front of the
text: disciples. His face and body are covered with bruises and welts. The
text: two other monks don't say a word, their faces grim.
dialog: Li turns to the D.S.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: What happened?
dialog: D.S.
text: He failed to pass through the wooden man chamber. He must
dialog: leave the temple.
text: The D.S. walks off.
speaker_heading: LI (CONT'D)
dialog: The "Wooden Man Chamber"! The ultimate test of a Shaolin
dialog: monk...
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: Did you see his face?
speaker_heading: SHU
dialog: Poor guy.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: He just wasn't good enough. I wouldn't be surprised if
dialog: half of us go out the same way.
text: The D.S. appears and motions for them to work.
scene_heading: INT. MEDITATION HALL ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES, DREW IN THE MIDDLE, SITTING IN ROWS
scene_heading: IN THE INCENSE-FILLED MEDITATION CHAMBER.
text: The monk in charge of the chamber is talking to them.
speaker_heading: MEDITATION MONK
dialog: Breath in through your nose, out through your mouth.
dialog: Imagine yourself sitting on the bank of a river watching
dialog: your thoughts flow by. Clear your mind... Think of
dialog: nothing.
text: Drew sits, trying to think of nothing. He is not succeeding.
scene_heading: INT. DINING AREA ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WASHING DISHES, ALONE IN THE KITCHEN AREA.
text: He bends over to get a dish, when a pole comes and SMACKS him on the
text: rear end. He turns immediately in one direction, but gets hit again
text: from the OTHER direction.
text: Drew is furious, and he can't even see the attacker.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Come out, goddamn it! Show yourself!
text: No answer, as we HOLD on Drew looking around.
scene_heading: EXT. WORK AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DARK BROWN LIQUID BEING POURED INTO A LARGE PIT.
text: Drew is walking with Li, having just dumped their buckets into a
text: large hole.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: So what is this 'night soil' stuff anyway?
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Human waste.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Oh, man! You guys actually use this as fertilizer? That's
dialog: disgusting!
text: They turn to go back, and there is Gao, balancing a huge basket of
text: night soil over his head, peasant-style. He is on the same ridge that
dialog: they are going to walk on.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi, Gao. How you doing?
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: (a little worried)
dialog: Let me pass.
text: He reaches down and plucks a stick out of the earth at his feet, and
text: then closes on Gao a little bit.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: There's something on the bottom of your basket.
text: Drew pokes at the basket for a moment, right over Gao's head. Then,
text: he JAMS the stick in, and holds it there.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Oops! I think I found the problem.
dialog: (beat)
text: A hole.
text: Drew pulls the stick out and watches as the night soil cascades down
text: onto Gao's head. They back away as Gao goes running towards the pit
text: where the night soil is deposited.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Li)
dialog: Well, somebody sure smells!
scene_heading: EXT. WORK AREA ­ DAY
text: THE DISCIPLES ARE WORKING EXTREMELY HARD.
text: As they work, a group of fighting monks walk by after a workout. Drew
text: stops working and watches them pass.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: This is ridiculous.
text: Suddenly, a bamboo pole CRACKS Drew on the shoulder. He turns around,
text: ready for a fight, only to see the D.S. standing there, the pole
dialog: raised for another strike.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Back to work.
text: Drew is about to say something, but doesn't. He returns to work.
speaker_heading: DORM AREA ­ NIGHT
text: ANGLE ON DREW MASSAGING HIS MUSCLES
text: He is sitting with Li and a couple of the other disciples, Wu, Shu
dialog: and Low.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I've got an idea on how to get even with our beloved
dialog: Drill Sergeant...
text: They all huddle a little closer.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF D.S. AS HE WALKS ALONG THE PATH.
text: In the b.g. can be seen Drew, Li, Wu and a couple other of the
text: disciples. They are waiting for something.
text: The D.S. hits the trip wire and suddenly two bamboo poles HURTLE
text: towards him, ready to slam him in the shoulders.
text: With one beautiful move, the D.S. breaks both poles, shattering when
text: they hit his arms.
text: The D.S. hardly breaks stride and continues walking. He looks back
text: once, and sees the outline of the group of disciples.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND THE GUYS
text: Who are up and running as soon as they are spotted. They run by Gao,
text: who was watching from another area.
scene_heading: EXT. D.S. QUARTERS ­ SAME DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GAO WAITING OUTSIDE D.S. ROOM.
text: He looks around, knocks, and then goes in.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTYARD ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF ENTIRE CLASS GATHERED TOGETHER.
text: The D.S. walks into the front of the courtyard and addresses the
dialog: group.
text: Gao is standing off to the side, a smug smile on his face.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: You are all responsible for anything that happens within
dialog: your group. What happened yesterday falls on everyone's
dialog: shoulders. So, all of you will do double work...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: The smug smile gone now.
scene_heading: INT. MEDITATION ROOM ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GROUP OF DISCIPLES SEATED ON ROUND PILLOWS
scene_heading: PRACTISING ZAZEN, SITTING MEDITATION.
text: Drew is in the center of the room, and the sound of light snoring is
dialog: heard.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
dialog: It is him, he is asleep!
text: Suddenly, a bamboo shinai is SLAMMED across Drew's back, waking him
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: MEDITATION MONK
dialog: Bodhidharma meditated for 9 years without sleeping. Think
dialog: you can manage 9 minutes?
scene_heading: EXT. WORK AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THE ENTIRE GROUP LABORING IN THE FIELDS.
text: They are all singing "Chain Gang".
text: TIGHT ON SEVERAL OF THE DISCIPLES
dialog: They are good workers, and they don't mind the hard work nor the hot
dialog: weather quite so much.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
dialog: Working hard.
scene_heading: INT. DORM AREA ­ NIGHT
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
dialog: Who is holding court.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: We came here to train, not to be slaves! We're free
dialog: men...
speaker_heading: MU
dialog: But we swore to obey them...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: An uninformed choice is no choice at all!
speaker_heading: MU
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: We have to stand up for our rights! If they don't even
dialog: know we're dissatisfied, things will never change.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: They haven't changed for centuries, why should we listen
dialog: to you?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Are we men or mice? Sheep or the shepherd?
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: I'm with you!
text: The others are with him too, except for Gao. They are ready to
text: explode, and Drew has the match.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm for going to the Headmaster right now!
text: They are all ready. They head for the door, but Gao doesn't move.
text: Drew stops at the door and turns to Gao.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: You're either with us, Gao, or you're against us.
text: No answer from Gao. They exit the room.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW AND THE BOYS RUSHING DOWN THE CORRIDOR,
scene_heading: HEADING FOR SAN DE'S QUARTERS.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON D.S.
text: Heading for the same place but from a different direction.
scene_heading: INT. SHAOLIN HALLWAY ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GROUP ASSEMBLED OUTSIDE SAN DE'S CHAMBERS.
text: Drew goes to knock on the door, when it opens and San De is standing
text: there. The D.S. has just arrived. He looks at San De for
text: instructions, but San De indicates that he will deal with them.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Master San De!
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Who else?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: We have something to say...
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: This is an interesting coincidence, as I was just on my
dialog: way to your sleeping quarters to talk with you all.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I request permission to go first.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: I think I'd better...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No, really, I want to...
text: San De holds up his hand. He is the final authority.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Here at the temple, we use a period of intense physical
dialog: labor to test your patience, and to teach you humility
dialog: and self-reliance. As you continue training, you will be
dialog: given chores every day ­ remember the first time you saw
dialog: me I was sweeping? Physical labor keeps us humble.
text: ANGLE ON THE DISCIPLES
dialog: Who tonight have been anything but humble.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: You've all performed admirably, and have learned an
dialog: important lesson ­ to obey your shr fu without question.
dialog: Because of this, I've decided to begin your martial
dialog: training sooner than what is prescribed. Tomorrow
dialog: morning.
text: The disciples can hardly believe their luck.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: And, what did you have to say to me?
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who is sputtering now.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I... I mean we, just wanted to... thank you for the
dialog: opportunity to be part of the illustrious history of the
dialog: Shaolin Temple.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Yeah, that's it. Right, guys?
text: They all say "Thank you" as one, and then bow to the headmaster with
text: their hands clasped in front of them. They turn away and head down
dialog: the hallway.
text: ANGLE ON THE DISCIPLES
text: As they increase their pace, almost running through the halls with
dialog: their excitement.
scene_heading: INT. DORM AREA ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DOOR TO THE SLEEPING QUARTERS.
text: Suddenly, it BURSTS open and in come the disciples, led by Drew. They
text: fan out into the room, Drew in the center.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Gentlemen, this calls for a party!
text: He runs to his backpack and pulls out a boom box with speakers, and
dialog: puts on some good old American Rock 'N' Roll.
text: Everyone, but Gao, is moving in time with the music. Drew is the most
text: accomplished dancer, but the others are pretty bad.
text: The entire effect of the bald-headed monks rocking out is very comic.
text: Drew starts showing Li and Wu a couple of dance routines (old stuff ­
text: the swim, the twist, etc.). Everyone is having a great time.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: Glowering, as he moves toward the boom box.
text: He reaches for the "Stop" button.
text: Drew blocks the arm, and a pushing and shoving match starts.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: You're trying to get us all kicked out!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm just trying to have a party. Chill out!
text: They push and shove into the middle of the room, a couple of kicks
text: and punches thrown, then they face off, ready to duke it out.
text: The party is raging, while Gao and Drew are the only ones static, set
dialog: to do battle.
text: Just then, the door starts to open. Everyone freezes and looks toward
text: the door, including Gao. Drew, meanwhile, has the presence of mind to
text: jump onto the boom box, shutting it off and hiding it with his body.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DOOR
text: As the D.S. opens it and sticks his head in.
text: He surveys the room, seeing the tableau of frozen monks, with Drew
text: lying on his bed.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
dialog: Who waves to the D.S.
text: ANGLE ON THE D.S.
dialog: Who knows that something is going on.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Go to sleep. Lights out.
text: He hits the lights and then closes the door. In the semi-darkness the
text: room relaxes in a collective sigh. Drew stands up and packs up the
dialog: stereo.
text: Gao walks over past Drew.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: It's not over, American.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CHAMBER ­ MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF CHAMBER FULL OF FIGHTING MONKS, ALL GOING
text: THROUGH THE SAME SET OF MOVEMENTS.
dialog: Kick. Punch.
dialog: Kick. Punch.
text: INTERCUT of feet striking the stone floor, depressions in the floor
text: testifying to the centuries of training this chamber has seen.
text: Through the door come the D.S., Drew and the others. They line up
text: along one wall, watching the fighting monks go through their form.
text: It is beautiful: powerful, graceful and intimidating.
text: Their form done, they file out of the chamber, leaving the D.S. with
text: his group, along with one fighting monk. The D.S. motions for them to
dialog: line up as the monks had.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: You will train 6 days a week, from 5 am to 9 p.m.,
text: alternating with work and meditation. Sunday afternoon is
dialog: free time.
text: D.S. lets that sink in, then motions for the monk to take over.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: In order to keep our bodies strong, Bodhidharma gave us a
dialog: series of exercises and breathing techniques. Because the
dialog: times demanded action, we developed Shaolin style wu shu
dialog: from these exercises.
text: He goes through a couple of martial movements.
speaker_heading: MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: The spirit of Bodhidharma remains. Training is like
dialog: meditation. Be aware of everything, but aware of nothing
dialog: in particular. Think not thinking.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What do you mean, 'Think not thinking'?
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Non thinking.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Confused.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON MONK
text: Who doesn't explain any further.
speaker_heading: MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: Your training begins today, in this most sacred of
text: training halls. The floor bears witness to the efforts of
dialog: fighting monks from centuries past.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON FLOOR
text: Where there are depressions and worn spots, the result of thousands
dialog: of hours of training.
speaker_heading: MONK (CONT'D)
text: At the Shaolin temple, we forge our bodies in the fire of
dialog: our wills. We adhere to a vow of non-violence, unless
dialog: someone else is in danger... Follow my movements...
text: He starts moving through a series of techniques, and the rest of the
text: disciples try to mimic his actions. He is moving around the room, and
text: they are trying to do what he is doing.
dialog: Some are getting it, some aren't.
text: Drew, used to a more individualized type of training, isn't getting
dialog: it.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING TIGHT SHOT OF WEDGE THWOCKING INTO THE GROUND.
text: A hand COMES INTO FRAME, grabs the wedge and pulls it back out of the
dialog: ground.
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL Drew, along with the other disciples, lined up
text: and throwing these sharp wedges into the ground and pulling it back
text: out. Their muscles are bulging with the effort.
text: ANGLE ON HUGE SMOKING BRASS URNS
text: Filled to the brim with small stones. Drew is forcing his arms into
text: the urn in "Iron Palm" training.
text: ANGLE ON MONK ON A SET OF POLES
text: He is going through a complex form, kicking and punching, never
text: missing or faltering a step. Some of the poles are as high as 6 feet
text: off the ground.
text: ANGLE ON GAO ON THE POLES
text: He is less sure, but at least he doesn't fall.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Trying the poles. He starts out well, but he soon misses and falls,
text: almost impaling himself on a pole.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I can't do this!
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Here at Shaolin, can't doesn't exist. Only won't.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES PAIRED OFF.
text: Drew is working with his friend Li. They are moving through a series
text: of techniques, ending with a flashy kicking technique which is to
text: blocked by a special Shaolin technique.
text: Each time Li throws the final kick, Drew gets hit, HARD.
text: His block isn't working. A monk comes up to him.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Block the way I showed you.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (showing him a block)
dialog: This is the way I was taught.
speaker_heading: MONK (CONT'D)
dialog: Do it this way. You won't get hit.
text: Drew bows and turns to continue working with Li. By this time,
text: however, the ranks have shifted, and Gao is opposite Drew.
text: Drew attacks first in the series, and Gao uses the block to easily
text: deflect Drew's kick.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: (menacingly)
dialog: My turn.
text: He attacks, and Drew gets to the final technique. He blocks the way
text: he did before, and he gets slammed brutally by Gao.
text: Gao stands over him, smiling.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF MONKS FLIPPING THROUGH THE AIR, DOING FLYING
scene_heading: KICKS, AERIALS, ETC.
text: A monk is alternately falling down and kipping up, falling down and
text: kipping up.
text: Drew's group is working on several very athletic maneuvers, none of
text: which Drew is especially good at. Gao, of course, is having no
dialog: trouble.
text: Drew tries a flying move and falls into a heap on the ground. He is
text: very angry, and he hits the ground with his fist.
speaker_heading: MONK
text: Emotions cloud the spirit ­ eliminate them.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: This isn't martial arts ­ it's gymnastics!
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: This is Shaolin Wu Shu. Continue.
text: Drew sits in the dirt, watching everyone around him sail through the
text: air and flip over the ground. He is not a happy camper.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TRAINING AREA.
text: The entire group is gathered in a sort of pit, on a hard concrete
text: floor. D.S. stands in the middle.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: I want to go over some takedowns before we end for the
dialog: day. I'll need a partner...
text: He scans the group, and then points to Drew. Drew smiles ruefully,
text: walks to the front and bows to D.S.
dialog: D.S.
text: Watch carefully as I take him down, using techniques from
dialog: shwai jyau, Chinese wrestling.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (looking at ground)
dialog: Excuse me, Master, but there aren't any mats here.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Do they always use mats in America?
text: The group laughs a little at that, and Drew's manhood is now
dialog: challenged.
speaker_heading: D.S. (CONT'D)
dialog: If you are scared, I'll get someone else. Perhaps Gao
dialog: would assist me...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: Who is already getting up, ready and willing.
text: This changes Drew's mind right away.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND D.S.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Let's do it.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Attack me straight on...
text: Drew attacks, and is taken down brutally, smashed into the hard
text: concrete floor. No attempt is made to cushion or soften the blow.
text: Drew gets up right away, and attacks again. Again he is driven to the
text: ground. This continues from all angles and all methods of attack.
text: ANGLE ON THE GROUP
text: Who can barely watch the destruction.
text: ANGLE ON THE FIGHT
text: The D.S. does not let up at all, taking
text: Drew down hard each time. Every time, regardless of the impact, Drew
text: gets right back up. His eyes are dazed, there is a little blood
text: coming out of his nose, but he keeps coming back for more.
text: Finally, after a high arcing back throw, a real thumper, the worst of
dialog: all of them, the D.S. calls it a day.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Any questions? Good, that's all for today.
text: Before anyone can move, however, Drew raises his hand as high as he
text: can, obviously in pain.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm not sure I got that last throw clear in my mind.
text: The group gasps, knowing how much Drew must be hurting, admiring him
text: for his guts. Even Gao is impressed.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: I said that's enough.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: If you're getting too old for this kind of training, I
dialog: understand.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Attack!
text: Drew attacks, and the D.S. executes the manuever perfectly, crashing
text: Drew down almost on his head. Luckily, Drew is able to twist at the
text: last moment and take the impact on his already bruised shoulder. He
text: moans and groans and lies there.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I think I've got it now. Xie Xie!
text: The group disburses, shaking their heads in wonder. Li comes up to
text: Drew, who is still lying on the ground.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Are you trying to kill yourself?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: He hurts more than me, he's just not bleeding, that's
dialog: all.
text: He tries to get up, but moans in pain and falls back down.
text: Li helps him up and takes him to the showers.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON D.S.
text: Watching them go. There is a slight smile on his face.
scene_heading: EXT. DORMITORY ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF LI RUBBING THE BRUISE ON DREW'S SHOULDER WITH
text: TIGER BALM.
text: It is huge, and looks really painful.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: If you go to San De, he can send you to a doctor...
text: Drew pulls away and stands up. He backs up to the wall of the
text: dormitory, right underneath a window.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I appreciate your concern, Li, but it's not that serious.
dialog: I'm all right.
text: Just as he is talking, Gao comes to the window with a pan of dirty
text: water (from washing the floor of the dorm).
scene_heading: GAO LOOKS DOWN (GAO POV) AND SEES DREW
text: Hhe smiles, then pours the huge bucket over the edge, dousing Drew.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As the dirty water hits him, drenching him.
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFALL ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF WATERFALL.
text: It is huge, and the water is crashing down from high above.
text: ANGLE ON A MONK, INSIDE THE WATERFALL
text: He is going through martial arts techniques as the water thunders
text: onto him.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON D.S. AND GROUP
text: As they stand on the bank.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Concentrate on your stance. All I want you to do is try
dialog: to hold your stance. Li, you're first.
text: Li smiles and walks into the waterfall, using a walkway that goes
text: behind the thundering water.
text: He moves into the water a little, and gets into a deep horse stance.
text: He stand there, immovable. After a moment, he turns to look at D.S.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON D.S.
text: Who motions him farther into the water.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON LI
text: Who nods his head and walks into the thundering water. As soon as he
text: gets into the main stream of water, he is forced off the ledge and he
text: falls about 20 feet into the pool below.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Next...
text: Each of them try it in turn. Everyone fails.
text: Gao goes in, and he manages to stand under the impact of the water
text: for a moment, before he too succumbs and goes down into the pool.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: It's his turn. He walks to the waterfall and goes in. He picks up an
text: umbrella he stashed behind the waterfall (imprinted with a "NEW YORK
text: GIANTS NFL" logo on it ­ unmistakably American).
text: He walks into the waterfall, and the umbrella works for a moment.
text: Drew is holding it with both hands, and he gets into a deep horse
dialog: stance.
text: He turns to smile at the D.S., and then waves at the others. As soon
text: as he takes a hand off the handle of the umbrella, the water slams
text: him and off he goes into the pool.
text: He lands with a huge splash, doing a painful bellow flop. Drew comes
text: to the surface, still clutching the now- destroyed umbrella. He
text: smiles at the other disciples, who are still swimming, sheepishly.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Thought I'd join you guys.
scene_heading: INT. TEMPLE TRAINING HALL ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GROUPS WORKING OUT.
text: Drew is in with the group. Gao and Drew are chosen to do a training
dialog: exercise together.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: In this exercise, you try to touch your partner's chest
dialog: lightly, and your partner tries to block.
text: The group gets started doing the drill, and Gao is almost caving
text: Drew's chest in with his blows. He is so close to Drew that Drew
text: doesn't have a chance to block it. On the last strike, Drew falls
text: back to the ground.
text: The D.S. is there immediately.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Something wrong?
text: Drew shakes his head and gets back up.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Switch!
text: Now it's Drew's turn to strike, and he tries to hit Gao with the same
text: amount of force as he did, but Gao avoids his attack, throwing him
text: off balance. He throws another punch out, and Gao grabs it and pulls.
text: Drew falls to the floor again. A monk who was watching walks over.
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: The goal of this drill is not to hurt your partner. Just
text: try to tap his chest.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I know, but...
speaker_heading: MONK
dialog: Then do it that way...
text: The Monk walks away, shaking his head.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ EVENING
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TEMPLE COURTYARD, EMPTY EXCEPT FOR DREW AND LI
text: PLAYING CATCH WITH A FRISBEE.
text: Drew is flipping it in a bunch of different ways, and Li is enjoying
text: watching him.
text: To the side of the courtyard are two brooms leaning against the wall.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: This sure beats sweeping...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON FRISBEE
text: Floating past temple statues and ancient Chinese decorations, barely
dialog: missing them.
text: Drew makes an acrobatic catch and then flicks it back to Li, harder
text: than he should have. It heads for an ancient statue and smacks it
text: dead center, right in the face.
dialog: The statue starts to tip!
text: Drew and Li rush for the statue and catch it, just before it tips
text: over and smashes on the ground.
text: They look at each other, thanking their lucky stars the statue didn't
text: fall. They start to throw the frisbee again, when Drew spots the D.S.
text: coming towards them.
text: Drew stashes the frisbee in his shirt and grabs the brooms.
text: He tosses one to Li and they just begin sweeping again when the D.S.
text: rounds the corner.
text: The D.S. knows something is going on, but they look so innocent.
dialog: D.S.
text: Sweep the main chamber, Drew.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Yes, master.
text: He bows and smiles goodbye to Li. He walks into the main training
dialog: chamber.
scene_heading: INT. CHAMBER ­ SAME EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WALKING INTO THE CHAMBER.
text: This is the chamber where they had their first workout, and Drew just
text: stands there for a moment, soaking up the tradition of it.
text: He walks to an area of the chamber under the famous painting and
text: stands staring at it.
text: QUICK CUTS to different ANGLES of the painting.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who begins to sweep.
text: His broom is going over the depressions where the monks train, and
text: soon he loses his desire to sweep. He takes the broom in his hand as
text: a weapon and starts to spin it, going through a martial arts form,
text: his feet moving naturally into the depressions in the floor.
text: He finishes with a flourish, having moved into a shadowy area in a
text: corner, and then bows to an imaginary crowd, using the broom as a
dialog: microphone.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (imitating an announcer)
dialog: Presenting, the greatest fighter in the history of the
dialog: Shaolin temple... Drew Carson!
text: Drew holds his broom over his head, nodding his head to the imaginary
dialog: crowd.
speaker_heading: DREW
text: The crowd is going wild.
text: Just then, out of the shadows comes an attacking staff, SLAMMING into
text: Drew's unprotected stomach!
text: Drew, ready to double over in pain, hears the staff hit the frisbee,
text: and stands up straight, adjusting the frisbee that saved his stomach.
text: Before he can react, the staff SMACKS him in the back of the head and
text: sends him pitching to the floor.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he lands face down in the pile of dust and dirt he already swept
dialog: up.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TEMPLE COURTYARD, THE SUN SETTING IN THE
speaker_heading: DISTANCE.
text: Drew is standing in front of a painting-statue of Bodhidharma, one in
text: which he is made to look extremely fierce.
text: San De walks up behind Drew and stands there for a moment.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: He was an amazing monk...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Yeah, what's up with him?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Come with me...
text: San De walks away, and Drew follows him.
scene_heading: INT. SAN DE'S CHAMBERS ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SAN DE BREWING TEA.
text: The room is filled with paintings and scrolls. A Golden Sash hangs in
dialog: a place of honor.
text: San De puts the tea leaves into the pot, then soaks them with boiling
text: water. He pours the water out, then repeats the process several
text: times. His movements are all very precise and careful ­ it almost
text: looks like a martial art kata.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Legend states that Bodhidharma gave us tea. Once, while
text: meditating, Bodhidharma fell asleep, a natural reaction
dialog: we all have to fight against.
text: San De looks pointedly at Drew, who doesn't meet his eyes.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
text: When he awoke, he was so enraged at his eyelids for
text: betraying him, he tore them off and threw them to the
dialog: ground.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: From those eyelids grew the first tea bush. You see, even
text: the leaves look like eyelids.
text: San De shows Drew a tea leaf.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Impossible.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Nothing is impossible if your spirit is pure, and your
dialog: will is strong.
text: The tea is ready, and San De begins to pour for Drew.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: I understand you've been questioning some of the
dialog: teachings of the temple...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: It's just not the way I was taught...
text: San De keeps pouring into Drew's cup. It is getting to the rim. San
text: De is not stopping.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Master! Stop! No more will go in!
text: San De continues pouring until the tea runs all over the table.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Exactly! You are like this cup, full of what you have
dialog: learned. How can we show you Shaolin unless you first
dialog: empty your cup?
text: He picks up the cup and tosses the tea through an open window. He now
text: pours into the empty cup.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: The rules and disciplines of the temple exist to free
dialog: you, not restrict you. They keep your mind from harmful
dialog: thoughts.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Drink your tea.
text: Drew nods and sips at his tea.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF ONE OF THE INSTRUCTORS TEACHING A SOFT STYLE OF
scene_heading: SHAOLIN WU SHU.
text: His body moves with the wind, bending and swaying. Another monk is
text: attacking him with a hard style, and the soft style is very
dialog: effective.
text: Drew and Li try it, and Drew is having a lot of trouble. He is used
text: to training hard style, and the soft style seems too weak for him.
text: D.S. comes over.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: It's not fighting ­ I feel like I'm dancing or
dialog: something... This soft stuff is unnatural ­ Fighting
dialog: should be hard, tough...
text: The D.S. holds out his hand, in a tight fist.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: If my hand was always like this, what would you call it?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: Deformed.
text: He opens his hand, letting it go limp.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: And if it was always like this?
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
text: Again, deformed.
text: The D.S. nods and walks off, leaving Drew to stare questioningly at
dialog: Li.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TEMPLE COURTYARD, WHERE ALL THE DISCIPLES ARE
text: COLLECTED.
text: They are not dressed in their monastic robes, however. They are in
dialog: street clothes.
dialog: It is their day off!
text: A monk comes down the line, handing out hats to the disciples. They
dialog: put them on, and wait for instructions from the D.S.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Remember, let no one know you are disciples at the
dialog: Shaolin Temple, but do not forget that you are. Dzai
dialog: Jyan.
text: They file out.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THE DISCIPLES EXITING THE TEMPLE.
text: As soon as they are out, the serious faces break into smiles, and
text: they are teenagers again. Some of the disciples run off to join
text: relatives waiting for them in the courtyard, while a group of them
dialog: stick together.
text: Drew is walking with Li, Wu and several others.
text: ANGLE ON THE GROUP
text: As they walk through the small town outside of the temple.
text: They pass by Ashema's stand, but only the Bau Bau is there.
text: Drew bows to the Bau Bau, then slips off his hat, rubbing his bald
text: head for Bau Bau to see. Bau Bau laughs, and the rest of the guys
text: rush up to Drew, forcing his hat back on his head.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Drew! We're not supposed to...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Chill out, guys! It's our day off!
text: He bows to Bau Bau and then they walk off.
text: They walk through the small town, checking it out.
text: They walk through the countryside, enjoying their freedom.
text: Drew has brought a frisbee with him, and they are tossing it around.
scene_heading: EXT. LUOYANG CAVES ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GROUP AS THEY WALK IN THE HILLS HOUSING THE
scene_heading: FAMOUS LUO YANG CAVES.
text: The hills are filled with Buddhist carvings.
text: ANGLE ON CARVINGS ­ INTERCUT
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he walks by the carvings. The detail and the artistry are amazing.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVERSIDE ­ SAME DAY
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND GROUP
text: As they walk by a riverside park. The park is filled with people, and
text: a group of kids swinging into the river on a rope. Drew stops to
text: watch them, then looks back at the others.
text: They all shake their heads.
text: Drew nods his.
text: They continue to shake their heads.
text: Drew starts running towards the kids, stripping off his shirt at the
text: same time. The others pause for a moment, then follow his lead.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GROUP
text: As they swing into the river, trying to keep their hats on as they
text: splash into the water. they are having the time of their life.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GROUP
text: Resting on the bank of the river. Drew and the guys spot a group of
text: girls down the bank from them.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Check it out, guys!
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: Girls!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Good work, Wu. What tipped you off?
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: (alarmed)
dialog: We are not allowed to have contact with females. It is
dialog: the most serious rule of the temple.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: It's a stupid rule, Li. But...
text: He is about to turn away, then spots Ashema as she runs down a path
text: to the group of girls. He stands up immediately and starts over to
text: her. He is jogging, at the same time trying to straighten his clothes
text: and his hat.
text: Li starts running after Drew. The others follow.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: ASHEMA!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON ASHEMA
text: Who hears her name. She looks around, sees Drew but doesn't
text: immediately recognize him. She looks around the park.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: ASHEMA! Here!
text: She looks at Drew again, and this time recognizes him. Drew arrives
text: and impulsively he gives her a hug, genuinely very happy to see her.
text: Li arrives and pulls them apart.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: What!?!
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: You can get kicked out of the temple for this...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Who's going to tell, Li? You?
text: He turns to Ashema, who has now backed off a little bit and is
text: looking at Drew, a smile on her face, but is pretending that she is
text: embarrassed. The other girls are gathered around, giggling.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (pointing at girls)
dialog: Not the giggle girls again! How've you been? You look
dialog: great!
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: (hiding a laugh)
dialog: You look... funny.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: How do you like the temple?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Shhh... nobody's supposed to know.
text: Li tugs at Drew's shirt.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: We really shouldn't be doing this...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm trying to show you guys a good time.
dialog: (to Ashema)
dialog: I guess I gotta go. It was great to see you.
text: One of the giggle girls behind Ashema whispers something in her ear.
text: She nods and smiles.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: My school is having a party this Tuesday night. Can you
dialog: and your friends come?
text: Li and the guys immediately hem and haw their negative replies, but
text: Drew smiles and takes Ashema's hand. The girls start to giggle again.
text: He brings her hand up to his lips, and kisses it gently.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: We'll be there.
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DORM ROOM, LI STANDING IN FRONT OF DREW, THE
text: REST OF THE DISCIPLES GATHERED AROUND.
text: The room is dark ­ it's after lights out.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Are you nuts? We can't go to a party, with GIRLS!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Why not? We're working hard, we deserve some R &amp; R.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: 'R &amp; R'?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: We've earned this. Back home in New York, you don't say
dialog: no to a party... Where's your sense of adventure?
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: What do you do at a 'party' with girls?
text: Drew smiles, knowing that he has them.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: You dance, and talk. And have a good time.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: That clinches it, we can't dance.
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: And we don't know how to talk to girls...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (trying to sound like an expert)
dialog: That's easy. You just talk to them like you would to the
dialog: guys ­ you just don't tell them as much, and... not in
dialog: the same way...
text: Drew is in over his head.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Like you know?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Look, dancing's easy. I'll show you. We'll start with
text: slow dancing.
text: An OOOH escapes from the guys.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Dirty dancing!
text: Giggles now. Drew pulls his boom box out of his backpack, and starts
text: searching for a suitable tape.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: You guys grab a pillow for a partner, while I find some
text: slow music.
text: The disciples have grabbed their pillows. Drew pops the cassette into
text: his boom box and turns it on, low and sultry.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Just move in time to the music, nothing elaborate. Think
dialog: of it as a soft form...
text: The disciples move and sway in time to the music. They are treating
text: their pillows like imaginary girls.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON LI
text: Who is holding his pillow at arm's length.
scene_heading: DREW WALKS BY LI
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Loosen up, Li. She's not going to bite!
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: How do you know?
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON WU
text: Who is really getting into it. He is dancing with his pillow cheek to
text: cheek, and occasionally sneaking a kiss.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON OTHER MONKS
text: Practicing their dancing and preparing for the party.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who sits back on his bed, his hands clasped behind his head.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: This is going to be great...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DISCIPLES
text: Still moving and swaying to the music.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ NIGHT
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DISCIPLES
text: Now asleep and in bed, still clutching their pillows like they were
dialog: girls.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DOOR
text: As it opens. The D.S. looks in on the room, and sees all the kids
text: holding their pillows. He shakes his head and then closes the door.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TWO BODIES FIGHTING, KICKING AND PUNCHING.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL Drew and Gao going at it. The other
text: disciples are paired off as well, but the only real action is here in
dialog: this ring.
text: Drew is getting tagged, hard, while the points he scores are all
text: relatively controlled. After one particularly powerful shot, Drew
dialog: stops.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I thought this was light contact!
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Fight, you coward!
text: Drew stares at Gao, then looks around for the D.S. He is over at the
text: other side of the training area.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: You got it.
text: Before he can move, however, Gao attacks, slamming him full power in
text: the face. Drew almost falls to the ground, then attacks him and the
text: battle is joined.
text: The fighting is fast and furious, and soon the others see what is
text: happening, and gather around. One of the monks comes over and tries
text: to break it up, but they continue fighting, wrestling, kicking and
dialog: punching.
text: The D.S. finally gets over to them, and without moving a muscle,
dialog: barks ­
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Stop!
text: Drew and Gao immediately break apart, breathing heavy and staring
text: daggers at each other.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: (to others)
dialog: Back to work.
text: He turns and walks off, motioning for Drew and Gao to follow him.
text: Drew follows immediately, with Gao behind him. Gao shoves him once.
scene_heading: INT. SAN DE CHAMBER ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW, GAO AND SAN DE IN THE SHADOWS OF SAN DE'S
speaker_heading: ROOM.
text: San De is sitting down reading a Buddhist text. With a sigh, he puts
text: it down. On the wall behind is hanging a Golden Sash.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: So soon?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tell me what happened.
text: Drew looks at Gao, and Gao looks at Drew. There is a pause, one that
text: is very uncomfortable. Finally, Drew speaks.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: It was my fault. I started it.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: Surprised at Drew's confession.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Disciple Gao was better than me.
text: Drew pauses, and Gao is even more surprised at the revelation.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I lost my temper. He was only defending himself.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: Who nods his head and looks at Drew.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Is this true, Disciple Gao?
text: Gao looks at Drew, wondering what he should say. Drew looks at him,
text: nodding for him to say yes.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Yes. But, I am not completely blameless...
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: I didn't think you were...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: The Shaolin martial tradition is built on challenges. We
dialog: challenge ourselves, but we do not fight with each other.
dialog: Never do we fight to see who is best ­ we train to be
dialog: able to right wrongs, not to let our hands and feet
text: express emotions run wild. A Shaolin never throws a punch
dialog: or kick in anger.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Shake hands and let your emotions go.
text: Gao looks at Drew, knowing that the anger is already long gone, swept
text: away in the shock of Drew taking the blame.
text: They shake hands.
text: Both Drew and Gao notice the Golden Sash hanging on the wall. It is
text: occupying a place of honor.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: That is the Golden Sash, the highest honor of the temple.
dialog: It is awarded to the monk who has attained the pinnacle
dialog: of understanding.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: The best fighter?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Among other things. Fighting is only a small part of
dialog: being a Shaolin monk.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Yours?
dialog: San De nods.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Return to your training.
text: Drew and Gao get up, bow to San De and head for the door.
text: They get to the door at the same time, however, and for a moment they
text: jockey for position, trying to be the first one through the door.
text: Finally, Drew tires of the game and opens the door for Gao.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Ten more seconds and I would have kicked your ass...
text: Gao smiles and walks through the door. Just as he passes Drew, he
text: punches him in the stomach.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: In your dreams...
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES GETTING READY TO GO OUT.
text: They are dressed in "street" clothes and are just pulling on their
text: hats. Drew, instead of wearing his temple-issue hat, pulls on a New
dialog: York Yankees baseball cap!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Now, we're ready!
text: He leads them towards the window of their dorm, but stops when he
text: gets there. He turns to where Gao is standing, all alone.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Gao, you coming or what?
text: There is a moment of indecision, then Gao frowns, shakes his head and
text: comes jogging towards them.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: I'm coming, just to keep you out of trouble!
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF EMPTY COURTYARD BATHED IN MOONLIGHT.
text: Suddenly, a figure lands on the ground with a PUFF of dust.
text: In a crouch, Drew scans the area, then motions for the others to jump
dialog: down.
text: Immediately, other figures land with PUFFs of dust all around him. As
text: soon as they have all landed, they move off.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GROUP
text: As they sneak through the courtyards and training areas of the
text: temple. They are about halfway across from the front door of the
text: temple when a monk comes walking towards them. He is weaving and
text: bobbing ­ he looks drunk.
text: Drew shoots Li and Gao a questioning look. Drunk? In the temple?
text: They take refuge behind a couple of the columns and watch as the monk
text: makes his way past, weaving and throwing kicks and punches. It is a
text: tense moment as the monk comes uncomfortably close to where Drew and
text: Gao are standing, but he walks on.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: (whisper)
dialog: Drunken Kung Fu...
text: Drew nods and leads them out of the temple.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GROUP AS THEY HEAD DOWN THE DARK STREETS OF THE
scene_heading: TOWN. EUPHORIA STRIKES, AND THEY ARE HAVING FUN (AD LIBS HERE) JUST
scene_heading: BEING FREE AND A.W.O.L.
scene_heading: EXT. GIRL'S SCHOOL ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF FRONT OF GIRL'S SCHOOL.
text: It is the same school where Drew first met Ashema. The guys, still
text: happy, arrive at the school, and the realization of what they are
text: about to do sinks in.
text: They stop talking and are staring at the building. Drew starts toward
text: the door, and nobody follows his lead. He stops and motions for them
text: to join him. Nobody moves.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Are we men or are we sheep?
text: A beat, then the entire group bellows:
speaker_heading: GROUP
speaker_heading: SHEEP!
text: And they follow Drew, the shepherd, in through the front door, making
text: noises like sheep.
scene_heading: INT. PARTY ROOM ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF PARTY.
text: It isn't happening. The boys are on one side, the girls are on the
text: other. The music is bad Chinese rock and roll.
text: The only ones together are Drew and Ashema, who are talking in the
text: center of the room. The disciples are all clustered together, staring
text: at the walls and the ceiling. A group of giggle girls are standing
text: around Drew and Ashema.
text: A group of toughs are standing at one side of the party room,
text: observing everything that's going on.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND ASHEMA
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Great party...
text: Ashema smiles a sheepish smile. Drew decides that if they are going
text: to have a good time, he's going to have a hand in it. He pulls out a
dialog: cassette tape, gives it to Ashema
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Play this when I signal, OK?
text: She nods and walks off. Drew motions for Gao and the guys to come
text: over. They do, and when they do, Drew turns to the giggle girls
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Ladies, allow me to introduce my best friends in all of
dialog: China...
text: He drags Gao over to one of the prettier girls.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: This is Gao. And this wild man is Li...
text: Drew does the same for Li, Wu, Su, Sou and all the others, forcing
text: them to stand with the girls for a moment. When everyone is paired
text: off, he motions to Ashema.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Hit it!
text: INSERT of Ashema's finger on the tape player "PLAY" button.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON THE ROOM
text: As the song the disciples have been singing in the fields blasts out.
text: Immediately, the disciples start moving with the music, and suddenly
dialog: the
text: Party is happening.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DISCIPLES
text: Who are now slow dancing to a romantic melody ­ some holding the
text: girls closer than others. Drew and Ashema are locked in an embrace,
text: their eyes closed.
text: A hand comes in and taps Drew on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (eyes still closed)
dialog: Not now, Li...
text: The hand comes in again, punching Drew in the shoulder hard.
text: Drew opens his eyes, and sees that he is surrounded by five tough
text: guys, dressed in dark clothes and with sunglasses on.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: What can I do for you?
speaker_heading: TOUGH
dialog: Leave.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DISCIPLES.
text: They have noticed what is going on.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No, thanks.
text: He turns back to Ashema, but she is pulled back by the giggle girls,
dialog: away from danger.
text: The tough spins Drew around and pushes him HARD. One of the toughs
text: has already gotten behind him, on his knees, and Drew goes flipping
text: over the tough, landing hard on the ground, the wind knocked out of
dialog: him.
text: Drew gets up, wincing, not really ready to fight.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Can't we talk this over?
text: The tough pulls his fist back to strike Drew, who has been grabbed by
text: two other toughs, his arms pinned behind his back.
text: Suddenly, a figure FLIES in and SLAMS the tough to the ground.
text: It is Gao, and he immediately sets on the other toughs. The room
text: ERUPTS in a melee as the disciples go at it with the village toughs.
text: The girls are SCREAMING as the boys kick and punch.
text: The disciples are winning, having a great time, until the door to the
text: room SLAMS open and the HEADMISTRESS comes storming in, screaming at
text: the top of her lungs for them to stop.
text: ANGLE ON DREW, GAO AND THE DISCIPLES
text: As they all agree as one to hightail out of there. They go running
text: past the Headmistress and out the door, full speed.
scene_heading: EXT. GIRLS SCHOOL ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES SPRINTING THROUGH THE DARKNESS.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ANGLE ON THE DISCIPLES
text: As they climb back into the dorm room.
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT AS THE LAST DISCIPLE CLIMBS THROUGH THE WINDOW ­ IT
speaker_heading: IS DREW.
text: He lands on the hardwood floor, panting his lungs out after the run.
text: After a BEAT, he lifts his head and looks right at Gao.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Did you say you were going to keep us OUT of trouble?
text: The group pauses for a BEAT, then they all laugh, relaxing.
scene_heading: INT. DINNER ROOM ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GAO CARRYING A PLATE OF CHINESE FOOD OVER TO A
text: TABLE WHERE THE DISCIPLES EATING, THEIR EYES SCANNING THE ROOM FOR
text: SIGNS OF WARNING.
text: Gao sits down and looks around. They are all dressed in their
text: training clothes, dirtied after a full day of training.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: I can't believe nobody's said anything! It's been a whole
dialog: day!
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: We broke every major rule the temple has, how could we
dialog: get away with it?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I think we might have. If they knew, they'd have already
dialog: gotten us! You guys just have to stop looking so guilty.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON WU
text: Who pushes his dinner away from him.
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: I've lost my appetite.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Let's go back to the dorm for a few minutes, go over our
dialog: stories in case they seperate us...
text: He gets up to leave, and the others follow him.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Seperate us?
scene_heading: EXT. COURTYARD ­ SAME DAY
text: IN THE COURTYARD ARE SEVERAL POLICEMEN, WAITING AROUND.
text: Drew and the others spot the cops, and walk quickly to their dorm
dialog: room.
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ SAME DAY
text: DREW AND THE OTHERS ARE FRANTIC.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Cops! Somebody called the cops?!?
text: Before anyone can answer, the door opens and the D.S. walks into the
text: room, his face serious.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Drew! Come with me to San De's chamber...
text: He turns to go, but the others are on their feet, ready to follow
dialog: Drew.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Just Drew.
text: Drew looks at them and shrugs, then follows the D.S.
scene_heading: INT. SAN DE CHAMBER ­ EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SAN DE AND THE GIRLS SCHOOL HEADMISTRESS.
text: Also in the room are two high-ranking police officials. The
text: Headmistress is yelling at the top of her lungs, and San De is just
text: sitting there, letting her vent. She has obviously been going at it
text: for some time, because her face is sweaty and flushed. She stops when
text: Drew and the D.S. enter and points an accusing finger at Drew.
speaker_heading: HEADMISTRESS
dialog: He's the one!
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Drew, I think you know Headmistress Low. Correct?
text: Drew can only nod.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: The police have also come. A morals violation is what
dialog: brought them...
text: Drew's head snaps up at the words "morals charge"
scene_heading: POLICE LIEUTENANT
dialog: We demand that he leaves the temple, and China!
speaker_heading: POLICE CAPTAIN
dialog: He's a disgrace, to the temple and to this country. He
dialog: must leave.
text: They all agree that Drew should leave, and for a moment the sound of
text: the three of them agreeing fills the room (ad libs).
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who is staring down into the abyss.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: This is a serious issue, there is no question. This we
dialog: will have to take under advisement ­ but we will handle
dialog: matters of this temple.
speaker_heading: POLICE CAPTAIN
dialog: This involves more than just the temple. I am authorized
dialog: to escort him from your temple to the jail now, tonight,
text: where he will be held until he leaves the country.
text: San De pauses, letting this sink in. The D.S. steps forward.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Master, may I?
dialog: (San De nods)
dialog: We accepted a challenge when this disciple came into our
dialog: ranks. If we force him to leave China, we admit failure.
dialog: Can we do that?
dialog: The police don't have an easy answer to that.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who is surprised that the d.s. is sticking up for him.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: You are wise. You know what is right and what is not
dialog: right. This disciple does not even know right from wrong.
dialog: Who will teach him if we do not?
text: This sinks in, and the police have nothing to say. The Headmistress
dialog: will not keep quiet, however.
speaker_heading: HEADMISTRESS
dialog: He does not belong here!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (whisper)
dialog: Chill out, honey!
text: Drew catches a hard look from the D.S.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Would you be so hard hearted as to turn him away from
dialog: that which he so desperately needs?
text: She is about to speak, but thinks better of it.
text: San De stands up, signalling that the meeting is over.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Thank you all for coming. I am pleased that you brought
dialog: this problem to our attention. May you sleep well tonight
text: knowing that the situation has been swiftly resolved.
speaker_heading: POLICE CAPTAIN
dialog: I do not wish to visit you again with this kind of news.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: You will not have to.
text: The Headmistress starts to say something, but San De holds up his
text: hand, stopping her. He leads them out, then closes the door and comes
text: back to face Drew.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Master, I can't tell you how sorry I am. I appreciate you
dialog: both going to bat like that for me. I won't let it happen
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Neither will we. You must leave the temple in the
dialog: morning.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: But I thought... the police...
dialog: D.S.
dialog: You do not deserve to leave the country as a criminal,
dialog: but you cannot stay.
text: Drew sits for a moment, looking back and forth between San De and the
text: D.S. His eyes are filling with tears, and he wipes at them.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm sorry, Master.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: As am I.
text: Drew gets up and walks out of the chamber.
scene_heading: EXT. COURTYARD ­ SAME NIGHT
text: DREW WALKS BACK TO THE DORM ROOM, SLOWLY.
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ SAME NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WITH THE OTHER GUYS AROUND HIM.
text: He has just finished telling the disciples what is going on.
text: They are shocked.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Why only you?
text: Drew shrugs and goes over to his bed, lying down with a sigh.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: The D.S. always told us that we're all responsible for
dialog: what happens.
speaker_heading: WU
dialog: It's not fair.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: It doesn't have to be fair...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: ANGLE ON DREW LYING IN THE DARK
text: Everyone else is asleep, but not Drew. He is staring at the ceiling.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. DORM ROOM ­ MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WAKING UP TO AN EMPTY ROOM.
text: Everyone is gone already, their beds made up. Drew gets up quickly
text: and gathers up his few things. He puts on his New
text: York Yankees cap and shoulders his back pack, then looks around the
dialog: room one last time.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I hate long goodbyes anyway...
text: He exits the room.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN COURTYARD ­ SAME DAY
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Walking through the courtyard, for the last time. Only a few monks
text: are around, and they don't meet Drew's eyes.
text: The sounds of training can be heard O.S. Drew stops to listen to
text: those sounds for a moment, then heads for the door.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he leaves the temple. He pauses for a moment with the door open,
text: then shuts it sadly. He looks out over the courtyard, which is
text: completely deserted. Drew sighs, hitches his backpack onto his back
text: and starts out.
text: As he comes out of the doorway and into the courtyard proper, he
dialog: sees...
scene_heading: THE ENTIRE CLASS OF DISCIPLES
text: Dressed in street clothes with their bags packed. Li and Gao are in
text: the front, their bags in their hands, smiling.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: You're either with us or against us, remember?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I'm with you!
text: A cheer goes up from the entire group as Drew, Li and Gao embrace. In
text: the b.g. can be seen the D.S., who is observing all this.
scene_heading: INT. SAN DE CHAMBER ­ DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SAN DE'S CHAMBER, SAN DE WAITING FOR DREW IN ONE
text: OF THE CHAIRS.
text: The door opens and Drew walks in, the D.S. can be seen in the b.g.
text: San De indicates one of the chairs for him to sit in. He does.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Quite a show of solidarity, yes?
text: Drew nods, trying to hide a smile. He is trying his best to appear
dialog: humble.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why did you come to the Shaolin Temple?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (caught off guard)
dialog: To train, Master.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: Yet you rebel at every rule, and blame the training for
dialog: your inability to learn and progress?
text: No response from Drew, who is just looking down at the ground.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: You are like someone swimming in fresh water crying "I
dialog: thirst!". What you seek is all around you. Don't fight
text: with the ways of the temple, the battle is within
dialog: yourself.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Within myself?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: You must accept the responsibility for your life. If we
dialog: force you out of the temple, you can always blame the
dialog: temple for your failure ­ it never has to be your fault.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Life without committment is no life at all.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What if I can't handle it? What if I fail?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Live for the moment, Drew. The future will take care of
dialog: itself. If you go through your days here, squeezing every
dialog: last bit of life out of every minute, you need not fear
dialog: failure.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (after a beat)
dialog: Then, it's up to me.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: Yes. Your fellow disciples stood up for you. It's your
dialog: turn.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I don't want to let them down.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Don't let yourself down.
text: He bows to San De and then leaves the chamber.
scene_heading: EXT. CHAMBER ­ SAME NIGHT
text: DREW COMES OUT, FINDING GAO AND LI WAITING FOR HIM.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Are you staying?
text: Drew waits for a moment, studying their hopeful faces.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Yeah, I'm staying. If only to keep you guys out of
dialog: trouble!
text: They walk off, and just as they round a corner, a BANG is heard as
text: one of the monks drops the heavy wooden lid of a storage barrell.
text: Drew jumps, spinning around in the direction of the sound.
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Drew! Are you allright?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Yeah, I'm just a little on edge, that's all. Ever since I
dialog: got to the temple, some nut has been attacking me with a
dialog: stick ­ at night, in the toilet... anywhere! It's driving
dialog: me crazy...
text: Gao and Li look at each other, nodding.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: What? Honest, it's happening! I...
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: Every class of disciples, the one with the most potential
dialog: is singled out for special training. We were wondering
dialog: who it was... now, we know.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Special training? You mean...?
text: Gao and Li nod, and Drew walks with them, shaking his head.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRYSIDE ­ MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF ASHEMA STANDING NEXT TO THE STREAM, WATCHING THE
scene_heading: WATER RUSH BY.
text: In the b.g. comes Drew, dressed in his monastic robes, no hat on his
text: head. He is making no attempt to hide the fact that he is a monk.
text: Drew walks up to Ashema and takes her hand, and they stand like that
text: for a moment. She then turns to him, and starts to say something.
text: Drew stops her with a finger on her lips, then strokes her cheek.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Ashema, beautiful Ashema, I can't see you anymore. I
dialog: will... miss you and remember you... always.
text: Ashema closes her eyes against the tears there, and buries her head
text: against Drew's shoulder.
speaker_heading: ASHEMA
dialog: Are they making you do this?
text: She wants to hear that they are, even if it's not true. She NEEDS to
dialog: hear it.
text: Drew pulls her head away from his shoulder, looking into her eyes. It
dialog: would be so easy not to take the blame for hurting her like this.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No. It is my choice, and my responsibility. I'm sorry...
text: He embraces her for the last time, and she openly begins to cry. He
text: holds her for a moment, then breaks the embrace and with one last
text: long look at Ashema, walks away.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY 103 (SPRING TIME)
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WORKING ON THE "WOODEN MAN", A TRAINING
speaker_heading: DEVICE.
text: The D.S. in the b.g. comes up and corrects his technique, and Drew
text: immediately does it his way.
scene_heading: EXT. POLE AREA ­ EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WORKING ON THE POLES.
text: He is doing well, jumping from pole to pole, kicking and punching. He
text: tries an especially difficult sequence of moves, and falls with a
text: THUMP to the ground. Immediately, he is back up and onto the poles.
text: He tries the same set of moves, falls again. Instead of being angry,
text: Drew just laughs at himself, then climbs back up on the poles.
scene_heading: INT. MEDITATION HALL ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF BARE CHESTED DREW, SOAKED IN SWEAT.
text: In the b.g. is a huge bronze buddha. Drew is in the same position as
dialog: the Buddha.
scene_heading: EXT. STREAM ­ DAY 106 (SUMMER TIME)
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW DRAWING WATER FROM THE STREAM, IN THE
scene_heading: POINTED BARRELS.
text: He fills them up, and then starts moving back towards the temple, his
text: arms up and strong.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he goes through a thicket of bamboo. as he gets to the center, he
text: is attacked! The staff comes out, but Drew manages to block it with
text: one of the buckets. The staff strikes again, and Drew blocks again! A
text: third time, and Drew raises both buckets over his head to block it ­
text: and drenches himself with the water. Then, the staff hits him in the
dialog: stomach.
text: His attacker has vanished, leaving Drew alternately moaning from the
text: pain, and chuckling at himself in the bamboo.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DREW AND LI
text: As they go through a very intricate, beautifully staged series of
text: techniques. The last technique is a very powerful kick, and one which
text: Drew is to block using the blocking technique he refused to learn
dialog: before.
text: This time, the kick is thrown and Drew blocks it with the new
text: technique, sending Li pitching to the ground is a cloud of dust.
text: Drew turns around and high-fives Gao.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ ANOTHER ANGLE
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GROUP OF DISCIPLES GOING THROUGH A SERIES OF
text: SOFT GONG FU MOVES.
text: Drew is next in line, and he moves through the techniques without a
text: mistake. When he gets to the end of the routine, he breaks into a
text: little dance step, having fun. The entire group breaks up in
dialog: laughter.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ DAY
scene_heading: TIGHT SHOT OF D.S.' ARM
text: Gao's hands are around his elbow, pulling down.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Using your muscles, bend my arm.
text: Gao pulls down, while the D.S. tries to fight back with his muscles,
text: but finally, after great strain, his arm bends. A cheer goes up from
dialog: the group.
text: D.S. smiles and motions for an old monk standing near him to take his
text: place. the old man puts his arm up on Gao's shoulder, and takes a
text: deep breath. He does not tense up his arm and shoulder.
text: Gao looks questioning at the D.S.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: What if I hurt him?
dialog: D.S.
dialog: You will not.
text: Gao starts to pull down, gently at first, but when he sees that the
text: old monk's arm is not bending, stronger, until finally he is putting
text: all his strength into it. The old monk's arm has not moved, and his
text: expression of relaxation and piece has not changed.
text: Gao quits, not able to bend the arm. D.S. motions for Drew to get on
text: the other side of the monk.
dialog: D.S.
text: Grab his arms and try to pull him out of his stance.
text: Drew and Gao shrug at each other and take an arm. They pull and push,
text: straining and groaning, but there is no movement from the old monk.
text: It is like he is a heavy stone.
text: They give up, and the D.S. bows to the old monk.
speaker_heading: D.S. (CONT'D)
text: Master Shu's spirit is indeed strong.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND GAO
text: Sweating from their efforts.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY 110 (AUTUMN TIME)
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES DOING AERIAL MANUEVERS ­ KICKS,
scene_heading: AERIALS, KIPS, ETC.
text: Drew is on the ground, trying to do a kip. He is coming up, but then
text: is crashing back down onto his spine. The D.S. comes up to him and
text: points at his chest.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: Try to hit me here with your feet.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: With pleasure.
text: Drew tries another kip, pushing his feet towards the D.S.' chest. He
text: lands on his feet easily, surprised.
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFALL ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW AND GAO UNDER THE WATERFALL. THEY ARE BOTH
text: IN HORSE STANCES. THEY NOD AT EACH OTHER, AND THEY BEGIN GOING
text: THROUGH A SLOW FORM, MOVING THEIR ARMS AND LEGS CAUTIOUSLY, BUT WITH
text: POWER.
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST OF STONE ­ SUNSET
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW TRAINING IN THE FOREST OF STONE, THE
text: BLAZING SUN BEHIND HIM.
scene_heading: EXT. DINING HALL ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW CARRYING THE DIRTY PLATES FROM DINNER.
text: He carries them out to the garbage area, and begins to scrape them
text: off. From out of nowhere comes the staff, swinging for Drew.
text: Drew doesn't jump, but just calmly avoids it. The staff WHOOSHES over
text: his head. Drew stands up, and the staff comes again, from a different
text: direction. Drew avoids, and the staff finds empty air again.
text: Drew goes on with cleaning the plates, a slight smile on his face.
text: After a BEAT, he looks around, trying to find the attacker. When he
text: is sure no one is around, he smiles bigger.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Allright! I did it!
text: As soon as he finishes saying that, the staff comes out and SLAMS him
text: in the stomach, sending Drew to his knees in pain.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THE DISCIPLES THROWING FLYING KICKS.
text: The sequences are very beautiful as the monks throw kicks into the
text: air and into targets.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ ANOTHER ANGLE
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW AND LI FIGHTING.
text: Drew is rushing Li, throwing every possible technique at him, which
text: he blocks. Li gets into a low stance as he goes back, and Drew takes
text: this opportunity ­ he uses Li's own leg as a step and jumps off of
text: it, hitting him HARD with a jump spin hook.
text: Li gets up right away and slaps Drew's hand.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE PATHS ­ MORNING 116 (WINTER TIME)
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SNOWY MORNING.
text: A group of monks, Drew in the lead, come running down the path,
text: barefoot in the snow.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DISCIPLES
text: Throwing kicks and punches at icicles hanging from rocks on a cliff.
text: Slow motion as the disciples shatter the ice.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE FIELDS ­ DAY 117 (SPRING TIME)
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES WORKING IN THE FIELDS.
text: They are singing again, but this time the song is in Chinese!
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF OF THE WORLD ­ SUNSET
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW, POISED ON A ROCK PLATFORM AT THE ROOF OF
text: THE WORLD, THE SUNSET IN THE B.G.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DISCIPLES WORKING ON THE UNBENDABLE ARM.
text: Drew is in the middle, and Gao is straining to bend his relaxed arm.
text: He is getting the hang of it.
text: The D.S. walks up with another monk with a spear. Together, they
text: position a wooden target. The monk bows to D.S. and to the rest of
text: the disciples, then positions the point of the spear in the hollow of
text: his neck. He then hands the shaft of the spear to the D.S.
text: The D.S. holds the shaft and starts to push, bending the spear,
text: slowly but surely.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND THE DISCIPLES
dialog: Amazed.
text: ANGLE ON THE MONK
text: The spear is now almost bent double.
text: With a flick of his head, the spear goes flying into the target
text: positioned behind him, its point finding the bulls-eye.
text: Drew walks over to the target and sees that the very real spear point
text: is imbedded deep into the wood of the target.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (bowing)
dialog: Boy, his spirit is strong...
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE GROUNDS ­ DAY 120 (SPRING TIME)
text: TIGHT SHOT OF AMERICAN FOOTBALL SPINNING THROUGH THE AIR.
text: Set against a deep blue sky, it could be spinning anywhere ­ but the
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL the Shaolin Temple "forest of stupa",
text: where the disciples are having a pick up football game ­ it's Sunday,
text: the disciples' afternoon off. The football spins into the hands of
text: Gao, who drops it.
text: Drew runs over, showing Gao how to catch the ball, and how to make
text: the cuts he has to make (no dialogue, music over).
text: Gao follows Drew's instructions, then they run the play. This time
text: Gao is all alone and he catches the ball easily for a touchdown.
text: Drew runs up and high-fives Gao, then teaches him how to spike the
dialog: ball.
text: They are playing some more, having a great time. This time Drew goes
text: out for a pass, with Gao playing defense. Li throws the pass, and Gao
text: intercepts. Drew, laughing, goes after Gao.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who goes long for a pass, which Gao lets fly.
text: It is immediately obvious that it is way too long.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: Who is walking along through the stupa, meditating as he walks.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who stops running and sees san de. the ball is going towards San De.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: The ball is heading right for his HEAD!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DREW, GAO AND OTHERS
text: They are bracing for the impact, and the trouble it will cause.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: Who at the last moment turns and catches the ball like a professional
text: receiver. He holds the ball and looks right at Drew, a very stern
text: look on his face.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Expecting the worst.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: His stern face now taking on a mischevious look. He hefts the ball
text: and puts his fingers on the laces.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Go long.
text: Drew pauses for a moment, not sure what San De said, until San De
text: motions with his left hand, like a NFL quarterback, for Drew to go
text: out. He takes off sprinting, with Gao covering him like a blanket.
text: San De throws the ball to him in a perfect spiral, to a spot where
text: Gao has no play on the throw, and Drew catches it in stride.
text: San De immediately returns to his meditation, while Drew and the
text: others stand around dumbstruck.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRYSIDE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF GAO, LI AND DREW RUNNING THROUGH THE
scene_heading: COUNTRYSIDE.
text: They come to a stream, and there by a stream is a beautiful young
text: woman who can't get across the stream without getting her clothes
dialog: soaked.
text: Without thinking twice, Drew allows her to get on his back and
text: carries her across the river. He deposits her on the other side and
text: then continues running.
text: Gao and Li run up next to Drew, and together they go back to the
text: temple. When they stop outside the temple, they are breathing
text: heavily. finally catching his breath, Gao turns to Drew.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: I can't believe you carried that girl over the stream!
dialog: After all the trouble you got into...
speaker_heading: LI
dialog: Are you crazy? You almost got kicked out once over that
dialog: kind of thing...
text: Drew smiles slightly.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I left that girl at the stream. Are you two still
dialog: carrying her?
text: He turns and walks away, leaving Li and Gao to puzzle that one out.
text: As he walks away, San De comes out from behind a pillar where he had
text: been sweeping, smiling and nodding his head at Drew's answer.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF TRAINING GROUND, WHERE SEVERAL GROUPS OF
text: DISCIPLES ARE GOING AT IT.
text: The action is fast and furious.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND GAO
text: Who are squared off and fighting. They are intense, and the
text: techniques they are throwing are full power. Drew hits Gao, and he
text: bends over. Drew closes, thinking that he has Gao at his mercy. At
text: the last minute, Gao stands up and cold cocks Drew, who sags to the
dialog: ground.
scene_heading: TIGHT ON DREW
text: Who is trying to get his bearings.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Lucky shot, slant eye!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: Who gives him a mean look.
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: You stink, American!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who stands up, mad.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: That's it! You're dead meat!
text: He comes at Gao, and they start fighting again, throwing all kinds of
text: acrobatic kicks and techniques.
text: A gong sounds, O.S., and Gao and Drew stop, bow to each other, and
text: then embrace, smiling.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Saved by the bell...
speaker_heading: GAO
dialog: I had you...
text: Drew moves off to the side to get a drink of water, and to towel off.
text: As he rubs his neck, D.S. comes up to him.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: San De wants to see you, in his chambers.
text: Drew raises his eyebrows, then looks over at Gao and Li. He rolls up
text: his towel and snaps Gao with it as he walks by.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I wonder what you did now...
scene_heading: INT. SAN DE CHAMBER ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW AND SAN DE SITTING ACROSS FROM EACH OTHER.
text: San De has an ornately embroidered golden box in his hand, and he is
text: showing it to Drew.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: You are to deliver this scroll to the Arhat living on the
dialog: Jade Mountain. This is your quest. The scroll that is in
dialog: this box is more precious than life. Guard it well.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I will, Master.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: If you deliver this, you may ask this master, the most
dialog: advanced monk of the Shaolin tradition, any question you
dialog: wish, and he must answer it.
text: San De takes out a map of the area.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: This map will lead you to the Jade Mountain. Let nothing
dialog: deter from safeguarding the sacred scroll. You leave
dialog: first thing tomorrow morning.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You must return within three day... or don't bother to
dialog: return at all.
text: San De stands and bows to Drew. Drew returns the bow, takes the map
text: and the box, then leaves the chamber.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ EARLY MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WALKING OUT OF THE TEMPLE INTO THE MIST-
text: SHROUDED COURTYARD.
text: He is off on his quest.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRYSIDE ­ SAME DAY
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Walking strong. the sun is high in the sky, and the scenery behind is
dialog: incredibly beautiful (Guilin?).
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL TOWN ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW STOPPING IN A SMALL TOWN, IN THE MIDDLE OF
scene_heading: AN OPEN AIR MARKET.
text: He goes over to a drink stand, and buys a cool drink. Just as he is
text: about to drink it down, it is KNOCKED from his hand.
text: Drew turns around and see four dirty thugs and their leader ­ the one
text: who hit the glass. They are yelling at Drew in Chinese, which he
dialog: doesn't understand.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: OK, boys, just let me get my glass and...
text: Drew, not looking for trouble, bends down to pick up the glass, and
text: the leader kicks him in the rear end, sending him pitching to the
text: ground. Drew rolls to a standing position, and the five men close on
dialog: him.
text: A crowd is now starting to form, eager to watch how the monk handles
dialog: this situation.
text: The thugs come after Drew, and the leader throws a roundhouse punch,
text: hitting Drew square in the jaw. They continue to attack, while Drew
text: tries to avoid getting hit. Drew catches a haymaker, and he spins and
text: drops, and the thugs laugh, kick him a couple of times, and then kick
text: dust and dirt onto him. Drew doesn't get up.
text: They soon tire of the sport and move on, the crowd staring at Drew in
dialog: pity.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: This humble, not fighting stuff is harder, and more
dialog: painful, than it looks!
text: ANGLE ON THE THUGS
text: Who have now spotted a man and his young son. They are both loaded
text: down with goods from the store, and the thugs stop them. They take
text: the things from them, and start to walk off.
text: The father tries to fight back, but they easily beat him up, sending
text: him into the dirt. The young boy runs forward. The leader of the
text: thugs raises his hand, ready to slap the boy's face.
text: Before he can bring his arm forward, Drew's fingers come around his
text: wrist, stopping it.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, I don't think so...
text: ANGLE ON THE CROWD
dialog: It's getting good now.
text: The fight starts, and this time Drew is unencumbered by vows of non-
text: violence. He has a cause, and he's enjoying every minute of the
text: fight. It is over quickly, as Drew is a superb fighter, using
text: incredible techniques. The thugs limp away, leaving Drew with the
text: little boy and his father.
text: Drew bends down and picks up the goods, handing them back to the boy
text: and the father. Drew stops and kneels down in front of the boy,
text: looking deep into his eyes.
text: A whisper is going through the crowd: "Shaolin".
text: Drew touches the boy's cheek, smiles, then stands up and bows. He
text: moves on, the crowd watching him walk away.
scene_heading: HOLD ON BOY'S FACE
text: He now has a hero.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRYSIDE ­ DAY
text: ANGLE ON DREW WALKING THROUGH THE COUNTRYSIDE. HE STOPS AT A CROSSING
text: IN THE ROAD, CONSULTS THE MAP SAN DE GAVE HIM, THEN WALKS ON.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE ­ EVENING
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he climbs the side of a mountain.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE TEMPLE ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW, MEDITATING NEXT TO HIS SMALL FIRE.
text: It is dark around him, with vague forms of the temple columns and
text: statues. Drew is sitting with his eyes closed, oblivious to his
dialog: surroundings.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE ­ NEXT DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WORKING OUT NEXT TO A MOUNTAIN LAKE.
text: He is throwing kicks and going through his routines, concentrating on
text: his breathing. As he finishes a particularly strenuous series, he
text: strips off his clothes and dives into the lake.
text: As Drew's head breaks the surface of the lake, he is surprised to see
text: a beautiful woman standing next to where he left his clothes.
text: Drew starts to get out of the lake, then remembers that he is naked ­
text: he stops, not quite knowing what to do. He goes as close to the shore
text: as he can without coming out of the water.
text: The woman just smiles, and starts to strip off what clothing she has
dialog: on. She is very sexy.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No, don't do that!
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'm a monk. I've taken a vow to abstain...
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: No one will know...
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'll know! Throw me my clothes, please.
text: Pouting, the woman takes Drew's pants and tosses them to him, but
text: they land (purposely) about 5 feet away from the lake edge.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Nice throw...
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who realizes he is going to have to get out of the water without a
text: cover. He gets up and hurries to where his pants are. He starts to
text: put them on, and the woman is all over him, trying to seduce him.
text: He takes her hands in his and forces her to look him in the eye.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Despite the fact that this is every teenage boy's dream
dialog: come true, I can't!
text: He lowers her hands, and her head drops, pouting.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Besides, if I were to break my vows, it would not be with
dialog: you.
text: He kisses her on the forehead, and then grabs the rest of his
text: clothes, running up the path away from the lake.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF VERY ORNATE TEMPLE.
text: Drew walks up to the front of the temple, looks around for a moment,
text: then takes a drink of water from the well out front.
text: Just as he starts to drink, a huge TOUR BUS pulls up in front, air
text: brakes HISSING. Before he can react, the doors open and a bunch of
text: AMERICAN TOURISTS pile out of the bus and rush into the temple,
text: jostling Drew from side to side.
speaker_heading: TOURIST 1
dialog: Not another temple!
speaker_heading: TOURIST 2
dialog: Do they have a gift shop?
speaker_heading: TOURIST 3
dialog: Guide! How do you say 'gift shop'?
speaker_heading: GUIDE
dialog: You have 10 minutes to be back on the bus.
text: The wave of tourists passes Drew, and he stands there looking after
text: them. Then, as a group, they realize that they just passes a monk,
text: and turn back to Drew.
speaker_heading: TOURIST 1
dialog: A real live monk! Somebody, take my picture!
text: The tourist runs up to where Drew is and stands next to him. The
text: cameras click and whirr, and Drew is thoroughly embarrassed. When the
text: first pictures are over, and someone else wants to stand next to him,
text: he raises his hands up to his face and bows.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Oh Mi Two Fwo
text: He then turns and walks away.
speaker_heading: GUIDE (O.S.)
dialog: Monks don't like to be bothered, they are from a
dialog: different world.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'll say...
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFALL ­ EARLY MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THUNDERING WATERFALL.
text: Drew stands at the side of the waterfall, studying his map. From his
dialog: expression, we know that he has to go through the waterfall to get
text: where he is going.
text: Drew pockets the map, checks that the box is safely in place, then
text: starts toward the waterfall. The drop off the side of the waterfall
text: is incedible ­ steep and deadly.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he enters the waterfall. The water hits his back, almost pitching
text: him into the abyss. Drew concentrates and moves forward, slowly but
dialog: surely.
text: He emerges on the other side, only to be confronted by a swamp.
text: Jutting out of the swamp are rocks and tree stumps.
text: Drew examines the distance between the objects, realizing that he can
dialog: jump from place to place and make it across.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Just like at the temple...
text: He starts out, jumping onto the first stone, then moving on to the
text: others. He almost falls a couple of times, but regains his balance.
text: He gets a rythm going, and is soon almost halfway across.
text: He gets to one particular rock, only to find out that it's the head
text: of an alligator! Its mouth opens to bite him!
text: Drew jumps off it quickly, onto a tree stump. When he lands on the
text: stump, he examines it carefully to make sure it isn't something else.
text: He continues across, more careful this time.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW CLIMBING UP THE SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN.
text: It is much steeper now, and the going is much tougher.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he comes up onto a rope bridge over a deep gorge, the way to the
text: arhat. Drew smiles, stashes the map and starts across the rope
text: bridge, hand over hand. He looks down once, at the DROP, then forces
text: himself to look straight ahead.
text: He just starts across when the rope bends and jumps. Drew turns
text: around to see a man RIGHT BEHIND HIM.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Is this rope strong enough for both of us?
text: No answer from the man, who is now pushing Drew to go faster. He is
text: inching up closer to him, and occassionally kicking him to go
dialog: quicker.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: OK, OK, I'm going!
text: ANGLE ON THE ROPE BEHIND THEM
text: Which is starting to fray from the weight.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who sees that and is hurrying.
text: The rope is fraying more, and when Drew is almost there, the rope
text: snaps and they both go swinging into the side of the mountain.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who slams into the wall hard. when he hits, the scroll POPS out of
text: his pocket and goes up in the air.
text: Drew, groggy from the impact, manages to lash out and PIN the scroll
text: to the cliff wall with the BACK of his hand.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON MAN
text: Who is barely hanging on, just below Drew.
text: He has his hand out to Drew for help.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who doesn't know what to do. If he tries to save the scroll, the man
text: might fall. If he goes for the man, the box will certainly fall.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON THE MAN
text: Screaming for help.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Hold on...
text: Drew hears the headmaster's voice.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (O.S.)
dialog: The scroll that is in this box is more precious than
dialog: life. Guard it well.
text: He looks down at the man, who is about to lose it.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What the heck...
text: Drew reaches down for the man's hand, letting the box fall.
text: Their hands meet, and Drew pulls him up.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON BOX
text: As it spins down into the abyss.
text: ANGLE ON DREW AND MAN
text: As Drew pulls him up onto his back, and carries him up the rope to
text: the other side of the gorge.
scene_heading: INT. MAN'S HOUSE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW EATING WITH THE MAN HE SAVED.
text: They look at each other and smile, but Drew is anything but happy.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: What am I going to tell the arhat?
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WALKING UP THE PATH TO THE ARHAT'S CAVE.
text: There is no bounce to his step, and he is dreading this audience.
scene_heading: EXT. ARHAT HUT ­ EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF ARHAT HUT.
text: Drew walks up to the entrance, looks around. He doesn't see anyone.
text: He walks into the hut.
scene_heading: INT. ARHAT HUT ­ EVENING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF HUT AS DREW WALKS INTO THE HUT ­ NO ONE IS
speaker_heading: AROUND.
text: He walks through the rooms, looking at all the books and scrolls
text: littered around the room.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Maybe he won't miss one little scroll...
text: He shakes his head and starts for the front door.
scene_heading: EXT. ARHAT HUT ­ SAME EVENING
text: DREW COMES OUT OF THE HUT AND WALKS AROUND TO THE AREA BEHIND THE
text: HUT, HIGH UP ON THE MOUNTAIN.
text: The view is incredible. Drew stands looking at the view, and slowly
text: becomes aware of a figure sitting on the ground near him.
text: He looks down, and it is the ARHAT!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Master! I apologize, I did not see you.
text: The Arhat says nothing, but just puts out his hand for the scroll.
text: Drew bows again, and gets down on his knees.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I failed, Master. A person was in danger...
text: The Arhat holds up his hand, and Drew stops talking.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Of course, you're right. No excuses...
text: Drew bows once more and is ready to leave. The Arhat reaches into his
text: robes and pulls out the embroidered box that Drew was given at the
dialog: temple.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: You have it? How?
text: The Arhat holds up the box in front of Drew for a moment, then tears
text: it in two with his hands, scattering the pieces to the winds.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: So, I didn't fail, huh?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I can ask my question, then?
text: The Arhat sits without moving or speaking. Drew takes that as a yes.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: What is the meaning of life?
text: The Arhat ponders that for a moment, then smiles and puts his sandles
text: on his head and stands up.
speaker_heading: ARHAT
text: What is life? What is reality? The head of a dead cat.
text: He walks off, leaving Drew sitting there, dumbstruck by the answer.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (smiling ruefully)
dialog: I just climbed a mountain to ask a loon about the meaning
dialog: of life.
text: He shakes his head and gets up, following the Arhat. The Arhat is
text: standing on the other side of his hut, the sandles still on his head.
speaker_heading: ARHAT
dialog: For forty years, Shaolin disciples have made their quest
dialog: to deliver a scroll to me. You are not Chinese.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No. American.
speaker_heading: ARHAT
dialog: I notice the littlest details.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: How many succeeded?
speaker_heading: ARHAT
dialog: A handful. You chose correctly. Nothing is more precious
dialog: than human life.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: But, I didn't obey.
speaker_heading: ARHAT
dialog: (smiling slightly)
dialog: At the beginning of your training, you were to obey
dialog: without question. Now, as you become a Shaolin, you must
dialog: learn to question everything, and obey yourself.
text: Drew and the monk bow to each other, the sunset over the mountain in
dialog: the b.g.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ARHAT HUT ­ NEXT MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW COMING OUT OF THE HUT, HAVING JUST GOTTEN
dialog: UP.
text: The Arhat is already out there, moving through his gong fu moves.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I have to leave. What is the easiest way to get back to
dialog: the temple.
speaker_heading: ARHAT
dialog: The bus.
text: Drew laughs at the crazy reply and starts for the mountain path that
text: brought him to the hut. The Arhat runs after him, grabs his sleeve
text: and pulls him over to a place behind his hut.
text: DREW'S POV OF A ROAD BEHIND THE ARHAT'S HUT
dialog: A road! After all he went through to get there?
speaker_heading: ARHAT (CONT'D)
dialog: Bus stops every 20 min., will take you straight to the
dialog: temple.
text: Drew smiles and shakes his head, then bows to the Arhat.
text: The Arhat returns the bow.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Thank you, Master.
speaker_heading: ARHAT
dialog: They should give you a bus schedule with that map...
text: He walks off to the hut, while Drew makes his way down to the bus
dialog: stop.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WALKING BACK INTO THE TEMPLE.
text: He is dirty, weary but triumphant. As he walks back through the
text: temple to San De's chambers to report, he sees a group of people
text: walking out the other way.
text: The group is made up of the thugs who attacked him, the woman by the
text: lake, and the man from the bridge. They are talking together on their
dialog: way out.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Smiling as he realizes that it was all a test ­ every moment of it.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW AND THE DISCIPLES TRAINING.
text: They are expert fighters now, and they move through the complicated
dialog: routines with ease.
text: ANGLE ON DREW FLYING THROUGH THE AIR
text: Hitting the ground and rolling, then coming up and throwing a
text: shuriken at a target.
text: The throwing star hits the target dead center.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Manipulating the spear like a master.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Up on the poles again. Only this time, squared off against him is Li.
text: They move from pole to pole, throwing kicks and punches at each
dialog: other.
scene_heading: EXT. FARM ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF THE GROUP OF DISCIPLES STANDING UNDER THE
text: SWELTERING SUMMER SUN IN FRONT OF A RUN DOWN FARM BUILDING.
text: The D.S. is standing in front of them.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: We've got to rebuild this?
dialog: D.S.
dialog: No.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tear it down.
text: Smiles grow on the faces of the disciples. They rush into the
dialog: building.
scene_heading: FOLLOWING MONTAGE SECTION
text: Different shots of the monks tearing the building apart with kicks
text: and punches. Shots of Drew, Gao and Li kicking through walls, through
text: doors, through windows, etc. Some the three of them destroy together,
text: others are seperate. Several shots of disciples as they concentrate
text: on particularly difficult things, using their chi, smashing the
text: bricks and wood apart. They are destroying the building, and they are
dialog: having a GREAT TIME!
dialog: (NOTE: Great place for HOT song over this scene)
scene_heading: EXT. TRAINING AREA ­ DAY
scene_heading: TIGHT SHOT OF DREW'S ARM
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL Drew standing there, calmly, while two full-sized
text: disciples hang off his arm.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ NIGHT
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW WALKING THROUGH THE COURTYARDS OF THE
speaker_heading: TEMPLE.
text: He is going nowhere in particular, just walking and thinking.
text: Suddenly, out of nowhere, comes the staff and the ATTACK.
text: Drew calmly avoids the first few strikes, blocks a couple more, then
text: grabs the staff and PULLS.
text: Out comes the D.S. into the night on the other end of the staff. He
text: looks proudly at Drew.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON D.S.
text: As he smiles and bows in respect to Drew.
text: Drew returns his bow.
scene_heading: EXT. SHAOLIN TEMPLE ­ DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SAN DE WRITING BOLD, BLACK CALLIGRAPHY ON A BARE
scene_heading: WHITE PAPER.
text: The CAMERA follows the sweeping brush, as it ends with a FLOURISH.
text: The CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL the temple courtyard, where San De
text: and the D.S. are standing in front of the group of disciples.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Only one trial remains before you become full fledged
text: fighting monks. The Wooden Man Chamber.
text: ANGLE ON THE DISCIPLES
text: They are remembering the stories they have heard about the chamber.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: I warn you all, any monk who fails must leave the temple
dialog: forever, and will NEVER be called Shaolin.
text: San De pauses, letting this remark sink in.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: Disciple Drew Carson, as you will return to America, and
dialog: never intended to live as a monk in the temple, you need
text: not enter the chamber.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who rises to the challenge.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Master San De, I am part of the disciple class, am I not?
dialog: San De nods.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Then I must pass this final test. Furthermore, I request
dialog: that I be the first one through.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: (very proud)
dialog: Your request is granted.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: In front of the entrance to the Wooden Man Chamber. San De and D.S.
text: are flanking Drew as he pauses in front of the door. Drew turns to
text: look at San De, and the D.S. smacks Drew in the back of the head.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: What did you do that for?
dialog: D.S.
dialog: My last chance ­ when you come out the other side, we
dialog: will be equals.
text: Drew smiles at the D.S.'s attempt to lighten him up. He turns to look
text: at the others from his disciple class, then opens the door and goes
dialog: through.
scene_heading: INT. WOODEN MAN CHAMBER ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF WOODEN MAN CHAMBER.
text: Drew pauses for a moment, examining the room. It is filled with
text: wooden statues of monks, all in different fighting positions. The
text: carvings are precise and incredibly beautiful. Their arms, open
text: hands, fists and legs are fashioned out of hard wood, and they look
dialog: very dangerous indeed.
text: Drew gathers himself for a moment, then starts into the chamber.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DREW'S FOOT
text: As it presses down on one of the stones of the floor.
text: The attacks start ­ from all sides, as the wooden statues COME TO
text: LIFE, spinning, lunging and striking.
text: Drew is caught off guard, and is hit several times, driven back to
text: the door of the chamber. The statues stop moving.
text: Drew, a little scared, tries to remember the sequence of the statues,
text: letting his arms practice for the attacks.
text: There is fear in his eyes.
text: He starts in again, and the attacks come again, but they are
dialog: different this time.
text: Drew is clobbered.
text: Driven back to the door, Drew slumps against the wall. His face is
text: already bruised and bleeding.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: I can't do it.
text: FLASHBACK TO D.S.
dialog: D.S.
dialog: There is no can't, only won't.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK TO SEVERAL D.S. ATTACKS
dialog: Including the one where Drew succeeded in evading them.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who gathers himself, straightens up and takes a deep breath, forcing
text: it out in a breathing exercise.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: I am a Shaolin monk.
text: He enters the chamber again, and the attacks start again.
text: Drew, however, is prepared (both mentally and physically).
text: He blocks, avoids, rolls, jumps and redirects the attacks on him,
text: making his way across.
text: He is about halfway across when an especially fierce and large statue
text: comes crashing towards him. Drew, caught a little off guard, quickly
text: adjusts and manages to jump and spin out of the way.
text: Suddenly, as he turns and tries to get his breath, two huge, deadly
text: spears are streaking towards him. Drew blocks the SPEARS with his
text: arms, misdirecting them into the wall behind him.
text: They THWOCK into the wall, sticking there.
text: As he rounds a particularly difficult series of statues, a volley of
text: ARROWS comes HURTLING towards him. Drew blocks some, avoids others,
text: and catches one in each hand. He throws them down and continues on.
text: He goes past the few remaining statues, and is out of the Wooden Man
text: Chamber. All that is left is to walk down a little hallway and out
dialog: the door.
text: Drew looks behind him, then starts to walk. He goes cautiously,
text: expecting a trap or a trick.
dialog: Nothing happens.
text: He gets to the door and looks for a handle on the door. He spots a
text: handhold near the top of the door, and pulls it with his hand.
text: Immediately, his hands is locked in and a panel in the ceiling DROPS
text: right onto his arm, forcing it down. Drew fights back with his
text: muscles, the veins popping out in his arms and neck.
text: Behind him, a statue has started coming towards him, spinning like a
text: dervish. Its fists and legs are extended, and they are deadly.
text: The panel drops lower and lower.
text: FLASHBACK TO UNBENDABLE ARM SEQUENCE
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: As he relaxes his face, and forcibly relaxes his arm and entire body,
text: letting his inner energy take over.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON PANEL
text: As it slows with a GRINDING NOISE, then stops.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Holding up the heavy stone panel with his arm, his face and body
text: completely relaxed.
text: The panel goes back up into the ceiling, and the door opens.
text: The whirling statue slows, and then stops altogether. Drew reaches up
text: with a hook kick and taps it in the face.
speaker_heading: DREW (CONT'D)
dialog: Not this time.
text: Drew quickly walks through the door.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF CHEERING ASSEMBLAGE, SAN DE AND D.S. AT THE
dialog: FRONT. HE HAS MADE IT!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: MONTAGE OF SHOTS OF OTHER DISCIPLES ­ GAO, LI AND WU MAKE IT THROUGH,
text: JOINING THE OTHERS AS FULL-FLEDGED FIGHTING MONKS.
text: Drew is there each time to embrace them and congratulate them.
scene_heading: EXT. TEMPLE ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF SAN DE AND D.S. STANDING BEFORE THE ASSEMBLED
speaker_heading: DISCIPLES.
text: There are a few missing from their ranks, monks who did not make it
text: through the chamber, but the majority of them are there. The entire
text: temple is gathered to watch the ceremony.
text: San De and D.S. are dressed in elaborate ceremonial robes.
text: After he goes through some complicated ceremonial movements,
text: including the waving of smoking incense over them, San De spreads his
dialog: hands
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: You are now Shaolin. We welcome you into our ranks as
dialog: fighting monks...
text: A roar rises from the assembled monks, and fireworks go off all
dialog: around.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON REAR OF COURTYARD
text: Where a huge red sheet is pulled back to reveal tables laden with
dialog: Chinese dishes, wine and other foods.
text: The party gets going and is soon in full gear.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DREW, GAO AND LI
text: As they congratulate themselves, and gorge themselves on the huge
text: tables of Chinese food.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON THE ENTIRE GROUP
text: They are enjoying themselves.
dialog: This only happens once every couple of years, and the monks are
text: intent on enjoying themselves.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE (DREW'S POV)
text: Who is walking towards the side of the temple, away from the party.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who sees him leave. He excuses himself from his group.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BAMBOO GROVE ­ SAME EVENING
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: Who is walking in the bamboo grove, his hands behind him. Drew walks
text: up to him and they bow.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Congratulations.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I wouldn't have made it through without you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You once asked why I came here, why did you let me in?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Do you remember the story you heard about the monk who
dialog: would not leave?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: That monk was me.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who digests this. He smiles a little.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: I would like to ask a favor.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Anything.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Before you leave for American, can you help at an
dialog: international tournament in Beijing? The Shaolin temple
text: has an entry, and he will be fighting men from all over
dialog: the world ­ I'd like you to be there.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No problem.
dialog: (he smiles)
dialog: Without pause.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Now, a friend would like to see you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ... alone.
text: From out of the bamboo grove comes Ashema, her hands in front of her
text: and her head down. She is not sure Drew wants to see her.
text: Drew looks at her, then back to San De, but he is already gone. They
dialog: are alone.
text: Drew walks to her, takes her chin in his hand and tilts it up to look
text: at her face. Her eyes are full of love and tenderness, and a little
dialog: fear.
text: Drew kisses that fear away.
scene_heading: EXT. BEIJING HALL ­ DAY
scene_heading: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF HUGE EXHIBITION HALL. THE MARQUEE READS
scene_heading: "INTERNATIONAL WU SHU COMPETITION".
scene_heading: INT. BEIJING HALL ­ SAME DAY
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF HUGE HALL, THE FLOOR OF WHICH IS CROWDED WITH
speaker_heading: RINGS.
text: One large raised ring is in the middle of the floor ­ the place for
dialog: the finals.
text: ANGLE ON SIDE OF THE RING
text: Where Li, Gao, San De, D.S. and some others are waiting. They are all
dialog: in monastic garb.
text: Drew and Ashema walk up to them, holding hands. Drew is dressed in a
text: fighting monk's costume as well, and he bows to his fellow monks.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Are we late?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
text: The fight has not yet started.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Did you think he would get into the finals?
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Who could know? He fights the winner of the Western
dialog: countries, which is why I wanted you here.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I'll help any way I can.
text: ANGLE ON THE CROWD
text: As it parts to let someone through. Drew turns casually to look at
text: the competitor. Slowly, a figure, followed by a large group of
dialog: people, comes clear... it is Trevor!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who is stunned.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
dialog: Could he have known?
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: Who spots drew standing near the ring. He walks past him, trying to
text: place his face. Then, he comes back and walks right up to Drew and
text: slaps him on the back.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: Carson! Drew Carson! I can't believe it! I come half way
dialog: around the world, and run into you! I heard you left the
dialog: city, but I didn't know losing to me drove you into being
dialog: a monk!
text: Drew is dumbstruck, and Trevor takes advantage of it.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: (to San De)
dialog: He take a vow of silence too? Nice hair, Drew.
dialog: (he looks at Ashema)
dialog: If he took a vow of chastity too, honey, you see me after
dialog: this fight, 'Kay?
text: He puts his arm around Ashema and lets his hand slide down onto her
text: rear end.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Wish me luck, huh?
text: He walks off, and Drew, who still hasn't said a word, stares after
text: him. All of the monks are looking at Drew with questioning looks,
dialog: everyone that is except for San De.
text: ANGLE ON THE RING
text: As Trevor and the Shaolin entry bow to each other. The fight begins.
text: It isn't even close. Trevor is better than he ever was. He is
text: incredible, and he destroys the Shaolin fighter.
text: Oblivious to the boos and whistles from the crowd, he plays with the
text: Shaolin fighter, making him look like a real fool.
text: INTERCUT REACTION SHOTS OF DREW
text: Who is watching the destruction. Behind his eyes, he is reliving his
dialog: humiliation.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: Who finishes the shaolin fighter off with a devestating technique,
text: and then immediately plays to the crowd, RIGHT IN FRONT OF DREW AND
text: THE OTHERS.
text: The referee comes over to Trevor, and raises his fist up in victory.
text: Trevor tears his arm away and SCREAMS TO THE CROWD:
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: I'M NOT DONE!
text: The crowd, which before was wild and booing, now grows quiet.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: I want HIM!
text: He points right at Drew.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: I want to face the American who is now a Shaolin monk! I
dialog: want to learn at the hands of a master!
text: The crowd, who has seen Drew and heard about him for quite a while,
text: warms to the prospect. They start cheering for the American Shaolin
dialog: to face Trevor.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: I want the American Shaolin!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who doesn't know what to do. San De appears and puts a comforting
text: hand on his shoulder.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: Pointing and yelling for Drew.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who climbs the ropes and goes into the ring. The crowd is going
text: crazy, eager to see the match. Drew, oblivious to the crowd, walks
text: over to Trevor.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: I came to the Shaolin Temple because of you, Trevor. You
dialog: humiliated me, and I wanted to make sure it could never
dialog: happen again.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: So, let's see what you've learned.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: I've learned that... there's nothing to prove. Beating
dialog: you is no longer important. It was my ego that had to be
dialog: defeated, not you.
speaker_heading: TREVOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Bull! You're just chicken!
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: The arts should never be about who is best ­ they are too
dialog: important for that.
text: He bows to Trevor and starts out of the ring.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON CROWD
text: They don't know what's going on.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON LI, GAO AND OTHERS
text: They don't know either. They want Drew to fight him.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE AND D.S.
dialog: Who know what is happening and are proud of Drew, prouder than they
dialog: have ever been.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: COME BACK HERE! You can't just walk away!
text: Drew steps out of the ring and walks over to where San De is
text: standing. They bow, and the pride is shining in San De's eyes.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: Do you turn away from him out of fear?
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
text: Who is seething.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: I thought the Shaolin monks were warriors, not babies!
dialog: Look at him ­ he is too scared to face me!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: His face calm.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: No, master. I will not fight for personal glory, or for
dialog: my ego.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: You have learned much.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: The Shaolin monks are PUSSIES! Warrior-monks? Ha!
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: Who indicates trevor with a inclination of his head.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: You did the right thing.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON TREVOR
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: How about you, baldy? Or you?
text: He is pointing at Li and Gao and the others, who are itching to climb
text: into the ring. Gao goes over to San De, and shoots a questioning look
dialog: at Drew.
speaker_heading: GAO
text: Master, the American is insulting the Temple, and the
dialog: fighting monks.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
dialog: (looking at drew)
dialog: What should be done?
speaker_heading: GAO (CONT'D)
dialog: Someone should face him in combat. For the tradition of
dialog: the temple.
text: San De looks at Drew long and hard.
speaker_heading: SAN DE
text: There are some times when a Shaolin must fight, and some
dialog: people who will not learn until they are taught a lesson.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who understands the implication of what he is saying. He starts to
text: smile slowly.
speaker_heading: SAN DE (CONT'D)
dialog: It's your call.
text: Drew nods, then turns to face the ring, where Trevor is still
text: standing, trying to get someone to fight him.
text: Drew walks with Gao back to the side of the ring. He turns to Gao and
text: Li and together they high-five.
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: For the temple...
text: Drew climbs into the ring.
text: The crowd is going crazy. Trevor has a predator's grin on his face as
text: he sits down in his corner to get ready to start the match.
text: Immediately, his contingent of people start to work on him ­ massage,
dialog: drinks, etc.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DREW
text: Who sits alone in the other corner.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON LI AND GAO
text: Who see the difference. Immediately, they mobilize the other monks.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GAO
text: Who pulls a drink from one of the men in the crowd, and rushes up to
dialog: give it to Drew.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON DREW'S CORNER
text: As it is flooded with monks. Some of them are massaging Drew
text: (painfully), others are stretching his legs out, others waving towels
dialog: to bring air to him, etc.
text: The referee signals for the fighters to come to the center. They do,
text: and he motions for them to bow to each other.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: Remember last time, punk?
speaker_heading: DREW
dialog: Nothing exists but the moment, and...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ... I'm going to enjoy it.
text: They back up, and the fight begins.
text: Trevor attacks hard, but Drew avoids easily, using all soft gong fu.
text: He continues to attack, throwing flashy technique after flashy
text: technique, but he can't touch Drew.
speaker_heading: TREVOR
dialog: Stay still, dammit! Stand and fight!
text: And he dances out of the way. Trevor is getting more and more angry.
text: Soon, Drew tires of this game and decides to end this quickly. He
text: goes after Trevor, and it is immediately obvious that Trevor is
text: completely outclassed. Drew scores on Trevor at will, and soon has
text: Trevor totally confused and helpless with a mixture of high kicks,
text: takedowns, flips and punches.
text: Trevor drops to one knee, his hands down at his side, note even
text: bothering to defend himself.
text: Drew grabs Trevor by the front of his uniform and pulls back his
text: right hand in a fist. He is going to put him out with a good old-
text: fashioned roundhouse punch.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON LI AND GAO
text: Yelling for the knock out blow.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON D.S. AND SAN DE
dialog: Worried about this latest development.
text: Instead, however, Drew smiles and lifts Trevor up and shakes his
text: hand, putting an arm around him to steady him in front of the crowd.
text: Trevor looks into Drew's face, wondering why Drew would do such a
text: thing. When he sees Drew's friendly face, he knows.
dialog: To teach him a lesson.
text: Trevor smiles and holds up Drew's hand as the champion.
text: The crowd goes crazy.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON LI AND GAO
dialog: Who also get the message.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE AND D.S.
dialog: Who knew the message all along.
scene_heading: WIDE ANGLE OF ENTIRE RING
text: Drew and Trevor standing together in the center. The monks on the
text: side climb into the ring to celebrate with Drew.
scene_heading: EXT. GREAT WALL ­ MORNING
text: ESTABLISHING SHOT OF DREW STANDING ON THE GREAT WALL, THE SUNSET OVER
text: HIS SHOULDER.
text: He is doing the beginning of a Shaolin form. When he finishes the
text: salute, a figure comes toward him.
text: It is San De, and he has something in his hands.
text: Drew bows to San De, and San De holds THE GOLDEN SASH out to him.
text: Drew takes it and San De bows to him. Drew can't stand it anymore,
text: and rushes up to San De. He gives him a hug.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON SAN DE
text: Who is not used to shows of affection. He is lost for a moment, then
text: his face softens and he returns Drew's embrace.
text: They break and bow again, and San De moves off. Drew stands there
text: holding the Golden Sash, the rising sun of the first day of the rest
dialog: of his life shining in the b.g.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON ASHEMA
text: Who comes up to Drew, taking his arm and walks with him along the
dialog: Great Wall.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
