text: "AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN PARIS"
dialog: by
dialog: Anthony Waller, Tim Burns & Tom Stern
dialog: Based on characters created by
dialog: John Landis
dialog: 
text: BLACKNESS.
text: Pink Floyd's "Dark Side of the Moon (Brain Damage)" plays as
text: WHITE TITLES appear over black. As the song crescendos at
text: the first chorus, SUNLIGHT flares over the lunar horizon and
text: a crescent sliver of THE MOON is illuminated - huge, filling
text: the screen from top to bottom. We're in space, circling around
text: from the dark side until a HUGE FULL MOON fills the screen
text: with whiteness - TITLES continue as we pull back from the
text: moon, into the earth's atmosphere, through CLOUDS, until we
dialog: reveal
scene_heading: PARIS AT NIGHT
text: We come to rest on an ancient, vaguely wolf-like GARGOYLE
text: high atop a gothic cathedral in the Latin Quarter - a maze
text: of narrow, twisting streets - desolate at this late hour.
text: Clouds move over the moon. End TITLES. The song fades. A
text: THUNDER CRACK. Rain drops spatter on the church's metal roof.
text: Water trickles out of the gargoyle's mouth. We follow the
text: STREAM OF WATER down to street level where it falls onto
speaker_heading: A YOUNG COUPLE
text: wobbling down the street, sharing a bottle of wine. They
text: open an umbrella and stand underneath it, smooching and
text: giggling. We follow the STREAM OF WATER from their umbrella
text: to the street, where it swirls into drain holes in the MANHOLE
text: COVER that they're standing on. Suddenly...
text: CLANG!! The manhole cover pushes up under their feet. He
text: flinches - bites down on her lip, drawing blood. She yelps.
text: CLANG!! The cover thrusts up again. They lose their balance,
text: fall to the ground - the wine bottle smashes. The manhole
text: cover flips off it's hole. Horrified, they scramble from it.
text: Then, out of it comes...
scene_heading: TERRENCE MCDERMOTT
text: a fiftyish college professor in a turtleneck and old tweed
text: jacket, clutching a well worn leather shoulder bag and gasping
text: for breath. He's balding, with longish gray hair and intense
text: eyes. He climbs out of the hole, replaces the cover and dashes
text: off desperately through the rain, looking back over his
text: shoulder as he disappears into a narrow alley.
text: The couple watch him go, befuddled. She touches her hand to
text: her lip and looks at the blood. She slaps her boyfriend upside
dialog: the head.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Idiot!
text: The guy shrugs. Then...
text: BAM!! The manhole cover explodes off the hole, sails twenty
text: feet into the air and clatters to the ground some distance
text: away. We cut to the couple's horrified reactions as they
text: watch something emerge from the hole.
text: ON A NEARBY STREET
text: Terrence, running, hears the couple's horrible SCREAMS echo
text: through the twisting streets. He comes to A STONE STAIRWAY
text: and hurries down it, four steps at a time. At the bottom he
text: turns right and arrives at a star shaped five way
dialog: intersection.
text: A low, muffled growl stops him in his tracks. He stands in
text: the rain, panting, looking around at the dark maze of streets,
text: trying to pinpoint the source of the sound.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: (American accent - to
dialog: himself)
dialog: Where are you, you sick bastard...
text: A TAXI appears a block away. He waves his arms and calls out
text: in a very good French accent.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Taxi! Ici, s'il vous plait!
text: It turns and drives towards him. He starts off towards it.
text: He glances over his shoulder - sees nothing. He's twenty
text: feet from the taxi. He smiles. Then -
text: He's jerked violently downward into A STORM DRAIN. He screams.
text: Some monstrous force pulls him down, his bones crushing as
text: his body is forced through the too-small drain.
text: The CABBY gets out and runs up to the drain, where Terrence's
text: thrashing upper body is quickly disappearing into the hole.
text: Horrible growls and sounds of ripping flesh emanate from the
text: sewer. BLOOD spurts through the grate. Terrence reaches up
text: to the cabby, SCREAMING for help.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: My God! Help! Au securs!
text: The terror stricken cabby shakes his head and starts backing
text: up. Terrence lunges forth and grabs the cabby's leg. The
text: cabby screams and tries to get loose. He falls to the ground
text: and is dragged towards the hole. He grabs the bumper of his
text: cab and strains to pull himself away, kicking at Terrence's
text: hand with his free foot.
text: LIGHTS come on in an adjacent building. A MAN in pajamas
text: runs out into the rain. The cabby loses his grip on the bumper
text: and he and Terrence are jerked closer to the sewer but the
text: man grabs the cabby's hand and pulls. Some OTHER RESIDENTS
text: gather on the sidewalks. A police car SIREN approaches.
text: Something gives and the man in pajamas falls backwards into
text: a puddle. The small crowd looks down and sees TERRENCE, pulled
text: free from the hole, moaning semi-consciously. We move down
text: his body, past the bleeding stumps where his legs used to
text: be, and follow the BLOOD as it swirls into EDDIES of rain
text: water and flows into the BLACKNESS of the storm drain.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A FIERCE BULL
text: charges through the matador's red muletta, snorting blood.
text: The CROWD goes wild. We're in a bull fight arena, under the
text: blazing Spanish sun.
text: The camera dollies past cheering SPANIARDS and finds a small
text: group of AMERICAN STUDENTS, early twenties.
speaker_heading: GORD
dialog: Man. I can't believe I paid good
dialog: money to watch a guy in tight pants
dialog: kill a cow.
speaker_heading: SHERRY
text: Disgusting. This makes American
text: Gladiators look highbrow.
text: The camera settles on ANDY MCDERMOTT, 22, as he joins the
text: crowd in a rousing cheer, waving a bottle of wine with native
text: gusto. He's good looking in a scrappy sort of way, with
text: shoulder length brown hair, grungy plaid shirt, khakis, and
dialog: glasses.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Whoo! Ole!
dialog: (to his friends)
dialog: Man, you guys are losers! This is
dialog: poetry! Death in the afternoon, a
text: tragic dance of man and beast, just
dialog: like Hemingway said. God, Spain is
dialog: it! These people know how to live.
speaker_heading: SHERRY
dialog: I still say we should've gone to
dialog: Paris.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Paris!? Ug! If I wanted to be in an
text: overpriced, overrated city full of
dialog: obnoxious assholes I would've stayed
dialog: in New York! Please!
text: Another friend, MIKE, joins them.
speaker_heading: GORD
dialog: Where've you been? Beatin' off in
dialog: your sombrero again?
text: Mike swats Steve in the head playfully and grabs the wine
text: from Andy. He hands him a crumpled telegram.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: McDermott, your dad sent this to the
dialog: pensione. Supposed to be urgent.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (concerned)
dialog: What's it about?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: (defensive)
dialog: I didn't read it.
text: Andy takes the telegram. Mike leans in close to Sherrie and
text: whispers the gossip.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: His uncle is in the hospital.
text: Andy reads the message. His face falls. For a second, he's
text: silent. His friends see something's wrong.
speaker_heading: GORD
dialog: Hey, man. You okay? What is it?
text: Andy grabs the wine away from Mike and takes a long swig. IN
text: THE BULLRING - the matador plunges his sword between the
text: bull's shoulder blades and makes the kill.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PARIS HOSPITAL EMERGENCY WARD - EARLY EVENING
text: BLOOD splatters on white paper. Pull back to see a CHEF with
text: a cut finger standing at the admitting counter, dripping
text: blood on a form. The uptight Parisian NURSE scolds him and
text: pulls out a new form.
text: ANDY, lugging his back pack, trudges through the sliding
text: glass doors marked "St. Severin Hospital". Bleary eyed, hung
text: over, burdened by a heavy backpack and carrying the crumpled
text: telegram, he approaches ANOTHER NURSE at the counter.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Um, excuse me... hello...
text: A STOUT WOMAN with a POODLE charges in front of Andy and
text: launches into a loud French argument with the nurse over the
dialog: hospital's "human's only" admission policy.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: (French)
dialog: Pitou needs a real doctor! He's
dialog: melancholy!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, wait a minute...
text: Andy tries to push his way back in, but the shrill little
text: dog yaps at him. Andy grabs his aching "hangover head" in
text: agony. The bleeding chef walks away, dripping, leaving the
text: other nurse free. Andy approaches her. She has her head down
dialog: in some paperwork.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Pardon... Excusez moi. 'Allo.
text: Without looking up, she holds up a "please wait" finger.
text: Andy sighs. The poodle yaps at him again. He winces and tries
text: to get the nurse's attention.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (to Nurse)
dialog: Umm...
text: She raises her finger sharply and glares at him. She goes
text: back to her paperwork. Andy starts chatting politely with
text: her, pretending she's responding.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: So, you ever been to Spain? You'd
dialog: love it. It's friendly, sunny,
dialog: cheap... And you'd be the only raving
dialog: bitch there instead of just one in
dialog: the crowd up here.
text: MARCEL BOULARD, a short middle aged cop in a rumpled coat
text: approaches. He taps Andy on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Andrew Mc-dair-mo?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: That's McDermott, but yeah.
text: Marcel flashes his badge.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Detective Boulard. We've been
dialog: expecting you. This is Inspector
dialog: Leduc.
text: LEDUC, in his fifties, taller, heavy set, droopy mustache,
text: nods gruffly and starts towards the elevator, motioning for
dialog: them to follow.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: He's in charge but, uh, between you
dialog: and me, my English is better.
dialog: (they hurry to catch
dialog: up with LeDuc)
dialog: This way... So you're from New York
dialog: eh? I love those Hill Street Blues...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Right. Listen, my uncle, it's not
dialog: serious is it? Did he eat some bad
dialog: snails? Slip on the bidet? What?
text: They step into the elevator as LeDuc holds the door open.
text: Marcel and LeDuc trade uneasy glances. LeDuc sighs.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Merde.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: He says -
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah okay. My French isn't that bad.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM
text: TERRENCE lies comatose under a clear plastic oxygen tent. An
text: ORDERLY changes the dressing on his bloody stumps. A NURSE
text: fiddles with the vast array of bleeping, burbling, sucking,
text: life support machinery.
text: Andy, dumb struck, watches from a few paces away. Marcel,
text: pad in hand, asks him questions. LeDuc stays in the
text: background, listening and studying Andy intently.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Jesus...
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: How well did, er, do you know him?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Not too well. He taught at the
dialog: Sorbonne, right? Dad always calls
dialog: him his "hippie brother". Did some
dialog: work with Timothy Leary I think, and -
dialog: Is he... is he going to die?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: No. The doctors say the machines
dialog: should keep him going a long time.
dialog: But basically he is, how you say, a
dialog: legume.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Legume? You mean, a vegetable?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Vegetable, right. My mistake. It
text: seems he was attacked by a maniac,
dialog: maybe two or three maniacs, just
dialog: after midnight. yesterday. They fled
dialog: into the tunnels beneath Paris, that's
dialog: all we know...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What do you mean, maniacs?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Well, here's what I think happened.
text: A chemistry professor goes to a bad
dialog: part of town late at night. Why?
dialog: Perhaps he's making a few francs on
dialog: the side. The psychedelic drug market
dialog: is big these days. He gets mixed up
dialog: with a bad crowd and, like they say,
dialog: if you lie with dogs, you get fleas.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah, well, these fleas must have
dialog: teeth like fuckin' chain saws.
text: BEEP BEEP! Something's wrong with uncle Terrence's machinery.
text: The IV bottle is sputtering and bubbling, the EKG monitor is
text: flashing. The orderlies snap into action and pull the curtain
text: shut, waving "no problem" to Andy and Marcel. Marcel leads
text: Andy away, trying to calm him down.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Maybe we should go now. You must be
dialog: very tired. We'll call if any new -
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I can't believe this. Why don't you
dialog: go down in the tunnels and find the
dialog: goddamn... animals that attacked my
dialog: uncle?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Andy, it's not so easy. There are
dialog: hundreds of kilometers of tunnels
dialog: under Paris. It's a whole other city,
dialog: crawling with drug addicts, lunatics,
dialog: skinheads... It's no man's land.
text: Andy's about to protest when LeDuc steps in and hands him
text: uncle Terrence's leather bag.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Here.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Your uncle was carrying this. The
text: keys to his apartment are in there.
dialog: I talked to his assistant, Madame
dialog: Flocquet. You'll be staying there a
dialog: while?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah. I guess so.
dialog: (they walk him to the
dialog: elevator)
dialog: Did he say anything? Before the coma?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Just the name of this hospital, St.
dialog: Severin. He repeated it a few times
dialog: then he lost consciousness.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Why would he pick this one?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: I don't know. There were others much
dialog: closer. He was religious?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Not that I know.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Well, when you're about to pop off,
dialog: what have you got to lose? Thanks
dialog: for your help.
text: Andy's dumfounded at Marcel's lack of tact. The elevator
text: doors start to close. LeDuc nods "good-bye". Marcel leans in
text: and sneaks in one last comment.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: And remember Andy, let's be careful
dialog: out there. Heh-heh... Ouch!
text: The elevator doors knock him on the head as they close. Andy
text: shakes his head.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (to himself)
text: Inspector Clouseau, on the case.
dialog: Great.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
text: Andy opens the gate of this beautiful 19th century building
text: and walks through THE COURTYARD to the main entrance. A POODLE
text: yaps at him. The dog is in the open doorway of the Concierge's
text: apartment, which opens into the courtyard. The nosy concierge,
text: MADAME CHRETIEN calls the dog, LULU, back in and shuts the
dialog: door.
text: Andy enters the dark LOBBY, finds the timed auto shut-off
text: light switch and turns it on. He boards the old fashioned
text: wire cage elevator and presses the button for #4. McDermott.
text: The elevator ascends painstakingly slowly. Andy resigns
text: himself to waiting, thumbs through his uncle's date book.
text: Andy turns to the day Uncle Terrence was attacked. A circled,
text: cryptic entry at the bottom of the page reads "Meet Claude,
text: Medusa - 11:00". Andy wrinkles his brow. At this second, the
text: light goes out.
text: Andy ascends the rest of the way in darkness. The doors open
text: on the fourth floor. He gets out and finds his way to the
text: apartment. He tries a key in the lock. It won't turn. He
text: jiggles it. No luck. He goes through this with two more keys,
text: grumbling under his breath. Finally he finds the right one.
text: He pushes the door open and gasps.
text: He's face to face with a scary TRIBAL MASK hanging in the
text: entrance way. It startles him for a second.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: This must be the place.
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT
text: Andy walks in and sets down his bags. A gun COCKS. A young
text: woman's voice screams at him in French.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: (in French)
dialog: Who are you!? What do you want!?
text: He turns to see SERAFINE, a beautiful young woman, around
text: 22, casually dressed and aiming a pistol at his head. He
text: drops the shoulder bag and reaches for the ceiling.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Don't shoot! Jesus... uh... Je
dialog: m'appelle Andy. McDermott. Je suis
dialog: le... um, shit...
text: It dawns on her. She drops the gun to her side, embarrassed.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (in English)
dialog: Oh fuck, you are his nephew...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah, that's the word. And you are?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Serafine Flocquet. I work for your
dialog: uncle.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You? You're Madame Flocquet? I
text: pictured a fat lady with an apron,
dialog: not - I don't know - La Femme Nikita.
text: Serafine puts the gun away in a drawer.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
text: It sounded like someone picking the
dialog: lock. After what happened, I guess I
dialog: am a little nervous.
text: She lights a cigarette.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Sure. I can follow that.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: It's a fucking nightmare, isn't it?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah. True. The cops weren't much
dialog: help either. Their theory is he was
dialog: moonlighting as a drug dealer or
dialog: something. Make sense to you?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
text: Police. They have their head in their
dialog: asshole and they still can't find
dialog: shit.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Well put. So, what exactly has uncle
dialog: Terrence been up to lately?
text: As he speaks, he scans the apartment. It's cluttered with an
text: overwhelming assortment of anthropological oddities from
text: around the globe, medieval illustrations, molecular models,
text: and an artsy periodic table that's been used as a dart board.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: He's doing a book with Professor
dialog: Roussel, about medieval chemistry. I
dialog: was just transcribing his notes onto
dialog: the computer and - oh shit!
text: She races out of the room. Andy follows after her.
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S STUDY
text: She runs in and finds the computer locked up. She smacks it
text: a few times, clicks the mouse, taps the keyboard. No response.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Salots! Shitfucker!
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: (reacts to her loose
dialog: grasp of American
dialog: slang)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: If you leave it for more than a few
dialog: minutes it locks up. Now I must reboot
dialog: and type a dozen fucking passwords.
dialog: He was security crazy.
text: She flicks a switch on the back of the computer, rebooting
text: it. Andy pauses to look at some nearby photos of his uncle.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I still can't get over it. The cops
dialog: said it was a "maniac", but he looked
dialog: like, I don't know, like he'd gone
dialog: through a combine harvester or...
dialog: something.
text: Serafine gets kind of emotional at the thought...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: They wouldn't let me see him. Family
dialog: only. I told them, Terry was almost
dialog: like a father to me, you know?
text: Andy reacts to her use of the informal "Terry"...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Depends. Was "Terry" a father like
dialog: Ward Cleaver or a father like Woody
dialog: Allen?
text: A beat. She grasps his meaning. She's offended. She starts
text: typing on the computer, giving him the cold shoulder.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You must not have known him very
dialog: well. He's not like that.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, Sorry if I was out of line.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You were. I have work to do. The
dialog: publisher wants the transcripts by
dialog: Monday. Go. Make yourself at home.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Fine. My mistake. You know, I'm gonna
dialog: be a writer myself some day.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Uh-huh. Good for you.
text: Andy sees he's sunk. He heads for the door, but something on
text: the wall catches his eye. A small flyer on the bulletin board
text: with a big drawing of Medusa. He takes it down.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Medusa... What's this? some kind of
dialog: club?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: It's nothing. A stupid party. Not
dialog: really a night club, it's, uh...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Like an underground club?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Yes. It's a bad place. Weird people.
text: Strange things go on.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: And who's Claude?
text: Serafine looks at him hard, questioning.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I looked through my uncle's date
dialog: book. Writer's curiosity.
text: She points to a paperback on the desk. It's French, with a
text: psychedelic cover depicting a man, half King Louis XIV, half
dialog: witch doctor. The title, (in French) "History Inside Out -
text: Psychic Illumination Through the Ages" by Dr. Claude Roussel.
text: A picture on the back shows an academic looking Claude in a
text: tweed jacket, with gray hair.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Professor Claude Rousel. The one
dialog: your uncle was working with. He
dialog: teaches cultural history.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: In an underground club? I'd like to
dialog: see that.
text: He shoves the book in his back pocket. Serafine's emphatic.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I'm serious. There's nothing for you
dialog: down there. It's dangerous.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Come on. I'm from New York - the
dialog: "shoot me" state. Don't wait up.
text: He starts for the door, She spins him around by the sleeve.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (suddenly quite angry)
dialog: What good can you do? Why are you
dialog: being so fucking stupid?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (getting fired up)
dialog: Maybe I didn't know him like you
dialog: did. But he's my uncle. And I owe it
dialog: to him to get some answers. It's a
dialog: quest like, uh, Hemingway, the Old
dialog: Man and The Sea. Except instead of
dialog: an old man I'm a young man, and
text: instead of the sea, it's a bunch of
dialog: tunnels under Paris. And instead of
dialog: a big fish it's... who knows? That's
dialog: what I'm going to find out. Au revoir.
text: He walks out of the office. She calls after him.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You're a fucking lunatic!
text: The front door slams. She looks after him, incredulous.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (French)
dialog: God damned Americans.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. RUE D'ENFER - NIGHT
text: A MEDUSA HEAD is carved in the stone above the doorway of a
text: crumbling old facade in a rundown Parisian neighborhood.
text: Andy tries the front door. It's locked. There's no sounds or
text: signs of life.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Some party.
text: Andy starts off, then pauses as three PARTY GOERS approach
text: the door. They're "modern-primitives" - tribal tattoos,
text: pierced noses, and weird beaded hair. One fishes a key from
text: the Medusa's mouth, opens the door, and lets the group in.
text: Andy slips in behind them. One GUY in the group looks Andy
text: over and mutters something in French to his friends. They
text: snigger amongst themselves and walk to a door across the
text: foyer. Andy follows, a few paces behind, through the door,
dialog: down some stairs, into
text: A DILAPIDATED BASEMENT
text: Lit with a few candles. They walk past an old boiler, through
dialog: another door, into
scene_heading: A NARROW STONE SPIRAL STAIRCASE
text: They proceed down the ancient stairway, also lit only by the
text: occasional candle placed on the steps. They reach the bottom
text: of the steps and enter a dark, drippy stone tunnel, still
text: lit by candles. Some rats scurry away through the puddles
text: under Andy's feet.
text: Candles lead the way through the maze of intersecting tunnels.
text: Some graffiti scratched in the wall catches Andy's eye: "Jean
text: Philippe 1803". He pauses to look at it for and loses the
text: group ahead of him. He follows the candles on his own, turning
text: right, left, and left again. A loud, muffled bass beat gets
text: louder. He rounds the corner into
scene_heading: THE WILD UNDERGROUND PARTY SPACE
text: In an open cavern, lit with torches and strobe lights. Two
text: hundred people are gyrating to eerie techno-tribal dance
text: music. It's a weird crowd, mostly young modern primitive
text: pierced and grungy RAVERS, many wearing day-glo tribal face
text: paint. Clusters of sullen, militant SKINHEADS hang around
dialog: the periphery.
text: An attractive, blissed-out WAIF approaches Andy with a
text: paintbrush and a jar of day-glo face paint and a brush. She
text: goes to paint Andy's face. He stops her.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: That's alright. I'll be a cowboy.
text: She smiles and pushes his hand down. He shrugs and lets her
text: paint two day-glow red stripes on his cheeks.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Alright. Fine...
dialog: (with mock enthusiasm)
text: Ooh. I can feel it tingling.
text: Andy sniffs and makes a face - the paint has a weird smell.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Phew. What's in this stuff, liquid
dialog: plumber?
dialog: (he pulls the book
text: out of his pocket
dialog: and shows her Claude's
dialog: picture)
dialog: Do you know this guy? Claude?
speaker_heading: WAIF
dialog: Ah oui, le professeur. La bas.
text: She points to a dark alcove off the main cavern. Andy nods
text: and starts off. We move in on a leather clad young man leaning
text: against the wall, watching Andy go. This is GASTON DUFAUX, a
text: self-styled Parisian thug, who seems to be cultivating a
text: sort of "Mickey Rourke" look. He takes a drag from his
text: cigarette and we see he's missing two fingers.
text: Andy makes his way through the crowd. People are dancing
text: with wild abandon, and many carry torches. A SKINNY GUY IN A
text: DIAPER and a paper mache skull mask runs through the crowd,
text: ranting and spraying fluorescent silly string. He does a
text: weird dance around Andy and jabbers at him in French.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Uh, lemme get back to ya on that.
text: Andy approaches the side room and peers in. A small group of
text: young people are listening intently to CLAUDE, whose back is
text: to us. He's expounding about something in a solemn tone.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (French, to group)
dialog: ...How ironic. A man who dedicated
dialog: his life to opening the doors of the
text: mind now lies trapped behind them.
text: Locked behind a door without a key.
text: We follow Andy as he steps around the crowd and sees Claude's
text: face. He looks older than in the photo - he's in his late
text: fifties, with white hair and intense eyes.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Excusez moi, I...
text: Claude notices the book in Andy's hand. He speaks fluent
dialog: English.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: I'm sorry my friend, I'm not signing
dialog: books right now. There's been a
dialog: tragedy.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I know. I'm Andy McDermott. Terrence's
dialog: nephew.
text: Claude is taken by surprise.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: My God, I'm sorry. But how did you
dialog: find your way down here? Wait, let's
dialog: go talk...
text: He excuses himself from his "flock" and leads Andy to a quiet
text: corner of the room. The kids disperse, several looking
text: sympathetically at Andy.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: It's horrible. Terrence was one of
dialog: the most brilliant men I've known.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah, well, why did he hang out here?
dialog: The cops said it's dangerous -
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: The cops. It's their backward laws
dialog: that force all this underground in
dialog: the first place, endangering people
dialog: whose only crime is pushing the limits
dialog: of perception, exploring new states
dialog: of psychic awareness.
text: They're suddenly doused with day-glo silly string as the
text: gibbering idiot in the diaper pops in to deliver a rant at
dialog: them.
scene_heading: GUY IN DIAPER
dialog: (French)
dialog: The moon is bleeding! Prepare for
dialog: the downpour!
text: He ducks back out. Andy picks the silly string out of his
dialog: hair.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Psychic awareness. Right.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: You think it's silly. But do you
text: realize that young man is actually
dialog: in a deep sleep?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: He's on a new drug called ZBH, or
dialog: "Daydream". It allows the user to be
text: fully alert and mobile while he's
text: dreaming. He is literally conscious
text: and unconscious at the same time.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah well, that's like really groovy
dialog: and everything, but who hacked my
dialog: uncle's legs off?
text: Claude frowns. He looks grave.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Andy...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Terrence and I came down here to do
dialog: serious work. For centuries these
dialog: tunnels have been home to subcultures
dialog: mainstream society would not tolerate.
text: He gestures to the main cavern, where people are far gone
text: into various states... some in a trance, some gyrating lustily
text: to the eerily hypnotic music. We intercut with these images
text: as Claude speaks.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: These people carry on traditions
dialog: dating back to pagan times - the
dialog: ancient quest for expanded
text: consciousness. At the same time
dialog: they're pioneering a chemical
dialog: revolution, powerful state-of-the-
dialog: art compounds... But you know what I
dialog: mean....
text: (he gestures to Andy's
dialog: face paint)
dialog: A year ago who would have dreamed of
dialog: topically applied hallucinogens like
dialog: TMD? Except Terry of course...
text: Andy's eyes widen with comprehension. He touches his face.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What!? Hallucinogen? Oh shit...
text: He rubs the face paint off with his shirt sleeve.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: You didn't know? But then why did
dialog: you... well, don't worry. It's
text: relatively mild.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah, well if I claw my face off,
dialog: just pack it in ice, okay? Jesus...
dialog: the cops were probably right. My
dialog: uncle was messed up with a bunch of
text: fry brains and they went berserk on
dialog: him.
text: Claude lowers his voice. He looks grim.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: No... We stumbled on something else
dialog: down here Andy. Something horrible,
text: almost unbelievable. But very real.
dialog: It's been going on for centuries,
dialog: though most people wouldn't believe
dialog: it, or wouldn't want to...
text: Andy's somewhere between spooked and incredulous. He glances
text: at the book in his hand.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Wait a second, are you like the Steven
dialog: King of France or something...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE (O.S.)
dialog: Andy!
text: Andy turns and sees Serafine run up to him. She looks worried.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: So you came after all. Just in time,
dialog: it's getting interesting.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You must get out of here. It's not
dialog: safe.
text: She grabs him by the arm. He resists.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Not you too -
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (checks his watch)
dialog: My God! Serafine's right. It's time
dialog: to go. We'll talk soon.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Bon nuit Claude.
dialog: (to Andy)
dialog: Come on.
text: Claude dashes off. Serafine drags Andy into the main cavern.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, chill out a second!
text: She leads him across the cavern towards the entrance. Andy
text: stops short and pulls away from her. It's not easy - she has
text: a strong grip.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Alright, hold on. I'm not gonna get
text: dragged around like some kid in a
dialog: shopping mall. I want you to answer
dialog: some questions.
text: Serafine sees something over Andy's shoulder.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Merde. I knew I shouldn't have come
dialog: here.
text: Andy turns to see Gaston approaching. He leers at Serafine.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (French)
dialog: Serafine, mon cher. I hear your boss
dialog: looks great in cut-offs.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (French)
dialog: Get the fuck away from me, Gaston.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (French)
dialog: First you tell me where the ADM is,
dialog: eh?
text: He puts his hand on her shoulder. Andy notices the missing
dialog: fingers.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (French)
dialog: Fuck you.
text: She shoves his hand away and pulls Andy past him. Gaston
text: grabs her and spins her around. This time Andy grabs Gaston's
text: hand and pulls it off her. He holds up Gaston's three fingered
text: hand and glares at him.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Well, this explains the two fingers
text: they found in Liberace's asshole.
text: Gaston jerks his hand away. He stabs his finger in Andy's
dialog: chest.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: In Paris we have an expression for
dialog: people like you: Enculé d'Americain.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah? In New York we got an expression
dialog: too. Goes like this...
text: CRACK! Andy hauls off and belts Gaston in the jaw as hard as
text: he can. But Gaston doesn't even lose his footing. He sneers
text: with rage and hits Andy with a vicious combination. His
text: glasses fly off as he reels into the crowd, knocking a few
text: people into a group of nearby SKINHEADS. The skinheads erupt
text: into randomly directed violence - a full fledged BRAWL breaks
text: out. It's chaos.
text: On the floor, Andy squirms away from the skinheads and
text: retrieves his glasses. He hears Serafine call his name. He
text: gets up amidst the mayhem and sees Serafine being carried
text: away by the crowd.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Serafine!
text: Someone knocks into Andy and he falls to the ground. He gets
text: back on his feet - Serafine's nowhere in sight. He pushes
text: his way through the crowd, looking for her. He catches sight
text: of her white dress in a distant corner. It's there for a
text: second and then gone again - apparently into a tunnel. He
text: runs over to it.
text: Andy peers into THE TUNNEL, which houses some old pipes. It
text: fades quickly into darkness. He grabs a kerosene torch from
text: the wall and runs into the tunnel. About a hundred yards in
text: he passes an ALCOVE.
text: He leans in with his torch and peers around. The cave like
text: room is empty but something catches Andy's eye. Scratched
text: into the stone wall, amidst various graffiti, is A PENTAGRAM.
text: It looks to be centuries old.
text: Andy's transfixed by it. The sound of his own breathing
text: suddenly becomes deafening and his vision begins to distort:
text: the textures of the stone wall begin to churn and crawl, and
text: the flames from his torch melt into different hues. The
text: pentagram glows and seems to grow out of the wall...
text: The hallucinatory flash is over as fast as it began. Panting,
text: stunned, Andy shakes it off. He wipes his face, checking for
text: traces of paint. He tries to reassure himself.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Whoa. C'mon.
text: A woman's SCREAM echoes through the tunnels. He runs towards
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Serafine!?
text: Another scream - anguished, tortured. Andy runs faster. He
text: arrives at an intersection with another tunnel, turns the
dialog: corner and finds...
text: A decrepit old WINO hogging a bottle from his warty HAG
text: companion, provoking her to scream like she just lost her
text: only son. They look up at Andy. The hag shuts up. They fix
text: Andy with an odd stare.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Sorry... I, uh, did you see a girl,
dialog: la femme, um, avec, la dress blanc?
text: They just stare at him. Spooked, he walks past them. They
text: follow him with their creepy stare as he continues into the
text: tunnel, which slopes downhill.
text: He comes to an old stairway leading down into darkness. WATER
text: pours out of a hole in the ceiling. The steps are severely
text: eroded and slick with flowing water and moss. Andy sees
text: something. It's SERAFINE'S SHOE, laying on a landing a few
text: yards down the stairs. He leans in further, loses his footing
dialog: and slips.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Ahh! Son of a bitch!
text: He shoots down the stairs on his back, past the shoe which
text: lies at the mouth of an intersecting tunnel. His glasses
text: come off. The torch goes out. He stops at the bottom of the
text: stairs on a gravel surface.
text: He winces a bit as he sits up. It's too dark to make much
text: out. He feels around the gravel, finds his GLASSES - they're
text: shattered. He scowls. He stands up and walks ahead, feeling
text: his way along the slick wall, peering into the darkness.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: SERAFINE!?
text: The echo sounds different - like he's in a larger space. The
text: echo decays into a familiar low RUMBLE.
text: A reflection of light appears in a puddle on the floor. The
text: light gets brighter until Andy sees the subway tracks at his
text: feet. The rumble gets suddenly louder as
speaker_heading: METRO TRAIN
text: barrels around the corner, flooding the tunnel with light
text: and closing on Andy fast.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Oh shit!
text: He turns and runs for THE STAIRWAY. He skids on the gravel
text: and overshoots it. He scrambles back and up into it just as
text: THE TRAIN whooshes past.
text: Andy scurries a few feet up the slick steps, using a rusty
text: pipe for a handhold. As he looks back at the SPARKING, RUSHING
text: TRAIN WHEELS, his heart pounding in his head, he has another
text: HALLUCINATORY-FLASH: the sparks explode into streaking
text: patterns of color and light.
text: It passes quickly. The train goes by and its rumble fades.
text: Andy squeezes his temples and takes a deep breath. Before he
text: finishes exhaling, an UNEARTHLY HOWL echoes through the
text: tunnels. The howl literally takes his breath away - he's
text: frozen there, eyes wide, not breathing for a long moment.
text: Quietly, carefully, he makes his way back up the dark, wet
text: stairs. He comes to the landing, picks up Serafine's shoe,
text: and steps into the INTERSECTING TUNNEL.
text: He squints into the darkness. Without his glasses, ANDY'S
text: POV is a bit blurry.
text: He walks into the tunnel. Another HOWL. Andy swallows hard.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Jesus Christ...
text: He hurries along. WATER DRIPS from the tunnel ceiling, down
text: the walls, onto the cobblestone floor, flowing into rivulets
text: around Andy's feet and joining a stream that flows ahead of
text: him, disappearing into the blackness ahead. He approaches
text: another intersection. He stumbles over something.
text: He looks down and makes out a GIRL'S BARE LEG lying in a
text: puddle in the dark intersecting tunnel. He follows the leg
text: up with his eyes - it's messily severed above the knee. He
text: gasps.
text: He looks further into the tunnel and sees A PAIR OF GLOWING
text: YELLOW EYES staring back at him out of the darkness. Andy
text: turns and runs.
text: With a horrible ROAR, the eyes lunge after him and turn the
text: corner. As it gains on Andy, we see the dim outline of the
text: massive wolf-like beast.
text: Andy dives for a SMALL CONDUIT, barely big enough for his
text: body, and wriggles into it. Behind him the yellow eyes appear
text: at the mouth of the conduit - the beast SNARLS but can't fit
text: in. Andy can see a dim light at the end of the conduit. He
text: crawls along.
text: He emerges into ANOTHER TUNNEL. Some thirty yards away, light
text: and street noise come through a GRATE on the ceiling of an
text: antechamber beyond an iron gate. Relieved, Andy starts off
text: towards it. A SNARL stops him in his tracks. THE BEAST comes
text: tearing around a corner fifty yards behind him.
text: Andy breaks into a sprint towards the antechamber. He slips
text: on the wet floor and lands in a puddle, drenching himself.
text: The beast closes in.
text: Andy gets up, runs into the antechamber and slams the iron
text: gate shut. There's a rusty DEADBOLT lock on the gate, but no
text: key. The beast is twenty five yards away and closing fast -
text: it's massive silhouette filling the diameter of the tunnel.
text: Andy whips out his SWISS ARMY KNIFE, opens the screw driver
text: and tries it in the old-fashioned keyhole - it doesn't work.
text: The beast is twenty feet away. Andy tries the can opener -
text: no luck. Ten feet. Andy jams the corkscrew into the hole.
text: The beast leaps. The corkscrew turns. The DEADBOLT SLIDES.
text: SLAM!! The beast rams the gate, shaking the anteroom. But it
text: holds. Flashes of CLAWS and TEETH thrash through the bars,
text: but it's still too dark to make the beast out clearly. Andy
text: runs across the anteroom, grabs the steel sewer grate on the
text: ceiling, and hoists himself up.
text: Through the bars, he sees a BUSY BOULEVARD in the Pigalle
text: (the "Times Square" of Paris). There's a COP a few paces
text: away. Andy screams to him.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: HELP! OFFICER!
text: ON THE BOULEVARD - Over the roar of traffic and midnight
text: revelers, the cop can barely pinpoint Andy's screams. He
text: looks around, confused. He sees Andy and angrily shakes his
text: baton at him.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Hey! You shouldn't be down there!
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: FOR GOD'S SAKES, LET ME OUT!!
text: THE BEAST slams the gate, wrenching one of the iron bars
text: loose - two more bars and it'll fit through. Andy jumps down,
text: picks up the loose bar. It's got a STAR SHAPED SPEAR TIP.
text: He rushes at the gate and jams the spear through the gate,
text: aiming for the thrashing teeth and eyes in the darkness.
text: The beast ducks and the spear sinks a couple of inches into
text: the BACK OF IT'S NECK and stops, apparently on bone. It
text: recoils and ROARS with pain, shaking the spear free.
text: ON THE STREET - The cop raps the bars with his nightstick
text: and peers into the dark anteroom.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (in French)
dialog: You are not allowed down there!
text: IN THE ANTEROOM - The beast rams the gate - it's rage
text: redoubled. Andy jumps up and grabs the grate.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: GET ME THE FUCK OUT OF HERE!!
text: ON THE STREET
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: "Fuck"? You think I don't know this
dialog: word "fuck"? Is that how you talk to
dialog: policemen in America?
text: Enraged, the cop runs to his car, muttering to himself. He
text: opens the trunk and rummages around for something.
text: IN THE ANTEROOM - The beast knocks another bar off the gate.
text: Andy watches in horror as it rams even harder, loosening the
text: NEXT BAR.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (to the cop)
text: FUCK! FUCK! FUCK! FUCK! FUCK!
text: ON THE STREET - The cop looks over at Andy, incensed. He
text: takes a crowbar from the trunk, runs back cussing in French,
text: and struggles with the grate.
text: IN THE ANTEROOM - The NEXT BAR on the gate gives. The beast
text: sticks its head through the gap and focuses it's searing
text: yellow eyes on Andy. It rears back, ready to pounce...
text: THE GRATE - comes up. The cop grabs Andy and pulls...
text: IN THE ANTEROOM - Andy's legs dangle like bait. The beast
text: lunges, teeth and claws bared.
text: ON THE STREET - Andy screams as a bus roars by. The cop pulls
text: him up and out. Andy's right pants leg is torn open and he's
text: bleeding from a GOUGE in his ankle.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Okay, what the hell are you up to?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: It bit me! My leg! Jesus, it's down
dialog: there, shoot it! Shoot it for Christ's
dialog: sakes!
text: He points frantically at the open hole. The cop aims his
text: flashlight in the hole. It's empty. He looks Andy up and
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Your passport.
text: Shaking, Andy takes his passport out of his pocket. The cop
text: takes it and copies some information. Andy raves at him - a
text: blur of English and broken French.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: There's something down there! A bear
dialog: or something! A god damn monster!
dialog: Beau coup teeth! Huge, Grande, with
dialog: yellow eyes, all this hair, it killed
dialog: Serafine! My God...
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: You on drugs? Huh?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (he falters)
dialog: No... I...
text: He looks disoriented, half-crazed. He definitely seems like
text: he's on drugs. The cop shines his flashlight in Andy's eyes -
text: his PUPILS are like saucers.
speaker_heading: ANDY'S POV
text: The cop's flashlight sparks another HALLUCINATORY FLASH. The
text: cops face melts like liquid, sounds swirl together, the garish
text: neon signs of The Pigalle explode into streaking colors and
text: we BURN INTO WHITE.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT BUILDING
text: The cop car pulls to a stop. The cop gets out, opens the
text: back door, and pulls Andy out. He pushes Andy towards the
dialog: building.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Stay off the street.
text: The cop gets in the car and drives away. Andy staggers to
text: the gate in a daze and fumbles with the keys.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BUILDING
text: Andy walks up to the apartment door. Disoriented and shaking,
text: he manages to open the door and walk in. He locks the door,
text: and switches on the lights. He looks out the small PEEPHOLE.
text: No sign of anyone or anything. He leans back against the
text: door and rubs his hands across his face.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Oh god. Je suis seriously messed
dialog: up...
text: There's a DRIPPING sound coming from the kitchen. Andy looks
text: across the living room into the dark kitchen. The DRIP
text: continues. He steps forward cautiously. Suddenly he feels
text: something and looks down sharply.
text: UNCLE TERRENCE, bloody stumps and all, is clutching Andy's
text: legs and looking up at him desperately. He's trying to speak
text: but can't seem to make a sound. Blood from his wounds soaks
text: the WHITE BEAR RUG beneath them.
text: Andy's terror struck, he tries to jump away but falls
text: backwards to the floor. Terrence crawls up and gets close to
text: Andy's face. He croaks out two words in a rasp -
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Saint Severin...
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - SAME TIME
text: The EKG monitor shows a FLATLINE. Alarms are BEEPING.
text: Terrence's body lies motionless under the oxygen tent. A
text: DOCTOR and a NURSE rush to the bed. The nurse rips the oxygen
text: tent away and the doctor SLAMS his fists down on Terrence's
text: chest. The EKG show s a tentative blip. The doctor SLAMS
text: again. An erratic heart beat starts back up on the EKG.
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT - SAME TIME
text: Andy lies passed out on the floor. Terrence is gone, and the
text: rug is free from blood.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
scene_heading: INT. LEDUC'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Marcel sits next to the patrol cop, PEROTIN, who rescued
text: Andy. They're hysterical with laughter. Even LeDuc, sitting
text: behind his desk, is chuckling.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: What else did he say?
speaker_heading: PEROTIN
dialog: (French)
dialog: Yellow eyes... big teeth...
dialog: (he can barely choke
dialog: out the words between
dialog: laughs)
dialog: Covered with hair! Ha-ha-ha!
text: Perotin playfully growls at Marcel. They laugh even harder.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: Okay Perotin. You can go.
text: Perotin nods, still laughing. Marcel walks him to the door.
text: Before he steps out, Perotin bares his teeth, growls again,
text: and cracks up some more. Marcel, laughing, claps him on the
text: back and shuts the door - then he and LeDuc go instantly
text: stone faced. They look at each other gravely.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: Well?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: (grim)
dialog: Okay. So maybe you were right.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Hmmph. At least now there's one person
dialog: around here who doesn't think I'm
dialog: crazy.
text: LeDuc walks to a map of Paris on the wall covered with colored
text: push pins. He sticks a blue pin in it. He points to a green
text: pin on another part of the map.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
text: Twelve thirty-six a.m. here. Twelve
text: forty a.m. here. There's two of them.
dialog: At least.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Merde.
text: LeDuc looks at his calendar. Four days are circled in red
dialog: ink.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: Two more nights in this lunar cycle.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Double merde.
text: LeDuc opens a tall cabinet, revealing a bookshelf stuffed
text: with dusty tomes. He browses past dozens of titles about
dialog: black magic and demonology.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: You better follow that McDermott
dialog: kid. He's going to wind up like his
dialog: uncle if he's not careful.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Right. Little twerp thinks he's
dialog: Colombo.
text: LeDuc selects an old book and hands it to Marcel.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: And do some research, will you?
text: Marcel takes the book. He inspects the cover (it's in French) -
dialog: "Werewolves through the Ages: from St. Severin to the
dialog: present".
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Saint Severin...
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: You never heard the story of Saint
text: Severin driving the werewolves from
dialog: Paris?
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: You think that's what McDermott was
dialog: raving about in the ambulance?
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: What, you think everyone's as ignorant
dialog: as you?
dialog: Marcel considers this.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Pretty much.
text: LeDuc grunts, exasperated.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Inspector, you're not exactly typical.
dialog: I mean c'mon...
dialog: (holds up book)
dialog: This thing isn't sitting on a lot of
dialog: coffee tables.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APT. - LATE MORNING
text: THE SAME OLD BOOK, sitting on the coffee table. The pages
text: are stuffed with notepaper place markers, many covered with
text: scribbling, and CHEMICAL NOTATION. In the background, on the
text: floor, is Andy - fast asleep and snoring where he collapsed
dialog: the night before.
text: We hear a key in the lock. The door opens, smacking Andy in
dialog: the head once, twice.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Aoww! Hey! What the hell...?
text: He grabs the door so it can't hit him again. Serafine pokes
text: her head around and sees him. She's surprised, relieved,
text: elated. Andy's reaction is more disoriented, stunned.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Andy! Holy shit!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Serafine...?
text: She kneels beside him and helps him sit up.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Thank God! What a relief! I thought...
dialog: After you disappeared... I couldn't
dialog: find you... I thought all sorts of
dialog: horrible things...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah... Ditto. I saw, er, I thought
dialog: I saw you get munched... like Uncle
dialog: Terrence...
text: He looks over at the clean bear rug. Andy rises to his feet
text: groggily. He looks down at the rip in his pant leg. He feels
text: the torn fabric, trying to remember.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: What happened? Did you cut yourself?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Um... sort of... Maybe... It's all
dialog: kind of blurry. We met at the club,
dialog: then... Damn, that was some weird
dialog: shit.
text: He goes over to the window and parts the curtains. It's a
text: brilliant sunny day.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: That was fucking stupid, going down
dialog: there. You could have been killed. I
dialog: tried to warn you, But you don't
dialog: listen. Just like your uncle.
text: Andy's only half listening. He opens the window, and inhales
text: deeply. Across the court yard, a MATRONLY WOMAN leans out a
text: window, hanging her laundry. In the courtyard, Lulu the
text: obnoxious poodle YAPS at another resident, and Madame Chretien
text: calls her back. Andy's head is clearing. His mood lifting.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You have to be a hero. All Americans
dialog: think they are cowboys.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (leaning out window)
dialog: I was an Indian, actually. Man, that
dialog: damn psycho paint...! If that's
dialog: supposed to be mild, I don't want to
dialog: know about medium.
text: (he looks at the woman
text: and smiles, the sun
text: on his face. To
dialog: himself:)
dialog: The planet earth. It's good to be
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: So... you feel okay now?
text: He turns around and smiles at her.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah. Actually, I feel fan-fucking-
dialog: tastic.
text: Serafine laughs. She hasn't heard this expression before. He
text: approaches her.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Fan-fucking-tastic?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, what more could I want? I
dialog: survived my first and last
dialog: hallucinogenic hellride, and neither
dialog: of us is dead. I'd say I feel almost
dialog: as great as you look.
text: He makes a grab for her, and she pushes him away.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Hey! Calm down.
text: He jumps up on the sofa, unable to contain his energy.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Come on Serafine. Let's go out. Show
dialog: me the real Paris, the part that
text: isn't overpriced and overrun with
dialog: German tourists.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Go to Jim Morrison's grave at Pere
text: Lachaise. It's overrun with American
dialog: tourists. I have to work.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I know! Let's go hock loogies off
dialog: the Eiffel Tower!
text: She digs in her pockets and hands him some coins.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Here. You go. "Hock some loogies"
dialog: for me.
text: She turns and heads off to the office. He runs in front of
text: her and blocks her path.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What about food? Even beautiful women
dialog: have to eat. It's true. I read it.
dialog: Please? A half an hour?
text: (pause. He sees she's
dialog: tempted)
dialog: My treat?
text: (she's smiling. He
dialog: resorts to begging)
dialog: Pleez! Don't make go out there alone
dialog: again! I'm begging you!
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Okay. But I'm back in half an hour.
text: Andy claps his hands together in triumph and scrambles to
text: hold open the door for her.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: What about your glasses?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: It's okay. I can see fine.
text: She gestures to his filthy clothes.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Don't you want to change?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Man! Our first date and already you're
dialog: trying to get me to change! You French
dialog: women work quick!
text: She smiles and pushes him back in the apartment.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PARIS BOULEVARD - DAY
speaker_heading: JERRY LEWIS
text: on a TV screen, dubbed with a zany French voice, undergoes a
text: radical physical transformation in "The Nutty Professor".
text: Pull back to reveal Andy and Serafine watching this scene on
text: a dozen or so TV's in a store window display. Several PARISIAN
text: PEDESTRIANS watch Jerry with reverence.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Now this is Paris!
text: On screen, the Nutty Professor's alter ego, "Buddy Love"
text: launches into his swinging version of "That Old Black Magic".
dialog: To this accompaniment, we cut the following -
speaker_heading: PARIS MONTAGE:
text: - AT A BRASSERIE: Andy is about to escort Serafine into the
text: trendy eatery, but she stops him at the door and points to
dialog: the menu, or more specifically the prices. He makes a
text: horrified face, and they move on.
text: - IN A BOULANGERIE: Serafine buys cheese, Andy buys meats -
text: the counterman shows Andy how big a slice off the pate loaf
text: he's about to cut. Andy nods "yes". The counterman cuts it
text: and offers the slice. Andy shakes his head "no" and points
text: to the much larger remainder of the loaf.
text: - AT AN OUTDOOR MARKET: Detective Marcel, wearing a lame
text: "disguise" (new wave sunglasses ala "Diva"), watches Andy
text: and Serafine shop from a distance.
text: - IN A PATISSERIE: Andy points to a large baguette, says
text: something suggestive and winks boastfully at Serafine. She
text: gives him a "yeah, right" look and points at a small
text: breadstick.
text: - IN A WINE STORE: Andy looks at each bottle closely, then
text: "tests" it by shaking vigorously. Serafine's amused. The
text: owner's baffled.
text: - ON THE RIGHT BANK: Arms full of groceries, Andy and Serafine
text: pass the row of outdoor pet stores near the river. Andy looks
text: longingly at the live ducks in their cages. Serafine pulls
text: him along. MUSIC fades out.
scene_heading: EXT. ILE SAINT LOUIS - SUNSET
text: Andy and Serafine sit on the river bank facing a magnificent
text: Paris vista. Serafine unpacks the food.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Shit! You bought enough pate for a
dialog: fucking army!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: So tell me, exactly which truck driver
dialog: did you study English with?
text: She laughs and pushes him playfully.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Like I should talk. Monsieur foot-in-
dialog: the-mouth. I'm really sorry about
dialog: that whole Woody Allen thing...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: So's Woody Allen.
text: (Andy laughs. She
text: starts uncorking the
dialog: wine.)
dialog: No, your uncle really helped me. I
dialog: was sort of messed up for a while.
dialog: Wasting my time just partying and...
dialog: just stupid shit. He kind of woke me
dialog: up, gave me a job, got me taking
dialog: classes.
text: (she uncorks the wine
dialog: and fills their
dialog: plastic cups)
dialog: You know, he and Claude, their work
dialog: is controversial, but they're serious
dialog: about it. Totally dedicated.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: That's what counts. If you're not
dialog: passionate about it, don't waste
dialog: your time. That's why I quit
dialog: college... Plus I'm a lazy bastard.
dialog: (They raise their
text: cups. Andy taps his
dialog: forehead.)
dialog: Wait, I know this... A votre sante.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: A la votre.
text: They "clink" and drink. He notices her KEYCHAIN lying on the
text: ground. It's a miniature replica of Rodin's famous sculpture,
text: "The Kiss". He picks it up.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: This looks familiar...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Ahh, Rodin. Mmm! He's the fuc-
dialog: (she catches herself
dialog: and laughs)
dialog: I mean, he's the best. You must go
dialog: to the Rodin sculpture garden, in
dialog: the huitieme, it's so beautiful.
text: She gestures across the river. Andy looks at the gorgeous
text: panorama.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah, I gotta admit, you French are
dialog: pretty good at beautiful.
text: He looks at Serafine. She looks back at him. He holds up
dialog: "The Kiss".
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I bet you're pretty good at this
dialog: too.
text: She smiles playfully.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: What, sculpting?
text: He shakes his head "no" and moves towards her. They kiss
text: tenderly. They separate and share a deep, passionate look.
text: They kiss again, hungrily, falling into a passionate embrace.
text: They're really going for it. Her NAILS dig into his back. He
text: pulls her body into his until they look like one form - just
text: like Rodin's sculpture.
text: APPLAUSE and CHEERS break the moment. A TOURIST BOAT is
text: gliding by on the Seine, it's ELDERLY PASSENGERS applauding
text: the young couple. Serafine pulls away, blushing a little,
text: and turns to the boat. ANDY doesn't even notice the boat.
text: He's staring at Sera fine with a scary kind of intensity.
text: She starts to say something but he starts kissing her again,
text: cutting her off.
text: Suddenly he's out of control, pawing at her... It takes an
text: effort for her to pull back from him.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Hey, calm down a second...
text: She looks into his eyes and freezes with fear. HIS STARE is
text: terrifying, totally predatory, inhuman. Something's ignited
text: in him. She pushes him away and shakes him.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: What's wrong with you!?
text: Andy blinks and seems to come a couple of steps back to
dialog: normality.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What? Aren't I a good kisser? What's
dialog: the matter?
text: She fixes him with a heavy, suspicious stare. She glances
text: down at his ankle, where the bottom of HIS WOUND is visible.
text: She seems to understand something. She fumbles in her purse,
text: takes out a compact mirror, and checks her face.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: God, look at my lipstick. Look, I'm
text: going to run into the bathroom at
dialog: that cafe. Stay here and watch the
dialog: stuff, okay?
text: She gets up and starts off. He looks after her.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Serafine...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I'll be right back. Stay put.
text: She runs up the steps to street level. Andy watches her go.
text: He turns back to his glass of wine and chugs it. He puts the
text: bottle to his lips and takes a long belt. He picks up the
text: big block of pate and bites into it like a piece of cake. He
text: likes it. He takes another huge bite. He looks after Serafine.
text: He gets up.
scene_heading: INT. CAFE
text: Serafine puts her "telecarte" into the pay phone and dials.
text: She looks anxious, upset. We hear the phone ringing at the
text: other end. Behind her, Andy comes into the cafe. He walks up
text: to her, pissed off.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Fixing your makeup with a phone,
dialog: huh? Who the fuck are you calling?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Professor Roussel. There's something
dialog: wrong with you. I know it.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Roussel? You mean Claude? You're
dialog: calling Dr. Demento so he can come
dialog: paint my face again? Fuck that.
text: Andy starts backing away.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Andy, stop! I think he can help you -
dialog: (Claude picks up)
speaker_heading: CLAUDE (V.O.)
dialog: Allo?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What, you think you're gonna catch
dialog: fucking leprosy from me? Fuck that
dialog: shit! If I'm not good enough for you
dialog: I'll find someone else!
text: He turns and storms out of the cafe. Serafine's flustered.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Andy!
speaker_heading: CLAUDE (V.O.)
dialog: (French)
dialog: Serafine? Is that you? What's going
dialog: on?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (French)
dialog: Claude, it's Andy, he's acting really
dialog: weird, I think something happened
dialog: last night...
speaker_heading: CLAUDE (V.O.)
dialog: God, well don't let him go! Catch
dialog: him!
text: She drops the phone and runs out of the cafe. On the sidewalk,
text: she looks in all directions. Nothing. Andy's gone.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Fuck!
scene_heading: INT. CLAUDE'S OFFICE - SAME TIME
text: Claude's sitting at his desk, phone to his ear. The room is
text: stuffed with books.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Serafine? Allo?
text: He hangs up. He strokes his chin and furrows his brow, sinking
text: deep into thought.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS OF PARIS - NIGHT
text: Music cue: "Wolf Call" by Elvis Presley. Andy pays for a
text: crepe at one of the roadside stands, and eats it as he walks
text: along the narrow sidewalk, still brooding about Serafine. He
text: stops to gawk at the PRETTY GIRLS that pass by, and bumps
text: into a young FRENCH TOUGH with a ROTTWEILER.
speaker_heading: FRENCH TOUGH
dialog: Idiot!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Ah, bite me!
text: He glares at the tough and his growling dog. The dog suddenly
text: shrinks back in fear and decides it's time to leave. He pulls
text: his owner along. Andy continues on his way. He ditches the
text: half finished crepe. That's not what he's hungry for.
text: Andy comes upon a trendy little CAFE with several tables of
text: diners eating in the open air. Andy notices an attractive
text: young blond sitting alone, thumbing through a "Let's Go"
text: guide. This is AMY SINGLETON. Andy approaches confidently.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Ahem. Did you know that, according
dialog: to the "Let's Go" code of conduct,
dialog: whenever two Americans meet in Paris,
dialog: the one with the sexiest smile has
dialog: to buy dinner?
text: Amy smiles. She is indeed sexy, with remarkable, sparkling
speaker_heading: BLUE EYES.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Damn! You win!... Waiter! Garcon!
text: He jumps into the seat across from her.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Actually, I'm waiting for someone.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What a coincidence, I am someone!
dialog: (sniffs)
dialog: Mmm. Calvin Klein's Obsession. Now
dialog: it's mine too.
text: She laughs. The waiter arrives to take their order. Andy
text: hands him the empty half bottle of wine from Amy's table.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hi. Another, bigger bottle for this
text: ravishing blue eyed Goddess and
dialog: myself. And, avez vous le Steak
dialog: Tartar?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - SAME TIME
text: Serafine unlocks the door and enters the apartment. She's
text: stopped cold by what she sees. The place has been totally
text: ransacked - drawers opened, shelves cleared, furniture
text: overturned, the works. The window is open.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Merde! Salots!
text: She walks across the room, kicking at the debris in her path.
text: She stands in the middle of the mess, absolutely furious.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Aaaaah!
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: Across the street from the apartment building, GASTON pauses
text: to light a cigarette. He hears Serafine's distant scream,
text: looks towards the building, and walks away.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE - NIGHT
text: Three successive tables of upscale PARISIAN DINERS are gawking
text: at something. At one table, Inspector Marcel hides behind
text: his menu, and shakes his head in disdain.
text: We follow their glances to Andy, greedily licking the last
text: bits of Steak Tartar off his plate. Amy giggles in amazement
text: as she pours the last from the bottle of wine. She's a bit
text: drunk - enough to be amused by Andy's antics.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: God. How can you eat like that?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: It's all in the tongue. Another
dialog: bottle?
text: Amy laughs and nods "yes". JEAN-LUC, 25, a well dressed,
text: powerfully built Frenchman enters. He kisses Amy on both
text: cheeks, all the while watching Andy uneasily.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Jean-Luc. You're kinda late sweetie.
speaker_heading: JEAN-LUC
dialog: I was busy. Is this a friend of yours?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Well, yeah, kinda', but -
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: We're so much more than friends.
dialog: We're soul mates, sex slaves, pen
dialog: pals, the whole nine yards. Well,
text: nine yards is a slight exaggeration,
dialog: but believe me, for a white boy, I
dialog: got nothing to be ashamed of.
text: Amy laughs in mid gulp and wine comes through her nose. Andy
text: looks at Jean-Luc, who is - of course - pretty steamed.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, I'm kidding... It's a joke!
dialog: Here, maybe if I say it in metric.
text: Jean-Luc grabs Andy by the collar and pulls him to his feet.
speaker_heading: JEAN-LUC
dialog: Think you're smart, huh?
text: Amy tries to intervene.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Jean-Luc, don't be a jerk.
text: She tries to pull his hands off Andy, but Jean-Luc sends her
text: reeling back with a firm shove.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, look man, she -
text: Jean-Luc brings his hand back and slaps Andy in the mouth.
speaker_heading: JEAN-LUC
dialog: Shut up. Why are you Americans always
dialog: so loud?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I don't know. Maybe it's so we can
dialog: drown out the sound of your mother
dialog: fucking the navy?
text: Jean-Luc takes a swing at Andy. With amazing reflexes, he
text: dodges it deftly. Jean-Luc jabs - again Andy avoids it easily.
text: He smiles, impressed with himself. Jean-Luc is incensed.
text: He goes for Andy's throat, but Andy catches him by the arm
text: and, with superhuman strength, FLIPS him head over heels,
text: through the air and - SMASH! - onto a nearby table.
text: Andy casually leans past the semi-conscious Jean-Luc and
text: plucks a CHAMPAGNE BOTTLE out of its ice bucket. The WAITER
text: is about to object, but thinks better of it. Andy takes Amy
text: by the arm, she grabs the RED WINE BOTTLE, and they start
text: off away from the cafe.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Wow. You know Kung Fu or something?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (amazed at himself)
dialog: Yeah. Apparently.
text: In the background, Marcel hurries to pay his tab and follow
text: them. He slips on some of the broken glassware spilled by
text: Jean-Luc's fall, and almost goes for a tumble himself.
text: FURTHER DOWN THE STREET
text: Amy and Andy walk together. She's still giddy.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Ha ha. You were probably right about
dialog: his mom.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hope I didn't hurt him too bad.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Who gives a shit? I've had it up to
text: here with arrogant Frenchmen.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Up to there? Really? I bet I could
dialog: beat that.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Ha ha! Yeah right, white boy! Ha Ha
dialog: ha.
dialog: (she hiccups)
dialog: I think maybe I drank too much.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: Ah. The mating call of the blonde.
text: The night is young, the moon is
dialog: bright, whataya feel like doing
dialog: tonight?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: I don't know... Surprise me.
text: He thinks a moment, then puts his arm around her and whispers
text: in her ear. She squeals with delight.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Are you kidding?! I LOVE Jim
dialog: Morrison!!
text: Inspector Marcel, who's eavesdropping from around a nearby
text: corner, rolls his eyes to heaven. Oh brother. The Doors'
text: "Backdoor Man" kicks loud as we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PERE LACHAISE - NIGHT
text: Marcel is hiding behind a grave, spying. His passion for
text: police work has been reborn, judging from his rapt, totally
text: absorbed stare. He's watching...
speaker_heading: ANDY AND AMY
text: having extremely hot and primal sex on Jim Morrison's grave,
text: lit by dozens of flickering candles people have "left for
text: Jim". He pours red wine into their mouths. Sweat and wine
text: drip off their naked bodies. The sex heats up to an intense,
text: screaming climax. Amy squeals with ecstasy.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: My God! You're an animal!
text: But Andy's still accelerating - transported to another plane.
text: Sweat pours from his brow. His face contorts with each groan,
text: but now it's hard to tell if it's from pleasure or pain. His
text: body jerks violently and his skin suddenly blushes bright
text: red. Amy winces.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Ahh! Jesus! You're burning hot! What
dialog: the hell -
speaker_heading: ANDY
speaker_heading: AHHHHHHH!
text: Marcel is a little disconcerted.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: (French, to himself)
dialog: Alright already, you passed the
dialog: audition for God's sakes.
text: Andy's skin literally glows red, turning his sweat to steam.
text: He leaps off Amy and disappears into the sprawling cemetery,
text: screaming in agony. Amy watches him go.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Hey, where are you going!?
text: Marcel starts off after Andy, taking the wide route around
text: Amy. Andy's scream echoes through the cemetery. Amy pulls
text: her dress on.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Creep.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: red hot (literally), weaves through the tombs, screaming. He
text: comes to a small courtyard with an ORNATE FOUNTAIN. He dives
text: into the brackish water. Clouds of steam rise off the water
text: as he thrashes about under the marble goddess in the center
text: of the fountain.
speaker_heading: AMY
text: searches through the graveyard. She's got Andy's clothes.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: I don't know what's wrong with you,
dialog: man, but I got your pants, so we
dialog: better talk.
speaker_heading: THE FOUNTAIN
text: Andy's gurgling screams are changing, becoming less human.
text: We catch glimpses of body parts as they surface from the
text: churning froth - GROTESQUE, FLAILING LIMBS somewhere in mid-
text: transformation between human and beast.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
text: steps cautiously through the ancient, ornate tombs and
text: mausoleums, listening to the distant splashing and sporadic
text: inhuman screams. He draws his gun and loads a cartridge.
text: Suddenly a horrible grunt and loud SMASH pierce the air.
text: Marcel wheels around and smacks nose first into a gravestone.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Merde!
speaker_heading: AMY
text: in another part of the graveyard, stops in her tracks,
text: listening. Another SMASH followed by crumbling, and rushing
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: He's gone psycho ballistic. This is
dialog: bad.
text: Amy feels something and looks down. There's a stream of water
text: flowing around her feet. She follows it towards its source
dialog: and steps into
speaker_heading: THE COURTYARD
text: The fountain has been smashed - the stone rim cracked into
text: bits and the center statue fallen to the ground. There's no
text: sign of Andy. Amy walks up to the fountain.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Oh my God...
text: She notices something on the ground. It's the STONE GODDESS,
text: smashed into several pieces. We hear a low growl. Amy looks
text: up, terrified. She scans the GRAVES around the perimeter of
text: the courtyard. She takes a few tentative steps backward.
text: Suddenly a MASSIVE TOMBSTONE is wrenched off its base (most
text: of the ancient stone markers are eroded and crumbling - many
text: already fallen over). It falls like a tree, revealing the
text: familiar pair of piercing yellow eyes behind it, framed by
text: the dim outline of a massive beast. Amy emits an odd,
text: primitive whine.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Unnnhh...
text: She runs away from the beast, across the courtyard and
text: disappears into the graves.
text: In the DENSE FOREST OF TALL TOMBSTONES, Amy zigs and zags
text: through narrow spaces, barely wide enough for her slender
text: body to fit through. The camera CRANES UP.
speaker_heading: HIGH ANGLE
text: Thirty paces behind Amy, pairs of tombstones split apart
text: like jungle vegetation, crashing thunderously to the ground.
text: The unseen beast's path is slowed by the monuments, but still
text: follows Amy.
text: Amy looks back as she runs. She sees the tops of tombstones
text: fall behind her. She comes to a railing at the top of a
text: fifteen foot wall separating a LOWER LEVEL of the cemetery.
text: She hangs over the edge and quietly drops.
text: She runs down a path comes to an intersection where six paths
text: converge. She looks down each of them, but can't see the
text: outer walls of the cemetery - just an endless landscape of
text: graves. She sprints down a path and ducks behind A LARGE
speaker_heading: CRYPT.
text: Up on the higher level, the beast howls. She looks up and
text: sees its silhouette sniffing the air, the full moon looming
text: behind it. She looks up at the iron door on the crypt. Then
text: she reaches into her purse...
speaker_heading: THE BEAST'S POV
text: Its HEAVY BREATH dominates the soundtrack. It scans the sprawl
text: of graves from its perch on the hill, sniffing. It locks
text: it's stare on the large crypt. It sniffs again. With a growl,
text: it leaps over the railing (we stay with its POV) and hits
text: the ground running. It runs up a twisting path, closing in
text: on THE CRYPT. It arrives at the back of the crypt and circles
text: it, sniffing. It stops in front of the door.
scene_heading: THE BEAST'S EYES
text: Narrow and glow with intense predatory focus.
scene_heading: INSIDE THE CRYPT
text: We're looking at the door. CRASH! It flies open, revealing
text: the snarling beast, backlit by the moon. It lunges in and
dialog: stops.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST'S POV
text: Scans back and forth - the crypt is empty. The beast sniffs
text: again and growls with rage.
speaker_heading: AMY
text: somewhere else in the graveyard, sprays a long blast of
text: perfume into another crypt, and sneaks into the endless maze
text: of tombs. We hear the enraged beast smash into another crypt
text: a hundred yards away.
text: Amy comes to ANOTHER FOUNTAIN and slips into the water,
text: quietly rinsing herself.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST'S POV
text: smashes into another crypt. Nothing's inside. It backs up
text: and runs to another crypt. SMASH! Nothing. The growls grow
text: more furious. It crashes down another door. Nothing.
text: Amy, dripping wet, pads down a row of ancient family
text: mausoleums. She pauses as the beast lets loose a horrible
text: howl and topples a monument some distance away. She tries
text: the heavy iron door on a SMALL GOTHIC MAUSOLEUM. It opens.
text: She slips inside.
scene_heading: IN THE MAUSOLEUM
text: Amy crouches under the small portal and STAINED GLASS WINDOW,
text: which depicts the Virgin Mary. She struggles to quiet her
text: breathing, and listens...
text: She hears only the trickling water from the nearby fountain.
text: Then... some crackling twigs... then a SNIFF... another SNIFF,
text: closer. Trembling, Amy quietly raises herself, peers out the
dialog: portal and sees
speaker_heading: MARCEL
text: Standing a few paces away, SNIFFING and trying to stem the
text: flow from his bloody nose.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Merde...
text: Amy breaths a sigh of relief. Then -
text: THE BEAST springs out of the darkness behind Marcel - a blur
text: of eyes, claws, and teeth - and tackles him to the ground.
scene_heading: IN THE MAUSOLEUM
text: Amy drops down to the floor, huddled in terror. A GUN SHOT
text: hits the STAINED GLASS above Amy's head, shattering the Holy
text: Virgin. Another GUN SHOT followed by a ROAR OF PAIN from the
text: beast. But the pained roar quickly becomes VICIOUS SNARLING
text: again. There are no more shots, just horrible snarls, screams,
text: and ripping flesh. BLOOD splatters through the portal and
text: drips down Amy's face. She hunkers down. Then, the sound of
text: steps going away, and at last... silence.
text: Amy waits. We hear only the fountain and another, closer
text: DRIPPING. It's Amy's wet clothes, still dripping into A PUDDLE
text: on the floor, which is dripping UNDER THE IRON DOOR, into a
text: small STREAM flowing on the otherwise dry STONE WALKWAY,
text: away from the mausoleum.
text: In the mausoleum, Amy listens a bit more. Satisfied the coast
text: is clear, she quietly turns to the iron door, grasps the
text: handle and slowly turns it. But
text: before it clicks open -
text: RRRIIP!! The iron door is wrenched out of Amy's hand and off
text: it's hinges, revealing
text: THE BEAST, up close and in clear view for the first time -
text: it's truly awesome - a huge leering mouth full of razor sharp
text: teeth, a hulking body built like a wolf but as massive as a
text: bear, and vaguely humanoid paws with big hook claws. There's
text: a bloody FLESH WOUND in its right shoulder.
text: It snarls savagely at Amy. She chokes out a little cry. The
text: beast lunges.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE MAUSOLEUM - HIGH ANGLE
text: The beast's powerful hind section sticks out of the mausoleum,
text: kicking a bit as it rips into its prey. The graveyard sprawls
text: endlessly under the big moon, which hangs low in the sky.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
scene_heading: EXT. TERRENCE'S APT. BUILDING COURTYARD - MORNING
text: We hear Lulu the poodle's bell jingling behind a bush. Madame
text: Chretein pokes her head out her door and whistles for Lulu.
text: The bell keeps jingling, but Lulu doesn't come. She calls
text: its name. It still won't come. She steps out into the
text: courtyard in her bathrobe and walks towards the bush, calling
text: for the dog, annoyed as its disobedience. She looks behind
text: the bush and sees - A CROW picking at the scant remains of
text: Lulu, ringing the collar bell with its beak. She SCREAMS.
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APT. - SAME TIME
text: Andy wakes up in a cold sweat, naked on his Uncle's couch.
text: The phone is ringing. He looks disoriented, confused. We
text: hear Madame Chretien screaming in the background.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Jesus...
text: He sits up to get the phone and becomes dizzy - he grabs his
text: head. He reaches for the phone and winces - there's a crusted
text: over FLESH WOUND on his right shoulder. He picks up the phone.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE (O.S.)
dialog: (anxious, concerned)
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: No, I don't think so... I was having
dialog: a nightmare. Wait a second...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE (O.S.)
dialog: Where did you go last night? What
dialog: did you do?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I don't... I... I can't remember...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE (O.S.)
dialog: Listen, I'm coming over. Don't go
dialog: anywhere. Stay right there.
text: She hangs up. Andy is very confused. He sees the front door -
text: it's ajar and the door frame has been splintered where the
text: deadbolt sits. Stunned, he stands up, only to double over
text: with a wave of nausea. He covers his mouth and runs stooped
text: over to the bathroom.
text: He leans over the toilet and vomits. After a few heaves his
text: body relaxes and he catches his breath. He opens his eyes
text: and looks down in the bowl - horror and disbelief sweep over
text: his face as he focuses on:
scene_heading: A HUMAN EYEBALL
text: staring back at him from the bloody water. The iris is a
text: familiar shade of sparkling blue...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Oh no... no...
text: The doorbell rings. He leaps up, flushes the toilet and runs
text: out of the bathroom, still naked, to find himself in full
text: view of LeDuc and two UNIFORMED COPS standing in the open
text: door. One of the cops is examining the splintered door frame.
text: LeDuc looks to be in an even worse mood than usual. His
text: English is rough, but firm.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Get dressed.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE MORGUE - MORNING
text: We're close on a metal body drawer. A TECHNICIAN pulls it
text: open, revealing a severed human foot, nothing else.
text: LeDuc, Andy, and the technician stand by the drawer in this
text: dreary room. LeDuc never takes his eyes off Andy's face.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: You recognize her?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What?!
text: Leduc looks down, sees the foot, and barks at the technician.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: That's the wrong one!
text: The technician checks his clipboard and tries another drawer.
text: It contains a rotting ARM. LeDuc curses under his breath. He
text: and the technician start opening drawers at random, peeking
text: in, then slamming them shut.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: You, uh, you want to tell me what
dialog: this is about?
text: LeDuc ignores him, continuing to open drawers. The technician
text: appears to have found the right one at the far end.
speaker_heading: TECHINICAN
dialog: Inspector! C'est le voici.
text: A little exasperated, LeDuc and Andy go over to see what the
text: technician has found. Once again, LeDuc gives him the nod.
text: He opens the drawer to reveal
scene_heading: AMY'S MANGLED CORPSE
text: It's badly lacerated. Parts of her throat and midriff are
text: missing, and she has only one eye. Andy gasps in horror.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: We know you were with her.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Oh shit... No...
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: That's not all...
text: (he reaches for another
dialog: drawer above Amy's)
dialog: Marcel - Officer Boulard was following
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Oh no... no....
text: He pulls open the drawer to reveal MARCEL'S MANGLED CORPSE.
text: There's a gaping hole in his midsection.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: He was a good man. Now his wife is a
dialog: widow.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (overcome)
dialog: This is... it's like a sick joke, I -
text: LeDuc grabs Andy by the collar and slams him against the
dialog: wall
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: This is not a joke! Not a dream!
dialog: These people are dead and -
text: TAP TAP... Through the small window in the door he sees CHIEF
text: PICARD, his superior, trying to get his attention.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Merde... Wait here. When I return
dialog: you tell me about last night, huh?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: But... I don't remember anything, I
dialog: swear...
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (sternly)
dialog: I leave these open. Maybe something
dialog: comes back to you.
text: He leaves the room. The technician leaves too. Andy's alone,
text: staring at the corpses. Through the window, he can see LeDuc
text: arguing loudly with his superior... Andy tries to breath
text: deeply, calm down. He turns back to look at Amy's corpse.
text: Suddenly, her eyes - well, her eye - snaps open and looks
dialog: straight at him!
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Thanks for the lovely evening,
dialog: shithead!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Aaaaa! Jesus! This isn't happening.
dialog: I'm still hallucinating. Shit!
text: Andy storms around in a fit of disbelief.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You really know how to show a girl a
dialog: good time, don't you?
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE ROOM
text: LeDuc and the Chief have stopped their argument briefly to
text: watch Andy stomping around, gesturing wildly. They resume
dialog: their argument.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (French)
dialog: Okay. So he's weird. Maybe on drugs.
dialog: Still, that's not -
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: I'm telling you. It's not drugs.
dialog: It's something more. Someth -
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Don't give me your black magic
dialog: bullshit! Seven mutilations in forty
dialog: eight hours and all you find is a
dialog: scrawny American boy? Do you have a
dialog: motive?
dialog: (LeDuc hesitates)
dialog: Do you have a weapon? Or do you want
dialog: me to believe he did it with his own
dialog: two hands?
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: I told you. These murders are not
dialog: normal.
text: The Chief rolls his eyes, "here we go again" style. Meanwhile,
scene_heading: INSIDE THE ROOM
text: Andy is still pacing the room madly.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Face it boyfriend. This is really
dialog: happening.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: No it isn't! You're dead!
text: Marcel comes to life and peeks over the top of his drawer.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: I'm afraid she's not so lucky. She's
dialog: undead. And so am I.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Aaaaa!!! Get the fuck away from me!
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: What are you so damn angry about?
dialog: Did somebody turn into a wild beast
dialog: and rip your intestines out? Huh?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: I spent four years on StairMaster
dialog: for this bod and you rip through it
dialog: like a pork chop. Thanks.
text: Andy blinks hard. Every time he opens his eyes, Marcel and
text: Amy are still there, hideous as ever, staring at him.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Okay... dead or undead... what do
dialog: you want from me?
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: A-duh... You're a werewolf. And we,
dialog: as your victims, have to walk the
dialog: earth until your curse is lifted.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Uh huh... And, supposing I believed
dialog: that, what could I do about it?
speaker_heading: AMY/MARCEL
dialog: (together)
dialog: Kill yourself.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: It's the only way.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: It's not so hard. I used to think
dialog: about it all the time. Maybe you
dialog: should meet my wife.
text: Andy buries his head in his hands.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE ROOM
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Enough. Cut him loose.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: I can't! At midnight tonight, he
dialog: will kill again. It's crazy!
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Are you crazy? We have nothing. Let
dialog: him go, then watch him. If you're
dialog: right, you can pick him up at
dialog: midnight. Or maybe he'll lead you to
dialog: the others. Just let him go.
text: The chief leaves. LeDuc scowls. He looks in at Andy, still
text: gesticulating wildly and talking to thin air. LeDuc reenters
text: the room and looks at Andy bitterly.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: You're free to go.
text: Andy looks from LeDuc to the drawers and back again.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Me?
text: LeDuc gives him an angry stare.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ILE DE LA CITE - DAY
text: Andy walks past Notre Dame, flanked by Marcel and Amy.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Hanging is nice. Never goes out of
dialog: style. What about hare-kare - a taste
dialog: of the Orient? But no! You're in
dialog: Paris! Try the Guillotine! There's
dialog: one in the Louvre!
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: I'd use pills. They're painless.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Oh give me a break! He could use
dialog: pills back in America! Why not get a
dialog: little culture?
text: Andy stops in his tracks - overwhelmed, desperate.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Look, I didn't mean to hurt anybody...
dialog: God, I didn't mean to... to...
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Rip my face off? Hey, we all make
dialog: mistakes. Hell, I didn't mean to
dialog: sleep with you on the first night,
dialog: especially without a condom. But I
dialog: did, and now I'm paying the price.
text: Andy slumps over, beaten. Amy puts her arm around him. Marcel
text: pats him on the back. They start him walking along.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Let's face it. It's a, how do you
dialog: say... mother-fucker. But we're all
dialog: in it together. That's why we're
dialog: trying to help you.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Exactly.
text: HOOOOONNNNK!! Andy looks up to see a speeding bus about to
text: flatten him. Amy and Marcel have lead him into traffic. He
text: jumps back and the bus just grazes him. Of course, it passes
text: right through Amy and Marcel. They're still standing there
dialog: when it's gone.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Merde! Just missed!
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: (to Andy)
dialog: Uhh! Would you die already!
text: Andy's adrenaline is pumping. There's still some fight in
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Fuck you! If I'm gonna kill myself
dialog: I'll do it when I'm good and ready!
dialog: You can go to hell!
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: No we can't. That's the problem. God
dialog: knows it would beat hanging around
dialog: with you!
text: Andy socks Marcel and breaks his jaw - off. It skitters off
text: into the street. He punches him in the gut - SKLURCH! His
text: fist gets stuck in the tangle of Marcel's abdominal organs.
text: While Andy tries to pull his hand free, Amy rears back and
text: kicks him in the balls. He wrenches his hand loose and
text: staggers back, clutching his groin.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, you can't kick me! You're an
dialog: apparition!
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: What, all of a sudden you got a degree
dialog: in supernatural law?
text: Marcel fits his jaw back into place.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Call it the power of suggestion.
text: He socks Andy in the mouth. Andy shakes it off, rips Marcel's
text: arm off, bashes him in the face with it, then turns around
text: and uses it to beat Amy over the head. Meanwhile...
text: IN AN UNMARKED POLICE CAR PARKED A HALF BLOCK AWAY
text: RENE and FRANCOIS, the two cops who accompanied LeDuc to
text: Andy's apartment, watch Andy whirl around the sidewalk,
text: swinging wildly at the air, reacting to invisible blows, and
text: cursing unseen enemies.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (French)
dialog: You know, in his own way, he's
dialog: probably happier than any of us.
text: Francois nods philosophically. Meanwhile, back in Andy's
dialog: reality...
text: Marcel has got him in a full Nelson and Amy is punching him
text: in the stomach. He bucks forward, wrenching both of Marcel's
text: arms off and slams them together onto Amy's head, knocking
text: her down. Andy waves Marcel's arms in triumph.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Ha-ha!
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Oh, big man. You can beat up a couple
dialog: of cadavers. Well let me make
dialog: something real clear, asshole. If
dialog: you don't kill yourself, at midnight
dialog: tonight you're gonna transform and
dialog: murder innocent people!
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: What are you going to be, McDermott?
dialog: A coward and a murderer? Or a man,
dialog: with guts enough to do the right
dialog: thing?
text: The truth of this question hits home with Andy. A heavy
text: expression falls over his face, one of grave sadness, but
text: also inner dignity. He breathes deeply and exhales.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Alright. Let me write a letter.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Good man. Now can I have my arms
dialog: back?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. NEWS STAND - DAY
text: Music cue: Thelonius Monk's "Round Midnight". The NEWS STAND
text: MAN hands Andy some stamps. Andy sticks them on a letter
text: addressed to Mr. and Mrs. William McDermott. He starts walking
text: away but a postcard in the display rack catches his eye -
text: it's Rodin's " The Kiss". He looks at it sadly.
speaker_heading: A MAILBOX
text: Andy drops the letter in the box. He walks to a pay phone on
text: the sidewalk. Amy and Marcel lean on a nearby building,
text: watching Andy dial. Terrence's answering machine picks up.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE'S MACHINE (O.S.)
dialog: (French)
dialog: Hey. This is Terrence. Please leave
text: a message at the beep...
dialog: (English)
dialog: In other words, this is Terrence
dialog: McDermott. Please leave a message.
speaker_heading: (it BEEPS)
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, Serafine, I hope you're checking
dialog: these. It's Andy. So I guess you
dialog: knew what was wrong with me yesterday.
dialog: Unfortunately it took me until today
dialog: to realize it, and because of that
dialog: two people are dead. If you didn't
dialog: know, well, shit, it's irrelevant
dialog: now. I know what I have to do, but
dialog: before I do it I just wanted to say...
dialog: I don't know what would've happened
dialog: with us, but I'm really glad I had
dialog: the chance to know you even if it
dialog: was only a couple of days and... I
dialog: don't know... I probably wouldn't
dialog: have the nerve to say this if I was
dialog: gonna see you again, but I think if
dialog: I had the chance to kiss you one
dialog: more time I would've fallen totally
dialog: in love with you.
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APT. - SAME TIME
text: The door opens, Serafine enters and runs to the machine.
speaker_heading: ANDY (ON MACHINE)
dialog: Oh well... Bye Serafine.
text: Serafine snatches the phone off the receiver just as Andy
text: hangs up. She gets a dial tone. She's very upset.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Merde!
text: ON THE SIDEWALK
text: Amy and Marcel watch Andy hang up in the phone booth. The
text: emotion of the moment is getting to Amy.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Geez, I feel bad for him. Maybe we
dialog: should've told him abou -
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Are you crazy!? You know that's
dialog: totally impractical. Besides, like
dialog: the Bible says...
text: (he sticks his finger
text: in her empty eye
dialog: socket)
dialog: An eye for an eye...
text: Amy nods. Andy exits the phone booth and approaches them.
text: "Round Midnight" fades out.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Let's do it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ESPLANADE - DAY
text: Andy drains the last of a bottle of Jack Daniel's and wobbles
text: along, totally smashed and a bit wistful, with Amy and Marcel
text: in tow.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What the hell, lots of my heroes
dialog: killed themselves. Hemingway, Van
dialog: Gogh... um... Herve Villachaise...
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: But this is class kid, all the way.
dialog: What a way to go.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You got style, babe. That's why I
dialog: went for you in the first place.
speaker_heading: WIDE SHOT
text: They're approaching the Eiffel tower.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: When they ask how I died, just tell
dialog: 'em... Ei-ffel.
speaker_heading: THE COPS
text: sit in their car, watching Andy buy his ticket and get into
text: the elevator.
speaker_heading: FRANCOIS
dialog: (French)
dialog: Should we follow him up?
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Well, he's gotta come down some time.
dialog: Fuck it, let's grab a bite.
speaker_heading: FRANCOIS
dialog: Good thinking.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PATISSERIE - DAY
text: It's a typical Parisian bakery, stuffed to the ceiling with
text: an unbelievable array of the finest, most delectable pastries.
text: Rene steps to the counter.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: Vous avez les doughnuts?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. EIFFEL TOWER OBSERVATION DECK - DAY
text: We're looking at the elevator doors. They open. Andy strides
text: out onto the deck, through the milling TOURISTS, flanked by
dialog: Marcel and Amy.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: There's only one thing certain in
dialog: life - each of us owes God a death.
text: Proud, determined, Andy arrives at the six foot wire mesh
text: fence and quickly scales it. Amy and Marcel follow. Nearby
text: tourists are alarmed and a clamor of concern rises up. Those
text: with camcorders jockey for position.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: All we can do is make sure it's a
dialog: good one.
text: Andy gets over the fence and stands on the small ledge. Amy
text: and Marcel join him. The tourists gasp. Andy glances down at
text: THE PRECIPITOUS DROP. He turns suddenly pale.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Shit. I feel sick.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Don't worry. In a few seconds you
dialog: won't feel a thing.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Puking on yourself in midair is not
dialog: a good death.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: Look, the more you think about it,
dialog: the harder it is.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Just like sex with my wife.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: The key is don't look down.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Also like sex with my wife.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: (to Marcel)
dialog: Would you shut up?
text: Andy looks woozy. Tourists are trying to dissuade him in
text: Italian, Japanese, Icelandic, etc. Marcel tries a new tack.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Tell you what, we'll jump together.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: (picking up Marcel's
dialog: lead)
dialog: Sure. We wouldn't ask you to do
dialog: anything we wouldn't do. Now give me
dialog: your hand... that's it...
text: Amy coaxes Andy's hand off the fence. The crowd gasps. Andy
text: grits his teeth and focuses again.
speaker_heading: AMY/MARCEL
dialog: One... two... three... JUMP!
text: They jump, but Andy stops short - GASTON is leaning over the
text: fence and has Andy by his shirt.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: You're not getting off so easy.
speaker_heading: AMY AND MARCEL
text: Plummet through the air. They look back at Andy, annoyed.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Merde! I can't believe this!
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: You try to be a good sport, and look
dialog: what happens.
text: SPLAT!! Their bodies split into several pieces and squirt
text: out on the pavement into two radial patterns, each about ten
text: feet in diameter. Repair will take a while this time.
speaker_heading: MARCEL'S HEAD
dialog: Huh. Galileo was right.
speaker_heading: AMY'S HEAD
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: has Andy by the arm and is trying to pull up to "safety".
text: The tourists cheer him on. Andy is resisting.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Where's the ADM? Where did your uncle
dialog: put it?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Man, I don't know what the fuck you're
dialog: talking about.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Bullshit! Your uncle told you!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: My uncle's in a coma you moron!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Before the coma!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: He didn't tell me anything. All he
dialog: said was Saint Severin...
text: Andy swallows the word "Severin", remembering something as
text: he speaks. Suddenly wheels are turning in his head.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Saint Severin? The church? So you
dialog: know all about the ADM!
dialog: (Andy reacts to the
dialog: word "church?")
dialog: Where is it! Tell me! Tell me or
dialog: else!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Or else what? You'll kill me?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: No. But I'll kill your fucking
dialog: girlfriend!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You'll never get the chance.
text: Andy pulls backward as hard as he can, jerking Gaston off
text: balance. He's trying to pull them both to their deaths, but
text: Gaston grabs a STEEL POST with his free hand.
text: Andy hangs below the ledge, pulling Gaston's arm down with
text: all his new superhuman strength. But Gaston pulls back just
text: as hard. Andy sees The STEEL POST start to bend. He looks
text: into Gaston's FERAL STARE and understands...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: It was you! You son-of-a-bitch! You
dialog: got my uncle!
text: The POST keeps bending - its welds won't hold long.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Don't be an idiot! I'm not the only
dialog: one. If I die, Serafine dies!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Bullshit! You're bluffing!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: What, you think Claude hangs out
dialog: underground cause he likes to dance?
text: This gives Andy pause.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Claude...?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: And you call me a moron...
text: Andy stops pulling. He looks uncertain - maybe Gaston is
text: right... But then - SNAP! The post, which has bent all the
text: way over into a "J" shape, snaps its weld. Gaston and Andy
text: plummet towards the ground nine hundred feet below. The
text: tourists gasp.
text: Using the bent pole as a hook, Gaston snares a HORIZONTAL
text: ANTENNA which sticks out of the tower about fifty feet under
text: the observation deck. He stops short and dangles there, still
text: gripping Andy by the arm. The tourists CHEER. Meanwhile,
text: nine hundred feet below...
speaker_heading: RENE AND FRANCOIS
text: lean on their car, munching doughnuts. The tower looms behind
text: them, and we can just make out the dangling figures at the
text: top. Rene reaches into the paper doughnut bag and comes up
dialog: short.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (French)
dialog: Oh! You ate the last jelly!
text: UP ON THE ANTENNA
text: Gaston's grip is firm. They'll have to climb up the iron
text: cross beams to the observation deck.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: The ADM. Let's go.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah, okay. Just gimme a minute to
dialog: freshen up.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: ON THE OBSERVATION DECK
text: Andy and Gaston climb up onto the deck. The tourists applaud
text: and cheer for Gaston - the "hero".
speaker_heading: TOURISTS
dialog: Bravo! Magnifique! Wunderbah!
text: Gaston can't resist posing as the cameras flash - he sucks
text: in his cheeks, purses his lips and does his best "Mickey
text: Rourke". Andy looks at him, incredulous.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I must be in Paris. Even the
dialog: werewolves are poseurs.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APT. BUILDING
text: Gaston and Andy endure the elevator ride together.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: So, if you and the nutty professor
dialog: are both werewolves, what do you
dialog: want with drugs? You like seeing
dialog: lots of pretty colors when you're
dialog: tearing people's throats out?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: If you know about the church, why
dialog: ask such stupid questions?
text: They step out of the elevator and up to the apartment door.
text: Andy takes his key ring out and tries the lock. The key won't
text: turn. Andy jiggles it.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Damn...
text: He tries another key. It doesn't work. He jiggles it, rattling
text: the door on its hinges.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: What's the problem?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, I'm new here, what do you want?
text: Andy tries a third key. No good. More jiggling.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Fucking cretin...
text: The fourth key works. Andy pushes the door open. Gaston shoves
text: him in roughly and steps in after him.
scene_heading: INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT
text: Gaston shuts the door behind him and walks over to Andy, who
text: scans the room nervously, unsure of his next move.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Where is it? Hurry up!
text: Andy's eyes come to rest on the end table drawer, where
text: Serafine had put the gun before... He advances toward it.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (patronizing)
dialog: Okay, okay. I got your magic medicine
dialog: right here, dogboy. Just -
text: Gaston grabs Andy's hand before he opens the drawer.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Do you think I'm an idiot?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (beat... incredulous)
dialog: Sure. Don't you?
text: He shoves Andy away and opens the drawer... no gun. They
text: hear a pistol COCK behind them.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Looking for this?
text: Gaston turns and sees Serafine aiming the gun at him. With
text: incredible speed he leaps for the window as Serafine fires.
text: BANG!! The bullet catches him in the arm as he dives through
text: the glass. BANG!! She fires again and misses.
text: Gaston lands in the courtyard, three stories below, and runs
text: off with a slight limp. BANG! BANG! Serafine fires blindly
text: into the courtyard after him, overwrought with anger. Andy
text: puts a hand to her arm, and she lowers the gun. They embrace
text: tightly, desperately. Serafine can't keep from crying. Andy
text: comforts her.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey, hey... shhh. It's okay now...
text: La Femme Nikita strikes again.
text: He wipes away her tears and she smiles at his joke.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Andy, I thought... I heard your
dialog: message and... thank God you're
dialog: alright.
text: She embraces him again, but Andy gently frees himself.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I'm not alright. We both know that.
dialog: The only reason I'm here now is to
dialog: warn you. You're still in danger.
dialog: Gaston told me that Claude has got
dialog: the curse too. He's a werewolf.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I know. He told me.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What?! He told you? When?
text: Andy hears a familiar voice behind him.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Two weeks ago.
text: Andy spins around to see Claude standing by the hallway to
text: Terrence's office. Andy reaches for the gun and points it at
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You two faced bastard. I knew you
dialog: were full of shit.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Andy! No!
text: She puts herself between Claude and the gun barrel. Andy
text: pushes her out of the way.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Serafine! Move! Don't you see, he's
dialog: just after the drug, that ADM stuff.
dialog: He's using you to get to it, just
dialog: like he used Uncle Terrence.
text: Claude approaches Andy, speaking calmly.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: You're exactly right, Andy. I enlisted
dialog: both Serafine and your uncle to obtain
dialog: ADM. And now I'm counting on your
dialog: assistance too.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Why the fuck would I do that?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Because, Andy. It's a cure.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: A cure?
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: A cure. With ADM we can wipe out
dialog: lycanthropy, the curse of the
dialog: werewolf, forever.
text: Andy is shocked, stunned, skeptical. He bluffs with the only
dialog: card he's got.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Is that so? Maybe we should go to
dialog: Saint Severin church and make sure,
dialog: huh?
text: Claude's face changes. He's surprised.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Ah, you've done your homework...
dialog: Excellent. Get your coat. Leave the
dialog: gun with Serafine. She can keep
dialog: searching. We don't have much time.
text: Andy and Serafine share a heavy look. He hands her the gun.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Andy... I should never have let you
dialog: go underground. I'm sorry...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: I had to be a damn Hemingway hero.
dialog: Well I'll tell ya, the old man and
dialog: the sea didn't go through half this
dialog: shit.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SAINT SEVERIN CHURCH - EVENING
text: Sheets of rain crash down over this ancient gothic church.
text: Sharing an umbrella, Andy and Claude walk inside.
scene_heading: INT. UNMARKED POLICE CAR
text: Parked across the street, Rene and Francois watch them enter
text: the church. Rene talks into a cellular phone.
speaker_heading: RENE
dialog: (French)
text: He's going into Saint Severin church
dialog: with Professor Claude Roussel.
scene_heading: INT. LEDUC'S OFFICE - SAME TIME
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Really... Okay, keep checking in.
text: LeDuc hangs up and thinks a moment. He turns the page of the
text: old book on his desk, revealing an old woodcut illustration
text: of a policeman being attacked by a werewolf. He frowns.
scene_heading: INT. SAINT SEVERIN CHURCH - EVENING
text: An evening mass is in progress. The boy's choir fills the
text: church with a solemn hymn. Andy follows Claude to a narrow
text: staircase. An OLD WOMAN gives them the evil eye and crosses
text: herself as they pass. Claude and Andy go up the stairs and
text: arrive at a balcony under a magnificent wall of ancient
text: STAINED GLASS. One of the panels catches Andy's eye.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Whoa...
text: THE PANEL shows a weird medieval ritual - a man draining
text: blood from another man's neck into a goblet. ANOTHER PANEL
text: features a pentagram. ANOTHER PANEL shows a huge werewolf
text: eating a monk under a frowning sun. All the transcriptions
text: are in Latin. Claude signals Andy to follow him.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: The panels that concern us are over
dialog: here.
text: (he directs Andy to a
dialog: group of panels)
dialog: I'll translate the Latin.
text: A PANEL shows a different werewolf, tied down, being stabbed
text: in the heart by a knight under a frowning moon.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: "Then Simon did slay the demon spirit,
dialog: the same as had made him unclean,"
text: THE NEXT PANEL - the knight now holds the beast's heart aloft,
text: impaled on his dagger. Where the beast was, a man lies
text: bleeding in the background.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: "and Simon did cut out the heart of
text: the beast which once dead, regained
dialog: the shape of a man"
text: THE NEXT PANEL shows the beast's heart on a platter. The
text: Hero is sitting at a table, cutting into the heart with a
text: knife, as if he's about to eat it.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: "Simon ate of the heart of the beast
dialog: and his soul was cleansed."
dialog: (he turns to Andy)
dialog: These pictures are not just myth,
dialog: Andy. The scholars of the day used
dialog: them to record facts and enlighten
dialog: the public. This is the medieval
text: version of a newspaper.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (skeptical)
dialog: Yeah, well what if it's the Weekly
dialog: World News...
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: No. It's all true, Andy...
text: Startled, Andy turns to see Amy and Marcel, a little worse
text: for wear, standing behind them.
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: I mean, if by some miracle you can
dialog: find the werewolf that bit you, and
dialog: then manage to eat it's heart, the
dialog: curse is lifted. I was gonna tell
dialog: you but Marcel wouldn't let me.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Oh sure, it was all mean old Marcel's
dialog: idea. Give me a break! We didn't
dialog: tell you because it's a wild goose
dialog: chase! Not to mention disgusting.
dialog: Look...
text: Marcel reaches into his own chest cavity, rips out his own
text: slimy purple heart, and thrusts it in Andy's face.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
text: A little Grey Poupon and then Bon
dialog: appetite, eh?
text: Andy grimaces and turns back to Claude.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (to Amy)
dialog: I don't believe we've been introduced.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What?... Oh, right, you can see these
dialog: guys too. Jesus...
dialog: (he rolls his eyes)
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: (smiles and extends
dialog: her hand)
dialog: Amy. Nice to meet you.
text: Claude shakes her hand - SQUISH. Some sort of body fluid
text: oozes out of Amy's hand. Claude frowns and discreetly wipes
text: his hand with a handkerchief. Marcel smiles and extends his
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Marcel.
dialog: (Claude smiles
dialog: politely, declining
dialog: Marcel's rotting
dialog: hand)
dialog: My wife has all your books.
text: Claude nods "thank you". Andy's had enough.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Great. Later on we'll have to get
dialog: together for cocktails. Right now I
dialog: kinda have to hurry before I grow a
dialog: lot of hair and eat people.
dialog: (to Claude)
dialog: Say this heart thing works. What's
dialog: it got to do with ADM?
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: It's chemistry, Andy. Nothing more.
dialog: Mutated antigens concentrated in the
dialog: heart of the infector unlock a vaccine-
text: like chain reaction in the infectee.
dialog: There were not many bio-chemists
dialog: working in the twelfth century, but
dialog: with today's technology it's possible
dialog: to synthesize any chemical imaginable.
dialog: When I discovered this ancient cure
dialog: I knew who to go to.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Uncle Terrence.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Yes. I was able to decode the old
dialog: texts and give Terrence the
dialog: specifications. It took a lot of
dialog: trial and error, but finally he got
dialog: it: Adenine Di-Methyloxide. ADM. I
dialog: call it ADAM. But just before he was
dialog: attacked, he hid it...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Because Gaston was after it.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Yes, that sociopath. He's given
dialog: himself over to the evil of
text: lycanthropy. To him, ADAM is just a
text: threat to the terror he holds over
dialog: others. To us, it's salvation.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Yeah, well I don't know much about
dialog: chemistry, but even if this stuff
dialog: works, you better find it by midnight.
dialog: Otherwise it's -
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah, I know. Back to the Eiffel
dialog: Tower.
dialog: (to Claude)
dialog: And what about you?
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Believe me, I won't go through another
dialog: night of that hell. I have my
dialog: contingency plan right here.
text: He removes a WHITE PILL from his coat pocket and holds it
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Sodium cyanide.
text: The CHURCH BELLS ring. The group listens tensely as the solemn
text: bells sound eight times.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Eight o'clock. Shit. You'd think my
dialog: uncle would have left a clue, a note,
dialog: something...
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: That's what Serafine is searching
dialog: for. Without much luck, I'm afraid.
dialog: If only we could speak with him. But
dialog: alas, he's off in another realm,
text: close to death.
text: The wheels in Andy's head are turning. He looks over at Amy
text: and Marcel. He smiles. He's got an idea.
speaker_heading: MARCEL
dialog: Andy, please. Don't smile like that.
dialog: You're scaring me.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: Andy and Serafine walk down the corridor of the Terminal
text: Ward. Andy looks determined. Serafine looks upset.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: What makes you so sure this will
dialog: work?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I told you. He already tried to
dialog: contact me once. If you saw his
dialog: face... He was desperate to tell me
dialog: something. I owe him this.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I don't know...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Listen, either he wastes away as a
dialog: pathetic vegetable or he can give
dialog: what's left of his life to save
dialog: hundreds of potential victims. He's
dialog: a McDermott. I know what his choice
dialog: would be.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I suppose you're right. But I still
dialog: don't like it.
text: They stop at the door to Terrence's room.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Fine. You don't have to watch. Stay
dialog: out here and stand guard.
text: She nods. Andy goes into
scene_heading: TERRENCE'S HOSPITAL ROOM
text: The lights are off. Andy approaches Terrence's oxygen tent.
text: In the dim light, he can barely make out Terrence through
text: the plastic, lying motionless, barely making an impression
text: under the sheets. He looks at the body wistfully and surveys
text: the array of machinery that's keeping him "alive". Most of
text: the machines are plugged into a TRANSFORMER BOX on the floor.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Hey. We meet again... Look, I know
dialog: you understand what I'm about to do
dialog: here. I think. But I hope you forgive
dialog: me anyway.
text: Andy takes a deep breath. He leans down to the transformer
text: and opens the safety cover, and flips the power switch. All
text: the machines power down.
text: Suddenly the old man in the bed sits up, gasping, and clawing
text: at the walls of the oxygen tent. Oh my God! It's NOT
text: Terrence!! Andy nearly soils himself, diving down to fumble
text: with the transformer, suddenly all thumbs. He switches the
text: power on again.
scene_heading: THE NURSE STATION
text: The fat, sour looking duty nurse sees the alarm from the
text: failed life support system. She's about to call for help
text: when the indicator stops flashing. She watches it intently
text: for a few seconds, nothing. She decides to dismiss it.
scene_heading: TERRENCE'S ROOM
text: The old man is lying back down, asleep. He seems to be okay.
text: His support machinery is functioning normally again.
text: With a sigh of relief, Andy turns and pulls back the curtain
text: behind him. There's Terrence, sans oxygen tent, hooked up to
text: another extensive support system.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: So. You moved...
text: He pulls the curtain closed behind him, and moves in close
text: to his uncle. Terrence's expression looks unmistakably morose.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You don't look happy... Um, I don't
dialog: usually go in for this stuff, but...
dialog: (He crosses himself,
dialog: and says a silent
dialog: prayer)
dialog: Amen.
text: Andy leans down, opens the transformer box, and flips the
text: power switch. The machines power down - all except the EKG
text: monitor, which shows a flat line and emits the familiar steady
text: tone. Andy switches off the monitor. Silence.
text: Terrence's body is completely still, peaceful. He leans down
text: over its face and speaks in a soft voice.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Uncle Terrence? Can you hear me?
text: Terrence's body remains motionless.
text: AT THE NURSE'S STATION
text: This time the nurse doesn't wait to respond. Seeing the
text: indicators from Terrence's room, she presses the intercom.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Chambre 411. Code bleu! Code bleu!
scene_heading: IN TERRENCE'S ROOM
text: Silence. Andy's worried. He takes his uncle by the shoulders.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Come on... Skip the undead orientation
dialog: and get down here.
text: Nothing. He looks at the door nervously.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE DOOR
text: Serafine sees a squad of doctors and nurses pushing trolleys
text: of emergency equipment her way from the far end of the hall.
text: She leans her head in the door to warn Andy.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM
text: Andy is beside himself with stress. He shakes Terrence's bed
text: a little to rouse him. Nothing. He tries a little harder
text: shake... The door opens. It's Serafine, also in a panic.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: They're coming!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Shit. What have I done?
dialog: (to Serafine)
dialog: Stall them! I'll meet you out back.
text: She shuts the door, just in time. The emergency team are
dialog: right there.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (feigning hysterics)
dialog: Stay away from him! You butchers!
dialog: Haven't you done enough already!
text: They struggle to get past her.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM
text: Andy can hear Serafine arguing outside the door. He looks
text: out the window to the three story drop into the alley below.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE DOOR
text: Serafine is finally shoved aside. They push the door open.
speaker_heading: INSIDE
text: Andy rushes to the door and pushes it shut. He cranks the
text: DOORKNOB all the over and bends it down, jamming it in the
text: locked position. He steps away. The door holds, but for how
text: long? He looks at the old man in the oxygen tent. Hmm. He
text: pushes the old man's bed up against the door.
text: Andy forces the window open and steps out onto the ledge. He
text: looks back at his uncle, and the old guy. He shrugs
text: apologetically, then takes a deep breath, closes his eyes,
dialog: and jumps.
scene_heading: OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL ROOM DOOR
text: The fat nurse is getting impatient with the doctors, who are
text: attempting to pick the lock "surgically". She pushes them
text: aside and heaves her considerable heft against into the door.
text: It opens a crack. She backs up and slams it again...
scene_heading: INSIDE THE ROOM
text: The nurse's jolts shake the old guy's bed, sliding it forward.
text: He dozes happily like a baby rocking in the cradle.
text: EXT. THE BACK ALLEY BEHIND THE HOSPITAL
text: Andy runs behind a nearby dumpster to avoid being seen from
text: the window above. He kicks the wall in frustration.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Damn it!!
text: A voice calls out from behind Andy.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE'S VOICE
dialog: Whoa! What an outrageous nightmare!
text: Andy spins around and sees Terrence, the undead version,
text: perched atop some trash bags, scratching himself.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Uncle Terrence?
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Andy? Andy is that you?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah. Look, uncle Terrence -
text: Terrence mutters distractedly, excitedly, and quickly...
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Andy, I have to tell you about the
dialog: dream I had - or that I'm still having -
text: it feels like a systemic, physio-
dialog: tropic reaction to some drug, maybe
dialog: a triptamine or phenethylamine
dialog: derivative. But it is hyper-real.
dialog: I'd swear my legs had been cut off
dialog: or... wait a second... I'm getting a
dialog: strange meta-physical buzz. Shit.
dialog: I'm, uh, dead, aren't I?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Sort of...
text: BACK IN THE HOSPITAL ROOM
text: The doctors have clustered around Terrence's corpse. The
text: nurse is lubricating the electro-shock paddles for the doctor.
text: Serafine slips out the door into the hallway.
text: SOMEONE'S POV, spying from behind a supply cart in the hallway
text: (we see a hand on the cart), watches Serafine walk away,
text: unnoticed by the doctors.
text: BACK IN THE ALLEY
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Undead. Right. Sort of an ectocosmic
dialog: manifestation. What a pisser. Tell
dialog: you one thing though, Timothy Leary
dialog: will be jealous as hell.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Great, but listen, I need to know
dialog: where you hid the ADM?
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: The ADM! Be careful, Andy. It's very
dialog: powerful. How do you know about it?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I went to St. Severin church.
dialog: (Terrence reacts "I
dialog: see...")
dialog: Now look -
scene_heading: IN TERRENCE'S ROOM
text: ZAP! The doctor jolts Terrence's chest with the paddles.
scene_heading: IN THE ALLEY
text: Terrence's zombie jerks with sudden pain.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Oh shit! No! Andy, don't let them
dialog: take me back there!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: The ADM! Quickly! Where is it?!
scene_heading: TERRENCE'S ROOM
text: ZZT! They zap him again.
text: IN THE BACK ALLEY
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Where is it! Please!
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: AHHH!! The wine cellar!! In a bottle
text: of Chateau Margaux. A metal
dialog: cylinder... Don't... Don't - AAAAH!
text: Another zap. The undead Terrence twists his face in pain. In
text: the background, Serafine appears at the mouth of the alley.
text: Terrence croaks out a few last words.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Lies! All lies! Ahhhh!!!
text: Andy turns towards Serafine, then back to his uncle, but
text: Terrence is gone.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM
text: Terrence's face is contorted with pain. The EKG monitor shows
text: a weak but regular heartbeat. The doctor pulls off his mask
text: and wipes his brow. The other technicians congratulate him.
scene_heading: IN THE ALLEY
text: Serafine approaches. Andy runs up to join her.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I saw him. Just before those bastards
text: zapped him back. The ADM is in the
text: wine cellar, in a bottle of Chateau
dialog: Margaux.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I didn't know he had a wine cellar.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Guess that's why he hid it there.
dialog: Let's go.
text: They run out of the alley and see GASTON jump on his hopped-
dialog: up Kawasaki enduro.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Oh shit! He must have heard us.
text: Gaston sees them, gives them the finger and tears off down
dialog: the street.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Dammit! C'mon!
text: They run to Serafine's Vespa - the tires are slashed. Enraged,
text: she kicks it over.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: That bastard! Fuck!
text: Andy looks around desperately. A GUY pulls his motorcycle
text: out of its parking spot and starts up the street towards
text: Andy. Andy jumps out in front of the accelerating bike and
text: grabs the handlebars, stopping it short, sending the rider
text: tumbling forward, over Andy. He lands on his butt in the
text: street and starts yelling at Andy, who climbs on the bike.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Sorry... I'll bring it back.
text: Serafine hops on the back and they burn rubber down the street
text: after Gaston. Music cue: CCR's "Bad Moon on the Rise". They
text: screech around the corner onto
scene_heading: SAINT GERMAIN BOULEVARD
text: It's red lights as far as the eye can see. Andy grits his
text: teeth and accelerates towards the cluster of traffic stopped
text: at the first light.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Oh merde!
text: She shuts her eyes as Andy zooms between the rows of stopped
text: cars and roars through the red light. SCREECH!! Crossing
text: cars slam on their brakes and swerve to avoid the speeding
text: bike. Andy bears down on the next red light.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Are you crazy!?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Before Hemingway, there was Starsky
dialog: and Hutch.
text: Andy speeds through more stopped cars and runs the next red
text: light. SCREECH!! More swerving cars. Andy has to swerve
text: himself to avoid one. He bears down on the next light.
dialog: Meanwhile...
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: is stopped on his bike, casually talking on a cellular phone,
text: two red lights ahead of Andy and Serafine. He hears their
text: bike and turns to see them zoom through the intersection in
text: back of him. Gaston curses, puts the phone in his pocket and
text: twists his throttle, accelerating through the red light.
scene_heading: ANDY AND SERAFINE
text: gain on Gaston. They're seventy five yards behind him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: pulls a pistol and aims over his shoulder. BANG! He fires
text: back at them.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
text: pulls her pistol out. Both bikes roar through another red
text: light.
text: A POLICE CAR pulls out onto the boulevard and turns on its
text: flashing lights and siren and pursues the bikes. The traffic
text: lights turn green.
text: Gaston leads by fifty yards. The cop car pulls alongside
text: Andy and Serafine. She discreetly pockets her gun. The COP
text: in the passenger seat aims his gun at Andy.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Pull over! Now!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Shit!
text: There's no choice. They pull over. GASTON speeds safely away,
text: looking back at them and laughing. The cop car stops ahead
text: of them and the COPS get out, guns drawn.
speaker_heading: FIRST COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Hands in the air! Now!
text: Andy and Serafine put up their hands. The first cop goes
text: back to check the police radio, which is beeping. The second
text: cop keeps his gun aimed at Andy's head. He's furious.
speaker_heading: SECOND COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Hot shot huh? You know how many
dialog: officers die in high speed chases?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (French)
dialog: Moron! The guy ahead of us has a
dialog: gun! He's the one you should stop!
speaker_heading: SECOND COP
dialog: Shut up! I don't need you to tell me
dialog: my job. It's always "the other guy"!
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: He's going to kill people you ignorant
dialog: shithead!
speaker_heading: SECOND COP
dialog: Okay! That's it! You're under arrest!
dialog: Maybe you'll learn some respect in
dialog: jail!
text: Serafine curses again. Andy tries to calm her down. The
text: arguing escalates... In the car, the first cop is talking on
dialog: the radio.
speaker_heading: FIRST COP
dialog: Really?
text: He turns, looks out his window and sees
speaker_heading: RENE AND FRANCOIS
text: parked in their unmarked car. Rene is talking with him on
text: the radio. Francois waves.
speaker_heading: THE SECOND COP
text: is trying to put handcuffs on Serafine. She's still screaming
text: at him. He's incensed. The first cop gets out of the car and
text: walks up to them.
speaker_heading: FIRST COP
dialog: (to Andy and Serafine)
dialog: You can go.
text: His partner looks at him, incredulous, red-faced.
speaker_heading: SECOND COP
dialog: (French - to first
dialog: cop)
dialog: WHAT!?
speaker_heading: FIRST COP
dialog: (ignores 2nd cop)
dialog: Drive safely.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Merci.
text: Serafine smiles at the second cop. Andy peels out, races
text: through the red light and disappears down the boulevard. The
text: cops watch them go, then turn to each other. The second cop
text: is apoplectic - about to explode.
scene_heading: INT. UNMARKED CAR
text: Rene and Francois speed off to keep pace with Andy. Rene is
text: dialing his cellular phone. As they pass the other police
text: car, we glimpse the two cops in an angry shoving match against
text: the car. Rene's call goes through.
scene_heading: INT. SAINT SEVERIN CHURCH
text: LeDuc is on the balcony, studying the stained glass panels
text: and consulting an old book. The cellular phone in his coat
text: pocket rings. An OLD PRIEST nearby frowns at him.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French - into phone)
dialog: Hello.
dialog: (Pause)
dialog: I'll meet you there in ten minutes.
text: He hangs up. The priest is still frowning at him. LeDuc shrugs
text: gruffly - "what do you want from me?" and turns back to the
dialog: stained glass.
text: As the church bells sound ten o'clock we cut to different
text: panels: Several scenes of werewolves terrorizing people. A
text: scene where some people mix potions and dump a strange flower
text: into a cauldron. Another shows an evil looking man shaking
text: his arm defiantly at a frowning sun - though he is human his
text: raised arm is the enlarged, hairy limb of a werewolf. Another
text: shows a saint throwing the strange flower into a fire in the
dialog: town square.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: Thank God for Saint Severin.
text: The bells strike ten. LeDuc checks his watch, closes his
text: book and hurries off.
scene_heading: EXT. TERRENCE'S APT. BUILDING
text: Music cue: "Evil" by Howlin' Wolf. Gaston stops, jumps off
text: his bike, and runs into the court yard.
scene_heading: ANDY AND SERAFINE
text: speed along on the bike, weaving through narrow side streets.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: riding the wire cage elevator in the apartment building down
text: to the basement. He gets out and walks down the dank hallway,
text: past several padlocked doors. He stops at one with a MCDERMOTT
text: nameplate. He's about to shoot it off, then looking around,
text: thinks again. He grabs the lock and, grimacing with the
text: effort, twists it off with his bare hands.
scene_heading: ANDY AND SERAFINE
text: stuck behind a garbage truck on a narrow street. Andy hops
text: the curb and races down the sidewalk, scattering pedestrians.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: flicks on the light switch in the wine cellar. There are six
text: large racks of wine bottles. He walks past them, scanning
text: the bottles. He stops at the third rack and removes a bottle.
text: The label reads "Chateau Margaux". He tries to peer inside,
text: but it's too hard to see. Instead, he hurls it at the wall -
text: SMASH!! Wine sprays everywhere, but no metal cylinder. He
text: grabs another bottle. SMASH!! Just wine. He grabs another...
scene_heading: ANDY AND SERAFINE
text: arrive in front of the apartment and hop off their bike.
text: Serafine eyes GASTON'S BIKE hatefully. Andy pulls her along.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Wait a second...
text: She pulls out her gun. BLAM! BLAM! She blasts the gas tank -
text: WOOF! The bike goes up in a fireball. Serafine nods,
text: satisfied. Andy looks at her like she's nuts. They rush into
text: the courtyard.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: throws another bottle. SMASH! Just wine. The floor is awash
text: in the pricey Burgundy. He throws another bottle. SMASH!
text: Nothing. He licks his fingers. He's enjoying this...
scene_heading: SERAFINE AND ANDY
text: In the elevator, going down, maddeningly slowly. Through the
text: window they can see the full moon in the sky. Andy checks
text: his watch. They look at each other nervously.
speaker_heading: GASTON
text: Throws another - SMASH! A small METAL CYLINDER clinks as it
text: bounces on the floor. Gaston picks it up and smiles. BANG! A
text: gunshot hits Gaston in the arm - he drops the cylinder.
text: Serafine and Andy stand in the doorway.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Dirty bastard...
text: Serafine fires again - BANG! The shot misses as Gaston hits
text: the deck and draws his gun in one very fast motion, taking
text: aim at Andy who's rushing towards him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: That's far enough!
text: Andy stops, Gaston's gun aimed at his chest. Serafine steps
text: slowly towards Gaston, her gun aimed at him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (to Serafine)
dialog: Another step and he's dead!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Go ahead Serafine. Blow him away.
text: Serafine stops. The three of them stand there in a close
text: triangle, the metal cylinder on the floor between them. It's
dialog: a Mexican standoff... in Paris. Then...
speaker_heading: CLAUDE (O.S.)
dialog: Drop the gun!
text: Claude is in the doorway holding a pistol. Serafine sees him
text: and turns back to Gaston, smiling.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (to Gaston)
dialog: You heard him. Do it!
text: Gaston just smiles back at her. Claude steps forwards and
text: cocks his gun against Serafine's head.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: I said drop the gun.
text: Serafine's expression turns confused, horrified. Andy is
text: shocked. She drops the gun. Claude picks it up and pockets
text: it, keeping his gun on Serafine, who stares at him, aghast.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You bastard! God! I should've known.
dialog: You wanted the cure all for yourself!
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Cure!? Ha-ha-ha!
text: Andy and Serafine react with confusion to Gaston's outburst.
text: Claude picks up the metal cylinder and unscrews its cap with
text: his free hand. He slides out a vial filled with amber fluid
text: and holds it to up to the light. He smiles.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: No, it's no cure. It's something
dialog: much more interesting.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You fucking liar!
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (with mock alarm)
dialog: Oh, did I hurt the little girl's
dialog: feelings? Well excusez moi... I
dialog: confess my desire for ADM is quite
dialog: "intense". So I deceived you and our
dialog: poor friend Terry - a competent
dialog: technician, but let's face it, a bit
dialog: naive. "The great cure for
dialog: lycanthropy!" Hmph. He didn't have
dialog: the vision to grasp the potential of
dialog: ADAM, until it was too late. And
text: even then, he came rushing down to
dialog: tell me, as if I would be just as
dialog: shocked! Ha.
text: He pockets the vial, pulls out the white "cyanide" tablet
text: and pops it in his mouth. Andy reacts with shock.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (off Andy's look,
text: crunching up tablet
dialog: in his mouth)
dialog: Oh this? Rolaids. I had a midnight
dialog: snack that... disagreed with me.
text: Serafine's been doing a slow burn. She explodes and lunges
text: at Claude, knocking his gun out of his hand.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Fucking traitor!
text: She picks Claude up and hurls him across the room. CRASH!!
text: Claude smashes into a rack of wine bottles. Serafine jumps
text: after him and dives on top of him pummeling him in a blind
text: rage. Andy looks at her, agog.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Wait a second...
text: He and Gaston notice Claude's gun at the same time. They
text: both dive for it. Andy grabs it but Gaston steps on his hand
text: and aims his gun down at him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: You want to be cured?
text: He cocks the gun. Andy lets go of Claude's gun. Gaston picks
text: it up and aims one gun at Andy and the other at Serafine,
text: who's wrestling with Claude. Claude throws her off and she
text: lands on her butt next to Andy. Andy looks at Serafine.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What the fuck!? You too!?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (stammering)
dialog: I... I didn't think you would... I'm
dialog: sorry... I believed that son-of-a-
dialog: bitch...
text: Claude gets to his feet, drenched with wine and smarting
text: from Serafine's punches. He walks over to Serafine and kicks
text: her in the face.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Shut up, you foul mouthed little
dialog: cunt. I don't have time for your
dialog: histrionics.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Give me the ADM old man.
text: Gaston is aiming one of his guns at Claude.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Oh for Christ's sakes Gaston. Can't
dialog: you rise above the level of common
dialog: thug just this once?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Give it to me!
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Don't be an idiot. There are certain
dialog: procedures one must -
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: NOW!
text: Claude sighs. He takes the vial from his pocket and walks
text: over to Gaston.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Very well then...
text: Gaston grabs the vial, uncaps it and drinks it down greedily.
text: He stands there, waiting. Nothing happens...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Ha. Some wonder drug...
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Why isn't it doing anything!?
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: I told you. It's not ready.
text: Claude turns to the noise of footsteps and a walkie-talkie
text: in the hallway. Four uniformed officers plus Rene and Francois
text: storm into the room, guns drawn.
speaker_heading: COPS
dialog: (French/English)
dialog: Freeze! Drop your weapons! Hands up!
text: Andy and Serafine put up their hands. Gaston brandishes his
text: guns at the cops, then sees the six guns aimed at him and
text: drops it. LeDuc walks in.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (French - to LeDuc)
dialog: Thank God! These hoodlums tried to
dialog: rob me!
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French - to Claude)
dialog: Put up your hands.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (French)
dialog: But surely -
text: LeDuc cocks his pistol and aims it at Claude.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: Now!
text: Claude puts his hands up.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (French)
dialog: What's the charge?
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: There is no charge.
dialog: (English)
dialog: Everybody comes in for a few
dialog: questions. Everything checks out,
dialog: you will go free. After midnight.
text: Claude frowns. Gaston swears. Andy looks at Serafine, shocked
text: and confused. She looks back at him, angry and sad.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: The cops are herding the handcuffed "questionees" into the
text: back of a reinforced paddy wagon. LeDuc talks to the DRIVER,
text: and another COP in the passenger seat.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: Godard is waiting for you at Rocherout
dialog: jail. Hurry... And don't stop for
dialog: anything. Good luck.
text: The driver nods. It roars off, lights flashing and siren
text: wailing. LeDuc and the other cops head for their respective
text: cars. LeDuc barks orders to an AID who's at the ready with
text: the car radio.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: I want four separate maximum security
dialog: cells ready. Get video cameras,
text: photographers, and doctors.
text: The aid nods and gets on the radio. LeDuc checks his watch.
text: It's 10:47.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PADDY WAGON
text: Serafine hangs her head sullenly, in a quiet rage. She won't
text: meet Andy's gaze. He looks over at Claude and Gaston. Gaston
text: is restless, edgy. He grabs Claude by the collar and shakes
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Nothing's happening!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Looks like he lied to you too.
text: Claude breaks Gaston's grip and shoves him back in his seat.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: Relax my friend. It's still not ready.
text: Andy looks back at Serafine. He shakes his head in disbelief.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Now I remember why I didn't want to
dialog: come to Paris. Everyone you meet is
dialog: a goddam werewolf!
text: Serafine stares bitterly at her feet.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I hope they fucking fry us all.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah. French fries...
text: SLAM! He's interrupted by the sound of Gaston's head snapping
text: back against the wall. His eyes bulge wide. He grins and
text: starts to laugh. First a little. Then a lot.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Yes! Yes! Ha! Haha hahaha...
text: He stands up, laughing, power-mad. Suddenly his body is jerked
text: by a spasm and he falls to the floor. He's not laughing
text: anymore. He flails about wildly, croaking out strangled cries,
text: gripped with a terrible seizure.
scene_heading: IN THE FRONT CAB
text: The TWO GUARDS, the driver and his partner, hear the
text: commotion. The guard looks over to his partner, and chuckles.
speaker_heading: PARTNER
dialog: Aaooooo!!! Heh heh heh.
text: They both laugh. The driver takes a sharp turn at high speed.
text: IN THE BACK COMPARTMENT
text: Gaston flops around on the floor like a fish, grabbed by a
text: flurry of convulsions. He bites off his tongue, spitting
text: blood everywhere. Finally, he goes rigid with one last
text: seizure, then falls totally limp. Andy studies the very dead
dialog: corpse.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: It killed him... You coulda just
dialog: used Draino. It's cheaper.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: I told him it wasn't ready...
text: Claude takes a folded PAPER CUP from his jacket pocket. He
text: blows into the cup to bring it back into shape. He then takes
text: a SHARPENED STEEL TUBE from his pocket, plunges it into
text: Gaston's neck, and fills the cup with the blood that pours
text: forth. Andy and Serafine are horrified. Claude puts the cup
text: of blood to his lips and pauses.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Now it's ready.
text: He swallows the cup of blood down in one gulp, and sits back
text: to wait for the effects, smiling dreamily.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: What is the curse of the werewolf?
dialog: I'll tell you. The curse is to possess
dialog: such awesome power and yet be
text: completely unconscious of it. It may
dialog: as well belong to someone else. But
dialog: it wasn't always that way. A thousand
dialog: years ago the Gauls had a drug
text: powerful enough to unlock the door
dialog: to lycanthropic consciousness, to
dialog: full control. It came from
text: moonsbreath. A small white flower
dialog: once found in the hills of this
text: region, until the thick headed crusade
dialog: by our famous Saint Severin eradicated
dialog: it for all eternity. But now, thanks
text: to ADAM, the "curse" is over...
text: As he says this, he holds up his RIGHT ARM. It begins to
text: mutate and grow, reshaping his arm into the grotesque,
text: powerful forelimb of the beast. PLINK! His swelling wrist
text: pops the handcuff easily.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (French)
dialog: Holy mother of God...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Fuck me...
text: Claude rises to his feet, triumphant. He advances towards
text: Andy and Serafine, backing them up against the rear doors of
text: the van. He gently traces the outline of Serafine's face
text: with his werewolf hand. She bristles at his touch.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: All my life I've worked to unlock
dialog: the power of the unconscious mind.
dialog: Well this is it. This is power!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You sure it's not just 'coz you jerk
dialog: off too much?
text: Claude cocks his werewolf fist and SLAMS it into the back
text: doors, inches from Andy's head. He leaves a deep dent, and
text: opens the doors just a crack. It's a gesture that seems
text: calculated to frighten them. It works.
text: Claude holds up his LEFT ARM and transforms it to match his
text: right. It takes some effort and a little pain, but he keeps
text: a smile on his face throughout the process.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Don't you see what this means? I've
dialog: broken through! I'm in total control!
dialog: Not the moon! I can do whatever the
dialog: fuck I want!
text: SMASH!! Claude drives his left arm into the back doors, making
text: another huge dent, and opening the crack even wider.
scene_heading: IN THE FRONT CAB
text: The cops exchange worried looks. The one on the passenger
text: side slides open the viewing panel. Claude has his back to
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: Hey! What's going on in -
text: He stops short as Claude turns around, revealing his monstrous
text: arms. Mortified, the cop reaches for the SHOT GUN under the
text: dash. Claude races up towards the view window. As the guard
text: pokes the muzzle through the window, Claude grabs hold of
text: it. BLAM! The guard's shot hits the side wall. Claude rips
text: the gun from the guard angrily, and smashes it to pieces
text: against the wall, grinning like the devil himself.
text: Meanwhile ANDY throws himself at the doors, kicking them,
text: trying in vain to break them open. He spots the SHOTGUN BARREL
text: on the floor and grabs it.
text: CLAUDE reaches through the window and grabs the guard by the
text: head. He repeatedly smashes the guard's head against the
text: back wall of the cab.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: (as he smashes the
dialog: guard)
dialog: Don't you know... the wolf... is a
dialog: protected... species!?
text: The driver freaks out, seeing his partner get his head
text: crushed. THE PADDY WAGON swerves all over the road.
text: ANDY uses the shotgun barrel to twist open the lock on the
text: van doors. As the vehicle swerves, he drops the barrel out
text: the door, and falls over. He calls to Serafine.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I need your help. Come on.
text: She joins him and together they take a run at the back doors.
text: The doors open a little, but the lock still holds.
text: Finished with the guard, Claude turns and sees what Andy and
dialog: Serafine are up to.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Wait!
text: Andy and Serafine take another run - it works. THE DOORS
text: bust open, and Andy and Serafine, still handcuffed, go
text: tumbling out into THE STREET, rolling on the pavement.
text: SCREECH! HONK! Cars swerve to avoid them, just barely. CRASH!
text: A minivan plows into a parked car. Claude watches from the
text: back of the van. He rears his head to the moon and smiles.
text: IN THE CAB of the paddy wagon, the driver hears an unearthly
text: howl. It's hellish. Without looking away from the road, he
text: points his pistol through the hole in the compartment. He
text: adjusts THE MIRROR to see into the rear compartment - The
text: back doors are hanging open. He steals a look over his
text: shoulder - Other than Gaston's corpse, it's empty... He
text: breathes a sigh of relief and turns back to the road as -
text: A HUGE WEREWOLF - Claude fully transformed - bursts through
text: the windshield and rips into him.
text: THE PADDY WAGON is traveling over the Pont Neuf bridge. A
text: GASOLINE TRUCK approaches from the other direction. The
text: werewolf leaps off of the hood just as the paddy wagon,
text: swerving all over the road, hits the gasoline truck head on.
text: KA-BOOM!! Both vehicles explode in a fireball, smash through
text: the side wall of the bridge, and plunge into THE RIVER.
scene_heading: INT. SQUAD CAR
text: LeDuc, following at a distance, is trying in vain to get the
text: paddy wagon driver on the radio.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Allo! Jean-Louis! Respond! Allo!
text: His partner slows the car. Traffic ahead is snarled. It's
text: chaos. He taps LeDuc on the arm and points...
speaker_heading: PARTNER
dialog: Inspector...
text: Leduc sees the column of black smoke in the distance.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Merde... merde, merde, merde.
text: He slams his fist against the dash angrily.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PARIS STREET, NIGHT
text: Andy lies by the roadside, dazed, bruised, handcuffed, but
text: conscious. He sits up unsteadily, and looks for Serafine.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Serafine?
text: He sees a small crowd of people a little further up the road,
text: outside a small bistro. He staggers up to them and pushes
text: his way through. Serafine is there on the ground by the curb,
text: eyes closed.
text: Kneeling beside her, he turns angrily on the onlookers.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Get out of here! Go on! Move it!
text: He shoos them away. Of course, they just back up a bit, still
text: gawking at the handcuffed couple.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Serafine... Get up, come on...
text: Andy brushes away the hair from Serafine's face. He feels
text: her neck for a pulse - she has one. But as he takes his hand
text: away, he notices a smudge of BASE MAKE-UP has rubbed off on
text: his fingers. He looks at the back of Serafine's neck and
text: sees that the makeup had been covering A SCAR. It bears the
text: unmistakable star shape of the wound Andy inflicted on the
text: werewolf that bit him.
text: Horrified, he stands and backs away a few feet. Serafine
text: opens her eyes, sees him.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (groggy)
dialog: Andy?... What? What is it?
text: (she sits up, her
dialog: head clearing)
dialog: Andy... are you okay?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: It was you... That night in the
dialog: tunnels. You. You did this to me.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: No I.... Andy, you can't be sure.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: That's the scar where I stabbed you!
dialog: Oh God... You deliberately took me
dialog: down there so you could... God, I
dialog: can't believe it!
text: Serafine gets to her feet, a little unsteadily at first.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You made me go there. I tried to
dialog: stop you! You wouldn't listen!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What was I? Your idea of a fuckin'
dialog: hors d'oeuvre? Huh?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Shut up! You fucking shut up! What
dialog: do you want? Huh? What the hell do
dialog: you want?
text: She walks over, grabs a steak knife from one of the outside
text: tables at the bistro, and charges at Andy, pulling open her
text: shirt... She offers him the knife, and pounds at her heart.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Here! Come on! Do it! Go ahead.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What...?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You know what. Kill me. Cut out my
dialog: fucking heart. Go on! Do it!
text: Enraged, Andy takes the knife. He and Serafine lock eyes.
text: For a second he's tempted, his blood boiling, heart pounding.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You're crazy.
text: He throws the knife aside, turns and walks away.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: This is all crazy!
text: Serafine retrieves the knife and chases after him. She gets
text: in front of him and blocks his path. She holds the knife
text: point to her own chest.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: The drug was a lie, but the legend
dialog: in the church is true. Ask the undead.
text: Andy just stares back at her, not knowing what to say. It's
text: all too much to believe. He shakes his head. He tries to go,
text: but she moves in front of him. She's determined.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: We don't both have to die.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (softening)
dialog: I couldn't do it. Not to you.
text: He sees her looking up. He follows her gaze to the FULL MOON.
text: It's getting late. Andy shudders, wipes the sweat from his
text: brow. He's already starting to feel the heat in his blood.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I can't go through another night. I
dialog: won't.
text: Andy takes her hand and guides the knife away from her chest.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I know... I'm already burning up...
dialog: Look, I'm not going to go through
dialog: this another night either. But we
dialog: still have some time to get Claude.
dialog: He'll just kill more people, and
dialog: spread the curse.
text: She's desperate, tears welling up in her eyes.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: We can't stop him. Not now.
text: Handcuffed, with no kind of weapons.
dialog: Please Andy...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: No. We have to try. We'll figure
dialog: something out. And if midnight comes
dialog: before we can get to him, well, then
dialog: we go together. Deal?
text: (he extends a cuffed
dialog: hand)
dialog: Shake a paw?
text: She laughs despite her tears, puts her cuffed hands over his
text: head and hugs him tightly.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: I know where he'll go.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Somewhere where there are no police,
dialog: and plenty to eat.
text: Andy looks at her. He knows what she's driving at.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PETIT PONT - NIGHT
text: LeDuc and Napier stand on the bridge, which has been blocked
text: off, watching the tow truck drag the charred wreck of the
text: paddy wagon from the river. Ambulances wait nearby. Firemen
text: are still putting out small piles of flaming debris.
speaker_heading: NAPIER
dialog: (French)
dialog: Poor Bazin and Racine. At least they
dialog: brought those monsters down with
dialog: them.
text: LeDuc isn't listening - he sees something that makes his
text: face go slack: The paddy wagon emerges from the murky water
text: revealing the open, banged-up back door with several large
text: FIST PRINTS in it. He checks his watch - it's 11:32.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French - to himself)
dialog: Impossible...
dialog: (to Napier - urgent)
dialog: Get headquarters on the radio.
text: Napier isn't paid to ask questions. He hops to it.
speaker_heading: NAPIER
dialog: Right away sir.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PARTY - NIGHT
text: Andy and Serafine emerge from the tunnel, wearing grim,
text: determined expressions. The party is in full swing - throbbing
text: beats and sweaty dancing bodies. They walk straight across
text: the dance floor, pushing their way through the crowd. Amongst
text: the variety of freaky types here, no one raises an eyebrow
text: at two people in handcuffs.
text: Serafine, who's scanning the room, is approached by a leather
text: clad HIPSTER GUY.
speaker_heading: HIPSTER GUY
dialog: Serafine, mon belle! Ca va?
text: He goes to kiss her on both cheeks. Without breaking stride,
text: she puts her handcuffed hands on his face and shoves, sending
text: him reeling.
text: Serafine points out a gang of four militant skinheads off in
text: a corner. Andy nods and smiles.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: This could be fun.
text: They make their way to the skinheads. Andy walks up to the
text: SKINHEAD LEADER, who's got a swastika tattoo, a bad
text: disposition, and a fifty pound advantage on Andy.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I got something you want. Follow me.
text: Andy and Serafine walk into A SMALL CHAMBER off the main
text: space. The skinhead signals his mates to come along, slips
text: on some BRASS KNUCKLES, and follows Andy into
speaker_heading: THE CHAMBER
text: The skinheads surround Andy and Serafine. There's no one
text: else in the room. The skinhead leader looks at Andy's
text: handcuffs and sniggers.
speaker_heading: SKINHEAD
dialog: What do you got, pervert?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: I got Hitler's dick in a jar. And
dialog: the funny thing is it's still in
text: Goerring's mouth.
text: The skinhead turns red with rage and throws a punch at Andy's
text: head. With lightning speed, Andy grabs the skinhead's fist,
text: twists his arm around his back and hurls him across the room.
text: He slams face first into the stone wall and collapses on the
text: floor with a THUD.
text: Simultaneously, the other three skinheads attack. Serafine
text: BASHES one across the face with both fists, sending him to
text: the floor. The other gets her in a headlock from behind. She
text: runs backwards and - SLAM! - crushes him against the wall.
text: The third skinhead tries to kick Andy in the groin. Andy
text: grabs his boot and flips him over backwards - he actually
text: does a full back flip and lands on his face.
text: The leader groggily pulls a pistol and aims it at Andy. Andy
text: snatches it out of his hand.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Didn't even have to ask.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (French)
dialog: All your weapons, on the floor! Now!
text: The skinheads slide out some LEAD PIPES, a SWITCHBLADE,
text: another PISTOL, and an army surplus GRENADE. Andy and Serafine
text: scoop them up, except the lead pipes.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Neo-Nazis. Ya gotta love 'em.
dialog: (to the Skinheads)
dialog: Merci beau coup, monsieurs.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT
text: Music cue: "After Midnight (we're gonna let it all hang out)".
text: Andy's gun is pressed against the chain on Serafine's
text: handcuffs - BANG! The chain is broken. BANG! She returns the
text: favor and his chain is broken.
text: They walk into the DRIPPING, dank tunnel, away from the party,
text: which fades away in the background. Each carries a pistol
text: and a flashlight. BEADS OF SWEAT appear on their foreheads.
text: The tunnel tilts downhill. Heavier DRIPPING. They turn a
dialog: corner and...
text: SLAM! Something barrels into them - it's a HYSTERICAL GIRL.
text: She's about nineteen and splattered with blood. She SCREAMS
text: uncontrollably. Serafine holds her by the shoulders, trying
dialog: to calm her.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (French)
dialog: Ahhhhhhhh! A monster! My God! It got
dialog: my boyfriend! Noooooo!
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Ou!? Ou est le monstre!?
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Ahhhh! Let me go! Let me gooooo!!
text: She's off the deep end, flailing at Serafine, who keeps trying
text: to calm her down. There's no time for this. Andy presses his
text: gun to her temple. She shuts up and stares at him with wide,
text: terror stricken eyes.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (calm, firm)
dialog: Ou est le monstre?
text: She points back down the tunnel she came out of.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (French)
text: Down the stairs.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Merci.
text: He lets her go. She starts SCREAMING again and continues on,
text: disappearing into darkness. Andy winces and holds his ears.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: No wonder he let her go.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Really.
text: They run in the direction she pointed. They arrive at the
text: intersection with A STAIRWAY to the right. They start down
text: it. They see something up ahead -
text: SOMEONE'S HAND is sticking out on the ground from a passage
text: at a landing on the staircase.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Her boyfriend.
text: The hand moves a bit, pulls back and disappears into the
text: crossing passage.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: He's alive. C'mon.
text: They hurry down to the landing, shine their light into the
text: passage. The hand is severed, and A BIG RAT is dragging it
text: along with some difficulty. A dozen or other rats munch on
text: scraps of flesh scattered over a grisly mess of blood and
text: body parts. Andy and Serafine stare at it for a moment.
text: Suddenly Andy looks away.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: God. I can't believe it.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (disturbed)
dialog: It's making me hungry.
text: A beast HOWL echoes through the tunnels. Serafine shines he
text: flashlight on some bloody beast foot/paw prints leading down
dialog: the stairs.
text: They follow the bloody prints down the stairs and come to an
text: ancient ARCHED DOORWAY with a skull set in the arch and a
text: chiseled inscription. Andy points to the inscription.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What does it say?
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: (reading)
dialog: "Stop! Beyond this passage lie the
dialog: catacombs of Paris: the exclusive
dialog: domain of the dead."
text: Andy gestures back to the bloody remains.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: We'll say we're with him.
text: They walk through the gate and enter
speaker_heading: THE CATACOMBS
text: Andy shines his flashlight around, illuminating two large
text: tunnels which lead into a twisting, intestinal maze, lined
text: from floor to ceiling with HUMAN SKULLS and FEMURS. The bones
text: form the building blocks of the tunnel walls and are arranged
text: in various patterns - from crucifixes to Masonic pyramids
text: and even pentagrams. Ground water seeps from the ceilings
text: and walls, DRIPPING over the eroded, crumbling bones.
text: Despite the situation, Andy can't help but be dumb struck by
text: the spectacular necropolis.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Whoa...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: After the revolution, the Paris
text: cemeteries overflowed. They dug up
dialog: all the old bodies and brought them
dialog: here. Seven million people. Mostly
dialog: very poor.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Pretty stylish digs for a bunch of
text: paupers.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Well, they are French.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Right.
text: Another eerie HOWL echoes through the maze. Andy looks down
text: both main tunnels - the howl seems to come from each of them.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: These tunnels must loop around and
dialog: connect.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Let's go from both ends. We'll cut
dialog: him off.
dialog: Andy considers this.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Okay. Be careful.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: You too.
text: She kisses him. They're both sweating heavily now. She starts
text: off to the right. He watches her go for a moment and then
text: walks down the other skull lined tunnel.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PETIT PONT - NIGHT
text: The CHARRED BODIES of Gaston and the two cops lie on the
text: river bank, near the wreck. LeDuc surveys them with a few
text: other cops. Napier leans out of a nearby car with a radio
text: handset. The bells of nearby Notre Dame begin to ring.
speaker_heading: NAPIER
dialog: (French)
dialog: It's headquarters sir. They got a
dialog: report.
text: LeDuc rushes over and grabs the handset.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French - into radio)
dialog: What've you got?
speaker_heading: DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
dialog: Just a crazy call from a girl,
dialog: probably fucked up on drugs. I
dialog: wouldn't bother you but you said
dialog: call with anything unusual.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: What did she say?
speaker_heading: DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
dialog: Something about a monster,
text: underground, in the catacombs under
dialog: Place Denfert.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: I need two tactical assault squads
dialog: at Place Denfert immediately. You
dialog: can tell the commissioner it's a
dialog: code red.
speaker_heading: DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
dialog: But Inspector, this girl, I wouldn't
dialog: call her reliable.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: Now!
speaker_heading: DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
dialog: Yes sir.
text: LeDuc throws the handset back at Napier. The church bells
dialog: strike twelve.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CATACOMBS
text: Andy walks along carefully, shining the flashlight ahead of
text: him, his gun at the ready. His breathing gets heavier. His
text: face gets redder. More sweat. His heart pounds in his ears.
text: The tunnel follows a serpentine path, with many smaller
text: passages and anterooms off to the sides.
text: Andy sees some flickering light reflecting off the wet skulls
text: up ahead. He approaches it. It's coming out of AN ANTECHAMBER.
text: He holds his gun out in front of him and steps quietly. He
text: peers into the antechamber and finds
scene_heading: TWO HALF EATEN BODIES
text: It's the old hag and the wino he saw in the tunnels at the
dialog: first party. They've been killed very recently - blood still
text: drips from their gaping wounds.
text: He kneels over the wino's body. There's a big chunk missing
text: from his neck. Andy stares at the BLOODY FLESH, transfixed.
text: He shudders with a sudden spasm. His breathing gets quicker.
text: More sweat. He reaches towards the wound, his hand shaking,
text: and touches the flesh. Blood runs down his fingers. He slowly
text: brings his hand back towards his mouth.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE (O.S.)
dialog: Don't do it, Andy. Fight it with
dialog: everything you've got.
text: Andy looks up to see UNCLE TERRENCE, stumps and all, sitting
text: across from him.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Uncle Terrence, you're...
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Yeah, I finally "checked out", thank
dialog: God. But there's a bit of unfinished
dialog: business.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Claude.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: I never thought I'd ask this of
dialog: anyone, Andy, but do me a favor and
dialog: kill the evil son-of-a-bitch, will
dialog: you?
text: A SNARL cuts him off. Andy jumps up, steps out into the main
text: tunnel and shines his light.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: rounds a curve and comes into view about thirty yards away.
text: It's running straight at Andy and closing fast. Andy aims
text: the gun. BANG! A miss - the bullet shatters a skull on the
text: wall. BANG! Another miss. BANG! The bullet hits the beast in
text: the shoulder. It stumbles but keeps coming. BANG! A miss.
text: Andy aims carefully.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: C'mon you mother...
text: BANG! A direct hit in the chest. The beast falls. Snarling
dialog: in pain.
text: BANG! Andy blasts again, but the beast drags itself to the
text: safety of a recessed area off the tunnel, out of Andy's line
text: of fire. Andy walks forward, listening to the horrible wails
text: of the beast, thrashing around in a puddle on the floor.
text: Andy aims his gun and his flashlight as he nears the corner
text: of the recess. The wailing and thrashing settles down. Andy
text: proceeds cautiously. He rounds the corner, and shines the
dialog: light on
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
text: naked, bleeding from bullet wounds in the chest, shoulder,
text: and neck. She lies still. Andy sighs with anguish. He drops
text: to his knees.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: No! Oh God!
text: He puts down his gun and cradles her head in his hands. She's
text: breathing - just barely. She looks into his eyes. Her voice
dialog: is weak.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Oh God. Shit...
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Andy...
text: She reaches up feebly and manages to grab the SWITCHBLADE
text: from his back pocket. She clicks it open and hands it to
dialog: Andy.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Do it.
text: Andy's shaking, shuddering - his breathing erratic.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: No. It's over.
text: He shakily presses the gun to his own head.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE (O.S.)
dialog: Don't, Andy. Stop Claude.
text: Andy looks up. Terrence, Marcel, Amy, and a dozen other
text: mutilated, rotting undead, presumably Serafine's victims,
text: stand in the tunnel, looking on solemnly.
speaker_heading: MARCEL (O.S.)
dialog: Either way works for us...
speaker_heading: AMY
dialog: But you better hurry.
text: Claude's stentorian voice echo's from beyond a curve in the
dialog: tunnel.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE (O.S.)
dialog: You can't turn back Andy.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: in human form, walks towards the glow from Andy's flashlight
text: around the bend. His naked body is taut and muscular - it
text: looks thirty years younger than it should. His face is younger
text: too - he looks the picture of a powerful young warrior.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: "Man is something to be surpassed! A
text: rope, stretched over the abyss between
dialog: the animal and the Superman". Neitzche
dialog: was right, Andy. And now, I have
dialog: crossed that abyss. I am no longer
dialog: man OR beast, but man AND beast.
dialog: ADAM has lived up to its name. I am
dialog: the first new man, and my God it is
dialog: FUCKING MAGNIFICENT! You're already
dialog: half way there Andy. Feel the power
dialog: in your veins. With ADAM, you could
dialog: harness it. Master it. Let it
dialog: transform you into something more
dialog: glorious than your wildest dreams!
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: is shaking violently - on the brink of transforming. Serafine
text: raises the blade to him again. She's fading fast.
speaker_heading: SERAFINE
dialog: Don't let me die for nothing...
text: Andy winces with pain - his brow bulges, his teeth enlarge,
text: the transformation is starting. Uncle Terrence is worried.
speaker_heading: TERRENCE
dialog: Andy!
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: still walking. The light is getting brighter - he's almost
text: around the bend. He's buzzing with a scary kind of euphoria.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: The choice is yours Andy: deny your
dialog: own blood, die an unfulfilled child,
dialog: or face the challenge of mind and
dialog: body united at last. Which will it
dialog: be?
text: He rounds the corner and sees Andy hunched over Serafine's
text: body. He keeps walking.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Don't be confused by old beliefs.
dialog: This is beyond mere words like good
dialog: or evil. You have to feel it!
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: whips around, BLOOD streaming from his mouth, gun aimed,
text: grip rock solid, his features back to normal, eyes locked on
text: the beast with determined, controlled rage.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Feel this.
text: BLAM! BLAM! He pumps out two shots. One hits Claude in the
text: upper left part of his CHEST. The other hits his CHEEK, exits
text: at the back of his jaw and shatters the cheekbone of A SKULL
text: on the wall behind him. He screams in pain and dives for
text: cover into a SMALL INTERSECTING TUNNEL.
text: Andy gets up, pausing for a second to look back at Serafine's
text: face. It looks peaceful. The undead are gone. He starts after
dialog: Claude.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: sits leaning against a wall of skulls. The face wound is
text: bleeding but not mortal.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: Stupid boy...
text: With an awesome rage he grimaces and starts to TRANSFORM HIS
text: LEFT SIDE - his muscles swell around the chest wound and THE
text: BULLET actually squeezes out of the hole and falls to the
text: ground. The wound closes up as the flesh keeps morphing and
text: growing hair.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: creeps around the corner, gun and flashlight aimed, towards
text: the small tunnel.
text: When the flashlight beam falls on Claude, he's in mid pounce -
text: rocketing at Andy with bad intent. BANG! Andy gets off a
text: shot - it hits Claude in his THIGH as he tackles Andy.
text: They wrestle, Claude in mid-transformation, his left side
text: further along, hairier, his facial bones shifting. His thigh
text: swells and ripples and THE BULLET SQUIRTS OUT of its wound.
text: His left arm, mostly transformed, grips Andy's gun hand.
text: BANG! Andy squeezes off a shot, blowing off the tip of
text: Claude's transforming THUMB.
text: CRUNCH! Claude clamps his vice like grip and crushes the
text: gun. Andy wrenches his hand away as Claude hurls him off
text: like a rag doll.
text: Andy flies through the air and SMASHES into the tunnel wall.
text: The wall of ancient SKULLS and BONES shatters and collapses
text: around Andy - burying him in ossified fragments.
text: Andy lifts himself out of the pile and looks at Claude, who
text: lies on the floor finishing his transformation. His right
text: side is catching up with his left and his head is now more
text: beast than human. All the while he glares at Andy and doesn't
text: appear vulner able.
text: Andy takes advantage of the moment to get the hell away - he
text: runs into the tunnel, leaving Claude behind to finish
dialog: transforming.
text: Andy makes a few quick turns through the maze - it seems he
text: has evaded Claude for the moment. He pulls the GRENADE from
text: his pocket, turns off his flashlight and pads along softly,
text: listening for the beast.
text: Suddenly a sharp sound from behind him makes Andy jump.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: (French - screaming)
dialog: STOP WHERE YOU ARE! HANDS UP!
text: Andy turns around. A scared COP is aiming his gun at him,
text: shining a flashlight in his face. Andy puts his hands up.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (English)
dialog: It's you. You should be dead in that
dialog: wreck with Bazin and Racine!
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Shhh! Be quiet, man! We're not alone -
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Shut up! Save your stories. The only
dialog: thing I want to hear is you begging
dialog: for your life. I want to see you
dialog: suffer, like they did.
text: (he sees Andy's look
dialog: of terror)
dialog: Haha! You're scared now, eh? Come
dialog: on. Where's the scary monster now
dialog: huh? Ha ha... We'll see who -
text: A ROAR cuts him off. The cop spins around - the beam from
text: his flashlight flooding THE BEAST with light as it springs
text: through the air at him. Andy runs.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French)
dialog: My God!
text: He gets off one shot - it hits the beast in the arm, but
text: it's too late. The beast clamps it's massive jaw onto the
text: cop's neck and bites his head clean off. THE HEAD rolls across
text: the floor and comes to rest in a pile of skulls.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: SERAFINE'S BODY
text: In the tunnel. Two queasy cops stand over it. LeDuc approaches
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: What have you got?
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: (French - disturbed)
text: It's the girl. Someone cut out her
dialog: heart.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (Matter of factly)
dialog: Good.
text: The cops look at him like he's nuts.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: is crouched at a corner of two catacomb tunnels, grenade
text: clutched in his hand. He hears something and carefully peers
text: around the corner.
speaker_heading: ANDY'S POV
text: At the end of the long tunnel of bones, the beast lurks at
text: another intersection, sniffing the air and growling, some
text: forty yards away.
text: Andy ducks back around the corner. He holds up the grenade,
text: pulls the pin, and whispers a quick prayer...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Just throw a strike...
text: With a determined grunt, he pitches the grenade around the
text: corner and then ducks back. Suddenly the beast's growling
text: stops. Andy grits his teeth and closes his eyes, awaiting
text: the explosion. Just silence. Then a small skittering sound
text: close by. He opens his eyes.
speaker_heading: THE GRENADE
text: skitters to a stop, a couple of feet from him.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Shit!
text: He bolts and gets five steps from it when
text: KA-BOOM!! It explodes behind him, launching him through the
text: air along with a spray of bones and rubble. He lands twenty
text: feet away and clutches his left leg, wincing in pain.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Ahh! Son of a bitch!
speaker_heading: LEDUC
text: and the cops turn towards the sound of the blast.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (French)
dialog: Let's go.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: struggles to his feet. He clicks on his flashlight and sees
text: the blast has caved in the tunnel- a wall of rubble seals
text: Andy off from the beast.
text: Andy breaths a sigh of relief. At least he's got time. He
text: starts limping away from the wall of rubble...
text: SMASH!! The rubble explodes again as the beast crashes through
text: it like a freight train, sending rocks and bones flying.
text: Andy runs as fast as he can with his bad leg. The beast closes
text: in on him quickly. Andy jumps up for a NARROW OPENING in the
text: tunnel ceiling. He grabs the metal rung inside and pulls
text: himself up into the vertical shaft as the beast pounces. The
text: beast catches Andy's foot with its claw. Andy pulls out of
text: his sneaker and just barely eludes the beast's grasp.
text: Andy climbs up the metal rungs in this old service shaft -
text: barely wide enough for his body. The beast claws and gnashes
text: his teeth at the opening but can't fit in - for now.
text: Andy reaches an iron grate, pushes it up and crawls out into
scene_heading: ANOTHER DRIPPY TUNNEL
text: Like the ones near the party - no skulls. There's a lot of
text: water in this one. It looks familiar.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: is transforming back into human shape. His face is now more
text: human than beast. He screams into the vertical passage in a
text: growling, not quite human voice.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: You have no advantage, Andy! My body
dialog: has no limits!
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: looks around in the tunnel. He sees something (we don't). He
text: limps off towards it.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: in his human shape, crawls into the vertical service passage
text: and climbs up the rungs.
text: Claude emerges from the shaft into the dark tunnel. Andy's
text: no where in sight. We hear only dripping water.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
dialog: So this is how you choose to die.
text: Hiding like a scared rabbit. Just
dialog: praying I don't find you...
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: crouches under a concrete ledge in a very dark space. Claude's
text: voice sounds distant, echoey, and competes with the closer
text: sound of trickling water.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE (O.S.)
dialog: Well I assure you, your nervous sweat
dialog: glands will give you away soon enough
dialog: my trembling little rabbit.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: begins transforming. He falls to the ground and groans with
text: joyous pain as his body noisily transforms.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: AHHHH! IT'S FUCKING GLORIOUS!
text: AAAARRGGGHHH!!
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: huddles in his hiding place, looking out into the darkness.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: C'mon already...
text: A glint of light appears in a puddle on the ground. Andy's
text: eyes widen.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE
text: His head is transforming - his exaltations become more
text: animalistic.
speaker_heading: CLAUDE/BEAST
text: RRAAAAAARRRRRRGGG!!
speaker_heading: LEDUC
text: still in the catacombs, hears Claude's yell echo through the
text: tunnels. He thinks it came from above. He runs towards a
dialog: stairway.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: Claude is fully transformed. He sniffs the air, locks in on
text: a scent and sets off through the tunnel.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: watches intently as the light in the puddle gets brighter.
text: It starts reflecting on the wet concrete walls of this tunnel.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Now.
text: Andy clicks on the flashlight, shines it at himself, and
text: yells for all he's worth.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: HEY YOU DIRTY EVIL FUCK! C'MON AND
dialog: GET ME! I DARE YOUR UGLY ASS! (etc.)
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: cocks its head towards Andy's taunts. The sound of flowing
text: water is close by. The beast pounces towards Andy's voice,
dialog: into
scene_heading: THE WET, SLIPPERY STAIRWAY
text: that Andy slid down that first night in the tunnels. The
text: beast loses it's footing and slips helplessly down the slick,
text: eroded stone, GROWLING furiously.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
text: runs down a tunnel, towards Andy's screaming voice. The beam
text: of his flashlight illuminates the landing ahead of him,
text: halfway down the stairwell. He sees THE BEAST slide by,
text: clawing in vain for a grip.
speaker_heading: A METRO TRAIN
text: screams around the bend, lighting up the whole metro tunnel.
text: Andy is still SCREAMING from his refuge under a ledge.
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: shoots out of the stairwell and lands on the tracks. It looks
text: up, frozen for a split second - it's horrible snarling face
text: is caught in the speeding train's harsh glare...
text: SMASH!! Impact. The beast is sucked under the wheels and
text: ground to bits between track and wheels.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
text: at the landing, looks down the stairwell as the train rushes
dialog: past.
speaker_heading: ANDY
text: huddled next to the passing train, clenches his fist in
dialog: victory.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yes!
text: The train passes. Andy gets up and shines his flashlight
text: around the ground. The beasts body lies in chunks, smears,
text: and puddles. The parts begin morphing back into Claude's
text: human forms - A THIGH here, A PIECE OF SPINE there...
text: LEDUC inches his way down the last few feet of the stairway,
text: using the rusty pipe for a handhold. He walks up with his
text: flashlight and aims it at the BEAST'S HEAD, which finishes
text: turning back into Claude's head.
text: LeDuc glances at Andy. He takes a small envelope from his
text: pocket and shakes out a single SILVER BULLET. He loads it
text: into his gun and FIRES straight into Claude's lifeless head.
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: (to Andy)
dialog: I always wanted to do that. I saw it
text: in a movie.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: What about me?
speaker_heading: LEDUC
dialog: My men think you died and floated
dialog: away in the Seine. If I wanted to, I
dialog: could let them believe that.
dialog: (a long pause)
dialog: But that would be illegal...
text: Andy looks at him carefully, trying to read him. LeDuc's
text: face is impassive.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. COURTROOM, NIGHT
text: The prosecutor, who speaks English with a thick French accent,
text: has an extremely sarcastic look on his face. He wheels around
text: dramatically, and confronts Andy, who sits uneasily on the
text: stand, wiping the sweat from his brow.
speaker_heading: PROSECUTOR
dialog: You intend us to believe that you
dialog: committed these murders because the
dialog: moon was full and you were somehow
text: magically transformed into a huge
text: powerful beast with an insatiable
dialog: appetite for human flesh, is that
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: You don't understand!
text: The prosecutor turns away towards the jury to mock Andy.
speaker_heading: PROSECUTOR
dialog: Oh? So I don't understand? You think
dialog: it's me who has a hard time coming
dialog: to grips with reality?
text: The JURORS snigger at Andy's expense. But wait, suddenly
text: they look concerned - something's wrong. The prosecutor
text: continues, his back to Andy.
speaker_heading: PROSECUTOR
dialog: You think I'm the one who needs my
dialog: head examined? I don't understand?
dialog: Well, Mr. McDermott, enlighten me.
text: He wheels around to Andy and comes face to face with
speaker_heading: THE BEAST
text: huge and ravenous. It goes for his throat.
speaker_heading: PROSECUTOR
dialog: Good God!!! Aaaaaaaa!!!
text: The beast tears the prosecutor apart, spraying blood
text: everywhere. The jury - oddly enough - break into polite
dialog: applause. One less lawyer...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. AIRPLANE - NIGHT
text: Andy wakes up with a start - a concerned STEWARDESS is leaning
text: over him. Disturbed PASSENGERS crane their necks, peering at
dialog: him like he's nuts.
speaker_heading: STEWARDESS
dialog: You were screaming in your sleep,
dialog: sir. Are you okay?
text: Andy looks around, getting his bearings. He takes a deep
text: breath and shakes it off.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Yeah. It was just, um... something I
dialog: ate.
text: The stewardess nods and smiles, a little uneasily. He picks
text: up the Bloody Mary from his table and gulps some down. A
text: little bit of tomato juice dribbles down his chin. He looks
text: out the window.
scene_heading: EXT. AIRPLANE
text: It flies along over a blanket of clouds, past the huge, silver
text: moon. The song is Cat Stevens' "Moonshadow", sardonically
text: covered by Nirvana, with the oh so appropriate lyrics: "If I
dialog: ever lose my legs..."
speaker_heading: ROLL CREDITS
dialog: 
