dialog: 
dialog: The Val Lewton Screenplay Collection - The Fact of Murder script
dialog: brought to you by The
dialog: Val Lewton Screenplay Collection
dialog: 
scene_heading: THE FACT OF MURDER
dialog: Screenplay by Val Lewton & Mark Robson
text: The background on which the MAIN TITLE is imposed FADES
text: IN to display the body of a woman sprawled, the back
text: supported awkwardly by a bed, the legs outstretched and
text: adrift, the head lolling. The beam of a flashlight
text: cuts in to show this victim of squalid and violent
text: death. The beam of light holds for a moment, then
text: flickers off and the MAIN TITLE, itself, comes onto the
dialog: screen.
text: At the same time a man's voice can be heard repeating
dialog: the title.
speaker_heading: MAN'S VOICE
dialog: The fact of murder: The one crime that
dialog: cannot be undone. The hardest of all
dialog: crimes to commit and the easiest for
dialog: which to evade punishment, the
dialog: murderer more often than not having
dialog: destroyed the chief witness against
text: himself escapes the law. But having
dialog: destroyed a life, whether or not he
text: meets with legal punishment, a more
dialog: ancient law decrees that in this
dialog: destruction, like the needs of self
dialog: destroyal, the crime committed against
dialog: the race is its own punishment.
text: As the speaker ceases, the TITLE FADES and the CREDIT
text: TITLES are superimposed on the same dimly lighted scene
dialog: of recent and violent death. When the last credit
text: fades from the scene there is a sharp click of alight
text: switch and the room lights go on to disclose:
scene_heading: INT. MRS. MACILWAIN'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: In the full light all the details of the sprawled body,
text: limp neck and disordered hair of the victim can be seen
dialog: as well as the cheaply furnished room with tis sorry
text: appointments, bed bureau, chair, desk and a rocker by
text: the window with incongruous velour curtain. Over the
text: bed in a cracked and gilded frame, Pail and Virginia
text: run ceaselessly from the storm. From the other wall
text: Rose Benhaur's doer-eyed horses, water dripping from
text: their muzzles gaze down on the murdered woman from a
text: frame of false metal bits, stirrup irons and spurs.
text: The CAMERAS momentarily contemplation of all this is
text: interrupted by two voices, the first questioning, the
dialog: second affirmative.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL'S VOICE
dialog: Homicide?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE'S VOICE
dialog: Homicide.
text: REVERSE ANGLE to show the doorway blocked with blue
text: serge, blue uniforms, brass buttons and Homberg hats.
text: John Mitchell, a patrolman with that surprising
text: youngness of a rookie just out of polic school, backs
text: against the door jamb to let two older plain-clothes
text: men go through. They go toward the body. A Cameraman
text: steers the waivering legs of his tripod to solid
text: footing in the doorway.
speaker_heading: CAMERA MAN
dialog: (To Mitchell; complaining)
dialog: I can't take a picture through you.
text: Mitchell steps back into the hallway. The cameraman
text: grunts his gratitude. Behind him, as Mitchell steps
text: out of frame, can be seen the white-coated figures of
text: an ambulance doctor and an orderly. The orderly holds
text: a rolled stretcher and cuts diagonally across the
dialog: scene.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - MRS. MAINWAIRING'S ROOMING
scene_heading: HOUSE - NIGHT
text: As Mitchell steps back a naked electric bulb throws
text: harsh light on the faces crowded in the narrow space
text: between the stair rail and rose patterned wallpaper.
text: The cruel light cannot destroy the soft lines and
text: pleasant contours of Sally Notcheck's young face, but
text: only highlights the wide eyes and flushed cheeks, the
text: animation, the terror and excitement that the fact of
dialog: murder has communicated to her and which she is so
text: busily passing on to the middle-aged Lieutenant
text: Detective who stands courteously, hat in hand, before
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: SALLY
text: He turned back -- as if he were
dialog: looking for something -- then he ran
text: right past me -- right past me.
text: She makes a gesture with her hand to indicate the
text: swiftness of the close passage.
speaker_heading: SALLY (CONT'D)
dialog: He looked at me.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: And you looked at him? A good look?
text: Sally nods excitedly.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
speaker_heading: (CONT'D)
dialog: Tell us about it.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: He was young -- younger than Mrs.
dialog: MacIlWain -- blonde -- sort of
text: brownish blonde. He had a pale face.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Tall? Short?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Tall -- I guess -- thin -- but not
dialog: very thin.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Did you see him before?
text: Sally shakes her head.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: But I could pick him out if I saw him
dialog: again.
text: The Lieutenant Detective nods, almost smiles; he has
text: head this before. He looks around.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Who's the patrolman here on this beat?
text: Mitchell steps forward, saluting.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL'S VOICE
dialog: Patrolman Mitchell.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Ever see a fellow like that around
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Not that I can remember, sir.
text: Mrs. Mainwairing is the proprietor of the rooming
text: house, middle-aged, but dimpled, with kewpie doll
text: makeup around the eyes, dyed hair relentlessly coifed
text: and curled. She moves her heavy body.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: I never seen him. But Wednesdays and
dialog: Fridays was his night to come up.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Wednesdays and Fridays? What kind of
dialog: place is this?
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: It's ok, sir -- perfectly respectable.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: The house has always had a good
dialog: reputation.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Let it ride. I was making a joke --
dialog: you know -- a joke.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Mrs. MacIlwain was perfectly
dialog: respectable too. This fellow was her
dialog: steady boy-friend. That's why they
dialog: had regular date nights -- Wednesdays
dialog: and Fridays.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: You never saw him?
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: I don't bother the tenants. I stay
dialog: downstairs.
text: The Lieutenant turns to Sally.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: What'd he wear?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: A brown suit, I think.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: A hat?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (hesitantly)
dialog: No, I think he had it in his hand. A
dialog: tan hat. That's right, it was in his
dialog: hand.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: A terrible -- terrible.
text: The Lieutenant looks at her, the ponderously turns and
text: goes toward the door of Mrs. MacIlwain's room.
scene_heading: INT. MRS. MACILWAIN'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: The cameraman, his camera focused on the body takes a
text: picture with a flash bulb; living and dying in an
text: instant of blinding brightness. The Lieutenant enters,
text: strides to the center of the room, planting his
text: ponderous feet within a few inches of the dead woman's
text: outstretched legs. He looks around. One detective
text: stands at the desk rifling through the pages of a book,
dialog: shaking it so that nay hidden papers or money would
text: fall out. Another is rummaging through the clothes
text: closet. A third has spread white powder over the foot
text: board of the bed and is examining it carefully.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Well?
text: There is no answer. He snorts and throws out the word
dialog: again.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
speaker_heading: (CONT'D)
dialog: Well?
scene_heading: DETECTIVE WITH THE
speaker_heading: POWDER
text: Just smudges.
scene_heading: DETECTIVE AT THE DESK
dialog: A fellow once told me most murder
dialog: victims have diaries. I can't find
dialog: nothin' but bills and some letters
dialog: about alimony from a lawyer four years
dialog: back.
scene_heading: DETECTIVE AT THE CLOSET
text: Moths here -- in her winter coat.
dialog: There's some stuff my wife uses --
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Yeah -- the moths killed her. What'd
dialog: you find beside moths?
text: ANOTHER ANGLE OF THE ROOM as the Detective at the
text: closet reaches down and picks up a pair of men's
text: galoshes and throws them out into the middle of the
dialog: room.
text: CLOSET FULL SHOT - as the Lieutenant takes a step
text: toward the galoshes, picks one up, glances at it and
text: lets it fall from his hand.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
speaker_heading: (CONT'D)
dialog: We'll take these along.
dialog: (To the doctor and orderly
dialog: waiting in the doorway)
dialog: You guys take this.
text: He points to the body. He then starts from the room
text: and behind him one of the detectives picks up the
text: overshoes.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: As the Lieutenant emerges and starts toward the stairs,
text: Mitchell moves forward to speak to him.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Did you get any clues?
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: About as much as we usually get --
dialog: nothing.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: (Eagerly)
dialog: We've go a good description of him.
dialog: I'll keep my eyes open.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Yeah -- you do that.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
dialog: -------
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK MORNING TELEGRAM PROOF DEPARTMENT - NIGHT
text: LONG SHOT - of the proof room taking in the long
text: horizontal lines of the tables and the overhead lights
text: that march down the room one after the other, each with
text: its pendant pool of light and under each light proof
text: readers hunched quietly, their pens nibbling at error.
text: A shirt-sleeved boy with a square paper hat on his head
text: goes past the CAMERA, proof sheets writhing in his
dialog: hands.
scene_heading: INSERT A - PAGE 6
scene_heading: EXT. MRS. MAINWAITING'S ROOMING HOUSE . 246 WEST 68TH
scene_heading: STREET - NIGHT
text: From the middle of the street the parked ambulance, a
text: patrol car and police sedan can be seen parked at the
text: curb. The patrol car, its front wheels turned toward
text: the house, its lights on to illuminate the steps of the
text: brown-stone, cut a sharp, white plane across the
text: sidewalk. A small crowd has gathered to gawk and three
text: uniformed policeman stand idly by. It is shirt-sleeve
text: weather, late August, and the faces of the people are
text: shiny wet with the spent heat of the day.
text: The Lieutenant of Detectives, followed by his men,
text: comes down the steps. There is a stir in the crowd, a
text: craning of necks. He walks swiftly across the
text: sidewalk. A police chauffeur holds open the door. The
text: Lieutenant steps in and takes his seat. One of the
text: detectives is about to follow him when an untidy little
text: man, his coat pockets crowded with warn copies of
dialog: Harper's Magazine, New Departures an Story, pushes
text: through the crowd and past the detective to poke his
text: head into the doorway of the sedan.
dialog: REVERSE ANGLE - to show this man, Henry Hamlin, a
text: reporter, as he pokes his head into the doorway of the
text: police sedan to face the Lieutenant.
speaker_heading: HAMLIN
dialog: Good evening, Lieutenant.
text: The Lieutenant grunts in greeting.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Hi-yah, Hamlin.
speaker_heading: HAMLIN
dialog: If you ask the question, sir, I can
dialog: only reply that I am unfortunate.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: HAMLIN
dialog: It was I who had to leave on this
dialog: burning night the delights of cold
dialog: bear, hot pastrami to follow you and
dialog: your investigation of great crimes.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: You lose the cut, huh?
speaker_heading: HAMLIN
dialog: The rest sit comfortably while I
dialog: pursue their business with my own.
dialog: What's up?
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
text: A woman got killed.
speaker_heading: HAMLIN
dialog: (In mispronounced French)
dialog: En crime passion --
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: HAMLIN
dialog: Who was this unfortunate that shucked
dialog: these mortal coils?
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: They'll tell you upstairs.
text: He makes a preemptory gesture to the detective who
text: pushes Hamlin to one side and gets into the car.
speaker_heading: HAMLIN
dialog: (As he withdraws)
dialog: Farewell, brave minion of the law.
dialog: (He pauses)
dialog: Of averages.
text: The other detectives crowd into the car, the door
text: closes and the car starts off with a blast from the
text: siren.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST - NIGHT
text: LONG SHOT - up the avenue showing the swift and orderly
text: stream of traffic, the headlights glowing two-by=two
text: like the eyes of feral creatures some dread clan had
text: regimented into these swift and seried ranks.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE SEDAN - NIGHT
text: The Lieutenant and his men sit quietly, relaxed,
text: swaying to the accustomed motion of the vehicle. One
text: of the detectives is seated on the jump seat and holds
text: the galoshes in his hand. Suddenly the silence is
text: broken by the Lieutenant.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
text: Not much to go on -- a pair of men's
text: galoshes left in the apartment last
dialog: winter -- an ex-husband -- the last
dialog: four years ex -- a girl who saw the
dialog: murderer -- that's all.
speaker_heading: FIRST DETECTIVE
dialog: The guy was there every Wednesday and
dialog: Friday.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: Check the overshoes. Find out who
dialog: made 'em, where they were sold -- who
dialog: bought 'em -- you do that Charlie.
speaker_heading: SECOND DETECTIVE
dialog: A tidy little job in this weather.
scene_heading: LIEUTENANT DETECTIVE
dialog: We'll check the ex-husband -- don't
dialog: expect much. Not after four years --
dialog: and the neighborhood -- she must have
dialog: bought papers, groceries, cigarettes --
dialog: might have talked to the people.
dialog: Woman like that usually talk to
dialog: somebody -- all she's got to talk
dialog: about is boy friends -- or boy friend.
text: (he heaves a long sigh)
dialog: Where're we goin' now?
scene_heading: POLICE CHAUFFEUR
dialog: (Without turning his head
dialog: replies to the question)
text: Man don on sidewalk after fight.
dialog: Thought to be dying -- fifty eight
text: street -- near the Circle -- ambulance
dialog: is there.
text: The chauffeur steps on the siren. As it SOUNDS:
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
dialog: -------
text: DOLLY SHOT - The CAMERA follows the boy. At each desk
text: he deposits a few proof sheets and the darker, wider
text: pages of copy. Finally, at one desk, he lays down a
text: proof sheet and a copy sheet and then goes on. The
text: CAMERA remains fixed on the slightly built, thin-faced
text: greying man who sits there. He lifts his head as he
text: reaches forward to pull the proof sheet toward him.
text: INSERT: As the proof readers hands pull the proof
text: sheets closer a pen poises over the lines and begins to
text: follow them closely making small space and indentation
dialog: corrections on the following copy.
dialog: "At the street where she had lived for the past two
text: years, Mrs. Dorothy Macillwain, a divorcee, met death
text: last night at the hands of an unknown assailant. The
dialog: murderer, a constant visitor --"
text: At the name "Macillwain" the pen pauses for a long
text: pause, then very slowly lowers and makes the correction
dialog: to "MacIlwain."
text: CLOSE SHOT - The proof reader's face, motionless and
text: impassive, the pen resting on the corrected name. Very
text: slowly the CAMERA moves further left to shoot past his
text: profile to take in the neat name on the desk. It
dialog: reads: Herbert S. MacIlwain.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
scene_heading: EX. MRS. MAINWAITING'S ROOMING HOUSE - MORNING
text: CLOSE SHOT - Mrs. Mainwairing on the doorstep. This is
text: a rear view of Mrs. Mainwairing's becurled poll, fatted
text: shoulders, pendant flanks and pachydermian haunches.
text: She is busily screwing some object to the wall of her
text: house. Over this back view of Mrs. Mainwairing can be
text: heard two of the distinctive street cries of New York.
scene_heading: STREET CRIER'S VOICE
dialog: Old clothes, old clothes, who got, who
dialog: got, who got any old clothes?
scene_heading: ANOTHER STREET CRIER'S
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Bones, bottles, brass, j-u-u-u-nk!
text: A man walking along the street pauses and looks up at
text: Mrs. Mainwairing. After a second or two she is
text: conscious of his gaze and turns. As she turns she
text: reveals that what she has been screwing to the wall is
text: an enameled sign which reads, "Room To Let."
text: REVERSE VIEW from Mrs. Mainwairing's angle to show that
text: the man is MacIlwain. He tips his hat.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: I wonder if I might see that room,
dialog: madame.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - Mrs. Mainwairing from his angle as he
text: starts up the stairs.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Yes indeedy! It's a lovely single --
dialog: just right for a gentleman -- sun in
dialog: the morning -- nice soft bed -- lovely
text: soft bed.
text: MacIlwain has climbed to her level and she turns to
text: lead the way into the house.
scene_heading: INT. MRS. MAINWAITING'S ROOMING HOUSE - MORNING
text: FULL SHOT of the lower hall as Mrs. Mainwairing enters,
text: followed by MacIlwain. She starts up the stairs,
text: puffing and panting at each step. She is short of
dialog: breath but not of words.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: It's such a nice room -- I've always
dialog: thought of it as gentleman's room --
dialog: near the bath -- nice rocker by the
dialog: window and my husband's favorite
dialog: painting --
scene_heading: MR. MACILWAIN
dialog: You're married?
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Oh dear no. So many of us girls are
dialog: divorced these days. Have to share
dialog: the boys you know.
text: They pass out of view on their way up the stairs.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
speaker_heading: (CONT'D)
dialog: I don't often have vacancies in this
dialog: house. It's just pure accident that I
dialog: have one now -- just pure accident.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - MRS. WAINWAIRING'S ROOMING
scene_heading: HOUSE - MORNING
text: As Mrs. Mainwairing and Mr. MacIlwain come up they
text: start down the hall toward the room formerly occupied
dialog: by Mrs. MacIlwain.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: (Stepping aside to let him
text: look through the open
dialog: doorway)
dialog: This is the room.
text: CLOSE FULL SHOT - of MacIlwain in the door as he stands
text: looking in. Over this shot can be heard a peculiar
text: rhythmic noise.
scene_heading: INT. MRS. MACILWAIN'S ROOM - MORNING
text: From Mr. MacIlwain's ANGLE at the door. The bed has
text: been stripped, the windows opened and the curtains are
text: blowing. A scrub woman kneels at the bedside, a bucket
text: beside her, busily shampooing the rug where Mrs.
text: MacIlwain's body had lain.
text: Mr. MacIlwain comes in past the CAMERA and stands
text: looking down at the scub woman.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - MacIlwain as he transfers his
text: attention from the rug.
text: PAN SHOT - from MacIlwain's ANGLE to take in the
text: freshly emptied closet, the open drawers of the bureau
text: and finally the curtains blowing at the open windows.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: I always like to get a room cleaned
dialog: for the new tenant.
text: FULL TWO SHOT - as she comes into scene MacIlwain turns
text: to her.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: Yes. I see.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: The lady who had the room was just
dialog: crazy about it.
dialog: (She pauses)
dialog: She had to leave -- such a nice woman
dialog: too -- such a nice woman.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: Such a nice woman? My name is
dialog: MacIlwain. I was her husband.
text: He turns and starts for the door.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Oh.
text: At the door he pauses.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: I just wanted top see the room -- you
dialog: understand?
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: (Very flustered)
dialog: Oh yes -- yes.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - MRS. WAINWAIRING'S ROOMING
scene_heading: HOUSE -- MORNING
text: MacIlwain comes out of his dead wife's room, goes down
text: the hall and starts down the stairs. From below him
text: comes a man's merry whistling of "The Harp That Once
text: Through Terra's Halls" and the thud of thick-soled
text: shoes on the worn carpet of the stair.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWAY - MRS. WAINWAIRING'S ROOMING HOUSE --
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: MacIlwain, on hs way down, passes Patrolman Mitchell on
text: his way out. The patrolman crowds himself against the
text: wall to let the other man pass, breaks off his whistle
text: and watches MacIlwain as he goes down the stairs,
text: transverse the lower hall and leaves the building.
text: When the front door is closed behind MacIlwain,
text: Mitchell resumes his climb up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - MRS. WAINWAIRING'S ROOMING
scene_heading: HOUSE - MORNING
text: AN ANGLE that shows Mrs. Mainwairing leaning over the
text: railing looking down. Mitchell comes on a level with
text: her and pushes his cap back on the back of his head.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
text: Morning, Mrs. Mainwairing.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: (Without replying to his
dialog: greeting)
dialog: You know who that was? That was Mrs.
dialog: MacIlwain's husband.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Aye?
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Yes. Her husband. He said so. He
dialog: wanted to see the room.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: He did, eh? Did he tell you anything
dialog: about himself.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Not a thing. Just that he was her
dialog: husband.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Wanted to see where she died, huh?
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Guess so. Something like that.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Did he tell you his first name?
text: Mrs. Mainwairing shakes her head. Mitchell sighs and
text: pushes his cap further back on his head.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, I guess I could locate him.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: What for? He didn't do it.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: He might give me a lead on who did.
dialog: (He pauses)
dialog: You know -- I'd like to get the guy
dialog: who did it. Yeah, I would. You know
dialog: what it would mean to me -- promotion
dialog: maybe -- plain-clothes duty, maybe --
dialog: thirty bucks more a month. The wife
dialog: and I could use that. There's a
dialog: little apartment my brother-in-law
dialog: could get us in Flushing.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Flushing's nice.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Nice for the kids -- a place to play --
dialog: decent people.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: It is a good place to bring up kids.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Yeah -- if I could get the guy. You
dialog: could help me Mrs. Mainwairing. Let
dialog: me know if anybody comes around.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
text: They always return to the scene of the
dialog: crime, don't they?
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: I don't know about that -- but if
dialog: anybody comes around, you'll let me
dialog: know, huh?
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: Yes indeedy!
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Thanks.
text: He turns and starts down the stairs.
scene_heading: MRS. MAINWAIRING
dialog: And if anybody asks you about a good
dialog: room, you tell 'em about my room.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: Sure.
scene_heading: EXT. 74TH STREET NEAR THE CORNER OF SIXTH AVENUE -
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: LONG SHOT of this residential street with its walkup
text: apartment houses all a little run down, stained with
text: time and weather. There are only a few passersby. One
text: of them is MacIlwain. He walks slowly on the south
text: side of the street looking at the second story windows
text: on the other side. Suddenly, he stops.
text: NEW ANGLE - SHOOTING PAST MacIlwain to an open window
text: on the second floor in the house opposite. The lace
text: curtains move in the gentle morning breeze and beyond
text: them can be seen the flashing oval mirror held between
text: two horns of wood above an ornate dresser. The room is
text: a bedroom and so far as can be seen, it is empty.
text: CLOSE FULL SHOT of MacIlwain as he takes a few more
text: steps down the street and pauses to look again.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - This is the same setup as the previous
text: one, SHOOTING PAST MacIlwain to SHOW the next window; a
text: double one. Through this window can be seen a stained
text: oak sideboard and other evidences that this is a dining
text: room. At the table there can be clearly see through
text: the window and on old white-haired woman. She uses her
text: napkin daintily against her lips and looks up. Out of
text: the gloom back of her comes a tall, thin blond young
text: man dressed in a neat business suit and carrying a tan
text: hat in his hand. He leans forward and kisses the old
text: woman. After he straightens from the kiss, she pats
text: his arm affectionately and they speak together for a
text: few seconds but their words cannot be heard because of
text: the great distance. Then he bends to peck at her cheek
text: again, turns and disappears into the darkness at the
text: other end of the room.
text: FULL SHOT - MacIlwain. He takes his glance from the
text: window, rummages through his pocket for a cigarette,
text: then for matches, all the while watching the door of
text: the house opposite. Just as that door opens, he
text: strikes the match and brings his cupped hands,
text: shielding the flame, before his face.
text: LONG SHOT - The doorway from MacIlwain's angle. The
text: young man comes out, goes down the steps and starts off
text: toward Broadway.
text: CLOSE SHOT - MacIlwain watching him over the flame of
text: his match. He lights his cigarette, blows out the
text: match and throws it away, still standing watching him.
scene_heading: EXT. CHILD'S RESTAURANT - 46TH STREET AND BROADWAY -
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: CLOSE FULL SHOT of the window. A white-capped chef is
text: busily baking hot cakes, tossing them with histrionic
dialog: skill. So used are the passersby to this sight of
text: culinary legerdemain that no one pauses.
scene_heading: INT. CHILD'S RESTAURANT - MORNING
text: MED. LONG SHOT - The patrons absorbed in their
text: newspapers and their breakfasts. Sally Notcheck in
text: waitress uniform passes the CAMERA. The CAMERA DOLLIES
text: with her as, tray in hand, she walks hastily toward the
text: kitchen. With an expert flip of her left arm she opens
text: the swinging door and bobs through with her tray.
scene_heading: INT. CHILD'S KITCHEN - MORNING
text: As Sally Notcheck comes through the door, two
text: waitresses and the manager stand within a foot or two
text: of the door waiting for her. One of the waitresses,
text: Blanche, is a woman about fifty, heavily rouged and
text: madeup. The makeup on this harsh, lined face assumes a
text: grotesque effect. Her arms and hands show the muscles
text: of a veteran waitress. The other girl, Sylvia, young,
text: frivolous is about Sally's age, but much wiser in the
text: ways of the world she knows. The manager, white
text: coated, his trousers sharply creased, his hair pomaded
text: to the shine of a skating rink, is the first to speak.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Sally, you can't keep us in suspense --
dialog: then what?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: But a customer was looking for me.
speaker_heading: BLANCHE
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Then I ran down stairs and yelled for
dialog: Mrs. Mainwairing. She called the
dialog: police.
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: Was he her steady boyfriend?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I guess so. Mrs. Mainwairing said so.
speaker_heading: BLANCHE
dialog: Had you seen him before?
text: Sally takes a look through the little square window in
text: the door toward her table.
text: LONG SHOT - Through the little window from Sally's
text: ANGLE showing a rather nice-looking man in a neat
text: business suit as he comes in and seats himself at
text: Sally's table. He reaches for the menu.
text: GROUP SHOT - Sally and the others as Sally looks
text: nervously over her shoulder.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I've got to get back. Another
dialog: customer.
text: She picks up an empty tray and starts back toward the
text: dining room. As she goes through the door, the manager
text: turns to Sylvia.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Next time you go. I want to hear what
dialog: happened.
speaker_heading: BLANCHE
dialog: She's a quiet biddy, that Sally. I
dialog: never heard her speak so much in my
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: SYLVIA
dialog: Never get nothin' out of her. Murder
text: happens right in front of her nose and
dialog: you get about five words on it --
dialog: between customers.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - CHILD'S RESTAURANT - MORNING
text: CLOSE FULL SHOT - As Sally comes up to the new
dialog: customer.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Good morning.
text: The young man looks up pleasantly. He is Bob Shulman,
text: a clerk in the employ of The Arden Rubber Novelties
text: Corporation. He is about twenty-four, city born and
text: bred, but without the ingrown pugnaciousness of most
dialog: New Yorkers.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: The usual.
text: MED. CLOSE SHOT - Sally. She is embarrassed.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: The usual? Oh!
dialog: Obviously she doesn't remember what it is that this
text: regular customer wants for his breakfast.
text: TWO SHOT - Shulman notices this and smiles.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: I mean the usual thing for breakfast --
dialog: hot cakes and coffee.
text: Sally smiles at him, deftly pours out water into his
text: glass, then turns and goes off toward the front of the
text: restaurant where the hot-cake orders are given to the
text: chef in the window.
scene_heading: INT. CHILD'S KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Blanche, Sylvia and the manager peer through the little
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
text: She's gone off to order hot cakes.
dialog: We'll never hear about that murder.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY ARDEN RUBBER NOVELTIES CORPORATION -
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: This is the hallway in which the employees of the
text: company pass on their way to work. A rack on the wall
text: holds their cards and a battery of time clocks waits to
text: greet them in the morning and speed their departure at
dialog: night.
text: At this moment these time clocks are clacking away
text: quite merrily as the employees queue up to punch in.
text: The young man whom MacIlwain had watching leaving his
text: house enters the hallway. Without a word he goes to
text: the rack and picks out a card.
scene_heading: INSERT: TIME CARD
text: The card is made out to keep a record of the time of
dialog: Harold Briggs, Clerk, Recieving Dept.
text: MED. FULL SHOT - With his card in his hand Briggs
text: crosses and takes his place in a queue in front of one
text: of the time clocks. In front of him are two girls.
text: They are chattering.
speaker_heading: FIRST GIRL
dialog: Friday is always such a busy day for
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: SECOND GIRL
dialog: A lot of work come in on Friday?
speaker_heading: FIRST GIRL
dialog: Oh no. I have to get my hair done and
dialog: mother wants me to buy fish on my way
dialog: home. Friday is such a long day; the
dialog: day before date night.
text: She clangs down the handle of the time clock, takes her
text: card and moves on. Briggs punches in. As he depresses
text: the handle a heavy hand descends on his shoulders. He
text: moves nervously. Behind him is a grinning
dialog: acquaintance.
speaker_heading: ACQUAINTANCE
dialog: Hi-yah, chum?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: (Moving away)
dialog: Can't complain.
text: He walks across the room to the door leading to the
dialog: main office.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN OFFICE - ARDEN RUBBER NOVELTIES CORPORATION -
speaker_heading: MORNING
text: This is an enormous room at one side of which is a long
text: series of big windows with ventilator transoms top and
text: bottom. The various departments are separated from
text: each other by railings, counters and partitions of
text: milled glass. In the LONG SHOT it looks like some
text: intricate and modernistic maze for the confusion of
dialog: office boys.
text: Briggs comes in through the main door and threads his
text: way through the various desks, counters and partitions
text: to the square of desks and filing cabinets marked
text: "Receiving." He goes to one of the desks, seats
text: himself, pulls open a drawer and takes out two files
text: which he places before him. Then he looks over
text: nervously at the neighboring desk, the top of which is
text: still clear. He leafs through the files before him,
text: almost without comprehension of what he is doing, then
text: takes another look at the desk next to him and back
text: again at the way he had come. The man he is seeking is
text: evidently not in sight. But from his left, a tall,
text: thin, older man, Mr. Johnson, approaches his desk.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: Good morning, Briggs.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: Good morning, Mr. Johnson.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: (In a kindly manner)
dialog: Go on, Briggs, get your smoke.
dialog: You fellows with nicotine on your thumbs are never worth
dialog: anything to the company until you've had your morning drag.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: I'm waiting for Shulman.
speaker_heading: JOHNSON
dialog: (As he moves on)
dialog: Don't wait too long. We've got a
dialog: lot of work to get out this
dialog: morning.
text: Briggs resumes his idle fingering of the two files before
text: him, then suddenly the sound of footsteps behind him makes
text: him turn. The pleasant young man who had been breakfasting in
text: the restaurant comes into the Receiving Department a smile of
text: greeting on his face.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Good morning, Ralph.
text: Briggs gets up from his chair. As he turns, and Shulman sees
text: his face for the first time; Shulman stops smiling and looks
dialog: concerned.
speaker_heading: SCHULMAN
dialog: What's the matter, Ralph?
text: Briggs comes closer to him before answering.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: (In a low flat voice)
dialog: I killed her.
text: Shulman looks at him with shook and disbelief. There is a
text: pause before he can find words.
speaker_heading: SCHULMAN
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: I told you — I killed her — I
dialog: killed Dorothy.
text: Shulman continued to look at him for a moment then beckons to
text: him turns and starts out of the Receiving cubicle. Briggs
text: follows him.
scene_heading: INT. MEN'S WASHROOM - MORNING
text: There is a row of sinks flanked by partitioned stalls. The
text: urinals are out of CAMERA, range. A man bent over one of the
text: wash basins, his coat off, his sleeves rolled, is splashing
text: his face with water. He finishes these sketchy ablutions,
text: pulls out an enormous number of paper towels and swabs
text: himself dry. As this man begins to put on his tie. Shulman
text: and Briggs enter. They search their pockets for cigarettes
text: and matches, light up and wait for the other man to put on
text: his jacket and depart.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: You see —-
text: Shulman interrupts with an upraised finger, then bends
text: down and looks under the door of the toilet
text: compartment. Evidently his scrutiny has revealed no
text: telltale feet.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: But why? What happened?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: I couldn't stand it any more — all
text: that beefing and fighting. I hit her.
dialog: She began to bawl and I wanted to stop
text: that awful bawling and whining.
text: There is the sound of the door opening; the low hiss of
text: compressed air in the door-closing device. Shulman makes a
text: gesture for silence. A moment later a dapper young man comes
dialog: in.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Hi-yah, fellas! Wonderful morning.
text: (He sniffs ecstatically)
text: Air like wine.
text: Both Shulman and Briggs nod, to him. He struts past them to
text: the mirror and begins to carefully adjust the Windsor knot of
text: his tie, all the while humming, "What a Wonderful Morning."
text: Having fixed the tie to the precise triangular exactitude of
text: his desire, he turns and struts out. Immediately Briggs
text: resumes his confession.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: I had to do it — kind of funny, way
dialog: she made me do it.
speaker_heading: SCHULMAN
dialog: I know. I know you've been having
dialog: trouble. But what are you going to
dialog: do?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: SCHULMAN
dialog: Anybody see you?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Did you leave anything?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Anybody in the house know you were
dialog: calling on her — the landlady?
speaker_heading: BRIOOS
dialog: Dorothy didn't like her; didn't
dialog: talk to her.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Then nobody saw you.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SCHULMAN
dialog: Then you're in the clear. Just
dialog: don't talk about it —do anything.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: But you see —
text: They are interrupted for a second time by the whooshing sound
text: of the door closing.
text: A lean, little man in an alpaca coat comes in, goes past them
text: to the wash basin, removes a bottle of mouthwash from his
text: pocket, uncorks it, takes a brief swallow and runs it back
text: and forth in his mouth, by briskly shaking his head, then
text: spews it forth. He leaves, returning the cork to the bottle.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: What were you saying?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: Her husband — he knows about me.
dialog: They'll ask him.
speaker_heading: SCHULMAN
dialog: What does he know?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: She told him everything. She used
dialog: to needle him that way. Just like
dialog: she did with me.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: He'll be the first person the
dialog: police will question.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: Yeah — I've got to get out of here.
dialog: But I need money.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Where's your pay? You only got paid
dialog: off day before yesterday.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: I gave it to Ma.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: (Reaching Into his pocket
dialog: for his wallet)
dialog: I can skip my rent — I've always
dialog: been up on it.
text: He counts out all but a few bills from the wallet.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: What'll I do?
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Well, take the money anyhow. Got
dialog: any friends outside the city?
text: Briggs shakes his head.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Where do you go on vacation?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: You know — Ma and I go to Ceagirt.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: People know you there?
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: Yeah — It's a little place. We've
dialog: been going there for years.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: That's no good then. Go to Stamford
dialog: -- go to the "Y" there.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: But what about Ma?
text: Shulman tries to think this out.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Doesn't she know.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: Of course not.
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: I'll call her— tell her you had to
dialog: go out of town for the company and
dialog: I'll tell Mr. Johnson that you're
dialog: been taken sick.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: Don't call Ma. That upsets her. Go
dialog: see her, will you?
speaker_heading: SHULMAN
dialog: Okey.
text: The door warns them again. Two men come in.
speaker_heading: FIRST MAN
dialog: I tell you she's a dream boat
text: adrift on the river of love.
speaker_heading: SECOND MAN
dialog: (Ecstatically)
text: A dream boat —
text: Shulman gestures toward the door and he and Briggs start out.
text: As they go Briggs speaks.
speaker_heading: BRIGGS
dialog: You'll go and fix things with my
dialog: Ma.
text: Shulman nods.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE
scene_heading: INT. MACILWAIN'S ROOM - NOON
text: The blinds have been pulled down to the window sills but the
text: brightness of noon light steals in through every crevice so
text: that the room is in a dim light. MaoIlwain lies on the bed
text: sleeping soundly with only a sheet pulled over his pajama
text: clad body. A black eye bandage is over his eyes and rubber
text: stopples in his ears. From outside comes the yammering and
text: shouting of innumerable children at play in the street with
text: an obligato of taxi horns and the roar of traffic on a nearby
dialog: avenue.
text: There is a knock at the door. MacIlwain does not stir. The
text: knock is repeated louder. Still there is no response. Then an
text: even more thunderous hammering of knuckles on the door panel.
text: This finally rouses the sleeper. He shucks the eye shade,
text: removes the stopples, glances at the alarm clock beside his
text: bed, curses under his breath and finally lowers his feet to
text: the floor and staggers across the room and opens the door.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL'S VOICE
dialog: (Through the door)
dialog: Mr. MacIlwain?
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: Yeah?
text: Mitchell comes through the door. He is dressed in
text: civilian clothes. He shows his badge in the palm of
text: his hand.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: I'm Mitchell — police department.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: (What do you want?)
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: I'd like to speak to you about Mrs.
dialog: MacIlwain.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: Your pals have been here. I told
dialog: 'em — we're divorced. I don't know
dialog: anything about her. I don't know
dialog: any of her friends. What do you
dialog: want to know?
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: (Stumped)
dialog: Well, you see, I thought you might
dialog: give me a lead.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: I tell you I don't know anything. I
dialog: paid my alimony and I stayed away
dialog: from her.
speaker_heading: MITCHELL
dialog: But didn't you ever hear of any
dialog: friends she had.
speaker_heading: MACILWAIN
dialog: I went into all that with your
dialog: friends from homicide. If she had
dialog: any friends I didn't know about
dialog: 'em. How let me get some sleep.
text: Mitchell allows himself to be forced out of the room.
text: MacIlwain closes the door, then turns back into his room and
text: sits down on the edge of the bed. He looks at the alarm
text: clock; the hands point to ten minutes after twelve. He begins
text: to put back the stopples In his ears.
scene_heading: INT. CHILD'S RESTAURANT - NOON
text: The lunch-hour rush is on. It is a hot day and half the men
text: in the restaurant are in their shirt sleeves. The place
text: steams with heat, activity and food.
text: MED. FULL SHOT -Sally as she arranges Jacks' setup and pours
text: his water. The handsome salesman is studying a newspaper,
text: holding it before him at a distance that would indicate
text: either eye defect or the assumption of a high-bred manner.
text: Sally's hands fluttering about him neither distract nor
text: interest him. Suddenly she points with her forefinger to a
dialog: headline.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: (Hesitantly)
dialog: I saw the man who did it.
text: Mr. Jacks looks at her. Probably it is the first time he has
text: looked at her. He even speaks.
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: Huh?
text: Sally is almost overcome.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Yes. I did. I saw him. I live in
text: that house — on the same floor.
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: Yeah?
dialog: This little interchange of words has drawn his
text: attention to her. He looks her over paying particular
dialog: regard to that portion of her anatomy where the cotton
text: cloth of her uniform in strained tightly over her
text: bosoms. He seems to approve what he sees. It is at
text: this moment, however, that Shulman pushes his way past
text: Sally and takes the single seat opposite Jacks. He
text: picks up his menu and looks it over.
speaker_heading: JACKS (CONT'D)
dialog: (To Sally)
dialog: You're a cute trick.
text: Sally is flustered.
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: Yeah, — I might have news for you kid
dialog: — good news.
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Oh?
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: I might even make bright the
dialog: evening for you, dearie. Where do
dialog: you live?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I told you.
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: Oh yeah -- makes It convenient
dialog: doesn't it? What's your name?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Sally Notoheck.
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: Funny name, huh?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: I guess so. A lot of people have
dialog: said so.
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: Well — a rose by any other name, you
dialog: know. What're you doing tonight?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: JACKS
dialog: Friday night and you ain't doin'
dialog: nothing?
speaker_heading: SALLY
dialog: No.
dialog: 
