scene_heading: "AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN"
dialog: by
dialog: Douglas Day Stewart
speaker_heading: FINAL DRAFT
dialog: April 13, 1981
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. MANILA AIRPORT - FULL SHOT - DAY
text: A Philippine Airlines passenger plane is arriving and touching
dialog: down.
scene_heading: ANGLE - THE PLANE
text: A 13-year old boy starts down the ramp, a suitcase in one
text: hand, an old photo-strip in the other. He studies the strip
text: closely as he searches the faces of the people greeting the
dialog: passengers.
scene_heading: CLOSE - THE PHOTO STRIP
text: A handsome sailor is necking with his girl in each of the
text: three shots.
scene_heading: CLOSE - THE BOY
text: looking around.
text: HIS EYES FALL ON A SAILOR
text: It's the same sailor from the photo strip, only about fifteen
dialog: years older. If he was in his early twenties then, now he's
text: in his mid-thirties. He's in the uniform of a 1st class Petty
text: Officer. He searches the faces of the descending passengers,
text: very uncertain and uncomfortable.
scene_heading: THE BOY AND THE SAILOR
text: come together very, very tentatively. The sailor, BYRON MAYO,
text: extends a hand to young ZACK.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: You, Zack?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yes, Sir.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I'm Byron. Nice to meet you.
dialog: (awkwardly)
dialog: C'mon. Let's go get your luggage.
text: They head off together.
scene_heading: EXT. THE AIRPORT PARKING LOT - DAY
text: Byron and Zack step aboard one of the colorful jeepneys that
text: Manila is famous for. We MOVE WITH the jeepney as it leaves
text: the airport and starts down the highway toward Olongapo.
text: The boy is frightened but he's also excited by the strange,
text: super-chrome and ornately-decorated vehicle he's riding in.
text: They're not alone in the small bus. Ten or more Filipinos
text: ride with them, some in suits and ties, others in the rougher
text: attire of farmers. One old woman carries a big cage on her
text: lap with a squawking fluttering chicken in it.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Take that coat off. This is the
dialog: Philippines.
text: He helps Zack out of his coat.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: (making conversation)
dialog: How was the flight? They take care
dialog: of you okay? Long way from Norfolk,
dialog: isn't it?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Listen, kid, I was sorry to hear
dialog: about your mom. That's pretty rough.
dialog: I would've returned your call a lot
dialog: sooner but I was out at sea...
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I been calling for four months.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Well, that's how long I've been out
dialog: at sea.
scene_heading: EXT. THE ROAD TO OLONGAPO - DAY
text: The jeepney has only two passengers now, Byron and Zack. A
scene_heading: roadside sign reads: "U.S. NAVAL FACILITY, SUBIC BAY ... 12
dialog: miles."
scene_heading: EXT. THE HONKY-TONK SAILOR TOWN OF OLONGAPO - DAY
text: Known throughout the Seventh Fleet as the armpit of the
text: Orient, Olongapo is one, long rain-rutted street of gaudy
text: bars and rattan-walled whorehouses.
text: Countless jeepneys careen past with their silly fringe awnings
text: and chrome accoutrements, many filled with U.S. sailor boys
dialog: and officers on liberty.
text: Zack and Byron's jeepney ENTERS SHOT and stops in front of
text: the noisiest and raunchiest bar on the strip.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: This is it. This is where I live.
text: MOVING WITH ZACK AND BYRON
text: CAMERA FAVORS the boy as they head for the entrance of the
text: bar, Zack taking in the kinky street activity: "Beenie boys,"
text: small boned Filipino boys dressed up as exquisite young girls,
text: hustling tricks on the sidewalk while their sisters lounge
text: in the doorway of places like "California Dreamin'" and "The
text: Manhattan Club," in nipple-showing tank-tops, licking their
dialog: lips.
scene_heading: INT. THE RAUCOUS BAR - DAY
text: CAMERA CONTINUES MOVING with Zack and Byron as they cross
text: through the NOISY bar toward a stairwell at the back. Navy
text: enlisted men are making out openly with bar girls and Zack
text: even sees one little girl stick her hand right down the front
text: 40 of a sailor boy's pants.
text: Byron glances at the boy, a little embarrassed by his digs.
text: Zack is staring at every girl he passes, nervous but a little
text: excited by it all, too.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: If I were in port more, I'd rent a
dialog: better place, but this works out
dialog: okay.
text: They start up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. BYRON'S ROOM - DAY
text: They walk in and find two semi-naked prostitutes lying on
text: the bed. Zack's eyes are as big as silver dollars.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I thought you girls were gonna do
dialog: some shopping.
dialog: (gives them money)
dialog: Tiki, Maria... I want you to meet my
dialog: son.
text: The girls giggle as they hurry into their clothes and leave.
text: Byron closes the door.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: This is it. This is where I live. I
dialog: suppose you could bunk over there
dialog: and you could go to school at the
dialog: base.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Great.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I'm not finished. I'll only be in
dialog: port one week a month and when I'm
dialog: here you'd never catch me playing
dialog: daddy with you 'cause it's not who I
dialog: am. Like I told you on the phone,
dialog: you I'd be better off in that state
dialog: school back in Virginia.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I ain't never going back to that
dialog: school, sir.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: You got to kid. Let me spell it out
dialog: for you. This is a whorehouse. And I
dialog: happen to like my life the way it is
dialog: and nobody's gonna make me change.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't care about that. I just ain't
dialog: going back. You don't want me? Okay.
dialog: I'll find me another place.
text: He opens the door and walks out.
text: MOVING WITH ZACK DOWN THE STAIRWELL
text: Byron appears on the landing above.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Hey, come back.
text: Zack keeps moving.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Come back here, kid!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (turns)
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: (grudgingly)
dialog: Okay, okay. You win.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (brightens)
dialog: Thank you, sir!
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Stop calling me 'sir! I ain't no
dialog: officer. My name is Byron.
text: On the boy's happy expression we:
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BAR - SEVERAL WEEKS LATER
text: Zack sits on the stairs watching a crazy scene taking place
text: on the long bar. A bunch of jet pilots off one of the carriers
text: are in town and they're playing a game of "chicken". Each
text: pilot must take a turn being pushed down the bar in a chair
text: on rollers. The winner is the guy who flies the farthest
text: without bailing out of his chair. The whores are rooting
text: them on and gambling money is being waved in the air. As
text: Tiki, one of Byron's girls, climbs the stairs, he catches
text: her hand and gestures questioningly in the direction of the
text: hotshot fliers.
speaker_heading: TIKI
dialog: Hot shot jet jockeys. Maybe you grow
dialog: up like that, fly mach five, no jive.
text: The boy laughs. Then Byron comes out of his room, his sea
text: bag over his shoulder. He passes the kids some folding money.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Here, kid. Put this in your shoe in
dialog: case you need it.
text: Zack hides the money.
scene_heading: QUICK SHOT - TWO FILIPINO BOYS ABOUT ZACK'S AGE
text: They see him hide the money in his shoe.
scene_heading: ANGLE - BYRON AND ZACK
text: Byron kisses his two mama-sans goodbye, shakes Zack's hand
text: and strides out of the bar.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE STREETS OF OLONGAPO - DAY
text: Zack is walking along the main drag, looking in the curio
text: stores, when the two Filipino boys approach him, smiling
text: innocently.
scene_heading: 1ST FILIPINO BOY
dialog: Hey, palequero. You new in the P.I.?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah. I've been here a couple of
dialog: weeks.
speaker_heading: 2ND FILIPINO BOY
dialog: Wanna see some nice things, guy? We
dialog: could show you around. Nobody knows
dialog: this shithole like us.
text: The two boys laugh and Zack laughs, too, trusting them.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sure. I guess it's okay.
text: They start off together but as they reach a narrow alleyway,
text: the two boys shove Zack into it.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey!
scene_heading: 1ST FILIPINO BOY
dialog: Hey, big spender. Give us some money.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't have any money.
scene_heading: 1ST FILIPINO BOY
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Bullshit! Get it out!!
text: The first Filipino kicks Zack in the balls.
text: VARIOUS SHOTS OF THE FIGHT
text: Zack isn't a bad fighter but he's no match for either of the
text: Filipinos, especially the leader, who has a way of fighting
text: that is something to watch. He uses his feet. Waving the
text: other Filipino aside, he destroys the American with spinning
text: roundhouse kicks to his stomach and his face. Zack goes down
text: from a kick to the groin. Another kick to the head and he
text: loses consciousness. His two attackers bend over him to rifle
text: his pockets.
text: Finding the five dollar bill he's hidden in his shoe, they
text: run off down a dark alley, one of them nearly tripping over
text: a dead dog.
scene_heading: TIGHTEN ON ZACK
text: He stirs. His eyes open. He sits up, wincing from busted
text: ribs. Reality sits heavy on his youthful features.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE VERY SLOWLY TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE NAVY HONKY-TONK AREA OF SEATTLE - DAY
text: A rough-looking young man rides his Triumph 750 Bonneville
text: through a Navy honky-tonk area in Seattle, Washington: NOISY
text: bars, a Seven Seas Locker Club, a credit jeweler, a pawn
dialog: shop.
text: The boy who took his licks in the Filipino back alley is now
text: a man in his mid-twenties. A long mane of jet-black hair. A
text: scuzzy beard. The same cold blue eyes. He wears jeans and
text: big, muddy boots. There's a tattoo of an eagle half-revealed
text: under the sleeve of his T-shirt.
scene_heading: EXT. A FLEA-BAG HOTEL - DAY
text: Zack Mayo drives up and climbs an outside stairway to a second-
dialog: story entrance.
scene_heading: INSIDE THE FLEA-BAG HOTEL - DAY
text: CAMERA MOVES WITH Zack down a dark corridor, past a succession
text: of rooms. A door is open, affording him a quick glimpse of a
text: woman and child, a sailor's uniform hanging on a chair nearby.
text: The sailor appears and closes the door in Zack's face. Zack
text: consults an old postcard he takes from his pocket and pauses
text: in front of a doorway. He knocks authoritatively and shouts:
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Shore Patrol! Shore Patrol! Open
dialog: up!!
text: A moment later the door opens and Byron stands there, fumbling
text: to cover his nudity with a little kimono. A naked prostitute
text: in her late teens watches from a rumpled bed.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hi, Byron.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Zack, you little shit! You haven't
dialog: changed a bit!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Neither have you, pard!
text: They come together in a macho embrace like old whoring
dialog: buddies.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: (to his girl)
dialog: Hey, honey, look at this! My son!
dialog: Isn't he beautiful?
dialog: (to Zack)
dialog: You should've called!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You were out at sea! Hey, guess what?
dialog: I graduated. I got my degree.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I thought you quit school. Last I
dialog: heard you were on your way to a
dialog: construction job or something down
dialog: in Brazil.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah, I made some money down there,
dialog: then I talked my way into another
dialog: college and I did it. I wasn't magna
dialog: cum laude but I did okay. You
dialog: should've seen me in my cap and gown.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Why the fuck didn't you invite me? I
dialog: would've come.
text: Zack's expression sheds some doubt on that subject but Byron
text: chooses to ignore it. He turns to the prostitute.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Get on the phone, honey. Call up
dialog: your friend... Gloria... Gloria big
dialog: tits. We're gonna celebrate! You
dialog: hear that? My son's graduated from
dialog: college!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BYRON'S APARTMENT - LATER THAT NIGHT
dialog: It's an orgy, all right. Father and son style. Zack and his
text: girl on the left half of the bed, Byron and his girl on the
text: right. Pumping away. Drinking and passing a wine bottle
dialog: around.
text: Candles burning in dishes flickering against the seedy walls
text: where the only decorations are monkeywood carvings Byron
dialog: brought back from the Philippines.
speaker_heading: 1ST PROSTITUTE
dialog: Are you guys really father and son?
dialog: You're putting us on, right?
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Right. We're putting you on. What
dialog: happened to that joint?
speaker_heading: 2ND PROSTITUTE
dialog: I think it went out.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: (pigeon English)
dialog: Ay, palequero.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Ay, palequero. Never hochi in the
dialog: P.I.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Wha-chu-say, palequero? Short time,
dialog: long time, only ten dolla.
text: Both men laugh and the girls start laughing, too.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. BYRON'S APARTMENT - THE NEXT MORNING
text: Zack awakens and finds himself entangled in arms and legs
text: and soiled sheets. He carefully slips free and rises to his
text: feet on unsteady legs, his head pounding, his eyes blood-
dialog: red.
text: As he's pulling on his shorts, his eyes suddenly take in the
dialog: apartment and the lifestyle it represents: half-smoked joints
text: and cigarettes cascading out of makeshift ashtrays; empty
text: wine bottles; and three naked people, snoring, their bodies
text: draped over one another.
text: A look of profound disgust comes over Zack's face and he
text: turns away from the scene and heads into the bathroom.
scene_heading: INT. BYRON'S BATHROOM
text: Zack finds some aspirins and downs them with a glass of water.
text: Suddenly, Byron comes in, shoves him out of the way, and
text: pukes in the toilet. Zack stares at him in an intense way,
text: seeing more than the moment, seeing all the other times he's
dialog: played out this scene with this man.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: What're you looking at? Hand me that
dialog: towel.
text: Zack hands him the towel. Byron swigs some mouthwash, then
text: turns to his son.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Hey, that was pretty great wasn't
dialog: it? Not as great as that night with
text: the three stewardesses in Manila...
dialog: but pretty fucking nice.
text: Zack says nothing but there's something on his mind.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: So what're you doing in Seattle?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Get ready pard. This one's gonna
dialog: blow you away.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Zackie, nothing you do will ever
dialog: surprise me, pard, not after some of
dialog: the shit you've pulled.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I joined the Navy.
text: Byron's face drops and Zack laughs.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: You... in the Navy?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That's right. I'm on my way over to
dialog: this officer school in Port Ranier.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: To fly jets. To be the fastest
dialog: motherfucker in the world. You gotta
dialog: come and visit me. I'm only a couple
dialog: hours away.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Who gave you this idea?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Nobody. It just came to me.
text: Byron starts to laugh and Zack reddens slightly.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I don't believe this! You... in the
dialog: Navy... an officer... that's like me
dialog: saying I'm running for fucking
dialog: president. Hey, man, look at you!
dialog: Hey, officers don't have tattoos!
text: He laughs until he practically chokes.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Look, I Ill be seeing you, Pard.
dialog: Take care.
text: Zack leaves the bathroom and starts putting his clothes on.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Don't be pissed. I'm on your side,
dialog: Pard. I just don't want you to do
dialog: something you'll regret. You gotta
dialog: give six years to the Navy if you
dialog: wanna fly... that's six years with
dialog: the most uptight assholes God put on
dialog: this earth. Officers aren't like you
dialog: and me, man. It's another breed.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You afraid you'll have to salute me,
dialog: Chief?
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Fuck, no! Why would I care about
dialog: something as dumb as that?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't know. That's just how it
dialog: sounded. Well, I'll see you.
text: He opens the door and walks out. Byron moves to the door.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Hey, what did you want? A lot of
dialog: fatherly bullshit? A big pat on the
dialog: back?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (turns, grins)
dialog: From you, pard? Never. Thanks for
dialog: the graduation present.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Hey, Zackie -- don't go away mad.
scene_heading: EXT. AN AREA NEAR THE GATES OF PORT RANIER NAVAL AIR STATION -
speaker_heading: DAY
text: Starting CLOSE on Zack's upper arm as he covers his eagle
text: tattoo with a band-aid. WIDEN as he drives through the gates
text: of the sprawling air station.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GATES OF THE AIR STATION - DAY
text: He drives through the gates and past the guard gate and
text: disappears into a stand of tall trees.
text: A sign by the road reads: "THROUGH THESE GATES PASS THE FUTURE
dialog: OF NAVAL AVIATION."
scene_heading: EXT. AN AIRFIELD (2ND UNIT)
text: He motors past a line of aircraft.
scene_heading: EXT. AN INTERSECTION
text: He stops to let a class of candidates run past in their
text: fatigues. CAMERA PANS as he crosses the intersection,
text: revealing a large parade ground where two classes of Aviation
text: Officer Candidates are drilling with rifles.
scene_heading: EXT. THE BASE ADMIN. BUILDING
text: Zack parks his motorcycle near the F-14 "Tomcat" jet fighter
text: plane that sits in front of the Admin. Building like a piece
text: of sculpture, and is directed by a Navy lieutenant to wait
text: with the other civilian types under a tree.
scene_heading: NEW ANGLE - THE ADMIN. BUILDING
text: A girl named CASEY SEEGER steps out of a rented car, kisses
text: her parents goodbye and, carrying a small suitcase, approaches
text: the same officer. She has the slim, athletic body of a runner
text: and a naturally pretty face without even the slightest hint
text: of makeup, and she finds most of the thirty boys under the
text: tree ogling her as she approaches.
speaker_heading: FAVORING ZACK
text: He flirts with Casey as she joins them under the tree, and
text: she flirts back, taking a place near the five other girls.
text: Nearby, two other boys are eyeing Casey. The brain-looking
text: kid is TOPPER DANIELS. The tall Okie is SID WORLEY.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: Why would a girl who looks like that
dialog: go into the military?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Hey, this is the modern Navy.
scene_heading: STAFF SERGEANT EMIL FOLEY, USMC
text: strides smartly toward them and comes to a brisk, heel-
text: clapping halt in front of them, a cane tucked under his arm
text: like a swagger stick and the traditional "Smokey the Bear"
text: hat of the drill instructor on his head.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Fall in! Form a line, you slimey
dialog: worms! Heels on that chalk line!
dialog: Attin-hut!
text: The thirty-six civilians shuffle into a single line, ill-
text: concealed looks passing between them as though to say, "Get
dialog: a load of this character."
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Now when I say "understand" I want
dialog: the whole group to say, "Yes, sir!"
dialog: Understand?
speaker_heading: GROUP
dialog: (raggedly)
dialog: Yes, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Louder!
speaker_heading: GROUP
dialog: Yes, sir!!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I don't believe what I'm seeing!
dialog: Where've you been all your lives, at
text: an orgy? Listening to Mick Jagger
dialog: and bad mouthing your country, I'll
dialog: bet.
text: He strolls menacingly down the ranks, probing them, plumbing
text: them with his squinty little eyes. He pauses in front of
dialog: Perryman.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Stop eyeballing me, boy! You are not
dialog: worthy enough to look your superiors
dialog: in the eye. Use your peripheral
dialog: vision! Understand?!
speaker_heading: GROUP
dialog: Yes, sir!
text: His voice shifts register, becoming almost human.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (a sudden grin)
dialog: I know why most of you are here.
dialog: We're not stupid. But before you get
dialog: to sell what we teach you over at
dialog: United Airlines, you gotta give the
dialog: Navy six years of your life, Sweet
dialog: Pea. Lot of things can happen in six
dialog: year. Another war could come up in
dialog: six years. If you're too peaceful a
dialog: person to dump napalm on an enemy
dialog: village where there might be women
dialog: and children, I'm gonna find that
dialog: out. Understand?
speaker_heading: GROUP
dialog: Yes, sir!
text: He pauses in front of Sid, and smiles the friendliest of
dialog: smiles.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Hi, son.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: How're you doing, Sarge?
text: Foley's eyes become instantly crazed.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: What did you call me?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: Pardon?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: What did you call me, boy?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I called you Sarge.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Before that.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I didn't call you anything before
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You said, 'How're you?' I am not a
dialog: 'ewe,' boy! A ewe is a female sheep,
dialog: boy! Is that what you think I am,
dialog: boy?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: No, sir!
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No, sir.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Lauder, Sweet Pea!
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Do you want to fuck me up the ass,
dialog: boy? Is that why you called me a
dialog: 'ewe'? Are you a queer?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No, sir.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Where are you from, boy?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Only two things come out of Oklahoma,
dialog: steers and queers. Which one are
dialog: you, boy? I don't see any horns so
dialog: you must be a queer.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No, sir.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Stop whispering, Sweet Pea, you're
dialog: giving me a hard on!
text: Zack starts to chuckle and Foley eyeballs him hard.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Are you laughing at me, dick-brain?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, sir!
text: Foley pushes his face close to Zack's and tries to stare him
text: down. Zack just stares back, totally unintimidated.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You'd better stop eyeballing me,
dialog: boy, or I'll rip your eyes out and
dialog: skull-fuck you to death!
text: Zack keeps a straight face.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: What's your name, boy?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Mayo, Zack Mayo, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: How did you slip into this program,
dialog: Mayo? I didn't know the Navy was so
dialog: hard up.
dialog: (noticing the band-
dialog: aid)
dialog: You got an injury there, Mayo?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Not exactly, sir.
text: Foley suddenly tears the Band-Air off his arm, revealing the
text: eagle tattoo. Foley leans close to inspect it.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Where'd you get this, Mayo? This is
dialog: really wonder work.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Subic Bay, sir. In the Philippines.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I thought I recognized the work.
dialog: (stares him in the
dialog: eye)
dialog: Be proud of those wings. They're the
dialog: only ones you're gonna leave here
dialog: with, Mayo-naise.
text: He moves on to one of the others, short, barrel-shaped DELLA-
speaker_heading: SERRA.
text: Foley glances at the roster, then at Della-Serra.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Hmmmm... Emiliano Santos Della-Serra.
dialog: You a college boy, Della-Serra?
speaker_heading: DELLA-SERRA
dialog: (proudly)
dialog: Yes, sir! I graduated with honors
dialog: from Texas Tech, sir! Math major,
dialog: sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You don't say. See this cane, Della-
dialog: Serra? See these little notches near
dialog: the handle? There's a notch for every
dialog: college puke like you, Della-Serra,
dialog: who I got to D.O.R. -- drop on request --
dialog: from this program. And the first one
dialog: I want to carve out of this class is
dialog: you, Emiliano.
text: Giving him an evil look, Foley turns away.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I expect to lose half of you before
dialog: I'm finished.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I will use every means at my disposal,
dialog: fair or unfair, to trip you up, expose
dialog: your weaknesses... as a potential
dialog: aviator... and as a human being. The
text: price at the other end is a flight
dialog: education worth one million dollars,
dialog: but first you have to get past me.
dialog: (shouts)
dialog: Lay your suitcases open for
dialog: inspection!
text: Zack and the others open their packs and suitcases on the
text: sidewalk. With his cane, Foley suddenly spears a pair of
text: lacy underwear in Casey Seeger's suitcase and dangles it
text: high in the air.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Seeger, are we going to have to watch
dialog: you run around in these for the next
dialog: thirteen weeks?
text: She reaches for them but he teases her and dangles them out
dialog: of reach.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Some girls will do almost anything
dialog: to get laid. Are you one of those
dialog: girls, Seeger? Did you put in for
dialog: AOCS to get gang-banged, Seeger?
text: Casey reddens and stares daggers at the man.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Sir, you can yell at me if that's
dialog: what you're supposed to do, sir. But
dialog: you have no right to insult me, sir.
text: Foley pushes his nose right up to hers and screams:
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'll call you a beaver sandwich, if
dialog: I want to, until the day they
dialog: commission you an officer and a
dialog: gentleman and I have to call you
dialog: 'sir'!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (beat)
dialog: My language offend you, Seeger? Well,
dialog: maybe the Navy's not for you 'cause
dialog: you'll hear far worse out in the
dialog: fleet?
dialog: (in the same breath)
dialog: You've got five seconds to put your
text: suitcases in order and prepare to
dialog: move out. Time's up. Attin-shut!
dialog: Left-humph! Fo-wud-harch!
text: The candidates fall all over themselves trying to follow his
dialog: orders.
scene_heading: CUT ABRUPTLY TO:
scene_heading: EXT. A LARGE PAPER MILL - THAT SAME DAY
text: Minutes before quitting time.
scene_heading: INT. THE MILL - DAY
text: PAULA POKRIFKI and LYNETTE POMEROY, two twenty one year olds,
text: are both looking at their watches as they wait for that magic
text: moment. Two older women are assisting them in the job of
text: stacking and tying brown paper bags, then returning the tied
text: stacks to the conveyor.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Come on, guys. It's five o'clock.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: One more minute.
text: The conveyor finally shuts down and the four women join the
text: flow of workers heading for the exit.
scene_heading: EXT. THE MILL PARKING LOT - DAY
text: As Paula and Lynette are leaving, Paula calls out to a woman
text: just then getting into a beat-up old Toyota. In her youth
text: easily as pretty as her daughter, ESTER POKRIFKI is now a
text: tired, over-worked woman of 39, looking closer to 45.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: 'Bye, Mom, see you later.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: C'mon, Lynette, before she asks when
dialog: I'll be home.
text: The girls hurry toward Lynette's old Falcon, Ester watching
text: with a mingling of emotions, from nostalgia to concern.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BASE BARBER SHOP - DAY
text: STARTING CLOSE ON shears as they cut a swath through a forest
text: of hair. In a matter of seconds, Della-Serra is converted
text: from a long-haired individualist into a cipher, balder than
text: a baby's butt. He leaves and one of the female candidates
text: sits down in the chair. Whack! Whack! The barber doesn't
text: shave her but he cuts her long hair very short.
scene_heading: EXT. THE BASE BARBER SHOP - DAY
text: Foley collars Della-Serra and turns to the line of candidates
text: waiting to get inside.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Now this is my idea of an ass bandit.
dialog: Wait 'til some of our local girls
dialog: get a look at you, scrotum head.
text: The class cracks up laughing, especially big Sid, standing
text: near the end of the line with Zack and Casey.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You think that's funny, Worley? Let
dialog: me tell you something. Not all the
dialog: obstacles that can trip you up are
dialog: on this base.
dialog: (strolling down the
dialog: line)
dialog: As long as there's been Navy base
dialog: here there's been what you might as
dialog: well call your Puget Sound Debs,
dialog: poor girls who come across the sound
dialog: on the ferry every weekend for only
dialog: one reason, to marry themselves a
dialog: Naval aviator.
text: Skeptical looks from the candidates.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LYNETTE'S FALCON - DAY
text: As they clear the gates of the National Paper Company Paula
text: reaches into the back seat for her makeup kit, positions it
text: on her lap, and adjusts the mirror. Off comes the scarf.
text: Out come the pin curls, one by one and she starts combing
text: out her hair. Their disco dresses, satiny and suggestive
text: even in their plastic cleaner's bags, are hanging from
text: separate hooks in the back.
speaker_heading: FOLEY (V.O.)
dialog: Now a Puget Deb will tell you, 'Honey,
dialog: don't y'all worry 'bout no
dialog: contraceptives. I got that all taken
dialog: care of.' Well, don't you believe a
dialog: word of it, Sweet Pea...
scene_heading: EXT. THE ROAD TO THE FERRY - DAY
text: Paula is fleetingly naked as she pulls her emerald green
text: dress over her head.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: ...'cause a Puget Deb will do anything
dialog: and say anything to trap you... and
dialog: once she has you by the balls, child,
dialog: you might just find yourself with a
dialog: couple of income tax deductions you
dialog: didn't have when you came here.
scene_heading: EXT. FERRY - STARTING ON THE FALCON - DAY
text: It appears to be moving, because the scenery is moving by.
text: Lynette and Paula have traded places and now Lynette sits in
text: the passenger seat, pulling the pin curls out of her hair.
text: She finishes and quickly takes off her shirt and bra.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I know this all sounds silly to you,
dialog: especially in this so-called modern
dialog: age...
text: A guy in a car traveling alongside the Falcon is getting an
text: eyeful. Lynette sees him and gives him a dirty look.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: ...but you scuzzy college pukes had
dialog: better watch out, 'cause they're out
dialog: there. And you, Sweet Pea, are the
dialog: answer to their dreams.
text: We PULL BACK to reveal that the two cars are not on the
text: highway, but aboard an open ferry crossing the Puget Sound.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE UNIFORM SUPPLY ROOM - DAY
text: CAMERA MOVES AHEAD of Zack, Sid and Casey. Navy enlisted men
text: behind the counter are handing out "Poopie Suits," "Chrome
text: Domes" and "Boonies" to the candidates as Foley looks on.
text: All the boys are bald. The girls have suffered a military
dialog: haircut as well, but have been mercifully allowed to keep a
text: few inches of coverage.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: How do you like my Poopie Factory,
dialog: Seeger? You enter these doors and
dialog: individual with a look that's all
dialog: yours, a style, a way about you, a
dialog: personality... and you come out a
dialog: Poopie! That's sort of like what
dialog: happens to food. It goes in looking
dialog: all fancy and pretty.
text: Seeger grimaces.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I knew those commercials were full
dialog: of shit.
text: CAMERA HOLDS on a recruiting poster on the wall.
scene_heading: INT. THE INDOC BARRACKS - DAY
text: The new Poopies come running in, carrying their suitcases
text: and uniform issue, Foley herding them like cattle up the
dialog: stairs.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: This is where you live, children!
dialog: This is Poopie-ville! Girl Poopies
dialog: to the left, boy Poopies to the right!
scene_heading: INT. THE UPSTAIRS OF THE BARRACKS - QUICK SHOTS - DAY
text: The Poopies find their assigned room, the five girls in a
text: wing to the left of the stairwell, the thirty-one boys in
text: the wing to the right.
scene_heading: INT. ZACK'S ROOM - DAY
text: The names on the door are: "PERRYMAN, MAYO, WORLEY and
text: DANIELS." Zack is the first one through the door and he grabs
text: the upper bunk by the window. His roommates come in and share
text: a look as they see what he's done. LOUIS PERRYMAN is a no-
text: nonsense black, a few years older than the other, like Zack.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: How do you figure that's your bunk?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: He said it's up to us and I got here
dialog: first, didn't I?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Whatever you say, Mayonnaise.
speaker_heading: FOLEY (O.S.)
text: Fall out on the lawn in five minutes,
dialog: in your Poopie suits!
text: Perryman and Topper select lower bunks and start stowing
text: their gear in their lockers. Sid takes the other top bunk.
scene_heading: ANGLE - THE LOCKERS
text: Perryman immediately tapes a photo of his family on the door
text: of his locker, wife and two young children, one a baby in
dialog: diapers.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: You're a married man, huh, Perryman?
text: Perryman touches the photo affectionately.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: Yeah. They're the main reason I'm
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: I still can't believe I did this. A
dialog: three-point-eight average from
dialog: Amhearst and I signed up for this?
text: Perryman laughs. Both Zack and Sid are stowing their lockers
text: expertly. Zack glances questioningly at the big Okie.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (in reply to his look)
dialog: I'm a service brat, pal. Same as
dialog: you.
text: Zack takes five new packs of cards from his suitcase and
text: hides them in his locker under his skivvies. Sid notices him
dialog: do it.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Someday you'll have to tell me about
dialog: Subic.
text: Zack says nothing. Both boys start changing into their sloppy-
text: fitting Poopie suits.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: That Foley looks like he's been
dialog: through a war or two.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I've seen better.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Fall out! Fall out!!
text: Zack, Sid and their roommates push out in their Poopie suits.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE BARRACKS BUILDING - DAY
text: The candidates line up outside, in their Poopie uniforms.
text: Sid lines up between Zack and Casey. For the moment, Foley
text: is nowhere to be seen, but a Navy lieutenant is talking to a
dialog: Navy captain in SHOT b.g.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Think there's any truth to what he
dialog: was saying about those girls? Is
dialog: that still going on?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sure it is, Sweet Pea, but he
dialog: should've warned you 'scuzzy' female
dialog: types about the 'Puget Dudes.' They'll
dialog: tell you they're wearing a rubber
dialog: but they've bit a little hole in the
dialog: end.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: You're pretty funny, Mayo.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Maybe we'll be roommates, Seeger,
dialog: and you'll find out how funny I really
dialog: am...
text: Foley suddenly appears.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
text: Seeger, Mayo and Worley -- hit the
dialog: deck and give me fifty push-ups. On
dialog: the double!
text: The trio drops to the ground and starts doing push-ups.
scene_heading: ACROSS THE STREET - DAY
text: Lynette's Falcon drives up and the two girls start across
text: the street, carrying boxes of LP's.
scene_heading: ON SID, ZACK AND CASEY
text: They're about ten, eleven push-ups along when Casey starts
text: to fade. Foley's polished shoes ENTER SHOT and she looks up
text: at him sheepishly.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Looks like you need a little work on
dialog: your upper body strength, Seeger.
text: He leads her off to where the other candidates stand at
text: attention, leaving Zack and Sid alone, doing push-ups. They
text: eye Lynette and Paula as they walk past.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STEPS OF A NEARBY BUILDING - DAY
text: NELLIE RUFFERWALL, 50, the base social director, is chatting
text: with a young Naval officer as the two girls approach in their
text: sexy disco dresses. The officer flirts with both girls as he
text: walks off.
speaker_heading: NELLIE
dialog: Paula, honey, Lynette... I hope you
dialog: didn't call all this way just to
dialog: bring me these nice records.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (eyeing the retreating
dialog: officer)
dialog: No, ma'am. We planned on stopping at
dialog: the 'O' Club tonight, one way or the
dialog: other.
scene_heading: ANGLE - SID AND ZACK
text: About 30 push-ups in. Both are in terrific shape and have no
text: problem at all with the push-ups. They watch Paula and Lynette
text: talking with the matronly social director across the street.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Look at that hot little blonde!
text: Zack is staring at Paula.
scene_heading: ANGLE - PAULA AND LYNETTE
text: They leave Nellie with the boxes of records and start down
dialog: the steps.
speaker_heading: NELLIE
dialog: 'Bye girls, and thank you again.
dialog: Blue Angels be in next month. You
dialog: want me to line you up with one,
dialog: just let me know.
text: The girls start back across the street, in the direction of
dialog: the Officers' Club.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Far fucking out! I've been wanting
dialog: to meet one of the Blue Angels since
dialog: I can remember.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Lynette, watch your mouth! Somebody
text: might overhear.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Paula, look at the new Poopies.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Yeah, I saw 'em. Poor guys.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (calling to them)
dialog: See you in a month when you get
dialog: liberty!
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (calls)
dialog: Don't worry. It grows out about an
dialog: inch by them.
text: Laughing, they start into the Officers' Club.
scene_heading: NEW ANGLE - THE OFFICERS' CLUB ENTRANCE
text: A handsome young pilot named DONNY TARLTON, 29, is walking
text: out just as the girls are entering.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (flirty)
dialog: Hi, Donny.
speaker_heading: DONNY
dialog: Oh, hi, Lynette. Hey, Paula, haven't
dialog: seen you for a while. When're we
dialog: gonna go out?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I already told you. I don't go out
dialog: with guys who've been dating a good
dialog: friend. See ya.
text: The girls go inside.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LAWN IN FRONT OF THE CHOW HALL - DAY
text: Thirty-six chrome dome helmets fly into the air and land on
text: the lawn and then thirty-six starving Poopies rush into line
text: in front of the mess hall, at close-order attention, nose
text: touching the back of the head of the Poopie ahead of them in
dialog: line.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Count off!
text: They start the count off. When it gets to Perryman he screws
text: up and gives the wrong number. Foley descends on him.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Daydreaming about your wife and kids,
dialog: Perryman? You want to join 'em now?
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: No, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Count off!! From the top.
dialog: This time somebody else fucks up.
scene_heading: INT. THE MESS HALL - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY
text: The candidates wait in line with their trays held in both
text: hands directly in front of their faces, STOMACHS GROWLING so
text: loudly we can hear them. Sid whispers to Zack.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (softly)
dialog: I'm so hungry I could die.
text: They go through the food line, staring longingly at the shit
text: on a shingle they're being served. Drooling.
text: They stand at attention at their table. Foley putting them
text: through a silly drill of slapping their arms together and
text: sinking, as a unit, slowly into their seats. Each time they
text: fail to do it together, Foley makes them start again. Steam
text: rises up from their trays, teasing them cruelly.
dialog: Finally, they get it right.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Okay! You got thirty-five seconds to
dialog: get that garbage in your belly, bus
dialog: your dishes, and get your asses out
dialog: of here.
text: They go at it like animals, stuffing their faces as fast as
text: they can, Zack the fastest eater of all. He finishes in no
text: time at all and busses his tray. He smiles smugly as he passes
text: Foley and the D.I. reacts.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CROSS-COUNTRY COURSE - THE FIRST - DAY
text: Foley runs the candidates over the cross-country course with
text: rifles raised overhead. Sunlight filters through the dense
text: trees that overhang the narrow trail.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (jody-calling)
text: Flying low and feeling mean. Spot a
text: family by a stream. Pickle a pear
dialog: and hear'em scream. 'Cause napalm
dialog: sticks to kids.
scene_heading: EXT. CROSS-COUNTRY COURSE - NEAR THE LIGHTHOUSE - DAY
text: Foley runs his Poopies through the surf, past the old
text: lighthouse, CAMERA MOVING with Sid, Zack and Casey, near the
dialog: end of the group.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
text: Eighteen kids in a free fire zone.
text: Books under arms, just walking on
text: home. Last kid walks home alone.
dialog: 'Cause napalm sticks to kids.
text: Sid glances over his shoulder at Casey, running tiredly behind
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Hey, Seeger, what're you doing in
dialog: this program?
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: (testy)
dialog: What's the matter, Worley? Am I
dialog: threatening you?
text: Zack runs behind Seeger.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, baby, you could get sent to
dialog: war, get your ass shot down.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Don't lose any sleep over it. I
dialog: wouldn't mind being the first woman
text: to fly a jet fighter in combat.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Great. You can go in my place.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (to Casey)
dialog: Are you really going for jets?
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Uh-huh. All the way.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: How about you, Mayo?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Jets.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I hate to tell you guys, but only
dialog: two out of every class make it into
dialog: jets. Which one of you is going with
dialog: me?
scene_heading: EXT. CROSS-COUNTRY COURSE - THE GUN EMPLACEMENTS - DAY
text: Foley stands at the entrance to a dark tunnel, watching the
text: candidates run past.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Here's my favorite one now. See if
dialog: it ain't your favorite, too.
dialog: (resuming)
text: Family of gooks sittin' in a ditch,
text: Baby sucking on her mama's tit. Dow
dialog: Chemical don't give a shit, that
dialog: napalm sticks to kids.
text: CAMERA PANS the last of the candidates through the tunnel.
text: ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE TUNNEL
text: There's a huge, three-story gun emplacement bunker built in
dialog: 1895, that now serves as a torture chamber for aviation
dialog: officer candidates.
text: The other D.I.'s from the program stand at different places
text: on the time-weathered stairs, waiting to assist Foley, their
text: canes propped behind them, truly cruel expressions on their
dialog: faces.
text: On cue from Foley, they begin to P.T. Zack's class into the
text: ground, running them up and down the stairs, shouting in
text: their tender ears until some members of the class actually
text: start passing out.
text: An ambulance is there with two enlisted attendants to carry
dialog: away the casualties.
text: Zack, Sid, Casey, Perryman and Topper are starting to show
text: the wear of the arduous "C" course, like the rest of their
dialog: class.
text: As they pass the "finish line" where Foley stands, they all
text: fall on their faces, and lie there, gasping for breath.
text: Suddenly, they're distracted by a disquieting sight.
scene_heading: EXT. OBSTACLE COURSE - DAY
text: An advanced class of officer candidates comes running past
text: the exhausted Poopies in smart-looking blue warm-up suits
text: with an insignia and the name "THRAXTON'S COBRAS" on the
text: front and nicknames on the back like: "HOOSIER FACE," "THE
text: BARBER," "ANIMAL HOUSE," "CHOW HOG," "BABY HUEY," AND "THE
speaker_heading: PROFESSOR."
text: CAMERA PANS them to the obstacle course where Thraxton's
text: Cobras start eating up the course like child's play.
scene_heading: ANGLE - FOLEY AND HIS CLASS
text: Foley sneers down at his exhausted Poopies.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: That's you in thirteen weeks, those
dialog: of you who survive. Don't you dare
dialog: look at them! You're not worthy enough
dialog: to look at them! Della-Serra, I saw
dialog: you eyeballing them!
text: Zack and the others can't take their eyes off the advanced
dialog: class. It's literally impossible to imagine ever being that
text: well-conditioned.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. ZACK'S BARRACKS ROOM - NIGHT
text: CAMERA MOVES AROUND the room, past Perryman's snoring face,
text: past Sid, tossing fitfully, so exhausted he keeps mumbling,
text: "Yes, sir," over and over in his sleep... finally HOLDING ON
text: Zack, sleeping so lightly that the SOUND OF HISSING near at
text: hand causes his eyes to open, then harden with disgust at
text: what he's seeing.
text: Topper stands at the sink, pissing.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: What the fuck're you doing, Topper?
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: (mortified)
dialog: I'm afraid to go out there, Zack. I
dialog: know he'll catch me. He sleeps in
dialog: the head, you know.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: He doesn't sleep in the head, man.
dialog: He just says those things. Shit! I
dialog: just cleaned that sink this morning!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS - DAY (SEVERAL WEEKS LATER)
text: Zack comes out of the head, Candidates Della-Serra and Marcus
text: on his heels. Zack wears a white T-shirt and the khaki pants
dialog: of the uniform they've been issued after "Poopie Week". His
text: shoes are spit-shined to perfection, his belt brassoed to a
text: lustrous shine, and his hair is now about an inch long. He
text: pats it back with his hands, primping.
speaker_heading: DELLA-SERRA
dialog: Another week or two, you'll have
dialog: that ducktail back, Mayo.
text: He rubs Zack's head and Zack pulls away.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey! I worked on it for thirty
dialog: minutes!
text: Zack snaps Della-Serra with his towel, spots a couple of
text: female candidates leaving the woman's head, looks around to
text: see if any's watching, and crosses by the stairwell toward
text: Seeger's room.
scene_heading: INT. SEEGER'S ROOM - DAY
text: Zack pushes the door open and stands there, grinning, as
text: Gonzales rushes into her uniform. Seeger just sits there on
text: her bunk, in her khaki pants and a bra, spit-shining her
dialog: boonies.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Good morning, girls.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Ever heard of knocking, mayo?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, did you hear? Sands and
dialog: Kantrowitz DORed last night.
dialog: (His killer grim)
dialog: Survival of the fittest.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: The whole world's a jungle, huh,
dialog: Mayo? Dog eat dog down to the last
dialog: one, right?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You got it, Sweet Pea.
dialog: (eyeing her breasts)
dialog: Nice boonies, Seeger.
text: Casey smiles easily and Zack pushes off down the corridor.
text: ZACK WALKS INTO HIS ROOM
text: and finds his roommates rushing around in a frenzy, trying
text: to get squared away. Sid is working like a fool on his boots.
text: Perryman is brassoing his belt buckle, and Topper is folding
text: his underwear and T-shirts and then measuring them with a
dialog: ruler to be certain he has the correct dimensions, before
text: placing them in his locker.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: Inspection's in five minutes, Mayo!
dialog: Give 'em to me.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Where's your money?
text: Topper gives him a fiver. Totally unrushed, Zack gets up on
text: his bunk and starts prying a piece of fiberboard loose from
dialog: the ceiling.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: You'd better hope Foley never finds
dialog: out about that, Mayo.
text: Zack pulls the piece of fiberboard free and reaches inside.
text: Slaving over his boonies, Sid looks up and sees Zack remove
text: from his stash a perfectly spitshined pair of boonies and
text: hand them down to Topper. Laboring over his belt buckle,
text: Perryman practically drools as he sees the glistening buckle
text: Zack suddenly holds up for him to see.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Two bucks a buckle, Perryman. Look
dialog: at that shine! Boonies'll cost you
dialog: five.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: Who's got two bucks? It's costing me
dialog: every penny they pay us just to keep
dialog: my old Lady and my kids in that motel.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Who you got doing all that for you,
dialog: man? Some enlisted guy?
text: Not one to give away his secrets, Zack just smiles, and
text: replaces the boots and buckle in his stash.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: Hey, man, is the piss-ass money you're
dialog: making off this worth the risk of
dialog: getting us all kicked out of here on
dialog: an honor violation?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't notice anyone else
dialog: complaining.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE OBSTACLE COURSE - DAY
text: Foley is timing the class over the killer "o" course. While
text: most of his classmates are struggling to complete the course,
text: Zack is breezing through it. As he finished, he moves off by
text: himself, aloof, confident. Foley watches him closely. He's
text: the only one not rooting for his classmates.
scene_heading: ANGLE - THE TEN-FOOT WALL
text: Casey is having a terrible time getting over the wall. She
text: doesn't have the upper-body strength for it. Foley saunters
text: up and watches her futile efforts with a cockeyed little
dialog: smile.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I can tell you right now you're not
dialog: gonna make it, Seeger. First, I can't
dialog: graduate you unless you make it over
dialog: that wall. You gotta have muscles,
dialog: Seeger, if you want to fly my jets.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: I'll make it over the wall, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Do you want to be a man, Seeger? Is
dialog: that why you're here?
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Sir, if it means getting all the
dialog: respect a man gets, then yes! I was
dialog: told I could find that in the modern
dialog: Navy, sir!
text: She takes another run at the wall but fails once more to
text: scale it. She sinks to the ground and bites her lip to keep
text: from crying. Still, tears well up in her eyes.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: That's it! That's exactly what'll
dialog: beat you, Seeger... your mental
dialog: attitude as a person of the female
dialog: persuasion. Under all your bullshit,
dialog: you still think like a second class
dialog: citizen, Seeger. You could never
dialog: give orders to men.
scene_heading: INT. THE AERODYNAMICS CLASSROOM - DAY
text: Zack struggles to comprehend the mumbo-jumbo of higher physics
text: being demonstrated on the blackboard by the instructor, a
text: Navy Lieutenant. All the candidates are using slide rules to
dialog: work out the difficult problems.
text: QUICK CLOSE SHOTS reveal that most of the candidates have a
dialog: pretty fair facility with the slide rule, but Zack looks
text: like he's never had one in his hand until now.
scene_heading: EXT. THE BARRACKS - NIGHT
text: STARTING CLOSE ON a row of shined boots and a row of shined
text: buckles WE WIDEN to reveal an enlisted sailor and Zack,
text: scrutinizing the boots and buckles spread out on a Navy issue
text: blanket. Zack nods his satisfaction, hands over a wad of
text: currency, and carefully starts folding the edges of the
text: blanket around his booty as the sailor disappears into the
text: darkness. Then, as Zack lifts his Santa's sack of goodies
text: over his shoulder, and turns around to go, he stops suddenly.
speaker_heading: INCLUDE SID
text: He stands there in the darkness, a big grin on his face.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: So that's how you do it.
text: Zack looks like a thief caught in the act.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, you gonna tell anybody about
dialog: this?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (kidding him)
dialog: Not if you make it worth my while.
dialog: How about free boonies for the
dialog: duration?
text: Zack smiles, realizing his roommate is putting him on.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: How about you kiss my ass?
text: Sid laughs. Together, they head back toward the barracks
dialog: entrance.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE OFFICERS CLUB - REGIMENTAL BALL - NIGHT
text: Zack and Sid are part of the line of stubble-haired AOCs in
text: dress white uniforms, watching the door like eagles as a
text: parade of Puget Debs come into the club, wearing satiny
text: formals and hopeful smiles.
text: Perryman walks past with his attractive black wife.
text: Casey enters in uniform, hand-in-hand with a handsome young
text: Lieutenant JG, her shortened hair brushed back nicely on the
text: sides. She smiles at Zack and he smiles back.
text: Topper approaches one of the girls coming through the door,
text: a short, dumpy little girl with jugs the size of watermelons,
text: and escorts her toward the ballroom.
text: Then Sid and Zack spot Paula and Lynette coming through the
text: door in clingy little formals, milky-white bosoms pushed up
text: high and little gold crosses dangling in the valley between.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Look, Zack. It's them. Holy shit.
dialog: Look at that bodacious set of ta-
dialog: tas.
text: They approach the girls where they've stopped to chat with
dialog: Nellie Rufferwell.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Mrs. Rufferwell, ma'am, think you
dialog: could introduce us to these attractive
dialog: young ladies...?
text: Sid immediately fixes his eyes on Lynette. Zack and Paula
text: size each other up as Nellie makes the introductions.
speaker_heading: NELLIE
dialog: Officer Candidate Sid Worley, may I
dialog: present Miss Lynette Pomeroy. Miss
dialog: Paula Pokrifki, Officer Candidate
dialog: Zackary Mayo.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Well, I hope you have a good time.
text: She slips off, leaving the foursome along.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (rubbing his head)
dialog: You told us it would grow out an
dialog: inch.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (aside, to Zack)
dialog: It's grown out more than an inch,
dialog: sweetheart.
text: Zack stifles a chuckle.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: That was you guys, huh?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Come on. Let's go dance.
text: Sid offers her his arm and she takes it with a little smile.
text: Zack offers Paula his arm and she takes it, meeting his eyes
dialog: for an instant.
scene_heading: INT. THE OFFICERS CLUB - NIGHT
text: As they cross the dance floor. A shitty local band is PLAYING
text: embarrassingly loud.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Is this you boys first night of
dialog: liberty since you got here?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Yes, ma'am. Four long, hard weeks of
dialog: sacrifice for my country... for my
dialog: people... for you. But I survived.
scene_heading: ANGLE - THE REFRESHMENT TABLE
text: As Sid and Lynette dance, Zack and Paula have some punch at
text: the refreshment table.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, what kind of name is Pokrifki?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Polish. What kind of name is Mayo?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Italian. My mom was Irish. I got her
dialog: ears. But the rest is all wop.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Where are you from, Mayo the Wop?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Everywhere and nowhere, Paula the
dialog: Polack.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Seriously.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (straight-faced)
dialog: My father is a Rear Admiral in the
dialog: Seventh Fleet.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah. We've lived all over the world.
dialog: Katmandu, Moscow, Nairobi.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (impressed)
dialog: Really? I've never been out of
dialog: Washington except once when I visited
dialog: this aunt of mine over to Portland.
dialog: I mean, over at Portland. Ain't it
dialog: pathetic the way folks talk around
dialog: here?
text: She suddenly blushes.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: You're putting me on, aren't you? We
dialog: don't got no Navy bases in Moscow.
text: Zack just smiles.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (returns his smile)
dialog: You got a girl?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, and I'm not looking for one
dialog: either.
text: Paula meets his eyes and flirts brazenly.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Yeah, what are you looking for?
text: Zack just grins.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I hear most of the girls who come to
dialog: these things are looking for a
dialog: husband.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Not me.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah? Why're you here?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: To meet interesting people, improve
dialog: myself. You wouldn't believe the
dialog: losers we got over in Port Angeles.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Do you go to school?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: No. I work for National Paper. It's
dialog: a good job. I make eight-twenty-three
dialog: an hour.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: When I get enough money saved, I
dialog: plan to go on to college.
text: The band surges into a slower ballad.
scene_heading: ANGLE - SID AND LYNETTE
text: As they dance to the slow music, they waste no time with
text: formalities and soon are pushing their bodies together and
dialog: rubbing in all the best places.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: You been through the Dilbert Dunker
dialog: yet?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Cake walk. Both my dad and my brother
dialog: went through it and made it, so I
dialog: know I can.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Is your brother a flyer?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: He was. He died.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Vietnam?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I had a big brother who died over
dialog: there, too. He wasn't no flyer though.
dialog: He was just your basic Marine Corps
dialog: type. I was only twelve when it
dialog: happened, so I don't remember much
dialog: about him.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (somberly)
dialog: I sure remember Tommy.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Mind if we talked about something
dialog: else?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (seductively)
dialog: We don't have to talk at all.
scene_heading: VARIOUS SHOTS - AROUND THE DANCE FLOOR
text: The horny AOCs from Zack's class are grinding and pushing
text: and falling into the gentle traps being set by the crafty
dialog: debs.
text: Topper buries his nose into the ample cleavage of his deb.
text: Della-Serra nibbles on the ear of his gangly partner. Casey
text: and her pilot twirl around the floor.
scene_heading: ANGLE - PAULA AND ZACK
text: As they move onto the dance floor, the handsome pilot, Donny
text: approaches PAULA.
speaker_heading: DONNY
dialog: Hey, PAULA. How about a dance later
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Well... I'm kinda with someone.
text: She continues on with Zack.
scene_heading: NEW ANGLE - PAULA AND ZACK
text: Paula puts her arms tight around his neck and nestles her
text: lips close to his ear.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Think you'll make it all the way to
dialog: getting your wings?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Who knows? Guys a lot smarter than
dialog: me are dropping out like flies.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Just think 'I'm gonna do it!' Program
dialog: yourself. See yourself making it.
dialog: It'll happen. I know 'cause I just
dialog: read this article in Cosmo, and it
dialog: was about that very thing.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You're a very pretty girl, Paula.
text: He kisses her once but as he starts to pull away she won't
text: let him and they french shamelessly for a long moment before
text: PAULA pulls away from him, breathing raggedly, her green
text: eyes flashing.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Let's flee this pit stop, what do
dialog: you say?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE LIGHTHOUSE - NIGHT
text: The beacon sweeps past the empty Falcon and over the sandy
dialog: landscape as we hear:
speaker_heading: SID (V.O.)
dialog: Something tells me you've been here
dialog: before.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE (V.O.)
dialog: Now what on earth would give you an
dialog: idea like that?
scene_heading: START CLOSE ON LYNETTE'S BUTTONS
text: Sid's fingers pop a button in their urgency. Lynette's fingers
text: push his away and she undoes the buttons with ease.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: You're sure it's okay?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Don't worry. I'll respect you
dialog: afterwards.
text: The dress disappears, leaving her torso uncovered. Sid's
text: face PUSHES INTO SHOT as he kisses his way down her neck
text: toward her tight little breasts.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: You're crazy, girl. You'll respect
dialog: me. That's great. But what I meant...
text: Lynette's face PUSHES INTO SHOT and she kisses him almost
dialog: roughly.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I told you. I'm on the pill. Don't
dialog: worry, Sid. Just do it.
text: She pulls him down on top of her.
text: THE LIGHT FROM THE LIGHTHOUSE
text: sweeps past Zack and PAULA, already making love a distance
text: down the beach.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS HEAD - NIGHT
text: The two friends crow about their conquests while they brush
text: their teeth in front of the long mirror.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Could you believe those girls!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: 'Nellie's Nymphos!'
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Jesus, that Lynette! I rode her hard
dialog: and put her up wet.
text: Zack shadowboxes with his reflection in the mirror.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (clowning)
dialog: Look out, Foley! I'm ready to take
dialog: you on for another week!
text: They both laugh.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. LYNETTE'S CAR - NIGHT
text: Lynette has the accelerator mashed to the floorboard. Paula
text: looks at her wristwatch.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Hurry, Lynette. It's almost midnight.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
text: I got my foot on the floor.
scene_heading: EXT. THE FERRY PORT - NIGHT
text: The midnight ferry to Port Angeles is just about to pull out
text: when the Falcon comes SCREAMING around the corner and races
dialog: aboard.
scene_heading: EXT. FERRY - LONG SHOT - NIGHT
text: crossing the Sound.
scene_heading: INT. THE WHEELHOUSE OF THE FERRY - NIGHT
text: The two girls look out across the water. A curious little
text: smile crosses Paula's face and Lynette sees it.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Well, it you're not gonna ask, then
dialog: I will. How was it?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Great.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Details, Pokrif. From what I saw he
dialog: had an incredible body.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Yeah... Mmmm...
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: What did he do? Did he do anything
dialog: that was different?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Everything was different.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: But in what ways?
text: Paula looks at her friend as if acknowledging her presence
text: for the first time. A sense of privacy comes over her
dialog: suddenly.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Did you... come?
dialog: Paula smiles. Lynette could die of envy. You sense she's
dialog: never known that pleasure.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: How did it go with you guys?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Big Sid came in about two and a half
dialog: seconds, then had the nerve to ask,
dialog: 'Did you make it, too, sweetheart?'
text: Said with a certain affection, albeit slightly jaded. Paula
dialog: laughs.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (resuming softer)
dialog: ...but I really like him, Paula. And
dialog: I know he's going to make it. He
text: comes from a family of pilots.
scene_heading: EXT. THE PORT ANGELES FERRY TERMINAL - NIGHT
text: The Falcon drives off and proceeds past a local hangout called
text: "Tim's" with a number of motorcycles parked out front. A
text: cluster of good old boys in jeans and T-shirts, lounging in
text: front of "Tim's," see the Falcon and WHISTLE at the girls.
text: Lynette gives them the finger.
scene_heading: INT. THE FALCON - NIGHT
text: Both Paula and Lynette respond to the whistles with looks of
dialog: disgust. Cinderella said it first: the worst part of being a
text: deb is the ride home.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: He ask you out for next weekend?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: No, but I told him I'd be at the
dialog: Town Tavern next Saturday night, and
dialog: he sounded like he might come.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I told Zack about Saturday night,
dialog: too. The fifth week's supposed to be
dialog: the roughest. Come Wednesday, he'll
dialog: be wishing he took my number.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: You hope.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: He'll show. I'd bet my paycheck on
dialog: it.
scene_heading: EXT. PAULA'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: A lower-middle class clapboard house sitting on blocks like
text: all the others on the crammed little street.
dialog: Built during the war as cheap housing for servicemen, the
text: box-like dwellings now serve Port Angeles' industrial blue
dialog: collar families, like Paula's.
text: The Falcon drives up and Paula gets out.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: See you at church in the morning.
text: Paula nods distractedly, her face reflecting genuine fear of
text: what awaits her inside the darkened house.
scene_heading: INT. PAULA'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Her key turns in the lock and the door opens. She tiptoes
text: across the small living room, but as she is passing a door
text: left slightly ajar, a voice inside the room calls out to
text: her, making her jump.
speaker_heading: JOE (O.S.)
dialog: Paula, come in here, please.
scene_heading: INT. JOE AND ESTHER'S BEDROOM
text: JOE POKRIFKI is a tough, barely-literate Polack with enough
text: hair on his chest to compete with some apes. Ester lies in
text: bed beside him. Paula enters the darkened room and Joe
text: suddenly snaps on the light, bathing them all in its harsh,
text: almost police-room glare.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Come over here. I want to look at
dialog: you.
text: Paula stays near the door, scared.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I know I'm late and I'm sorry, but
dialog: Mrs. Rufferwell asked us to help
dialog: with the cleanup and...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I said, come here!
text: She slowly approaches him, stopping about halfway.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Daddy, I don't want to get into
dialog: anything with you tonight. I'm tired
dialog: and I...
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: What are you tired from?
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: Joe!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Come over here where I can see you.
text: She steps up to the bed and her father looks over her
dialog: clothing.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Look at the sand! Enough sand to
dialog: start your own beach!
dialog: (seeing something)
dialog: What's that wet place on your dress?
text: Paula is so mortified she could scream. Tears of rage flood
text: her eyes.
scene_heading: INT. AN ADJOINING BEDROOM
text: Paula's two sisters, ages 14 and 10, are awake in their bunks
text: and listening to the confrontation in the next room. The
text: empty lower bunk in the over-crammed room belongs to Paula.
text: There's a stack of Cosmopolitan magazines beside the bed and
text: fan magazine photos of John Travolta taped to the wall above
dialog: her pillow.
speaker_heading: PAULA (O.S.)
dialog: I don't know what it is. It could be
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: JOE (O.S.)
dialog: But you knew right off what I was
dialog: talking about, didn't you, Paula!
dialog: Did you let that boy --
scene_heading: INT. JOE AND ESTER'S BEDROOM
text: Paula interrupts her father, enraged by his insinuations.
text: Her mother looks on, haunted by memories of her own.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Don't you dare ask me that question.
dialog: I'm an adult and you got no right to
dialog: push your nose into my affairs like
dialog: that!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Well, as long as you live in this
dialog: house, young lady, you live by my
dialog: rules! You should be dating local
dialog: boys.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Uh-uh! Not a chance! There's nobody
dialog: in this town doing anything with his
dialog: life, except what his father did,
dialog: which is nothing. If I can't have
dialog: more out of life than that, I'd rather
dialog: be dead!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Do you honestly think you'll find a
dialog: boy in that... that officer's school
dialog: who's serious about marriage?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Yes I do!
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Then you're dumber than I thought!
dialog: All you'll get from their kind is
dialog: pregnant!
text: For an instant, Esther's eyes and her husband's lock in
text: unresolved combat.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Nothing like that's ever gonna happen.
text: To keep from sobbing in front of them, she turns and runs
dialog: out.
text: A terrible silence fills the room, the silence of two
text: miserable human beings condemned to live unhappily ever
dialog: after... because of one little mistake.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Esther, do you think she's using...
dialog: (has trouble saying
dialog: it)
dialog: ...birth control?
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: Yes, Joe.
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: When did this happen?
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: A long time ago.
scene_heading: INT. PAULA'S BEDROOM
text: She changes into her pajamas and crawls into bed. She'd like
text: to cry but there isn't the privacy for it, so she holds it
text: all in. CAMERA PANS the faces of her sisters, both awake.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CATHOLIC CHURCH IN PORT ANGELES - DAY
text: Joe Pokrifki parks his big, old Olds Cutlass and the four
text: Pokrifki women follow him toward the church in their prim
dialog: Sunday dresses.
text: Lynette and her three brothers climb down from the back of a
text: dented and primered pickup truck. Lynette's pained skeleton
text: of a mother gets out from behind the wheel and ushers her
text: brood toward the church. There's a shocking difference between
dialog: the debs who go over to the base on weekends and these primly-
text: dressed, almost tomboyishly unmade-up young girls.
text: As the two girls see each other, they exchange supportive
dialog: smiles.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE OLD BLIMP HANGAR - DAY
text: Zack and his classmates look around apprehensively as they
text: enter the cavernous old hangar and take seats, along with
text: several other classes from the program, around a raised mat.
text: Suddenly, shockingly, a bank of lights directly over the mat
text: go on to illuminate Foley, dressed in a worn and faded pair
text: of black silk pajamas, legs akimbo and arms crossed at the
dialog: chest.
text: Zack elbows Sid.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Look at Foley! Can you believe it!
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (frightened)
dialog: Shhhh...
text: Zack looks around and the faces of the others are similarly
dialog: disquieted by the sight. How do you describe the presence of
text: death in a room? But it's there. Foley brought it in with
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'm the base martial arts instructor,
dialog: so those of you in on-eight must
dialog: desist in thinking of me as their
dialog: drill instructor for the next sixty
dialog: minutes.
dialog: (grins evilly)
dialog: Just think of me as... the enemy.
dialog: Incidentally, children, I am wearing
text: the uniform of a Viet Cong foot
dialog: soldier I killed in hand-to-hand
dialog: combat in Plei Me, Viet Nam... when
dialog: I was about your age. Maybe a little
dialog: younger.
dialog: (in the same breath)
dialog: May I please have a volunteer? How
dialog: 'bout you, Daniels?
text: Topper rises to his feet, terrified, and Sid pats him on the
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Go put him in the hospital, kid.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: He can't touch me. That's the law.
text: Foley grins sadistically as he watches Topper climb up onto
dialog: the mat.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Hello, pussy. How bad do you want to
dialog: survive?
text: Topper stares at him, then stammers:
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: Sir, this Officer Candidate doesn't
dialog: understand what you're asking, sir.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Let me see if I can improve your
dialog: comprehension.
text: He leaps on Topper like a cat, grabbing the boy's throat
text: between his thumb and forefinger, seemingly intent upon
text: killing him but, in reality, scaring him more than actually
dialog: hurting him that much.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Do you want to survive bad enough to
dialog: stop me, pussy? Or are you relying
dialog: on my generosity, my love of humanity,
dialog: to stop me from killing you?!
text: Topper's eyes bug in horror.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: Please... no... I can't breathe...
text: Foley just laughs.
speaker_heading: SID AND PERRYMAN
text: jump to their feet to protest, but events are moving too
text: fast for them. Zack just sits there, almost amused.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
text: finally starts fighting back. Convinced this maniac means to
text: kill him to make his point, he finally summons enough survival
text: instinct to wrestle Foley's hand from his throat. He sinks
text: to the floor of the ring and struggles to catch his breath.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: You... had... no right! You can't...
dialog: touch... us! It's the... law!
text: This makes Foley laugh all the harder.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (mimicking him)
dialog: 'Sir, this Officer Candidate doesn't
dialog: understand what you mean by survival.'
dialog: Now do you understand a little better,
dialog: pussy? Get out of my sight!
text: Topper hurries to comply, while Foley swaggers to the edge
text: of the mat, sits down and starts putting foam safety-kick
text: pads on his feet, really getting off on this.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You think I'm a little harsh on your
dialog: classmate? Wait 'til you get shot
text: down behind enemy lines and the only
dialog: thing between you and a POW camp is
dialog: what you assholes learned from me!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Okay, worms. Now that I've got your
dialog: attention, we can begin.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
text: demonstrates the basic karate kicks. Beyond black belt, he
text: has moves that ought to bear his name. Leaping, spinning
text: crescent kicks are his specialty, and he executes them like
text: a ballet master, awing everyone in the dank old hangar. Almost
text: everyone. Zack, cool. Zack, is unimpressed.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE TOWN TAVERN - NIGHT
text: Zack and Sid sit in their white liberty uniforms at the long
text: bar, nursing beers, Sid anxiously watching the door for
text: Lynette, Zack busy flirting with an attractive WAITRESS. The
text: Town Tavern is a local hangout and there's a sense that a
text: number of the townies are watching the boys in white with
dialog: resentment.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (to the Waitress)
dialog: Hey, baby... c'mere...
text: She slides up, smiling, giggling.
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Nice haircut.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Kiss it, baby. Make it grow.
text: She laughs and kisses the top of his head.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: So, when do you get off?
text: She's about to reply when a burly BARTENDER approaches with
text: fresh beers for the boys. He gives the boys a surly look.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Take care of the customers, Doreen.
text: Doreen gives Zack her best smile and grudgingly moves off
text: toward the locals around the pool table. The bartender puts
text: fresh beers in front of Sid and Zack.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: (surly)
dialog: That'll be two dollars.
text: The boys pay up and the bartender moves off.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (facetiously)
dialog: Nice, hospitable folks they get around
dialog: here.
dialog: (glances at door)
dialog: I hope she comes.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: She'll come, pard. A rich socialite
dialog: Oakie like you oughta be a big catch
dialog: around these parts.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Get off my case, Mayo. I didn't grow
dialog: up rich.
scene_heading: SEXY ENOUGH TO LIGHT FIRES, PAULA AND LYNETTE
text: cut a path like Sherman's army through the gawking local
text: losers clustered inside the door of the tavern, then glide
text: into Zack and Sid's arms and kiss them gluttonously for half
text: a minute. Some of the local boys watch it all with ill-
text: concealed jealousy.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I think we're making some of the
dialog: locals jealous.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Who cares?
dialog: (frenching him)
dialog: Mmmm. Now I remember. Mayo the Wop.
dialog: Gee, I'm glad you're here. I've been
dialog: looking forward to this all week.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Me, too.
text: They kiss again.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: What would you girls like to do?
dialog: Want to stick around here for a little
dialog: or... or could I suggest another
dialog: plan...?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Like pick up some booze and go to a
dialog: motel?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Or we could do that yeah.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I vote for the motel.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: My kinda group!
text: They start for the door, all four linking arms.
speaker_heading: NEAR THE DOOR
text: One of the boys who was watching them, TROY, 25, jostles
text: into Zack, then pretends it was the other way around.
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: Hey, make way for the warmongers.
text: Zack and Sid spin around, surprised. Troy's a big, kid, a
text: dockworker probably, and he seems to tower over Zack.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: What did you call us?
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: I called you a warmonger. Ain't that
dialog: what you are?
text: Zack looks more amused by it all than threatened. He shakes
text: his head and starts out the door with his friends. Troy and
text: some of the other locals share a look, and follow.
scene_heading: EXT. "THE TOWN TAVERN" - NIGHT
text: Troy jobs out of the place and plants himself in front of
dialog: Zack.
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: Hey, let me ask you something.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah, what do you want to know?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Let's get out of here Zack.
text: A circle is forming around Zack and Troy. Paula looks
text: frightened. Lynette looks turned on.
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: You come here for a couple of months --
dialog: you rich college boys -- struttin'
dialog: around in your ice cream suits like
dialog: you own the goddamn place -- fucking
dialog: our best women... Hey, who do you
text: think gets left holding the bag after
dialog: you're off flying around the world?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, pard, why don't you go back
text: inside and cool off.
text: He turns away from Troy and pushes out of the circle.
speaker_heading: TROY
dialog: Hey, I'm not finished talking to
dialog: you, sailor boy!
text: He charges after Zack, and knocks his cap off.
text: VARIOUS SHOTS OF THE FIGHT
text: If you can call it a fight. Zack turns around and hits Troy
text: in the face with two very fast punches, a left and a right.
text: Before his assailant can recover, Zack delivers a strange,
text: roundhouse kind of kick that seems to come out of him in
text: slow motion, then gathers incredible speed, until it's
text: slamming with the force of a mule-kick into Troy's face.
text: Troy goes down gushing blood from flattened nostrils.
speaker_heading: ZACK
text: looks around the other locals who clustered earlier around
text: their champion, but they're all staring at him, afraid.
text: Taking Paula by the hand, he leads the foursome away.
scene_heading: MOVING WITH ZACK, PAULA, LYNETTE AND SID
text: Zack stares straight ahead, lost in the world of his
text: adolescence. Paula just watches him, sensitive to the place
dialog: he's in.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: God! I've never seen anything like
dialog: that in my whole life! Did you see
dialog: that guy's nose?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (snaps)
dialog: Lynette, just keep your mouth shut
dialog: until we get to the motel. Will you
dialog: do that for me, please.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Well, excuse me for livin'!
text: Sid pushes her into the car.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ZACK'S ROOM AT THE TIDES INN MOTEL - NIGHT
text: Zack lies on the bed, aloof, brooding, and doing some serious
text: drinking from a pint bottle of rum. Paula watches from a
dialog: chair.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Want a back rub? Might make you feel
dialog: better.
text: She climbs onto the bed and tries to position herself to rub
text: his back, but he pulls away.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I shouldn't have done that. I
dialog: should've walked.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: He didn't give you much choice.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: There's always a choice.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Where'd you learn to fight like that?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (snaps)
dialog: I don't feel like talking, if you
dialog: don't mind.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Opening up just a little wouldn't
dialog: kill you, ya know.
text: She starts for the door. Zack barely even looks up.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You want me to fuck you? Is that it?
dialog: Okay, come here. Take your clothes
dialog: off. Get into bed.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (turns, angry)
dialog: Where's that coming from? I wouldn't
dialog: fuck now if my life depended on it!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Forget it. Just get out of here.
text: Paula starts to leave, then turns back, furious.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (explodes)
dialog: I don't know who you think you're
dialog: talking to! I ain't some whore you
dialog: brought here! I've been trying to be
dialog: your friend and you treat me like
dialog: shit!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Be a friend. Leave.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: You got no manners and you never
dialog: tell the truth! You're nothin'
dialog: special. And if you ask me, you got
dialog: no chance at all of being an officer!
text: Zack rises from the bed and very slowly approaches her. Paula
text: almost flinches as he stops a few feet away. Then he leans
text: forward and kisses her as gently as he knows how. Very
text: tentatively, she responds.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE TIDES INN - NIGHT
text: Lynette leaves her room and knocks on Paula's door. Paula
text: comes out, zipping up her dress.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (smiles)
text: A definite improvement.
text: They drive off.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. ZACK'S ROOM AT THE TIDES INN - DAY
text: He wakes up and slowly focuses on Paula, cooking eggs and
text: bacon in the kitchenette.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You stayed after all.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Wrong. I've driven a hundred and
dialog: twenty miles, told a hundred and
dialog: twenty lies, and said a hundred and
dialog: twenty Hail Mary's since I saw you.
dialog: Hungry?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'm starving.
text: He jumps out of bed, pulls on some boxer shorts and sits
text: down at a small rickety table she has beautified with
text: wildflowers stuffed in a glass. Paula puts his steaming
text: breakfast before him and stands back to watch him attack it.
text: He looks up at her and finds her staring at him almost
text: wistfully.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Paula, I never try to fool anybody
dialog: about who I am, what I want... so if
dialog: even in the back of your --
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I know who you are and what you want.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: What do you want, Paula? What do you
dialog: really want?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: To have a good time with you until
dialog: you have to go.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That's it?
text: She nods and turns away, so he can't see her eyes and know
text: how much she's lying. Zack finishes off his eggs and bacon,
text: downs his coffee. As she comes over to refill his cup, he
text: unbuttons her blouse and starts playing with her nipples.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Mmmm. Last night was fantastic.
text: She watches him with womanly eyes, aware of her own power.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Zack, am I your fantasy?
text: Zack laughs.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Zack, I dare you not to fall in love
dialog: with me. I ain't gonna get serious
dialog: with you, no way. But how can you
dialog: resist me? I'm like candy.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You're better than candy.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I'm serious. It's gonna be hard to
dialog: get enough.
text: He starts tickling her and she can't sustain her vamp role
dialog: any longer.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Getting cocky, aren't you? Huh, you
dialog: little Polack? Getting feisty on me,
dialog: huh?
text: He takes her in his arms and they kiss. The moment turns
text: suddenly real and Zack finds himself pulling away, afraid of
text: the feelings that are churning his guts. Paula studies him a
dialog: moment.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Zack, when you're through with a
dialog: girl, what do you do? Do you say
dialog: something or do you just... disappear?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I've never had a girl.
text: Their eyes stay together for a long time.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I forgot to thank you for breakfast.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Any time, sailor.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LARGE INDOOR POOL ON THE BASE - DAY
dialog: Our CAMERA is the first to ride the Dilbert Dunker, and we
text: are suddenly shooting at high speed down a steep incline
text: inside a cage-like contraption, painted red. Wham! We hit
text: water at neck-wrenching speed and go under in a swirl of
dialog: bubbles!
dialog: Wait! What's happening? The goddamn cage is turning
dialog: somersaults! Which way is up? Which is way up?? A strange
text: looking alien in a wet suit and mask knifes TOWARD US. His
text: hands work to extricate us. We rush toward the promise of
text: light and air at the surface. We can hear our own tortured
dialog: breathing. Will we make it?
scene_heading: CANDIDATE DELLA-SERRA REACHES THE SURFACE
text: gasping for air. The DILBERT DUNKER INSTRUCTOR stands off to
text: the side, giving him a thumb's down.
speaker_heading: INSTRUCTOR
dialog: Back in line. That was totally unsat,
dialog: Della-Serra!
text: Della-Serra clings to the side of the pool and vomits. He's
dialog: grateful to be alive.
text: ZACK WATCHES THEM RAISE THE DILBERT DUNKER
text: It finally comes to a rest high in the rafters of the
text: building, where he is to be the next to take the ride. Sid
text: and Seeger are right behind him, followed by Topper. He steps
text: into the cage and the Instructor makes sure he's buckled
text: snugly into the harness. Then Zack's eyes fall on:
text: FOLEY, STANDING POOL SIDE ZACK LOOKS AWAY FROM HIM AND GIVES
speaker_heading: HIS THUMBS UP
text: and the Dunker takes him on its crazy ride, plummeting down
text: the tracks, blasting into the water, somersaulting...
scene_heading: UNDERWATER - ZACK
text: waits until the turning has stopped, studies the direction
text: his air bubbles are taking as he unfastens his harness, and
text: pulls himself down and out of the Dunker.
scene_heading: BACK ON THE SURFACE - ZACK
text: gets a thumbs up from the Instructor and grins. As he's
text: climbing out, he watches Sid take the big ride.
speaker_heading: UNDERWATER - SID
text: almost loses his composure when the harness at first defies
text: his efforts to get it open. Then, he's free and surface-bound.
speaker_heading: AS ZACK HELPS HIM
text: out of the pool, Sid's efforts at a cocky grin fails to hide
dialog: from his friend the fear he felt under there.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Sure.
text: They turn to watch Casey.
scene_heading: STAY ON CASEY'S EXHILARATED FACE AS SHE PLUNGES
text: and watch her extricate herself as easily as Zack.
text: AS ZACK AND SID HELP HER OUT OF THE WATER
text: her eyes are wild with excitement.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Think they'll let us do that again?
dialog: God, that was fun!
scene_heading: TOPPER CLIMBS INTO THE DILBERT DUNKER
text: He looks down at the pool far below. His three friends,
text: standing pool side, give him a thumbs up for encouragement,
text: but Topper is too frightened to acknowledge them. He turns
text: to the Instructor helping to fasten him inside the
text: contraption.
speaker_heading: TOPPER
dialog: (scared shitless)
dialog: Does this thing hit with the same
dialog: impact as an actual plane?
speaker_heading: INSTRUCTOR
text: This is nothing compared to a plane.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't forget to watch the bubbles.
text: Topper nods and gives a thumbs up.
text: IN A PERCH ABOVE THE RAISED DUNKER
text: a young seaman apprentice flicks a switch and the Dunker
text: lurches down the tracks.
text: TOPPER SUCKS IN HIS BREATH, TERRIFIED
text: The impact of hitting the water is so jolting, it knocks his
text: wind out in a rush and he goes under already screaming that
text: silent little scream of the mind that drowning people hear.
text: Underwater, the Dunker turns him over and over, leaving him
text: upside-down. The silent scream is louder. Panic rides its
text: frequency as Topper tears at the lever that would release
text: him from the harness. He gets it open and pushes out of the
text: opening in the Dunker with all his might. He has forgotten
text: to watch for his air bubbles. Top is bottom and bottom is
dialog: top.
text: He smashes violently into the tiled floor of the pool, freaks
text: out, and swims straight up and into the jaws of the Dunker
dialog: again.
scene_heading: ZACK, SID, CASEY AND FOLEY
text: watch from pool side, concerned, as the diver goes down for
dialog: Topper.
speaker_heading: UNDERWATER
text: The instant the diver is within grasp of the totally unstrung
text: boy, Topper grabs him in a dying man's grip that even the
text: brawny frogman is unable to break.
text: The diver hits him once, twice, but Topper clings to him
text: even tighter and, as they wrestle, the harness further snares
text: them both. The scream now becomes the scream of two drowning
dialog: men.
text: INTERCUT THE FACES OF THE ONLOOKERS
text: Seconds are ticking by, and it reflects on all the faces in
text: the huge room.
text: SUDDENLY FOLEY DIVES, FULLY CLOTHED, INTO THE POOL
text: His Smokey the Bear hat and cane stay at the surface as he
text: knifes down through the water toward the churning humanity
dialog: below.
scene_heading: UNDERWATER - FOLEY REACHES TOPPER AND THE DIVER
text: Both men are so hopelessly entangled in the parachute harness
text: and so close to losing consciousness that Foley has to move
text: very fast. His presence of mind is so total it's frightening.
text: With no wasted moves, he frees both men and pulls them toward
dialog: the surface.
speaker_heading: AT THE SURFACE
text: The Instructor helps Foley get them laid out by the side of
text: the pool and while Foley works mouth-to-mouth on Topper, he
text: works on the diver. The diver is easily revived but Topper
dialog: required everything Foley has to offer. He might have died
text: in less expert hands but Foley is slowly pulling him through.
scene_heading: INTERCUT - ZACK, SID, PERRYMAN, SEEGER AND OTHERS
text: watching Foley's efforts to revive their compatriot.
text: FINALLY, FOLEY STEPS AWAY FROM TOPPER
text: and nods to the room of onlookers that he'll be all right.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS ROOM - DAY
text: CAMERA MOVES DOWN the row of lockers. Sid's is a study in
text: neatness, every pair of skivvies folded identically and
text: measured with a ruler, which is exactly what he's doing at
text: the moment. Perryman's problem is his belt buckle, which he
text: is frantically trying to shine before Foley gets there. Zack
text: stands casually by his locker, buffing his fingernails, his
text: shoes and buckle shined to perfection, as always.
text: CAMERA HOLDS on the fourth locker, the one that belonged to
text: Topper Daniels. The door to the locker is open and it's empty.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: I'll never get it polished in time.
dialog: Give me a buckle, Zack.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I can't risk it.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: You'd make it. He's just getting to
dialog: the girls. Come on, Zack. I gotta
dialog: see my family, man. I couldn't take
dialog: it if he keeps me here over the
dialog: weekend.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sorry, pard. Wouldn't want you to
dialog: get an honor violation.
text: Sid gives him a dirty look but Zack ignores it. The SOUND OF
text: HARSH FOOTSTEPS approaching and the three candidates snap to
text: rigid attention by their lockers.
text: Foley walks in and starts inspecting Perryman. Sweat runs
text: down the black's face in rivers. Foley moves on to Sid, checks
text: out his locker, then turns to Zack.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: In every class there's a guy who
dialog: thinks he's smarter than me. In this
dialog: class, it's you, isn't it, Mayonnaise?
text: He brings his cane up suddenly, like a majorette's baton,
text: and with one poke knocks the piece of fiberboard out of it's
text: place in the ceiling, allowing two pairs of shined boonies,
text: a half-dozen freshly-brassoed belt buckles, and a little
dialog: black book recording the monies owed him, to rain down.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Report to my office in five minutes!
text: Foley turns and strides out. Zack meets his roommates' eyes
text: for an instant, knowing he's finished. Perryman doesn't look
text: too sad about it. He whispers in Zack's ear as he walks past,
text: enroute to the door.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: Couldn't happen to a nicer guy.
text: Zack stares daggers at him.
scene_heading: INT. FOLEY'S OFFICE IN THE BARRACKS - DAY
text: Foley is doing paperwork at his desk as Zack approaches and
text: knocks on the door.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Come in, Mayo.
text: Zack enters and stands at attention in front of Foley's desk.
text: He knows it's all over.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I want your D.O.R.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, sir. You can kick me out, but
dialog: I'm not quitting.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Get into your fatigues, Mayo. Before
dialog: the weekend's out, you'll quit.
text: Zack salutes, makes a smart turn, and marches out.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE BEACH - DAY
text: Foley is putting Zack through hell. With his heavy rifle
text: raised overhead and a full pack on his back, he runs through
text: the wet sand at the beach, to the cadence of his D.I.'s jody
text: call. Foley runs with him a vulture waiting for the
dialog: inevitable.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (jody-calling)
dialog: Casey Jones was a son of a bitch.
text: Drove his train in a thirty-foot
dialog: ditch. Came on out with his dick in
dialog: his hand. Said, 'Listen, ladies, I'm
dialog: one helluva man. I went to his room
dialog: and lined up a hundred. Swore up and
dialog: down he'd
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Having fun, Mayonnaise?
text: Zack is dying under his heavy helmet, but he says nothing.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GUN EMPLACEMENTS - LATER THAT DAY (NOON)
text: Foley is running him up and down the weathered old steps,
text: the hot sun beating down on him like a firey fist.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Look over there, Mayo. She stayed to
dialog: do that instead of going on liberty.
text: Zack follows his gaze to the Obstacle Course where Seeger is
text: struggling to pull herself over the ten-foot wall, with the
dialog: same results as last time.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: She may not make it through the
dialog: program, but she's got more heart
dialog: and more character than you'll ever
dialog: have. I've seen your college record.
dialog: I've never heard of most of those
dialog: schools. Tell me something, Mayo.
dialog: Did you buy that degree?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, sir! It was the hardest thing I
dialog: ever did, sir! Until this.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: That's a lie, Mayo. You've gone
dialog: through a lot worse, haven't you?
text: Zack shoots him a quick look, wondering how much he knows.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Stop eyeballing me, mister! I've
dialog: looked through your file and done a
dialog: little checking, and I know it all.
dialog: I know about your mother. I know
dialog: your old man's an alcoholic and a
dialog: whore chaser.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Life sure has dealt you some shitty
dialog: cards! Hasn't it, Mayo?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'm doing okay, sir.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: No you're not. You're failing the
dialog: big one, baby, and I don't just mean
dialog: in here. I mean in life. I've watched
dialog: you, Mayo, and you don't mesh. You
dialog: grab-ass and joke around but you
dialog: don't make friends, not the way the
dialog: others do.
text: Zack says nothing but Foley's getting to him in ways nobody
dialog: has in years, if ever.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Want to know why I'm not an officer,
dialog: Mayo? Because I have a servile
dialog: mentality from growing up poor...
dialog: from always being the kid on the
text: windy side of the baker's window.
dialog: That's your problem, Mayo. That's
dialog: why you don't mesh. Because deep
dialog: down in that bitter little heart of
dialog: yours, you know these other boys and
dialog: girls are better than you.
scene_heading: EXT. THE LIGHTHOUSE - NIGHT
text: Foley is putting Mayo through his rifle drills, in the
text: sweeping light from the old tower. Zack's jaw is set with
text: determination but Foley won't let up.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Shoulder arms! Port arms! Parade
dialog: rest!
speaker_heading: (Etc. Etc.)
scene_heading: EXT. THE GUN EMPLACEMENT - THE NEXT DAY
text: Zack lies prone at the top of the bunker, his feet about six
text: inches off the ground, Foley standing over him, smiling.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Hey, what do you say we call off
dialog: this little charade of yours over a
dialog: couple of beers at Trader Jon's...?
dialog: Come on, man. You're about as close
dialog: to being officer material as me.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sir, this candidate believes he'll
dialog: make a good officer, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: No way, Mayo. You don't give a shit
dialog: about anybody but yourself and every
dialog: single one of your classmates knows
dialog: it. Think they'd trust you behind
dialog: the controls of a plane they have to
dialog: fly in? Hey, man, I figure you for
dialog: the kind of guy who'd zip off one
dialog: day in my F-14 and sell it to the
dialog: Cubans.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sir, that's not true! I love my
dialog: country!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Sell it to the Air Force, Mayo!
text: Foley puts his lips close to Zack's ear and whispers:
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Let's get down to it. Why would a
dialog: slick little hustler like you sign
dialog: up for this kind of abuse?
text: Zack's legs are shaking wildly with the effort to keep them
text: aloft.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I want to fly, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: That's no reason. Everybody wants to
dialog: fly. My grandmother wants to fly.
dialog: You going after a job with one of
dialog: the airlines?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I want to fly jets, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Why? Because you can do it alone?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: What is it, the kicks? Is that it?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't want to do something anybody
dialog: can do.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Pity you don't have the character.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That's not true, sir! I've changed a
dialog: lot since I've been here! And I'm
dialog: gonna make it, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Not a fucking chance, asshole!
text: Zack bolts up suddenly, meeting his eyes.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (defiantly)
dialog: I got nothing else to fall back on.
dialog: Sir! This is it for me... and I'm
dialog: gonna do it!
text: Foley studies him with squinty eyes.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: All right, Mayo. Get on your feet.
text: Both men get up and start walking back toward the base.
scene_heading: MOVING WITH THEM
text: Suddenly they both see a sailboat tacking past, no more than
text: fifty yards off shore.
scene_heading: THEIR POV - THE SAILBOAT
text: There are three people in the boat, two girls and a boy
text: wearing a sack over his head. All three wave in their
text: direction. On cue, they turn around, drop their drawers, and
text: give a three-way B.A. They pull their pants back up and turn
text: around to yell at Zack. The girls are obviously Paula and
text: Lynette. The boy with the sack over his head just has to be
dialog: Sid.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (disguising his voice)
dialog: Don't give up the ship, Mayo!
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Hang in there, Zack!
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Damn the torpedoes and remember the
dialog: Tides Inn Motel!
text: They're all three laughing so hard they nearly capsize.
scene_heading: ANGLE - ZACK AND FOLEY
text: The drill instructor is amused but trying not to show it.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Mayo, are those your friends?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yes, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Maybe there's hope for you yet.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS - DAY
text: Zack is on his hands and knees, scrubbing the floor, when
text: Sid, Perryman and some of the others return from liberty.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: (still angry)
dialog: I see you didn't DOR, Mayo.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, Sid, thanks.
text: PERRYMAN WALKS INTO THEIR ROOM
text: and stops as he sees the peace offering on his bed: his boots,
text: shined to perfection, and two gleaming belt buckles. Sid
text: comes in a second later and they share a look.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS ROOM - THAT NIGHT
text: All three candidates lie awake in their bunks.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, you guys still awake?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Yeah.
text: A grunt from Perryman.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, do you guys ever... feel like
dialog: you don't belong here...?
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: Yeah. All week long.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: What's the matter, Sweet Pea. Foley
dialog: finally starting to get to you?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Naw.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: You know what he was running on me
dialog: all last week? He told me I wasn't
dialog: officer material because I think
dialog: black and I'd never get comfortable
dialog: giving orders to whites.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Yeah? He's been telling me I'm not
dialog: officer material because I'm not
dialog: inner-directed. He thinks I'm here
dialog: for my folks... and for my brother.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That isn't true, is it?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: A little.
text: Zack shakes his head, impressed.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: How about that prick! He told me he
dialog: wasn't officer material because he
dialog: grew up poor like me.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: He said he grew up poor?
speaker_heading: ZACK
text: The kid on the windy side of the
dialog: baker's window. That's how he put
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: Foley's not poor. Buddy of mine in
dialog: oh-four told me he's the son of a
dialog: rich doctor down in Louisiana.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Oh yeah? Friend of mine in oh-two
dialog: told me he comes from a long line of
dialog: Baptist ministers from Georgia.
text: All three candidates crack up.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: How about that prick!
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. ZACK AND PAULA'S ROOM AT THE TIDES INN - DAY
text: They are making love. When it's over, they lie there for a
text: long time in one another's arms, flagrantly satisfied, and
dialog: still joined.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That was great.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: It sure was.
text: They share a little smile of satisfaction. They chuckle. The
dialog: longer they stay together, like that, the more painfully
text: intimate the moment becomes.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Want me to get a towel?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'll get it if you want.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I don't want you to move.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't want to move. But somebody
text: has to move sometime. Eventually.
speaker_heading: PAULA
text: They found them like that, shriveled
dialog: up from weeks without food or water...
text: Zack laughs and the connection is nearly broken. Suddenly,
text: Zack just takes her face in his hands and kisses her in a
dialog: most loving way.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: All week I kept thinking about you
dialog: guys in that sailboat.
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: We were pretty drunk.
text: Paula takes his officer-style cap and puts it on.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: You know, sometimes I wish I was one
dialog: of those girls they're letting in
dialog: the flight program these days. God,
dialog: I'd love to fly.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: What's stopping you?
text: Paula seems to consider it for a moment, then she shakes her
text: head. It's a fantasy, that's all, far removed from the
dialog: realities of her life.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I don't care what the magazines say...
dialog: it's just not as easy being a girl,
dialog: especially from a Catholic family.
dialog: You don't know the junk I grew up
dialog: listening to, 'bout the way women
dialog: are supposed to think and act.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That's no excuse for not going after
dialog: what you want.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Who says I'm not going after what I
dialog: want? My mother's thirty-nine years
dialog: old and she still works in that
dialog: factory. Every time I see her, I
dialog: know exactly what I don't want.
text: They share a stretch of silence, Zack retreating into himself,
text: his eyes somehow far away.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (after a silence)
dialog: My old lady swallowed a bottle of
dialog: pills one day while I was at school.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: God.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: The thing that really got to me...
text: she didn't leave a note. Nothing.
dialog: I've always hated her for that.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Does it still hurt?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Naw. You're alone in this world no
dialog: matter what kinda folks or background
dialog: you had. Nothing hurts, pard, once
dialog: you got that one down.
text: Paula studies him a long moment.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I bet most people believe you when
dialog: you feed 'em that line.
text: He looks at her and smiles, then she kisses him.
scene_heading: EXT. THE AIR SHOW - DAY
text: Six jets fly DIRECTLY AT US, jolting our senses.
speaker_heading: ON INTERCOM
text: The program consists of six aircraft performing a sequence
text: of maneuvers in one of three different components: a diamond
text: of four aircraft, two solo aircraft that oppose each other
text: along the line of flight, and all six aircraft in a delta
dialog: formation.
scene_heading: CAMERA PANS ZACK AND PAULA
text: as they enter and move toward the bleachers where Sid and
text: Lynette are already seated. Zack suddenly stops and scans
text: the bleachers, looking for somebody.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'm sorry. I can't sit with you.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I understand. Maybe we'll see each
dialog: other after the show...
scene_heading: ANGLE - BYRON MAYO
text: He sits in the bleachers about ten rows higher than Lynette,
text: Sid and Paula. Zack slides into the seat beside him.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: How're you doing, pard?
text: Byron's eyes are on Paula.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Who's that?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Nobody. Just a girl I've been making
dialog: it with the last couple of weekends.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Great ass.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah, I sort of thought so myself.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Better watch out for that kind,
dialog: Zackie. You know what they call 'em,
dialog: don't ya?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah, I know.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Back east in Newport, Rhode Island,
dialog: they call 'em the Fall River Debs.
text: In Pensacola, the Mobile Debs. In
dialog: Norfolk --
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That what she was... a Norfolk Deb?
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Who?
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Aw shit, Zackie, let's not get off
dialog: on your mother again, please.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (testy)
dialog: What if I want to talk about her,
dialog: pard? What then? You know, that's
dialog: all I've ever heard from you, since
dialog: I was a kid... you never want to
dialog: talk about that, man, and it's
dialog: important.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: There's nothing to talk about. Two
dialog: goddamn times I made it with your
dialog: old lady. We barely even talked.
text: The JETS ROAR close overhead and Zack has to raise his voice
dialog: to be heard.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That's not how she told it. She said
dialog: you wrote her every week you were
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I wrote. Not every week...
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: She said you told her in every letter
dialog: how much you loved her, how you wanted
dialog: to marry her, have children with
dialog: her...
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I never said any of that!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I found them, pard, and read them
dialog: myself, right after she did it!
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Okay, I wrote those things... and
dialog: yeah, I had big thoughts of getting
dialog: together with your mom... but when
dialog: she hit me with being pregnant, I
dialog: saw who she was. I'd had quiff lay
dialog: that shit on me before!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (suddenly livid)
dialog: What did you call her? What did I
dialog: hear you call her, you son of a bitch?
text: Both men rise angrily to their feet, but a split second later
text: the Angels are making another pass over the stands and
text: everyone is standing and applauding, making their argument
dialog: less public.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (screaming above the
dialog: noise)
dialog: She loved you, you bastard! And she
dialog: believed you when you said you loved
dialog: her! She never gave up thinking you'd
dialog: come back
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't you ever talk about her like
dialog: that again or I'll kill you, Byron!
text: Zack pushes toward the exit, shaking with anger.
speaker_heading: ANGLE - PAULA
text: watching him and suddenly rising to follow.
text: EXT. THE PARKING LOT AT THE AIR SHOW - DAY
text: Zack is halfway to his parked motorcycle when Paula suddenly
text: appears, running after him.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Zack, wait.
text: He keeps walking but she overtakes him.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: What's the matter?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Nothing. Go back to the show, Paula.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I've seen all that a hundred times.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (snaps)
dialog: Hey, will you just leave me alone?
text: Paula stops, hurt. Zack keeps on walking toward his bike.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Yeah, I'll leave you alone! How about
dialog: forever? That long enough for you?
text: She stomps off in the opposite direction.
scene_heading: MOVING WITH PAULA
text: She fights her tears but they well up in her eyes anyway.
text: The SOUND of Zack STARTING HIS MOTORCYCLE, then he comes
text: rumbling up beside her, smiling apologetically. Paula won't
text: even look at him. She just keeps walking. So he motors around
text: in front of her again, blocking her path. She tries to go
text: around him but again he cuts her off.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (suddenly)
dialog: Hey, isn't it about time you had me
dialog: over for Sunday dinner?
text: Paula looks at him like he's crazy.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Come on. Invite me. All day the idea
dialog: of a family Sunday dinner's been
dialog: coming into my head. Since you're
dialog: the only one I know around here with
dialog: family...
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Zack, I don't know if I want to do
dialog: that...
text: At that moment, Sid and Lynette come walking up from the
dialog: show.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: C'mon, Paula. We'd better get back.
text: Paula starts off with her friend.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, what about Sunday dinner? When're
dialog: you gonna let me know?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (turns to him)
dialog: When I'm good and ready.
text: She gets into the Falcon with Lynette and they drive off.
scene_heading: NEW ANGLE - SID AND ZACK
text: Zack revs his motorcycle.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: What's a matter, Sweet Pea? We'll
dialog: have a little fuss?
text: Sid gets on behind him and they drive off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ABOARD THE FERRY - DAY
text: Paula and Lynette leave the wheelhouse, carrying cups of
text: coffee, and we TRACK with them to the back of the ferry.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: You serious about having him over?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I haven't made up my mind.
text: CAMERA HOLDS as they reach the fantail and look back at the
text: lights of Port Ranier.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Paula, how far would you go to catch
dialog: Zack?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: You know what I mean. Would you...
dialog: let yourself get pregnant?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: No way... Would you?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I never used to think I'd do something
dialog: like that, but now I'm not so sure.
dialog: You ask me, nine weeks just ain't
dialog: long enough to get a guy to fall in
dialog: love with you.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: That don't justify trying to trap a
dialog: boy by getting pregnant, Lynette!
dialog: Nothing justifies that. I can't
dialog: believe you're even thinking like
dialog: that. I mean, that's really backward.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: No more backward, if you ask me,
dialog: than the way these hotshot assholes
dialog: fuck us, then ditch us.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't you ever feel used, Paula?
dialog: Don't you ever feel like if this is
dialog: all you get for your trouble then
dialog: the sonofabitch ought to be paying
dialog: for it...?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: No. I never feel like that.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I do.
scene_heading: INT. THE POKRIFKI KITCHEN - DAY
text: As mother and daughter prepare the Sunday meal, Ester finds
text: herself studying her daughter almost as if she were seeing
text: herself as a girl, in Paula.
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: You look real pretty, darling. I'm
dialog: sure everything'll go just fine.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Mom, I don't want to be a fool. I
dialog: like him a whole lot but...
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: Honey, you can only be yourself. If
dialog: that isn't enough for Zack...
text: Both women move to the window as they hear his MOTORCYCLE
text: APPROACH. Zack motors up, and starts for the door, a bouquet
text: of flowers in his hand, his white liberty uniform almost
text: sparkling in the bright sunshine. Esther's eyes become soft,
text: almost limpid.
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: (a young girl again)
dialog: He's very handsome.
text: Paula looks at her for a moment, then leaves the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. THE POKRIFKI LIVING ROOM
text: Joe Pokrifki is watching Zack from the living room window,
text: threatened to his core. The DOORBELL RINGS and Paula moves
text: past him to answer it. Seeing the expression on her father's
text: face, she stops.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Daddy, please be nice to him.
text: Joe just stares at her. The DOORBELL RINGS AGAIN and she
text: opens the door.
scene_heading: EXT. THE HOUSE - DAY
text: Zack stands there with the flowers in his hand, smiling
dialog: eagerly.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Are those for me?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, they're for your mom.
scene_heading: INT. POKRIFKI DINING ROOM - DAY
text: The flowers he brought are in a vase on the table. Esther is
text: serving out helpings of stew. As she serves Zack, she meets
text: his eyes and smiles an almost flirtatious smile.
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: Thanks again for the flowers, Zack.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: My pleasure, Mrs. Pokrifki.
text: Across the table from Zack, Joe is staring their way in a
dialog: most hostile manner.
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: How many more weeks before you
dialog: graduate, Zack?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Just three, ma'am.
text: Again, a flirtatious look. Joe sees it. And so does Paula.
text: To compound matters, Paula's little sisters are also flirting
text: with Zack, and Joe Pokrifki is taking it all as a threat to
text: his castle, an outright attack on his manhood.
text: Finally, Zack can handle his stares no longer. He smiles his
text: most disarming smile and meets the man's gaze.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sir, excuse me, but why're you looking
dialog: at me like that?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: Looking at you?
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: He doesn't mean anything by it, Zack.
dialog: Do you, Joe?
speaker_heading: JOE
dialog: I don't mean anything by it.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Great dinner! Mrs. Pokrifki.
dialog: Absolutely the best meal I've had in
text: a long, long time.
text: Esther is staring at him with faraway eyes, and her answer
text: comes as though on a time-delay.
speaker_heading: ESTHER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Oh... yes... thank you, Zack.
text: Embarrassed to the point of tears, Paula rises to her feet.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Come on, Zack. Let's go for a walk.
text: Zack rises and follows her out.
scene_heading: EXT. THE POKRIFKI HOUSE - DAY
text: As they leave the house and start down the street, Paula
text: starts to cry and Zack puts his arm around her shoulders.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I'm so embarrassed. I knew I shouldn't
dialog: have brought you here.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, it's okay. It was a great free
dialog: meal. Everybody was so uptight I
dialog: felt sorry for you.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: That's okay. I'm used to it.
text: They walk in silence for awhile.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: So, after you graduate you go on to
dialog: basic flight, right? Is that in
dialog: Pensacola?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah, then if I get jets, it's on to
dialog: Beeville, Texas.
text: More silence. Paula words her next question very carefully.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Zack, do you ever think about what
dialog: it'd be like to have kids... a family.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (lying)
dialog: No. Is that what you want?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Some day. When I'm sure I can do a
dialog: better job of it than my folks.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: What would you do differently?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: For a start, I wouldn't marry a man
dialog: I wasn't in love with.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Why'd your mom marry that guy if she
dialog: didn't love him?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Because my real father wouldn't marry
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Your real father?
text: Paula takes her wallet out of the hip pocket of her jeans
text: and hands him a weathered old photo.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Yeah... him.
scene_heading: INSERT - THE OLD PHOTO
text: is of a handsome young flight candidate in uniform, with a
text: stylish little moustache and dark bedroom eyes.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Zack looks up from the photo, shaken.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Your real father was an Officer
dialog: candidate like me?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Twenty-two years ago.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No wonder he was looking at me like
dialog: that.
text: Paula watches him closely. Zack checks his wristwatch.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Uh-oh. Time to get back to the wars.
text: He kisses her perhaps a little too quickly and starts toward
text: his parked motorcycle.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Call me during the week if you get
dialog: the chance.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'll try, but this week we go into
dialog: survival training, so I can't make
dialog: any promises.
dialog: (lamely)
dialog: Well, thanks again for dinner. Thank
dialog: your mom again for me, will you?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Sure.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Zack, I hope you know I didn't have
dialog: to show you that picture.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I know that.
text: With a smile that almost quells her concern, he drives off.
text: Paula watches him until he disappears.
scene_heading: EXT. TREE-LINED ROAD TO THE BASE - DAY
text: SHOOTING THROUGH the passenger window, PAST Sid and Lynette
text: making out hot and heavy, TO Zack as he drives up on his
dialog: motorcycle.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: See ya, sweetheart.
text: He gets out and get on behind Zack.
text: CAMERA MOVES WITH SID AND ZACK
text: as they drive to the base.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I kid you not, Mayo, I am in love.
dialog: We must've set a new indoor record
dialog: today. You want to know how many
dialog: times we did it?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: You'd better get smart, man. It's
dialog: time to walk away.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: What? You've gotta be kidding!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Remember what Foley said? His little
dialog: warning? Those are the girls he was
dialog: talking about. They're out to marry
dialog: us any way they can.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I don't believe that. They're just
dialog: having a good time, same as us.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That's what they want you to think,
dialog: but I saw where she lived, what is
text: she's trying to get away from.
dialog: (urgently)
dialog: Just take my word for it, pard. Break
dialog: it off now. Do it this week.
scene_heading: EXT. THE SURVIVAL COURSE - DAY
text: Zack, Sid, Casey, Perryman and Della-Serra are struggling to
text: erect a shelter in the driving downpour, using a parachute
dialog: and logs they've cut. It's a hokey little tepee at best but
text: they crowd inside it as THUNDER and lightning herald a blast
text: of monsoon-like rainfall. The shelter collapses on top of
dialog: them.
scene_heading: INSIDE THE TENT - NIGHT (LATER)
text: The five candidates are sitting around inside the tent,
text: listening to the rain, Zack slightly aloof and pensive.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: I don't know about you guys but I'm
dialog: starving.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A HELICOPTER SHOT OF ELGIN AIR FORCE BASE
text: In the hinterlands beyond the Navy base is an Air Force base
text: with vast acreage of swamplands and tundra. A big truck comes
text: bouncing along a windy little road into the undergrowth. The
text: truck stops and the candidates from Zack's class file out
text: the back of it while Foley comes around from the passenger
dialog: seat to address them.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Okay, worms. This is it. Can you
dialog: pussies live through three days
dialog: without food or water in the
dialog: wilderness? This is where we thin
dialog: our ranks the "natural" way, children.
dialog: Incidentally, those little twigs you
dialog: see floating in those mud puddles
text: aren't twigs. They're water moccasins.
scene_heading: GROUND LEVEL SHOTS
text: reveal that he's right. Lethal-looking snakes slither and
text: glide over the surface of the swamp waters.
text: THE FACES OF THE CANDIDATES
text: reflect what you'd expect. Fear. Even Zack looks wary of the
dialog: ordeal ahead.
speaker_heading: MONTAGE OF SHOTS
text: captures the humor of the next three days of survival
dialog: training. The candidates are a sorry spectacle the first day
text: and a half, trying to catch snakes with forked sticks, trying
text: to rub wood together to start a fire, throwing up from eating
text: the wrong berries, but generally clowning around, not taking
text: it too seriously. Then, as hunger sets in, a change comes
text: over them. They set up a big tent for shelter, get a nice
dialog: fire going, and prepare a serviceable meal from carefully
text: selected roots, berries and tree bark, and strips of fried
text: water moccasins. On the third day they plot a path through
text: the wilderness and finally emerge onto a highway where Foley
text: waits with the truck. The candidates send up a weary cheer
text: and embrace each other as if they'd just pulled off an escape
text: from a POW camp.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSIDE THE SCOTT PAPER COMPANY
text: Paula is on the line, sorting colors, while Lynette talks on
text: a payphone on the other side of the cavernous room. The noise
text: of the processors and conveyors is terrible, but her coworker,
text: Bunny, 38, a faded, jaded deb if there ever was one, calls
text: to her above the din:
speaker_heading: BUNNY
dialog: You and Lynette still seeing those
dialog: flight candidates over to Pensacola?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Why? What makes you think we wouldn't
dialog: be?
speaker_heading: BUNNY
dialog: I don't know... Friday... three forty
dialog: in the afternoon and not a word out
dialog: of you about where you're going,
dialog: what you're doing over the weekend...
text: Paula says nothing. She glances over at Lynette again,
text: hopefully. Bunny takes it all in, the consummate deb.
speaker_heading: BUNNY
dialog: Comes a time right after they get
dialog: through survival training when they
dialog: start to think they can make it
dialog: without you. Suddenly they stop
dialog: calling. Suddenly they own the goddamn
dialog: world.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He hasn't called you by now, Paula,
dialog: he ain't gonna call.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: You just keep your mouth shut, Bunny.
dialog: You don't know so much!
speaker_heading: BUNNY
text: May they all crash and burn.
scene_heading: INTERCUT LYNETTE AND SID
text: He's at the barracks pay phone.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Sid Worley, I think you're ashamed
dialog: of me.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Ashamed? No -- I love you, Lynette.
dialog: I mean that. After I leave them,
dialog: I'll meet you at the motel, okay?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: If you won't take me to dinner with
dialog: your parents, I won't meet you at
dialog: the motel.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Lynette, I told you already, it won't
dialog: work.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Then, I'll see you around.
text: She hangs up.
text: THE FACES OF WOMEN WHO WORK AT THE OTHER CONVEYORS
text: turn to watch Lynette as she returns to her place on the
dialog: tissue line. There's a saying that Mobile Debs never die,
text: they just go on working for Scott.
text: The way some of the women watch her and shake their heads a
text: little, suggests that it might have some basis in truth.
text: LYNETTE RESUMES HER PLACE ON THE LINE
text: and struggles to come up with a perky grin, but then it sits
text: on her face like it belongs to someone else.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Well, so much for that.
text: She has tears in her eyes.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Lynette, did he say anything about
dialog: Zack?
text: Lynette shakes her head, no.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Cover for me while I make a call.
text: She moves off suddenly, toward the phone.
text: AT THAT MOMENT, ZACK AND SID ARE LEAVING THE BARRACKS
text: The Officer of the Deck comes out of the building a few
text: seconds later.
speaker_heading: O.O.D.
dialog: Hey, Mayo. There's someone named
text: Paula on the phone.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tell her I already split.
text: PAULA PUTS DOWN THE PHONE
text: and returns to the line. All the old debs watch her.
scene_heading: INT. THE HOLIDAY INN DINING ROOM - DAY
text: STARTING ON Zack, eating at Mach Five. THEN INCLUDE Sid and
text: his parents, TOM and BETTY WORLEY, two of the world's
text: straightest human beings, stiffly WASPish in spite of their
dialog: down-home Oklahoma drawls, people with so much moral fiber
text: it shines humorless through everything they say or do.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Zack's only a tenth of a second off
dialog: the all-time obstacle course record.
dialog: He's bound to break it soon.
speaker_heading: BETTY
dialog: That's wonderful, Zack.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Your son is the one reason I'm still
dialog: in the program, Mrs. Worley. He's
dialog: pulled me through every exam.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: You guys are lucky you didn't go
dialog: through the program when I did. They
dialog: used to start that Dilbert Dunker
text: twice as high as they do now.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (mouth full of food)
dialog: That's really interesting, sir.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: And you couldn't just quit like you
dialog: can now. When I went through it...
dialog: and when my oldest boy went through
dialog: it... if you bilged out you were
text: sent into the fleet as a swabby.
dialog: (suddenly)
dialog: Sid, how come you haven't written
dialog: Susan in over three weeks?
text: Sid looks stricken. He glances at Zack, sees his quizzical
text: expression, and looks away.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: We haven't had time to write anybody.
speaker_heading: BETTY
dialog: Zack, is my son involved with a local
dialog: girl?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No, ma'am. All he ever talks about
dialog: is, us, Susan.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE WATERFRONT - NIGHT
text: CAMERA MOVES with Sid and Zack as they make their way toward
text: the LOUD ROCK MUSIC coming out of the legendary "TRADER
speaker_heading: JON'S."
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Thanks for covering for me.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: No problem, but who's Susan?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: My girl back home. We're supposed to
dialog: get married after I get my wings.
dialog: She was Tommy's girl. They were
dialog: engaged to be married before he died.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I should've told you about her. I
dialog: don't know why I didn't, except I
dialog: didn't want you to think I was a
dialog: shit for making it with Lynette.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'm not your folks, man. You love
dialog: this... Susan?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: She's the sweetest person I've ever
dialog: known. Loves kids. Works with
dialog: handicapped kids every afternoon at
dialog: the church. Everybody loves her.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I didn't ask you all that, Sweet
dialog: Pea. I asked if you loved her.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (distracted)
dialog: Listen, I'm not going to go to that
dialog: little reunion party. I'm meeting
text: Lynette at the motel.
dialog: (a sheepish grin)
dialog: Best head in fifty-two states. After
dialog: three days of survival training, how
dialog: could I resist?
text: Zack rubs his buddy's bristle-brush of hair, affectionately.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You should've done what I did. A
dialog: clean break.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Lynette told me it really tore her
dialog: up when you didn't call this week.
text: For an instant, Zack's mind seems to be on Paula, but he
text: pushes her out fast.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: There's women for you, pard. They
dialog: tell you they're in it for the laughs,
dialog: but it's always a fucking lie.
dialog: (a loud whoop)
dialog: Look out, Trader Jon's, I'm in the
dialog: mood for some fun!
text: He mock salutes Sid and disappears into T.J.'s.
scene_heading: INT. TRADER JON'S - NIGHT
text: STARTING ON THE PHOTOS of The Blue Angels that crowd the
text: walls... a lithe, young stripper DANCES INTO FRAME. Hanging
text: from a net overhead are countless model airplanes.
text: Seeger, Della-Serra, Perryman and Zack are at the bar, drinks
text: raised in toast.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, guys -- we did it. We survived!
text: They clink glasses. As the others sip their beers, Zack downs
text: a double shot of tequila and pushes his glass toward the
text: grizzly-looking bartender, old TRADER JON himself.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Give me another double Tequila.
text: His shipmates share a look. Seeger's attention then shifts
dialog: to the dancer. What a body she has. Perfect little coffee
text: cup breasts. A bottom that tightens and relaxes like a fist
text: as she dances to the loud, rock music.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: (watching the dancer)
dialog: Not bad.
speaker_heading: DELLA-SERRA
dialog: So women turn you on, huh, Seeger? I
dialog: always thought you were a dyke.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Cool it, Emiliano. I don't find it
dialog: funny.
text: CAMERA MOVES with the dancer, away from the group and we:
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
scene_heading: SHORT TIME LATER
text: Zack is hoisting a chair with shells onto the bar top.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (smashed)
dialog: Lemme show you little game called
dialog: "Crash and Burn".
text: He climbs up on the bar and sits down in the chair. The
dialog: Olongapo Kid.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Listen up, dick-brains! This is how
dialog: we separate the jet jockeys from the
text: helo-boys. Guy who flies the farthest
dialog: without crashing and burning... he's
dialog: hot shit!
text: Seeger, Perryman and Della-Serra glance nervously around the
dialog: place. Nobody thinks it's that funny, especially Trader Jon.
speaker_heading: DELLA-SERRA
dialog: Come on, Mayo! You're gonna get our
dialog: asses in trouble, man!
speaker_heading: PERRYMAN
dialog: Get down from there, before they
dialog: call the shore patrol.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Come on! Give me a push! Never hochi
dialog: in the P.I. you see jet-jockey so
dialog: hot like me!
speaker_heading: TRADER JON
dialog: Hey, buddy, cool it.
text: Seeger approaches Zack.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Zack, we've got to go.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Just trying to have fun. That fucking
dialog: prison is really starting to get to
dialog: me. C'mon, Seeger. Gimme a push.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Fuck you guys! I'll do it myself!
text: He pushes off with his feet and the chair glides down the
text: bar, knocking over glasses and beer bottles. The chair and
text: its rider topple over the bar and Zack goes sprawling onto a
text: table, laughing like a looney.
speaker_heading: TRADER JON
dialog: Okay, that's it!
text: Seeger quickly turns to her cohorts.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: You guys take care of Trader Jon
dialog: while I get him out of here.
text: Perryman and Della-Serra nod and head off to deal with the
text: man while she goes to Zack.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: C'mon, Zack. We've got to get out of
dialog: here!
text: He allows her to lead him toward the exit.
scene_heading: EXT. TRADER JON'S - NIGHT
text: Casey pushes him into the backseat of a taxi, but Zack grabs
text: her by the hand and tries to pull her inside.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: C'mon, Seeger. Let's go to the Tides
dialog: Inn Motel.
text: He pulls her close and kisses her on the lips, but she gently
text: pulls away.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: You're cute, Mayo, but you don't
dialog: want me. And to tell you the truth,
dialog: I don't want you.
dialog: (a quick kiss)
dialog: See you back at the base.
text: She gives the driver a fiver and the taxi drives off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SID AND LYNETTE'S ROOM AT THE TIDES INN - NIGHT
text: Sid lies in bed, staring up at the ceiling. WIDEN to include
text: Lynette, just starting to get dressed beside the bed.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: By the way, shouldn't you have had a
dialog: period by now?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I'm a little late, that's all.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: How late?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: What difference does it make? If
dialog: anything was to happen, which I'm
dialog: sure it isn't, it would be my
dialog: responsibility.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Exactly how late are you, Lynette?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (playing him)
dialog: What do you care? Suppose I was
dialog: pregnant. Just suppose it. You don't
dialog: think I'd try to make you do anything
dialog: you don't want to, do you?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No. But that's not the only issue
dialog: here, sweetheart. There's a lot more
dialog: to it than that.
text: She's like an expert fisherman, working her catch, easing it
text: in so deftly it never feels the hook.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: What other issue is there, Sid?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: My responsibility as its father, for
dialog: one. I mean, if I've made you
dialog: pregnant, I'd want to... do the right
dialog: thing.
text: Lynette waits hopefully.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: ...I'd want to pay for the abortion...
dialog: I'd want to be with you through the
dialog: whole thing... by your side.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So how late are you, Lynette?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (cold)
dialog: Let's just wait and see what happens.
text: She finishes dressing and leaves.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS SHOWER - NIGHT
text: Zack sits in the shower, the water blasting down on his head.
text: Sid bursts in.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Zack? God, I'm glad I found you. I
dialog: need to talk to you, buddy.
text: Zack is a zombie. He groans and gestures Sid off.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Talk to me in the morning. I feel
dialog: like shit.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: But it can't wait.
text: He presses close to the shower, so preoccupied he doesn't
text: even notice the water spattering his uniform.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Guess fucking what! Lynette's missed
dialog: her period. What am I gonna do, Zack?
dialog: What can I tell my folks?
dialog: What on God's green earth do I say to Susan.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Calm down, Sweet Pea. She seen a
dialog: doctor?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No, but she's gotta be at least a
dialog: month late.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Doesn't mean shit. Get her to a
dialog: doctor. You can't do anything until
dialog: you hear what he says. Make the
dialog: appointment yourself.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE LEARNING CENTER - DAY
text: The class is taking a critical multiple choice exam. Zack
text: struggles against his basic instinct to cheat off of Casey's
text: paper. He's still slower than most of the others but he's
text: doing okay. It's Sid who's slipping under. His mind is so
text: far away he hasn't even bothered to write his name at the
text: top of the exam paper.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS - LATER THAT DAY
text: The class, down to a scrappy 23 survivors, comes running in
text: after the exam, Foley right on their heels.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
text: Fall out on the lawn in five minutes!
dialog: This is your last shot at the 101
dialog: Course... Mayo... Seeger... Della-
dialog: Serra...
text: As the rest of the class goes bounding up the stairwell. Sid
text: rushes up to the O.O.D.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Sir, request permission to make an
dialog: emergency phone call, sir!
text: The O.O.D. nods and Sid starts feeding quarter into the
text: payphone on the wall. Zack hangs back, concerned.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Move it, Mayo!
text: Zack glares at Foley and runs up the stairs.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE OBSTACLE COURSE - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY
text: STARTING TIGHT on Seeger's face as Foley starts her.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Go!
text: He starts several of the others AD LIB. Then it's Zack's
dialog: turn.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Go!
text: Zack takes off across the course with a gleam in his eye. He
text: wants that record. Zack dances through the innertubes, hand
text: over hands the parallel bars, and churns his way through a
text: stretch of knee-deep sand, his classmates cheering him on,
text: wanting the record, too, wanting to leave their mark.
text: They all wear warmups similar to the ones worn by the crack
dialog: squad they saw in the early days of training, except that
text: their shirts are gold and their pants are blue.
text: On the front of their shirts is an insignia and the words:
text: "FOLEY'S FIRE EATERS." Their nicknames have been printed
text: boldly on the back: "MAYONNAISE," "B. SANDWICH," "THE MARRIED
scene_heading: MAN," "THE WILD WOP," (DELLA-SERRA), "GODZILLA." "WHAT ME
text: WORRY?," ETC. Across the back of Foley's all red warmup suit
text: are these words: "YOU'RE PISSING ME OFF, BOY!"
text: As Zack passes his slower classmates, they add their shouts
text: of encouragement to the cheering from the sidelines. "Do it,
dialog: Mayo!" "Put our name up there, Mayonnaise!" "You can do it!"
text: Zack shimmies up a rope, yanks his body over the low hurdles,
text: crawls on his back under the low horizontal bars, scampers
text: up the angled beam, leaps the moat... and is approaching the
text: wall full tilt when he sees Seeger up ahead, struggling as
dialog: usual to get over it.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Come on, Seeger! Let's go over it
dialog: together!
text: He makes it in one leap but she falls back to the ground,
text: beaten. Zack pauses at the top of the wall and looks down at
dialog: her.
text: Foley watches from the distance.
text: Zack drops back down beside Seeger. She has tears of
text: frustration in her eyes.
text: She's not going to make it and the realization that she's
text: come this far only to fail is crushing her.
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Go on, Zack! Go for the record!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Fuck the record. Now you listen to
dialog: me and do exactly what I tell you.
text: (he draws a line with
dialog: his foot)
dialog: Start back ten yards and take off
dialog: from here. Not here... or there...
dialog: but right here!
dialog: (the total officer)
dialog: No excuses, Seeger! You are going to
dialog: plant those legs here and then you're
dialog: going to yank yourself over that
dialog: wall because you have to! You want
dialog: jets? Then do it, goddamnit!
text: Seeger nods, almost mesmerized by his decisive tone of voice,
text: his sudden emergence as a leader. She starts running, takes
text: off exactly on the mark, and struggles to the top of the
dialog: wall.
text: She drops down on the other side and Zack joins her, smiling
text: FOLEY STOPS HIS WATCH
text: and shakes his head. He can live without that record.
speaker_heading: ZACK AND CASEY
text: As they finish the course, they stop and hug each other.
text: Then something catches Zack's eye that chases the good
dialog: feelings away.
speaker_heading: ZACK'S POV
text: Big Sid is trudging slowly toward the 101 Course in his
text: warmup, his nickname: "LOVERBOY" somehow ironic, especially
text: in this moment. Sid sees Zack looking his way and signals
text: the news to him by putting his arms into a baby-cradling
text: position and rocking the imaginary off-spring from side to
dialog: side.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSIDE THE MESS HALL - DAY
text: Zack and Sid are in line, getting their food.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: It's a big religious thing with her
dialog: and she won't even discuss it.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: But she expects you to marry her?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: She said it was up to me. If I don't,
dialog: she'll go off and have the baby on
dialog: her own somewhere.
text: At the mention of the word "baby" nearby classmates perk
dialog: their ears up.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: So what's the problem? Girls do that
dialog: all the time.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I can't let her go off and have the
dialog: kid by herself and not do anything.
dialog: If it's my kid, too, then I've got a
dialog: responsibility, don't I?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Not if she won't even talk about an
dialog: abortion.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: But it would still be my kid. That's
dialog: the point.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Do you know that for sure?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: It's mine.
text: They leave the food line and start toward the tables.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Okay, but what if it's like Foley
dialog: said and she got knocked up, to trap
dialog: you -- is it still your
dialog: responsibility?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No matter how it happened, if she
dialog: goes ahead and has it" Zack, there'll
dialog: be a child in the world that's mine --
dialog: and I couldn't go through life knowing
dialog: that and not knowing its name or
dialog: where it lived.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Jesus Christ, Sid! Is everything
dialog: your responsibility?
speaker_heading: ANGLE A TABLE
text: Sid and Zack sit down with their classmates and start eating.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Your brother getting killed instead
dialog: of you... Isn't that why you promised
dialog: to marry this Susan? Isn't that why
dialog: you do everything, man? Out of some
dialog: bullshit code of ethics you inherited
dialog: from your family?
text: Foley can be seen at the Instructors' table, IN SHOT
text: BACKGROUND, watching them, but Sid and Zack are oblivious to
dialog: their audience.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: Maybe it's all bullshit to you, but
dialog: that's now how I was raised. I believe
dialog: we have a responsibility to the people
dialog: in our lives -- that that's the only
dialog: thing that separates us from the
dialog: goddamn animals!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm not like you, Mayo. I can't just
dialog: shit on people and then sleep like a
dialog: baby all night!
text: The words sting and Zack flares back at his friend.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You got a responsibility to you first,
dialog: pard -- and if you can't handle that,
dialog: you've got bigger problems than
dialog: getting a girl pregnant!
text: They stare at each other a long time, but no more words come.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE ALTITUDE CHAMBER - DAY
text: Wearing full oxygen masks, Zack and Sid are part of a group
text: of six candidates playing pat-a-cake at simulated altitudes
text: inside the claustrophobic-small decompression chamber. An
text: INSTRUCTOR is explaining the test over an intercom, from
text: outside the windowed chamber.
speaker_heading: INSTRUCTOR
dialog: Now everybody take off your masks
dialog: but continue the same exercise. The
dialog: purpose is to show you the effects
dialog: of altitude on the motor skills when
dialog: you've been cut off from your oxygen.
text: Slowly their reactions begin to deteriorate. At first Sid
text: seems amused by his and Zack's fumbling to slap hands. Then
text: as a SHINING SOUND mounts into a crazy place, he begins to
dialog: panic.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (suddenly, calling)
dialog: Stop this thing! I said stop it!
text: Everyone looks at him strangely. Sid lurches like a drunk to
text: his feet and tries to move toward the door. He trips over
text: himself and falls, then stays there with his hands on his
text: ears and his body curled into a fetal position.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I want out! Let me out! Please! Let
dialog: me out!
text: Zack extricates himself from his harness like a man with
text: eight thumbs condemned on top of it to move in slow motion.
text: He weaves, drops to his knees by Sid, and awkwardly tries to
text: enclose him in his arms.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sid, it's okay. Don't be afraid.
text: The WHINING STOPS as they start to back off on the pressure
text: inside the chamber, but they can't do it too fast. Slowly
text: Sid comes to his senses, and his eyes focus on Zack.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sid, what happened?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I don't know... I felt like... like
dialog: I was suffocating... Christ, Zack...
dialog: I was so scared... so godddamn
dialog: scared...
text: Tears are running down Sid's face.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey, man, don't cry... not in front
dialog: of the instructors.
text: Zack looks around at the faces, all staring back in judgement,
dialog: not just the instructors. By now, the candidates know the
text: symptoms of a DOR as well as anybody.
text: The door to the chamber slams open and Foley is standing
text: there, grim-faced.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE PARADE GROUND - DAY
text: Zack is on morning "colors" duty. He and one of the lesser-
text: known candidates are raising the flag, a bugler standing
text: nearby, blowing "morning colors". Zack suddenly sees something
text: that chills him.
text: Sid and Foley stand in front of the Admin. Building, Foley
text: saluting the flag, Sid just standing there arms at his sides,
dialog: shoulders slumped.
text: As the bugler finishes, Zack turns to his classmate.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I gotta do something.
text: He breaks into a run.
scene_heading: TRACK WITH ZACK
text: as he runs toward Foley and Sid and walks with them toward
dialog: the water.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (to Foley)
dialog: You didn't kick him out...? Wait,
dialog: didn't he tell you what he's been
dialog: going through?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: It doesn't matter what he's going
dialog: through. That's the whole purpose of
dialog: this zoo. What matters is he freaked
dialog: out for some reason at twenty-five
dialog: thousand feet and that can't ever
dialog: happen again.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: But you don't understand. There's
dialog: this girl he's gotten pregnant and
dialog: she's putting him through hell, sir.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: He's right, Zack. It doesn't matter.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Just like that it's all over? With
dialog: less than two weeks to go, you're
dialog: out?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: It can still happen to you, too,
dialog: Mayo.
text: Foley marches off like a windup toy.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Come back here, motherfucker!
text: Foley spins around, his eyes sparkling wildly.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: What did you call me, Mayo?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Zack, don't!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I thought the D.I.'s were supposed
dialog: to help you in this place! What kind
dialog: of human being are you?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Stop eyeballing me, Mayo, or you're
dialog: out!
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Please, Zack -- go back to the
dialog: barracks!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't get it! He's the best
dialog: candidate in our class! Ask anyone!
dialog: The best student! The best leader!
dialog: The best friend to everybody! Couldn't
dialog: you bend your goddamn standards just
dialog: a little?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Zack, it wasn't him! He didn't ask
dialog: me to D.O.R. I came to him on my
dialog: own.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm glad it's over, Zack. I really
dialog: mean that. He was right. I wasn't
dialog: doing this for me.
text: He feels his tears coming up so he runs off suddenly across
dialog: the parade ground.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sid, wait! Where're you going?
text: Sid keeps running. Zack turns back to Foley and they stare
text: at each other a long moment before Zack bitterly salutes
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: With your permission, sir.
text: Foley returns the salute and watches Zack walk off toward
dialog: the barracks.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PAULA'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Zack drives up on his motorcycle. Esther is in the yard,
dialog: gardening.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Is Paula here?
text: Paula suddenly appears on the porch, dressed in a simple
text: cotton dress, her hair un-coiffed, none of her Deb makeup.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'm looking for Sid.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: So?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Paula, he DORed and nobody's seen
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Why'd he do it?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Hey! You know goddamn well what
dialog: happened so let's not play any games,
dialog: okay?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I'm not playing any games! Go look
dialog: at Lynette's!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I don't know where that is.
text: Paula slowly moves to him and gets on the motorcycle behind
text: him. They speed off, Esther watching them go.
scene_heading: EXT. LYNETTE'S HOUSE - DAY
text: She sits on the porch of the old home she was born in, her
text: hair up in curlers, doing her nails. The National Paper mill
text: sends up pillars of smoke on the horizon. A taxi drives up
text: and Sid steps out, in a sport coat and tie.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Hi, babe. Come on. I've got a couple
dialog: of things I want to tell you.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: What're you doing out of uniform,
dialog: Sid? You don't want to get in trouble.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Forget that. Come on. Got a little
dialog: surprise...
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I can't go like this. Can't you wait
dialog: a few minutes 'til I'm ready?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: No way. I'm so happy I'm about to
dialog: bust. Here, honey. This is for you.
dialog: It cost me my whole savings, but I
dialog: said what the fuck.
text: He hands her a little box. She opens it and finds an
text: engagement ring. She looks up at him, happily.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Sid! Oh, it's beautiful! You mean...
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: That's right. Let's get married,
dialog: Lynette. Let's find a justice of the
dialog: peace and just do it!
text: Lynette tries the ring on.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (euphoric)
dialog: Let's go tell Paula! God, I wonder
dialog: where we'll be stationed first. I
dialog: hope it'll be Hawaii. I've always
dialog: wanted to go to Hawaii.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: We're not gonna be stationed anywhere,
dialog: baby. I DORed.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (shaken)
dialog: You what?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: I had to, baby... I'm no aviator. I
dialog: was faking it, like I was with
dialog: everything else in my life... up
dialog: 'til right now.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: But... but what would we do? Where
dialog: would we go?
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Oklahoma. I can get my old job back
dialog: at JC Penney's. In a couple of years,
dialog: I'll be floor manager. Oh, you're
dialog: gonna love Oklahoma, Lynette. You
dialog: and mama'll get along just great. Of
dialog: course, money will be a little tight
dialog: for a while, but we'll make it.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (suddenly)
dialog: Sid, there's no baby.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I'm not pregnant. I got my period
dialog: this morning. There's no baby, Sid.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Well, I'll be goddamned.
text: Sid stares at her disbelievingly, but she's telling the truth,
text: at least partly. There is no baby.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: (a big smile)
dialog: What do you say we get married anyway?
dialog: I love you, Lynette. I'm in love
dialog: with you... and I didn't realize it
dialog: until right this second... but I've
dialog: never been happier in my life than I
dialog: have been the last seven weekends,
dialog: never more relaxed... more loved for
dialog: just who I am...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Marry me, Lynette. I love you.
text: Lynette looks off at the factory, then back at Sid.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: I'm sorry, Sid, but I don't want to
dialog: marry you. I like you a lot and we
dialog: had ourselves some real nice times,
dialog: that's for sure... but I thought you
dialog: understood. I want to marry a pilot,
dialog: Sid. I want to live part of my life
dialog: overseas... the wife of an aviator,
dialog: Sid.
dialog: (bitterly)
dialog: Damn you! Goddamn you! Nobody DORs
dialog: after eleven weeks! Nobody!
text: She throws the engagement ring at him and runs toward the
text: house. Numb to his core, Sid slowly retrieves the ring and
text: gets into her car. He starts it and drives off.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Hey! Come back with my car!
scene_heading: EXT. A DIRT ROAD - DAY
text: Lynette's Falcon takes a sudden turn. A split-second later,
text: Zack and Paula speed past in the opposite direction, missing
dialog: him.
scene_heading: EXT. LYNETTE'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Zack and Paula drive up and move toward the front door.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Lynette??
scene_heading: INT. LYNETTE'S HOUSE - DAY
text: They find her in the kitchen, sitting at the table, smoking
text: a cigarette.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Lynette, where's Sid?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Already come and gone. Can you believe
dialog: it? He DORed in the twelfth week.
dialog: How can you win?
text: Zack grabs her by the shoulders and forces her to meet his
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: What did you tell him about the baby?
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: That there isn't one, as of today. I
dialog: had my period.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I couldn't believe it. He still wanted
dialog: to marry me.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: And you turned him down??
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Of course. I don't want no Okie from
dialog: Muscogee. I can get that right here
dialog: in Port Angeles.
text: Zack starts shaking her angrily.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You little bitch! How could you? Was
dialog: there ever a baby, Lynette? That's
dialog: all I want to know! Did you make up
dialog: that baby, Lynette? Did you??
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: (caught)
dialog: Of course there was a baby. I'd never
dialog: lie about something like that. Would
dialog: I, Paula?
text: She looks at Paula for support but she seems to be wondering
text: the same things herself, and offers none. Zack abruptly pushes
text: out of the room, leaving the two girls alone.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Lynette, did you make up that baby
dialog: or didn't you?
text: Lynette's silence is answer enough. Paula suddenly slaps her
text: across the face with all her might.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: God help you, Lynette!
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: You're no better than me, Paula!
dialog: You're just the same!
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: No! That's not true!
text: She runs from the room.
scene_heading: EXT. LYNETTE'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Zack is getting on his motorcycle as she emerges from the
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I'd like to come with you.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Because he's my friend, too.
text: She gets on and he doesn't try to stop her. PAN as they drive
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT./EXT. THE TIDES INN - DAY
text: Carrying a pint bottle of bourbon, Sid weaves his way into
text: the office. He smiles a quirky smile for the WOMAN behind
text: the counter as he hands her some money and she gives him his
dialog: key.
text: As he turns away from the counter, the woman calls after
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Hey, is this yours?
text: She holds up the engagement ring he bought for Lynette. Sid
text: smiles, takes it from her.
speaker_heading: SID
dialog: Ever seen this one?
text: He pops the ring in his mouth and swallows it as the woman
text: looks on, speechless. Sid weaves out.
dialog: WE'RE TIGHT ON SID'S FACE
text: as he trudges up the steps to the second floor of units. We
text: stay with him until he reaches his room and walks in, slamming
text: the door behind him to close the world out.
text: WE STAY LIKE THAT, OUTSIDE HIS DOOR
text: The SOUND of the TV going on, loud. Some game show. The
text: passage of about twenty seconds. Then the SOUND of Zack's
text: MOTORCYCLE approaching, stopping.
speaker_heading: ZACK (O.S.)
dialog: He's here. She said he just came in.
text: The SOUND of FOOTSTEPS ascending to the second floor, running
text: toward us. Zack PUSHES INTO SHOT and knocks on the door.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sid, it's Zack. Open up.
text: No reply, then from inside some SOUNDS are heard, a CHAIR
text: FALLING, a sudden, dull SNAPPING NOISE, abrupt and final.
text: Zack throw his weight against the door and it splinters open.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sid?
text: Then he looks up and pales.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Oh, God...
text: Paula steps into the doorway and utters a little gasp as she
text: sees what poor Sid had done to himself.
scene_heading: INT. THE ROOM - DAY
text: The big Okie hangs by his necktie from a cluster of exposed
text: drainage pipes in a corner of the ceiling.
text: ZACK'S FACE IS STRETCHED WITH PAIN
text: Tears flood his eyes. He shakes his head in disbelief.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Oh, God... why? Why, Sid?
text: Zack cuts him down and cradles his friend's body in his arms.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: You stupid, fucking Okie! Why'd you
dialog: do it! Why didn't you talk to me
dialog: first? Why didn't you even try??
text: Paula watches from the door.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE TIDES INN - LATER THAT DAY
text: The last of the police cars and the one Shore Patrol sedan
text: from the base are pulling out of the Tides Inn lot, behind
text: the ambulance that carries Sid's body. Paula stands on the
text: upstairs landing.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Please stop it. None of that's true.
dialog: Goddamnit, I love you. I loved you
dialog: ever since I met you.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Come on, Paula! You were looking for
dialog: a ticket out of here and you didn't
dialog: care who it was, any more than you
dialog: cared with the last class of
dialog: candidates you and Lynette fucked
dialog: your way through, looking for a
dialog: husband! Or the class before that!
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Yeah. You got the whole story just
dialog: right.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Beware of the Puget Debs -- and we
dialog: all laughed, especially him.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I'm not a Puget Deb. I hate that
dialog: goddamn term!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I bet you do!
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: However you got it figured, I didn't
dialog: kill Sid and Lynette didn't kill
dialog: him! He killed himself!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: That's brilliant.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Maybe not, but it is the truth. And
dialog: Zack, you didn't kill him either.
text: He goes out the door. Paula can see him drive off on his
dialog: motorcycle.
scene_heading: EXT. THE BARRACKS - LATER THAT DAY
text: As Foley calls muster.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Mayo.
text: He takes notice of Zack's absence, unsurprised, before pushing
text: on the next name on the list.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Meyers.
text: Zack suddenly drives up on his motorcycle and walks toward
text: the group, unshaven, tie askew, uniform totally wrinkled,
text: eyes as red as sores.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Mayo, the rest of your class knows
dialog: about candidate Worley, and we're
dialog: all sorry.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Sir, this officer candidate requests
dialog: permission to speak to you in private.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'm busy, Mayo. It'll have to wait.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: It's important, sir!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Mayo, you didn't hear me -- I said I
dialog: I'm busy! And so are you! Go get
dialog: cleaned up!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Aw screw it...
text: He starts to walk into the barracks.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (suddenly)
dialog: Martial arts demonstration in the
dialog: old blimp hangar in five minutes!
dialog: Mayo, you're my volunteer!
text: Zack stops in his tracks and turns to face his antagonist.
dialog: He'll wait around for this.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE MUSTY OLD HANGAR - DAY
text: Foley is up in the ring in his VC pajamas, watching them
text: take do their seats. Zack is the last to walk in.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: What're you waiting for, Mayo? Get
dialog: your scuzzy ass up here.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yes, sir!
text: He climbs up into the ring with Foley.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Put these on.
text: He hands Zack a set of safety-punch gloves and safety-kick
text: foot pads. Zack sits on the canvas and puts them on. Foley
text: already wears his.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'll start with some basic kicks.
dialog: You try to copy me.
text: Zack gets to his feet and squares off opposite Foley.
scene_heading: MOST OF ZACK'S CLASSMATES
dialog: know about the incident in town with the locals, and the
text: word spreads quickly to the others in excited whispers. They
text: share a common dream, these twenty-one survivors, to see
text: Foley broken and humbled.
scene_heading: THE MARTIAL ARTS DEMONSTRATION - A SERIES OF SHOTS
text: Foley demonstrates a simple side kick, the heel of his foot
text: slamming hard against Zack's jaw. As in the previous
text: demonstration, Foley isn't afraid of inflecting a little
text: punishment along with his instruction. He's unprepared,
text: however, for the skill and and speed with which Zack returns
text: a version of that kick, the heel of his foot hitting Foley
text: so solidly it rocks him back a couple of steps before he can
text: catch his balance.
text: Foley grins, a rivulet of blood running down his chin.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Looky-looky what we got. That's pretty
dialog: cute, Mayo.
text: Foley executes a crescent kick, his specialty, and bloodies
text: Zack's mouth. Zack returns a crescent kick that knocks the
text: Marine right on his ass.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You're good.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Get on your feet and find out how
dialog: good, sir.
text: Before Zack can get set, Foley seizes the offensive and starts
text: backing him across the ring with a series of fast kicks.
text: Momentarily trapped in the corner, Zack ducks a punch, slips
text: under a crescent kick, and hits his man three times in the
text: face with his foam-padded knuckles, then follows with a kick
text: to the mid-section that makes the Marine sink to his knees
text: with a silly expression on his face.
text: Suddenly unafraid of Foley, the class rises to its feet and
text: cheers Zack on.
text: Ad-LIBS of "Get him, Zack!" "No mercy!" "Remember what he
text: did to us!" Quieter mumblings of "Kill the motherfucker."
text: Foley gets to his feet. Zack drops him instantly with a
text: jumpspinning back kick.
text: Foley gets up again and manages to stay up for a short time
text: but it's a pathetic mismatch and Zack can land solidly at
text: will with hands and feet. Finally, with a spinning outside
text: crescent kick that awes his classmates, Zack flattens him
text: again. Foley just lies there, obviously spent.
text: Zack offers him a hand. Foley looks up at him helplessly,
text: shakes his head in defeat, and reaches out to accept his
dialog: help.
text: Then, with shocking suddenness, Foley coils his knees to his
text: chest, yanks Zack toward him, and -- at the same time --
text: unleashes a kick straight to Zack's chin. Zack crumples to
text: the canvas and lies there, barely conscious. Foley rises to
text: his feet.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Oldest trick in the book. Now, is
dialog: there anything you want to tell me,
dialog: Mayo?
text: Zack shakes his head, no. Foley bows to him formally, then
text: to the rest of the class, and marches like God's Warrior Son
text: from the old hangar.
text: Zack watches his classmates file out, leaving him alone in
text: the cavernous hanger.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS - NIGHT
text: Zack comes in by himself.
scene_heading: INT. ZACK'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: Perryman looks up from his Navigation book as his only
text: surviving roommate enters. Zack looks at the two stripped
text: bunks, the empty lockers... then he stares at his own locker
text: for a long time, trying to make up his mind.
text: Then Perryman gets up, puts a reassuring hand on his shoulder,
text: just for an instant, and goes back to his studies. Finding
text: some coins in his locker, Zack leaves the room.
scene_heading: INT. THE BARRACKS PAYPHONE - NIGHT
text: Zack throws some money in to satisfy the operator.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Byron, it's me. You doing anything
dialog: weekend after next?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Yeah... it's graduation.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: GRADUATION MORNING ON THE BASE - DAY
text: The sun is just rising and sending its colors across the
text: big, wide lawn where the graduation ceremony will soon take
dialog: place.
text: Four enlisted men are positioning risers and folding chairs.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PAULA'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Paula gets up to the SOUND of her alarm. She hurries to turn
text: it off so as not to awaken her sisters. The time is 6:30 in
text: the morning. Time to go to work. Grudgingly, she relinquishes
text: the warmth of the bed, and trudges toward the bathroom in
text: her pajamas.
scene_heading: EXT. PAULA'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Paula gets into Bunny's Toyota and the carpool drives on.
scene_heading: EXT. THE NATIONAL PAPER MILL - DAY
text: As Paula is punching in, Lynette, waiting in line behind
dialog: her, whispers:
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: What do you think of the new
dialog: mechanics?
text: Paula glances off at the two boys Lynette is flirting with,
text: father back in the line. Both could be her father's sons.
dialog: Candidates for apehood.
text: Paula has a faraway look on her face as she pulls her card
text: from the clock.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Today's graduation. I hope he made
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE PARADE GROUND - DAY
text: Zack and his classmates are passing in review before the
text: Commanding Officer and his staff (including Foley), seated
text: on the risers, and the large gathering of family and friends
text: seated on the folding chairs. The base marching band, a
text: phalanx to the left of the rises, is in fine and rousing
dialog: form.
text: As Zack and Casey and Perryman and the others pass CAMERA,
text: they do a precise EYES-RIGHT.
text: BYRON IS APPLAUDING LOUDER THAN ANYBODY
text: It's a proud moment for the reluctant father and he's not
text: above letting the stiffer-looking parents around him know
dialog: how he feels about having a son made it into the officer
dialog: ranks.
scene_heading: ZACK SEE HIS FATHER
text: and smiles.
text: SECONDS LATER, THE CAMERA IS PANNING THE FACE OF THE
speaker_heading: GRADUATES.
text: standing at attention on their risers, reciting their
dialog: commissioning oath.
speaker_heading: THE GRADUATES
dialog: I do solemnly swear that I will
dialog: support and defend the Constitution
dialog: of the United States of America
dialog: against all enemies foreign and
dialog: domestic...
text: Find Casey's proud face, Perryman's, Della-Serra's, Marcus'...
speaker_heading: THE GRADUATES
dialog: ...that I will bear true faith and
dialog: allegiance to the same, that I take
dialog: this obligation freely without any
dialog: mental reservation or purpose of
dialog: evasion...
text: CAMERA HOLDS ON Zack's face, his eyes moist, his voice rich
dialog: with emotion.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (with his classmates)
dialog: ...that I will well and faithfully
dialog: discharge the duties of the office
dialog: on which I am about to enter. So
dialog: help me God.
text: MINUTES LATER, THE NEWLY-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS HAVE BROKEN
speaker_heading: RANKS
text: and are embracing their families and friends on the lawn.
text: Byron finds Zack and the two men stare at one another warily,
text: before warmth floods their faces and they come together in
text: an embrace. Zack pulls a folded document from his breast
dialog: pocket.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Look -- my orders to Pensacola for
dialog: basic flight training... then it's
dialog: on to jets!
text: Byron quickly glances at the orders and pounds Zack on the
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: I knew you'd make it!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Where's your girl? Didn't she come?
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Naw. That's over with.
text: Byron almost looks sad to hear it.
speaker_heading: BYRON
dialog: Zackie, I'm so proud of you. Get
dialog: ready, 'cause I'm gonna give you
dialog: your first salute and you'll owe me
dialog: a silver dollar. That's the tradition,
dialog: you know.
text: He starts to bring his hand up to salute his son but Zack
text: grabs his wrist to stop him.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: (gently)
dialog: No offense, Byron, but my first one's
dialog: gonna come from... him.
text: He looks over at:
scene_heading: FOLEY, IN DRESS BLUES
text: He cane propped characteristically behind him, the newer
text: notches clearly recognizable from the ones that predate this
text: class, he watches them approach... one after the other, each
text: of his worms, his scuzzes, his college pukes... and he renders
text: to them, as is the tradition, their first salute. In return,
text: they hand him a silver dollar.
text: Perryman pays up, then Casey approaches him.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (saluting)
dialog: Congratulations Ensign Seeger, sir!
speaker_heading: CASEY
dialog: Thank you, sir. I mean, Sergeant.
text: She gives him a silver dollar and hurries off to rejoin her
dialog: family.
scene_heading: ZACK APPROACHES FOLEY
text: and the Marine salutes him briskly, his heels clapping
text: together like a flamenco dancer's.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Congratulations, Ensign Mayo, sir!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: I'll never forget you as long as I
dialog: live, Sergeant.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Well, goodbye.
text: Zack gives him a silver dollar and Foley pockets it and snaps
text: off another brisk salute.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: See you in the fleet, sir!
speaker_heading: ZACK
dialog: Yeah. See you in the fleet, Sarge.
dialog: And thank you.
text: Foley just grins as Zack answers his salute.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. THE BASE - DAY
text: MOVING WITH ZACK ON HIS MOTORCYCLE. He still wears his dress
text: whites and his gear is packed in a Navy seabag strapped to
text: the back, as he drives away from the barracks, waving farewell
text: to some of his classmates. As he rumbles past the parade
text: ground, he sees Foley addressing a spanking new class of
text: candidates, still in civvies, still sporting hair.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I don't believe what I'm seeing!
dialog: Look at all that hair! All those
dialog: lard bellies from junk food and pot!
dialog: Where you been all your lives, at an
text: orgy? Listening to Mick Jagger and
dialog: bad mouthing your country, I bet.
text: The new class cracks up, laughing, as Zack motors past, headed
dialog: for the gates. It's hard to believe only thirteen weeks have
text: elapsed since he heard those words for the first time. Seems
dialog: more like a lifetime.
scene_heading: EXT. THE GATES OF THE NAVAL AIR STATION - DAY
text: Zack drives out and disappears down the road.
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. THE NATIONAL PAPER KILL - DAY
text: Paula is at work on the line. The sweat of a long day stings
text: her eyes as it stings the eyes of her fellow workers. Poor
dialog: Paula. It's not hard to imagine her in a few years as Bunny.
dialog: Hell, Lynette's already there. Old debs never die...
text: THE WOMEN ON THE PAPER TOWEL LINE NEAR THE DOOR
text: are the first to see him enter.
speaker_heading: ESTHER POKRIFKI
text: stops her work as she sees the flash of gold on a Naval
text: shoulder board.
scene_heading: THE WOMEN ON THE NAPKIN LINE
text: send up a buzz of gossipy excitement as he strides past them.
dialog: So clean. So handsome. So perfect. Every deb's fantasy.
text: HE WEARS THE DRESS WHITE UNIFORM WITH ENSIGN GOLD
text: and he wears it proudly as he strides through their ranks,
text: toward the girl who is only now stopping to watch him
dialog: approach.
dialog: PAULA CAN'T BELIEVE IT
dialog: Almost as she might have dreamed it long ago as a little
text: girl, she watches him take her face in his hands and kiss
dialog: her in such a romantic way that it's unlikely the women at
dialog: National Paper, or any of us, will ever forget that kiss.
text: LYNETTE AND BUNNY WATCH THAT KISS
text: with a mingling of happiness and painful, desperate longing,
text: on their faces.
speaker_heading: ESTHER POKRIFKI
text: is the second happiest Deb in the room.
text: THE OTHER AGING DEBS IN THE HUGE FACTORY
text: stop their work to watch. A few even applaud.
scene_heading: ZACK SUDDENLY LIFTS PAULA IN HIS ARMS
text: and with their eyes still touching, he carries her toward
dialog: the door.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE'S FACE
text: reveals all the jealousy that accompanies the happiness she
text: is feeling for her friend. She's never leaving this place
dialog: and she knows it.
speaker_heading: LYNETTE
dialog: Way to go, Paula! Way to go!
text: She adds her applause and half the factory is clapping and
text: cheering by the time the officer and his girl reach the
dialog: doorway.
scene_heading: EXT. THE NATIONAL PAPER MILL - DAY
text: Zack carries Paula out into the sunshine and kisses her again.
dialog: She's like candy, all right, and he'll never get enough.
text: PULL BACK INTO HELICOPTER SHOT that dwarfs them far below
dialog: us, and...
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
