dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANACONDA.
speaker_heading: DRAFT BY
text: "MARK HASKELL SMITH
dialog: ,
speaker_heading: DECEMBER 1, 1995
dialog: 5
speaker_heading: 2A
speaker_heading: OO»
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. RIO AMAZONAS, BRAZIL - DUSK
text: A high aerial view of the Amazon, winding a as far as the eye
text: can see through the planet's least-known rain forest. The
text: _last flare of the setting sun casts an amber glow.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. UNNAMED TRIBUTARY/RIVERBOAT - NIGHT
text: Dark water reflects the moon. POV AT WATER LEVEL, slowly
text: weaving toward the kerosene running lights of a traditional
text: AMAZON RIVERBOAT sitting slightly lopsided in the water. We
text: may catch a glimpse of a body lying by the river's edge near
dialog: the boat.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - CONTINUOUS
text: The POV glides in as the eceasional squawk cf a parrot or
text: . Chatter of a monkey punctuates the otherwise ominous silence ©
text: of the jungle. Now circles the riverboat, then dips
text: underwater...we should see that ‘the BOAT'S ENGINE is battered
text: and non-functional, beyond repair. SFX of the engine
text: gxinding, someone trying desperately, futilely to get it
dialog: started.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVERBOAT (*RAMONA") - NIGHT
text: Faded lettering on her shallow draft hull informs us she's
text: the “RAMONA". A poacher's pride and joy, stocked with NETs,
dialog: TRAPS, CANISTERS: tools of the trade, but in this instance
text: chosen with a single prey in mind. From inside the CREW
text: CABIN we can just hear a SINGLE, EXHAUSTED VOICE, speaking in
text: Portugese, and, very low on the soundtrack, STRANGE MUSIC,
text: Brazilian pop, playing half-speed... .
scene_heading: “INT. RAMONA CREW CABIN NIGHT
text: The musica bit louder; the VOICE, still off-screen, more
text: obviously desperate. THE CAMERA takes in the cramped
text: quarters, illuminated by the flickering light of an OIL LAMP.
text: There is a single chair and a small table and FOUR BUNKS,
dialog: each one showing evidence of having been recently
text: occupied...a duffel bag near one, clothes strewn about —
text: another, yet another unmade with a BOOMBOX resting near the
text: Pillow. THE MUSIC comes from the boombox: we see a tape ~
text: spinning, slower and slower, as the batteries die...
text: The camera comes to a rest on the source of the voice: an
text: older INDIAN MAN, his face scarred and glistening with the
text: sweat of fear. He sits before a SHORTWAVE RADIO, frantically
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 2a
speaker_heading: 2B
dialog: Ne
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - November 22 2.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: attempting to bring the dead piece of hardware to life--
text: twisting the dial, babbling into the mike. All in vain: we
dialog: don't even hear static from the radio. .-
text: A SUDDEN SMALL BUMP shakes the boat, and the POACHER. He
text: freezes for a moment, then quickly rises, grabbing a NEARBY
text: GUN and a HAMMER. He moves to the door, passing a picture
text: tacked on the wall: ‘THE PICTURE shows THREE MEN, proudly
text: holding a LARGE SNAKE, about twenty feet long. The SNAKE is
dialog: mazzled and harnassed with high tech trapping apparati. We
text: recognize one of the men as the poacher...the second man has
text: Indian features. The third is a particulerly cocky .
text: ‘Caucasian, wearing a T-shirt with the ROLLING STONES
text: TRADEMARK tongue on it.
scene_heading: EXT. BOAT DECK WIGHT.
text: The Poacher dares to emerge. He looks around, firearm
text: leveled. He mumbles in Portugese...threats mixed with pleas
text: punctuated by prayers, the ramblings of a schizophrenic...as
text: he crosses the deck, his eyes darting to the river.
text: S-SHAPED WAVES roll across the dark water's surface and lap ,
text: against the hull, rocking the boat. He gets on all fours and
text: uses the hammer claw to pry planks from the wooden deck.
text: A bucket rolls across the deck. He spins, FIRES, CLANGS a
text: hole through it. Hesitates, goes back to his chore, still
text: mumbling.. He tears up some deck planks, drags them into the
text: cabin and slams the door. We hear now HAMMERING SOUNDS.
scene_heading: INT. RAMONA CREW CABIN - NIGHT
text: The poacher begins to nail wood planks to the doorframe...
scene_heading: POV-- UNDERWATER | ‘
text: The unseen presence seems to be. casing the boat, tooking for
text: the most valnerable area of attack.
scene_heading: . INT. CREW CABIN NIGHT
text: ’ Nailed inside the cabin, the poacher backs to the table,
text: taking a swig of liquor before moving back to the radio. Now
text: he simply hits it. And now we hear a sputter of static. —
text: HOPE. He picks up the mike and begins to talk into it but at
dialog: just that moment: .
text: SOMETHING BUMPS UP UNDERNEATH THE FLOORBOARDS. A SUDDEN
text: JOLT, strong enough to knock the radio off the table, which
text: shatters into pieces when it hits the floor. The Poacher's
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 10
dialog: Ne
dialog: : Shooting script - December 1 3.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: eyes, wide with terror, lock on the floorboards. More .
text: BUMPING AND THUMPING. Little by little the old floorboards
text: are giving way, the rusty nails shaking loose. The Poacher
text: leaps across the cramped room and begins prying off the
text: planks which he'd just nailed over the door.
text: The floorboards are buckling up and splintering. The Poacher
text: whimpers and cries, his hands bloodied and fingernails split
text: as he yanks the boards from the door. Suddenly, the
text: floorboards all splinter up -- just. as the Poacher frees
text: himself out the door. : “ :
scene_heading: EXT. RIVERBOAT ("RAMONA") - MIGHT
text: The Poacher scrambles up the few steep steps to the cabin
text: roof. He looks behind him and seés something terrifying. He
text: climbs to the top of the mast rising above the cabin. .
text: HUGE ON THE FIGURE
text: He's totally crazed. Lips aquiver. Sweat streaming. He
text: looks down, gasps in terror and quickly pulls his legs up as
text: far as he can -~ something's coming. He starts to recite the
text: LORD'S PRAYER in Portugese as he takes the GUN and shoots ~
dialog: into the water-- once, twice, three times.
text: Again, in vain. The boat is being violently rocked by the
text: attacking creature. He checks his gun, sees that he has one
text: bullet left. He is beyond fear now: seems somehow at peace
text: as he puts the gun to his head, finishing his prayer.
scene_heading: EXT. UNNAMED TRIBUTARY/RIVERBOAT - RIVER
text: We are a long distance from the Ramona, barely making out its
text: small form on the quiet, black river.
speaker_heading: _ POACHER (0.S.)
dialog: Ame'm,...
text: A SINGLE. SHOT.echoes. And we .
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
scene_heading: EXT. MANAUS, BRAZIL - DAY
text: Like before, a high aerial view of the Amazon, but this time
text: civilization encroaches. A sprawling city has edged its
text: jagged claw into the jungle -- urban concrete nibbling at the
text: Massive green.
text: A silver jet slopes down and lands on the edge of the city.
dialog: é
dialog: 10
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting seript - December 1 4.
scene_heading: 11 EXT. TAXI VAN - DAY . . 11
text: C) The VAN slams on its brakes, screeching to a stop, barely
text: \ missing an INDIAN MAN lugging a large basket of fruit. The
text: occupants of the Van lurch against the seats.
text: The Indian Man moves on, after giving the driver of the van
text: an international hand signal, and the van continues to
text: navigate the clatter and color of Manaus: NATIVES in feathers
text: walking among CITY PEOPLE in business suits...KIDS playing
text: soccer in a muddy field that is flanked by modern office
text: buildings....STREET VENDORS selling everything they
dialog: own....STREET WALKERS selling everything imaginable. see
scene_heading: 11A EXT. DOCK - DAY 11a
text: ’ The van passes across a bridge onto the dock teeming with
text: PEOPLE coming and going. CRATES filled with electronic goods,
text: soda, beer, BARGES heavily laden. BOATS of all sizes and
text: shapes -- RIVERBOATS preparing for a long journey, hammocks
text: swinging from their decks, maybe a band plays as one
text: riverboat pulls out.
text: The van pulls up next to a waiting SPEEDBOAT The ARIAU JUNGLE
text: TOWER HOTEL printed across the stern and disgorges the
text: jostled occupants. First out is GARY, a handsome American, he
text: © shoots a look at TERRI PORTER, an attractive woman in her
text: ” twenties, confident, tough, independent. Terri's been riding
text: in the front passenger seat: GARY'S expression seems to say:
dialog: "What have you gotten us in to".
text: GARY helps DENISE KALBERG, early twenties, a fresh, small-
text: town scrubbed quality about her, as they unload their
text: equipment. From their body language and playful manner it's
text: apparent that they are lovers. Denise wears a funky jeweled
text: erucifix from her neck.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 11.AA AERIAL SHOT -- DAY . : 11.AA
text: As the speedboat leaves the city, we see the two great rivers
text: of the Amazon merging -- the brown water of THE AMAZON and .
text: the black water of the RIO NEGRO -- fingers of currents
text: distinctly intertwined.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Ov.
speaker_heading: —
dialog: ed
dialog: 12
dialog: 13
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 5.-
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL DAY - : 12
text: THE SPEEDBOAT stops in front of the ARIAU JUNGLE TOWER HOTEL:
text: an astonishing piece of architecture which rises out of the
text: jungle like an elaborate treehouse. Terri, Denise, and Gary
text: step out and start to unload their luggage. Denise throws her
text: arms around Gary, excited. They take a moment to share a
text: passionate kiss. Terri watches them for a beat, wistful,
text: before carrying her gear into the hotel. .
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL CATWALKS - DAY. . , 13
text: Gary and Denise lead the way down one of the catwalks. Birds
text: of every color flit in the jungle canopy. Monkeys chatter
text: from the trees. They reach a room and Denise unlocks the
text: door. She turns to Terri and hands her a room key.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: I don't think we'll see you for dinner.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (playfully)
dialog: She's gonna tie me to the bed.
speaker_heading: DENISE
text: Handeuffs, Gary. Handcuffs.
text: Denise playfully shoves Gary into the room and closes the
text: door. Terri smiles wryly and walks on.
speaker_heading: ANGLE:
text: Terri comes upon a platform with a clear view of the river,
text: she sees a young black man slouching on a camera case. The
text: case is marked with the logo for NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC. He is:
text: DANNY. Terri sPproaches hin. :
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You must ‘be the cameraman.
text: Danny peeks out from above his Raybans.
speaker_heading: DANNY |
dialog: Where's the director?
speaker_heading: . TERRI
dialog: That'd be me.
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: You're kidding me, right? You're much too
dialog: short to be a director. You got to be
dialog: tall. You can't possibly be the director.
dialog: 
dialog: 5
dialog: =
dialog: 13
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 6.
dialog: 13
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: It's my first time. They waived the
dialog: height requirement.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Oh no! You're a first timer! Wet behind
dialog: the ears...rookie...and short!
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: - You got a problem with that?
dialog: Yeah. I got a problem with that. Let. me
dialog: tell-you, when they called and asked me
dialog: to do this job I turned it down flat.
dialog: I've been on location for five months and
dialog: I was startin' to get used to livin'
dialog: without plumbing.
text: Danny. breaks into a huge grin.
dialog: He stands
speaker_heading: DANNY ,
dialog: But when they’ said my old pal from
dialog: college was directing....
text: and gives her a warm hug.
speaker_heading: - TERRI
dialog: - You couldn't resist. ;
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Hey. I have to be here. This is your big
dialog: break. I wouldn't miss it.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: I wasn't coming down here without you.
speaker_heading: DANNY | :
dialog: Guess I. should've asked for more money.
speaker_heading: oo TERRI
text: “(smiling back).
dialog: We would've paid it.
text: Danny stands and picks up his gear.
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: Who's the egghead in charge?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Dr. Steven Cale.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 13
dialog: 
dialog: 14
dialog: ed
dialog: oo,
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 7.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: - DANNY
dialog: Isn't he the guy you....?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: That's all in the past. No more messy
dialog: romance for me. I'm footloose and fancy
dialog: free.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Well alright. We're gonna have some. fun.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: or die trying.
speaker_heading: OMIT 13A
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL BAR - NIGHT
text: Wight encroaches. and the jungle begins to come alive with
text: sounds.’ Danny sits at a table drinking a beer and smoking a
dialog: Dannemann Speciale (small cigars native to Brazil). Gary
text: enters looking exhausted and walks over to Danny.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Hey. How's it goin'?
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Just kickin' back, feedin' the mosquitos.
text: Danny extends his hand.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Danny Cameraman.
dialog: Gary Sound. Pleased to make your
dialog: acquaintance.
text: They shake hands. Gary sits. At Danny's signal a Waiter .
text: brings a couple of beers to the table and hands it to Gary.
text: Gary vigorously swats the bugs that swarm around him.
speaker_heading: GARY .
dialog: Christ. These bugs...who invited them?
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: They only take a pint. I donate every
dialog: night. Better to get it over with in one
dialog: sitting than have them peck at you all
dialog: day. .
speaker_heading: ( CONTINUED)
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 8.
scene_heading: 14 CONTINUED: _ 14
text: Gary wipes his face with a bandana.
speaker_heading: GARY :
dialog: They must be attracted to the sweat. How
dialog: is it this hot at night?
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Just think of it as New York in August.
text: Gary takes a long pull on the beer.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You from the City?
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Brooklyn.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Yeah!? Me too. Imagine that. Two guys
dialog: from Brooklyn in the middle of the
dialog: . jungle.
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: It's not just a job, it's an adventure.
speaker_heading: GARY .
dialog: Yeah, well, the pay sucks on this
dialog: adventure.
text: Denise walks into the bar.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: Gary? Gary?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (to Danny) © .
dialog: But the fringe benefits are excellent.
text: Gary. quickly exits. Danny finishes his beer.
scene_heading: 15 INT. TERRI'S ROOM NIGHT 15
text: In the pitch black of the jungle at night, Terri sits ata
text: bamboo desk, illuminated by her laptop computer. The wall
text: behind her is not wood but actually a large piece of screen
text: and the sounds and smells of the jungle drift into the room.
text: She hears the eerie calls of bat hawks hunting over the
text: river, a few thumps on her roof... Just as she's starting to
text: get the creeps, there's a knock at the door. She flicks on
dialog: the light. :
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 15
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 9.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Terri opens the door + to reveal, DR. STEVEN CALE (33), &
text: handsome, articulate, and passionate professor of Cultural
text: Anthropology. He holds a wrapped package. in his hands.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Steven! When did you get in?
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Yesterday. I've been out talking to some
dialog: guides. Hoping they might know the
dialog: whereabouts of our tribe.
text: He hands her the package.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: For you. A peace offering.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: We're not at war.
text: Cale sits on the bed.
speaker_heading: : CALE
dialog: Then it's for luck.
text: Terri unwraps the package and reveals a intricately woven
text: wreath of twigs, dried flowers; and feathers.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: It's beautiful.
dialog: , CALE .
dialog: Shirishama. I bought it from a river
dialog: trader. It has some ceremonial
dialog: significance between lovers.
text: Terri gives Cale a look.
speaker_heading: "TERRI
dialog: . (pareastic) a :
dialog: Really? Would that. ceremonial
dialog: significance mean commitment? Or is
dialog: monogamy not a word in the shirishama ~
dialog: vocabulary?
text: Cale lets out a groan.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: How long are you going to hold that
dialog: against me? I just wasn't ready. That
dialog: doesn't mean I'm not ready now.
dialog: 
dialog: 15
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 - 10,
scene_heading: 15 CONTINUED: (2) oO “45
text: Terri sits back in front of her computer.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: What if I'm not ready?
dialog: 
text: Cale looks distressed. He sighs and looks ont the window.
speaker_heading: TERRI (CONT'D)
dialog: (sighing)
dialog: Maybe this whole thing is a big mistake.
speaker_heading: CALE . :
dialog: - Look. I'm here for strictly professional
dialog: reasons. And that's a promise. I thought
dialog: we could work together.
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: It's not just about us, it's about the
text: Shirishama. They're out there. Completely
dialog: isolated. They have their own customs,
dialog: myths, religion. Unique. Unlike anything
dialog: we've experienced. What if we pollute
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: We're professionals... We're making a
dialog: documentary. We can do this without
dialog: ‘ disrupting the tribe. We've been working
dialog: a) on this for too long to stop now. And
dialog: ( despite everything that's happened, I
dialog: think we make a great team.
speaker_heading: NS
text: She chews on her thumbnail and considers what he's saying.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I know. I know. I've just get a creepy
dialog: feeling. Sorry.
text: He stands and puts his hand on her shoulder.
speaker_heading: CALE ‘
dialog: Get over it. This is an important Project
dialog: to both of us.
text: Terri opens her door.
speaker_heading: : TERRI
dialog: You're right. I'11 see you “an the
dialog: morning.
dialog: | Cale exits.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: | ~ (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
speaker_heading: O
dialog: 15
dialog: 17
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 11.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 15
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFRONT - DAWN 16
text: Early morning -- the first light of day.
text: A massive bulky object slides out of the derkness, moving
text: toward CAMERA. It creeks eerily as we begin to make out what
dialog: it is: cena nate Cee tated barge that has been up and
dialog: down the Amazon many times.
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFRONT -- LATER : 47
text: "RED-EYE" MATEO stands on the deck of the boat, sneaking an
text: early-morning swig from his trusty, dented flask. He listens
text: with obvious disinterest as CALE shows him something on a
dialog: map.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: We'll motor approximately a hundred and
text: fifty miles upstream on the Negro, then
dialog: proceed down this tributary to the
dialog: Abufari reserve.
text: Mateo shakes his head "No"...
speaker_heading: CALE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: Rapids. Shallows. We go this way.
text: Mateo points to another route on the map.
speaker_heading: . CALE
dialog: Excuse me Captain Mateo, but since I'm
dialog: the one paying the bills,. perhaps | you'l1
dialog: gee clear to go my. way.
text: “Mateo lights a 2 cigarette and looks at the map.
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: ‘No: problem. It's: your boat. And Iam just -
dialog: a hired hand. We go your way. Only I .
dialog: insist we take a detour....here.
dialog: Otherwise I cannot be responsible.
text: He points to a specific tributary.
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 / 212.
scene_heading: 17A’ EXT. HOTEL WATERFRONT — DAY : 17A
text: C) Terri walks toward the fifty five-foot barge of rusted steel
text: SH and peeling paint. It's as flat as a pancake with a square
text: -bow and stern. There's a raised, wooden pilot house at one
text: end and a rusted crane at the stern. The boat rides only
text: inches above the waterline, burdened with drums of diesel
text: fuel, coils of rope, and supply trunks.
text: Terri walks over to Cale and hands hima page of script.
text: Behind them the crew sets up equipment on the boat. Danny .
text: moves back and forth with his light meter. Gary fiddles with
text: cables and tapes. Denise oversees the loading of equipment
text: and supplies, checking them off on her clipboard.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: Steven? Can you look this over?
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Sure. Sleep well?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Fine. Where's Westridge? I know he
dialog: checked in.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: He' i be along. Beauty sleep you know. |
text: — WARREN WESTRIDGE, late forties, barely sweating in his linen
text: suit, is a distinguished and imposing man; his supercilious
text: nature is apparent as he guides the BELLBOY who is carrying
text: an imposing stack of monogrammed luggage.
speaker_heading: ‘WESTRIDGE .
dialog: Careful! Careful! Just because we're in
dialog: the wilds doesn't mean you.can sling my
dialog: luggage -any which. way.
text: Westridge watches as his luggage thuds on the deck next to
dialog: Denise.
speaker_heading: : WESTRIDGE ~
dialog: You there! Young woman! Stow that in my
dialog: room. 7
text: DENISE . .
dialog: I'm not the bellhop. I'm the Production
dialog: Manager.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: : Shooting Script - December 1 13.
scene_heading: 17A CONTINUED: . 17A
scene_heading: . - : . | WESTRIDGE :
dialog: . Then you can manage my things into my .
text: OY room.
text: ~ . Terri approaches him.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Mr. Westridge? Terri Porter.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE ~ .
dialog: Ahi The director. as cadet. Professor Cale
dialog: lent me some of your short films. You
dialog: have a modicum of. talent, but I will not ~
dialog: let you get away with any self indulgent
dialog: _prattle on this shoot.
text: Terri is awed by his pomposity.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Well, thanks. (BEAT) Welcome aboard, I
dialog: guess. .
speaker_heading: , WESTRIDGE.
dialog: And getting aboard is just what I'm going
dialog: to do. It's too bloody hot. Are we
dialog: exactly on the equator?
text: : Terri-and Cale exchange a look as Westridge clambers on deck
text: © and into one of the cabins, banging his luggage against
dialog: anything that gets in his way.
text: Cale jumps on board and straps some diving equipment securely
text: to a railing. Danny sits on his camera case waiting for the
text: shot. Gary and Denise stand next to him.
speaker_heading: . DANNY
dialog: Diving gear? .
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: It's. a*hobby.
text: Terri takes a snapshot from shore and jumps aboard as
text: Westridge comes steaming out of his cabin.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: I do*not sweat the little things, Mr.
dialog: Cale, but my living guarters are
dialog: uninhabitable, and that's not a little
dialog: thing. Are you listening to me?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 17A CONTINUED:
dialog: Shooting seript - December 1
dialog: (2) , /
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: We'll see what we can do.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: How and when?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: We'll knock out a wall, Westridge. I'm
dialog: sure the captain will have no. problem
dialog: with that. Would you like an
dialog: entertainment system installed as well? -
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: Ihave a contract, and I will walk off
dialog: this boat--
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Now's the time to do it, then.
text: Westridge doesn't like what he's hearing.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You've got five minutes to think about
dialog: it, and then we debark. Go think.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE .
dialog: I...I will think. TI have thought. And I
dialog: will think some more.
text: He walks off, and Cale looks to Terri. She shrugs.
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: Ready to cast off!
text: Terri and Cale snap to. This is the moment they've been
dialog: waiting for. :
speaker_heading: 17B OMIT 17B
speaker_heading: ‘CALE
dialog: Alright everybody! Double check your
dialog: gear! And pray you didn't forget the bug
dialog: spray!
text: 17.AA THE BARGE BEGINS TO MOVE INTO THE CANAL LEAVING THE HOTEL
text: Terri stands with Danny, Gary, and Denise.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 17A
speaker_heading: 1738
dialog: 17.AA
dialog: Cy
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 is.
scene_heading: 17.AACONTINUED:
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Mr. Westridge! We're ready for you!
text: Cale hands Terri the page with an approving nod as Westridge
text: comes lumbering out of his cabin.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Thanks. Here's the script for the
dialog: establishing shot.
text: She hands him the paper. Westridge skims it.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: Fine. Fine. Fine.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (switching into gear) :
dialog: Alright! Let's get this in the can!
text: She leads Westridge over to his mark. Danny checks the light.
text: Gary struggles with the Nagra and boom mike. The cable snakes
text: around his legs and is stuck. He tugs violently on it.
speaker_heading: TERRI. (CONT'D)
dialog: Ready Mr. Westridge?
text: Westridge nods.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (snapping)
dialog: I'm not ready!
text: Gary whips the mike cable around angrily.
speaker_heading: : GARY
dialog: (surly)
dialog: Just give me a goddamn second here!
text: Terri cooly waits until Gary untangles the cord and nods his .
dialog: ‘approval.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Roll film! sound!
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Rollin'.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Speed. Marker.
text: Gary dips the mike into camera view and thumps it with his
text: hand. Terri signals Westridge, who clears his throat.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 
dialog: 17.AA
dialog: 
speaker_heading: O
speaker_heading: CG
dialog: 
text: Shooting Script - December 1 : 16.
scene_heading: 17.AACONTINUED: (2) 17.AA
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE :
dialog: Our adventure begins one thousand miles
dialog: from the mouth of the mighty Amazon, deep
dialog: in the heart of the rainforest. We will
text: travel by river barge up through shallow
text: tributaries and unexplored backwaters in
dialog: search of the elusive "People of the
dialog: Mist", the Shirishama Tribe. The
dialog: Shirishama have lived in complete
dialog: isolation and harmony with nature for
dialog: hundreds of years. Dr. Steven Cale, a
dialog: - leading expert on this tribe, will be
dialog: accompanying us on our trek to help
text: unravel the mysteries of the Sbirishama.
dialog: (BEAT) God, that's a mouthful.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Cut. Ok.
text: Westridge starts to walk off. Terri-just stares at him.
text: Westridge moves to the front of the barge carrying a wine
text: _ bottle and offers a benediction to the river.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE |
dialog: For God, Queen, and Country! We Prey for
dialog: a safe return!
text: He then smashes the wine bottle against the bow. He turns
text: and sees the puzzled looks of the crew.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
text: A cheap chardonnay.
text: He goes into his cabin. Danny shuts off his camera and turns
dialog: to Terri.
speaker_heading: DANKY ©
dialog: Having. fun yet? -
text: Terri.rolls her eyes. Danny and Gary begin wrapping their
text: equipment against. the humidity. Cale stands at’ the railing
text: watching the river. Terri grabs Denise and takes her aside.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: He is an experienced soundman, isn't he?
speaker_heading: _ DENISE :
dialog: Terri...I wouldn't bring a deadbeat on a
dialog: shoot even if he is drop-dead adorable.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 
speaker_heading: O
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 an
scene_heading: 17.AACONTINUED: (3) : 17.AA
dialog: 18.A
dialog: 19
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: Look. I'm sorry..I don't mean
dialog: overreact. Maybe I'm letting his
dialog: reputation get to me.
speaker_heading: _DERISE
dialog: (defensive )
dialog: You don't know him.
speaker_heading: . : TERRI
dialog: You're right. But one pain in the ass is
dialog: enough and Westridge deserves that honor. °
dialog: If Gary doesn't get his act
dialog: her...I'11 run sound and we'll leave
dialog: him at the first village we come to.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: He'll be fine and I can take care of
dialog: myself.
dialog: cur 0:
speaker_heading: OMIT 18
scene_heading: AERIAL SHOT wo . 18.A
text: ‘The boat travels across the Rio Negro. The rising sun casts a
text: glow across the vast expanse of water. Terri nudges Danny and
text: points out some pink river dolphins in the water. Danny pans
text: down for a shot. They pass one or two boats and turns into a
text: smaller tributary.
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON RIVER - EARLY DAY 19
text: The river has thickened, and there are no other boats in
text: sight. . Danny stands near the back of the barge with a camera
text: on his shoulder as he films the -hot, sticky jungle.
text: Gary and’ Denise are on the port side, he's taping sounds on
text: the shore. She's making notes in her expense book. We hear
text: “the exotic shrills of “birds and the cries:of small animals. -
dialog: ph
speaker_heading: OMIT 20
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON. - DAY 21
text: Late afternoon. The barge continues upriver.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 22
speaker_heading: 21A
dialog: 22
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 18.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: ry
text: Danny is shooting more film of the jungle. Gary adjusts the
text: shotgun microphone to get the sounds of monkeys in the tops
text: of the trees. He hands Denise an extra set of headphones.
text: She puts them on and her face registers the otherworldly
text: - sounds she hears -- monkeys screeching -- they're spooked. It
text: may be the encroaching rain. The air crackles. Westridge
text: looks for a place to sit, but everything seems filthy. He
text: takes a handkerchief from his pocket and spreads it on a
dialog: suitable spot.
speaker_heading: ANGLE: . ce - 2aas
text: The clouds seem to suddenly expand, turning the color of
text: lead, darkening the immediate area. A BOLT OF LIGHTNING
text: SPLITS THE SKY, and everyone RUNS FOR COVER as a torrential,
text: tropic storm pours sheets of rain onto the barge.
text: Mateo struggles in the strong wind to pilot the barge up the
text: churning brown river.
text: Everyone hides from the rain under leaking canvas tenting
text: that is draped across the deck. They all look numb and
text: miserable and vulnerable to the powers of nature.
scene_heading: EXT. FARTHER UP RIVER - DAY 22
text: The torrential rains continue. Mateo squints into the wind
text: and is barely able to see the shoreline because the rain is
text: so heavy. But he's looking very carefully.
text: The barge rounds a bend, and Danny sees it first: the shape
text: of something in the mist.
speaker_heading: : . DANNY
dialog: Hey! Over there!
text: A BOAT, gray and heavy, tilting in the water. One by one,
text: the others see the boat... It appears to be abandoned as it
text: ‘sags heavily, anchored but lurching from the churning water.
text: Terri points: aman stands on ‘the deck of the boat, his
text: ‘loose clothing flapping in the wind. Soaked and desperate,
text: he: waves ‘his arms frantically at them, shouting words they
text: cannot hear. . Terri calls to Mateo over the howling winds.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: Get close to his boat! We'll bring him
dialog: aboard! ‘
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: No. You trust nobody on these waters.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) , -
dialog: 22
dialog: . Shooting Script - December a 19.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 22
speaker_heading: : DENISE .
dialog: We can't leave him stranded.
text: Cale squints at the vision of a man waving desperately in the
text: + storm, a look of recognition and dread crosses his face. He
text: looks to Mateo, who is simply waiting for instructions.
speaker_heading: : CALE
dialog: (subdued )
dialog: "Pull over to his boat.
text: Mateo maneuvers toward the crippled boat. Danny has his
text: camera on his shoulder. Gary and Denise are taping the
text: vicious sounds of the winds and rain. Mateo smiles ever so
text: slyly.
text: The form becomes a man as the two boats get closer. PAUL
text: SARONE is tall, strong and handsome with a commanding
text: physical presence, obvious even as he stands soaked.
text: - The two boats come close, Gary grabs.a rope and heaves it
text: across the gap to Sarone. Gary wraps it around a cleat as
text: Sarone pulls the barge a little closer.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Catch!
text: Sarone throws a duffel bag to Gary, who catches it. Then
text: another. Gary plops the duffel bags down. Sarone dives in the
text: river and Cale, Gary, and Terri haul him aboard. He is both
text: hot and cold, shivering as they lead him beneath some
text: tenting. Gary pours brandy into a cup and Denise wraps an arm
text: about his shoulders. Sarone drinks down the brandy with one
text: fast gulp, barely taking note of the people around him.
dialog: TERRI oo . .
dialog: You okay? . .
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I. think so. Storm surge pushed me into
text: the shallows, my propeller caught a ‘rock.
dialog: God knows how long I'd have been stuck
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: : ‘CALE
dialog: We can't take you back to Manaus. We're
dialog: headed up river. :
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: If you can just get me to the next
dialog: village, I know the people. They'1l help
dialog: me fix my boat.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 22
speaker_heading: O
dialog: 23
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - pecember 1 20.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 22
dialog: Glances all around: no one has any problems with that.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I'd really appreciate it. sorry if I'm
dialog: any trouble.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Don't apologize. We're at the mercy of
dialog: our machines. Yours broke. .
text: Danny continues filming. Sarone notices the camera and grins.
speaker_heading: : SARONE
dialog: Am I going to be on the news?
text: Sarone's good humor disarms the crew. Everyone laughs except
text: Mateo. Sarone looks up to Mateo. Mateo regards him with some
dialog: mysterious knowledge: he knows this man, or men like him.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE DECK - SUNSET . 23
text: Later.now, the storm has ended. The water is calm and the sky
text: - has cleared. The boat is anchored along the shore. Danny
text: stands at the back of the boat filming. Terri, Cale, and
dialog: Westridge watch as:
speaker_heading: ANGLE:
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: You saved my life! The least I can do is
dialog: cook dinner.
text: SARONE. stands stock still in the river. He holds a crude
text: spear above his head. Suddenly, and with tremendous speed,
text: Sarone strikes. He pulls a large, violently flapping, fish
text: out of the water. He holds it up. .
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Fish river style.
text: Sarone climbs into the boat. -
text: He whips out a knife and efficiently guts and cleans the
text: fish. Gary and Denise have come out of their cabin. Gary
text: watches, mesmerized by Sarone's skill.
speaker_heading: TERRI ' .
dialog: Ever work in a sushi bar, Mr. Sarone?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: It's safer to eat cooked food.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 
speaker_heading: iN
dialog: ()
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: shooting Script - pecember 1 21.
dialog: How long. have you been on the river, Mr.
dialog: Sarone?
speaker_heading: "__ SARONE
dialog: Seems like forever. I think it's been
dialog: about four years.
speaker_heading: : DANNY
dialog: Where're. you from?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: St. Louis.
speaker_heading: TERRI /
dialog: What brought you here?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Fate. Bad karma. I started out studying
dialog: for the Priesthood. After spending so
dialog: much time inside I figured I needed to
dialog: get out. See the real world. Somehow I
dialog: ended up here. Guess I fit in.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: And what does a failed Priest do in the
dialog: jungle?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I catch reptiles: for zoos and collectors.
dialog: Whatever they want.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Poaching?
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: Poaching is illegal. I hunt and trap.
text: The fish filleted, Sarone rinses the fish with bottled wather
text: and then moves to the stove. Terri and the others watch,
dialog: intrigued
dialog: by this man.
speaker_heading: GARY 6
dialog: And now you're hunting?
speaker_heading: SARONE
text: Snakes. Mostly.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: I hate snakes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: QO
dialog: Shooting Script —~ pecember 1 22.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) /
speaker_heading: SARONE °
dialog: And you all? What are you | hunting?
text: WESTRIDGE . .
dialog: We're not hunting anything. We're making
dialog: a filn.
speaker_heading: "TERRI )
dialog: About the Shirishama.
speaker_heading: SARONE :
dialog: - | The People of The Mist.
speaker_heading: . CALE
dialog: You know of them?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I've seen them.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE .
dialog: And so slurs every other river rat after
dialog: five whiskeys in any bar in Manaus.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Five whiskeys? That's breakfast on the
dialog: river. (BEAT) How are you going to find
dialog: them?
speaker_heading: CALE .
dialog: The Shirishama follow the seasons and the
dialog: eclipses. As part of their religion.
dialog: We're following the lunar calendar.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: They also must eat. Religion sometimes
dialog: takes back seat to hunger. Could you
dialog: hand me that skillet? And some oil?
text: .* TERRI .
dialog: There’ 8 some truth to that, steven.
text: Cale shoots her a look.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: -Would.a salad go well with ‘fish river
dialog: style'?
speaker_heading: SARONE wt
dialog: Perfect.
text: Denise hands him the skillet. Sarone expertly salts and :
text: ss the large fish, rubs some oil on it, and drope it in.
text: the skillet. The fish pops and sizzles.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: shooting Script - pecember 1 23.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3)
text: Sarone picks up some small red fruits, .smashes them, popping
text: little black seeds into the pan with the fish. Denise washes
text: some vegetables with bottled water.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: What're those?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Chicha. They taste like peanuts.
text: Cale and Terri exchange a look. Danny puts his camera down.
text: He walks over to the cooking fish and inhales deeply.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Now that smells good.
text: Sarone smiles.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: When did you see the tribe?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: About a month ago.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Can you lead us to them?
speaker_heading: / WESTRIDGE
dialog: We don't need any help, thank you very
dialog: much.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Don't be so hasty Westridge. We might
dialog: need a little help.
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: Look. You've been very kind. I feel I'm
dialog: getting in the way... :
dialog: Whatever help you'can give us, whatever
dialog: you can tell us about the river....
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: I owe you. If there is a spare hammock, a
dialog: good night's sleep is all I need, and in
dialog: the morning I can show you where I last
dialog: saw the Shirishama.
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 24.
scene_heading: 23A EXT. BARGE - NIGHT : . 23A
text: C) The remains of dinner lay scattered around the table.
text: \ Westridge kills bugs with a spray can. Gary and Denise,
text: _ loaded down with sound equipment climb ashore. Danny stubs
text: out his cigarillo.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Fed the ‘bugs. Time for me to turn in.
dialog: ‘Good night.
text: Danny stands and goes into his cabin..
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: We're going to collect some wild sound.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Be careful.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Yeah. It's a jungle out there.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: Listen to it. It's beautiful.
text: Gary and Denise hold hands like teenage lovers as they. leave
text: the boat, stepping onto shore. Each carries a box as they
text: walk into the jungle.
dialog: Cy ,
speaker_heading: CALE -
dialog: There's nothing like falling in leve.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I hear Gary does it at least once on
dialog: every job.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: However unsavory, at least his reputation
dialog: is known. It's the hitch hiker that
dialog: concerns me.
text: Unbeknownst to them, Sarone stands twenty feet back, watching
text: them, concerned.
text: Westridge leans close to Terri and Cale.
speaker_heading: ‘WESTRIDGE .
dialog: He's a poacher by his own admission.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: He's a resource, Warren.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 25.
speaker_heading: 23A CONTINUED:
dialog: 24
dialog: 26
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: He knows the river.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: So find out what he knows then and
text: deposit him at the first opportunity.
dialog: I'm with the captain-- you can't trust a
dialog: stranger, and I do not trust him.
speaker_heading: : TERRI
dialog: Who do you trust, Warren?
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: Nobody. But that's beside the point.
dialog: Good night.
text: Westridge goes into his cabin, we hear him lock the door.
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON - NIGHT
text: There is a thick mist in the air as the anchored barge rests
text: close to the shore, bobbing gently in the steamy water. The
text: night songs of animals and insects blend as a single,
text: constant sound, which is overridden by the cool clatter of
text: Miles Davis and Max Roach blasting loudly from a beat box.
text: A SUBTLE RIPPLE upsets the otherwise still black river...
speaker_heading: OMIT 25
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE - NIGHT
text: Terri and Cale stand on the side of the barge and look out
text: over the quietly flowing river. Terri holds a map and small
text: flashlight. ‘Only the glow of a cigarette reveals Sarone,
text: - watching, deep in the shadows.
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Sarone says wé've got a better chance of
dialog: encountering the Shirishama here. What
dialog: do you think?
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: He's been there. That's a distinct
dialog: advantage. Although, Westridge could be
dialog: right...Mr. Sarone could be some
dialog: pathological liar who suffers from
dialog: delusions of machismo.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 23A
dialog: 24
dialog: 
dialog: ~ 26.
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 26.
scene_heading: 26 CONTINUED: - 26
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: mm. Interesting theory, Dr. Cale.
dialog: O can
dialog: : Don't tell me you like
dialog: that...that...Adventure-land, Crocodile
dialog: Dundee stuff?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: “I have a history of falling for men like
dialog: that.
text: Cale looks affectionately at Terri.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: I. guess I deserve that. But I want you to
dialog: know that my wandering days are behind
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Said from deep in the heart of the
dialog: jungle.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Yeah, but, that's because you're here.
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: i Steven, you'll always wander. It's your
dialog: Co) job. I don't mind that.
speaker_heading: CALE :
dialog: Well...what is it then?”
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I just want to know that you'll
dialog: eventually wander back to me. Not. some
dialog: grad student.
dialog: CALE . '
dialog: We weren't exactly seeing each other at
dialog: the time.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: You are immune from prosecution.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: I think I'm ready to try some kind of
dialog: commitment.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,
dialog: a eeeremeneennnmannnenncsmnnnsn ii aia
dialog: Shooting Script — December 1 27.
scene_heading: 26 CONTINUED: (2) : 26
dialog: TERRI . . . : |
dialog: : But you're not sure? )
speaker_heading: C) : CALE r
dialog: . No. I'm sure. I'm positively sure. I am
dialog: ready to try.
dialog: '
text: Terri bats her eyes playfully at cale.
dialog: Well, you know what they sey, you can't . )
dialog: stop a guy from trying. Good night,
dialog: Steven. ‘ ,
text: Terri stands and goes into her cabin. Cale sits on | |
text: deck...staring at the moon. Sarone blows a smoke ring from \
dialog: the shadows. . .
speaker_heading: OMIT 27
scene_heading: 28 INT. WESTRIDGE'S ROOM , . 28
text: Westridge is trying to sleep. He twists and turns, but
text: Danny's music is driving him crazy. Yinally, he leaps from
text: bis bunk, spitting quiet curses as he puts on a robe and
text: stomps out of his room.
scene_heading: 29° INT. BALLWAY 29
speaker_heading: V
text: 7 Westridge storms down the hall. Westridge. moves straight for
text: the door and begins knocking.: Danny opens the door, and
text: Westridge gives him a murderous look.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: I happen to. be a very wealthy man.
speaker_heading: DANNY , cos
dialog: Great. Spare a twenty?
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE -
dialog: If you continue to play that music, I
dialog: will hire someone to kill you. A .
text: tribesman with a blow gun and a poison ~
dialog: dart and a need and a use for five :
dialog: thousand American dollars. Comprende? —. : ‘
text: Danny turns the music down, just enough to hear.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: You can get it done cheaper than that.
dialog: But you gotta haggle.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
speaker_heading: Cb
dialog: 29
dialog: Shooting Script - December } ‘28.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 29
text: Westridge turns curtly and leaves..
speaker_heading: OMIT 30
scene_heading: EXT. JUNGLE CLEARING - NIGHT 310
text: Denise and Gary have found a small clearing in the jungle,
text: about a hundred yards from shore; they have their equipment
text: out and are listening to the sounds of the jungle: a symphony
text: of insect noises, wind, and distant mammal chatters which is
text: peculiarly sensual to the two. Their eyes meet. Denise and
text: Gary both feel the strange, wild lust of the jungle. .
text: Suddenly, they'ze in each other's arms with a passionate
text: kiss. Gary breaks from her and clicks on the Nagra.
speaker_heading: : DENISE
dialog: What're you doing?
speaker_heading: : GARY
dialog: They want wild sounds? Let's give them
dialog: some.
text: Denise laughs as Gary peels off her blouse. ‘The sounds
text: . gonsume them, engulf them, fade off as they become lost in
dialog: each other...
text: Denise freezes as her eyes pop wide open.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: What? What's wrong?
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: The silence....
text: The night is suddenly, completely silent. POV from a
text: distance: they are being watched. Gary turns on his ‘
text: flashlight as Denise slips back into her clothes. He shines
text: the flashlight in one direction, then quickly in another.
text: Whirling around, he flashes the light at the sound behind
text: chim: the breaking of a twig. Nothing there. Just lush
text: jungle. A false alarm. They relax...
text: Then another sound. A snap. He whispers to Denise.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Let's get the hell out of here. :
text: But the flashlight has caught something, and Denise is
text: staring in shock. TWO GLOWING EYES of a snorting creature.
text: Terrified, Denise takes a step backward, then turns to run,
text: and lands SMACK AGAINST A TALL FIGURE. It's Sarone.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,
dialog: 
dialog: 31
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - pecember 1 "29. /
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: . 31
text: Suddenly, Sarone raises his pistol and points it directly at
text: Denise and Gary. Denise screams, and Gary pushes her out of
text: the way. Sarone fires two well-aimed shots: BANG! BANG!
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Welcome to the food chain.
scene_heading: INT. CALE'S ROOM NIGHT 32
text: Working at his. computer, Cale is startled by the last shot.
text: He grabs a nearby rifle and moves out of. the room.
speaker_heading: DECK WIGHT : 33
text: Terri is out of her room, as is Danny. They scramble to the
text: edge of the boat, ad-libbing "What was that?” "A gun," etc.
text: IN THE JUNGLE-- CLOSE ON SARONE'S EYES. HE DRAGS SOMETHING == 34
scene_heading: BEHIND HIM.
text: DECK OF THE BOAT, REAR SHORE oo : 35."
text: Cale has his gun raised, and sees a figure emerging from the
text: jungle. Makes it out as Sarone. He keeps his gun aimed
text: until he recognizes GARY and DENISE, bringing up the rear.
text: Sarone notices as Cale lowers the gun.
text: Sarone reaches the barge, picks up what he's been dragging,
text: and throws it onto the deck. It lands with a heavy splat. A
scene_heading: HIDEOUS, HAIRY CREATURE.
speaker_heading: ‘ SARONE
text: Wild boar. Gores.with its tusks. Goes
dialog: for the eyes. These two are lucky to be
dialog: alive.
dialog: (full of adrenaline) sO
dialog: You should've seen it, man! What a shot!
dialog: “ He just blasted it.
speaker_heading: DENISE .
dialog: (still in shock)
dialog: Yeah. Great.
text: “Sarone looks at Cale, smiles strangely. A pause...
dialog: - ’ 1
dialog: From now on, let's stay on the boat at
dialog: night.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: "35
dialog: 36
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 30.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: -_ SARONE
dialog: An excellent idea.
text: Sarone and Cale have a moment. Something has shifted in the
dialog: :@ynamic of the crew and they both know it.
scene_heading: . DANNY .
dialog: Do you mind doing it again? I'd like to
dialog: : get it on filn.
text: Relieved laughter all around.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY
text: The barge moves slowly down the river, surrounded by the
text: vast, hot jungle.
text: Danny, Gary, and Denise stand with their equipment at the
text: ready. Cale is excited, tense, checking his field notes and
text: charts. Terri checks her notebook, scans the riverbank.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: It's just around this bend.
text: The barge drifts quietly around a bend to where two
text: tributaries fork.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: Wow. Gary! Look at this.
text: She points to a large totem carved in the shape of a snake
text: - planted in a small clearing directly at the fork. The totem,
text: and it's relationship to the river, looks almost devotional.
text: Danny gets a shot of it. Westridge steps out of his cabin. .
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: - Am I on?
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: Not unless you're a big 'ol creépy
dialog: lookin' wooden snake.
text: Westridge looks towards the totem, even he is impressed.
text: Terri's eyes are on Sarone as he surveys the river. Sarone
dialog: points to the right. :
speaker_heading: : SARONE
dialog: We will find them down this fork.
text: Cale pulls out his map.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: shooting Script - December 1 31.
speaker_heading: 36 CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: CALE .
dialog: According to the lunar charts they would
dialog: be on that side.
text: *. Cale points to the left.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: This marker would indicate the Shirishama
dialog: are this way.
text: Cale locks at the totem.
speaker_heading: CALE -
dialog: What makes you sure it's Shirishama?
speaker_heading: SARONE
text: The snake. The Shirishama worship giant
text: snakes-- anacondas-- as gods, protectors.
text: This marker shows the Queen Anaconda. The
dialog: mother of all snakes. They've handed .
dialog: down the legend of their ancestors making
dialog: a.trek to a sacred lake, the first part
dialog: of the passage is a waterfall protected
dialog: by warrior snakes. If you made it past
dialog: the guardians you would travel through
dialog: the land of the anaconda until you came
text: upon a wall so > high it blotted out the
dialog: sun-~
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: --and follow the wall for five days,
text: finally reaching the end: the head of a
text: giant anaconda. There to guard the lake
dialog: for them, to keep the innocent from its
dialog: poisoned waters.
speaker_heading: en SARONE
dialog: You know the ‘s:
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Yes. But ‘snake myths don't tell us where
dialog: the tribe is. . on
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I know where they are. I trap snakes for
dialog: a living.
text: Cale looks at Terri.
speaker_heading: CALE .
dialog: And I'm sure you're very good at it. I
dialog: locate Tribes for a living...and I'm very
dialog: good at that.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 36
dialog: 
dialog: 36
dialog: CC) 37
text: shooting Script - pecember 1 32.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) : . 36
text: Sarone and Cale have reached a standoff. Mateo sticks his \
text: head out of the pilot house.
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: Patron? Which way?
dialog: .
dialog: Let's try this side first.
dialog: i
dialog: . '
text: Cale points to the left and the boat goes his way. Sarone . !
text: glares at Cale. i
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (exploding) . . .
dialog: I know what I know, and you can trust it
dialog: or ignore it. It really doesn't matter to
dialog: me. Just let me off at the next village.
text: Sarone spits into the water and stomps off. Terri
text: watches...completely confused. Danny rolls film of Sarone's
dialog: tantrum. .
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: What the hell was that about?
scene_heading: EXT. BOAT —- NIGHT 37
text: Terri stands at the corner of the ship. Cale sits near her
text: studying lunar charts in his notebook. She reaches down and
text: runs her hand in the water.
dialog: 
text: POV-- UNDERWATER: Moving toward the hend...coming closer and
text: closer...colors distorted...now just inches away before we
dialog: cut to: . .
text: TERRI'S FACE. Startled. A A hand on her shoulder. She pulls
text: her. hand out of the wa . .
text: A QUICK CUT BACK TO THE UNDERWATER POV as the the creature
text: swerves away from the boat...
text: TERRI turns to see Sarone at her side; beyond her we make out
text: ripples in the water, moving away from the boat; neither
text: Terri nor Sarone notice the ripples. Sarone has shaved and
text: put on a clean shirt. He leans toward her with a tangible
dialog: physical charge.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 2
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1
speaker_heading: 37 CONTINUED: :
speaker_heading: ‘SARORE
dialog: I startled you. sorry.
speaker_heading: LU ; TERRI
dialog: : No problem.
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: I just want to apologize for today. You
dialog: people did me a favor and I just wanted
dialog: to help. | .
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I appreciate it.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Don't take it personally, sarone. My
dialog: research is fairly extensive and I'd like
dialog: to test it. :
speaker_heading: SARONE —
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: The jungle isn't a laboratory. This isn't
dialog: college. This is a living, breathing
dialog: thing...with a personality...and a voice.
dialog: Pay attention and you'll hear it.
text: Cale rolls his eyes.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Some of us appreciate your efforts.
dialog: 33.
dialog: 37
text: Sarone stands close to her, his body language suggesting a
dialog: carnal interest.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: You listen and the river teaches you
dialog: about life. About beauty.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: Fascinating, I'm sure. If you'll excuse
dialog: us, Miss Porter and I have some work to
dialog: do.
text: Sarone gives her a penetrating look.
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: You have a good night.
text: He moves off. And she watches him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,_
dialog: 
dialog: ——————$—$$—
dialog: 37
dialog: 
dialog: a
dialog: 38
dialog: Shooting Script ~ pecember 1 | 34. /
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 37
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: You didn't have to chase him off.
speaker_heading: CALE :
dialog: Yeah. I did. I wanted to be alone with
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Well I'm flattered.
text: Cale moves close to her and speaks softly.
dialog: ‘Remember the other night? The wreath.
dialog: Remember I said it has ceremonial
dialog: significance?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: " I remember.
speaker_heading: CALE
text: It seems that the twigs and flowers are
text: collected by the young men...they signify
dialog: growth, the cycle of the forest,
text: fertility...the men weave the wreath in a
text: special interlocking way. The two strands
dialog: becoming one. Then they add the feathers
dialog: to represent the feeling of their heart
text: as it soars.
text: Terri smiles.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: And on certain nights...after the rainy
dialog: season...when the moon is new...the men
text: present the wreath to the woman they love
dialog: asa kind of, well, marriage proposal.
text: Cale looks up at the moon. Terri follows his look and, sure
text: enough, it's a new moon. Terri looks Cale directly. in the
text: eyes. They kiss. Tenderly at first...then hungry, passionate.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I guess you are ready to try again.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER - DAY , 38
text: ‘Silence on the boat. The heat and boredom have taken over
text: again; all are wearing fewer clothes now, and the fabric
text: sticks to their bodies.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: eamnneetieemennemenmnne ss
dialog: 38
dialog: 
dialog: Ne
dialog: shooting Script ~ pecember 1 . 35.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: : 38
text: Quick shots of people around the boat-. cale reading...
text: Danny, Denise and Gary playing cards on the deck...Westridge
text: hitting golf balls off a tee and into a net with a brightly
dialog: colored Taylor Made Bubble Shaft driver...
text: Terri wiping sweat from her brow...Sarone watching Terri...
text: Mateo at the wheel of the boat.
text: Suddenly the boat lurches and groans. Eyes are suddenly
text: alert as faces turn quickly toward Mateo, who is struggling
text: with the wheel. Terri looks at Danny. Panicked guilt.
scene_heading: . WESTRIDGE .-
dialog: Captain? Do you have control of this
dialog: vessel? Lie if you mst...
text: Gary.and Denise have the best view from the top of the
text: wheelhouse. Gary points to the back of the boat.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: The rope!
text: Quickly, Mateo kills the engine and the shaking boat goes
text: dead in the water. The crew rushes to the back of the boat
text: and looks into the river. One of the mooring ropes has
text: fallen off the deck and is snarled beneath the boat. The
text: boat bas begun to drift backward in the current.
text: Rope's tangled in the propelior.
speaker_heading: : MATEO.
dialog: Can't be. I secured it myself.
speaker_heading: . CALE
dialog: mar go under and cut it loose.
text: Mateo lowers the anchor to stop the drift. Cale opens his
text: trunk to get to’ bis diving equipment’.
speaker_heading: ‘SARONE
dialog: Let me. This river can kill you ina
dialog: thousand ways. -
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: You've done more than enough for us, Mr.
dialog: Sarone, and we thank you. I'11 do this.
text: Denise turns to Gary and Danny.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: : Shooting Script -~ pecember 1 36.
speaker_heading: 38 CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: Drink up, men. A pissing contest will
dialog: - follow.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (to Cale)
dialog: Steven--.
speaker_heading: : . GALE
dialog: ‘What? I'm fixing a dam boat. If a wild
dialog: boar is at your throat, promise: I'll let
dialog: him pull it off. .
speaker_heading: 39. TIME CUT:
text: CALE IS IN HIS SCUBA GEAR. Danny picks up his camera. Mateo
text: gives him a sharp knife to cut the rope free, and Cale drops _
text: over the side of the boat and into the water.
scene_heading: 40 EXT. UNDERWATER
text: Cale quickly finds the tangle of rope that is snarled around
text: the propeller. He takes his knife and begins to cut it away.
scene_heading: 41 EXT. ON DECK
text: Everything is still as they all watch the water for Cale to
text: - reappear. Mateo swigs from his flask. Terri, irritated,
text: 7) scribbles notes on a pad. She feels Sarone's eyes on
text: her...looks over...he smiles to her strangely.
scene_heading: 42 EXT. UNDERWATER
text: Cale cuts more rope, but the last strands are tightly
text: snarled. Sucking more oxygen, he chops vigorously at the
text: rope, ripping pieces of it free. SUDDENLY his EYES POP OPEN.
text: He drops the knife and grabs for his throat. Something has
text: gone terribly wrong: Cale ‘spits out the regulator and twists
text: and squirms: in the water.
text: With all his strength, he fights the current and swims lLimply
text: toward the surface - but he can't get around the bottom of
text: : the barge. Trapped there, he can't breathe. His gloved
text: 5 hands claw to find open water.
scene_heading: 43 EXT. ON DECK
text: For a few seconds nobody senses ‘a problen. Denise screams.
text: They look quickly at the water and see Cale floating
text: motionless to the surface. Danny dives from the top of the
text: wheelhouse into the water. Gary leaps overboard. Together,
text: they drag the limp body to the boat, and Mateo and Sarone
text: pull it aboard while Westridge watches helplessly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 43
dialog: 44
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 37.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 43
text: Mateo.and Sarone work desperately, ripping off the oxygen
text: mask and clearing Cale's mouth with their fingers. It's
text: Mateo who finds the dead wasp beneath Cale's tongue.
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: Wasp! Deadly poisonous!
text: : Cale is turning blue. Gary and Danny climb aboard.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (cold and calm) .-
dialog: Alcohol! Fast!
text: Sarone snatches the ballpoint pen from Terri's numb hand and
text: pulls the knife from his belt. :
text: Westridge looks to Mateo. Grabs his flask and hands it to
text: Sarone. _Sarone makes a tube of the ballpoint. He pours
text: whiskey over the plastic tube. Terri watches with breathless
text: horror. Denise clutches the crucifix around her neck and
text: mouths a silent prayer. :
text: Danny instinctively grabs the camera and rolls film.
text: Quickly and expertly, Sarone makes a small incision in Cale's -
text: throat. He guides the plastic tube into the incision, and
text: ’ there is a long, tense moment before Cale's body suddenly
text: lurches as oxygen hits his lungs. He begins to breathe >
text: through the plastic tube. The others are awestruck by what
text: Sarone has done. Slowly, the color is coming back to Cale's
text: face, but he remains unconscious.
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON - NIGHT / 44.
text: In the pilot house, Mateo works the radio.
scene_heading: oo MATEO : : .
dialog: Mayday! We have a medical emergency.
dialog: Can anybody hear me? over.
dialog: (silence; a. beat) .
dialog: Mayday! Mayday! Anyone -- over!
dialog: Still nothing.
speaker_heading: MATEO (CONT'D)
text: The radio is out.
text: Danny enters the pilot house.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Let me have a look.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: VU).
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 38.
scene_heading: 44 CONTINUED: _ 44
text: Danny opens the guts of the radio and finds a maze of old
text: tubes and wires. Some of the tubes are obviously missing. He
text: confronts Mateo.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: When was the last time this thing worked?
dialog: Nineteen Fifty Seven?
text: Mateo shrugs.
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: - Creepy guys, poison wasps, broken
dialog: radios...what kinda bullshit is this?
speaker_heading: 44A ANGLE: : 44A
text: A single light shines on the dark water as Sarone surfaces.
text: Gary and Terri pull him aboard.
speaker_heading: . SARONE /
dialog: Done. The engines should start now. ~
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: Let's go! I demand to go!
text: Danny and Mateo climb down from the pilot house
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (to Mateo)
dialog: Can you make it back?
speaker_heading: MATEO —
dialog: I'm blind at night.
speaker_heading: SARONE :
dialog: we don't get this man to a hospital soon,
dialog: we might as well drop him into the river
dialog: right now.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: We can light the river with our strobes.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Set 'em up, Danny. Fire the engines,
dialog: Mateo. We double back.”
text: Danny hustles to get some ‘lights, and Mateo goes back to the
text: wheelhouse. Sarone moves to Terri, he pulls a map from his
text: pocket and shines a flashlight on it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) |
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 44A CONTINUED:
text: Sarone folds up his map and exits.
text: assembled crew, who have been listening to the discussion.
text: Danny grabs Terri by the arm and pulls her aside.
text: Sarone enters the wheelhouse.
dialog: Shooting Script - pecember 1
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: Doubling back won't work. The engines
dialog: will be fighting the current. . Cutting
dialog: down this tributary will save usa
dialog: hundred miles.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: This is the route you suggested that we
dialog: take yesterday.
speaker_heading: SARONE-
dialog: To find the tribe...now our concern is
text: getting Professor Cale to a hospital.
text: ‘Terri hesitates.
speaker_heading: SARONE (CONT'D)
dialog: Well? Do you want to put it to a vote?
dialog: Professor Cale will have to abstain, of
dialog: course.
speaker_heading: DANKY
dialog: - What the bell are you doing? Ever since
dialog: ' this guy came on board...bad things have
dialog: happened:
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: What choice do we have? Steven’ 8 dying.
scene_heading: EXT. JUNGLE - WNIGHT
text: Danny mans the lights.
text: Cale lies comatose in a hammock under a mosquito net.
text: » breathing is shallow and raspy through the plastic tube.
text: Terri holds his hand. Every. now and then she moistens Cale's
text: lips with a little water.
speaker_heading: OMIT. 46, 47
scene_heading: WHEELHOUSE NIGHT
text: Terri looks to the
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: 44a
dialog: 45
text: WHITE STROBES light the river as the barge plows against the
text: The crew is exhausted.
dialog: 46
dialog: 48
text: He looks out and sees the snake
text: totem at the fork in the river. Mateo steers the barge down
text: the fork Sarone suggested. They grin at each other:
text: Senspirators. Sarone flips his knife into the air, catches
dialog: 
speaker_heading: O
speaker_heading: O
dialog: 49
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 40. |
scene_heading: “EXT. AMAZON - DAWN . . . 49
text: The barge eases downriver. suddenly, Mateo cuts the barge's
text: diesel engines. Silent drifting. Everyone's attention is
text: - @Qrawn to the river. AHEAD is a man-made dam, constructed of
text: interlocking logs that are mortared with md across the.
text: _ narrow river. Wo way to move past. The barge bumps gently
text: against the dam. Terri comes forward on the deck, alarmed,
text: she shoots'a glance to Sarone.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: This, is the river you know?
speaker_heading: - BARONE
dialog: This is new. Don't panic.
speaker_heading: TERRI ,
text: I'm not panicking. I'm looking at a dam
dialog: that!s blocking our way down this river
dialog: you know.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Maybe we should just back up, getting a
text: running start, and smash through it.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: or.
text: Sarone moves a duffel bag, pulls out four sticks of dynamite.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: . (impressed)
dialog: - Dynamite? That's real dynamite?.
speaker_heading: SARONE —
dialog: Good to be prepared.
dialog: Yeah. Boy Scout's motto.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You've got to. be kidding. The dam must_
dialog: be here for a reason.
speaker_heading: SARONE .
text: Maybe there are ghostly spirits up ahead.
dialog: Monsters.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I'm talking about upsetting the
dialog: ecological balance of this river.
speaker_heading: (CONTISUED). ,
dialog: 
speaker_heading: oN,
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 41.
scene_heading: CONTINUED: . . 49
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: She's right. This is nothing to joke
dialog: about, you just can't go around blowing
dialog: things up if they're in your way.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Beavers did't build that dam. Men did.
dialog: I can blow it in ten minutes. Or we can
dialog: turn around and lose two days.
speaker_heading: : WESTRIDGE
dialog: Blow the blasted thing--
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: If it's the fastest way out of here...
text: Terri's eyes burn into Sarone's. she doesn't like this at
text: all. But she seems to have no choice.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I need some help. Gary?
text: Gary. shrugs. Sarone points him to a rowboat. Gary gets in,
text: and Sarone tosses him. the dynamite, which he nervously :
text: fumbles. Sarone looks to Terri.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: You assist Mateo. JI don't have a remote
dialog: detonator; float out fifty feet, be ready
dialog: to move the second we get back.
text: Terri follows Sarone's commands. Sarone gets in the rowboat
text: and Terri moves into the pilot house with Mateo. Terri
text: eranks up the engine as Mateo turns the barge around.
scene_heading: EXT. DAM = DAY. 50
text: The rowboat glides down the dam.
speaker_heading: . GARY .
dialog: You're sure this is safe.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: It isn't safe. But that's part of the
dialog: fun. Now take these under and jam them
text: five feet apart at the base of the dam.
dialog: Connect them with this wire.
text: Gary nods, takes the dynamite, then drops overboard.
dialog: 
dialog: 51
speaker_heading: ‘52
dialog: 53
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 42.
scene_heading: INT. PILOT HOUSE . : : / 51
text: Mateo steers the barge up river.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: He said fifty feet.
text: . MATEO .
dialog: Give or take. They're strong men.
scene_heading: EXT. UNDERWATER no 52°
text: POV, FROM A DISTANCE: A slightly ‘distorted LONG SHOT of Gary,
text: underwater.now, near the base of the dam. still at first,
text: the POV BEGINS MOVING QUICKLY TOWARD Gary...
text: CLOSE. ON Gary: He's got the first stick of dynamite in place,
text: and is wedging in the second, when he suddenly feels the
text: presence behind him...he stops, frightened...turns...
text: _ THE MOVING POV suddenly stops, hovering.
dialog: GARY'S POV: His vision does not match whatever was moving
text: toward him. He sees is the merest hint of something in the
text: murky water. Adrenalin pumping, he sets back to work.
scene_heading: EXT. THE DAM : 53
text: Sarone runs along the top of the dam, linking the fuses
text: together. GARY SURFACES.
speaker_heading: . GARY
text: It's set.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Good.
dialog: (noting Gary's fear) .
dialog: are you okay? —
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Something's down there.
speaker_heading: : SARONE
dialog: You bet. Deadly.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: No, really. I felt it....
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: No, really. I'm agreeing. The timer is
text: set. Back to the barge.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
speaker_heading: O
dialog: 
dialog: 53
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Sseript - December 1 43.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Gary scrambles into the rowboat and they head back...
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE
text: , Denise helps Sarone and Gary aboard. The engine is chugging,
text: ‘straining, and then suddenly stalls.
speaker_heading: _ WESTRIDGE :
dialog: That doesn't sound proper.
text: Terri cranks the engine... .
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: Mateo, damn it-- you set the boat in the
dialog: current! We'll drift right back.
text: Mateo runs to the anchor and begins to drop it.
dialog: NO! We're too close already-- we've got
dialog: to get the engine running.
text: The fuse sizzles, two or three feet remaining.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE
text: Sarone opens the hood to the engine compartment, revealing a
text: maze of pipes and valves. He opens a valve and hot steam
text: explodes out. He opens another valve and begins to release
text: the pressure. Working frantically, covered with sweat.
scene_heading: EXT. DAM
text: The fuse burns closer and closer to the explosives.
scene_heading: -EXT. BARGE
text: The barge drifts. closer to the dam. Terri grinds the
text: ignition, over and over. All stand breathless. Danny grabs
text: the camera and crouches to get a shot... .
scene_heading: EXT. DAM
text: The fuse is. less than an inch from hitting the explosives.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE ‘ :
text: Sarone finally finds the valve he is looking for. He turns |
text: it: the gauges begin to work again-- there is power.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
dialog: 58.
dialog: 59
dialog: 60°
dialog: 
dialog: ee aie yt
dialog: “oy
speaker_heading: VJ
dialog: 
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: . Shooting Seript - December a 44,
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Now! wit it!
scene_heading: Int. PILOT HOUSE
text: Tense but under control,. Terri turns the ignition with
text: futility. She turns it off -- pauses -- waits one
text: agonizingly long moment -- tries again. The engine catches,
text: sputters, catches again. Then it-revs and roars. Mateo
text: opens the throttle and the barge chugs. away from the dam.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Go! Gol! =
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: This should be good.
speaker_heading: ExT. DAM
text: We see the fuse burn down the explosive and.... BOOM! The
text: dam blows sky high, the explosion rocking the jungle.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER
text: The barge heaves upward like a bucking horse. Everyone is -
text: knocked down. High flying debris suddenly rains down upon the
text: barge. The crew ducks away from logs and sticks and rocks.
text: Terri points with alarm at the spare fuel. drums that are
text: rolling across the deck and plunging into the river.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: The fuel drums!
text: Gary lunges for a drum, but it's too heavy for him to hold.
text: One drum rolls to the edge, hangs there for a moment, then
text: topples into the water. Another falls into the river, then
text: another, their weight too much to stop, and as each hits the
text: surface, it sinks and disappears.
text: Sarone appears from below decks, then rushes to the pilot
text: house to take control of the barge as debris still rains.
text: DANNY'S .POV, THROUGH THE CAMERA: Something enters frame, dark
text: and out of focus, blocking half the shot. Moving. Danny
text: pulls the camera from his eye and turns it...
text: COILED AROUND THE CAMERA IS A SMALL SHAKE.
text: PANIC. Danny freezes in absolute bowel wrenching fear. Terri
text: sees it, grabs a stick and hits the snake until it lets go of
text: the camera and slithers overboard. She then looks to her feet
text: and the deck around her: snakes are all around, wriggling and
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: ————————— .
dialog: _ Shooting Script - December 1 45.
speaker_heading: 63 CONTINUED: 63
text: squirming. Danny is unable to move. Everyone else runs
text: around the deck stomping at the snakes, kicking them
text: o~\ overboard. One of them has landed on westridge's hand and he
text: looks blankly at it.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: Danny. Maybe we should get this.
text: The idea of hiding behind the lens is a good one. Danny turns
text: the camera, now free of the snake, to film Westridge, who is
text: amazingly calm as the small snake coils itself around his
text: hand, squeezing tightly. Westridge tries to peel the
text: anaconda away, turning to the camera.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: (to camera) oo
text: After the explosion, snakes rained down
dialog: from the sky. I most fervently hope not
dialog: of the venomous sort. Mr. Sarone?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: No, these are anaconda -- constricting.
text: Sarone watches the small: snake, fascinated.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: (still straggling)
dialog: I'll say. As you can see, the little
dialog: bagger-- hold it, we don't have sound, do
speaker_heading: CS
text: The baby ‘snake ‘twists back and with its body still tight
text: around Westridge's finger, is now trying to swallow
text: Westridge's fingertip whole. Westridge is suddenly terrified.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: (in obvious pain) »
text: OW! YOU LITTLE SHIT! SOMEBODY HELP ME
text: GET THIS THING OFF MY FUCKING HAND!
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: So young and already so fierce. Can you
dialog: imagine being born with such perfect,
dialog: lethal, instincts? In another ten seconds
dialog: that finger will turn blue...then it: will
dialog: explode.
text: Westridge's index finger is, indeed, turning blue. Danny
text: drops his camera and attempts to help, but the snake gives
dialog: bim the heebee-geebees and he's helpless. He won't touch it,
text: doesn't know where to begin. Sarone moves forward and rips
text: the snake off Westridge's finger with blinding speed. It
text: ‘skids across the deck and falls into the river. Westridge
text: oN shoots Danny a look. Danny shrugs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED). ,
dialog: 
dialog: as
dialog: ee
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: Shooting seript - December 1 46.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) :
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: I'm a city boy.
text: Meanwhile, Mateo has hooked up a water hose at the back of
text: the boat. He rushes forward with the water at full pressure,
text: and he blasts the baby snakes off the deck and into the.
text: water. Danny looks at Mateo with genuine gratitude.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: (re: snakes)
dialog: Mateo! You saved my life!
text: Sarone has the engines roaring as the barge begins to turn
text: around and head back toward the broken hole in the dam. It's
text: a narrow opening, but Sarone guides the boat expertly. The
text: barge squeezes through the opening in the dam, bumping twice
text: on each side, sliding into calm waters. :
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON -. DAY
text: Mid-afternoon and the barge is far down the river from the
text: dam. Westridge is in his room. Gary sits against a post.
text: Denise casually leans against him. Sarone is in the pilot
text: house, guiding the barge downstream. Mateo takes a catnap in
text: “his hammock.
text: And Terri stands vigil over the unconscious Cale. Danny
text: comes up behind Terri and puts a hand on her shoulder. .
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Hey. How's he doing?
speaker_heading: TERRI
text: I don't know. He's breathing.
speaker_heading: DANNY :
dialog: That's good. You know that's good.
text: They share a look of compassion and camraderie.
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't sweat it. We'll get him home. And
dialog: this is not the last movie you'll ever
dialog: direct. We'll work together soon.
text: Terri smiles at Danny.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Thanks. But we wouldn't be in this mess
dialog: if I'd listened to Sarone.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) -
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 470
speaker_heading: + CONTINUED: : 64
speaker_heading: DANNY :
dialog: Oh, man, don't do that to yourself.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ” and if you haven't noticed, we have been
text: listening to him.
text: Danny looks up at Sarone. Sarone feels himself being
text: scrutinized, and looks down at Danny with a piercing gaze.
text: Danny looks away. Sneaks a glance at Terri, who now simply
text: leoks at him out of the corner of her eye. Whatever thought
text: they're sharing they leave unspoken.
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON - DAY . 65
text: the barge motors down the river. Everyone is on deck because
text: it's too hot below. Danny plays a little poker with Gary and
dialog: Denise, just losing when we come into the game.
speaker_heading: . DANNY
dialog: Oh, demn. You're good.
dialog: " (to Gary)
dialog: She's (jood. Make it interesting. . This
dialog: time five dollars ante... .
speaker_heading: DENISE :
dialog: Yeah, this time you don't let me win.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Ko, I let you win this time. Then I
dialog: reise the stakes. Then you lose. Five
dialog: bucks, c'mon.
text: Westridge, in his socks, sprays 5 antifungal medicine into his
text: shoes. Sarone and Terri stand nearby. Sarone is alert. He
text: scans the banks of the river through a pair of binoculars. He
text: listens intently to the jungle, his ears cocked, his nerves
dialog: alive.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE .
dialog: My socks are growing fungi that were last
dialog: see by Homo Erectus.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Shhsssh. Listen to the jungle.
text: WESTRIDGE . .
dialog: I'm far too familiar with the sounds of
text: the blasted jungle. Chattering simians.
dialog: Reminds me of the McClaugblin Group.
text: Suddenly there's a shriek in the far distance, followed by
text: silence. Westridge is startled.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 
dialog: 65
dialog: Shooting Seript - December 1 4B.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: - WESTRIDGE
dialog: What was that?
speaker_heading: SARONE
text: The sound of a kill.
speaker_heading: . WESTRIDGE
dialog: You'll hear that sound coming from my
dialog: . agent when I get off this wretched barge.
dialog: . : a.
text: Terri walks past Sarone.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Miss Porter? Where are you going?
text: Sarone follows Terri, walking ahead of her, standing in front
text: of her, stopping her.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I'm going to check the map.
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: We're going in the right direction. Don't
dialog: worry.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Can't help it. I'ma professional
dialog: worrier.
text: she walks off below deck. sarone watches her. A little
text: angry. And more than a little aroused.
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: (from pilot house)
dialog: Look there!
text: Our three players turn to look ‘upriver, as does Sarone and
text: Westridge.. Terri comes up from below.deck and sees. what the
dialog: others are looking at: .
text: » A BOAT, listing to.one side, damaged and probably abandoned.
text: It hangs in a grove of palms on a little ptt of sand dead
text: center in the river. Gary drops anchor and looks to Sarone,
text: who scrutinizes the boat with narrow eyes.
speaker_heading: . TERRI
dialog: You know the boat?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Lots of boats like that on the river.
text: Sarone takes a rifle from one of his bags.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 65
dialog: 
dialog: 65
dialog: 
dialog: ©.
dialog: 68
dialog: . Shooting Script - December 1 49.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 65
speaker_heading: _ TERRI
dialog: Do you need that?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Hate to need it and not have it.
text: The barge has drifted to the end of the anchor line and is
text: thirty yards from the listing boat. There is no sign of
text: life. Terri calls out.
speaker_heading: TERRI .-
dialog: Hello!
text: Wo response. Mateo clangs the barge bell. still nothing.
text: Sarone fires a shot in the air, and the startled jungle
text: screams back. Then... nothing.
speaker_heading: MATEO :
text: Could be fuel on board. Supplies.
speaker_heading: : TERRI
dialog: Looks like it’s been there a while.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Could've been there a week or ten years.
dialog: Better board now if we're going to-- it's
text: getting dark.
speaker_heading: . DENISE
dialog: What if somebody's just left it for the
dialog: time being?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: That'll be apparent soon enough. Mateo,
dialog: come with me.
text: oo DANNY . .
dialog: Wait! I want to get. this on filn.
text: Danny grabs his camera and the three men move into action.
scene_heading: _EXT. SAND
scene_heading: PIT - DUSKMateo, Sar 68
text: ne and Danny wade through shallows from the barge to the
text: little sandy spit. Sarone has his rifle. Their flashlight
text: beams illuminate the houseboat looming ahead, revealing the
dialog: faded paint of its name, which we have seen before: :
text: “RAMONA." Sarone and Mateo share a glance. SARONESpl
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: Shooting Script ~ pecember 1 50.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: ° 68
dialog: tupa
dialog: d circle the boat. They do so-
speaker_heading: nmotmaomak
scene_heading: EXT. "RAMONA" 69
text: An eerie silence as the three men climb aboard. still
text: separated, they search the boat carefully. Mateo tries to
text: open the pilot house door, but it's stuck. He slams his
text: weight against the door, but it won't budge. Stepping back,
text: he kicks the door with all his strength. It splinters and
text: crashes open. Mateo looks cautiously inside.
text: On the other side of the boat, Danny begins his own search.
text: The deck creaks eerily beneath him. An old wooden. cabinet
text: door opens and shuts ever so slightly with the shifting of
text: the boat in the current.
text: Danny slowly opens the cabinet, peeking into the darkness
text: inside. TWO RED DOTS GLOW, about an inch apart...Danny,
text: spooked, pulls the camera from his face and starts to shut
text: the door when THE DOTS SHOOT TOWARD HIM. The eyes of some
text: ereature, lunging at his face. Danny SCREAMS, reels away.
text: Mateo and Sarone come running. They all see an iguana, about
text: a foot long, scurrying across the deck and splashing into the
text: tiver. DANNY IS WHITE WITH FEAR, leaning on the railing.
text: Sarone chuckles.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Iguana. You must've scared the crap ont
dialog: -of him.
speaker_heading: “DANNY
dialog: I doubt that.. Any other creatures
dialog: hanging around? .
speaker_heading: SAROSE
dialog: I'd say with that scream you sent the
text: skittish ones leaping overboard.
dialog: Anything left is probably just pissed. _
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Great. Just great.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Keep looking...
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Looking? For what?
speaker_heading: (CORTINUED)
dialog: 69
dialog: 
dialog: 70
speaker_heading: 721
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: ‘
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Treasures, my friend....
text: Sarone starts off. Danny, hesitates, then follows.
speaker_heading: DANSY
dialog: We can look together.
scene_heading: INT. BELOW DECK —
dialog: 51.
text: Danny follows Sarone below deck. The WALLS AND DOORS are
text: damaged, splintered by an attack. Danny can't believe it.
speaker_heading: : DANNY
dialog: Jesus Hairy-ass Christ...
text: Sarone's flashlight skims the wall, STOPPING ON THE PHOTO we
text: saw at the beginning of the film, the one of THREE MEN
text: holding a snake. We now recognize one of those men as
text: Sarone. MAKING SURE THAT DANNY IS NOT LOOKING, Sarone rips
text: the picture from the wall and stuffs it in his pocket.
scene_heading: INT. PILOT HOUSE
text: MATEO squeezes through’ the splintered door. He looks
text: puzzled. There are shards of rotted deck planking propped.
text: against the door. Someone was trying to keep something out.
scene_heading: EXT. BELOW DECK
text: Sarone finds a metal footlocker and tries to open it. The
text: rusted hinges refuse to give. He strains at the door with
text: all his strength, and it finally opens with a stubborn
text: creaking sound. . INSIDE THE: FOOTLOCKER is a hodgepodge of
text: survival gear, along with SOPHISTICATED TRAPPING
text: PARAPHENALIA. ‘Sarone's eyes light up. He's hit the jackpot.
text: ‘ SARONE.
dialog: This-- this we'll take with us.
speaker_heading: : DANNY
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Survival gear. Help me out.
speaker_heading: | DANNY
dialog: So we can go now? -
speaker_heading: + SARONE
dialog: Yes, we can go.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED):
dialog: 69
dialog: 70
speaker_heading: 721
dialog: 72
dialog: : Shooting Script - December 1
speaker_heading: _72 CONTINUED: :
text: SUDDENLY SARONE swings his flashlight to the wall--
speaker_heading: ( _y SARONE
dialog: oA SHIT! WHAT'S THAT?
dialog: 52.
text: Danny ducks, hits the deck, Sarone stands dead still, moving
text: earefully forward. Pulls something from the far wall.
dialog: Danny
text: flips around, starts scurrying back, but stops when he sees
text: that all Sarone has is WEATHERED CENTERFOLD.
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: -Wouldn’ t mind being eaten by this, eh? ~
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: Yeah, very funny, ha ha. Let's go.
text: Danny puts his camera into the locker. Sarone picks up one
text: : end of the footlocker and Danny lifts the other.
scene_heading: 72a EXT. RAMONA DECK - CONTINUOUS ,
text: They carry it to the railing of the boat.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (calling)
text: MATEO! Back to the boat.
text: boat and lower it te the sand spit below.
speaker_heading: 72B ANGLE:
text: “ ‘Danny and Sarone lift the footlocker over the side of the
dialog: a
text: Mateo comes out of the pilot house and slips on the scummy
text: deck. He slides like a puck on ice --- off the blind side of
text: the boat and into the mucky water.
speaker_heading: 72C ANGLE:
text: Rising in the ‘shallow water, he wipes the muck off his hands.
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: Shit....
speaker_heading: DANNY'S VOICE
dialog: (from a distance)
dialog: Mateo! Come on!
speaker_heading: MATEO
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Yeah, yeah, I'm coming.
text: Mateo pulls one foot out of the muck, then another. He
dialog: 
dialog: : grabs -
text: hold of a floating tree trunk and tries to pull himself up.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 72
dialog: 72a
speaker_heading: 723
dialog: 72c
dialog: ——_—$— $$ $$
dialog: Shooting Script — pecember 1 $3.
speaker_heading: 12C CONTINUED: : 72
text: The “tree trunk" flinches and flicks ~--a large muscle that
text: ripples in Mareo's grasp.
speaker_heading: O
text: Startled, Mateo takes a step back and looks around: there's
text: a “tree trunk" there too. He is in the middle of a loop and
text: suddenly terror stricken...protests weakly ("What the--?").
text: The loop snaps tight like a slip knot around him,
text: constricting his abdomen from movement or breathing. His
text: mouth is open in a silent scream... .
scene_heading: 72D ANGLE: . , . , -- 72D
text: Across the water, Mateo can see the lights of the barge and
text: the silhouettes of Danny and Sarone as they carry the
text: footlocker, but has not breath to call out to them.
speaker_heading: 72E ANGLE: 72E
text: A second loop of the “tree trunk" snaps around Mateo. His
text: face is beet red and his bulging eyes are locked on the
text: distant lights of the barge.
text: ‘His jaws work furiously and silently, his tongue ballooning
text: and nose bleeding.
scene_heading: DANNY'S VOICE .
dialog: Mateo! What're you doing back there?
speaker_heading: Cb
text: What Mateo is doing is dying. A large, dark oval shape mves
text: in front of the camera and engulfs Mateo's limp body.
scene_heading: 72PF EXT. BARGE - DUSK 72F
text: DANNY AND SARONE approach the barge. Danny looks concerned.
speaker_heading: DASNY
speaker_heading: MATEO!
dialog: = (te Sarone)
dialog: We should -go back for him..
speaker_heading: SARONE . ‘
dialog: “He's fine. Let's get this on the boat.
dialog: (call up'to the deck)
dialog: Give us a hand here.
text: “Gary, Denise and Terri wait at the railing. They help hoist
text: the FOOTLOCKER onto the deck. Sarone climbs up after it.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Where's Mateo?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - pecember 1 54.
speaker_heading: 72F CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: He was right behind us. Wow he's not
text: answering. Maybe he slipped, hit his
dialog: head. You should go back for him,
dialog: Sarone. : '
dialog: o™
dialog: \
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: First it. was we, now it's me? He's
dialog: poking around for booze. Don't sweat it.
text: There is a sudden splashing of water in the blackness beyond
text: the stranded boat. All heads turn, but there is no further:
text: sound. Sarone looks down S-shaped waves that roll across the
text: black water against the hull of the barge.
speaker_heading: . DANNY
speaker_heading: MATEO!
dialog: (to the others)
dialog: I'm going back.
text: . Gary grabs his headphones and a high powered shotgun
dialog: microphone.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Hang on. If he's on the boat I'll hear
dialog: him. Shhh.
text: . Everyone is silent as Gary aims the mike at the boat. We hear
text: the highly amplified sound of lapping water, mosquitos, air .
text: moving through the foliage. Nothing human. .
speaker_heading: GO
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Weird. If he was out there I'd hear him
dialog: breathing.
text: Danny jumps over the side.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: I'll find hin.
speaker_heading: SARONE :
dialog: _You be careful.- : ~
text: - Sarone drags the footlocker away.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Danny--
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: (not sure)
dialog: I'll be okay.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
speaker_heading: 72F
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: a
speaker_heading: O
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 55.
scene_heading: 72F. CONTINUED: (2) , 72E
speaker_heading: 730
dialog: 74
text: Danny. wades back toward the vague shape of the Ramona, and |
text: Terri watches him, worried, She turns to sarone.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Sarone, go with him--
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: He's the one who's worried.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER SHALLOWS NIGHT . . 73
text: CLOSE ON DANNY'S FACE, backlit by Mateo's boat, as he moves
text: into the darkness. We stay with him, just inches in front of
text: him...the CAMERA MOVES IN A TIGHT CIRCLE around him, so we
text: are now following him, toward the boat...
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE 74
text: Back on the barge, Terri approaches Sarone, who is opening
text: ‘the footlocker and taking inventory of its contents.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Can't that wait? The captain of our boat
text: is missing.
speaker_heading: . DENISE
dialog: You don't even care, do you?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I care.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Then go look for him. Don't. send Danny.
speaker_heading: : SARONE :
dialog: I didn’ t send him, He went.
text: Sarone keeps palling things from the locker...a military
text: vest, mirrors, a cigarette lighter, flares, a pocket knife.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: Fuck’ you, Sarone. You're scared.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Not scared. Just not stupid.
speaker_heading: ‘DENISE
dialog: What is that supposed to mean?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 74
dialog: 
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
dialog: Shooting Seript - December 1 56.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: : . . 74
speaker_heading: ; SARONE
dialog: This is the jungle. The fastest, the
dialog: strongest, the most cunning and vicious
dialog: survive.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You fit right in, don't you?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (shrugging) |
dialog: There are worse ways to go.
scene_heading: EXT. RAMONA WIGHT . , : 75
text: Danny moves around the boat, calling Mateo's name. He is
text: answered by the wind in the trees and the lap of the water.
text: FROM THE BANK something tucked in the foliage watches, not
dialog: moving. So an
text: Danny waves his flashlight across the river bank, sees
text: nothing but foliage and shadows. He now spots a thin shaft -
text: of light beaming up between clumps of water-hyacinth. He
text: moves to it and picka it up. MATEO'S FLASHLIGHT, still.on..-
text: BACK ON THE BOAT 76
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: What do you mean?
text: Sarone, out of patience, pulls a LARGE, ROLLED-UP BUNDLE from
text: the locker. It looks like a moth eaten cloth. He stands
text: tall, looking at Terri with a penetrating glare.
speaker_heading: . SARONE :
dialog: Mateo is dead. I was gonna wait a couple
dialog: hours so you guys could be as sure as I
dialog: am...but he'll find out.
speaker_heading: : DENISE
dialog: You let him go?
text: Terri runs to the edge of the boat and calls for Danny. She
text: sees nothing but darkness.
text: Sarone sets the bundle aside and pulls from the lecker a’
text: CROSSBOW-TRANQUILIZER GUN and a half a dozen cylinders marked
text: “MORO-809." His eyes light up as he checks the gun.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) =,
dialog: 76
dialog: >
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 37.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: © 76
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Here's the prize...
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: You are a remarkable man, Mr. Sarone.
text: This. is not intended as a compliment. Gary and Denise have
text: joined Terri at the edge of the boat. All eyes wide as they
text: call Danny's name. Now they see a light coming toward them.
text: And hear Danny's voice, calling out “I'm here."
text: Sarone, now kneeling, cuts the rope wrapping on the rolled-up
text: bundle, as Terri and Gary help Danny on board.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You okay?
dialog: Yeah. Wo sign of him. Just his
dialog: flashlight. I don't know... .
text: Dany, climbing on board, looks over to Sarone, who kicks the
text: bundle. It rolls all the way across the deck, stopping at
text: Danny's feet. All eyes are on Sarone now...
speaker_heading: ‘ SARONE
text: Anaconda skin.
text: It must stretch thirty-five feet. Danny is dumbfounded.
scene_heading: . DANNY .
dialog: There are snakes out there like this?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: And bigger. This skin is two, three
dialog: years old. Whatever shed it has grown
dialog: since then. And it, or one of its kin, I
dialog: suspect, has made a meal of our dear
dialog: captain.
text: Terri looks faint...
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Snakes don't eat people.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Why wouldn't they?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I don't believe you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) . _
dialog: 
dialog: SS
dialog: 76
dialog: Shooting Script ~ pecember 1
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: SARONE :
dialog: I wouldn't of believed it ‘myself if I
dialog: hadn't seen a village woman cut out of
dialog: the belly of a thirty footer with my own
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: You're creeping me out.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: She had gone to the riverbank to do her
dialog: laundry. Next thing anyone sees...bubbles
dialog: in the water. It took fifteen men an hour
dialog: to wrestle that beast. But it was too
dialog: late for her. |
text: Denise puts her arms around Gary.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Anaconda! s are the perfect killing
dialog: machine. They can sense heat. Like to
text: hunt at night when the forest cools down
dialog: and warm blooded creatures are easier to
text: detect. Even in the pitch black they can
dialog: hit their prey within five degrees of
text: dead center. A warm body like Mateo's in
dialog: the water...I'm sure it only took a few
dialog: 58.”
text: seconds. (BEAT) When they strike...wrap -
dialog: around you in a second and hold you
dialog: tighter then your true love. You get the
dialog: privelidge of hearing your bones break
dialog: before the power of the embrace causes
dialog: your veins to explode.
text: Everyone stands there, spooked.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: He's probably just lost.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: It doesn't seem right. We would've heard
dialog: something. .
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: The jungle doesn't care about right or
dialog: wrong. It only cares about survival. ‘The
dialog: natives call them the, ‘hungry muscle’.
text: Sarone shakes the snake skin.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) -
dialog: 76
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: \
speaker_heading: J
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 59.°
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 76
speaker_heading: SARONE :
dialog: Creature this big, captured alive, worth
dialog: a@ pretty penny. .
text: Danny is leaning on Terri, barely able to stand. They all
text: just stare at Sarone, horrified, disgusted, speechless at the
dialog: man's insensitivity.
speaker_heading: : SARONE 4
dialog: Please, people, don't make me out a
dialog: monster. I didn't eat the captain.
text: Terri won't look at Sarone now. ~She turns to the others.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: We're not sure he's dead. We'll wait
dialog: here till the morning.
text: Westridge runs up and grabs Terri. He's shaking with fear.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: (screaming) .
dialog: Are you insane?!? You heard what he said.
dialog: We've got to get the hell out of here!
dialog: We can't sit around and wait for the
dialog: monster to come back!
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Get a'grip, Westridge. We're not leaving.
dialog: If that was you out there you'd want us
dialog: to stay.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: But...but...the snake...
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Go' into your cabin and lock the door.
dialog: Danny, Gary, let's aim some lights at the
dialog: boat.
text: They do as she says.
speaker_heading: TIME JUMP:
scene_heading: EXT. NIGHT - AN HOUR OR SO LATER: - 77
text: A steady rain falls. Strong lights illuminate the Ramona -and
text: the area surrounding it. Terri and Danny stand at the edge
text: of the deck, watching the shadows sway near the boat.
text: Nearby Denise stands with Gary, looking up to Sarone, who
text: sits in the pilot house, smoking a cigar.
dialog: 
dialog: SS
dialog: : Shooting Script .~ pecember 1 60.
speaker_heading: 77 CONTINUED: 77
speaker_heading: DENISE . :
dialog: os I'm not so sure he didn't eat the .
dialog: CY captain. He certainly looks satiated. '
dialog: (distracted) |
dialog: Yeah...- \
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: ‘He was right there. I can't believe a
dialog: snake...I mean, I would have heard it.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: Get some sleep.
dialog: (raising her voice)
dialog: Everybody. Let's turn in. \
text: Denise squeezes Gary's hand.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: I'm scared.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Let's go to bed.
text: They turn and start to leave. —
dialog: » : =
dialog: © Exciting. Isn't it?
text: Gary turns and looks at Sarone. Their eyes meet.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (soothingly to Denise)
dialog: I'1l be there in a few minutes.
text: she looks at him strangely, then moves to her cabin. The
text: others.also move off the deck, to their rooms. Gary stays on
text: deck. Looks up to Sarone. He hesitates, then moves up to
dialog: the pilot house.
speaker_heading: 77R ANGLE: ” 77%
text: Sarone turns. As if expecting him.
speaker_heading: . GARY
dialog: So...Sarone. It's out there, isn't it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: shooting Script ~ pecember 1 61.
scene_heading: 77& CONTINUED: ’ T7A
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: As Captain Mateo proved.
dialog: : And you know how to catch these things?
text: . SARONE nods.
text: . SARONE .
dialog: Be great to capture something like that
dialog: on film, wouldn't it? -
speaker_heading: / GARY
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: There might be a buyer for that kind of
dialog: footage. How much is the snake worth?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Maybe a hundred grand.
speaker_heading: . GARY
dialog: That's quite a payday for you.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: It ain't bad.
text: Sarone gestures to the weapons laid out on the deck.
speaker_heading: CS : SARONE
dialog: But a man can't catch an anaconda by
dialog: himself. I need a partner. I think I'ma
dialog: good judge of character. You seem the
dialog: right man for the job.
speaker_heading: : GARY
dialog: What about Cale?
speaker_heading: SARONE :
dialog: A day. Maybe two. Do you think it matters
dialog: to Professor Cale? :
text: Sarone turns and looks straight into Gary's eyes. Gary is
text: silent, though his eyes speak volumes.
speaker_heading: OMIT 78
scene_heading: 79 &EXT. AMAZON - DAWN . : 79
text: The boat sits, anchored, as the sun rises on the river.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 80
dialog: 80a
speaker_heading: 80B
dialog: soc
speaker_heading: 80D
speaker_heading: 80E
dialog: 81
dialog: Shooting Seript - December 1 ~ 62.
text: VARIOUS SHOTS AROUND THE BOAT
text: People stirring, unable to sleep: Westridge, wearing his
dialog: nightshades; :
scene_heading: INT.’ DANNY'S CABIN
text: Danny, curled up with his pillow.
scene_heading: INT. CALE'S CABIN
text: Cale, Still comatose, his breathing labored.
scene_heading: -INT. GARY AND DENISE ;
text: Gary is wide awake. Denise stirs next to him, groggily
text: opening her eyes, making part of her dream the image of Gary
text: with his eyes open, moving closer to him, holding him tight.
scene_heading: Int. TERRI'S ROOM
text: And Terri, in her own dream world: KA-CLICK! A sound that
text: might be in her dream or nightmare...she stirs, fighting to
text: wake from her slumber... KA-CLICK! Suddenly, her eyes open -
text: - just a flutter at first, then popping wide open.
speaker_heading: KA-CLICK!
dialog: ‘
scene_heading: EXT. DECK + CONTINUOUS
text: Terri's door is ajar, and she sees Sarone, on deck. He works
text: on the BREACH OF BIS RIFLE, oiling it, working it, fitting it
text: together. He glances toward her room, sees her awake. She
text: feels violated. How long has he been there? Looking at her?
text: He smiles. She gets up and kicks her door closed. Sits for
text: a moment. She has fallen asleep in her clothes. She stands
text: ON DECK, IN HE BRIGHT SUNLIGHT ,
text: Terri approaches Sarone. .Stops before him.
speaker_heading: : . TERRI
dialog: Don't you sleep?
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: When necessary.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Mateo. ..?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80
speaker_heading: B0A
speaker_heading: 808
speaker_heading: 80c
speaker_heading: 80D
speaker_heading: 80E
dialog: 81
dialog: 
dialog: rr
dialog: Shooting Script — December 1 63.
speaker_heading: 81 CONTINUED: : 81
speaker_heading: ‘SARONE :
dialog: No sign. Look, I'm sorry about, last
dialog: night. I liked Mateo.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I checked on the professor an hour ago.
dialog: No better, no worse.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: So we turn back the way we came, and we
dialog: get him to a hospital in Manaus.
dialog: Meanwhile we work on the radio...
text: Gary is now on the deck. His voice startles Terri--
speaker_heading: GARY
text: No use, Terri. The tubes are missing.
text: Terri looks at Gary, confused.
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Whatever. We turn back. I won't take us
dialog: any further into this jungle.
text: ‘Westridge has appeared.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: . She's right. We get: out of this blasted
dialog: = ' place before it eats us alive.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: You're up early, Warren.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: Who could sleep? And what is that thing
dialog: still doing out here? Must we be
dialog: reminded. ..?
text: He's referring tothe ANACONDA SKIN, still unfurled.
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: Relax. Have a cup of coffee. I know how
dialog: irritable you get before your morning _
dialog: \ fix. I'll get this out of your way...
dialog: (zolling up the skin)
dialog: As for turning back. Can't do it.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Yes we can, and we will. We go back to
text: the main river and follow the maps.
speaker_heading: (CONTIRUED) ,
dialog: 
dialog: Cc)
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 64.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: Run out of fuel a hundred miles from
dialog: . Manaus.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: He's right, Terri.
text: Terri looks at Gary with a gnawing suspicion...
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Since when have you become a master
dialog: navigator, Gary?
speaker_heading: GARY .
dialog: I looked at the fuel gauge. It doesn't
dialog: take a rocket scientist. :
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: So we go his way.
text: This is a question, a statement, an expression of defeat.
dialog: All recognize it as such; all silently accept... °
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: My way once, maybe. Now it's the only
dialog: way. Now it's our way. Trust me. We've
dialog: lost one man. We don't want to lose
dialog: another. We have no choice.
text: Sarone is finished rolling up the snakeskin, and he picks up
text: the rifle again, and looks off to where Mateo was killed.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (making the sign of the cross)
dialog: Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. If I die,
dialog: don't mourn me. .
speaker_heading: : TERRI:
dialog: No problem.
text: DANNY watches from his cabin. Sees only the current
text: ' tableaux: Sarone standing with his rifle, facing Terri and
text: Westridge...and Gary somewhere in the middle.
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNRIVER - LATER
text: The barge has steamed farther downriver, away from the scene
text: of Mateo's disappearance. Sarone, a bundle of energy, ties
text: ropes, prepares nets, and checks tranquilizer darts. . DENISE
text: stands with GARY.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED ).
dialog: 81
dialog: 82°
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 65. . |
scene_heading: "82. CONTINUED: : 82 |
speaker_heading: DENISE .
dialog: What the heck is he up to? ;
text: Cy Sarone throws a glance to Gary, then goes about his business.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Busy little beaver, Sarone. . '
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: ‘Idle hands. You know what they say.
text: Sarone grabs his rifle now, smiling...
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Keep it steady up there, Warren.
text: Westridge is at the wheel, steering the barge uneasily into
text: uncharted waters. He opens a bottle of wine from the galley.
text: Worn and torn by the jungle, he still insists on elegance as
text: he pours the wine into a goblet. .
scene_heading: 83 INT. CALE'S CABIN , : 83
text: Terri sits near Cale's sickbed holding his hand. He takes
text: shallow, though consistent, breaths. Terri puts the back of .
text: her hand to his forehead, like a mother. Cale stirs. Bis eyes |
dialog: on flutter. : . :
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: |
dialog: SA |
speaker_heading: TERRI |
dialog: Steven? .
speaker_heading: : CALE
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: Terri. Hi. —
speaker_heading: : TERRI
dialog: Feeling better?
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: No idea.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Don't worry, we're getting you to the
dialog: hospital as soon as we can.
text: Terri kisses his forehead. tears well in her eyes.
speaker_heading: ‘TERRI
dialog: You just hang on.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED ) 5
dialog: 
dialog: cy
dialog: 4
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
speaker_heading: 84a
dialog: . Shooting Script - December 1 66.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 83
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I'm not going anywhere.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You better not. I just got you back, I'm
dialog: not losing you again.
text: Suddenly gunshots split the silence.
speaker_heading: : TERRI (CONT'D)
dialog: (concerned) :
dialog: I'll be right back.
scene_heading: ' INT. PILOT HOUSE 84
text: Westridge lurches at the wheel, spilling his wine.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE 84A
text: A large limb of a tree breaks and falls, crashing into the
text: water and drifting downstream. Sarone has split the limb
text: with a powerful: gun.
text: Terri comes forward to check the source of the shots.
text: Sarone continues to shoot the powerful gan, and a dead monkey
text: drops into the water. Danny, shocked, moves over to confront
text: Sarone. “Terri is close behind. .
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: What the hell are you doing?
speaker_heading: - . SARONE
dialog: Shooting monkeys. Can't bag game without
dialog: bait. : /
speaker_heading: : TERRI.
dialog: Bait?
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Game? What game?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Anaconda.
text: Sarone takes another shot, misses.
speaker_heading: oe SARONE
dialog: See. You made me lose my concentration.
dialog: 
dialog: vo™N,
speaker_heading: OS
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 67.
speaker_heading: 84A CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Are you crazy? “We've got a sick man on
dialog: board! We're not here to catch snakes.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I am.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: What about Cale?
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: It shouldn't take jong. Anaconda are very
dialog: hungry. .
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Forget it! Not on my boat.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: It's your boat now, is it.
dialog: (to Westridge)
dialog: Bear to your right, Warren.
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Don't! Keep to the center of the river.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Do what I say, Westridge.
text: Westridge looks down at Sarone. Sarone chambers another
text: round into the gun.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You can't do this. We won't allow it.
speaker_heading: “SARONE
dialog: We? You think you speak for everybody?
dialog: “(te Gary)
dialog: Does she speak, for \evexybody, Gary?
text: All eyes turn to Gary. He looks like a kid caught stealing.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: Gary?
speaker_heading: GARY :
dialog: Look. The way I figure it, with Cale
dialog: messed up, the movie's off. Why not
dialog: salvage something? Why not film Sarone
dialog: capturing a big snake?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: B4A
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script ~ pecember 1 68.
scene_heading: 84A CONTINUED: (2) . 84a
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Have you lost your mind?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: No. If anything I'm completely lucid.
dialog: It's you guys who aren't seeing the
dialog: situation clearly.
dialog: Help me out then. I'm having a little
dialog: trouble making the leap fram...get a man ©
dialog: to the hospital to...hunt for snakes.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: We're in the middle of the jungle! All
dialog: you guys do is question and criticize.
dialog: You don't know anything about the shit
dialog: we're in. (pointing to Sarone) But he
dialog: does. He's been here and if we help him
dialog: catch the snake, he'll help us get out of
dialog: here alive. And that, amigos, is not .
dialog: insanity. That is common—fucking-sense.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: (taking a step towards Gary)
dialog: You bastard!
text: Terri pulls her. back.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Better you find out now.
text: The barge has caught up with the dead monkey, and Sarone nets
text: it out of the water.
speaker_heading: “ GARY
dialog: What: else can we do?
text: Gary stands there a determined look on his face. Danny moves
text: towards Sarone, unintimidated. .
dialog: I know what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna throw
dialog: both your asses in the river.
text: Sarone levels the gun at Danny. He slams another round in,
text: clicks off the safety, and pulls the trigger. BOOM! The |
text: bullet rips a hunk of wood off the side of the boat a few
text: . inches from Danny's head. Danny ducks as wood splinters
text: shower his head. Sarone pumps another round in the chamber.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1
speaker_heading: - 84A CONTINUED: (3)
dialog: 85
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Bot. today.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: B4A
text: Danny slowly backs up to where Terri and penise stand.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You're not going to get away with this.
speaker_heading: ' SARONE
dialog: (ignoring her)
text: Gary, gimme a hand.
text: Gary moves to help. Sarone impales one of the monkeys on a
text: grappling hook attached to a leng line wound on the crane.
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON. — DAY
dialog: 85
text: Farther downriver. ‘Sarone stands testing the hooding device,
text: his eyes watch the distant line in the water that drags the
text: monkey a hundred yards behind the barge. Gary stands
text: awkwardly near him, holding a TRANQUILIZER CROSSBOW.
text: ‘Danny stands with his camera at the ready. Terri at his side.
text: Denise sits, a sick look on her face.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: (to Terri)
dialog: I am so sorry I brought him along. I
dialog: really messed up. °
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Never say yes when your legs are in the
dialog: air
speaker_heading: _ DENISE
dialog: This is.all my fault.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: Forget it. We'll get through this.
text: Suddenly, everyone turns..as the crane winch squeaks and
text: slowly makes a half rotation. Sarone is right on it. He's
text: -got a nibble on the monkey. The crane winch squeaks again
text: and turns a full rotation. Sarone jumps down from the crane
text: seat and quickly ties ropes to the large iron cleats on the
text: side of the barge. He gets out his spear gun and starts to
text: attach a rope with a large lasso around it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) .
speaker_heading: O
dialog: 85
speaker_heading: 85A
speaker_heading: 85B
dialog: Shooting Seript - December 1 70.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: : 85
speaker_heading: SARONE.
dialog: (to Gary)
dialog: Lemme get it within ten feet, then hand
dialog: me the bow.
text: Sarone returns to the crane seat just as the crane winch
text: squeaks again and turns another full rotation. Sarone leans
text: forward, ready to strike. He reels the line in slowly.
text: Terri sees a little swirl of water seventy yards behind the
text: boat. The monkey has been swallowed and something is. moving
text: in. ‘The crane boom groans and swings a yard to the right.
text: Sarone cranks the winch slowly, careful not to lose the prey.
text: The line is stretched tight, weaving back and forth.
text: All eyes are on the line. Hearts are in throats. The crane
text: boom suddenly jerks to the opposite side.
text: Sarone braces his legs and cranks the winch with more power,
text: Slowly reeling in his catch. Whatever. is in the water starts
text: - to thrash like crazy. It's still thirty yards from the
dialog: barge.
speaker_heading: ANGLE: 85a
text: Everyone on deck gasps as they see a portion of the prey
text: break the surface: three feet of olive black snake trunk
text: writhing, churning the water.
text: Sarone strains with all his strength, drawing the coiling
text: snake a few yards closer to the barge. He yells at Gary to
text: get ready. He reels in with all his strength, possessed.
text: Suddenly, the grappling hook dislodges from the snake. The
text: reel spins and. Sarone topples backward off the crane seat and |
text: onte the deck. Slamming in to Westridge and knocking him
text: down. The snake disappears back into ‘the water.
text: They're all stunned. Profound silence. .Sarone picks himself
text: up painfully from the.deck. Westridge stands, looking for his
text: glasses. They all just stand there, watching, waiting, .
dialog: listening to the silence.... o
text: Westridge kneels to pick up ‘his glasses that fell onto the
dialog: deck.
dialog: ‘
speaker_heading: ANGLE: . : 853
text: Suddenly a tremendous wash floods over the deck as the snake
text: shoots out of the river in a wild, shocking moment.
text: The snake spits the dead monkey out of his mouth and onto the
text: deck. Mateo's earring lands on the deck next to the dead
speaker_heading: _ (CONTINUED):
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 85B
speaker_heading: ssc
dialog: . shooting Script - December 1 “71.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: : 85B
text: monkey. The snake leaps onto the deck, half its body still
text: in the water. Its mouth is agape as its foot-long tongue
text: lashes out at them. Gary scurries back, tripping over a
text: chair, accidentally discharging the crossbow. The dart flies
text: out, sailing past Sarone and lodging into the railing.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Dammit! Reload!
text: The snake's long, tubular body quickly flies out of the dark
text: water and entirely onto the deck. Twenty-five tubular feet
text: of pure, slithering muscle. Gary, panicked, drops the
text: reloads, and. they roll out of reach.
text: Danny too terrified to run, continues to film. The snake
text: Slithers towards him. Terri grabs Danny's belt, pulling him
text: out of the way.
text: Denise and Gary scatter with blind adrenaline, desperately
text: looking for safety. The snake slithers and flops all over
text: every corner of the deck, and he is angry. Around the crane,
text: past the bow, to the wheelhouse. It smashes through the
text: window of the wheelhouse and crashes out again through the
dialog: other side.
text: Sarone moves efficiently and calmly in the eye of the storm.
text: He is the consummate professional hunter as he ties off more
text: rope and tries to lasso the snake in a net.
text: A long snake tongue lashes past Terri's face. She turns --
text: face to face with the drooling, spitting anaconda -- its head
text: is bigger than her own, its fangs glistening and dripping.
text: It turns away from her, toward Denise.
dialog: 
text: Denise is cornered. She backs up, clutching her crucifix and
text: mumbling a prayer, as the snake moves in on her and coils to .
text: attack. Suddenly, Denise falls .overboard in a backward flip
text: and lands in the water.
text: ’ Gary leaps overboard.to get to Denise. Attracted to the
text: - movement, the anaconda heads overboard, slithers straight
text: down and disappears into the depths of the dark river.
speaker_heading: UNDERWATER: 5c
text: We see the snake starting to wrap around Denise beneath the
text: surface of the river. But in the process, the anaconda is
text: also wrapping around a submerged tree trunk. ‘The tree trunk
text: interferes, and Gary is able to pull Denise out of the loop
text: at the last possible moment.
dialog: 
dialog: ©
dialog: 85D.
speaker_heading: 85E
speaker_heading: 85Fr
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 72.
scene_heading: ANGLE ABOVE WATER: . : . 85D
text: Denise splashes desperately to the surface with Gary. He
text: boosts her up onto the deck where she is grabbed by Danny and
text: Terri. They reach down for Gary and pull him. aboard.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE - CONTINUOUS 85E
text: Suddenly, the anaconda flies up through the surface again and
text: lands on the deck of the boat. The snake grabs Gary in the
text: blink of an eye and tightens the loop on him. Gary gasps
text: unable to breath and Denise screams as she tries to pull him
text: free seeing the life being squeezed out of him.
speaker_heading: ANGLE: : 85F
text: Sarone is preparing a spear gun with a large lasso around the
text: tip of the spear.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: The rifle, Sarone! Shoot it! Kill the
dialog: goddammed thing!
text: Ignoring her, Sarone fires the spear at the snake to get the
text: lasso around it and succeeds, looping the anaconda near the
text: head. He quickly loads a second spear and fires again, but
text: this time he misses, almost hitting Danny. The powerful
text: snake rears back and snaps the hemp in half.
text: Danny instictively gcabs an axe and attacks the snake. He
text: swings wildly, screaming as he rips a gash in the snake's
text: hide. Blood gushes from the snake. Danny drops the axe and
text: stumbles back, his terror and revulsion returned.
text: The flailing tail’ knocks Sarone down, and the rifle slung
text: over his shoulder slides away from him and clatters across’.
text: the deck. Terri scrambles after the rifle and grabs it. She
text: tries to aim for the snake's undulating head, and we hear
text: Gary's bones begin to break.
text: The snake opens its mouth and hisses. Terri fires but
text: misses, ripping a chunk out of. the rail. The snake lurches
text: wildly, vaulting the rail with Gary still im its grasp. It
text: hits the water and drags Gary under, disappearing into the
text: deep river. Denise moves to dive after him but Danny grabs
text: her and she is wailing now and the sound of her grief echoes
text: through the jungle as Danny tries to comfort her.
text: Sarone moves over to Terri and snatches the rifle from her.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: shooting Script ~ pecember 1 73.
speaker_heading: 85F CONTINUED: 85F
dialog: 86
speaker_heading: NY
text: . SARONE .
dialog: It's no good to’ me dead. Wasn't even the
dialog: one I'm aiter.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I‘m after a very big fish.
text: He turns and walks away. Terri is appalled. She runs to the
text: edge of the boat and looks to the now silent waters.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE DECK - DAY / -. 86
text: Denise kneels by the side of the barge, looking into the
text: water. Her eyes red from tears that.can no longer flow.
text: Staring, unblinking. She prays silently.
text: Sarone works in the pilot house, alone, alienated from the
dialog: group, apparently not too concerned with his current
text: standing. The rifle slung around his shoulder.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Warren-- come up here and take the wheel.
text: Terri looks at him. Westridge hesitates.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: I...um...
text: Sarone comes down from the pilot house, grabs him and slams
text: him against the wall.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Listen you pompous windbag, get your ass
dialog: up there or I'11 feed you to the
dialog: piranhas. 5
text: ‘Westridge, unnerved, does as he is told.
speaker_heading: . WESTRIDGE
dialog: I. see manners don't count for much in the
dialog: jungle either.
text: Sarone stands behind Denise. He throws some flowers on the
text: water and bows his head.
speaker_heading: SARONE
text: As Jesus was coming up out of the water,
text: he saw heaven being torn open and the
text: Spirit descending on him like a dove. |
dialog: (BEAT) That was what Gary saw.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 
dialog: I
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
dialog: 89
dialog: Shooting Script -
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: December 1 74,
text: Denise stands and turns on him, enraged,
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: How dare you! How dare you pray for Gary!
dialog: You brought the snake. You
dialog: knew we were
dialog: coming. You brought the snake. The devil.
dialog: You brought the devil.
text: Sarone turns from her, he cannot help her. Denise falls to
text: her knees, sobbing. He moves over to the footlocker-- which
text: happens to be near where Terri stands.
text: He begins to prepare
text: anet. She turns to him, her voice even, cool, seething.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: You had this planned all along. Mateo
dialog: was in it with you. He led
dialog: You were waiting for us.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: You wanted to find the Shirishama. I
dialog: wanted to find the snakes. They are one
dialog: and the same. That snake was only the ~
dialog: guardian. Now we are in the
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: That's just a myth.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Sometimes what we call myth
dialog: truth.
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: And now you're going to get
dialog: killed.
scene_heading: ; EXT. RIVER NIGHT
text: The barge floats down the river’ which
dialog: land of the
dialog: is really the
dialog: us all
text: glistens beneath the
text: light of a half a'moon. A mournful calm...
scene_heading: INT. CALE'S SICKROOM NIGHT
text: ' Terri lies on a cot, near Cale, unable to sleep. She stands
text: and rummages in her bag. She pulls out a tube of
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: ON THE DECK
text: lipstick...gives it a long look, before deciding to put some
text: Sarone has set his cot...in view of all...and from where he
text: can see all. The rifle sits nearby.
text: sleeping with one eye open...
dialog: It does seem that he is
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: 89
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CS
dialog: 
dialog: 90
dialog: 91
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 75.
speaker_heading: OMIT 90 : : 90
dialog: ON THE DECK : , 91
text: Tranquil, dark. Terri walks quietly to where Sarone half
text: sleeps. He-hears her footsteps, sits up suddenly, puts his
text: hand on the gun.
text: She stands there, nervous.
speaker_heading: SARONE "
dialog: What can I do for “you, Miss Porter?
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Nothing. I'm sorry to bother you.
text: She starts to leave.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (intrigued) .
dialog: If there is something you feel you need
dialog: to say....please... .
text: Terri turns. back towards him.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I guess I owe you an apology of sorts.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: I don't understand.
text: She chews her thumb, nervous and sexy, before breaking down.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: I thought I could, you know, cope. But I
dialog: am way over my head. The minute I saw
dialog: that monster I knew. I have no business
dialog: _ being out in the jungle: I'm
dialog: just. ..scared. I feel so lost.
text: Terri stands close to him...vulnerable. Her eyes penetrating.
speaker_heading: SARONE “
dialog: You? You're not lost. You are a very
dialog: . strong woman, Miss Porter.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Not compared to a man ‘like you. I've
dialog: never met anyone so...strong...vital.
text: She lets her body brush against his. Sarone gulps...tempted
dialog: by this forbidden fruit.
speaker_heading: . (CONTINUED) © ,
dialog: 
dialog: af
dialog: Q
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: Shooting script - December 1 76.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: : 91
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: (confessing)
dialog: It's been a long time since I was with a
dialog: woman.
text: Terri strokes his powerful arms, his chest. She leans in to
dialog: kiss hin.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: We're lost. without you. You can save us.
dialog: Save me...
text: Sarone moves closer, touching her chin and moving her lips up
text: to meet his, he wraps her in his arms...they kies...Danny
text: comes creeping up behind him. Danny holds a piece of
text: wood...just as he prepares to hit Sarone with it, Sarone, in
text: one powerful movement, whips his knife out of his belt and
text: puts the point at Danny's throat. Sarone holds Terri tight.
speaker_heading: SARONE -
dialog: Do you think I'm stupid?
text: Danny backs up, shaken.
text: ‘ Suddenly, out of nowhere, Westridge hits Sarone on the head
text: with a golf club. Sarone's knees wobble and he drops -- out
text: cold. Westridge smiles...satisfied.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: That felt good.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE DECK - DAY - 92
text: Sarone sits groggily on deck, his head bloodied and bandaged, ©
text: his hands tied behind his back. He roars like a trapped
text: animal ‘at his captives who: surround him.
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: We're all going to hell. You can't
dialog: survive this river without me}
text: Sarone struggles and writhes, trying to get free. Terri
text: shoves a MAP into Sarone's face.
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Recognize this, Sarone? I'd've thought
dialog: you'd choose a better hiding place than
dialog: your front pocket. Seems you've given us
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) - ,
dialog: 
dialog: $$$
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: Shooting script - December 2 77.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 92
text: Sarone snaps at the map with his teeth. -
speaker_heading: TERRI
text: She walks away from him...and the others stand looking at
dialog: bim, and Westridge can't help but saying...
speaker_heading: : WESTRIDGE
dialog: You are really a disappointment, Mr.
dialog: Sarone. A man with your talents. ..you
dialog: could've gone far. .
scene_heading: EXT. AMAZON - DAY 93
text: A new atmosphere has taken over the boat: a sense of freedom
text: and joy as the crew motors downriver.
text: Sarone is still tied up on deck as the barge moves forward at
text: full throttle. Denise sits nearby, still numb.
scene_heading: INT, PILOT HOUSE . 94
text: _ Westridge pilots the boat with a light hand.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Your sure you can drive this thing?
speaker_heading: . WESTRIDGE
text: Like driving an old Cadillac Fleetwood.
speaker_heading: : DANNY
dialog: I'can't wait to get back to the
dialog: city...I've been out in the boonies too
dialog: damn long.
speaker_heading: : WESTRIDGE | .
dialog: what will you do when you return to
dialog: civilization? An opera? An afternoon at
dialog: the Museum perhaps? Or a meal at Le Cote
dialog: - Basque?
speaker_heading: : DANNY -
dialog: Nah. I'm gonna have a slice, put on the
text: Knicks and sip a cold Miller Lite.
text: Westridge gives Danny a wry look.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE .
dialog: I see...you mean borough civilization.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED ) ’
dialog: a
dialog: 94
speaker_heading: “95
speaker_heading: 95a
dialog: 96
dialog: . Shooting Script - pecember 1 78.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: . 94
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: We've got a long way to go, guys.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: Right you are. .
speaker_heading: TERRI °
dialog: I'm going to check on Denise. She's in
dialog: bad shape...
text: Terri starts off...WHEN:
text: The wheel suddenly lurches in Westridge's hands, knocking him
text: to the floor. Terri grabs the wall for leverage, and Danny
text: reaches over to kill the ignition.
scene_heading: EXT. ON DECK : 95
text: It's as though they just hit a brick wall: people, supplies
text: and gear go flying. Sarone skids across the deck, still tied
text: to a chair, while Denise grips the rail.
scene_heading: INT. CALE'S ROOM . . . . 95a -
text: The jolt seems to have waken Cale. His eyes pop open and he
text: looks around his cabin...completely disoriented.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER . 96:
text: Terri and Danny scramble out of the wheelhouse, followed by a
text: stunned Westridge. They rush to the front rail.
text: They are at a point where a broad stream joins the main
text: river. Above the stream, a waterfall cascades from under a
text: jumble of logs, then surges over a series of terraced
text: platforms. Rays of sunlight sprinkle through the branches.
text: They are awed by the sight, though not by the situation:
speaker_heading: . DANNY
dialog: (to himself .
dialog: The waterfall...this is too creepy.
text: The barge has run around in a shallow channel where a delta-
text: like sand spit splays out from the small tributary a
text: waterfall. on each side, broad white sand banks littered
text: with boulders and driftwood recede to the forest tree line.
text: Danny surveys the damage.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Shit. We've hit bottom. We'll have to
text: winch it off.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) , -
dialog: 
dialog: 96
dialog: Oe
dialog: : Shooting script - December 1 79.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 96
text: Danny grabs a winch cable and nervously slips into the water.
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
dialog: Let's do this fast. I got a bad feeling.
text: “He drags the cable to a nearby boulder, but it falls a few
text: . feet short. He strains to stretch out the slack, but there's
text: no way it's going to reach: He yells to Terri and Westridge.
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
dialog: Gonna need a push or a pall here.
speaker_heading: TERRI: .
dialog: We're right there, Danny. Westridge...
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE
dialog: But I've...I've...I helped bring that
dialog: Monster down. Didn't I?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Which makes me confident that you are fit
dialog: for any job.
text: Terri and (reluctantly) Westridge slip into the waist-deep
text: water in front of the barge. They slog to the shore and coil -
text: the ropes around their shoulders. Straining, pulling with
text: _ @very ounce of strength in their bodies. The barge scrapes
text: ahead a few inches.
scene_heading: EXT. BARGE - DAY 97
text: Denise, eyes cold, rises slowly from the deck chair and picks
text: up a large, serrated hunting knife, checking the edge and
text: feeling its weight and balance. She walks toward Sarone.
text: Her footsteps click loudly on the deckboards, and Sarone sees
text: her coming. He looks up at her with empty eyes.
speaker_heading: . _DENISE
dialog: It's you or us. Isn't it?
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: So it seems.
text: Sarone turns his back to her and begins praying.
speaker_heading: DENISE :
dialog: No. Stop. You don't deserve to pray.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Then you pray for me.
text: He turns and looks at her. Their eyes meet.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED ) ,
dialog: 
dialog: C)
dialog: 97
dialog: 98
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script ~ pecember 1 80.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: Don't look at my eyes. The eyes of those
dialog: you kill will haunt you. I know. .
text: Denise's body shakes with rage and fear. Denise lifts the
text: knife...but cannot bring herself to kill. she looks down,
dialog: : defeated.
speaker_heading: DENISE
dialog: Why? Why are you here?
text: Sarone suddenly heaves his body up and wraps his legs around
text: her throat in a wrestler-like scissors hold. He squeezes
text: with all his strength, and she drops the knife to the deck.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: In my name they will drive out demons,
dialog: the will speak in new tongues, they will
text: pick up snakes with their hands, and it
dialog: will not hurt them at all; and they will
dialog: place their hands on the sick and heal |
text: Denise's arms and legs kick and flail as her cells scream for
dialog: oxygen.
speaker_heading: SARONE .
dialog: I. am here to save the world.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVER
text: Danny, Terri and Westridge give one. more heave-ho, and the
text: barge pulls free. They are elated.
speaker_heading: DANEY
dialog: Now it's my turn to. drive.
text: A gust of wind blows Westridge's hat off his head. He curses
text: ("Damn") and stops to pick the now-soaked hat out of the
text: water as Terri and Danny move forward to the now drifting
dialog: boat.
text: FROM THE SHORE, AT A DISTANCE: For a few seconds it seems
text: just another angle on our characters returning to the boat.
text: BUT NOW WE MOVE FORWARD AS IT DOES, ‘off the shore and into
text: the water and toward Terri and Danny and Westridge. It is
text: the POV OF AN ANACONDA...moving slowly in for attack...
dialog: 
dialog: 97
dialog: 98
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SENET aaa
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 si.
scene_heading: 99 EXT. BARGE DECK . . : _ 99
text: Sarone is still squeezing Denise's throat, cutting off her
text: breathing. She struggles to try to pull his powerful legs
text: apart, but she sinks slowly to her knees, her arms + flailing
text: about, knocking over a nearby chair.
dialog: 
scene_heading: 100 EXT. RIVER 100
text: Danny approaches the edge of the boat-- he can hear the
text: whisper of struggle onboard-- uncertain what it is he knows
text: it's not good and at just this moment he senses something
text: else. ..movement in the water...he turns, alarmed...Terri
text: turns in reaction and both see the ANACONDA just as it slips
text: “underwater creating ripples moving with tremendous speed...
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: On the boat! Get on the boat! -
text: | _ ‘The boat has caught the current and moves ahead of them and
text: they run like hell and Westridge sees the ripples now,
text: cutting through the water, dividing him from Danny and Terri:
text: SNAKE'S POV: Feet splashing through the water...
scene_heading: 100A MEDIUM SHOT: . 100A
text: The MASSIVE. SNAKE emerges from the water, hesitating,
text: CO Westridge shouts and waves at the snake, distracting it from
dialog: Terri and Danny...
text: SNAKE'S POV: JUNGLE AND WATER, SWISHES BY and now a quick
text: STOP: WESTRIDGE is center frame now, staring, terrified, but
dialog: | standing his ground.
speaker_heading: WESTRIDGE .
dialog: For God, Queen and Country!
text: The snake moves towards him and he starts to run back to the
text: sandbar upon which the boat was stranded. The snake moves
text: toward him, Sppiag beneath the water.
scene_heading: 101 EXT. BARGE DECK _ 101
text: Denise is dead now. Sarone has her knife and is cutting the
dialog: ropes that bind him. :
text: TERRI AND DANNY climb onto the boat and turn to look across
text: the water as Westridge stands on the sandbar, still frozen in
dialog: terror.
dialog: 
dialog: I
dialog: 
dialog: s
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
dialog: Shooting Script - pecember 1 ‘82.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Up, Warren! Up the rocks!
text: Westridge turns and moves to a jagged staircase of rocks, and _
text: begins to climb, toward the nearby WATERFALL. The MASSIVE
text: SHAKE moves from the water, onto land, toward him; Terri and
text: Danny yell out to the snake, trying to divert its attention,
dialog: to no avail.
text: SARONE is free from his ropes. He looks down at Denise's
text: lifeless body, with malevolent contempt .
text: WESTRIDGE MOVES BEHIND THE WATERFALL,
text: And we are close on his face now as he looks through the veil
text: of water, watching the anaconda onshore. It appears to have
text: lost sight and sense of him. He stands stock still...
text: .The ANACONDA flicks its tongue...also still...picks up a
text: scent...moving now...toward Westridge...who continues to
text: watch through the fall as the snake moves closer...Westridge
text: has no place to move...he can only watch as the vague shape
text: of the ANACONDA moves closer still...it is at a distance
dialog: which allows Westridge ten seconds to act...
text: And those ten seconds vanish in half a second: the snake
text: LUNGES FORWARD FIFTEEN FEET in the blink of an eye, its head
text: splitting the veil of the waterfall...inches away now...
text: WESTRIDGE LEAPS out of the falls, and the snake turns...
scene_heading: ANGLE DOWN ON WESTRIDGE:
text: THE DYING TREE STRAINS FROM THE WEIGHT, it's roots appearing
text: out of the loose soil.
text: TERRI AND DANNY WATCH, FROM © THE DECK, HORRIFIED...
text: Sarone approaches from behind, knife raised. He moves to
text: attack, and Danny turns just in time to see the blade coming
text: now. toward his heart and he reaches up and grabs Sarone's
text: wrist, stopping the knife just short. .
text: WIDE SHOT SHOWS THE TREE NOW FALLING
text: The snake lets holds tight at both ends, and Westridge hange
text: like ‘some strange fruit, struggling in vain.
text: MEANWHILE DANNY WRESTLES AND FIGHTS WITH SARONE
text: Dodging knife thrusts. His success is limited as sarone
text: Plunges the knife into Danny's thigh. Terr searches for some
text: weapon with which to help Danny, but her search is short as
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )-
dialog: 101
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
dialog: 106
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 83:
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 106
text: the crack of the tree causes her to turn and look up: it's
text: coming right down on her. She leaps overboard, narrowly '
text: avoiding it; one of the branches strikes Danny, knocking him '
dialog: into the water as well... : \
speaker_heading: 1
text: CLOSE ON WESTRIDGE, on the opposite side of the boat: The
text: anaconda squeezes the last breath out of him, and his final : '
dialog: expression is one of astonishment. ,
text: Terri and Danny find their bearings in the water. es
text: Sarone clatters up the steps to the pilot ‘house. . oO : t
text: The ANACONDA, hearing this noise, lets loose of Westridge and |
text: spins a slow circle in the water...
dialog: . . !
text: Sarone fires up the engines. The boat, already drifting,
text: ’ accelerates and moves out of frame, revealing the ANACONDA, : '
text: thirty yards from Danny and Terri. Danny sees the monster,
text: and grabs the back of the boat at the last moment with one
text: .hand, reaching out with the other for Terri. She can't reach
text: his. hand. He is being pulled away from her-~ he extends his
text: leg and she grabs it, holding on for dear life.
text: Danny struggles to pull himself onto the boat...Terri grabs
text: onto the railing...the ANACONDA is right behind them, moving
text: toward them with blinding speed. Terri pulls herself onto
text: the deck, then grabs Danny's hand to help him JUST AS
text: THE SNAKE LEAPS out of the water and bites Danny on the
text: ..shoulder, then starts to coil around him. Terri is knocked
text: back, and she looks around in panic. Sees the SHOTGUN and
text: runs for it. Grabs it. The snake is making a second loop
text: around Danny. Terri takes aim when:
text: DENISE'S BODY bobs up in the water, floating by. Startling .
text: Terri and distracting the snake.. Still coiled around Danny, -
text: the snake lunges at Denise's corpse, it's jaws clamping onto
text: Denise's shoulder and lifting her corpse from the water...
text: Greed is not good. Terri now has time to take more careful
text: aim, though now she hesitates-—- she doesn't ‘want to shoot
text: Denise though Denise is obviously dead. Terri looks at
text: Danny's. terrified, contorted face...the life is being sucked
text: out of him...she steadies herself. Aims again. . Shoots.
text: The snake's head explodes. Blood and skull bone and brain
text: shoot into the air. Instantly dead, the snake releases Danny
text: and flops like a pair of Jeans (a VERY LARGE pair) laid out
dialog: ~ to dry.
text: Terri reaches a hand down and helps Danny onto the boat, and
text: both ‘look as Denise's body floats off down the river.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OQ
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 84.
speaker_heading: 106 CONTINUED: (2) , 106
speaker_heading: _ DANNY
dialog: Now you know why I hate » snakes.
text: Suddenly, they hear the release of a tranquilizer gun.
text: .Turning sharply, they see an object streaking through the air
text: toward them! They dive aside just in time, and the dart
text: -takes a chunk out of the railing.
text: Sarone quickly reloads as Danny grabs the rifle and fires.
text: The bullet ricochets off the pilot house. :
text: Sarone and Danny creep around the deck, with Danny limping. :
text: from the knife cut on his leg. The tension is thick as they.
text: try to get a bead on each other.
scene_heading: ANGLE: CALE'S ROOM.
text: Cale hears the gunshots and, with some effort, sits up and
text: pulls himself to stand. Leaning heavily on the wall he
text: staggers out of the cabin.
scene_heading: ' ANGLE: ON DECK.
text: Sarone sees a shadow and fires a second dart. It whizzes
text: past Danny's head and flies off into the jungle. Danny
text: shoots back with the rifle, missing again.
text: Sarone has roamed away from his storage of darts, so he moves
text: quickly back to the footlocker for more. Opening the locker,
text: - he looks puzzled -- the darts are gone.
text: Cale is suddenly there behind him, thrusting the needle of a
text: tranquilizer canister into his back, directly between his
dialog: shoulder blades. :
text: Sarone screams in agony as he spins around. The knife is
text: suddenly in his hand. He weaves a bit as the tranquilizer
text: begins to take hold, and his swipe with the knife is weak and
dialog: wild.
text: Terri grabs Cale and pulls. him out of Sarone's range. Sarone
text: staggers after them like a drunken sailor. Reeling, bouncing
text: off walls, he won't stop.
text: Danny has Sarone in his sights. He squeezes off the killing
text: shot -- CLICK! The rifle is empty.
text: Just as Sarone corners terri and Cale, he turns groggy. His
text: eyes roll up into his head as he stumbles two more steps,
text: then falls over the railing and landing heavily in the water.
text: Danny watches Sarone's body go under.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 
dialog: a
dialog: . shooting Script - December 2 85.
speaker_heading: 106 CONTINUED: (3) 106
speaker_heading: : DANNY
dialog: Pleasant dreams...
text: C » And the barge moves forward through the water.
text: ‘ Danny turns and moves to Terri. Cale collapses in her arms
text: . exhausted and trembling. Danny helps her lift him.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Steven? Steven? Can you hear me?
speaker_heading: CALE .
dialog: Down. Put me down.
text: They lay him down on the deck. He chokes and gasps...finally
text: his breathing resumes a normal rhythm.
text: They see the DEAD SNAKE hanging off the deck. Danny gets up
text: and: moves toward it, still a little frightened, but needing
dialog: to face his fear. : .
speaker_heading: . : DANNY : ,
dialog: Where's my camera? I gotta get a shot of
dialog: this thing.
text: Danny turns to look for his camera. Terri is up and right
text: behind him. She kneels down and grabs the front of it and
text: hefts it overboard. It drops into the dark water, quickly
text: sinking to the bottom.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: No snakes.
dialog: Ch
text: A sputter and a gurgle as the engine churns and moans and the
text: propellors quit spinning and the noise of the engine ceases,
text: leaving only the sound of the jungle.
speaker_heading: - DANNY
dialog: Oh, shit...
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: . DANNY
dialog: I think we're out of gas.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I haven't said that since high school.
speaker_heading: | TERRI
dialog: The rest of our trip is downriver. We'll
dialog: make it. We have to.
speaker_heading: | : (CONTINUED) —,
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 106
dialog: 107
dialog: ,108
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 86.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) “ 106
text: She looks at Cale. .
speaker_heading: : TERRI :
dialog: Let's get him back in his room.
text: The boat has slowed to a virtual halt. Danny looks at the
text: wide, stagnant stretch of river that extends ahead as far as
text: the eye can see. It doesn't look good.
scene_heading: OMIT 107 . . Coe ce 107
scene_heading: CALE'S ROOM DAY : 108
text: She is surprised to see that Cale's eyes are open, searching
text: the room in feverish confusion. She quickly moves to him and
text: takes his hand.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Steven... -
text: He manages to focus on her face.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Terri...
dialog: . (beat)
dialog: Where are we? What happened?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: It's a long story, Steven. We're headed
dialog: home.. We're gonna get you home...
text: He smiles. She squeezes his hand.’
speaker_heading: CALE —
dialog: Dinner and a movie maybe?
speaker_heading: ee TERRI :
dialog: I pick the movie. Nothing with guns,
dialog: knives or bombs.
speaker_heading: ‘CALE
dialog: Chick: flick.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Damn straight...
text: He closes his eyes. To sleep now. His breathing is regular.
text: She touches his face tenderly... .
text: -+-and hears Danny calling her from offscreen. She
text: hesitates, then stands, moving out of the room.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 109
dialog: 
speaker_heading: 109A
speaker_heading: 109B
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1
scene_heading: EXT.. DECK DAY
text: terri emerges from Cale's room to the sight A wide
dialog: 87.
dialog: swath of
text: bright sunlight suddenly sweeps across the barge, and the
text: vegetation all give way to blue sky. Terri joins D.
dialog: anny in
text: the pilot house...and is hit by a WIDE SWATH OF SUNLIGHT
text: which sweeps across the barge. The once thick vegetation has
text: given way to clear blue sky all around her. She runs up to
dialog: the pilot house--
speaker_heading: ANGLE 3
text: Danny steers the barge as it drifts in the languid current.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I think he's gonna make it.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Fantastic.
text: The north shore broadens into a natural bay that is
dialog: littered
text: with 50 gallon drums and floating clots of oily scum. Sagging
text: cranes, mounted on concrete, overlook a vacant dock.
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
text: Hold the wheel.
text: Terri takes the wheel. Danny scrambles for his camera and
text: screws a long zoom lens into place. He walks out on deck and —
text: ‘looks through the lens.
scene_heading: DANNY'S POV - THROUGH THE SHIFTING FOCUS OF THE LEN
text: A large, decaying structure, partially reclaimed by the
text: jungle. Faded lettering reads : ANACONDA MILL CO.
dialog: Jeeps and ©
text: fuel trucks rust in.twisted hulks. A tall, brick smokestack
text: rises up out of the-debris.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: DANNY
text: Looks like an old mill or something.
text: Danny racks focus to reveal more of the strange devi
speaker_heading: DANKY (cout 'D)
dialog: I don't see any people.
dialog: astation.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) -
dialog: 109
speaker_heading: 109A
speaker_heading: 109B
dialog: I
dialog: shooting Script - December 1 88.
speaker_heading: 109B CONTINUED: 1098
dialog: © 112
dialog: 112
speaker_heading: TERRI :
dialog: Any extremely large reptiles?
text: Danny gives her a look.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: You don't believe Sarone's story?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: He was right about the guardian snake.
dialog: This looks like a lake...
text: ‘Several leaky. fuel drums bob on the tranquil surface of the
dialog: water.
speaker_heading: TERRI
text: Poisoned waters.
speaker_heading: : DANNY . ,
dialog: Look. We need fuel, drinking water.
text: Terri steers towards the dock.
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Ok. Let‘s go. Let's just be careful.
speaker_heading: OMIT 110 :
scene_heading: EXT. SAW MILL - DAY aul
text: Danny limps with Terri toward the mill. They walk past the
text: . heavily crumpled jeeps and mangled wreckage. The damage is
text: bizarre, otherworldly.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Jesus...what happened?
text: panny and Terri exchange a look, and « a shudder. "they know
dialog: what happened. .
text: Terri walks past a large incinerator, with a tall smokestack,
text: to the front doors of the mill. .
scene_heading: INT. MILL - DAY 112
text: Dust and filth everywhere. Danny and Terri look down the
text: length of the mill. Massive sawblades stand silent. Shafts of
text: grayish light penetrate the gloom. Stacks of lumber, cinder
text: blocks, rebar, crates, and other material are scattered in
text: random heaps. The floor is littered with sawdust, scraps of
text: wood, metal bindings, etc. Opposite the saw, connected by a
text: series of fractured catwalks, are the deserted mill offices.
text: Everywhere they look are signs that. the jungle has quioky
dialog: reclaimed the property.
speaker_heading: . omrrmuD)
dialog: ——rnansemeeeesneemnnemmmmmnnnennnnnnnemms tans iscsi
speaker_heading: O
dialog: shooting Script ~ pecember 1 "89.
scene_heading: 122 CONTINUED: ‘ : 112
text: As they walk through the mill a massive’ shadow shifts ever so
text: slightly behind them. Danny turns just as the shadow stills;
text: -he sees a‘ defunct telephone on the wall next to a faded
text: Playboy centerfold. Terri picks up the phone and puts it to
text: her ear.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Didn't pay their bill.
text: They walk towards the back of the building and stop short
text: when they see a large wood pulp mountain made up of rotted
text: scraps and discards on the back wall. The mountain blocks any -
text: doors or windows in the back. .
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
dialog: What the? .
text: Danny looks at the pulp mountain and it seems to be alive.
text: It is actually moving. It only takes a heartbeat for them to
text: realize that the wood pulp is swarmed by living anacondas :
text: -that squirm and writhe. They are young, no longer than six
text: feet, nesting in the pulp.
speaker_heading: TERRI -
dialog: Babies.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: (unnerved)
dialog: Whatever. Let's get out of here.
text: They move back towards the front and see an old incinerator
text: furnace, part-of the massive chimey that rises out of the
text: mill. Next to the furnace: a stack of 55 gallon fuel drums.
text: Danny shuffles quickly to a stack of fuel drums against the
text: wall. He wrestles one of the heavy drums into position.
speaker_heading: : DANEY (CONT'D)
dialog: Here we go.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Let's get them to the.boat.
text: Danny looks down at his leg. The exertion has opened his
dialog: wound.
speaker_heading: » DANNY
dialog: Ob man.
text: Terri notices. She takes off her shirt (she wears a T-shirt
text: beneath) and expertly t ties a tourniquet around his wound. The
text: flow is stopped.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED ) ’
dialog: 
dialog: : Shooting Seript - pecember 1 90.
speaker_heading: 112 CONTINUED: (2) 112
speaker_heading: DANEY (CONT'D)
dialog: Hey. You go to jungle survival school or : |
dialog: oY’ . something?
speaker_heading: — : TERRI
dialog: Nah. I saw a guy do it on the subway.
text: They tip a drum on its side and roll it towards the door.
scene_heading: 113 EXT. MILL - DAY o, 113
text: They come out. of the building with the fuel drum and
text: immediately see something unsettling:
text: The Boat has drifted away from the dock to the opposite
text: shore, a couple hundred feet upstream, where it sways in the
text: current, caught in a tangle of overhanging tree limbs.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: I set the anchor... |
text: ‘Terri rans towards the river. Danny jogs, limping, after .
text: Danny reaches her and they stand, next to a clump of trees,
text: watching the boat drift. The sudden horrible reality of the
text: situation becomes clear. . .
dialog: OS eae)
dialog: 
dialog: a ‘(hoarse whisper)
dialog: Sarone!
text: Suddenly a voice, a movement from behind.
speaker_heading: SARONE
dialog: No need to be discreet.
text: Danny and Terri spin towards the voice and are met head on
text: with the butt of a rifle.
scene_heading: CUT TO BLACK:
speaker_heading: OMIT 114
speaker_heading: FADE UP:
scene_heading: 115 INT. MILL ~- DAY . . 2115
text: Terri and Danny sit, still unconscious, back to back in the
text: middle of the factory floor. They are bound ankle and wrist
text: by gaffers tape and appear to be sitting in the middle of a
text: large net that has been spread on out on the floor. Sarone
text: stands in front of them holding a bucket.
speaker_heading: : (CONTINUED)
dialog: 
dialog: ——————— rT a f
dialog: : . shooting Script - December 1 . 91.
speaker_heading: 115 CONTINUED: : 115
speaker_heading: SARONE : , : ;
dialog: Rise and shine! :
text: WJ Sarone dumps the contents of the bucket on them. Danny and |
text: . Terri wake immediately as the sticky liquid hits their faces. |
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: (spitting)
dialog: Abh. Man!
speaker_heading: SARONE - .
text: A little monkey blood.
text: Terri's eyes burn into Sarone.
speaker_heading: ". TERRI
dialog: I'm going to. kill you Sarone! I swear to
dialog: God. I am going to kill you.
text: She squirms and thrashes trying to break free.
speaker_heading: . SARONE :
dialog: That's good. Excellent. You know the
dialog: secret is to put the hook just deep
dialog: enough into the worm so that it is still
dialog: alive. Bait needs to wiggle. Your
dialog: heat...the vibrations...the smell of
text: fresh blood.
speaker_heading: - TERRI
dialog: You are out of your fucking mind!
speaker_heading: SARORE
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: I'm not .a man of science like your Mr.
dialog: Cale, he's not a believer. I'ma man of
dialog: the river and I don't have. to believe.
dialog: (BEAT) I know..
text: Sarone slinks off into the shadows. Silence. The air grows
text: still. Shadows shift against the walls.
text: Suddenly Terri realizes, as Danny already has, ae complete
text: vulnerability of their situation. They both begin to squirm
text: and strain against the "shackles".
speaker_heading: DABINY : :
dialog: It's no use. This is the best tape you
dialog: ean buy.
text: TERRI lets out an animal scream of rage and frustration.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,
dialog: 115
dialog: 116.
dialog: 117
dialog: 119
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 92;
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: + (2)
text: As she screams the camera pulls back and up to the furthest
text: corner of the room. Danny and Terri sit together, specks on
text: the floor, like pieces of cheese for some. gigantic mouse. The
text: camera keeps pulling back, through a window, up and out of
text: the. bnilding, back and back further until the sawmill begins
dialog: to blend into the jungle.
scene_heading: IN THE IMMEDIATE FOREGROUND:
text: A long TONGUE flicks ont, entering our view from the upper
text: left corner. Sensing, smelling, seeing...
text: The CAMERA DIVES towards the mill, through branches and
text: walls, taking just seconds to frame Danny and Terri, jast as
dialog: we left them, struggling in vain...
speaker_heading: DANNY AND TERRI
text: Continue to thrash and struggle. Terri looks up and sees the
text: saw blades on the level above them.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Think we can make it up that ladder?
text: Danny cranes his neck. Knows what she's thinking.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Yeah. Maybe.
text: They wriggle across the floor -- without the use of arms or
text: legs they, ironically, move = Like snakes.
speaker_heading: OMIT 118
speaker_heading: DANNY AND TERRI
text: Almost to the bottom of the ladder, determined, it looks like
dialog: this just. might work...until we see the length of rope that
text: is tied to Danny's ankles and is now stretched taut, its
text: opposite end tied to a wooden post. Danny thunks his head
text: against the floor in frustration. :
text: Terri squints up at the saw blade only a short ladder climb
text: away. And suddenly, it‘s dark as night, as if someone has
text: just turned off the lights.
text: Danny looks up at the skylights. He and Terri see the
text: silhouette of a MASSIVE ANACONDA slithering across the roof
text: and into the building through a high window.
text: Terri gasps.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 115
dialog: 116
dialog: 117
dialog: 119
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: OD
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 93.
speaker_heading: 119 CONTINUED: 119
text: The snake flicks its. tongue out, ty Picking up their scent,
text: slithering through the window and down the entire length of
text: the wall...it keeps coming and coming, and for the first time
text: we see its astounding size -- forty plus feet. The catwalks
text: and ladders strain and creak under its immense weight.
text: The snake drops to the factory floor and mves towards the
text: terrified pair. Danny and Terri scoot away from the snake as
text: fast as they can, tearing and biting desperately at their
dialog: bindings. .
text: The snake comes quickly up to them, stops and rises over then
text: preparing to strike...mouth open...dripping fangs bared...
text: The snake lunges forward with blinding speed. Danny and Terri
text: attempt to roll out of the way. but the snake scoots towards
text: them, quickly coils around both of them, and starts to —
dialog: squeeze.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Sarone!
text: Her scream is cut off by the power of the constriction. : s
text: Sarone appears, swinging from a rope. The rope is attached to
text: a pulley and Sarone's weight quickly pulls a large net up
text: from the floor and around the snake. The snake, distracted
text: and angry, thrashes violently against the net. Loosening its
text: grip on Danny and Terri.
text: Sarone ties the rope down and moves forward, he raises the
text: tranquilizer crossbow and fires. The bolt cuts the air with a
text: hiss, hitting the snake full in. The snake hisses, a sound
dialog: not of this earth --
speaker_heading: . SARONE
dialog: (shouting back)
dialog: Who's the strongest now?
text: Sarone puts down the crossbow and walks towards the snake
text: with the large mazzle. But the snake isn't ready.to go to
text: sleep. The snake is aggravated. In one fierce movement the
text: snake tosses Danny and Terri like rag dolls, shreds the
text: netting and comes after Sarone.
text: Danny is badly bruised, but his. arms are now free.
speaker_heading: SARONE (CONT'D)
dialog: Another dose, eh?
text: Sarone is amazingly calm as he loads the crossbow and fires
text: again. This time missing -- the snake lunges at him, knocking .
text: the crossbow from his hands. Now Sarone is concerned. .
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) ,
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ST
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 94.
speaker_heading: 119 CONTINUED: (2)
dialog: 
text: Danpy rips the tape off his legs and helps Terri.
text: Sarone moves fast, racing up a rusty old ladder. The snake
text: follows. Sarone is almost to the top of the ladder...the
text: snake curling around it...climbing quickly...just as Sarone
text: is stepping off the ladder, the full weight of the snake
text: tears the rivets from the wall and the ladder, Sarone, and
text: snake fall to the ground with a thunderous crash.
text: Sarone lands hard, but manages to get to his feet. The snake
text: coils, preparing to strike. Sarone screams with primal rage,
text: his arms. extended as if he intends to wrestle the massive
text: reptile. ‘The snake strikes, meeting him head-on with an
text: awesome impact, quickly loops Sarone's body, and begins to
dialog: squeeze.
text: A machete, hanging from sarone's belt, gets caught between
text: the body of Sarone and the body of the snake, cutting into
text: ‘both as the snake powerfully constricts. Sarone struggles,
text: his face bright red and bulging, blood dripping from his
text: ears. The snake squeezes tighter, breaking bones are heard.
text: Blood erupts from Sarone's mouth and nose.. An eyeball bulges
text: obscenely before plopping out of its socket.
text: , Terri and Danny, now free, hide behind a stack of lumber.
text: ‘They watch in horror as the snake opens wide its jaws and
text: begins to swallow Sarone head first.
scene_heading: INT. SAWMILL - DAY
text: Danny and Terri creep quietly towards the front doors. The
text: snake lays still, digesting, between them and the door. A
text: large lump, formerly Sarone, can be seen below the snakes
text: neck. They sneak around a piece of machinery and the snake is
text: instantly alert to their movement, its massive tail whipping .
text: around, its tongue flicking out.
text: The snake is so big-his bédy, even when partially coiled,
text: seems to be. everywhere. The front doors are blocked by the
text: snake. A crack in the walls to the side are blocked by the
text: snake. Danny and. Terri’ look. over behind them and see the pulp
text: mound full of writhing anacondas. No way they're.climbing
text: over that to get out. They duck back into the shadows.
speaker_heading: : "DANNY
dialog: Ok.. Ok. We gotta get a grip.
text: Terri looks around.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Do you think thet tranquilizer worked?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 119
dialog: 120
speaker_heading: ’
dialog: Te .
dialog: shooting Script - December 1 95.
scene_heading: 120 CONTINUED: : 120
speaker_heading: DANNY :
dialog: Yeah...like half a beer to you and me.
speaker_heading: J TERRI
dialog: = Maybe he's done?
speaker_heading: DANRY
dialog: You think he won't snack between meals?
speaker_heading: . . TERRI
dialog: I don't know. We're trapped.
text: They exchange a look. : . , S,
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Ok. ..How do we kill it?
text: Terri looks up to the second floor.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Maybe there's something up there.
text: Danny: looks around and sees the answer: the fuel drums.
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
dialog: We burn it. You check out the office.
dialog: I'll try to figure this out.
dialog: ( ) OMIT 121, 122, 123,124
scene_heading: 125 INT. OUTER OFFICE - DAY 125
text: Terri walks quietly down the corridor and into the small
text: ‘outer office. She begins to search the decrepit office. she's
text: momentarily startled when she sees her reflection in a large,
text: dirty mirror. She finds a length of rope coiled in the
text: corner. She ducks down to pick it up and, at exactly the same
text: moment, the snake comes smashing in through the window
text: attacking the mirror with awesome ‘power,
text: The mirror explodes. ‘the snake -is momentarily stunned.. Terri
text: runs into the next office. She slams the door after her.
speaker_heading: omrr 126
scene_heading: 127 INT. INNER OFFICE - DAY . 127
text: She slams the door behind her. Barely able to catch her —
text: breath, before a small snake leaps at her from above, coiling
text: around her head. She grabs the feisty little snake, tearing -
text: it off her neck, and throws it to the floor. It slithers
dialog: between some boxes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED) =,
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Shooting Script — pecember 1 96.
speaker_heading: 127 CONTINUED: ,
text: Scanning the room -- a bookcase, a desk. She starts to rifle
dialog: through the drawers. First drawer -~ nothing. Second drawer -
text: - junk, paper, nothing useful. Third drawer -- smashes to the
text: floor -- a hammer. She reaches for it and at that moment the
text: .SOUND OF POUNDING against the door. She pushes the heavy desk
text: against the door. The snake keeps bashing against it.
text: SUDDENLY the wall next to her caves in as the snake smashes
text: through. it inches from her head. She backs away --
text: momentarily paralyzed: Her expression turns from terror to
text: revulsion as the snake takes a moment to regurgitate Sarone's
text: She vaults through the window back into the main room. The
text: snake is quick on her trail.
speaker_heading: 127A BOILER
text: There is no other escape route. She's trapped. Spying an old
text: heavy metal boiler nearby, she opens the small door and
text: climbs in, shutting herself inside.
scene_heading: 1278 INT. BOILER
text: Terri waits in the boiler, listening. Sounds come from the
text: other side of the room. All she can see is the ceiling above
text: her through the vent blades. A SUBTLE SHADOW moves across the
text: ceiling...then disappears. She looks relieved, and this
text: relief lasts for perhaps half a second before the SNAKE'S
text: MASSIVE HEAD comes into view. The snake stares straight at
text: her, its fangs bared, its tongue flicking in and out.
scene_heading: 127c INT. MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: THE SNAKE COILS WITH BLINDING SPEED around the boiler, the
text: heavy metal beginning to collapse like an aluminum beer can, -
text: closing around Terri. The rivets pop off and the bottom of
text: the boiler starts to come loose. The snake tries to LUNGE its
text: head into the boiler, its jaws snapping inches away from
text: Terri's face. But the opening of the grate is too small for
text: the snake's current width. Terri struggles to close the
text: spinning vent; but it has rusted. So...
text: The snake rears back and CONTRACTS ITS MUSCLES. .- becoming
text: skinnier before our eyes. It lunges again, jaws open, foot-
text: long tongue lashing out, inches from Terri. She doesn't even
text: think before smashing the vent with the. hammer, spinning it
text: closed and SLICING OFF THE SNAKE'S TONGUE -- using the vent
text: as a spinning guillotine.
text: Screaming with pain, the snake retreats...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 127
speaker_heading: 127A
speaker_heading: 1278
dialog: 127¢
dialog: a
dialog: 
dialog: I
dialog: Shocting Script - December 1 97.
speaker_heading: 127C CONTINUED: 127¢
dialog: 129
text: Terri drops out. of the bottom of the boiler and runs Like
text: hell through the splinteréd doorway, through the office
text: (where she stumbles over Sarone's partially digested corpse),
text: through the front room.
text: “the snake, wounded and angry, slithers after her.
dialog: omit 128 : . |
scene_heading: INT. INCINERATOR : : 129
text: Danny rolls another fuel drum into the incinerator. He's eet
text: about 4 or 5 or them there. He looks up the smokestack and
text: sees a series of rungs leading to the top.
text: Terri comes sprinting around the corner. Danny catches her.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Whoa! |
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (catching her breath )
dialog: It's coming.
text: Danny hears the otherworldly sound of the screaming, hissing,.
dialog: snake.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: (pointing to the incinerator)
dialog: We've got to get it in here. Give me that
dialog: rope.
text: Danny grabs the rope from her shoulder.
speaker_heading: uot DANNY
dialog: -It can follow me in.
text: The snake comes towards them hissing with killing fury. Terri
text: grabs the rope back from Danny.
speaker_heading: . TERRI
dialog: I got the legs, remember? You just do
dialog: your part.
text: Danny reaches for her, touches her shoulder, she smiles...he
text: wants to say something...but there's no time. The snake
text: starts to move towards them. Danny dives behinds some boxes.
text: Terri runs into the incinerator. Danny watches as the snake
text: follows her.
speaker_heading: TT
speaker_heading: O
dialog: 136
dialog: 137
dialog: 138
dialog: 139
dialog: 140
dialog: Shooting Script - December. 1 98.
dialog: OMIT 130, 131, 132, 133,.134, 135
scene_heading: INT. .SMOKESTACK- DAY . 136
text: Terri hangs on the lower rungs waiting for, what seems like a
text: lifetime, the snake to ooze in and locate her.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: ‘ Danny! This had better fucking work!
text: She begins climbing up the smokestack rungs, filthy with
text: soot. The coiled rope around her shoulder, the anaconda at.
dialog: her heels. .
scene_heading: INCINERATOR DOOR 137
text: Danny watches as the anaconda disappears inside the furnace.
text: He immediately begins to'roll one of the fuel drums into the
dialog: incinerator.
speaker_heading: DANNY .
dialog: Gonna barbecue the mother...
scene_heading: INT. SMOKESTACK "138
text: Terri furiously pulls herself through the dark brick tunnel.
text: Some of the metal rungs are loose and her feet slip and
text: dangle momentarily before she pulls herself, hand over hand,
text: up and up. Her face has a lock of fierce determination.
scene_heading: DANNY - . : . 139
text: Danny floods the incinerator floor with fuel. Several drums
text: stand open in the pool of combustible fluid. Danny dunks a
text: short length of canvas strapping into the fuel. He then rolls
text: the length outside: a makeshift fuse. He reaches in his
text: pocket. for his matches.: They are soggy with monkey blood.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: ‘shit!
scene_heading: EXT. SMOKESTACK - : 140
text: Terri finally reaches the top and emerges from the
text: smokestack. She pulls herself onto the rim's edge. She
text: balances there as the anaconda struggles to writhe out of the
text: marrow opening at her feet.
text: She takes the rope and ties it securely to the top rung,
text: -yanking it to test its strength. She tosses it over the edge,
text: but can't see if it reaches the ground below.
dialog: 
dialog: 
dialog: 141
dialog: 142.
dialog: _ 143
dialog: 144
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
dialog: 147
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1
scene_heading: EXT. SMOKESTACK
dialog: 
dialog: 99.
text: The snake is trying to force his head through the narrow
text: opening, and the bricks are beginning to give way....
scene_heading: INCINERATOR - CONTINUOUS
text: Danny ‘is trying, but the matches are damp and will not
text: light. Panicked, he tries to strike one after the other, but
text: there is no fire.
scene_heading: EXT. SMOKESTACK
text: The anaconda is thrashing in the throat of the smokestack,
text: snapping at Terri and lashing its stubby, bloody tongue.
text: terri loses her balance and falls. she lands over the top of
text: the smokesack...her torso suspended temptingly in front of |
text: the snake. The snake lunges at her and she throws her body
text: ‘over the edge.
text: Terri is hanging by her fingers from the rim, fifty feet
text: above the ground. She tries to shimmy along toward the rungs
dialog: and rope.
speaker_heading: INCINERATOR
text: Danny is in stark desperation. He has one match left. He
text: blows on it, blows on the edge of the matchbox. He closes his
text: eyes and strikes the match.
text: It lights.
speaker_heading: TERRI
text: Terri has almost reached the rungs and rope, but the anaconda
text: is: literally breaking apart the smokestack bricks. The bricks
text: she's holding on to give way and Terri makes a mad lunge for
text: the rope. She starts to slide down it.
speaker_heading: DANNY
text: Carefully protecting the flame, Danny delicately. places the
text: match in the fuel. The fuel greedily ignites.
speaker_heading: TERRI
text: Terri swings wildly from the end of the rope about twenty
text: feet from the ground. Danny runs under her.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: It's gonna blow! Jump!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED):
dialog: 141
speaker_heading: 1a42——S
dialog: 143
dialog: 144
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
dialog: 147
dialog: 147
dialog: 148
dialog: 149
dialog: 
dialog: Shooting Script - December 1 100.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Terri lets go. she drops about’ 20 feet into the bushes. Danny
text: runs to her and helps her up. They both sprint towards the
text: river as the fuel drums EXPLODE.
text: Flames roar up the smokestack like a rocket booster. The
text: brick walls bulge and explode and both Danny and Terri are
text: sent flying from the force of the shock wave. Danny lands in
text: the brush and Terri splashes into the river.’
speaker_heading: ANGLE:
text: Fire shoots out the top hundreds of feet into the air before
text: the smokestack itself disintegrates in a hail of bricks.
text: The entire four-story length of the anaconda momentarily
text: suspends vertically in mid-air,. engulfed in fire.
text: The burning anaconda falls to the ground, twisting in pain,
text: ‘ten feet from Danny. With great effort the snake rears back,
text: opens its mouth to the sky, and lets out a-.deafening hiss of
text: agony. Danny is frozen in terror as he watches the snake
text: exhale flames like a dragon. oe
text: The anaconda slides into the water, dousing the flames and
text: causing patches of oil te burn on the water's surface.
text: Terri stands trapped in the water as the anaconda appears to
text: Move straight towards her. The water swirls violently around
text: her...then stops.
text: Terri holds her breath until...the lifeless snake floats to
text: the surface. Terri's legs are tangled in the dead snake. She
text: pushes the snake away and runs to the shore.
text: Danny runs to meet her and they embrace.
speaker_heading: ; DANNY
dialog: You ok? - ,
speaker_heading: “TERRI
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: DANNY:
dialog: Yeah. Me too.
scene_heading: EXT. BOAT - DAY
text: A makeshift raft is anchored alongside the boat.
text: Danny smiles with relief as he pumps fuel from the dram into
text: the barge's fuel tank. .
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 147
dialog: 148
dialog: 149
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ST
text: Shooting Script — pecember 1 " 201.
speaker_heading: 149 CONTINUED: 149
text: : Terri sticks her head out of ‘the pilot house.
speaker_heading: —_ DANNY
dialog: CL She's full.
text: Terri cranks the starter and the engine rumbles to life.
text: Danny caps the tank and climbs up to the pilot house as Terri
text: moves the barge into the river's current.
scene_heading: 149A INT. PILOT HOUSE ~ CONTINUOUS : 149A
speaker_heading: DANNY (CONT'D)
dialog: I want a shower, some food, and the first
dialog: Plane outta here.
speaker_heading: TERRI : .
dialog: We can stop for a snakeburger on the way.
text: Danny shudders.
speaker_heading: . DANNY
dialog: You think you're funny don't you?.
text: Suddenly a flock of brightly colored parrots flies across the
text: river and around the barge.
speaker_heading: CALE (0.8)
dialog: “4 Beautiful.
text: S Terri and Danny turn and see Cale leaning against the door.
speaker_heading: . TERRI
dialog: Steven!
text: Danny grabs a chair and they help Cale sit down.
speaker_heading: CALE .
dialog: I was getting lonely.
text: Terri holds his hand tenderly.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Well we had, you know, some business to
dialog: take care of.
speaker_heading: CALE
dialog: Where is everybody?
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Long story.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: a
dialog: Shocting Script - December 1 . 102.
speaker_heading: 149A CONTINUED: / : 149A
dialog: - Yeah. We'll fill you in on the way home.
speaker_heading: O cuz
dialog: I'm ready to go home.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Me too. .
text: Terri smiles at him. Her expression changes as: she sees
text: something along the shore.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Look!
text: She points to the shore where shapes are emerging from the
text: jungle. One is well-lit by the sun. --definitely a member of
text: the Shirishama tribe. cCale's face lights up as he witnesses
dialog: something he never thought he'd see. Danny instinctively
text: reaches for his camera and starts to roll filn. .
text: ‘Terri reaches over and shuts the camera off.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Hey! What?
speaker_heading: TERRI .
dialog: Sarone.was right. We've got no business
dialog: ' being here. This is not our world.
speaker_heading: GQ
text: Cale waves to the tribe. The tribesmen smile and return the
text: greeting as the barge drifts slowly past...the figures slowly
text: blending back into the jungle.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
speaker_heading: THE END
speaker_heading: NY
dialog: 
