speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
text: on a well-worn PHOTOGRAPH ALBUM. An ELDERLY WOMAN'S
text: HAND touched the album, caressing it lovingly for a
text: moment, as WE HEAR her voice.
speaker_heading: TATIANA (O.C.)
dialog: Once we lived in an enchanted
dialog: world. . .
text: She opend the ALBUM to reveal a BLACK AND WHITE
text: PHOTOGRAPH of the PALACE AT ST. PETERSBERG on a
text: brilliant summer day.
speaker_heading: TATIANA (CONT)
dialog: A world of Tsars and Princesses
dialog: and elegant palaces. . .
text: CAMERA MOVES CLOSER TO the picture. . .
speaker_heading: TATIANA (CONT)
dialog: and grand parties. . .
text: The PHOTO dissolves into REALITY in brilliant color as
text: the day turns into night and the summer cools into
text: winter. We see the palace at night, blanketed in a
text: beautiful, almost glowing, snow as hourse drawn carriages
text: pull up to the front door.
speaker_heading: TATIANA (CONT)
dialog: A beautiful, magical time. . .
text: MOVE INTO THE PALACE
speaker_heading: TATIANA (CONT)
dialog: That would soon be gone
dialog: forever. . .
scene_heading: INT. PALACE AT ST. PETERSBERG - NIGHT
text: Elegant ROYALISTS mingle around the MAIN HALL as an
text: ORCHESTRA plays.
text: All eyes turn to the GLASS DOORS OF TWO ELEVADORS which
text: descend grandly on either side of a beautiful staircase.
text: Through the glass doors we see TATIANA, the Dowager
text: Empress, 60, imperious and bedecked with jewels, she is
text: seemingly unapproachable. TSAR NICHOLAS and his SON are
text: with her. In the other elevador, ALEXANDRA and her
dialog: daughters - well, all her daughters except. . .
text: ANASTASIA, eight years old and apparently late for the
text: party, rushes down the upstairs hallway followed by a
text: SERVENT (SONYA) 16, who is trying to catch up with
text: Anastasia to tie a large ribbon in her long, dark hair.
speaker_heading: SONYA
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Princess Anastasia - you're
dialog: late and it's all my fault!
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: Don't worry, Sonya, no one'll
dialog: notice. . .
text: Just then, Sonya lassoes the ribbon around her hair,
dialog: stopping Anastasia with a
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: (loudly)
dialog: . . . owwwwwwwww!
text: All eyes turn to Anastasia, who once she realizes that
text: she's the center of attention, flashes a mischievous
text: smile and descends the staircase in grand style. As the
text: ribbon falls out of her hair and down her back,
text: Anastasia kicks it to Sonya without breaking stride.
text: Tatiana sees her and can't help but smile.
text: The music suddenly becomes a FLOURISH OF TRUMPETS.
text: SERVENTS open the elevador doors as the ROYAL FAMILY
text: steps out and begins a proccession through their
text: subjects. Tatiana holds out her arm to Anastasia as she
text: makes it to Tatiana's side just in time. Anastasia has
text: a beautiful but slightly impish face, dominated by
text: large, blue, mischievous eyes. She an abundance of
text: energy and confidence for a girl her age.
scene_heading: "THE RULARS OF RUSSIA" (OPENING NUMBER)
text: The elegant guests sing their admiration as the
text: beautiful and happy Romanov family makes it's entrance
dialog: into the ball, they're "the pride of all Russia".
dialog: Vladimir invites Sophie to dance and the entire
text: glittering assembly assembly swings into a GLORIOUS SWEEPING
text: WALTZ. Singing their certainty that the Romanovs will
dialog: rule forever.
text: During the above, the ball is in full swing. Beautiful
text: COUPLES swirls across the dance floor, including
text: Anastasia dancing gracefully with her father.
text: Under a long buffet table, we see DMITRI, 11, darkly
text: handsome, dressed in ragged servant clothes, with a
text: shock of dark hair which continuoually falls accross his
text: eyes as watches the guest enviously. Anastasia, still
text: waltzing with her father, sees him. SERVENTS cross the
text: room carrying a trays of BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL FRUIT. The
text: guests "Ew" and "ah" at the sumptuous fruit. Anastasia
text: sees Dmitri eyeing it hungrily and without missing a
text: dance step, she grabs an orange off thr tray and tosses
text: it to Dmitri. He catches it and smiles broadly at her.
text: Suddenly, A HAND grabs Dmitri and pulls him out from
text: under the table. It's IVAR, the HEAD SERVENT, who pulls
text: Dmitri into an open wall panel.
speaker_heading: IVAR
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: You're a servent! Never forget
dialog: your place!
speaker_heading: DMITIRI
dialog: (defiant)
dialog: Someday my place will be out
dialog: there!
speaker_heading: IVAR
dialog: Never! You're a peasant,
dialog: Dmitri! Back in the kitchen
speaker_heading: RULARS OF RUSSIA (CONT.)
text: UNDERSCORE CONTINUES as Dmitri is dragged from his
text: hiding place under the table and back to the kitchen.
text: It's like the Moscow circus back there, COMIC MUSICAL
text: CONFUSION. The servants sing about their demanding
text: employers and mockingly imitate their behavior: they
dialog: imply that they have their own "party", that change is
dialog: coming.
text: While back in the ballroom, the Royalists are
text: oblivious to the servants discontent and sing their
dialog: satisfaction with their own lives.
scene_heading: DRAMATIC UNDERSCORE CONTINUES though the following
dialog: scenes.
speaker_heading: ON TATIANA
text: in a large throne-like chair. Tatiana is very serious
text: and very regal. She slides over to make room for
text: Anastasia who sits next to her.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Why were you so late tonight
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: I was showing Sonya
dialog: something . . .
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: What were you showing her?
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: (sheepishly)
dialog: How to read.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: I thought you were told not to
dialog: tutor your servants anymore.
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: I know, but I had to because . . .
text: Anastasia looks up at Tatiana and sees her smile with
text: pride. Anastasia knows she doesn't have to explain.
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: (cuddling)
dialog: Oh, Grandmama, why do you have
dialog: to go back to Paris?
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: It's where I've made my home
dialog: but I do have something for
dialog: you . . .
text: Tatiana reaches from behind the chair and brings out a
text: beautiful MUSIC BOX. Tatiana takes the key, a small
text: silver and enamel flower, on a silver neck chain and
text: winds it up. MUSIC BEGINS, she hands Anastasia the key.
speaker_heading: CLOSE UP
text: the key bearing the inscription "Together in Paris".
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: "Together in Paris"! Oh, when
dialog: can we be "together in Paris?!
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: When you're older . . .
text: Anastasia makes a disgruntled face. Tatiana laughs.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Until then, whenever you hear
dialog: this song, think of me and know
dialog: that I'm waiting for you.
text: Tatiana puts the key around Anastasia's neck and they
text: embrace. Then, suddenly . . .
scene_heading: ON THE GRAND CHANDELIER
text: the lights begin to fade in and out.
speaker_heading: GROUP SHOT
text: as PEOPLE in the ballroom look around bewildered. Then,
text: a WHIRLWIND kicks up, sending everyone off the dance
text: floor, as the whirlwind becomes a TORNADO.
text: Suddenly, an ALBINO BAT (BARTOK) with huge eyes, springs
text: out of the funnel, screeching and swooping over the
text: crowd, causing everyone to duck and cover their heads in
dialog: fear.
text: The tornada reaches it's peak and EXPLODES in smoke -
text: leaving RASPUTIN standing alone in the middle of the
text: floor. He is of indeterminate age, towering over other
text: men in the room, his most striking feature are his eyes
text: - which at this moment are burning a fiery red. He is
text: dressed in a flowing black monk's robe with a satin rope
text: tied around his waist. Connected to the rope is a
text: glowing RELIQUARY, a mystical lantern.
speaker_heading: VARIOUS SHOTS
dialog: of Nicholas, Alexandra, Sophie and Vladimir, Dmitri
text: peeking out ofthe wallpanel, Tatiana and Anastasia,
text: all of whom are frightened.
speaker_heading: NICHOLAS
text: as he gathers his son and wife to his side
speaker_heading: NICHOLAS
dialog: Rasputin! You're alive . . .
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (advancing)
dialog: Despite being shot, poisoned
text: and thrown into an icy river . . .
dialog: YES!
speaker_heading: NICHOLAS
dialog: (honestly)
dialog: I had nothing to do with it!
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: You gave the orders!
speaker_heading: NICHOLAS
dialog: I did no such thing!
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: After all I've done for your
dialog: family - YOU TRIED TO KILL
dialog: MEEEEEE ! ! !
text: Rasputin swings the reliquary, wrapping himself in smoke
text: which seems to grow larger. Eerie moaning noises come
text: from the reliquary. PEOPLE back awayin terror.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN (CONT.)
dialog: The Romanov dynasty ends here!
dialog: You, your wife and children
dialog: will all die within the
dialog: fortnight!
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: NO!
text: Anastasia leaves Tatiana and rushes to stand in front of
text: her father. Still holding her Music Box, Anastasia's
text: shaking hands are the only thing that gives away her
text: fear. Rasputin spins toward the voice.
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: We're not afraid of you!
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (furious)
dialog: You . . . my little babushka . . .
dialog: you'll be so much fun to kill
dialog: that I'll save you for last!
text: Twirling the reliquary again, the MOANS grow louder as
text: Bartok circles around his head. The smoke that emerges
text: seems to have almosy a human shape to it.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
text: THIS IS THE END OF THE ROMANOV
scene_heading: LINE - FOREVER !!!!
text: The tornada of smoke begins again, whipping into a
text: frenzy and then EXPLODING.
text: The smoke clears and Rasputin is gone. As the lights
text: return to normal the Romanov family all stand together,
text: and try to look regal and in control once again.
speaker_heading: TATIANA (O.C.)
dialog: Some say Rasputin ad harnessed
dialog: all the dark powers of evil and
dialog: that it was his curse which
dialog: brought about the end . . .
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: the ROMANOV FAMILY fades into a PORTRAIT OF THE FAMILY.
speaker_heading: TATIANA (O.C.)
dialog: I will never know for sure.
dialog: All I do know is that the
dialog: beauty of our world was soon
dialog: Gone . . . Forever . . .
text: a lick of BRIGHT ORANGE FLAME creeps into view.
scene_heading: "RULERS OF RUSSIA" (VOCAL REPRISE)
text: HUGE, OMINOUS VOCALS reprise the onceglorious watlz
text: of the Romanovs, heralding the end of their world and
text: underscoring the coming revolution.
speaker_heading: PULL BACK
text: to see the PORTRAIT, a huge FRIEZE which covers an
text: entire entire wall, singeing as the FLAME creeps up the nearby
text: drapery, tinting the room in a red glow.
text: A SCREAMING MOB, some in uniform, some not, has crashed
text: into the palace and is heading up the stairs. A few in
text: the mob fire off orange RIFLE SHOTS.
scene_heading: INT. ANASTASIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Anastasia BOLTS UP, hearing the shots. Her music box is
text: next to her on her nightstand.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Mass confusion as the MOB is met by a few SERVANTS, who
text: try to stop them from advancing. More shots.
scene_heading: ON THE ROMANOV'S
text: still in nightclothes, are being rushed down the
text: hallway. Tatiana is next to Anastasia as Anastasia
text: stopsdead in her tracks.
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: My music mox!
text: Anastasia turns around and runs back down the hall.
text: Tatiana tries to stop her.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Anastasia, no!
text: It's too late, Anastasia fights her way back into her
text: room, with Tatiana following her.
text: FROM THE OTHER END OF THE HALLWAY
text: we see Dmitri watching amidst all the confusion.
scene_heading: INT. ANASTASIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Anastasia grabs her music box as Tatiana rushes in.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Hurry, child!
text: LOUD RIFLE SHOTS are heard as Dmitri bursts into the
text: room, closing the door behind him.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: No - this way!
text: Dmitri runs to a wall panel and thows his weight
text: against it. It opens, revealing a passage way.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CONT.)
dialog: Go! Run!! Out the servant's
dialog: quarters!
text: Tatiana, enormously grateful, looks at Dmitri as he
text: flips his hair out of his face unconsciously.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Go!
text: Tatiana goes in as Dmitri shoves Anastasia toward the
text: passageway, knocking the music box out of her hand. She
text: reaches for it, but hearing the mob voices growing
text: closer, he pushes her through the panel without it.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CONT.)
dialog: Go!
text: Tatiana quickly follows Anastasia into the passageway
text: and Dmitri closes the panel JUST AS the mob bursts in.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CONT.)
dialog: (lying to the mob)
dialog: No one's here! Let's try the
dialog: next room!
text: The MOB, accepts the word of a peasant boy and rushes
text: out. Dmitri picks up the music box and looks sadly
text: toward the panel.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT
text: Which is under siege by ROYALISTS trying to board the
text: overcrowded train and the REVOLUTIONARIES who are trying
dialog: to stop them.
text: A TOURING CAR pulls up RIGHT ON THE TRACKS behind the
text: caboose as the train starts to pull away.
text: Tatiana and Anastasia climb out of the car and race for
text: the train, fighting their way through the frenzied and
text: frightened crowd. WE HEAR shouts of "The Empress - let
dialog: her through!" which helps clear the way.
text: Anastasia reaches the train first, then turns to see
text: Tatiana. trying to catch up.
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: Hurry, Grandmama!
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Get on! Anastasia, get on!
text: Anastasia refuses to board the train.
speaker_heading: UP AHEAD
text: A MOB OF REVOLUTIONARIES block the tracks with a TRUCK
speaker_heading: ON ANASTASIA
text: who pushes Tatiana up the stairs of the caboose. This
text: puts Anastasia a few steps behind as the train speeds
text: up. Tatiana is gripped by other passengers as she
text: reaches out to Anastasia.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Grab my hand!
text: Anastasia reaches up and takes Tatiana's hand.
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA
dialog: Don't let go!
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: the TWO HANDS. then suddenly. her small hand is pulled
text: from Tatiana's grasp and falls out of the frame.
speaker_heading: TATIANA (O.C.)
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA!
speaker_heading: ON ANASTASIA
text: who has stumbled, hitting the ground hard.
speaker_heading: ON TATIANA
text: horrified, screaming:
speaker_heading: TATIANA
speaker_heading: ANASTASIA!
text: Tatiana rushes to jump off the train after her, but is
text: caught and held back by the ROYALIST PASSANGERS as the
text: train CRASHES through the truck and picks up speed.
speaker_heading: TATIANA's POV:
text: Anastasia rising from the ground, her hand outstretched.
text: But she is suddenly swallowed up by the mob.
speaker_heading: SUPERIMPOSE:
text: A BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPH
text: of Anastasia, in a happier time, smiling.
scene_heading: UNDERSCORE: "THE MUSIC BOX THEME"
speaker_heading: TATIANA (O.C.)
dialog: I never saw her again. . .
text: The PHOTO ALBUM slowly closes. . .
scene_heading: END OPENING NUMBER
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY
text: A gray and ugly, post-revolution building with a sign
text: above the door that identifies it: "Young Comrades
dialog: Without Parents".
scene_heading: INT. ORPHANAGE - DAY
text: CHILDREN of all ages clean the cold, gray dormitory.
text: Their clothes are ragged and they look underfed.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: ANYA, 18, pretty despite the boy's hand-me-down clothes
text: she is forced to wear, is busy scrubbing the floor.
text: Unlike the others, she is determined not to let her
text: surroundings get to her. She hums a tune.
text: The door suddenly SLAMS open and GREGOR, 8, and clearly
text: terrified, comes running in followed by COMRADE
text: PHLEGMENKOF - a huge woman carrying a switch.
speaker_heading: GREGOR
dialog: Anya! Anya!
text: All of the OTHER KIDS turn away, not wanting to get
text: involved. Anya focuses on Gregor, who is shivering with
text: fright and on the verge of tears as Phlegmenkof
text: approaches, swinging the switch menacingly.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF
dialog: You can't get away from me
dialog: now . . .
text: Phlegmenkof advances on Gregor. Anya takes the scrub
text: brush and SHOVES it across the floor, right under
text: Phlegmenkof's unsuspecting foot. Phlegmenkof's feet fly
text: out from under her and she SMASHES to the floor. Gregor
text: hops over her huge body and runs to Anya for safety.
text: Some of the OTHER KIDS glance over. A CHUBBY GIRL and a
text: very pretty LITTLE GIRL, look at Anya with greeat
dialog: admiration . . . someof the OTHERS think she's crazy.
text: Phlegmenkof rises, covered with soap bubbles , and spins
text: on Anya - who gives her a very innocent smile.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF (CONT.)
dialog: You! You did this!
text: Some of the OTHER CHILDREN laugh as soap bubbles fly off
text: the enraged woman. She spins on them, her back to Anya.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF (CONT.)
dialog: Brats! There'll be no supper
dialog: for any of you! Back to work!
text: Anya, behind Phlegmenkof, mimics her outraged face and
text: angry gestures perfectly - as the CHILDREN laugh harder.
text: Phlegmenkof spins and almost catches Anya. She advances
text: on Anya as Gregor hides behind her legs.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Don't touch him.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF
dialog: (to Anya)
dialog: You ragged, skinny, little
dialog: nothing! I have had just about
dialog: enough of you . . .
text: Phlegmenkof raises her hand to slap Anya, who hold her
text: ground. Suddenly, Phlegmenkof SNIFFS the air.
speaker_heading: ON THE KIDS
text: as the horrible smell reaches them too. They all make
text: faces and hold their noses.
speaker_heading: ON PHLEGMENKOF
text: who first sniffs under her raised arm, then realized the
dialog: cause of the stench . . .
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF (CONT.)
dialog: Comrade Serebreakov!
text: She tries to straighten herself out nervously - this
dialog: must be someone very important.
text: COMRADE SEREBREAKOV stands in the doorway, lecherously
text: eyeing the girls. He is a huge, fleshly man with facial features which are reminiscent of a fish.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF (CONT.)
dialog: (flirting)
dialog: Comrade Serebreakov! What a
dialog: lovely surprise! What brings
dialog: you here?
speaker_heading: SEREBREAKOV
dialog: I need. . . a worker.
text: His eye catches Anya. He looks her up and down, his
text: beady eyes showing a touch of lust for her.
speaker_heading: SEREBREAKOV (CONT.)
dialog: I will take her.
text: He leans close close to Anya.
speaker_heading: SEREBREAKOV (CONT.)
dialog: Tomorrow you begin your life's
dialog: work in my hearing factory.
dialog: You'll start by cutting off the
dialog: tails - but if I'm pleased with
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: SEREBREAKOV (CONT.)
dialog: you - you just may move up to
dialog: cutting off the heads. How
dialog: does that sound?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: About as bad as you smell!
text: Phlegmenkof moves between them, pulling Serebreakov
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF
dialog: No, no, Comrade - you don't
dialog: want her . . .
speaker_heading: SEREBREAKOV
dialog: I want her.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF
dialog: That's horrible, skinny thing?!
dialog: She's crazy - she has no memory
dialog: of anything before she came
dialog: here! She didn't even know her
dialog: name! That one is a rotten
dialog: troublemaker, willful. . .
speaker_heading: SEREBREAKOV
dialog: I'll break her will. . .
dialog: (to Anya)
dialog: I shall come for you tomorrow
text: at dawn.
text: (he touches her face as
dialog: she pulls away)
dialog: You will enjoy serving under
dialog: me.
text: Smiling in anticipation, he exit.
speaker_heading: PHLEGMENKOF
dialog: I couldn't break you - but he
dialog: can!
text: And she turns to leave in a huff. Anya does one more
text: imitation of her, making the CHILDREN laugh. But as
text: Anya turns away from her audience, we see her facade
text: fade and realize her terror of the future.
scene_heading: INT. ORPHANAGE - NIGHT
text: The CHILDREN huddle in their cots under tattered, thin
text: blankets. Anya is fully dressed, illuminated by the
text: light of a FULL MOON, she ties a dull gray sheets together
text: and anchors the "rope" to an ice cold radiator and
text: throws the other end out of the window. She is about to
text: climb out when she looks at the sleeping children and
text: smiles sadly. She walks over to Gregor's bed and puts
text: one hand lovingly on his head and then reaches over and
text: takes the hand of a sleeping LITTLE GIRL, who opens her
text: eyes and smiles.
speaker_heading: GREGOR
dialog: (loudly)
dialog: Anya?
text: The other childern wake up as Anya gently "shushes" him.
speaker_heading: GREGOR (CONT.)
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Are you running away?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: No. I'm running to.
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
dialog: Running to? Running to what?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: To find my home.
text: A CHUBBY TWELVE YEAR OLD GIRL looks at Anya.
speaker_heading: CHUBBY GIRL
dialog: But you are home.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: No. This isn't a home - it's
text: just a building. Home is where
dialog: you belong and none of us
dialog: belong here.
speaker_heading: GREGOR
dialog: Where is your home, Anya?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I'm not sure but look. . .
text: Anya shows Gregor the key around her neck.
text: CLOSE UP on the inscription: "Together in Paris"
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: It says "Together in Paris". I
dialog: was wearing this when I came
dialog: here ten years ago - it's the
dialog: only way that I know . . .
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: . . . that I must have been
dialog: someone someone loved.
speaker_heading: CHUBBY GIRL
dialog: Is your home in Paris?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: It might be. I have to go and
dialog: find out.
text: Anya smiles lovingly at the children.
text: "A SOMEPLACE AND A SOMEONE"
text: (Anya's "I want" song). Anya SINGS SOFTLY to the
text: children about how all she has is the key around her
dialog: neck to the "someone and thesomeplace" she was "lost
text: from long ago". She tells the children that she must go
dialog: find them again.
text: UNDERSCORE continues.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I have to go now, before it
text: gets light.
speaker_heading: GREGOR
dialog: (worried)
dialog: But what if we can't ever find
dialog: where we came from?!
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Then you'll have to make your
dialog: own home. Lots of people do.
text: Anya embraces the children and walks to the window.
speaker_heading: GREGOR
dialog: (nervous, sad)
dialog: Anya! What if we can't find
dialog: anyone who loves us?!
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Then come find me.
text: Gregor is relieved and cuddles into his bed as Anya
text: smiles lovingly and crawls out the window.
scene_heading: EXT. ORPHANAGE - NIGHT
text: Anya begins to climb down the street, testing the knots.
text: The knotshold tight, but the old sheet RIPS in half,
text: sending her PLUMMETING into a snow drift. From the
text: depths of the snow we HEAR her voice.
speaker_heading: ANYA (O.C.)
dialog: I hope there's no snow in
dialog: Paris. . .
scene_heading: EXT. HILLSIDE - DAWN
text: A glorious bright (and cold) dawn creeps over the
text: horizon. Anya stands at edge of the hill, looking
text: down on the city of ST.PETERSBURG. The old gray
text: orphanage looms behind her. Anya "borrows" an old,
text: beat-up bicycle from the orphanage and rides down the
dialog: hill.
text: Music picks up in energy and excitement as Anya zooms on
text: her way bumping and bouncing downhill as the sunrises
text: and St. Petersburg looms nearer.
scene_heading: "A SOMEONE AND A SOMEPLACE" (CONT.)
text: Music becomes UPTEMPO, HOPEFUL, ACTIVE, ACTIVE. Anya SINGS -
text: - full of hope, energy and excitement as she peddls her
text: rickety bike toward the city. "Her heart is on its way"
dialog: and nothing is going to stop her.
text: Anya passes though the countryside toward the city. A
text: peasant family waves to her as she goes by. A Gypsy
text: Troupe performs tricks by the side of the road. A very
text: fancy car zooms by.
scene_heading: "A SOMEONE AND A SOMEPLACE" (CONT.)
text: Anya SINGS, imagining who she might be -- anyone from
dialog: a peasant to a princess! But it doesn't matter as long
text: as she finds her real family.
text: People stare at her as she rides into the edge of the
text: city. She is captivated by all the activity: cars,
text: busses, stores, long lines of people, etc.
scene_heading: "A SOMEONE AND A SOMEPLACE" (CONT.)
dialog: Anya SINGS -- in this sea faces, there must be
text: someone who has a clue to her identity. She'll stop at
text: nothing to find the someone who once loved her. SOARING
scene_heading: MUSICAL AND VOCAL CONCLUSION.
scene_heading: END MUSICAL NUMBER
text: Anya does not see a cute little PUPPY (MEETOO) with a
text: HUGE BONE in his mouth, being chased along the sidewalk
text: by a pack of much larger, vicious DOGS until he bolts
text: across Anya's path forcing her to skid to a stop. She
text: watched him as he scoots into an alley, followed by the
text: angry pack.
text: On reflex, Anya drops the bike and reuns into the alley
text: after him.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - DAY
text: Meetoo is trapped. The PACK surrounds him, ready to
text: pounce when Anya LEAPS into the middle of the circle.
text: The PACK is startled, but begins to advance on both Anya
dialog: and Meetoo.
text: Anya doesn't know what to do. She crouches and then. . .
text: growls back at them, making her eyes look as ferocious
text: as possible. The PACK exchange a confused look; there's
text: a girl growling at them. Meetoo stands, suddenly brave,
text: behind her and growls along with her.
text: Suddenly, Anya pounced toward the pack, growling louder.
text: The pack has definately had enough - some start to back
text: out quizzically, others turn and run like hell.
text: Anya turns to Meetoo, who looks up at her gratefully,
text: wagging his tail. Anya picks up the bone and puts it
text: back in his mouth.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I think you should be more
dialog: careful about who you invite to
dialog: dinner!
text: Meetoo nods and lets out a little "bark" that sounds as
text: if he were saying "retu". Anya pats him and heads back
text: to her bike.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. PETERSBURG STREET - DAY
text: Anya rides down the street. She doesn't see Meetoo,
text: running like a little maniac behind her.
text: Anya approaches a STERN LOOKING BUILDING with a sign
text: over the door: "The People's Bureau of Bureaucracy".
text: She leaps off her bike and heads up the stais. Meetoo,
text: breathing heavily from his run, follows and almost
text: reaches her when the heavy door slams in his face. He
text: slumps against it, panting, his little paw-to chest.
scene_heading: INT. BUREAU OF BUREAUCRACY - DAY
text: Anya enters and STOPS when she sees. . . LINES and LINES
text: of people which seem to go on forever. She walks down
text: the side of one line, trying to figure out which one to
dialog: stand in.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Could someone tell me. . .
speaker_heading: PEASANT 1
dialog: End of the line!
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Which line?
speaker_heading: PEASANT 2
dialog: Any line.
speaker_heading: PEASANT 3
dialog: All lines are good lines.
scene_heading: PEASANT 1, 2, &amp; 3
dialog: (in unison)
dialog: In our beloved Soviet Union!
text: They turn toward an armed Soviet Guard and smile
text: sweetly, hoping he heard their flattery. He did.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Very good. . .
text: He jots something down in his notebook.
speaker_heading: ON ANYA
text: as she gets closer to the window. She turns to the
text: person behind her.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Is this the right line to get
dialog: papers to travel?
speaker_heading: PEASANT 4
dialog: Travel? Travel to where?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: To Paris. I have to get to
dialog: Paris
text: PEASANT 5, in front of her, turns around.
speaker_heading: PEASANT 5
dialog: Paris?! What do they have in
dialog: Paris that they don't have
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: PEASANT 6
dialog: Shorter lines?!
text: Peasant 6 is immediately carted off by TWO ARMED GUARDS
dialog: for his blasphamy against the state.
speaker_heading: PEASANT 7
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Nobody leaves Soviet Russia.
text: The OTHER PEASANTS join in with variations of "Nobody
text: leaves Russia" as Anya reaches the window and speaks to
dialog: the clerk.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Is this where I get traveling
dialog: papers?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: It would be if we let you
dialog: travel which we don't so it
dialog: isn't.
dialog: (loudly, for all to
dialog: hear)
dialog: Russia is the people's
dialog: paradise!
text: And to further make his point, he slams shut his window,
text: which immediately opens a crack as he whispers to Anya.
speaker_heading: CLERK (CONT.)
dialog: See Dmitri. He can help.
text: He shuts the window, only to open it again immediately.
speaker_heading: CLERK (CONT.)
dialog: But you didn't hear it from me.
text: He shuts the window.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (doesn't get it)
dialog: I didn't
text: He opens it again.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: No.
text: The clerk sticks out a sign: "Samovar Break - back in
text: ten minutes" and slams the window shut.
scene_heading: EXT. BUREAU OF BUREAUCRACY
text: Anya steps out of the building, still not seeing Meetoo
text: and looks around at the hoards of people waiting in
dialog: lines for everything: bread, gas, clothes, etc.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Dmitri? There must be a
dialog: million Dmitris. . .
speaker_heading: FOLLOW ANYA
text: as she wades into the crowded street. Meetoo getting
text: tangled in the legs of waiting Soviets.
text: Anya stops suddenly. She sniffs the air. Her eyes
text: widen as she recognizes the stench that is floating
text: through the air. She spins around and sees Serebreakov
text: DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET.
text: Serebreakov is on a mission to find Anya. He turns in
text: her direction just as a bus passes. Anya is gone.
text: We now see Anya clinging to the side of the bus as it
text: drives down the street. Meetoo looks, his face dropping
text: - he knows he'll never catch up to her now. Then he
text: sees the bus hit a huge pothole and Anya is knocked off
text: into the mud. Happily, Meetoo trots off in her
dialog: direction.
text: Anya approaches TWO PEASANTS who are waiting in line in
text: front of a cafe.
speaker_heading: PEASANT 9
dialog: (to Peasant 10)
dialog: Which line is this?
speaker_heading: PEASANT 10
text: The line to get into the line.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Excuse me, do you know
dialog: Dmitri. . .
speaker_heading: PEASANT 9
dialog: I know nothing!
speaker_heading: PEASANT 10
dialog: Nothing!
scene_heading: PEASANTS 9 &amp; 10
dialog: (whispering
dialog: simultaneously)
dialog: Try the tavern/ library.
text: They begin to bicker back and forth in forced whispers
text: as to wether Dmitri is at the tavern or the library.
text: Exasperated, Anya walks away. They call after her.
scene_heading: PEASANTS9&amp; 10
dialog: But we didn't tell you!
text: Anya rolls her eyes in frustration. She doesn't see
text: Meetoo at her feet.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (To herself)
dialog: I wish they'd all stop telling
dialog: me they didn't tell me!
text: Meetoo gives a "retu" of agreement. Anya looks down and
text: sees him.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: What are you doing. . .
text: Just then, she catches another whiff of something foul
text: in the air. Anya duck quickly into a doorway and loses
text: Meetoo. Anya peeks out. A GARBAGE WAGON full of dead
text: fish and rotten food passes Anya. She sighs with relief,
text: it wasn't Serebreakov - it just smelled like him.
text: Anya steps out of the doorway and approaches a STREET
text: ARTIST sketching a LARGE PEASANT WOMAN as her TINY
text: HUSBAND looks over his shoulder.
scene_heading: TINY HUSBAND
dialog: (To Artist)
dialog: Could you get rid of her
dialog: moustache?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Excuse me - I'm looking for a
dialog: man named Dmitri. . .
text: The Artist quickly scribbles and address on his pad and
text: hands it to her without turning around.
speaker_heading: ARTIST
dialog: But I didn't write it.
text: Anya looks down at the note
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON NOTE
dialog: "St. Petersburg Art Theatre - 99 Pushkin Street"
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO
speaker_heading: A SIGN
dialog: "Pushkin Street"
scene_heading: CAMERA PANS TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ST. PETERSBURG ART THEATRE - DAY
text: Where WE HEAR a cacophony of FEMALE VOICES as the camera
text: moves inside.
scene_heading: INT. ST. PETERSBURG ART THEATRE
text: The waiting room is filled with YOUNG WOMEN, of various
text: shapes and sizes, holding reading aloud from a piece of
dialog: paper. WE HEAR many variations of "Oh, Grandmama! It's
dialog: me, Anastasia. I've waited so long to see you".
scene_heading: INT. STAGE
text: An ACTRESS stands in front of what looks to be an OLD
text: WOMAN in a shawl who's back is to the "audience".
speaker_heading: ACTRESS 1
dialog: (over the top)
dialog: Oh, Grandmama! It's me,
dialog: Anastasia! I've waited so
dialog: long to see you!
text: The Actress then LUMBERS over to the OLD WOMAN, with a
text: gait like John Wayne.
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: to see the "Old Woman" is Vladimir, with a shawl over
text: his head. He looks older, of course, but with the same
text: dapper mustache. He rolls his eyes.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (out to audience)
dialog: Dmitri! I can not work with
dialog: her!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR (CONT.)
dialog: (to Actress)
dialog: May I remind you that you are
dialog: supposed to be Princess - not a
dialog: lazy lumbering lout!
scene_heading: IN THE SEATS
text: is Dmitri. Now 20 and darkly handsome. His hair still
text: falling in his eyes as he flips it off his forehead.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Vladimir, calm down!
text: Vladimir walks off the stage and toward Dmitri.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: This, my friend, as an exercise
dialog: in futility! We shall never
dialog: find a girl to play the
dialog: Princess Anastasia out of this
dialog: motley crew of commoners!
text: Vladimir dramatically throws one end of his shawl over
text: his shoulder.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: For a ten million rubles reward
dialog: we can look a little longer.
dialog: This is the big one. . . and all
dialog: I need is the right girl.
scene_heading: "A SOMEONE AND A SOMEPLACE" (REPRISE
text: (Dmitri's "I want") Dmitri SINGS a reprise of Anya's
text: song, a COMIC VERSION, in which he expresses the hope
dialog: that he can find the right girl for his scam. Anyone
dialog: from a peasant to a princess will do, as long as she can
dialog: fool Tatiana. (NOTE: We don't want to give Dmitri a
dialog: whole new song here or we'll be too song-heavy in Act I.
text: By giving him a short reprise of Anya's song, we can
dialog: effectively align these two characters emotionally.)
speaker_heading: QUICK CUTS:
dialog: of various aspirants:
speaker_heading: ACTRESS 2
dialog: (heavy hasal)
dialog: Oh, Grandmama! It's me,
dialog: Anastasia. I've waited so long
dialog: to see you.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (O.C.)
dialog: Next!
speaker_heading: ACTRESS 3
dialog: (stupid)
dialog: Oh. . . Grandmama it's me.
dialog: Anastasia, I have waited so
dialog: long, too.
dialog: (as a good-bye)
dialog: See you!
speaker_heading: DMITRI (O.C.)
dialog: Next!
text: ACTRESS 4 looks like a hooker and sounds like Mae West.
speaker_heading: ACTRESS 4
dialog: Oh. . . Grandmama. . . It's me. . .
speaker_heading: DMITRI (O.C.)
dialog: Next!
speaker_heading: BACK TO DMITRI
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: I wouldn't be on the outside
dialog: anymore. The ten million
dialog: rubles would make me welcome
dialog: anywhere. I'd really belong
dialog: somewhere - if I could just
dialog: find the right girl.
scene_heading: BACK TO QUICK CUTS:
dialog: A very round ACTRESS 5
speaker_heading: ACTRESS 5
dialog: Oh, Grandmama. . .
speaker_heading: DMITRI (O.C.)
dialog: Next!
speaker_heading: ACTRESS 6
dialog: (very intense)
dialog: What's my modivation?
speaker_heading: ON VLADIMIR
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (calling out to seats)
dialog: Stanislavski!
scene_heading: CUT TO STANISLAVSKI
text: shrugs innocently.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (O.C.)
dialog: Next!
text: ACTRESS 7 is actually a man.
speaker_heading: ACTRESS 7
dialog: Oh. . .
speaker_heading: ON DMITRI
text: in a state of disbelief.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: I've gotta find the right girl!
scene_heading: END MUSICAL NUMBER
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Next.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. PETERSBURG ART THEATRE
text: Anya rides up to front of the theatre and drops her
text: bike. She rushes the steps.
scene_heading: INT. THEATRE
text: now empty as Dmitri and Vladimir are gathering up their
text: things to leave. Vladimir still wears the remnants of
text: the evening clothes that he worein the first scene.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: It's no use, Dmitri - we'll
dialog: never find the right girl!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: We will. We have to.
dialog: (trying to cheer him
dialog: up)
dialog: Come on, Vlad - she's out
dialog: there.
text: They walk out the door.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. PETERSBURG ART THEATRE - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: She could be right under our
dialog: nose
text: Anya is running up the stairs as Dmitri walks out and
text: they COLLIDE: her forehead banging Dmitri literally
text: under his nose. Dmitri grabs his upper lip in pain.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (over reacting)
dialog: Ouch! That really hurt!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I'm sorry. . . I'm. . .
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: That's quite a hard head you've
dialog: got there, boy.
text: In her old hand-me-down boys clothes andhat pulled low,
text: she could easily be mistaken for a boy.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (breathless)
dialog: I'm looking for Dmitri. I need
dialog: traveling papers - to Paris. I
dialog: heard Dmitri could help me.
text: Vladimir and Dmitri exchange a look. . . wary. . . Dmitri
text: looks around and motions to Vladimir to handle it while
text: he walks ahead nonchalantly.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Who did you hear it from?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I heard it from everyone who
dialog: said I didn't hear it from
dialog: them! Do you know Dmitri?
text: Dmitri keeps walking ahead followed by Vladimir. Anya
text: is determined not to give up and keeps up with Vladimir
text: even though she keeps getting bumped and pulled off
text: track by people walking in the opposite direction.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (loudly, acting)
dialog: Providing travel papers is
dialog: illeagal!
dialog: (then, quietly)
dialog: I know Dmitri well - perhaps I
dialog: can help you. Providded you
dialog: have enough money to pay for
dialog: this service. . .
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Well, I don't have any money . . .
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Good day!
text: Vladimir pats her on the head and walks away.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I have a bike! Perhaps I could
dialog: sell it and. . .
text: Vladimir keeps walking, catching up to Dmitri.
text: Anya runs back around to the front of the building where
text: she left her bike. She stops suddenly when she realizes
dialog: that there is no bicycle there anymore - just Meetoo.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: What are you doing here? And
dialog: where's my bike?
text: A POLICEMAN strolls by.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: Officer! My bike has been stolen!
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: Nonsense. There is no crime in
dialog: the Soviet Socialist Republic.
text: And he keeps walking. Anya realizes that there is no
text: hope in pursuing the policeman so she heads off to find
text: Vladimir - who has vanished down the street. Meetoo
text: starts to follow her.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Sorry, boy, I have to go.
text: Meetoo barks "retu" and starts after her.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: No. You can't come with me.
dialog: I'm leaving. . .
text: Meetoo barks his "retu" and starts after her again.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: It sounds like you're saying
dialog: "me too". Listen little guy, I
dialog: have money, no food. . . and
dialog: no bicycle. I'm the last
dialog: person you should be following!
text: Anya pats him on the head and heads off in the direction
text: of Vlad and Dmitri. Meetoo, of course, follows her.
text: FURTHER DOWN THE STREET
text: Anya spots Vladimir and Dmitri turning the corner in the
text: distance. Anya runs, trying to catch up with them. She
text: turns the corner and STOPS.
speaker_heading: ANYA'S POV
text: the PALACE in the distance, only now it's run down,
text: boarded up and partially burned.
text: Anya is taken back. She stares, fascinated by it -
text: moved by it . As the sun sets behind the Palace, it's
text: bathed in a beautiful golden light.
scene_heading: INT. PALACE BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: CLOSE on a roaring fire, over which Vladimir has
text: fasioned a roatating "spit" which is propelled by a
text: Victrola. Vladimir is carefully basting the only thing
text: on the spit: a head of cabbage.
text: Dmitri is sitting by the window, staring at the MUSIC
dialog: BOX that Anastasia dropped the night of the revolution.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: . . . even if we find her, what
dialog: makes you think the
dialog: Empress will even see us?
text: Dmitri holds up the music box.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: She'll see us.
scene_heading: EXT. PALACE AT ST. PETERSBURG - NIGHT
text: Anya approaches, tentative and glancing around. She
text: tries to open the door but it won't budge, so she moves
text: to a boarded up window. She looks through a crack in a
dialog: board.
scene_heading: INT. BALLROOM
text: Dark and eerie. All of it's former glory destroyed.
text: CAMERA RISES to a partially destroyed CHANDLIER ehere
text: we see BARTOK, the bat who was with Rasputin.
text: He hangs upside down next to a FEMALE BAT. He clears
text: his throat - she doesn't respond. Using his wings, he
text: gives his "hair: a quick grooming.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: You, uhh. . . hang here often?
dialog: (laughs nervously)
dialog: "Hang" get it? I said "hang"
dialog: and we're both, you know, cause
dialog: we're bats. . . and, uhhh. . .
dialog: what's your sign?
text: No reaction from FEMALE BAT.
scene_heading: EXT. PALACE
text: Anya uses a stick to pry off some of the window boards.
dialog: We HEAR a crack.
scene_heading: INT. PALACE BEDROOM
text: SAME CRACK noises from downstairs just as Vladimir's
text: cabbage falls from the spit into the fire.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (off noise)
dialog: What was that?
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: That was your dinner! I do
dialog: hope there is no cabbage in
dialog: Paris!
scene_heading: INT. BALLROOM
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Whatta' ya say we go somewhere
dialog: - maybe get a bug to eat. Get
dialog: it? A "bug" to eat, 'cause
dialog: we're. . .
text: FEMALE BAT rolls her eyes in disgust and flaps away.
speaker_heading: BARTOK (CONT.)
dialog: (one last try)
dialog: I'm a Gemini. . .
text: He hears the SOUND of boards being torn off the window.
scene_heading: BARTOK'S HIGH ANGLE POV
text: Anya climbs into the ballroom.
scene_heading: INT. SMALL ROOM
text: Meetoo manages to wiggle in after her and follows Anya
text: as she wanders around, spell bound by the faded glory of
dialog: the palace.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM
text: Anya wanders into the partially destroyed room and bends
text: down to inspect half of a broken plate that's lying on
text: the floor. The instant she touches it, she pulls her
text: hand away as if SHOCKED. Recovering, she picks it up.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON PLATE
text: painted with decorative dancing Russian bears.
text: Anya wanders out of the room and to the top of a HUGE
text: STAIRCASE which leads down to the once grand BALLROOM.
text: She stops at a large landing half way down the steps.
text: Meetoo sees a large curtain hanging precariously on the
text: side wall. Being a puppy he can't resist leaping and
text: grabbing at it with his teeth. Anya notices and runs
text: her hand along a the carved butterflies in the worn
text: banister.
speaker_heading: ON ANYA
text: who jumps, startled, as Meetoo pulls the curtain and it
text: hits the floor.
scene_heading: INT. PALACE BEDROOM
text: Dmitri and Vladimir look up from their burnt cabbage.
dialog: They heard it too.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE (BALLROOM)
text: Anya is relieved to see it is only Meetoo, who wags his
text: tail happily with the curtain still in his mouth.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: What are you do. . .
text: Anya STOPS mid sentence, taken by what she sees.
speaker_heading: ANYA'S POV
text: Behind the curtain was the FRIEZE of the ROMANOV FAMILY.
text: The moonlight hits the portrait with a ghostly glow.
scene_heading: "ONCE UPON A DECEMBER" (THE MUSIC BOX THEME)
text: Anya is mesmerized by the FRIEZE. She looks around the
text: Ballroom. . . almost remembering something. . .
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (singing)
scene_heading: DANCING BEARS, PAINTED WINGS
text: THINGS I ALMOST REMEMBER.
text: AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS
scene_heading: ONCE UPON A DECEMBER
text: As she sings the ballroom transform into it's once
text: spledid glory. Anya takes off her coat and at once her
text: rags are transformed into a beautiful gown. NICHOLAS
text: steps down from the FRIEZE and walks her down the stairs
text: gracefully and begins a waltz with her.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
text: SOMEONE HOLDS ME SAFE AND WARM
speaker_heading: HORSES PRANCE
scene_heading: THROUGH A SILVER STORM
scene_heading: FIGURES DANCING GRACEFULLY
text: ACROSS MY MEMORY.
text: MUSIC BUILDS. A CHORUS of voices sing the melody as
text: royal ghosts appear as elegant and beautiful as in the
text: opening scene. Then
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
text: SOMEONE HOLDS ME SAFE AND WARM
speaker_heading: HORSES PRANCE
scene_heading: THROUGH A SILVER STORM
scene_heading: FIGURES DANCING GRACEFULLY
text: ACROSS MY MEMORY.
scene_heading: MUSIC: FULL!
text: Dmitri and Vladimir appear at the top of the stairs.
scene_heading: DMITRI &amp; VLADIMIR'S POV
text: some ragged lunatic dancing with "himself".
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
scene_heading: FAR AWAY, LONG AGO
text: GLOWING DIM AS AN EMBER,
text: THINGS MY HEART USED TO KNOW
text: THINGS IT YEARNS TO REMEMBER
text: Anya is released from Nicholas' embrace. He kisses her
text: on the forehead and slowly backs away. She follows
text: Nicholas, back up the stairs to the landing, where the
text: sun has caused a "dust" mist.
text: Then, magically, TATIANA appears through the mist, a
text: loving beautiful vision from the past.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
text: AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS
scene_heading: ONCE UPON A DECEMBER.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (O.C.)
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Who are you?!
speaker_heading: END NUMBER
text: Dmitri's voice causes the visage to disintegrate. All
text: goes back to the way it was - dark and destroyed.
text: Anya spins toward Dmitri, surprised and frightened.
speaker_heading: DMITRI'S POV
text: Anya is caught in a ray of moonlight, directly in front
text: of the image of Anastasia in the frieze. The
text: resemblance is striking. Dmitri is taken aback, but
text: Vladimir is unaffected.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: You're trespassing, boy!
text: Anya is dazed by what has just happened to her and can't
text: quite refocus on reality.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I. . . I. . . spoke to you earlier
dialog: about traveling paper. .
text: Dmitri pokes Vladimir with his elbow but doesn't take
text: his eyes off Anya.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (whispering to Vlad)
dialog: It's her.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: He's her?
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Look!
text: Vladimir looks at Anya again and get it.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Are you Dmitri? I didn't mean
dialog: to trespass - I don't want to
dialog: do anything dishonest, but if
dialog: you could just help help me. . .
text: Vladimir and Dmitri walk down the stairs and up her
text: stairs and begin to circle around her.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Perhaps you heard of our
dialog: brilliant plan to find a girl
dialog: and. . .
text: Dmitri pokes him hard in the ribs and shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (quietly to Vlad)
dialog: She doesn't want to do anything
dialog: "dishonest". . .
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (gets it, whispers)
dialog: Ew. . . the honest type.
text: Dmitri gives Vlad a "let me handle this" gestures.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (off frieze)
dialog: You look like her. Like the
dialog: Princess Anastasia. Has anyone
dialog: ever told you that before?
text: Anya is coming back to her senses, doesn't like these
text: men circling her.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: Oh, yeah - in the orphanage
dialog: they constantly told me I
dialog: looked like a princess! Stop
dialog: that!
text: Dmitri stops circling and then begins to use everything
dialog: that Anya says - the perfect and charming con man that
dialog: he is - to get what he wants.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: People say Anastasia was the
dialog: only member of the Royal Family
dialog: to escape alive. That makes
dialog: her an orphan too
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CONT.)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What happened to your parents?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I don't know - I don't remember
dialog: anything that happened before
dialog: the revolution. . .
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: You know, it's strange -
dialog: Anastasia's grandmother, the
dialog: Dowager Empress Tatiana has
dialog: been looking for Anastasia
dialog: since the revolution. Why do
dialog: you think she wouldn't go to
dialog: her own grandmother?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I don't know. I don't see what
dialog: this has to do with me.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Perhaps it's because she has
dialog: amnesia too - can't remember. . .
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: How much do you weigh?
text: Dmitri pokes him again.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR (CONT.)
dialog: (to Dmitri)
dialog: I was just wondering since we
dialog: already have the dress. . .
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Look, I came here to get papers
dialog: to travel to Paris and. . .
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Why do you want to go to Paris?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (defiant)
dialog: I have my reasons.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
text: Anastasia's grandmother is in
dialog: Paris. We're going to bring
dialog: Anastasia to her - in Paris.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CONT.)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And I think you are the
dialog: Princess Anastasia.
text: Anya laughs. Vlad mouths to Dmitri "Do you think she's
dialog: really Anastasia?" Dmitri shakes his head no, of course
text: not, then continues with Anya. Vlad smiles to himself
text: and walks down the stairs - Dmitri's so good even he got
dialog: confused!
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CON'T)
dialog: You never thought of the
dialog: possibility?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Look - there isn't an orphan in
dialog: the world who doesn't dream
dialog: she's a princess but, come
dialog: on. . . Look at me!
text: Dmitri spins spins around, dramatically pointing to
text: Anastasia's image in the freeze.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
text: NO! YOU LOOK AT HER! LOOK AT
speaker_heading: HER!
dialog: (beat, then softly)
dialog: It could be you.
scene_heading: UNDERSCORE: "THE MUSIC BOX THEME"
text: Anya fiddles with the key around her neck and looks down
text: at the ballroom, remembering what just happened there -
dialog: could it have been a memory. . .
text: Dmitri tries to act casual as he turns and starts
text: walking down the stairs.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CONT.)
dialog: You don't have anything to
dialog: lose. If I am wrong - the
dialog: Empress will simply tell us you
dialog: aren't Anastasia and we'll be
dialog: on our way. No harm done - an
dialog: honest mistake - but at least
dialog: you will be in Paris.
text: Anya touches Anastasia's painted hand in the frieze.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (singing in a whisper)
text: THINGS MY HEART USED TO KNOW
text: THINGS IT YEARNS TO REMEMBER. . .
text: Dmitri looks at Anya, her back toward him, as he raises
text: his arm to her.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Find out the truth - come to
dialog: Paris with us.
text: Anya expression registers her internal debate. What is
dialog: it's true. . . It coudn't be. . . but if. . . Then,
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: All right. I will go with you.
text: Meetoo let's out his "retu". Vladimir lets out a whoop
text: of joy. Dmitri smiles and bows to Anya..
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: The Her Royal Highness Princess
dialog: Anastasia!
speaker_heading: ON BARTOK
text: having watched the whole thing - he sighs.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Oy. . . he's gonna be so mad. . .
text: Bartok flies out a broken window and into the night.
scene_heading: EXT. AERIAL VIEW OF ST. PETERSBURG - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BARTOK'S POV
text: The city lights fade and we move into the blackness of
text: the Russian forest. Finally, in the distance, we see
text: the orange glow of a fire.
scene_heading: EXT. GYPSY CAMP - NIGHT
text: Bartok swoops along the wagons. Everyone looks to be
text: asleep. Bartok keeps flying until he sees an OMINOUS
text: LOOKING BLACK WAGON, the largest and most elaborate.
text: Bartok screws up his courage and flies into the open
text: window of the BLACK WAGON
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (singing in a whisper)
text: THINGS MY HEART USED TO KNOW
text: THINGS IT YEARNS TO REMEMBER ...
text: Dmitri looks at Anya, her back toward him, as he raises
text: his arm to her.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Find out the truth - come to
dialog: Paris with us.
text: Anya expression registers her internal debate. What if
dialog: it's true... It couldn't be... but if... Then,
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: All right. I will go with you.
text: Meetoo lets out his "retu". Vladimir lets out a whoop of
text: joy. Dmitri smiles and bows to Anya.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: The Her Royal Highness Princess
dialog: Anastasia!
speaker_heading: ON BARTOK
text: having watched the whole thing - he sighs.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Oy. . . he's gonna be so mad...
text: Bartok flies out a broken window and into the night.
scene_heading: EXT.	AERIAL VIEW OF ST. PETERSBURG - NIGHT
speaker_heading: BARTOK'S POV
text: The city lights fade and we move into the blackness of
text: the Russian forest. Finally, in the distance. we see
text: the orange glow of a fire.
scene_heading: EXT.	GYPSY CAMP - NIGHT
text: Bartok swoops along the wagons. Everyone looks to be asleep.
text: Bartok keeps flying until he sees an ONIOUS LOOKING BLACK
text: WAGON, the largest and most elaborate.
text: Bartok screws up his courage and flies into the open
text: window of the BLACK WAGON.
scene_heading: INT.	RASPUTIN'S WAGON
text: A lone candle lights the dark wagon. A frightened Bartok,
text: stays on the window sill.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Ummm ... Father Gregori? It's,
dialog: uhh ... me. Bartok.
dialog: (a sign of relief)
dialog: Phew! Not home ...
text: Rasputin's face suddenly ROARS into FRAME from the bed
text: below, his eyes fiery red and his beard wild.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Oh my God!
dialog: (wing to chest)
dialog: Don't do that ... feel my heart.
dialog: Go ahead. I'm dying here ...
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: And what do you want, my little
dialog: rat-with-wings?
text: Rasputin rises and pours himself a glass of vodka.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Name calling! That's mature.
text: Rasputin grabs him by the throat.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: I gave you that tongue and I
dialog: can rip it out!
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: (strangled)
dialog: No, I really like my tongue...
dialog: we're very attached.
dialog: (rasputin releases him)
dialog: Oyyyy... Okay, now... promise
dialog: you won't get angry.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (sweetly)
dialog: Why would I ever be angry with
dialog: you, little friend?
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Yeah, right. Keep that thought
dialog: okay? So, I'm in town, stop by
dialog: the old palace. You get a better
dialog: class of bats there - no tattoos
dialog: or anything.
text: Rasputin rummages around for a full bottle of vodka,
text: tossing the empties - which Bartok has to dodge.
speaker_heading: BARTOK (CONT.)
dialog: So, I'm cruisin' the rafters and...
dialog: what can I say, I struck out. I
dialog: thought chicks would like the fact
dialog: that I can talk, you know but,
dialog: I mean, the way things are going
dialog: I couldn't get invited to a plague.
dialog: (a bottle smashes)
dialog: Someone's gotta clean that up...
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: Get to the point sometime tonight..
dialog: I'm late for a wenching.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Okay... you're not gonna like this
dialog: but, well, it looks like Anastasia
dialog: is ... still alive.
text: He tenses, waiting for Rasputin's explosion but Rasputin
text: just laughs.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: Impossible. That rumor's been
dialog: around for years.
text: Bartok hovers face-to-face.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Trust me, it's her!
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (eyes narrowing)
dialog: How do you know?
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Rodent's intuition, how do I know?
text: She looks exactly like her.
dialog: Except she's taller,
dialog: which	is natural ... Of course
dialog: my second cousin Treplev - he
dialog: never	grew. Looks like a
dialog: little pepper shaker. He was
dialog: so cute ...
text: Rasputin begins a slow growl that builds.
speaker_heading: BARTOK (CONT. )
dialog: Oyyy... I knew this was gonna
dialog: to upset him!
text: Rasputin howls in anger and smashes his glass against
text: the wall. He moves toward the CABINET, knocking over
text: furniture. Rasputin flings open the cabinet and we see
text: the RELIQUARY, glowing gently as if it were sleeping.
text: Bartok covers his eyes in fear. Even Rasputin seem a
text: bit nervous in front of it.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (with reverence)
dialog: Source of my power. Owner of
dialog: my soul. I need your help.
text: Rasputin takes the RELIQUARY out of the cabinet and
text: sets it on the table.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Hey, she's just a kid. And she's
dialog: going to Paris outta sight,
dialog: outta mind, outta Russia.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: I cursed then all!
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: My Aunt Bella, sweet woman not
dialog: the brightest bat in the world -
dialog: she used to hang right side up,
dialog: anyway she always said "Curses
dialog: were made to be broken". Course,
dialog: she said it in those irritating
text: little bat squeaks, so it wasn't
dialog: quite so profound...
text: Rasputin pulls out a set of RUSSIAN DOLLS (a small
text: painted. hollow doll with a smaller doll inside it,
text: and a smaller doll inside it, etc.) The first doll
text: bears an eerie resemblance to Nicholas. Inside the
text: second looks like Alexandra, all the way down to the
text: ANASTASIA doll.
scene_heading: "THE END OF THE LINE" (PRODUCTION NUMBER)
text: Rasputin will have a DARK, MENACING, DELICIOUSLY
text: SCARY NUMBER in whIch he SINGS of his obsession with
dialog: killing the Romanovs once and for all. Bartok will
text: interject comically throughouut. as Rasputin
text: will conjure up tLis minions from the iquary and sing
text: about Romanovs FINALE, he sends them off after Anya.
scene_heading: SONG TO INCORPORATE THE FOLLOWING SENTIMENTS:
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: The Romanovs tried to kill me and
dialog: I swore to destroy all of them!
dialog: If she lives, if she should have
dialog: a child someday, the Romanov Family
dialog: continues! And I won't lot that
text: happen! THIS IS THE END OF THE LINE!
text: He crushes the Anastasia doll in his massive hand.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: You know, this is really obsessive
dialog: behavior. There is this doctor this
dialog: doctor in Austria, Sigmund something
dialog: and he feels. . .
text: Bartok land on the table while be's talking and his
text: wing accidently knocks the RELIQUARY on its side and
text: it begins to roll.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
speaker_heading: YOU IDIOT
text: Rasputin makes a sad leap, grabbing it seconds before it
text: shatters on the floor.	Rasputin holds it up. The
text: smokey SPIRITS inside swirl around, moaning.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN (CONT.)
dialog: (to Reliquary)
dialog: Yesses - you'd all like to get
dialog: out, wouldn' t you? Sorry
dialog: just one at a time and only
dialog: when I call.
text: Rasputin spins an Bartok, who Us been slinki away, and
text: slams a goblet over his.
speaker_heading: BARTOK'S POV
text: From under the glass, Rasputin looks distorted and even
text: more horrifying.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (to Bartok)
dialog: Do you have any idea what would
dialog: happen if that broke?!
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: (voice under glass)
dialog: You'd lose your security deposit?
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (waving reliquary)
dialog: Evil, powerful beings - I have
dialog: their power only if I contain
dialog: them, control them. If they
dialog: should all be released at
dialog: once... well ...
text: Rasputin smiles with his horrible yellow, decayed teeth,
text: and lifts the glass an if to whisper in Bartok, a ear.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN (CONT.)
dialog: YOU DON'T WANT TO BE AROUND
dialog: IF THAT HAPPENS!
text: The volume of Rasputin's voice rattles Bartok around the
text: inside of the glass. Rasputin focuses on the RELIQUARY.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN (CON'T.)
dialog: (to reliquary)
dialog: Where is she? Where is
dialog: Princess Anastasia...
text: Inside the reliquary the awoke begins to mow Suddenly,
text: the smoke EXPLODES in a burst and forms into the smoke
text: from a train engine. As the reliquary picture broadens,
text: we see a train and Anya, Dmitri and Vladimir all hurrying
dialog: to catch it.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN(CONT.)
dialog: She has friends. No matter...
text: Bartok looks desperate under glass. He trios to topple
text: the glass prism by jumping up but just cooks his head.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Ohhh, that was dumb...
speaker_heading: BARTOK (CONT.)
dialog: (calling to Rasputin)
dialog: Hello, I've get really terrible
dialog: claustrophobia. That's why I
dialog: could never live in a cave ...
text: Rasputin gives his attention only to the reliquary.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: Finish my prophecy...
text: Smoke begins to pour out of the reliquary. asput almost
text: giddy with the thought of finishing ambition, laughs
text: hysterically.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Ew, I hate when he does this!
text: As Rasputin swirls his arms the smoke begins to form
text: into MINIONS. All look human at first, but then
text: we see MINION ONE, has the body of a human and a head of
text: a JACKAL, MINION TWO has the face of a woman and the
text: claws of a TIGER, and MINION- the most horrible
text: of all - has a huge bear-like body with the head of a
text: VULTURE. All wear long capes with hoods.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: She is not to get off that
dialog: train... alive!
text: Rasputin kicks open the wagon door and leaps outside.
text: The MINIONS, still filling out into forms, follow.
text: One of the wisps of smoke, like a tail, swishes by and
text: knocks over Bartok's glass prism, freeing his.
scene_heading: EXT. GYPSY CAMP - NIGHT
text: Rasputin releases his BLACK HORSES who stoup -and
text: whinny, men ing something bad, as two Minions float
text: on to them the other flies ahead of than.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: Go! I don't care what you do with the
text: others but finish the girl! KILLLLL HERRRRR!
dialog: (sinister)
dialog: And have fun...
text: The Minions take off. Rasputin laughs wildy.
scene_heading: END MUSICAL NUMBER
scene_heading: INT. TATIANA'S STUDY, PARIS - DAY
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: TATIANA'S HANDS covering her face. Slowly dropping her
text: hands down to reveal an older, sad TATIANA.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Take her away, Sophie.
speaker_heading: PULL BACK
text: to reveal a YOUNG WOMAN standing in front of bar desk.
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: Haven't anything better to do
dialog: than to break my heart.
text: Sophie ushers the now ashamed YOUNG WOMAN to the door.
text: The YOUNG WOMAN looks amazing like Anya except that her
text: hair is long and her clothes are now. She walks with a
text: certain regal grace until she passes through the doorway -
text: out of Tatiana's sight - and her posture "question-marks"
text: and she lopes out.
speaker_heading: TATIANA (CONT.)
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: No more. So more...
text: Sophie. heavier and larger bottomed than ten years earlier,
text: speaks quickly - without ev er breathing, in a high
text: pitched nervous chitter.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (very rapidly)
dialog: Oh, oh... I must say. I thought
dialog: that one was bar - i'm just so
dialog: shocked that she wasn't real well,
dialog: she was real, I mean she was human,
dialog: of course. but not our real. I must
dialog: say, even my sisters were touched
dialog: by her yes - yes they were...
text: XENIA and ESTELLE, as pinched and skinny as Sophie in
dialog: "full", don't appear to ever have been "touched" by
dialog: anything (or anyone).
speaker_heading: SOPHIE (CONT.)
dialog: ... moved to tears of joy! We won't
dialog: be f ooled next time, girls! I'm a
dialog: going to think of really hard questions...
speaker_heading: TATIANA
dialog: (stopping Sophie with
dialog: a raise of her hand)
dialog: No, Sophie. My heart can't take it
dialog: anymore! I will see no more girls
dialog: claiming to be Anastasia.
text: Tatiana walks sadly out of the room.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAM STATION - MORNING
text: Anya and Metoo doze near a fire along with the other
text: PEASANTS waiting for the train. Dmitri looks over Vladimir's
text: shoulder nervously watching his forging their travel papers.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Hurry up with those papers.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Would you have leaned over
dialog: Rembrant's shoulder and told
dialog: him to paint faster?
text: Vladimir looks at Dmitri's anxious face.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR (CONT.)
dialog: You probably would.
dialog: (hands his the papers)
text: They're still wet.
text: A TRAIN WHISTLE SLOWS and Vlad Moves to Anya.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR (CONT.)
dialog: Wake up, young lady, that's our train.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (correcting)
dialog: "Wake up, your highness" - we should
dialog: start getting used to saying it.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: What a world - a man who was in
dialog: my position in society is calling
dialog: a peasant 'Your Highness".
text: Dmitri leans over and tugs Anya's hair lightly.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (to Anya)
dialog: Wake up!
text: Anya's eyes flash open and - totally on reflex - she belts
text: Dmitri in the nose. Ditri reels back, lands on his butt -
text: Vladimir observes ruefully.
speaker_heading: VLADIMER
dialog: We have a lot of work to do...
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN PLATFORM - SECONDS LATER
text: Vladimir, using his ample belly, bumps people out of the
text: way as they head for the train. Vlad climbs on just as
text: it starts up, followed	by Dmitri. Dmitri turns back and
text: reaches out his hand to help Anya up. But she
text: freezes... just STANDS THERE, not running.
speaker_heading: ANYA'S POV
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Come on!
text: Dmitri on the train, his band extended - just like
text: Tatiana's was. Although Anya can't quite remember,
text: something about this terrifies bar. She snaps out
text: of it when Meetoo nips her ankle.
text: Anya looks down and sees the puppy, picks his up and
text: runs for the train.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Take my hand!
text: Anya puts Meetoo into his hands and Jumps on without
text: touching his.
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT
text: The compartment is JAMMED with travelers. Suitcases
text: and packages balanced precariously. Dmitri sits down
text: and carefully touches his painful noso.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Do you always punch people first
dialog: thing in the morning?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Sorry - it's a reflex. Living
dialog: in an orphanage if someone bothers
dialog: you - you automatically come up
dialog: swinging.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: I wasn't bothering you. I was
dialog: trying to wake you up!
text: OVER ANYA'S SHOULDER, out of the window. we see the
text: THREE MINIONS on horseback charging down a snow covered
text: hill toward the train.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: By pulling my hair?!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: I was all out of dynamite!
text: Dmitri touches his nose again. Anya opens the window
text: and grabs some snow.	WE SEE the minions racing wildly
text: to catch up with the train. As the scene continues, we
text: see the minions,	by one, getting close to the train
text: and then disappear from	view - only their riderless
text: horses ride away.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (hands Dmitri the snow)
dialog: Put it on your nose. For heaven's
dialog: sake, you're making such a fuss!
text: Dmitri tries to act very manly as he puts the ice on his
text: nose, but cringes with the cold. Anya smiles.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Men are such babies...
text: An ELDERLY WOMAN loaded with packages cones into the
text: compartment. Anya immediately rises to help her.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Here, let me
text: Dmitri and Vlad both pull her back down.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: You're a princess...
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Royalty do not help people
text: with their luggage.
text: Anya gives them both a look and helps the woman.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Well, she certainly has a mind
dialog: of her own.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Yes. And I hate that in a woman.
text: Vlad holds Meotoo, who is enthralled and plays with
text: Vladimir's drooping mustache, like a kitten with a string.
text: The COMPARTMENT DOOR swings open and an OMINOUS LOOKING
dialog: GUARD strides in!
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Papers!
text: Everyone rustles for their papers. Dmitri confidently
text: pulls out their papers, done in beautiful BLACK ink.
text: Then, he glances at the PERSON NEXT TO HIM and sees
text: that his papers are done in a bright RED ink. Dmitri
text: looks over at Vladimir - who has seen the mistake as well.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (sheepishly)
dialog: It's what I hate about this
dialog: government - everything in red!
text: The guard hand papers back to a soulful looking man
text: with a frozen beard.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Thank you, Comrade Zhivago.
speaker_heading: ZHIVAGO
dialog: Doctor Zhivago.
text: GUARD approaches Vlad and Dmitri.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: What do we do now?
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Pray he's color-blind...
text: Dmitri flashes the Guard a charming smile as he hands
text: over his papers. Vladimir is nervously playing with
text: his mustache until it stands out straight. Anya has
dialog: no idea what's going on.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: wait here.
text: As the Guard heads out of the compartment, Vlad turns
text: to Dmitri and they exchange an "oh, no" look.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, ANOTHER CAR
text: The MINIONS, hoods pulled low, push their way through
text: the PASSENGERS in search of Anastasia.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR
text: Dmitri spots the GUARD conferring with the GUARDS
text: over the papers. Anya pokes bar head out.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I'm going to stretch my legs
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: That's a good idea - a great
dialog: idea - stretch your legs
dialog: (pointing the opposite
dialog: direction of the
dialog: guards)
dialog: ... stretch then that way.
text: Anya looks at him like he's crazy and walks away.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: I must have hit him harder than
dialog: I thought...
text: Dmitri runs back in and grabs his SMALL BACKPACK. He
text: pulls Vlad, carrying Meetoo, out off the compartment
text: Anya has a load on them as they follow.
scene_heading: INT TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY
text: The GUARDS burst in, ready for an arrest. In the
text: background, the hooded Minions pass. The Guards,
text: seeing empty seats, head back out.
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN CORRIDOR - ANOTHER CAR
text: Anya looks out the window as the country side flies by
text: and smiles.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR
text: The Guards spot three figures at the far end of the car.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: That's them! Come on!
text: They run after who they think are the fugitives.
text: The Guard grabs a minion and spins him around.
text: It's MINION THREE, who comes face-to-beak with him
text: and lets out a HORRENDOUS SCREECH, causing the other
text: Minion to turn around. The Guards scream and reel backward,
text: pushing and shoving each other to got out of the way
text: The Minions proceed up the corridor, MINION TWO, spot
text: Anya looking out the window. He grabs her. palling her
text: viciously to the other Minions. She spins around - it
text: isn't Anya - it's a SERIOUSLY UGLY WOMAN. The Minions
text: now scream and reel back in horror.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - SIMULTANEOUS
text: Dmitri and Vladimir catch up to Anya and grab her in
text: each arm, loading bar down the hall WE HEAR the MINIONS
text: SCREAM from the next car.
scene_heading: EXT. BETWEEN CARS
text: Anya. Dmitri and Vlad step out on a platform and see
text: there is no place left to run. Only the engine is
text: ahead of them.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Wait here!
text: He leaps up gracefully, grabbing the edge of the roof,
dialog: and pull&amp; himself up.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (to Vlad)
dialog: Would you like to tell what we are...
text: as Dmitri's head, upside down, appears from the roof.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Come on up!
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Why?
text: Vladimir picks Anya from up from tobehind and hoists
text: her up to Dmitri. She hollers.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN ROOF
text: Anya is pulled up by Dmitri, with a force that knocks
text: them both over Anya on top. An awkward moment. Anya
text: rolls off him as Dmitri tries to catch the breath she
text: knocked out of him.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Just what do you think you're doing?!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Trying... to... breathe...
text: Suddenly, Meetoo appears, as if he were flying and
text: lots out a little "retu". Vladimir has tossed his
text: up and Dmitri catches his, band his to Anya, and
text: reaches down to Vladimir.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR
text: Though the window the Minions see Vladimir's legs
text: as he's being lifted.
scene_heading: INT. ROOF oF TRAIN
text: Dmitri struggles to got Vlad to the roof but he's
text: losing his grasp. Anya puts Meetoo down and reaches
text: to help the dangling Vlad. Even Meetoo helps by
text: pulling an Vladimir's scarf .
scene_heading: EXT. PLATFORM
text: Minion one grabs for Vladimir's legs, just as
text: they disappear.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF OF TRAIN
text: Dmitri and Anya let out a sigh of relief as Vlad in
text: safe, but it's short lived as they both SIMULTANEOUSLY
text: lot out a yell.
scene_heading: DMITRI &amp; ANYA'S POV:
text: a TUNNEL rapidly approaching.
text: They hit the deck, Vlad on his back between Anya and
text: Dmitri.	Anya and Dmitri exchange a quick look as the
text: tunnel gets closer - Vladimir's stomach is sticking up
text: too high to clear the tunnel. They reach up together
text: and push down on his big belly, causing his eyes to
dialog: bulge
text: ON THE SIDE OF THE TRAIN
text: The minions, now climbing up the side are plunged into
text: total darkness.
speaker_heading: ON THE ROOF
text: light hits as the train comes out of the tunnel.
text: Vlad lets out a gasp as they release his belly.
text: Just then a Minion hand reaches up over the edge.
text: Dmitri assumes it's a Guard.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: The guards!
dialog: (Anya gives his a lack)
dialog: I'll explain later.
text: Anya and Vlad follow Dmitri toward the back of the train.
scene_heading: ON THE MINIONS
text: now on the roof, seeing their prey in short distance.
text: ON ANYA AND THE OTHERS
text: running, without looking back. jumping from car to car,
text: passing Meetoo like a football. Vladiair makes a huge
text: running leap into the air...
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN COMPARTMENT
text: As all PASSENGERS react to Vladimir's bulk hitting and
text: denting the coiling.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF OF TRAIN
text: The TRAIN WHISTLE erupts and Anya glances back to see
text: her pursuers just as they are enveloped in the thick black
text: smoke of the engine. Behind them, Anya can another tunnel.
speaker_heading: TUNNEL
text: They drop down, this time Vlad in on his stomach. Anya
text: and Dmitri realize his butt won't clear the tunnel.
text: They push it down.
scene_heading: ON THE MINIONS
text: An the smoke disappears, the Minions' eyes go wide when
text: they realize it's too late for them. The train roars the
text: tunnel as the MINIONS SMASH &amp;"'not the sift of
text: the mountain in a COLORFUL BURST OF SMOKE from which
dialog: they were created.
scene_heading: INT. RASPUTIN'S WAGON - PARALLEL TIME
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO
scene_heading: EXT.	ROOF OF TRAIN - DAY
text: Rasputin stares at the scene in his reliquary, watching
text: his well laid plan *go up in smoke", and lots out a
text: simmering growl.
text: Anya is standing with her hands an her hips arguing
dialog: with Dmitri and Vladiair.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Forged papers! Now, what?!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Now just get off the train.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: HUH?!
text: Dmitri motions that they are going to Jump. Anya shakes
text: her head slowly.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Noooo....
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: She's quite right, Dmitri, a man
dialog: of my stature should not have to
text: Dmitri shoves him off the top of the train with Meetoo
text: in his arm. Dmitri then puts out his hand to Anya.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Come on, we'll jump together...
dialog: Take my hand.
text: Dmitri turns forward and sees the train is approaching
text: a HIGH RAILROAD BRIDGE over a rocky ravine. It's now
dialog: or never.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Come on!
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: No!
text: With his outstretched hand, Dmitri shoves her off the bar.
scene_heading: EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY
text: Vladimir has landed in a large pile of snow. He stands,
text: rubbing his bottom.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: I think I have hurt my...
text: Meetoo comes out of the pile of leaves, rubbing his
text: bottom and answers Vladimir's with his "retu".
text: A short distance away, Anya seems to be sitting on
text: top of a puddle - but she isn't wet. Suddenly, Dmitri
text: gets up from underneath her, covered in snow. Anya
text: isn't wet because she landed on Dmitri! She jumps up.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: You must enjoy causing me pain!
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: You shouldn't have pushed us!
text: Vladimir and Meetoo come over.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Is everyone all right?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I'm fine.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: She's fine!
dialog: (limping away)
dialog: I may never walk right again,
dialog: but she's fine...
scene_heading: INT.	RASPUTIN'S WAGON
text: Rasputin paces, still angry at the Minions. Bartok,
text: nervous, fakes a yawn and stretches.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Well, I better got goin'. Got a busy day letting all
dialog: the blood rush to my head...
text: Rasputin pulls him back in, then speaks to his reliquary.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: She's too far away, isn't she?
text: The reliquary glows eyes. Rasputin places It back in it's cabinet.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN (CONT.)
dialog: Yesss... our power is much stronger
dialog: when were near. We must get close
dialog: to her.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Oy... not a road trip. I get
dialog: wagon sick, you know that.
text: Rasputin smacks him against the wall as he stomps out
text: of the wagon. Bartok slides down the wall.
speaker_heading: BARTOK (CONT.)
dialog: You're absolutely right. Travel
dialog: broadens your horizons...
text: And he hits the floor.
scene_heading: EXT. GYPSY CAMP - MIGHT
text: Rasputin, on his obsessed mission, leaps on top of the
text: wagon as Bartok, still dizzy, tries to catch up.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: We'll catch her and finish her!
dialog: (he grabs the, reigns)
dialog: We ride this night!
text: Rasputin then looks down and sees that there are no horses
text: harnessed he gave then to the begins a slow growl.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Well,	we wait this night!
scene_heading: EXT.	COUNTRY - BREAK OF DAWN
text: Anya is walking ahead with Vladiair as Dmitri follows
text: he's still muddy, wet and unhappy.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: No have a lot of work to do,
dialog: Anya! Come along, Meetoo!
text: Meetoo is trying to catch fire flies in his mouth.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR (CONT.)
dialog: We have to prepare you for an
text: audience with Sophie.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Who's Sophie?
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (lost in warm memories)
dialog: Ah ... the Lady Sophie... The
dialog: ravishing first cousin, once
dialog: removed, from the Empress. We
dialog: must convince Sophie that you
dialog: are the Princess before we'll
dialog: be granted a meeting with the
dialog: Empress ... your grandmother,
dialog: I mean.
text: Anya stops dead in her tracks, this is the first she's
dialog: heard of this.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: What?!
text: Dmitri, not paying attention, slams into the back
text: of Anya. Anya, not hurt, turns to Dmitri - who is
text: rubbing his now sore shoulder.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: You never said anything to me
dialog: about having to prove I'm a
dialog: Princess!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: You are the Princess.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: We're just going to refresh
dialog: your memory...
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I don't have a memory and I'm
dialog: not a Princess!
dialog: (looks down at herself)
dialog: Even if I were - no one's ever
dialog: going to believe it. I'm not
dialog: exactly...
text: Anya searches for the -word as she sits down next
text: to a frozen pond.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: (sadly to herself)
dialog: ... good enough...
dialog: (to others)
dialog: I can't go through with this!
text: Dmitri sits next to Anya and looks at her reflection
text: in the ice.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: What do you see?
speaker_heading: ANYA'S POV
text: her smudged face and boy's clothes. Dmitri's hands
text: come into frame, wipe off her face with snow and
text: them pull her hair off her face. Anya does, truly,
dialog: look pretty.
speaker_heading: DMITRI(CONT.)
dialog: See? The Princess is under there ...
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Ah! Let us begin!
scene_heading: A POSSIBLE VLADIMIR SONG
text: Vladimir would begin to sing here, telling Anya that she
dialog: has a lot to learn. The music would probably have a
text: LIGHT, SOMEWHAT COMEDIC tone, and would be just a SHORT
text: SECTION OF SINGING, which would then SEGUE TO UNDERSCORE
text: for the scenes of instruction which follow.
text: We see the three of them from behind, walking down a
text: road - Meetoo trots behind them, happily.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR (CONT.)
dialog: You were born on the Adriatic sea at
dialog: the summer palace, where the parties
dialog: and the buffets were marvelous ....
scene_heading: EXT. SLEIGH - DAY
text: Vladimir is putting icicles in Anya's hair to keep it
text: up in a bun - she looks sweet, despite her boy's clothes.
text: She is reciting something to Dmitri.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: ...and on my father's side,
dialog: there was [THIS SECTION IS NOT LEDGABLE]
text: Anya thinks as Dmitri looks at a long sheet of
text: paper, prompting her.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Every Russian family has one..
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (gets it)
dialog: Natasha! Natasha Feastavich!-
dialog: but we called her Nashie
dialog: Fooshie!
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Did I tell you that?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: You must have.
scene_heading: EXT. PIG CART - DAY
text: Anya, Dmitri and Vladimir are sitting in the back of a
text: pig cart traveling down a country road. The pigs are very
text: interested as Anya is pointing to different pieces of hay
text: which "set" her imaginary table.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (repeating)
dialog: ...fish fork, salad fork, meat fork and. . .
dialog: (can't remember, then
dialog: exasperated)
scene_heading: [THIS SECTION ALSO NOT LEDGABLE]
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (hinting)
dialog: It's the best fork of all
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: The dessert fork!
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (lost in a memory of
dialog: rich desserts)
dialog: Ah, yes ... I have always loved
dialog: that fork...
text: Dmitri and Anya exchange a look and then laugh,
dialog: adding ad libs of "we can tell" and "There's a
dialog: fork you should have skipped". This is the first
dialog: time Dmitri and Anya have laughed together -
text: actually the first time he's ever seen her smile.
scene_heading: EXT.	PORT - DAY
text: Dmitri, who is sneaking around, pulling women's clothes
text: out of a suitcase that clearly isn't theirs! He takes
text: out a large, but pretty dress, a beautiful veil - and a
text: huge brassiere, which he quickly stuffs back in the
text: suitcase - somewhat frightened. He takes the dress and
text: veil puts it in his backpack and joins Vladimir and Anya
text: as they admire the ship.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: What a beautiful ship!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: It used to be a private yacht
dialog: before the government took it over.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Oh, yes it was the seagoing vessel
dialog: of elaborate elegance in entertaining...
text: (looks at Dmitri and Anya explaining)
dialog: A party boat. It once belonged to ...
dialog: Vladimir honestly can't remember, Anya thinks it's
text: another quiz.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Konstantin Petrovich of Moscow!
text: Dmitri and Vladimir exchange a quizzical look. No
dialog: one told her that...
text: Meetoo spots TWO UGLY PUG DOGS and a distinguished
text: ELDERLY DOWAGER. He runs happily to play with them.
text: She pulls her DOGS away from Meetoo.
scene_heading: ELDERLY DOWAGER
dialog: No, no, boys! You don't know where
dialog: he's been!
text: They give him a disgusted look and walk away. Meetoo
text: looks a little hurt.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY OF THE SHIP - NIGHT
text: Dmitri and Vladimir are standing by a closed door.
text: Anya is on the other side.
speaker_heading: ANYA (0. C.)
dialog: No! I look ridiculous!
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Come out! I can do alterations.
speaker_heading: ANYA (O.C.)
dialog: You'll laugh.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: I shant!
speaker_heading: ANYA (O.C.)
dialog: Not you. Him.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: I won't laugh - I swear...
text: The door opens and Anya comes out in the blue dress
text: Dmitri stole which at least ten sizes too big for her.
text: She is still wearing her hair up and despite the size
text: which actually gives her a "Kate Moss" waifish look
text: with her men's boots and baggy dress - the blue brings
text: out her eyes. Dmitri sees her and BUSTS OUT LAUGHING.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: You said you wouldn't laugh!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: It's not you - it's the dress!
text: Anya storms back into the cabin and slam the door behind her.
scene_heading: INT.	CABIN - SIMULTANEOUS ACTION
text: When Anya storms into the cabin, she catches a glimpse of
text: herself in the mirror.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: I'm never going to be..
text: Just then, the slamming door catches the back of her dress,
text: pulling more than half of it into the door frame. She sees
text: in the mirror that the now fitted dress shows a lovely
text: woman's figure. Pleased, she looks at herself.
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: Well! Maybe I am...
scene_heading: EXT.	CABIN DOOR - NIGHT
text: Vladimir and Dmitri wait outside the door. The door opens
text: and Anya appears, having tied the veil around the waist
text: of the dress, making it look fitted and beautiful. Dmitri
text: and Vladimir are surprised as Anya walks past them with
text: confidence and throws them a look over her shoulder.
scene_heading: "REPRISE OF VLADIMIR'S SONG (OVER MONTAGE)
dialog: The tone of the song would now change - - the older,
text: wiser person watching as two younger people are
text: unwittingly falling in love. The tone can still be
dialog: light, as are the visuals here, but there would be
text: an undercurrent of irony and romance. The song would
text: end as Anya and Dmitri have their first, momentary
dialog: embrace.
speaker_heading: MONTAGE: (MOS)
text: ON DECK: Anya, still in her boots, walks gracefully
text: down the deck in spite of the ship's rocking motion.
text: Dmitri and Vlad can't even stand due to the motion.
text: Anya looks back and flashes them a smile.
text: IN THEIR CABIN: Dmitri gets out of the bed he's
text: been sharing with Vlad and walks over, past where
text: Anya is sleeping peacefully, to close the port hole
text: against a cold wind. He closes is and see's Anya -
text: she looks beautiful - he bends down to pull up her
text: covers and she SLUGS him.
text: UNDER A TABLE: Meetoo is walking around sniffing
text: feet. Suddenly, he runs smack into the TWO UGLY
text: PUG DOGS who growl at him. He runs away and finally
text: see's a woman's foot and a pair of pretty feminine
text: shoes, with heels, that she has kicked off. Meetoo
text: grabs them in his mouth and runs.
text: ON DECK: The sea is calm, but Anya - wearing the heeled
text: shoes for the first time - is teetering and wobbling
text: like mad. Dmitri and Vlad watch her with amusement.
text: Anya turns to them.
text: ON DECK: Dmitri has stuffed his feet into the woman's
text: shoes and is barely able to walk as Anya watches him
dialog: with great vindication.
text: BALLROOM: Anya walks -into the ballroom, steady and
text: graceful in her new shoes, on Vladimir's arm and
text: completes a perfect curtsy in front of Dmitri. Dmitri
text: applauds and moves down to her as she stands and smacks
text: him with her head accidently.
text: THEIR CABIN: Vladimir is directing Anya as she waltzes
text: gracefully in their swaying cabin. Dmitri enters and is
text: directed to join Anya. He does and they dance together,
text: with Anya clearly leading. The boat sways to the left
text: and Anya is thrown closer into Dmitri's arms. Neither
text: of them even try to readjust.
speaker_heading: END MONTAGE
scene_heading: STILL IN THE SCENE
text: Vladimir walks over to Anya and nervously chatters (he
text: knows he interrupted something) as he leads her away
dialog: from Dmitri.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: You are a natural! I don't know
dialog: how you ever learned to dance
dialog: that well! That must have been
dialog: some high class orphanage ...
scene_heading: EXT. SEA - NIGHT
text: As a storm begins to whip up, the wind starts to howl
text: and the waves become more violent.
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: just as a BOLT OF LIGHTNING STRIKES the water, we see
text: Rasputin's face.
scene_heading: INT. CABIN - NIGHT
text: The storm is pitching the boat wildly. Vladimir is
text: sleeping, snoring loudly. Meetoo, sound asleep, is
text: sliding from side of the cabin to the other. Anya
text: is looking out the small port hole at the violent
text: sea when Dmitri, carrying his back pack, sits on the
text: bed next to her.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: I wanted to show you something.
text: Dmitri takes out the music box and hands it to Anya.
text: She is immediately taken by it, something about it ...
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: It's so beautiful ... and sad.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Sad?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Lost. it feels lost. This was hers?
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Yeah ... well, yours. You still
dialog: don't believe that you're the
dialog: Princess, do you?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I know I must have had something
dialog: to do with the palace - I've had
dialog: little flashes of things - but
dialog: being the Princess? It doesn't
dialog: matter as long as I find my home.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Well, the only thing you've got
dialog: when you've got a home is a fear
dialog: of losing it! You're lucky you
dialog: don't remember the revolution --
dialog: I never had much, but what I did
dialog: have -- I lost.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: (false bravado)
dialog: Hey! It doesn't matter! You gotta
dialog: make your own way in the world!
dialog: Don't be sorry for me! I'm going
dialog: to get what I want don't you worry!
text: Dmitri goes back over to his bed. Anya sees through
dialog: him and knows how much it all did matter to him.
scene_heading: EXT.	SEA CLIFF - NIGHT
text: The wagon sits on the edge of a high cliff. Rasputin
text: stands on the top of his wagon, staring at the sea
text: demonically. The jagged bolts of lightening and the
text: icy silver rain make him look all the more menacing.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (low, slow)
dialog: She's out there ...
text: The wind parts his beard and we see Bartok hanging
text: upside down in it, trying to stay out of the storm.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: I'm getting a chest cold..
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: Bartok... a question.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: I'm getting pneumonia. I have
dialog: a fever. Feel my forehead...
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: What do you think is the most
dialog: humiliating way to die?
text: Rasputin's eyes light up as if he just thought of the
text: answer to his own question. Bartok is thrown out of his
text: beard when he makes a sudden turn and leaps off the
text: wagon. Bartok follows.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: My cousin Mischa, nice fellow
dialog: had some dental problems - you
dialog: didn't want to watch him eat,
dialog: let's put it that way...
text: Rasputin steps in
scene_heading: INT.	WAGON - NIGHT
text: As Bartok continues, Rasputin moves to the
text: reliquary's cabinet.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: ... anyway, a bunch of other
text: bats were hanging in the belfry -
dialog: I know, cliche, but there you have
dialog: it, and Mischa, not the brightest
text: bat in the world, decides to hang
dialog: in the bell. Which was fine
dialog: for awhile until it started ringing ...
dialog: (shivers)
dialog: Ewwww, what a mess ...
speaker_heading: RASPUTTN
dialog: (to reliquary)
dialog: Show her to me ...
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: And it didn't help the tonal
dialog: quality of the bell, either.
text: IMAGES, horrifying and frightening, begin to spin
text: into a small tornado. Rasputin throws open the door
text: and the TORNADO bursts out streaking across the water.
scene_heading: EXT.	SEA CLIFF - NIGHT
text: Rasputin follows tornado to the cliff and watches
text: as it disappears into the horizon of the water.
text: Lightning and thunder crash as he laughs maniacally.
scene_heading: INT.	CABIN - NIGHT
text: which is swaying with the storm. PAN past Vladimir,
text: snoring, his now limp mustache flopping wildly and
text: past Dmitri, sleeping restlessly. Move to Anya, who
text: seems quite content.
text: From under the door SMOKY IMAGES silently slither.
text: They float across the cabin and swirl around Anya.
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON:
text: Anya's CLOSED EYES as the SMOKY IMAGES seem to enter
text: her head. She smiles in her sleep and we are in ANYA'S
dialog: DREAM. . .
scene_heading: EXT.	FOREST - DAY
text: Anya, in a beautiful white dress, is walking peacefully
text: through a sunny part of a lovely forest on a spring day.
text: She reaches down to pick some pretty flowers, then looks
text: up as it seems to get dark... OMINOUS LOOKING CLOUDS cover
text: the sun. Anya reaches down for another flower when she
scene_heading: HEARS A GROWL.
text: Anya spins to see an ENORMOUS BEAR emerge from the trees.
text: (All the animals in the dream sequence have a SLIGHT
text: resemblance to Rasputin.) Anya is frozen with fear as MORE
text: BEARS emerge and head straight for her. She tries to back
text: away as the beautiful FLOWERS GROW LONG AND HORRIBLE THORNS
text: and wrap around her ankles, impeding her escape.
text: It gets darker as the BEAR'S EYES, glowing yellow, multiply
text: and move closer. Anya pulls free of the flowers and rushes
text: to the safety of a large tree She climbs the tree and
text: escapesthe bears. Looking down, from her perch on a sturdy
text: branch, the ground seems miles away.
text: Suddenly, the BRANCH JOLTS her and almost falling, she hold
text: on to it tightly. But the branch TURNS IN TOWARD
text: HER - no longer a tree branch, but A HUGE UGLY SNAKE with
text: red eyes and huge fangs that come right for her!
text: Anya leaps to another branch, which also turns into a snake.
text: She jolts backward and begins to fall ... toward a HUNDRED
text: YELLOW EYES, FIFTY BLOOD RED MOUTHS AND THOUSANDS OF SHARP
text: TEETH. As Anya falls, she lets out a SILENT SCREAM.
text: A BURST OF SUNLIGHT
text: as Anya lands in a field of soft GOLDEN WHEAT. Unharmed
text: and very relieved, she stands and looks around at the
text: beautiful sunny wheat field.
scene_heading: INT. CABIN
text: Reality. Anya's eyes are closed as she smiles in her
text: sleep and sits up in bed. TINY WISPS of smoke still
text: swirl around her head. As she gets out of bed, she
text: unintentionally steps on Meetoo's tail, waking him.
text: Meetoo watches as the sleeping Anya opens the cabin door
text: and walks out.
text: Meetoo rises to follow Anya but the ship pitches, sending
text: him sliding across the cabin floor.
scene_heading: EXT. DECK - NIGHT
text: Anya walks out on the deck, the ship pitching violently
text: in the storm, as she smiles.
scene_heading: IN HER DREAM
text: Anya is walking through the wheat field to the edge of
text: a BLUFF. A few yards below the bluff, Anya sees a beautiful
text: little pond where a FAMILY frolic's in the clear water;
text: laughing, splashing, swiming happily. Anya climbs over a
text: low flowering wall to look closer.
speaker_heading: PULL BACK
text: REALITY: Anya has climbed over the railing of the deck
text: and is looking into the black ocean... smiling.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: A SMOKY IMAGE OF THE SAME SCENE
text: It's RASPUTIN'S POV as he watches his plan unfold in the
dialog: reliquary.
scene_heading: INT. CABIN
text: Meetoo finally rights himself from his slide across the
text: floor and begins to bark into Dmitri's ear.
scene_heading: EXT. DECK
text: Anya is waving happily at the dangerous water.
scene_heading: IN HER DREAM
text: Anya is waving to the FAMILY. They turn around toward
text: her and she sees that it's the ROMONOV FAMILY, from
text: the frieze that she saw in the palace. She is delighted
text: to see them as she feels a distance recollection of who
dialog: they are to her.
scene_heading: INT. CABIN
text: Meetoo jumps up and NIPS at Dmitri's hand. Dmitri leaps
text: up with an "owwww!" and looks over at the excited Meetoo.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: If you have to go - wake her..
text: Dmitri looks over to Anya's bed - she isn't sits up and
text: throws his legs over the side
scene_heading: EXT. DECK
text: Anya is standing right on the edge of death...
scene_heading: IN HER DREAM
text: She isn't there. He of his bed.
text: the FAMILY is waving to her. NICHOLAS waves for her to
text: jump into the clear pond and join them. Anya nods and
text: moves to jump in...
scene_heading: EXT. DECK
text: Anya gets ready to jump into the violent and icy black
text: waves. She takes one step out when... DMITRI GRABS HER
scene_heading: SHOULDERS.
text: Anya JOLTS awake from her dream. Confused at first,
text: then terrified to see what almost happened to her.
text: isn't lifts her to the other side of the railing
text: and looks at her.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: What were you doing?!
text: Anya puts her hands to her mouth in shock, shaking
text: and almost crying with fear, she throws her arms
text: around Dmitri and holds him tightly.
text: Dmitri is surprised at first, but tightens his arms
text: around her.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (CONT.)
dialog: It's okay now - I've got you.
dialog: You're safe...
text: They stand steady on the deck in a tight embrace,
text: their feelings for each other are stronger than the storm.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: THE SAME, as seen through the reliquary
text: Rasputin watches ... seething quietly, as Bartok peeks
text: meekly over his shoulder.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Boy, don't you hate it when
dialog: that happens?
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: (controlling)
text: She leads a charmed life, that
dialog: little one ... Someone is always
text: there to save her. In the palace
text: as a child, on the train and now
dialog: ... it's him.
text: Rasputin studies Dmitri in the reliquary - Dmitri and
text: Anya still in a warm embrace.
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Nice looking fellow. I mean,
dialog: don't get me wrong - I'm not
dialog: attracted to him in the physical
dialog: sense, I just ...
text: But Rasputin's not interested, he stares into the
text: reliquary and speaks directly to it.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: You are toying with me, aren't
dialog: you? You let me get so close...
text: The reliquary, as if in answer, seem to be chuckling.
text: Rasputin smiles and joins in with it.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN (CONT.)
dialog: Bartok ... have you ever been to Paris?
speaker_heading: BARTOK
dialog: Me? No. Rich food - it kills me.
dialog: Ever try and fly after one of
dialog: those heavy sauces?
text: Rasputin returns the reliquary to its cabinet.
speaker_heading: RASPUTIN
dialog: We are going to Paris - and while
dialog: we're there, let's kill the young
dialog: man. He annoys me.
scene_heading: EXT. BOAT DOCK (LA HAVRE) - DAY
text: As Anya walks down the plank her dress gets caught
text: on a nail. Dmitri is walking toward her as she yanks her
text: dress free and accidentally punches him in the stomach.
text: Dmitri takes it like a man.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Oh! I'm sorry...
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: It's okay. Didn't hurt..
text: Vlad has been watching as he walks down the plank
text: with Meetoo - they exchange an "oh boy" look, both
text: noticing that clearly something is different between
text: Anya and Dmitri. Anya catches something out of the
text: corner of eye and turns quickly.
text: CLOSE ON a sign: "Paris 30 kilometers"
text: Anya walks away from Dmitri and over to the sign
text: and looks at it longingly.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: (to herself)
text: I'm almost there... I'm finally
dialog: going to know...
text: AT THE OTHER END OF THE DOCK
text: Vladimir stares into his purse, depressed.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: How is our current financial status?
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: If I used the word "bleak" I would
dialog: be optimistic.
text: As he says this the ELDERLY DOWAGER from the ship
text: passes by with her TWO OBNOXIOUS PUG DOGS. Meetoo
text: growls as Vlad and Dmitri get an idea.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR (CONT.)
dialog: The "Odessa Dunk"?
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: It worked in Odessa...
text: Vladimir picks up Meetoo and whispers instructions.
dialog: Meetoo likes the plan.
speaker_heading: NEW ANGLE
text: as Meetoo races past the PUGS. They ignore him, so he
text: stops and makes a face, giving them a sloppy "razzberry",
text: which piques them a little. Meetoo then bends over and
text: waves his furry little butt at them. Now the PUGS are
text: offended and TAKE OFF after him, yapping all the way.
text: Meetoo turns and scrambles with the Pugs in hot pursuit.
text: As they get closer, Meetoo SUDDENLY STOPS and the Pugs
text: go FLYING OFF they edge of the dock and into the water
text: below. Meetoo looks over the edge and gives them a 'Boy,
dialog: are you guys morons look as the ELDERLY DOWAGER runs
text: up screaming.
scene_heading: ELDERLY DOWAGER
dialog: Help! My little dogs! Chevalier! Maurice!
dialog: Hold on, darlings!
text: Dmitri comes running up, a little too gallant.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: I'll save them, Madame
text: Dmitri dives into the water as Vlad rushes up behind
text: the Elderly Dowager. Anya watches from a distance as
text: Dmitri climbs out of the water carrying the soaked
dialog: (and pissed) Pugs.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Such bravery! Why, that man should
dialog: be rewarded! Amply rewarded!
speaker_heading: MINUTES LATER
text: Dmitri hands Vlad a pile of FRANCS as Anya approaches.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: That was really very kind of you.
text: She gives him a kiss on the cheek and walks away with
text: Meetoo, who turns back and gives Dmitri a look. A
text: little guilty, Dmitri turns to Vlad.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: I won't say a word...
scene_heading: EXT.	GRAND OPEN CAR - DAY
text: Traveling is style! Vladimir is driving - badly - with
text: Meetoo in the front seat. Meetoo covers his eyes. Dmitri
text: and Anya are in the open back seat, enjoying the beautiful
dialog: French countryside.
text: Dmitri looks over at Anya.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: Nervous?
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Yes - If I can't convince Sophie,
dialog: I'll never be able to see Tatiana....
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: You'll convince her. You have the
dialog: qualities of a princess you're
dialog: poised and strong... and beautiful
dialog: ... even if you forget a couple
dialog: dates of family names - she'll know.
text: Anya smiles at Dmitri, knowing that all the confidence
text: she has is because of him. She takes his hand but
text: looks away.
scene_heading: EXT. TATIANA'S PARIS HOUSE - DAY
text: They pull up in front of the beautiful white house.
text: Anya is nervous as Vladimir walks up to the front door
text: ahead of Dmitri and Anya. Vladimir knocks. Sophie
text: answers the door.
text: She moves with grace and regal poise.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: May I present her Royal
dialog: Highness Princess Anastasia!
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Oh good! We haven't seen an
dialog: Anastasia in several days!
text: Anya looks to Dmitri, a little confused by that last
text: comment. Dmitri makes a little "she's slightly crazy"
dialog: signal.
text: They all leap to avoid her butt as she bustles into
dialog: the house.
scene_heading: INT. DRAWING ROOM - DAY
text: Sophie, flanked by her sisters, sits at a table. Anya,
text: looking nervous but poised, sits across while Dmitri and
text: Vladimir hover nervously at the far end of the room.
text: Sophie's PAT CAT, TILLIE, attempts to cuddle up next to
text: Meetoo, who wants nothing to do with her.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: I'd just like to ask you a
dialog: few questions, dear...
text: Sophie opens a huge book that SLAMS open. Vlad and
dialog: Dmitri jump.
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Of course.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Where were you born?
scene_heading: SCENE CONTINUES MOS
scene_heading: TIME LAPSE MONTAGE
text: Dmitri watches Anya answer questions gracefully and
text: without hesitating. Anya smiles as her answers begin
dialog: to surprise Sophie.
speaker_heading: DMITRI (V.0.)
dialog: The real Anastasia couldn't have
text: grown up to be lovelier.
text: Sophie and the sisters look tired. Sophie has her last
dialog: question.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (almost giggling)
dialog: This is the hard one ... what rare
dialog: treat was served on the night of
dialog: the Three Hundredth Anniversary of
dialog: the Romanov Dynasty? The last ball
dialog: they ever had?
text: Dmitri and Vladimir exchange a nervous look. It's
dialog: obvious they never briefed Anya on this one.
text: Anya thinks a moment, then looks up, smiling, as
dialog: she remembers ...
speaker_heading: ANYA
dialog: Father had fresh tropical fruits
text: sent in. Oranges and pineapples
dialog: from the far east. I remember ...
dialog: I remember I threw an orange to a
text: young boy who was hiding under a
dialog: table...
text: Dmitri is shocked. He know this is Anastasia Romonov
dialog: and he can't believe it.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: Yes ... yes, it was fresh fruit.
dialog: Well, maybe not "fresh" Estelle
dialog: got one rather brown banana but ...
speaker_heading: CLOSE ON
text: Dmitri, as he stares at Anya as Sophie prattles on.
speaker_heading: MINUTES LATER
text: Anya sits near the window, stroking Tillie ...
text: much to the consternation of a jealous Meetoo.,
text: She looks out the window and sees Dmitri, deep
text: in thought, wandering in the garden.
text: OUT OF HER EARSHOT at the other end of the room,
text: Vladimir speaks to Sophie.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Are you impressed with our Anastasia?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Oh, heavens - I must say, yes.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Then, you'll take her to see
dialog: Tatiana?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Oh, heavens I must say... no, no
dialog: actually, I can't - Tatiana has
dialog: refused to see any more girls.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Perhaps you could convince her?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Oh, heavens, no... but ...
dialog: (Vlad-leans closer as
dialog: Sophie shares a
dialog: naughty secret)
dialog: She is going to be at the
dialog: Ballet Russe tonight! That's
dialog: the Russian Ballet - Russe for
dialog: Russian, oh those crazy
dialog: French... they only go to see
dialog: which dancers will defect.
text: She rises heading towards Anya. Her butt knocks over
text: a vase, which Vladimir deftly catches.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Come my dear, we've much to
dialog: talk about.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDEN
text: Vladimir has finished giving Dmitri the details.
text: Both are ecstatic.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: We did it! We did it, my boy! We're
dialog: going to see Tatiana at the ballet
dialog: tonight and we're going to be rich!
dialog: Rich!
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: But it's not	the money, Vlad.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: Are you feeling all right?
speaker_heading: ANYA (CONT.)
dialog: (deeply grateful)
dialog: But you never doubted who I was,
dialog: did you, Dmitri? Not for a second ...
text: Anya gratefully kisses Dmitri an the cheek and
text: runs into the house. Vladimir, who's been watching,
text: has a warning.
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Life is funny, isn't it. You find
dialog: the right girl ... and then you
dialog: lose her.
speaker_heading: DMITRI
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: VLADIMIR
dialog: Dmitri ... You must understand that
dialog: once you take her to Tatiana... well,
dialog: it's over... nothing can happen between
dialog: you. She's a princess and you're a
dialog: commoner.
text: Dmitri understands this and is devastated. Vladimir pats
text: him on the back as he walks into the house.
scene_heading: MUSIC BEGINS: BRIGHT, EXCITING, PARIS IN THE TWENTIES
text: Anya and Dmitri, followed by Vlad and Sophie are walking
text: down the Champs Elysees. Meetoo trots along after them,
text: happily. They walk by AN ACCORDION PLAYER and a LADY FLOWER
text: SELLER, who watch them and whisper to each other.
speaker_heading: ACCORDION PLAYER
dialog: Lovers!
speaker_heading: FLOWER SELLER
dialog: Ooh la la!
scene_heading: "PARIS HOLDS THE KEY TO YOUR HEART" (PRODUCTION NUMBER)
text: In UPTEMPO "PARIS IN THE TWENTIES style MUSIC, the people of
text: Paris ALL SING, welcoming Anya and Dmitri, Sophie and Vlad,
dialog: to Paris!
text: The foursome explores the city and Anya has the
text: happiest day of her young life. On the streets they
text: encounter the motley denizens of Paris, as well as
dialog: people with very familiar faces -- for anyone in the
dialog: audience in the know, they'll see Josephine Baker,
dialog: Maurice Chevalier, Rodin, Gertrude Stein, Freud,
dialog: Lindbergh - people who were in Paris in the twenties..
text: For those in the audience who don't recognize them,
dialog: they'll simply be unidentified fascinating "types" who SING.
text: As the joyous number progresses, we realize that Dmitri
text: is feeling something else -- the impending loss of Anya
text: to a world where she clearly is at home. He SINGS for a
text: short moment, knowing that he's about to lose her. Anya
text: visits a couturier and comes out with a big dress box
text: for her evening at the ballet. A BIG FINALE as they go
text: off for the evening. Even Meetoo has found some female
text: poodle companionship. But for one last beat, Dmitri's
text: wistfulness cuts against joy.
scene_heading: END MUSICAL NUMBER
