dialog: 
dialog: Written By
dialog: Jonathan Murphy
dialog: Shooting Draft (6-1-2015)
dialog: Property of Animal Among Us LLC
text: This is a story about a monster.
dialog: ii.
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST - DAY 1
text: Flashes, in blurs, of EVERGREEN trees whipping by--
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
text: The opening CREDITS; and old CRIME SCENE PHOTOS:
text: Ri Two pale, teenage DEAD BODIES, maimed, iay face down at
text: the sake 's edge. Their wounds savage; animal-like tears in
text: CAUTION TAPE on sticks cordon off the area. A CAMCORDER is
text: planted in the mud not five feet from the bloody scene.
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST - DAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Sprinting FOOTSTEPS crack dead limbs-- heavy, feminine
text: GRUNTS, as she slices through heavy brush, she cries, her
dialog: face cut, bleeding--
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST - DAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Tracking her from above, a mere blip in the blurs, a BROWN
text: MASS, gives chase at an inhuman speed-- just ahead, his prey
text: TRIPS, falling to her knees...
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST - DAY - CONTINUOUS
text: LUPITA DE ROSA (26) a fiery Latina, dirty, sweating-- with
text: Amigos Del Squatche stenciled across her TEE, rises to her
dialog: feet.
text: The tripping culprit, a TENT ripped apart; FOOD BAGS
text: scattere’ She’s discovered her ravaged CAMP SITE. She
text: clutches a small CAMERA.
speaker_heading: LUPITA
speaker_heading: NINAAAA! 2?
text: She rises, noticing the large FOOTPRINTS and DRAG MARKS in
text: the area, leading to a TREE. She inches closer, flies buzz in
text: the surrounding BUSHES. Fumbling to operate her camera, it
text: blinks on-- LOW BATTERY...
text: Pushing the camera between branches, eyeing her view finder--
text: she stumbles back, keeling over to retch ry heaving.
text: Only to notice the pile of CLOTHES she’s landed in, they’re
text: hers-- and Nina’s AMIGOS DEL SQUATCHE SHIRT, all covered in
text: BLOOD... she breaks down, muttering:
speaker_heading: LUPITA (CONT'D)
dialog: Padre nuestro, que estas en los
dialog: cielos-- please, get me out of
dialog: here.
text: ...-from behind, a loud THUD plunks in a BUSH next to her. She
text: stumbles back, trying to stop her crying, when... plop... a
text: red DRIP lands on her leg. Then another. Another. She 160ks
dialog: up to--
text: pos human INTESTINES. As it gives way to gravity, the
dialog: body free falling--
text: Lupita SCREAMS and the BEAST HOWLS wild, a victory cry...
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MAIN GATE - DAY 2
text: Removing the CAMP CLOSED SIGN hung on the OPEN gate, the big,
text: plotting EYES of Park Ranger ANITA BISHOP (37) perk at the
speaker_heading: SCREAMS.
text: Her dark hair in a tight bun, no makeup-- she’s tanned and
text: toned, the result of fife in her surroundings. Her eyes lift
text: above, into the treeline, as she loads her tool belt into her
dialog: TRUCK, “...did I hear something?”
text: REMINGTON RIFLE strapped on her back, her hand moves to the
text: 9MM on her hip-- she turns down the CLASSICAL MUSIC playing
text: from the dash... and listens-- nothing but nature.
text: She loads up to go, with a smile, she stares up to the newly
dialog: restored sign:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: ...much better than Mother’s old
dialog: one.
text: Crooked branches make up its jagged letters--
scene_heading: WELCOME TO MERRYMAKER CAMPGROUND
dialog: TO:
text: From it’s vantage point, high in the trees, the BEAST watches
text: Anita pull through the GATE, jumping out to lock up...
text: It shifts limbs, to follow her, as she drives on-- passing
text: the quaint CABINS and a MAIN HALL giving way to a large
text: FIELD, a LAKE in the distance.
text: Her TRUCK disappears under the foliage, into the spider web
dialog: of PATHS cut out of the wild to make up the Merrymaker
dialog: Campgrounds.
text: As the sun fades, a CLAW grips a branch, bits of FLESH and
text: BLOOD cover it-- the monster growls us to...
speaker_heading: TITLE CARD:
speaker_heading: ANIMAL AMONG US
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - OFFICE - DUSK 3
text: The SMALL SPACE is seclusive, cozy--
text: a ping b hangs above the anonymous MAN seated at his desk,
text: g PY the window-- THE MERRYMAKER MURDERER BOOK COVER! an
text: OR nods ‘ABIN 13 in thick woods, blood sprayed all over the
text: outside-- across its bottom:
scene_heading: BASED ON TRUE EVENTS, #1 BEST SELLER BY ROLAND BAUMGARNER.
text: and a huge RED BANNER to crown it all-- 10 MILLION COPIES
speaker_heading: SOLD.
text: Big, blue EYES stare at a COMPUTER SCREEN, moving along as
text: fingers type, his WEDDING RING clacking against eys. His
text: lips mutter the words as they’re written:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (0.S.)
dialog: .-+.-she’d caught him in her trap,
dialog: the smug bastard. All the son of a
dialog: bitch could muster in his defense
text: was a lyric from better days past.
text: As her gun muzzle nestled between
text: his lips, he quivered, saying--
text: ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN, the last line-- “No one knows what
dialog: it's like to feel these feelings, like I do. And I blame/
text: He leans back-- his eyes, on the verge of tears.
speaker_heading: MATCH TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY 4
text: A SHOWER HEAD gushes; the water runs down his face, his BLUE
text: EYES staring into nothing, his skin with goosebumps.
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY
text: Dryin off, stepping in front of his reflection is ROLAND
text: AUMG. NER’ (38). He combs his hair back, leaning in to loathe
text: the gray in his beard. He eyes cologne, next to his removed
text: WEDDING RING. He pulls a SHIRT from a hanger, buttoning up...
text: He spritzes, puts on the ring, then sizes his options, on the
text: bed: new JEANS with tags, but he chooses the second option,
text: the SLACKS sat beside them. He reaches for his shirt, just as
text: his daughter ISABELLA (4) bursts in-- she’s wearing a cheap
scene_heading: WEREWOLF MASK:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
scene_heading: AAAAAH, AN ISABELLAWOLF! QUICK,
dialog: MOMMY, GRAB YOUR SILVER!
text: He grabs her, pretending she’s eating him-- she giggles:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE (0.S.)
dialog: Only silver thing I own is that
dialog: tongue of yours.
text: Roland pokes his tongue out at CHRISTINE BAUMGARNER (42)
text: stepping in. Her dark hair plain, same as her clothes and
text: makeup, a sacrifice made by a stay at home mom. WATER BOTTLE
text: and SNACKS in one hand, KEYS, PURSE, MAIL in the other... all
text: atop her SIX MONTH PREGNANT BELLY.
text: He pops up, pulling the MASK off Izzy, and wrapping Christine
text: in a hug and a kiss:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: You are the most amazing woman I
dialog: know.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: I think you’re right.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I can’t believe you found a
dialog: Halloween mask in May. Honey, it’s
dialog: perfect.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Yeah, I found that at a cute little
dialog: shop I'd never heard of downtown,
dialog: Azazel's Attic of Death. I ordered
dialog: their Killer Kitchen Knife set for
dialog: us!
text: Ro grabs Izzy, eating her tummy:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Aaagggh-- I think Mommy’s earned
dialog: some extra credit for her hard work
dialog: today!
text: As Isabella giggles like crazy, Christine steps in:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Oray 4 okay--_ Daddy's gotta go--
dialog: (taking her from him)
dialog: --go wash for dinner, please, Iz?
text: Two squirts of soap only.
speaker_heading: ISABELLA
dialog: But I like the bubbles--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --hey, we do what mommy asks,
dialog: please.
dialog: (creeping toward Tzzy)
dialog: ++-0r... daddy will sneak in your
dialog: room. .-. while you're sleeping...
dialog: and--
text: Ro tickles her tummy again-- setting off a squealing fit. He
text: stops, kisses her, Sending her on her way:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: I love you. See you in the morning,
dialog: Bumble Butt.
dialog: After she’s gone:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT’D)
dialog: You know what I think is sexy? You
dialog: braving the Attic of Death for--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: --what’s not sexy is my butt
dialog: hurting from driving around all
dialog: day, looking for that stupid thing.
dialog: I’m tired, I’m behind on my
dialog: deadline now--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --and it’s important for the
dialog: students to see me supporting their
dialog: ideas 100%, so, you've saved my
dialog: ass. I’m sure it won’t be the last
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: (noticing)
dialog: Are those new jeans?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What, no, I’ve had these a while--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: --I didn’t buy them for you.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I am still capable of doing a few
dialog: things myself.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: You’re all grown up!
text: She squeezes his cheeks in her hand, hard, then:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Get all your writing done?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Yeah, I’m almost there-- I had a
dialog: breakthrough, but I don’t think I
dialog: like the ending.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Doesn't every horror story end the
dialog: same? Kill the monster or the
dialog: monster kills you?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Yeah... but what if the monster has
dialog: to live, with you? Ah well, I’11
dialog: figure it out... see you tonight.
text: A kiss on her cheek as he goes.
scene_heading: INT. LECTURE HALL - DAY 5
text: A dim COLLEGE LECTURE HALL.
text: KARA (25) a_cute blonde, finishes giving her report in front
text: of the CLASS. She wears a PHANTOM OF THE OPERA SK, makeup
text: done up on it. Blown up behind her, a PHOTO of Kara and her
text: TEST SUBJECT, a more hideous version, her makeup Joker-like:
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: ..-my test patient’s charade of
dialog: misconstrued feelings, will lead to
dialog: misguided intentions. Therefore, no
dialog: matter how she chooses to doll wu
dialog: now, this will manifest one day in
text: her actions. The makeup is merely
text: her mask covering the scars none of
dialog: us can gee: )
dialog: ipping a page
dialog: .--but my issue Pont with her
dialog: feelings, or even her way of
dialog: thinking. What choice did she have?
text: She's labeled a “freak”, triggering
dialog: ears of oppressing her true
dialog: eelings-- loneliness, inadequacy--
dialog: the inability to live “up to the
dialog: standard”. A standard set by whom?
dialog: Daddy didn’t give affection. Mommy
dialog: didn’t care. So who’s left?
text: The rest of the class-- 15 STUDENTS, all wear masks-- alien,
text: funny, scary, a catcher’s mask, homemade, all kinds:
speaker_heading: KARA (CONT'D)
dialog: Each and everyone of us here.
dialog: (then)
dialog: If we don’t begin to recognize and
dialog: help these types of people, before
text: it reaches a point where maniacal
dialog: thoughts become actions, you might
dialog: never know when Your worst
dialog: nightmare could be sitting right
dialog: next to you.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Thank you.
text: The lights come UP e the class claps. Roland sits anonymous
text: amongst them, in his wolf mask. As the kids remove masks:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Kinda exhilarating, isn’t it? That
dialog: feeling you get behind the mask...
dialog: a strange freedom, right? An
dialog: anonymity-- with the power to do
dialog: almost anything you want.
dialog: (he_ stands)
dialog: Powerful imagery, Kara. Very
dialog: creative.
dialog: (she smiles)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: My one criticism, if you can even
dialog: call it that-- what to do about the
dialog: people who love their masks? Those
dialog: who refuse to take it off, ever?
dialog: Are they worth the time, money and
dialog: resources?
text: As he makes his way through the row, mask still on:
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: The problem is our foundation,
dialog: built on ‘We the People’, was
dialog: trampled over by the “Dime, Money
dialog: and Resources People”, who
dialog: gonveniently are never available
dialog: when--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --wa-wah-wa-wah-- liberal alert.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: Is it democratic or republican to
dialog: let our society devolve into a self-
dialog: centered existence?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Can we get some poll numbers on
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: --or hell, who knows, maybe my test
dialog: patient iS an evil genius, plotting
dialog: to murder me during our follow up
dialog: session and Chaos Theory wins
dialog: again!
text: The class bursts laughter-- Roland too-- Kara’s eyes linger
text: on Roland, as he approaches the podium. He pulls off his
text: mask, whispering something to her, it makes her smile.
text: He moves her aside, reaching down, to a small CAULDRON below.
dialog: Holding it up:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Provocative? Inspiring? But is it A
dialog: Plus Material?
text: He holds up a neutral thumb, the class wavers, then all raise
dialog: thumbs up:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT’D
text: THE TRIBE HAS SPOKEN! CHOOSE YOUR
text: TREAT, SALTY OR SWEET?
text: She reaches up, her eyes on him, as she pulls a RED LOLLIPOP:
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: --my favorite color.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: {to the class)
dialog: Due for Tuesday Lab-- minimum 1000
dialog: words on your most_vivid memory of
dialog: when your “maniacal thoughts didn’t
dialog: become conscious actions” and what
dialog: positive effect you believe it’s
dialog: ad in your young lives.
dialog: (waving)
dialog: Make good choices this weekend, my
dialog: pet brains.
text: The class murmurs, shuffling out-- Roland begins to gather
dialog: his things-- after a moment:
speaker_heading: KARA (0.S.)
dialog: You really think I was inspiring?
text: Stepping up close, behind him:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
text: My neurons are still buzzing.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: I was thinking of basing a book on
dialog: my test patient from my thesis. A
dialog: story based on her fucked up
dialog: story..?
text: She pops her sucker out, biting her lip--
speaker_heading: KARA (CONT'D)
dialog: .+-would that be something that you
dialog: could help me with?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I’d be more than happy to offer my--
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: --perfect, when can we start?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Um... well, have you already
dialog: cleared thé idea with Dean Winters?
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: Ew, he’s such a creeper. Every time
dialog: I see him, he always tries to touch
dialog: me-—
dialog: (Ro laughs, quickly)
dialog: --but, yeah, I totally ran it by
dialog: him yes erday, and he said it was a
dialog: great idea. He actually thought you
dialog: were the perfect person for me.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: ...uh huh.
dialog: (a charged beat, then)
dialog: Okay look, I think there are some
dialog: things to consider before we jump
dialog: into this.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: We all have voices in our heads,
dialog: but sometimes it gets hard to hear
dialog: which one is speaking the loudest
dialog: and if its message is most
dialog: important, you understand?
dialog: (she_ nods)
dialog: Let’s talk more next week.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: You're gonna make me wait a whole
dialog: week!? Are you trying to drive me
dialog: crazy!
dialog: (then)
dialog: Are you having office hours this
dialog: weekend?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: +.-um, no.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: --okay, never mind. It’s fine.
text: As she starts to go:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Christine told me she explained our
dialog: reasons, with the whole nanny
dialog: situation, right? I hope she wasn’t
dialog: too--
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: --firm but fair. Tell her again for
dialog: me, I’m really, really sorry, I
dialog: didn’t think, I’m an idiot, I just--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --hey, it’s “water under the
dialog: bridge” now. No skin off our
dialog: backs... No harm, no foul.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: “No harm, no foul”, I like that.
dialog: then)
dialog: That reminds me-- check your e-mail
dialog: before you get home.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - WATCH TOWER - NIGHT 6
text: Anita peers through BINOCULARS, 60 FEET up in the tree, atop
text: the WATCH TOWER-- at her feet, an empty COIL SPRING TRAP and
text: an old, female BLOUSE.
text: Perched undetected, 60 feet high in a trees behind her--
text: something big and hairy shifts. Into her RADIO:
speaker_heading: ANITA
text: All’s clear from Tower 3-- ‘bout to
dialog: set the last trap. Rally at my
dialog: cabin?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT'D)
dialog: (no response)
dialog: Earth to Poppy? Hello, do you copy,
dialog: Poppy?
speaker_heading: POPPY §o3 Ss.)
dialog: (over the radio)
dialog: Some of us are trying to work,
dialog: Anita.
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MAIN GATE - NIGHT 7
text: A MULTI-PURPOSE CART sits--_its HEADLIGHTS blare through the
text: darkness, illuminating the locked FRONT GATE. Atop the gate,
text: a lanky MAN climbs over it.
text: PENELOPE ‘POPPY’ BISHOP (27), leans up onto the steering
text: wheel. Her hair cut short er lips cherry RED, her shirt cut
text: low, with a nostril pierced and RED DICE earrings:
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: What are you doing?
text: She plucks the SUCKER from her mouth:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: (into her RADIO)
dialog: I've stumbled upon a surprise for
dialog: you, Ms. Queen Bee. Seems a young
dialog: Man wandered into the woods, was
dialog: tryin’ to sneak into camp, without
dialog: prior authorization--
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: --just tell him to go away, we’re
dialog: closed.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: I offered that option-- then he
dialog: said he’d talked to Burl.
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: What!? When?
text: The reporter wobbles on top-- he yelps, to the sound of
text: RIPPING PANTS, in the dark:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Oh, shit... okay there, buddy?
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Just ripped the ass in half, I’m
dialog: fine. Totally fine.
text: The reporter hurries to the cart, holding his pants together,
dialog: as he loads in:
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (CONT’D)
dialog: Hey, how it’s goin’--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: (turning her RADIO down )
dialog: --15 minutes then you’re outta
dialog: here, okay? We’re closed.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Fair enough, but you should know, I
text: wasn’t just wandering in the woods.
dialog: Tonight is actually my first
dialog: official blog assignment for
dialog: (re. his shirt)
dialog: Bigfootsafoot.com.
dialog: (ejecting his recorder)
dialog: --the guy you mentioned, Burl-- is
dialog: he here? Cause he’s the one who
dialog: confirmed Sir Squatch was sighted--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --he said who!?
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
scene_heading: Notorious B.I.G-- F.0.0.T.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: poner onto your nuts, Squirrely
dialog: Oy
text: She hits the gas, spinning around, spraying mud--
text: Suddenly, she slams the brakes-- the Reporter screams like a
text: little girl, as they narrowly miss:
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
dialog: Jesus-—
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: --THANK YOU, JESUS!
dialog: (crying, in Spanish)
scene_heading: MY FRIEND-- SHE WAS-- SOMETHING! IT
scene_heading: ATE HER SKIN-- IT ATE HER! HER
dialog: SKIN...
text: Lupita faints. They jump out:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: What did she say--
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: --does her shirt say Squatche!?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 11
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: EXT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - NIGHT 8
text: Roland's parked in his CAR. His quaint, TWO- STORY HOUSE
text: before him, the wolf mask disregarded in the car's
text: floorboard.
text: Ro stares down to his PHONE-- reading the e-mail sent b
text: Kara, it’s PHOTOS of Kara in her KITTY MASK and not muc
text: else. In the subject line, Meow.
text: His PHONE buzzes again... a text from CHRISTINE: U close?
text: He deletes the e-mail from Kara, pushing open the DOOR...
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 11
text: Roland pushes the door open to a dim room-- Christine types
text: on her laptop, in her RED GOWN:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: You... wanted to see me after
dialog: class?
text: She stops her work, as he climbs onto the bed, kissing her.
text: She allows him... he grabs her breasts, a little too eager:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Careful! They’re tender.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: It’s your fault. You’re sexy.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: No, I’m pregnant, which means fat,
text: bloated and achy, not sexy.
text: Roland glides his hand under her shirt, caressing her gently,
text: but she flinches:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What, do I scare you now?
text: She peers into his eyes-- something's up:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: Babe, you’re not fat! You're
dialog: glowing.
speaker_heading: _ CHRISTINE
dialog: No, I’m just-- distracted.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: By?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: I've been debating whether or not
dialog: to just throw it away.
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: The baby?
text: She hits his arm, reaching over to an envelope and LETTER on
dialog: the night stand:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: This was in the mail today.
dialog: Addressed only to Baumgarner. No
dialog: return address. So, I was
dialog: curious...
dialog: Roland takes it, reading:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Dear Mr. Baumgarner, I must start
dialog: by stating, I am your BIGGEST fan!
dialog: (he reacts
dialog: My name is Marilyn M. Bishop, you
dialog: would not recognize me, but more my
dialog: family, owners of the Merrymaker
dialog: Campgrounds-- undoubtebly made
dialog: famous by your book...
text: He trails off, Christine watching him closely. When finally:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh my God--
dialog: (aloud)
dialog: .-.I believe whatever maimed and
dialog: killed those two girls will never
dialog: return. I don't know this for
dialog: certain, but I do not, nor did I
dialog: raise my children to live in fear
dialog: of the unknown.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Ro--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --my two beautiful daughters in the
dialog: picture-- the what? What picture?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Oh, yeah. They’re hideous.
text: Christine pulls a 4X6 up from the envelope: it’s Anita and
text: Poppy, arm in arm by the lake, in LIFEGUARD BIKINI TOPS and
speaker_heading: SHORTS.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (he reads)
dialog: ...they have endured so much over
dialog: the past fifteen years, they simply
dialog: deserve only the beauty that
text: Merrymaker holds.
text: He looks up, clearly blown away:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: Why would you ever think of
dialog: throwing this away!
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: It’s a really sweet, kind of
dialog: obsessive, fan letter in respect to
dialog: a book you wrote 7 years ago.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (offended)
dialog: Calling an invitation _to a Re-
dialog: Opening of the place I made famous
dialog: isn’t just a fan letter. It was her
dialog: last dying wish, for Chrissake!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Well, her last dying wish is in two
dialog: days from now.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Perfect. I can drive, take me 10
dialog: hours tops, snip the ribbon, and
dialog: I’m be back before you miss me.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Roland--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --come with me. This is a sign.
dialog: It’s got my creative juices pumping
dialog: already.
dialog: (pulling her closer)
dialog: ..-maybe this is just what we need.
text: Some time in the middle of nowhere
dialog: togetper
dialog: ops up)
dialog: T’1l (ped someone to watch Izzy, a
dialog: ton of students always offer--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: --so, are your students gonna clean
dialog: and buy the groceries too? Your
dialog: students going to put Isabella to
dialog: bed? Read her favorite stor
dialog: her? Get her dressed, make ey
dialog: breakfast--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --hon, we can--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: --we tried that, remember? If not
dialog: for your “student” Kara and her
text: baby-sitting under the influence
dialog: routine, maybe we'd have someone
dialog: reliablé around here.
dialog: (he reacts)
dialog: I'd love to just run off from life,
dialog: from my work, from everything when
dialog: it isn’t perfect... but one of us
dialog: has to be the adult. We both know
dialog: who drew that card.
text: She starts to practice her breathing, calming herself--
text: Roland synchronizes with her:
dialog: 12
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Just breathe. I’m being ridiculous,
dialog: you’re absolutely right. It was
dialog: stupid-- just breathe, babe...
text: As he moves closer, putting her LAPTOP away, pulling her into
text: him as he pulls off the light.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - NIGHT 12
text: Poppy’s CART, equipped with TRANQ GUNS, NETTING, ROPES and
text: TRAPS, pulls up gangly REPORTER (39), bounds out of the
text: passenger side-- RECORDER in hand, T-SHIRT boasting his pride
dialog: and joy, Bigfootsafoot.com.
dialog: Lupita’s leaned against Poppy:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Jesus H., who is that!?
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: I’m from Bigfootsa--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --not you--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --just a lost camper. Gonna take
text: her to the Infirmary, she seems a
text: little delirious.
text: Poppy holds out Lupita’s CAMERA:
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
text: Her belongings.
speaker_heading: ANITA
speaker_heading: (taking the CAMERA)
dialog: Any sign of--
speaker_heading: POPPY
text: --nope. Traps are all set though.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Okay, good job. Rally when you’re
dialog: done with her.
text: ore blows a kiss as she backs into darkness, and they’re
text: i Anita turns to the reporter, holding his recorder, all
dialog: smiles:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Fascinating place you’ve got here.
dialog: Are those the Sassafras trees from
dialog: the book? Which cabin ya'll keep
text: the baby-eatin'’ inbreeds shacked up
dialog: in?
dialog: 13
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (unamused)
dialog: Right this way.
text: Above the MESS HALL, covered by the thick pines, the BEAST
text: lurks, watching. SALIVA drips from its lips, 50 yards above
dialog: them--
text: As the drool tracks, headed straight down for the reporter’s
text: head, he glances up, § stepping to follow Anita... the spit
text: blob splattering the dirt.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - NIGHT 13
text: A LARGE WHITE BOARD; notes, blueprints all over it, a map of
text: the grounds-- the reporter next to Anita, holding his
text: recorder, wearing very small SHORTS, M.M.C.G. stenciled on
dialog: them:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --we repainted and remodeled all
text: thirteen cabins. All that’s left
dialog: now is to put the bodies in ‘em!
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Bodies? You mean, like dead bodies.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Yes, dead bodies-- of bloggists
dialog: first.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Ohh, touche mademoiselle.
dialog: (shifting)
dialog: Okay, you fi in the blank-- first
dialog: thing people think of when they
dialog: hear MerryMaker is..?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: The book, I know. The perception
dialog: created Of our camp based on that
dialog: book is completely moronic and
dialog: ridiculous. Entertainin but
dialog: fictional. What happened’ to those
dialog: two young girls was a tragedy, and
dialog: should be viewed and treated as
dialog: such, in my opinion. If you_believe
dialog: that book, you must also believe
dialog: animals are gonna rise outta the
dialog: cemetery too?
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Do you have a cemetery located
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: We have a a proud family history
dialog: here... I intend to get these
dialog: grounds up and running, as my
dialog: mother’s mother’s mother diay long
dialog: before me...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 14
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT'D)
dialog: (noticing him)
dialog: You seem-- disappointed.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: I was actually hoping you'd say the
dialog: bigfoot sighting reported on
dialog: AmigosDelSquatche.org...
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: The what?
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: It'sa circulating Monthly Squatch
dialog: Report-- Sir Squatch, reportedly
dialog: surfaced .67 miles from this exact
dialog: location. You haven’t seen any
dialog: traces?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Unfortunately not.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: But Burl--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --I don’t know what Burl was
dialog: thinking, but his way of thinking
dialog: is the reason he’s no longer here.
text: As she steps past him:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: --so, how ‘bout the quick tour on
dialog: your way out?
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - ROAD - NIGHT 14
text: Anita and the reporter walk, the only light her FLASHLIGHT:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: -..-this is off the record?
text: He pockets his RECORDER, then:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D
dialog: The truth is when the ound those
dialog: two girls, only m mother, brother
dialog: and step dad, Burl, were here.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Can I talk to mom or brother?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: My brother Wayne turned eighteen,
dialog: checked out that summer after it
dialog: all happened-- I haven’t talked to
dialog: him since.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 15
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT'D)
dialog: Our real dad split, cause he
dialog: couldn’t deal with my crazy, over-
dialog: bearing mother, leaving her here
dialog: alone to run this place. She
text: stumbled upon the meat sack known
text: as Burl, and married the oaf. But
dialog: when she died last year, half
dialog: cancer, half broken heart-- Burl
dialog: was asked to leave, so... I’m
dialog: sorry, I don’t look like a buck-
dialog: tooth, in-bred, who likes to blend
dialog: babies into smoothies, but--
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: --NO WAY, DID HE BASE THE FRAN
text: CHARACTER ON YOU!? THE INNOCENT
scene_heading: DAUGHTER TURNED PSYCHOPATHIC
scene_heading: SCALPING EXPERT.
dialog: She smiles wicked--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You’1l never know.
text: The BEAST waits silently, hunched low, undetected in the
text: brush-- its dark eyes anonymously fixed on the lanky
dialog: trespasser.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - INFIRMARY - NIGHT 15
text: A simple clinic-- a few tables, some beds and cabinets full
text: of the usual medical supplies. Poppy pulls Lupita’s shirt
text: off, some DRIED BLOOD and CUTS. Lupita shakes, still in shock
dialog: of what she’s seen.
text: Poppy tenderly cares for her wounds-- Lupita reflexes:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: You're safe. Okay?
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: Not safe here.
dialog: (then)
dialog: ...safe in the desert, with no
dialog: monster.
text: POPPY eyes her, eyeing her shirt, Amigos Del Squatche across
text: it, holding it up:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: You’ve run a long way from home...
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: I no want to go-- but I did, then
dialog: on my camera, you see it, I see it!
dialog: On there, this is the monster, I
dialog: record it! It kills--
dialog: 16
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --okay, I’ll get you your camera,
dialog: but just relax for a minute, okay?
dialog: Let me at least get you cleaned up.
text: Lupita shrinks, as Poppy bandages a cut, moving to another:
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
dialog: ...I believe you.
speaker_heading: LUPITA
text: Insides parts-- guts-- they fall on
dialog: my head--
text: Lupita breaks down, Poppy tries to comfort her, reaching up
text: to wipe her tears. Her touch is intimate:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Hey, no one is gonna hurt you
dialog: okay You have nothing to be afraid
dialog: (beat)
dialog: --if you weren’t safe, I'd drive
dialog: you out to the desert myself.
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: You will drive me..? Esta Noche?
text: Poppy’s stare lingers on her, then gives her TWO WHITE PILLS,
text: and a cup of water.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Let’s see how you feel after you
dialog: take these...
text: Like a frightened animal, Lupita takes them--
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - WOODS - NIGHT 16
text: Hidden within the thick trees, the BEAST paces Anita and the
text: Reporter, mixing in with his surroundings:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: ..-what about the camera, left with
text: the two teena' e girls, maimed at
dialog: the lake? No e was found with
dialog: the bodies? At east, that’s what
dialog: the police reports say. That what
dialog: you say?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Unfortunately our time is up.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: Ok, but one last thing! You look
dialog: armed for World War Z-- nets, trang
dialog: guns, shotguns... what’s out here
dialog: got you so scared, Ranger Rambo?
dialog: 17
dialog: 20.
text: As the pair approach the main gate:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: My God, you're a perfect portrait
dialog: of the world. Obsessed with death,
dialog: till it knocks on your front door:
text: She pulls her 9MM from her hip--
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D
dialog: I‘1l make you famous, if you like?
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: No, no, I'm--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --I'm sorry our camp has no man-
dialog: eating inbreeds, no bigfoots, no
dialog: noghing but real folks getting
text: ready for it’s re-opening.
text: She aims her gun at the NO TRESPASSING SIGN hung on the gate:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: No means no, even in the middle of
dialog: nowhere.
text: A low GRUMBLE as the BEAST moves among the limbs--, she
text: unlocks it, ushering him out... immediately locking up behind
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: Well, Godspeed.
text: And with her light, she turns to go-- leaving him in the
text: pitch black, his only hope the moonlight... as she retreats,
text: e lingers, then reluctantly starts back to his car.
text: He shuffles down the road, out of site-- then pops back out:
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: I'd be doing a great disservice to
dialog: my audience if I didn’t try to get
dialog: an interview with that Mexican
dialog: Girl.
dialog: (then)
dialog: And he said, “Let there be
dialog: liiiight"!
text: He pulls his PHONE from his pocket, his flashlight APP floods
text: out in front of him...
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - NIGHT 17
text: Within the trees, the BEAST follows the small GLOW made by
text: the reporter-- tracking in silence.
dialog: 19
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MAIN GATE - NIGHT 19
text: The Reporter sneaks up to the gate, gripping the metal, when
text: a RUSTLE moves inside the gate. He pauses--
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: ...Ranger Bishop?
text: Nothing... he stands frozen, then scoffs:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (CONT’D)
dialog: Careful of your vagina on the way
dialog: over, sir.
text: He lifts his body up, scaling with no problem, plucks a foot
text: in, pushing up-- then another RUSTLE. SNAP! CRACK!
text: He auses , suspended on the fence. He holds out his phone for
text: light, it’s little use. He climbs up, perching atop the
text: fence, straddling it, scoping the area. He whips out his
dialog: recorder:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (CONT’ Pp.
dialog: Bigfootsafoot investi ation, og
dialog: Log. The time is-- I don’t know
dialog: what o'clock. I am at MerryMaker
dialog: Camp Grounds. I am experiencing
text: familiar, yet unidentifiable sounds-
text: --a primal HOWL starts a chain of loon calls:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (CONT’D)
dialog: This might be the very moment,
dialog: tonight-- I make first, bonafide
dialog: contact with the primordial. ~- Sir
dialog: Squatch. I will now attempt to
text: climb down off of the fence for
dialog: further investigation. Log out.
text: He swings a leg over, when HEAVY FOOTSTEPS approach-- causing
text: him to pause-- it’s too dark to see anything.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (CONT’D)
dialog: ...other Ranger Bishop, is that
dialog: you?
text: He tries to climb quietly, when suddenly something darts out--
text: whipping past him:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (CONT’D)
dialog: Little Mexican girl? Hola--
text: --but before his foot can hit the ground, his LEGS are taken
text: out below him-- he flops, banging his head on the dirt, BLOOD
text: spurting from his mout.
text: Quickly, the reporter’s body is dragged off the main road--
text: with grunts, rustling, then a PIERCING SCREAM, the call of
dialog: victory...
speaker_heading: FADE TO:
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
dialog: 22.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - OFFICE - NIGHT 20
text: Ro sits at his desk, his computer his only light. The letter
text: to Marilyn laid in his lap. He stares up to the MERRYMAKER
text: MURDERER POSTER, lost in thought.
text: Pulled up on screen, the Merrymaker Campground WEB SITE;
text: focused on a picture of POPRY Poppy holds a POSTER SIGN,
text: appearing to be naked behind it, “COME PLAY WHERE THE WILD
dialog: THINGS ARE!”
text: Roland’s broken from the moment, when the door pops open
text: behind him-- it’s Izzy, wandered out of bed. She hold her
text: BLACK TEDDY BEAR in hand. Flipping the screen off, he pockets
dialog: the letter, moving to her:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: .--what’s up, little girl? You have
dialog: another bad dream?
text: Nodding, she raises her arms for him. He grabs her and her
speaker_heading: TEDDY:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: Daddy’s got you now, you’re safe.
dialog: (re. the bear)
dialog: Did Mommy get you a new teddy? I
dialog: like this one, he’s cute...
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 21
text: Roland stares down, chewing the end of his PEN. He stands
text: looking at Christine, a red SLEEPING MASK over her eyes.
text: Finally, it hits him what to write, he begins to scribble...
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY 22
text: A kick from the baby wakes Christine. She rolls over, pulling
text: her mask off... Roland’s side of the bed made, with a NOTE
text: folded on his pillow. She opens it, reading... then tosses it
text: back onto the pillow, all it reads is:
dialog: I moved some stuff around, everything is taken care of for
dialog: youl
dialog: I love you, but I think I need this. It's about survival.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY 23
text: The flat horizon of open highway, city in the rearview... top
text: down, hair blowing in the wind, Ro cruises. He cranks the
text: radio, turning up the rock tune-- a cover version of PEARL
dialog: JAM'S “Animal”.
dialog: 24
dialog: 25
dialog: 28
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - ANITA’S CABIN - DAY 24
text: Anita stares at the monitor, watching shaky playback on
dialog: Lupita’s camera...
text: FOOTAGE: NIGHT VISION-- a LARGE CLIFF SIDE eroded out of the
text: mountain-- muttering voices overlap, when suddenly, emerging
text: from a CREVASSE-- a LARGE, HAIRY FIGURE. The voices GASPS.
text: Then the SCREEN cuts to SHAKY RUNNING, from the opening
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: .«..ugh, enough of the shaky screen.
speaker_heading: POPPY (0.S.)
dialog: (through the radio)
dialog: Hey, think I found somethin’ worth
dialog: reporting, Annie.
scene_heading: EXT. FOREST - HIGHWAY - DAY 25
text: Roland rolls his window down, holding the phone out, trying
text: for a signal. The radio hums on low static. Into his
speaker_heading: HEADPIECE:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Hey, Hon-- I assume you’re enjoying
dialog: your facial about now... I know--
dialog: I’m a stubborn ass, but this will
dialog: be good for us. You know how I feel
dialog: about my fans. And I’m outta your
dialog: hair, now you can get some writing--
text: BEEP, BEEP, BEEP-- the call drops.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MAIN GATE - DAY 28
text: Anita stands over the Reporter’s SHOES-- Poppy behind her--
dialog: chewing her nail:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Any other traces?
text: Poppy hands Anita the Reporter’s KEYS and his broken iPhone:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Those-- more big scat_next to big
dialog: freakin’ footprints. It’s getting
text: closer-- more curious.
text: Anita follows the drag marks leading into the bushes, her
text: eyes lift up into the trees:
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
dialog: Lupita told me last night juts fell
dialog: of a tree onto her hea
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --what!? No, that’s delirium,
dialog: hallucinations, dehydration,
dialog: malnutrition, sun exposure--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: This has gotten way out out of
dialog: control since he left!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --we don't need Burl! Do you
dialog: understand me, Penelope! ?
text: HONK, HONK! An old FORD CAMPER-BED TRUCK rolls up to the gate
text: with a squeal-- eyeing the driver:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Well, I called him because we do
dialog: need him! I need him to eliminate a
dialog: prenletg from my life. He might just
dialog: e my ticket outta town.
text: Poppy stares daggers, jutting her hand out for Anita’s KEYS:
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
dialog: .--I’m letting him in.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: We’1ll discuss this later, Ms.
dialog: Bishop.
text: Reluctantly, she hands the keys off, and Poppy heads forward:
text: Idling with a smile, BURL WOLF (60) cigarette SMOKE billows
text: out his nostrils-- his salt/pepper hair is cropped tight. He
text: looks the kind with a sordid past, horrors locked behind his
text: recessed eyes.
text: A P.O.W. FLAG hangs in his BACK WINDOW, he’s already in his
text: CAMO CHEF'S APRON. He rolls down his window, passing Poppy,
dialog: he SALUTES-- his accent southern:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Well, well, Miss Tinker Belle. You
dialog: look’ more like a fairy tale every
dialog: time I see ya’. How’s it, Muffin?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Spinning my wheels. Can I pop one
dialog: those squares from you, daddio?
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: You should never smoke...
text: He ejects a cigarette for her, she lips it, as he goes to
dialog: light it:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: .--alone.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (marching over)
dialog: Ey, Future Lung Cancer Advocates--
text: She snaps the cigarette from Poppy's mouth, crumpling it. He
text: squeezes Poppy’s arm with a win
speaker_heading: BURL
text: Nose to the ground, soldier.
text: Anita looks into the truck bed: TWO LAUNDRY SACKS,
dialog: full:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: What did she tell you?
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Clean up, Aisle One. I brought my
dialog: whole bag of tricks with me. Little
dialog: sister had me pick these up for you
dialog: on the way in-- don’t worry, I
dialog: didn’t peek.
text: He hands her a PHOTO ENVELOPE--
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: You missed me?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Like my period.
dialog: (quick)
dialog: A reporter. Said he talked
dialog: specifically to you. How does that
dialog: happen?
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: don’ the voice-mail code’f you
dialog: don’t want me responding to guest
dialog: inquiries.
text: She throws the bloody shoe into his truck. Burl scoops it up:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: The poor sole..
text: Burl cackles, blurting out smoke. Poppy giggles. Anita snaps:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --ey, any cockameme ideas you brew
dialog: up Yh that burnt out brain, dispose
dialog: ‘em immediately and I will
dialog: consider allowing you to stay here,
dialog: you copy?
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Ooooh-rah, ae? sizzle just like
dialog: your mama did
text: He exhales SMOKE out the sides of his crooked grin:
dialog: 29
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: Any luck with the traps, Popsicle?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: -.-it’s too smart for the traps. It
dialog: did take the blouses-- but left the
text: trap untouched.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Sounds like it’s playin’ with you.
text: Burl grins, as he sucks down a drag:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: Sounds like you two need the big,
dialog: bad Wolf after all.
text: Anita and Burl’s eyes meet, a tense moment lingers--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --should be a pot of boiling water
dialog: waiting for you in the Mess hall.
dialog: Welcome to the House Made of Brick.
text: He salutes--—
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Lighten up, Piggie-- or you'll
dialog: never make it out alive.
text: With a_ toot of the horn, and goes. On his bumper sticker:
text: GONE CRAZY-- WANNA COME ALONG? Then, from behind:
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: Dénde diablos esta mi cadmara!?
text: Anita whips, Poppy too-- as Lupita limps up:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I thought you took care of this..?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: This won't go without her
dialog: belongings.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (low)
dialog: It’s in my cabin. Take your 4x to
dialog: get the rest of her things, I’1l go
dialog: grab it and you can take my truck
dialog: and get her out of here.
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: INT. TRADING POST - DAY 29
text: The place is dense, cramped to every corner with old knick-
text: knacks and priced antiques-- rusted ANIMAL TRAPS hang behind
text: Roland as he plops his WATER and JERKY onto the counter.
dialog: 27.
text: THE SHOP ATTENDANT is an odd looking man. He wears bottle cap
text: glasses, a ZOMBIE SHIRT under FLANNEL and a JACKET/VEST full
dialog: of incense, crystals and other mystical objects...
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Could you tell me if I’m going in
dialog: the right direction? Guess my GPS
dialog: must stands for Generic Pieca’
dialog: Shit.
text: He chuckles, the attendant looks up.
speaker_heading: THE ATTENDANT
dialog: I’m sorry, did you say something?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Well, what are the chances?
text: Roland points to the cardboard shelf behind him, “Bargain
text: Books”-- a few copies of MERRYMAKER MURDERER the only copies
dialog: left on the shelf, each $2.99:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: That’s actually where I’m headed--
dialog: MerryMaker Campground. Do you know
dialog: if it’s close to here?
speaker_heading: THE ATTENDANT
dialog: It’s closed.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Yes, I know. That’s actually the
dialog: very reason I’m headed there--
speaker_heading: THE ATTENDANT
dialog: --why? You one of those freaks into
dialog: having sex at murder sites? Cause
dialog: that’s freaky. Out of balance. You
dialog: don’t look like a freak, but those
dialog: tend to be the freakiest freaks.
dialog: Freaks who don’t look like freaks,
dialog: but really are... freaks.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: It’s on full display here though,
dialog: huh?
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Deeply in touch with your
dialog: freakiness here. My book is the
dialog: reason I’m-- nevermind.
dialog: (handing his CARD)
dialog: How much is it?
speaker_heading: THE ATTENDANT
dialog: $4.72, and we’re cash only.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Credit card civilization not
dialog: expanded out among ye’ Natives?
text: Pulling a SOCKET WRENCH from nelow the desk:
dialog: 31
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: THE ATTENDANT
dialog: Anything else today-- maybe a tune
dialog: up..?
dialog: Plucking the cash:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: No. Can I get a receipt, please?
text: The attendant hands over the change, Ro grabs his things, the
text: receipt, with a crazed look:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: If I keep going down this road,
dialog: will it get me to the camp or not?
text: The attendant nods.
speaker_heading: THE ATTENDANT
dialog: Either way... I’d watch my back. I
dialog: read the book about MerryMaker--
dialog: ain’t far from the truth...
text: Roland turns, as he out the door:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Freak.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - INFIRMARY - DUSK 31
text: Lupita spies POpPY and Anita in a heated exchange, Anita
text: gominating the discussion. Poppy’s not happy-- Anita’s snap
text: look catches Lupita at the window. A moment, then Poppy pops
dialog: in:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: We're leaving...
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: Why does Your sister fight? She
dialog: likes to hide monsters?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: No, she’s just a fighter.
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: She’s the monster.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: No... she’s just a product of her
dialog: environment.
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: I don’t know what you say. Why you
dialog: stay here? Why you not run away?
dialog: 32
dialog: 29.
text: Poppy smiles, pulling out Anita’s TRUCK KEYS, helping Lupita
text: gather her things, putting on her CLOTHES--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Cause I made a promise I didn’t
dialog: want to make a long time ago...
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MAIN ROAD - NIGHT 32
text: Anita stands at her truck, Lupita’s CAMERA in hand. She
text: removes the SIM CARD, tossing it into the brush, just as
text: Poppy and Lupita pull up.
text: Poppy points Lupita to the truck, going to retrieve the
text: camera, just as approaching LIGHTS wobble down the narrow
dialog: road:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Who is that?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I don’t know, just get in the truck
dialog: and get her out of here.
text: Poppy takes the KEYS and CAMERA, climbing in the truck.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS
text: Limbs Scrape and scratch the sides, Roland's grimace growing
text: bigger with each screech... but as the MERRYMAKER SIGN comes
text: into view-- lit up is Anita’s surprised face.
text: She stands at_ the gate, a showdown with headlights-- Popp
text: and Lupita idle in her TRUCK behind her. In one motion, she
text: grabs and aims her RIFLE, stepping slowly toward the car-- Ro
text: quickly rolls down his window:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Whoa, hey-- I’m unarmed, I
dialog: surrender! Roland Baumgarner! I'm
dialog: on the good team!
text: Anita turns to Poppy, waving Poppy back-- Poppy flashes her
text: lights, Anita snaps her radio from her belt:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: low)
dialog: Reverse it, take her back to the
dialog: Mess hall, now please.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: (over the radio)
dialog: But you just said to get her--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --BACK TO THE MESS HALL NOW! Wait
dialog: for me there, copy?
dialog: 30.
text: Walking to Roland’s window, lowering her weapon, as Poppy
text: backs the truck away:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT'D)
dialog: Mr. Baumgarner!?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I’m sorry I didn’t write or call to
dialog: let you know I was on my way-- but
dialog: I heard you all had a camp to re-
dialog: open and could use a famous face!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (shocked)
dialog: You’re-- here!? You actually came!?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Well, I was in the neighborhood and
dialog: thought I'd swing by... if you got
dialog: room for one more?
text: Anita shakes his hand, staring-- Roland holds it tenderly:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Mom's letter worked!?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Hey, I tell everyone, you're
dialog: nothing without your fans.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I mailed it a few days ago, and
dialog: post thought, you know, “No way
dialog: e’d ever, he’d never"”--
dialog: (getting emotional)
dialog: I just, I can’t... this is actually
dialog: happening, it’s unbelievable...
text: Roland parks, climbing out, hugging Anita tightly:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (in the hug)
dialog: I’m so sorry for your loss-- your
dialog: mother seemed like a wonderfu
dialog: woman .
dialog: (pulling back)
dialog: Anything I can do for my fans, I’m
dialog: there. They’re always numero uno.
text: He takes a deep breath in--
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: This place is beautiful! Amazing!
dialog: (he qurns )
dialog: .+.--no Axe-murders to report?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (a smile)
dialog: Not recently.
dialog: 33
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Sorry to hear that! Well, maybe
dialog: some baby-stew later then?
dialog: she smirks)
dialog: I'll follow you in?
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - NIGHT 33
text: A ZIPPO with an ARMY insignia, flicks on-- Burl wipes his
text: bloody hands on his rag, sitting on the truck bed, gazing out
text: over the darkness that goes on forever. He sucks a drag,
text: hacking a cough, as he lights a cigarette for Poppy...
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: See no evil, hear no evil--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --speak no evil. Thanks.
text: Poppy sits on the truck bed, Lupita in the cab. When finally,
text: from around the bend, comes Roland with Anita leading the way
text: on Poppy’s 4X.
text: Roland parks next to Poppy, who goes to greet him--
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
dialog: Must be somebody important--
dialog: , (extending her hand)
dialog: Hi, Penelope Bishop.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Roland Baumgarner. Pleasure’s mine.
text: She pulls him in close, quick--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --Roland Baumgarner? The famous
dialog: writer?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Ha. The one and only, I think.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Here-- in the flesh. My dream man.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: This really is quite the reception.
dialog: I didn’t--
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: --what’d I say about smoking?
text: She snaps the cigarette away from Poppy, stomping it out:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: ...only for meat?
dialog: 34
dialog: 32.
text: Burl chuckles, Anita whips to him:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You'll respect our rules and not
dialog: subject young and impressionable--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: (he notices Lupita)
dialog: --whoa-la, Senorita!
dialog: (moving to her window)
dialog: Which fence did she sneak over and
dialog: muey importante, are there mucho
dialog: more like eh-her comin’ for dinner?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (to Roland)
dialog: Excuse Burl-- he’s left his manners
text: on the cutting board.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: I do forget my manners sometimes.
dialog: Old habits die hard--
text: He ditches his cig, and pulls his large CARVING KNIFE from
text: behind his back:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: Hope you like your Bambi dead.
text: Burl turns away with a limp, a hitch from a bum knee.
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
text: Sloppy Doe’s inside, campers.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - NIGHT 34
text: Burl holds up a pitcher, Roland takes the last sips of his
speaker_heading: MOONSHINE:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Brewed her myself, call ‘er, Bingo
dialog: Juice. Best Aperitif in 1,000
dialog: miles.
speaker_heading: ANI
dialog: Not only iflegar, but known to numb
dialog: the brain.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Then fill me up!
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Bingo.
text: Lupita sits in awe, at the end of the table, cast aside for
text: the moment, till Poppy returns with WATER and some ADVIL. As
text: she hands it to Lupita, urging her to take it:
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: .-..it’s not as creepy out here as I
dialog: thought it would be. Dark, quiet...
dialog: it’s kinda nice, but I don’t think
dialog: I could survive out here though, so
dialog: exposed like this. At home, I’m
dialog: oughin’ if I don’t shower twice a
dialog: ay
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Kinda nice though, no showers, no
dialog: food-- surviving. .? Roughin’ it--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --I like a little roughin’.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Bingo!
text: Roland takes another si his eyes landing on Lupita, silent
text: and somber at the end of the table:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: And who's Ms. Keep to Yourself and
dialog: Not Say a Word, down here?
text: Everyone turns to Lupita, no one says anything, until:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: She's doesn’t speak good English--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --and unfortunately, Lucinda’s not
dialog: staying much longer.
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: Me llamo is Lupita, bitch. You lie.
text: Anita’s stung, glancing to Poppy, a look that says, “do
dialog: something.”
speaker_heading: LUPITA (CONT'D)
dialog: ...I want to leave now. Away from
dialog: the monster--
text: Roland laughs, looking around the table, no one else is:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Monster? What monst--
text: WHAAAM-- slamming against the window, screaming:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (0.S.)
speaker_heading: HEEEEEELLLLLP!
text: The whole table jumps-- he bangs wildly:
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER (CONT’D)
text: HEEEEEEEEEEEEEY !
dialog: 35
dialog: 34.
text: Everyone moves out quickly, except for Burl, who lights up
dialog: without regard.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - NIGHT 35
text: The Reporter—- in BOXERS and a muddy old SHEET he’s found.
text: His neck bruised, cut and bloodied by CLAW MARKS, MARKS up
text: and down his legs, BITE MARKS on his arms-- Anita tries to
text: grab him, but he’s hysterical:
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: WHAT IN THE FUCKING FUCK--
dialog: his voice cracking)
dialog: --YOU LYING FUCKFACES! 7
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Okay now, calm down! It is not okay
dialog: to--
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: --DO I LOOK OKAY!? CALL THE POLICE,
text: CALL THE WILDERNESS PATROL!
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What happ--
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
scene_heading: --A VERY FUCKING LARGE BEAST-LIKE-
text: THING DRAGGED ME THROUGH THE GOD
text: DAMN WOODS TO IT’S SECRET LAIR AND
dialog: TOOK ALL MY CLOTHES!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Wow--
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: --NOW GET YOUR GUNS AND NETS READY,
text: CAUSE SIR SQUATCH IS OUT THERE AND
dialog: HE’S PISSED OFF!
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Sir Squatch!?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Come on, man--
dialog: (to’ Roland)
dialog: Don’t worry, we know this guy--
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: --I have proof on my camera... of
dialog: the Squatche! Es true.
dialog: {Pointing at Anita)
dialog: She’s take it.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Oh my goodness, this is like an
dialog: episode of Tales From the Crypt!
dialog: (to Lupita)
dialog: I gave you back your camera,
dialog: Lucreta.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: --with no recordings? Where are the
dialog: recordings go?
speaker_heading: _. ROLAND
dialog: Okay, wait! Let’s everyone take a
dialog: deep breathe.
text: He looks to the reporter:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, you can’t deny something got
dialog: to this kid.
dialog: (to Anita)
dialog: So, what is going on exactly?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Our friends here are both
dialog: fascinated with a supposed Bigfoot--
speaker_heading: REPORTER
text: --SUPPOSED MY ASS! LOOK AT MY ASS!
dialog: THE B.F. DID THIS TO ME!
text: He turns, revealing BLOODY CLAW MARKS down his back, bite
dialog: marks too:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Jesus--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: BURL! ?
dialog: (then)
dialog: We have an infirmary, I’1l get you
dialog: all cleaned up--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --has anyone thought of calling the
dialog: police?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Closest_station is 85 miles. We
dialog: have full legal jurisdiction here.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (calling off)
dialog: Burl, we need you, please!?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: This seems a little bit out of your
dialog: jurisdiction, Rangers.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Oh, please. Burl will drive them
text: both into town, a clinic and a bus
dialog: stop are ‘bout 25 miles from here.
dialog: (to the Reporter)
dialog: You're hysterical... you could have
text: a closed head wound, subarachnoid
dialog: hemorrhaging, concussion, maybe
dialog: something worse--
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
scene_heading: --I'M HYSTERICAL CAUSE A FU--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --uhfufufufuh, we heard you! It’s
dialog: enough--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: from behind)
dialog: --kiddies, kiddies, simmer down,
dialog: cool it off... yer’ mind plays
dialog: tricks on you way out here-- bears
dialog: look like Beasts, wolf calls sound
dialog: like virgin sacrifices. Hell, I'da
dialog: swore I saw Fay Wray and my tate
dialog: lover Mary skinny dippin’ in the
dialog: lake last sunset...
speaker_heading: THE REPORTER
dialog: WHO THE FUCK IS THIS GUY!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: He’s the reason you’re here.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: (stepping to him)
dialog: You look like you could use a smoke
dialog: and a pancake, partner. Where’d you
dialog: park?
text: Anita pulls the reporter’s KEYS from her pocket, holding them
text: up for Burl. He leads him away, lighting up a_cig for the
text: Reporter-- they disappear around the corner. Anita pivots:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: My apologies for that. He was a
dialog: trespasser Penelope found. Just
dialog: trying to do our best among the
dialog: freaks, you know? You can take it
dialog: from someone who’s lived here her
dialog: whole life, there’s nothing out
dialog: there--
speaker_heading: LUPITA
text: --THERE IS SOMETHING IN THE WOODS!
dialog: (to Po
dialog: You know this too!
dialog: Roland looks to Anita:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Where is this infamous camera of
dialog: hers?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: In my truck.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: And she claims it holds possible
dialog: proof of a Merrymaker Murderer!?
dialog: 36
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: No, no one has said that. She’s
text: delusional. Out of her element.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Now we have to watch it!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Mr. Baumgarner, this is ridiculous.
dialog: It’s over. Done with.
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Penelope, inside with me.
text: Anita pulls Poppy inside. Roland studies Lupita-- after a
dialog: moment:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I must admit, my curiosity, it’s
dialog: beyond peaked.
text: Lupita darts, moving to KNOCK on the door...
scene_heading: INT. MESS HALL - NIGHT 36
scene_heading: KNOCK, KNOCK, KNOCK--—
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: A MINUTE, PLEASE!
dialog: (to Poppy)
dialog: --we 3 reed to this a long time
dialog: ago, Penelope. You promised me.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: We didn’t agree to it with
dialog: circumstances involving a maimed
text: reporter, a delirious Mexican
dialog: girl... things have changed--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --stop. What’s changed? Except that
dialog: we're all systems go.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Something is killing people, Anita!
dialog: , (then)
dialog: Again! You can say you never--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --so run away if you want, it won’t
dialog: change anything except everything.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Just remember what happens at the
dialog: end of your plan--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --maybe someone or something will
dialog: get me, hang me from a tree and
dialog: ance on my bones.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT'D)
dialog: For your sake, I hope that makes it
dialog: easier for you to abandon your
dialog: legacy.
scene_heading: EXT. MESS HALL - NIGHT 37
scene_heading: THE BEAST’S P.O.V. FIFTY FEET UP IN TREE--
text: It watches Roland, as Poppy bounds out of the door, Anita
dialog: behind her:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Mr. Baumgarner, we’ve set you up in
dialog: Cabin Six, just between mine and
dialog: Anita’s Cabins.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: And Lupita, if you can come with
dialog: me, please--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --wait, what about watching her--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --see for yourself if you'd like,
text: but her tape is completely blank...
text: Anita pulls Lupita with her quick, as Pop grabs onto Roland.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - ROLAND’S CABIN - NIGHT 38
text: Roland trails Poppy, headlights illuminating her ASS, as she
text: drives her FOUR WHEELER standing. Ro parks his CAR, Poppy
text: hops off her CART:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Door’s unlocked, I’1ll get your
dialog: motor runnin’.
text: Roland smiles, watching her disappear around back. He takes a
text: deep breath, coughing... BRUUUUNNGGGGGG, the GENERATOR
text: les on, lights in CABIN SIX glow on, CABIN FIVE too, as
text: well as two FLICKERING LAMPS illuminating the SHOWER STATION,
text: 30 yards away.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POPPY’S CABIN - NIGHT 39
text: Anita stands in her door-- leaving Lupita alone with camera
text: in hand. The room is a BED and DRESSER, that’s it:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You captured nothing, comprendo? I
dialog: looked, okay? Nothing...
dialog: (moving to_ the door
dialog: You stay put. Poppy will be over to
dialog: drive you out when she’s done.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 40
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT'D)
dialog: (closing the door)
dialog: Goodbye, Snoopita...
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: Where are you going?
speaker_heading: MATCH TO:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (0.S.)
dialog: Where are you going?
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - ROLAND'S CABIN - NIGHT 40
text: Roland Rie PS his bag on the bed-- Poppy in the doorway, lit
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: by moon
dialog: She leans
dialog: She moves
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: No hot water in the mornings. So if
dialog: you don’t prefer ice-cold showers,
dialog: I’d wash off before bed.
text: a TRANQ RIFLE next to the door:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Is that you offering protection?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Only for those who might wander out
text: into the woods alone.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: .--So, that’s what the woodsmen and
dialog: women do for fun around here, Post
dialog: Meridiem?
speaker_heading: POPPY
text: Anita reads. Burl listens to the
dialog: radio. I wait for the Ante
dialog: Meridiem.
dialog: (he smiles, impressed)
dialog: I don’t sleep a lot.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Ironic, with a name like Poppy-— I
dialog: figured you fall right to sleep.
dialog: toward the door:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Not even opiates can help you here.
dialog: (she smiles)
text: Anita’s cabin is right next door,
dialog: if you need anything else--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --are they like, dorm showers,
dialog: individually divided or community
dialog: style--
dialog: 42
dialog: 43
speaker_heading: 44
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: =-every ything | is community here.
dialog: It’s kinda like a prison, but
dialog: without bars.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Sounds like you are pumped to be
dialog: openin’ back up!
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: I just work here.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I’m sure you do more than that.
text: Her stare lingers on Roland, then:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Enjoy the rest of your evening...
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Save me some hot water, will ya? I
dialog: can’t sleep if I get into clean
text: sheets with a dirty body.
text: Off Pop’s crooked smile--
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MAIN ROAD - GATE - NIGHT 42
text: Anita drives slow-- suddenly in her headlights, a large
text: figure approaches.
text: She flashes her brights, as it draws closer... stepping up,
text: wiping his hands, lighting his smoke, is Burl.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - SHOWER STATION - NIGHT 43
text: The loud HUM of the generator mixes with the SHOWER HEAD
text: gushing on.
text: Poppy stands outside the open SHOWER WELL-- six spigots, no
text: doors, hanging her uniform as the area fills with STEAM. She
text: bends, pulling off her panties...
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MAIN ROAD - NIGHT 44
text: Burl lands at her window with a smile:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Evenin’.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Uh, what happened to your co-pilot?
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
dialog: 41.
text: Shooting his hand down the road--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Damn shame. Didn’t even get the
dialog: chance to report anything-- took
text: off faster than diarrhea out a
dialog: baby’s butt-- don’t think you’1l
dialog: ever see his face around here
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I’m not as confident as you--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: ~you should be. I made him an
dialog: offer he couldn’t refuse.
text: She notices the tab of blood on his fingers, smearing on the
text: CIGARETTE FILTER as he lights up:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: ...I have a proposal for you.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - ROLAND’S CABIN - NIGHT 45
text: Roland sits in silence, absentmindedly, he spins his RING. He
text: checks his CELL, 10% BATTERY LEFT and NO SERVICE. He scrolls
text: through his RECENT CALLS, finding Christine. He dials. It
dialog: doesn’t connect.
text: He tosses the phone atop his open TOILETRY BAG...
scene_heading: INT. POPPY’S CABIN - NIGHT 46
text: Lupita stares out the window, scared but curious:
speaker_heading: LUPITA
dialog: (in s anish)
dialog: That bitch isn’t coming... so go
dialog: find her and tell her to get you
dialog: hell outta here!
text: Her eyes tick to a SHOTGUN propped by the door.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUND - ROAD - NIGHT 47
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: First, I wanna know something--
dialog: what draws it to the blouses? The
dialog: color, texture, the scent?
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Not so far along as you think,
dialog: Columbo. I’m glad you called me.
dialog: You need me.
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: 51
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: This thing is the only reason
dialog: you're here right now. You remember
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Impossible to forget with you
dialog: around. But it ain’t a deal, till I
dialog: hear you say it... You. Need. Me.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - SHOWER STATION - NIGHT 49
text: Steaming, hot water rains onto the arch of Poppy | s back--
text: she’s Working the shampoo into her hair. Her head cocks, a
dialog: °
dialog: look to the or-- no one there...
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - ROAD - NIGHT 50
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Those are my terms. Take it or
dialog: leave it.
text: Burl pulls out a CIGAR:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: With one addendum--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --absolutely not.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: (ignoring. her)
dialog: .»-when I deliver a end, you grant
dialog: me full pardon, for every past
dialog: indiscretion in our past lives,
dialog: here or otherwise.
dialog: (smelling the cigar)
dialog: We'll burn them to ashes and let
text: the smoke carry them to heaven.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (steely)
dialog: If you deliver.
text: He extends his hand, greasy, some blood maybe-- Anita looks
text: repulsed, she shakes it quick.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - ROLAND’S CABIN - NIGHT 51
text: Roland stands in the middle of the road-- he looks back to
text: Cabin Six, its desolate... then down the dark path in front
text: of him-- as if pulled by a force, he heads down the path...
text: toward the shower station.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 43.
scene_heading: EXT. ANITA’S CABIN - NIGHT 52
text: Lupita cautiously walks in the dark, SHOTGUN aimed, camera
text: hung around her shoulder.
scene_heading: FROM THE BEAST P.O.V.
text: Above the cabin, moving on the intertwining tree limbs,
text: pacing Lupita, the BEAST tracks silently.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - SHOWER STATIONS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS
text: Roland inches up to the door, listening for the sound of
text: running water. He spies the path he’s just come-- no one
text: around... as he steps inside...
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - SHOWER STATION - NIGHT 53
text: SOAP washes down her thighs, as Poppy racks her face, her
text: eyes pry open, and she catches something move behind the
dialog: wa .
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: I saw that!
text: She waits, but there’s no response... until stepping out,
text: facing away, is Roland:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I'm sorry, I figured you’d come and
dialog: gone by now.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Well... I’ve not done either yet...
text: She reaches behind her, turning the water back on:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Looks like there’s plenty of hot
dialog: water left, I’1l come back.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Why can’t you look me in the eye
dialog: and say it..?
dialog: Ro furrows:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: .«--uh, it’s just, I’m not used to
dialog: such overt-- you could be one of my
dialog: students.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: But I’m not.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: No, of course not, I didn’t--
dialog: 54
dialog: 55
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: You can teach me something, if
dialog: you'd like?
text: She steps out of the steam-- just her thin arm covering her
text: breasts, as she reaches out with the other, to his shoulder:
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
dialog: No one can hear you. No one can see
dialog: you-- but just in case...
text: She cranks the HOT WATER, and the steam begins to billow.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - ROLAND’S CABIN - NIGHT 54
scene_heading: THE BEAST P.O.V. --
text: Lupita’s nearly at the showers, SHOTGUN wobbling-- as the
text: BEAST descends from its perch, CRACK! Lupita freezes-- but
text: all she sees is black...
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - SHOWER STATION - NIGHT 55
text: Poppy stands close to Roland, peering down:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: What are you hiding down there?
text: He’s still in his boxers:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I--
text: She kisses him hard-- then:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --relax, it’s just like going
dialog: swimming if you have those on...
text: Her hands slide down his chest, onto his boxers, pushing them
dialog: own:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --wait! Oh God...
text: As Poppy works her magic down below-- he closes his eyes-- a
text: flash of CHRISTINE, KARA:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: We hafta stop--
text: Poppy stops, eye to eye, with a look-- “you don’t want me?”
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: --I'm... married.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Not in this version.
text: As she tightens her grip...
speaker_heading: OMITTED 56
speaker_heading: OMITTED 57
speaker_heading: OMITTED 58
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS —- SHOWER STATION - NIGHT 59
text: WHOOOOOOOMMMAAAAH-- the generator muffles, the lamps dim
text: barely flickering at all-- Lupita silently approaches. She
text: ducks at the window...
dialog: one
text: WHAM! Lupita is collapsed onto.
text: DESCENDING FROM THE ROOF, she’s grabbed, the quick sound of
text: struggle-- a GNARL, grappling, wildly arms flail, it muffles
text: her SCREAMS, then her neck SNAPS.
text: Roland climaxes in the background.
text: The blazing moonlight reveals Lupita’s limp BODY being
text: dragged away into the forest. The BEAST grunts-- a FLASH of
text: it’s LARGE, FURRY BODY disappearing into the dark.
text: A HORRIFYING, ANGUISHED HOWL pierces the natural silence.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - NIGHT 60
text: Anita and Burl freeze, heard the howl:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Close--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --you have your orders, Wolf-man.
text: She flicks the nameplate on his FATIGUE shirt; WOLF.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ROLAND'S CABIN - NIGHT 61
text: Roland shuffles back to his cabin, his BLUE EYES stunned, as
dialog: if they might break...
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: 46.
text: Poppy dashes by on her FOUR WHEELER, squawking into her
text: RADIO, quickly she’s out of site.
speaker_heading: INSIDE
text: Roland closes the door behind him, turning out the lights,
text: curling up in the fetal position on the floor...
speaker_heading: FLASH TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 62
text: Christine types in bed, Pe ROL to rub her eyes. The clock
text: reads 11:38, She glancés to Roland’s empty place, the note
text: left untouched from the morning. She eyes her phone, no
dialog: missed calls.
text: She finds her place and begins typing again.
speaker_heading: CHAPTER SEVEN
text: WHEN THE MONSTERS EAT EACH OTHER.
text: Her cursor moves-- “It was cold, cloudless sunrise...”
speaker_heading: FADE TO.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND’S CABIN - DAY 63
text: Roland sleeps, still fetal position, silently, until-- BAM-—
text: BAM-BAM on his DOOR. He startles, as bursting in:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: (frazzled)
dialog: Lupita in here with you!?
text: She rips the covers off of him.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - LAKE - DAY 64
text: Anita squats at the end of the DOCK, eyes fixed across the
text: lake-- a predator stalking her pr ey: Perched high on a limb,
text: clear across from her, staring -- the BEAST watches.
text: It climbs higher, stretching out, revealing it’s towering,
text: long frame. It hangs from a 1imb; bellowing out a PRIMAL
text: SCREAM. Anita jolts--
dialog: TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ROLAND’S CABIN - DAY 65
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (over the radio)
dialog: Poppy, get over to the dock now.
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 47.
text: Roland pulls on a shirt, emerging from his cabin:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What's going on--
text: Before he can finish, Poppy mounts her FOUR WHEELER, revving,
dialog: drowning him out.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: I’m responsible for you, so come
dialog: on.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - TRAIL - DAY 66
text: As they bump and ride on the 4X, the pair sit back to back:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (over his shoulder)
dialog: Um-- I’m sorry if this sounds
dialog: stupid but... I didn’t mean for
dialog: what happened last night--
speaker_heading: POPPY ;
dialog: --I don’t know what your talking
dialog: about.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I didn’t think--
text: She jerks the wheel, swerving, trying to shut him up.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: What happens here, stays here.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Right. Exactly. Okay...
text: They turn, passing an ARROW SIGN on the side of the trail--
scene_heading: MARILYN BISHOP LAKE -->
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - LAKE - DAY 67
text: Roland stands, Poppy’s bent down, both their faces blank.
text: Anita stares down, at the end of the dock-- Lupita’s ripped
text: up shorts and shirt. Anita fished out her sock, laying on the
dialog: ioc
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Is that what I think it is?
dialog: Turning on a dime--
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: This is nothing, past-- a hiccup.
dialog: We get our fair share of skinny-
dialog: dippers too.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --her shorts are shredded, Anita!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Listen--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --I think your re-opening probably
dialog: needs to be cancelled, don’t you
dialog: agree?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Absolutely not!
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: This could have been me, Anita.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: She's right-- there is somethin
dialog: strange going on here. What’s the
dialog: true story with the reporter kid?
dialog: What did that to him? Who did that
dialog: to him?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: And where is Burl!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
text: EVERYONE JUST CALM DOWN, OKAY!?
dialog: (then)
dialog: Mr. Baumgarner-- I’1l make you a
dialog: deal.
dialog: (a breath)
dialog: We won’t re-open until we figure
dialog: out exactly what is out there.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: So, you! re confirming, something is
dialog: out there?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You have nothing to be afraid of, I
dialog: can confirm that.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: We don’t know what the hell we’re
dialog: tracking.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Or what’s tracking you.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I will not, under any circumstance,
dialog: confirm it’s a bigfoot. That is
dialog: pure mythos and plain stupidity.
dialog: 49,
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: But whatever it is, it’s big?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: And it’s killed already.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: WHAT ! ?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: So says whom? Have you seen any
dialog: bodies?
dialog: (they stare) |
dialog: Let’s all take a minute and we'll
dialog: devise a search plan, copy?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Uh, not copy-- I’m a writer, not
dialog: The Grizzly Man-- I’m not going
text: tramping, t rough the middle of the
dialog: woods alone--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --you won’t be alone. Roland,
dialog: ou’ll come with me to the gun
dialog: arn. Poppy, go get Burl. We'll
text: rendezvous at the Mess Hall.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Excuse me-- go with you to what?
text: Poppy climbing on her FOUR WHEELER:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Fifteen minutes?
text: Holding her look, a flash of concern:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Copy, fifteen. Be careful.
text: Anita’s eyes flash to Roland, as Poppy revs the engine.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Copy, careful.
text: She peels off, leaving Ro staring:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Something’s out here--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --there’s something everywhere, in
dialog: one way or another. You can either
text: stand and fight or cower and run.
dialog: TO:
dialog: 68
speaker_heading: 68A
dialog: 69
dialog: 50.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - KITCHEN - DAY 68
text: From a RADIO playing outside, SCOTT JOPLIN’S Pineapple Rag
dialog: plays.
text: A bloody CARVING KNIFE sits on a mixing bowl full of pinkish
text: water, bits of TENDONS, and MUSCLE float. Unlit cigarette
text: dangling, Burl hollows out a BEARS PAW, in a zone, he’s filed
dialog: the claws to razor sharp:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: I bring this life that came from
dialog: God above. Offer it to protect the
dialog: ones I love. If it’s needed to take
dialog: life from me, count it most,
dialog: Lord... with courage in victory.
text: He strips his T-shirt off, revealing THREE SCARS, slicing
text: across his heart. On his ARM, a faded TATTOO: Courage,
dialog: Respect, Victory.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - WOODS - DAY 68A
text: Poppy barrels through thick brush on the 4x, eyes” peeled--
text: the BEAST BLURS in the far distance, tracking
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - GUN BARN - DAY 69
text: The pair stand before a huge, gray RUSTIC BARN; the planks of
text: old wood and metal are all rusted and worn--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: This must be the honeymoon suite?
text: Anita pulls the double doors open, she pushes an old WAGON
text: AXLE off of a MAT, ripping it up to find buried in the
text: ground, a GUN LOCKER-— she opens the doors, revealing 20
scene_heading: DIFFERENT RIFLES, STUN GUNS, TASERS and AMMO:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: I thought you said there was
dialog: nothing to be afraid of.
speaker_heading: ANITA
text: With a collection of pretty maidens
dialog: like this, there isn't.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Listen, I could pretend I’m half as
dialog: tough as_you guys, but I’m not
dialog: really. I think it might be best if
dialog: I just head out. Maybe I could come
dialog: back when You guys get this stuff
dialog: worked out--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --baby Lacenta stew. Used tampons
dialog: as tea Sr severed penises soaked
dialog: in alcoho -
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
dialog: 72
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --you read the book.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I'd have thought a writer would
dialog: love something like this. A little
dialog: conflict.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I’m all for that, but only if no
dialog: one gets hurt--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You’re not hurt, are you? I’m not
dialog: hurt. Who's getting hurt? Some girl
dialog: that when you drive outta here
dialog: tomorrow, you won’t even remember
dialog: her name?
speaker_heading: ROLAND ;
dialog: I don't-- I remember her name, it’s
dialog: Lu-cerna?
text: Anita steps in close, handing him a SHOTGUN--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --let’s hunt together. Get your
dialog: primal juices pumpin’. You'll feel
dialog: ike a real man, promise.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - MESS HALL - DAY 70
text: Poppy hops off her 4-WHEELER, walking around the back--
text: Burl’s RADIO playing Jazz:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Burl!?
text: She sees something moving in the bushes. She notices the bi
text: FOOTPRINTS in the dirt below... CRACK! She turns, to scan the
text: treeline-- when, flying down from above, the BEAST collapses
text: onto her shoulders, hammering her as they crumble.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 71
scene_heading: EXT. GUN BARN - DAY 72
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Why are we gathering guns, again?
dialog: Cause my courage level is pretty--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --cause unlike you, we can’t run
dialog: ayy; We belong here... and I owe
dialog: ife to this land, and to
dialog: protecting it by all means.
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Spoken like a true patriot of
dialog: courage.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Courage isn’t the absence of fear,
dialog: it’s the action taken in face of
dialog: it.
text: Anita locks up the DOORS. Roland checks his GUN, awkward in
dialog: his grasp:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: «-+-I could have been like you...
dialog: (he reacts)
dialog: I wanted to be a doctor once upon a
dialog: time. And live in “your world”.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Two teenage girls got murdered at
dialog: my family’s campgrounds. My family
dialog: got buried in debt, lawsuits, lies
dialog: and rumors. A certain book didn’t
dialog: really help the situation either.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Oh--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --after my mom got sick, I
dialog: inherited the eer th coming up
dialog: here, looking for the Merrymaker
text: Murderer! Breaking in, vandalizing
dialog: the property-- I found more used
dialog: condoms than--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --but your mom? She wrote like she
dialog: was such a fan?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Oh, she was obsessed. She’d kill to
dialog: be here right now... literally.
text: Slinging her GUNS over her shoulder, they mount up--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: If it makes you feel any better, I
dialog: probably won’t ever write anything
dialog: as successful again.
text: A crooked grin on her face...
dialog: 73
dialog: 74
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
dialog: 53.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMP - BROKEN CABIN - BEAST’S LAIR/CELLAR - DAY 73
text: A CABIN sits, its roof caved in, sporadic, BEAMS and POSTS
text: from days of old still stand, along with it’s crumbling brick
text: CHIMNEY. To it’s side, TWO STORM DOORS sit, leading to the
text: ominous CELLAR waiting below.
text: Drag marks lead in, they belong to Poppy-- just as her FEET
text: disappear into the dark, a HUGE CLAW rips the DOOR closed.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 74
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - BEAST’S CELLAR - DAY 75
text: The Space is dark and damp, a man-made cavern. Slivers of
text: SUNLIGHT intrude, illuminating a SMALL CIRCLE of ROCKS
text: surrounded by burnt wood.
text: Old TENT pieces are ripped and strung about-- BOTTLES sit
text: stacked, filled with BERRIES, NUTS-- FLIES buzz all around
text: the rotting FLESH of a hapless animal.
text: A beam of LIGHT shines on the pile of dirty BLOUSES and
text: mashed down leaves making up a bed. On the bed--
text: Poppy lays-- a cut lip, DRIED BLOOD caked under her nose.
text: A large shadow passes, bree the LIGHT BEAMS, it’s nails
text: scraping against rock-- it’s sharpening them...
scene_heading: EXT. MESS HALL - DAY 76
text: Anita comes out the back door of the kitchen:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: That’s odd.
dialog: (into her RADIO)
dialog: Poppy, come in.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What, they’ve disappeared, now,
dialog: too!?
dialog: (she doesn’t respond)
dialog: You think they’re already out
dialog: looking for Lupita..?
dialog: Anita considers him, then:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Yeah. Follow me.
scene_heading: EXT. ROLAND'S CABIN - DAY 77
text: Burl sits in Roland’s CAR-- cig lit, he grips the wheel, the
text: BEAR CLAW GLOVE on. Catching the corner of his eye, he
text: notices something under the PASSENGER SEAT...
dialog: 
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Well, looky what we have here...
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - HILLSIDE - DAY 78
text: Anita rumbles to a stop-- the hillside, some old, abandoned
text: CABINS sit up in the distance--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: You think she’s up there? Why would
dialog: she go up there?
speaker_heading: ANITA
text: It is up there.
text: Roland looks up, scoping the grade-- a steep hillside,
text: sporadically entangling vines and branches, a maze of
dialog: foliage.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: How about waiting for it to come
dialog: down?
text: Anita marches to her CARGO CART, unhooking one of her
text: SHOTGUNS, she slides her 9MM into her waist. She holds a
dialog: TRANQ RIFLE out for him--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Yeah, you wait here.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - HILLSIDE - DAY 79
text: Roland plants his foot into the dirt—- gripping dead branches
text: for support. Anita’s in the rear-- it’s a long way down:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (callin up)
dialog: Just a little bit further!
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: This idea sucks!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Try to stay positive! You’re doing
dialog: fine.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I’M POSITIVE THIS IDEA SUCKS!
text: Roland looks down-- gripping a limb, pulling himself up—-
text: when his foot gives way-- loose DIRT starts to skid fast.
text: he slips, sliding when a jagged ROCK punctures his SHIN-—
speaker_heading: ROLAND ANITA
dialog: OW, SHIT-- --OH, SHIT!
dialog: 80
dialog: 55.
text: Anita braces against a STUMP, readies for impact-- Roland
text: skids straight at her, they slam into each other, both
text: flailing off balance.
text: They tumble down, leaves flying. Anita recovers-- grabbing a
text: poarby LIMB-- she manages to grab Roland, stopping him from
dialog: sliding--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I GoT you!
speaker_heading: ROLAND
speaker_heading: JESUS CHRIST!
text: Anita waits-- he seethes a moment, then re-starts to climb.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - BROKEN CABIN (CABIN THIRTEEN) - DAY 80
text: Roland and Anita climb over the crest onto a flat ROCK
text: PLATEAU-- the dilapidated CABIN just 20 yards through the
speaker_heading: BRUSH.
text: Ro turns out, mesmerized-- it’s tree tops for miles, in every
text: direction-- rolling nature freely grown-- the PATHS cut like
text: scars between it... a blood curd\ing SCREAM rings out from
text: the cabin ahead. Anita grips her shotgun. Ro readies his
text: shaking gun, as they head toward the cabin:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (whispering
dialog: You hear Beat 9)
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What do you mean, “DID I HEAR
dialog: THAT!?” Yeah, I fucking heard it!
dialog: Was that your sister!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I think so.
text: She marches closer, Roland cowers behind her:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I‘m not sure just rolling up and
text: ringing the doorbell is the best
dialog: idea.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: We've got guns, it--
text: CRACK, SNAP, CRACK-- Roland and Anita freeze.
text: Roland practices Lamaze breathing, stepping slowly, but
text: looses his balance when he steps on something.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: God--
text: Ro looks down into the grass, and immediately jumps,
text: horrified, retching...
dialog: 56.
text: Anita scurries over, to find LUPITA’S CAMERA, and her bloody,
text: severed HAND and HUMOROUS BONE still attached. Anita grips
text: her RIFLE, cocked and ready--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Come on. Come on, you’re okay--
dialog: nothing you can do for her now.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: NO WAY I’M GOING ANY DAMN FURTHER!
text: Anita approaches the STORM DOORS--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: This is it--
text: She waits till he steps over, reluctantly, when flying out of
dialog: the INSIDE--
speaker_heading: POPPY
scene_heading: --ANNIE, IT’S HERE--
speaker_heading: —-WHAM!
text: The BEAST FLIES from above, a diving tackle of Roland,
text: sending them both tumbling, entangled with each other. Anita
text: screams, firing a SHOT into the air.
text: The BEAST kicks her in the STOMACH, she goes flying into
text: Poppy. Roland tries to stand, but the beast tackles him
text: again, ripping at him, HOWLING BLOODY MURDER, as its nails
text: slice Ro’s face.
text: Ro tries desperately to kick it off, but it tears Ro’s SHIRT
text: in half, cutting into his chest. With quick slashes, it cuts
text: Roland, springing off of him.
text: Anita stumbles to her feet, grabbing her discarded SHOTGUN as
text: it sprints, diving into the ravine.
text: The BEAST bobs between trees, sliding, quickly descending--
text: Anita fires a shot, but shatters only tree bark. She
text: steadies, catches it in her shaking SITE-SCOPE, pulls a quick
dialog: trigger--
text: THROUGH THE SCOPE
text: BLOOD sprays from the BEAST’S SHOULDER-- Roland collapses,
text: bleeding, out of breath, beat to shit. Poppy moves to comfort
text: him, but he shrugs her off violently:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: THAT FUCKING THING!
dialog: his voice crackin
text: A GOD DAMN BIGFOOT ATTACKED US! A
text: GODDAMN BIGFOOT ATTACKED US!
text: Anita grabs him, stopping the rant:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --you're okay. We're okay.
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: NO, I AM NOT OKAY! STOP SAYING
dialog: THAT! NOTHING'S OKAY, OKAY!?
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - PATH - DAY 81
text: Burl stops, heard the ruckus-- he’s in ARMY FATIGUES, his
text: LARGE KNIFE slid in his BELT, his BEAR_ GLOVE too-- SNIPER
text: RIFLE on his back... and he’s wearing Roland’s WOLF MASK. He
text: talks into a WALKIE TALKIE:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Go for Anita-- R.B. Tango
dialog: Transportation has been
dialog: disemboweled-- copy?
text: A BLOUSE from the laundry sack in hand, he continues after
text: getting no response, every FIFTY YARDS, a BLOUSE is draped,
text: eading to the top of the hill.
speaker_heading: ; BURL_ (CONT'D)
dialog: (into his RADIO)
dialog: Go for--
text: --when out of the corner of his eye, the BEAST blurs-- a
text: hundred yards away, dodging between dense trees...
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUND - WOODS - DAY 82
text: Roland and Anita in her CARGO CART-- CUTS bleeding on his
text: cheek, his chest, he’s a mess. Poppy hunches over in the
dialog: back:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
text: YOUR CAMP IS HARBORING A WILD BEAST-—
scene_heading: BIGFOOT-THING THAT’S MAULING
text: PEOPLE. IT NEEDS TO BE KILLED! YOU
dialog: CAN'T HAVE PEOPLE HERE!
dialog: (then)
dialog: YOU'RE LUCKY I’M NOT THREATENING TO
dialog: SUE YOUR ASS!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: SUE US FOR WHAT!? WHAT CAN YOU TAKE
dialog: FROM US THAT YOU ALREADY HAVEN’T!?
text: He reacts, souring:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: JUST RETURN ME TO MY CAR, SO I CAN
dialog: GET THE HELL OUTTA HERE! I HAVE A
scene_heading: WIFE AND A CHILD AND ANOTHER CHILD
text: AND THE REAL WORLD TO GET BACK TO!
dialog: TO:
speaker_heading: 82A
dialog: 58.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - OFFICE - DUSK 82A
text: Christine stare at her laptop-- Izzy’s BEAR lays in an empty
text: blanket below her feet:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: (calling off)
dialog: Izzy-bear, did you get lost?
dialog: (no response)
dialog: Mommy is gonna finish this last
dialog: paragraph, then she’s done done...
dialog: well, with this chapter.
text: Her eyes tick to the MERRYMAKER POSTER hung above. She stops
dialog: writing for a moment:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Isabella?
dialog: (no answer)
speaker_heading: IZZY!?
speaker_heading: IZZY (0.S.)
dialog: --I'm looking for my shoes and
dialog: blankie, mommy!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: (peering below)
dialog: Your blankie’s in here, babe, with
dialog: your-—
text: Grabbing the bear, Christine hadn’t noticed before, but
text: suddenly, popping up on screen, an Instant Message;
dialog: KARBEAR13: you hard right now?
dialog: KARBEAR13: ...at work, I meant! ;)
dialog: KARBEAR13: R U alone or isChristine home?
text: Christine freezes, her face falls. As izzy pokes her head
text: into the doorway, Christine snaps around to her:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE (CONT'D)
dialog: izzy-babyy do momma a favor and go
dialog: wu © your room-- you wait there,
dialog: like a good girl, till mommy comes
dialog: and gets you.
dialog: (Izzy hesitates, till)
dialog: We're gonna go get frozen yogurt...
text: Izzy shoots out in a flash, closing the door. Chris stares,
text: her face pale. Her fingers shake as she types:
dialog: ProfessorRoBau: all alone here..
text: A beat.
dialog: KARBEAR13: good! what RU up2? All work and no play makes Ro-
dialog: Ro a dull boooooo0y :0
dialog: 83
dialog: 59.
text: Christine’s eyes are paralyzed, she types:
dialog: ProfessorRoBau: all work here.
dialog: KARBEAR13: about to take off my mask -- Wanna see?
dialog: ProfessorRoBau: Yes
dialog: ProfessorRoBau: Kara..
dialog: After a moment--
dialog: KARBEAR13: Okay, but only if we can play our game..
text: Christine’s eyes narrow:
dialog: ProfessorRoBau: what game might that be?
text: Flashing up on the SCREEN-- a PICTURE from the neck down:
text: KARA in nothing but her UNDERWEAR, holding her cleavage
text: together for the camera, HIGH HEELS, lips pursed:
dialog: KARBEAR13: ...Now You Show Me.
text: Christine's eyes well, stewing in the repercussions of the
dialog: moment.
speaker_heading: MATCH TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ROLAND’S CABIN —- DAY - CONTINUOUS 83
text: Roland's BIG DOE EYES stares, he looks as if he’s just been
dialog: gut-punched:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: No fucking way...
text: He limps his way over to his CAR-- the INTERIOR shredded,
text: with CLAW MARKS, the mirrors cracked, and a big pile of SHIT
text: sits on the hood, flies buzzing-- Roland turns back to Anita:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: (beside himself)
dialog: .-.I’m trapped in my own damn book!
text: Poppy steps over for a closer look:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Do we have insurance, Anita?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Fuck your Smoky The Bear Insurance!
dialog: You have a serious fucking problem
dialog: is what you have here, Ranger
dialog: Bishop.
dialog: (to Anita)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: I told you I wanted to go, I didn’t
dialog: want to be brave-- now this is a
dialog: crime scene, a murder scene and you
dialog: are accessories to murder!
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: I know you Say you’re ‘the law’ out
dialog: here, but this seems to have gone
dialog: to levels BEYOND YOUR JURISDICTION!
dialog: (to his car)
dialog: ou realize a ‘67 Corvair is a
dialog: vin age classic! You know how much
dialog: in depreciation value this just
dialog: cost me!?
text: Anita glances over his shoulder, to Poppy:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You like secrets, don’t you Mr.
dialog: Baumgarner?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: No, what--
text: Poppy huffs--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: There is a secret I’ve been keeping
dialog: from you.
text: He looks down, his clothes, the cuts, his blood--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Your secret’s out! I mean, I need
dialog: Goddamn medical attention!
text: Anita steps toward him, peculiarly close, six inches away--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You deserve to hear the truth.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What!? What truth?
text: A WHISTLE from behind turns their attention. Burl stands on
text: the hill, waving a blouse in the air, wearing Ro’s WOLF MASK:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: Is-- why is Burl wearing my--
text: WHAM-- Anita jabs a NEEDLE into the side of Ro’s neck,
text: quickly injecting a PINKISH FLUID-- she holds firm, Roland
text: recoils, speechless. His eyes flutter-- and he collapses.
text: Anita and Poppy step over. Anita rolls him over with her leg--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: ...the truth is, we’re smarter than
dialog: you.
text: WHAM-- the beast lands on the cart with a CRASH, screaming.
dialog: 61.
text: WHOMP, WHOMP, WHOMP-- THREE SHOTS ring out, and the BEAST
text: collapses across the top of the cart. Its BODY shakes, then
text: goes limp, hanging off of the sides of the roof.
text: Burl comes gimping as fast as he can-- TRANQ RIFLE in hand,
text: LAUNDRY SACK in tow, tossing off the MASK:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: (on the run)
dialog: GET AWAY FROM ‘UM! GET BACK!
dialog: YA'LL GET AWAY!
dialog: (reaching them)
dialog: 30 milligrams Diazepam times three
dialog: should do him nicely...
text: Anita’s gun is trained on the beast, but it is out_cold--
text: THREE HEAVY DUTY TRANQ DARTS in its back, its shoulder
text: bleeding, its nails sharpened to razor points. Burl pulls her
text: away, wheezing:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: I SAID GET BACK, DAMNIT!
text: Suddenly THE BEAST jolts back to life, sending Poppy diving
text: into Anita-- it falls off the CART, woozy, stumbling...
text: Burl fumbles for another ROUND-- it begins to run, drunkenly--
text: as Anita takes aim, Burl fires:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: Come here, bear.
text: WHOMP, WHOMP-- two TRANQ darts fly into its LEGS-- it
text: crumples to the ground. Burl takes off after it:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: Bingo, you big ol’ boy!
text: Anita grabs Poppy, helping drag Ro to the CART:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Get him loaded on the cart. You
dialog: stay over here with him, hear me?
text: Anita drops him, quickly making for the BEAST, gun dead
text: aimed... Burl pulls a COIL of ROPE from his bag, throwing it
dialog: at her--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: To tie up Sleepin’ Beauty over
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: What about him?
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: That’s for me to worry about,
dialog: right?
dialog: 62.
text: Anita lowers her gun, finally h her first look at the beast up
text: close. It’s face covered with dark, dirty HAIR, its skin
text: nearly BLACK from the built up dirt...
text: Anita inches closer, moving some hair away with the barrel--
text: when her face contorts-- an overwhelmin: realization. She
text: shifts her SHOTGUN, point blank, at Bur
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: What the fuck!? This is not-- that
dialog: is not--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: (poker faced)
dialog: --secret’s out, Honey Bun.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: -.-.secret?
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: .+-you knew about this-- all along?
text: Poppy begins to head over:
speaker_heading: POPPY (0.S.)
dialog: We got it, Annie!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Get on the cart and start it up,
dialog: we're going.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: What the hell!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Stay over there-- start it up,
dialog: we're going, you copy!
dialog: (low, to Burl)
dialog: Listen you goddamn bastard-- you've
dialog: got approximately 33 minutes before
text: the drugs wear off to devise a new
dialog: plan of action on how you" re gonna
dialog: make this all better.
text: Anita heads toward the cart:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Ey, I held up my end, that makes us
dialog: square-—
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --obtuse is what this makes you.
text: Anita climbs in next to POPPY y clocking Ro--_ she looks back
text: to the BEAST. Her eyes tic o Burl and the BEAST:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: Let’s go kill a monster...
speaker_heading: FADE TO:
dialog: 84
dialog: 85
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: OVER BLACK--
speaker_heading: BURL (V.O.)
dialog: We all done things we ain’t proud
dialog: of, Bear...
dialog: (then)
dialog: The scars are there to show us some
dialog: wounds will never heal.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 84
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - CABIN ONE - DUSK 85
text: A parge living area-- the ground a mix with MUD and DEAD
text: LEAVES blown in. Roland’s limbs are tied with ROPE -- his
text: mouth and ankles wrapped with duct tape.
text: Poppy and Anita sit beside him on a twin bed, guns slung over
dialog: their laps:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: What’d you give him?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: 175 CC’s of Methohexital-- it’s a
dialog: short acting barbiturate.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Drug nerd.
text: Anita stands, moving to check the window:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Listen, Penelope-- no matter what
dialog: happens next, there’s nothing we
dialog: can’t get through together. We're
dialog: blood.
text: Roland's head rises slowly, groggy... the first time he
text: notices his bindings, the room-- Anita raises Roland’s chin
dialog: gently, eye to eye:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: Welcome To Merrymaker Campgrounds
dialog: Official Re-Opening, Professor
dialog: Roland Baumgarner.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: (sweetly)
dialog: I apologize that things haven't
dialog: gone smoother, but we’ve been
dialog: ealing with a bit of an issue the
dialog: last few months. You’d think all
dialog: hell broke loose... but disaster
dialog: averted! |
dialog: snappin
dialog: So, ee ieP ar yy, welcome!
dialog: (an eye on command)
dialog: Penelope helped me prepare a little
dialog: something in your honor-- Penelope,
dialog: if you please?
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: 88
dialog: 64.
text: PRY rolls a new, FLAT SCREEN TV in front of Roland, as she
dialog: sie es a DISC to the side panel--
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: Since you seem to get the credit
dialog: for writing it all down, I thought
dialog: you should at least see the truth.
speaker_heading: SMASH TO:
speaker_heading: OMITTED 86
speaker_heading: OMITTED 87
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - CABIN THIRTEEN - DAY (ARCHIVED FOOTAGE) 88
text: A CAMCORDER records-- propped on a stump-- Two girls, VIOLET
text: and CAITIE (13, 15) jump into frame outside CABIN THIRTEEN. A
text: more doyiting place 15 years ago, the frame TIME STAMPED:
dialog: 08/03/1998.
text: Caitie stands before the camera:
dialog: . VIOLET ;
dialog: --wait, you know how to erase this,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: CAITIE ;
dialog: Don’t worry about it, just shoot
dialog: me.
dialog: (moving toward the CABIN)
dialog: So... upposedly a camp counselor
dialog: who eats abies or something, lives
dialog: in this cabin.
scene_heading: CAMERA catches a DO NOT ENTER/ OFF LIMITS SIGN:
speaker_heading: CAITIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I’ve been double dared and bet
dialog: five bucks I won’t go inside...
text: alone for ten minutes.
speaker_heading: VIOLET (0.S.)
text: Alone. Two dollars per minute.
dialog: That's a good deal.
speaker_heading: _. CAITIE
dialog: I'll give you twenty to do it for
dialog: ten minutes, you baby.
speaker_heading: VIOLET (0.S.)
dialog: I told you my number is 100.
speaker_heading: CAITIE
dialog: Fine. Stay here, sucker.
text: Caitie grabs the camera, pointing it at her CONVERSE
text: SNEAKERS, then CAMERA finds the cabin-- she aims back at
text: Violet, a face less than enthusiastic, she’s scared:
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: CAITIE (0.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: I thought you weren’t scared of
dialog: anything?
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: You won't do it.
speaker_heading: CAITIE
dialog: Please.
text: Caitie hands Violet the CAMERA and starts toward the house--
text: The camera shakes, zooming in and out on the front door-- a
text: big new, #1 on it. Glancing back before she opens it-- Caitie
text: grips the knob, forcing the door open--
text: --when a SKINNY FIGURE dashes across inside. Caitie jumps
text: back, they both retreat, screaming...
speaker_heading: CAITIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Holy crap!
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: WHATWASTHAT!? Ohmygod,
dialog: whatwasthat!?
text: Caitie pauses, clearly the braver of the two:
speaker_heading: CAITIE
dialog: Whatever it is, it’s trapped in
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: .--well, we’re not letting it out!
text: As Caitie creeps back toward the cabin:
speaker_heading: VIOLET (CONT'D)
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: CAITIE
dialog: Shh! Don't! Let's just go...
text: Violet stops at the FRONT DOOR-- she pushes her arm out to
text: Gaitie-— “stop moving!" as she watches through the cracked
speaker_heading: OOK. ++
speaker_heading: CAITIE (CONT'D)
dialog: Something’s in there..?
dialog: (Violet nods }
dialog: .-.I’m leaving, let’s go--
text: A LOUD GRUNT comes from inside-- Violet jumps back, Caitie
dialog: too--
speaker_heading: VIOLET
dialog: I think it’s an animal. It might be
dialog: hurt or something...
dialog: 89
speaker_heading: 89A
dialog: 90
dialog: 66.
text: As Violet pushes the door open-- she ripped into the darkness
text: violently by a flashing by, pale YOUNG MAN.
text: Caitie screams, not knowing what to do, she runs to the
text: nearby WINDOW, trying to see in--
speaker_heading: CAITIE
dialog: VIOLET!? ARE YOU--
text: --BLOOD smashes against the glass, as Violet’s HEAD shatters
dialog: the window pain...
text: Caitie screams, drops the camera at her feet, and takes off
text: running. She gets all of ten yards, when flying out from
text: behind the house and tackling her, comes the MAN...
text: As the violent screams and grunts fade to silence..
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - CABIN THIRTEEN - DAY 89
text: The camera rolls on, recording every frame...
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - CABIN ONE - NIGHT 89A
text: Burl reaches out with a blouse, most of the ROPE wrapped on
text: the ground-- as the LARGE, HAIRY FEET step around the corner,
text: nearing the cabin:
speaker_heading: ANITA 2}
dialog: ...no one was a ilows up there for
dialog: a reason. We knew never to disobey
dialog: my mother. Why were they better
dialog: than the rule?
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - MARILYN’S CABIN - NIGHT - (FLASHBACK) 90
text: Chained by ankles and neck to the wall, the YOUNG MAN cowers,
text: whimpering in a corner-- MARILYN BISHOP (50) stands over him,
text: hair in a tight bun, narrow eyes-- she demands respect.
text: She holds a THICK BRANCH in her hand, BLOOD on it-- she sits
text: across from the MAN, trying to sink in her message:
speaker_heading: MARILYN
dialog: Mommy doesn’t want to have to do
dialog: this. But when you do things wrong,
dialog: you challenge Mommy. When Mommies
dialog: are challenged by their
dialog: offspring... what are we to do?
dialog: What is Mommy to do, not clip the
dialog: wings of her baby bird? Coddle and
dialog: cradle you in her bosom forever?
dialog: (she hits him
dialog: No! All that’s left to do is break
dialog: them down and start over!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: MARILYN (CONT'D)
dialog: gone stops hitting)
dialog: Our divine mother provides us all
dialog: obstacles to supply us the
dialog: nutrients of opportunity we need
dialog: for our growth as a species. You
dialog: are my challenge!
text: She hits him again, violent swings, till she breaks down--
text: falling to her knees, grabbing his face in her hands:
speaker_heading: MARILYN (CONT'D)
dialog: You are the fruits of a mother’s
dialog: labor, laid out to rot in the
dialog: sun. I gave you sanctuary, but
dialog: you bit your Mommy's nipple and now
dialog: it blee
dialog: (she strikes him again)
dialog: YOU WILL RISE OUT OF THESE ASHES,
dialog: AND YOUR SCARS WILL BE YOUR PROOF
dialog: YOU CAN NOT BE TAKEN DOWN BY MERE
speaker_heading: MORTAL MEN!
text: She swings the branch back, ready to strike again-- but is
text: stopped—- his shaking arms rise, holding out a bloodied WHITE
text: BLOUSE in front of her-- giving up.
text: As she lowers the branch, hurrying FOOTSTEPS stop at the door-
text: a more youthful Burl stands in the doorway, his eyes fix on
text: the two BODIES of the TEENAGE CAMPERS laying lifeless, side
text: by side on the bed-- clothes draped, covering their privates.
dialog: Marilyn surveys the carnage:
speaker_heading: ; BURL p
dialog: What in God’s name, Marilyn?
text: Marilyn stands in the corner-- something COWERED behind her,
dialog: in the shadows--
speaker_heading: MARILYN
text: The parents are out on a search
dialog: now. We don’t have much time.
dialog: I need you right now, baby - If I’m
dialog: to save this pracey I need you
dialog: right now to be strong for me.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: What the hell!?
speaker_heading: , MARILYN
dialog: This is our secret from now on,
dialog: okay? Okay?
text: Burl nods, trying to rationalize:
speaker_heading: MARILYN (CONT'D)
dialog: Where are Anita and Poppy?
speaker_heading: BURL
text: Anita’s cabin.
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: MARILYN
dialog: --good. I'll go make sure they
dialog: don’t move, but I need you to take
dialog: that bear you shot that’s still in
dialog: the walk-in... bring me a paw--
dialog: (he’s perplexed)
dialog: --you’1ll have to be quick.
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - LAKE - NIGHT 91
text: Burl kneels at the end of the dock-- a BEAR CLAW turned into
text: a weapon, its nails razor gharp - He bends to the water, his
text: reflection rippling... he fights the emotion, as he plunges
text: the bloody CLAW-- rinsing the crimson and flesh off his
dialog: ands.
text: Staring across the lake-- the TWO BODIES, lay just off the
text: the WATER'S EDGE, blood seeping into the dirt, looking as if
text: an animal shredded them...
text: Burl stands, tears in his eyes, he pulls the CLAW across his
text: chest, cutting into his clothes and skin...
speaker_heading: OMITTED 92
speaker_heading: OMITTED 93
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - CABIN ONE - NIGHT 94
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: And the rest, they say, is history.
text: Anita stands over Roland, his face beet red:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: I didn’t think a fan letter would
dialog: get_you out here, but when you
dialog: rolled up, come hell or high-water,
dialog: I knew our ship had come in.
text: Anita steps up, pointing her RIFLE into his crotch:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT'D)
dialog: Now, how much are the lives of that
dialog: cutie pie wife and that 1il’ bun in
dialog: her oven worth to you? What about
dialog: your little girl, Isabella?
text: Roland lunges violently at her, screaming behind his taped
text: mouth, but she skips back. Roland blinks-- helpless-- when
text: his attention shifts to Burl, backing in the door, holding
text: his TRANQ RIFLE out for Poppy, shaking a blouse in his hand--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Take that, Pop-- then get back.
text: Anita grips her RIFLE:
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: You can’t bring that thing in
dialog: here!?
dialog: (to Anita
dialog: HE'S NOT BRINGING THAT IN HERE! ?
speaker_heading: BURL
text: Signed, sealed and delivered, as
dialog: promised.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Come on, bear--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --stand behind me, Penelope.
text: Anita holds her RIFLE, aimed at the door, ready. Burl holds
text: the end of a rope, the blouse in hand. Burl steps in, pulling
text: the ROPE CHAIN-- hooked to the other end in the straight
text: jacket, is the beast, WAYNE BISHOP (38).
text: Anita's face sterns-- Poppy's drops:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: .-.-that’s not a bigfoot.
text: Wayne’s DARK EYES rise, darting, scouring the room-- he’s
text: timid, but on high alert...
text: His hair is horribly DREAD-LOCKED, matted with leaf bits and
text: DIRT. His face is dirty. and tanned-- his beard, long and
text: mangy... his feet are big and bare, covered with dirt and
dialog: grime from a life spent En the woods...
dialog: Under the ROPES--
text: He wears as a cover, the SKINNED HIDE of a BLACK BEAR-- it
text: covers his entire body, arms and legs, adding girth to his
text: already TALL FRAME-- the skins SEWN together with leather
text: STRAPS, interweaving up the STOMACH were the cut was made...
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: That’s your brother.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You heard him. Your brother, not a
dialog: bigfoot.
text: Anita eyes her, her look confirmation:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: That's... Wayne!? OUR WAYNE! ?
dialog: (getting emotional)
dialog: But-- but Mom said he--
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: --your mom lied to you, sweet pea.
dialog: She had a lot of secrets.
text: Poppy’s stunned, stepping up closer, but cautious, to her big
text: brother. Anita trains her gun on him: ’
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: GET THAT GUN OFF HIM! HE'S OUR
speaker_heading: BROTHER!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: He’s not the Wayne you knew, Poppy.
text: Wayne grunts, putting them all on edge-- he moves away, near
text: the corner. Poppy steps slowly:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: ..-Wayney? It's me, Pop-tart.
text: He jumps back, piercing the small space with a scream. Burl
text: steps over, moving Poppy back--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Hey, hey, you okay. You oooh-kay,
dialog: baby. Calm down-- no one gon’
dialog: hurtcha--
dialog: (Wayne calms)
dialog: What do you say tonight’s the night
dialog: we take off our armor, you n’ me
dialog: both, Bear?
dialog: (eye to eye)
dialog: Can you be brave for me? Can you
dialog: have courage?
text: He starts to unlatch the KNOTS in the ROPES, Anita steps up:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: I will unload, Burl-- he’s a
dialog: killer.
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: THAT'S YOUR BLOOD-- GET THE HELL
speaker_heading: BACK!
text: Burl holds up the faded blouse-- smelling it:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: Look, baby, look...
text: Wayne is fixed on the blouse-- Burl untying the ROPES. Wayne
text: snaps the blouse away, growling, retreating to a corner...
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
text: Let him be. The blouses remind him
dialog: of...
text: Burl turns, grabbing another BLOUSE from his sack--
dialog: 95
speaker_heading: 940A
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: Look, bear... like Mama's.
speaker_heading: FLASH TO:
text: BLOUSES and SHEETS flutter in the wind, swaying on CLOTHES
text: LINES hung outside the CABIN--
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - CABIN ONE - DAY - (WAYNE’S POV) 95
text: --Marilyn cries as she CHAINS him to the wall. She’s in her
text: bra, wiping his cuts with a BLUE BLOUSE. She’s gentle now.
text: spwayne lies on a bed of CLOTHES, like a dog, in the
text: abandoned space. It’s dark, dank’ and lonely-- his hair
text: starting to grow long, his "peard too.
dialog: --the CHAIN BREAKS--
text: --Wayne climbs out a window, a PRIMAL SCREAM--
text: --a crying Marliyn rips open the STORM DOORS, no sign of him--
text: --higher and higher, he climbs the trees--
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. CABIN ONE - NIGHT 940
text: Wayne sinks into a crouch, holding the blouse tenderly-- then
dialog: more grumble than words:
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Mumma...
text: Anita_lowers her gun, her eyes welling. She manages to steel
dialog: herself:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: -.-you killed those two girls,
dialog: Wayne. And that Mexican Girl--
text: Wayne doesn’t respond.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: And others, Wayne-- I’ve seen what
dialog: you‘ve left behind. You killed
dialog: innocent people, Wayne!
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: Who's innocent? The boy's
dialog: handicapped--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: He’s not a boy, he’s a fully grown
dialog: man-- and to me, you’re just a much
dialog: to blame than he is, so shut it.
dialog: 72.
text: Wayne moves back in the corner, scratching dirt from the
speaker_heading: BLOUSE:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: He doesn’t understand, Annie--
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: And he’s never hurt you, has he?
dialog: Let him alone--
text: Anita steps close to Burl’s ear:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --you_want to be even? This wipes
dialog: the slate clean.
dialog: (then)
dialog: He can’t be here anymore. You do
dialog: it, or I will.
text: Burl looks to the bloody Roland. He straightens--
speaker_heading: ANITA, (CONT’D)
dialog: You want that cigar? You have your
dialog: orders.
text: A slow burn-- as Burl straightens his fatigues-- stoic. Burl
text: moves, opening his arms, coaxing Wayne-- he moves from the
text: corner. Burl reaches up to untie the BEAR SKIN SUIT.
text: He unravels the first few intersections, finally the HIDE
text: falls to the floor, crumpling lifeless. Under LAYERS of old
text: clothes, stained LONG-JOHNS, dirty and hole filled as hell--
text: Burl shows him to Roland, proudly:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: He is what will always be Bow'd
dialog: about humanity. No matter how deep
dialog: the shit gets, the spirit is
text: undying.
dialog: (back to Wayne)
dialog: Goddamn National monument.
text: He grips Wayne’s face gently, pulling him level-- eye to eye:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: I swore to your Momma to protect
dialog: you, till your dying breath--
text: Suddenly, Wayne’ s EYES BULGE-- re-flexing, he SCREECHES-—
text: grabbing Burl by the throat, choking him:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: They ain’t hauling ou off in
dialog: chains... Don’t fight, bear.
text: Wayne looks down, Burl’s CARVING KNIFE plunged in his gut--
text: the blood oozing. Wayne’s grip. loosens, as he collapses to
text: the floor. Wayne breathes eavily-- forehead to forehead:
speaker_heading: BURL (CONT'D)
dialog: No more hurting.
dialog: 73.
text: Rushing him, Poppy swings the butt of her RIFLE into Burl’s
speaker_heading: BACK:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
speaker_heading: JESUS!
speaker_heading: POPPY
text: HE NEEDS HELP, ASSHOLE!
text: Burl fights off the attack, she swings, hitting him wildly,
text: kicking him. Anita tries to wrestle the gun away as Burl’s
text: pummeled by Pop’s onslaught, he Swings back, grabs PILLOWS,
text: SHEETS, anything he can, trying to block her:
speaker_heading: POPPY (CONT'D)
text: WE’RE NOT FUCKING ANIMALS!
text: Finally, he turns, cold-cocking PORDY in the face-- she
text: stumbles back, her nose bloodied ying into Roland, sending
text: them both flailing:
speaker_heading: BURL
dialog: YA'LL AIN'T EVEN MY FUCKIN’ KIDS!
speaker_heading: BLAAAAAM!
text: Burl is blasted off his feet by a RIFLE BLAST.
text: The loud, thunderous strike echoes, silencing the room. Burl
text: stumbles back, the momentum from the shot tangling him in the
text: sheets-- he collapses.
text: Poppy turns to Anita-- and her SMOKING GUN, BLOOD splattered
text: er face. As Burl’s eyes flutter closed... Anita steps
text: over, pulling out his CIGAR, shoving into his lips, taking
text: his ZIPPO from his pocket, lighting it for him:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Enjoy.
text: Poppy bursts into tears, collapsing to the floor...
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Jesus Fuck, Annie!
text: Anita wipes the blood splatter off her face, re-rolling her
text: hair tight into a bun:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Burl and I had unfinished business
dialog: that I just finished.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: (from her knees )
dialog: FUCK YOU, ANITA! I’m finished! I’m
dialog: done with this shit! You and you're
dialog: crazy fucking schemes, I’m done--
dialog: 74.
text: Anita steps in front of her, her RIFLE aimed at Poppy’s
dialog: chest:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: ary and_hold it together, Penelope--
dialog: re almost done. Now remove the
dialog: professor’ s tape, so we can get
dialog: down to business and get Wayne
dialog: outta here-- he stinks!
text: A stand off, Anita’s aim doesn’t flinch, till finally, Poppy
text: marches over and rips the DUCT TAPE off Ro. Roland breathes
text: heavily-- spitting at Poppy:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
text: YOU CRAZY BITCHES DON’T KNOW WHO
dialog: YOU FUCKED WITH!
text: Anita moves the tip of the rifle between his lips:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: ..-Shhhhhh, I know exactly who you
dialog: are.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Fugh yew.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Please just be quiet and listen to
dialog: what you’re gonna need to do in
dialog: order to leave here with most of
dialog: your blood still inside your body.
text: Pop rises, going to work, as Anita tosses a SHEET crudely
text: over Burl. She pulls up a chair next to him:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: I've always wanted to ask you
dialog: something, Roland. Face to face.
dialog: (he stares)
dialog: You never camped here-- so our
dialog: story, our history, the misery...
dialog: was it just about the money?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Something wrong with money?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: No, we love money. Actually this
dialog: venture we're engaged in now is
dialog: entrepreneurial in nature.
dialog: ( eaning in
dialog: You can’t even imagine how deep
dialog: inside you I am.
text: Roland's EYES FLUTTER, woozy still from the drugs--
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: 98
dialog: 99
dialog: 75.
scene_heading: EXT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - DAY - (RO’S IMAGINATION) 96
text: The scene is hazy, dream-like... Roland stands staring up to
text: his GLOWING HOUSE, wrapped in the straight-jacket:
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: 24601-- the security code for your
dialog: lovely abode-- 7, the number o
dialog: times I’ve seen you before you
dialog: drove up to our gate yesterday.
dialog: Countless, the days I spent
dialog: listening to my demented mother
dialog: expound upon your piggish gluttony,
dialog: how you_turne “our nightmare into
dialog: your golden ticket”.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY (RO’S IMAGINATION) 97
text: Roland steps in, the ROPES tied round him-- piles of DIRTY
text: CLOTHES , scattered with leaves and twigs, are all over the
dialog: oor.
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: .»..and zero-- that’d be my ballpark
dialog: guess for the the number of days
dialog: Christine and little Izzy stic
dialog: around when you return home and
dialog: admit to your wife you’re a coward,
dialog: a liar-- and you fucked my sister.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY (RO’S IMAGINATION) 98
text: Roland steps into his bedroom-- bed made, everything tidy
text: Christine is atop the sheets, sleeping. On her pregnant belly
text: rests Roland’s WOLF MASK.
speaker_heading: ANITA (0.S.)
dialog: .--but I'd bet a tinge of
dialog: contrition will wash over you when
dialog: you finally come clean. Finally!
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - OFFICE - DAY (RO’S IMAGINATION) 99
text: Roland stands, everything black around him, except the
text: MERRYMAKER POSTER hung above him, lit in low light.
speaker_heading: ANITA (V.O.)
dialog: You’ve been trapped for so long--
dialog: do you even know who you really
dialog: are?
text: His eyes squint at the poster, as the WINDOW in the poster
text: begins to enlarge, we’re zooming in...
dialog: 100
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: ANITA (V.O.)
dialog: Seein’ yourself for the first time
dialog: will be tough... but...
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. CAMPGROUNDS - CABIN ONE - NIGHT 100
text: ..-flying in from the blood stained window, as if we’ve just
text: flown inside the poster-- Roland recoils out of his thoughts,
text: Anita next to him on the bed:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: -+-a man has to answer for his
dialog: sins. Ask Burl. Or my mother.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: And what kind of man am I? You
dialog: think you know me so well?
speaker_heading: ANITA
text: Nothing but a hollow tree.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: .-.a hollow tree isn’t any man.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (a smirk)
dialog: Exactly.
text: Poppy steps back in, finished dragging Wayne out:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --what about Burl?
text: Anita turns-- the SHEETS soaked RED now:
speaker_heading: _ ANITA .
dialog: Leave him. Laptop and pictures,
dialog: please.
text: POPPY looks under the BED, pulling out of a BLACK DUFFEL. She
text: nds the bag to Anita-- who pulls a STACK of 4x6 PHOTOS and
text: a STUFFED BLACK BEAR-- Roland eyes it:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: There are a couple numbers of yours
dialog: I haven't quite gotten yet--
dialog: (holding up the bear)
dialog: I thought this was so cute.
text: Roland stares, realizing the connection, the same as
text: Isabella's-- Anita plops the STACK of PHOTOS onto his lap:
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: Now, I realize there has to be
dialog: incentive for both sides in every
dialog: deal...
text: Roland looks down-- multiple PICTURES of Isabella asleep in
text: her bed, with her STUFFED BEAR-- Anita places one on top--
text: its KARA, leaned over taking a picture with Izzy, creepy.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: ...Kara?
speaker_heading: POPPY.
dialog: Us backwoods folk, we’s gots
dialog: cousins ever 'where-- Like my aunt’s
dialog: kid, cousin Kara. Who thinks you're
dialog: gross, by the way.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: (pulling the LAPTOP over)
dialog: Look at me, Roland...
text: Roland shakes with fear, rage. Anita opens the laptop:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: Shall we commence the first
dialog: official business transaction for
dialog: the newly re-opened Merrymaker Camp
dialog: Grounds.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Transaction!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
scene_heading: 652-3343-013. Recognize that
dialog: number?
dialog: (he does)
dialog: It’s my favorite of yours.
dialog: But I need a little magic word to
dialog: get to my favorite number.
text: She turns the computer around, showing him the web page-- a
scene_heading: SWISS BANK LOG IN PAGE:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: ..-what’s the password, hon?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: The password is blow me bitch.
text: Poppy stomps over, Burl’s bloody KNIFE in hand. She sticks
text: the TIP right up to his neck--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: I need this money to get the hell
dialog: outta here, so you're gonna
dialog: cooperate in a timely fashion, or
dialog: stick it in deep--
speaker_heading: ___ ROLAND : ;
dialog: --not just tease me with the tip?
dialog: 78.
text: Poppy digs the BLADE into his skin--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: You want it all, baby--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --stop. The password to your book
dialog: residuals account, please?
text: Roland glances to the pictures of the sleeping Isabella.
dialog: Roland stays on her--
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: We'll get it one way or another.
dialog: The easy way-- or the “I’m your
dialog: biggest fan” MISERY way.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Don’t make me have to go after the
dialog: wife, the kids and the white picket
dialog: fence, Ro-Ro.
dialog: After a moment:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
text: 0130isabellabubblebutt.
text: Poppy pulls the knife back:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Sweet.
text: A beat as Anita types...
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: What is this? What the FUCK is
dialog: this!?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: What is it!?
text: She turns the SCREEN to show Poppy-- ACCOUNT BALANCE:
dialog: $18,733.58--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Is there another account!? Is this
dialog: how much you have to keep in there
dialog: as a minimum balance?
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: I thought you said hundreds of
dialog: thousands of dollars!?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: It was-- the-- shut up, Penelope.
dialog: (beginning to pace)
dialog: You wrote a best-seller? 10 million
dialog: copies sold. Where's the money?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Who do you think I am, Steven
dialog: Fucking King?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: I've written one book, from which
dialog: the publisher takes a slice, the
text: distributor his cut, agent’s cut,
dialog: Manager cut-- fucking attorney, all
dialog: plus tax.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Pathetic.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What’s pathetic is she makes the
dialog: real money. If it wasn’t for her,
speaker_heading: I’
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --what the fuck are we gonna do
dialog: Anita? 18 grand--
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --I know it’s not what we planned
dialog: for, but--
text: Eyeing Anita’s COPY of MERRYMAKER MURDERER in the BAG:
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: --wait... what if-- what if he
dialog: wrote a new book?
text: A beat. Anita considers the notion, then:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Huh.
dialog: (then)
dialog: You need another hit? Be good for
dialog: your ego.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: And we've given him the perfect
dialog: story-- he survived a bigfoot
dialog: attack.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Apparently the bigfoot is very
dialog: popular now.
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: Yeah, he writes a bigfoot book, he
dialog: can stay alive and well, which in
dialog: turn, lows new checks to come in,
dialog: like from “donors”, or something...
speaker_heading: _. ANITA
dialog: Something secret, of course--
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: -~I'll teach you how to anonymously
dialog: wire transfers between accounts;
dialog: we'd never have to see him again.
text: Anita stares, dumbfounded, then pulls Poppy in for a hug.
dialog: Finally, breaking:
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: This is turning out way better than
dialog: I planned.
dialog: (turning back)
dialog: With a down-payment today, of
dialog: course!
text: Sitting down, she pulls over the laptop:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D
dialog: Now... Mr. Baumgarner, let me be
dialog: the first to thank you for your
dialog: generous but somewhat pathetic
dialog: $18,000 donation to the Merrymaker
dialog: Camp Grounds Conservation an‘
dialog: Memorial Fund.
dialog: (then)
dialog: About how long will it take you to
dialog: whi up a first draft of this new
dialog: book, hmm?
text: Roland's face falls, the light dimming in his eyes:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: Just shoot me.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: I don’t deserve to go home. To my
dialog: wife. To my child... my good life--
dialog: so shoot me.
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Nah. That would be what’s referred
dialog: to as a “Bad Business Decision”.
text: Anita bends down to catch his eyes:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: I don’t know whether to laugh or
dialog: cry at you.
text: Roland looks up-- dead eyes:
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: You want to live?
dialog: (he nods)
dialog: So, we gotta deal?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Do I have a choice?
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Us or death?
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Three months-- no more than 300
dialog: pages!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: Late summer, my favorite time.
dialog: (a. smile)
text: Unbuckle him, Sissy.
text: POppy -mo moves, unbuckling the straps to the jacket. She pulls
text: it off him-- he drops to the floor, a pathetic heap. T
text: girls on both sides, grab him to stand him up--
text: --when he suddenly swings his elbow, cold-cocking POPPY in
text: her temple, kicking Anita in her stomach-- sending them both
text: flying onto the be He’s quick to grab the TRANQ RIFLE from
text: the ground. He takes aim at them both—— rising:
speaker_heading: ANITA (CONT’D)
dialog: .«..you’re not a hero, buddy.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: SHUT UP! I WILL BLOW YOUR FUCKING
text: TITS OFF AND BURN THIS SHIT HEAP TO
dialog: THE GROUND, SO HELP ME GOD!
speaker_heading: POPPY
dialog: That's a Trang Rifle, you stupid--
text: WHOMP, WHOMP... WHOMP, THREE air DARTS fly, plugging into
text: Poppy’s CHEST.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: ...stay for a little while longer.
dialog: I know you want to.
text: She staggers back, collapsing with a whimper:
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: --son of a bitch!
text: Roland tosses the gun, whipping up Anita’s SHOTGUN-- as he
text: moves, every part of his body hurting, he angles toward the
dialog: door:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Gimme the keys to the fucking gate!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You're money is already gone-- I
dialog: wouldn't be in such a rush to get
dialog: home, if I were you.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: IF I WERE YOU, I’D GO FUCK
dialog: YOURSELF, CAUSE I’M COMING AT YOU
text: GUNS BLAZIN’! ATTORNEYS, LAWSUITS,
dialog: THE WHOLE GAMUT, BITCH!
text: He aims the GUN point blank, stepping close to her-- she
text: holds her hands up:
speaker_heading: 100A
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: By the way-- NO FUCKING DEAL! NO
text: FUCKING BIGFOOT BOOK! BIGFOOT IS SO
dialog: PLAYED OUT!
speaker_heading: ANITA
dialog: You‘re not thinking about the
dialog: ripples these actions will create.
text: Backs toward the door--
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Oh, I know exactly the ripple--
dialog: (then)
dialog: I am going to kill you.
dialog: (she firms)
dialog: .--but before I kill you, I'm happy
dialog: to answer your question...
text: Anita’s face grows dark-- Roland stands in the doorway, he
text: aims the gun, shaking, manic:
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: +.-you wanna know why I chose this
dialog: place? It’s because people in the
dialog: real world, don’t give a shit what
dialog: happens out here. It's why it’s
dialog: ed the middle of NOWHERE!
dialog: Whatever you think, doesn’t matter
dialog: in my world... so, the answer to
dialog: your question is yes. Your camp,
dialog: ou and your fucked up family paid
dialog: or my dream house... NOW GIMME THE
dialog: FUCKING KEY!
text: She holds them up, tossing them, when suddenly Anita lunges
text: for the SHOTGUN, but not before Roland squeezes off a ROUND--
text: --BLASTING her ARM, sending her fly ying, collapsing onto
text: Poppy. Roland stares, wide eyed, his hands shaking
text: uncontrollably. He drops the gun, quickly turning out the
dialog: oor-—
text: BAM! He’s clocked in the face-- out cold. In the doorway,
text: Wayne stands, holding his WOUND. Anita’s BODY twitches under
text: Poppy-- as Wayne turns, hobbling out of sight.
text: Anita breathes deep, her eyes locked on Roland as she begins
dialog: to crawl towards him...
speaker_heading: IN FLASHES: 100A
text: --Anita pulls the BLOOD SOAKED BEAR CLAW from Burl--
text: --The CLAW quickly slices across Roland's face, his neck--
text: --Roland’s BLOODY WEDDING RING spins on the floor--
text: --Poppy stirs; Anita wipes SWEAT, smearing BLOOD on her face--
text: --Ro’s LIMP BODY is dumped into the back of Roland’s CAR--
dialog: 101
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
dialog: 83.
text: --Anita limps into the driver’s seat--
text: --Ro’s TAILLIGHTS fade down the road, behind her--
text: --Burl’s TRUCK CAMPER follows--
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUNDS - BROKEN CABIN (CABIN THIRTEEN) - NIGHT 101
text: Wayne grunts up the hillside-- turning back, only to catch
text: the fading SETS of LIGHTS, fading down the winding road. His
text: EYES stare, full of innocence-- sad EYES of a wounded animal.
text: As he continues his climb--
speaker_heading: MATCH TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAYBREAK 102
text: --Christine waddles back to bed, pulling down her SLEEP MASK.
text: She passes a window, a double takes-- a FIGURE stands on the
text: front lawn.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - FOYER —- DAWN 103
text: Christine heads down the stairs, BASEBALL BAT in hand. She
text: checks the PEEPHOLE, immediately flipping on the porch light:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
speaker_heading: OH MY GOD!
text: As_she opens the door, Roland collapses, BATTERED and BLOODY,
text: CLAW MARKS all over him-- his face covered in blood, soaked
text: through his SHREDDED CLOTHES.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE (CONT'D
text: JESUS, ROLAND!? WHAT HAPPENED! ?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (barely audible)
dialog: ..-I'mma...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: WHAT! WHAT HAPPENED! ?
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --leave me, please...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: ...Roland!? ROLAND!? WHO DID THIS
dialog: TO YOU? TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED!
text: He stares up, locking on her eyes:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: «+a big-foot..
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 84.
text: She clocks the yard, street-- no sign of anyone, anything--
text: as she pulls him inside.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
scene_heading: SUPERIMPOSE : SUMMER
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND'S HOUSE - OFFICE - DAY 104
text: The office is bare, ready for a move. The only sound, PAPERS
text: spitting from a PRINTER connected to Christine's LAPTOP
text: A KNOCK at the front door.
scene_heading: INT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - DAY 105
text: The door opens--—
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Kara?
dialog: Not the person she was hoping for:
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: Oh. Hi, Christine. Um... is--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: --he’s not here right now.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: Oh... okay-- well, is he alright?
dialog: I heard he was attacked, like
dialog: mauled or--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: =-he’s doing better now. Resigned
dialog: from the University though.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: (re: the boxes)
dialog: You guys moving?
dialog: ris nods)
dialog: Exciting-- where to?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: §3. placating smile)
dialog: --did you need something, Kara?
text: Kara ejects a TEDDY BEAR KEY from her pocket:
dialog: I’m such an idiot, I was cleaning
dialog: out my apartment, and I found that.
dialog: Figured I should probably give it
dialog: ac
dialog: 106
dialog: 157
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Mystery solved. Thank you.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: I hope whatever happened at least
dialog: inspires some good writing. He’s a
dialog: good teacher, in his own way...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: I'll let him know you stopped by.
speaker_heading: KARA
dialog: He taught me to take the work
dialog: seriously.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Well, all work and no play makes Ro-
dialog: Ro a dull boy-- right?
text: The PRINTER goes silent, as the door SLAMS shut.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 106
scene_heading: EXT. ROLAND’S HOUSE - BACK PORCH - DAY 157
text: Christine walks with the STACK of PAPERS in her arms, pepgiiing
text: the sliding GLASS DOORS open, she steps up silentl ind
text: Roland-- he’s rocking their NEWBORN in his arms. She eouches
text: his shoulder, startling him--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Did I scare you?
text: Roland turns, his head shaved, revealing the LARGE, JAGGED
text: SCARS cut down from his FOREHEAD, over Ris NOSE, across his
text: CHEEK and onto his NECK-- other SCARS disappear’ under his
dialog: clothing, up his ARMS:
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: ..-he’s dead to the world.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: (reaching for the baby)
dialog: Trade?
text: She hands him the STACK OF PAPERS, taking the baby. The TOP
text: PAGE is blank, the TEDDY BEAR KEY on top of it--
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE (CONT'D)
dialog: Forgive the typos.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: (re: the key)
dialog: What's this..?
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: The missing house key we couldn’t
dialog: account for. I told you I made
dialog: three copies--—
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --where’d you find it?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Kara had it.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Oh. I didn’t know you gave her one.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: I didn’t.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Well-- when did you see her?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: (breath of courage, then)
dialog: ...-Penguin reached out to me, and
dialog: I‘ve agreed to become an Assistant
dialog: Editor there, with one condition:
dialog: they agreed to publish my first
dialog: attempt at a novel. That’s what
dialog: that is.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: What!? Honey!? Oh my God, that’s
dialog: fantastic! When-- why didn’t you
dialog: tell me before!?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Cause I only recently figured out
dialog: the way to end it. Horror stories
dialog: all end the same, right? You have
dialog: to kill the monster.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: Babe, this is huge. I can’t wait to
dialog: read it. Your first big hit!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: Let’s not get ahead of ourselves-—-
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: --I know I keep saying it, but...
dialog: maybe this all was really a
dialog: blessing in disguise. No pain, no
dialog: gian, right!?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: If you believe in that sort of
dialog: thing.
speaker_heading: ROLAND
dialog: A horror, huh? Treading on my turf.
dialog: Tread lightly.
dialog: (thumbing nonchalant)
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: ROLAND (CONT'D)
dialog: What did you find to write about
dialog: that was so horrifying?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINE
dialog: ..-all the things I wish I didn’t
dialog: know about you.
text: She turns, pulling the door open, as Roland opens the first
text: page to DIVORCE PAPERS waiting underneath, already signed by
dialog: Christine.
text: Next, print outs of the PHOTOS Kara sent on the I.M.,
dialog: selfies, clothing optional.
text: He pulls the papers off, revealing her COVER PAGE below:
speaker_heading: ANIMAL AMONG US
dialog: By Christine Clay
text: His face falls-- Chris turns away, as he collapses back into
text: the ROCKING CHAIR, stunned.
text: Maybe off in the background, a thought in his head, or
dialog: somewhere in between,
dialog: -no one knows what it’s like to feel these feelings, like
text: Ido...” Dead quiet. Till, in the not too far distance--
dialog: between the TREES-- SNAP! CRACK!
text: Roland’s eyes dart, staring out to the PROPERTY LINE, where
text: the land meets the ‘wild. His gaze narrows on a SHAKING
text: LIMB... a SHADOW moving out of sight. His BIG BLUE EYES stare
text: out-- a mind now a thousand miles away.
text: Hidden within the trees, staring back at him-- long SCARS
text: runs up the back of the fleshy thigh, a SHOTGUN by her side.
text: Anita’s BIG EYES peer through the cheap WOLF MASK... a wicked
text: smirk on her face--
text: --as Roland reaches for a PEN, sat_on the table next to his
text: WATER, he stares at the signature line of the divorce papers.
text: e places them to the side, CLICKING his pen, as he opens to
dialog: the first page-- we...
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END.
dialog: 
