dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANONYMOUS
dialog: Written by
dialog: John Orloff
scene_heading: 1 BLACK SCREEN 1
text: TITLES BEGIN over the SOUNDS of city traffic.
speaker_heading: FADE UP:
scene_heading: 2 EXT. THEATER DISTRICT OF BROADWAY - DUSK 2
text: The sidewalks are filled with theater-goers heading for
text: their shows. Cabs line the streets.
speaker_heading: SIDE ALLEY
text: A cab quickly turns into the alley, coming to a
text: screeching halt. A Man in a Grey Suit jumps out and
text: rushes to the side entrance of a theater.
text: In the background we see that the title of the play,
text: "Anonymous", is written on the theatre's marquee...
scene_heading: 3 INT. BROADWAY THEATER - BACKSTAGE - DUSK 3
text: We follow the Man in the Grey Suit as he rushes through
text: narrow backstage hallways, passing several ACTORS
text: dressing in Elizabethan costumes, applying their make-
dialog: up, etc...
scene_heading: TITLES CONTINUE.
scene_heading: 4 INT. BROADWAY THEATER - BACKSTAGE/EMPTY STAGE - DUSK 4
text: The curtains are still closed, and the sound of the
text: audience excitedly MURMURING behind them is heard. .
text: Stagehands are moving stage lights as--
speaker_heading: A STAGE MANAGER
text: takes a nervous peek through the curtains to check the
text: audience-- it's a full house. He holds a prop umbrella
text: in one hand, anxiously checks his watch in the other.
text: He looks on both wings of the stage-- and then relief
text: floods his face as he sees The Man in the Grey Suit
text: hurrying over to him. The Stage Manager wordlessly
text: hands him the umbrella and signals to a stagehand in
dialog: the background.
text: The curtains start to OPEN and the MURMUR of the
text: audience dies down.
speaker_heading: 1
dialog: pg. 2
scene_heading: 5 INT. BROADWAY THEATER - THE STAGE - CONTINUOUS 5
text: The man with the umbrella stands on the empty stage, a
text: single light on him. He is "PROLOGUE". (We will see
text: the same actor later as the "Prologue" of Henry V).
text: "Prologue" regards his audience for a beat before:
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE
dialog: Soul of the Age!
dialog: The applause, delight, the wonder of
dialog: our stage!
dialog: Our Shakespeare, rise...
dialog: (beat, repeating)
dialog: Our Shakespeare... For he is all of
dialog: ours, is he not? The most performed
dialog: playwright of all time! The author of
dialog: 37 plays, 154 sonnets, and several
dialog: epic poems that are collectively known
dialog: as the ultimate expressions of
dialog: humanity in the English language. And
dialog: yet... And yet...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Not a single manuscript of any kind
dialog: has ever been found written in
dialog: Shakespeare's own hand. In four
dialog: hundred years, not one document-- be
dialog: it poem, play, diary or even a simple
dialog: letter.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: He was born the son of a glove-maker,
text: and at some unknown time, armed with
dialog: but an elementary school education, he
dialog: went to London where, the story goes,
dialog: he became an actor and eventually a
dialog: playwright.
speaker_heading: OFF STAGE
text: A stagehand takes a wooden hammer and beats against a
text: flat metal pate, creating the SOUNDS of THUNDER.
text: Another stagehand starts to lift shutters in front of a
text: stage light back and forth to create LIGHTNING STRIKES.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: "Prologue" opens his umbrella.
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE (CONT'D)
dialog: He died at the age of 56, and was
dialog: survived by his wife and two daughters
dialog: who were, like Shakespeare's own
text: father, irrefutably illiterate.
dialog: 2
dialog: pg. 3
speaker_heading: OFF STAGE
text: In the rafters a stagehand opens valves. It starts to
speaker_heading: RAIN.
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE (O.C.) (CONT'D)
dialog: His will famously left his second best
dialog: bed to his widow. But it made no
dialog: mention of a single book or
dialog: manuscript.
text: The actor who will play "Ben JONSON" (mid 30's) appears
text: in the wings, bearded, ready to go on stage, holding a
text: prop leather manuscript. Behind him a group of
text: Elizabethan "soldiers" strap on their swords.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: "Prologue" continues, as do TITLES.
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE (CONT'D)
dialog: Is it possible Shakespeare owned no
dialog: books at his death because... he could
dialog: not read? That he wrote no letters
dialog: because he, like his father before him
dialog: and his children after him, could not
dialog: write?
dialog: (lets that sink in, then)
dialog: Our Shakespeare is a cypher, a ghost;
dialog: his biography made not by history...
dialog: but by conjecture. His story not
dialog: written with facts, but with...
dialog: imagination.
text: The rain has intensified. "Prologue" turns and the
text: camera starts to leave him and the TITLES END....
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE (CONT'D)
dialog: (more energetic)
dialog: So! Let me offer you a different
text: story. A darker story... Of quills
text: and swords. Of power and betrayal.
dialog: Of a stage conquered, and a throne
dialog: lost!
text: A FLASH OF LIGHTNING, and for a moment only sheets of
text: RAIN are visible. No stage, no "Prologue". Then,
text: trough the rain, we see a form of a man... Ben
text: Jonson... running. Then we make out the shapes of
dialog: houses... a street. We're not on a stage anymore. We
dialog: are:
dialog: 3
dialog: pg. 4
scene_heading: 6 EXT. BANKSIDE LONDON - 1604 NIGHT 6
text: Jonson-- carrying the manuscript-- runs up the street
text: toward a large circular theater.
text: He frantically opens the wooden door to the theater--
scene_heading: 7 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - NIGHT 7
text: --and he quickly bolts it behind him, turns, and
text: desperately looks for a place to hide. He runs towards
dialog: the stage as--
scene_heading: 8 EXT. THE ROSE THEATER - CONTINUOUS 8
text: About a dozen uniformed guards reach the door. They
text: are led by Sir Richard POLE (40), Captain of the Guard.
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Break it down!
text: And several of the guards charge the door with their
dialog: pikes, HITTING it hard.
speaker_heading: POLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Again!
scene_heading: 9 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - CONTINUOUS 9
text: Jonson hurries backstage, and disappears from our view
dialog: just as--
scene_heading: 10 EXT/INT. THE ROSE THEATER - CONTINUOUS 10
text: --the guards SMASH the door open. Pole is the first
dialog: in.
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Jonson! Jonson!! Show yourself!
text: The soldiers immediately spread out into different
dialog: parts of the theater. Jonson's gone. Because--
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: has moved under the stage silently scurrying like a rat
text: trying to find a place to hide among the stacks of
text: props and costumes (swords, masks, flags and banners,
text: shields, barrels, canons, etc.) But Jonson freezes
dialog: when he sees--
dialog: 4
dialog: pg. 5
text: THROUGH THE CRACKS OF THE STAGE'S FLOORBOARDS
text: --the soldiers jump onto the stage and spread out, Pole
dialog: amongst them.
speaker_heading: POLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Out with you! Jonson! We'll smoke
dialog: you out like a rat if we have to!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Jonson?! Jonson!!
dialog: Nothing. A beat, then--
speaker_heading: POLE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to a soldier)
dialog: Torch it.
text: The soldier hesitates.
speaker_heading: POLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Torch it! All of you!
text: The soldiers obey, lighting fire to the walls, the
dialog: galleries, the columns as--
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: GASPS in horror. Desperate-- he spies an open metal
text: box nearby filled with un-used fireworks.
text: He tosses the fireworks out of the box-- and then
text: places the bound manuscripts in their place, then
text: closes the box. Then-- he grabs a nearby rapier as--
speaker_heading: FLAMES
text: --begin to take hold everywhere: the columns at the
text: front of the stage... the trompe-l'oeil walls... the
dialog: seating galleries... the columns...
speaker_heading: A TRAP DOOR
text: opens center-stage, and Jonson JUMPS out, the rapier in
text: his right hand, ready for a fight. But-- three
text: soldiers jump onto the stage, pikes ready.
text: Jonson-- no fool- turns and runs for the other end of
text: the stage-- but then runs smack into four other
dialog: soldiers!
dialog: Ballocks!
dialog: Jonson turns this way and that-- nowhere to run-- grins
text: wryly, drops his sword. Raises his hands in surrender.
dialog: 5
dialog: pg. 6
scene_heading: 11 EXT. THE ROSE THEATER - NIGHT 11
text: Jonson, his hands tied behind him, is pushed through
text: the door, Pole following.
text: A small crowd of actors, whores, etc., watch the
text: theater burn. The guards have to push their way
dialog: through them.
speaker_heading: INSERT
text: The fire reaches the fireworks below the theater's
dialog: stage, and--
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: -- the SOUND of fireworks EXPLODING makes Jonson turn
dialog: and see:
speaker_heading: THE THEATER
text: Timbers CRASH and fireworks EXPLODE over the theater.
scene_heading: 12 EXT. THE THAMES RIVER - DAWN 12
text: A longboat carrying Jonson, Pole and the guards makes
text: its way towards the Tower Of London.
scene_heading: 13 INT. TOWER OF LONDON - AN INTERROGATION ROOM - DAWN 13
text: Jonson is thrown into a chair, a guard on either side
text: of him. It's dark-- the only light coming from a few
text: torches in the walls, and a large fire pit at the far
text: side of the room.
text: An INTERROGATOR (30's) faces him. Dressed all in
text: black, he is wispy thin.
speaker_heading: INTERROGATOR
dialog: You are Benjamin Jonson, playwright?
dialog: Son of William Jonson, glass-blower,
dialog: son of James Jonson brick-layer?
text: Jonson nods.
speaker_heading: INTERROGATOR (CONT'D)
dialog: And have you ever been arrested
dialog: before, Mr. Jonson?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I'm a writer, aren't I? Of course
dialog: I've bloody well been--
dialog: 6
dialog: pg. 7
text: And a guard BACKHANDS Jonson on the face full force--
text: hard enough to send Jonson and the chair to the ground.
text: His nose starts to bleed.
text: As the Guards pull him up, the Interrogator looks
text: across the room-- there is someone else there, a
text: FIGURE, watching, but cloaked in the darkness.
text: Jonson notices the figure as well. We hear a voice
text: from the darkness.
speaker_heading: FIGURE
dialog: Ask him about the plays.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (to the Interrogator)
dialog: Plays?
dialog: (to the Figure)
dialog: Which would you prefer, my lord? A
dialog: pastoral? An historical? An
text: historical-pastoral, or an hysterical
dialog: historical pastoral--
text: And SMACK! He's hit by the guards again. He SPITS out
text: a tooth.
speaker_heading: INTERROGATOR
dialog: We are not interested in your plays,
dialog: Jonson. We are interested in the
dialog: plays given to you by Edward de Vere,
dialog: Earl of Oxford.
text: Jonson stares at him a beat, and then looks into the
dialog: darkness.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I'm sorry my lord, but I am not sure I
dialog: know whereof you speak. I have had
dialog: the honor of meeting his lordship--
dialog: And SMACK--
scene_heading: FLASH CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FACES
text: laughing. Not in this room, somewhere else. Somewhere
dialog: outside. Before we really understand what we are
dialog: seeing we are:
text: BACK IN THE CELL
text: Jonson blinks, trying to stay conscious. His mouth is
text: ripped, bleeding. So is his nose.
dialog: 7
dialog: pg. 8
text: The skin has broken on his forehead. The Interrogator
text: leans into the bloody Jonson.
speaker_heading: INTERROGATOR
dialog: Where are the plays?
text: Before Jonson even has a chance to answer-- SMACK!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: MORE FACES
dialog: Laughing. We are:
scene_heading: 14 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAY 14
text: And it is nine years earlier. The faces come from an
text: audience watching a play. They find the performance
text: hysterical.
scene_heading: 15 EXT. ROSE THEATER/BANKSIDE LONDON - CONTINUOUS 15
text: The Rose towers above the nearby buildings "Bankside"
dialog: (the part of London that houses the theaters,
dialog: whorehouses, etc.).
text: The Rose towers above the nearby buildings "Bankside"
dialog: (the part of London that houses the theaters,
dialog: whorehouses, etc.).
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (O.S.)
dialog: Well?
speaker_heading: TWO MEN
text: walk towards the theater. Edward de Vere (47), the
text: Earl of OXFORD, an intensely handsome man. His clothes
dialog: have seen better days.
text: His companion is Henry Wriothesley, Earl of SOUTHAMPTON
text: (22). Blonde, attractive, a bit of a pretty boy-- and
text: extremely enthusiastic.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Wonderful, isn't it?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: (frowning slightly)
dialog: Well, it's certainly... big.
dialog: 8
dialog: pg. 9
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: I promise you, Edward, you've seen
dialog: nothing like it before! Nothing!
speaker_heading: OXFORD
text: Bricklayers and whores watching
dialog: Aristophones? You're quite right,
dialog: Henry, not only have I never witnessed
dialog: it, I'm not sure I care to.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: (teasing)
dialog: You're an elitist, you know that,
dialog: Edward?
text: Oxford pauses at the entrance.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: There won't be puppets, will there?
text: Southampton grins and gives a few coins to an USHER,
text: who escorts the two of them (the retainers stay
text: outside) inside.
speaker_heading: USHER
dialog: My lords...
scene_heading: INT. THE ENTRY OF THE ROSE THEATER - CONTINUOUS
text: The usher takes them up a flight of stairs. Oxford
text: observes everything as they walk.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
text: The stage-craft is quite spectacular.
dialog: Far more elaborate than anything I've
dialog: seen at court. I've witnessed be-
dialog: headings that god as my witness look
text: as real as at the Tower, cannons fired
dialog: in battle...
text: They come to the second floor, where a SELLING-MAID has
text: a box of food and drink in front of her bosom-- much
text: like a match-stick girl.
speaker_heading: SELLING-MAID
dialog: Ale? Mutton, mi' lord?
text: Southampton waves her off as they follow the usher up
text: another flight of stairs.
dialog: 9
dialog: pg. 10
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: ...and last week, they had some sort
text: of a device to hoist cherubs into the
text: air and fly over the entire audience!
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: An apò mekhanes theós. Deus ex
dialog: machina. Machine of the Gods.
text: And as they ascend up more stairs, Oxford catches
text: glimpses of the stage and performance through the
text: rafters and over the heads of the attending audience.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Whenever the Greeks wrote their heroes
dialog: into a situation from which they
dialog: couldn't write their way out--
text: Oxford is becoming intrigued by the theater, almost
dialog: despite himself.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: --Out came the apò mekhanes theós...
text: As when Hippolytus is saved by
dialog: Artemis, or Medea flown to Athens...
dialog: Always good for an apò mekhanes theós
dialog: was Euripides
text: Oxford continues up, two steps behind Southampton.
text: They come to the third floor and enter the box seating
dialog: area reserved for nobles, giving Oxford his first real
text: look at the theater itself. Oxford looks around and
dialog: sees-
speaker_heading: FROM OXFORD'S POV
text: Audience members LAUGHING-- others DRINKING-- maids
text: SELLING food-- the actors ACTING...
text: It's alive. Magical.
scene_heading: BACK TO OXFORD
text: Oxford takes it all in, almost stunned by it.
speaker_heading: ON-STAGE
text: The actor William SHAKESPEARE (30) plays a commoner.
text: He is handsome, sexy, charismatic; and holds a tankard
text: of ale, and SWIGS from it constantly.
text: Another actor SPENCER (30) plays "FASTIDIOUS"; a
text: pompous, over-dressed, caricature of a nobleman.
dialog: 10
dialog: pg. 11
text: He wears an enormous feather on his hat. Also on stage
text: is an actor called John HEMINGE (late 40's), who plays
dialog: "Sogliardo"
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: And whither were you riding now,
dialog: signior?
speaker_heading: "FASTIDIOUS"
dialog: Who, I? What a silly jest's that!
dialog: Whither should I ride but to the
dialog: court?
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: O, pardon me, sir, twenty places more;
dialog: your hot-house, your pig-house, or
dialog: your whore-house!
text: The audience ROARS in laughter as Shakespeare looks
text: below at a buxom young lady among the "groundlings".
text: He smiles seductively. She smiles back.
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
text: Jonson (now 25 and clean-shaven) is watching the
text: performance from behind a curtain, silently speaking
text: the lines with the actors.
text: IN THE RAISED SEATING
text: A group of playwrights and poets watch the play with an
text: air of judgement. They are: Christopher "Kit" MARLOWE
dialog: (32), young, brilliant, a bit foppish (he likes the
text: boys), Thomas NASHE (late 30's)-- a heavy-set, a hard
dialog: drinking satirist-- and Thomas DEKKER (29), considered
text: a bit of a hack by his colleagues.
dialog: They are called the "Mermaid's Wits" because they
text: frequent a pub named The Mermaid's Tavern.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: (takes a swig of ale)
dialog: His second play, and almost a full
dialog: house.
dialog: (burps)
dialog: He's got a wit, does Jonson.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: That might be so, but like a grain of
dialog: wheat hid in a bushel of chaff: you
dialog: shall seek all day ere you find it,
dialog: and when you have it, it's not worth
dialog: the search!
dialog: 11
dialog: pg. 12
text: The others smile as a WOMAN passes.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Ale! Ale!!
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: Marlowe-- spot me a few pence, will
dialog: you? Henslowe still owes me for
dialog: "Shoemaker's Holiday".
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: (retrieving coins)
dialog: That would be because no one saw
dialog: "Shoemaker's Holiday".
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: Ale here!
text: Marlowe gives the woman a few pennies as--
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: Kit... Isn't that one of your
text: unrequited loves in the box over
dialog: there?
text: Marlowe glances across the theater and spots
text: Southampton siting next to Oxford.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: (frowns)
dialog: But with whom? Tell me not he prefers
dialog: the company of such old grey men as
dialog: that!
text: Nashe squints.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: I think-- yes, by the beard, that's
dialog: the Earl of Oxford. Old Tom Hooker
dialog: used to play for him. Had his own
dialog: acting troupe for private Court
dialog: performances and the like.
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: I wonder if he needs any material?
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: Certainly not any of yours.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: No, no-- that was years ago. Had a
dialog: falling out with the Queen, I heard.
dialog: He's more of a recluse than a patron
dialog: these days.
dialog: 12
dialog: pg. 13
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: Shakespeare points to "Fastidious".
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Who, he, the noble there? Why, he's a
dialog: gull, a fool, no salt in him i' the
dialog: earth; man, he looks like a fresh
dialog: salmon kept in a tub!
text: Shakespeare struts around as though he owned the place.
text: The more he talks, the more the audience ROARS in
dialog: laughter.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
text: He sleeps with a musk-cat every night,
dialog: and walks all day hang'd in perfumed
dialog: chains for penance.
speaker_heading: A GROUNDLING
dialog: Oi! So that's what I been smelling!
text: More groundlings laugh. Interestingly--
speaker_heading: NOBLEMEN
text: in the box seats do not.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: Shakespeare continues his rant, speaking directly to
dialog: the groundlings.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
text: He has his skin tann'd in civet, to
dialog: make his complexion strong, and the
dialog: sweetness of his youth lasting in the
dialog: sense of his sweet lady. And, sadly,
text: the poor man's brain is lighter than
dialog: his feather...
text: As the audience HOWLS in laughter, we see:
speaker_heading: A NOBLEMAN
text: with a feathered hat gets up in fury, and exits the
text: theater, his lady with him. The Audience LAUGHS at him
text: as he goes.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: Shakespeare smiles triumphantly.
dialog: 13
dialog: pg. 14
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
text: He is a good and empty puff, but he
dialog: loves you well, signior. I wish you
text: well with him.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
text: Watches the nobleman with the big feathered hat pass
dialog: by.
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
dialog: Later in the play...
text: Shakespeare returns backstage and takes a deep swig
text: from his tankard. He's actually drunk, though his
text: performance didn't show it at all. He spots Jonson,
text: and grabs him.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
dialog: Jonson! Wonderful dialogue!
dialog: Wonderful. I hope your next--
speaker_heading: HENSLOWE (O.C.)
dialog: Will! Will Shakespeare!
text: Shakespeare turns to see a furious Philip HENSLOWE
text: (50'S) heading his way.
speaker_heading: HENSLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: That's not ale in that goblet is it?
text: Shakespeare hides the goblet behind his back.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Ale? Me? Drink during a performance?
dialog: I am a professional sir!
dialog: (burps)
dialog: A complete and--
text: He is interrupted by SCREAMS. Not from actors on
text: stage, but by the audience.
speaker_heading: IN THE THEATER
text: Complete panic erupts as dozens of The Queen's Guard
text: STORM into the theater. Everyone tries to get out as
text: quickly as possible, including the other actors, Henry
text: CONDELL (20's), Thomas POPE (30's), William SLY (13).
scene_heading: SIR RICHARD POLE, THE CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD
text: --jumps on stage.
dialog: 14
dialog: pg. 15
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: This play has been declared seditious
dialog: and illegal by Lord William Cecil!
text: The audience begins to BOO at the mention of Cecil.
speaker_heading: POLE (CONT'D)
dialog: All are herewith ordered to disperse
dialog: immediately!
speaker_heading: A GROUNDLING
dialog: Why don't you disperse William Cecil's
dialog: arse!
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Arrest that man!
speaker_heading: IN OXFORD'S BOX
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Damn it all. Well! Off to Essex's
dialog: then?
text: He gets up. Oxford does not, seemingly interested in
text: the real drama below as everyone hurries from the
dialog: theater.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Edward?
text: Oxford turns to him, distracted, and nods.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: Jonson pushes his way on stage.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (to Pole)
dialog: Seditious? Seditious?! It's a comedy
dialog: for god's sake! There's nothing
dialog: seditious about--
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Oi, is that right, is it? And you
dialog: know this because?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Because I wrote the bloody thing! And-
dialog: -
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Arrest him as well!
text: Jonson is grabbed by guards.
dialog: 15
dialog: pg. 16
scene_heading: 17 INT. A JAIL CELL - DAY 17
text: Jonson is THROWN into the cell, the door SLAMMED behind
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (to the door)
dialog: A pox on you!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And your carbuncled father!
text: Jonson looks around-- the cell is filled with a dozen
dialog: or so other prisoners.
speaker_heading: ESSEX (O.S.)
dialog: People taxed to the point of
dialog: starvation, Spain running the New
dialog: World, open revolt in Ireland,
dialog: Catholic plots everywhere you turn...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 18 INT. TENNIS COURT AT ESSEX HOUSE - DAY 18
text: Robert, Earl of ESSEX (28), is playing tennis against
dialog: Southampton. He's handsome, red-headed, and, we will
dialog: learn, very ambitious.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: ...and how do the Cecils spend their
dialog: time and energy? Shutting a theater!
dialog: A theater, for god's sake? It's
dialog: madness! No wonder the mob hates them
dialog: so!
text: The court is inside, and slightly different from
text: today's game: the back walls are playable, somewhat
text: like racquet-ball.
text: Oxford sits on a bench, watching. Essex SLAMS a shot,
dialog: but it goes--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Out!
text: Essex looks furious, but holds his tongue. Southampton
text: prepares to serve.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Southampton)
dialog: Henry, how many people were at that
dialog: play?
dialog: 16
dialog: pg. 17
text: Southampton pauses before serving.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Hmm? I'm not sure, two thousand,
dialog: maybe more.
text: Southampton SERVES. Essex returns, and another heated
text: rally begins.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: And how many performances are there of
dialog: a play like that?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Five or six I suppose.
text: He HITS the ball again, and this time Essex misses it.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: By the--!
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: (to Essex)
dialog: So! Ten thousand souls. All
dialog: listening to the writings of one man--
dialog: the ideas of one man. That's power,
dialog: Robert. And if there is one thing the
dialog: Cecils understand, it's power.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: (snorts)
dialog: And when did words ever win a kingdom?
dialog: I think I'll keep my sword, thank you
dialog: very much.
text: Southampton SERVES as Oxford smiles at Essex's naiveté.
scene_heading: 19 INT. CHANGING ROOMS/ESSEX HOUSE - DAY 19
text: Southampton and Essex are dressing out of their tennis
text: clothes and into their normal clothes, assisted by two
text: valets.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: (to the valets)
dialog: Leave us.
dialog: (they exit)
dialog: Henry... Some of my men have...
dialog: intercepted... some of William Cecil's
dialog: recent correspondence with King James
dialog: of Scotland...
dialog: 17
dialog: pg. 18
text: Southampton pauses in clothing himself. This is
dialog: serious.
speaker_heading: ESSEX (CONT'D)
dialog: Cecil's all but promising him the
dialog: throne...
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: To James? Elizabeth would never agree
dialog: to-
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: Elizabeth is old. Ill. Not of her
dialog: old mind. Sometimes she doesn't even
dialog: recognize me. And yet, still she
dialog: refuses to name an heir.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: But a Scotsman? On the Tudor throne?
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: You are not in the Privy Council.
dialog: Elizabeth does everything the Cecils
dialog: wish of her. Everything!
speaker_heading: BEHIND THEM
text: Oxford enters. They don't notice, though. He
text: instantly realizes he shouldn't say anything. He
dialog: listens as:
speaker_heading: WIDER
speaker_heading: ESSEX (CONT'D)
dialog: Think, Henry, if James owes Cecil his
dialog: throne, Cecil will have more influence
dialog: in the next reign than he does in this
dialog: one. And after William Cecil, his
dialog: hunch-backed son will take his
dialog: place...
dialog: (careful)
dialog: That is why we must do everything in
dialog: our power to ensure that the right man
text: succeeds her.
dialog: (beat)
text: A man deserving of the Tudor crown.
text: Southampton stiffens at that last phrase.
speaker_heading: ESSEX (CONT'D)
dialog: I ask you for the support of you and
dialog: your men, Henry.... if it comes to a
dialog: fight.
dialog: 18
dialog: pg. 19
text: Southampton looks at Essex hard.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: You know you need not ask. I stand
dialog: with you, as I always have.
text: Essex smiles at him warmly. They both HEAR something
text: shuffle behind them. They turn, and see:
text: WHERE OXFORD WAS STANDING
text: Nothing. He is gone.
text: BACK TO SOUTHAMPTON AND ESSEX
text: They exchange a slightly worried look.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 20 EXT. ESSEX HOUSE - DAY 20
text: Moments later, Oxford and Southampton are exiting the
text: elaborate building that serves as Essex's London
dialog: residence.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Essex played rather poorly, didn't he?
text: Southampton just nods, distracted. Oxford reaches out
text: to him, and touches his shoulder.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: (warning)
text: Henry... The Cecils brook no rivals.
text: Southampton pauses, confused for an instant, then--
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: (re: his discussion with
dialog: Essex)
dialog: You heard?
text: Oxford nods.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Always concerned for me, aren't you
dialog: Edward?
text: They keep walking towards Southampton's men.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: And what would you have me do?
dialog: 19
dialog: pg. 20
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I would have you deny him.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: The son of the Queen?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: That is rumor only, Henry--
text: They stop. Southampton makes sure that his men are out
text: of earshot.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Rumor? My god, all you have to do is
dialog: look at Essex to see the Queen's
dialog: reflection. Everyone thinks he's her
dialog: son, everyone! And I for one would
dialog: rather bow to a Tudor, bastard though
dialog: he may be, than a Scotsman!
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I desire nothing more than to see the
dialog: next king be the rightful king. But
dialog: what Essex contemplates will surely
dialog: lead to Civil War.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No. If this is to be done, it must be
text: done carefully, skillfully.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: As I heard it, Elizabeth exiled you
dialog: from her presence for the last twenty
dialog: years because of your "skill" at Court
dialog: politics.
text: And then he feels instantly ashamed of having said
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I only have your interests in mind,
dialog: Henry. For as you so rightly point
dialog: out, my interests are already lost.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: I know. Forgive me. You know how I
dialog: feel about you. You have been a great
dialog: friend to me ever since my father
dialog: died. I promise you that I will do
dialog: nothing rash without consulting you
dialog: first.
text: Oxford nods, still worried, and Southampton heads for
dialog: his horse.
dialog: 20
dialog: pg. 21
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Henry! Will you do me one thing more?
dialog: Deliver a gift for me? A rather...
dialog: elaborate gift?
scene_heading: 21 EXT. CECIL HOUSE - SUNSET 21
text: The stone house is nothing like a stereotypical Tudor
text: house; it's enormous, and very ornate and intricate in
dialog: design.
text: It faces the river, and has an elaborate docking area
text: which is now filled with all sorts of longboats letting
text: the noblemen off for a week-end get away.
scene_heading: 22 INT. CECIL HOUSE - GREAT HALL - DUSK 22
text: Most of England's nobility is assembled in small
text: groups, talking. It's a dour, quiet affair. Some
dialog: music, no life. Quite Puritan.
dialog: Southampton is there, but Essex and Oxford are nowhere
dialog: to be seen.
scene_heading: A HUNCH-BACKED MAN
text: --makes his way through the room, causing conversations
text: to cease as he walks by. Even the most senior of the
text: nobles bow their heads slightly in greeting him. This
dialog: is Sir ROBERT CECIL (mid 30's).
text: He pauses near Southampton.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Sir Robert.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: My lord of Southampton.
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Have you seen Essex?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: I believe he is still in the viewing
dialog: chamber with her majesty...
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: (sharp, annoyed)
dialog: Alone?
dialog: 21
dialog: pg. 22
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: With your father in London dealing
dialog: with all the troubles in Ireland, who
dialog: else should the Queen turn to but
dialog: Essex?
text: Robert Cecil looks annoyed, but holds his tongue as the
text: SOUND of pikes HITTING the floor silences the hall.
text: A FOOTMAN clears his throat and--
speaker_heading: FOOTMAN
text: By the grace of god, her majesty,
dialog: Elizabeth, Queen of England, Wales and
dialog: Ireland!
speaker_heading: DOUBLE DOORS
text: open, and Elizabeth (in her 60's) enters. She is
text: wearing a large sparkling pearl-encrusted dress with a
text: wide collar.
text: She walks slowly and carefully, and has a slight tremor
text: in her head and hands. She seems un-certain; like
text: she's not sure she recognizes all the faces around her
dialog: (Alzheimer's?). And she compensates for it by being
text: all the more regal, all the more un-human.
text: Essex is on her arm, dressed in a splendid jewel-
text: encrusted doublet.
text: Robert Cecil FROWNS at the sight of Essex on her arm.
text: Essex ignores Cecil's glare, notices Southampton--
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: (to Elizabeth)
dialog: Ah-- Majesty, I've been told my lord
dialog: of Southampton has a gift for you.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: (eyes sparkle)
dialog: A gift?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Yes, your grace, though not from me.
text: Southampton CLAPS his hands and a door across the room
speaker_heading: OPENS.
text: A DWARF enters, followed by dancing faires, actors
text: swirling sparklers, and musicians playing music.
dialog: 22
dialog: pg. 23
text: Elizabeth's rheumy eyes widen in complete delight, a
text: smile of total jubilation crosses her face.
text: Robert Cecil, on the other hand, looks horrified.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Are you this gift, my precious little
dialog: man?
speaker_heading: DWARF
dialog: No, no, my most majestic majesty. I
dialog: am a free man. My gift is a play,
dialog: majesty.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: A play?
text: The dwarf bows his assent.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: (to the Dwarf)
dialog: Plays are the work of the devil, born
text: from a cesspool of plague, whoredom,
dialog: thievery, fornication, and heresy.
dialog: You may tell your master that her
dialog: majesty--
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: --Will gladly accept your gift.
text: Robert Cecil turns to Essex, shocked.
speaker_heading: ESSEX (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Elizabeth)
dialog: Of course that is if you so desire,
dialog: majesty.
dialog: (to Robert Cecil)
dialog: The choice is her majesty's to make,
dialog: not yours. Is that not so Sir Robert?
text: Robert frowns as Elizabeth looks around, unsure of the
text: political tides around her. Then--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: (to the dwarf)
dialog: Comedy? Or tragedy?
speaker_heading: DWARF
dialog: Comedy, majesty.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: (delighted)
dialog: A comedy!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 23
dialog: pg. 24
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: By whom?
speaker_heading: DWARF
dialog: By... Anonymous, your majesty...
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Anonymous...?
dialog: (then)
dialog: Oh, but I do so admire his verse...
text: Elizabeth lets go of Essex, and offers her hand to the
text: Dwarf, who smiles brightly.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: Lead us to this gift.
text: And the Dwarf leads Elizabeth towards the door. Essex
text: follows, and Southampton locks into step next to him.
text: They exchange a knowing look as--
text: Robert Cecil steps in line far after the Queen, not
dialog: happy with this turn of events as we hear--
speaker_heading: "QUINCE" (O.S.)
dialog: Bless thee, Bottom! Bless thee! Thou
dialog: art translated!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 23 EXT. THE GROUNDS AT CECIL HOUSE - NIGHT 23
text: Sheer magic. Candles everywhere: in stakes, in the
text: ground, in the trees. They light a make-shift "stage"
text: surrounded by huge oak trees on three sides.
speaker_heading: "BOTTOM"
dialog: I see their knavery: this is to make
dialog: an ass of me; to fright me, if they
dialog: could. But I will not stir from this
dialog: place, do what they can.
text: Chairs have been brought out and put in rows in the
text: grass. Elizabeth is watching center front row (of
text: course). She loves it, SQUEALING in delight like a
text: young woman. Essex is next to her.
dialog: 24
dialog: pg. 25
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: Several actors are mid-scene in "A Midsummer Night's
text: Dream" (Act 3, Scene 1), their make-up quite elaborate
text: and fantastical: "Bottom", who is costumed as a man--
text: except that he has a DONKEY'S HEAD, "Quince", a
text: commoner, "Puck", played by the dwarf who is now
text: dressed like a cupid, and "Titania", Queen of the
text: fairies, who is presently asleep in a bed of fur. Puck
text: hides behind a tree watching.
speaker_heading: "BOTTOM" (CONT'D)
dialog: I will walk up and down here, and I
dialog: will sing, that they shall hear I am
dialog: not afraid.
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
text: Oxford watches from behind a curtain, carefully
dialog: observing the Queen's reaction. Somehow we feel that
text: seeing her again after so many years stirs up some deep
text: emotion in him.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
speaker_heading: "BOTTOM" (CONT'D)
dialog: (sings)
dialog: The ousel cock so black of hue,
text: With orange-tawny bill,
text: The throstle with his note so true,
dialog: The wren with little quill--
text: Titania awakens in her nest-like bed of fur.
speaker_heading: "TITANIA"
dialog: What angel wakes me from my flow'ry
dialog: bed?
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
text: strongly reacts to Titania awakening. It stirs some
text: memory in her. A pleasant memory.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
text: watches, delighted by her reaction.
speaker_heading: FROM HIS POV
text: We see Elizabeth watching. But it is an Elizabeth only
text: 26 years old (referred to as YOUNG ELIZABETH in this
dialog: script). We HEAR the sound of other dialogue, but from
dialog: the same play. We are:
dialog: 25
dialog: pg. 26
scene_heading: 24 INT. HEDINGHAM CASTLE - GREAT HALL - NIGHT 24
text: Thirty-eight years earlier. And YOUNG ELIZABETH watches
text: an earlier, slightly less sophisticated staging of "A
text: Midsummer Night's Dream" (the costumes and sets are a
text: bit more thrown together).
text: All the actors are children from 7-12 years old or so.
speaker_heading: FROM BACKSTAGE
text: A boy watches in the exact same position as we just saw
text: Oxford. This is BOY OXFORD-- now only 10 years old.
text: But he is made up and wears a winged costume for the
dialog: character of "Puck".
speaker_heading: "OBERON" (O.S.)
dialog: ...and the owner of it blest ever
dialog: shall in safety rest. Trip away; make
dialog: no stay;
dialog: meet me all by break of day.
text: And the characters of "Oberon" and "Titania" exit. Boy
dialog: Oxford hurries--
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
speaker_heading: "PUCK"
dialog: If we shadows have offended, think but
dialog: this, and all is mended, that you have
dialog: but slumber'd here while these visions
dialog: did appear...
text: Next to Young Elizabeth, JOHN DE VERE, Oxford's father,
text: also watches, his face beaming with pride.
speaker_heading: "PUCK" (CONT'D)
dialog: ...And this weak and idle theme, No
dialog: more yielding but a dream, gentles, do
dialog: not reprehend; if you pardon, we will
dialog: mend.
scene_heading: A STERN LOOKING MAN
text: is watching a few seats away from Young Elizabeth. He
text: is WILLIAM CECIL (40's, Robert's father). He is a
text: Puritan, dressed all in black (with a white lace
text: collar), and has a long beard. He is frowning,
text: loathing the play.
dialog: 26
dialog: pg. 27
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
speaker_heading: "PUCK" (CONT'D)
dialog: So, good night unto you all. Give me
dialog: your hands, if we be friends, and
dialog: Robin shall restore amends.
text: The play now over, Young Elizabeth applauds with
text: delight, as do the small group of courtiers all around
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Lovely. Lovely!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 25 INT. HEDINGHAM CASTLE - KITCHEN - LATER 25
text: A make-shift "back-stage" where all the young "actors"
text: are removing their costumes and make-up, including Boy
text: Oxford, who sits in front of a make-shift, leaning
dialog: mirror.
text: Much excited talking and commotion, until Boy Oxford
text: notices everyone has gone silent. He turns-- his winged
dialog: costume still on-- just as--
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH (O.S.)
dialog: Ah! There he is.
dialog: Young Elizabeth and her senior Court, including William
text: Cecil and John De Vere, have entered.
text: Boy Oxford bows deeply.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Boy Oxford)
dialog: Your father tells me you wrote this
dialog: evening's play yourself.
text: Boy Oxford glances at his father-- should he answer
dialog: directly? His father NODS.
speaker_heading: BOY OXFORD
dialog: I did indeed, your majesty.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: You sport with me.
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Compose something.
speaker_heading: BOY OXFORD
dialog: Now?
dialog: 27
dialog: pg. 28
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Yes. Now.
speaker_heading: BOY OXFORD
dialog: On what subject, your grace?
dialog: She thinks. Then--
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Truth...
speaker_heading: BOY OXFORD
dialog: (thinks, then--)
dialog: For... Truth... is Truth...
dialog: Though... never so old...
dialog: and time cannot make that false,
dialog: which once was true.
text: She smiles, claps.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (to John de Vere)
dialog: My lord of Oxford. It seems you have
dialog: added a poet to your family's long
dialog: line of warriors.
speaker_heading: BOY OXFORD
dialog: Madam, I am as accomplished with the
dialog: sword and the musket as I am with
dialog: verse.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (amused)
dialog: Are you indeed?
speaker_heading: BOY OXFORD
dialog: (nods seriously)
dialog: It is my only desire to one day be
dialog: your majesty's most trusted servant in
dialog: matters both of war and state, if you
dialog: will but have me.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (charmed)
dialog: Why, Lord Cecil, it seems we may very
dialog: well have found your replacement.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: We hope not too soon, majesty, we hope
dialog: not too soon.
dialog: 28
dialog: pg. 29
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (teasing)
dialog: And how liked you our young lord's
dialog: play, William?
text: William Cecil stiffens in discomfort.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Boy Oxford,
dialog: conspiratorially)
dialog: Our Lord Cecil is our most religious
dialog: of subjects, and no doubt thinks your
dialog: little masque will deliver your soul
dialog: straight into the arms of Lucifer
dialog: himself. Don't you, William?
text: The Boy Oxford looks at William Cecil, perplexed by
dialog: such a thing.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: That is God's decision, your majesty.
dialog: Not mine.
text: William Cecil looks directly at John de Vere resulting
text: in an uncomfortable silence.
text: Elizabeth notices.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Well, if plays are indeed such a sin,
dialog: I pray I do not find my salvation
dialog: until very late in life.
text: Boy Oxford smiles. He might very well be in love.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 26 INT. A JAIL CELL - DAY 26
text: Thirty-eight years later. The door SWEEPS open and a
text: snoring, sleeping Jonson is awakened by--
speaker_heading: GUARD (O.S.)
dialog: Jonson! Ben Jonson!
text: The other prisoners make way as the guard approaches
text: Jonson. The guard tosses a wax-sealed piece of
text: parchment onto Jonson's lap.
speaker_heading: GUARD (CONT'D)
dialog: You've been released.
text: Jonson looks at it, confused.
dialog: 29
dialog: pg. 30
speaker_heading: GUARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Got powerful friends, now, don't you?
scene_heading: 26A EXT. A BOAT - RIVER THAMES - DAY 26A
text: Jonson is in a nobleman's longboat (for the first time
text: in his life). Across from him sits FRANCESCO--
text: Italian, 60's-- wearing a doublet with the Oxford coat
text: of arms on its chest.
text: The City of London is far in the distance.
text: Jonson looks around uncomfortably at the luxurious boat
dialog: for a moment before--
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: And who are you?
text: Francesco just stares back.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: And where are we going?
text: Francesco is silent.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: The boat approaches a large stone house, Oxford Stone.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A RED ROSE
text: as it is cut from its bush by ink-stained hands. We
dialog: are:
scene_heading: 27 EXT. OXFORD STONE - GARDEN - DAY 27
text: Oxford smells the rose, inhaling its essence. Then he
text: turns and sees Francesco escorting Ben Jonson towards
dialog: him.
text: Before they reach him he glances at his wife ANNE De
text: Vere (40's) who sits in the distance knitting with one
text: of their daughter's, BRIDGET (17).
dialog: Jonson is quite uncomfortable to be at such a grand
text: place. Jonson CLEARS his throat.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: My lord...
dialog: 30
dialog: pg. 31
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: The Tudor rose. The most beautiful of
dialog: flowers, don't you think?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: It looks to me to have quite a number
dialog: of thorns, my lord.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
text: So it does. So it does.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I am told, my lord, that I owe my
dialog: freedom to you.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: That is true. And it was quite hard
dialog: to come by. One does not cross my
dialog: father-in-law lightly.
text: Jonson doesn't know who he is talking about.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Lord William Cecil. I have the
dialog: questionable distinction of being
dialog: married to his only daughter.
text: Oxford looks over to his wife who watches them
text: suspiciously. He begins to walk away forcing Jonson and
dialog: Francesco to follow.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: It did, however, serve as helpful when
dialog: I wrote to your jailers to release you
dialog: in my father-in-law's name.
text: Jonson suddenly looks worried and turns and looks back
dialog: to Anne.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (in a panicked whisper)
dialog: My lord-- I'm sorry, does that mean my
dialog: release is not officially sanctioned?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Don't be an idiot Jonson, of course it
dialog: wasn't.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But you are free, are you not?
text: They have come to an entrance to a GARDEN MAZE and Anne
text: watches them as they disappear into the maze.
dialog: 31
dialog: pg. 32
scene_heading: 28 EXT. MAZE - DAY 28
text: Oxford turns to Jonson.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I enjoyed your little comedy last
dialog: week, Jonson. You have potential,
dialog: great potential.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Thank you, my lord.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: But it's politics did seem to have
dialog: quite an effect on the Tower. My
dialog: father-in-law's men felt it quite
dialog: seditious.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Politics? My play had nothing to do
dialog: with politics! It was just a simple
dialog: comedy--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: That showed your betters as fools who
dialog: go through life barely managing to get
dialog: food from plate to mouth, were it not
dialog: for the cleverness of their servants.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: All art is political, Jonson.
dialog: Otherwise it would just be decoration.
dialog: And all artists have something to say,
dialog: otherwise... they'd make shoes. And
dialog: you're not a cobbler, are you, Jonson?
text: As they enter the center of the maze, Oxford turns to
dialog: his servant.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: (nods)
dialog: Francesco.
text: Francesco steps forward and hands Jonson a leather
text: bound manuscript. Jonson looks at it confused and
text: opens it.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: A play, my lord?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: One you shall stage Bankside.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Stage?
dialog: 32
dialog: pg. 33
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Under your name.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: My name, my lord?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I can't very well use my name, can I?
dialog: I'm the seventeenth Earl of Oxford.
dialog: The Lord Great Chamberlain of England,
dialog: Viscount Bolebec, Lord Escales,
dialog: Sandford and Badlesmere, etc, etc.
dialog: No. I have a... reputation to
dialog: protect. In my world, one does not
dialog: write plays, Jonson. People like you
dialog: do.
text: Jonson tries not to be offended.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Yes. My lord. You wrote an entire
dialog: play, my lord. I know how difficult--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Not a play, Jonson, I've written many.
dialog: No doubt, many more than you yourself.
dialog: A good number performed at Court years
dialog: ago, others never seen by a living
dialog: soul.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: And you want... me to apply my name to
dialog: this play?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: No. I mean you to put your name to
dialog: all of them.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: All of them?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Well don't look like I just gutted
dialog: your pet dog, Jonson. I mean to make
dialog: you the most popular-- and therefore
dialog: the most monetarily successful--
dialog: playwright in all of London.
text: Jonson pales. This is a disaster for him.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: I wish you god speed and good morrow.
text: Jonson looks down at the manuscript, reads a few lines.
dialog: 33
dialog: pg. 34
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: My lord-- I really--
text: He looks up, but Oxford is gone, having left the maze
dialog: without so much as a good-bye.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: My lord?
text: But before he can follow, Francesco tosses a leather
text: pouch of coins at his feet.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: That is for your trouble, Signor
dialog: Jonson. And your silence. If I hear
dialog: you break that silence, then... not so
dialog: good for Signor Jonson.
text: And Francesco follows after his master as Jonson picks
text: up the pouch, examining its contents.
text: And then Jonson realizes he doesn't know how to get out
text: of the maze. He chases after them.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Hello? My lord?! I--
text: And he's lost. He looks this way and that, then picks
dialog: a path (the wrong one).
scene_heading: 29 EXT. CECIL HOUSE - DAY 29
text: Robert Cecil is standing at the opulent river entrance
text: to Cecil House, waiting for an enormous barge docking.
text: William Cecil (now 75) is at the front of the barge,
text: waiting to disembark. He constantly holds an ornately
text: carved white cane.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: So! I am gone for three days, and you
dialog: somehow manage to let her spend all of
text: them solely in the company of the Earl
dialog: of Essex...
text: Robert Cecil looks at him sharply. How did he know.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't think because I was in London, I
dialog: didn't know exactly what went on here
dialog: in my absence.
dialog: 34
dialog: pg. 35
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: He is an Earl, father. I cannot deny
dialog: him--
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Of course not! You don't deny him
dialog: anything. You find excuses. She is
text: unwell, she is reading, she is seeing
dialog: the Ambassador from Russia. For God's
dialog: sake, use your imagination, Robert.
dialog: Whatever will you do when I am gone?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We will have to deal with Essex soon.
text: His ambitions are becoming a nuisance.
scene_heading: 30 INT. CECIL HOUSE - HALLWAY - DAY 30
text: William Cecil enters an impressive hallway and turns to
dialog: his son.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Now tell me about the play.
text: Robert Cecil looks surprised for an instant that he
dialog: knows about that as well.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: It-- it was an anonymous gift. Essex
dialog: insisted it be performed, just to
dialog: spite me in front of Court...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Of course he did.
dialog: (concerned)
dialog: But what was it about?
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: About? Some nonsense about fairies
text: and cherubs.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: ...And dancing asses?
text: Robert looks surprised at his father who has stopped
text: suddenly.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: (realizing, to himself)
dialog: Edward...
dialog: (to Robert Cecil)
dialog: Have you any idea what you have-- No,
dialog: how could you...
dialog: 35
dialog: pg. 36
text: And he starts back up the stairs.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Father... It was just a play...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: And do you know how long it took me to
dialog: banish them from her presence? She
dialog: adores them! Adores them! And Edward
dialog: knows it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Mark my words, Robert, he has done
dialog: this for a purpose.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Purpose? What purpose?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: (thinking, to himself)
dialog: What purpose indeed?
dialog: (to Robert)
dialog: But through your carelessness I must
dialog: now deal not only with Essex, but
dialog: Edward as well. For whether in shadow
dialog: or in person, Edward has returned to
dialog: Court!
text: And with that he slams the door shut.
text: Robert Cecil walks over to a nearby window. Visibly
text: upset he starts to stare out of the window and
dialog: remembers...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 31 OMIT 31
text: THROUGH A THIRD STORY WINDOW
text: We see servants carrying big trunks. There are at least
text: 120 men on horses. They all wear the Oxford's crest.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (O.S)
dialog: Robert.
scene_heading: 32 INT. CECIL HOUSE - HALLWAY - DAY 32
dialog: And it is thirty years earlier.
text: BOY ROBERT CECIL (now 9) is staring out of the window.
text: His back must have been deformed either in utero or at
text: birth, because even now he is hunchbacked.
dialog: 36
dialog: pg. 37
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL(O.S.)
dialog: (more commanding)
dialog: Robert! Come here.
text: Finally Boy Robert Cecil turns and sees Young Oxford
text: (now 17) entering the hallway with William Cecil and
text: his wife and daughter, Young ANNE (15). In front of
dialog: them, lined up, are several men whom we will learn are
speaker_heading: TUTORS.
text: Boy Robert Cecil doesn't move.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Young Oxford)
dialog: I am sorry, my lord. But my son
dialog: Robert prefers the company... of
dialog: himself...
text: Boy Robert Cecil watches as his father turns to his
dialog: mother and sister.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: May I present my wife, Lady Cecil, and
dialog: my daughter, Anne.
text: Young Anne curtsies.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ANNE
dialog: I am sorry for your loss, my lord.
dialog: The realm lost a great lord with your
dialog: father's death. We hope you will be
dialog: happy in our house--
speaker_heading: BOY ROBERT CECIL (O.S.)
dialog: Are you going to live here forever?
text: Everybody turns and sees the odd hunchback child has
text: finally come over.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: No. Only until I reach my maturity.
scene_heading: BOY ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Because the Queen has bade it so.
dialog: (to Young Oxford)
dialog: My lord, when we first met, you said
dialog: you wished to become a great man of
dialog: State. Both the Queen and I hope to
dialog: make that so.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 37
dialog: pg. 38
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: To that end, I have the honor of
dialog: introducing you to your tutors.
dialog: (indicates one of them)
dialog: Seven to eight you shall be tutored in
dialog: French by Mister Crane--
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Monsieur. Ca me fait plaisir de vous
dialog: connaitre.
text: Master Crane bows his head.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Nine to ten is Greek with Mister
dialog: Simmons.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (in Greek)
dialog: Dalon, an d'ego, hoti mathamata ge
dialog: esti ha trafo psychas.
scene_heading: BOY ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Is that Homer?
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: No. Plato.
text: Boy Robert frowns at the correction.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: (slight frown, then)
dialog: And you know your uncle, Mister
dialog: Golding, who has petitioned me to
dialog: allow you to assist him in his
dialog: translations of ancient Latin texts
dialog: into English.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (in Latin)
dialog: Continetne, ut spero, Ovidii
dialog: Metamorphose? Mihi honori erit,
dialog: patrue
text: Mister Golding bows his head in appreciation.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
text: Then cosmography with Doctor Richards.
dialog: Two to three is geography and history,
dialog: and four to five fencing.
text: William Cecil seems to have finished.
dialog: 38
dialog: pg. 39
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (to William Cecil)
dialog: And composition? Poetry?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: This is a Puritan home, your grace.
dialog: We believe such activities to be the
dialog: worship of false idols, and therefore
dialog: a sin before the eyes of God.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: A sin? But surely there must be room
dialog: for beauty and art in life, my lord.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Not in this household.
scene_heading: 33 INT. CECIL HOUSE - GREAT HALL - DAY 33
text: Young Oxford is fencing with a tutor. He's quite good.
dialog: In fact, he's better than the tutor, who is twice his
dialog: age.
text: Boy Robert Cecil casually watches as he plays chess
dialog: against himself.
text: Young Oxford, with a fierce, beautifully executed
text: attack, disarms his tutor. The tutor's sword FLIES
text: into the air, and hits--
speaker_heading: THE CHESS BOARD
text: making the pieces scatter.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Boy Robert Cecil looks up, his face furious, to see
text: Young Oxford coming over to him.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: You were losing anyway.
scene_heading: BOY ROBERT CECIL
dialog: I was also winning.
text: Young Oxford picks up the sword, throws it to his
text: tutor, who catches it.
scene_heading: BOY ROBERT CECIL
speaker_heading: (CONT'D)
dialog: You know I am going to one day succeed
dialog: my father at the Queen's side. Not
dialog: you.
dialog: 39
dialog: pg. 40
text: Young Oxford motions to go, then picks up the black
text: king, and tosses it to Boy Robert Cecil, who can't
text: catch it because of his deformity. It CLANGS on the
dialog: floor.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Really?
scene_heading: 34 INT. CECIL HOUSE - HALLWAY - DAY 34
text: Moments later, the Young Oxford heads down the hall
text: alone, heading for his rooms, his sword still in his
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: POEMS
dialog: neatly written on parchment. We are:
scene_heading: 35 INT. CECIL HOUSE - YOUNG OXFORD'S ROOM - DAY 35
text: And a SERVANT is looking at the poems, then quickly
text: stuffing them into a bag.
text: But then he HEARS footsteps coming. Panicked, he looks
text: for someplace to hide-- a tapestry half covers a door--
text: he runs to it-- the door is locked!
text: So he hides behind the tapestry just as the door opens,
text: and Young Oxford enters.
text: After a few steps, Young Oxford senses something amiss.
dialog: Looks at his--
speaker_heading: WRITING DESK
text: where the parchments are scattered.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
text: goes to his desk, picks up one of the pieces of
text: parchment. It has poetry on it. His poetry. He goes
text: through some other pages. And realizes other pages are
text: missing. He becomes infuriated. He sees--
scene_heading: UNDER THE TAPESTRY
text: Two feet.
dialog: 40
dialog: pg. 41
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Young Oxford CHARGES the tapestry, sword in hand. He
text: THRUSTS the sword THROUGH the tapestry.
text: The man screams in agony as he falls. He doesn't just
text: die, but screams and screams and screams.
text: Young Oxford steps back-- half in horror... half in
text: triumph. The SOUND of APPLAUSE takes us to:
scene_heading: 36 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - BACKSTAGE - DAY 36
text: Thirty-three years later.
text: Shakespeare is on stage, taking a bow. The audience is
text: APPLAUDING and SCREAMING their approval of a
text: performance that has just ended. He steps backwards--
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
text: --where Jonson stands holding the manuscript Oxford
dialog: gave him.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Is it any good?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: How in blazes should I know?
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: You haven't even read it?
dialog: And Shakespeare is drawn back--
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: --where he bows again, then steps--
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
dialog: --so Jonson can answer him.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I read a line or two-- I promised
dialog: Henslowe I'd finish "Eastward Ho" by
dialog: Saturday.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: And you say he's a nobleman?
text: Jonson doesn't answer.
dialog: 41
dialog: pg. 42
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
dialog: Powerful? Rich??
text: Jonson still doesn't answer, which is answer enough.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ohhhh, you have to do it then, don't
dialog: you?
text: And Shakespeare goes back on stage.
scene_heading: 37 EXT. BANKSIDE LONDON - DAY 37
text: Jonson and Shakespeare are walking along Bankside,
text: still mid-conversation. They pass all sorts of vendors
dialog: selling fish, fresh water, food, etc...
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I tell you Will-- I came to London to
dialog: become a great poet, to, to, be the
dialog: conscience of our times, the soul of
dialog: our age! To change the world, not to
dialog: become someone else's--
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: (amused)
dialog: Change the world? With rhyme?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Yes, why not? Why can't a man change
dialog: the world with words?
text: Shakespeare laughs at him.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: (mimicking Oxford)
dialog: "I can make you the most popular and
dialog: the richest playwright in all of
dialog: London."
dialog: (takes a swig)
dialog: Ballocks! I can do that myself, thank
dialog: you very much.
scene_heading: 38 INT. THE MERMAID'S TAVERN - NIGHT 38
text: Shakespeare is perusing the manuscript. Some of the
text: actors from the Rose are in the BG.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: You know, it's actually not half
dialog: bad...
dialog: 42
dialog: pg. 43
text: Jonson takes a swig of ale, then--
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Not half--?! You're an actor, what in
dialog: God's name do you know about writing?!
dialog: He's an amateur, Will, a complete and
dialog: utter amateur. Last week gardening,
dialog: this week playwrighting, next week
text: hawking.
dialog: (takes another swig)
dialog: No. I won't do it. It would be an
dialog: affront against the Muses...
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Well we musn't offend the muses,
dialog: whatever we do.
dialog: (thinks, then)
dialog: How much money did you say he gave
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: What, you think my name can be bought,
dialog: if the number's great enough, do you?
text: Shakespeare smiles enigmatically.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: No, not at all... I think we should
dialog: keep your good name quite intact,
dialog: thank you very much.
text: Jonson frowns, confused as we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A RED WIG
text: as it is placed on the head of Elizabeth. We are:
scene_heading: 39 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - OLD ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - DAY 39
text: Elizabeth is behind an elaborately painted screen.
text: Several ladies-in-waiting attend her, helping her get
dialog: ready for the day. It's an intricate process. Make-
text: up, multiple articles of clothing, jewelry...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (O.S.)
dialog: King Philip of Spain sees the current
dialog: Catholic revolt in Ireland as a
dialog: weakness of ours. A weakness to be
dialog: exploited....
dialog: 43
dialog: pg. 44
text: Elizabeth's wig is being glued into place.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Ireland?
scene_heading: THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SCREEN (THEN INTERCUT EACH SIDE
scene_heading: OF SCREEN AS NEEDED)
dialog: William Cecil hasn't realized that his son Robert has
text: sneaked in the room behind him to listen in.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: There are rumors of his sending
dialog: financial aid, and even troops. We
dialog: must act quickly.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We must replace the Lord Lieutenant of
dialog: Ireland, and send additional troops
text: immediately, majesty.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Replace? With whom?
text: William Cecil hesitates slightly, then--
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: I would recommend the Earl of Essex,
dialog: your majesty.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Essex? To Ireland?
dialog: (frowns)
dialog: For how long?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: As long as the present crisis
dialog: warrants, majesty.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Impossible. He cannot be spared. We
dialog: feel his counsel is of greater import
dialog: with each passing day.
dialog: Not what William Cecil wanted to hear.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: I only recommend we send your most
dialog: able subjects where they are most
dialog: needed, majesty.
dialog: (beat, a last-ditch
dialog: effort)
dialog: Philip of Spain dreams still of taking
dialog: your kingdom from you.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 44
dialog: pg. 45
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Of burning you at the stake as a
dialog: heretic. Give him a foot-hold in
dialog: Ireland, and--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: But Essex?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Essex's martial abilities are, in my
dialog: opinion, the only antidote to the
dialog: plague of Philip.
dialog: (clears his throat)
dialog: Though, Essex would not,
dialog: unfortunately, be able to remain in
dialog: the Privy Council if he is in
dialog: Ireland...
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: And who would you advise to replace
dialog: him?
text: Three ladies-in-waiting approach with three different
dialog: gown. Elizabeth studies them as:
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Sir Robert Cecil.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Your son?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: He is my own advisor first, my son
dialog: second, majesty. His counsel has been
dialog: invaluable to me, and no doubt will be
dialog: to you as well.
text: Elizabeth points to one of the dresses, and waves the
text: handmaidens away.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Yes, yes, yes. We will send Essex to
dialog: Ireland and place Robert on my Privy
dialog: Council.
text: But William's flash of victory is dampened by--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: I saw a play this last weekend,
dialog: William. It made me think of... days
text: long past. Of memories... long past.
dialog: Long past. I should like to see more
dialog: of them...
dialog: Has Edward been happy, William? With
dialog: your daughter?
dialog: 45
dialog: pg. 46
text: William Cecil doesn't answer. Instead he thinks,
text: remembers, as we hear his younger voice...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (O.S.)
dialog: Murdered!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 40 INT. CECIL HOUSE - GREAT HALL - DAY 40
dialog: Thirty years earlier.
text: William Cecil is standing in front of an enormous
text: fireplace, pacing in a pique of anger.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: By your own hand!
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: He was stealing my poems.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: He was doing my bidding!
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Yours?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Of course. As soon as Robert informed
dialog: me that you were disobeying my
dialog: express--
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Robert? Robert told--
text: William Cecil SLAMS his fists on a table.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Enough! Thou shalt not worship false
dialog: idols in my household! Your
text: everlasting soul hangs in the balance.
dialog: Not poems. Your soul!
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: My poems are my soul!
text: William Cecil turns away in frustration as much as
dialog: disgust.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: You have placed me in a grave
dialog: position, Edward.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 46
dialog: pg. 47
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: I cannot have my reputation soiled by
dialog: this regrettable lack of control on
dialog: your part... No. I will not have it.
dialog: We can claim self-defense, he drew
dialog: sword first.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But... I wish something in return.
text: Young Oxford looks worried.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: My daughter is young, impressionable.
dialog: She has feelings for you, Edward. It
dialog: is to be expected, living in such
dialog: close quarters...
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Sir. For the last three years you
dialog: have managed to seize much of my
dialog: inheritance--
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Hold your tongue, Edward, before you
dialog: make a claim you cannot retract! I
dialog: have been legally reimbursed for your
dialog: education and living expenses.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: And now you suggest you be
dialog: "reimbursed" the rest of my once
dialog: considerable estates through your
dialog: daughter's bed?
text: William Cecil studies Young Oxford's face.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: No. This is how I suggest you keep
dialog: your noble head from the executioner's
dialog: block.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
text: stares at him. The SOUND of CHURCH BELLS RINGING takes
dialog: us to:
scene_heading: 41 INT. WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY 41
text: And Young Oxford and Anne are being married by a
dialog: bishop.
dialog: 47
dialog: pg. 48
speaker_heading: BISHOP
dialog: ...and in the fear of god, duly
dialog: considering the causes for which
dialog: matrimony was ordained. One was the
dialog: procreation of children...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
text: appears triumphant. He looks beaming over to...
speaker_heading: BISHOP (CONT'D)
dialog: ...to be brought up in the fear and
dialog: nurture of the Lord and praise of God.
dialog: Secondly, it was ordained for a remedy
dialog: against sin.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Who presides over the whole affair. The first time we
text: see a dress on her which makes her truly regal.
speaker_heading: BISHOP (CONT'D)
dialog: Thirdly, for the mutual society, help
dialog: and comfort, that the one ought to
dialog: have of the other, both in prosperity
dialog: and adversity, into the which holiest
dialog: state these two persons present come
dialog: now to be joined.
speaker_heading: AT THE ALTAR
text: Young Anne looks at her young husband, lovingly. Young
text: Oxford is a bit overwhelmed and unsure of it all. And
text: then we HEAR a trumpet BLARING, which takes us to:
scene_heading: 42 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAY 42
dialog: Thirty-two years later.
text: Vendors hawk food and drink as they walk through the
dialog: audience.
speaker_heading: IN OXFORD'S BOX
text: Oxford sits, Francesco behind him, exhilarated by the
text: scene below him.
scene_heading: IN THE GALLERIES
text: Marlowe, Dekker and Nashe are looking at their single-
dialog: sheet programs.
dialog: 48
dialog: pg. 49
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: "Henry V" by... No one?
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: And why would any of you admit to
dialog: trying to better me in a historical
dialog: drama? Comedy, yes, tragedy, perhaps.
dialog: But never will one of you best me in
dialog: historicals.
text: Marlowe takes a swig of ale, and spots Jonson coming to
dialog: join them.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: Or will we be seeing a most hysterical
dialog: historical?
text: Jonson sits next to Marlowe.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: Hmm? Ben? Waiting to see how it's
dialog: received before you lay claim??
dialog: Before Jonson can answer--
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: An actor, CONDELL (40's), dressed all in white (even
text: his face is painted white) enters stage. He is
text: "Prologue". He addresses the audience directly.
speaker_heading: "PROLOGUE"
dialog: Oh, for a muse of fire, that would
dialog: ascend the brightest heaven of
dialog: invention. A kingdom for a stage,
dialog: princes to act, and monarchs to behold
dialog: the swelling scene! Then should
text: warlike Harry, like himself, assume
text: the port of Mars, and at his heels
dialog: should famine, sword, and fire crouch
dialog: for his employment. Can this cockpit
dialog: hold the vasty fields of France?
scene_heading: IN THE GALLERIES
text: Jonson seems surprised. This is not what he expected.
dialog: This is good.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: HORSE HOOVES
text: as they POUND on cobblestone. We are:
dialog: 49
dialog: pg. 50
scene_heading: 43 EXT. THE ENGLISH COUNTRY-SIDE - DAY 43
text: And Southampton is riding his horse at full gallop
text: through the countryside. About two dozen retainers
text: follow, the first few with Southampton's coat-of-arms
dialog: on flags.
scene_heading: 44 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAY 44
text: It is later in the play.
text: On stage, about 15 actors are in full battle armor.
text: They include: "HENRY V", played by the actor called
text: Spencer, "WESTMORELAND", "EXETER", "SALISBURY". All
text: the men on stage now wear battle armor.
speaker_heading: "HENRY V"
dialog: This day is called the feast of
dialog: Crispian: he that outlives this day,
dialog: and comes safe home, will stand a tip-
dialog: toe when this day is named, and rouse
text: him at the name of Crispian.
scene_heading: IN THE GALLERIES
text: Marlowe, Dekker, Nashe and Jonson all watch, obviously
text: impressed. Nashe takes a swig of Ale.
speaker_heading: IN OXFORD'S BOX
text: Oxford watches, loving the stagecraft involved in the
dialog: production.
speaker_heading: "HENRY V" (CONT'D)
dialog: He that shall see this day and live
dialog: t'old age, will yearly on the vigil
dialog: feast his neighbors, and say 'To-
dialog: morrow is Saint Crispian.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: "Henry V" speaks to his men.
speaker_heading: "HENRY V" (CONT'D)
dialog: Then will he strip his sleeve and show
dialog: his scars.
text: The actor playing "Henry" kneels at the front of the
text: stage. He speaks to the groundlings as though they are
dialog: his troops.
dialog: 50
dialog: pg. 51
speaker_heading: "HENRY V" (CONT'D)
dialog: And say 'These wounds I had on
dialog: Crispin's day.' Old men forget: yet
dialog: all shall be forgot, but he'll
dialog: remember with advantages what feats he
dialog: did that day. This story shall the
dialog: good man teach his son.
speaker_heading: THE GROUNDLINGS
text: become literally spellbound.
speaker_heading: "HENRY V" (CONT'D)
dialog: And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go
dialog: by, from this day to the ending of the
dialog: world, but we in it shall be
dialog: remembered; we few, we happy few, we
dialog: band of brothers; for he to-day that
dialog: sheds his blood with me shall be my
dialog: brother; be he ne'er so vile, this day
dialog: shall gentle his condition: and
dialog: gentlemen in England now a-bed shall
dialog: think themselves accursed they were
dialog: not here, and hold their man-hoods
dialog: cheap whiles any speaks that fought
dialog: with us upon Saint Crispin's day!
text: The entire audience stands and CHEERS madly.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
text: watches, with a pride he has never felt.
scene_heading: IN THE GALLERIES
text: The "wits" look at each other amazed.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
speaker_heading: "SALISBURY"
dialog: My sovereign lord, bestow yourself
text: with speed. The French are bravely in
dialog: their battles set and will with all
dialog: expedience charge on us.
speaker_heading: "HENRY V"
dialog: All things are ready, if our minds be
dialog: so.
speaker_heading: "WESTMORELAND"
dialog: Perish the man whose mind is backward
dialog: now!
dialog: 51
dialog: pg. 52
speaker_heading: "HENRY V"
dialog: You know your places: God be with you
dialog: all!
speaker_heading: THE "HUT"
text: which is a round tower on top of the stage, contains
text: several small cannons manned by stagehands. They shoot
text: BLANK CANNON SHOTS.
scene_heading: 45 EXT. THE CITY GATES OF LONDON - DAY 45
text: Southampton and his retainers gallop through a City
text: gate. Above the gate, the severed heads of murderers
text: sit on pikes.
scene_heading: 46 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAY 46
text: Actors portraying French soldiers STORM the stage,
text: swords brandished. "Henry" and his men begin fighting
text: them, their swordplay elaborate and impressive.
scene_heading: 47 EXT. LONDON BRIDGE - DAY 47
text: Southampton and his entourage gallop over London
dialog: Bridge.
scene_heading: 48 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAY 48
text: The battle rages on stage.
text: One hardy audience member starts to actually ATTACK one
text: of the French "soldiers" himself. He's quickly joined
text: by a few comrades-- and it quickly becomes a madhouse;
text: half play, half real fight, as more audience members
text: join the "battle". The play quickly degenerates into a
text: bloody brawl between actors and audience.
scene_heading: 49 EXT/INT. ROSE THEATER - DAY 49
text: Southampton arrives at the theater. He jumps off his
dialog: horse, and hurries--
text: INTO THE STAIRWELL
text: jumping two steps at a time. We HEAR the sound of
text: APPLAUSE. The play is now over. Southampton hurries
dialog: into--
dialog: 52
dialog: pg. 53
speaker_heading: OXFORD'S BOX
text: He sees Oxford, who is applauding. All the actors of
text: the play are taking their bows.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: William Cecil's convinced the Queen
dialog: that only Essex can save Ireland from
dialog: the Revolt.
dialog: Oxford processes this.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: I've pledged to go with him, Edward.
dialog: We sail in an hour.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Henry--
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: I ask for your blessing, Edward.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I can't give it to you.
scene_heading: IN THE GALLERIES
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: I for one wish to see this anonymous
dialog: colleague of ours.
dialog: (stands)
dialog: Playwright! Playwright!!
text: Marlowe and others join in. And--
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
text: Shakespeare, standing next to a small table of props,
text: quickly dips his fingers in an inkwell to make them
text: stained. He grabs a large feathered quill and tucks a
text: piece of parchment under his arm, then hurries--
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: --where he bows deeply, loving the adulation.
speaker_heading: IN OXFORD'S BOX
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: If he is to be my king, then it is my
dialog: sacred duty to be with him in battle.
dialog: 53
dialog: pg. 54
text: Oxford tries to understand Southampton, but then
text: notices Shakespeare on stage. His mouth opens in
text: shock, and he turns to look across the theater at--
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: who guiltily looks away. Marlowe's mouth is open, his
text: hands stop applauding.
speaker_heading: IN OXFORD'S BOX
text: Southampton is angered by Oxford's distraction.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: I am sorry to have disturbed your
dialog: entertainment.
text: And he exits.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Henry-- Henry!!
text: But the younger man is gone.
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
dialog: Shakespeare bows, then--
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: I, I... It's been... I, I, want
dialog: to... thank my actors, whose great
dialog: acting brought... my words... to life
dialog: due to their most finest acting.
dialog: Ah... Thank you.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (O.S.)
dialog: An actor?!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 50 INT. OXFORD STONE - STUDY - DAY 50
text: The multi-arched ceiling is painted blue with gold
text: stars. Globes-- both terrestrial and astral-- abound.
text: Jonson stands in front of a very angry Oxford.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: An actor for god's sake?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: My lord, I thought that--
dialog: 54
dialog: pg. 55
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: You presumed to think? On my behalf?
dialog: Whatever made you believe you had that
dialog: prerogative?
text: A beat. Jonson is a bit afraid.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: My lord, your voice is completely
dialog: different than mine. My, my, my
dialog: characters are--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Voice? You have no voice! That's why
dialog: I chose you!
dialog: (beat, softer)
dialog: You at least kept my name from him?
dialog: Jonson NODS.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: And will continue to do so?
text: Oxford studies him, believes him. Then he opens a
dialog: cabinet.
text: In it, manuscript after manuscript are stacked. Jonson
text: looks behind him, stunned by the number.
text: Oxford looks up and down the cabinet. He pulls one
text: out, decides no, and puts it back, looking for just the
text: right one... He pulls another out, then hands it to
dialog: Jonson.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
text: A romantic tragedy. In iambic
text: pentameter.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: All, my lord? Is that possible?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Of course it is!
scene_heading: 51 INT. OXFORD STONE - HALLWAY - DAY 51
text: Jonson exits Oxford's study, still amazed at the
text: manuscript as he walks.
text: He passes ANNE, Oxford's wife (now 40's), who is on her
text: way to the study with their eldest daughter, BRIDGET
dialog: (17).
dialog: 55
dialog: pg. 56
text: She watches him go by and immediately realizes that she
text: has seen him before. But she stays silent.
scene_heading: 52 INT. OXFORD STONE - STUDY - DAY 52
text: Oxford is writing at a desk as Anne enters.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Who was that man? I've seen him
dialog: before.
text: Oxford holds up a finger to prevent her from speaking
text: while he finishes writing a thought. It's a long
text: thought. Anne is obviously annoyed, and interrupts
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Edward-- we must discuss our Bridget's
dialog: dowry.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: (looking up - confused)
dialog: Dowry?
text: He remembers when he spies his daughter.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: She cannot go into marriage without a
dialog: dowry that is becoming to the daughter
dialog: of the Earl Oxford.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I can give her Brooke House and a
dialog: hundred pounds.
speaker_heading: BRIDGET
dialog: A hundred pounds? Father? Mother!
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: That is all we have to give at the
dialog: moment.
text: The matter over, Oxford goes back to his writing.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Edward. Edward! Speak to me! Our
text: family is in financial ruins, and, and
dialog: you, you play the flute while Rome
dialog: burns!
text: Oxford turns.
dialog: 56
dialog: pg. 57
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Nero fiddled whilst Rome burned.
text: And then he goes back to writing.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: For god's sake, who cares Edward?
dialog: When your own daughter can't even have
dialog: a suitable dowry?
text: She stares at him.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: My god, you're writing again, aren't
dialog: you? After you agreed-- after my
dialog: father expressly forbade it!
text: Oxford turns to her, full of emotion
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Anne-- If you could have seen them--
dialog: the mob... They, they didn't just sit
text: there like the reptilia of court,
text: faces motionless, fangs momentarily
dialog: retracted. No! They, they jumped on
dialog: stage, they fought the French! A
dialog: butcher-- he actually broke his arm!
dialog: He was so--
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Stop! Stop it at once!!
text: Anne storms over and grabs the parchment from under
text: him, and begins RIPPING it up.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why!? Why must you write?! Why must
dialog: you continue to humiliate this family?
text: He stares at her, almost uncomprehendingly. Then--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: The voices, Anne... The voices. I, I
dialog: can't stop them... They, they come
dialog: when I sleep, when I wake, when I sup,
dialog: when I, I, I walk down a hall! The
dialog: sweet longings of a maiden, the, the
text: surging ambitions of a courtier, the
dialog: foul designs of a murderer, the
dialog: wretched pleas of his victims. Only-
dialog: - only when I put their words-- their
dialog: voices-- to parchment are they cast
dialog: loose, freed... Only then is my
dialog: mind... quieted... at peace.
dialog: 57
dialog: pg. 58
text: Anne steps back, frightened of him.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: I... would go mad if I didn't write
text: down the voices.
text: She stares at him, horrified.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Art thou possessed?
text: He stares back at her. A long beat
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I... don't know.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (O.S.)
dialog: "Two households, both alike in
dialog: dignity, In fair Verona, where we lay
dialog: our scene"
scene_heading: 53 EXT. LONDON BRIDGE - DAY 53
text: Shakespeare and Jonson are walking along London Bridge--
dialog: the only bridge that spanned the Thames at the time, it
text: is a street lined with multi-storied buildings-- almost
text: like a mall.
text: Shakespeare caries and reads from a manuscript of
dialog: "Romeo and Juliet"
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: "From ancient grudge break to new
dialog: mutiny, Where civil blood makes civil
dialog: hands unclean."
dialog: (no longer reading)
dialog: Incredible!! The whole bloody thing
dialog: in verse?!
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (nonchalant)
dialog: It's really not that difficult, if you
dialog: try.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: And have you ever tried?
text: Jonson gives him a sharp look, and pauses to pick some
text: onions from a stand.
text: Shakespeare notices a BUXOM BLONDE women selling apples
text: at the next stand.
dialog: 58
dialog: pg. 59
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
dialog: (performing for the
dialog: Blonde)
dialog: "But soft, what light through yonder
dialog: window breaks?
text: It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
dialog: Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious
dialog: moon,
text: Who is already sick and pale with
dialog: grief, That thou her maid art far more
dialog: fair than she."
text: The Buxom Blonde smiles at Shakespeare seductively.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Jonson)
dialog: I'll have little trouble parting the
dialog: legs of barmaids after that
dialog: performance!
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: You can't play Romeo.
text: Jonson leaves the stall, and continues down the street.
text: Shakespeare hesitates, then gives the girl a dazzling
text: smile. She smiles back, then Shakespeare runs after
dialog: Jonson.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: (to Jonson)
dialog: Why not? I won't let that oaf Spencer
dialog: have another go at one of my roles.
dialog: No-- only Will Shakespeare can pump
text: the life into Romeo's veins.
text: (grins at another passing
dialog: girl)
dialog: And his cod piece!
dialog: (beat, desperate)
dialog: Ben-- Ben! I'm an actor, every inch
dialog: of me, down to my very toes... I want-
dialog: - no, I need, crave-- to act. I can't
dialog: just idle the day by with--
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: So bloody well act like a writer! And
dialog: for God's sake, keep off the stage.
dialog: Writers don't have time to act.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
dialog: 59
dialog: pg. 60
scene_heading: 54 INT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAY 54
text: A performance of "Romeo and Juliet". About a dozen
text: actors are dancing. It is Act 1, Scene 5. "ROMEO",
text: played by Spencer, is staring longingly at "Juliet".
text: "Romeo" turns to his servant.
speaker_heading: "ROMEO"
dialog: What lady's that, which doth enrich
dialog: the hand of yonder knight?
speaker_heading: "SERVANT"
dialog: I know not, sir.
speaker_heading: "ROMEO"
dialog: O, she doth teach the torches to burn
dialog: bright! It seems she hangs upon the
text: cheek of night like a rich jewel in an
dialog: Ethiop's ear; beauty too rich for use,
dialog: for earth too dear!
text: The actor playing Romeo plays to the women in the
dialog: audience. And
speaker_heading: THE WOMEN
text: respond, eye lashes twittering.
speaker_heading: THE WITS
text: Watch in awe! Now they're all taking swigs of ale.
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
text: Shakespeare mouthing silently the lines of "Romeo".
speaker_heading: IN OXFORD'S BOX
text: Oxford watches the dance carefully.
speaker_heading: "ROMEO" (CONT'D)
dialog: Did my heart love till now? Forswear
dialog: it, sight! For I ne'er saw true
dialog: beauty till this night.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 55 INT. RICHMOND PALACE - GREAT HALL - NIGHT 55
text: Twenty-eight years earlier. A dance is taking place.
text: YOUNG OXFORD-- now 20 is dancing with Young Anne. But
text: his eyes are on:
dialog: 60
dialog: pg. 61
text: Young Elizabeth, who is dancing with the Spanish
speaker_heading: AMBASSADOR.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
text: seems less than interested in her dancing partner. She
text: STARES intently back at Young Oxford.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: There is a natural change in the music, and all the
text: dancers switch partners-- it's part of the dance.
text: Young Oxford goes to Young Elizabeth, the Spanish
dialog: Ambassador goes to Anne.
scene_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH AND YOUNG OXFORD
text: stare into each others eyes as they dance the intricate
dialog: moves.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: My lord of Oxford.
text: Elizabeth smiles.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: We liked your play tonight very much.
dialog: Your young King Henry reminded us of
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Did he?
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
text: Rash, yet brave. A boy-- and yet a
dialog: man. Fair on the eyes, fairer to the
dialog: ear...
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Much of the Court is watching this. They can tell
text: there are sparks between them.
text: All the dancers change partners, including Elizabeth
text: and Oxford. A few dance moves, and Oxford once again
text: finds himself with Elizabeth.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: We are glad of your return from the
dialog: continent. Two years is far too long
dialog: to be without such excellent
dialog: amusements.
text: Young Oxford dips his head slightly in acknowledgment.
dialog: 61
dialog: pg. 62
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: If I had known my absence would cause
dialog: your grace so much... longing, I would
dialog: have returned much-- much-- sooner.
dialog: Was that a come-on? Young Elizabeth decides to find
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Your wife must be much pleased by your
text: presence once more at her side...
text: Young Oxford glances over at--
speaker_heading: YOUNG ANNE
text: who is now dancing with the Spanish Ambassador. But
text: she watches Young Elizabeth and Young Oxford with a
dialog: great deal of jealousy.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
text: Follows his daughter's look. He doesn't like what he
text: sees any more than Young Anne does.
text: BACK TO YOUNG ELIZABETH AND YOUNG OXFORD
text: Still dancing.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: If she is, it is but a small comfort
dialog: to me. I am returned only under my
text: father-in-law's insistence.
text: A beat as this sinks in.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Cecil had told me your match was one
dialog: of love.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: And so he would wish.
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: But how could one ever love the moon,
dialog: after having first seen the sun?
text: He stares intensely into her eyes. And she stares
dialog: right back.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
dialog: 62
dialog: pg. 63
scene_heading: 57 EXT. RICHMOND PALACE - BALCONY - DAY 57
text: Three Ladies-in-waiting run onto the balcony to join
text: Bessie, who is looking across the palace grounds,
dialog: watching--
scene_heading: 56 EXT. RICHMOND PALACE - FOREST - SAME TIME 56
text: Young Elizabeth and Young Oxford, both on horseback,
text: unaccompanied, trot over a small bridge.
scene_heading: 56A EXT. RICHMOND PALACE - BALCONY - SAME TIME 56A
text: The Ladies-in-waiting giggle, but are interrupted by--
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (O.S.)
dialog: Where is her majesty?
text: Bessie turns to William Cecil.
speaker_heading: BESSIE
dialog: My lord. Her majesty went riding with
dialog: the Earl of Oxford.
text: The Ladies-in-waiting share knowing smiles.
scene_heading: 56B EXT. RICHMOND PALACE - FOREST - SAME TIME 56B
text: Young Elizabeth and Young Oxford share flirty glances,
text: and then Young Elizabeth spurs her horse to a gallop,
text: and dashes into the fog. Young Oxford immediately
text: follows.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 58 INT. A ROYAL TENT - LATER 58
text: A servant places a silver plate filled with shucked
text: oysters onto a table filled with quail, venison, wine,
dialog: etc...
text: Young Elizabeth sits across from Young Oxford. It's
text: just the two of them dining.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: And which country did you like the
dialog: most on your travels, my lord?
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: I think Italy, your grace.
dialog: 63
dialog: pg. 64
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: And why is that? The weather? The
dialog: food?
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: No their theater, which they call la
dialog: Commedia dell'arte. And, of course,
dialog: the women.
text: She raises an eyebrow.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: The women?
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: They were more... clear with their
dialog: desires than our English ladies. When
dialog: they want something, they take it.
dialog: They do not wait to be taken...
scene_heading: SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: 59 OMIT 59
scene_heading: 60 INT. RICHMOND PALACE - RECEIVING CHAMBER - NIGHT 60
text: A door SLAMS open, and Young Elizabeth and Young Oxford
text: dash in, ripping each others clothes off in the
text: fireplace-lit room.
text: Young Elizabeth gently pushes Young Oxford towards her
text: throne... She kisses him. Then begin to make love.
text: On the throne.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Postcoital, the fire still lit. Young Elizabeth is
text: half asleep, half awake, nestled in furs in front of
dialog: the fireplace... much like Titania in "Midsummer
dialog: Night's Dream"...
text: Young Oxford watches her as she stirs and wakes. She
text: smiles at him.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: I can't decide. Are you Prince
dialog: Hal...? Or Romeo? No. Benedick,
dialog: maybe...?
dialog: No--
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 64
dialog: pg. 65
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: --Puck
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Puck?
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Yes, Puck!
text: She's only teasing.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Ah, but Puck would never fight for you
dialog: in the Netherlands...
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (surprised, smiles)
dialog: The Netherlands?
text: But then she realizes he's serious, and the smile
text: vanishes.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Well, why not? It's an open secret on
dialog: the continent that you support the
dialog: rebels against Spain-- and that you
dialog: are commissioning Englishmen to help
dialog: their cause. Spain's loss is
dialog: England's gain, is it not?
text: Her eyes narrow as she studies his face.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Is this why you bedded me? For a
dialog: commission?
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: No. No-- of course not-- I--
text: She stands, wrapped in her sheets, furious at the
dialog: thought of once more being used.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Leave me. Leave at once!
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Bess--
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: How dare you! How dare you!! I
dialog: command you to leave my presence.
dialog: 65
dialog: pg. 66
text: And she steps back, waiting for him to exit.
text: Young Oxford stands... and starts to approach her...
text: He's nude, his back to us.
text: She steps back, a bit stunned by his impertinence. He
text: steps towards her as--
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: O Mistress mine, where are you
dialog: roaming?
dialog: O stay and hear... your true-love's
dialog: coming,
dialog: That can--
text: (looks up and down her
dialog: body)
dialog: --kiss both high and low...
text: A bit stunned by his approach, she stumbles backwards
text: on her sheets.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Trip no further, pretty sweeting....
text: But he's sexy... and naked. And spouting poetry. She
text: stops retreating and allows his approach.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
text: Journeys end in lovers' meeting--
dialog: Every wise man's son doth know.
text: A small smile escapes her lips.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: What is love? 'tis not hereafter;
dialog: Present mirth hath present laughter;
dialog: What's to come is still unsure:
text: He starts to kiss her neck. Cautiously at first. But
dialog: she likes it.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: In delay there lies no plenty--
dialog: Then come kiss me, Sweet-and-twenty,
dialog: Youth's a stuff will not endure.
text: She responds to him, melting from both his words and
text: touch. They start to kiss deeply, passionately... And-
dialog: -
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: (passionately)
dialog: You will stay in England... And in...
dialog: my chambers...
dialog: 66
dialog: pg. 67
text: The flash of disappointment on Young Oxford's face
text: about that last bit is tempered by Young Elizabeth's
text: sheet falling to the floor. They begin to make love
text: passionately once more.
speaker_heading: NASHE (O.S.)
dialog: I could do it if I wanted to...
scene_heading: 61 INT. THE MERMAID'S TAVERN - DAY 61
text: Twenty-seven years later. Jonson, Marlowe, Dekker and
text: Nashe sit silently at a table, mugs of ale in hand.
text: Having just returned from "Romeo and Juliet", all are a
text: bit in shock. The actors from the perfomance are there
dialog: as well in the BG.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: (to Nashe)
dialog: Do what?
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: (a little drunk)
text: A play in iambic, in iambic pen...in-
dialog: bic-pentameter. It's not that hard.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Think you so? Have you ever tried?
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: Of course not. But I could if I
dialog: wanted...
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: It wasn't all in verse.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: Ha! See! Even easier!
text: Shakespeare enters and makes a bee line for them.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Henslowe wants "Romeo" to run a
dialog: fortnight.
dialog: (unbelievable news)
dialog: A fortnight! Innkeeper! A round for
dialog: everybody! Inkeeper!!
dialog: (no response)
dialog: Billy!!!
text: And Shakespeare goes over to the bar.
dialog: 67
dialog: pg. 68
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: A fortnight?
speaker_heading: DEKKER
text: The maids love the romantic tragedies.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: Precisely why I avoid them.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: Aw, well. No worries. A one-trick
dialog: pony. He'll never be able to do it
dialog: again.
scene_heading: 62 INT./EXT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAY 62
text: A MONTAGE of various plays:
text: "TWELFTH NIGHT"
text: Viola and Sebastian are reunited...
speaker_heading: "CAESAR"
text: Caesar is attacked by Brutus, Cinna, Cassius, etc...
speaker_heading: "MACBETH"
text: The witches are on stage.
text: These three performances are INTER-CUT with:
speaker_heading: PLAYBILLS
text: outside the Rose, announcing each play's title. At
text: first, Shakespeare's name is small, with each
dialog: succeeding play his name gets bigger. And--
scene_heading: AFTER EACH PERFORMANCE
text: Shakespeare bows to the ever-increasing applause of his
text: audience. He looks up to see the Mermaid's Wits all
text: watching him with stony silence.
text: And as each play is seen, Jonson and the rest of the
text: Wits seem more and more depressed.
text: And after each performance, Shakespeare seems to be
text: greeted with more and more adulation.
text: The MONTAGE ends with...
dialog: 68
dialog: pg. 69
speaker_heading: A PLAYBILL
text: in front of the theater announcing "William
text: Shakespeare's Hamlet". Shakespeare's name is now above
text: the title. We HEAR the audience howl with LAUGHTER as--
scene_heading: 63 INT. ROSE THEATER - DAY 63
text: An actor playing "POLONIUS" does an obvious caricature
text: of William Cecil, dressed in black with an exaggerated
text: rendition of Cecil's beard.
speaker_heading: "POLONIUS"
dialog: (over-acting)
dialog: ...Beware of entrance to a quarrel,
dialog: but being in, bear it that the opposed
dialog: may beware of thee. Give every man
dialog: thy ear, but few thy voice, take each
dialog: man's censure, but reserve thy
dialog: judgment....
scene_heading: 64 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY 64
text: Elizabeth watches the same play at a court performance.
text: We see Elizabeth smiling amused as "Polinous" continues
dialog: his rant...
speaker_heading: "POLINOUS"
dialog: ....Costly thy habit as thy purse can
dialog: buy, but not expressed in fancy, rich,
dialog: nor gaudy, for the apparel oft
dialog: proclaims the man. This above all, to
dialog: thine own self be true.
text: Elizabeth absent mindedly starts to scratch her chest,
text: irritated by some sort of itch, but still focused on
dialog: the play.
scene_heading: 65 INT. ROSE THEATER - DAY 65
text: Jonson watches tight lipped...
text: The character of GERTRUDE", the Queen, is joined by
text: "HAMLET". "Polonius" is behind a curtain, listening
text: in, and is seen by the audience. "Hamlet" appears
dialog: enraged.
speaker_heading: "GERTRUDE"
dialog: What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not
dialog: murder me? Help, ho!
dialog: 69
dialog: pg. 70
speaker_heading: "POLONIUS"
dialog: (behind curtain)
dialog: What ho, help!
text: "Hamlet" draws his sword.
speaker_heading: "HAMLET"
dialog: How now? A rat? Dead, for a ducat,
dialog: dead!
text: "Hamlet" stabs "Polonius" through the curtain.
speaker_heading: "POLONIUS"
dialog: O, I am slain.
text: "Polonius" emerges from behind the curtain, covered in
text: pig's blood, and dies an anguished death.
text: There is stunned silence in the audience. And then one
text: lone Groundling CLAPS, then another, then the whole
dialog: audience.
speaker_heading: GROUNDLING
dialog: Not a day too soon for old Cecil!!
scene_heading: 66 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY 66
text: Elizabeth is still scratching her chest, but more
dialog: vigorously as some of the members of court give
text: uncomfortable glances at each other over the death of
text: William Cecil-- er "Polonius" onstage.
speaker_heading: "GERTRUDE"
dialog: O me, what hast thou done?
speaker_heading: "HAMLET"
dialog: Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
speaker_heading: "HAMLET" (CONT'D)
dialog: Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool,
dialog: farewell! I took thee for thy better:
dialog: take thy fortune; Thou find'st to be
dialog: too busy is some danger. Leave
dialog: wringing of your hands: peace! sit you
dialog: down, And let me wring your heart; for
dialog: so I shall, If it be made of
dialog: penetrable stuff,
dialog: If damned custom have not brass'd it
dialog: so
dialog: That it is proof and bulwark against
dialog: sense.
dialog: 70
dialog: pg. 71
text: Elizabeth can't take the itching anymore. She RIPS
text: open her bodice and violently scratches some sort of
text: rash on her chest.
scene_heading: 67 INT/EXT. ROSE THEATER - DAY 67
text: Oxford is in his usual box, but completely alone. He
text: has a smile of satisfaction on his lips while...
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: Looks over to Oxford with astonishment... While on
text: stage the world sees for the first time "Hamlet"
text: contemplating suicide.
speaker_heading: "HAMLET"
dialog: To be, or not to be: that is the
dialog: question: whether `tis nobler in the
dialog: mind to suffer the slings and arrows
dialog: of outrageous fortune, or to take arms
dialog: against a sea of troubles, and by
dialog: opposing end them...
text: Loud thunder and...
text: RAIN STARTS TO FALL
text: And as only the stage and the galleries are covered,
text: the groundlings are pelted with the cold drops of
text: water. But they stay. They stay. They cover
text: themselves up, and silently watch on.
dialog: "HAMLET'
dialog: ...To die, to sleep- no more- and by a
dialog: sleep to say we end the heartache, and
dialog: the thousand natural shocks that flesh
dialog: is heir to...
text: The audience-- soaked, pelted with rain-- watches
text: immobile.
text: And then a again a loud thunder clap takes us to the
dialog: end of the play...
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
text: Bows to the thunderous applause. It is still raining,
dialog: but nobody wants to leave. While-
scene_heading: THE MERMAID'S WITS
text: watch in the crowd, a complex range of emotions, but
text: jealousy and loathing at the top of the list.
dialog: 71
dialog: pg. 72
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: some of the audience members grab Shakespeare, and pull
text: him on their shoulders, carrying him triumphantly out
dialog: of the theater.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 68 EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF TOWER OF LONDON - DAY 68
text: Marlowe walks towards the Tower of London.
scene_heading: 68A INT. TOWER OF LONDON / POLE'S ROOM - DAY 68A
text: Silence....Marlowe is waiting patiently...
text: He is sitting across from Pole, the Captain of the
text: Guard, who is reading his report....
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: (looks up)
dialog: Are you certain of this?
dialog: (almost confused)
dialog: William Cecil was murdered?
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: Not literally, of course. He was a
text: character, a fictional character. But
dialog: the metaphor was clear for anyone to
dialog: see. And see, they did.
text: Pole reads more from the parchment.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: Will you shut it down?
text: Pole continues to read.
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: That is not for me to decide...
text: He brings out a pouch of coins, and tosses it across
dialog: the table.
speaker_heading: POLE (CONT'D)
dialog: Your service to his lordship is once
dialog: again greatly appreciated.
text: Marlowe takes the pouch of money.
dialog: 72
dialog: pg. 73
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (O.S.)
dialog: He butchered you!
scene_heading: 69 INT. CECIL HOUSE - WILLIAM CECIL'S STUDY - DAY 69
text: Robert Cecil is furious, pacing back and forth in front
text: of William Cecil, who sits behind a large wooden desk.
text: William Cecil is pale and sweaty-- he is deathly ill,
text: and sits in a wooden chair with small spoked wheels
text: attached to the legs-- sort of an Elizabethan
dialog: wheelchair.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Not only in front of Court! But the
dialog: entire City as well! We must arrest
dialog: this Shakespeare and-
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: No, Robert, think. If he is really as
dialog: popular as you say, we would only
dialog: anger the mob. No. We must strike at
dialog: Edward directly.
text: William Cecil slowly-- and shakily-- bends down from
dialog: his chair as--
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: But we cannot maintain our authority
dialog: if the mob thinks us laughing stocks--
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: (angry)
dialog: Our authority comes from Elizabeth and
dialog: from God! Elizabeth! Elizabeth is
dialog: the key to all.
text: Robert Cecil looks hurt by his father's anger.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: (gentler)
dialog: Robert... You must think deeper. You
dialog: must compensate. Compensate for
dialog: your... malformations... with the
dialog: gifts God did grant you... With
text: cunning. With ruthlessness.
text: William Ceci pushes a hidden button on the side of his
text: desk-- a spring loaded secret drawer POPS open. Robert
dialog: Cecil has never seen it before.
text: Cecil produces a folded piece of parchment from the
text: drawer, offers it to Robert Cecil.
dialog: 73
dialog: pg. 74
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: From King James of Scotland.
text: Robert Cecil looks surprised.
scene_heading: 69A INT. CECIL HOUSE - HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER 69A
text: Robert Cecil is pushing William Cecil in his
text: wheelchair. They are completely alone.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: James knows of the Queen's affection
dialog: for Essex... and the rumors of his
text: birth. He is justly concerned.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You will reply to him.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: I will reply to him?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: I am dying, Robert--
dialog: (before Robert can
dialog: protest)
dialog: We both know this to be true. And I
dialog: will not witness the next coronation.
scene_heading: 69B INT. CECIL HOUSE - WILLIAM CECIL'S BEDROOM - MOMENTS 69B
speaker_heading: LATER
text: Robert Cecil wheels his father in.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Help me to my bed, my son.
dialog: (Robert Cecil does so)
dialog: If we are to secure your place at the
dialog: side of the next king, you must get
dialog: that king his throne, not I.
text: A beat as this registers on Robert Cecil.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: You will write to James that I am
text: gravely ill, but that all is in hand.
dialog: Much of the Privy Council has already
dialog: secretly agreed to his ascension to
dialog: the English throne due to your
text: tireless, but secret, entreaties on
dialog: his behalf.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And then tell him Essex will not
dialog: return from Ireland alive.
dialog: 74
dialog: pg. 75
text: Robert Cecil looks surprised.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: This is how kings are made, Robert.
dialog: So it was with Elizabeth, and so it
dialog: shall ever be. There were many rival
dialog: claims to her throne, but none
dialog: survived to make their claim. James
dialog: must know that you will do the same
dialog: for him, and he will reward you for
dialog: it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But we must do one thing more...
text: William Cecil has a coughing fit-- reaches for a glass
text: vial of medicine at his bedside-- takes it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Like Essex, Edward must be removed.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Edward?
text: William Cecil is slowly falling asleep...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
text: He uses the tools at his disposal, as
dialog: we use the tools at ours. But ours
dialog: will win... as they always have.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: (more confused)
dialog: I-- I don't understand, father. What
dialog: does Edward--
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Edward seeks what we seek. To choose
dialog: the next King.
text: Off Robert Cecil's surprised face we hear:
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH (O.S.)
dialog: I am with child...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 70 INT. RICHMOND PALACE - LONG GALLERY - DUSK 70
text: Twenty seven years earlier. Young Elizabeth is pacing,
dialog: terribly agitated. Bessie, the lady-in-waiting we have
text: seen constantly at her side is the only other person
dialog: present.
dialog: 75
dialog: pg. 76
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Are you certain?
text: Young Elizabeth turns to Bessie.
speaker_heading: BESSIE
dialog: Two cycles have passed, my lord.
dialog: William Cecil thinks.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: I wish to marry him...
text: William Cecil looks startled.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Marry him, your grace? He is already
dialog: married.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: I can do what I will.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Can you?
text: She gives him a sharp look.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Most of the Catholic princes of Europe
dialog: wish to topple you and end your
dialog: Protestant reign... The only things
dialog: that stop them are the channel, and
dialog: the hope that they might marry you,
dialog: and thereby achieve your realm through
dialog: other means.
text: Young Elizabeth hears him, thinks on it, then begins
dialog: pacing again.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: I love him...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Would you risk your throne for him?
dialog: Would you risk England for him?
dialog: He knows the answer to that.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: We must do as we have done before...
dialog: You must go on Progress, somewhere
text: isolated, accompanied by only those
dialog: whom you most trust.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 76
dialog: pg. 77
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: After the birth, I will find a
dialog: suitable house for the child to be
dialog: reared in.
text: Young Elizabeth is uncertain.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: And Edward?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: He must never know.
scene_heading: 71 INT. CECIL HOUSE - PRIVATE CHAPEL - DAY 71
text: A simple, cold space, like William Cecil himself.
text: William Cecil is alone in prayer. A few beats, then he
text: senses he is not alone. He turns and sees Young Oxford
dialog: (still 20).
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: What have you done?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: I am praying.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (ignoring him)
dialog: She won't see me! I've gone to her
dialog: chambers three times, and she will not
dialog: receive me. And now she's gone!
text: William Cecil regards Young Oxford for a beat, then
dialog: stands.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: She's on Progress.
text: With this he leaves the chapel.
scene_heading: 72 INT. CECIL HOUSE - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 72
text: Young Oxford runs after him.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Where? Where did she go?
text: William Cecil is silent.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: What did you say to her? Tell me!
dialog: 77
dialog: pg. 78
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: The Queen does not ask for my advice
dialog: about matters of the heart, Edward.
dialog: If she had, she hardly would have
dialog: chosen you for her pleasure.
dialog: He has a point.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: You must have known her eye would move
dialog: elsewhere, Edward. It always has.
dialog: You are neither the first, nor the
dialog: last, of her lovers.
text: Young Oxford looks up at him like a bucket of cold
text: water has hit him.
text: William Cecil stops. He looks at Oxford with a stern
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Go back to my daughter, Edward. She
dialog: will accept you with open arms, as she
dialog: always has. Behave as your great
dialog: title demands you behave. Tend to
dialog: your estates, your investments.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: And make me a grandson, an heir!
text: Off Young Oxford's pained expression.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 73 INT. MERMAID'S TAVERN - NIGHT 73
text: Twenty-seven years later. Jonson is alone, trying to
text: write at a small table, though it's obvious from his
text: fits and starts and crossing outs that he is having
dialog: difficulty.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (O.S.)
dialog: It's difficult to write, isn't it?
dialog: After watching something like
dialog: "Hamlet"...
text: Jonson looks up. Marlowe sits, uninvited. Jonson
text: looks annoyed at the interruption.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: I've seen you watch him. Will.
text: During a performance. It eats at
dialog: you... at your soul...
dialog: 78
dialog: pg. 79
text: Jonson stares at him, his answer obvious.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why do you think Will hasn't been
dialog: arrested? You or I make the slightest
dialog: joke about a nobleman of no
dialog: consequence, and we find ourselves in
text: a cell quicker than a fart spreads in
text: the trade winds. Will-- he murders a
dialog: caricature of old William Cecil
dialog: himself, and still whores all the way
dialog: to Westminster and back.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Perhaps they haven't noticed..
text: Jonson gets up and walks towards the door.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: I made sure they did...
text: Jonson turns around.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: You informed on one of your own? To
dialog: the Tower?
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: Watch who you judge, Ben, for as God
dialog: is my witness, you may well find
dialog: yourself doing the same before you
dialog: meet your maker. We do what we have
dialog: to, to survive, and survive well, in
dialog: this life. All of us. And Will is
dialog: definitely not one of us. You know
dialog: he's illiterate, don't you?
text: Jonson is stunned.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: No? Oh, he can read well enough-- how
dialog: else could he learn his lines? But
dialog: the man never actually learned to form
dialog: his letters.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Why are you here, Kit?
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: So who did write it? You? No. You'd
dialog: take credit for it. No...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 79
dialog: pg. 80
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: It must be someone who wants their
dialog: anonymity protected. Someone who
dialog: might even pay to have it protected.
text: Jonson is getting nervous.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: A nobleman.
text: Jonson looks up. Marlowe smiles, knowing he is closer
dialog: to the truth.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: But which? You know, don't you, Ben?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: You've had too much to drink, Kit.
dialog: You're beginning to sound like one of
dialog: your plays.
text: Jonson stands and hurries out of the Tavern.
scene_heading: 73A EXT. BANKSIDE LONDON - MOMENTS LATER 73A
text: Jonson heads down the street, Marlowe chasing after
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: Ben! Tell me. We can go to him
dialog: together. Guarantee his anonymity...
dialog: for a price.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: You reported on me as well, didn't
dialog: you, Kit? Last year. That's why I
dialog: was arrested, wasn't it? Because you
dialog: went to the Tower?
speaker_heading: MARLOWE
dialog: (lying)
dialog: Ben, Ben... I had nothing to do with
dialog: that.
text: Jonson studies Marlowe for a beat and then walks away.
speaker_heading: MARLOWE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ben-- I'll just go to Will! He'll
dialog: tell me because he has so much more to
dialog: lose than you. Fame. Fortune. And
dialog: you'll profit nothing from it.
dialog: Nothing!
text: But Jonson is gone.
dialog: 80
dialog: pg. 81
scene_heading: 74 EXT. MILITARY CAMP - IRELAND - DAY 74
text: A military encampment with dozens of tents on a cliff
text: by the Irish seaside.
speaker_heading: CLOSER
text: Essex's tent is larger, and guarded. An OLD SERVANT
text: carrying a tray with a silver pitcher approaches. A
text: guard opens the tent for him to enter.
scene_heading: INT. ESSEX'S TENT - CONTINUOUS
text: Essex is having a Council of War with his generals and
text: senior officers, including Southampton. They all stand
text: around a table, consulting a map of Ireland.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: If the Rebels have stripped the
dialog: northern borders... Then we must
dialog: march south... and take Cahir
dialog: Castle...
text: The SERVANT stays in the background as he pours wine
text: into various goblets. Southampton notices him-- the
text: servant's hand shakes as he pours the wine.
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: (clears throat,
dialog: uncomfortable)
dialog: My lord. `Tis a well-defended
text: fortress. Two thousand men at
dialog: least. We cannot--
text: Southampton notices the Servant's shaking hand slipping
dialog: into a pocket as--
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: So what would you have me do? Spend
dialog: the entire spring encamped? I am sent
dialog: to Ireland to end this infernal
dialog: rebellion, not idle my days with--
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Robert!
text: In an instant Southampton draws a silver engraved
dialog: pistol and SHOOTS the servant!
text: Everyone is shocked-- but then we see:
dialog: 81
dialog: pg. 82
speaker_heading: THE SERVANT
text: had drawn his own, small wooden pistol.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
text: shares a look with Southampton.
scene_heading: 75 EXT. OXFORD STONE - GARDEN - DAY 75
text: To Establish. A foggy day. In the Foreground we see
text: the maze. Oxford and his fencing master, BEAULIEU
text: (20's) are in the center of the maze dueling with
dialog: rapiers for exercise.
speaker_heading: CLOSER
text: They wear outfits that are slightly more protective
dialog: than ornamental.
text: They duel for a few moments, and then Oxford TOUCHES
text: Beaulieu's shoulder. The speak entirely in French.
speaker_heading: BEAULIEU
dialog: Point!
text: Oxford backs off, as does the fencing master.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: (in French)
dialog: Bien. Faisons du travail... le Coup
dialog: droit d'autorité?
speaker_heading: BEAULIE
dialog: Mais oui, mon seigneur.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Bien. En garde!
text: And they once again begin to duel. But we quickly
text: surmise something is amiss. Beaulieu is much more
text: aggressive than he was before. Oxford realizes it, but
text: is an expert swordsman, and defends himself well.
text: And then Beaulieu aggressively moves forward, and STABS
text: Oxford in the leg.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Qu'est ce que vous faites?
text: But Oxford has little chance to react, because Beaulieu
text: continues his attack.
dialog: 82
dialog: pg. 83
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Beaulieu? Beaulieu?!
text: This has become an assassination attempt, not an
dialog: exercise.
scene_heading: ENTRANCE OF THE MAZE
text: Francesco is entering the maze with a silver tray
text: carrying a pitcher and two goblets.
scene_heading: CENTER OF THE MAZE
text: Though wounded, Oxford is a superior swordsman. And he
text: begins his own attack-- with a ferocity that surprises
dialog: Beaulieu.
speaker_heading: IN THE MAZE
text: Francesco heads for the center as--
text: IN THE CENTER OF THE MAZE
text: Oxford PIERCES Beaulieu's heart with his rapier, and
scene_heading: Beaulieu SCREAMS--
speaker_heading: IN THE MAZE
text: Francesco hears the scream, and starts to run.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: Signor? Signor?!
text: IN THE CENTER OF THE MAZE
text: Oxford collapses as Francesco rushes in.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO (CONT'D)
dialog: Signor? Mio dio! Signor! What has
dialog: happened--
text: Oxford checks his leg wound, and glances at the dead
text: Beaulieu. He tries to wave off Franceso's aid, but to
dialog: no avail as--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Beaulieu-- he, he tried to kill me...
scene_heading: 76 EXT. BANKSIDE LONDON - DAY 76
text: Jonson, slightly drunk, walks down a street, a whore
text: under his arm, and notices a commotion up ahead: people
text: talking by an alley near the Mermaid's tavern.
dialog: 83
dialog: pg. 84
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (to a passer-by)
dialog: What's all that, then?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: A body...
text: Jonson peers over and sees:
speaker_heading: A BODY
text: on its back in the alley. Someone turns it over. It's
text: MARLOWE, a dried stab-wound in his eye.
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: is stunned.
speaker_heading: MAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Must have been a cut-purse. Nowhere's
dialog: bloody safe anymore, I'll tell you
dialog: that...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 77 INT. A BEAR-BAITING THEATER - DAY 77
text: A small, open air theater where a chained bear is being
text: led around the theater. A set of mastiffs are being
text: led on the opposite side of the theater.
text: The spectators are unruly, loudly making bets for the
dialog: mauling to come.
text: Jonson is among them, taking a look at the bear, deciding
dialog: whether to bet on it or not.
speaker_heading: BEAR BAITER
dialog: Sampson! Sired by the great Arthur
dialog: himself! No dog's yet been bred that can
dialog: take him down!
text: Shakespeare suddenly sits next Jonson hardly notices.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: I need more money.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: More--? You already make more than any
dialog: playwright Bankside.
dialog: 84
dialog: pg. 85
speaker_heading: BEAR BAITER
dialog: But then here, good friends, I bring you
text: a pack of dogs so fierce, so dangerous,
dialog: that Medusa herself would shrink in fear!
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: I'm going to build my own theater, Ben,
dialog: one that fits the scale of my work--
text: Jonson suddenly turns to him.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Your work?
speaker_heading: BEAR BAITER
dialog: Not a one has had a morsel of food in a
dialog: week! Bred by the great John Sinclow!
speaker_heading: A MAN
dialog: Fourpence on three dogs!
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: They insist only a gentleman can own the
dialog: land.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER MAN
dialog: A shilling on four!
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: The bribes are outrageous, but I found
dialog: some one who will make me a coat-of-arms,
dialog: and change the Stratford lists for me.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Impossible.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER MAN
dialog: Eight shillings on six dogs! Eight
dialog: shillings on six dogs!
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I'll take that bet!! Eight shillings on
dialog: the bear, six dogs!
speaker_heading: ANOTHER MAN
dialog: Done!
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Bad bet, that.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (to Shakespeare)
dialog: You'll have to make do with what
dialog: you've got. I won't be your beggar.
dialog: 85
dialog: pg. 86
text: Shakespeare gives him a look to kill.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: This isn't a request, Ben. I'll have
dialog: more money.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Or what? You'll slit my throat like
dialog: you did Kit's?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Release the dogs! Release the dogs!
text: Shakespeare shows no reaction.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I know he went to see you last night,
dialog: Will. And I know he was planning to
dialog: expose you if you didn't agree to his
dialog: terms.
speaker_heading: IN THE PIT
text: The bear baiting begins.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Shakespeare stares at Jonson.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: (dead serious)
dialog: You're mad, Ben. Kit was my friend.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Be careful, Will. You kill me off
dialog: too, and you won't have any good plays
dialog: to act in after this is all done.
text: Some of the spectators BOO while others CHEER, and--
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: I'll have my guineas, Ben. One way or
dialog: another, I'll have my guineas.
text: And he gets up and leaves as the--
speaker_heading: DOGS
text: start to go for the bear's throat. Thge cheering goes to
dialog: a roar as we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 86
dialog: pg. 87
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
text: Wears a beard and fake nose. He tries to stay hidden so
dialog: Jonson doesn't see him. We are:
scene_heading: 78 EXT. LONDON BRIDGE - DAY 78
text: Jonson is waiting not far from him by a stand and
text: drinks an ale.
text: Then Oxford's servant, Francesco, appears.
text: After the two men have exchanged couple of words,
text: Francesco gives Jonson a leather folder containing a
text: manuscript and a purse jingling with coin. Jonson
text: takes them and leaves.
text: Jonson safely gone, Shakespeare starts to follow
text: Francesco who heads back over the bridge.
scene_heading: 78A EXT. THE THAMES RIVER - DUSK 78A
text: Shakespeare is in a small boat following Francesco, who
text: is in Oxford's boat. They head towards Oxford Stone.
scene_heading: EXT. OXFORD STONE - DUSK
text: Shakespeare watches as Francesco enters Oxford Stone.
speaker_heading: 79 OMIT 79
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 80 INT. OXFORD STONE - STUDY - DUSK 80
text: Shakespeare is waiting, clearly uncomfortable. It's
text: not the kind of room he's used to being in. He holds
text: his wig and his nose.
text: A door opens, and Oxford enters, walking on a stick
text: because of his leg injury. He is followed by his
dialog: servant, Francesco.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: So! You are the famous Shakespeare
dialog: whose labors I have enjoyed so much.
dialog: I am at your service, sir.
dialog: 87
dialog: pg. 88
dialog: Shakespeare is uncomfortable. He wasn't expecting
text: Oxford himself. Then he just goes for it.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: My lord-- I- I need more money.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: (sharp)
dialog: I beg your pardon?
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: My expenses have, ah, aggrandized...
dialog: since this all began.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: "Aggrandized"?
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: And if, if your lordship doesn't agree
dialog: to an increase in my, ah, fee, I shall
dialog: be forced to make certain... facts
dialog: public.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: Have you any idea to whom you are
dialog: speaking?
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: I am addressing the writer of
dialog: Hamlet... of Juliet and her Romeo. Am
dialog: I not?
text: Oxford is silent. Francesco goes to physically eject
text: Shakespeare from the room.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: Out. Get out! How dare you insult my
dialog: master in--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Wait!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How much?
text: Shakespeare looks at Francesco, then Oxford.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Four hundred pounds. A year.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: A year?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Pay him.
dialog: 88
dialog: pg. 89
text: Francesco is shocked.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: (impatient, in Italian)
dialog: Pagalo!
text: Shakespeare smiles.
scene_heading: 81 EXT. OXFORD STONE - DUSK 81
text: Shakespeare exits, tossing a leather pouch filled with
text: coins. He smiles.
scene_heading: 82 INT. OXFORD STONE - STUDY - DUSK 82
text: Oxford watches Shakespeare walk down the road through a
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: Forgive me for speaking of things
dialog: above my place or understanding,
dialog: signor. But... Is this wise? They
dialog: have already tried to kill you once.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Wisdom, Francesco, is a quality I have
dialog: unfortunately never possessed...
text: Francesco stares at Oxford who is deep in thought.
dialog: The sound of heated love making takes us to...
scene_heading: 83 INT. CECIL HOUSE - YOUNG OXFORD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 83
text: Twenty-five years earlier. Young Oxford (now 25 and
text: with a beard) is making love to someone. We can't tell
dialog: who at first, and assume it is Elizabeth. And then we
text: see, it's BESSIE, Young Elizabeth's lady-in-waiting.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 84 INT. CECIL HOUSE - YOUNG OXFORD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 84
text: An hour later, post-coital. A fire is burning, and
text: Bessie is finishing dressing herself.
speaker_heading: BESSIE
dialog: Edward... You know she would be
dialog: furious if she found out about this...
dialog: 89
dialog: pg. 90
text: Young Oxford doesn't answer. He is deep in thought.
speaker_heading: BESSIE (CONT'D)
dialog: She still loves you.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: No. She abandoned me.
speaker_heading: BESSIE
dialog: You don't know, do you?
text: He looks at her quizzically.
speaker_heading: BESSIE (CONT'D)
dialog: The Queen. She had your child.
scene_heading: 85 EXT. CECIL HOUSE - EARLY MORNING 85
text: A carriage drives towards the house.
scene_heading: 85A INT. CARRIAGE - EARLY MORNING 85A
text: Young Anne de Vere holds her sleeping daughter in her
dialog: arms.
scene_heading: 86 INT. CECIL HOUSE - HALLWAY - EARLY MORNING 86
text: Bessie carefully closes Oxford's bedroom door and
text: suddenly freezes.
text: She turns and sees Young Oxford's wife with her little
text: daughter at her side standing in the hallway staring at
dialog: her.
text: For a moment nobody dares to move, then Bessie rushes
dialog: off...
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: I cannot be certain, majesty, when
dialog: the... relationship began.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 87 INT. RICHMOND PALACE - GREAT HALL - DAY 87
text: Young Elizabeth looks out a window, obviously
text: distressed. William Cecil is across from her, his face
dialog: tense.
dialog: 90
dialog: pg. 91
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: But sometime soon after your return to
dialog: Court.
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: You're sure?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: They-- they haven't been very
dialog: discreet, majesty. I presume he
dialog: wanted you to know. To... to hurt
dialog: you.
text: She is crushed.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Majesty, there is more. The lady is
dialog: pregnant.
text: Young Elizabeth freezes, stunned. Then--
speaker_heading: YOUNG ELIZABETH
dialog: Arrest them. Arrest them both!
text: William Cecil bows and exits.
text: Now alone, Young Elizabeth lets her emotions out. She
text: picks up a vase and THROWS it into a wall.
scene_heading: 87A EXT. TOWER OF LONDON - DAY 87A
text: From high above, we see a carriage arrive. It stops,
text: and William Cecil gets out.
scene_heading: 88 INT. TOWER OF LONDON - YOUNG OXFORD'S CELL - DAY 88
text: Young Oxford (now 26) is looking out a window at the
text: river beyond. He has been imprisoned for some months.
text: His beard has become ragged, his clothes have seen
dialog: better days.
text: William Cecil enters.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Your whore gave birth last week.
text: Young Oxford turns to William Cecil. The stare at each
dialog: other for a beat.
dialog: 91
dialog: pg. 92
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: The Queen has decided to release you.
dialog: It seems time does indeed heal all
dialog: wounds.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: These are her conditions for your
dialog: release. One. You will not
dialog: acknowledge the child. Two. You will
dialog: never see the mother again. Three.
dialog: You will avoid Court at all costs.
dialog: Her majesty would prefer not to be
dialog: reminded of you in any way ever again.
text: A beat as Young Oxford thinks on all this.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Banished...?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: No. You have the freedom of the
dialog: kingdom. Just not of the Court.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Those are her terms. Here are mine.
dialog: You will go back to my daughter. You
dialog: will make some effort to make her
dialog: happy and you will finally act
dialog: according to your station in life, and
dialog: accept the responsibilities of your
dialog: great title.
text: Oxford reluctantly NODS. William Cecil goes to leave.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: My lord! I, too, have a condition.
text: William Cecil turns.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: I will go back to your daughter if...
dialog: You tell me the name of the child.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: I don't know if the whore has even
dialog: delivered the--
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: No. The other one.
text: Cecil's face goes to stone.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: The other one?
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Who told you?
dialog: 92
dialog: pg. 93
text: Cecil is obviously annoyed by this development.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: I will go back to your daughter. I
dialog: will make you as many grandchildren as
dialog: she can bare...
dialog: William Cecil thinks.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Or I can remain here...
text: William Cecil decides.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: There is no record of his true birth,
dialog: no trail that leads to you, or the...
dialog: mother. His foster parents never knew
dialog: the truth, and both are now dead...
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: The name?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM CECIL
dialog: Make even a hint of this to the child,
dialog: or anyone else, and this agreement is
dialog: void, and I'll see your head on the
dialog: block within a fortnight. And the
dialog: boy's as well.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (excited)
dialog: It's a boy...?
scene_heading: 89 EXT. CECIL HOUSE - GARDEN - DAY 89
text: Young Oxford (cleaned up) is watching a BOY about five
text: years old dueling with a tutor. The boy is quite good.
text: The boy notices Young Oxford, and stops duelling.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: Hello...
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: Hello.
text: Young Oxford smiles at the boy.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm Edward, the Earl of Oxford.
dialog: 93
dialog: pg. 94
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: My lord...
text: The Boy bows, a serious expression on his face.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: They tell me one day you're to be an
dialog: Earl as well.
speaker_heading: BOY
dialog: I shall be the Earl of Southampton.
speaker_heading: YOUNG OXFORD
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Well then, we shall be Earls together,
dialog: shan't we?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 90 INT. WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY 90
text: Twenty-five years later. William Cecil's body is in
text: state, in his coffin, in the center of the apse.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
text: looking completely stricken, approaches the coffin,
text: holding Cecil's white cane. She places it at his side.
text: In the background we hear the Archbishop of Canterbury
text: reading from the bible.
speaker_heading: ARCHBISHOP (O.S.)
dialog: ... In the sweat of thy face shalt
dialog: thou eat bread, till thou return to
dialog: the earth: for out of it wast thou
dialog: taken, because thou art dust, and to
dialog: dust shalt thou return...
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
text: scans the room, to see how it is all playing out.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
text: watches stoically, his wife and children at his side.
dialog: 94
dialog: pg. 95
scene_heading: 91 EXT. WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY 91
text: The funeral over, Elizabeth exits the portal of
text: Westminster Abbey and heads to her carriage. A huge
text: crowd of mourners has assembled.
text: Robert Cecil steps into place right behind her.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: We wish to recall Essex from
dialog: Ireland...
text: Robert Cecil is instantly concerned, but hides it well.
text: They continue to walk.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: We feel a terrible void, now that your
dialog: father is no longer at our side...
text: Robert Cecil bows his head as he walks.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: A wise decision, your majesty. If
dialog: nothing else, it will give him an
dialog: opportunity to respond to all these
dialog: rumors.
text: Still walking, she turns to him sharply.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Rumors?
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: I'm sorry, majesty, I thought you'd
dialog: heard.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Heard what?
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Essex is in negotiations with Philip
dialog: of Spain...
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Peace is at hand. We know this.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Majesty-- it is said that Essex has
dialog: promised Phillip all of Catholic
dialog: Ireland in return for...
text: He hesitates.
dialog: 95
dialog: pg. 96
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: In return for what?
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Spain's support of Essex's claim to
dialog: the throne of England...
text: They have arrived at her carriage.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It is, as of yet, just rumor.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Bring him to me, William. Bring him
dialog: to me at once!
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: (correcting)
text: Robert, majesty.
text: Elizabeth stares at him for an instant, then gets into
text: her carriage, unsure of herself.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: My father's death has been a great
dialog: loss for us all...
text: She ignores him, trying to collect herself. Robert
text: Cecil turns to the driver, NODS, and the carriage takes
dialog: off.
text: As soon as it is away, Robert Cecil turns and some in
text: the crowd of commoners begin to BOO at him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: HORSE HOOVES
text: as they gallop over emerald green grasses. We are:
scene_heading: 92 EXT. A MILITARY FIELD IN IRELAND - DAY 92
text: A group of horsemen gallop into Essex's camp. A
text: MESSENGER jumps off his horse and heads for Essex's
dialog: tent.
scene_heading: 93 INT. ESSEX'S TENT - DAY 93
text: Where Essex and Southampton are having dinner as the
text: messenger enters. He bows.
dialog: 96
dialog: pg. 97
speaker_heading: MESSENGER
dialog: My lord...
text: He hands him a sealed envelope. Essex takes it, begins
text: to read. Frowns, SLAMS the parchment down. He looks
text: into the distance, trying to process what he's just
dialog: read.
text: Southampton picks up the parchment and begins reading.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: She can't believe this...
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: Oh, can't she?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: It's Robert Cecil. He failed to kill
dialog: you, now he tries to kill your name.
text: Essex heads for the flap of the tent.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: We leave with the tide!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 94 INT. THE MERMAID'S TAVERN - NIGHT 94
text: Shakespeare enters the tavern carrying a rolled up
text: parchment. He passes various actors drinking, then
text: hurries over to Jonson, Nashe and Dekker, who are deep
dialog: in drink.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Well, I've got it!
text: Shakespeare unravels the parchment. He puts it on the
text: table with a flourish.
text: It shows a coat-of-arms containing a spear and a
text: falcon. The colors are numerous, and garish.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
dialog: The herald just finished it not an
dialog: hour ago.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Well?
text: Everyone is confused by it.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: It's quite... colorful.
dialog: 97
dialog: pg. 98
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: What in blazes is it?
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: My coat-of-arms! It cost a bloody
dialog: fortune, but, by god, you can call me
dialog: gentleman now!
text: Jonson looks over at Shakespeare. Shakespeare locks
text: eyes with him, but looks away, ashamed of something.
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: I can't quite make out the motto...
dialog: Non sanz... Non...
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: "Non sanz droict".
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: Not without--
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Right!? Not without right?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You went to him, didn't you? You
dialog: lying knave-- you went to him!
dialog: Shakespeare doesn't want to discuss this with the
text: others present.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Ben. Ben! Let me buy you a--
text: He grabs Jonson's shoulder, but Jonson pushes him away.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: What? You've already killed off one
dialog: competitor. Now you want another dead
dialog: as well?
text: Shakespeare looks at the confused Nashe and Dekker
dialog: nervously.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: I don't know what you mean. Ben, we
dialog: should really--
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I swore to him I wouldn't tell you his
dialog: name. Swore it! Do you have any idea
dialog: what he might do to me? Do you?
dialog: (to Nashe)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 98
dialog: pg. 99
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: He's not even a writer you know. He
dialog: can't even--
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Ben-- you've had too much to drink.
text: Shakespeare grabs Jonson.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Unhand me!
text: Shakespeare backs off. Jonson pulls out a piece of
text: parchment from his shirt.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: Here!
dialog: (looks around)
dialog: A quill! A quill!
text: Nashe and Dekker look at each other, slightly
text: embarrassed. Jonson finds a quill deep in his pants.
text: He thrusts it at Will, who ignores it.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: (re: the parchment)
dialog: Go on, Will. Write something for us.
dialog: Now. Go on! Amaze us with your
dialog: verse. Your wit! No? Try astounding
dialog: us with the letter "E". Or an "I"--
dialog: it's just a straight line!
text: Shakespeare stares at him.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: You haven't got any ink.
text: And he exits.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 95 EXT. THE CITY GATES OF LONDON - DAY 95
text: Southampton and Essex are on horseback, followed by
text: several dozen armed retainers, GALLOPING towards the
dialog: city of London.
scene_heading: 96 EXT. WHITEHALL PALACE - COURTYARD - DAY 96
text: The party rides into the first gate. The palace is the
text: city residence of the Queen, and is at the edge of the
dialog: City.
dialog: 99
dialog: pg. 100
text: Essex and Southampton jump off their horses.
scene_heading: 97 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY 97
text: Essex and Southampton walk quickly down the long
text: hallway, opening door after door. Servants scurry
text: behind them, terrified of the intrusion, trying to stop
text: them. They open the doors into--
scene_heading: 98 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY 98
text: The ladies-in-waiting scream in fear when they see the
text: two men in battle gear.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: (to Southampton)
dialog: Wait for me.
dialog: And he continues on into--
scene_heading: 99 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - OLD ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - 99
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS
text: --where Elizabeth is still dressing, putting on make-
text: up, etc. She is NOT wearing her wig, and is only
text: wearing her undergarments. She looks quite ugly.
text: She turns to see Essex, shocked at his intrusion.
text: Essex FREEZES. He knows he has just made an enormous
dialog: faux-pas.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: Majesty, I, I...
text: She stares at him, horrified to be seen in such a
text: manner. The she regains her composure and--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Get out! Out!!!
text: He steps back in horror-- not at her appearance, but
text: what he has just done. The doors SLAM in front of him
dialog: as we--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (O.S.)
speaker_heading: (CONT'D)
dialog: The insolence!
dialog: 100
dialog: pg. 101
scene_heading: 100 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY 100
text: Elizabeth, now dressed and wearing her wig on her
text: throne, is raging at Robert Cecil.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Who in God's name does he think he is?
dialog: Abandoning his post without my leave!
text: She begins to absent-mindedly unbutton the top of her
dialog: bodice.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: Coming into our presence in such a
dialog: manner, neither announced nor invited,
dialog: half his army in my courtyard. He's
dialog: gone mad... mad!
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: No. Unfortunately for us, your
dialog: majesty, he is quite sane. He simply
dialog: believes he is your royal equal.
text: She turns to him sharply, furious at the thought.
scene_heading: 101 EXT. ESSEX HOUSE - DAY 101
text: It looks like an armed camp, with part of Essex's army
text: encamped in the front courtyard. The soldiers are all
dialog: tense.
text: Oxford, followed only by Francesco, rides into the
text: courtyard. He is immediately surrounded by armed men,
text: their muskets pointed at him. Oxford raises his hands.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I am Edward, Earl of Oxford.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: Edward! Edward! Thank god you're
dialog: here.
text: Southampton comes towards him.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON (CONT'D)
dialog: Elizabeth has revoked all of his royal
dialog: licenses! She believes every lie
text: Cecil tells about him.
dialog: (seeing Oxford's wound)
dialog: Edward? What happened to your leg?
dialog: 101
dialog: pg. 102
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Nothing.
text: Oxford continues towards the door. Southampton
text: follows, his concern for Oxford's wound noticeable.
scene_heading: 102 INT. ESSEX HOUSE - HALL - DAY 102
text: Oxford, Southampton and Essex are alone. Oxford is
text: sitting in a chair, while Essex paces impatiently,
text: Southampton standing between them.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: She won't accept my letters. I cannot
dialog: get to her. Cecil plans to arrest me
dialog: any day. I know it.
dialog: (beat and more determined)
dialog: But that won't be as easy as he
dialog: thinks.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Fight him in London, and you only
dialog: validate every rumor and lie Cecil has
dialog: ever told about you.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: Then what do you suggest I do? Let
dialog: myself be arrested so I can be tried
dialog: and executed for crimes I did not
dialog: commit?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: No. I will go to Elizabeth, myself,
dialog: alone--
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: How? Cecil won't let her see a letter
text: without reading it first.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I won't send her a letter. I will
dialog: send her a book.
text: Essex looks confused, but Oxford ignores it.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: She will call for me. And while I am
dialog: with her, you will come-- not with an
text: army, not with swords, but with her
dialog: loyal subjects. The cobblers, the
dialog: tinkers, the bricklayers of London.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 102
dialog: pg. 103
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: All, all calling for Robert Cecil's
dialog: banishment from Court. Words, Robert,
dialog: words, will prevail with her, not
dialog: swords.
text: Essex looks unsure.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: And the mob? How will I--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Leave that to me.
speaker_heading: 103 OMIT 103
scene_heading: 103A INT. OXFORD STONE - A STUDY - NIGHT 103A
text: Oxford is in his rooms, writing feverishly by
text: candlelight.
text: He completes a thought... closes the manuscript...
text: writes down the title with a flourish:
dialog: The Tragedie of Richard III
scene_heading: 104 INT. A ROOM ABOVE THE MERMAID'S TAVERN - DAY 104
text: A room for the whores to take their tricks. Small,
text: with nothing much beyond a straw bed.
text: Shakespeare is bedding a buxom young lady.
text: And then the door OPENS. Francesco enters, and Oxford
text: follows, holding a manuscript. Shakespeare looks
text: shocked. She starts to SCREAM and yell as she pulls a
dialog: sheet to cover herself.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: (to the whore)
dialog: Hold your tongue, whore, and get out!
text: She does so as Oxford walks over to Shakespeare. He
text: tosses the manuscript to him. Shakespeare starts to
text: look at it. The whore is partially dressed, so--
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO (CONT'D)
dialog: (to the whore)
dialog: Out, woman!
speaker_heading: WHORE
dialog: Oi. `Oo's going to pay me then?
dialog: 103
dialog: pg. 104
text: Shakespeare gives a look to Oxford-- he certainly isn't
dialog: going to pay for it.
text: Oxford nods to Francesco, who gives the whore a few
text: coins. She smiles, and leaves.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: You shall begin rehearsals
dialog: immediately. But it is not to be
dialog: performed until I tell you. And you
dialog: may only have a day's notice.
text: Shakespeare looks confused.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: That will be expensive-- keeping all
text: the actors ready. Having the props
dialog: made but not--
text: Oxford tosses a very large pouch of coins at him, and
text: then begins to leave.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Oh, and congratulations. You've had
text: an epic poem published today.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Published? You mean like in a book?
dialog: Renaissance MUSIC BEGINS as we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: A PIECE OF PAPER
text: as a printer presses down the press onto it. The title
text: page is printed in front of us. It's called "Venus and
text: Adonis". A MONTAGE BEGINS.
scene_heading: 105 INT. A PRINT SHOP - DAY 105
text: And the printer brings the page out from the press and
dialog: checks it for proper alignment.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (V.O.)
dialog: `The boar!' quoth she; whereat a
dialog: sudden pale,
dialog: Like lawn being spread upon the
text: blushing rose...
text: Usurps her cheek; she trembles at his
dialog: tale,
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 104
dialog: pg. 105
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (V.O.)
text: And on his neck her yoking arms she
dialog: throws:
text: The printer nods his approval... The poem continues
dialog: with:
scene_heading: 105A EXT. THE PRINT SHOP - DAY 105A
text: Shakespeare exits the Print Shop, continuing to read
text: the book, now out-loud.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (V.O.)
text: She sinketh down, still hanging by his
dialog: neck,
text: He on her belly falls, she on her
dialog: back.
dialog: (not quoting)
dialog: Oh, I like this...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: 106 OMIT 106
text: A COVER OF "VENUS AND ADONIS"
text: that is held by a woman.
speaker_heading: LADY IN WAITING (O.S.)
dialog: 'Fondling,' she saith,
dialog: I'll be a park, and thou shalt be my
dialog: deer;
dialog: Feed where thou wilt, on mountain or
dialog: in dale:
dialog: We are:
scene_heading: 107 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY 107
text: A LADY-IN-WAITING is reading out loud to other Ladies.
text: They listen giggling now and then. We only see them
text: from the back.
text: LADY IN WAITING
dialog: Graze on my lips; and if those hills
dialog: be dry,
dialog: Stray lower, where the pleasant
text: fountains lie.
dialog: 105
dialog: pg. 106
text: SECOND LADY IN WAITING
dialog: (continuing)
text: Seeds spring from seeds, and beauty
dialog: breedeth beauty;
dialog: Thou wast begot; to beget is thy duty.
dialog: By law of nature thou art bound to
dialog: breed...
text: They look up and see--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
text: standing across the room. How much has she heard?
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: They all stand abruptly, worried. The women who was
text: reading the book puts it down on a table.
text: Elizabeth silently walks over to them, and picks up the
dialog: book. She opens it as we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 108 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - HALLWAY - DUSK 108
text: Robert Cecil walks down the long hall, heading for an
text: audience with the queen. Two guards open a door,
dialog: letting him into--
scene_heading: 109 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - OLD ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - DUSK 109
text: Elizabeth is looking out the window. It's raining
text: outside. She is NOT wearing her wig, not much make-up,
dialog: and looks quite... odd.
text: Robert Cecil enters.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: (turns)
dialog: You find me disgusting, don't you?
dialog: Repugnant. Wrinkled?
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: You, you are the sun, majesty. The
dialog: glory of--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Liar!
text: Robert Cecil shuts his mouth.
dialog: 106
dialog: pg. 107
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: Is it so hard to believe that once I
dialog: was young? That I was... beautiful?
dialog: Your father knew me as such...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You have read the book?
text: She doesn't have to say which one. Robert Cecil sees a
text: copy of "Venus and Adonis" on a table. He NODS.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: He writes to me. To remind me of that
dialog: beauty. That love. How I... took
dialog: him. How I... adored him...
text: Robert Cecil knows to be silent. She looks out the
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: (throaty, sexually)
dialog: Graze on my lips; and if those hills
dialog: be dry,
dialog: Stray lower, where the pleasant
dialog: fountains lie...
text: She smiles seductively, transported in time.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: I've been foolish. Proud. Yes. Too
dialog: proud. Gloriana... The Virgin
text: Queen... A statue. Bloodless.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: "Thou wast begot; to beget is thy
dialog: duty.
dialog: By law of nature thou art bound to
dialog: breed, That thine may live when thou
dialog: thyself art dead"...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Your father told you of the child?
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: (hint of a smile)
dialog: Which one, your majesty?
text: Elizabeth's eyes flare in anger for an instant, then
text: she regains composure.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: His. Mine. He still lives?
text: Robert Cecil nods.
dialog: 107
dialog: pg. 108
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: He was well placed? A nobleman?
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: (hesitates)
dialog: Yes... your majesty.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Who?
text: Robert Cecil hesitates.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: I am your Queen! Now who is my son!!?
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: His grace, the Earl of... Southampton,
dialog: your majesty.
text: She seems surprised. Perhaps she was expecting Essex.
text: But then she smiles, and NODS in approval.
speaker_heading: CECIL
dialog: Majesty... You are not having doubts
dialog: about James of Scotland succeeding
dialog: you, are you?
text: Elizabeth goes into a rage.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: James?! He is the son of Mary! She
dialog: plotted and schemed to steal the
dialog: throne from under me! No son of hers
dialog: will rule while a yet Tudor lives!
text: Robert Cecil is surprised by her fury. He bows his
text: head as Elizabeth tries to collect herself.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: I will decide what is best for my
dialog: kingdom! Not you! Not you!!
dialog: (calmer)
dialog: I have bid Edward to come to me on my
dialog: return to London on Monday next. It
dialog: is decided.
text: She says no more, the audience over. Robert Cecil
text: hesitates, and then she glares at him... He bows and
text: exits, the fury on his face plain.
text: Elizabeth looks at her own reflection in the window...
dialog: 108
dialog: pg. 109
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: And so, in spite of death, I shall
dialog: survive,
dialog: In that, my likeness still is left
dialog: alive.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 110 EXT. BANKSIDE LONDON - DAY 110
text: Ben Jonson walks with a manuscript in his hands. He
text: stops for a moment when he sees the new Globe theater.
text: Workers are still painting the walls.
text: He pauses when he sees a poster in front advertising a
dialog: performance of "Richard III" on Monday next.
scene_heading: 110A INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 110A
text: Jonson sticks his head in and takes in the glorious new
text: theater Shakespeare and Burbage have built.
text: The actor Condell is on stage, rehearsing the character
text: of "Gloucester". He walks on stage with a limp, and
text: has a large hump on his back. He is a caricature of
dialog: Robert Cecil.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: (in character)
dialog: But I, that am not shaped for sportive
dialog: tricks, nor made to court an amorous
dialog: looking-glass...
text: Richard BURBAGE, the theater's stage manager, is
text: watching his performance with Spencer and a group of
dialog: actors.
text: Jonson stops and watches the rehearsal for a beat.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER" (CONT'D)
dialog: (in character)
dialog: I, that am curtail'd of this fair
text: proportion, deformed, unfinish'd, sent
dialog: before my time into this breathing
dialog: world...
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: Good part, that...
dialog: 109
dialog: pg. 110
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: ...and that so lamely and
text: unfashionable that dogs bark at me as
text: I halt by them.
dialog: (out of character)
dialog: Is this wise?
speaker_heading: BURBAGE
dialog: It's only the one performance. Go on!
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: I need a drink...
text: And "Gloucester" heads backstage.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (to Burbage)
dialog: Burbage. Wonderful theater. Wonderful!
dialog: The best Bankside! But only one
dialog: performance? Is it that bad?
speaker_heading: BURBAGE
text: Hardly, it's Will's new play. Richard
dialog: the Third. We've been hired to
dialog: perform it free to the public.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Free?
speaker_heading: BURBAGE
dialog: Aye. Some anonymous nobleman paid for
dialog: everything. God knows Will never
dialog: would. Been rehearsing all week,
dialog: just found out this morning, we go up
dialog: next Monday.
text: Jonson thinks a beat-- that's odd-- but then holds up
dialog: his manuscript.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (grins)
dialog: My best so far. I guarantee more than
dialog: one performance. Though I'll not pay
dialog: for the tickets myself.
dialog: (winks)
dialog: No need to.
speaker_heading: BURBAGE
dialog: Sorry, Ben...
text: Jonson looks confused.
dialog: 110
dialog: pg. 111
speaker_heading: BURBAGE (CONT'D)
dialog: Will... He's part owner... I'm sorry
dialog: Ben, but I had to agree no Jonson
dialog: plays at the Globe... Ever.
text: Jonson is in shock.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 111 INT. THE MERMAID'S TAVERN - NIGHT 111
text: Jonson is deep in drink, by himself. He listens as
dialog: patrons of the bar say:
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (to a woman)
dialog: You doin' tomorrow?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: You askin?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Managed to get two tickets to
dialog: Shakespeare's latest. Cost me a
dialog: fortune.
speaker_heading: PASSING MAN
dialog: Ballocks, did it! They're giving them
dialog: away free.
text: Some of the actors from the rehearsal enter, all jolly
text: and excited. They head for the bar. They are: The
text: ACTOR WHO PLAYED "GLOUCESTER", Spencer, Pope, Heminge,
dialog: etc...
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: Best villain in the history of
dialog: theater, Richard the Third. No doubt.
speaker_heading: HEMINGE
dialog: Come on. Better than Mephistopheles?
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: No doubt! Your Marlowe-- god rest his
dialog: soul-- is fine for your everyday
dialog: scalawag, and your Jonson won't even
dialog: try the hard drama. No, this is
dialog: Shakespeare, for god's sake! The man
dialog: knows drama. I tell you, not even the
dialog: Greeks compare!
dialog: (toasting)
dialog: To Shakespeare! And villainy!
dialog: 111
dialog: pg. 112
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: To Shakespeare! And villainy!
text: Jonson gets up, furious, and exits, quite drunk. The
text: actors don't even notice him.
scene_heading: 112 EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF TOWER OF LONDON - NIGHT 112
text: Jonson stumbles down the streets, alone, deep in his
text: own private hell. It's raining.
speaker_heading: WHORE
dialog: Fancy a tumble? Only sixpence!
text: Jonson waves her off. He looks up and sees:
speaker_heading: FROM HIS POV:
text: The Tower of London. He makes a decision.
speaker_heading: 113 OMITTED 113
scene_heading: 114 INT. THE TOWER OF LONDON - POLE'S ROOM - DAY 114
text: Jonson sits in the same spot where Marlowe was sitting
text: earlier. And he hates himself for it. Rain drips down
dialog: the windows.
text: Pole looks up from some papers.
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: I haven't got all day, man.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I... There is a-- there is a play to
dialog: be performed... on Monday.
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: There's many plays to be performed
dialog: next Monday, isn't there?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Yes, my lord, but this one is to be
dialog: performed one performance, and one
dialog: performance only. On Monday. All
text: Bankside is talking of it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: The History of King Richard the Third.
dialog: By William Shakespeare.
dialog: Pole is confused. So?
dialog: 112
dialog: pg. 113
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
text: He kills his brother the king, and
dialog: half the royal family to get the
dialog: throne for himself--
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: I know who Richard the Third was.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Yes. Of course you do. But in
dialog: William Shakespeare's version, he is
dialog: played as a hunch-back.
text: Pole realizes this is significant.
scene_heading: 115 INT. CECIL HOUSE - THE PRIVATE CHAPEL - DAWN 115
text: Robert Cecil has prayed all night. His lips silently
text: move in a prayer for a miracle.
text: When Pole appears he doesn't stop his prayer. Only
text: after Pole whispers in his ear does he stop and look
text: slowly up to the simple cross and close his eyes in
dialog: relief.
scene_heading: 116 EXT. LONDON - DAY 116
text: From high, high above a city of 200,000 souls. It's a
text: beautiful sunny day, but black storm clouds are on the
dialog: horizon.
text: All of London is on its feet. They all are on their way
dialog: to Bankside.
text: The London Bridge is crammed one way. The River Thames
text: is full of many small boats of theatergoers.
scene_heading: 117 EXT. BANKSIDE - IN FRONT OF THE GLOBE - DAY 117
text: We see that a huge crowd has formed in front of the
dialog: Globe.
scene_heading: 118 INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - BACKSTAGE - DAY 118
text: Everyone is busy, preparing for the performance;
dialog: actors, stage-hands, etc...
text: Shakespeare adjusts an actor's costume when Burbage
text: walks up besides him.
dialog: 113
dialog: pg. 114
speaker_heading: BURBAGE
dialog: We have to turn `em away by the
dialog: hundreds! Look! Never seen anything
dialog: quite like it!
text: And both men look out the curtains to the crowd
dialog: outside.
text: The theater is full to the last seat. The people are
text: crammed together like sardines.
scene_heading: 118A INT. OXFORD STONE - OXFORD'S ROOM - NIGHT 118A
text: Oxford is being dressed in front of a mirror... His
dialog: finest clothes... Powder to face...
text: Francesco assists him.
scene_heading: 118AA INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - THE GALLERIES - DAY 118AA
text: Jonson is leaning against the edge of the balustrade,
text: watching the Groundlings fill in. He bites his nails
dialog: nervous.
dialog: Nashe joins him as--
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: So! I heard the Earl of Essex paid for
dialog: this whole performance! Man's never even
dialog: been to the theater, and still he's heard
dialog: of Will--
text: Dekker also joins them.
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: Essex!? Impossible. My cousin's one of
dialog: his men-at-arms. Hasn't been paid in
text: weeks. They're all just sitting there,
dialog: waiting.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Waiting? Waiting for what?
speaker_heading: DEKKER
text: Wants to have an audience with the Queen.
dialog: As if Cecil would ever let Essex near her
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: By the mass, Cecil in favor, Essex out!
dialog: Who can keep up with it all!?
dialog: (takes a swig)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 114
dialog: pg. 115
speaker_heading: NASHE (CONT'D)
dialog: Zounds, I tire of politics, politics,
dialog: politics.
scene_heading: 119 EXT. THE THAMES RIVER - DAY 119
text: Oxford is in a long-boat, headed for Whitehall Palace.
text: The oars of the boat cut neatly and silently into the
dialog: water.
scene_heading: 120 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - OLD ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - DAY 120
text: Elizabeth is doing her toilette. She seems excited like
text: a school girl before her first date. Her Ladies in
text: waiting are attending to her.
scene_heading: 121 INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 121
dialog: The audience HUSHES as--
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: "GLOUCESTER", the future Richard III, enters. He is
text: hunch-backed, and looks as much like Robert Cecil as
dialog: possible in terms of beard and costume. First the
text: people are in stunned silence, but then like magic the
text: hissing starts. It is followed by more hissing and the
text: first boos.
text: The actor playing Gloucester nervously looks around...
scene_heading: IN THE GALLERIES
text: Dekker seems surprised at the similarity to Robert Cecil.
speaker_heading: DEKKER
dialog: (to Nashe)
dialog: Tired of politics are you? Seems you
dialog: picked the wrong day to come to the
dialog: theater, then...
text: Jonson gives Dekker a sharp look. What's going on here?
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: "Gloucester" addresses the audience.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: Now is the winter of our discontent
dialog: made glorious summer by this son of
dialog: York. Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd
dialog: his wrinkled front....
dialog: 115
dialog: pg. 116
text: The hissing and booing has swelled so strong that the
text: actor stops for a moment. But then he finds the courage
dialog: again to continue.
text: Jonson looks down at the Groundling's reaction, and
dialog: spots--
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
text: in the audience. But among the Groundlings, not in
text: Oxford's usual box seat.
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: looks over to Oxford's box. It's empty.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
text: ...and now instead of mounting barded
text: steeds to fright the souls of fearful
text: adversaries, he capers nimbly in a
dialog: lady's chamber to the lascivious
dialog: pleasing of a lute. But I, that am
dialog: not shaped for sportive tricks, nor
dialog: made to court an amorous looking-
dialog: glass...
speaker_heading: 122 OMIT 122
scene_heading: 123 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - ROBERT CECIL'S ROOM - DAY 123
text: Robert Cecil watches himself in a mirror as armor is
text: placed on him by servants.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER" (O.S.)
dialog: I, that am curtail'd of this fair
text: proportion, deformed, unfinish'd, sent
dialog: before my time into this breathing
dialog: world,....
scene_heading: 124 EXT. BANKSIDE - IN FRONT OF THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 124
text: The huge crowd has stayed in front of the Globe. It
text: seems they are waiting for something. We hear hissing
text: and booing from the crowd inside the theater.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: ...and that so lamely and
text: unfashionable that dogs bark at me as
text: I halt by them.
dialog: 116
dialog: pg. 117
scene_heading: 125 INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 125
text: On stage, "Gloucester: continues despite the concert of
text: hissing and booing...
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: And therefore, since I cannot prove a
dialog: lover, I am determined to prove a
dialog: villain and hate the idle pleasures of
dialog: these days...
scene_heading: 126 EXT. ESSEX HOUSE - DAY 126
text: Essex mounts his horse, Southampton at his side. Their
text: sixty or so men behind them ready for the march to
dialog: Elizabeth.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: Edward knows what he is doing... Does
dialog: he not?
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: He promised us a mob. They'll be
dialog: here.
text: Essex looks concerned, but says no more.
scene_heading: 127 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - ROBERT CECIL'S ROOM - DAY 127
text: The servant tightens the last strap of Robert Cecil's
text: armor. He smiles at himself in the mirror.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER" (O.S.)
dialog: Plots have I laid!
scene_heading: CANNONS DRAWN BY HORSES
text: as they roll down a cobbled street. We are:
scene_heading: 128 EXT. LONDON BRIDGE - DAY 128
text: Soldiers move people and carts off the street. Others
text: put CANNONS into place and then cover them with canvas
text: tarps.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER" (O.S.)
dialog: Inductions dangerous, by drunken
dialog: prophecies, libels and dreams, to set
dialog: my brother Clarence and the king in
dialog: deadly hate the one against the other.
dialog: 117
dialog: pg. 118
scene_heading: 129 INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 129
text: Shakespeare watches from backstage, getting more and
text: more nervous by the audience's reaction.
scene_heading: AN AUDIENCE MEMBER
dialog: (to the actor playing
dialog: "Gloucester")
dialog: A pox on you!
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: A pox on Cecil!
scene_heading: MORE AUDIENCE MEMBERS
dialog: A pox on Cecil! A pox on Cecil!
text: The actors are getting nervous. People start throwing
text: lettuce and tomatoes at them.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: Why is Oxford's man with the Groundlings?
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
text: Shakespeare and Burbage exchange a worried glance.
scene_heading: 130 EXT. ESSEX HOUSE - DAY 130
text: The BELLS of St. James' Cathedral mark the hour as five
text: o'clock. Essex looks to Southampton nervously.
scene_heading: 131 INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 131
text: The play continues. "Gloucester" is plotting yet
text: another death on his way to the throne.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: Hath she forgot already that brave
dialog: prince,
dialog: Edward, her lord, whom I, some three
dialog: months since,
dialog: Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury?
dialog: A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman-
text: Fram'd in the prodigality of
dialog: nature, Young, valiant, wise, and
dialog: no doubt right royal-
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: Down with Cecil!
text: The actor playing "Gloucester" hesitates. The audience
text: is getting unruly.
dialog: 118
dialog: pg. 119
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO (CONT'D)
dialog: Up with Essex! To Essex House! To
dialog: Essex House!!
scene_heading: IN THE GALLERIES
text: Jonson is putting the pieces together. He stands.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: This is what Essex is waiting for--
dialog: (realizing)
text: Oxford is bringing him a mob.
text: Jonson heads for the stairs.
speaker_heading: NASHE
dialog: Why would Oxford--
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I don't know, I don't know! But, the
dialog: Tower-- Cecil, he already knows. He
dialog: knows!
dialog: (looks at Francesco)
dialog: I-- I have to warn them!
text: Nashe and Dekker are baffled as Jonson rushes down the
dialog: stairs.
scene_heading: VARIOUS GROUNDLINGS
dialog: Up with Essex! Essex! Death to
dialog: Cecil!
speaker_heading: BACKSTAGE
text: Shakespeare turns to Burbage.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: We must close the play. Now!!
speaker_heading: BURBAGE
dialog: Close the...? Are you off your head?
dialog: We can start to HEAR the audience chanting "Ess-ex,Ess-
dialog: ex"...
speaker_heading: ON STAGE
text: It's getting unruly.
speaker_heading: "GLOUCESTER"
dialog: (repeating)
dialog: Fram'd... in the prodigality of
dialog: nature, Young, valiant, wise, and no
dialog: doubt right royal-
dialog: 119
dialog: pg. 120
dialog: "Ess-ex, Ess-ex, Ess-ex"
text: ON THE GROUND
text: Jonson pushes his way through the crowd, trying to head
text: for Francesco. But they're separated by a sea of people.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: To Essex House! To Essex House!
dialog: Death to Cecil! Traitor!
text: A moment as the whole audience thinks on this. And
text: then these chants are repeated by hundreds in the
text: audience as they are pushing towards exits.
text: And Jonson-- still struggling to reach Francesco-- is
text: carried along with the mob.
scene_heading: 132 EXT. OUTSIDE THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 132
text: The mob pours out of the doors.
text: Storm clouds are gathering. A RUMBLE of thunder sounds
text: in the distance.
scene_heading: 133 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY 133
text: Oxford is waiting for his audience, looking out a
text: window, nervously.
scene_heading: 134 EXT. BANKSIDE LONDON - DAY 134
text: The crowd pours through Bankside, growing in numbers as
text: more people come out of taverns, whore-houses, etc...
text: A shop-owner comes out of his store, confused. Another
text: MAN grabs him.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: To Essex! And then to the Queen!
dialog: (joins in the chanting)
dialog: Ess-ex! Ess-ex!
text: The shop-owner begins to get the spirit of the mob.
scene_heading: 135 EXT. LONDON BRIDGE - DAY 135
dialog: If anything, the crowd is twice the size it was moments
text: ago. They head down the shop-lined bridge, full of
dialog: bravado.
dialog: 120
dialog: pg. 121
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: is in the middle of the uncontrolled mob. He spots
text: Francesco nearby.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: The mob has to slow down on the bridge. There is not
dialog: much room. And then it happens!
text: We are at the front of the mob, when the first soldiers
text: appear and pull down the tarps revealing the cannons.
text: People scream as an Officer appears and--
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Fire!
text: And then the cannon FIRES. There is PANIC all around,
dialog: and-
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: runs with the crowd, trying to escape.
scene_heading: 137 EXT. ESSEX HOUSE - DAY 137
text: Essex and Southampton look tense. They expected a mob
dialog: here by now.
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: They should be here by now...
text: Essex frowns.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: We go as we are! Now!!
text: And he spurs his horse, and GALLOPS down the street.
speaker_heading: ESSEX (CONT'D)
dialog: To the Queen!
text: Southampton has no choice, and follows. So do the 60
text: or so men behind them.
scene_heading: 136 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY 136
text: Oxford hears a cannon shot. But it could also be the
text: sound of thunder. He goes to the window, sees the rain
text: clouds, and dismisses the sound. A LADY IN WAITING
text: enters.
dialog: 121
dialog: pg. 122
scene_heading: LADY-IN-WAITING
dialog: My lord. Her majesty will be with you
dialog: shortly.
dialog: 138 Omitted 138
scene_heading: 139 EXT. LONDON BRIDGE - DAY 139
text: The mob is in panic. And--
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: is in the middle of it.
speaker_heading: FRANCESCO
dialog: Signor Jonson! We are betrayed! Run!
dialog: Run!
text: Jonson looks on in horror as Francesco is KILLED by a
text: soldier wielding a pike.
scene_heading: 140 EXT. WHITEHALL PALACE - COURTYARD - DAY 140
text: Essex and his men ROAR past the token guards at the
text: front gate, and gallop into the--
speaker_heading: MAIN COURTYARD
text: Essex rears his horse, looks around at the many windows
text: that surround them from above.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: To the Queen! To the Queen!
text: His men repeat his plea. And then, once again, another
dialog: trap springs.
speaker_heading: THE GATE
dialog: SLAMS closed. And--
scene_heading: GUARDS ARMED WITH MUSKETS
text: line up in a colonnade in the story above. Pole is in
dialog: command.
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Take your aim!
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: realizes--
dialog: 122
dialog: pg. 123
speaker_heading: SOUTHAMPTON
dialog: It's a trap!
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: Spread out!
dialog: But before his men can obey--
scene_heading: IN THE COLONNADE
dialog: Pole orders--
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Fire!!
scene_heading: IN THE COURTYARD
text: AND a hundred shots FIRE down into Essex and his men!
scene_heading: 141 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY 141
text: Oxford HEARS the SHOTS fired. Confused, he goes to a
text: window, looks out and sees:
speaker_heading: FROM HIS POV:
text: Men fall all around Essex and Southampton.
scene_heading: 141A EXT. WHITEHALL PALACE - COURTYARD - DAY 141A
text: Pole walks down the colonnade.
speaker_heading: POLE
dialog: Re-load!
scene_heading: 142 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY 142
text: Elizabeth heads for the window just as a door behind
text: her SLAMS open, and Robert Cecil hurries in with a
text: dozen guards.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Majesty! You must away! Essex is in
dialog: armed revolt! He's come to usurp you!
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: (confused)
dialog: Essex? I-- Edward is--
text: She seems like a confused old woman.
dialog: 123
dialog: pg. 124
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: You must flee! Quickly! Majesty! He
dialog: means to kill you and take your throne
dialog: for himself!
text: It takes only an instant for that to sink in. She
text: looks enraged. And then she turns with a flurry, and
text: heads back the way she came. The guards that were with
text: Robert Cecil follow her.
scene_heading: 143 EXT. WHITEHALL PALACE - COURTYARD - DAY 143
text: Another fusillade is SHOT, and more of Essex's men go
dialog: down.
text: And then doors OPEN on the ground floor, and guards
text: RUSH out to take down the survivors.
text: Essex and Southampton valiantly fight, but there's just
dialog: too many.
text: They're soon surrounded... And Essex, knowing all is
text: lost, raises his sword in defeat.
text: Southampton sees this, and does the same.
scene_heading: 144 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 144
text: Oxford watches all of this through the window.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (O.S.)
dialog: She won't forgive him this, Edward.
text: Oxford turns, devastated.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Essex will be convicted and executed
dialog: for treason.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: As will your son.
text: Oxford looks shocked.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: What? Didn't you think I knew? Of
dialog: course I knew, Edward. My father told
dialog: me all his secrets. All of them.
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Though the most fascinating was not
dialog: made known to me until after his
dialog: death.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 124
dialog: pg. 125
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: He hated you, Edward, how he hated
dialog: you. And yet he married his only
dialog: daughter to you. I never knew why,
dialog: until I read his last letter to me.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: He wanted his grandson to be an Earl.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: No, Edward. He wanted his grandson to
dialog: be a king.
text: Oxford now looks confused.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: Elizabeth had several children,
dialog: Edward, not just yours. She was
dialog: sixteen for the first. Bloody Mary
dialog: was still Queen, and our future
dialog: Gloriana was out of favor. No one
dialog: thought her very important at all.
dialog: Except my father, of course. And when
dialog: her first child was born, a male, my
dialog: father took it, and hid it. The
dialog: grandson of Henry VIII, the foundling
dialog: of course had to be reared a nobleman.
dialog: John De Vere, the previous Earl of
dialog: Oxford, agreed to accept the task.
text: Oxford goes ashen.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: You lie...
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Do I?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Why do you think he worked so hard to
dialog: become your guardian after your father
dialog: died? He had it all planned years in
dialog: advance. He would teach you
dialog: everything he knew about statecraft,
dialog: marry his daughter, and, after
dialog: Elizabeth's death, proclaim you heir.
dialog: His own grandchild to follow you on
dialog: the throne. But he couldn't possibly
dialog: predict what kind of failure you would
dialog: become. How you would fail in
dialog: politics, ignore your estates to the
dialog: point of bankruptcy, all to write...
dialog: (sneers)
dialog: Poetry.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Or that you would commit incest.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 125
dialog: pg. 126
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Delicious isn't it? Right out of a
dialog: Greek tragedy.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Elizabeth would never have--
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: What? Slept with her son?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I don't think she ever knew, to tell
dialog: you the truth. Though you never know
dialog: with the Tudors. They all have had
dialog: such strange tastes in bed-fellows.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You could have been a king, Edward.
dialog: And your son after you. Except for
dialog: the fact that... you were you.
scene_heading: 145 EXT. WHITEHALL PALACE - COURTYARD - DAY 145
text: It's raining, hard.
text: Oxford almost stumbles out of the building onto the now
text: empty courtyard. The remains of the battle are still
text: visible. Wounded, screaming horses struggle to
dialog: stand...
text: Oxford's a shell-- devoid of emotion. Broken. Hardly
text: alive at all. He drops to his knees, the rain pouring
text: down on him.
text: We see the silhouette of a man watching through a
text: window from the second story above. It's--
scene_heading: 145A INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - HALL - SAME TIME 145A
text: --Robert Cecil, a slight smile on his face.
text: Pole approaches him from behind. Robert Cecil doesn't
text: turn or acknowledge Pole, but speaks to him as he
text: stares at Oxford.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: I want a fair trial for Southampton...
dialog: Evidence, witnesses, no false
dialog: confessions. It must be above
text: reproach. Though with a guilty
dialog: verdict of course. Oh, and Pole--
dialog: (turns)
dialog: If there is any mention of that play--
dialog: (looks back at Oxford)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 126
dialog: pg. 127
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: --Make certain the secretaries refer
dialog: to it as Richard the Second. There
dialog: will be no mention of hunchbacks in
dialog: the official record...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 146 EXT. OXFORD STONE - GARDEN - DAY 146
text: Oxford is sitting in a chair, watching the river
text: Thames, alone. Snow is falling and Oxford is covered
text: in a thick blanket. He looks ill.
text: Anne walks up behind him.
speaker_heading: ANNE
text: Sentence has been passed.
text: Oxford looks over at her. Anne smiles. This news
dialog: gives her great pleasure.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: They are to be be-headed.
dialog: (with venom)
dialog: Both of them. Essex tomorrow,
dialog: Southampton in a week.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Your son is going to be killed,
dialog: Edward. By his own mother. Put that
dialog: in one of your plays!
text: And she leaves him with that.
scene_heading: 147 EXT. THE TOWER OF LONDON - COURTYARD - DAY 147
text: Essex-- dressed in black, but with a bright red
text: waistcoat-- is led up a scaffold by guards, his hands
text: bound behind him.
text: Snow covers the courtyard. There are only a few
text: witnesses, as befitting Essex's rank.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
text: stands, looking at life one last time. The Executioner
text: approaches with an axe. Essex turns, realizing it is
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: ESSEX
dialog: Strike true.
text: He kneels, resting his head on a wooden bench.
dialog: 127
dialog: pg. 128
speaker_heading: ESSEX (CONT'D)
dialog: God save the Queen!
dialog: And BAM! Just as the axe lands we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FROM A WINDOW
text: we see the body of Essex fall onto the scaffolding, his
dialog: head into a basket. We are:
scene_heading: 148 INT. THE TOWER OF LONDON - A CELL - DAY 148
text: Southampton, a prisoner, is watching his future fate
text: from a room high in a tower.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: BOOTS
text: as they walk, limping along tiled floors. We are:
scene_heading: 149 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY 149
text: Doors fly open and Oxford appears before Elizabeth, who
text: is on her throne, regal and all in white, surrounded
text: by courtiers, including Robert Cecil. But she looks
text: very old, very ill.
text: Everyone goes silent as Oxford approaches Elizabeth.
text: Oxford makes no notice of them. He bows deeply in
text: front of her.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Leave us. All of you.
text: People start to exit. But not Robert Cecil.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Majesty, I--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Leave us!
text: Cecil exits, obviously worried. When they are alone:
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: You look old...
text: Oxford smiles sadly.
dialog: 128
dialog: pg. 129
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I thank your majesty for seeing me.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: You cannot have him.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: He is our son.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Who did commit High Treason!
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: They only wished for a place in
dialog: government equal to their station.
dialog: Equal to their birth.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: You caused this! Your play, your
dialog: words, caused my people to mob against
dialog: me! Do you think I wasn't aware of
dialog: your plot with this man Shakespeare,
dialog: that I wouldn't recognize your voice?
dialog: It should be your head on the block
dialog: next week, not Southampton's!
text: Oxford kneels.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Then take my head. In our son's
text: stead.
text: Elizabeth turns away from him, angered. She walks to a
text: window, turns her back on him.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Neither they nor I ever conspired
dialog: against you. Cecil alone was our aim.
dialog: He has corrupted your--
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Cecil? He has kept me my throne!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Mary, Queen of Scots... Philip, King
dialog: of Spain... Four French Louis's...
dialog: Eight Popes-- they all wanted my head.
dialog: My throne. All of them!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Yet here I remain... Because of the
dialog: Cecils.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: We would have protected you--
dialog: 129
dialog: pg. 130
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: You would have protected me? You? My
dialog: "loyal" Earls?
dialog: (snarls)
dialog: You think Essex and Southampton were
dialog: the first to conspire against me, to
dialog: try to take my throne? No!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Only the Cecils could I trust!
dialog: Commoners! They could never claim my
dialog: throne. Never! Their wealth, their
dialog: power, their survival, all depended on
dialog: me. Me and no other!
dialog: A long beat before--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Let our child live...
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: (furious)
dialog: All Englishmen are my children!
text: She has a coughing fit. Oxford patiently waits until
text: she has recovered. Finally...
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: Does he know?
text: Oxford shakes his head.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH (CONT'D)
dialog: And if I give him to you?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: He will never learn of it from me.
text: She pauses for a long moment... And then she decides.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: He must never know... Never.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Take him.
text: Oxford dares to smile, relieved.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: But only after my death! Only then!
text: When all is complete. After James is
text: crowned king, his crown safe, only
dialog: then can you claim your son... our
dialog: son.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: This Island will be whole.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 130
dialog: pg. 131
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: One Island, one kingdom, one King.
dialog: (with disgust)
dialog: Scotsman though he be.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That, that will be my final gift to my
dialog: people.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And I shall remain pure... Un-taken!
text: Elizabeth again looks out a window.
speaker_heading: ELIZABETH
dialog: Treason... that is all that has come
dialog: from you... your son... Your plays...
dialog: None will be claimed by you. None.
text: And she leaves the throne chamber. Oxford looks after
text: her as the SOUNDS of BELLS slowly begin GONGING as we-
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 150 EXT. LONDON - DAY 150
text: The bell-ringing comes from St. Paul's Cathedral, the
dialog: largest church in the City.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 151 EXT. THE THAMES RIVER - DAY 151
text: On the frozen river Thames we see the funeral
dialog: procession for the greatest Queen England has ever
text: seen. Everybody follows the carriage with the casket
dialog: of the queen.
dialog: All the lords and ladies of the land. All wear
text: elaborate black clothing.
text: First is Robert Cecil. Proudly. Not far walks Oxford.
text: He is a statue. Devoid of emotion. And then joyous
text: CHORAL MUSIC replaces the CHURCH GONGS as we--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A GOLD CROWN
text: as it is placed on a head. We are:
dialog: 131
dialog: pg. 132
scene_heading: 152 INT. WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY 152
text: JAMES I (late 30's) is being crowned by the Archbishop.
text: All the lords and ladies of the land are standing in
dialog: attendance.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
text: is watching James. His face betrays his proud
text: feelings. All of Robert Cecil's desires have come true.
text: Oxford's wife Anne is there, but Oxford is nowhere to
dialog: be seen.
speaker_heading: ARCHBISHOP (O.S.)
dialog: God save the King!
scene_heading: EVERYONE IN THE ABBEY
dialog: God save the King!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 153 EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF TOWER OF LONDON - DAY 153
text: It's foggy. Oxford stands next to a carriage, waiting
text: as the gates open, and Southampton-- scruffy and a bit
text: worse for wear-- is escorted out.
text: Southampton smiles weakly when he sees Oxford waiting
text: for him. The two men walk towards each other and
dialog: embrace.
text: Both men have tears in their eyes.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (O.S.)
dialog: No, no, no, no.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 154 INT. THE GLOBE THEATER - DAY 154
text: Shakespeare is on stage, supervising a rehearsal of
text: "Much Ado About Nothing". He doesn't look pleased.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: The line won't get a laugh that way.
dialog: You must accent the word sirrah--
speaker_heading: JONSON (O.S.)
dialog: Will! Will Shakespeare!
dialog: 132
dialog: pg. 133
text: Shakespeare turns and sees Jonson heading his way.
text: Jonson is completely drunk, waving a sword in one hand,
text: a tankard in another.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: So! Off to the palace are you?
text: Shakespeare immediately sees Jonson's condition.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Ben!
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: A command performance for our new
dialog: king! Even in bloody Scotland they've
dialog: heard of bloody Will Shakespeare, have
dialog: they? Fraud. Charlatan.
dialog: Counterfeiter of wit! Murderer!
text: The actors on stage are all watching, nervous.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE
dialog: Ben, please...
text: But Jonson CHARGES Shakespeare. Shakespeare easily
text: dodges the drunk Jonson. Jonson ROARS and attacks
dialog: again.
text: Shakespeare dodges again, turns, and manages to grab
text: Jonson by the throat. They are face to face.
speaker_heading: SHAKESPEARE (CONT'D)
dialog: You came to me, Ben. You came to me!
text: They stare at each other and then Shakespeare SHOVES
text: him off. Jonson falls to the ground.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 155 EXT. OUTSIDE THE GLOBE THEATER - LATE AFTERNOON 155
text: Jonson-- only semi conscious-- is carried by the actors
text: and dumped into the street. They leave him there. He
text: wallows in the mud for a beat. Then--
speaker_heading: SERVANT (O.C.)
dialog: Master Jonson?
text: Jonson looks up to see one of Oxford's servants
text: standing above him.
dialog: 133
dialog: pg. 134
scene_heading: 156 INT. OXFORD STONE - OUTSIDE OXFORD'S BEDROOM - DUSK 156
text: The servant guides Jonson towards Oxford's bedroom just
text: as Anne and a DOCTOR emerge from it. She recognizes
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: (to servant)
dialog: What is this man doing in my house?
text: The servant doesn't know what to say.
speaker_heading: ANNE (CONT'D)
dialog: (to Jonson)
dialog: You will leave at once. My husband is
dialog: quite ill--
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: It was your husband who sent for me,
dialog: madam.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: And I am dismissing you--
text: A SECOND DOCTOR exits the sick man's room.
speaker_heading: SECOND DOCTOR
dialog: Are you Jonson?
text: Jonson nods.
speaker_heading: SECOND DOCTOR (CONT'D)
dialog: He's asking for you.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Excuse me, your grace.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 157 INT. OXFORD STONE - OXFORD'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 157
text: Oxford, in bed, looks quite ill, sweat covering his
dialog: brow.
text: He furiously writes on a small tablet on his lap. He
text: holds up his hand for silence as Jonson enters, the
text: doctor following behind him.
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Thank you, doctor.
text: The doctor exits.
dialog: 134
dialog: pg. 135
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Come over here, Jonson...
text: He points to a chair by the bed. When Jonson sits down
text: he notices a big pile of manuscripts by the side of the
dialog: bed.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Did you know, Jonson, that my family
dialog: can trace its peerage farther back
dialog: than any family in the kingdom? We
text: fought at Crecy. At Bosworth Field.
text: At Agincourt.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I inherited my Earldom as one of the
dialog: wealthiest men ever to breathe English
dialog: air... and at last breath, I shall be
dialog: one of the poorest.
text: Jonson looks on sadly.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: Never a voice in government. Never a
text: sword raised in glorious battle. No
dialog: immortal deeds for my heirs to know me
dialog: by.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Words, merely words, are to be my
dialog: legacy...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You alone watch my plays and know them
text: as mine. When I hear the applause,
text: the cheering, of the audience, all
text: those hands clapping, they are
dialog: celebrating... another man. But in
dialog: that cacophony of sounds, I strained
text: to hear the sound of two hands only.
dialog: Yours.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But heard them, I never did.
text: Jonson stares at him.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
text: Death takes away all pretense and
dialog: demands honesty from its target. You,
dialog: you have never told me... never told
dialog: me what you thought of my work...
text: To answer is not an easy task for Jonson's ego. He
dialog: hesitates.
dialog: 135
dialog: pg. 136
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (almost a whisper)
dialog: I find... your words... the most
dialog: wondrous ever heard on our stage. On
dialog: any stage... Ever.
text: The two men now looking each other in the eye.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: You are the soul of the age...
text: Oxford smiles at the thought of it. Then--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: Promise me... promise me, Jonson, that
dialog: you will keep our secret safe. That
dialog: you won't expose Shakespeare...
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: My lord?
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I have seen it in your face... He
dialog: vexes you. How could he not? But he
dialog: is not your burden. He is mine.
text: Then he nods to the manuscripts by his side.
speaker_heading: OXFORD (CONT'D)
dialog: All my writings. The plays, the
dialog: sonnets... Keep them safe. Keep them
dialog: from my family. From the Cecil's.
dialog: Wait a few years, and then, publish
dialog: them.
text: Jonson looks stricken.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: I am not worthy of this charge, my
dialog: lord. I... I betrayed you... I told
dialog: them of your--
speaker_heading: OXFORD
dialog: I have made it my life to know the
dialog: character of men, Jonson. I know you.
dialog: You may have betrayed me, but you will
dialog: never betray my words...
text: He puts the last manuscript on the pile.
dialog: Jonson looks at the--
dialog: 136
dialog: pg. 137
speaker_heading: FRONT PAGE
text: Which reads "DEDICATION", then more words, starting
dialog: with:
dialog: "To the Earl of Southampton"
scene_heading: 158 INT. OXFORD STONE - OUTSIDE OXFORD'S BEDROOM - DUSK 158
text: Jonson leaves Oxford's room, visibly shaken. The
text: manuscripts are under his arm.
text: Anne, Oxford's wife is still there, surround by
dialog: doctors.
text: Then she sees Jonson leaving.
speaker_heading: ANNE
dialog: Get out! You, your friends, your
dialog: blasphemous theaters, have brought
dialog: nothing but ruin and dishonor to this
dialog: family.
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: Ruin? Dishonor? Madam. You, your
dialog: family, me, even Elizabeth herself
dialog: shall be remembered solely because we
dialog: had the honor to live whilst your
dialog: husband put ink to paper.
text: He turns and exits.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 159 EXT. OXFORD STONE - DUSK 159
text: Jonson exits the building and walks away. He reads the
text: dedication on the first page of the manuscript as he
dialog: walks.
speaker_heading: JONSON (V.O.)
dialog: To the Earl of Southampton. The love
dialog: I dedicate to your lordship is without
dialog: end; whereof this pamphlet, without
dialog: beginning, is but a superfluous
dialog: moiety.
text: Jonson freezes, and looks back at Oxford's house,
dialog: realizing there is another whole layer to all this;
text: exactly what he can only guess.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 137
dialog: pg. 138
scene_heading: 160 INT. OXFORD STONE - OXFORD'S ROOM - NIGHT 160
text: A few hours later. Oxford has died in his bed. Anne
text: watches as a doctor covers his face with a sheet.
speaker_heading: JONSON (V.O.)
dialog: What I have done is yours; what I have
dialog: to do is yours; being part in all I
dialog: have, devoted, yours.
scene_heading: 161 EXT. A SMALL CHURCH - DAY 161
text: A casket is being interred into the family mausoleum.
text: Anne is there, as are Oxford's children. So is Robert
dialog: Cecil.
speaker_heading: JONSON (V.O.)
dialog: Were my worth greater, my duty would
dialog: show greater; meantime, as it is, it
dialog: is bound to your lordship, to whom I
dialog: wish long life... still lengthened
dialog: with all happiness.
text: Southampton is there as well. Watching. Tears roll
text: down his cheeks.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 162 INT. TOWER OF LONDON - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 162
dialog: Where we began.
text: A bucket of water is DUMPED on Jonson. He regains
text: consciousness and looks around. Somewhat confused he
dialog: sees:
text: Robert Cecil limping out of the dark towards him.
text: Robert Cecil leans down, and very close to his ear,
dialog: whispers:
speaker_heading: CECIL
dialog: I can make all this go away, Jonson...
dialog: To be but a dream. Like one of your
dialog: plays... Or, I can bring you so much
dialog: pain-- pain that were you given a
dialog: thousand years, and a thousand quills,
dialog: you could never justly describe...
text: Cecil steps back.
dialog: 138
dialog: pg. 139
speaker_heading: CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: I know you have them. All his
dialog: manuscripts. My sister saw you leave
dialog: Oxford Stone with them under your arm.
text: Jonson takes a long time before answering. Will he
dialog: betray Oxford?
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: They were destroyed... burned... by
dialog: your own men...
text: Cecil doesn't know whether to believe him or not.
speaker_heading: INTERROGATOR
dialog: He's lying...
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: My lord? Why would I lie? Is there a
dialog: man alive who has reason to hate him
dialog: more than I?
text: Jonson stares directly at Cecil, knowing he is speaking
dialog: about Cecil as well as himself.
speaker_heading: JONSON (CONT'D)
dialog: He was something I could never be. An
dialog: undeniable perfection... that plagued
dialog: my soul... And to him I was...
text: nothing. A messenger. Nothing more.
text: Cecil stares into his eyes for a long moment, searching
text: for the truth. Then he smiles.
speaker_heading: CECIL
dialog: Let him go! He tells the truth.
text: Robert Cecil turns to leave, but then turns a last
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: CECIL (CONT'D)
dialog: And Jonson-- better him, won't you?
dialog: Wipe his memory for all time. For
dialog: you. And for me.
text: Robert Cecil smiles at Jonson, who can only stare at
dialog: him. Finally:
speaker_heading: JONSON
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: I am afraid that this is not possible,
dialog: my lord.
text: Robert Cecil's smile freezes and he leaves.
dialog: 139
dialog: pg. 140
scene_heading: 163 EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF TOWER OF LONDON - DAWN 163
text: Jonson is getting released. He walks away....a lonely
dialog: figure.
scene_heading: 164 EXT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAWN 164
text: Wide from above...Still smoking from the fire....All
text: the sudden we make out Jonson searching through the
text: rubble.
scene_heading: 164A INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - NIGHT 164A
text: Set for a Court performance of a play. Courtiers bow
text: as King James I enters the chamber, Robert Cecil two
text: steps behind him. James takes his seat right in front
dialog: of the stage, as Elizabeth used to.
scene_heading: 164B EXT. THE ROSE THEATER - DAWN 164B
text: Jonson's eyes search the ground. And, eventually, he
dialog: finds it--
speaker_heading: THE METAL BOX
text: that seems to somehow have survived the conflagration.
speaker_heading: JONSON
text: opens the box.
speaker_heading: INSIDE THE BOX
text: Are the manuscripts Oxford gave him. Jonson smiles,
text: relieved. They are singed at the edges, but they are
dialog: there. We hear--
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE (O.S.)
dialog: O-- for a muse of fire... that would
dialog: ascend the brightest heaven of
dialog: invention...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: AN ACTOR
text: playing Prologue. He is the same actor who introduced
text: the "play" at the beginning of the film. But now he
text: wears Elizabethan clothing-- but again, all
text: monochromatic and grey.
dialog: 140
dialog: pg. 141
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE (CONT'D)
text: A kingdom for a stage, princes to act,
dialog: and monarchs to behold the swelling
dialog: scene!
scene_heading: 165 INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - AUDIENCE CHAMBER - NIGHT 165
text: And he is standing on the stage.
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE
dialog: Let us, ciphers to this great accompt,
dialog: on your imaginary forces work.
text: King James' watches enthusiastically, Robert Cecil
text: right next to him.
speaker_heading: JAMES I
dialog: We had seen some of this Shakespeare's
dialog: plays in Edinburgh, Sir Robert. I
dialog: must tell you, we enjoyed them
dialog: immensely, and look forward to seeing
dialog: many more, now that we are in
dialog: London... I presume you are as avid a
dialog: theater man as myself?
text: Robert Cecil's smile remains frozen.
speaker_heading: ROBERT CECIL
dialog: Of course, your majesty...
text: The CAMERA moves away from them and we realize we are
text: on the theater stage where we started.
scene_heading: 166 INT. BROADWAY THEATER - STAGE - DUSK 166
text: "Prologue" turns and addresses his audience (and us) in
dialog: the modern theater.
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE
dialog: Robert Cecil remained the most powerful
dialog: man in the Court of King James, though he
dialog: could not prevent the public theaters
dialog: from becoming ever more popular. William
dialog: Shakespeare, however, spent the remaining
dialog: years of his life not in the playhouses
dialog: of London, but in the small town of his
dialog: birth, Stratford upon Avon, as a
dialog: businessman and grain merchant.
dialog: (beat)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 141
dialog: pg. 142
speaker_heading: PROLOGUE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ben Jonson succeeded in his desire to be
dialog: the most celebrated playwright of his
dialog: time, becoming England's first Poet
dialog: Laureate. And in 1623, he wrote the
dialog: dedication to the collected works of the
dialog: man we call William Shakespeare.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And so... though our story is finished,
dialog: our poet's is not. For his monument is
dialog: ever-living, made not of stone but of
dialog: verse, and it shall be remembered... as
dialog: long as words are made of breath and
dialog: breath of life.
text: The curtains close.
text: END CREDITS start to roll...
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: 
