dialog: 
dialog: "ANTITRUST"
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Howard Franklin
speaker_heading: SHOOTING DRAFT
dialog: 2001
dialog: 
text: ON A BLACK SCREEN
dialog: it says: "The coolest thing?"
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Wow. That's hard. I'd have to say
dialog: it's the day we launched Outpost
dialog: '98.
dialog: We hear a (famous) Seattle alternative band.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTPOST CAMPUS - DAY (BEGIN MAIN TITLES)
text: Quick cuts, seductive angles: 70 hot-air balloons rise over
text: a vast, green corporate campus. Their mylar skins are
text: imprinted with Outpost '98 logos; their gondolas are dressed
text: in Outpost-colored bunting.
text: 18,000 Outpost employees cheer. They're spread out over
text: rolling lawns, amid Arabian tents and costumed Acrobats.
text: Over the balloon-dotted sky, the graphic re-appears: "The
dialog: coolest thing?"
speaker_heading: DIFFERENT VOICE (DARYL)
dialog: It's the beverages.
scene_heading: INT. OUTPOST OFFICE - DAY (CONTINUE TITLES &amp; MUSIC)
text: A Programmer sits in his handsome office, forested landscape
text: out the window. The screen says: DARYL, M.I.T. '95
speaker_heading: DARYL
dialog: Gary always makes sure we've got the
dialog: coolest stuff to drink.
text: JUMP CUTS of tall refrigerators: Snapples, Cokes, Fruitopias,
text: Zaps, Jolts, Barques &amp; Sprites are lined-up behind glass
dialog: doors. "The coolest thing?"
speaker_heading: DIFFERENT VOICE (DIANA)
dialog: Knowing your work means something.
scene_heading: INT. OUTPOST CAMPUS - DAY (CONTINUE TITLES &amp; MUSIC)
text: A 24-year-old Korean-American Girl sits at the edge of a
text: plashing, post-modern fountain. DIANA, STANFORD '97
speaker_heading: DIANA (V.O.)
dialog: Knowing everywhere in the world,
dialog: this is the software people use.
dialog: MONTAGE of world capitals &amp; remote places: Stockbrokers &amp;
dialog: Farmers, News Anchors &amp; Students, CEO's &amp; Eskimos boot-up
dialog: Outpost '98, or log-on with Outpost Internet Traveler.
speaker_heading: DIANA (V.O.)
dialog: 20 years ago, Gary had an idea, that's
dialog: all he had. And now the company's
dialog: bigger than IBM.
text: Over the last shot (a Ghetto Kid uses Outpost Word in the
dialog: library): "The coolest thing?"
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: It's the people. Which is weird.
scene_heading: EXT. COFFEE HOUSE/TERRACE - DAY (CONTINUE TITLES &amp; MUSIC)
text: A Programmer sits with two colleagues, drinking lattés at
scene_heading: the edge of Lake Washington. MITCH, BERKELEY, '98
speaker_heading: MITCH
dialog: Big companies are s'posed to be
text: impersonal.
text: MONTAGE: Programmers play competitive games at an Outpost
text: picnic; Toddlers play on computers in an Outpost Day Care
text: Center; Geeks confer at a diagram-covered whiteboard;
dialog: Employees listen/dance to the Seattle band we've been hearing,
text: on-stage, at the Outpost '98 launch.
speaker_heading: MITCH (V.O.)
dialog: There's this myth that doing a start-
dialog: up is cooler. But there's no community
text: with a start-up. No permanence.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE: COFFEE HOUSE/TERRACE (CONTINUE TITLES)
text: One of Mitch's colleagues is nodding. DONNY, HARVARD, '97
speaker_heading: DONNY
dialog: It bums me out when the media say
dialog: we're cultish, or whatever. Why?
dialog: 'Cause we care about each other?
dialog: Donny didn't mean to sound so mushy. Nobody knows where to
dialog: look for a second.
speaker_heading: MITCH
dialog: 'Love you too, bro.
text: As they laugh: "The coolest thing?"
speaker_heading: VOICE (TERRY)
dialog: I'll tell you what's not cool.
speaker_heading: TERRY
dialog: How Gary gets this superbad rap.
text: MONTAGE of magazine covers (Newsweek, Vanity Fair, WIRED)
dialog: featuring Gary Boyd. They say, eg: "Who Owns Cyberspace?" On
text: a Time cover, he's composited by the Capitol Dome: "ROBBER
dialog: BARON OR VISIONARY? Outpost's Antitrust Woes"
speaker_heading: TERRY (V.O.)
dialog: There's this prejudice against super-
dialog: smart people. People like Gary.
text: GARY (early 40's) reads a statement before a Congressional
text: Sub-Committee. His voice is pleasant but firm:
speaker_heading: GARY
text: A kid working in his garage can create
dialog: the next Outpost, the new IBM. All
dialog: it takes is a great idea.
text: A bloated Senator looks hostile.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: That's why nobody can have a monopoly
text: in a business built on ideas.
text: As we watch, CAMERA pulls back from the screen on which the
text: movie is being projected. REVERSE INTO:
scene_heading: INT. COLLEGE AUDITORIUM - EVENING (END MAIN TITLES)
dialog: Over an audience of 40 or so computer students we read:
scene_heading: STANFORD UNIVERSITY
text: We pick out MILO CONNOR, watching keenly. He's 21: clear-
text: eyed, alive, innocent. He sits with his best friend, TEDDY
dialog: CHIN, third-generation Chinese-American.
speaker_heading: DIFFERENT VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: The coolest? Gary. He's like you or
dialog: me. If we happened t'be insanely
dialog: rich.
text: Some appreciative laughter in the auditorium. But behind
text: Milo, LARRY LINDHOLM squirms in his seat. He whispers:
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Can we go?
speaker_heading: VOICE (FROM THE FILM)
dialog: For me? It's Seattle!
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: 'Starting to get nauseated.
text: BRIAN BISSEL, in front of Milo, twists in his seat:
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Do you mind?
text: Larry gets up.
text: Two Outpost Recruiters, REDMOND PRICE, 31 (gray suit) and
text: DANNY BAYLOR, 29 (Outpost '98 golf shirt) note the walkout.
text: Danny scans headshots in a Stanford Yearbook. (On-screen
text: behind them we see Seattle: night streets wet-down &amp;
dialog: shimmering; Young People entering a club; Young People
text: climbing Mt. Shasta.) Finding Larry's picture, Danny points
text: out the name to Redmond, who shrugs: unconcerned.
scene_heading: VOICE FROM THE MOVIE
dialog: Did anybody mention the beverages?
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE AUDITORIUM - CONTINUOUS
text: The double-doors swing open (over them, a plate reads: THE
text: HEWLITT-PACKARD AUDITORIUM) and Larry comes out.
scene_heading: UP THE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: ALICE POULSON, a very pretty girl of 21 (more hiply dressed
text: than the geeks) searches the hall, reading the names over
dialog: the doors (NEC Communications Classroom, Toshiba Computer
text: Lab, Mitsubishi Classroom). She spots Larry.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Is it over?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: They still have to give 'em
text: refreshments laced with mind-altering
dialog: drugs.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You are a fanatic.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: 'Gonna wait outside.
scene_heading: EXT. STANFORD COMPUTER SCIENCE BLDG. - A MOMENT LATER
text: Tilting down the neo-classical edifice, we read the name
text: etched over the entrance: WILLIAM GATES COMPUTER SCIENCE
text: BUILDING. We find Larry and Alice sitting on the steps.
speaker_heading: LARRY (AT FIRST O.S.)
dialog: Alice? You gotta make him do the
dialog: start-up with Teddy and me.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: "Make" him?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: (thoughtfully)
dialog: You know what I mean.
text: As we hear Larry speak, we cut back into:
scene_heading: THE AUDITORIUM - CONTINUOUS
text: The lights are on. Milo &amp; Teddy stand by a table dressed in
text: Outpost bunting, laden with refreshments &amp; giveaways:
text: mousepads, T-shirts, caps &amp; books with the Outpost logo on
text: them (a simple contour drawing of a frontier outpost). While
text: most Students chat earnestly with Recruiters, Milo &amp; Teddy
text: load their plates with pizza and tortilla chips.
speaker_heading: LARRY (V.O.)
dialog: I'm not exactly worldly, but I'm the
text: Secretary of State next to him.
text: Milo puts some brownies on his plate.
speaker_heading: LARRY (V.O.)
dialog: And they're all throwing this --
dialog: stuff at him. Stock options. Pay
dialog: packages.
text: Spotting a book on the table, Milo picks it up.
scene_heading: EXT. GATES BLDG. - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I'm just screwed.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (that's not true)
dialog: You know what he's like. He just
dialog: wants to work on stuff that's cool.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You don't wanna move, do you?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I can paint anywhere.
dialog: Larry looks at her: you didn't answer my question.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'd like to stay here, yeah. And I
dialog: kind of think he should be with Teddy.
scene_heading: THE AUDITORIUM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo and Teddy discuss the book almost joyfully. (We see a
dialog: page of code: utterly indecipherable.)
speaker_heading: ALICE (V.O.)
dialog: I mean, nobody else can follow what
dialog: they're talking about half the time.
speaker_heading: MILO/TEDDY
dialog: (under Alice)
dialog: 'Could be a condition-variable in
dialog: the locking code -- If it didn't seg
dialog: fault, first!
scene_heading: EXT. GATES BLDG. - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Maybe you shouldn't push it so hard.
dialog: About Outpost. No offense, you sound
dialog: insane.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I can't help it. I feel like they'd
dialog: do anything to keep their --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Anything? That's not even credible.
dialog: If he wants to go up there? To check
dialog: it out? I think you should encourage
dialog: him.
dialog: (seeing Larry's
dialog: incredulity)
dialog: It's his life. But everybody's
dialog: treating him like this -- valuable
dialog: object. You're hurting your own case.
scene_heading: INT. AUDITORIUM - CONTINUOUS
text: Brian, already wearing one of the Outpost caps, effuses to
dialog: Redmond.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: He's my god. I hear he actually calls
dialog: recruits sometimes. Or is that an
dialog: Urban Legend?
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Gary's running the biggest software
dialog: company in the world, Brian. He's
dialog: being harassed by the Justice
dialog: Department, and he's got a new baby.
text: Across the room, Milo (eating chips, perusing code) reaches
text: for a napkin but unwittingly grabs some bunting. It unravels
text: in a long TP-like streamer -- just as Danny approaches,
text: peering at Milo's ID tag.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Milo? I'm Danny.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Oh hi.
text: He tries to sluff the paper off his hand; Danny holds out a
dialog: cell phone.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Gary would like to speak to you?
text: Milo and Teddy look at each other: right. But Danny looks
text: like he means it. Milo's grin fades. He takes the phone.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...Hello?
speaker_heading: GARY (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: Milo? Gary Boyd. I'm hoping you and
dialog: your friend can come up here. We've
dialog: made some amazing strides in digital
dialog: convergence. I'd love to show them
dialog: to you.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You would? Wow. When would we come?
dialog: (he waits; he looks
dialog: up)
dialog: 'Think he hung up.
text: Danny holds out two plane tickets, in 1st class folders.
scene_heading: INT. UNIVERSITY AVENUE DINER (PALO ALTO) - NIGHT
text: Alice examines one of the tickets almost suspiciously.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But how does he know that's what you
dialog: guys're working on?
text: Larry, Teddy &amp; Brian are at the table with Alice &amp; Milo.
text: It's a student hang-out, with loud music.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: All the companies know. The faculties
dialog: tell 'em. At the target schools.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: In exchange for endowments. They
dialog: should just drop the pretense and
dialog: name the schools after 'em.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to Teddy)
dialog: I can't believe you refused a ticket!
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: My parents're already freaked-out
dialog: I'm staying here. 50 miles from
dialog: Chinatown.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Well maybe if you told 'em how much
dialog: money you'd be making --
dialog: (to Milo)
dialog: You're going up there. Right?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I think you should go.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: You do?
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: I mean, it's your life.
text: As Alice predicted, Milo is pleased by Larry's remark.
text: "Empowered." Larry smiles conspiratorially at Alice.
scene_heading: INT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S APARTMENT - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
text: In a tidy, playfully decorated room, Alice stirs in bed,
text: sees the space next to her is vacant.
scene_heading: TINY ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo sits at a desk, thinking, agitated, in the dim light of
text: a PC. He looks up, sees Alice in the doorway.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I think I kind of lost it. I was
dialog: just so thrilled to be talking to
dialog: the richest, most powerful... 'Didn't
dialog: know I even cared about that stuff.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: C'mon, how often do you talk to
dialog: somebody who's been on the cover of
dialog: Time. Three of four times.
text: She picks her way through geek clutter (motherboards, code
text: manuals, Coke cans) sits next to him.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: A lot of what Larry says is true.
dialog: They just clone stuff, or reverse
dialog: engineer it, and everybody gets stuck
dialog: with their inferior version cause
dialog: they --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Then you've gotta ask him about that.
dialog: He looks at her: you've gotta be kidding.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's important.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: If he's really a bully, he won't cop
dialog: to it, anyway.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Bully? Are we talking about Gary
dialog: Boyd? Or your dad.
text: He doesn't deny it: she sees right through him.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: When I was a kid? And he was moving
dialog: us all over the place? I spent all
dialog: my time writing stuff on Outpost
dialog: 1.0. I thought Gary Boyd was the
dialog: greatest.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But he's not quite the same guy
dialog: anymore. Don't get your hopes too
dialog: high?
scene_heading: INT. 737 - FIRST CLASS CABIN - DAY
text: In the cabin, everybody types on a notebook but Milo. He
text: looks out the window expectantly: at the Seattle skyline.
scene_heading: INT. SEA-TAC AIRPORT - GATE 13 - DAY
text: Milo comes off the plane. Danny and Redmond greet him.
scene_heading: INT/EXT. HIGHWAY/CAR - DAY
text: Redmond drives his black Lexus 85 m.p.h. Danny leans forward
text: from the backseat.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: 'Couldn't convince Teddy to come?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: He's pretty tight with his family.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: We could move 'em up here.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: He just likes to write code. He's
dialog: bummed there's so much secrecy and
dialog: competition, everybody trying to own
dialog: everything.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Who do you mean by "everybody."
text: Milo almost blushes. He makes an awkward segue.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: So -- how far are we from the campus?
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Oh we're not going to the campus.
scene_heading: EXT. GARY BOYD'S COMPOUND - LAKE WASHINGTON - DAY
text: Beyond a rocky beach, buildings are cunningly carved into a
text: wooded hillside. Glass walls are framed in rich wood. The
dialog: main house is 28,000 sq. ft. Then there's the guest house,
dialog: pool building, reception hall, library...
scene_heading: EXT. GATEHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Redmond pulls up. A discreet Guard in a Mr. Rogers cardigan
text: recognizes him. The gates swing open.
scene_heading: EXT. BOYD HOUSE - DAY
text: They pull up by a Lexus SUV with a baby seat. Another Man in
text: a cardigan stands in the open front door.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Who's that?
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: I think they call him the "Houseman."
dialog: 'Cause "guard" sounds too weird.
text: Milo just sits there, eyeing the monumental residence.
speaker_heading: DANNY
dialog: Don't be nervous. The house is the
dialog: weirdest thing about him.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: It's like he knows everybody expects
dialog: him to be this worldly, colorful
dialog: zillionaire. But he's just a guy who
dialog: likes software.
scene_heading: INT. BOYD MANSION - DEN-LIKE ROOM - DAY
text: Milo and the Houseman cross a long room with a lake view. We
text: hear music by Satie. The Craftsman furniture and lamps are
text: custom-made. A Cezanne hangs on the wall.
scene_heading: ANOTHER DEN-LIKE ROOM WITH A VIEW
text: There's a Craftsman crib here, stuffed animals, another
text: Cezanne. Even the toys seem arranged. They enter an
scene_heading: ANTEROOM/CONFERENCE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Have a seat. He won't be long.
text: Milo sits on a bench. He tries not to look, but his childhood
text: hero is partly visible through a glass panel in the door:
text: Gary (in a suit and tie) has an open American face. But
text: something goes on behind his pleasant features and self-
text: possessed mien: his desire (or need) to solve the problem at
text: hand is so intense it makes him appear vexed -- even
dialog: vulnerable.
scene_heading: CONFERENCE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: As Gary concentrates, two Outpost Senior Managers speak:
text: PHIL TATE, 40 (bald); and RANDY GRIMES, 36, (gray eyes).
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: We tried the big vaporware number,
dialog: Gary, it's no-sale.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: Can we buy into their IPO? Or is
dialog: that a Justice Dept. problem?
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: There is no public offering. The guy
dialog: who wrote it joined some freakazoid
dialog: cult in San Luis Obispo. 'Wrote this
dialog: just to run their web site.
scene_heading: ANTEROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary speaks with precise hand gestures: settling the matter.
text: Phil and Randy gather their papers, and stand. They exit,
text: nodding at Milo as they pass. Then Gary comes out.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Milo? Excuse the tie. I was on TV.
text: Milo is a little dazzled as they shake hands: such a fam-
text: iliar face, such a big figure in his young life.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...That's okay.
scene_heading: INT. DEN-LIKE ROOM - MOVING
text: Now New Age music plays. They move back through the same
text: room, but the Cezanne has been replaced by a Hieronymus Bosch
text: (bodies roiling in Hell). Milo is -- puzzled.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: The house knows the paintings I like,
dialog: it knows my favorite music. Same for
dialog: anybody else who's in the system.
scene_heading: NEXT ROOM - STILL MOVING
text: As they walk, Milo watches a Cezanne "original" digitally re-
text: configure to a Bosch, brushstrokes and all.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Cool!
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Would you like a Coke or something?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (too shy, too nervous)
dialog: Oh. No thanks.
text: He opens a glass-doored refrigerator, scans a shelf with
text: rows of Snapples -- in alphabetical order.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: When we started, I just hired my
dialog: smart friends. That was great. We
dialog: got a little bigger, I had to hire
dialog: smart strangers. Much harder.
text: He selects a Kiwi-Raspberry, they walk on.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Now I don't get to hire anybody. But
dialog: I know you're the guy to write
dialog: Skywire.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM (LAKE VIEW) - MOMENTS LATER
text: They enter. An entire wall is taken-up by a Bosch triptych.
text: As Gary crosses to the other side of the room, Milo stands
text: by a table covered in art books -- hundreds of them (Soutine,
dialog: Chinoiserie, Roy Lichtenstein...)
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You know a lot about art, I guess.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: There's a rumor going around, maybe
dialog: you've heard it.
text: Gary heads back, carrying something spherical.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: There's more to life than computers?
dialog: I'm looking into it.
text: Glancing down at the daunting display of books, Gary looks
text: vaguely afflicted. He mutters:
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: 'Once I start looking into something.
text: Looking up now (and much more at ease) he holds up a shiny,
text: detailed metal object: model satellite.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I've only shown this to three other
dialog: people. I bought 200, we've launched
dialog: 12 so far. I keep the coordinates in
dialog: this room.
dialog: (as Milo takes it,
dialog: carefully)
dialog: It's left over from SDI. Reagan's
dialog: Star Wars technology? They orbit 426
dialog: miles up.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Low enough to relay internet traffic.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (he smiles: exactly)
dialog: Among other things... We know
dialog: convergence is the real super-highway:
dialog: all the PC's, TV's, phones, etc.
dialog: linked together. Why cram it into a
dialog: cable if you can use the whole sky?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (turning the sleek
dialog: object)
dialog: Skywire.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - LATER
text: Milo and Gary peer at a monitor, side-by-side. Milo sips his
text: own Snapple now. Gary speaks his language.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: The content filer has t'be written
dialog: into the media files so bits coming
dialog: off the satellite can be read by
text: multiplatforms. Really, omniplatforms.
dialog: Including whatever new hardware
dialog: emerges.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It needs a more object-oriented
dialog: language. This doesn't scale, does
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You'd have to start practically from
dialog: scratch. But this is all you'd be
dialog: working on. No marketing meetings,
dialog: no product seminars. We can't waste
dialog: the time. Half the Valley's working
dialog: on convergence. So're media
dialog: conglomerates, cable companies, phone
dialog: companies. 'Can't finish second,
dialog: Milo. There is no second... Now what
dialog: would you like to ask me?
text: Milo has a deer-in-the-headlights look.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...Ask you?
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - ANOTHER ROOM - DUSK
text: As they walk, Milo chides himself for his reticence. Gary
text: seems to read his mind.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I know what people say, and not just
dialog: the Justice Department. We clone
dialog: ideas, inflict our second-rate
dialog: versions on the world, we haven't
dialog: done anything original since 1.0.
text: Milo's amazed by Gary's acuity. And his candor.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Do I think that's fair? No. I'd put
dialog: some of our apps up against anybody's.
dialog: But is there some truth to it?
text: They have come to a stop in a windowed entryway. Milo watches
text: Gary keenly. Gary nods. He knits his brow.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: When you get to a certain age, you
dialog: start wondering. About your legacy.
dialog: I doubt you even remember Outpost
dialog: 1.0 --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I do!
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (pleased)
dialog: Yeah? I wanna feel like I did when I
dialog: wrote that. But I'm 42, that's 100
dialog: in cyber-years. I look at you and
dialog: see the things that got me here.
dialog: (the furrows deepen)
dialog: But somehow got away.
scene_heading: EXT. CUPERTINO HILLS (SILICON VALLEY) - NIGHT
text: A block of floodlit "tract mansions," Taco Bell palaces of
text: the Valley's newly rich. Milo &amp; Alice cross a vacant lot to
text: where the lights twinkle below. Their '89 Honda Civic is
text: parked nearby. Milo is excited.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: If my dad'd leveled with me like
dialog: that even once... The weird thing
dialog: is, my fantasy he could somehow be
dialog: like the old Gary? It's his fantasy,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I think that's great, Milo. I do.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...But?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Didn't you visit the campus?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I forgot. That's why you have to
dialog: help me decide.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No way. You have this -- destiny.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: C'mon, I wouldn't have a destiny
dialog: without you. My destiny would be
dialog: dying at 20. From eating --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Don't bring that up. Like a different
dialog: girlfriend would'd've let you die?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: You saved my life in alot of ways.
text: He's sweet. She kisses him. He holds onto her.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's not just Gary that makes you
dialog: wanna go there? 'Cause it's a big
dialog: place. You might not even see him
dialog: again.
text: He'd hate to think that's true. But he manages a smile.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I know.
scene_heading: EXT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: The Honda is loaded with luggage and boxes, some of which
text: are tied to the roof. Milo &amp; Alice stow a final piece.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: When's Brian coming for the TV?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Prob'ly waiting by the phone for
dialog: Outpost to call. We'll leave it for
dialog: him?
text: As they head back in, they see a Toyota park at the curb.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: 'Give you guys some time alone.
text: She continues inside. He waits, watches Teddy cross the
text: sidewalk to join him.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...You got my E-mail?
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: And your phone messages. You wanna
dialog: do what you do, it's not a crime.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Is that how Larry feels?
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Uh. Not exactly.
text: A brown Buick parks behind Teddy's car. As they speak, a
text: rumpled, 50ish MAN in an off-the-rack suit gets out.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Wanted to say goodbye to him...
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Hey, we got seed money for the
dialog: startup! A million-five!
text: Milo grins, he high-fives Teddy.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: We rented a loft in Sunnyvale.
dialog: (he gives Milo the
dialog: number)
dialog: You know what's the bad part? We
dialog: can't talk about work anymore. We're
dialog: competitors! The venture capitalists
dialog: made us sign like 100 confidentiality
dialog: forms.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Outpost made me sign 1,000. 'Guess
dialog: we'll find out what else we have to
dialog: talk about. Life stuff.
text: They embrace. It's awkward, but it's heartfelt.
scene_heading: INT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S APARTMENT - A MOMENT LATER
text: Milo enters, reading Teddy's phone number.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Guess what? They got their --
text: The rumpled Man sits on a radiator, watching CNN on a TV,
text: the last remaining piece of furniture. Alice enters, holding
text: a jam jar filled water, hands Milo a business card.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo, this is Mr. Barton from the
dialog: Justice Department.
dialog: (gives Barton the
dialog: water)
dialog: Sorry about the glass.
text: Milo reads the card: Lyle Barton, Asst. Prosecutor, DOJ,
text: Seattle Branch Office. Milo's a little spooked.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Don't worry, Milo. I'm here as a
dialog: friend. Or maybe a supplicant.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Right... What's that mean again?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Beggar. We're at a disadvantage with
dialog: Outpost. Our experts aren't as smart
dialog: as theirs. Sometimes we can't tell
dialog: which technologies pose the threat
dialog: of a monopoly. We need a really smart
dialog: guy to help us pick our fights. I'm
dialog: taking a shot in the dark, here. I
dialog: can offer you 32,000 a year, a Buick.
dialog: I'm hoping you've got a feeling it's
dialog: the right thing to do.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (fiddling with the
dialog: card)
dialog: It's just -- I kind of feel the need
dialog: to do something with my ability.
dialog: Create something...
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Like I said: shot in the dark.
text: Milo tries to give back the card.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: If you see something there that rubs
dialog: you the wrong way? Do the right thing.
dialog: And he goes.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: That took some fun out of --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We're not gonna let it.
text: She kisses him. They head out. We linger. On TV a graphic
scene_heading: says: SAN LUIS OBISPO, CA: MASS SUICIDE - LIVE. Emergency
text: Medical Personnel roll gurneys with bodies out of a new
text: Mediterranean mansion. Footage shows bodies (including a few
text: children) on bunkbeds, uniformly shod in black Nikes.
speaker_heading: CNN VOICE
dialog: -- ingested the fatal mixture of
text: sedatives crushed in apple sauce.
dialog: According to the cult's eerily
dialog: professional website, it was "time
dialog: to move on..."
scene_heading: EXT. OUTPOST CORPORATE CAMPUS - DAY
text: Crane past identical, low, steel &amp; glass buildings, amid the
text: vast lawns &amp; fir trees... Past a building under
text: construction... To find Redmond's Lexus, cruising.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. REDMOND'S CAR/CAMPUS - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo looks out the window, Redmond gives the tour:
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: There're 20 buildings, I mean not
dialog: counting the Gyms, the Day Care,
dialog: etc.
text: The Day Care is a Michael Graves-looking building with a big
text: cartoon-dog sculpture on its roof, ears cocked to the sky. A
text: Teacher leads her little charges inside.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Gary's put millions in there. And
dialog: the people with kids? They're not
dialog: hotshot geeks, they're just payroll
dialog: clerks or whatever.
text: Two Men in suits, with briefcases, (conspicuous amid the
text: Geeks in jeans and T-shirts) enter Building #19.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: You'll see alot of that: Department
text: of Justice goons snooping around.
text: The car pulls into a lot full of Miatas, BMW's, Boxters.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON - THE OUTPOST LOGO
text: THEN TILT UP TO SHOW:
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING 20 QUAD - DAY
text: The logo is of inlaid stone. Redmond &amp; Milo walk over it.
text: Milo carries a box with some personal effects, including a
text: small painting. Redmond wears a photo I.D. tag.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: So how'd you like the house?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: His Snapples were in alphabetical
dialog: order.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: (he laughs)
dialog: Well, he micro-managed the company
dialog: till it got too big...
dialog: (he opens the door)
dialog: 'Guess he needs to micro-manage
dialog: something.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 20 LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
text: At the desk, a RECEPTIONIST looks up, stands to hang a
text: temporary ID pass around Milo's neck.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Milo, I'm Judith. Welcome!
text: Milo smiles. Redmond uses his magnetic swipe card on an inner
text: door (a security cam is at every door); he holds the door
dialog: open for Milo.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: They walk up a long carpeted hallway, past open offices where
text: Geeks (mostly males under 30) sit at workstations.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Everybody has the same office, there's
dialog: no dumbass corporate hierarchy.
text: They pass a room in which Geeks play video games. Just outside
text: it, a chubby programmer, DESI, sips a Diet Coke.
speaker_heading: DESI
dialog: Get out while you can, dude!
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Desi, Milo.
speaker_heading: DESI
dialog: The guy who was at Gary's house?
text: He bows deep, with mock-obeisance. Milo blushes, Redmond
text: laughs, he snags Milo's elbow. They walk again, passing a
text: service hall with a Civil Defense sign.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Best bomb shelters in America,
dialog: accessible from every building. You
dialog: gotta figure we're a major target,
dialog: right?
scene_heading: ANOTHER HALLWAY - A MOMENT LATER
text: Up the hall, a young woman (LISA) is about to go into her
text: office. She pauses half a second, looks at Milo, goes in.
dialog: She's beautiful.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Whoa. Lisa actually looked at you.
text: As they pass her office, they look in: she's already at her
text: workstation, studiously avoiding their gaze.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Every geek here's got a thing for
dialog: Lisa. But that's about the biggest
dialog: reaction she's had to anybody.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (shy, changing the
dialog: emphasis)
dialog: She's a programmer?
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Heavy graphical background, doing
dialog: design-interface for Skywire apps.
dialog: (he all but winks)
dialog: You'll be working with her.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I've got a girlfriend, remember?
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Right. That's rare around here. You
dialog: know how nuns' re-married to Jesus?
dialog: 'Posties are married to Outpost.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - MOMENT LATER
text: A handsome, modest office like all the others: workstation,
text: whiteboard, window. They enter.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Here's your world.
dialog: (pointing at the desk)
dialog: Copy of Gary's book, also the audio
text: version, narrated by Gary.
text: Milo puts down his box, picks up the book: The Next Highway
text: (Gary by a highway on its cover). As we look at it:
speaker_heading: VOICE (SHROT)
dialog: The card's encoded. Tells us who
dialog: came through the door and when.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE OF PHYSICAL SECURITY - LATER
text: In an office with a bank of monitors that play feeds from
text: security cameras, BOB SHROT, 40, Head of Physical Security,
text: issues Milo his swipe card. Redmond watches.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Unauthorized entries sound like this.
text: He drags the card through a sample slot, producing an
text: unbelievably loud, piercing EEEEEEEE. He shouts over it:
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: If you see a tailgater, report him.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Tailgater?
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: (kills the alarm)
dialog: Somebody coming in on your swipe.
dialog: (gives Milo a photo
dialog: ID)
dialog: You see somebody wandering around
dialog: without ID, it's your duty to
dialog: challenge him. I don't give a shit
dialog: if you're a stock-option billionaire.
dialog: If you don't challenge, I'll have
dialog: your butt.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - LATER
speaker_heading: MILO
text: He seems a little -- tense.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Geeks pull his chain cause he's non-
dialog: tech. Ex-cop or something. They moon
text: cameras, or use ATM's as swipe cards.
dialog: The cameras're our real security so
text: he's a little demoralized.
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING 20/PARKING LOT - DAY
text: As they walk, Milo watches two Hardhats roll a spool of fiber-
text: optic cable into the building under construction.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What're they building?
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: #21. Way behind schedule. It's top-
dialog: secret, but everybody knows it's a
text: digital broadcast space. They see
text: the dishes on top, the fiber optics
dialog: going in.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Gary's not into fiber optics. He's
text: betting everything on the satellites.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: You wanna survive in the software
dialog: business, you cover your bets... I
dialog: gotta say, this is the weirdest car
dialog: anybody ever requested.
text: They approach a 1990 Deux Chevaux, cheap but charming.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Oh, right. Your girlfriend's an
dialog: artist.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 20 CAFETERIA - DAY
text: Blond wood, smoked glass -- a room as sleek as the Geeks who
text: lunch here are nerdy. Milo and Redmond push trays.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: I phoned her at your hotel, told her
dialog: about our corporate housing options.
dialog: She sounds neat.
text: Lisa's at a table, looking at Milo. When their eyes meet,
text: she busies herself, placing the plates back on her tray.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...She is.
dialog: (turning away from
dialog: Lisa)
dialog: She is!
text: Lisa passes behind them, smiles fleetingly at Milo. At a
text: table, Randy and Phil note the "interaction." Meantime:
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: 'Might be some friction on the
dialog: domestic front. You're expected you
dialog: to put in ridiculous hours. People've
dialog: accused us of breaking up
dialog: relationships to get their undivided
dialog: attention.
text: He laughs.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 20 HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Lisa moves swiftly up the hall. She looks up it and down it
text: (making sure no one's looking) before ducking into
scene_heading: MILO'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: She goes to the box on Milo's desk (his personal effects) --
text: starts rooting through it.
scene_heading: INT. CAFETERIA - LATER
text: Redmond and Milo have eaten; Redmond stacks their plates.
speaker_heading: REDMOND
dialog: Your counselor'll fill you in on
dialog: everything else. That's who you'll
dialog: be working with almost daily.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - LATER
text: Milo has fed the old Skywire disks into his machine. He reads
text: a complicated screen.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Busy?
text: Milo looks up. It's Gary. Milo is thrilled.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No! Just waiting for my counselor to
dialog: come by and introduce himself.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Okay. I'm Gary.
text: Milo's smile deepens. Gary notices the small painting (by
text: Alice) hanging on the wall. He stares at it.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: 'Think I should buy some originals?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...Do I?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Somebody said I'm just another
text: Philistine. With reproductions.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: That's insane. You're ahead of your
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: That's what I told her. My wife.
text: Milo colors as Gary drags a second chair in front of the
text: screen; didn't realize he was contradicting Mrs. Boyd.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: 'Thinks I'll be less of a control
dialog: freak if I have a hobby. 'Just gives
dialog: me something else to obsess about...
text: Milo smiles as Gary sits down, studies the screen.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Anything we can salvage from the old
dialog: code before you start fresh?
text: Milo can't quite get over: Gary's his counselor.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Uh, might be one or two things.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. QUAD - OUTSIDE MILO'S OFFICE - LATER
text: Two awe-struck Geeks see Gary through the window.
speaker_heading: GEEK 1
dialog: He's been in there like an hour.
speaker_heading: GEEK 2
dialog: Shit.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
scene_heading: MILO SCROLLS THE SCREEN:
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Could work with a new switch. There
text: may be a few more things hidden.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Don't spend too much time searching.
dialog: You ever vetted somebody's old code
dialog: before?
dialog: (when Milo shakes his
dialog: head)
dialog: It's a different skill. Stay close
text: to the surface. The best-hidden
dialog: secrets are in plain sight. You know
dialog: the best place to hide a leaf, right?
dialog: (when Milo shakes his
dialog: head)
text: In a tree.
scene_heading: INT. EMPTY HOUSE - EVENING
text: We're in an old (empty) Craftsman house. Through a front
text: window, we see Alice lead Milo up a path. As they enter:
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: ...The corporate condos were as
text: romantic as they sound.
text: Milo's grinning as he takes in the house.
scene_heading: THE BEDROOM - MOMENT LATER
text: Windows give onto a garden with a small studio. Milo's still
text: beaming, Alice is pleased. Till he says:
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You know he's never been anybody's
dialog: counselor before?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo! What about --?
text: She gestures at what she hopes will be their home.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Oh, It's great. It's great!
dialog: (they start to kiss,
dialog: but:)
dialog: 'Think I should tell him I learned
dialog: everything using 1.0? Maybe I could
dialog: show him one of my early programs.
text: She pulls him back into the kiss.
speaker_heading: MONTAGE W/ MUSIC
text: 1.) MILO types intently in his office.
text: 2.) GARY sits with MILO at his desk, discussing code. Pan to
text: the window; we see a different pair of awed Geeks.
text: 3.) Milo &amp; Alice read in bed. He's reading Gary's book.
text: 4.) MILO shows GARY one of his early programs, written on
text: 1.0.: it's simple-looking, with some childish writing scrawled
text: on it. Gary seems touched.
scene_heading: INT. OUTPOST CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
text: Two DOJ AGENTS depose Gary. (A video-cam records his answers.)
text: Two Outpost LAWYERS sit next to him. One of the Agents is
dialog: reading from a document:
speaker_heading: DOJ AGENT
dialog: "Infotek's urgent need to license
dialog: Outpost Office is such that we can
dialog: use it as a tool in the current
dialog: negotiation."
dialog: (looks up)
dialog: When you wrote the word "tool," what'd
dialog: you mean by it?
text: Gary studies his copy of the E-mail. He looks vexed.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I don't remember.
speaker_heading: DOJ AGENT
dialog: What d'you think you meant by it?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I'm confused. Am I supposed to
dialog: speculate under oath?
text: The Agent shifts in his seat. We get an idea of Gary's
text: negotiating skill (making the other party look unreasonable,
dialog: while offering nothing).
speaker_heading: OTHER AGENT
dialog: Since you didn't have an answer to
dialog: that question, Mr. Boyd --
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: ("confused" again)
dialog: Didn't I? Have an answer? "I don't
dialog: remember."
text: The Agents confer. Gary sees Phil, looming outside the open
text: door. One of the Agents sees him, too. He doesn't try to
dialog: hide his annoyance:
speaker_heading: DOJ AGENT
dialog: Did you wanna take a break, Mr. Boyd?
scene_heading: INT. AN OFFICE - A MOMENT LATER
text: Gary takes a manila envelope from Phil, opens it.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Your protege's moving so fast we can
text: barely keep up with him.
text: Gary reads the page from the envelope: computer code.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: This is good. Who did it?
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: 'Start-up not 50 miles from here.
dialog: Kid's on Prozac.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Maybe we should all get on it.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Milo stares at his screen, frustrated. Gary enters.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: How's it going?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Maybe I'm going too fast.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (sharply; incredulous)
dialog: Too fast? At least four companies're
text: on the verge of workable convergence
dialog: systems, Milo, they --
text: Catching himself, Gary trails off. He sits down, exhales.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Even when I had a hand in every aspect
dialog: of the company I knew the one thing
dialog: you can never control is somebody's
dialog: creative process.
text: Gary seems sincerely contrite. (He needn't be: Milo just
dialog: wants to please him. Besides: Milo sees he'd like to stop
text: obsessing about convergence, to be a "worldly zillionaire,"
dialog: engrossed in his hobbies; but, after all, what could be more
dialog: engrossing than Skywire?)
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's okay. Really.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (reaching into his
dialog: pocket)
dialog: Take a look at this. Slightly
dialog: different approach.
text: Reading the page Gary got from Phil, Milo knits his brow.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You did this -- overnight?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You're making me young again.
scene_heading: INT. LISA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: PAN OFF a TV, where local news footage shows a mangled,
text: smoking BMW, post-wreck, on a lonely nocturnal highway.
speaker_heading: NEWS VOICE
dialog: ...A graduate of MIT, he was on the
dialog: antidepressant Prozac, and had been
dialog: warned not to drink and drive. (Etc.)
text: Lisa watches the news report, knowingly.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING 20 HALLWAY - DAY
text: Lisa heads up the hall, carrying a CD-ROM.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Milo's typing.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Milo?
text: He looks. He stands.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Lisa.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You know my name.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You know mine.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You're famous around here.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (winces)
dialog: I'm getting a teacher's pet rep.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I wouldn't worry about it. You've
dialog: gotta figure most people around here
dialog: were their teachers' pets.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...Were you?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: We moved around so much I barely
dialog: knew my teachers.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Me too! Were you an Army brat or
dialog: something?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: ...Something like that. Yeah.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Didn't mean to pry. I just have this
dialog: theory. Some of us who got to good
dialog: at this? We were -- escaping
dialog: something.
text: This seems to jolt her. She pales a little. What a mysterious
text: girl. But this only adds to her allure.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Did I say something?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: No, I know what you mean. I used to
dialog: spend my life wishing people could
dialog: be like computers. Least they make
dialog: sense. Sometimes you think they've
dialog: betrayed you. Like a person would.
dialog: But then you see, no, you just missed
dialog: a step. You can go back and make it
dialog: all work.
text: This strikes a deep chord with Milo, all of it.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I used to wish that. All the time.
text: They're looking at each other: he gets self-conscious.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (re: the CD-ROM)
dialog: What've you got there?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Graphical interfaces. For Skywire?
dialog: I'm s'posed to coordinate with you.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Show me.
text: They sit. As she inserts the disk, he finds himself looking
text: at her. On the screen, the frontier outpost we know as the
text: logo appears. It's struck by a bolt from the sky. The outpost
text: comes alive with light, music, movie-images through its
text: windows, a ringing phone. Finally, the word SKYWIRE burns
dialog: into it. It's neat, she's really good.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Cool!
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Yeah? I ran it for lots of platforms,
dialog: ranging from the narrowest bandwidth
dialog: to --
text: Simultaneously, they reach for the mouse. Their hands touch.
text: They look at each other. Something happened.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...Sh-Show me the next one.
text: She nods, manipulates the mouse. He stares at the screen
text: strenuously, fighting the impulse to stare at Lisa.
scene_heading: INT. ANTEROOM - GARY'S OFFICE
text: Gary's SECRETARY types as Milo enters. She smiles at him.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Have a seat. He's with someone, but
dialog: I know he wants to see you.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary's face is red. The two Lawyers who sat in on his
text: deposition are with him again.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Because we bundled it, the judge is
dialog: threatening to enjoin the whole --
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I'm confused, Ted.
text: Gary has used the phrase before, but the pretense of
text: ingenuousness is gone; it's witheringly condescending.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Didn't you tell me they'd be Chapter
dialog: 12 by the time they could hope to
dialog: enjoin? I'm very confused, because
dialog: you said they'd be ready to settle.
scene_heading: ANTEROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo hears Gary yelling behind the closed door. It's
text: indecipherable, but we discern an enraged "bullshit!" Milo
text: flips through a copy of Wired, trying to ignore it. The
text: Lawyers come out, passing swiftly, rather grimly.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Go on in.
dialog: (when Milo looks
dialog: dubious)
dialog: He's always happy to see you.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S OFFICE - A MOMENT LATER
text: Agitated, Gary rather compulsively lines-up the papers, pens,
text: etc. on his desk; he barely hears the knock at the open
text: doorframe.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Milo. What's up?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Well -- you sent for me.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Right... Right.
text: Still distracted, he finds a page of code on his desk, gives
text: it to Milo. Once again, Milo marvels.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You really wrote this just today?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (dark, unsmiling)
dialog: What're you implying.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: Nothing!
text: Their eyes are locked. Gary blinks, sags into his chair.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Everything I do is under scrutiny.
text: The questions they ask, trying to
dialog: make anything strategic look sordid.
dialog: (knits his brow)
dialog: I'm confused. Doesn't everybody in
dialog: business try to get ahead?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: I'm sure.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: The purpose of this company isn't to
dialog: destroy our competitors any more
dialog: than the purpose of living is to
dialog: breath. But the software business is
dialog: binary: you're a zero or a one. Being
dialog: obsessive isn't a crime. It's a
dialog: character trait.
text: Milo just wants to get out. He studies the code to hide his
text: discomfort. Gary watches him.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: It scales, don't you think?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Definitely.
text: He smiles. For the first time it looks forced.
scene_heading: INT. SEATTLE RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: A youthfully upscale place, a converted red-brick warehouse.
text: Alice looks great. The Waiter pours wine.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: This feels fairly grown up, I'd say.
text: Milo smiles (again it looks forced) raises his glass.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: To our new life.
text: (she's looking at him)
dialog: ...What's wrong?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That's what I need to ask you.
dialog: (when he says nothing)
dialog: You know you can't keep anything
dialog: from me.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: He gave me some new code-fixes this
dialog: morning. I said, "Did you really do
dialog: this just today?" Cause I was
dialog: impressed. He said "What're you
dialog: implying?"
text: She just looks at him. He grows a little defensive:
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's the way he said it. Just the
dialog: way my dad did, when he was caught
dialog: in a lie. That's how you knew you
dialog: were onto something ugly.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (just confused)
dialog: What would it mean, anyway? If he
dialog: didn't write it?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: That's what I'm asking myself. Does
dialog: he have some genius stowed away? Why
dialog: not let him write Skywire.
dialog: (upset)
dialog: 'Not saying it makes sense.
text: A Busboy leaves a basket of rolls. Glum, preoccupied, Milo
text: takes one without looking, brings it to his lips --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo!
text: He looks at Alice, looks at the roll, blanches.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I'm so stupid.
text: He throws the roll back into the basket.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He's your boss. He's not your --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he's nodding)
dialog: I know, I know.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: If you can't deal with him on that
dialog: basis, you better get a new counselor.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (the very idea hurts)
dialog: Isn't that -- extreme?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What's extreme is what that ER doctor
dialog: said when he pumped your stomach.
dialog: Eat another sesame seed and that's
dialog: it.
text: We see the rolls: covered in seeds.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I mean, if one little comment from
dialog: Gary is gonna upset you this much --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You're right. It's -- a working
dialog: relationship. Don't know what I was
dialog: expecting.
text: He smiles. But his heart's not in it. She hates to see him
text: suffer. She picks up her glass.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: C'mon. Let's do the toast?
scene_heading: EXT. TERRACE OUTSIDE CAFETERIA - DAY
text: Milo sits alone, marking up pages of code as he eats. He
text: doesn't notice Lisa, standing with her tray.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Did you wanna be alone?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No. Please.
text: He indicates she should sit.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: They just pushed up the schedule on
dialog: Skywire apps. How fast are you going?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: "There is no second place." Plus
dialog: every time I get jammed-up, Gary has
dialog: an inspiration.
text: (looks at her, curious)
dialog: Is it like that with your counselor?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Mine's not the CEO. He barely
text: remembers to take a shower.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Right, right. But does he ever just,
dialog: like, hand you code?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Maybe once. I re-wrote it, anyway.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he smiles)
dialog: You're compulsive.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Mmm-more like -- I have a little
dialog: trouble. Trusting people.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Why's that?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Long story. Not that interesting.
text: She smiles charmingly to cover whatever she's feeling. The
text: more enigmatic she is, the more intrigued he is.
scene_heading: EXT. BLDG. 20 QUAD - DAY
text: Milo and Lisa walk, eat ice cream out of paper cups with
text: Outpost logos. They laugh. We go nearer.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: So, when you were talking about
dialog: wishing people were more like
dialog: computers. Was that then? Or now?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Then and now.
dialog: (when he looks at her)
dialog: But not right now.
text: She maintains eye contact. Her meaning is clear.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Milo!
text: Milo turns, sees Brian (Stanford classmate, Outpost zealot)
text: give an envelope to a Guard at the door of #20; he trots
text: over to Milo, who is as flustered as another guy might be
text: having been found in bed with a girl.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
text: Just dropped off a resume. Almost
text: got in the front door.
text: He looks at Lisa, back to Milo, wondering why he isn't being
dialog: introduced.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You're living here?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: 'Thought if I relocated it could
dialog: help my case. I'm writing programs
dialog: for the local public access station.
dialog: Where any whack-job with 100 bucks
dialog: gets his own show? God, does it suck.
dialog: (gives him a business
dialog: card)
dialog: Can you help me?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Sure, I'll see what I can do.
text: Seeing how flushed Milo is, Brian thinks he must have
text: blundered in on something. He starts to back away.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Well I parked illegally. See y'later?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (watching Brian go)
dialog: 'Forgot to introduce you.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I have a girlfriend.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: That's great. I -- didn't know.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: She saved my life.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT
text: The station is closed. Milo's car is parked, empty.
speaker_heading: MILO (O.S.)
dialog: How's it going down there?
text: We find him, in an illuminated phone booth.
speaker_heading: TEDDY (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: I've been hacking for five night's
dialog: straight, I'm really making headway.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: INT. TEDDY'S LOFT (SUNNYVALE) - CONTINUOUS
text: A funky space, posters on the wall, a red Stanford pennant,
text: rubber trees at either end of his desk.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: But these, like, White Supremacists
dialog: trashed my office, last week.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What?!
text: On the wall beyond Teddy the word GOOK (in blood red) has
text: been covered over with paint but still bleeds through.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: They're in the neighborhood. They
dialog: usually hassle Vietnamese grocers.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Jesus, Teddy.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: I'm cool. They didn't touch the
dialog: machine. Or my disks. Probably didn't
dialog: know what they were. So, you a Moonie
dialog: yet?
dialog: (he waits)
dialog: Milo?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I met this girl.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: What? Come on. Is it serious?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Did you tell Alice?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No! I keep thinking it'll go away.
dialog: But there's this -- connection. She's
dialog: been hacking since she was little,
dialog: she had to move around a lot. Plus I
dialog: see her every day, we're working on
dialog: the same program. She's -- beautiful.
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: A beautiful geek? I don't wanna sound
dialog: paranoid, or like a pig, but what're
dialog: the chances?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What d'you mean?
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: I dunno. I guess Larry's got me
dialog: totally suspicious of that place.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What does that mean?
speaker_heading: TEDDY
dialog: Milo, geeks don't have two
dialog: girlfriends. Most don't have one.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I didn't plan this.
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING #20 QUAD - DAY
text: Through a window, we watch Milo traverse the quad.
speaker_heading: GARY (O.S.)
dialog: What'd the girl say?
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: There may be a little less trust
dialog: after your outburst.
dialog: We are
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary turns back inside, where Phil reads Milo's new code.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Hasn't affected his work, though.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Nothing does. Still. I want him to
dialog: like me.
text: Phil is confused by Gary's sincerity; so is Gary.
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING #20 PARKING LOT - EVENING
text: Desi and another Geek watch in astonishment: Gary walks Milo
text: to his car, his arm circled over Milo's shoulder. He seems
dialog: to be -- apologizing.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S HOUSE - EVENING
text: Milo comes eagerly up the path: can't wait to tell Alice
text: what just happened. He enters -- pulls up short. Alice is
text: waiting for him. She's white.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...What's wrong?
text: She doesn't know how to say it.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Teddy was killed last night.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What're you -- what?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It was a hate crime.
text: Milo is staggered. She moves to him...
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
text: He hangs onto her, for support.
scene_heading: EXT. SUNNYVALE LOFT BLDG. (SILICON VALLEY) - DAY
text: Establish the funky building, vestiges of police tape on the
text: door, a limo and many cars parked out front.
scene_heading: INT. LOFT - MAIN FLOOR - CONTINUOUS
text: A mixture of Teddy's relatives and Computer Friends have
text: gathered. In the BG, Teddy's Dad weeps volubly.
scene_heading: INT. TEDDY'S WORKSPACE - CONTINUOUS
text: Teddy's brother, NELSON, shows Milo the workspace: red
text: Stanford pennant, rubber trees on the desk. Milo, in a suit,
text: peers at the painted-over epithet on the wall.
speaker_heading: NELSON
dialog: They trashed his hard disk, all his
text: back-ups. Nothing's left.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: They caught the guys?
text: Nelson shows Milo a San Jose Mercury: mugshots of two skin-
text: headed Aryan Nations Members in their 20's.
speaker_heading: NELSON
dialog: It's an airtight case. They found
text: the weapon with Teddy's blood on it
dialog: and their fingerprints. They'd been
text: arrested twice for beating-up Asians.
dialog: How come they weren't in jail?
text: Milo unpins a picture of himself &amp; Teddy from a board.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: He told me about the break-in. He
dialog: didn't seem to take it that seriously.
speaker_heading: NELSON
dialog: You guys don't take anything seriously
dialog: do you? That's not on a hard drive?
text: Milo is stung by this. Alice appears in the doorway.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Nelson? Your mom wants you. It's
text: time to go to scatter the ashes.
text: Milo is pinning the picture back up. The pushpin falls to
text: the floor, he kneels to retrieve it. On the floorboards, he
text: sees a thin, shiny plastic filament. He picks it up.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I didn't know he was working with
dialog: fiber optics.
text: But when he looks up, Nelson's gone.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: We gotta go too, honey.
text: As he heads out with Alice, he unthinkingly stuffs the
text: filament in his suit pocket.
scene_heading: EXT. BLUFF OVER THE PACIFIC - DAY
text: A raw beautiful bluff. The sea stretches to infinity behind
text: a smaller group of Mourners. A LAY MINISTER intones the Lord's
dialog: Prayer.
scene_heading: EXT. BLUFF - LATER
text: Milo approaches Larry with trepidation. Larry nods, it's
text: okay. They hug each other. They walk slowly back toward the
dialog: cars.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I know you lost all his work. Maybe
dialog: I could come down here and --
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You are naive. Look at your employment
dialog: contract: you can't work anywhere
dialog: else in this field for at least few
dialog: years.
dialog: (he smiles sadly)
dialog: Not that I don't miss you.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Just thought his work should go on.
speaker_heading: LARRY
text: He was on the verge of something,
dialog: too. He was gonna show us the next
dialog: day. He said "The answer's not in
dialog: the box, it's in the band." Know
dialog: what it means?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's only meaningful when you've got
text: 40,000 lines of code to back it up.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Man, could he write code. Totally
dialog: elegant. He had his own style.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Those really weird, short lines.
text: They smile. For a moment, they've brought Teddy back to life.
text: Alice comes up from behind, to fetch Milo.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Take good care of this guy.
scene_heading: EXT. BLDG. 20 - DAY
text: Arriving for work, Milo sees Outpost flags at half mast.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - DAY
text: As Milo comes up the hall, Lisa is standing there. We get
text: the feeling she's been waiting for him.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You okay?
text: He looks at her, perhaps hearing Teddy's words ("what're the
text: chances?"). He nods, moves on. She watches him head up the
dialog: hall.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Milo types. There is a rapping on the doorframe. Gary.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I heard what happened.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Were the flags for Teddy?
text: Gary nods. Spontaneously Milo stands, hugs Gary.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Had you talked to him much lately?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Just once. 'Guess I was worried we
dialog: didn't have anything to talk about,
dialog: since work was off-limits. Non-
dialog: disclosure.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Did you?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Talk about work? Never!
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I meant did you find other stuff to --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Oh. Yeah.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You've been coming in early.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It helps. Alice said it would help.
dialog: To focus on something.
dialog: (a little guilty)
dialog: 'Don't know what I'd do without her.
scene_heading: INT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S HOUSE - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
text: Milo sits on the couch, in dim light. Alice comes in.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You okay?
dialog: (sits by him, holds
dialog: him)
dialog: I miss him, too.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. DINING ROOM TERRACE - DAY
text: Milo eats alone. Through the window, he sees Lisa inside.
text: She's eating alone, too. Gary comes trotting up.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Milo?
text: He is unclasping a manila envelope; he takes pages out.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Wow. You must have 20,000 lines of
dialog: code there...
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: 34,000. But they're real short lines.
dialog: 'Just came out that way.
text: Seeing Gary's code, Milo knits his brow: it must be sort of
dialog: like -- Teddy's.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Been thinking about the push mechanism
dialog: in the handler. And it came over me:
dialog: it's in the wrong place.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (an uncertain smile)
dialog: The wrong place?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: The answer's not in the box. It's in
dialog: the band.
text: Milo's smile freezes. As he stares at Gary, we zoom with a
text: reverse dolly so that the background retreats queasily but
text: Gary remains dominant in frame. For Milo, it feels like the
text: very ground is going out from under him.
text: Gary continues to explain, pointing at lines of code. And
text: Milo pretends to listen. But he can't even make out the words
text: Gary speaks -- he hears only a jumble of echoes.
text: Milo nods mechanically; he wants to scream. Or run. He
text: perceives, amid the echoes, that Gary is standing, smiling,
text: saying "See you later." And he's gone.
text: Milo touches the pages, like some talisman of Teddy.
speaker_heading: LISA (O.S.)
dialog: Milo? You okay?
text: It strikes him she always shows up at these moments. He
text: gathers his wits before looking up.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Gotta go home. 'Think I ate something.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. MILO'S CAR/OUTPOST PARKING LOT - DAY
text: Pulling out of the lot, Milo seizes the car phone. He hits
text: HOME on the speed-dial. Gets a busy signal. Rings off. He's
text: about to press re-dial when he sees the Outpost logo branded
text: on the receiver.
text: He throws it down like it's contaminated.
scene_heading: EXT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S HOUSE - DAY
text: Middle-of-the-day sounds: chirping birds, school children.
text: Milo pulls to the curb at a bad angle.
scene_heading: EXT. INT./FRONT DOOR/FOYER - DAY
text: He fumbles with his keys. When he gets inside:
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Alice? Alice!
text: He moves into the bedroom. He sees her through the window,
text: painting in the studio.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. BACK GARDEN/STUDIO - MOMENT LATER
text: He stands outside the studio. Waits for her to look up. She
text: does. She smiles. Then she sees something's wrong. He waits
dialog: for her to come out here, where it's safe to speak.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK GARDEN - LATER
text: He paces, agitated. She watches him. She's skeptical, but
text: doesn't want to appear unsympathetic.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Are you saying you think they had
dialog: something to do with his death? Nelson
dialog: said it was an airtight case.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I don't know what I'm saying. Maybe --
dialog: maybe they hired those guys.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I can't see Outpost putting its
dialog: reputation in the hands of people
dialog: like that.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I don't know! I just know it was
dialog: Teddy's code. All these ideas flying
dialog: in from everywhere. You know how he
dialog: says "Any kid working in his garage
dialog: can put us out of business?" It's
dialog: like they know what every kid's doing.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: They hack into people's programs?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Nobody does work like this on-line.
dialog: It's in your PC, or in a mainframe.
dialog: Self-contained. They'd have to be,
text: like, watching people. Physically.
dialog: (he freezes)
dialog: Oh Jesus.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - A MOMENT LATER
text: Milo's at the closet, rummaging among the clothes hanging
text: there. Alice comes up behind him. He finds his suit jacket.
text: He digs in one pocket, then another. He finds the fiber optic
text: strand (from Teddy's floor). Shows it to her.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (almost silently)
text: It's a camera.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK GARDEN - AGAIN
text: They've trooped back outside. She's worried she's indulging
dialog: his paranoia.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It isn't a broadcast studio. It's --
dialog: a surveillance post or something.
dialog: That's why they have the dishes on
dialog: top.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You're scaring me. I think we should
dialog: just go.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Go where? You can't get away from
dialog: people like this.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: "Like this?" It's Gary you're talking
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (it really hurts)
dialog: You think I don't know that?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo. Why would he --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: How should I know? "Solving a
dialog: problem," I guess. Or needing to
dialog: control everything. I don't know.
dialog: (can't think about it)
dialog: I've gotta get in there.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Even if all this were true. There're
text: 20 other buildings. All of them filled
dialog: with computers and --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's the only one with dishes on the
dialog: roof. The studio's a front. That's
text: why they keep postponing its opening.
dialog: (muttered, obsessive)
dialog: ...gotta get in there.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo, you told me those DOJ Agents
dialog: are all over the place. How could
dialog: they hope to hide a surveillance
dialog: post?
dialog: (as he mulls this)
dialog: And how can you get in there, anyway?
text: With the cameras and the swipe cards --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I can't just walk away!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You can't just walk in, either.
speaker_heading: MILO
text: They stop the construction work at
text: six or seven. The parking lot's mostly
text: clear by two or three in the morning.
dialog: Even the early Geeks don't get there
dialog: before five.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Is it two? Or is it three? Have you
dialog: ever really noticed?
dialog: He knows what she's saying: he's unqualified for this, a
text: space-cadet. She tries to hold him. But he wriggles away.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No! I can't just keep my head in the
dialog: sand. That's how I got into this
dialog: mess.
text: He paces, he thinks. She watches him, worried.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I know how to get in there. But you've
dialog: gotta help me.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (scared, reluctant)
dialog: ...Whaddo I do?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: So you believe me?
text: She can't lie. She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Just tell me what to do.
speaker_heading: BEGIN MONTAGE:
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Standing at his window, Milo can see #21. Workers in Hardhats
text: come out of it, carrying lunchboxes. Milo holds a small
text: writing pad. He notes the time.
scene_heading: EXT. SUBURBAN MAIN STREET - DAY (CONTINUE MONTAGE)
text: Alice parks in front of a drugstore. As she gets out of the
text: car, she looks around uneasily.
scene_heading: INT. DRUGSTORE - (CONTINUE MONTAGE)
text: Alice is at the counter, buying a wind-up alarm clock.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT (CONT. MONTAGE)
text: Milo watches a car pull out of the parking lot, leaving only
text: one or two others. He writes down the time.
scene_heading: INT. TOYSTORE - (CONTINUE MONTAGE)
text: Alice is at the counter, among children and mothers,
text: purchasing a chemistry set.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - NIGHT (CONTINUE MONTAGE)
text: He watches a SECURITY GUARD (DELBERT) go into #21 on his
text: rounds, notes the time: 3:45 AM.
scene_heading: INT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S - STUDIO - NIGHT (CONTINUE MONTAGE)
text: Alice, wearing dishwashing gloves, ties the alarm clock to a
text: small Tupperware container with copper wire.
text: Milo (wearing latex gloves) is at the sink, mixing chemicals
text: from the toy chemistry set. Alice approaches with the
text: container affixed to the clock. As she holds it out Milo
text: pours the mixture into it.
speaker_heading: SHORT FADE:
text: OVER BLACK we hear ticking. The screen lightens to show:
scene_heading: INT. SUPPLY CLOSET (BUILDING 20)
text: Milo's alarm clock is set for 11:00. It sits amid mops and
dialog: cleaning products.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 20 HALLWAY - DAY
text: Milo stands in the open door of a refrigerator, as if
text: searching for a soda. He's looking up the hall, waiting for
text: someone. He consults his watch. 10:53.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Come on.
text: Here comes a GUARD; he nods to Milo as he passes. The Guard
text: opens a door with his card. Milo rushes through the door on
text: the Guard's swipe -- "tailgating."
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Sir, you gotta use your own --
dialog: (noticing)
dialog: Where's your ID?
text: Milo cops an attitude. He's not completely convincing.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Do you know who I am?
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: It's my job, I gotta --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he's getting better)
dialog: The kind of stock options I'm sitting
dialog: on?
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - DAY
text: Bob Shrot, the ex-cop in charge of physical security, looks
text: up as the Guard escorts Milo into the room.
scene_heading: INT. SUPPLY CLOSET - CONTINUOUS
text: The bomb explodes. The blast is tiny but loud (glass cleaning
text: bottles ring; plastic bottles moan).
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo sits, watches Shrot encode a new card for him, finding
text: his info on a terminal. On a monitor behind Shrot, Milo sees
text: Programmers being ushered out of the building.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Every geek has to try this once to
dialog: show me how smart he is --
text: ANOTHER GUARD rushes in.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER GUARD
dialog: There was an explosion in a Y-sector
dialog: closet, we're evacuating the whole
dialog: sector.
text: Shrot comes to his feet, grabs a holster (with gun) off a
text: shelf. Milo, looking flummoxed, stands.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Un-nh, can't wander around without
dialog: ID now. Just park your ass in that
dialog: chair.
text: Milo sits. Shrot goes out with the Guard.
speaker_heading: GUARD (O.S.)
dialog: Whole place reeks of fuckin' ammonia.
text: Milo moves quickly to the wall, reads a chart with the Guards'
text: Schedule, runs his finger down it til he finds the name of
text: the Guard on the 3 AM shift: DELBERT, KEN.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAYS - A FEW QUICK CUTS - CONTINUOUS
text: Guards open closet doors, shine their flashlights.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo has moved to Shrot's seat. He's encoding a fresh card
dialog: with Ken Delbert's information.
scene_heading: INT. SERVICE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Panning off the civil defense sign we find Shrot standing at
text: a closet, examining a piece of the alarm clock.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo is at work, bringing up schematic screens, diagnosing
dialog: the system with his unique concentration.
text: Panning to the window, we see the evacuated Programmers
text: enjoying themselves on the lawn. It's a rare, exciting event:
text: they jump around, miming explosions.
scene_heading: INT. SERVICE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Shrot and the Guard collect pieces of the bomb out of the
text: debris, puts them in a tray.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo brings up the screen that controls the #21 cameras. On
text: the monitors, he sees nothing very interesting: a hallway, a
dialog: room under construction...
text: He pulls down a menu. RECORDING is highlighted. He clicks
text: PLAYBACK. The image hardly changes, but a Guard wanders
text: through. He types, the tape rewinds (the Guard moves
text: backwards). He finds a neutral spot (showing an empty
text: hallway), stops the tape.
scene_heading: INT. SERVICE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary, Randy &amp; Phil approach Shrot; Gary stares at him.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: SHROT
text: Not much. Glorified cherry bomb.
dialog: Right by the civil defense sign?
dialog: Some geek's idea of irony. I been
dialog: saying we need a camera in this hall.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: There's nothing in this hall.
dialog: Someone's pulling your chain, as
dialog: usual.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: (thinking aloud)
dialog: Unless it's a diversion. Milo's in
dialog: my office. He was tailgating, so I --
text: Gary explodes, with incredulity.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Milo? Try to have a clue. Try to
dialog: think.
text: Gary strides off. Shrot feels unfairly maligned.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: That kid's the great white hope.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: I could get it out of him.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: You're not listening.
text: Randy and Phil head up the hall. Shrot watches them. Even if
text: his "intellectual superiors" are convinced of Milo's
dialog: innocence, he isn't.
text: He walks swiftly back toward his office. Then he runs.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo reads a warning message. DOWNLOADING PLAYBACK STREAM TO
text: RECORD CYCLE WILL CAUSE BIT OVERLOAD. DO YOU WISH TO PROCEED?
dialog: Y/N. He types Y.
text: The glitch freezes the tape (we see it lock into place): it
text: shows the empty hallway.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: They've let the Programmers back in. They head up the hall
text: as Shrot heads down it. He pushes past them gruffly.
text: He knows he's enhancing his Neanderthal image (they make
text: cracks) but he's more interested in obeying his instinct.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo immobilizes another camera in #21... and another.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY CONTINUOUS
text: Shrot rounds the corner. His office is in view, now.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo, at the keyboard, closes up windows, one by one.
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY OUTER OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Shrot is back, he has only to round the corner to see Milo.
dialog: We assume his POV as he does so:
text: Milo sits in the chair where Shrot left him.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Everything okay?
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Pan off the clock (3:20 AM) to find Milo at his desk, looking
text: at the clock with a certain dread. It's time.
scene_heading: EXT. BLDG. 20 QUAD - NIGHT
text: Milo walks the path between the two buildings, fiddling
text: nervously with the dummied swipe card.
text: Hearing footfalls behind him, he whirls: it's a Geek loping
text: to his car. He smiles. Milo smiles: waits, walks on.
text: Nearing #21, Milo looks around, making sure no one else is
text: around. His POV (panning): A Programmer works late, visible
text: through a lighted window in #20... The dog sculpture with
text: cocked ears sits atop the Day Care, its quizzical expression
text: seeming to wonder what Milo is up to... The Geek he just saw
text: racing by on foot now pulls out of the parking lot in his
dialog: James Bond BMW...
text: Milo arrives at the entrance. Heart pounding, he brings the
dialog: card to the slot. Will he trigger that awful alarm?
text: He slides the card, the door clicks.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 21 - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
text: He enters: concrete floor, unpainted walls, construction
text: lights. At the inner door he looks up at the camera.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A MONITOR
text: that shows us where Milo stands, minus Milo. Widen:
scene_heading: INT. SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: A GUARD packs up his stuff, getting ready to go home. The
text: new guard, KEN DELBERT enters.
speaker_heading: DELBERT
dialog: How's it goin'?
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: (shaking out his cup)
dialog: Big night. Switched from tea to
dialog: coffee. Brought new meaning to my
dialog: work.
speaker_heading: DELBERT
dialog: Yeah? Maybe I'll start my rounds
dialog: with #21 tonight.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: You are a wild man.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 21 - INNER HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo moves up a hall with unpainted walls, bare floors,
text: unconnected wires. The only illumination is from construction
text: lights on the concrete floor. Opening doors, he sees:
text: Bare rooms. Wall plates ready to receive electrical equipment,
text: bundles of wire hanging out. In other words: the building is
dialog: as advertised, so far.
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING 20 - NIGHT
text: Delbert comes out with his flashlight, heads across the clean-
text: swept path that leads to #21.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 21 - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo nears a set of double-doors at the end of the hall. He
text: hears a low ominous hum from within. Convinced he's found
text: something, he quickens his pace. He's about to swipe his
text: card when a beam of light bounces along the wall.
text: He presses himself into an alcove. Through a chink in the
text: unfinished wall he sees:
text: Delbert come in the front door. His rounds consist of shining
text: his torch up at the cameras, making sure the red lights are
dialog: on.
text: He walks right past Milo (who doesn't breath).
text: Delbert swipes open the double doors, leans in: the humming
text: gets louder.
text: ON MILO: pressing himself into the alcove.
text: Delbert turns around, heads back down the hall... exits the
dialog: building.
text: Milo waits a beat before heading to the end of the hall.
text: Using the card, he enters
speaker_heading: A BIG SPACE
text: A studio-to-be, architectural touches like soffits framed in
text: but not plaster-boarded. The portentous hum comes from around
text: a corner. He approaches, convinced the answer lies here.
text: Clearing the wall he sees:
text: A squat emergency generator sitting on the floor, powering
dialog: construction lights. Something you'd buy at Sears.
scene_heading: EXT. #21 ENTRANCE/A MOMENT LATER - (BINOCULAR SHOT)
text: Through infra-red binoculars we see Milo come out, looking
text: left and right, to make sure he hasn't been observed.
speaker_heading: VOICE (RANDY)
dialog: Well. Now he knows: nothin' in there.
dialog: We are
scene_heading: INT. PHIL'S OFFICE - BLDG. 20 - CONTINUOUS
text: Randy turns back into the room, where Phil is sifting through
text: papers spread over a coffee table.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: Maybe he'll get back to work.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Speaking of which...
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: Yeah, yeah.
text: Randy pulls the blinds shut, joins Phil.
scene_heading: EXT. QUAD - CRANE SHOT CONTINUOUS
text: From a high angle, we track Milo, as he walks along the path
text: to a bench. The camera passes briefly behind a dark object
text: in the foreground (dog sculpture) as we track him.
scene_heading: QUAD - TIGHTER - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo sags onto the bench. He stares out, perplexed, suffering.
text: Then he knits his brow. He seems to be studying -- the ground.
text: Or rather the shadow stretched out in front of him: the
text: looming silhouette of the dog atop the Day Care.
text: He stands up, turns around. REVERSE ON:
text: The whimsical canine. Push toward it's ears cocked to the
text: sky... Then toward a single ear, framed by fur-brown concrete,
text: but with a smooth, concave inner surface of enamelled metal:
dialog: satellite dish.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: ...in a tree...
scene_heading: EXT. DAY CARE CENTER - A MOMENT LATER
text: At the entrance, Milo applies the swipe-card.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE CENTER - CONTINUOUS
text: He steps in on colorful carpeting, amid balls &amp; tricycles.
text: Kid's artwork hangs on the wall. He moves through this room,
dialog: into the
speaker_heading: COMPUTER ROOM
text: 20 screens glow. They hang suspended over a wide, ringed
text: table, a chair at each keyboard. Indeed, Gary has spared no
dialog: expense for the toddlers: they're flat, sleek, digital
text: screens. At the moment, they show colorful, childish contour
text: drawings that say WHERE I WANNA WORK (e.g.: a spaceship).
text: There are a dozen more screens on tables at the perimeter of
text: the room showing screensavers (eg: angelfish swimming).
text: Milo moves slowly around the table, studying the screens.
text: Not surprisingly, most of the WHERE I WANNA WORK drawings
text: are of desks or tables with computers.
text: Tracking just ahead of Milo, we get to a screen that shows a
text: workstation with a red pennant on the wall, a rubber plant
text: at each end of a desk. Even in contour form it's -- familiar.
text: Milo passes it. And comes back to it.
text: Staring at it, he sits. He begins typing. [The drawing still
text: occupies the screen, but in a window he's brought up at the
text: bottom, there is dense, DOS-looking code.] He types furiously --
text: numbers, symbols, backslashes. Whatever he's trying to do is
text: a challenge even to him. He deletes lines, begins anew, his
text: frustration evident.
text: As he works through the layers of code, the pixels on the
text: screen start to fill in. The contour lines slowly dissolve
text: into a live broadcast image of Teddy's workstation in
text: Sunnyvale (eerily empty, now).
text: When all the pixels have fallen into place, Milo hears CLICK
text: CLICK CLICK CLICK CLICK from every direction, as all the
text: screens in the room fill in with live broadcast images. All
dialog: of them show variations on a theme:
text: A workstation seen by a camera over-the-shoulder of a
text: programmer (if he were present). The stations are of various
text: shapes and sizes, but in each case we have an unobstructed
dialog: view of screen &amp; keyboard. At this hour, few programmers are
text: present. One guy has fallen asleep, his head on a desk. A
dialog: Japanese Geek is hard at work: it's day there.
scene_heading: INT. PHIL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Phil and Randy work at the coffee table.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Did you download Corey? In San Jose?
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: Damn. 'Have to go back over there.
dialog: (he stands, stretches)
dialog: Be so much easier if we could walk
text: in the front door.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: You don't look anything like a three-
dialog: year-old.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo works the keyboard. Again, the code gets dense and
text: obscure as he goes deeper. He succeeds in calling-up a
text: graphical interface. Among the menus he can choose from are:
scene_heading: TARGET SCHOOLS, PD UPLOADS, RX UPLOADS.
text: He clicks Target Schools, a menu shoots down (Berkeley, Cal
text: Tech, etc.). He clicks Stanford, then Chin, Teddy. Two windows
text: open. In one, there is a video stream of Teddy winning an
text: award in the Gate's Bldg. In the other, uploaded police video
text: stenciled SUNNYVALE PD) of the White Supremacists whose mug-
dialog: shots we saw in the San Jose Mercury; they're being
text: interrogated.
text: In the first window, Teddy's image dissolves into a handheld
text: crime-scene video (marked SV-PD) of a ransacked grocery store.
text: "DIE GOOK!" is painted on a wall. Milo looks confused: some
text: "narrative" is unfolding, but it remains obscure without
dialog: audio.
text: He types some more.
text: In the bottom window, he brings up convoluted text regarding
dialog: the audio. About the only phrases we can understand are:
text: "Audio Block ON" and "Hardware Requirement: Magnetic Filter
speaker_heading: Type PBX-R17."
text: His eyes cast about the room for some suitable hardware
text: substitute. He digs in his shirt pocket. He takes out his
text: swipe card, studies it. He casts about some more, till he
text: sees some kids' safety scissors in a jar.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING 20 - SERVICE HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Randy whistles as he heads up the hall. Arriving at the door
text: with the Civil Defense sticker, he swipes his card.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: On-screen, long-lens footage shows a low building; the Aryan
text: Nations suspects come out of it. A still photo appears in
text: the 2nd window: a steel hasp.
text: Milo's eyes are narrowed: what am I seeing? Meantime, he is
text: reaching under the table where he has removed a plate from
text: the mainframe terminal, exposing hardware within.
text: He has trimmed the swipe card to size and is wedging its
text: magnetic strip into a metal slot. He wiggles the card. We
text: hear an eerie fibrillation, which flattens into the voice of
text: a serene, eminently sane female:
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: -- run this methamphetamine lab known
dialog: to Federal Authorities, per ND 47,
dialog: from which we removed the implement,
text: fingerprints intact.
text: Crime-scene video streams in now stenciled FBI by the
text: time/date). A handheld camera pans a blood-spattered wall
text: then shows a mutilated Asian murder victim. (All of this
text: footage is made even eerier by the jerky glitches always
text: present in streaming video, and its sinister graininess.)
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
text: FBI footage, procured by ND 47, shows
dialog: the aftermath of an Aryan Nations'
dialog: killing in Denver. Note the evidence
dialog: of torture, which is typical.
text: Milo pales as he realizes he is watching a primer on how
dialog: racial killings are done.
text: He hears a creaking noise behind him, and whirls.
text: It's the classroom hamster, on his wheel.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL/BOMB SHELTER - CONTINUOUS
text: Still whistling, Randy descends some metal stairs, enters a
dialog: vast bomb shelter (canned foods, etc.)
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo has tapped into his own file: footage of him lecturing
text: at Stanford (as an RA), pointing to a whiteboard.
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: -- complete immersion in code-writing
text: renders him both unobservant and
dialog: suggestible [click]. On two occasions
dialog: he went truant from classes to attend
dialog: Comix Conventions.
text: The audio crackles and drops out again. Milo's eyes narrow:
text: he sees video of Alice, sitting on a folding chair, speaking
text: to someone. She has a harder look, pulls on a Marlboro.
text: What's he seeing? He wiggles the jerry-rigged hardware almost
text: urgently, till the narration crackles back on:
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: -- Rebecca P, a Connecticut art stu-
dialog: dent facing Federal drug charges,
dialog: whose records were supplied to us by
dialog: N.D. 47.
text: He hears her voice under the Narration, answering an unseen
dialog: Interrogator (sounds like Phil). It's a job interview. Milo
text: subtly, unconsciously shakes his head, as if to deny what
text: his eyes see. The narration begins to fibrillate, again:
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR (O.S.)
text: Armed with his personal files, she
dialog: was easily able to ingratiate herself
dialog: with the socially maladroit Milo --
text: The audio drops out as Milo sees uploaded medical files and
text: ER photos of himself marked STANFORD MEDICAL CENTER: he's
text: waxen, bloated, gasping for breath. With a certain dread,
text: Milo jams the card in deeper:
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: ...she planted the sesame seed both
dialog: to test the extent of his proclivity
dialog: and to provide a bonding experience,
dialog: since she would quote "save his life."
text: Milo is devastated, disbelieving. Now he sees real-time ER
text: footage: an Allergy Victim, bloated, twitching, gasping,
dialog: dying...
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: -- should it be needed Milo's allergy
dialog: is the ideal --
text: The audio crackles out. But Milo doesn't have the heart to
dialog: bring it back: he can fill in the rest.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Randy traverses a well-lit tunnel. Still whistling.
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY CARE CENTER - NIGHT
text: Numb now, Milo clicks randomly: crime footage, personal
text: records, animations -- it all flies by with Chuck Worman-
dialog: like speed.
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: Note that the cult members are found
dialog: reclining after swallowing the [click]
text: Syringe marks best hidden at base of
dialog: scrotum [click] mimics high blood
dialog: alcohol [click] indistinguishable
dialog: from kidney failure.
text: Milo closes his eyes, leans back: overwhelmed. Suddenly he
text: sits forward, whispers almost fervently as he types:
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Please don't be one of them.
scene_heading: INT. DAY-CARE - UNDERGROUND ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Camera moves slowly through stacks of pre-school supplies,
text: toward a windowed door at the back of the room.
text: RANDY appears in the window, lit ominously from below. He
text: applies his swipe card.
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo watches footage of Lisa taken by surveillance cam- eras:
text: she is outside #21, trying to peek in the door.
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: ...needs to be watched, due to her
dialog: heightened level of suspicion --
text: In one window, footage of Lisa casing the hallway before
text: going into Milo's office; in another, footage of her eating
dialog: lunch with Milo.
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: -- and to her possible contagion of
dialog: key employees.
text: Milo clicks. A MAN's pair of mug shots appear. In the other
text: window, a grade-school yearbook photo of Lisa.
speaker_heading: MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR
dialog: In August '86 Lisa informed her mother
dialog: of the sexual molestation by her
dialog: stepfather, and of his threat to
dialog: kill her should she tell anyone.
text: Milo watches streaming local news footage of a man being
text: taken from a courtroom in shackles (jerky, grainy). He's
dialog: lost the audio, but doesn't need it, anymore.
scene_heading: INT. DAY-CARE STAIRWELL
text: Randy climbs up to the main floor... whistling.
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY CARE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo watches eerie crime-scene footage: a Girl with her throat
dialog: slashed.
text: But then, hearing nearly-distant whistling, he clicks on
text: windows furiously: closing them.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE BACK ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Randy rounds a corner. He enters the
scene_heading: COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: The screens show the children's contour images, again. Where's
dialog: Milo?
text: Randy takes a seat at the same console Milo was at, and begins
text: to type. Camera booms slowly down beneath table-level to
dialog: find:
text: MILO hanging onto the underside of the table, knuckles white,
text: as he clings to metal table braces. The toes of his sneakers
text: are jammed into the space between a black plastic data tower
text: and the table bottom.
text: Randy shifts in his seat, his knee rising toward Milo's back.
text: Milo arches it, avoids a knee by mere millimeters.
text: RANDY: brings up a shot of a Programmer at work, zooms in on
text: his screen to begin collecting his code.
text: MILO: begins to lose his grip as sweat forms on his brow
text: and, worse, on his hands. They're giving way.
text: RANDY: clicks. A printer across the room start making a hard-
text: copy of the purloined code.
text: MILO: stares in horror as the data tower his toes are jammed
text: on top of starts to shift -- threatening to disengage from
text: its ports. He tries to lift it back up with heels of his
dialog: shoes.
text: RANDY: knits his brow as his screen flickers. He keeps typing,
text: but starts to lower his head: he's going to look under the
dialog: table.
text: MILO: winces as he presses the tower upward with his heels,
text: while trying to maintain his balance...
text: RANDY: lowering his head, keeps his eyes on the screen, hits
text: keys. Just as he is about to clear the level of the table --
text: the screen re-illumines. He comes back up.
text: MILO: having extended his legs to support the tower, feels
text: his hands slipping...
dialog: RANDY: closes up the window...
text: MILO: flops to the carpet(!) just as --
text: RANDY pushes away from the table... From the floor
text: MILO watches him walk over to the printer, collect his
text: hardcopy, and disappear from view.
text: Milo listens: the door clicks shut, the whistling recedes.
scene_heading: BACK ROOM - A MOMENT LATER
text: Milo traces Randy's steps. He sees the door with the Civil
text: Defense sticker, intuits how Randy got here, i.e, how one
text: moves, unobserved, between the Day Care and #20.
text: He sags against the wall. Wondering what to do, now.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. MILO'S CAR/STREET - DAWN
text: Milo sits in his idling car, staring at his own house, up
dialog: the street. How can he go in there?
text: He puts the car in gear, does a U-Turn.
scene_heading: EXT. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE - SEATTLE - EARLY MORNING
text: The Deux Chevaux is parked on the street outside a government
text: building. Not many people are around, yet. A Janitor hoses
text: down the sidewalk.
scene_heading: INT. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE - RECEPTION AREA MORNING
text: Milo slides a business card across a reception desk. It's
text: the one the rumpled Prosecutor, Lyle Barton, gave him that
text: day in Palo Alto.
speaker_heading: MILO (O.S.)
dialog: He gave me this. 'Said I should come
dialog: see him if --
speaker_heading: DOJ RECEPTIONIST
text: He's not in yet.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Can I wait in his office?
speaker_heading: DOJ RECEPTIONIST
dialog: It's locked, dear.
text: He looks over his shoulder, then back again, frightened.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Please.
speaker_heading: DOJ RECEPTIONIST
text: Wait in his outer office.
scene_heading: INT. BARTON'S OUTER OFFICE - MORNING
text: Milo sits on a wooden bench, foot tapping. Hearing Barton's
text: voice, he comes to his feet. Barton enters with a Co-Worker,
text: holding a container of coffee, discussing the particulars of
dialog: a case.
speaker_heading: CO-WORKER
dialog: Do I make the call, or do you?
text: Milo is relieved the second he sees Barton's kindly face.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Mr. Barton, do you remember me?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: ...It's -- Milo, isn't it?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Yes sir. I need to talk to you.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Give me two seconds with Lacy here?
dialog: (unlocks his door)
dialog: Go on in, I won't be a moment.
text: Milo enters as Barton finishes up with his colleague.
speaker_heading: BARTON (O.S.)
dialog: I'll make the call, but I think you
dialog: need to send a Fax first (etc.).
scene_heading: INT. BARTON'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo paces. He surveys framed diplomas, commendations and
text: photos on the wall. He takes comfort in their solidity:
text: pictures of Barton's teenage Kids, Barton and Wife at the
text: Grand Canyon. There's a college football photo, a young Barton
text: with his team. Milo studies it, smiles. Move in on the photo,
text: till we see the number on Barton's Notre Dame football jersey:
dialog: ND 47.
text: Milo's smile fades. It takes a moment before he even hears
text: Barton behind him.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Milo?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Yeah. Hi. Thank you for seeing me.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Have a seat.
text: As Milo takes the seat in front of the desk (mind spinning)
text: Barton moves to his own chair.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: What seems to be the problem? You
text: look a little upset.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I am. I am, sir.
dialog: What's he gonna say?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Milo?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: My friend, my best friend, Teddy,
dialog: was killed in Silicon Valley.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: My goodness.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It was racially motivated. He's
dialog: Chinese. He was. And... I know
dialog: sometimes the FBI gets involved with
dialog: that. Don't they?
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: If there's a Civil Rights violation.
dialog: But generally we let the local police
dialog: and DA do their work first.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I -- just wanna help bring these
dialog: guys to justice. They're neo-Nazis.
speaker_heading: BARTON
dialog: Let me look into it, see what's being
dialog: done. Frankly, it's not my area.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he gets up)
dialog: 'Just didn't know who else to talk
dialog: to.
speaker_heading: BARTON
text: (circles an arm over
dialog: Milo)
dialog: And Outpost? You're happy there?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Yes sir.
scene_heading: INT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S HOUSE - MORNING
text: Alice is on the phone in the front room. Agitated, she puffs
text: on a pencil (surrogate cigarette). We hear Phil through the
dialog: receiver:
speaker_heading: PHIL (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: 'Didn't mention he was going to the
dialog: Justice Department?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: No.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: INT. PHIL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Not like him, is it? To do a thing
dialog: like that without telling you. You're
dialog: not losing your hold on him, are
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He'll tell me when he gets home.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: That'll be a test, won't it?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Instead of busting my chops you should
dialog: do something about that girl. Fire
dialog: her. Or something.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Lisa's an extremely valuable member
dialog: of the Skywire team. We've got our
dialog: eyes on her. You keep yours on Milo.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (as she hangs up)
dialog: Prick.
scene_heading: EXT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S HOUSE - MORNING
text: Milo comes up the path. He pauses as he nears the door: he's
text: not sure he can pull this off.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: As Milo enters, Alice rushes to meet him.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's almost nine, I've been so
dialog: worried!
dialog: (she takes his hands)
dialog: What did you see in there?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Nothing?
text: She watches him as he collapses onto the couch.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's what they said it is. An
dialog: unfinished broadcast studio. You
dialog: were right... I just drove to Seattle
dialog: and back.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: ...Why?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Remember Lyle Barton?
text: She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: The Justice Department guy who came
dialog: to the apartment when --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I remember.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: After I broke into 21 -- which was
dialog: insane, thank God they didn't catch
dialog: me! -- I just drove around. Trying
dialog: to figure out what possessed me. You
dialog: know what? I've been putting my own
dialog: guilt on Gary.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Guilt?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: If I'd stayed down there, maybe this
dialog: wouldn't've happened.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Poor baby. You know that's not true.
text: She sits by him, touches her hand to his face tenderly. He
text: closes his eyes for a moment, steels himself to her touch.
text: Then he forces himself to cup his hand over hers.
text: But he can't stand it. He gets up, looks out the window.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I thought, instead of indulging all
dialog: these paranoid delusions, risking my
dialog: job, alienating Gary, scaring you, I
dialog: should do something useful with my
text: grief. Help them find Teddy's killers.
text: He doesn't see her smile: is that all. Assuming an
text: appropriately concerned expression, she moves toward him:
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I was so worried about you.
text: She turns him around, kisses him. Her eyes are closed. His
text: remain open. He's looking at her. Trying to comprehend the
dialog: treachery.
text: She touches him, breathes heavily. She wants more than kisses:
dialog: to prove to herself how wrong Phil was, her professional
text: pride insulted. Or perhaps it's more personal than that,
text: especially with Lisa as a potential rival.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (through their kisses)
dialog: ...been such a long night.
text: But she doesn't stop. She moans as she presses herself to
dialog: him: wants proof of his devotion.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - LATER
text: He's on top of her in the moment just after. Her eyes are
text: closed. He stares at her -- glares at her -- with what we
dialog: recognize as spent anger.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: That was -- different.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...Different?
dialog: Shit. She knows.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You didn't feel it? So intense.
text: What's clear is, she liked it. A clap of thunder takes us
dialog: to:
scene_heading: EXT. PIZZA PARLOR - NIGHT
text: It's pouring. Milo stands outside, wearing a slicker, looking
text: in the window at someone.
scene_heading: INT. PIZZA PLACE - MOMENT LATER
text: Lisa reads a paperback at a table, a slice of pizza on her
text: plate, an umbrella hooked to her chair. Sensing someone
text: standing over her, she looks up. She smiles.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: So you're not avoiding me.
text: Milo sits across from her. He doesn't know where to start.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: What's wrong?
text: He looks around, wants to make sure no one's listening. He
text: speaks very quietly.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I snuck into #21.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Why would you do a thing like --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You thought about it too. You've
dialog: been suspicious for a while. But
dialog: it's not happening in there. It's
text: happening in the Day Care.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: The Day Care?
text: Two Men with even features enter the restaurant. One has a
text: laptop case slung over his shoulder.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Can we go someplace else?
scene_heading: EXT. CITY PARK - NIGHT
text: They're in a bandshell. The rain falls heavily, drips off
text: the eaves. She holds the filament from Teddy's workspace.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's easy to know who the smart geeks
dialog: are, the schools tell 'em. They upload
dialog: medical files, school records,
dialog: pharmacy files. They'd be happy just
dialog: to steal code forever. But when a
dialog: program gets close to fruition. Like
text: Teddy. He was almost there.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: But why would they --?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You know. There is no second place.
dialog: And what's the risk? The killings're
text: undetectable, they're hand-tailored,
dialog: they make "sense." I mean, they're
dialog: in the information business. They
dialog: have scenarios for all of us, too.
dialog: In case we find out too much.
text: She's peering at him. He reads her mind.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I'm not one of them. Not trying to
dialog: "suss you out."
dialog: She wants to believe him.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: They killed my best friend! I'm living
dialog: with somebody they pay to go to bed
dialog: with me. Can't you trust somebody
dialog: just once? I don't wanna be alone
dialog: here.
text: His plea is so ardent, his humanity so transparent. But she
dialog: can't quite do it.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I'm sorry, Milo... I'm sorry.
text: She smiles sadly as she backs away.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (forcefully)
dialog: I know why you're so secretive. Why
dialog: you won't let anybody near you.
dialog: (quieter)
dialog: I know what he did to you.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Oh yeah?
text: She tries to sound tough; there are tears in her eyes.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: So that's in my -- file?
text: He wants to comfort her. He takes a step toward her. She
text: shakes her head: no.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Is that my -- scenario?
dialog: (when he hesitates)
dialog: Tell me.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: They'd frame him.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: (horrified)
dialog: He's out of prison?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he nods)
dialog: They're already watching you. If
dialog: they had to, they'd give him this
dialog: drug that mimics an alcoholic
dialog: blackout. He'd wake up not even
text: remembering his "act of revenge."
text: She draws her hands to her face as the facade cracks. She
text: weeps silently. He moves to her, carefully, slowly, seeing
text: her fear, her trauma. He touches her shoulders. She tenses,
text: tries to back away.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: No.
text: But he holds on.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Nobody's gonna hurt you.
text: Slowly, he wraps his arms around her.
text: She remains tense for a moment, then yields, pressing her
text: face into his shoulder. The rain drums on the bandshell.
dialog: After a moment:
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: ...Milo?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Hmm?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I always felt if a -- boy I liked
dialog: ever found out -- he'd run. He'd
dialog: think I was unclean.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No, no. Never.
text: She clings to him tightly, now, the wall of her mistrust
dialog: breached after all the years of pain, secrecy, shame.
text: A wide shot: they hold each other, alone in the storm.
speaker_heading: VOICE (PHIL)
dialog: All his suspicions were allayed?
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY-LIKE OFFICE - DAY
text: Alice nods. She sits in front of leather-bound books.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: You're sure.
text: She's at Gary's house. On the hot seat. Phil and Randy watch
text: her. Gary does, too, but deep in shadow, behind a desk, at a
text: remove. Rain falls heavily on the Lake.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He said it made sense that Gary's
dialog: code was like Teddy's, that that
dialog: cliché about great minds was true.
dialog: Said it was all about his own guilt.
dialog: (she shrugs)
dialog: Plus, he has a tendency to get Gary
dialog: mixed-up with his dad once in a while.
dialog: It always passes.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: He wasn't acting?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I don't think he knows how.
text: Phil looks convinced. Gary doesn't.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY/GAS STATION - MORNING
text: From across the highway (cars with morning commuters whiz
text: by) we see Milo pumping gas at a self-serve; Lisa fills-up
text: in the next lane. Ostensibly, they have run into each other
text: on the way to work. They are smiling, casual.
text: Only when we cut close do we see that their expressions bear
dialog: no connection to their words.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: What about the FBI?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: They've got this guy in the DOJ,
dialog: maybe others. We tell the wrong
dialog: person, it's over.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Who can we trust?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: There's always a logical answer --
dialog: you just have to define the question.
dialog: She defines it:
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: How do you let go of a secret without
dialog: telling the wrong person.
text: She pretends to need help lifting her car hood: "a helpless
text: female." He comes over to help her.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: We don't tell anybody.
dialog: (she's puzzled)
dialog: We tell everybody. At once. So there's
dialog: no secret left to protect. When
dialog: everybody knows, they don't dare
dialog: touch us.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - MORNING
text: Bob Shrot is on the phone. Behind him, a nerdy security
text: programmer, LEN DIETZ, is at the console that controls the
dialog: security cameras (the ones Milo futzed with).
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: No, Tony can't fill in for you, he's
dialog: not at your authorization level.
text: Scrolling, Len knits his brow: he's found something odd.
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: Bob? You better look at this.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo checks Lisa's oil for her.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Do we post it on the Net?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: There're so many disinformation sites
dialog: about Gary already. Where he has
dialog: devil's horns or they crop him in
dialog: with Saddam Hussein.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Shrot stands over Len's shoulder.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Could it be a glitch? Something the
dialog: construction workers caused?
speaker_heading: LEN
text: Unlikely. All 14 cameras are frozen.
dialog: Do we call Randy and Phil? Tell 'em
dialog: there may have been a break-in?
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Not yet. 'Love to bust my ass cause
dialog: I'm not in frigging Mensa.
dialog: (walks to the window)
dialog: I swear to God, it's that kid Milo,
dialog: I told 'em so in the first place,
dialog: but they didn't even wanna hear about
dialog: it.
dialog: (turns to Len)
dialog: Let's run a printout on card entries.
scene_heading: EXT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo shows Lisa the oil stick. She nods.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: The mainstream media. TV, or a
dialog: newsmagazine.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Right. But Gary's tied-in to a lot
dialog: of media conglomerates. Have to be
dialog: careful who we pick.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: We could cross-reference a data base
dialog: on media ownership. But not on our
dialog: own computers. Not even at home.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Certainly not at my happy home.
text: He slams the hood.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - DAY
text: Shrot and Len watch a laser printer, as it spits out line
text: after line after line of swipe card entries...
scene_heading: MATCH DISSOLVE TO:
text: A LASER PRINTER spits out code. We are:
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Milo watches new Skywire code emerge from his printer.
text: Gary is in the doorway behind him: watching Milo, scrutin-
text: izing him. Sensing someone, Milo turns and looks.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Gary, hi.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You look a little tired.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I'm okay. It's going well!
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: 'Have a look?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Sure.
text: Gary takes the page. As he reads it over:
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Why did you move around so much?
dialog: When you were a kid.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...My dad was a compulsive gambler.
dialog: Only he didn't think he was. That
dialog: applied to guys who didn't have a
dialog: "system." "Losers," who played games
dialog: of chance. He could "read" people,
dialog: so chance had nothing to do with it.
dialog: No matter how deep a hole he dug
dialog: himself, he'd give you the whole
dialog: speech. And you'd better not point
text: out the obvious.
dialog: (he shrugs)
dialog: His creditors would catch up to him.
dialog: Loan sharks or whatever. He'd wake
dialog: us in the middle of the night. Off
dialog: we'd go, again.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: What would you tell the kids? At
dialog: your new school? You had to come up
dialog: with a good story, right?
dialog: Milo thinks: he's testing me.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No. I just went deeper into the
dialog: machine. Preferred being the geek to
dialog: having to explain. Lying would've
dialog: been worse.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: ...Worse?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Cause he was a liar. And I hated
dialog: him.
dialog: (mimicking a voice)
dialog: "Get your head out of that machine,
dialog: wise up to the real world." The more
dialog: he mocked me the deeper I went. Cause
dialog: if being savvy meant being like him --
dialog: (he shrugs)
dialog: Guess that's why I'm kind of clueless,
dialog: even now. Didn't cultivate my
dialog: conniving side. 'Not sure I even
dialog: have one.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Don't be so hard on yourself. With a
dialog: brain like yours, you could connive
dialog: with the best of 'em I bet.
text: Gary smiles. There's no way to read it.
scene_heading: EXT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - NIGHT
dialog: Establish the humble building, in a Park.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT
text: Lisa and Milo sit together in front of a monitor. A Kid does
text: his homework on a computer at the next table. Milo shakes
text: his head, as he scrolls.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: He's buying up pretty much everything:
dialog: cable companies, baby bells, picture
dialog: libraries, museum rights, film
text: archives... Getting ready for Skywire.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: (she's thinking)
dialog: What about "60 Minutes."
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Yeah, they dig stuff like this.
dialog: (he types, then reads)
dialog: "CBS News has partnered with Outpost
dialog: Information Systems in a cable news
dialog: network due to launch Fall of 2001."
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: But still, you can't say CBS wouldn't
dialog: love to break something like --
speaker_heading: MILO
text: (he's shaking his
dialog: head)
dialog: Say there's just one "mole" working
dialog: there, like Barton at the DOJ. How
dialog: do we know he's not the guy we've
dialog: contacted? Or she? Or the guy she
dialog: works for?
text: At the next table, she notices a Lady reading Time.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Time?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (types, reads)
dialog: Time-Warner has a 40 per cent stake
text: in Gary's set-top device. That also
text: takes out CNN.
dialog: (scrolling &amp; scrolling)
dialog: "GE joins Outpost in new venture,"
dialog: which means NBC is out. "Disney joins
text: Outpost," ABC is out. "Outpost and
dialog: Newscorp in new deal," Fox is out.
dialog: Any of these places could have a
dialog: mole. Or all of 'em.
dialog: (still scrolling)
dialog: It's like a a continuous loop. We
dialog: can go to some alternative press
dialog: place that 1,000 people read, get
dialog: them and us killed. But anything big
dialog: enough for this is a parent of or a
dialog: subsidiary to something Gary's got a
dialog: finger in!
speaker_heading: HOMEWORK KID
dialog: Shhh.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Milo?
text: She's thought of something. He's watching the nerdy Kid,
text: smiling sadly, perhaps identifying with him.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: How close are you?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: He's got 12 satellites up. He's got
text: dishes on top of 21. He's building
dialog: this --
dialog: (gestures at the screen)
dialog: mega-network for Skywire. Let's use
dialog: it.
text: Move in on Milo as he thinks it over with a mixture of
text: excitement and skepticism.
scene_heading: EXT. LIBRARY/PARK - NIGHT
text: Milo and Lisa walk in the park outside the library, thinking
dialog: it through.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: We can't just assume they're standing
dialog: by to receive Skywire 12 months from
dialog: launch. I'd have to write in an aglet.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: A what?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's how on-line services push logos
dialog: they wanna sell you. You don't ask
dialog: for 'em, they just appear. 'Have to
dialog: work on it somewhere besides my office
dialog: or my house. And then the quality of
dialog: the broadcast wouldn't exactly be
dialog: digital, that's 12 months away.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: But they'd still get the idea, right?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You'd have to design a graphic
dialog: interface to make the data pop. Maybe
dialog: some audio, too. To tie it all in to
dialog: Gary. How long would that take you?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: It's a standard GUI. Once I've got a
dialog: concept, it's maybe three day's work.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Gary knows I'm close on Skywire. We
dialog: have to do this fast.
speaker_heading: LISA
text: Before they kill somebody else, too.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (a new wrinkle)
dialog: Oh, man. I'd have to get into Gary's
dialog: house. To get the satellite positions.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You mean -- break in?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I don't know --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: And what if the broadcast dishes on
dialog: top of 21 aren't hot yet? You said
text: the place isn't finished.
text: The complications pile up. They walk. They think.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I'll go look.
dialog: (when he looks dubious)
dialog: They'll just have a few more pictures
dialog: of me snooping around.
text: They come to a fountain and balustrade at the edge of the
dialog: park, stop walking.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (looks at her)
dialog: Why were you so careless?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I thought the worst they would do is
dialog: fire me. Who knew they took
dialog: termination so literally?
text: Gallows humor. What a game girl. He's nuts about her.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Why were you snooping in my office?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Oh.
dialog: (she gets bashful)
dialog: I liked you. I was checking you out.
text: He kisses her. There are no constraints now, there's no
text: "adulterous" guilt: they kiss with a passion deferred.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Slow push-in on the phone on Milo's desk: it's ringing.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE'S STUDIO - CONTINUOUS
text: Alice is calling him. Her face hardens, she hangs up.
scene_heading: INT. MOTEL ROOM - LATER
dialog: As we pan the Best Western decor (in semi-darkness):
speaker_heading: MILO (O.S.)
dialog: 'Think everybody in this place is
dialog: here the same reason we are?
speaker_heading: LISA (O.S.)
dialog: 'Cause their apartments might be
dialog: bugged?
text: Milo grins. He &amp; Lisa lie in bed.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I told Teddy about you.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: What'd he say?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: "A beautiful geek? What're the
dialog: chances?"
text: She smiles, rather bashfully.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I felt guilty. 'Cause I "owed so
dialog: much" to Alice. But even then I was
dialog: starting to wonder. Is it so great
dialog: to be so consumed by this one thing
dialog: that you let another person do your
dialog: thinking for you? If you have a
dialog: lucrative skill, it's all anybody
dialog: wants from you. You grow older but
dialog: you don't grow up. You turn into --
dialog: into --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Gary.
text: It's painful for him: losing a second father.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Larry used to say how the guys who
dialog: wrote the first cool operating
dialog: systems, like the UNIX guys at
dialog: Berkeley? They just gave it away.
dialog: They figured it was human knowledge,
dialog: it belonged to the world, like
dialog: Shakespeare or aspirin. 'Know what
dialog: I'm gonna do after we broadcast the
dialog: incriminating stuff? Air the Skywire
dialog: code. Then nobody can have a monopoly.
scene_heading: INT. ALICE &amp; MILO'S HOUSE - LATER
text: Alice is in bed. In the darkness, Milo comes in as quietly
text: as possible. But she switches on the bedside lamp.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Where were you?
dialog: (holding his gaze)
dialog: You know you can't keep anything
dialog: from me.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Okay, yeah. I did something naughty...
dialog: There's this amazing Comix store in
dialog: Seattle.
dialog: (is she buying it?)
dialog: To tell you the truth, I did it once
dialog: or twice at Stanford. 'Guess I can't
dialog: keep anything from you...
text: Of course she buys it: it's in the file.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (she smiles)
dialog: I won't turn you in.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - MORNING
text: Shrot and Len go over the print-out of the card entries.
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: Every entry was authorized.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Keep looking.
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: What're we looking for?
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Any irregularity in the pattern.
scene_heading: INT. MILO &amp; ALICE'S HOUSE - MORNING
text: Morning TV is on in the kitchen. A Seattle station airs a
text: puff piece about a party at Gary's house: people in formal
text: clothes (including Gary &amp; his Wife) hold drinks and eat
text: canapés on the terrace over Lake Washington. (Gary's haircut
dialog: is different: it's file footage.)
speaker_heading: TV VOICE
dialog: Last years' party-goers pledged over
dialog: $2 million to the Museum; this year's
dialog: event promises to raise even more.
dialog: Lured in part by the chance to see
dialog: the stunning Boyd house...
text: Alice, grinding coffee, isn't paying attention. Milo is.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Look at this.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Why doesn't he ask us to his party.
dialog: He's never even met you.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: He has thousands of employees, Milo --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: It's for the Museum. He knows you're
dialog: a painter. If anybody should be
dialog: invited --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo --
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I know you think I'm too attached to
text: him, but still. I am close to Gary.
dialog: And you're the most meaningful person
dialog: in my life.
dialog: (he gets up)
dialog: I'm going back to the Comix place,
dialog: why should I be killing myself.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo, you --
text: But he's out the door. She's not entirely displeased by such
text: a dramatic demonstration of his loyalty to her.
scene_heading: EXT. BUILDING 21 - DAY
text: Close on a satellite dish. We pan from the base of the dish
text: to the wiring: a cable is fused to a component box.
text: Lisa is on the scaffolding, having climbed it brazenly, in
text: broad daylight. She holds a small metal box with a meter and
text: two clamps. She applies the clamps to the base of the cable.
text: The needle on the meter dances.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Hey! Get down here!
text: She was expecting to be busted. Still, she's scared.
scene_heading: EXT. SAINT CATHERINE'S DAY SCHOOL - DAY
text: A Catholic school on a wooded lane. Schoolgirls in uniform
text: play on the swings and hopscotch courts.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - SAINT CATHERINE'S
text: Milo types madly on a four-year-old PC. It takes him a moment
text: to notice SISTER BEATRICE.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: This is a lifesaver. My PC crashed
text: just before finals.
speaker_heading: SISTER BEATRICE
dialog: None of us knows how to use it. I'm
text: thinking of taking a course.
dialog: (she wants to look)
dialog: May I?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Sure.
text: With her, we see the complex lines of code.
speaker_heading: SISTER BEATRICE
dialog: Forget it.
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - DAY
text: Lisa sits with Bob Shrot. She's unfolding a page of sketch
dialog: paper.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I needed t'see it up close for a
text: graphic. The outpost with a dish on
dialog: top? I climbed up there to get it
dialog: right.
text: She hands him an unfinished rendering of the dish. He looks
text: at her, at the drawing, at her again. She's scared, but tries
dialog: to hide it.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: (hands back the drawing)
dialog: Next time you ask.
text: Relieved, she gets up. The meter tumbles to the floor, thud.
text: She goes white. But when she looks up, she sees
text: Shrot didn't see it: Len is standing in the inner door, waving
text: a printout.
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: 'Might of found something.
text: Lisa grabs up the meter as Shrot joins Len. As she goes out,
dialog: she hears:
speaker_heading: LEN
text: Delbert seems to enter #21 twice.
text: Without leaving the first time.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Let's get him in here.
scene_heading: INT. SEATTLE MONORAIL CAR - NIGHT
text: Milo looks up as his train comes into a station. Lisa enters
text: the car, carrying a stack of comix. He stands, they kiss, he
dialog: takes the comix.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Great. I knocked off the aglet, as
dialog: soon as I get a passable version of
dialog: Skywire we're there.
speaker_heading: LISA
text: The dishes are juiced up, too.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Thank God.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Milo? Shrot suspects somebody broke
dialog: into #21. I was in his office when
text: he was reviewing the card readouts.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (confused)
dialog: They know I broke in. Alice helped
dialog: me.
dialog: (figuring it out)
dialog: Shrot's not one of them. He's
text: blundering into this on his own.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: He doesn't know about the Day Care.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Hardly anybody does, that's the beauty
dialog: part. No cameras, the DOJ doesn't
dialog: bother with it, it's accessed by a
dialog: tunnel they boast about. You know
dialog: the best place to hide a leaf?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Yeah, that's old, in a tree.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Milo? What if Shrot notices somebody
dialog: entered the Day Care at four A.M.?
dialog: And tells them about it?
text: They look at each other: the consequences of this discovery
dialog: would be deadly.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING 20 CAFETERIA - DAY
text: A busy lunch hour. Milo is eating with some other Programmers,
text: including Desi. There's a stir of excitement in the room.
text: Gary comes straight to Milo's table; all conversation
text: instantly drops out.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Milo?
text: Milo stands. Gary hands him a heavy vellum invitation.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I'm giving a benefit for the art
dialog: museum Thursday night. Thought you'd
dialog: like to bring Alice.
text: Everybody at the table is listening.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: That's great! Thanks.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (as he goes)
dialog: 'Sorry about the late notice...
text: Milo sits down. Everybody's looking at him.
speaker_heading: DESI
dialog: "Sorry about the late notice?"
scene_heading: INT. PHYSICAL SECURITY OFFICE - DAY
text: Delbert is seated across from Shrot and Len. Shrot holds the
dialog: printout.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Why did you enter #21 twice?
speaker_heading: DELBERT
dialog: Huh?
text: Shrot hands Delbert the printout. Delbert looks at it: dense
text: with coded entries. He stares at it.
speaker_heading: DELBERT
dialog: This thing's screwed-up. Look here.
dialog: (shows it to them)
dialog: 'Shows me going into the Day Care
dialog: that night. I never been in the Day
dialog: Care.
text: Shrot narrows his eyes...
scene_heading: INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY
text: Milo sits with Lisa as she brings up the graphic interface
dialog: she's designed for the Skywire broadcast. It's an Outpost
text: desktop, with recognizable logos, fonts, etc.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: One window'll be obits I downloaded,
dialog: based on the scenarios you described.
dialog: The other windows'll accommodate the
dialog: surveillance stuff you told me about.
dialog: The idea is, this works with anything,
dialog: since we can't edit.
dialog: He nods. [It's not necessary for us to understand what she's
text: saying, just so Milo does.] She holds up an audio copy of
dialog: Gary's book, The Next Highway.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Same with the excerpts I'm choosing:
dialog: they'll play against any of the images
dialog: you described.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Perfect.
dialog: (something preys on
dialog: his mind)
dialog: How am I gonna get away from the
dialog: party long enough to --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You could always say you have to go
dialog: the bathroom.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: That's lame, isn't it?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You'll come up with something.
text: He already looks nervous. We begin to hear live music.
scene_heading: EXT. GARY'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: The music echoes from inside. Push past a line of cars and
text: limousines in the lit-up drive, Milo's car at the head of
dialog: it.
text: Milo and Alice get out. As they go inside, she pulls a tag
text: from the sleeve of his just-bought dinner jacket.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - ENTRANCE HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: As Milo and Alice enter, he sees a Balthus painting re-
text: digitize to a Mondrian.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: They called the house to ask who's
dialog: your favorite painter.
text: Alice smiles, Milo forces a smile: it'll be even harder to
dialog: sneak away, now.
text: They pass a doorway where a Houseman stands, to keep guests
dialog: from entering residential rooms (the ones Milo must pass
text: through to get to Gary's workroom). A Guy in a pretentiously
text: hip tux tries to peek in.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Sorry, Sir, this part of the residence
dialog: is restricted.
text: Milo looks a little more tense...
scene_heading: PARTY ROOM - A MOMENT LATER
text: The room is full of people. A long windowed wall has been
text: opened onto a lakeside terrace, where more Guests drink and
text: chat, and an orchestra plays.
text: A giant Mondrian digitizes on the wall: the world's largest
text: ID card. Milo sinks a little more.
text: Across the room, Gary, his Wife (a blandly pretty blond) and
text: two Men are grouped around a Monet set on an antique easel
text: (thus clearly the real thing; Mrs. Boyd has prevailed.) Gary
text: notices the giant digital Mondrian.
text: MILO takes two flutes of champagnes off a tray. He hands one
text: to Alice as Gary et. al. approach.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Alice, I'm Gary. This is my wife,
dialog: Clarissa.
dialog: (handshakes, etc.)
dialog: Milo, this is Barry Linder, who's
dialog: visiting from Hollywood.
text: LINDER is a short, tan man of 50.
speaker_heading: LINDER
dialog: I hate being the Hollywood guy. It's
dialog: so limiting. Meet my friend, Ricky.
text: RICKY is 25-years-old; he looks like a Polo model.
speaker_heading: RICKY
dialog: Hi, guys.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Barry's studio's gonna help fill the
dialog: Skywire pipeline, thought you guys
dialog: should meet.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (his mind elsewhere)
dialog: Cool.
text: ANGLE: the orchestra, playing.
text: ANGLE: a group of SOCIETY TYPES chatting.
speaker_heading: SOCIETY WOMAN
dialog: He's a sweetheart. He gave 10,000
dialog: PC's to the Library Association.
speaker_heading: SOCIETY MAN
dialog: All 10,000 of which will be signed
text: onto his browser, no doubt.
speaker_heading: SOCIETY WOMAN
dialog: And so what?!
speaker_heading: ANOTHER MAN
dialog: Wait'll all the books are on-line.
speaker_heading: SOCIETY WOMAN
dialog: And so what?
text: ANGLE: Milo, Alice, Gary, Barry Linder, Clarissa, Ricky.
text: Milo looks utterly preoccupied...
speaker_heading: LINDER
dialog: The merchandising implications are
text: epic. A kid's watching the movie, he
text: points and clicks at the laser blaster --
text: before the reel's even over he's
dialog: ordered the toy.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: But, I mean -- Devil's Advocate --
dialog: won't that influence the content?
dialog: Won't the artists complain? The
dialog: directors or writers or whoever?
speaker_heading: LINDER
dialog: Artists? Darling, the only art left
dialog: in America is business. You're in
dialog: Picasso's house!
text: Gary smiles as everyone toasts him, except Milo; he hasn't
dialog: heard any of it.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Where's the bathroom?
speaker_heading: LINDER
dialog: The irreverence!
text: Laughter.
text: TRACK MILO as he wends his way through laughing, chatting
text: Guests, dread and determination on his face. He moves away
dialog: from us, enters the
speaker_heading: ENTRANCE HALL
text: speaks to the Houseman who guards the residential rooms.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: You'll have to use one over there.
text: He indicates an area on Milo's side of the door.
speaker_heading: MILO
text: There's like eight women waiting in
dialog: line. They take forever.
dialog: (winces: painful
dialog: bladder)
dialog: Please?
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Right here.
text: He points to a door immediately behind him. As the Houseman
text: watches, Milo goes into the
speaker_heading: BATHROOM
text: He stands there a moment, breathes deeply. He cracks open
text: the door. The Houseman is turning away another Guest; Milo
text: makes his move.
scene_heading: DEN-LIKE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Looking over his shoulder, Milo hurries to a door at the far
text: end of the room, silently cursing the Mondrian that inevitably
text: appears.
text: The Houseman looks over his shoulder, sees the closed bathroom
text: door, assumes Milo's still inside.
scene_heading: INT. PARTY ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary chats with his guests. Alice looks up at the digital
text: art, now a Bosch again.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - VARIOUS ROOMS - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo walks fast. As he passes from one room to next, he sees
dialog: a Mondrian: he's been in this room. All the austere,
text: tastefully decorated rooms are blending together.
text: He stands in the center of the room making quarter turns.
text: Through each of four (open) doorways he sees a perfectly-
dialog: appointed "den," the ultimate expression of bland, rich,
dialog: professionally-decorated taste.
dialog: He's lost.
text: He starts into one room -- backs up -- goes into another.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRANCE HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: The Houseman looks over his shoulder again. He sees the
text: Mondrian and, in the room beyond that, another Mondrian.
text: He moves to the bathroom door, knocks on it. Opens it. He
text: pulls a sleek walkie-talkie from his jacket.
scene_heading: INT. ANOTHER DEN - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo, still lost, is getting frantic. He doubles back, cuts
text: toward another wing of the house. Through an open doorway he
dialog: sees:
text: A young, chillingly calm NANNY, watching him. The Baby fusses
text: in her arms. Milo smiles, keeps moving.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - A DEN - CONTINUOUS
text: A Second Houseman follows the trail of Mondrians. He sees
text: Mondrians in two different directions. He hesitates, picks a
text: direction, keeps moving.
scene_heading: INT. PARTY ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: The first Houseman moves through the Guests, toward Gary.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo has finally made it. Sitting at Gary's work station, he
text: slips a CD-ROM into the PC. It floods with text. The music
text: echoes from far off. The entire wall behind him is filled
dialog: with a Mondrian.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: As Linder chats, the first Houseman sidles up to Gary,
text: whispers in his ear. We see Gary smile, excuse himself. He
text: and Alice share a look as he moves off.
text: We go with Gary. His smiles fades instantly. He pushes through
dialog: Guests, who thank him for hosting such a brilliant "do;" he
text: hardly hears them.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - NIGHT
text: Milo writes frantically on his tiny pad, copying from the PC
dialog: screen:
scene_heading: LONGITUDE - 77 Degrees 03 Minutes 58 Seconds East
scene_heading: LATITUDE - 38 Degrees 55 Minutes 14 Seconds South
scene_heading: ALTITUDE - 426 MILES
text: He flips the page, begins entering the fixes for the next
text: satellite. Thinking he's heard something, he looks up.
dialog: Nobody's there.
scene_heading: INT. ANOTHER DEN - CONTINUOUS
text: The Second Houseman turns in several directions, confused by
text: the trail of Mondrians. Passing into the next room, he runs
text: into a Third Houseman, also confused. Each follows a different
text: Mondrian, in a different room.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - A DEN - CONTINUOUS
text: Unlike the Housemen, Gary doesn't follow the paintings. He
text: moves swiftly, seems to know where Milo is.
scene_heading: GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: Milo still working...
scene_heading: PARTY ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Alice looks up at the digital painting: still a Bosch. Her
text: face sets grimly.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo clicks, closing the window. Concentrating, he doesn't
text: see what we see on the wall behind him: the Mondrian drains
text: away... And the wall fills up with the hellish Bosch triptych.
text: After a moment, Milo senses something.
text: Gary stands in the doorway. Watching him. Milo doesn't
text: breathe. Gary crosses the room, eyes locked with Milo's.
text: Gary comes behind Milo. He reads the screen. It's filled
text: with text, whatever Milo loaded in when he sat down.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (reading the screen)
dialog: "Dear Lisa. I've enjoyed working
dialog: with you. I'd be lying if I didn't
dialog: say I find you attractive. But in my
dialog: heart I know that Alice..."
dialog: (he looks up)
dialog: You left my party to send E-mail?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I couldn't do it at work cause of
dialog: security or at home for -- obvious
dialog: reasons.
text: Gary stares at Milo. He looks skeptical. The party music
text: floats in from afar as the moment stretches.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You could've handwritten it.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I'm not much good at handwriting. Or
dialog: parties.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Oh, that's right. You're "clueless."
text: This hangs there.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Gary, I'm sorry if I was rude --
text: The Second Houseman sticks his head in.
speaker_heading: HOUSEMAN
dialog: Everything OK, Mr. Boyd?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: No problem.
dialog: (when he's gone)
dialog: Is there?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Gary, I --
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You see what's hanging on the wall?
text: He looks over. Milo looks over. Among the framed
dialog: commendations, awards, degrees we see Milo's childhood
text: program, written on Outpost 1.0. Gary has had it framed.
text: Milo absorbs it. Even now, he feels something for Gary.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I hope you know what you mean to me.
dialog: Not just because of what you're doing.
dialog: Because of who you are.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I do know, Gary. I feel the same
dialog: way. I thought I was coming here for
dialog: a job. But it's meant a lot more.
text: Milo smiles almost tenderly. He doesn't know if Gary buys
text: it. Perhaps if he could see Gary's eyes. But they're obscured
text: by Bosch's writhing bodies, reflected on his eyeglasses.
text: Gary moves away from Milo, he stands over the table with the
text: art books, vaguely looks through one.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: When will you have a Beta version?
text: Milo wonders: does he know? He picks his words carefully.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I'm pretty close. But when I wrote
dialog: the last contact switches, it wiped
text: out a piece of the content filer.
dialog: You know what it's like, writing
dialog: software.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I do know. You focus on the big
dialog: problem. But somewhere down the chain,
text: something breaks down. Something
text: gets destroyed. At first it's
dialog: upsetting. You feel you've lost
dialog: control.
text: Gary puts down the book. Something in his tone draws Milo.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: So you have to remind yourself: it's
dialog: just the process. Something's always
dialog: lost along the way to anything
dialog: worthwhile. Some little bug, some
dialog: glitch. 'Can't get bogged down in
dialog: that, you're doing something other
dialog: people could never do. They lack the
dialog: imagination, the brain, the nerve.
dialog: Let them fret about every unforeseen
dialog: consequence. You have to solve the
dialog: problem. That's who you are.
dialog: Is this a confession? A plea for understanding? Or just a
dialog: pep-talk to keep Milo focused on Skywire?
scene_heading: EXT./INT DRIVEWAY/MILO'S CAR - LATER
text: In the car, Milo and Alice pull away from the lights and
text: limos in icy silence. Several beats.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Are you gonna tell me where you went?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: I went to see the Skywire model in
dialog: Gary's office. You know. Just to
dialog: hold it again.
text: He looks at her. She stares ahead, out the windshield.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Are you having an affair, Milo?
dialog: He'd better have his story straight with Gary and Alice.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No. No. I sent an E-mail to somebody,
dialog: just now. To tell her how I feel
dialog: about you.
dialog: (looks at her)
dialog: You know I'm clueless, without you.
dialog: You know I --
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: (fighting tears)
dialog: Just shut up?
text: Or is she faking it? Has he lost the trust of all of them?
text: He's afraid, now.
scene_heading: EXT. INT. DAY CARE - DAY
text: Move in on the building, past Kids playing in the yard.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - COMPUTER ROOM - DAY
text: We hear the children's shouts OS. Short, with a fingerprint
text: kit, is dusting the keyboards. Len stands over him.
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: Get the backslash, the colon, keys
dialog: kids don't use but geeks do.
dialog: (looking around,
dialog: perplexed)
dialog: What would Milo want in here, anyway?
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: They know. 'Just they don't trust me
dialog: with it. So we'll get the evidence,
dialog: first, ask questions later.
scene_heading: EXT. LIBRARY PARK - EVENING
text: By the balustrade, in the dimness, Milo stands with Lisa.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Does he know you know?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: He suspects I know something. I think
dialog: he was sort of -- explaining himself
dialog: to me, in case I do.
dialog: (he breathes)
dialog: We have to go in tonight. I'm two
dialog: hours from a Beta version.
dialog: (knows she won't like
dialog: it)
dialog: But I've gotta go home for an hour.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Why?!
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: She called to apologize. I said I
dialog: was pulling an all-nighter. She said
dialog: then come home just to say Hi. Which
dialog: I always do when we fight, it's
dialog: suspicious if I don't.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Please don't go.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: At this point the worst thing I could
dialog: do is anything out of the ordinary.
text: She looks at him, worried, then takes a disk out of her
dialog: backpack.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Here's the interface.
text: He takes it. They kiss. She watches him go, worried.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. MILO'S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: As Milo comes up the path, he sees Alice in the kitchen.
text: He opens the front door, steps in. She comes from the kitchen
text: in an apron, wiping her hands. The apron is spattered, her
text: hair is askew.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I'm a mess! I got this Hunan cookbook,
dialog: since we're always afraid for you to
dialog: eat in Chinese restaurants. I've
dialog: been mincing things into teeny-tiny
dialog: pieces all afternoon.
text: He smiles to hide his terror. Is she killing him now? Or
text: just testing his reaction? Or is it a sincere overture?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Great!
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Look at me! I'm gonna change.
text: When she turns away, we see the fear on his face.
scene_heading: INT. THE BEDROOM - A MOMENT LATER
text: Alice pulls into a dress.
scene_heading: IN THE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo, at the stove, sniffs at the food that simmers in a
text: wok. He grabs a a spoon, examines it; but it's minced too
dialog: fine to discern one ingredient from another.
speaker_heading: BEDROOM
text: Alice pulls her hair back with a ribbon...
speaker_heading: KITCHEN
text: Milo churns the garbage in the wastebasket, reads the label
text: on a jar, the label on a can...
speaker_heading: BEDROOM
text: Alice applies blush-on.
speaker_heading: KITCHEN
text: Milo goes through the spice cabinet...
scene_heading: LIVING ROOM - A MOMENT LATER
text: Milo paces. He stops when she comes from the bedroom.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he smiles)
dialog: You look beautiful.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Yeah? Give me a goodbye kiss.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...What?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: I know you. You're gonna run back to
dialog: work right after dinner. I want my
dialog: kiss now.
dialog: Either she's the most cold-blooded woman in the world, or...
text: He takes her in his arms, kisses her long and hard -- as if
text: his life depended on it. When he releases her, she pretends
text: to swoon. She backs toward the kitchen.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Be right back.
scene_heading: KITCHEN - A MOMENT LATER
text: Camera is positioned on the counter, just behind the big
text: bowl as Alice spoons the food into it... She sprinkles on
text: some final ingredient, also minced.
scene_heading: DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo's fingers drum the table top...
scene_heading: KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
text: Alice picks up the dish. We don't see her face.
scene_heading: ON THE DISH - MOVING - CONTINUOUS (ALICE'S POV)
text: We hold the dish out in front of us. The food shines in the
text: light, a poisonous yellow gleam. We move from kitchen to
text: dining room, slowly, deliberately...
text: Milo comes into view beyond the dish, wearing a forced smile.
text: We come all the way to the table with the dish, where Alice
text: sets it down.
text: She sits. Milo, still vamping, pours wine. He picks up his
text: fork. Stares at it.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo?
text: His mind churns furiously.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Milo?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Don't we have any chopsticks?
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Oh, right. Hold on.
text: When she's gone, he flips his left arm over and drags the
text: tines of his fork against it, making score-marks, like those
dialog: used by allergists to test for sensitivity.
text: He dabs the sauce onto the tracks, wipes it clean. He stares
dialog: at it.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN DRAWER - CONTINUOUS
text: Alice roots through ladles, bottle openers, cheese graters,
text: spatulas. At the bottom of the drawer, she finds two pairs
text: of take-out chopsticks, wrapped in white paper.
scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo looks from his watch to his arm -- no reaction yet.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (under his breath)
dialog: One more minute...
text: But here's Alice. She slips into her seat.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: Here we go.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Great.
text: He unwraps the chopsticks rather slowly.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...wanna savor this.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: It's gonna get cold.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Right. Wait. A toast.
speaker_heading: ALICE
dialog: You're just afraid to eat it.
text: She smiles, picks up her glass.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: To the artist.
text: They toast. She sips her wine. He sips his. He wants
text: desperately to glance at his inner arm once more. But she's
text: watching him, waiting for him to eat.
text: He picks up the chopsticks, gathers up a tiny bite. She
text: watches keenly. He brings the food to his mouth, passes it
text: between his lips, swallows.
text: He closes his eyes, ostensibly to savor the food, in fact
text: bracing for a paroxysm.
text: She watches him expectantly -- either for his verdict on the
dialog: food, or for the first fatal spasm.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (his voice cracks)
dialog: It's great. It's great.
text: She grins. She takes a bite. The moment she looks away, he
text: turns over his arm to get a look, face full of fear.
text: The tracks are still flat, there's no redness. He shovels a
text: large bite into his mouth, ecstatic to be alive. Then another
text: bite, greedy with life.
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER SECURITY OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Shrot and Len are in a high-tech office. On a monitor, we
text: see a blown-up image of a fingerprint taken from Milo's
text: keyboard; Milo's name is printed under it.
text: In a second window, other fingerprints flash by: thousands
text: of prints lifted off keyboards in the Day Care.
text: Shrot waits for a match to click in.
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Milo scrolls his Skywire code, concentrating intensely. Till
text: he feels some stickiness on his thumb and forefinger. He
text: rubs them together, peers at his keys.
text: Dolly-zoom in on a trace of fingerprint powder.
text: Fear seizes Milo. He ejects his the Skywire CD -- it is a
text: bright silver color, with a Skywire logo on it -- slips it
text: in an equally distinct silver (CD) jewel-case.
scene_heading: INT. BLDG. 20 HALLWAY - MOMENT LATER
text: Milo smiles at Desi as he moves up the hall. He almost bumps
text: into Gary's Secretary.
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Milo, hi! How was the party?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Great! Great! Thanks for asking!
text: He continues up the hall. He ducks into the service hall.
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Shrot watches as
text: The computer produces an alarm-like buzzing. The second window
text: locks onto the matching print. The prints flash in unison,
text: garishly confirming the match.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL/STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo races along the tunnel that leads from #20 to the Day
dialog: Care...
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Shrot punches a number on the phone.
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: You calling Phil and Randy?
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: I'm calling Gary.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL/DAY CARE BACKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo climbs the stairs, fumbles with the swipecard, enters
dialog: the Day Care.
scene_heading: INT. COMPUTER SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Len is at the console. On a security monitor, he has called-
text: up video from a moment ago: Milo hurrying up the hall, almost
text: running into Gary's Secretary.
text: Shrot has an eye on the video as he speaks on the phone.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: He's left his office, we think he's
dialog: gone back to the Day Care for some
dialog: reason. Can you tell me why, Gary?
dialog: (he listens)
dialog: Whatever you say.
dialog: (hangs up angrily)
dialog: Wants to consult with Phil. Was it
dialog: Phil's idea to run the fingerprints?
text: Shrot straps on his service revolver as he heads out.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Come with me.
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: (trying to catch up)
dialog: Where we going?
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo is under the table, detaching one of the the black
text: plastic data towers that contain the "primers," stored
dialog: surveillance material, etc.
scene_heading: INT. PHIL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Phil hangs up the phone. He turns to Randy, who is with the
text: two men: the blond GUNTHER, the pale-eyed RIMAN.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: He's in the Day Care.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo carefully detaches a second data tower.
scene_heading: EXT. BLDG. 20 - CONTINUOUS
text: Shrot and Len hurry out of the building, toward the Day Care
text: across the quad. Len is ill-at-ease:
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: Bob, I'm a programmer, not a cop.
text: In his haste, Shrot doesn't even hear him.
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING 20 HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther, Riman &amp; Randy head down the service hallway, en
text: route to the bomb shelter stairs.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo, lugging one bulky black data tower under each arm
dialog: (wondering if he should just ditch one) gets as far as the
text: main, colorfully-carpeted room --
text: Shrot is there, gun drawn. Len stands just behind.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You're better off not knowing.
text: Shrot thinks he's being mocked, as usual.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: What're you doing?!
text: Milo sets down one of the towers.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: They're surveilling programmers from
dialog: in here. They steal their code.
dialog: Sometimes -- I know this sounds insane --
dialog: sometimes they kill one.
text: Shrot looks skeptical.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: They let me break into 21. 'Cause
dialog: there's nothing in there. You know
dialog: they've been keeping things from
dialog: you. 'Getting in the way when you
dialog: try t'do your job. That's why you
dialog: never told 'em your suspicions about
dialog: me. Right?
text: Shrot doesn't deny it.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: If you had I'd be dead now.
text: Milo's sincerity is striking. Shrot cogitates.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: You've been following your gut all
dialog: along. Please don't stop now?
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther, Riman and Randy climb the metal stairs, turn at a
dialog: landing, climb some more.
text: When they get to the next landing, Riman opens the door.
dialog: They enter
scene_heading: THE DAY CARE - BACK ROOM
text: Hearing voices inside, Gunther draws a gun; they move forward
text: stealthfully. They enter the
scene_heading: COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: What's going on here?
text: Randy sees: Shrot and Len.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Who're these guys?
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: Where is he?
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: We're too late. Take a look.
text: He shines his light under the table, where the towers have
dialog: been detached.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: What's in here worth taking, anyway?
scene_heading: EXT. QUAD - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo hurries away from the Day Care. He has just one data
text: tower, now, so he can move faster.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Randy starts to push past Shrot --
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: He must be out there still --
text: He gets to the front room, where the jettisoned data tower
text: still sits (but he doesn't see it).
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: (calling after)
dialog: Forget about it. His car's not in
dialog: the lot, he's gone!
text: Shrot watches anxiously to see if he's stopped Randy.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTPOST - PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: Milo moves low among the high-priced cars, lugging the tower.
text: He gets to his Deux Chevaux, opens the trunk --
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Hey!
text: Milo turns. It's Desi, again.
speaker_heading: DESI
dialog: Wanna get a cheeseburger or something?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Maybe another time.
text: As calmly as possible, he stows the tower, slams the trunk,
text: gets in the car.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Randy hangs up the phone.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: (to Shrot &amp; Len)
dialog: Fellas, I'm gonna have to ask you to
dialog: leave here now.
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Wait a second. I'm the one who found
dialog: out he was mucking around in here in
dialog: the first place.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: We're all grateful for that. Really.
dialog: Go out the way you came in?
text: Reluctantly, Shrot &amp; Len head out toward the front room.
scene_heading: INT./EXT MILO'S CAR/HIGHWAY - NIGHT
text: Milo is on the phone, he drives as fast as one can in his
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Meet me at the other location.
speaker_heading: LISA (V.O.)
dialog: Tell me you're not calling on your
dialog: car phone?!
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE - COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Randy, Riman &amp; Gunther have turned the Day Care into a
text: surveillance post. They hear Milo &amp; Lisa's conversation on
dialog: speakers.
speaker_heading: MILO (V.O.)
dialog: They know, I had no choice. Get out
dialog: of the house now! Do you have a
dialog: laptop?
scene_heading: INT. LISA'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: LISA (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: It's three years old, it --
scene_heading: INT. MILO'S CAR - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: MILO (ON THE PHONE)
dialog: Bring it to the other location.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: But you said the other --
text: He rings off. He reads something off a business card.
scene_heading: INT. LISA'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Scrambling, Lisa grabs her old laptop, finds her keys.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Phil's on the phone.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Yeah, alright.
dialog: (hangs up, briefs
dialog: Gary)
dialog: He's off campus, he's taken some
text: surveillance data with him.
text: Gary's eyes narrow.
speaker_heading: PHIL
text: She's bringing her laptop, it's wired.
dialog: Second she boots up, we're on 'em.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. BUILDING/MILO'S CAR - RURAL ROAD - NIGHT
text: Milo reads the address off the business card, which has a
text: satellite dish as its logo. (He holds it in front of him.)
text: When he brings down the card, it reveals a real-life satellite
text: dish through the windshield.
text: As the car pulls up by a low cinderblock building, we read a
text: sign that says KNQR - PUBLIC ACCESS.
scene_heading: INT. KNQR - RECEPTION AREA - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo rushes in, lugging the tower. There's a linoleum floor,
dialog: framed one-sheets for tacky public access shows (Yoga, blow-
text: dried Evangelist, Nude Talk Show). Behind the reception desk
text: sits a beefy RENT-A-GUARD with an earring.
scene_heading: RENT-A-GUARD
dialog: Help you?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Brian here? Brian Bissel?
scene_heading: RENT-A-GUARD
dialog: (picks up the phone)
dialog: Who wants to see him?
scene_heading: INT./EXT. LISA'S CAR/HIGHWAY - NIGHT
text: Lisa drives fast, checking her rear-view-mirror to make sure
text: she's not being followed. Pan to the seat next to her: her
text: laptop lies on the passenger seat.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE COMPUTER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: A monitor shows a green interface with yellow coordinates
text: (like an air traffic controllers' screen). Randy sits at the
text: keyboard in front of it, phone cradled on shoulder.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: (into the phone)
text: Nothing. They haven't booted-up yet.
scene_heading: INT. KNQR - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo speaks to Brian.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: This is the biggest Beta demo in
dialog: like the history of software. You'd
dialog: be my partner.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You can't pre-empt Yoga, that's our
dialog: biggest show.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Brian! You wanna be a big deal, don't
dialog: you? That's your dream in life.
text: Brian is examining the data tower. He touches the Outpost
text: logo branded into it, rather reverently.
text: Lisa comes in, laptop slung over her arm.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Will I get to work for Outpost?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: No. But you can write your own ticket
dialog: in the Valley after this. We're gonna
dialog: bring down Outpost.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: What'd they ever do for you?
text: Brian's thinking it over. He shrugs.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Great. Great! We need to drag a lot
text: of heavy stuff in front of the door --
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (to the Rent-a-Guard)
dialog: Wanna be a part of history?
scene_heading: RENT-A-GUARD
dialog: Not really.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (digging in his pocket)
dialog: Well -- would you like to pick up an
dialog: extra -- 232 dollars?
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary is pacing...
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: (on the phone)
dialog: Nothing yet, Gary...
scene_heading: INT. KNQR - RECEPTION AREA - CONTINUOUS
text: The Rent-a-Guard drags a file cabinet in front of the door,
text: where he has already dragged the couch, some chairs, a garbage
dialog: can, two lamps...
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM (UPSTAIRS) - KNQR - CONTINUOUS
text: Three TV's of various sizes and wood veneers are turned on:
dialog: one to NBC ("ER") one to CBS ("48 Hours") one to ABC
text: (toothpaste commercial). On an in-house monitor a leathery
text: Woman in a leotard does yoga.
text: Lisa is cabling her laptop into the station's computer. Brian
text: boots it up: it runs the satellite. Milo cables the data
text: tower into the laptop.
text: Cables go in every which direction: the whole set-up has a
text: distinctly gerry-rigged look.
text: Go tight on the laptop power switch. Lisa toggles it on.
scene_heading: INT. DAY CARE COMPUTE ROOM - NIGHT
text: The yellow coordinates start blinking on. Randy sits at a
dialog: console.
speaker_heading: RANDY
dialog: (into the phone)
dialog: We've got a fix on 'em.
dialog: (typing)
dialog: 218 North Jericho Road.
text: Gunther and Riman grab holstered guns, race out. Randy types
text: some more, speaks into the phone:
speaker_heading: RANDY
text: Public access TV station. KNQR.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Phil hangs up, blows a sigh of relief.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: He's taken it to the public access
dialog: station.
text: Phil sags gratefully into a chair... only to see Gary plow
text: past him. At his workstation Gary types, mutters:
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: That's what he was doing in here.
text: The Bosch wall screen fills up with a dark blue background,
dialog: longitude and latitude lines...
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Gary?
text: Gary throws a printed spiral notebook at him.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Help me change the Skywire settings.
dialog: Add five degrees to each satellite
dialog: coordinate.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Gary, don't worry, we --
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Just do what I'm asking!
text: Gary hits a switch. A wood panel slides into the wall,
text: revealing a bank of four TV's.
scene_heading: INT. CAR/HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther and Riman speed toward the station.
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM - WNQR - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo slips his disk in the laptop. Lisa cables the video
text: tower to the laptop.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: You're interfaced with our dish.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (to Lisa)
dialog: Gimme the coordinates?
text: Lisa reads from Milo's little pad.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Longitude 77 degrees, 03 minutes, 58
dialog: seconds East.
text: Milo types on the laptop.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Latitude 38 degrees, 55 minutes, 14
dialog: seconds South.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Phil reads to Gary as he types.
speaker_heading: PHIL
text: 19 seconds South. Altitude 431 Miles.
scene_heading: EXT. SPACE - NIGHT
text: We see the Earth far below. The Skywire Satellite orbits
text: majestically into frame, shifts five degrees to the left.
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM - KNQR - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo hits enter. Milo, Lisa, Brian, shift their collective
text: gaze to the three funky TV sets.
text: "ER" plays, uninterrupted, Dan Rather, Diane Sawyer on ABC,
text: the Yoga lady, the audio of all four blending in a chaotic
text: low melange that adds to the tension (particularly the frantic
text: medical emergency on "ER").
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Is it your software?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Is it your dish?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Maybe it's the satellite.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he thinks)
dialog: Let's try #2.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Okay, #2.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Longitude 48 degrees 06 minutes --
scene_heading: EXT. KNQR - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther and Riman squeal into the station parking lot.
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Lisa looks out the window to the parking lot, below. Milo is
text: typing in coordinates.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: They're already here. My laptop must
dialog: be wired!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (anxiously)
dialog: Milo?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (typing)
dialog: We're there.
text: Milo hits enter.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary hits enter.
scene_heading: EXT. SPACE CONTINUOUS
text: A second Skywire satellite shifts regally away from the Earth,
text: as if shunning the signal.
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM KNQR - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo, Lisa, Brian watch the TV's. "ER" et al.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Damn!
scene_heading: EXT./INT. KNQR - ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther and Riman tear through the barricade the Rent-A-Cop
text: has erected with ruthless precision.
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo cogitates while Lisa reviews the satellite coordinates --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: You checked your connections?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to Milo)
dialog: Yes! Should you reboot?
text: Milo is scrolling the software, trying to figure out which
text: of a 1,000 possible glitches is getting in the way.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: ...He knows.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: He's been altering the coordinates
text: since we logged on. He's a step ahead.
dialog: Let's jump to #12.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Ready for number three?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Let's go.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Longitude 109 --
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Wait... He knows.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: 'Knows I'm altering the coordinates.
dialog: Let's jump to #12.
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: Gary?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Just do it.
scene_heading: INT. KNQR - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: The Rent-A-Guard drags furniture, props, lights, in front of
text: the entrance to the satellite room.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRANCE - KNQR - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther and Riman have created an opening in the barricade.
text: They step through it. They hear the racket the Rent-a-Guard
text: is making upstairs. They head that way.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWAY/UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: The Rent-A-Guard is holding a lightstand as they ascend,
text: guns drawn.
speaker_heading: GUNTHER
dialog: Step aside. We won't hurt you.
text: Riman takes the lightstand from him. The Rent-a-Guard puts
text: his hands up, sidles across the hallway as they tear into
text: the barricade.
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Lisa reads to Milo.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Latitude 47 degrees.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Wait a second. He knows I know.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: MILO
text: He's working backwards, too.
dialog: (to Lisa)
dialog: Let's do number five?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Longitude 66.
dialog: Milo types.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther and Riman rip down the barricade, reach the door.
text: They whip it open, guns drawn. They see:
text: An empty supply room. [The barricade was a decoy.]
scene_heading: INT. SATELLITE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: The Rent-A-Guard has joined Milo et al in here. He tries to
text: slide a heavy shelf in front of the door, but it's not yet
text: in place. Lisa has dialed 911. She's scared.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Come now. They've got guns!
text: OS, we can hear Gunther and Riman pounding at the door.
speaker_heading: GUNTHER (O.S.)
dialog: Open the door, Milo!
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to Milo)
dialog: You there yet?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (typing)
dialog: One more second.
text: He hits enter. The door is kicked open. Gunther &amp; Riman enter,
text: Gunther with a gun, Riman still carrying the light stand.
text: He immediately bashes the KNQR computer with it. Lisa looks
dialog: devastated.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Hey, hey, relax, relax!
text: He holds up the computer cable, to show Riman it was never
dialog: plugged in, anyway.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Oh my God.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (to Gunther)
dialog: Should I call Phil? Or do you?
text: Gunther knits his brow. He notices Milo: still staring at
text: the TV screens.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: Milo? Wake up. Our regular programming
dialog: will not be preempted tonight.
text: Milo's gaze stays fixed to the screens. Riman grabs him by
text: the shirt. But Gunther's concerned by Milo's behavior:
speaker_heading: GUNTHER
dialog: (staring at Milo)
dialog: Wait.
text: As Milo watches the screens, a pixilated, ghostly image begins
text: to appear on all of them: the animated Skywire logo (lightning
dialog: strike, etc.).
text: Brian lurches across to the laptop, ejects the CD-ROM. It's
text: beige-colored, says Outpost Word.
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: ...When did you know?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (still watching the
dialog: screens)
dialog: You should've called a few times to
dialog: bug me about your job prospects.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Milo? Who's got Skywire?
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary and Phil watch as the Skywire logo gets steadily stronger
text: on Gary's TV's. Phil is confounded:
speaker_heading: PHIL
dialog: If Milo didn't launch Skywire, who
dialog: did?
text: We hear a low steady hum.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: A CABLE plugged into a dusty wall-port that doesn't even
text: have a plate on it. Panning along the cable, we widen to
dialog: show:
scene_heading: INT. UNFINISHED STUDIO (#21) - CONTINUOUS
text: In dim construction light, not far from the Sears generator,
text: Len sits on the concrete floor. The second data tower is
text: patched into a laptop. The distinct silver jewelcase lies by
text: the CD-rom drive. Shrot paces:
speaker_heading: SHROT
dialog: Now what are we doing? I don't get
dialog: any of this shit!
speaker_heading: LEN
dialog: I launched Skywire. Just pray the
dialog: last set of coordinates Milo sent me
dialog: connected us to Gary's satellite.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FOUR TV SETS
text: Each shows the standard Outpost desktop: Outpost logo, fonts,
dialog: colors. [This is the all-purpose interface Lisa created for
text: to Milo.] A window at the top shows a succession of Obituaries
dialog: with photos Lisa has downloaded from newspapers: "Programmer
dialog: Dies in Highway Crash;" "Programmer Among Cult Suicides;"
dialog: "Programmer Victim of Racial Killing," etc.) The obituaries --
text: eight of them -- fade up and down in a continuous cycle.
dialog: Meantime:
text: Lower on the screen, the material from the day-care data
text: tower appears, following the same succession we saw when
text: Milo brought up Teddy's data, i.e., footage of a young
text: Programmer at college, surveillance footage of him typing
text: away (from behind), medical records that describe his
text: vulnerability or a crime primer that describes his scenario.
dialog: Between the obits and the primers, cause and effect is
dialog: (eventually) established.
text: The crowning note is the audio, Gary in VOICE OVER, gleaned
dialog: (by Lisa) from the audio version of his own book:
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: Most of us who write software achieve
dialog: our greatest work before age 30. As
dialog: I grow older I know how important it
dialog: is to access fertile young minds!
speaker_heading: REVERSE ON
text: Gary watching.
scene_heading: INT. KNQR - SATELLITE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: We hear sirens grow near. Gunther watches the broadcast,
text: still gripping his gun.
speaker_heading: RIMAN
dialog: (to Gunther)
dialog: You know the scenario for this.
text: This sounds ominous. Lisa wonders what it means. Milo wonders
text: what it means. He swallows hard.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: 'Last thing you wanna do is hurt us
dialog: now.
dialog: (not at all sure)
dialog: Right?
speaker_heading: GUNTHER
dialog: (to Brian)
dialog: Who's seeing this?
speaker_heading: BRIAN
dialog: (with dread)
dialog: Who isn't?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: A MONTAGE
text: 1. MOVE PAST ROWS &amp; ROWS OF PC's playing surveillance footage,
text: a crash-scene upload, and an obituary, in a college computer
text: lab. Students watch, agog.
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: We work hard to stay ahead because
dialog: we know any kid working in his garage
dialog: can put us out of business.
text: 2. TIMES SQUARE - Pedestrians and motorists (with craned
text: necks) watch the Jumbo-Tron, now the world's biggest desktop.
text: In one window, college video of a promising Programmer, in
text: the other, footage of a cult suicide. (Sometimes the
text: Programmer in question is simultaneous with his obit,
text: sometimes not, but the connection by now becomes clear).
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: The first rule of the software
dialog: business is: those who don't innovate
dialog: are doomed to die.
text: 3. The cuts accelerate. In a NETWORK CONTROL ROOM, Technicians
text: flip switches, trying to bring back scheduled programming.
text: At the NIKKEI, the Brokers are transfixed by what comes over
text: the Big Board. In a VEGAS CASINO Gamblers sip their drinks
text: as they watch it on closed-circuit horserace monitors. On a
text: STREET CORNER, a Crack Dealer watches on his beeper. At a
text: STADIUM, the Stones play but (tilting up) the Diamond Vision
text: behind them plays Milo's broadcast. In an ELECTRONICS STORE,
text: a wall of TV's -- 200 of them -- plays grisly primer footage
text: for Shoppers. A guy takes a shiny wrapped copy of Outpost
text: '98 from his basket, returns it to the shelf... In the Day
text: Care Computer Room, it plays on all the monitors as Randy
text: moves through the room with a big buzzing electro-magnetic
text: hoop, which he runs over each tower, wiping out data.
text: Through all the cuts, we hear Gary's narration:
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: That's why we work so hard to invent
dialog: or acquire great new applications.
dialog: Consumers don't care where new ideas
dialog: come from, just so long as they're
dialog: offered at competitive prices. Isn't
dialog: that what the free market's about?
dialog: Sure, we like being #1, but it's
dialog: pressure, too. This business is
dialog: binary: you're a zero or a one.
scene_heading: INT. JUSTICE DEPT. - WASHINGTON D.C. - CONTINUOUS
text: A group of Government Lawyers, working late (Chinese takeout,
text: loosened ties) watch with a dawning sense of unbelievable
dialog: good luck.
scene_heading: JUSTICE DEPT. LAWYER
dialog: 'Guess we should wake the Attorney
dialog: General.
text: TIGHT ON: A PC SCREEN - Teddy Chin's recruitment file is in
text: one window, the hate crime footage is in another.
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: I've been called "aggressive" but to
dialog: me, that's really a compliment.
scene_heading: REVERSE: SUNNYVALE LOFT - CONTINUOUS
text: Larry watches with his start-up partners. His eyes close: it
dialog: hurts to see Teddy, again.
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: Look at all the jobs and technologies
dialog: my "aggression" has created.
scene_heading: INT. LYLE BARTON'S HOUSE - FRONT ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: OPEN on a framed photo of Barton, his Wife and Kids. The
dialog: broadcast plays, OS.
speaker_heading: BARTON'S WIFE (O.S.)
dialog: Lyle? Phone for you.
text: She comes in. No Barton. The front door is wide open, the TV
text: is still on.
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: We really are a family here at
dialog: Outpost.
scene_heading: INT. MILO &amp; LISA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Paintings are gone from the wall, clothes flung around. Move
text: in on a note pinned to the pillow, as the TV plays.
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: I think that's why outsiders sometimes
dialog: sees us as "cultish" or "secretive."
dialog: Milo, It wasn't so bad, really.
dialog: XX "Alice"
scene_heading: EXT. OUTPOST CAMPUS - NIGHT
text: High wide shot: sirens scream as unmarked sedans and squadcars
text: squeal into the sanctified parking lot.
speaker_heading: GARY'S VOICE OVER
dialog: Is loyalty and group spirit somehow
dialog: "sinister" nowadays?
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Open on Gary's TV monitors, then pan into the room. Phil has
text: departed; the Outpost Lawyers have taken his place.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: The "murder" stuff is all innuendo:
dialog: bad PR, legally null. 'Could probably
dialog: be spun as Urban Legend. There is a
dialog: case for corporate espionage, but if
dialog: you cop a plea, you'll get a slap --
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Cop a plea? I'm confused, Ted. You
dialog: think I knew about this?
dialog: The Lawyers suppress their opinion.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: I'm running the company, fighting
text: the DOJ, raising a family. Randy and
dialog: Phil obviously overreacted. To this
text: endless, antitrust witchhunt.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: (get real)
dialog: The government's gonna offer 'em a
dialog: helluva deal to tie you into this.
dialog: Whether you knew about it or not.
speaker_heading: LAWYER 2
dialog: Randy, Phil and whoever else knew
dialog: about it.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: That won't be a problem.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CAR/RURAL ROAD - CONTINUOUS
text: Gunther &amp; Riman turn off a rural road...
speaker_heading: GARY (O.S.)
dialog: As for PR, Skywire'll take care of
dialog: all that.
text: ...onto a tarmac. A private jet sits lit up, waiting.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: The world's seen it now. They know
dialog: it's gonna dominate the convergence
dialog: market even beyond how Outpost '98
text: dominates the desktop.
scene_heading: INT. PRIVATE JET - 35,000 FT. - CONTINUOUS
text: Continuous dolly past: Gunther, as he takes a Chivas from
text: the Stewardess; Lyle Barton who slips on his headset; Alice,
text: sorting through video casettes; Randy &amp; Phil, playing gin
text: rummy; Brian, eating a hamburger. Meantime:
speaker_heading: GARY (O.S.)
dialog: Go after us, you give foreign
text: competitors a shot at the platform
dialog: that'll hold sway for 30 years: you
dialog: threaten not just our chip and PC
dialog: partners like when you came after
dialog: the browser.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: You threaten TV networks, phone
dialog: companies, catalog outlets, publishing
dialog: houses, movie studios, travel agents,
dialog: airlines, stock brokerages -- you
dialog: sabotage the whole economy. Talk
dialog: about undermining innovation!
speaker_heading: LAWYER 2
dialog: (he's writing on a
dialog: legal pad)
dialog: Easy to spin, old as the hills: What's
dialog: good for Outpost is good for America.
text: He hands the pad to Gary.
scene_heading: INT. KNQR - SATELLITE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Milo watches the screens, anxiously.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Come on, Bob. Load in the other disk.
scene_heading: INT. GARY'S WORKROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Gary is reading from the Lawyer's pad.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: "I had no knowledge of these
dialog: activities, but I have to ask myself
dialog: if the competitive environment I
dialog: encouraged in some small way
dialog: contributed --"
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Gary?
text: Gary looks up. The Lawyer nods soberly at the TV's.
text: In one window, the Skywire code scrolls slowly past. In the
dialog: other, it says: "Here's the code for the operating system
dialog: that made this braodcast possible. Take it. Use it. Make the
dialog: new convergence technologies as free as the Web."
text: Under the windows, these words scroll continuously: HUMAN
text: KNOWLEDGE BELONGS TO THE WORLD.
text: Watching, Gary knits his brow: he looks wounded.
scene_heading: INT. COLLEGE COMPUTER LAB - CONTINUOUS
text: In the lab that began the montage, move past rows of Students
text: scribbling madly as the code unfolds, or saving it to their
dialog: hard drives.
text: Off-screen, a Student says, "Well, the genie's out of that
dialog: bottle."
speaker_heading: SHORT FADE:
speaker_heading: CYBER PUNDIT (OVER BLACK)
dialog: The Board ousted Gary Boyd as
dialog: Chairman, they're assisting the DOJ
dialog: in the breakup of Outpost into
dialog: divisions.
speaker_heading: FADE IN ON:
scene_heading: TV - PLAYING LARRY KING LIVE
text: The CYBER PUNDIT chats with LARRY KING.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING (ON TV)
dialog: That's gotta kill him, right?
speaker_heading: CYBER PUNDIT (ON TV)
dialog: Outpost was his baby, sure. On the
dialog: other hand, we just learned Gary
dialog: Boyd owns the Skywire satellites.
dialog: Personally.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING (ON TV)
dialog: Outpost doesn't own em.
dialog: We are:
scene_heading: INT. SUNNYVALE LOFT - DAY
text: Larry Lindholm sits on a couch watching TV. MOVERS are
text: carrying out computer equipment all around him. He tries to
dialog: ignore them.
speaker_heading: CYBER PUNDIT (ON TV)
dialog: Conglomerates're lined up to finance
dialog: the launch of the remaining
dialog: satellites. They'll pay him a huge
dialog: premium to get on-line.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING
dialog: That'd change with a criminal
dialog: indictment.
speaker_heading: CYBER PUNDIT
dialog: There's no hard evidence he knew
dialog: about this. Anybody who could
text: implicate him seems to've vanished.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING (ON TV)
dialog: Isn't there a stigma? Bankrolling
dialog: this guy?
speaker_heading: CYBER PUNDIT (ON TV)
dialog: Stigma? Larry! 60 billion buys you
dialog: some slack in this world.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING (ON TV)
dialog: And the kid who wrote Skywire --
dialog: then gave it away? They're calling
dialog: him the digital Robin Hood.
speaker_heading: CYBER PUNDIT (ON TV)
dialog: Milo. Surprised he's not your guest.
speaker_heading: LARRY KING (ON TV)
dialog: We tried!
speaker_heading: CYBER PUNDIT (ON TV)
dialog: You better believe everybody's trying
dialog: to sign him up.
text: As Larry (King) chuckles, Larry (Lindholm) looks up.
text: Milo and Lisa wear backpacks. As Milo sluffs his off:
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Larry, Lisa.
text: Larry switches off the TV as he comes to his feet. A Mover
text: passes by, hauling out a monitor. Larry explains:
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: Your app kind of blew mine out of
dialog: the water.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: (he shrugs)
dialog: We'll come up with the next big thing.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: ...You wanna work -- here?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Got out of my other commitment.
text: Larry hugs Milo. Turns to Lisa:
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: May I?
text: He hugs Lisa, too. A Mover grabs Milo's backpack from the
dialog: floor.
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Hey, wait!
dialog: (when the Mover looks)
dialog: Not giving everything away.
text: The Mover sets it down, moves on.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: C'mon. Bring your stuff.
text: Milo grabs up his pack, the three of them head away from
dialog: camera.
speaker_heading: LARRY
dialog: You guys'll be using Teddy's old
dialog: space, is that okay?
speaker_heading: MILO
dialog: Cool.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
