scene_heading: ANY GIVEN SUNDAY
dialog: by
dialog: Jamie Williams & Richard Weiner,
dialog: John Logan, Daniel Pyne
dialog: revisions by
dialog: Gary Ross, Raynold Gideon & Bruce A. Evans,
dialog: John Logan, Lisa Amsterdam & Robert Huizenga
dialog: current revision by
dialog: Oliver Stone
scene_heading: REVISED SHOOTING SCRIPT
dialog: May 1, 1999
dialog: "... Any man's finest hour -- his greatest
dialog: fulfillment to all he holds dear -- is
text: that moment when he has worked his heart
text: out in a good cause and lies exhausted on
dialog: the field of battle -- victorious."
dialog: Vince Lombardi
dialog: Al
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. "SHARK" STADIUM (MIAMI, USA) - LATE DAY Al
speaker_heading: (ANY SUNDAY)
text: MUSIC sets a mood of mystery, verdure, sky... Grass sways
text: gently in the wind, silence to the world... Then a
text: football is placed in the grass. The large, taped
text: knuckles of a center grasp the football for the snap.
text: The world is still, coiled like a spring...
text: CREDITS RUN...
scene_heading: GAME 1 MINNESOTA AMERICANS AT MIAMI SHARKS - FIELD #1 - 1
speaker_heading: CONTINUOUS ACTION
text: An EXPLOSION on the field -- as bodies crash against each
text: other like armies. The game as played and felt in "the pit".
text: A swift, short pass over the middle... A tight end
text: (Miami) takes the hit... Then the quarterback (Miami)
text: goes down hard. A blur of motion. A WHISTLE BLOWS and
text: referee #1 signals first down; chains are moved.
speaker_heading: HELICOPTER #1 2
text: A steep view of the proceedings -- godlike, evoking
text: ghosts, wind; as if the football gods look down on their
dialog: human combatants and vote for first downs, touchdowns,
dialog: careers, lives... These overheads punctuate the film...
text: The silence lingers briefly -- before the Announcers'
dialog: voices bring us back to the media reality of the late
dialog: 20th Century...
speaker_heading: TUG KOLOWSKI (V.O.)
dialog: (on TV)
dialog: «+. And what a beautiful day for
dialog: football it is here in South
dialog: Florida!! It's Sunday, and the
text: sun is shining and playoff berths
dialog: are on the line. It doesn't get
dialog: much better than this! Don't you
dialog: think so, Kevin?!
speaker_heading: KEVIN BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: (on TV)
dialog: That's the one thing you and I can
dialog: agree on, Tug. You can almost
dialog: feel religion in the air here at
dialog: Miami's 'Shark' Stadium.
text: The MUSIC THEME -- a blend of martial, choral, and rock
text: and roll -- is now swallowed in the ROAR of the CROWD...
scene_heading: SMASH CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #2
text: «+. the technicolor eyes of quarterback JACK "CAP"
text: ROONEY, hostage to anger and pain, as his aging frame
text: crashes on the dirty grass.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #1
text: Head coach TONY D'AMATO, a striking, intense man in his
text: 50s, moves in a five-yard swath of the sideline, his eyes
text: flicking worriedly to his fallen alter-ago.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I've been doin' this for too many
dialog: years...
dialog: (at McKenna)
dialog: You mother...!!! Goddamn ass...!!!
text: He's giving it to Leslie McKenna, the right guard, and
text: the other linemen, as he senses the game is now shifting
text: momentum -- against him.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: .»». ‘mother!... you candy ass...
dialog: no blockin' bitches!... 68?!
dialog: McKenna, get your brain-dead head
dialog: out of your ass!! You're not
dialog: blocking, you're tip-toeing through
dialog: the tulips!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #2
text: DR. ALLIE POWERS, 30s, the new internist with the team,
text: grabs his doctor box and starts onto the field.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Powers! Get the hell back here!
dialog: Where you going?! He's fine!
text: Powers sheepishly u-turns back to the sideline where DR.
text: HARVEY MANDRAKE, the grey-haired team orthopedist, gives
text: him a second scolding.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: What are you thinking, Allie?!
dialog: There's 1:43 on the clock! You
dialog: walk on that field after the 2-
dialog: minute warning and we
dialog: automatically lose a time-out.
dialog: Wake-up! You been here almost a
dialog: goddamn season!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Sorry -- I thought he was hurt.
speaker_heading: FIELD #3
text: As LESLIE McKENNA (#63), the big right guard, helps Cap
text: up, knowing he's blown the block.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Yes, sir! That's the real deal
dialog: right there. Cap Rooney... Two
dialog: Pantheon Cups. Almost 50,000
dialog: passing yards. More touchdowns
dialog: than I care to remember...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (vising, to McKenna)
dialog: McKenna, you fat bubble of lard!
dialog: One more block like that, you'll
dialog: end my career!
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: «+. Our computers rank Jack Rooney
dialog: one of the top five quarterbacks
dialog: of all time when it comes to
dialog: pressure situations... At 39 he
dialog: may be a step or two behind -- 12
dialog: off-season operations have a way
dialog: of doing that to you -- but he
text: still stands head and shoulders
dialog: above these new kids...
speaker_heading: WIVES' SECTION #1 (VIDEO)
text: CINDY ROONEY, a sweet-looking blonde, waves back as she
text: notices the electronic eye gazing down on her; other
text: wives join in.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: .. Without a doubt, Tug! ‘'Rock'
dialog: Rooney also happens to be married
dialog: to a heckuva nice gal sittin' down
text: there in the stands just like the
dialog: star struck fan she's been since
dialog: their college days together at
dialog: Michigan -- that's Cindy Rooney,
dialog: folks, and I can tell you...
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Stop boasting, Kev! But beautiful
dialog: she certainly is, un-hunh!... Anda
dialog: mother of three beautiful children...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #3
text: Coach D'Amato fumbles with his newly-mangled headset,
text: consults his plastic-coated single-page game plan, into
dialog: his mouthpiece:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 10
dialog: 11
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 8
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Nick, where the hell are we here?!
dialog: Whatta ya think -- Ace Right 90
dialog: Cadillac? 60-40 against?
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #1 9
text: NICK CROZIER -- 40s, star offensive coordinator, in his
dialog: first year here, handsome, a comer -- studies the game
text: below through instant computer printouts. In the booth
text: are several offensive and defensive assistants.
speaker_heading: TONY (V.O.)
dialog: «+. they been giving Sanderson the
dialog: inside. If we roll Cap left, Les
text: and Madman can handle the backside.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: I'd say 75-25. But let's try --
dialog: slot right switch and if they
dialog: bring the bandit, we check to 99
dialog: max...
dialog: (relays call)
dialog: Okay! Slot Right Switch 90 or 99
dialog: Cadillac.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #4 10
text: TYLER CHERUBINI, the stoic, 32-year-old perpetual back-up
text: quarterback relays the telex signal from upstairs, on his
text: headset to the field via walkie-talkie -- in addition to
text: various body signals, both legitimate and deceptive.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #1 11
text: QB Cap Rooney bangs on his helmet; something in the
text: electronics is off. He glares at his teammates, and
text: though at times he chews them out like a Marine sergeant,
text: there is an unmistakable affection for his line. He
text: tries his hardest, like an aging Boy Scout, not to curse,
dialog: not always successfully.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Damn headset! Never goddamn works
dialog: when you get hit!! Every damn
dialog: 
dialog: time! Damnit, Madman! That
dialog: sonofabitch is headhunting!
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 11
speaker_heading: CAP (CONT'D)
dialog: Hold him, rip out his goddamn
dialog: eyes, but don't let him mess with
dialog: me! I'm too goddamn old!
text: PATRICK KELLY, his massive right tackle, known around the
text: league as "MADMAN," bleeds from his nose, but adores his
dialog: QB.
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Cap, I'll keep him off ya even if
dialog: I gotta bite off his thumb!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: You do that!
dialog: (to SANDERSON, the
dialog: star wide receiver)
dialog: «+. Get yourself open, goddamnit,
dialog: ‘Sandman.' If you gotta coldcock
dialog: him, I'll find you.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Hey I'm there, Cap! In the wind.
dialog: Just fling it, baby!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (to the second wide
dialog: receiver)
dialog: ‘Zonker'! You're number two, get
dialog: open, run your dig route at 15...
dialog: (to the huddle)
dialog: Okay, listen up, Slot Right Switch
dialog: 90 or 99 Cadillac, check with me,
dialog: and kill any sonofabitch tries to
dialog: cross that line before his time!
dialog: On three. Ready!
text: They clap and break. With 15 seconds to play time, the
text: constant barrage of "voices" inside Cap's helmet ceases.
scene_heading: MEDIA BOOTH #1 12
text: TUG KOLOWSKI -- in the flesh -- is a boisterous, boozy,
text: veteran sportscaster, alongside KEVIN BRANSON, a young and
text: upcoming TV-type who seems Tug's opposite, bland and safe.
speaker_heading: TUG
dialog: ... But not all is paradise here in
text: Miami. Cap Rooney may be on his way
dialog: into the record books, but for Coach
dialog: Tony D'Amato it's been a dismal
dialog: season with attendance sliding, as
text: the crosstown Dolphins prosper...
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
dialog: 13
dialog: Al3
speaker_heading: STANDS #1 (VIDEO) 13
text: Reveals the stadium at two-thirds capacity.
scene_heading: SIDELINE #5 (VIDEO AND FILM) Al3
text: Tony, on TV display, talking intensely into his headset,
text: takes us past defensive coordinator MONTEZUMA MONROE --
text: 60s, a monument of a man, former star linebacker, now
text: limping noticeably. He glares strongly, rarely moves.
text: With him is 34-year-old vet LUTHER LAVAY, linebacker and
text: the captain of the defense, black, built, and a total
text: predator. His nickname: "SHARK."
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: ... With three straight losses and
dialog: a slide from four years ago when
dialog: they won two Pantheon Cups in a row,
dialog: D'Amato's going to have to
dialog: struggle to get his aging team
dialog: into the playoffs! But today is
dialog: looking good for the Sharks,
dialog: leading the Americans in the second
dialog: quarter, 21-17.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: «+. They still got those holes in
dialog: that offensive line, Tug, but the
dialog: biggest problem has got to be the
dialog: defense, and Montezuma Monroe
dialog: knows it...
text: An ASSISTANT offers Monroe a set of digitally-produced
text: enhancements of the Minnesota offensive formations.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Get that shit outta my face!
dialog: Shark -- what the fuck's goin' on
dialog: out there?! We gotta get more
dialog: pressure on the goddamn
dialog: quarterback! That motherfucker's
dialog: splitting our seam 15 yards every
dialog: goddamn time. Now fix it!
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: I'm on it, Coach.
text: He stomps toward the defensive unit.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: ... there's also of course the
dialog: impact of management decisions on
dialog: the Sharks' turn in fortunes...
dialog: 14
dialog: 15
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #1 (VIDEO) 14
text: As seen on TV, several family friends and VPs mill
text: around, but we only see the back of elegantly-attired
text: blonde President and co-owner, CHRISTINA PAGNIACCI.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: No question, Kev! Since the death
dialog: of ‘Big Daddy,' Art Pagniacci --
dialog: his daughter and new President of
dialog: the team, Christina Pagniacci has
dialog: made some -- many people think --
dialog: questionable financial decisions in
dialog: letting three All-Pro Bowl selections
dialog: leave town for free agency.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: ++. although she did bring Julian
text: Washington in from K.C. A big
dialog: 1500-yard back...
speaker_heading: FIELD #4 (VIDEO AND FILM) 15
text: JULIAN WASHINGTON, 27, an extremely strong, sexy,
text: solidly-built, 230-pound running back, sets, his teeth
text: blazing with jewelry and facial paint on the far edges of
dialog: the Association's rule book (The Associated Football
text: Franchise of America). He presently goes into play-
dialog: motion.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: «+. who can be great when he's not
text: hurt. And his heart's in it. And
dialog: here we go!
text: Rooney barks out the numbers, "hot reading" the coming
text: blitz. The clock slows, as his eyes flick from the key
dialog: safety to his own team. Can they handle the confusion
dialog: of the audible?
speaker_heading: ROONEY
dialog: (audibling)
dialog: Set! Blue 83... check, check...
dialog: Arizona 99 Cadillac, Arizona 99
dialog: Cadillac! Hut! Hut! Hut!
text: The Shark linemen read the shift... but Madman is clearly
text: confused... blocking assignments are missed.
text: Cap takes the snap and fades back to pass, but he's an
text: inch too slow and a year too old -- his arm in the air,
text: about to release, he is brutally blind-sided by a fast
text: reptilian defensive end. Simultaneously, a blitzing
text: safety hits him in the lower back with his helmet. Cap
text: goes down hard again, landing on his own blocker's helmet
text: at an awkward angle -- he screams loudly -- and this
text: time, nothing moves.
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #6 16
text: Tony is looking at his worst fear come true. An eerie
text: quiet momentarily pervades the stadium. D'Amato breaks
text: it, yelling at Dr. Powers.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Get the hell out there! Move!
dialog: Can't you see he's hurt?
scene_heading: WIVES' SECTION #2 17
text: Cindy Rooney shares the uncertainty.
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #2 18
text: Still standing with her back to the window, Christina
text: talks to a friend.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: --. well, until I'm on the
dialog: finance committee, I have zero
dialog: say on network negot...
text: As she becomes aware of the hush in the stadium, she
text: turns to look -- then up at the TV for the slo-mo replay.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: ... Every Shark fan has a
text: sickening feeling in the pit of
dialog: their stomach at this moment. I
dialog: know I do. Cap Rooney is down and
text: in obvious pain.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Dammit! Who was on the weakside
dialog: safety?! Was that McKenna, you
dialog: f -- ?
text: She reaches for a red phone.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Man oh man! Did you see that
dialog: collision?! His body went in five
dialog: different directions!
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: TV MONITOR 19
text: shows the injury in slo-mo. Xs are drawn over Cap's
text: knees by Tug's finger on the telestrator. A big O goes
text: over Cap's back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 19
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Ouch! I've been there and that is
dialog: a world of pain!
speaker_heading: MEDIA BOOTH #2
text: Branson covers his microphone and hisses at both a
dialog: technician and Tug:
speaker_heading: BRANSON
dialog: Stop showing that for Christ's
dialog: sake!...
dialog: (on camera)
dialog: We'll be right back with Cap's
dialog: condition after this word from our
dialog: sponsors.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FIELD #5
dialog: 19
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
text: Drs. Mandrake and Powers, and Trainer #1 attend to Cap as
text: he rolls back and forth, in intense pain.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Suck it up, Cap...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: My back!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (feeling for the
dialog: injury)
dialog: Straighten your legs. Wiggle your
dialog: toes. Alright, Cap, they cut to
dialog: the commercial. You can get up now.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (through clenched
dialog: teeth)
dialog: I must've broke my back!!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Come on, babe, you're still moving
dialog: your feet. There's no way you
dialog: broke your back!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Where does it hurt?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: Right where you're touching,
dialog: you...!! I swear... I can't
dialog: breathe...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 21
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Neither can I -- it's the
dialog: humidity. Do I gotta get you a
dialog: stretcher now? You that old?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (shakes it off,
dialog: pulls up)
dialog: Dammit! I'm walkin' outta
dialog: here!...
dialog: (vising)
dialog: Oww -- my butt! It's like a knife
dialog: in it!
text: The stadium applauds as Cap hobbles up to his feet.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #7 22
text: Back-up QB Tyler Cherubini nervously jams index cards with
text: play calls under the clear plastic holders inside his
text: special wristband, intersecting Coach D'Amato.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Nice and easy, Ty, okay. We're up
dialog: 21-17. Hold on. Steady ‘em.
text: Cherubini AD LIBS and jogs onto the field. Fans stomp
text: their feet in sync with the driving beat of the
dialog: inspirational "Shark Theme."
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: We're back! And Cap Rooney looks
dialog: to be all right. Listen to that
dialog: crowd!
text: Cap crosses towards the bench on the shoulders of Powers
text: and Trainer #1. Tony intersects briefly, but he doesn't
text: seem to want to confront this, makes light of it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You all right, '‘Rock'?
dialog: His sometime nickname for Cap.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (winces )
dialog: Yeah! Hurts like a...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Way to hold on to that football,
dialog: kid! Take it easy, we'll finish
dialog: this up without you --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
dialog: 25
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 22
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: Back-up quarterback Tyler
dialog: Cherubini hasn't seen a lot of
dialog: action recently!
speaker_heading: FIELD #6 23
text: From the BOOTH POV -- the team claps and breaks from the
text: huddle.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Hate to tell you, Kev, it's a
dialog: little scarier than that. Tyler
dialog: Cherubini hasn't thrown for a
dialog: first down all season!... but it's
dialog: going to take a nail and a coffin
dialog: to keep Cap down on the farm
dialog: warming the pine. This may only
dialog: be a game but to Cap Rooney it's
text: the only game in town.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 24
speaker_heading: FIELD #7 25
text: Tyler Cherubini scans the defense, sees all the signs for
text: another impending blitz.
speaker_heading: CHERUBINI
dialog: (long count)
dialog: Set! Red 14 Ace, Red 14 Ace!
dialog: Check, check! Black 90 Razor,
dialog: Black 90 Razor! -- Hut! Hut!
dialog: Minnesota attacks with everything they've got...
text: Cherubini never even sees the light of day as he is
text: buried, coughing up the ball -- which bounces into the
text: hands of a surprised Minnesota safety -- who sprints
text: 20-some yards into the Miami end zone for a touchdown!
text: The fans go wild with rage, booing the fallen Cherubini.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: Oh my gosh! Touchdown! And the
dialog: Americans go up 23-21. Man-o-man!
dialog: Did they nail him! He's...
dialog: Cherubini's not getting up!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: 25 CONTINUED: 25
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
text: Two quarterbacks down, one after
dialog: the other. This is crazy! I
dialog: think they just lost Cherubini,
dialog: too! My God! I haven't seen this
dialog: since... the Aztecs and Pharaohs
dialog: in '88 -- or was it '78?
speaker_heading: 26 OWNER'S BOX #3 26
text: Christina watches the fiasco with her husband, ANDY
text: MATTER, a young handsome lawyer, and two VPs of the
text: team -- JOHNNY POLITO, in his 50s, and ED PHILLIPS, in
text: his 60s -- a distinguished man with a comforting aura,
dialog: the family advisor from her father's era.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (into the red phone)
dialog: Oh, Jesus! Vincent, get me the
dialog: names of who's available out there
dialog: in the quarterback market right
dialog: away, would you?... and how ‘bout
dialog: every available line coach --
dialog: Maybe somebody who can actually
dialog: teach this line how to block!!
text: A young woman raised to appreciate football, her outburst
text: quiets the dozen people partying in the box. Her mother,
text: MARGARET PAGNIACCI, an elegant older woman, who looks out
text: of it, mostly quasi-drunk or drugged, though she does a
dialog: superb job of concealing this with her fixed and
text: dignified expression, inquires:
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What is it, honey...?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (ignores her)
dialog: «+. find out about Malloy. Why'd
dialog: Denver cut him? Where is he?
scene_heading: 27 SIDELINE #9 27
text: WILLIE BEAMEN, third-string QB, 26, black, sits on the
text: bench, as accustomed, not expecting to be called on.
speaker_heading: QB COACH
dialog: Beamen! What the hell are you
dialog: doing? I told you to warm up five
dialog: minutes ago! Look at your
text: wristband -- it's upside down.
dialog: Take your head out of your ass.
dialog: Let's go, you're up!
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: A27 TUNNEL #1 A27
text: Drs. Mandrake and Powers enter the locker room tunnel
text: with Cap Rooney when TRAINER #2 yells after them:
speaker_heading: TRAINER #2
dialog: Doc! They need you back!
dialog: Cherubini's down!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Cherubini! What -- he fall off a
dialog: bench? What the hell's next?!
dialog: Stigmata!
dialog: (to Powers,
dialog: re: Rooney)
dialog: -.. Just sit him out and don't
dialog: touch him till I...
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 28 OMITTED 28
speaker_heading: 29 FIELD #8 29
text: The Americans kick off.
scene_heading: 30 SIDELINE #10 30
text: As the kick returner downs it in the end zone, D'Amato
text: huddles with Willie Beamen, who is adjusting the speaker
text: sound in his helmet.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Beamen, it's you now. Left Deuce
dialog: Zig 22 Tomcat. Easy hand-off
dialog: to Julian, okay?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: CROZIER (V.O.)
dialog: (on helmet)
dialog: Willie, can you hear me? You're
dialog: gonna be all right. The Americans
dialog: got no profile on you. Use it...
dialog: surprise ‘em.
text: Willie looks for Crozier upstairs in one of those
text: anonymous boxes, lost in the roar of sound and the sea of
dialog: faces.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 30
dialog: 31
dialog: 32
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 14.
dialog: 30
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (difficulty hearing)
dialog: ++. do what?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You're gonna do fine. Look at me,
dialog: son. You're gonna do fine...
dialog: (tapping over
dialog: Willie's heart)
dialog: You hold it all inside. Stay
dialog: there. Stay focused.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Right...
text: Tony slaps Willie on the shoulder and sends him out.
scene_heading: MEDIA BOOTH #3 31
text: TECHNICIANS and assistants frantically adjust as Tug and
text: Kevin rifle through papers during the commercial break.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #2
speaker_heading: BRANSON
dialog: Get me more stats on Willie Beamen
dialog: now!
speaker_heading: TUG
dialog: Cap's out... Man, I can't believe
dialog: this...
speaker_heading: BRANSON
dialog: You know anything about Willie
dialog: Beamen?
speaker_heading: TUG
dialog: Who the hell's Willie Beamen?
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: We're back in five, guys!
dialog: 32
text: Willie is ignored in the huddle, hesitant -- he tries to
text: shut out the stadium noise.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: As we wait for word on Cap
dialog: Rooney's condition, Miami's
dialog: sending in third-string
dialog: quarterback Willie Beamen. Willie
text: is 26 years old.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 15.
dialog: 32
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: A 'mystery man,'seventh-round draft
dialog: pick out of Dallas, he went to the
dialog: University of Houston. In his fifth
dialog: year, his first year with the Sharks,
dialog: he's seen four teams in his
dialog: professional career...
text: Willie tries to hear the QB Coach's voice in his helmet.
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: (helmet)
dialog: Left Deuce Zig 22 Tomcat. Watch
dialog: the mike backer, he'll probably
dialog: be coming. Relax and show me
dialog: you got it!
text: Willie turns and waves to the sideline.
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: (helmet)
dialog: No... tell them!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Awright, guys! Come on listen
dialog: up!... the call is Left Deuce Zig
dialog: 22 Tomcat.
speaker_heading: McKENNA
dialog: (to the rest)
dialog: HEY! SHUT THE FUCK UP! On?
speaker_heading: TUG (V.0O.)
dialog: (during this)
dialog: .-. D'Amato's gotta be losing his
dialog: mind -- a 14-point turnaround,
dialog: lost his starter, his back-up, and
dialog: maybe the game in two plays! What
dialog: a disaster! It's an absolute...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: On?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (intense)
dialog: SNAP COUNT!
text: Willie is trying to suppress dry heaves.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: You all right? Holy...!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Augghh... Ugghh...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 32
text: Willie suddenly rips off his helmet and vomits.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (leaping back)
dialog: Oh, shit -- !
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #11 33
text: Shark Lavay, the middle linebacker, is standing next to
dialog: Monroe.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Did he puke?! Did he just puke on
dialog: the sacred turf?!
scene_heading: MEDIA BOOTH #4 34
text: Tug is laughing heartily.
speaker_heading: TUG
dialog: (to Branson)
dialog: Oh, man! Hey, Kev' -- shades of
dialog: you the night we went out after
dialog: the Cleveland game.
text: Kevin shoots him a look, and rifles through some papers.
speaker_heading: BRANSON
dialog: ... Beamen even played cornerback
dialog: for a while when he was at San
dialog: Diego, where he was injured in his
dialog: third year...
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #4 35
text: Christina is now on a black field phone:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Soon as you know, you call! If
dialog: this is serious, Harvey, I need to
dialog: know yesterday, you understand
dialog: what I'm saying?!
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #3 36
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (to Beamen)
dialog: Fuck, man! I've got to get into a
dialog: three-point stance in your puke?!
dialog: Get it together, nigra...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 36
speaker_heading: A36
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 36
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (cleaning his shoes)
dialog: You puked on the logo, my man!
speaker_heading: REFEREE #1
dialog: (intersecting)
dialog: Come on, son, let's play ball!
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: (helmet)
dialog: Would you run the play already!
speaker_heading: FIELD #9 A36
text: As they move towards the ball, Willie glances in several
dialog: directions -- it's terrifying -- the Minnesota defense is
text: shifting position, confusing him; the crowd is deafening,
text: the cameras zooming in, the sun blazing.
speaker_heading: MINNESOTA TACKLE
dialog: (greeting Willie)
dialog: Better get ready, motherfucker!
dialog: I'm coming and I'm gonna be
dialog: picking peanuts out of your ass!
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Come to Mama first, loudmouth!
speaker_heading: MINNESOTA TACKLE
dialog: Oh yeah! Through you, ‘round you,
dialog: upside down you, you useless
dialog: mother...!
text: Willie intensely scans the defensive alignment. All talk
text: ceases when he yells:
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set Red 378! Red 378! Hut! Hut!
text: Willie steps back a little too fast and too far. He
text: spins towards Washington, awkwardly handing the ball off
text: on a delayed slant... Washington shoots into a different
text: hole than assigned -- a dangerous runner, gaining ten
text: yards from nothing.
text: In the backfield, the taunting defensive end slaps
text: Willie's helmet hard as the whistle blows. Willie barely
text: has time to breathe before he hears "the voice of God" in
dialog: his helmet speaker:
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: (in helmet)
dialog: Thunder Left Smoke 90 Sally.
speaker_heading: TIME CUT:
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: 39
dialog: 40
dialog: 18.
scene_heading: FIELD #10 - WILLIE'S SUBJECTIVE VIEW 37
text: in motion, of the speed and confusion of the game as
text: giant defensive linemen close on him. He sees a brief
text: opening onto Sanderson 15 yards downfield -- throws far
text: too high -- almost intercepted by the safety.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #12 38
text: Tony, concerned, beckons to his tight end, talks to him
text: and sends him out onto the field. Tony continues to yell
text: something into his headset at Crozier.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #4 39
text: The tight end yells something lost in the crowd. Willie
text: has to look up the play on his arm band.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Awright, Deuce Right Split 24
dialog: Barrel Clear. On one.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: I'll be coming in fast on your
dialog: left, boy -- don't make me wait!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: On one!
speaker_heading: FIELD #11 40
text: At the line, Miami players immediately sense the defense
text: is stacked up to the right for Washington's run.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (urgently, under)
dialog: Audible, man -- change the play --
text: Willie realizes it too -- audibles too quickly and too
text: softly to communicate accurately.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set! Green 41 -- um -- switch, switch...
dialog: Red 70 Blackstar, Red 70 Blackstar
dialog: --- Hut!
text: The snap -- Miami is hopelessly confused. There is no
text: such play as "Red 70 Blackstar" and players run this way
text: and that. After several athletic moves, Willie is
text: bounced out of bounds, eight yards behind the line of
dialog: scrimmage.
dialog: 41
dialog: 42
dialog: 43
speaker_heading: A43
dialog: 44
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #13 4l
text: Tony is having a really bad day, about to throw his
text: mangled headset away again.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Crozier and
dialog: QB coach)
dialog: What the hell was that?! What's
dialog: he doing out there? Does he know
dialog: any of these plays?
speaker_heading: CROZIER (V.O.)
dialog: Tony, he knows the basic package
text: but he's only taken a few snaps.
speaker_heading: FIELD #12 42
text: Washington yells at Willie on the way back to the huddle:
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: What the fuck is Red 70 Blackstar,
dialog: homes There is no such fucking
dialog: play
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (coolly)
dialog: I just figgered that out, J Man...
dialog: (his nickname)
dialog: but there oughta be...
speaker_heading: TIME CUT:
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #1 43
scene_heading: MINNESOTA 24, MIAMI 21. SECOND QUARTER. 0:25...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #15 A43
text: Tony has one more chance at a field goal at the Minnesota
text: 45-yard line.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Come on! Hurry it up! Let's
dialog: go... let's go!
speaker_heading: FIELD #14 44
text: Willie eyes the defense as he sets, but mistakenly lines
text: up over right guard Leslie McKenna instead of his
dialog: center...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 44
speaker_heading: A44
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: 47
dialog: 48
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 44
speaker_heading: McKENNA
dialog: ‘Less you tell me you love me,
dialog: sugah, get your hands outta my
dialog: ass!
text: The defense picks up on it instantly and goes after
text: Willie loudly. Embarrassed, he makes his adjustment --
text: but too late. A flag flies. Delay of game penalty.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #16 B44
text: Tony throws up his hands and rolls his eyes. There goes
dialog: the field goal!
scene_heading: PRESS BOX #1 - JACK "RIPPER" ROSE 45
text: a sportswriter with his own local TV show, makes an acid
text: comment on this bone-headed move to a colleague as he
text: works his laptop. Coming off Beamen's throwing up, the
dialog: press knows it has a story!
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #5 46
text: Christina leans forward to watch. Willie fades back to
dialog: pass.
speaker_heading: FIELD #15 47
text: The rush is on again. Willie, scrambling out of the
text: pocket, avoids several tacklers, but his eyes give away
text: the 25-yard pass... The defensive back steals it from
text: Sanderson and runs it back 10 yards. The crowd roars
text: with disappointment. Referee #1 whistles -- ending the
dialog: half.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #17 48
text: Coach D'Amato shakes his head, picked up by the TV
dialog: cameras.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: That was bound to happen, the way
dialog: this kid's movin'. Too fast, just
dialog: too fast. He's gotta be nervous
dialog: out there! He's ahead of his
dialog: receivers... Thank God that ends the
text: first half with the sun going down
dialog: on this delayed and chock-full-of-
dialog: surprises game...
dialog: 49
dialog: 50
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK LOCKER ROOM - LOCKER ROOM #1 - HALFTIME - 49
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: With 10 minutes to go, the offense is concentrated in one
text: part of the room on chairs, the defense in the other --
text: listening to analyses and looking at video pictures from
dialog: their respective coaches.
scene_heading: TRAINER'S AREA #1 50
text: Madman's got the flu, and is dehydrated enough to require
text: two I.V.s in either arm. Dr. Powers reads his
dialog: thermometer.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: 101... You light-headed?
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: I was light-headed at kick-off,
dialog: Doc. Now I'm at the ‘one foot in
dialog: the coffin' stage.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: You're a couple of quarts low,
dialog: Madman, you just need an oil
dialog: change...
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Yeah, then why are my legs one big
dialog: knot, Doc!? I need some
dialog: cyclobenzaprine...
text: Powers sees Dr. Mandrake hurry past, follows him.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Harvey, just a sec...!
text: Mandrake barely breaks, waits.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: I'm worried about Cap -- he's
dialog: losing ankle strength. I think
dialog: he's got...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: What'd you do? Examine him?
dialog: Look, Allie, you're actually one
dialog: of the few relatives I can stomach,
dialog: but you're the internist. I'm the
dialog: orthopedist, remember? You leave
dialog: my people alone...
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: I just think that...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: 50 CONTINUED: 50
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Need a job description review?
dialog: Bone, muscle, joint -- me. Runny
text: nose, diarrhea, pink eye, gonorrhea
dialog: -- you. Sports injuries me;
dialog: anything that drips, sticks, or
dialog: stinks, or stinks, you. Okay?
speaker_heading: 51 MANDRAKE 51
text: heads toward a small exam room where Cap waits alone --
text: bypassing Cherubini, the forgotten QB, waiting to have
text: his knee examined, attended to by TRAINER #2, a
text: stutterer.
speaker_heading: TRAINER #2
dialog: Doc, what about Rhodes? He's
dialog: really in p-p-pain...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: He's a hypochondriac. Give him
dialog: some ibuprofen.
speaker_heading: TRAINER #2
dialog: He doesn't wanna put that sh-shit
text: in his body. He wants Demerol.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: You think I want to be banished to
dialog: Siberia as an ice hockey doctor?
dialog: Tell him to clench his teeth.
speaker_heading: CHERUBINI
dialog: Doc, what about my knee?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: What about it?
speaker_heading: TRAINER #2
dialog: Well, I think m-m-maybe I can get
dialog: him to t-t-take some Alka-Seltzer.
speaker_heading: 52 EXAM AREA #1 52
text: Mandrake closes the door on Trainer #2. Cap is with
text: Trainer #1. He puts Cap's x-ray up on the screen.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Bad news, Cap, you're okay, it's
text: just a bruise. No ribs broken.
dialog: Back's normal.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 52
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: ++. something's definitely wrong,
dialog: Doc! My butt's killing me... I
dialog: think it's a...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: «+. I'll send you over for an
dialog: M.R.I. in case.
dialog: (to Trainer #1)
dialog: Lou, prep me 20 C.C. two percent
dialog: lido with marcaine...
scene_heading: TRAINER'S AREA #2 53
text: Powers attends to Madman, who suddenly has an urgent look
text: on his face.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: (yelling out)
dialog: Three minutes!
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Doc! Pull the pipes! I gotta go!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Can you...
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: I mean... I gotta go! Call of
dialog: the wild, man!
text: He goes, IVs trailing, Powers calls out to Trainer #1 for
dialog: help.
speaker_heading: LOCKER ROOM #2
text: With shouts of "Get out of the way!", "Coming through!",
text: Powers and Trainer #2, protecting the I.V.'s,
text: follow a surging Madman into the bathroom.
speaker_heading: BEAST MAN
dialog: (as they go past)
dialog: Whoo-hoo! Shark football!
dialog: Whatever it takes!!!
text: Other players chorus in, hooting and hollering, till the
dialog: coaches shut them up.
speaker_heading: BATHROOM #1
text: The stalls are filled.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 53
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Hey, shitheads! It's me --
dialog: Madman! Who's on my toilet?!
text: Madman kicks open a broken stall and finds an unlucky
text: rookie staring back at him.
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Rookie, this is reserved! Get the
dialog: fuck out!
text: Terrified, the rookie runs out; then Madman forces his
text: way in, managing to squeeze Powers, Trainer #2 and
text: himself into the stall.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Don't bend your elbows...
text: Crozier, studying a stack of computer printouts, enters.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Madman? Yo! You there...?
text: He whacks on the door, which opens on Madman sitting with
text: his pants around his ankles, I.V.s entering each
text: outstretched arm, ministered to by Trainer #1 and Dr.
text: Powers. Crozier is amused but hardly surprised; to
dialog: Madman:
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: The three technique is really
dialog: getting up field on you. We're
dialog: gonna rub him with a fullback this
dialog: half.
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Coach, let's run the draw or let
text: me cut his ass on the screens.
dialog: That'11 slow the motherfucker down.
dialog: And show them what I truly am!
dialog: A genius!
speaker_heading: LOCKER ROOM #3 54
text: The players are gathered around Coach D'Amato, who now
text: addresses both offense and defense.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 54
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 25.
dialog: 54
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Look, you the offense, why do
dialog: you think we work on the blitz
dialog: package all week? We've lost two
dialog: quarterbacks in one half of
dialog: football ‘cause our line can't
dialog: pick up a goddamn backside bandit
dialog: on max protection!! You and I
dialog: know this is goddamn stupid
dialog: football, and you're stressing
dialog: this shit outta me! We've worked
text: on the calls over and over again
dialog: but you have no goddamn focus or
dialog: concentration! McKenna, keep your
dialog: head on a swivel, you've got to
dialog: slide out there and pick up that
dialog: robber -- roll up those outside
dialog: linebackers! Beamen, know your
dialog: site adjustments! Sanderson and
dialog: Fox will break off their routes
dialog: but you have to deliver it on
dialog: time. We've had two goddamn
dialog: turnovers this half, you guys are
dialog: dumping on my turnover ratio.
dialog: You the defense, you've got to
dialog: create something out there, you've
dialog: got to start flying around the
dialog: fucking ball and hitting somebody.
dialog: Don't let these assholes chew up
dialog: the clock on us! On first down,
dialog: they're killing us with the
dialog: weakside slant. Corners, when we
dialog: put eight in the box, you've got
dialog: to jam the receivers, take ‘em on,
dialog: you're hesitating! If you're
dialog: gonna make a mistake, go on! Make
dialog: it a big one! I'm not gonna eat
dialog: your lunch for that, but don't
dialog: fuck around like pussies at a pee
dialog: party, you hear me?!... P.J., Mac,
dialog: Beast Man, Horny, Shark! One, two
dialog: yards less each time and they'll be
dialog: two and eight instead of two and
dialog: six! Stuff the goddamn run.
dialog: They're killing us!
dialog: No more stupid penalties, okay?!
dialog: Concentrate. Focus. We're only
dialog: down by three points. We can win
dialog: this mother! I'm sick and tired
dialog: of losing! Are you?! Three losses
text: in a row.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 54
dialog: 55
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 54
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: Are you guys sick and tired of this?!
dialog: Stand up if you're not! Raise your
dialog: hand! Raise your hand if you're a
dialog: pussy! Stand up, let's go!
text: The team is poised, clenching up, except for Washington
text: who rises laconically.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What the hell you doing, J?!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: I didn't want you to be the only
dialog: one standing, Coach.
text: A tense moment -- then all bust up laughing, including
dialog: D'Amato.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Gentlemen, this is our house!
dialog: We live here. Don't let them fuck
dialog: with us in our own house! We're
dialog: gonna get some points on the
dialog: goddamn board if I gotta get out
dialog: there myself and throw the goddamn
dialog: ball! Now let's go and kick some
dialog: second-half butt!
speaker_heading: SHARKS
dialog: (as team)
dialog: Football, ahhhh!!! WHATEVER IT
dialog: TAKES!!!
speaker_heading: BATHROOM #2 55
text: As the team roars out of the locker room, Madman is eager
text: to rejoin his crew.
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Doc, I gotta go!
speaker_heading: POWER
dialog: No! Stop! Your I.V.s! Don't
dialog: bend your elbows!
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: (a sweet baby look)
dialog: Doc?... Do you mind?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 55
text: Powers understands that if he can't bend his elbows that
text: he... he sighs and wraps a stretch of tissue paper around
text: his hand -- as Mandrake pokes his head in the stall,
text: enjoying the view of Powers wiping Madman's ass.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Say, Allie, you want to get a
dialog: little Chinese food later and talk
dialog: about this...?
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TUNNEL - NIGHT 56
text: Winter's night has now fallen as the team hollers,
text: exiting a narrow tunnel onto the field. The stadium is
text: charming but decayed (1930s WPA architecture) and in need
dialog: of significant renovation...
text: Jimmy Sanderson, the young star wide receiver for the
text: Sharks, repeatedly adjusts his shoulder pads, talking to
text: himself as he walks; he is all hands and nerves, a
text: thoroughbred with a sweet personality.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: I am precision-honed, muscular-
dialog: tempered steel. My moves are
dialog: cosmic. Time to save the day.
dialog: My legs, torso and arms are
dialog: energized powerthrust dominant
dialog: weapons... I can save the day!
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (bypassing Willie)
dialog: Who's that you're throwing to,
dialog: kid? The receiver or you got some
dialog: other shit on your mind?
text: Willie gets the message. Several fans, intoxicated, hurl
text: profanities, peanuts, beer, seat cushions at the Sharks.
speaker_heading: One OBESE FAN in particular:
speaker_heading: FAN
dialog: You stink! Hey, Beamen! If you
dialog: could chuck a football like you
dialog: chuck vomit, you'd be an all-pro,
dialog: ha ha ha!
text: Willie ignores him, but when the Fan throws his beer at
text: him, it empties on Madman, who is rushing out last, his
text: IVs gone. Enraged, Madman roars and tries to go up into
text: the stands after the unlucky Fan, but is restrained by
text: teammates. AD LIBS...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 56
dialog: 57
speaker_heading: AS57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 56
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: You think that's funny, asshole!
dialog: I'm gonna eat your fucking lunch,
dialog: buddy!! (etc.)
speaker_heading: TIME CUT:
scene_heading: SCOREBOARD #2 57
scene_heading: THIRD QUARTER. MINNESOTA 31, MIAMI 21. 7:14 remaining.
text: Minnesota has increased its lead by one touchdown.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #18 A57
text: Tony paces anxiously.
speaker_heading: FIELD #14 58
text: The Miami defense tries to stop a long gainer by the
text: Minnesota running back, propelling his 230 lbs. right at
text: Shark Lavay, who upends the running back, one on one...
dialog: Shark is the best open-field tackler on the Sharks,
text: but as he takes those few extra beats rising, adjusting
text: his shaken frame, congratulated by teammates, his expres-
text: sion reveals the wearying price he pays -- at 34, going
dialog: on 50 -- for this leadership role.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #19 59
text: Powers now kneels next to the defensive end, Beast Man,
text: coming off the field onto the bench with an agonizing,
text: dislocated finger.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (to Trainer #2)
dialog: Lou, get him X-rayed before I set
dialog: this!
speaker_heading: BEAST MAN
dialog: (vehement )
dialog: How 'bout sometime next week, Doc!
dialog: How long you been here! I don't
dialog: give a fuck if I'm blind, deaf,
dialog: and fuckin' dumb, get me back out
dialog: on the motherfuckin' field...
text: Powers hesitates as Mandrake passes by, sees the problem,
dialog: and makes the adjustment without thinking.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 59
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 62
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 59
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (to Powers)
dialog: Oh for God's sake, Allie! It's
dialog: just a...
dialog: (to Beast Man)
dialog: Beast Man, concentrate and think
text: of pussy.
text: POP! Beast Man's FINGER CRACKS back into place. Beastie
text: hardly winces.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (to Beast Man)
dialog: You're still gonna need an X-ray
dialog: after the game, Beast Man, okay?
text: Beast Man mutters something venomous under his breath,
text: and moves off.
speaker_heading: FIELD #15 60
text: Using his bare white foot, the smallish Eastern European
text: Miami kicker drills a graceful 38-yard field goal through
text: the uprights.
speaker_heading: TIME CUT:
speaker_heading: FIELD #16 61
dialog: Everything moves fast in the big leagues. Too fast.
text: Willie again too quickly breaks from the pocket,
text: scrambling the offensive and defensive lines up and down
text: the field, tiring them... Unable to find his receiver, he
text: takes off running; makes it over the middle of the field
text: for a first down plus another five or ten yards before he
text: is pulped in two different directions.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #20 62
text: Tony, hiding his eyes as if from a car accident, shakes
text: his head, to Crozier on the headset.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ... Kid's fast, but he ain't gonna
dialog: last, Nick!
speaker_heading: CROZIER (V.O.)
dialog: He was an alright corner at San
dialog: Diego till he got hurt. Watch the
text: feet. Genius ankles, like Julian.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 62
dialog: 63
dialog: 64
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 62
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: He may be a ballerina, but where's
dialog: the brain? He just called another
dialog: play that doesn't exist! Goddamn!
dialog: Settle him down, Nick!
speaker_heading: FIELD #17 63
text: Willie drops back, and without any pressure, throws a
text: perfect 10-yard interception over the middle into the
text: arms of a Minnesota linebacker. The stadium turns really
text: sour, booing Willie as he walks off.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: ... No word yet on Cap Rooney.
dialog: The only thing we do know is, he's
text: being X-rayed at the hospital, but
dialog: right now I'd say it doesn't look
dialog: good for the Sharks...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #21 64
text: Tony is waiting for Willie, like Ahab himself.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What the hell was that?! You just
dialog: don't fling the goddamn ball
text: downfield into traffic like...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: ++. Sorry, Coach, I thought it was
text: man-free and he looked open.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: We called Go Z Read! What the
dialog: hell are you doing changing
dialog: the play when you feel like it,
dialog: without even knowing who the hell
dialog: you're...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: They was waitin' for the hitch,
dialog: Coach. They was there. I had to
dialog: go for it. I saw daylight!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (seething)
dialog: Daylight? Shut the fuck up and
dialog: listen to me! Listen to me
dialog: now!... You're a new player on
dialog: this team. You got me?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 64
dialog: A64
dialog: 65
speaker_heading: A65
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 64
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: You are nobody to me or anybody
dialog: else here till you prove yourself.
dialog: And you start that by doing what
dialog: you're fucking told! You got that?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I got that.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Now get out of my face and next
dialog: time you're out there, control the
dialog: goddamn ball!
text: He stalks off. Willie, closed off by Tony's intensity,
text: moves to the bench.
speaker_heading: ON TV B64
dialog: Tony is saying some pretty rough things.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: You read lips, Tug?
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Hell yeah. That was a major at
dialog: Nebraska.
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #6 65
text: The box has been thinned out of associates and friends,
text: who've obviously sensed Christina's mood on the phone.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I don't care if you have to chopper
dialog: the guy in off his yacht, Harvey --
dialog: bring him out here right away!
dialog: And get me the names of the top
dialog: neurosurgeons in the country. I
dialog: want the best!
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: TV MONITOR A65
text: Willie now fumbles a simple hand-off to Julian
text: Washington... The fumble is recovered and Willie calls
text: a time-out.
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA 65
text: slams her hand down in frustration, sharing a 65
text: look with Ed Phillips. She is a strong, energetic
text: executive in her late 20s, raised by her deceased father,
dialog: founder Art Pagniacci, to be a son and gain the respect
dialog: of a man's world, to the point of acquiring a "take no
dialog: prisoners" attitude. She calls up to:
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #2 66
text: Crozier is polite, though bothered by her interference.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA (V.O.)
dialog: Why?! Why is he calling these
dialog: plays?... Nick? He's got to take
dialog: a chance... Nick! Tell him!
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: I'm doing my best, Miss P. I
dialog: can't just...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA (V.O.)
dialog: Make some noise.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #22 67
text: Willie, coming off the field, moves towards D'Amato,
text: expecting the worst. Instead D'Amato throws an arm
text: around his shoulders and walks him along the sideline --
dialog: in a paternal tone:
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Okay, what's wrong, Willie?
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: It's moving fast, Coach... but I
dialog: know I can do it. I can do it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Just take a breath now. Believe
dialog: me when I say you can only get
dialog: better, kid -- and you don't have
dialog: to worry about getting the hook --
dialog: ‘cause I got no one left, okay?
text: He grins.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I stink. I'm not myself.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 67
dialog: 68
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 67
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Look at me. Look at me, son...
dialog: You know how to play the game.
dialog: You been playing it all your life,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You grew up in Dallas, right?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Okay, maybe you're back in Dallas
dialog: right now. You're enjoying
dialog: yourself. You're back in the
dialog: ""hood," right before your mama
dialog: calls you for dinner. Go to the
dialog: Buick, turn around and I'll throw
dialog: it to you, you throw it back. A
dialog: game of catch, remember that?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: «+. somethin’ like that, yeah...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: My point is -- Willie -- just
dialog: forget about the crowd and the
dialog: formations and the audibles and
dialog: the whole goddamn playbook. Just
dialog: focus on this one next pass.
dialog: (carefully)
dialog: Willie -- go to the Buick and turn
dialog: around.
text: There's a special, soothing tone to the way D'Amato
dialog: expresses himself, when he wants. A voice that makes you
dialog: believe.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #18 68
text: Willie walks up to the line. A fierce new concentration
text: occupying him. ALL SOUND DRAINS AWAY. He is distracted
text: by nothing! The crowd has become a semi-real
text: phantasmagoric beast with a thousand eyes. On his own
text: face there is an extraordinary, savage look --
dialog: primordial.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 68
dialog: 69
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
dialog: 72
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 68
text: He barks out the signals, SILENT... Soundless, he
text: backpedals, cocking his arm, fingers tight on the laces,
text: fingernails digging in... his eyes like radar... the
dialog: read... one receiver... two receiver... a quick, strong
text: release... a fast, clean spiral -- yet it seems to sail
text: for hours through the air.
dialog: «+. Caught by Sanderson at the 20! The beginner's luck
text: holds when the two Minnesota defensive backs collide into
text: each other, falling down, and Sanderson runs freely into
text: the end zone for a TD!... Now -- an EXPLOSION OF SOUND.
dialog: The first TD of a career.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #23 69
text: D'Amato allows himself a small smile of pleasure -- a
text: long time coming. The offense is cheering -- alongside
text: Montezuma Monroe and his defense, who now pay the offense
dialog: a little attention.
speaker_heading: FIELD #19 70
text: Players slam a stunned Willie on the back.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: .+. ‘less you wanna kick the extra
dialog: point, you better get off the
dialog: field, dawg!
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #24 71
text: The Shark mascot -- a guy dressed in a huge foam shark
text: costume -- dances the "Shark dance"... As Madman trudges
text: up to Dr. Powers with blood dripping from his mouth.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Madman?...
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: One of those cheap mothers
dialog: fishhooked me in the mouth with
dialog: his thumb... I tried to bite it
dialog: off but he jammed my mouth guard
dialog: up and ripped up my gum... Hurts
dialog: like the lambs, man!
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #25 72
text: Willie's eyes looking for D'Amato -- who acknowledges him
text: from a distance.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 72
dialog: 73
speaker_heading: A73
dialog: 74
dialog: 75
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 72
text: Sanderson disrupts the moment, in Willie's face, twitching
text: as he repeats himself over and over.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (repeating)
dialog: Hey, you git it, money! You gat
dialog: the magic!
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #3 73
scene_heading: MINNESOTA 31, MIAMI 31. FOURTH QUARTER. 12:00...
speaker_heading: FIELD #20 A73
text: Willie, playing with some real confidence, runs an option
text: pass right, and completes a 17-yarder to the second
dialog: receiver.
speaker_heading: FIELD #21 74
text: This time Willie heads left, faking well off his right
text: shoulder to keep the DBs deep, then takes off on an
dialog: adventuresome run through the Americans. He's a natural-
text: born athlete, but the Minnesota defense exhorts a price
dialog: for making them look bad -- pounding him hard after a
dialog: 13-yard gainer.
speaker_heading: INSERTS
text: At the bottom of the pile, the linemen wrestle one another,
dialog: going for the eyes and nuts, anything for the edge (AD
text: LIBS)... Close to Willie, at the bottom, Madman growls:
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Boy, do we got a dental plan for
dialog: you, buddy!... Payback time!
text: We hear the crunch of his elbow and a painful grunt from
text: the abused party, who presumably "fishhooked" him
dialog: earlier.
speaker_heading: REFEREE #2
dialog: Get out of there, guys! Come on!
dialog: Knock it off! Climb out!
speaker_heading: FIELD #22 75
text: The shoeless wonder boots a 45-yard field goal dead
text: center through the uprights -- a thing of beauty as the
text: fans revive their hopes, starting to pick up on Willie
dialog: Beamen.
speaker_heading: AT5
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #4
scene_heading: MINNESOTA 31, MIAMI 34.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #26
text: Tony is just a little bit happy, finally, but can't show
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #7
text: So is Christina, turning to Johnny Polito.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Can you believe this? A third-
dialog: string quarterback... Who found
dialog: him, Johnny?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: POLITO
dialog: I think Arnie spotted him before
dialog: he left...
text: This sticks in her craw -- she fired "Arnie."
speaker_heading: PRESS BOX #2
text: Even in the cynical media, there is an appreciable shift
text: of interest in the young quarterback.
speaker_heading: JACK ROSE
dialog: (to colleague)
dialog: Can you believe D'Amato's luck?
text: He's looking at four losses in a
dialog: row and his ass is saved by this
dialog: nobody? What a story!
text: Back to his laptop...
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #8
text: Christina seems more relaxed on the phone, discreetly to
text: the side. The game is meandering toward conservatism,
text: close to won, and friends have slipped back in. AD LIB
text: chatter, food, drinks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A75
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 79
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 79
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: ..-. Van Ness?! Dominic, he's a
dialog: hundred years old, for God's sake!
dialog: Find me a quarterback who's under
dialog: fifty, who's solid, been around
dialog: and can get us to the playoffs...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: No, it looks like some surgery on
dialog: his lower back, an L-5 I think,
dialog: but there's a chance he can get
dialog: back by the playoffs...
speaker_heading: ON TV 80
text: Miami's offense is on the field at their own 29, 2nd and
scene_heading: 8. The score reads: MINNESOTA 31, MIAMI 34, FOURTH
text: QUARTER, 1:54 left. It looks good.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #27 81
text: Yet Tony prowls nervously... Trainer #2 adjusts the air
text: in ICE HAWKINS' (tight end) helmet, who complains to
text: Powers about the large black and blue bite on his neck.
speaker_heading: ICE
dialog: -+. Goddamn motherfucker bit me on
dialog: the neck!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (examines it)
dialog: +. You're lucky, he doesn't have
dialog: AIDS, Ice.
dialog: (grins)
dialog: Get me a Band-Aid and some hydrogen
dialog: peroxide, it'll be gone in a week
dialog: or so.
speaker_heading: ICE
dialog: My old lady ain't gonna believe
dialog: that shit! She gonna think some
dialog: hoe jumped on my dick.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: I'll give you a note.
speaker_heading: ICE
dialog: She don't believe nothing she
dialog: reads anyhow.
dialog: 82
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
speaker_heading: A84
dialog: 85
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #3 82
text: Crozier is a little nervous.
speaker_heading: TONY (V.O.)
dialog: Deuce Left 22 Red Beast Read.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Come on, Tony, they're giving us
dialog: the flat. Let's run smoke and...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Maybe they're looking for the
dialog: pick. I'm not taking chances.
dialog: Not with this ballerina.
speaker_heading: FIELD #25 83
text: A bulldozing straight-ahead three-yard run by Washington.
dialog: Third down and five.
speaker_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #4 84
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (insistent)
dialog: I know Willie, Tony! They're
dialog: screaming for him to dump it out
dialog: there!... It's wide open!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #28 A84
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: That's just it. I know this
dialog: coach, Nick! And he's a prick.
dialog: It's a set-up. Run it again. Deuce
dialog: Left 22 Red Beast Read.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Tony, they're stacked up for the
dialog: run --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You heard me.
text: Crozier relays the call.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #5 85
text: Willie hears "the voice," doesn't like the call either.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 85
dialog: 86
dialog: 87
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 85
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Okay, same, same, Deuce Left 22
text: Red Beast Read. On two.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Money time, boys. Get me five and
dialog: we are home and dry and flyin'
dialog: high.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Let the D win it, J-man, we don't
dialog: need no first down. Punt gets us
dialog: out of here.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: That's how come you don't score
dialog: with the ladies, 'Two Race,' you
dialog: got no showmanship.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Cut the bullshit! Red Beast Read.
dialog: On two -- Ready!
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (to Willie)
dialog: I'll be flyin' my F-16, dawg,
dialog: don't fuck me up!
text: The team breaks, Washington with a particular strut about
text: him, tasting victory already.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #29 86
text: Tony sees the Minnesota defense stacked against the run
dialog: right.
speaker_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #5 87
dialog: Crozier sees the same thing. Especially from this
text: height, the defensive adjustments are clear.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: .+. Tony, take a time-out... come
dialog: on!
speaker_heading: (as Tony's VOICE
speaker_heading: BREAKS UP
dialog: momentarily; under
dialog: his breath, to Willie)
dialog: Audible left, kid! Just do it.
speaker_heading: TONY (V.O.)
dialog: Time-outs are for TV. Negative!
dialog: 88
dialog: 89
dialog: 90
dialog: 91
speaker_heading: Ag1
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: FIELD #24 88
text: Willie hands off to Washington, who powers into the line,
text: seeing nothing -- his eyes wild like a horse around fire
text: -- He rolls along the line searching for the hole --
text: thinks he sees one -- goes for it.
text: Swack! He is blindsided by the tall, reptilian defensive
text: end, who hatchets him from high, then drives his helmet
text: into the ball, which pops out high and loose and crazy.
dialog: It is a spectacular fumble -- the kind of fumble all
dialog: running backs have nightmares about -- Washington
text: desperately dives back for it -- but everyone else is
text: diving too, including Willie.
text: A swift Minnesota safety makes the snag -- racing past
text: confused Miami players -- some 24 yards, into the end
text: zone. Touchdown.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: Oh my God! Oh no!
speaker_heading: TUG (V.0.)
dialog: Oh yes! Your worst nightmare as a
dialog: running back!
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: Washington was looking for that
dialog: first down. Big mistake!
text: Willie is on his knees, unbelieving... Washington drops
text: his head, the loneliest man in the world. A gash of
text: blood crawls down inside his helmet from his forehead.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #30 89
text: Tony is not so much stunned as resigned, believing now
dialog: that nothing can change his luck.
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #9 90
text: Christina and everyone else in the box mutter quietly, in
dialog: retreat...
speaker_heading: STANDS #2 91
text: The fans turn ugly, throwing things onto the field.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #5 A91
text: flashes the new score: MINNESOTA 37, MIAMI 34, 1:32...
dialog: 92
speaker_heading: A92
speaker_heading: B92
dialog: c92
dialog: 41.
scene_heading: MINNESOTA SIDELINE #1 92
text: The Americans are ecstatic.
speaker_heading: MIAMI SIDELINE #31 A92
dialog: Whereas Miami is devastated! Their very life-force
dialog: threatened by this fourth straight defeat... the gods
text: have voted. Despair and self-pity commingle.
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #10 B92
text: Christina watches the replay of Washington going through
dialog: the line.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Two hands, you showboat! Two
dialog: goddamn hands -- you...
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: ON TV c92
text: The fumble as highlight... Utilizing her cane, Margaret
text: Pagniacci leaves the room with her small, doting
text: entourage and two white Schnauzer dogs, absorbing her
text: daughter's passion with a detached amusement.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Oh, it's not so bad, honey.
dialog: You'll wake up in the morning. We
dialog: once lost a game -- two seconds to
dialog: go on one of those stupid ‘Hail
dialog: Mary' passes. My lord, it just
dialog: stayed up there forever and this
dialog: tall Negro gentleman jumped up so
text: high like a basketball player and
dialog: picked it right out of the air...
dialog: I thought your daddy was gonna have
text: a heart attack. He was so upset,
dialog: you have no idea!
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: You know, he just lost years of
dialog: his life here...
dialog: (kissing Christina
dialog: on the cheek)
dialog: He died because of this. Don't
dialog: take it all too seriously,
dialog: darling, it's just a game...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (really pissed)
dialog: Good night, Mother.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: c92
dialog: 95
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: c92
text: She turns to her husband, Andy, who is accompanying her
text: mother home, and kisses him.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Make sure she gets home all right,
dialog: would you, Andy? No stops.
dialog: «+. makes a drinking motion.
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (nods )
dialog: How ‘bout me? Shall I wait up?
dialog: I have plenty of homework.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Nah, don't bother. I'd be ina
dialog: lousy mood anyway...
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: (squeezes her hand)
dialog: I'm sorry... Don't forget I'm in
dialog: Boston tomorrow for two days.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (having forgotten)
dialog: Oh!?
speaker_heading: ANDY
dialog: Maybe three. Complicated
dialog: deposition -- insurance company.
dialog: I'1l call you.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (sadly, as he
dialog: leaves)
dialog: Kick their asses!
scene_heading: INT. LOCKER ROOM #4 - NIGHT 95
text: D'Amato walks through like an undertaker.
speaker_heading: D'AMATO
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: All right, everybody, let's
dialog: huddle!
text: As the men slowly assemble in various stages of dress,
text: pre and post-shower, some totally nude, D'Amato crosses
text: to Willie's locker, who seems off in his own world,
text: undressing slowly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 95
dialog: 93
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 43.
dialog: 95
speaker_heading: D'AMATO
dialog: Let it go, Willie. You played strong.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I can't believe we blew it. I
dialog: shoulda kept the ball myself.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Listen to me, kid...
dialog: (waits till Willie
dialog: gives him his eyes)
dialog: On any given Sunday you're gonna
dialog: win or you're gonna lose. The
dialog: point is -- can you win or lose
dialog: like a man? Out there today you
dialog: played like a man. That's what counts.
dialog: 
dialog: It's hard for Willie to accept a compliment of any kind.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I'm sick of losing, Coach.
dialog: Tony doesn't quite understand the motivation there; the
text: rest of the team is waiting.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: When you're my age, kid, you get
dialog: used to it.
dialog: (to all)
dialog: Awright, everybody, lissen up!
dialog: You played your hearts out! No
dialog: blame... nobody! Let's get on our
dialog: knees... Father...
text: The team assumes a collective prayer position; Tony
text: signals the team CHAPLAIN.
speaker_heading: CHAPLAIN
dialog: Tough one today. I know how you're
dialog: taking this. I went to my play
dialog: book and the book says: The rain
text: falls on the just and the unjust
dialog: alike. You're not specifically
text: cursed. Joy comes in the morning.
text: There are no atheists in foxholes.
dialog: Let's pray. Our Father who art in
dialog: Heaven...
scene_heading: INT. EXAM ROOM #2 - NIGHT (LATER) 93
text: On a cell phone, Dr. Mandrake stitches an uneven, buckled
text: suture onto Julian Washington's forehead -- who yelps out
dialog: in pain.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 93
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 44,
dialog: 93
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: I was using a seven iron...
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Ow! How ‘bout another number,
dialog: Doc! This hurts.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (veaching for
dialog: the novocaine)
dialog: Doctor Caine on the way, you
dialog: pussy! No you, I was talking...
text: Powers, in the b.g., observes Washington's budding scar,
dialog: concerned,
dialog: says nothing.
speaker_heading: TRAINER #2
dialog: (to Mandrake)
dialog: Doc, ‘Horny’ won't shut up. Can
dialog: we get him some...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: You tell 'Horny' his perk days are
dialog: over! He knows Association policy --
dialog: it's a ‘schedule 5' drug. Give him
dialog: two Motrin and tell him to go toa
dialog: ‘witch doctor’...
dialog: (as "Horny" suddenly
dialog: makes an appearance
dialog: on his behalf)
dialog: You know you're gonna sue me anyway
dialog: for the Motrin, you skinny fuck!
dialog: 
text: HORNY, a white, runty defensive back and punter, is
text: rather upset at the large flap of skin hanging from his
text: foot, which he proudly displays.
speaker_heading: HORNY
dialog: Look at my fucking foot! Come on,
dialog: Doc! Would you want to go on a
dialog: double date with ‘Tank Top'
dialog: looking like this?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (seeing the wound)
dialog: Get that out of here.
speaker_heading: HORNY
dialog: How do I get some attention round
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 93
dialog: 94
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 93
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (rolls his eyes)
dialog: Try suicide.
dialog: (rushing to leave;
dialog: to Powers)
dialog: I gotta get down to Cap at the
dialog: hospital. They did the M.R.I.,
text: looks like the disc ruptured.
dialog: They're going in tonight. Could
dialog: you finish Julian for me?...
text: Knowing what he's left behind, Mandrake rushes out with
text: the phone; Powers sidles up to Julian's suture.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Hey, J, I'm not gonna shit you. I
dialog: know this guy, he's a top plastic
dialog: surgeon... I think I can get him
dialog: to see you tonight.
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: What the fuck for?!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (how to say this?)
dialog: You got a TV contract, don't you?
speaker_heading: JULIAN
dialog: You know I got a fucking
dialog: television contract.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: -+. It is on-camera?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (suddenly looking
dialog: for a mirror)
dialog: M'fucker... I'll sew his asshole
dialog: to his lips!
scene_heading: COACHES' OFFICE #1 - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 94
text: In progress, a dozen or more press -- among them Jack
text: Rose -- are gathered around Tony, in a lousy mood, giving
text: out his postgame interviews from his cramped office.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: (pseudo-amicable)
dialog: «+. So, Coach, what's on your mind
dialog: when you run the exact same
dialog: running play twice deep in your
dialog: own territory? You nervous about
dialog: your quarterback's arm?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 94
dialog: 96
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 46.
dialog: 94
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You know, Jack, I've always loved
dialog: the running game, but I read so much
dialog: about it ‘cause of you, I decided
dialog: I'm gonna give it up.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I beg your pardon. The running
dialog: game?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: No, reading you.
dialog: (as they all
dialog: laugh at Jack)
dialog: The pass is great, but it's 2-3
dialog: guys involved. But a sweep --
dialog: y'ever really study a sweep,
dialog: Jack --
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Student of the game, Coach.
speaker_heading: TONY
text: Eleven men pulling together,
dialog: concentrating... like a mind
text: machine in perfect sync,
dialog: hitting every block and hole,
dialog: it's so damn beautiful!
dialog: Football, Jack, at its purest.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Does that mean you're in
dialog: disagreement with management,
dialog: Coach?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (looks at his watch)
dialog: No, it means I'm late to see
dialog: Management. Tell you what, if I
dialog: don't have the job tomorrow,
dialog: you'll be the first one to know,
dialog: Jack, okay?
text: He leaves abruptly.
speaker_heading: P.R. GUY
dialog: All right, folks, that's it for
dialog: today...
text: Grumbles all around...
speaker_heading: OMITTED
dialog: 96
dialog: 98
dialog: 97
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: EXT. STADIUM - EVENING 98
text: The quiet of the empty stadium fills the humid air.
text: Distant ECHOES of the roaring fans fall off into BIRDSONG
text: and FROG CROAKS out of the swamps.
scene_heading: INT. ROONEY'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 97
text: Coach D'Amato enters to find Cap Rooney in bed, his lower
text: back and legs supported, a morphine drip in one arm and
text: an IV in the other, unnaturally white and swollen from
text: the hits -- doing his stoic best to abide the searing
text: pain in his back. Flowers fill the crevices of the room.
text: He's on a speaker phone with the boss, Christina -- while
text: Cindy, his concerned and devoted wife, acknowledges Tony
text: with a head nod.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: (to Christina)
dialog: «+. but did you see the wires? I
dialog: mean, why is this being played up
dialog: like it's the end, Christina? I
dialog: just don't understand -- it's a
dialog: minor injury. That's all. Can't
dialog: the front office control the spin?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA (V.O.)
dialog: Cindy, look, stop worrying about
dialog: this! The important thing is this
dialog: thing, this... microdisectomy,
dialog: went well, it's under control.
dialog: We'll make a strong statement in
dialog: the morning, okay?... Cap?
dialog: (as Cap acknowledges)
dialog: I've been researching vertebrae.
dialog: And guess what? -- There's a
dialog: great doctor in Minnesota.
dialog: Rosen. A specialist in rehab.
dialog: I'm gonna fly him out tomorrow.
dialog: I found out two important
dialog: things... Cap?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (mutters )
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA (V.O.)
dialog: One -- you can live without the
dialog: L-5 disc, and two...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: That's good news...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 97
text: Tony quietly tucks in Cap's sweaty, strewn bed sheets,
text: preferring not to signal his presence to Christina. He
text: notices a large black and blue discoloration around the
text: point of surgical entry in Cap's lower back.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA (V.O.)
dialog: .+. And two, it all depends on you.
dialog: We got the bye week. You could be
dialog: ready as early as San Francisco.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: That's really good news.
text: Tony gives Cap some water.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA (V.O.)
dialog: I want you to rest up for tonight
dialog: and we'll talk tomorrow, okay.
dialog: Night, Cap... Cindy.
text: She hangs up. Cindy disconnects the call.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: How ya doing, Rock?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (dopey)
dialog: Man, I thought that guy's helmet
dialog: would come out through my ass. I
dialog: thought I was going to die! They
dialog: went in -- took out my L-5 disc.
dialog: No big deal ... Did we win?
dialog: (as Tony shakes
dialog: his head)
dialog: The kid didn't cut it?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Nah, Beamen did okay. It was
dialog: Julian fumbled, they beat us by
dialog: three.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Shit! Julian, man...
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: -.. What'd the kid throw?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: 9 of 14, for 176.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: TDs?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Two.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 49.
dialog: (2) 97
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Holy moly!
dialog: (awkwardly tries to
dialog: sit up, screams)
dialog: Oh God, shit!!...
dialog: (then calmer)
dialog: I can beat this!...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: The pain's bad, kid.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Comes and goes. I can control my
dialog: morphine intake... but I can't get
dialog: enough.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I could use a drink myself.
text: He pours himself some water distastefully, as Cap plays
text: with his pump.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (yelling with pain)
dialog: Cindy, did you call the nurse!?
dialog: Is this working! Jesus, tell ‘em
dialog: I'm a football player! Pump up
dialog: the goddamn volume!
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: «+». and Christy thinks I'll be
dialog: ready to play in three weeks...
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: We've been waiting...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: She's dreamin'.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: What is her deal? All these
dialog: flowers. I've known Christy since
dialog: she was in braces, man. If Art was
dialog: alive he'd be here, not a bunch of
dialog: flowers.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: She's President now -- what's more
dialog: to say.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: She just didn't want to bother
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 97
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Montana, he had something like
dialog: this. I'm in better shape. A few
dialog: weeks of rehab and I'1l be there,
dialog: Tony. Playoffs for sure.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You just gotta get over this
dialog: Montana thing, Rock. You're never
dialog: gonna be that good.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Screw you. If I had a decent
dialog: coach, I'd be...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Take it easy, will ya! Don't
dialog: overachieve. Breathe. Even at
dialog: 50 percent, there's nobody better
dialog: out there...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Playoffs... I'll be ready.
text: Tony touches Cap gently on the head.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: It's late. I'1l stop by in the
dialog: morning. Get some rest. ‘Night,
dialog: Cindy.
text: She acknowledges him.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Tony...
dialog: (as Tony turns back)
dialog: Don't give up on me.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You're like a son to me, Cap.
dialog: I'll fight for you till the day I
dialog: die.
text: He exits as the PHONE RINGS and Cindy follows Tony out.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Cindy! Can you get the phone!
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Finally! What do you do for heart
dialog: attacks? Wait till they pass? 20
dialog: minutes ago we rang...
text: Cap closes his eyes. He can't find a spot of stillness
text: -- the pain boiling up again.
dialog: 98
speaker_heading: A98
dialog: 51.
scene_heading: INT. WILLIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 98
text: In a high-rise apartment above the bay, sporting a
text: glorious view of the curve of the city against the ocean,
text: shadows play off the balcony from the TELEVISION within
text: -- a MUTED "End Zone Weekly" plays (NOTE: This is not
text: Jack Rose's "Sports Corner," rather an ESPN-type national
dialog: show).
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (on the phone)
dialog: Mom, I didn't know I was going
dialog: in... sure I woulda called you...
dialog: She wants to talk to you.
text: He laughs and hands the phone to his attractive girlfriend
text: VANESSA STRUTHERS on the couch next to him -- a longtime
text: sweetheart, she is studying marketing.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Mrs. Beamen, hi!... Yeah he was
dialog: great!... No, I think he was just
dialog: nervous...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (UN-MUTING the TV)
dialog: Tell her I'm on again!
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: Oh, Mrs. Beamen, right now! It's
dialog: on! You gettin’ it?
dialog: (to Willie)
dialog: I don't think they have that cable
dialog: channel in East Texas, honey.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Here it is. I'm about to do it.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: ON TV A98
text: Shots of Tyler Cherubini going down... Shots of Willie
dialog: stepping in.
speaker_heading: TV VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: ... in stepped third-string QB
dialog: Willie Beamen, and after a very
text: shaky start, Beamen hung in to
text: deliver a surprising game, coming
text: up just short in the fourth on
dialog: Julian 'The Slicker' Washington's
dialog: catastrophic fumble. Not that
dialog: Willie didn't have his own
dialog: nauseating moments!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
speaker_heading: A98
dialog: 99
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: A98
text: The infamous vomit in the huddle on national television.
text: Willie covers his eyes. We also hear upset SCREAMING
text: from MOM on the phone.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: You didn't tell me you threw up!
speaker_heading: TV VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: «+. the Sharks are now looking at
dialog: a 7-6 record with a very tough
dialog: schedule comin' up, but Tyler
text: Cherubini with an ankle sprain
dialog: looks like he'll be ready next
dialog: week. Let's hope in any case that
dialog: Willie Beamen remembers his Tums
dialog: for the Chicago Rhinos next week!
text: Willie MUTES the TV, taking the phone back from Vanessa.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: .+. It was moving so fast...
dialog: you're a cruel woman, Mama!
dialog: (more serious)
dialog: Uh-huh... No probably not... No, I
dialog: don't know yet.
dialog: (growing tenser)
dialog: Mama, I... look, I'm number three,
dialog: there's nothing I... They don't
dialog: wanna look!... Yeah, yeah... you
dialog: keep prayin', okay. Say hi to
dialog: everybody... Uh-huh, you too,
dialog: right...
text: (hangs up, looks at
dialog: Vanessa, deflated)
dialog: She wants me to start.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: Oh, baby, she just wants the best
dialog: for ya.
text: She hugs him like his Mom might.
scene_heading: INT. BAR/RESTAURANT - NIGHT (10:30) 99
text: Dark walls in this high-class hangout are filled with
text: celebrity photos, especially the Sharks and Dolphins.
text: Caricatures of the football crowd hang over the bar where
text: D'Amato, Nick Crozier, and Montezuma Monroe drink.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 99
speaker_heading: ON TV
text: Jack "Ripper" Rose, the local expert on the Sharks, who
dialog: seems to prove that the more you know about a team, the
dialog: less you really understand, interviews a guest on his
dialog: local "Sports Corner."
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: (on TV, to guest)
dialog: ... Frank, Frank, Frank, you gotta
dialog: wonder why D'Amato called that
dialog: play when everyone knows J-Man
dialog: likes to pick his spot when he
dialog: runs... and you're running the
dialog: same play twice in a row? Come
dialog: on! There's a reason this team
dialog: has lost four in a row. Forget
dialog: about the offensive line and Cap
dialog: Rooney. Forget about money-
text: grubbing greed-head Christina
dialog: Pagniacci who sold three of last
dialog: year's stars. And forget about
dialog: the defense -- there is none!
dialog: This team is just not in sync.
dialog: They remind me of my ‘ex.'
dialog: She had 21 different personalities.
dialog: Seven of them hated me...
dialog: (as his guest laughs)
dialog: No kiddin', I think D'Amato's play
dialog: books have consisted of the same
dialog: 11 plays since 1971. It's gotta
dialog: be a shorter list than 'The
dialog: History of Jews in Sports,' but
dialog: lucky for him, the Sharks have a
text: couple of teeth left in their
dialog: head, otherwise these guys would
dialog: be bottom-feeding at 2-14 instead
dialog: of thrashin' at 7-6...
dialog: 
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Glancing away from the omnipresent television (several
text: others dot the bar space, all tuned to sports), Tony
text: drinks Scotch -- one of several -- his thoughts depressed
text: and fatalistic tonight. Four losses in a row is a
dialog: phenomenon that has never happened to him before.
text: MANDY, a young glamorous woman, sitting down the bar with
text: a girlfriend, catches his eye.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (re: TV)
dialog: Glad he's not talking about me.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 54.
dialog: (2) 99
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (during this)
dialog: «+. you play safe, you lose. It's
dialog: just not a theory, they can prove
dialog: it. You feed a computer all the
dialog: games where a coach protected a
dialog: modest lead -- 10 points or
dialog: less -- 300 games, 10 years,
dialog: there's this guy he did this
dialog: study at Harvard... it came out
dialog: the coaches lost... 71 percent
dialog: of the time!
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: 71 percent my ass! It can't be
dialog: more than 40 percent, probably
dialog: less. What's the information they
dialog: put in those damn things?!...
dialog: Shit, what're you guys gonna do
dialog: next -- stick computer chips up my
dialog: players' butts so you can monitor
dialog: what their shit's thinking?
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (sweetly)
dialog: That's a great fucking idea, Monty
dialog: -- if you had any neuronal
dialog: connections left after what -- 20
dialog: concussions? -- I might actually
dialog: take that as an insult, but...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (signals the
dialog: bartender)
dialog: You get any more stats in those
dialog: goddamn computers what the hell
dialog: you need a coach for anymore? I
dialog: mean it's like we're all rushing
dialog: forward here -- faster, bigger,
dialog: smarter. We're all thinking too
dialog: damned much... we're not even
dialog: looking around at what we're
text: passing by, leaving behind...
dialog: You know what I mean?
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: I sure do.
text: The BARTENDER pours another Scotch, beers for the others.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Here you go, Coach.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 55.
dialog: (3) 99
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Thanks (nickname)...
dialog: (to all, noting his
dialog: caricature above)
dialog: Y'know, I'm starting to look like
dialog: that guy. That's what's fucking
dialog: scary.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Yeah, a little.
text: Crozier clears his throat, needs to talk business.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Y'know, Tony, I think we gotta
dialog: simplify the playbook for
dialog: Cherubini. These Rhino
text: linebackers are fast little ATVs.
dialog: We gotta pick ‘em apart with
dialog: precision -- Cherubini to two
dialog: tight ends; ask the wideouts to
dialog: go short over the middle... More
dialog: screens, traps...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Nick, I'm not re-doing the whole
dialog: goddamn game plan for Cherubini
dialog: with three more games. The
dialog: linemen aren't that quick, y'know
dialog: what I mean?... and when Cap comes
dialog: back for the playoffs, he's gonna
dialog: go crazy with a whole new calling
dialog: scheme, different rhythms,
dialog: shit!...
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Tony, what I'm saying is if we
dialog: don't redo the game plan, we won't
dialog: make the playoffs... and what
dialog: happens if Cap doesn't come back
dialog: this year?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (starting to anger)
dialog: Hey, Nick -- when you get your
dialog: team, you do it your way. But
dialog: don't let me catch you telling
dialog: anyone Cap Rooney's not comin'
dialog: back, okay? I don't care what
dialog: Mrs. Pagniacci Junior says. Stay
dialog: out of it!... I've seen Cap do
dialog: this for years.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: He leaves.
dialog: 56.
dialog: (4) 99
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
text: When he sets his mind to it,
dialog: he'll walk right in there -- maybe
dialog: ‘gainst the Emperors -- and he'll
dialog: shine just like a new dime, that's
dialog: how fucking great this guy is!
dialog: Never underestimate 'Rock'
dialog: Rooney, okay?...
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: I'm sorry... But we need a game
dialog: plan, Tony, that...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (changes subject)
dialog: +. y'know every time I drink more
dialog: than two of these, I think of
dialog: Jeanette...
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: How is that gal?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (grimaces )
dialog: We try talkin’ but we sound like
text: two undertakers talkin’ shop...
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Great lady, Jeanette. You gave
dialog: her up too easy.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Y'ever try living with her,
dialog: Monty...? She was nuts. Went
dialog: fundamentalist on me.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (finishes his beer,
dialog: to Crozier)
dialog: They say a coach needs three
dialog: things in this life -- a wife who
text: shuts up, a dog who licks him
dialog: whenever he wants, and a
dialog: quarterback who don't get hurt...
dialog: So, this turkey's wife took a hike
text: on him, his dog got run over, and
text: his quarterback ruptured his
dialog: goddamn back, talk about luck.
dialog: Gotta piss...
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Mind if I join you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: A99
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ON TV
dialog: 57.
dialog: (5) 99
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Only if you hold your own dick,
dialog: kid.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: So tell me, Monty, did you really
text: play with leather helmets in the
dialog: good old days?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (chimes in)
dialog: You forgot the fourth thing, Monty
dialog: -- a defense! I know it's old-
dialog: fashioned to keep the other team
dialog: from scoring, but it's effective.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Kiss my ass, D'Amato. Lemme
dialog: tell you something, kid, those
dialog: leather helmets were fucking
dialog: great! They held our brains in,
dialog: ‘cause back then men knew how to
dialog: hit and get hit. When they
dialog: allowed face-guards for you
dialog: punks, that was the end of the
dialog: game that I knew...
dialog: As they move off:
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Do you defensive guys ever move
dialog: your lips when you speak? Or is
dialog: it true you all like grunting
dialog: better...?
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: I like grunting better than that
dialog: techno-babble bullshit you offensive
dialog: weenies talk...
text: Tony's eyes wander, against his will, back to the TV.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: A99
text: Jack Rose continues to talk a mile a minute -- on camera
text: and then in background V.O. as we return to Tony.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A99
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: A99
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: «+. I tell you right here and now
dialog: -- Chicago's gonna wipe us out!
dialog: They got a playbook with 200
dialog: variations on the pass for
dialog: chrissake! Sure D'Amato likes to
dialog: act tough and ‘keep it simple,
dialog: stupid' for our Sharkies, and some
dialog: people even think he's a genius
dialog: with his book of 75 plays, but
dialog: hey, a lot of us think, you know,
dialog: like this is no longer the '70s
dialog: and the '80s -- hey we're talking
dialog: the late '60s when this guy
dialog: started coaching -- and you all
dialog: know by now how much of a fan I am
dialog: of D'Amato getting himself a
dialog: lobotomy or maybe cloned with some
dialog: goat because anything... even Jack
dialog: Kevorkian, would be better than
dialog: what we got! Give me some smack!
dialog: (high-fives
dialog: his guest)
dialog: Give me a pound. Give me some
dialog: love...
text: Tony's eyes have shifted back to the caricature of
text: himself on the wall, a man fatter, older, and more
text: degenerate than he actually looks. Mandy, the young
text: woman he noticed earlier, slides up next to him, sits,
text: sipping a non-alcoholic blue-ice number with a straw.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: You're that coach, aren't you?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Yeah, Tony D'Amato.
text: He shakes hands.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Wow! Hi. I'm Mandy Murphy. I
dialog: can't believe it. I thought it
dialog: was you but I wasn't sure. You
text: look different on TV.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You think so?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Yeah. You look much better in
dialog: real life. You're always yelling
text: at people on TV.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A99
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: (2) A99
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (pointing to the
dialog: caricature)
dialog: Yeah well at least I look better
dialog: than that old fart... I think?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: You do...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (starting on another
dialog: Scotch)
dialog: Thanks. How old are you, Mandy?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: How old do you want me to be?
dialog: (as he shrugs; smiles)
dialog: I don't think age matters. I
dialog: really don't. I think older guys
dialog: have a certain thing.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Oh yeah?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Yeah. Older guys are the nicest
dialog: guys. At least in my
dialog: experience...
dialog: (she gently touches
dialog: his hand)
dialog: You know, I always wanted to meet
dialog: you... ever since I was about 17,
dialog: I was going with this football
dialog: jock -- and I saw you on the
dialog: sidelines. You were winning this
dialog: big game...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You mean the Pantheon Cup...?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Yeah, that's it! That was wild.
dialog: (as Tony laughs)
dialog: I'd never repeat this -- only to
dialog: you, you promise to keep this a
dialog: secret -- ?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I promise.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A99
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) A99
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: (whispers into
dialog: his ear)
dialog: .+. I uh... started masturbating
dialog: to football games watching you...
dialog: (also: AD LIBS)...
text: Tony's taken aback. She touches his knee, goes further.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: «++. you wanna go out with me...
dialog: ‘Coach'?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You mean like on a date?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Yeah, like on a date...
dialog: (leaning close)
dialog: I got a place -- close by,
dialog: quiet... It's a thousand... five
dialog: thousand for the night. You won't
dialog: regret it...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: What do you say, handsome?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Thank you. I'm flattered, but...
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: You sure? I got friends.
dialog: (indicating Monroe
dialog: returning alone
dialog: from restroom)
dialog: I could do your friends too.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Thanks, Mandy... some other time
dialog: maybe.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: (disappointed)
dialog: Fair enough. Hey, good luck with
dialog: the team. I'll be rooting for
dialog: you... ‘Tony'
text: A plucky kiss on his cheek.
text: She slinks away, as Monroe sits, enrapt by her legs.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Mmmm! Dang! Don't tell me you
dialog: passed on that, D'Amato?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A99
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: (4) A99
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: .-. I must really be drunk.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: ... I heard sex helps your
dialog: coaching instincts. But let's get
dialog: genius boy to run a stat on
dialog: coaches who like hunting and
dialog: fishing better than snatch, see
dialog: what he comes up with...?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (laughs, segues)
dialog: ++. you think we're slowing down,
dialog: Monty?
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Shit, we're not getting any
dialog: younger. These are long days, 16
dialog: hours, something's gotta give.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: »+. you think you can lose your
dialog: coaching instincts?
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: You never had ‘em anyway, so how
dialog: can you lose ‘em?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Well, that last play today, there
dialog: was a moment when... I didn't know
dialog: what to call... that's never
dialog: happened to me like that before...
dialog: in 22 seasons...
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Come on, we were on our third
dialog: quarterback, Christina was
dialog: throwing plays at us every five
dialog: minutes, and Julian's about 10
text: years old upstairs.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: All I have are my instincts. I
dialog: lose them... I got nothin’...
dialog: (noticing)
dialog: Say, what'd you do to Crozier?
dialog: Stuff him in the toilet?
dialog: 100
dialog: 62.
scene_heading: INT. TONY D'AMATO'S HOME - NIGHT 100
text: The letter "L" is written with a black marker next to the
text: Americans on the season schedule (Miami is now 7-6). There
dialog: are only three games left in the regular season: Chicago,
text: California and New York. Tony cradles a cordless phone
text: while drinking Scotch, as a COMPUTERIZED VOICE introduces
text: Jeanette's voice on the answer machine.
speaker_heading: JEANETTE (V.O.)
dialog: Please leave your full name and a
dialog: message after the tone and we'll
dialog: get back to you.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (into his cordless)
dialog: Hi, Jeanette, it's Tony... I was
dialog: hoping you'd still be awake. What
dialog: time is it out there anyway? I
dialog: tried to call earlier but things
dialog: got... never mind. Listen...
text: He walks into his bedroom, emptying his pockets on the
text: dresser. Pictures of the past confront him -- Jeanette,
text: a boy and a girl; another of Tony with Cap Rooney and Art
text: Pagniacci winning the "Pantheon Cup."
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. tell Tommy we gotta game in
dialog: L.A. In a couple of weeks. I'm
dialog: hoping we could maybe get
dialog: together?... I don't have his new
dialog: number but... the thing is I'd
dialog: like to see him and... and you...?
text: (he weaves, stumbles
text: as he looks for
dialog: something he dropped
dialog: on the rug)
dialog: I really miss the shit outta Timmy
dialog: and Melinda... Y'know, love to see
dialog: them, Jesus! Grandkids, Jeanette,
dialog: we got grandkids... Anyway, what's
dialog: there to say? Cap got hurt Sunday.
dialog: Just another heart-breaking
dialog: Sunday right?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Okay, well, bye...
text: He has crossed to the toilet, where he unsuccessfully
text: tries to urinate -- all over the place. A COMPUTERIZED
text: VOICE suddenly cuts in to tell him:
speaker_heading: VOICE #1 (V.0.)
dialog: .+-. Your call has been cancelled.
dialog: Please leave your full name after
text: the tone and record again.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 100
dialog: 101
dialog: 102
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 100
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Aw shit!
scene_heading: EXT. PRACTICE FIELD #1 - NEXT DAY
dialog: (NOTE: Potential one of three football practices -- a
text: brief montage set to music, that leads us to:)
scene_heading: EXT. CHRISTINA PAGNIACCI'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION - 101
speaker_heading: DAY
text: Tony drives up to a beautiful mansion on one of
text: Miami's bays in an older, elegant car. As he talks into
text: an audio-video monitor, the gates roll open.
scene_heading: INT. CHRISTINA PAGNIACCI'S OFFICE/HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 102
speaker_heading: ACTION - DAY
text: In a large cross-shadowed private office, Christina and
dialog: Johnny Polito listen to Ed Phillips on the phone --
text: noticing Tony's drive-up on the indoor monitor... The
text: walls reveal pictures of Christina with various high-
dialog: powered individuals in the city; an MBA from Stanford;
text: others that are competitive at tennis and golf, on
text: safari and skiing with her husband; shots of her as a
text: young girl with her dad. In these images of fishing,
dialog: riding, hunting, perhaps one senses that Christina was
dialog: raised as an only son by Art Pagniacci and forever
text: embodies the hardness of that fate.
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS (0.S.)
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Well, we think 100 million is
dialog: extortion too, Governor... Then
dialog: will you file a friend-of-the-
dialog: court brief on our behalf if we go
dialog: up against the League's transfer
dialog: fee?... Great!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: «+. you're sure? No public bond
dialog: issues -- no extra tax assessments?
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: (waves her off,
dialog: nodding)
dialog: -+. couldn't ask for more than
dialog: that... good talking to you,
dialog: Governor. Say hi to Teresa. And
dialog: Christina sends a big kiss! Okay.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Hangs up.
dialog: 64.
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (excited)
dialog: So let me get this straight: the
dialog: Governor of California's saying
dialog: there's nothing for the public to
dialog: vote on, right?
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: (pleased)
dialog: That's what he's saying. He's got
dialog: a way to finance a new stadium in
dialog: Hawthorne, with lottery and casino
dialog: money! As long as we partner with
dialog: this realty company he's pushing...
speaker_heading: JOHNNY POLITO
dialog: Sure. He owns all that shit land
dialog: he wants to get rid of.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: +. he gives us the full concession,
dialog: parking, signage, sponsorship money?
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: (nods )
dialog: --. and 100 percent from the
dialog: luxury boxes and club seats!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: My God, L.A. is a dream! You
dialog: realize they're giving us the
dialog: world, Ed?!
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: (downplaying it)
dialog: Well, it's certainly good enough to
dialog: leverage the City of Miami into a
dialog: new stadium.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Oh, Ed! It's more than that...
dialog: (pause, seeing Tony's
dialog: car pull up)
dialog: I just don't trust Smalls backing
dialog: this stadium bond. Dad always
dialog: said he was a thief in a tuxedo...
text: She glances at a picture on her desk of her late father.
text: Beneath it in the silver frame she has had engraved:
dialog: "Whatever It Takes."
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 65.
dialog: (2) 102
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: What do you expect? Smalls is an
dialog: asshole, but he'll deal. He
dialog: always has. And he knows we've
dialog: got a big glitch anyway.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: We don't really, Ed, we can...!
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: You keep underestimating the power
dialog: of the franchises, Christina.
dialog: They don't want us! They want an
dialog: expansion team in L.A. which they
dialog: can make a lot more money with!
speaker_heading: JOHNNY POLITO
dialog: Bullshit! They want an established
text: team with a fan base. A new
text: stadium with a multiplex theater
dialog: shopping mall. We're in the
dialog: entertainment business, Ed. Think
dialog: football in the 21st Century.
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: Johnny, have you got some sleazy
dialog: little side deal I don't know
dialog: about yet?
speaker_heading: JOHNNY POLITO
dialog: Ed, you're getting old.
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: «+. And you're getting greedy,
dialog: Johnny.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: The Association will listen to
dialog: reason. L.A. is an entertainment
dialog: empire! It can easily handle two
dialog: teams. Here, what? The wrong fan
dialog: base. No Hispanic players, no
dialog: Hispanic fans...
dialog: (off silence)
dialog: Ed, if ever you owed Dad a favor,
dialog: make it this one! This team will
dialog: be born again in L.A.!
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: What about the Rosenthal bid?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (thinking about it)
dialog: $250 million?... It's so low.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: Christina,
dialog: Tony in.
dialog: 66.
dialog: (3) 102
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: Wasn't so low when your dad and I
dialog: started.
speaker_heading: JOHNNY POLITO
text: With a new stadium and a winning
dialog: team, Ed, we could sell the team
dialog: for 800 million.
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: (disbelieving)
dialog: You're like your father that way,
dialog: darling -- a dreamer... My advice
dialog: to you is, sell the goddamn team.
dialog: You don't really want to own a
dialog: football team, Christina. You're
text: still young -- start a family.
text: conflicted, watches as her housekeeper shows
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I still like this business.
dialog: Let's keep this quiet for now,
dialog: Ed, can we?
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DAY
text: Tony looks hungover and bumps into something, as Christina
text: crosses into the giant-sized living room.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Come in... Morning, Tony.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Christina... Ed. You know, I
dialog: keep looking for the A.T.M.
dialog: machines in these houses...
speaker_heading: JOHNNY POLITO
dialog: I never find one that works.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Alka-Seltzer?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (rolls his eyes)
dialog: No. I already had breakfast... at
dialog: four this morning.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: ... Hell of a loss, we were so
dialog: goddamn close.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 102
speaker_heading: A102
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 102
text: Remote in hand, she flicks on a state-of-the-art video
dialog: screen.
speaker_heading: ON TV A102
text: The shot of Washington fumbling in excruciating slo-mo.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: You know, I can see why my mother
dialog: somehow got herself into a drunken
text: stupor watching football games all
dialog: her life... but this kind of play
dialog: makes you want to jump out the
dialog: fucking window!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You can run that play a million
dialog: times, Christy, but it ain't
dialog: gonna change a thing. On any
dialog: given Sunday...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (overlapping)
dialog: ‘You either gonna win or you gonna
dialog: lose. The point is can you win or
dialog: lose like a man?' Dad said a lot
dialog: of catchy things.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Actually I said it, but...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: But he never could stand losing,
dialog: could he!
dialog: (as Julian fumbles
dialog: again)
dialog: «+. But J. just couldn't resist
dialog: going for his bonus yards?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Blame me, not Julian. It was my
dialog: call.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: +. I know it was, Tony -- but
dialog: I'll tell you this -- Julian
dialog: wasn't thinking about you, he was
dialog: thinking about the extra million
dialog: dollars he gets when he hits 1500
dialog: yards...
dialog: (glancing at Ed)
dialog: Which, by the way, definitely
dialog: helps blow out our fucking salary
dialog: cap for next year...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
speaker_heading: A102
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: A102
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You're the one who negotiated his
dialog: incentive clause.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: «+. which is why I'd like you to
dialog: sit him out -- then maybe he'll
dialog: get his head into the game. And
dialog: save us some dollars in the
dialog: bargain.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Pretty smart move, Christy. You
dialog: want me to bench my All-Pro back?
dialog: Any other suggestions?
text: A testy edge to the dialogue, as Christina freezes the
text: image of Julian fumbling. She shows him the sports
text: section of USA Today -- folded to a condemnation of
dialog: the team, specifically Tony. Although raised to treat
text: Tony like an "uncle" in a large Italian-American family,
text: the team comes first and foremost.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Sarcasm is not a solution. Four
dialog: in a row, Tony. They want your
dialog: head. Without Cap, it's gonna
dialog: take a miracle to make the
dialog: playoffs.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (re: the newspaper)
dialog: .». Your father'd laugh at this
dialog: jerk, Christy. We're a solid
dialog: team, and we're gonna get to the
dialog: playoffs. This is not the time to
dialog: panic.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I'm not 'panicking' -- but no
dialog: surgeon I know in the country is
dialog: saying Cap'll be back by playoff
dialog: time -- even with the bye week...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (waves it off)
dialog: Doctors are like lawyers, always
dialog: protecting their asses against
dialog: malpractice!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 69.
dialog: (2) A102
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: Tony, without the playoffs there's
dialog: no more TV money. And frankly, I
dialog: don't think we have a chance in
dialog: hell of getting this new stadium
dialog: bond issue through...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (wearying of Tony)
dialog: «+. the economics just don't work --
dialog: the fact is this season is a
dialog: disaster, a write-off. It's over!
text: Now Tony's headache is getting worse.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: It's 'over'!? The hell it's over!
dialog: We been there before -- I can pull
dialog: this out. I always have. Worse
dialog: things than this have...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Dad used to say, 'No intensity, no
dialog: victory.' Where the hell is your
dialog: intensity, Tony!? We were always
dialog: in the playoffs. Four years ago
dialog: the only thing we worried about
dialog: was winning a third Pantheon Cop!
dialog: Now what? We're a second-tier
dialog: team, Tony, that's what!
dialog: (as he objects)
dialog: .-. No, admit it! You're not
dialog: being honest, we're the fifth,
dialog: sixth team in this league. We
dialog: just don't get the respect
dialog: anymore. For chrissake, Tony,
dialog: just four years ago we won the
dialog: Pantheon Cup! Do you remember!
dialog: We beat the pants off
dialog: Massachusetts! Dad would be
dialog: shocked to see this mess we
dialog: created...
dialog: 
text: Tony is fuming, but a part of him knows she's right.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (darkly, pacing)
dialog: I was there, Christy -- remember?
dialog: We're solid, we're just not
dialog: inspired. We got too many free
dialog: agents...
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: (3) A102
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: (indicating the
dialog: frozen tape)
dialog: .-.. Julian's a 'merc' who's here
dialog: for the money and he brings that
text: attitude with him to the team.
text: The end of the season, he goes.
dialog: And we rebuild our running game and...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (pissed)
dialog: Running game!? Okay -- you always
dialog: talk about a running game. But
dialog: who cares as long as you win!
dialog: People want to watch passes,
dialog: touchdowns, high scores! That's
dialog: the game now, Tony!... We paid a
dialog: lot of money to get Nick Crozier
dialog: here from Minnesota specifically
dialog: to modernize this offense. But
dialog: when I look down at the field I
dialog: don't see any new play calling, I
dialog: don't see him doing what he does
dialog: best. And frankly, what is most
dialog: disturbing, is I don't see you even
text: listening to his calls from the
dialog: booth...
speaker_heading: TONY
text: Football is played on the field,
dialog: Christina, not in the goddamn
dialog: boxes! You knew that when you had
dialog: candy stuck in your braces.
dialog: When'd you forget it?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (bristles)
dialog: So you know everything about
dialog: everything, right, Tony?
text: Another silence. Ed coughs. Christina regrets the
text: atmosphere, throws up her hands and paces.
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: (excusing himself)
dialog: Listen, why don't you two...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (in a yielding tone)
dialog: Ed, stay...
dialog: (to Tony)
dialog: You gripe about Julian Washington
dialog: but you completely ignore the
dialog: problems with Cap and Shark? I
dialog: don't get it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 71.
scene_heading: A102 CONTINUED: (4) A102
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: If we'd gotten the linemen I
dialog: wanted in the first place, our
dialog: first two quarterbacks might
text: still be walking.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Think about the future. Do you
dialog: know what we could get for Cap
dialog: right now? Probably a first anda
dialog: third draft choice. He's still
dialog: got an arm, and people respect
dialog: him. We know he's finished but if
dialog: we're smart, we can...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: No, I don't know that, Christy, I
dialog: don't! Cap's got two, maybe three
dialog: great years left in him. This is
dialog: football. Today guys in their 40s
dialog: are playing...
dialog: (a silence)
dialog: Do I gotta remind you he helped
dialog: build this franchise, which you
dialog: benefitted from? That he's a hero
dialog: to the working people of Florida.
dialog: And one of the greatest pressure
dialog: players of all time. You just
dialog: don't cut a man like Cap Rooney!
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Excuse me -- Cap and Shark were
dialog: great, but memories don't pass and
dialog: tackle like they used to...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Shark changed linebacking forever!
dialog: He made a quantum leap in the
dialog: game!...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: ... And we can say good-bye to
dialog: both of them with dignity! With
dialog: class! We'll give ‘em positions
dialog: in the front office, retire their
dialog: numbers. A going-away day that...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (angry)
dialog: That goes without saying. But I
dialog: am not cutting Cap Rooney or Shark
dialog: Lavay. No matter how much ‘'class'
dialog: you do it with.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: (5) A102
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: My contract is very clear on this
dialog: point, Christy. I coach my way.
dialog: I never tolerated interference from
dialog: the front office and your father
dialog: never interfered when...
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: (politick)
dialog: Tony, Art spent money like water.
dialog: He never really cared about the
dialog: bottom line. He wanted to win at
dialog: any cost. In the modern game,
dialog: with marketing costs high as they
dialog: are...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Tony, I am not re-signing a seven-
dialog: million-dollar-a-year, 39-year-
dialog: old quarterback no matter how big
dialog: he was.
text: (pointing to a stack
dialog: of budget sheets on
dialog: her desk)
dialog: I crunch those numbers every month
dialog: till my fingers bleed. We make
dialog: less money than 90 percent of the
dialog: other teams. The economics simply
dialog: don't make any sense!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (intense)
dialog: Fuck the economics! Your father,
dialog: you hear me! Your father never
dialog: interfered! He made it work!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (equally intense)
dialog: «+. Because you were a fighter
dialog: then! You had intensity, Tony!
dialog: But today he'd cut your ass!
dialog: Because that's just the way the
dialog: game is now. I love this team as
dialog: much -- if not more -- than you.
dialog: I was born into this goddamn
dialog: business, so don't try to make me
dialog: out to be some heartless bitch in
dialog: a skybox bleeding my players dry...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What's your point, Christy?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A102
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (6)
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (drawing up)
dialog: The point is... as much as I
dialog: respect... my famous ‘Uncle Tony'
dialog: -- the team's just not responding
dialog: to you, and I'll be damned if I'm
dialog: going to let everything my father
dialog: fought for slide down the drain
dialog: with you at the helm. I will do
dialog: anything -- you hear me, anything
dialog: -- to bring this team back to
dialog: greatness!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I guess I had nothing to do with
dialog: that. It was all your dad... Am I
dialog: excused now?
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: A102
text: He throws a hard look at Ed, who looks away. Tony stalks
text: to the door.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (after him)
dialog: Who's playing the child now, Tony?
dialog: Do I have to remind you of what
dialog: kind of ground you're on?
dialog: Everybody's got to negotiate...
dialog: you too.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (at the door)
dialog: Are you saying my contract's up at
dialog: the end of the year? And the
dialog: ‘economics aren't there'? Is that
dialog: what you're saying, Christy?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: +. You know, you're not offering
dialog: me a whole lot right now, Tony...
dialog: ‘Whatever it takes.' I'm just
dialog: doing it the way he did it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You're not even close... You know
dialog: how your dad and I used to
dialog: negotiate my contract? We had a
dialog: beer and we shook hands.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I don't drink beer, Tony.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (exits)
dialog: No, I guess you don't.
text: Christina shares a look with Ed. She shakes her head:
dialog: "Beer?"
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
dialog: 74.
scene_heading: EXT. "SHARK" STADIUM - GAME 2 - CHICAGO RHINOS AT 103
scene_heading: MIAMI SHARKS - FIELD #1 - DAY
text: Miami QB Tyler Cherubini releases his throw far over the
text: head of Sanderson. The crowd boos.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: ... this has been a tough start
text: for Tyler Cherubini, who has yet
text: to find his rhythm.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: «+. only two for eight so far and
dialog: sacked three times. Ouch! 14-3
dialog: Chicago. Second quarter. Eight
dialog: minutes left...
speaker_heading: STANDS #1 104
text: Shark fans are sullen. Signs read: "D'Amato is a
text: Dinosaur"... images of D'Amato in Thanksgiving turkey
dialog: feathers, etc. The capacity, again, is at best
dialog: two-thirds.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #1 105
text: Coach D'Amato talks quietly with Tyler Cherubini and Cap
text: Rooney, using a cane in civilian clothing.
text: Willie, ignored, watches from the bench, not warming up.
text: As Cherubini wanders off, the QB Coach fetches Willie.
text: D'Amato's eyes now flash on him...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Get Beamen.
speaker_heading: FIELD #2 106
text: Shark rages up and down the defensive line, faking a
text: blitz, baiting the young Chicago QB.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Hey you, white-bread! Got your
dialog: cup on? ‘Cause I'm gonna runneth
dialog: it over!!
dialog: (to Chicago
dialog: lineman)
dialog: I'm gonna stomp you, B.J., and
dialog: then I'm gonna stomp your million-
dialog: dollar bonus baby white-ass
dialog: quarterback and then I'm gonna go
text: up in the stands and stomp both
dialog: your mommas!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 106
dialog: 107
dialog: 75.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 106
text: The Chicago QB, made a little nervous by Shark, bobbles
text: the ball slightly... Shark, reading the trap, finds a
text: lane through the Chicago line for a crushing hit on the
text: baby-bonus QB, who pops the ball loose... Miami's "Beast
text: Man" instantly pounces on it.
text: Shark, congratulated by his teammates, rises hurting,
text: and hiding it... In a brief, micro-moment:
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: reveals: BLURRING (SPX) ON teammates and stadium.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #2 107
text: Willie, in his oddball way, walks up to the edge of the
text: sideline, with Tony.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: How do you feel?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I always feel good.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Feel like throwin' up?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Hell no!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Hey, last time you puked you had a
dialog: hell of a game.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: That was last time.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Make a ritual out of it and
dialog: people'll respect it... Go right
dialog: at ‘em. Go with the spread. What
dialog: I want from you is concentration.
dialog: Focus. Downfield. Every inch.
dialog: See it before you do it. You see
dialog: it, you do it.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I got it. I feel it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: So... What are you waiting for?
dialog: Make me a believer.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 107
dialog: 108
dialog: 109
dialog: 110
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 107
text: Willie heads out onto the field.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #3 108
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set Black 33, Black 33, go!
text: Willie, on a play action pass, takes off running,
text: gesturing to his blockers, directing his flow like an
text: experienced back... He is slammed hard after a big 32-
text: yard gain to the Chicago 43 yard line; the crowd roars
text: with lusty approval.
text: Julian Washington eyes Willie wearily as he bounces up.
dialog: Is this kid going to be another runner in his backfield?
speaker_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #1 109
text: Crozier on the headset upstairs:
speaker_heading: TONY (V.O.)
dialog: Will you teach the kid how to
dialog: slide, for Chrissake, Nick!
dialog: Before he kills himself! How many
dialog: times I gotta tell you, I don't
dialog: need another Julian out there --
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: There must be a reason why this
dialog: kid was cut from so many teams.
dialog: Sooner or later these kinds of
dialog: quarterbacks get themselves hurt
dialog: with wildman stuff like that! For
dialog: a few extra yards it sure doesn't
dialog: make sense... but that they gotta
dialog: learn...
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #4 110
text: At the Chicago six-yard line, Willie surveys the defensive
dialog: alignment.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set, Green 68, Green 68, go!
text: Julian rushes forward left of Willie for the hand-off --
text: but Willie doesn't give him the ball -- Julian breaks for
text: a confused micro-moment, then throws himself forward into
text: the pile -- as Willie races right, as if to run, then
text: loops a high, curving pass to the second wide-out in the
dialog: end zone. Touchdown!
speaker_heading: A110
dialog: 111
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #1 A110
scene_heading: reads CHICAGO 14, MIAMI 10. THIRD QUARTER. 02:41...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #3 111
text: The stadium PA SYSTEM explodes a triumphant "SHARK THEME"
text: as Willie jogs past Tony on his way to the bench,
text: crossing the kicking unit on their way in...
speaker_heading: CROZIER (V.O.)
dialog: (into helmet)
dialog: Good play, baby! Good call!!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Willie)
dialog: What the hell was that?!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Bootleg.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I know it was a goddamn bootleg!
text: Julian passes Tony, shaking his head... Willie gulps down
text: Gatorade as Tony comes after him.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. Bootleg? Very creative. I
dialog: never thought of that in a million
dialog: years. In fact, I didn't call
dialog: that! I called a goddamn Double
dialog: Tight Regular 22 Fox. You know
dialog: what that is, son?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yeah, I know what that is.
text: Tony gets right in his face, indicates the game plan in
text: his hand.
text: There is no backing down.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You run the plays I call -- you
dialog: with me, son?!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I'm with you, boss.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Glad we don't have a microphone
dialog: down there, folks, ‘cause I
dialog: wouldn't want to be on Tony
dialog: D'Amato's dark side now, would
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 111
dialog: 112
dialog: 113
dialog: 114
dialog: 115
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 111
text: As Tony stalks away, Willie's expression is one of quiet
dialog: anger.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (on headset)
dialog: Is he fucking with me, Nick, or
dialog: doesn't he know the play!?
speaker_heading: MONTAGE #1 (WILLIE BEAMEN AS QB)
text: MUSIC is UPBEAT, as Willie slices and dices the L.A.
dialog: defense:
speaker_heading: FIELD #5 112
text: Willie steps back and throws a precise 25-yard spiral,
text: aimed for the pocket on Chicago's 5-yard line -- it sails
text: perfectly to a place where Jimmy Sanderson accelerates to
dialog: reach that sweet spot in time where ball and man meet --
text: sailing right PAST US into the end zone, the Chicago
text: safety trailing. Touchdown!... Willie races down to the
text: end zone for a celebration.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #2 113
scene_heading: CHICAGO 17, MIAMI 17. FOURTH QUARTER. 7:03...
scene_heading: MONTAGE #1 - FIELD #6 114
text: Willie fires a crisp bullet of a pass to the tight end in
text: the chancy seam of the zone.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #1 115
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: (helmet)
dialog: Hustle Right Switch 60 Bravo.
dialog: Hustle Right Switch 60 Bravo.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (to team)
dialog: Okay, Switch 60 Bravo -- hold it.
dialog: What's Switch 60 Bravo?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Sprint draw regular group.
dialog: It's moneytime.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 115
dialog: 116
speaker_heading: A116
dialog: 117
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 115
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: ‘Sandman,' your guy's laying back --
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: All day.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: How about 88 Turbo?
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: That's what you want, money,
dialog: that's what it is.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Hold it -- that my play.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: That was your play. These guys
dialog: are done! Let's kill some Rhinos.
text: Twins Right 3 Zig 88 Turbo. On two.
dialog: Ready?
text: They clap and move to the ball, Washington upset.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #4 116
text: Tony watches the new formation, amazed.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (headset)
dialog: ... Now what in the holy see is he
dialog: doing... Crozier?!
speaker_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #2 A116
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (actually delighted)
dialog: Hell if I know, Tony...
scene_heading: MONTAGE #1 - FIELD #7 117
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set, Red 88, Red 88, go!
text: Sanderson races for the left corner -- Willie not taking
text: his eyes off him, he pump fakes the ball to him -- but
text: once the Chicago defense commits to his sleight of hand,
text: Willie bootlegs it towards the right end zone. Two
text: defensive backs reverse and run right at him. It's going
dialog: to be a race to the wire.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 117
dialog: 118
speaker_heading: A118
dialog: 119
dialog: 80.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 117
speaker_heading: STUNT
text: The DBs have him beat by a yard or so. But Willie leaps
text: into the air at the 2-yard line to avoid the diving
text: tacklers. Then, finding himself having to go yet higher,
text: he flips in mid-air, taking himself over their heads,
text: pads and all, into a somersault, landing scot-free in the
dialog: end zone. TD! Amazing!
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #1 118
text: Christina can't believe what she just saw, looking at
dialog: the:
speaker_heading: TV REPLAY A118
text: Willie's somersault is something that is going to make
dialog: the highlight reel for a long time to come -- his second
dialog: week in a row!
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Kev, did you see what I just saw?!
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: I sure did, Tug! And Miami goes
text: ahead, 23-17.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (to Ed, genuinely
dialog: puzzled)
dialog: Where's this kid been all this
dialog: time? In D'Amato's doghouse?
speaker_heading: PRESS BOX #1 119
text: Jack "Ripper" Rose also senses a turn in the destiny of
dialog: his team.
speaker_heading: HIS POV
dialog: downstairs AT Willie --
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: -- inspires him to rap excitedly at his laptop, a poet in
text: disguise describing a new major athlete... Insert (TBD).
dialog: 120
dialog: 121
dialog: 122
dialog: 123
dialog: 81.
scene_heading: MONTAGE #1 - SIDELINE #5 120
text: Willie trots off the field, looking for D'Amato, about 15
text: or 20 yards away, with daring in eyes that say, "You want
dialog: to win or not? Go fuck yourself!"... Cap, next to Tony,
text: reads the situation, but the rest of the team, standing
text: and milling, is simply awed by this new discovery.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.0.)
dialog: If I'm Tony D'Amato right now I'm
dialog: looking to the football gods
dialog: saying, 'What did I ever do to
dialog: deserve this?'
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: You bet! Tony must've been good
dialog: to a lot of widows and orphans
dialog: over the years. A back-up
dialog: quarterback like this?
speaker_heading: ON TV 121
text: Tony watching, deeply perturbed at having his plays
text: changed by this young, arrogant enigma. He keeps it
dialog: inside.
scene_heading: END OF MONTAGE #1.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: OMITTED 122
scene_heading: EXT. MANSION (MIAMI) - BOAT DOCK - NIGHT
dialog: The stars are out tonight. Establishment Miami meets
text: football jocks meets business supporters meets politicos,
text: meets sex and alcohol. It's also a charity event,
text: designed by the Sharks' P.R. Department to deliver a
dialog: Children's Needy Fund some million dollars a year, most
dialog: of which is being raised tonight -- with, naturally, the
text: colorful Mayor Tyrone Smalls in attendance.
text: Julian Washington ROARS up to the dock in a dramatic
text: CIGARETTE BOAT -- product logos for his sponsors all over
text: it. Four gorgeous girls cling to him. Flashbulbs
text: explode, the paparazzi eating this up as much as Julian.
scene_heading: INT. MANSION - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 123
text: Cap Rooney and his gorgeously-attired wife Cindy now
text: enter, the glamour couple of the party, though Cap still
text: struggles with a cane. The photographers descend on
text: them, clicking.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 123
dialog: 124
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 123
text: Watching all from a discreet corner is Tony, interrupted
text: by three FANS/BUSINESSMEN coming up to him for
text: autographs; unsuccessfully, he tries to duck away.
speaker_heading: FANS
dialog: Hey, Tony!... Coach!... How ‘bout
dialog: an autograph? etc.
scene_heading: EXT. MANSION - PODIUM - CONTINUOUS ACTION 124
text: A banner reading: CHILDREN'S FUND OF MIAMI. Flashbulbs
text: and camera idolize Christina presenting a check to MAYOR
text: TYRONE SMALLS, a boisterous Afro-American in his 60s.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: .-. So, on behalf of the Art
dialog: Pagniacci Foundation,
dialog: (with a glance to
dialog: her mom)
dialog: I'm glad to present D.A.R.E. with
dialog: this $250,000 contribution...
text: Much applause.
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (dramatic)
dialog: The city of Miami would like to
dialog: thank Christina Pagniacci, you are
dialog: a great Miamian! You have done as
dialog: much as anyone to eliminate drugs
dialog: and crime from our city streets...
dialog: -+. and your Sharks have provided
dialog: wonderful role models for our
dialog: inner-city youth to look up to.
dialog: I'm all for it, honey, now let's
dialog: get down and party!!
text: Raucous laughter. People have long come to accept the
text: Mayor's idiosyncracies. Smalls greets Christina's
text: mother, a blitzed Margaret, on the podium, escorted by Ed
text: Phillips. Also there is Andy, Christina's yawning, tired
dialog: husband.
text: Observing this in the crowd are Willie and Vanessa, who
text: feels herself out of place and underdressed for this
text: affair. She excuses herself to the ladies' room... as
text: Willie walks over to Sanderson and Julian.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (at Christina)
dialog: Definitely some nice hams -- like
dialog: to pork her when she ain't lookin’...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 124
speaker_heading: A124
dialog: 83.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 124
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: She don't want your ass, man! That
dialog: husband dude of her's got her
text: snatch locked up like Fort Knox
dialog: anyhow...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: «+. If you gonna be with a white
dialog: girl, might as well pick the right
dialog: one, got some pull, the one on top.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (overlapping)
dialog: I'm already on top. I just want to
dialog: fuck her.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (re: Margaret)
text: The ghost, baby. The High
dialog: Priestess of the Paycheck! Oooh,
dialog: tell me there aren't some fine-
dialog: looking 'dimes' here! I gotta get
dialog: me some phone numbers ' fore
dialog: Heather closes me down. What
dialog: about you?
dialog: (looking)
dialog: Vanessa policing your ass?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Don't worry your little brain none,
dialog: ‘Sandman,' I got a skeleton key
dialog: end of my dick fits all locks.
text: Fans now envelop them, singling out Julian... Vanessa,
text: returning from the bathroom, her makeup even worse now,
text: can't help but notice Willie openly gazing at women of
dialog: beauty, with finer clothes and jewels.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MANSION - GARDENS OFF VERANDA A124
text: Shark sits next to Dr. Mandrake's girlfriend TRISH, a
text: buxom 20-year-old, talking with a very rich ELDERLY
text: COUPLE and several OTHER COUPLES, who don't notice
text: Shark's hand finding its way beneath the table between
text: Trish's thighs...
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (to Elderly Couple)
dialog: «+. The point of the game, see, is
dialog: really about contact -- the more
dialog: intense the better.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: A124 CONTINUED: A124
speaker_heading: OLDER WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: Does it really hurt when you hit
dialog: someone?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Sometimes, but it's all good!
text: Trish squirms in her chair.
speaker_heading: 125 OMITTED 125
scene_heading: 126 INT. MANSION - BAR AREA 126
text: Christina is trying to get the Mayor's attention,
text: surrounded by his entourage.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: So, Tyrone, can we talk now...?
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (for all)
dialog: So, where is that bold and
dialog: beautiful quarterback of yours,
dialog: Christina?
text: Christina, put off, turns impatiently to Cap and Cindy,
dialog: approaching.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Cap, say hello to his Honor.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Pleasure to see you again, sir.
dialog: You know Cindy...?
text: They shake hands, AD LIB. As photographers snap
dialog: pictures.
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (to Cap)
dialog: Show me some love!...
dialog: (to Christina,
dialog: sotto)
dialog: ... I meant the other quarterback.
dialog: You know -- the black dude.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (overhearing)
dialog: He means Willie.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 126
dialog: 127
dialog: 85.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 126
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Oh, of course.
dialog: (sweetly)
dialog: Cap, do you think you could find
dialog: him...? Thanks. Cindy, you look
dialog: beautiful.
text: Cap and Cindy share a look of disappointment as they go.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS GALLERY 127
text: Tony and Margaret Pagniacci, leaning against an upstairs
text: railing, take in a view of the party below; Margaret
text: commenting on the AFFA Pantheon Cup ring that Tony wears
text: tonight, part of his formal wear.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ... These kinda places I keep
text: looking for an A.T.M. machine...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: «+. do you wear it often?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (offering her the
dialog: ring)
dialog: Nah. Just special occasions.
dialog: Looks too weird. I get ona
dialog: plane, I gotta check it...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (holds it lovingly)
dialog: Art wore his in bed. You know he
dialog: spent hours designing it
dialog: himself...
dialog: (ambiguous )
dialog: .+. he cut my cheek with it once.
dialog: I bled.
text: Tony is unsure how to respond.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Margaret, we need someone... a
dialog: football person out front who
dialog: can...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Tony, stop. Christina's in charge
dialog: now. It's the way Art wanted it.
text: This catches Tony off guard.
dialog: 128
dialog: 86.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS OFF VERANDA - BACK AT SHARK'S TABLE 128
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: .-. it's like, have you ever seen
dialog: a woman giving birth? -- lotta
dialog: blood, sweat, and tears, right? --
dialog: Well, football's a man's way of
dialog: having that baby!
dialog: 
text: Trish's hot, flushed face says it all. She adjusts her
text: panties under the table, allowing better access for
text: Shark's hand. The others listen intently to Shark.
speaker_heading: ELDERLY MAN
dialog: (impeccable accent)
dialog: What was your best hit, Mister
dialog: Lavay?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: +. Well, one time playing in
dialog: pouring rain, I'm deep...
dialog: (his hand moves)
dialog: «+. deep in the zone... They're
text: on top, driving. Their fullback
dialog: is stuffing the ball down our
dialog: throat every play...
text: Murmuring slightly, Trish stretches, wrapping her lips
text: around a strawberry from her dessert plate.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: He comes inside again... I'm
text: jamming full force into the
dialog: hole... wham! Fumble!
speaker_heading: TRISH
dialog: (breathless)
dialog: Ohhh! Right there...!
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Oh yeah, right then and there!..
dialog: Now the ball's bouncing free. I'm
text: groping for it, fingers all
dialog: slippery wet...
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Dr. Mandrake approaches the table.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: The fumble comes my way... only a
text: few seconds left on the clock
dialog: and...
text: He sees Trish's look. He sees Mandrake's distance.
dialog: Racing the geometry!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 128
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 128
speaker_heading: ELDERLY MAN #2
dialog: «+. Well, did you score?
text: Trish orgasms just in time -- sinks into the chair,
text: muffling her sounds with a napkin.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Hell yeah, I scored!
text: Mandrake sits next to Trish, sensing something. Trish
text: conceals her expression when he fondles her.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: What do you say we hit the road,
dialog: hon?
speaker_heading: TRISH
dialog: «++. Oh come on, Harvey, don't be a
dialog: fuddy duddy! You're always in
dialog: pajamas by...
text: Mandrake protests. Shark has removed his hand, but
text: notices Madman nearby, coming on strongly to one of the
text: local society dames who impresses him with her face jobs
text: and jewelry. His pregnant, pathetic mouse wife sits
text: alone in a corner, wanting to cry.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (vising, to the
dialog: table)
dialog: Don't go away!
dialog: (indicating Madman)
dialog: This guy's turning into my night
dialog: job. I'll be right back.
text: He moves towards the dance floor...
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: (to the lady, AD LIB)
dialog: ... What's wrong, let's you and me
dialog: cut the rug, honbun!
dialog: (pause)
dialog: C'mon, I'm not good-looking enough
dialog: for you? What do you think, I'ma
dialog: damage case...?
text: Shark grabs him by the lapels and smacks him fairly hard
text: across the face -- not discreetly. Madman registers
text: it, then wants to kill, but when he sees Shark, he
text: grunts docilely...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 128
dialog: 129
dialog: 130
dialog: 131
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 128
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Yo, Madman! I can't take your ass
dialog: nowhere!...
dialog: (emphatic, as if to
dialog: a schizophrenic)
text: Patrick's wife is in the corner,
dialog: Patrick! It's not the time to be
dialog: "Madman,' is it?
text: Shark looks sheepish.
scene_heading: INT. MANSION - BAR AREA 129
text: Mayor Smalls embraces Willie in an extravagant bear hug,
text: as Christina and others look on.
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: Be proud! You are the future of
dialog: football in this country, son!
dialog: You are a model for your people
dialog: now, Willie Beamen! A black man
dialog: unafraid! Stand tall and gimme
dialog: some sugar, boy!
text: Willie laughs, hugs the Mayor back.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You're pretty cool yourself,
dialog: Mayor...
text: A photo op develops. Vanessa goes unintroduced -- She
text: feels very hurt, not understanding why Willie would
dialog: ignore her or is he that embarrassed by her? She
text: wanders for the wrong solace over to Cindy and the other
text: wives, chatting in a small group.
scene_heading: INT. MANSION - BATHROOM 130
text: The once pristine bathroom has deteriorated. Guest
text: soaps are crushed on the floor, towels in the tub.
text: Julian and Sanderson cavort with some girls.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS OFF VERANDA 131
text: Drs. Powers and Mandrake walk together.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Sanderson's been after me for
dialog: stuff?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 131
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 89.
dialog: 131
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: He's like Jell-O. Just say no and
dialog: he'll ooze off. Guy's got an
dialog: insecurity complex the size of
dialog: China.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: What's he on?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I don't know. Rits, vikes. End
dialog: of the season I'm gonna put him in
dialog: ‘the laundry bin'
dialog: (off Powers, puzzled)
dialog: «+. Clinic...
dialog: (for Powers' benefit)
dialog: «+. quietly, Allie...
text: Mandrake senses Powers doesn't understand his approach.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Y'ever play hurt, Allie?
dialog: (off his puzzled
dialog: look)
dialog: College, high school, whatever?
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Not really. I played baseball at
speaker_heading: U.C.L.A.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Ugh! I hate baseball. Nothing
dialog: happens. Bunch of farmers
text: standing around scratching their
text: nuts looking for fly balls. In
dialog: football, we all go one way till
dialog: we get there.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Where's that?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Who the hell knows, but what
dialog: counts is...
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Sounds like socialism. Y'ever see
dialog: spikes fly in your face, Harvey --
dialog: or a line drive coming at you 100
dialog: miles per hour?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 131
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 90.
dialog: (2) 131
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (teasing)
dialog: U.C.L.A. baseball, ooh, brutal
dialog: sport!
dialog: (seriously)
dialog: Allie, we gotta work together more
dialog: -- make sure the guys get there,
dialog: know what I mean?
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (pause, concerned)
dialog: «+. We've always kept our patients
dialog: informed, Harv, it's part of the
dialog: deal...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Where, in Palm Beach? This is Zaire
dialog: here! These guys are stealing
dialog: hubcaps while you're writing
dialog: prescriptions. They have four years
dialog: to make a million dollars, that's it.
dialog: A short life but it's a goddamn
dialog: glorious one! -- as long as you
dialog: don't mess with their minds!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: I don't understand. What'd I do?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: You messed with Zanucky telling
dialog: him he'll be ready in two weeks.
dialog: What if he's ready in one week?
dialog: Then because of you he'll be
text: thinking he's not really ready.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Well, he asked me, and I...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: You what?! You know, Allie, I
dialog: know young guys would die for this
dialog: job. You're making me think I
dialog: made a stupid mistake, and I'm
dialog: gonna be embarrassed here...
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Oh, come on, Harvey! I gave up a
dialog: lot of income to come here, I...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 131
dialog: 132
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 91.
dialog: (3) 131
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Did you now? You still don't get
dialog: it, do you, sport? This is not F.
dialog: Scott Fitzgerald in white bucks
dialog: time! This is a privilege to be
dialog: here! This is a spectacle of
text: gladiators with brains for the
dialog: masses! It's a fucking brilliant
dialog: concept! And I don't care if
dialog: every one of ‘em has to play hurt
dialog: -- you, me, the team, we all play
dialog: hurt, that's life, sport...!
dialog: So do me a real favor and get off
dialog: your high horse, and get down
dialog: where the worms feed...!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MANSION - LOGGIA 132
text: Crozier tries to snag Christina's attention span.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (changing subjects)
dialog: «+. Can I be honest with you,
dialog: Christina? It's a waste of my
dialog: time. I come up with the edge we
dialog: need -- the stats, the
dialog: probabilities -- and he just looks
text: at them and shrugs -- it's like he
text: doesn't believe it.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: It's really frustrating. It's all
dialog: gotta be him -- little Napoleon
dialog: with his 'instincts'!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (looking for the
dialog: Mayor )
dialog: Be patient, Nick, when the time
dialog: comes --
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: I just want you to know I'm
dialog: getting offers, Christina, you
dialog: gotta know that. I want to stay,
dialog: but I won't waste another season
dialog: under Tony.
text: She now sees the Mayor free! and goes quickly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 132
dialog: 133
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 132
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (cryptic, to Crozier)
dialog: You won't...! I promise.
scene_heading: INT. MANSION - TEA ROOM - NIGHT 133
text: The WIVES hold court.
speaker_heading: HEATHER
dialog: If my husband doesn't get it five
dialog: or six times a week, we have
dialog: problems at home.
speaker_heading: PREGNANT WIFE
dialog: We were at that pace, but we've
dialog: slowed down a little.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER WIFE
dialog: Except on game day.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: That's when I want it most --
dialog: but with everything he's on...
speaker_heading: WIFE #1
dialog: Dexamethasone?
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: And extra-strength hydrocodeine.
speaker_heading: HEATHER
dialog: Oooh, that mix makes Jimmy crazy.
dialog: Can't get it up.
speaker_heading: MARY
dialog: Count your blessings. What's it
dialog: called again?
text: Cindy, at the top of the food chain, takes notice when
text: Vanessa appears.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Willie managing to keep his food
dialog: down tonight?
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (doesn't get it,
dialog: smiles)
dialog: He's just fine! Hi. I'm Vanessa
dialog: Struthers.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 133
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 93.
dialog: 133
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Jack had such a laugh about that!
dialog: I'm Cindy Rooney.
speaker_heading: HEATHER
dialog: Jimmy had to order new shoes.
dialog: (shaking hands)
dialog: Heather Sanderson.
text: Vanessa now understands the reference to her fiance.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Are you and Willie married?
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: No, but we've been together for --
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Doesn't count until you're
dialog: married, honey -- and your name
text: appears in the paper as ‘and wife.'
text: They all laugh.
speaker_heading: MARY
dialog: And not even then, most of the
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Do you have a job?
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: No, I'm still studying for an
dialog: M.B.A. in sports marketing. At
dialog: Dade Community College. But Willie
dialog: and I have had to move so many
dialog: times to...
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Marketing? You're a smart one, I
dialog: can tell.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: And what do you do?
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Me? Oh, I'm married to the best
dialog: quarterback in the A.F.F.A.,
dialog: that's all. I consider myself
dialog: part of a team really...
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (not sure of her
dialog: attitude)
dialog: Oh, that must be very fulfilling
dialog: for you...
dialog: 134
dialog: 94.
scene_heading: EXT. BOAT DOCK VERANDA 134
text: Christina is at last alone with the slightly-inebriated
dialog: Mayor.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Why have you been ducking me?
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: I always forget how pretty you
dialog: are, Christina.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Cut the crap, Tyrone.
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: What's this bug you got?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: «+. I want the 250 million you
dialog: promised me...
dialog: (he looks like a sphinx)
dialog: You know I can get the rest with
dialog: the bond. You said you'd give me
dialog: 100 percent support and now you're
dialog: getting cold feet just because...
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: «+. how you gonna pay it back,
dialog: darlin'?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I already told you -- we'll split
dialog: revenue on the club seats, the
dialog: corporate boxes, all the concessions,
dialog: the stadium-naming rights, and the
dialog: increase in ticket sales. There'll
dialog: be 10,000 new parking spaces. And
dialog: we'll be pulling in almost 40
dialog: million in personal seat licenses
dialog: over ten years... The concept of a
dialog: new stadium, T.J., funds the whole
dialog: deal. Without it, no...
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (mocking)
dialog: ‘Personal seat licenses' -- that's
dialog: the biggest bunch of bullshit! --
dialog: how the hell can you sell the same
dialog: seat twice? I seen some pretty
dialog: smooth scams in my time, but only a
dialog: white man could come up with that
dialog: one. The fans gonna burn you, honey.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 134
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 95.
dialog: 134
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (patiently)
dialog: .-. All the fans really care
dialog: about, Tyrone, is winning. And if
dialog: I don't have the money I need to
dialog: stay competitive, then this team
dialog: is finished! That's the bottom
dialog: line!
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: There ain't no bottom line, baby.
dialog: It's an endless fucking pit!
dialog: (genuinely)
dialog: Your team's not doin' what the
dialog: Dolphins are doin'. The schools're
dialog: howling for money, roads need
dialog: redoing, a new stadium's the last
dialog: thing on the city council's mind...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I'm not asking you to vote, T.J.
dialog: I'm asking you to deliver! We've
dialog: been backing you since Dad's time,
dialog: getting your people passes and
dialog: money they never dreamed of. We
dialog: were there for you, and...
dialog: (delicate)
dialog: .».. and if you're not there for us,
dialog: T.J., I'm telling you this... we'd
dialog: seriously consider leaving this
dialog: town.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (smiles infuriatingly)
dialog: Sweetheart, you outta here when
dialog: the city and the county says you
dialog: outta here. Your lease ain't up
dialog: for two years so don't start
dialog: setting fires you can't put out...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (sure of herself)
dialog: Oh, there's 'loopholes,' Tyrone.
dialog: Like the goddamn stadium is
dialog: falling apart, you know -- you
dialog: haven't contributed one fucking
dialog: penny to maintenance on that
dialog: relic! I remodeled the practice
dialog: facility out of my own pocket.
dialog: I...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 134
dialog: 135
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 96.
dialog: (2) 134
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (smiles )
dialog: Now that's the Pagniacci I
dialog: believe! I see your teeth!
dialog: Get down, girl!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (resisting)
dialog: -.. We're a pro team, T.J., and
dialog: we're playing in a college stadium
dialog: built in the '30s, and we're
dialog: losin' a ton of fucking money.
dialog: When are you...
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: Yadda, yadda, yadda! Daddy's
dialog: girl, you are a relative baby in
dialog: this town. Go slow. First you
dialog: get along... then you go along...
text: (puts an arm around
dialog: her)
dialog: Come on, honey, you and I known
dialog: each other too long. Your roots
dialog: are here in Miami. Why would you
dialog: want to leave? Your dad created
dialog: such love, such a foundation...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Tyrone, I'm telling you again --
dialog: time is running out and you are
text: playing with fire.
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (grins)
dialog: That's the only way I play it.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (grins back)
dialog: Then we'll see how you like it.
text: She leaves, pissed. It looks like L.A. for sure.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS OFF VERANDA 135
dialog: The party
text: is getting rowdy as Julian, Sanderson, Madman,
text: Shark, and others heat up the dance floor.
text: Cindy turns to a NASTY WOMAN whose breast implants are as
text: big as her hair.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 135
dialog: 136
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 97.
dialog: 135
speaker_heading: NASTY WOMAN
dialog: Nice dress. Nice party.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: (bored)
dialog: Thank you. Did you come here with
dialog: Julian?
speaker_heading: NASTY WOMAN
dialog: (threatened)
dialog: No, but I'm leaving with him. So
dialog: don't even think about it, honey!
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: 
dialog: Oh please.
scene_heading: EXT. BOAT DOCK VERANDA - NIGHT (FOLLOWING) 136
text: Montezuma Monroe intersects Mayor Smalls; they know each
dialog: other.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Hey, Ty.
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: What's up, brother?
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (indicating Christina)
dialog: Hi, Ty... Couldn't help hearin'
dialog: that Christina conversation...
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: Same old story, brother. Owners
dialog: crying broke, y'ever met an owner
dialog: who ain't losin' money? These guys
dialog: make extra sure the team loses money.
text: They share a knowing laugh.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: I tell ya I wish I had a fraction
dialog: of those stadium rights -- I'd take
dialog: the concessions and parking and
dialog: tickets -- that's some real bread
dialog: there...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 136
dialog: 137
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 136
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: Stadium's where it's at. Now they
dialog: invented these ‘naming rights' and
dialog: 'P.S.L.s'. It's all tricky doo.
dialog: We don't have the money for that
dialog: stadium. You guys gotta fight
dialog: through it till you have a
dialog: successful season. That's the
dialog: reality... ‘Lady Di' there thinks
dialog: she's pulling the wool over my
text: eyes and going to L.A.
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (cautiously)
dialog: -+. Now I did hear somethin' about
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: (grins)
dialog: -.. She ain't going nowhere. Keep
dialog: it tight, Monty. Either way, you
dialog: got a job here a long time to come.
text: The Mayor returns to the party as Monroe looks down into
text: the gardens for Tony. MUSIC WAFTS OUT from the party.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS OFF VERANDA 137
text: Margaret Pagniacci's holding onto Tony's AFFA ring, alone
text: with him; he's had a little too much to drink.
speaker_heading: TONY
text: ‘Life begins with a kick-off,' Art
dialog: used to say that... He was a great
dialog: man, Maggie. He was there at the
dialog: beginning. His kind, forget it!
dialog: -- dust! Now they're all...
dialog: (sees Christina
dialog: approaching)
dialog: know-it-all-E.S.P.N. analysts.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Hi, Tony... We better get going,
dialog: Mom. It's getting late.
text: Margaret rises, handing the ring to D'Amato.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: Yes it is...
dialog: (to Tony)
dialog: --. too late.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 137
dialog: 138
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 137
text: Christina wants to connect with Tony as he toys with his
dialog: ring.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: ... I remember when my dad
dialog: designed that...
dialog: (an awkward
dialog: silence)
dialog: I guess I'll have to wear mine on
dialog: a chain around my neck, huh?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: How ‘bout you win one first?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I was just trying to --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (getting up)
dialog: No. Win one first.
text: He walks away.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. WILLIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 138
text: Willie and Vanessa are fighting, tension in the air.
text: The TV is ON to the Jack Rose's "Sports Center" as Willie
text: tries to analyze his playbook, an icebag wrapped tight
text: around his right shoulder.
scene_heading: INSERT - PLAYBOOK
dialog: Shows the complexity of the system, the number of plays,
dialog: the mumbo-jumbo, which would be tough enough for any
text: student of the game to learn -- but for Willie, who is
text: unschooled, it comes hard; his frustration mounting, as
dialog: is Vanessa's.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (volatile)
dialog: ... were you embarrassed by me,
dialog: were you ashamed to introduce me
dialog: to the Mayor? Is that it...
dialog: Willie?
dialog: (as he doesn't respond)
dialog: Was it my dress...? ... what
dialog: the... Willie?!
text: Willie changes the subject, indicating the playbook.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138
speaker_heading: A138
dialog: 138
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ON TV
dialog: Meanwhile,
dialog: his guest.
dialog: 100.
dialog: 138
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Goddamn book! Thinking is dying
dialog: on that field. Doing is feeling.
dialog: Feeling is what it's all about...
dialog: (flipping pages)
dialog: I think like this, I'll get killed
dialog: out there! I gotta play my way --
dialog: like 'I'm the shit'! You don't
dialog: believe that, you are...
speaker_heading: A138
text: the deranged Jack Rose is going on and on to
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: ... At his press conference yesterday
text: -- and with a straight face -- Coach D.
dialog: says that there was no problem with the
dialog: plays and that Beamen audibled only
dialog: twice during the game. Uh-huh!... We
dialog: all know Tony the Tiger's a demonic
dialog: dude who combs his hair every which
dialog: way but up, but I tell ya this guy
dialog: could put a positive spin on toxic
dialog: waste. Is he for real? Or is it
dialog: just me who feels he was probably
dialog: coaching the day Ray Nitschke
dialog: dislocated Y.A. Tittle's shoulder?
dialog: Scary? You starting to get the
dialog: picture here, Joe?...
dialog: 138
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: -+. You're ‘the shit' all right,
dialog: Willie, lemme tell you joined a
dialog: whole lotta shits on that team!
dialog: Did you see the way that Cindy
dialog: Rooney talked to me? Was my
dialog: dress too cheap? Did you give
dialog: a shit!... She just about made me
dialog: feel like a field hand! Who the
dialog: hell does she think she is!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: What's her ass gotta do with your
dialog: ass? Jealousy look ugly on you,
dialog: Vanessa.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 101.
dialog: (2) 138
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (stung)
dialog: Oh? What was I so jealous of her
dialog: about?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I tell you what -- you're jealous
dialog: of anything! You're jealous any
text: woman who walk in a room with a
dialog: better rap or a bag or a fuckin'
dialog: hairdo! ‘Cause it's always ‘bout
dialog: class with you.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: Class!? You're talking shit!
dialog: I got more class than 90 percent
dialog: of those skinny wrinkled bitches
dialog: in that bullshit party of yours!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Sure you do...
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: Oh, Mr. Bad Ass Willie! I seen
dialog: you in action tonight, chasing the
dialog: tail on that Heather Sanderson.
dialog: (as he protests)
dialog: Why didn't you introduce her to
dialog: the goddamn Mayor, Willie, you too
dialog: ashamed to introduce me...
dialog: (near tears)
dialog: ... after all these years!
dialog: Goddamn your ass, Willie Beamen...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Baby, I wasn't even thinkin’ about
dialog: the Mayor. And I don't care about
dialog: any of those crackhead hoes! I
dialog: got one thing on my mind and one
dialog: thing alone! I gotta concentrate
dialog: on the game or I ain't gonna be
dialog: around too much longer, ya hear!
dialog: It's my shot, baby, I've gotta
dialog: grab these chips while I can.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: So whatcha really saying, ‘baby'
dialog: -- I don't look so good to you
dialog: anymore?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: bedroom.
dialog: 102.
dialog: (3) 138
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: No, you ain't listening, you...
dialog: I'm sayin' this is my time -- now!
dialog: I gotta rope the ring and that
dialog: means I can't be fucking dealing
dialog: with you running these bullshit
dialog: numbers in my head.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: No! What you mean is I'm not good
dialog: enough for you, Willie, that's
dialog: what you mean!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: There you go again! Man, for a
dialog: college graduate you are plumb
dialog: dumb! '‘'V,' you got so many damned
dialog: problems, you gotta blame everybody
dialog: else but yourself -- Cindy Rooney,
dialog: Heather Sanderson, me! Baby, you
dialog: gotta learn to chill!
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (infuriated)
dialog: ‘Chill'!? Jesus Christ, Willie,
dialog: you know when you get finished
dialog: sucking your own dick and playin'
dialog: ‘bad ass football nigger,' give me
dialog: a call sometime?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (blowing up)
dialog: You mean your ex-fiance give you a
dialog: call! You wanna come at me now!
dialog: When I'm facing this...
dialog: (hits the playbook)
dialog: Get the fuck outta here!
dialog: 
text: Willie stands, slams the playbook shut, stalks to his
text: She tries to grab him and they struggle.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Watcha want!... Don't touch my arm
dialog: like that or I'll bust your ass!
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: You gonna hit me? Oh it's like
dialog: that now? Yeah! Go ahead -- get
dialog: real, motherfucker!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: ‘Real'!? Gimme a break! Lemme
dialog: the fuck alone! (AD LIB)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 138
dialog: 139
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 138
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: I see you turning into one of them
dialog: ‘shits'! I tell you this, I'm
dialog: gonna call your mama!
text: Willie looks at her, disgusted.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Tell my mother what! Don't let my
dialog: success get to your head, bitch.
dialog: (as she protests,
dialog: "bitch!")
dialog: Go right ahead! And while you're
dialog: at it, go find yourself some
dialog: ‘wigger' who'll put up with your
dialog: petty, ‘educated’ hype, ‘cause you
dialog: gettin' on my nerves!
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: Yes I am educated and you can't
dialog: even read a goddamn playbook,
dialog: Willie Beamen, ‘cause you're
dialog: nothing but a big-ass Mama's boy
dialog: and you can take your football --
dialog: it's the only ball you got anyhow!
dialog: -- and shove it up your stuck-up
dialog: ass! ‘Cause my big, beautiful ass
dialog: you can kiss good-bye, baby!
dialog: (at the door)
dialog: And you know what! -- I will find
dialog: me a smart, m'fucking gentleman!
dialog: I'm gonna be sleeping at Darlene's
dialog: from now on. She might fuck
dialog: better'n you anyhow!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You got an ugly mouth on you,
dialog: woman! I'm real glad I gotta
dialog: chance to see it ‘fore our kids
dialog: heard it. Get your lesbian ass
dialog: outta here!
text: She slams the door violently on her way out... Willie is
dialog: really upset.
scene_heading: INT. CHARTER PLANE - DAY 139
text: D'Amato wanders back from the first-class section through
text: the aircraft. Some nap, others mingle in a subdued
text: atmosphere. He spots Willie sitting near the back of the
text: players' section by himself, wearing his headphones. He
text: approaches, waits.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 104.
speaker_heading: 139 CONTINUED: 139
text: Willie finally sees him, or pretends to, takes his
text: headset off, clears his CDs from the empty seat.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Mind if I sit down?
dialog: (as Willie nods,
dialog: Tony sits)
dialog: Whatcha listening to?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Rap.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Anyone I know?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Biggie.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: Y'ever listen to jazz?
dialog: (as Willie shrugs "who?")
dialog: .-. Coltrane, Monk, Miles Davis,
dialog: Billie Holiday?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (doesn't know them)
dialog: Don't go much for that old stuff.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Maybe I'll put together a tape for
dialog: you -- my favorites...?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I don't use no tapes. I got CDs.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: So, we'll forget about that... How
dialog: ‘bout your mama, she ever gonna
dialog: come to a game?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: .+. She thinks Sunday's for church.
text: He waits on Tony, who goes the extra yard.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. I don't know if you know this,
dialog: I lost my dad when I was young, too...
dialog: (waits)
dialog: -.. in World War Two...
dialog: (waits again)
dialog: ... if you ever want to talk about
dialog: stuff like that, I'm around...? Okay.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 139
dialog: 140
dialog: 141
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 139
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I'll get at ‘cha.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You know where to find me...
text: Willie nods, mumbling something incoherent.
scene_heading: IN FRONT SECTION 140
text: D'Amato rejoins Dr. Mandrake, reading his Wall Street
dialog: Journal.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Hell if I can figure him out.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: TONY
text: Beamen. I look in his eyes and I
dialog: see... nothing.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Man never even heard of Miles
dialog: Davis.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Tony, he probably never heard of
dialog: Joe Namath. You look like shit.
dialog: You sleeping?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I'm too tired to sleep.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: I got some great new samples for
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I bet you do.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL COFFEE SHOP (CALIFORNIA) - SUNDAY 141
text: Tony, in his game suit, has breakfast with his son, TOM,
text: a bland mid-level executive in his late 20s, with a
text: Christian fish on his lapel.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ... Really, it's no problem
dialog: getting tickets?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 141
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 106.
dialog: 141
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: (uneasy)
dialog: Well, he's really more into
dialog: basketball now.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (defeated)
dialog: .»». Yeah? How old is Timmy now --
dialog: nine, ten?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Eight. But we don't really call
dialog: him Timmy anymore...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Oh, okay... and Melinda? How's she?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: She's fine...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You look good.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I'm trying.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You talk to your mom lately?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Dad -- what do you want?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What do I want? I wanted to see you.
dialog: You're my son, for chrissake.
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I haven't talked to you for a
dialog: year. A year ago Christmas...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: +. Christ, gimme a minute, Tom,
dialog: okay? I haven't seen you in
dialog: what...
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Six years.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You never picked up the phone
dialog: either -- so don't...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 141
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 107.
dialog: (2) 141
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Why would I?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: All I ever did was...
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: (on edge)
dialog: Please don't!... When you do that
dialog: you sound like a broken record,
dialog: Dad. I get really upset...
text: Tony looks at him, wondering what he's wrought. They
text: hush as the WAITRESS brings coffee and danish.
dialog: She leaves
speaker_heading: WAITRESS
dialog: Coffee, danish? Why the long
dialog: faces?
dialog: (off no response)
dialog: Enjoy your breakfast.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. You know I'll never forget a
dialog: big mistake I made once as a
dialog: coach. I hurt someone and... I
dialog: couldn't change what I did, so I
dialog: denied it. Threw some money at
dialog: it... and then tried to forget it,
dialog: block it out.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You know what? It never goes
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: (now he's upset)
dialog: No it doesn't and it's too late,
dialog: goddamn it, okay! It's too --
dialog: excuse me for my foul thoughts,
dialog: Lord! They come not out of me --
dialog: but it's too goddamn late for that!
dialog: My son and daughter are doing
dialog: fine and you had nothing to do
dialog: with that, and that's all there
dialog: is.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Tom, come on, I... I'm sorry.
dialog: I...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 141
dialog: 142
speaker_heading: A142
dialog: 143
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 141
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Where were you on my Sundays,
dialog: when I was playing ball? Just...
dialog: just don't even try, okay!
speaker_heading: TONY
text: (now at the end
dialog: of his rope)
dialog: 
dialog: Can I just... see them? They're
dialog: my grandkids, Tom!... Please?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: (a grim pause)
dialog: +. With a child psychiatrist...
scene_heading: INT. CALIFORNIA STADIUM - DAY 142
text: Game 3. Miami Sharks at California Crusaders.
speaker_heading: FIELD #1
text: The Crusaders' wide receiver runs deep against the Miami
text: DB, nearly catching a 50-yard pass at the Miami 5-yard
text: line... A yellow penalty flag flies through the air.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #1 A142
scene_heading: MIAMI 7, CALIFORNIA 14. SECOND QUARTER. 4:49...
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: Interference on Miami. That will
dialog: hurt! A tight game here! Looks
dialog: like a man's down now... At the
text: line of scrimmage, it looks like
dialog: the 'Shark' -- Luther Lavay!
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #1 143
text: Tony is livid at REFEREE #1, not noticing Shark.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Where was the interference??!!...
dialog: Do you realize... No!... You are
dialog: giving away 45 yards! Get the
dialog: replay! I'll trade you a time-out
dialog: for it, you... ugh, ugh!
text: REFEREE #2 trots by Tony, who jogs alongside, to get his
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 143
dialog: 144
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 109.
dialog: 143
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Charlie, give me a goddamn break.
dialog: I know this is L.A., I don't know
dialog: nobody here, but give us a chance
dialog: anyway!
dialog: (indicating Referee #1)
dialog: Where's that guy from? El Cajon,
dialog: Hawthorne, Beverly Hills, what?
speaker_heading: REFEREE #2
dialog: Get back in the coaching box...
text: Tony shares his frustration with Cap Rooney, in street
text: clothes for the game, and Crozier upstairs; Cherubini is
text: relaying the signals to Willie on the field.
speaker_heading: FIELD #2
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What can you do? What can you do?
dialog: The system's fucked! I mean games
dialog: are being decided by zebras in
dialog: stripes. It's just not fair!
dialog: (then)
dialog: What the fuck is ‘fair' anyway?
dialog: 144
text: Shark lies on the field, moaning. Mandrake, Powers and
dialog: Trainer #1
dialog: test his joints.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Squeeze my fingers.
dialog: (as Shark does so)
dialog: Great! Do you know where we are?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (woozy)
dialog: -+. I know it ain't Munchkinland.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Who we playing against?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Those ugly motherfuckers.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Who's your quarterback?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: That pretty motherfucker.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 144
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Well you don't see me playing
dialog: possum, do you, Shark? I think
dialog: you can get up now.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Fuck, this is embarrassing! Doc,
dialog: don't let me pull a Willie Beamen.
dialog: 110.
dialog: 144
text: Powers and the Trainers help drag Shark to his feet.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #2
text: The crowd cheers for Shark, coming off, as..
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (at Monroe)
dialog: What the hell is going on, Monty!
dialog: 
dialog: They're leaking and you don't know
dialog: where. Fix it, goddamnit. Don't
dialog: yell and don't make faces and all
dialog: that bullshit! Just fix it!
text: He leaves Monroe a study in total, betrayed
dialog: frustration...
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #1
text: Willie feels loose.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (singling out
dialog: Sanderson)
dialog: Okay, ‘'Sandman,' they should show
dialog: cloud coverage here and lock Ice
text: on the cross. The middle will be
dialog: open. Right deuce gun, F-shoot,
dialog: 60 Snake Eyes. On three. Ready!
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Hey, man, we can't run Snake Eyes
dialog: in the red zone!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: J-man, you can get on my page or
dialog: you can shut the fuck up! On three.
dialog: Ready!
text: They break. Sanderson hangs back a beat.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: How the hell you see that?
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 111.
speaker_heading: 146 CONTINUED: 146
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I see things better, brother.
dialog: I see the future. Your guy
dialog: trailing you on your inside
dialog: route. Bend a little and hit the
dialog: slim post.
text: As they move to the line of scrimmage, Madman is lost.
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: I block the outside backer?
dialog: Les'... help me?
speaker_heading: McKENNA
dialog: You got the nose guard.
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Nose. Face. Yeah.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set Blue 468, Blue 468! Hut!
dialog: Hut! Hut!
speaker_heading: 147 SIDELINE #3 147
text: Montezuma Monroe is rampaging up and down before his
text: unit, pissed beyond words.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: They think you're a bunch of low-
dialog: brow Neanderthal shitheads! They
dialog: think they're gonna gut you and
dialog: leave you lying on the highway
dialog: with your insides hanging out for
dialog: the buzzards -- !
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (a huge migraine
dialog: of his own)
dialog: Coach, you're gonna have a stroke.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: I don't GET strokes, motherfucker,
dialog: I GIVE ‘em!
text: A cry of grief from the crowd stops him. Monroe spins to
text: the field to see a mad brawl of players for a Shark
text: fumble -- a Crusaders player comes up with the ball!
text: And worse! At the line of scrimmage, Leslie McKenna, the
text: right guard, is down.
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: 148 SIDELINE #4 148
text: As REFEREE #3 signals the California first down to a
text: joyous echo from the home crowd, Tony is screaming at
text: Referee #3 who jogs over to him.
speaker_heading: REFEREE #3
dialog: (wearily)
dialog: What is it with you, Coach?!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Goddamn it, Sammy, his knee was
dialog: down! He was down by a mile.
dialog: Both knees were down. Give me a
dialog: goddamn break in this town -- that
dialog: was no fumble!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: REFEREE #3
dialog: To be honest, Tony -- I didn't
dialog: really see it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (a beat, shrugs)
dialog: To be honest, Sammy, neither did
dialog: I.
text: Referee #3 shakes his head and runs back to the field as
text: Mandrake hurries over to Tony.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Tony -- bad news! Looks like
text: McKenna's got a distended knee,
dialog: torn everything, bloody nightmare
dialog: -- he's out!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: If he's lucky -- Easter.
text: Tony hurries towards Leslie McKenna in great pain --
text: being helped off the field by Dr. Powers and trainer #2.
speaker_heading: 149 SIDELINE #5 149
text: Julian and Willie are going at it hotly.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: The play was Snake Eyes Right --
dialog: Right!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I knew the goddamn play! --
dialog: Couldn't you see them adjusting?!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 149
dialog: 150
dialog: 113.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 149
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: You didn't audible shit!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I called the color, man! You just
dialog: missed it ‘cause of that wax in
dialog: your ears. Hey, 'Sandman,' didn't
dialog: I audible?
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: I dunno, man. Don't get me
dialog: involved.
text: Tony approaches, dominates.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Knock it off -- all of you! This
dialog: goddamn screw-up cost us McKenna
dialog: for the season! Why don't you
dialog: both think about that for one
dialog: goddamn minute! Sit down -- the
dialog: bunch of you!
dialog: (walking away, to
dialog: Crozier, on the
dialog: headset )
dialog: Goddamn it, Nick, you do your job
dialog: and get him under control before
dialog: he gets anyone else hurt!
text: He notices a film crew in his face, recording all of
text: this; this brings him to the very edge.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Whatta you doing!! Get outta here
dialog: before I kick your butts!!... Get
dialog: ‘em out!
text: Security quickly closes down the lens.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #6 150
text: The Crusaders sweep towards the Miami sideline, its big
text: offensive line leading. This time the Miami defense
text: penetrates them and gang-tackles the running back.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Monroe)
dialog: Awright! More like it! You look
dialog: alive!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 150
speaker_heading: A150
dialog: 151
dialog: 114.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 150
text: He turns away, eyeing the scoreboard, as his offense runs
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (sarcastic)
dialog: Thank you, boss.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #2 A150
scene_heading: CALIFORNIA 21, MIAMI 10. THIRD QUARTER 8:57...
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #2 151
text: Willie suddenly breaks from it and pukes quietly, into
text: the turf, clears his throat.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Oh my God. He's done it again!
dialog: (needling Kevin)
dialog: You know, that reminds me of the
dialog: night...
text: Willie walks back to the huddle, to his teammates.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I apologize -- I had to get that
dialog: out of my system.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Hey, man, if that's your thing,
dialog: just stay off my shoes...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Okay. Let's go. Deuce Right Dog
dialog: 90 Smoke. On three. Jimmy one,
dialog: Andy two, J-man outlet flat.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Right. Don't force it in if --
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I_got it! I'mthere! I'ma
dialog: righteous motherfucker! On three!
dialog: Ready?
speaker_heading: FIELD #3
text: They break and move to the ball. Willie scans the
text: defense, loose, enjoying himself.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 151
speaker_heading: A152
dialog: 153
dialog: 154
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 151
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set Green 21! Green 21! Hut!
dialog: Hut! Hut!
text: Willie checks off his receivers as they speed downfield,
text: pumps once; the offensive line protecting him strongly.
text: Two L.A. corners blanket Sanderson -- but Julian is open,
text: waiting in the flat.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Willie!!
text: Willie ignores him, his eyes downfield -- a Crusaders'
text: lineman is almost on him when Madman slams him aside at
text: the last moment... Willie takes the shot -- it's a dead
text: perfect pass, threading the microscopic gap between two
text: Crusaders' defenders. Sanderson spins in midair so that
text: the nose of the ball crosses the goal line just as he is
text: slammed backwards by the backs -- too late -- the Ref's
dialog: arms shoot up -- touchdown!
text: Willie races down the field and grabs Sanderson, both of
text: them breaking into a funky dance.
speaker_heading: FIELD #4 A152
text: Upfield, Julian, not very happy, heads for the sideline.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #7 153
text: As Willie comes off, Tony hugs him in a familiar,
text: paternal way, which surprises Willie. Cap Rooney
dialog: witnesses.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Don't fuck with a man's ritual,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: ‘Blaze the hot sands.’
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I never understand a goddamn word
dialog: you say.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: It's all good, boss.
scene_heading: TIME CUTS TO:
speaker_heading: OMITTED 154
dialog: 155
dialog: 152
dialog: 156
dialog: 116.
speaker_heading: FIELD #5 155
text: Willie runs an option pass for 26 yards, and when he is
text: pounded into the turf, jumps right up and taunts the
dialog: defense.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You_gotta hit harder than that,
dialog: baby! I can't feel it!
text: Which makes them want to kill him -- but Madman and
text: several others step in to separate Willie.
speaker_heading: FIELD #6
text: Willie, pursued by linemen and almost off balance, throws
text: an incredible long bomb, hitting his third receiver; the
text: ball travels almost 60 yards in the air. The receiver
dialog: runs it in for a touchdown!
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Wow! As the Sharks go into their
dialog: bye week, the story here has got
dialog: to be Willie Beamen! He's running
dialog: -- he's throwing -- he's rockin'
dialog: and rollin' and shuckin' and
text: jivin'. He's flat out steamin'.
dialog: This magic Sunday, he's 'Steamin'
dialog: Beamen' !
scene_heading: GUEST OWNER'S BOX #1 152
text: Christina, with local friends, studies her new
dialog: phenomenon.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #3
scene_heading: MIAMI 24, CALIFORNIA 21.
scene_heading: INT. VISITOR'S LOCKER ROOM (L.A.) - LOCKER ROOM #1 156
dialog: - 6 PM
text: The Shark locker room seems too small to contain the
text: combustible energy of these larger-than-life men.
text: Sanderson and other "Dawgs" rally to the BOOM BOX.
text: Perhaps Willie joins in briefly...
text: Coach D'Amato circulates, congratulations all around...
dialog: Cap doesn't have much to do, hanging. In the b.g., the
text: doctors and trainers are busy.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 156
dialog: 117.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 156
text: Madman opens a locker which is a shrine to the band
text: Metallica. Madman puts one of their CDs on a portable
dialog: player.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Oh, man, not that shit again!... I
dialog: don't know why I even acknowledge
dialog: this m'fucking psycho!
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: (to Shark)
dialog: Metallica are gods! We live to
dialog: serve them! We should bow!
text: As the MUSIC of "SO WHAT" CRANKS, others protest loudly
text: (AD LIB). Madman ignores them all, banging out the rhythm
text: on his locker.
text: Elsewhere, Smitty, the Christian, walks up to Willie.
speaker_heading: SMITTY
dialog: (coming up to Willie)
dialog: Say, Willie, some of us guys, we
dialog: have a little Bible study group
dialog: that meets every Monday. It's no
dialog: big deal, we just read some and
dialog: talk. They say ‘There's no
text: atheists in foxholes.
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: We'd sure like it if you could
dialog: join us?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SMITTY
dialog: Oh super!... May I ask if you're a
dialog: Christian?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Fuck you, Smitty.
speaker_heading: SMITTY
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: How long I been on this team --
dialog: six months? In all that time you
dialog: ever spoke to me? Now I win two
dialog: games and you want me to join your
dialog: Bible study group? Fuck you.
text: Smitty moves off...
dialog: 118.
scene_heading: 157 JULIAN WASHINGTON 157
text: is throwing on his $3,000 suit, busy on his cell, while
text: Willie watches nearby.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Forget Doritos! I can do Ruffles, too.
dialog: One's a corn chip and the other's
dialog: a potato chip, don't you get it?
dialog: Tell them I got two different
dialog: burger franchises and they don't
dialog: give me no static like that!...
dialog: 
text: Willie catches Julian before he exits.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Hey, J-man, can I talk to you a
dialog: sec?
dialog: (off no response)
dialog: Say, good game today. You know if
dialog: I'm faking the hand-off to you, it
dialog: looks stupid you don't act like
dialog: you're getting the ball, money...
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Whatcha you saying, you...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Y'ever see a movie? You know,
dialog: there's the king, right? But he
dialog: ain't no king till the other
text: actors bow when he walk in the
dialog: room, right? He's just this actor
dialog: dude... same with us, J. I'm the
dialog: Q.B., but you gotta act like I am
dialog: the Q.B., you get it, ‘cause if you
dialog: ain't pretending, it's a fake, it
dialog: make me look like some dumb-ass
dialog: turkey out there runnin' around
text: trying to throw a pass they all
dialog: know is comin’...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Who you talkin' to, you afro
dialog: m'fucker! You a king in your own
dialog: mind, bitch! You out there
dialog: ‘bowing' to settle your own
dialog: bullshit, don't ever approach me
dialog: again, faggot!!
scene_heading: 158 TRAINING AREA #1 158
text: Dr. Mandrake stitches Sanderson's cut chin, pulling out a
dialog: tray of bandages:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 158
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 119.
dialog: 158
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (agitated)
dialog: I gotta come down, Doc. My teeth
dialog: are ice cubes, man!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Try sex, you're making me look
dialog: bad. League's already questioning
dialog: my benzo prescriptions.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Man, you're useless! What the
dialog: fuck we need a doctor for then?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: You don't! We're just corporate
dialog: automatons anyway. No fault. No
dialog: choice. No lawsuit. The way all
dialog: society is going. It's you
dialog: overpaid m'fuckers wrecked the
dialog: party anyway -- ‘my body is worth
dialog: 50 million in bones, muscle, and
dialog: tissue, blah blah blah!' You
dialog: prescribe some spoiled crybaby the
dialog: wrong thing and you're on your way
dialog: to re-education camp in Hanoi.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Hanoi?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Vietnam?... Never mind. Or is it
dialog: New York now? Corporate culture,
dialog: baby! I'm actually one of the few
dialog: good guys left -- I stretch it a
dialog: bit for you boneheads.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (reacting to stitch)
dialog: Ow!! You sure stretching this
dialog: stitch, man!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (musing aloud)
dialog: You have no idea what it was like
dialog: in the old days, 'Sandman' --
dialog: nobody'd give a shit. I mean we
dialog: were kings. No goddamn random
text: urine tests, no ‘spook police’...
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Shit we'd force you to take the
dialog: pills -- like candy. You could
text: walk onto the field with a syringe
dialog: in your ass and nobody'd notice...
dialog: but it's over -- like the weather.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 158
dialog: 159
dialog: 120.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 158
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Weather?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: El Nino!... Current change? Global
dialog: warming?... Hello?
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: You out of your mind.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: -+. All ‘cause the association's
dialog: worth too much money -- now it's
dialog: bigger than Coca-Cola or Disney...
dialog: (as Sanderson is
dialog: puzzled)
dialog: Forget it.
dialog: (re: the bandages)
dialog: So what do you want -- Bugs Bunny,
dialog: Daffy Duck, Tweety?
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: You got Spiderman?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: If I had Spiderman I woulda said I
dialog: had Spiderman. I got Batman.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (brightening up)
dialog: Oooh, fox alert at 4 o'clock!...
dialog: Daddy's girl ambulating... Queen
dialog: Christina is here!
speaker_heading: LOCKER ROOM #2 159
text: The mood in the locker room shifts quickly as Christina
text: Pagniacci enters, escorted by two security guards in
text: suits with earphones -- along with her VPs. In a good
text: mood, she passes most of the no-name players, signalling
text: or calling out to some of her stars (AD LIB)... Cap
text: notices her not "seeing" him; Joe Polito makes up for it,
text: coming over to him, as she approaches Willie.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (at her charming
dialog: best)
dialog: Willie, congratulations, you were
dialog: great! Really exciting to watch
dialog: out there!!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 159
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 121.
dialog: 159
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (a winning smile)
dialog: I thrill to chill, ma'am.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Two in a row! ‘Whatever it takes'
dialog: -- right. You make me excited
dialog: about the future again...
text: Others look on at the two of them.
dialog: Willie, in
text: his jockstrap, is coming on to Christina ina
text: cheeky, street way, showing off his muscles. Christina,
text: accustomed to locker rooms and not seeing her players in
dialog: any way as
dialog: he doesn't
text: competitive with her husband, ignores the fact
text: add one stitch of clothing to his jock.
text: Willie senses this gulf and will come to resent it as
text: another synecdoche for the owner/player class structure.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: «+. I hope you don't mind, but you
dialog: handle yourself real good in
dialog: business and all. I don't B.S.,
dialog: Miss Pagniacci, but you do it to
dialog: me. How'd you like to hook up for
dialog: a drink, or something quiet...?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (a little surprised)
dialog: .-. I'm flattered, Willie, I
dialog: really am, but I'm married. I've
dialog: just never dated players. It
dialog: gives the wrong impression.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You mean you're influenced by what
dialog: other people think?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I think we all are, in business,
dialog: Willie... So, come by tomorrow and
dialog: we'll talk. I think you'll like
dialog: what you're gonna hear... okay?
dialog: (smiles, corrects
dialog: his punctuation)
dialog: Pagniacci.
text: She exits. Her eyes catching Tony, on the fly, through
text: a cubicle window -- huddled with Rooney, Crozier,
text: and Julian in the cramped visiting coach's office.
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: 160 COACH'S OFFICE #1 160
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: «+. Reebok got this whole ad
dialog: campaign ready to go the
dialog: minute I hit 2,000 yards. But
dialog: it's ABC, man, I don't get the
dialog: ball -- I don't get my stats -- I
dialog: don't get my money -- and I like
dialog: gettin' my money.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: This team isn't about your damn
dialog: stats!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: For that matter, you're lucky
dialog: we're not keeping track of your
dialog: blocking 'stats,' J...
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: What's that mean?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What's that mean? It means y'ever
dialog: try blocking for a change, J?
dialog: It's not that bad an idea...
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: I'm sick of hearing that shit!
dialog: I'm tryin', but blocking's for
dialog: those Clydesdale horses, man. You
dialog: don't use a thoroughbred to block.
dialog: You run his ass.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: That's a winning attitude, kid.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: How much you payin' that 300-pound
dialog: blocker, man? Let him block,
dialog: ‘cause he sure can't run.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (to Tony)
dialog: ... Look, J-man's got a point --
text: Beamen's not doing his homework.
text: He isn't studying the playbook, he
dialog: doesn't come in to look at any
dialog: films, he doesn't even know the
dialog: damn names of the defensive
text: players he's facing. He doesn't
dialog: give a geewhiz about anything or
dialog: anybody! He just wants to make
dialog: the plays by himself --
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 160
dialog: 161
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 123.
dialog: 160
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: He's young! He doesn't know how
dialog: to ‘read' like you do, Cap.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Fuck that! He's changing the
dialog: plays, man -- all the goddamn
dialog: time!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What? What do you mean he's
dialog: changing the plays?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: I said he's changing the plays --
dialog: in the huddle. The plays you
dialog: designed that I loved. Just does
dialog: what he likes.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: In the huddle?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: I'm not talking audibles, Coach.
dialog: Today he did it all day long.
dialog: Kid's dissing this play, that
dialog: play, saying, 'I gotta better
dialog: play.'
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Hey, guys, we won. What's the
dialog: point here?!
text: Tony's thinking about it.
speaker_heading: SHOWERS #1
dialog: 161
text: Players dance to a BOOMBOX PLAYING in the shower...
text: Madman tries to join in but looks ridiculous and they
dialog: trash him
text: cruelly. Willie showers next to Shark, who,
text: unseen, seems to lose his balance, grabs onto a shower
dialog: head...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (to Shark)
dialog: So guess what? Coach suddenly
dialog: asks me to dinner. Orders me
dialog: morelike.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 161
dialog: 162
dialog: belt.
dialog: 124.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 161
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (after a pause)
dialog: Hey, that means you made it, kid!
dialog: When Coach D. thinks you're the
dialog: real deal he brings you over to
dialog: his house and shows you his
dialog: trophies and shit and makes the
dialog: most godawful jambalaya you ever
dialog: tasted. One thing though, you
dialog: better bring flowers -- Coach gets
dialog: really pissed off if you don't
dialog: bring flowers.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Flowers?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Some petunias or something. Trust
dialog: me... When?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Saturday.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: That's cool, I'm having a bash at
dialog: my place for bye week. Wife and
dialog: kids are up North. Gonna be a
dialog: lotta trim, so don't go bringin'
dialog: no sand to the beach, dawg...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Hey, I'm a born again ladies man!
text: Madman now retaliates, throwing a baby ALLIGATOR into
text: the shower, the tiny reptile terrifying most of these
text: behemoths with its HISSING jaws.
speaker_heading: LOCKER ROOM #4 162
text: Cap Rooney catches Willie's eye as the latter throws on
text: some frayed jeans, a beeper and cell phone hooked to his
text: Adjusting his shades and headphones, he's about to
dialog: leave when:
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: The thing about a team, kid, is
dialog: you can try to lead ‘em. But
dialog: will anyone follow? You don't
dialog: play for the team, the team's not
dialog: gonna play for you. Go out there
dialog: on your own, you'll die out there
dialog: on your own... 'kimmo sabe'?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Say, Cap, how old are you now?
text: Willie rolls on out -- barely avoiding the press -- who
text: gather around Shark. Shark, in his underwear, puts his
text: sunglasses on, bothered by the camera lights.
speaker_heading: SHARK REPORTER
dialog: Say, Shark, what were you thinking
dialog: when you came out of that
dialog: concussion?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: What was I thinking? What're all
dialog: these white guys doing standing
dialog: around here looking at me, that's
dialog: what I was thinking, what a
dialog: dumb-ass question! Next?
text: Which cracks up the reporters.
scene_heading: TRAINER'S OFFICE #1
text: Cameras mounted, the room lit, Jack Rose has the first go
text: at Tony, a tiny tape recorder in his palm.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: So what were you telling Beamen on
dialog: the sideline, Coach?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (warily)
dialog: I was telling him how much I loved
dialog: him.
text: They laugh.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: ("friendly" smile)
dialog: Follow-up question. You think
dialog: your boys could've won the game
dialog: without him, Coach?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Why is it every time you ask me a
dialog: question, Jack, it sounds like,
dialog: "so, did you beat your wife?' You
dialog: goddamn know I don't have a wife,
dialog: Jack, and you know I don't play
dialog: golf and I hate fishing,
dialog: barbecuing, and boating. I
dialog: guess... wall-staring, I'm pretty
dialog: good at that.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
dialog: 163
dialog: 164
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 126.
dialog: 163
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You still didn't answer the
dialog: question, Tony...?
text: It's like a routine between them -- on the edge of
dialog: danger.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: No I didn't because I tell you
dialog: what, this is what I got to say to
dialog: you about the game, Jack: Fuck
dialog: you, you stink, you know you
dialog: stink, you wouldn't know the
dialog: truth if it was in your own
dialog: shit -- so go talk to one of
dialog: these poor innocent schmuck
dialog: kids you can misquote and
dialog: destroy... Okay?!
dialog: (loud, walking away)
dialog: Hey, didn't we win! Didn't we
dialog: beat L.A.! Two in a row!
dialog: We're back!
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The reporters are somewhat stunned by Tony's erratic
dialog: behavior.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - TWILIGHT 164
text: Dr. Mandrake is exiting quickly, but Dr. Powers manages
text: to catch up to him.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (to Mandrake)
dialog: «+. There's something wrong with
dialog: Shark.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Wow! Brilliant deduction! Did
dialog: you go to medical school for that?
speaker_heading: POWERS
text: He's having trouble focusing. His
text: hand-eye coordination's deteriorating
dialog: and his memory, when I...?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: He's fucked up! They're all
dialog: fucked up! Their job is getting
dialog: fucked up! The crazier they get,
dialog: the more the crowd likes them.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: 164 CONTINUED: 164
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (undeterred)
dialog: Harv, this is not professional
dialog: wrestling. He needs a head M.R.I.
dialog: and M.R.A.
text: Mandrake stops.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: You're not even here six months,
dialog: Allie! You're gonna order a
dialog: 20 thousand dollar test for every
dialog: nutcase on this team?
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: He could have a subdural hematoma,
text: intracranial bleeding...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Or he just could be a crazy
dialog: fucker, okay! Listen, every
dialog: Sunday these guys walk out onto
dialog: that field, they only got one
dialog: thing and one thing alone going
dialog: for 'em -- their confidence!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You start chipping away at that
dialog: with a bunch of unnecessary
dialog: testing and we can kiss the
dialog: playoffs good-bye.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Who's ‘'we,' Harv?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: ‘We'! The team! Heading into the
dialog: playoffs, you... you innocent!
dialog: Television income triples. Yes!
dialog: Bonuses! B.M.W.s! '‘We,' -- the
dialog: team, what's wrong with that?!
text: Mandrake, agitated, resumes walking. Powers follows.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Are you saying I can't give Shark
dialog: the tests?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Jesus Christ!... I'll take care of
dialog: it, I'll get you the results!
dialog: (as Powers starts
dialog: to object)
dialog: I've earned their trust, Allie.
dialog: You haven't. Good night.
dialog: 165
dialog: 166
speaker_heading: E166
dialog: 128.
scene_heading: EXT. CALIFORNIA CRUSADERS STADIUM - TWILIGHT 165
text: Madman now walks out, wearing an upside-down jockstrap
text: around his forehead. The waiting fans and miscellaneous
text: REPORTERS love it, snapping pictures... Willie, following,
text: is surrounded and held back by a mob of fans and shouted
text: questions, requests, photographs (AD LIBS). He tries to
text: accommodate, but is overwhelmed.
scene_heading: TUNNEL REPORTER #1
dialog: Willie!... You got 100 yards
dialog: rushing today, how ‘bout that?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (over the kids)
dialog: Ain't it amazing how fast a human
dialog: body can move when it's being
text: chased by 4.6 raptors who weigh
dialog: more'n my mama!
text: They're laughing.
scene_heading: TUNNEL REPORTER #2
dialog: Hey, Willie! What's it feel like
dialog: one day to be nobody, next day the
dialog: whole world knows you?
text: The question gives Willie pause. He fields it
text: gracefully.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I was always a star, you just
dialog: didn't know it. But who says it's
dialog: ‘the whole world'? -- How
dialog: important's football when two
dialog: billion Chinese never even heard
dialog: of it?
text: He has a natural charm and the press seems to like him
text: for now... Other players walk by, ignored -- Shark among
text: them, with Monroe, spotting Willie.
speaker_heading: SHARK
text: Baby, the sharks are in the water.
scene_heading: MONTAGE #2 - WILLIE BEAMEN'S RISE 166
text: Set to a RAP SONG, "I'm Willie Beamen."
scene_heading: EXT. SOUTH BEACH - DAY E166
text: The Met-Rx image tied to Willie appears on the side of a
text: Miami bus as Willie exits a beautiful hotel, two babes in
text: tow, and enters his shiny new yellow Suburban, accompanied
text: by a new agent, Wayne Mercer. Pointing to the moving bus:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: E166
speaker_heading: A166
speaker_heading: B166
speaker_heading: D166
dialog: 129.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: E166
speaker_heading: MERCER
dialog: Y'see, while you're sleeping I'm
dialog: working. There he goes! Bus
dialog: boy!... Creamin' Beamen!...
text: They can't help laughing at the hugeness of it all.
scene_heading: MONTAGE #2 - EXT. SOUTH BEACH - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DAY A166
text: As the SONG CONTINUES, our players fool around at a touch
text: football game against a group of sexy beach girls.
text: Goofing off, Willie -- the cynosure of many eyes --
text: suddenly pulls up, grimacing, his throwing shoulder
text: cramping on him. He conceals the pain and continues on.
scene_heading: MONTAGE #2 - INT. MEDICAL FACILITY - CONTINUOUS ACTION- B166
speaker_heading: DAY
text: The flash and THROB of MEDICAL MACHINERY as Dr. Mandrake
text: supervises Shark undergoing his MRI...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: American women don't fuck 'cause
dialog: they're too fucked up to begin
dialog: with...
dialog: (removing the comic
dialog: book Shark's
dialog: reading)
dialog: We don't want to confuse your
dialog: brains with Spawn's, now do we?
scene_heading: MONTAGE - INT. CAP ROONEY'S HOUSE - GYM - CONTINUOUS D166
scene_heading: ACTION - NIGHT
text: In his state-of-the-art home gym, a sweating Cap Rooney
text: is going through an intense workout -- fly- motions and
text: windmills on a Swiss ball. A supervising, sleepy trainer
text: #3 reads a magazine in the corner, as Cindy Rooney enters
text: in a sexy nightgown.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: Yo, Rocky, enough! You're gonna
dialog: hurt yourself...
text: Cap ignores her.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: You're gonna hurt yourself...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: D166
speaker_heading: C166
dialog: 166
dialog: 167
dialog: 130.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: D166
text: Cap comes off the ball, checks his body fat and heart
text: rate on an intricate sports computer showing him at
dialog: 7.5 percent body fat.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (finally)
dialog: .+. kid's breathin' down my neck.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: (confused)
dialog: He's not even close! You're the
dialog: man.
text: Cap looks at her hard, his look saying: He's closer than
dialog: you think.
scene_heading: MONTAGE #2 - INT. MIAMI PRACTICE CENTER - GYM - C166
scene_heading: CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT
text: Willie works out with a crew of powerful teammates...
text: Later, he is still there, alone. His eyes burn into the
text: wall-size mirrors with compulsive determination.
scene_heading: MONTAGE #2 - EXT. HOTEL SWIMMING POOL - CONTINUOUS 166
speaker_heading: ACTION - DAY
text: Willie now shoots a "Met-Rx" commercial. He's ina
text: bathing suit, body beautifully chiseled as girls by the
text: dozen surround him... singing his own rap song.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
speaker_heading: (song TBD)
dialog: ‘My name is Willie... Willie
dialog: Beamen... an' I keep the ladies
dialog: screamin', oh yeah!... creamin'
dialog: for my semen. Say hey, I'm
dialog: Willie Beamen! etc...
text: As the SONG and MONTAGE #2 END AT...
scene_heading: EXT. PRACTICE FIELD #2 (#2 OF 3) - DAY 167
text: Coach D'Amato and the QB Coach watch Willie and Rooney
text: throwing side-by-side. Cap is still feeling pain in his
text: lower back and legs; his passes are off, and he realizes
dialog: it; whereas Willie's passes are on the money, sometimes
text: too much so. One bullet pass bounces out of Sanderson's
text: gut, burning his fingers, cursing.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 167
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 131.
dialog: 167
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Willie)
dialog: .-. less on the ball, Willie! You
dialog: want a cool, tight spiral... and
dialog: don't pat the ball, you...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Tight as fish pussy, Coach. ‘I'm
dialog: the man'!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ‘You're the man.’ I repeat, don't
dialog: pat the ball so much. They can
dialog: see it!
dialog: (to QB Coach)
dialog: What'd he say?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Said I'm as tight-ass cool as the
dialog: other side of my pillow, Coach...
text: Tony shakes his head as Willie this time completes a
text: hard, precise spiral to his tight end.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to QB Coach)
dialog: I need an interpreter... Awright,
dialog: Cap, sit it out.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I'm fine.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You got the balls, we all know
dialog: that -- now take a rest.
text: Rooney, pissed, moves to the sidelines, Tony, sensing his
text: unrest, follows... as Christina, keeping an eye on her new
text: star, arrives with Willie's agent in tow...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What do you want! You're off,
dialog: but...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Hey, I've been on for twelve years
text: and two rings, gimme a break.
dialog: I've played hurt before. No big
dialog: deal.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: We're gonna go with Willie against
dialog: the Emperors...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 167
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 132.
dialog: (2) 167
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Are you kidding me?! Are you...
dialog: (wants to swear)
dialog: kidding me -- ?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Rock...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I'm ready to play, Tony!
dialog: Goddamit!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Listen to me. I want you to rest
dialog: up until the playoffs. It doesn't
dialog: mean enough against the Emperors
dialog: for you to risk...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Home field advantage don't mean
dialog: enough? Since when...?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: It's not the big one, Cap. We can
dialog: win at home or on the road with
dialog: you. You know it's the smart thing
dialog: to do. And one thing you always
dialog: were was smart, Cap -- smarter than
dialog: you were dumb.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Is this how it starts, Tony? I
dialog: know the way your mind works, man.
dialog: ‘Rest up.' Let the kid take a few
dialog: games. You were great, but time
dialog: marches on, huh?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: That's not what I'm saying --
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: The heck it's not! I know the
dialog: game of football!
text: Cap walks away, crossing Willie on his way off the field.
text: He slaps the back of his helmet hard.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Get all pretty for the cameras,
dialog: poster boy!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: What the -- ?!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 167
dialog: 168
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 133.
dialog: (3) 167
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: ... They love you today but a
dialog: season's 16 games, kid. It's how
dialog: you live through the bad ones
dialog: that makes you a quarterback,
dialog: not a punk!
scene_heading: INT. SHARK CENTER LOCKER ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION - DAY 168
text: Mandrake walks alongside Christina, through an empty
text: locker room.
dialog: Mandrake,
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: «+. the bottom line is Rooney's
dialog: some kind of medical miracle. He
dialog: really could be ready for New York.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: You told anyone, Harvey?
text: thinking she would be pleased, shakes his head,
text: realizes what she's really thinking.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: -.. ‘Course he'd have to take a
dialog: lot of pain and his ankle's not 100
dialog: percent. But he will. He's got
dialog: the mind of an ox. He's so
dialog: freaked about Beamen stealing his
dialog: job, he'd probably play with a
text: fractured neck.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Harvey... could you slow him down?
dialog: Tell him he's not responding to
dialog: rehab well enough -- just till
dialog: the playoffs. Give Beamen his
dialog: shot...?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Well... everyone knows herniated
dialog: discs are 'iffy.' I could
dialog: recommend...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (moves on)
dialog: What about Shark?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: He's still woozy, got bad
text: migraines. Post-concussive
dialog: syndrome.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 134.
speaker_heading: 168 CONTINUED: 168
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Can you clear him?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (almost laughs)
dialog: «+. you mean which shell is the
dialog: real peanut under?
dialog: (hesitates)
dialog: Three concussions the last five
dialog: months? There's no way to predict
dialog: what another head-hit would do,
dialog: Christina...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: How come Dallas had their
text: quarterback practically in a coma
dialog: last month just before he played
dialog: one of the greatest games of his
dialog: life...?
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (backtracking)
dialog: «+. Well no question he wants his
dialog: tackle and sack bonus bad.
text: Theoretically, his brain's at
dialog: increased risk, but it's
dialog: theoretical, and I can pump him
dialog: full of cortisone to catch the
text: swelling and let him finish out
dialog: the season... without a
dialog: malpractice suit of course --
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: I'm joking. I don't really think
dialog: anything's gonna happen... but I'm
dialog: not a complete prick, you know,
dialog: Christina, I do have some
dialog: kind of conscience.
scene_heading: A168 EXAM ROOM #1 A168
text: If she thinks so, Christina stays cool-eyed about it.
text: They enter a small exam room.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I'm not looking to screw him,
dialog: Harvey. But I gotta have him in
dialog: the playoffs -- and he wants to
dialog: play for chrissake, so everyone
dialog: comes out...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: ... long term?... What are you
dialog: thinking?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A168
dialog: 169
dialog: 170
dialog: 135.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: A168
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (a beat, eye to eye)
dialog: I'm thinking we'll probably cut
dialog: him in the off-season. The word's
dialog: already out there, everyone's seen
dialog: him take the hits. No one's
dialog: gonna take him at his price... I
dialog: think he'll be happy just to have
dialog: his old job back at 30 percent of
dialog: what he makes. That's if we want
dialog: him back.
dialog: (off Mandrake's
dialog: waiting look)
dialog: Dad always used to say, 'To make
dialog: money, you got to spend money.'
dialog: You do the math, Doctor. What you
dialog: help save us we won't forget at
dialog: contract time.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Smart man, Art. But you got him
dialog: beat by a Miami mile, Christina...
dialog: What do I tell Tony?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (exiting)
dialog: Tell him what he needs to know.
dialog: Shark can play. Cap can't.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 169
scene_heading: INT. TONY D'AMATO'S HOUSE - LATE DAY/NIGHT 170
text: Tony's in his kitchen when the DOORBELL RINGS, laboring
text: over a pot of jambalaya, wearing an apron reading: "Kiss
text: My Chef." A BILLIE HOLIDAY RECORDING PLAYS. He goes.
speaker_heading: AT FRONT DOOR
text: Willie waits, carrying flowers.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Hi, got you flowers.
text: He thrusts the flowers forward. Tony looks at them, a
text: little taken aback; then takes them and shows Willie into
text: the living room.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 170
dialog: 171
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 136.
dialog: 170
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: For me? Thanks... I guess I
dialog: better put these in water or
dialog: something. Come on in.
text: Tony goes to the kitchen, looking at the flowers. Willie
dialog: now gets it.
speaker_heading: SAME SCENE
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Shark, you motherfucker! !
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Sit down.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Nice place.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You wanna beer?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Sure.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: - LATER 171
text: Tony brings beers to Willie, glancing at Ben Hur on
dialog: television; the irony slave ships and gladiators is not
dialog: lost on Willie.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: The gladiators of their time...
dialog: (to Tony)
text: Cute apron.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (removing it)
dialog: My ex-wife got it for me. It was
dialog: a joke. I don't cook so great --
dialog: so don't expect anything too...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Don't worry. I'd be happy with a
text: peanut butter and jelly sandwich.
dialog: When'd you divorce her?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 171
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 137.
dialog: 171
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Almost twenty years now...
dialog: (off silence)
dialog: Same old story, she got fed up
dialog: with me working so hard. You know
dialog: where they served the divorce
dialog: papers? On the sidelines of the
dialog: divisional playoff game in New
dialog: York.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (chuckles)
dialog: That's cold.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Fuck her, we won the game.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: That's what it's all about.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You ready?
text: Tony leads Willie into a dining room, Willie glancing
text: around, noting many football photos that grace the walls.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: DINING ROOM 172
text: Tony and Willie eat from two steaming plates of jambalaya.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ++. My own recipe. Sort of
dialog: adapted from Paul Prudhomme's.
dialog: Ever been to his place in New
dialog: Orleans?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (disguising his
dialog: distaste)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Maybe get ‘em next season. Like
dialog: no place on earth, New Orleans.
dialog: How you like it?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Hot! It's terrific, thanks.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: .»». Well, thanks for coming by.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 138.
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You're going to yell at me, aren't
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: No... no. I just wanted to
dialog: talk...
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Willie, look, if I've been an
dialog: asshole I'm sorry. Cap going down
dialog: was really tough for me and maybe
dialog: I've been taking some of that out
dialog: on you. I know you're still
dialog: learning the system and the
dialog: pressure's incredible --
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I can handle it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I know. But we need to talk about
dialog: this. I think you got a great
dialog: future in football but first off
dialog: we gotta deal with some basics.
dialog: Like if the play book is too
dialog: complicated we can simplify it for
dialog: you --
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Man, that book is too slow. When
dialog: I am out there on the field I just
dialog: gotta feel it. I can't be
dialog: thinking about nothing but the
dialog: juice. I got to let it out.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Listen, you're too fast out there
dialog: as it is. You need to wait for
dialog: the plays to develop. Our offense
dialog: was built up over years, it's like
dialog: Chinese water torture, taking
dialog: apart the other team a little ata
dialog: time, it's the death of 1,000 cuts.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I like things I guess a little
dialog: more muscular, suits my style...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (stops eating)
dialog: Is that why you been changing the
dialog: plays?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 139.
dialog: (2) 172
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I'm trying to read the defense,
dialog: Coach, it's...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I'm not talking about audibles...
dialog: Look, I know you like making the
dialog: big plays. I understand that.
dialog: But our game plans are the result
dialog: of a lot of work and a lot of
dialog: experience.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I know that --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I know you do. When you change
dialog: plays you're showing disrespect to
dialog: a lot of people in this
dialog: organization --
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I don't mean to --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: People who've worked for years in
dialog: this club and around the League.
dialog: People who've sacrificed more than
dialog: you will ever know to be in this
dialog: game.
text: Willie sees where this is going.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I'm trying to win, Coach! I been
dialog: warming the bench ever since I got
dialog: to the pros, and I don't plan on
dialog: going back there. I don't wanna
dialog: disrespect nobody but... winning
dialog: is the only thing I respect.
text: Tony looks at Willie with a singular, quiet intensity.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Okay, son, listen to me very
dialog: carefully and remember what I'm
dialog: going to tell you. You can forget
dialog: every other goddamn thing I ever
dialog: said if you remember this, because
dialog: someday you're going to realize
dialog: it's the truest thing you ever
dialog: heard: This game has got to be
dialog: about more than winning.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 172 CONTINUED:
dialog: 140.
dialog: (3) 172
text: Willie says nothing.
dialog: Tony takes
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (relaxes a little)
dialog: «+. I guess that's what I wanted
dialog: to say. You're part of something
dialog: here! A tradition. Lombardi,
dialog: Unitas, Tittle, Sammy Baugh,
dialog: hundreds of great players! Those
dialog: men on the wall, you're part of
dialog: that now. And along the way I
dialog: want you to cherish that... ‘cause
dialog: when it's gone, it's gone forever,
dialog: and...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You know, I look at all these
dialog: pictures and trophies and stuff
dialog: and it just makes me... sad. Like
text: the room is full of ghosts. When
dialog: I'm done with the game, or the
dialog: game is done with me, I don't
dialog: wanna be no ghost up on a wall. I
dialog: want more'n that.
text: a long moment.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. Looks like Cap's gonna make it
dialog: back in time for the playoffs...
dialog: I'm gonna start him.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (long icy pause)
dialog: Yeah, I figgered. That's why I'm
dialog: here, right? I knew you was gonna
dialog: sell me out.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Cap's a leader... a team player.
dialog: You need a team to win in the
dialog: playoffs.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Bullshit! He's not half the
dialog: athlete I am! Look me in the eye,
dialog: Coach, and tell me Cap's the
dialog: better player...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Cap's the better player.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 141.
dialog: (4) 172
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (derisively)
dialog: Sure! I guess that was another
dialog: guy winning the last two games. I
dialog: put points on the board! He lost
dialog: four in a row. I lead by doing!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You kicked ass, kid, but Cap
dialog: Rooney has been ‘doing’ it for
dialog: years and he goddamn deserves his
dialog: day in the sun, so don't start...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: And I deserve the bench, right?!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. He's been the quarterback of
dialog: this team as long as...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: And his time is over! And yours
dialog: is too... ‘less you start taking
dialog: some risks! Start playing the
dialog: game the way it is now. It ain't
dialog: all those pictures on the wall
dialog: anymore --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (seething)
dialog: I've lived this game for three
dialog: decades, kid, I know football.
dialog: Those men --
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Wanted to win -- just like you do!
dialog: You can feed the press and the fans
dialog: all that ‘sacrifice and glory,
dialog: grand ol' man of the game' crap!
dialog: You sell it good, everyone bought it.
dialog: But I been there, Coach, I seen a
dialog: long line of guys like you from
dialog: college on with that bullshit
dialog: halftime speech!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (furious)
dialog: It's bullshit, huh! You think
dialog: you...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 142.
dialog: (5) 172
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yeah, it is! And you know it is!
dialog: ‘Cause it's really about money.
dialog: Rakin' in the TV contracts, fat-
dialog: cat boosters sittin' in their
text: skyboxes and coaches uppin' their
dialog: salaries, all of ‘em looking for
dialog: the next black stud to get ‘em in
dialog: the Top Ten, put ‘em in the bowl
dialog: 
dialog: games -- It's just like the pros,
text: ‘cept in the pros, the field hands
dialog: get paid...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Don't play the race card with me,
dialog: kid. Twenty-five years I've worked
dialog: with men of your color. You're
dialog: good because you're different, not
dialog: because...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Maybe it's not racism, maybe it's
text: placism, but the black man still
dialog: gotta know his place, right, Coach?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What are you saying? You don't
dialog: trust anybody ‘cause of what
dialog: happened to you in college? You
dialog: knew the rules, Willie, you broke
dialog: ‘em.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Broke 'em?! How'd I break ‘em?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You broke ‘em. That's how you
dialog: broke, ‘em.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Man, I lost a million-dollar
dialog: signing bonus ‘cause a booster
dialog: gave me a three-hundred-dollar
text: suit to go to his kid's wedding.
dialog: I didn't even know the guy.
dialog: Hell, everybody was getting
dialog: something! How's a black man
dialog: supposed to get through college
dialog: when he don't got the money to get
dialog: clothes, go on a date? They all
dialog: had their hands out but it was me
dialog: they suspended.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 143.
dialog: (6) 172
speaker_heading: WILLIE (CONT'D)
dialog: I dropped six rounds in the draft
dialog: ‘cause of that. And the coaches
dialog: rapping me ‘troublemaker,’ ‘arrogant, '
dialog: ‘won't play ball,' all that corporate
dialog: shit they hit the brothers with
dialog: when they won't kiss the money.
dialog: Shit, I coulda made millions
dialog: of dollars if I'd kissed that big
dialog: ass Julian's kissing all the time.
dialog: You talk about 'sacrifice'? I
dialog: sacrificed about ten million dollars
dialog: is what I sacrificed, ‘cause of
dialog: those dumb rednecks like your
dialog: coach friend at San Diego who
dialog: makes me corner back ‘cause I got
dialog: fast feet! It was him separated
dialog: my shoulder, fucked up my throwin'
text: arm tackling some 250-pound
dialog: bullmother. I was a great football
dialog: player but nobody gave me the time
dialog: of day or the season I needed
dialog: to heal that shoulder. They
dialog: traded me right outta there!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Blame anybody but yourself,
dialog: Willie! yY'see, that's what a
dialog: leader is about, the times he's
dialog: gotta sacrifice because he has to
dialog: lead by example, not by fear or...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (challenged)
dialog: Fear?! Who you talking to?! I
dialog: hung in there when nobody gave a
dialog: shit about me. I rode the bench
dialog: for five fucking years! And now I
dialog: get my one lousy shot, I'm 26
dialog: years old -- half my football life
dialog: is over -- and now you tell me
dialog: ‘You go on back to the bench, son.
dialog: ‘Cause you gotta sacrifice for
dialog: the greater glory of Cap Rooney.’
dialog: Well, fuck you, Coach! I'm not
dialog: buying that brand, ‘cause you're
dialog: some scared old man who won't let
dialog: me play my way ‘cause I might just
dialog: win! And then what the fuck was
dialog: your life all about?!
text: Tony fights to control himself. Outside, the evening
text: crawls through the twilight.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (7)
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: You're not some flash-in-the-pan
dialog: 144,
dialog: 172
dialog: receiver or corner back or even Julian
dialog: Washington, kid, you're a goddamn
dialog: quarterback! You know what that
dialog: means? It's the top spot, kid,
dialog: the guy that takes the fall, the
dialog: guy who everybody's looking at
text: first, the leader of a team, who
dialog: will break their ribs and noses
dialog: and necks for you ‘cause they
dialog: believe! ‘Cause you make ‘em
dialog: believe! That's a quarterback.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (caustic,
dialog: overlapping)
dialog: Yeah, I'm the leader of your team
dialog: till Cap's back up! Then I'm back
dialog: on the bench. Shit, you ain't said
dialog: two words to me all season ‘til
dialog: Cherubini went down -- then it
dialog: was...
dialog: 
dialog: (imitating D'Amato)
dialog: ‘Son, just pretend you're throwing
text: a pass on the street in the ‘hood
dialog: and your mama's ringing the dinner
dialog: bell' -- all you done is talked at
dialog: me, man, never listened to a
dialog: goddamned thing I said! So don't
dialog: have no coronary ‘cause I'm gonna
dialog: stay who I am -- 'Steamin' Willie
dialog: Beamen'! ‘Cause with the time I
dialog: got left I'm gonna play my way and
dialog: I'm gonna get my dollars up there
dialog: so's when you motherfuckers trade
dialog: me, waive me, injure reserve me,
dialog: or whatever the fuck you do to me,
dialog: I'm gonna be worth ten times what
dialog: I was worth before!
text: A long pause. Tony's eyes, moving past ego, scrambling
dialog: to understand.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I don't know... you are a very,
dialog: very young man. And you are very,
dialog: very stupid.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Tell me I'm wrong.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 172
dialog: 173
dialog: 174
speaker_heading: A174
dialog: 145.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (8) 172
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You're wrong. I know better than
dialog: you think, Willie...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You don't know one thing about
dialog: me... You couldn't even begin to
dialog: imagine me.
text: He leaves Tony -- drained.
scene_heading: EXT. SHARK'S HOUSE - THAT NIGHT 173
text: Valet parkers attend to the numerous expensive cars and
text: limos that pull into a circular driveway, unloading
text: beautiful laughing women and exuberant football players...
text: Willie drives his Suburban right up onto the front lawn,
text: enraging the valets.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION - NIGHT 174
text: Willie is met with a ferocious explosion of MUSIC and
text: mayhem; players dance and drink and pursue the opposite
text: sex through the house... Shark bounces up to him:
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Make yourself at home in 'The
dialog: Pit,' Dawg! Blowjobs upstairs.
dialog: But if you want to hit the skins,
dialog: trawl the beach. Whatever you do,
dialog: don't mess up my sheets, cause my
dialog: old lady's comin’ back Tuesday and
dialog: she gonna kick my butt she see any
dialog: semen or blood round here!!
text: In a lively mood, Shark stumbles off. Willie makes his
text: way through a packed living room... women immediately
text: perk when they see him, whispering, some predatory...
scene_heading: INT. SHARK'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS BALCONY - CONTINUOUS A174
speaker_heading: ACTION
text: Willie gravitates to Washington, Sanderson, a few others:
text: The dialogue is fast, overlapping.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: What up, Willie B?! Coach give
dialog: you the Vince Lombardi speech?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A174
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 146.
speaker_heading: A174
speaker_heading: WILLIE
text: He's in my face like I lost the
dialog: goddamn game! Mother...
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Told you! Hey, he's having a shit
dialog: year, what do you...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You know straight up we'd be top
dialog: dog this season if the defense
dialog: would step up --
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Hey, lay off the D, man. Shark
dialog: hear that shit he'll tear you a
dialog: new asshole.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You think I give a fuck! Hey, I
dialog: wanna win games, not kiss some
dialog: overrated loser's ass. But what
dialog: do you care anyway, J? You ain't
dialog: playin' for this team. You
dialog: playing for yourself, like
dialog: everybody else round here...
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Who you talking about, punk?!
dialog: Watch that mouth of yours or I'll
dialog: kick your fucking ass! You gotta
dialog: earn the right to diss someone on
dialog: this team, boy!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Team? Shit. All I see of this
dialog: team is a bunch of rich superfly
dialog: brothers tripping in this white
text: man's world, driving their BMW,
dialog: getting their dicks sucked by
dialog: 100 dollar hair jobs... and the
dialog: clock's running and no one's
dialog: giving a shit ‘cause they're
dialog: all dying inside... You were a
dialog: great athlete, J, but you become
dialog: a_joke! You're playing, but it's
dialog: like you're dying inside.
text: Willie walks off -- his thoughts contradicting what he
text: said at Tony's place; a troubled man, his confusion
text: brewing to the surface. Julian, on the other hand, is a
text: furious man, restrained by Sanderson and the others.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A174
dialog: 175
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 147.
speaker_heading: (2) A174
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: What the fuck you mean ‘dying
dialog: inside'?! Kiss my Armani ass,
dialog: m'fucker! Talking to me like
dialog: that! Who the... does this nigra
dialog: know WHO I AM?! What I done for
dialog: this team?! I'm gonna kill you,
dialog: motherfucker!
scene_heading: EXT. SHARK'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - CONTINUOUS ACTION 175
text: In the hot tub, players are cavorting with the women, and
text: Shark is telling stories, as Powers listens in.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: -.. So then Madman loses it --
text: starts reaming this guy out and
dialog: then decides this hotel has GOT TO
text: DIE! Stomps into the hall, grabs
text: a fire ax and starts chopping
text: through the wall. By now Styne,
text: he grabs him, he's about to
dialog: eliminate Madman right then and
dialog: there, so I gotta jump in, I got
dialog: to protect my baby, be the hero
dialog: and save the fuckin' guy, when
text: whap! thwack! Styne throws two
dialog: quick punches that weigh about
dialog: 150 pounds each and nails me right
dialog: in the fucking head! Cracks my
dialog: fucking skull! Check it out...
dialog: (indicates his temple
dialog: area)
dialog: ... Bitch! From then on, guess
dialog: what? Styne and Madman are like
dialog: this dynamic evil duo who...
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: He cracked your skull?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Yeah. So those two sonofabitches
dialog: decide they're gonna rule the
dialog: world...
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Hold on, Shark. He actually
dialog: cracked your skull?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 175
speaker_heading: A175
speaker_heading: B175
dialog: 176
dialog: 177
dialog: 178
dialog: 148.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 175
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Yeah, Doc. I hate when that shit
dialog: happens... So now we got these two
text: locos on the offensive line and
text: Coach D'Amato is about ready to
dialog: call an exorcist when...
text: Dr. Powers, disturbed, leaves without being noticed.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - SAME TIME A175
text: A dozen beauties are lined up at the giant mirror, making
text: themselves up, "doing blow," chatting, gossiping...
scene_heading: EXT. SHARK'S HOUSE - BACK YARD B175
text: Julian, still angry, slides up to Shark.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Beamen disrespecting you, talking
dialog: shit about you and the D...
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Are you kidding me? Are you
dialog: fucking kidding me?! He goes
dialog: after my D, I'm gonna break him
dialog: off!
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Motherfucker punkin' every damn
dialog: one of us. We need to smack the
dialog: m' fucker!
text: Shark thinks a beat, then:
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: What's that motherfucker drive?
speaker_heading: OMITTED 176
dialog: &
dialog: 177
scene_heading: INT. SHARK'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS BALCONY 178
text: RAY FIELDS, former star linebacker, now using a set of
text: canes, approaches, Crozier, talking to Willie. Fields'
text: wizened face and eyes are a little too desperate for
dialog: attention.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 178
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 149.
dialog: 178
speaker_heading: FIELDS
dialog: Hey, Nick. How's it hanging?
speaker_heading: CROZIER
text: Young and hung, Ray.
speaker_heading: FIELDS
dialog: Steamin'! My man -- lookin' good.
dialog: Does my heart proud to see a young
text: brother in the pocket.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (interrupted, doesn't
dialog: know him)
dialog: Havin' fun, baby.
speaker_heading: FIELDS
dialog: (checking out Willie's
dialog: chick)
dialog: Yeah, yeah, havin' fun. I hear
dialog: ya. Say, Nick, I was meaning to
dialog: talk to you ‘bout some new plays
dialog: I got --
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Not now, Ray. It's party time,
dialog: okay?
text: Willie notices the dominant Pantheon Cup ring on Fields'
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: FIELDS
dialog: Yeah, yeah -- party time, uh huh
dialog: -- not the right time...
dialog: (catching Willie's
dialog: eye)
dialog: Yeah, Pantheon Cup twice -- '79,
dialog: "81.
text: Fields emits a strange, oxen-like laughter -- they split
text: looks, Willie horrified; Fields knows it, refers to his
text: emaciated fingers.
speaker_heading: FIELDS
dialog: Gotta get a chain for this one,
dialog: try to buy 'em off me all the
dialog: time. Had to sell one of ‘em, but
dialog: no way I was gonna let this sucker
dialog: go. Without this, shit! You
dialog: wouldn't even know who the fuck I
dialog: was, now would you? I been
dialog: there, Willie. Done that. You
dialog: ‘steamin'' now but this is one
dialog: dance they all play the same last
dialog: song...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED )
dialog: 178
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 150.
dialog: (2) 178
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Hey, Ray, give it a rest, willya
dialog: -- enjoy the party. It's his
dialog: time... You had your time, it's
dialog: his time.
speaker_heading: FIELDS
dialog: Sure, Nick, but you a coach --
dialog: (pointed)
dialog: If you ain't helping him, you're
dialog: hurtin' him...
dialog: (to Willie)
dialog: Don't bull with the shit,
dialog: righteous, there's plenty of it.
dialog: (again that humongous
dialog: laughter)
dialog: Ha ha ha ha!
dialog: (high fives)
dialog: Stay cool, little brother...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (gives it back)
dialog: You too, Ray...
text: His eyes burning like candles, Ray shifts his intense,
text: almost blind gaze off Willie, and staggers back into the
text: chaos of MUSIC and flesh on his canes.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: That really Ray Fields?
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Used to be Ray Fields.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Man! I watched him on TV growing
dialog: up. Every Sunday. Like Tarzan.
dialog: He was huge!
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Yeah. Like he said, he was just too
text: long at the dance. Like the rest of
dialog: ‘em... Thank God, those days are
dialog: over...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: He give you plays?
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (shrugs, dismissive)
dialog: -+. I humor him. Gives him
dialog: something to do.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 178
dialog: 179
dialog: 151.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 178
speaker_heading: CROZIER (CONT'D)
dialog: Guy took a lotta hits -- lost
dialog: everything to booze, painkillers --
dialog: his family, all his money, typical
dialog: shit... was out on the street for a
dialog: while, then the press got hold of
dialog: it and management gave him a few
dialog: bucks. He gets by... Don't get down,
dialog: Willie... I'm pushing real hard
dialog: for another OT or pulling guard in
dialog: the draft.
text: Moved, Willie's eyes remain on Fields, talking to someone
text: else; he's also rethinking Crozier's attitude towards the
dialog: players.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I like it, sounds like some big
dialog: changes coming next year, Coach.
dialog: Maybe you be stepping up...
text: Washington strolls up to him.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Say, Willie, that your 4 xX 4
dialog: outside?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You mean my Sub? What's up?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Well, it's more like a 4 X 3 now.
text: Smiling, he strolls back out the front door. A beat.
text: Willie follows fast.
scene_heading: EXT. SHARK'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - CONTINUOUS ACTION 179
text: A LOUD, GRINDING, BUZZING sound. Partygoers are
dialog: assembled.
text: Shark bestrides Willie's Suburban with an enormous
text: CHAIN SAW in his hands, literally SAWING the VEHICLE in
text: two halves. Sparks shoot out, upholstery, plastic, and
text: metal fly... Willie can't believe, then rushes Shark,
text: wanting to kill him! (AD LIBS)... but others jump him;
text: it takes several strong players to restrain him.
text: The car now tears open at a jagged angle. Shark TURNS
text: OFF the CHAIN SAW, removes his safety goggles... to
dialog: Willie:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 179
dialog: 180
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Kid, in football you got an
dialog: offense...
dialog: (jumping down, points
text: to the severed front
dialog: of the car)
dialog: And you got a defense...
dialog: (indicates the back
dialog: half)
dialog: You don't got one without the
dialog: other, do you...? Respect will be
dialog: paid. Now call this m'fucker a
dialog: cab and get him the fuck outta my
dialog: house!
scene_heading: INT. BAR - SIMULTANEOUS ACTION - NIGHT
dialog: 152.
text: Tony sits with Monroe at his favored sports bar. Monroe
text: is drunk.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. I just can't get through.
dialog: Used to be I could take anyone --
dialog: rookie, vet, bad-ass parolee --
dialog: didn't matter -- I could make
dialog: them... see what I see.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (more revealing than
dialog: usual)
dialog: It's a new world, Tony! In my day
dialog: we were just happy to have the
dialog: goddamned job. I shoveled liquor
dialog: in the off-season, used cars,
dialog: insurance. Some guys used to
dialog: wrassle... Now, shit -- Prima
dialog: dawgs! Bodies are year-round
dialog: great but break like china!
text: Mandy, the young beautiful woman who approached Tony
text: previously, enters with a friend.
dialog: Monty.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: TV... It changed the way we think
dialog: -- forever. First time they
dialog: stopped the game because they had
dialog: to cut to a commercial was the end
dialog: of it. I mean it was our
dialog: concentration that fucking
dialog: mattered, not some fruitcake
dialog: selling insurance...
text: Tony notices, as does
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 179
dialog: 180
dialog: 180
speaker_heading: A180
dialog: 180
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: ON TV #1
dialog: 153.
dialog: 180
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: «+. Getting those big salaries,
dialog: the bonuses, these rooks come in
dialog: here thinking they deserve respect
dialog: before they play a goddamn down --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (passionate)
dialog: Damnit, Monty, I don't know what
dialog: more I can do. I've sweated blood
dialog: for these men. I've given up my
dialog: wife and my children for these men.
dialog: I've given up everything I have
dialog: to be on that sideline every Sunday.
dialog: Everything! The game is all that
dialog: matters to me. ‘Cause it's pure!
dialog: Four quarters. You cross a line,
dialog: you score. It's sane. Life
dialog: isn't, it isn't... It doesn't make
dialog: sense for me not to have a home, a
dialog: life... you tolerate the madness for
dialog: the game... but if that's not enough,
dialog: then this game is asking for too
dialog: goddamn much!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: It always did, Tony... I coulda
dialog: held on another two, three seasons.
dialog: But one day in Chicago, the wind
dialog: was blowin' off the lake -- man was
dialog: it cold! I cracked my head right
dialog: up against that frozen turf, and I
dialog: knew -- right then -- I wasn't gonna
dialog: do this anymore.. shit, it wasn't
dialog: any fucking fun! -- You gotta know
dialog: when to get out, Tony. ‘Fore it
dialog: takes your soul.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: A180
text: Willie's commercial explodes over the bar, with LOUD
text: MUSIC -- stylish, slick, sexy.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: -- Speaking of the devil!
dialog: BACK TO SCENE 180
text: They watch for a moment, then Monroe drains his beer.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Gotta get out of here...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 180
speaker_heading: 181
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: He goes.
dialog: Mandy.
scene_heading: INT. TONY
dialog: 154.
dialog: (2) 180
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Come on, Monty, one more.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Can't, Tony. Lady's got a curfew
dialog: out on me.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (snorts)
dialog: Curfew! How the hell do you and
dialog: Sheila do it anyway?
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Well, we came to an agreement
dialog: early on. All day long I live,
dialog: breathe, and shit football. The
dialog: moment I come home, I live,
dialog: breathe, and shit family.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: +. It's impossible!
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (rises)
dialog: Hey, who the hell wants to think
dialog: about blitzes and crossblocks when
dialog: you're holding your grandkids in
dialog: your arms...?
dialog: (pointed)
dialog: You gonna miss your boss
dialog: embarrassing you in front of your
dialog: players?
dialog: (as Tony doesn't
dialog: acknowledge this
dialog: memory )
dialog: That's why I want to coach high
dialog: school, it's back to basics, the
dialog: kids don't want nothing but to play.
dialog: Like you say, it's pure... See you
dialog: tomorrow, my friend...
text: Tony sits for a moment, and then glances at
scene_heading: D'AMATO'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 181
text: Tony gazes at one of three wall TV's; Mandy on an
text: exercise bike in the corner, semi-naked in his pajamas.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 181
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 155.
speaker_heading: 181
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ... So Jeanette was 20, 21, I was
dialog: just making it as a lowball
dialog: assistant with San Diego -- Jock
dialog: Harris was running the place then
dialog: -- and one day we been romancing a
dialog: year about and I says to her, 'So
dialog: what about marriage?' And she
dialog: says, ‘What about it?' And I says
dialog: to her, ‘Well, I gotta see you
dialog: backpedal first.' And she says...
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Backpedal?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You know. Quarterback gotta be
dialog: able to drop back -- ? Run
dialog: backwards? You shoulda seen
text: Jeanette's face. She gets up --
dialog: bless her Albanian soul! And she
dialog: does it! She backpedals for me.
dialog: In high beautiful heels too! All
dialog: the way! Jeanette! Can you do
dialog: 
dialog: it? Don't try -- I'll marry ya!
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: (crossing to bed)
dialog: Your genes, her genes... did
dialog: you get a quarterback out of it?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Nah. Not even close. I had an
dialog: insurance executive.
dialog: (as they both laugh)
dialog: How can you have one of them?
text: Came out with a briefcase.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: .-. Nah, he's a beautiful kid.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: (props herself
dialog: over Tony)
dialog: You know what you need?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ... yeah, a pump.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: You need to be... young again!
text: She attacks him, tickling him all over. Like a boy,
text: Tony giggles; it's been a long time since he'd been
dialog: tickled.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: A181
dialog: 156.
speaker_heading: ON TV A181
text: Willie, wearing gold chains and a new diamond stud
text: earring, is being interviewed by Jack Rose on "Sports
dialog: Corner."
speaker_heading: WILLIE (V.O.)
dialog: (on TV)
dialog: «+. The coach in Houston didn't
dialog: dig black quarterbacks too much,
dialog: he was kind of a redneck dude...
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Thought black people's brains were
text: about the size of his dick (bleeped)...
dialog: Then at San Diego -- that coach was
dialog: a real genius -- he makes me into a
dialog: corner ‘cause he says I got fast
dialog: feet...
dialog: (a bitter edge to his
dialog: laughter)
dialog: Then I got injured and that
dialog: screwed up that year. By the time
dialog: I got to Oakland my third year,
dialog: they didn't know what the fuck
dialog: (bleeped) I was!
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: (on TV)
dialog: Sounds like ‘a conspiracy,’
dialog: Willie! Are you saying black
dialog: people are being dissed here?
speaker_heading: WILLIE (V.O.)
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: ‘Conspiracy'?
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Man, you is media-believing. Just
dialog: let the facts speak for
dialog: themselves, Jack -- 70 percent of
dialog: the League is Afro-American and
dialog: how many black head coaches? A
dialog: few. How many black owners?
dialog: Zero. You do the math, my man...
dialog: But I ain't bitchin'. Fair's not
dialog: what I'm looking for. ‘Cause
dialog: nothing's 'fair' in this here
dialog: life.
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: Come on, kid! It's a free country!
dialog: Black dudes can buy teams. You
dialog: have the green, you can buy a team.
text: Black, white, or inbetween.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A181
speaker_heading: 181
dialog: 157.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: A181
speaker_heading: WILLIE (V.O.)
dialog: Football teams are corporations,
dialog: Jack, but black kids are raised to
dialog: be individuals, stars -- they
dialog: don't learn to work together...
dialog: BACK TO SCENE 181
text: Tony, made happy by Mandy, gets out of bed, puts a robe
text: on with his name emblazoned, like a fighter's, on the
text: back, about to turn off the TV.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Leave him on. He's cool.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (mocking)
dialog: ‘Cool'? My quarterback? He
dialog: thinks he's Joe Montana already.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: I like him. He doesn't buy into
dialog: the bullshit... I like his eyes.
dialog: He's sure of himself -- makes him
dialog: sexy.
text: Tony looks at Willie, wondering. Being with someone as
text: young as Mandy permits him to understand. He pulls a
text: blank check from his robe.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Thank God I'm old. Check alright?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Is it good? Prefer credit card or
dialog: cash, but this one time -- okay...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (filing it out)
dialog: You want a nightcap or something?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: (starting to dress)
dialog: No, I don't think so, but
dialog: thanks...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: How 'bout some coffee then?...
dialog: Just stay for some coffee. Five
dialog: minutes.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 181
dialog: 183
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 158.
dialog: (2) 181
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: (senses his need)
dialog: Okay. Coffee'd be great.
text: He goes as she continues to dress, watching.
speaker_heading: WILLIE (V.O.)
dialog: «+. I like looking downfield, Jack.
dialog: I'ma big play guy. That's what
dialog: the fans want. Sometimes the
dialog: old timers like 'Coach Stone Age,'
dialog: they don't go for that, but the
dialog: scoreboard don't lie, Jack...
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: ‘Coach Stone Age'?, that's
dialog: terrific!
speaker_heading: WILLIE (V.O.)
dialog: That's my little nickname. Don't
dialog: mean no disrespect to the man, but
dialog: to me it's all about winning.
dialog: That's what this country's all
dialog: about. Being number one. Every
dialog: kid can grow up to be President,
dialog: right? Who the hell wants to grow
dialog: up to be Vice-President? There
dialog: ain't no number two in football.
dialog: You tell me who lost the Pantheon
dialog: Cup last year? You tell me who
dialog: came in second in the 100 at the
dialog: Olympics? Where I come from
dialog: you're number one or you ain't
dialog: shit (bleeped)! This country was
text: built on kicking immigrant ass.
dialog: African ass, Chinese ass -- don't-
dialog: Matter-who ass. Only reason I made
dialog: it out of Dallas is I wanted it
dialog: more than the other guy. There
dialog: ain't no grey area! Either you
dialog: make it and get the big car and the
dialog: nice home or you're on the bus and
dialog: in the funeral home, ‘cause losin'
dialog: is dying!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: -+. But ‘Coach Stone Age,' you
dialog: smack me! So truthful, brother...
dialog: Gimme a pound.
text: He tries to high five Willie, who doesn't respond...
dialog: Meanwhile,
speaker_heading: OMITTED
text: Tony crosses back with the coffee.
dialog: 183
dialog: 159.
scene_heading: 184 TONY'S BATHROOM #1 184
text: Mandy is on a cell phone to her service (AD LIB),
text: brushing her hair, closing the phone as Tony enters.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I hope you like cream with your
dialog: coffee... Mandy...? I like you.
dialog: I'm wondering if we could maybe
dialog: make this a more regular thing?
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Sure. I've got a few clients like
dialog: that. We can book a regular time.
dialog: I'll give you my service number
dialog: and they can set it up direct
dialog: with...
dialog: Writing...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I sort of meant... not like that.
dialog: Without money.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: Oh, honey...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I know, but --
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: You don't really wanna do this.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I really like you.
speaker_heading: MANDY
dialog: I like you too, Tony, but you
dialog: really don't want to do this.
text: A beat. She gives him her business number in lipstick.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You got pretty hair, you know...
text: Tony lingers for a moment, then sets his coffee down and
text: leaves. Mandy watches after him in the mirror.
scene_heading: TONY'S BEDROOM #2
dialog: Tony crosses OUT past:
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 184
dialog: 182
speaker_heading: A182
dialog: 160.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 184
speaker_heading: ON TV
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: No doubt you're chewing up the
text: gridiron, but on the sidelines it
dialog: seems like you and Julian
dialog: Washington got pretty heated
dialog: during the Texas game?
speaker_heading: WILLIE (V.O.)
dialog: No, J-man and me are just fine.
dialog: I'1l bet you a hundred bucks and
dialog: that ugly tie that he'll have
dialog: another 2,000-yard season.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: EXT./INT. JULIAN WASHINGTON'S HOUSE - NIGHT 182
text: Sanderson talks on a cell phone, feeding the numerous
text: sharks in J-Man's specially-designed pools, as he heads
text: inside, accompanied by a frightened beauty... At the
dialog: party, there are no men -- only some 20 beautiful women,
text: most in lingerie, dancing and making out among themselves.
scene_heading: INT. JULIAN'S BEDROOM - FOLLOWING A182
text: Upstairs, at the controls is Julian, propped on his bed,
text: with several more girls, watching Willie on TV coolly.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Not without getting the ball, you
dialog: lying prick!
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: ON TV
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: -.. But isn't this an awesome
dialog: Emperor pass rush coming up Sunday?
dialog: I mean these guys don't need much
dialog: of an invitation to eat the
dialog: greenery? Is there fear there?
speaker_heading: WILLIE (V.O.)
dialog: Jack, I told you, they ain't gonna
dialog: touch me, ain't gonna see me,
dialog: ain't gonna smell me. Don't
dialog: matter if it's T-Rex or Terminator
dialog: out there, I'll just turn on the
dialog: invisible juice and steam right by
dialog: ‘em!
dialog: 185
dialog: 186
dialog: 187
dialog: 161.
scene_heading: INT. MADMAN'S HOUSE - FOLLOWING 185
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: Willie, you are indefatigable!
text: Madman, on his cell phone, is heated as he watches the
text: TV, amid an atmosphere of CRYING BABIES, BARKING
text: PIT BULLS, and a pregnant, miserable wife.
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: You selfish asshole! If you don't
dialog: think you're gonna get touched,
dialog: I'm dancin' on a moonbeam!
scene_heading: INT. TV STUDIO - FOLLOWING 186
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: (in closing)
dialog: «+. Well good luck to you,
dialog: ‘Steamin' Willie Beamen' -- what a
dialog: great young kid!
scene_heading: EXT. SHARK STADIUM - NIGHT (RAIN) 187
dialog: (Game 4. New York Emperors at Miami Sharks.)
speaker_heading: FIELD #1
text: Willie goes smashing into the mud, taking the hit on his
text: throwing shoulder. A painful sack, he drags himself up...
text: Dazed, Willie goes after the linebacker who nailed him...
text: The 49er players sprint over to protect their teammate,
text: but the Shark team does nothing to help their QB.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Welcome back to the Monsoon Bowl,
dialog: folks! The Emperors have been
dialog: eating Shark patties all night
dialog: long. Smashmouth football -- this
dialog: is what it's all about!
text: On the way to the huddle, over the DRIVING sound of RAIN.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Can I get some fuckin' protection
dialog: here! If you're not going to
dialog: block -- could you at least stay
dialog: the fuck out of my way?!
text: Madman goes for him, Sanderson and the others holding him
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 187
speaker_heading: A187
dialog: 188
dialog: 190
dialog: 189
dialog: 162.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 187
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: Loudmouth, showboating,
dialog: MOTHERFUCKER! Where's your steam
dialog: now?
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #1 A187
scene_heading: EMPERORS 25, SHARKS 7. FOURTH QUARTER. 5:13...
speaker_heading: OMITTED 188
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #1 190
text: Coach D'Amato glares at the field, the rain pouring over
text: his face.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to line coach)
dialog: Get_'em to stand up and block,
dialog: goddamnit, Hank! What's going
dialog: on?!
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #2 189
text: As the Emperor offense sets up, Shark urgently calls for
text: a defensive realignment -- Miami players hustle for new
text: positions -- the veteran Emperor QB sees this and quickly
text: barks out an audible --
text: A quick handoff -- the Emperor running back shoots
text: through a hole in the confused Miami defense -- Shark
text: tries to make the diving tackle but his knee gives and
text: he goes facedown in the mud, as the running back
text: splashes right past him for 25 yards. Touchdown!
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: What is with the Miami D of late?
text: They are going belly up, fins
dialog: flapping. Glug-glug-glug!
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: Shark Lavay just can't find the
dialog: old magic down there.
text: The running back turns back to the downed Shark and his
text: D, and points his fingers like a gun -- Bang! Bang!
text: Bang! The trainer and doctors run out to Shark,
text: grabbing his knee in fierce pain.
speaker_heading: A190
dialog: 191
dialog: 192
dialog: 193
dialog: 194
dialog: 163.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #2 A190
scene_heading: EMPERORS 32, SHARKS 7. FOURTH QUARTER. 1:33...
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #1 191
text: Willie, reading a signal from Cherubini on the
text: sideline, takes the team on with a dead stare.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Y'all want to make it tough okay,
dialog: I can take it, m'fucker! ‘Cause I
dialog: know come contract time there
dialog: gonna be some big changes round
dialog: here -- and, baby, it's either
dialog: gonna be you or me! The call is
dialog: Twins Right 90 Ringo Slide. On
dialog: one! Ready!
speaker_heading: FIELD #3 192
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (yelling over the RAIN)
dialog: Set! Black 671, Black 671! Hut!
text: Willie splashes back through the mud to pass -- an
text: Emperor defensive end slips through full speed -- Willie
text: is blindsided, his helmet goes flying off, he crashes to
text: the turf, his face slammed once more into the mud.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #2 193
dialog: D'Amato is wholly demoralized, can't look... Neither can
text: Cap Rooney, now in uniform, recognizing something he'd
dialog: rather not. Or something he'd perhaps forgotten -- the
dialog: sheer, frightening violence and impossibility of the QB
dialog: position.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: They won't play for him, Tony.
text: Tony looks at him, frustrated.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (walks away)
dialog: Then let him fucking learn!
speaker_heading: OWNER'S BOX #2 194
text: The visiting Mayor Smalls shares his feelings with
dialog: Christina.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 194
dialog: 195
dialog: 196
dialog: 164.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 194
speaker_heading: MAYOR SMALLS
dialog: Shucks! There goes that black
dialog: dynasty you been promising me,
dialog: darling...
speaker_heading: FIELD #4 195
text: Blood seeps down Willie's face from a scalp contusion as
text: he pulls himself slowly to his feet.
speaker_heading: BRANSON (V.O.)
dialog: ... And there goes home field
dialog: advantage for the Sharks!
dialog: Although their season ends on a
dialog: low note, there is still life
text: after death. Two weeks from now,
dialog: look for the underdog Sharks in
dialog: the playoffs in 'Toughtown U.S.A.'
dialog: -- Dallas, Texas -- football
dialog: capital of the world -- on that
dialog: fast astroturf that never forgets
dialog: to break a bone or two!
scene_heading: INT. LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT 196
text: The locker room is silent and depressed as players
text: undress and shower.
scene_heading: BATHROOM/SHOWER #1
text: Willie, dazed and steaming with anger, crosses Shark.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: You lead. But did anyone follow,
dialog: nigga?
text: Willie ignores him, but not Julian on his other side,
dialog: when:
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Whatsa matter, boy -- forgot your
dialog: ‘invisible juice'?
text: Willie explodes, takes a wild swing at the big man.
text: They struggle. They slip... players pull them apart,
text: Willie bleeding.
text: Tony storms into the shower with Monroe, sizes up the
dialog: situation.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 196
dialog: 197
dialog: 165.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 196
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: All right! Stop this now! Stop it!
dialog: 
text: Players freeze. Showers continue to run.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: This kind of bush league crap
dialog: doesn't cut it with me! Anybody
dialog: who thinks otherwise can pack
dialog: their bags right now! ‘Cause this
dialog: shit is never gonna happen again!
dialog: Ever! Is that clear...? You
dialog: don't do that out there! Men get
dialog: killed out there!
dialog: (pause)
dialog: «+. Thirty years in football, I
dialog: never seen something that stinks
dialog: like this! This is a violation!
dialog: ... Today -- out there, you
dialog: embarrassed yourselves and you
dialog: embarrassed me. Today I am
dialog: ashamed to be your coach!
text: He stalks out.
scene_heading: EXT. PRACTICE FIELD #1 (3 OF 3) - DAY 197
text: Unnaturally bright lights are on Willie and Cap Rooney in
text: pads, side-by-side. They wear TV smiles, surrounded by a
text: gang of children in Shark jerseys. Willie's cheek is
dialog: stitched.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: -+. So please give generously to
dialog: your Child Fund of America.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: .-. And let's make every kid feel
dialog: like a superstar!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Because giving -- like football --
dialog: is a team sport. Thank you.
text: They smile. And smile. Finally:
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: That's a wrap, thanks, guys.
dialog: Rooney and Willie split in different directions... we
text: PULL BACK to reveal a small TV crew shooting a public
text: service commercial. Christina talks with the Sharks' PR
dialog: director and a TV producer.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 197
dialog: 166.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 197
text: Julian Washington watches the shoot from the bleachers,
text: brooding, upstaged by Beamen.
text: The children from the commercial follow Willie for
text: autographs. Willie's agent notes this to Christina
text: as they leave.
text: Rooney crosses to Cindy.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: You should've fought for that
dialog: superstar line.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: No -- 'giving' -- ‘team sport’ --
dialog: those are the lines.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: (noting the kids
dialog: around Willie)
dialog: Meanwhile... You used to do this
dialog: spot alone.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (uncomfortable)
dialog: Okay... you finished?
text: Walks away.
text: In the bleachers with the rest of the media, Jack Rose
text: observes with his two-man TV crew.
text: Julian studies the kids, who seem to adore Willie. An
text: OLDER KID, 11 years old, intersects.
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: Hey, J-man! Is it true you making
dialog: 10 million a year?
dialog: (as J-man smiles,
dialog: nods )
dialog: «+. That true then ‘bout you not
dialog: blocking no more? It's part of
dialog: your contract? That's what my Dad
dialog: says. He says you don't have to
text: catch no passes over the middle
dialog: either ‘cause you don't want to get
dialog: hurt? It's also in your contract...
dialog: Right, J?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: (a look)
dialog: .»+. Yeah, your dad's got it down,
dialog: kiddo...
dialog: 198
dialog: 167.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK CENTER - D'AMATO'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 198
speaker_heading: ACTION - DAY
text: Tony sits with Dr. Powers, Monroe and Shark Lavay -- his
text: MRI's spread on Tony's desk, the mood glum.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: --. So what are the odds?
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: There's no telling. It's an
dialog: ‘odontoid fracture’...
dialog: (off their looks)
dialog: Basically, he broke his neck and
dialog: it never healed right. Coming
dialog: after the 20 to 30 concussions he's
dialog: had over 14 years, you can't predict
dialog: this type of thing, but I can say
dialog: this: the wrong hit could result
dialog: in paralysis, Parkinson's... even
dialog: sudden death.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Hey, what else is new...?
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: In my opinion, he shouldn't be
dialog: out there...
dialog: (pointed at Shark)
dialog: You could be braindead, your
dialog: speech slurred or you could have
dialog: weird personality changes for the
dialog: rest of your life... you
dialog: understand what I'm telling you,
dialog: Luther?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (offset by his
dialog: sanctimony)
dialog: Luther do, but 'Shark' don't, Doc!
dialog: I been playing with fire since you
dialog: was shitting in your diapers, and
dialog: right now I need one sack and
dialog: three more tackles and I get my
dialog: bonus. Then we'll talk, okay,
dialog: motherfucker!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (to Shark)
dialog: Y'ever seen an old punchdrunk
text: boxer, stumbling around and
dialog: drooling -- no memory of what he
dialog: done in his lifetime... you want
dialog: that life, Luther?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 198
dialog: 168.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 198
text: Shark looks from Monty to Tony, who is conflicted, holding
text: his feelings close.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I can't make this decision for
dialog: you, Shark.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: I don't believe this... You need me
dialog: against Texas, Coach?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (pause)
dialog: ‘Course I do, Shark, but no, not at
dialog: this price... no.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (pleading to play)
dialog: Look, you goddamn know well as me
dialog: she gonna cut my ass anyhow in the
dialog: off-season! And no one's gonna
dialog: pick me up for any kinda money.
dialog: I'll be back here begging to
dialog: play for field wages, Coach...
text: Tony doesn't deny it, silent.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: I gave you 13 years of my best,
dialog: Coach, you know you owe me...
dialog: For a million bucks, shit! I'll
text: shake like a coconut tree the
dialog: rest of my life if I got to...
dialog: just lemme play... please?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You'll have to sign a waiver, Shark.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (relieved)
dialog: Bring it on...
text: Monroe shakes his head, disappointed. As he goes out
dialog: with Shark:
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (to Tony)
dialog: We need to talk about Harvey,
dialog: Coach...
text: He pulls out an envelope with X-rays.
dialog: 199
dialog: 169.
scene_heading: EXT. PRACTICE FIELD #2 (3 OF 3) - CONTINUOUS ACTION - 199
speaker_heading: DAY
text: Mandrake's on a cell phone on the sidelines with his new
text: girl friend COURTNEY, when Tony walks up on him, furious,
text: followed by Powers. Christina has long left the practice
dialog: field.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: +. honey, don't believe a word
dialog: your mother says... don't ever say
dialog: your Pappa didn't believe in you --
dialog: Me too. I...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You evil motherfucker -- !
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Tony, what are you...?
dialog: (to daughter)
dialog: I'll call you later, princess.
text: Tony pulls him out of ear-shot.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Shark's film! I know what you
dialog: pulled, switching the results so
dialog: Powers wouldn't pick up on it!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: «+. Granted. It could look like
dialog: that to a lay person, but to be
dialog: honest, Tony...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I want you outta here. Today.
dialog: Now.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Oh, I see -- you're taking the
dialog: high road! Who's bullshitting
dialog: who here, Tony?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Did you bother consulting him!
dialog: He could get killed out there!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (overlapping)
dialog: I knew his answer!... And getting
dialog: 
dialog: killed? Maybe, maybe not! It's
dialog: one chance in a thousand, 'but
dialog: nobody blitzes like the Shark,'
dialog: right, Tony?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 199
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 170.
dialog: 199
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You walk off this field and you
dialog: get into your car and you go far
dialog: away -- I never want to see you
dialog: near one of my players again. Do
dialog: you understand me? Never.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Come on, Tony, most of them
dialog: couldn't piss in the morning
dialog: without pills.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: No more -- !
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: So now you're gonna play
dialog: innocent?! You know something --
dialog: fuck your innocence!
text: This explosion draws looks from the team. Jack Rose
text: tries to move closer to hear, but is blocked by Monroe.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: You're better than me all of a
dialog: sudden?! You're better than
dialog: me?! What about Beyer?!
dialog: What about Nielstrum and Manzicki...
dialog: and Logan... and Krause?! All
dialog: these years you been turning a
dialog: blind eye!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I will not have this discussion.
dialog: Get out!
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Sure, Tony, don't ask the question
dialog: if you don't want the answer, right?
text: Mandrake glares at Powers.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: .+. And you, you fucking snitch!
dialog: Did you ever think about him
dialog: putting food on the table? Or
dialog: his kids going to college?
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: You lied to me!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 199
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 171.
dialog: (2) 199
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (mocking)
dialog: Oooh, I lied! The President lies
dialog: all the time, Allie!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: «+. and you lied to the players,
dialog: and doping them, changing X-rays
dialog: and --
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: And making them heroes! That's
dialog: what I been doing. Who am I to
dialog: tell these men they can't live
dialog: their dream? These are big boys.
dialog: This is triage out there, asshole!
dialog: Let the man die a goddamn hero if
dialog: he wants.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Oh, Christ! You didn't give hima
dialog: choice, Harvey, you gotta give him
dialog: his choice. It's a doctor's
dialog: ethics.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: Since when?
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: The Hippocratic Oath, that's
dialog: when...
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: You mean the one that starts: Do
dialog: no harm...? With all due respect,
dialog: I didn't have to ask him. I knew
dialog: his choice. Was there any doubt
dialog: whatever what this man must do?
dialog: These players are freaks of nature
dialog: -- they will not live with shame
dialog: like you. These men are
dialog: gladiators, warriors! And long
dialog: ago they made that choice, not me.
dialog: Or you! And I'm not taking that
dialog: responsibility of standing between
dialog: them and...
dialog: (switching the
dialog: approach)
dialog: Did you ever have a fucking dream,
dialog: >
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: POWER
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: .--. I'm living it, Harvey.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 199
dialog: 200
dialog: 201
dialog: 172.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 199
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: This I mean -- get out.
text: Mandrake is genuinely sad to leave; he looks at Tony, not
dialog: without affection.
speaker_heading: MANDRAKE
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: «+. Oh fuck it! But hey, we won
dialog: the Pantheon didn't we, Tony? See
dialog: you around the nursing homes...
dialog: (to his girl friend
dialog: watching)
dialog: Come on, sweetie.
speaker_heading: COURTNEY
dialog: No, I wanna stay, Harvey... Please.
text: Dr. Harvey Mandrake smoothes out his expensive jacket and
text: walks away with some dignity, leaving Courtney behind.
scene_heading: EXT. PRACTICE FIELD #3 (3 OF 3) 200
text: Tony heads back to his office, unfortunately intersecting
text: Jack Rose with his crew, and several other reporters.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: So, Coach D., what's up now --
dialog: mutiny in the medical ranks?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (blind and sudden)
dialog: Get the hell out of my way, you
dialog: piece of...!!
text: He shoves Rose out of his way and storms past. Rose slips
text: into the dugout, smacking his head on the bench. Tony
text: doesn't turn around, but everyone else tenses, expecting
dialog: trouble.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Hey!... Hey!... That's just
dialog: great!...
dialog: (to his crew)
dialog: Did you get that!?
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #2 201
text: Cap Rooney claps his hands, breaking the spell. Madman
dialog: and Sanderson have been watching this, worried and
text: confused, their doctor suddenly exiled from their lives.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 201
speaker_heading: A201
dialog: 202
dialog: 173.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 201
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Awright, guys, wake up!
scene_heading: PRACTICE FIELD #4 (3 OF 3) A201
text: They move to the ball. The team is running light contact
text: scrimmages, Crozier supervising on the sideline... Rooney
text: scans the defense.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Blue 44. Blue 44. Hut!
text: The snap -- the red-shirted D comes with a blitz. Rooney
text: paralyzes, showing a moment of pure terror in his eyes as
text: “Beast Man," the DB, pulls up short; the WHISTLE SHRIEKS.
speaker_heading: BEAST MAN
dialog: (reassuring him)
dialog: C'mon, baby, nobody's gonna hit
dialog: your pussy ass!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Yeah -- shucks -- I know. Got happy
dialog: feet. Must be gettin' old.
text: But Rooney's grinning eyes speak of a sea change churning in
dialog: him.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK CENTER - STEAM ROOM - DAY 202
text: Willie makes his way through layers of steam. There is
text: only one other player in the bath -- Shark Lavay. Willie
text: considers leaving but sits... Shark gazes dispassionately
text: at Willie, who won't look at him.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: «++. You know punks come and go in
dialog: this league. They get picked up
dialog: right out of the ‘hood ‘cause they
dialog: can run or fight, ‘cause they're
dialog: fast and strong and big. And
dialog: suddenly they got all the money
dialog: and the foxes that chase the money
dialog: -- and they get to live ‘the dream.'
dialog: But for every sucker who makes it
dialog: -- for every Jerry Rice and Barry
dialog: Sanders -- there are a hundred
dialog: nigras you never heard of.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 202
dialog: 203
dialog: 174.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 202
speaker_heading: SHARK (CONT'D)
dialog: And when they get a step too slow
dialog: or a year too old -- baby, the game
text: tosses them back onto the street
dialog: with nothing and just keeps on
dialog: going like nothing happened.
dialog: Sure, the game's taught ‘em how to
dialog: strut their shit and talk trash
dialog: and hit -- but what else?...
dialog: Suddenly there's no more money, no
dialog: more women, no more applause... No
dialog: more 'Dream.'
text: Shark knows it's ending for him.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: This is what I'm saying to you,
text: Willie: when a man looks back on
dialog: his life, he should be proud of
dialog: all of it. Not just a few years
text: in pads and cleats. Not just
dialog: memories of when he was... great.
dialog: That he gotta learn in here...
dialog: (indicating his
dialog: heart)
dialog: «+. or he ain't aman. He just
dialog: another punk.
text: Willie listens, lets it sink in.
scene_heading: EXT./INT. CAP ROONEY'S HOUSE - NEXT DAY 203
text: Cap Rooney cooks hot dogs on the outdoor barbecue of his
text: massive suburban home. The lawn is far removed, as most
text: of the outdoor activity takes place on concrete. The
text: three Rooney kids (two boys, one girl) are tricycling,
text: screaming, running through doll houses -- as a busy
text: Cindy Rooney surveys it from an upstairs balcony on
text: the cell phone.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (entering)
dialog: Hey, kids are growing, Cap.
dialog: Johnny's already got big hands
text: (the kid corrects his name, TBD).
speaker_heading: JOHNNY
dialog: My name is Johnny, Coach.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I forgot, Johnny, sorry, I got so
dialog: many names in my head.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 203
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: JOHNNY
dialog: You never remember my name, Coach.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Don't shoot me.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Keep your hands off my kids
dialog: willya! I'm gonna teach ‘em
dialog: some golf...
text: The kids mumble chaotically, as Rooney serves early dinners
text: on some strange space-age plastic table.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Who wants the mustard on their
dialog: hot dog...? You see the news? This
dialog: guy Rose says he's gonna sue you for
dialog: a million bucks!
dialog: (laughs, shakes
dialog: his head)
dialog: If it was me, I would've left him
dialog: so he couldn't remember zip -- ina
dialog: 
dialog: coma. Think they're gonna suspend
dialog: you, Tony?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+». Do me a favor. I'd get some
dialog: sleep... So, Doc Powers cleared you
dialog: for Sunday.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Yeah? Great!
dialog: (calling out for
dialog: help with the kids)
dialog: Cindy? A little help!
text: Cindy acknowledges.
scene_heading: EXT. CAP'S HOUSE - SUNSET
text: Tony and Cap walk around the edges of a man-made lake
text: facing the house. During the dialogue, they approach
text: a veranda area.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Papers got us as six point dogs,
dialog: you believe that? I can't wait to
dialog: strap it on and stick it to Dallas
dialog: like we used to. Show ‘em what
dialog: this game is all about. Right
dialog: there in the playoffs!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 203
dialog: 176.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 203
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Yeah...
text: Tony picks up on a vulnerability in the air.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Sure --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (suddenly)
dialog: The Doc got it wrong about your
dialog: back?!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: My back hurts a whole lot more
dialog: than I thought, Tony, I pushed it
dialog: too hard.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: We all play hurt, Cap. You just
dialog: need the needle.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Yeah, I'm sure that's it.
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Maybe you oughta go with Willie
dialog: though? You know, I been off --
dialog: my passing -- the whole deal --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I seen you in practice, Cap.
dialog: You're ready now. What is it?
scene_heading: EXT. VERANDA - TWILIGHT
text: Cap doesn't respond or look at him. He sits on a swing.
text: Tony is stunned as the realization hits him.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Cap, you don't want to go in?
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Tony, it's not that, it's that...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 203
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 177.
dialog: (3) 203
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. You didn't get any phone calls
dialog: I didn't know about did you?...
dialog: from Christy?
dialog: (as Cap shakes
dialog: his head)
dialog: «+. You seeing a psychiatrist or
dialog: something?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Then where the hell is this coming
dialog: from, Rock?
dialog: (vaising his voice)
dialog: You wanted to play. I fought for
dialog: you! Why didn't you tell me
dialog: something, do you realize what I...
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I'm sorry... I didn't know.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. I went out on a long limb for
dialog: you, man! I took on Christina. And
dialog: Willie. And the media. And you
dialog: do this to me?!? I had four weeks,
dialog: I woulda gone another way...
text: Rooney swinging back and forth, proceeds with great
dialog: difficulty:
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I didn't know! I didn't know...
dialog: You don't know how much I wanted
dialog: to come back, Tony. You have no
dialog: idea. This is all I have in my
dialog: life. Everything. It's not fun
dialog: anymore. I'm not what I was.
dialog: Tony, the first time I got hit in
dialog: the pros I thought my heart was
dialog: going to stop. You're never the
dialog: same after that. After all the
dialog: hits and concussions, I have these
dialog: blank spots in my memory. I
dialog: haven't been able to straighten my
dialog: good leg for years, even on a good
dialog: day I shake... Sometimes I can't
dialog: even hold a spoon right.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 203
dialog: 178.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 203
speaker_heading: CAP (CONT'D)
dialog: And I'm on pain killers all the time
dialog: ‘cause of my elbow and my ribs
dialog: and my neck and my torn thigh and
dialog: now my ruptured disc. But even
dialog: now, with all that, I'd go back
dialog: in a second... if I could only be
dialog: what I was. But if I go out there,
dialog: I'm gonna fold... in front of
dialog: everybody. The team. My family...
dialog: You.
dialog: (struggling)
dialog: I just can't do that. It's my
dialog: body. It's my body.
text: Tony's disgusted and moved at the same time; relents and
text: puts a comforting hand on Cap's shoulder; his
text: quarterback's breaking down right in front of his
dialog: eyes -- he's never seen him like this. But Tony,
dialog: ever the coach of men, won't allow Cap -- or
dialog: himself -- to quit.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: The things you're saying are in
dialog: your head, Rock -- they're not
dialog: real... You know you've got it in
dialog: you, because I know you do!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Tony... if I could only be what I
dialog: was? It's my body, Tony, it's
dialog: just not there... Please...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I need you, Rock -- to lead this
dialog: team. The team needs you. I need
dialog: you...
text: Cap dries his eyes, looks at Tony hard.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: One last time. You and me.
dialog: Together... Trust me.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (finally)
dialog: «+. You need me, Tony, I'll do it
dialog: for you.
text: Ridden with doubt, Tony hugs his boy, tightly.
dialog: 179.
scene_heading: 204 INT. ROONEY HOUSE - BEDROOM - FOLLOWING - DAY 204
text: In their screening room, alone:
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: (carefully)
dialog: I don't get it... Jack?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I'm saying... I got my rings, we
dialog: took care of our money, the kids
dialog: are all right -- we had a good
dialog: run... I just think it's time
dialog: for me to get out... after the
dialog: season...
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: And do what?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I talked to the guy from one of
dialog: the networks --
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: You're a football player.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Cindy -- will you hear me out?
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: You are a football player and you
dialog: have two, three years left in you!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Honey, you're missing the big
dialog: picture --
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: There is no 'big picture'! You are
dialog: the goddamn quarterback of the Miami
dialog: Sharks! You are a legend and you're
dialog: talking about quitting?!... You know
dialog: what that means to the kids! To me!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: My whole fucking life I've always
dialog: done what other people told me to.
dialog: Ever since college... what do I do?
dialog: This is my decision, not yours!!!
text: She suddenly slaps him across the face.
speaker_heading: CINDY
dialog: I_will not hear this bullshit from
dialog: 
dialog: 205
dialog: 180.
scene_heading: EXT. BAR/RESTAURANT - NIGHT 205
text: Four sexy women in short killer skirts sway like
text: vampires into the next club... Miami. A world
dialog: outside American culture.
text: Willie entertains his agent, Mercer, at an outdoor club
text: overlooking the beach. Two beautiful models accompany
text: them. Attractive people stroll by. Various ETHNIC
text: MUSIC PLAYS, a warm, highly-artificial setting that
text: Willie senses, as he listens absently to the dialogue at
text: the table, a vocabulary reduced to words of expansion,
text: contracts, and greed. On the table are covers of
text: Sports Illustrated and ESPN sports featuring Willie.
speaker_heading: MERCER
dialog: «+. they'll do it, you know why?
dialog: They want you!... and we'll make
dialog: ‘em swallow the beer
dialog: distributorship too... the thing is
dialog: no one really knows how good you
dialog: are, man, Willie. You get in the
dialog: playoffs and you score, you get
dialog: your moment? -- You can forget
dialog: about this team -- they gonna lose
dialog: anyhow -- but you get that one
text: shining moment when they notice
dialog: you, ‘money, when they really see
dialog: you -- then you are a 'star' in
dialog: this culture, baby, and you are
dialog: looking at five million serious
dialog: dollars next year someplace,
dialog: anyplace! Maybe L.A. I'm
text: talking intensely to L.A. Shit,
dialog: Christina'll extend you right now
dialog: at two million for the year... but
dialog: we're gonna wait! That's why you
dialog: got me, Willie B. To think about
dialog: these things...
speaker_heading: MODEL #1
dialog: (to Wayne)
dialog: Honey, let's go dancing... I'm
dialog: bored.
text: Willie muses at the passing parade.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (absently)
dialog: I hope you're doing a lotta
dialog: that, Wayne, ‘cause what if
dialog: I'm not made of steel?
speaker_heading: MERCER
dialog: Say what?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 205
dialog: 181.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 205
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You know, what if my arm starts
dialog: hurtin'?
speaker_heading: MERCER
dialog: (flummoxed)
dialog: Where you coming from with that?
speaker_heading: MODEL #2
dialog: Baby, that arm's gonna last you
dialog: forever.
text: Willie suddenly spots his old girl friend, Vanessa, moving
text: towards the ladies' room. He jumps up, follows.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (catching up to her)
dialog: Vanessa...?
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (turns, afraid)
dialog: Willie...?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: . (shy )
dialog: Hi... been a while.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (awkward beat)
dialog: Yeah... So, congratulations!...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yeah...!
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: You getting what you wanted...?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yeah, but I was pretty stupid
dialog: about it...
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: No, I don't think so. You were
dialog: just...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I blew it, Vanessa. I was a
dialog: fool... I'm sorry. You know it
dialog: 
dialog: all happened so goddamn fast. I
dialog: just wasn't ready for it...
text: Vanessa looks over Willie's shoulder. He realizes,
text: follows her glance to a well-dressed, middle-aged
text: African-American businessman waiting at a table.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 205
dialog: 206
dialog: 182.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 205
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: +. Vanessa, I'd really like to
dialog: talk to you -- when you have a...
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: I don't think so, Willie. No.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Okay. I understand... or do I?...
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: I really don't think we belong
dialog: together, you're just too volatile
dialog: for me, Willie. I'ma simple
dialog: girl, I like simple things. Truth
dialog: be told, I don't like football. I
dialog: just liked you... I'm sorry.
text: She goes, sadly. After a brief moment of indecision,
text: Willie follows.
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT - LADIES' ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION 206
text: Vanessa sort of expects Willie to follow.
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: Willie, get the... outta here!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Vanessa, listen to me, please!
text: At the mirror, an older woman, with a bushel of white
text: hair, looks disapprovingly at Willie.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Whoa, Barbara Bush!? Willie
dialog: Beamen. You know, I always wanted
dialog: to meet you ‘cause I always had
dialog: this thing for...
text: Despite herself, Vanessa laughs. "Barbara Bush" exits in
text: a huff.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: That's it, baby -- let me see that
dialog: smile!
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: You are such a jerkoff...!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 206
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 183.
dialog: 206
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I know. Just tell me I can call
dialog: you, Vanessa, come on! You gotta
dialog: tell me here and now -- or I'll
dialog: leave you here alone and never
dialog: call you again...
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: You bullshitter! Alright, call me
dialog: -- if it'll get you the hell out
dialog: of here!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (jubilant, goes)
dialog: I'll be callin' you, sweetpea, you
dialog: hear me? ‘Cause that date of
dialog: yours...
dialog: (makes a face)
text: +. look like a pallbearer and
dialog: that worries me...
speaker_heading: VANESSA
dialog: At least he's tall. You're just
dialog: jealous... Oh, I'll just be
dialog: sitting by the phone, waiting...!
text: She laughs to herself when he's gone, delighted.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK CENTER - D'AMATO'S OFFICE - LATE NIGHT 207
text: Tony's desk is covered with play diagrams. He's drawing
text: new routes, as an old JAZZ RECORDING plays softly on the
text: CD PLAYER.
dialog: printouts.
text: .. Crozier enters with a pile of computer
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: I took the probabilities on
dialog: Texas. Some really promising
dialog: stuff on the weak zone coverage.
dialog: They run left 85 percent in the
dialog: red zone when...
dialog: (noticing the
dialog: diagrams )
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (snorts)
dialog: Nothing! I been trying to come up
dialog: with some plays that Willie can't
dialog: possibly fuck up.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 184.
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: (as Crozier laughs,
dialog: sits)
dialog: Nick, I don't know what the hell
dialog: to do? I've tried talking to him
dialog: every way I know -- yelling at
text: him, reasoning with him, inspiring
dialog: him -- the whole bit.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Have you tried listening to him?
dialog: Try to be sensitive to what
dialog: he's --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: ‘Sensitive’? I don't know from
dialog: ‘sensitive’! I only know one way
dialog: to coach. Sooner or later they've
dialog: got to start acting like men.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: ++. Someone comes at you with a
dialog: chop block, chief, and you
dialog: stiffen, you gonna get hurt. You
dialog: gotta bend... like bamboo in a
dialog: monsoon.
text: Tony doesn't answer, fingers Crozier's printouts.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: All these fucking numbers -- he
dialog: runs left 18 percent faster than
dialog: he runs right. He plays better
dialog: on odd numbered days. Next we're
dialog: gonna calculate the angle of his
dialog: dick! What're we here for, Nick?
dialog: We're technicians!
text: Unexpectedly, HEELS CLICK down the corridor, and
text: Christina suddenly walks in, furious -- throws USA Today
text: Sports across the desk.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Congratulations! Was I the last
dialog: to know? My own team?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: If you're talking about Rose, I'm
dialog: gonna bar his ass from here to
dialog: fucking...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 185.
dialog: (2) 207
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: We'll see about that! I'm talking
dialog: about Willie! What the hell are
dialog: you doing startin' Rooney? He
dialog: hasn't played in six weeks and
dialog: you're going to throw him into
dialog: the playoffs against the best
dialog: pass rush in the league?!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Cap's my starter, Christy.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: And if we lose this game
dialog: because...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (vaising his voice)
dialog: I'1l do you one better: in the
dialog: off-season I'm gonna trade Willie!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: You what?! That is not your
dialog: option!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Yeah, it is. The kid can sella
dialog: lot of T-shirts, Christy, but he
dialog: is tearing this team apart!!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Then you hold it together.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I can't! Not with him.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Then I'd say we have another
dialog: problem!
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: (standing)
dialog: I think I'll --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (cising instead,
dialog: to the door)
dialog: Sit down, Nick! You want the big
dialog: chair, get used to it first...!
dialog: Hey if you feel that way about it,
dialog: Christy, I don't know what the
dialog: hell I can do for you -- except
dialog: take a leak.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 186.
dialog: (3) 207
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Will you stop this... posturing!
dialog: Where are you going? I'm not
dialog: finished. The Commissioner just
dialog: called me.
dialog: (as Tony stops)
dialog: He's gonna fine you a 100 grand...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: For what?! Shoving that talking
dialog: turd out of the way? A hundred
dialog: G's!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: .-. And he wants a public apology
dialog: from you to Jack Rose!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: That'll be a cold day in hell,
dialog: baby!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: You will apologize, Tony. The
dialog: days when ‘Uncle Tony' could just
dialog: do what he wants -- calling all
text: the shots, firing Mandrake when he
dialog: wants, smacking sportswriters --
dialog: those days are over! You start
dialog: Willie on Sunday and you make the
dialog: adjustment to modern times -- or
dialog: you're out, Tony! And that's...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (explodes )
dialog: You think you're gonna tell me
dialog: what to do?! Your father never
dialog: told me what to do! AND YOU'RE
dialog: NOT GONNA START NOW, YOUNG LADY!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (not backing down)
dialog: Will you stop using my father as a
dialog: scapegoat! Do you think you don't
dialog: have to deal with me by raising my
dialog: father all the time? When are you
dialog: going to listen to me! 'Cause I'll
dialog: tell you this right now -- I'd
dialog: cut my father's ass if we were
dialog: losing like this!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I bet you would, too!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 187.
dialog: (4) 207
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: «+. And you know what? I wouldn't
dialog: lose a night's sleep over it.
dialog: ‘Cause like you he was
dialog: sentimental. And I can't afford
dialog: to be. I'm in the business of
dialog: holding this team together. That
dialog: means selling! Selling tickets,
dialog: skyboxes, players. Selling.
dialog: That's why Willie works for me.
dialog: He sells tickets. And that's why
dialog: he's starting Sunday.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You know, I'm really sick and tired
dialog: of you calling me an old asshole!
dialog: Your father was no genius. He acted
dialog: like he was. And he took a lot of
dialog: credit for things he didn't do.
dialog: But let me tell you something, he
dialog: at least respected me and he
dialog: respected the concept of the coach
dialog: coaching and the owner owning. I
dialog: can't even imagine what he'd think
dialog: of you right now with this...
dialog: ‘act’ you're putting on, but my
dialog: hunch is he'd be ashamed!
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (in a danger zone)
dialog: Here we go again! You don't
dialog: listen, do you --
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Ashamed!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Why the hell do you think he left
dialog: me in charge, you bullheaded
dialog: moron?! He could've made you
dialog: General Manager -- but he didn't,
dialog: did he?! Why? Because he knew you
dialog: didn't have the guts to do it
dialog: without him when he was gone
dialog: alright! He told me so himself.
text: Right there on his deathbed.
dialog: That's why, Tony -- because he
dialog: didn't trust you anymore. Because
dialog: you got old!
text: These words cut Tony hard. He puts on his game face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 207
speaker_heading: A207
speaker_heading: B207
dialog: 208
dialog: 188.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) 207
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (deadly quiet)
dialog: Well, this old asshole has a
dialog: playoff game in two days. A game
dialog: which Cap Rooney is going to start
dialog: and finish. Both of you -- get
dialog: out.
text: Crozier stands, a glance to Christina. They go. Tony is
dialog: alone.
scene_heading: EXT. PAGNIACCI MANSION - NEXT DAY A207
text: Christina walks along the tennis court and enters the
text: house through the back door, bypassing the housekeeper.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (to housekeeper)
dialog: Beatriz, I'll be in Dad's
dialog: office... Don't bother Mom.
scene_heading: INT. PAGNIACCI MANSION - FATHER'S OLD OFFICE - DAY B207
text: Christina sits at her father's desk, living in the past.
text: We FLOAT PAST a large portrait of her father TO the
text: living room, where we overhear the VOICES of Tony and
dialog: Margaret.
scene_heading: INT. PAGNIACCI MANSION - PARLOR - DAY 208
text: Tony consults with Margaret. The thick velvet drapes
dialog: are always drawn tight here -- banishing the blazing
text: Florida sun and permanently shrouding Margaret's elegant
text: parlor in shadows... Today she burns with an oracular
dialog: power.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: What is it you fear...?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You have so much fear, Tony.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I'm losing the team, Maggie. I'm
dialog: losing control. Everything in my
dialog: life is about control. I lead
dialog: men. I control men.
dialog: (a pause)
dialog: Did Art think I was past it?... Is
dialog: that why he made Christina
dialog: President? Did he think I
dialog: couldn't win anymore?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 208
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 189.
dialog: 208
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Do you care?
dialog: (a silence)
dialog: I need your help, Maggie.
dialog: Christina is going to destroy this
dialog: team.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (cryptic)
dialog: Yes. In order to save it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (bewildered)
dialog: We can't let that happen. We owe
dialog: that to Art.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: You never understood Art, Tony...
dialog: He wanted a son more than anything
dialog: in the world...
dialog: (a considered pause)
dialog: When you truly contemplate what
dialog: Christina is, it really is a
dialog: tragedy. Believe me, she will
dialog: fire you and sell the soul of the
dialog: team -- and everything her father
dialog: stood for will die... and that is
dialog: as it should be... and neither you
dialog: nor I, or maybe even Christina
dialog: herself, will ever understand her
dialog: real motives...
dialog: 
text: Her intensity is unnerving.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: «+. What will you do, Tony? After
dialog: football? What's out there for
dialog: you? With no one to control?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Stop it.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: .«+. I blame you for a lot of
dialog: things. You were, like Art, a
dialog: monster. You've gotten older...
dialog: better, but for a long time I
dialog: hated you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 208
dialog: 209
dialog: 190.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 208
speaker_heading: MARGARET (CONT'D)
dialog: (as Tony is taken
dialog: aback)
dialog: Yes, that game took my husband, my
dialog: daughter, and my youth and left
dialog: me... with what?
dialog: (looks around, the
dialog: drapes drawn)
text: The memory of a blazing sun all
dialog: those Sunday afternoons out there
dialog: at the stadium...
dialog: (disconnected)
dialog: Where time just slipped away.
text: Tony looks away, betrayed, hurt.
scene_heading: INT. PAGNIACCI MANSION - FATHER'S OLD OFFICE -
scene_heading: SIMULTANEOUS ACTION
text: Christine cries quietly, also devastated by her mother's
dialog: revelation of her character.
scene_heading: INT. D'AMATO'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 209
text: A SONG plays through the house, ghost-like. Tony
text: drinks whiskey, pausing, as he goes through his personal
text: mementoes in his chest of drawers, the TV turned to:
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: TV
text: On "Sportscorner," Jack Rose, sporting a dramatic bandage
text: across his head, similar to a Revolutionary War icon,
text: talks to Sanderson.
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: «+. Thanks, 'Sandman,' for
dialog: asking -- my head is still
dialog: hurting, got some migraines...
text: and the ribs are sure sore.
dialog: (grins)
dialog: But hey, I play hurt! If you look
dialog: at your monitor...
text: The station runs the famous "shot" again, the ending
text: blurry with Tony "pushing" Rose into the dugout.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 209
dialog: 210
dialog: 191.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 209
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: .». You know this 'punch' was more
dialog: than just aggression, it was a
dialog: sign of decay I think, because...
text: Tony roars at the TV.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Aggggh! If I'd punched you, you'd
dialog: be shitting out your teeth right
dialog: now -- you vampire prick!
text: He picks out Mandy's lipsticked telephone number on a
text: piece of paper and, after a pause, tears it up.
speaker_heading: ROSE (V.0.)
dialog: «+. To tell you the truth -- this
dialog: is me speaking from the heart now
dialog: -- I feel a little sorry for Coach
dialog: D'Amato. I always hoped he'd
dialog: leave this game with a little
dialog: dignity left.
text: Rose continues to rattle on in the b.g., but Tony ignores
text: the babble of our time, removing from the drawer a small
text: wooden box and a framed picture of a younger Tony with
text: Jeanette, Timmy, and Melinda.
text: He sets the box aside and picks up the picture. It is
text: clear now that he is crying. He looks at it for a long
text: and difficult moment, then sets the picture down and
text: opens the box -- in it are two glimmering Pantheon Cup
dialog: rings.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. SHARK STADIUM - NIGHT/DAY (STOCK FOOTAGE) 210
text: The MUSIC THEME moves over a deserted field -- the night
text: TURNING to dawn.
text: IMAGES slowly move. Ghosts. Men who once played the
dialog: game, heroic and shimmering, a thing of glory... We don't
dialog: know who these ghosts are, but we sense what they
text: represent. Some in old leather helmets, the '30s, ‘40s,
text: ‘50s, each era unfolds its changes... le plus ca change,
dialog: le plus ca reste le meme... the diving catches, the
text: magnificent tackles and blocks, the astounding runs and
dialog: passes become really the same through time -- accompanied
text: now by the GROWING ROAR of the FANS...
text: The MUSIC reaches a CRESCENDO with the dawn breaking, and
text: the ghosts fade, and the stadium enters time present...
dialog: 211
dialog: 212
dialog: 213
dialog: 192.
scene_heading: EXT. DALLAS KNIGHTS STADIUM - DAY 211
text: Game 5. Playoff. Miami at Dallas.
speaker_heading: STADIUM #1
text: The Dallas Knights stadium, with its artificial,
text: exaggerated green Astroturf, is spectacular. The fans
text: are stomping in anticipation.
speaker_heading: INGO McNAUGHTON (V.O.)
dialog: (Dallas anchor)
text: «+. Controversy swirls around the
text: six point Shark underdogs. Willie
dialog: ‘Steamin' Beamen, the sensational
dialog: third-string miracle-mile
dialog: quarterback who's held the sinking
dialog: Sharks together these last four
dialog: weeks, is not starting and is said
text: to be feuding with his beleaguered
dialog: Coach, Tony D'Amato -- who is being
dialog: investigated by the League for
dialog: having 'hit' local reporter Jack
dialog: Rose at practice earlier this
text: week... Meanwhile, immortal but
dialog: vulnerable Cap Rooney -- only six
text: weeks off a microdiskectomy on his
dialog: lower back -- is definitely
dialog: starting for the Sharks against
dialog: the toughest pass-rush in the
dialog: league. Watch for the sparks that
dialog: are gonna fly! We'll be right back!
speaker_heading: OMITTED 212
scene_heading: INT. TEXAS STADIUM - BASEMENT - COACH'S ROOM - 213
speaker_heading: SAME TIME
text: Coach D'Amato stands at a podium in front of the large
text: press corps. Jack "Ripper" Rose accepts his apology
text: with a smug smile and a nicely-dressed bandage on his
dialog: forehead.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. Well, clearly the tension of
dialog: the season got to me and I
dialog: overreacted to an innocent
dialog: question from a journalist we all
dialog: know to be of the highest
dialog: caliber... I only hope that one
dialog: day I'll truly be able to show
dialog: Jack Rose just how much I treasure
dialog: his invaluable contribution to the
dialog: sport of football. Thank you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 213
dialog: 214
dialog: 215
dialog: 214
dialog: 193.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: He leaves the podium, eyes down... Christina and the
text: tall, dignified AFFA COMMISSIONER, PHIL JOHNSON, are not
text: exactly pleased with the apology.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK LOCKER ROOM - LOCKER ROOM #1 - FOLLOWING
dialog: Everything we see suggests uncertainty, doubt, and
text: tension... Willie reads X-men... Cap Rooney is stretched
text: out, towel over his head, asleep...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MONTAGE #3 (MADMAN'S PREPARATION)
text: A brief MONTAGE of JUMP CUTS shows Madman's tape
text: preparation: Ankles, knees, shoulders, jock and shorts,
text: wrists and fingers, shoes and socks -- are heavily taped
text: by trainer #3. In his final stage, Madman is the
dialog: complete zombie warrior...
text: Another player (OTIS), finishes praying, crosses himself,
text: turns to Madman.
speaker_heading: OTIS
dialog: Hey, Madman, do you really think
dialog: God's on our side these days?
speaker_heading: MADMAN
dialog: (in his growliest
dialog: voice)
dialog: No! Goddamnit, God's on the side
dialog: of those who love themselves!!
dialog: Har raa!
speaker_heading: BATHROOM #1
text: In the mirror, Sanderson is a wreck, eyes closed,
text: whispering to himself.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: I'm the best wide receiver that
dialog: ever lived! I can catch anything
dialog: -.. I'm the best wide receiver
dialog: that ever...
speaker_heading: LOCKER ROOM #2
text: Trainer #1 wakes up Cap Rooney from his slumber. He
text: rises, stoic.
dialog: 213
dialog: 214
dialog: 215
dialog: 214
dialog: 216
dialog: 194.
scene_heading: TRAINERS' ROOM #1 216
text: The door is closed. As the huge CROWD upstairs makes its
text: presence known, STOMPING and ROARING, the ECHOES surging
text: through the tunnels and pipes of the inner stadium, Dr.
text: Powers, in temporary charge, inserts a large 18-gauge
text: needle of cortisone directly into the swollen, scarred
text: knee of Shark, who winces in great pain. Powers drains a
text: straw-colored liquid into a Dixie cup.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (hissing)
dialog: God, I hate Texas!
speaker_heading: HORNY
dialog: (poking his head in)
dialog: Whoa! What the fuck they doing to
dialog: you, man!
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: M'fucker, they're taking a cyst
dialog: outta my ovaries!! Now get the
dialog: fuck outta here... please...
text: Powers now shines a beam of light into Shark's eyes,
text: moving his finger back and forth in front of his eyes.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: How's that headache?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: It was okay till you started doing
dialog: that shit...
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: What about your balance?
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: You talkin' my check balance?
dialog: Look p-h-a-t, baby -- 'phat.'
text: Powers retracts the needle.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: «+. you're done.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Gimme another one.
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: (astonished)
dialog: Shark, you don't need it, it
text: doesn't make any sense medically.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 216
dialog: 217
dialog: 218
dialog: 195.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 216
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (seriously grips
dialog: Powers )
dialog: I don't give a fuck about medical,
dialog: Doc! Give me another one. Just
dialog: for this game... please!
text: A moment passes between them, then Powers relents, goes
text: to get a fresh syringe. Ironically, he begins perhaps to
text: understand Mandrake's dilemma as both a doctor and a human
dialog: being.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 217
scene_heading: LOCKER ROOM #3 218
text: Trainer #1 harnesses Cap Rooney into a flak jacket, as
text: creaky as El Cid in his armor, stuffed and mounted for
dialog: the last battle.
speaker_heading: ALL TRAINERS
dialog: All right, everybody! Three
dialog: minutes!... Gather ‘round! Coach
dialog: D. got something to say...
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
scene_heading: SAME SCENE - LATER
text: Coach D'Amato stands before the team, humbled, hiding
dialog: nothing.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I don't know what to say really.
dialog: We got three minutes left till the
dialog: biggest battle of our professional
dialog: lives... It all comes down to
dialog: today. We either heal as a team
dialog: or we crumble, inch by inch, play
dialog: by play -- until we're finished.
dialog: We're in hell right now, gentlemen,
dialog: believe me. We can sit here and
dialog: get the shit kicked out of us, or
dialog: we can fight our way back into the
dialog: light; we can climb out of this
dialog: anger and this doubt and this
dialog: 
dialog: uncertainty -- we can climb out of
dialog: hell -- one inch at a time, or...
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 218
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 196.
dialog: 218
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: (pause)
dialog: «+. I wish I could do it for you,
dialog: but I can't. I'm too old. I look
dialog: around at your faces and I see
dialog: young men and I think I made every
dialog: wrong choice a middle-aged old man
dialog: can make -- my life is a long list
dialog: of rookie mistakes. I pissed away
dialog: all my money, chased off everyone
dialog: that loved me... lately I can't
dialog: even stand the face I see in the
dialog: mirror.
dialog: This team has never heard their Coach take it to such a
dialog: personal level.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. As we get older, some things
dialog: are taken away... well, that's
dialog: part of life, but you only learn
dialog: that when you lose something.
dialog: You find out that life is this game
dialog: of inches! So's football.
dialog: Because the margin for error in
dialog: either game, football or life, is
dialog: so small... so small, guys. One
dialog: half-step too late or too early
dialog: and you don't quite make it. One
text: half-second too slow or too fast
dialog: and you don't quite catch it
text: ‘cause it's half a fingertip away.
dialog: The inches we need are everywhere
dialog: around us, they're in every break
dialog: of the game, every minute, every
dialog: second. Mandrake forgot that. He
dialog: was grabbing for miles when he
dialog: only needed inches. And on this
dialog: team there are no shortcuts.
dialog: There are no more Doctor
dialog: Mandrakes. On this team we fight
dialog: for that inch! We tear ourselves
dialog: and everyone else around us to
dialog: pieces for that inch! We claw
dialog: with our fingernails for that inch
dialog: ‘cause when you add up all those
dialog: inches, that is what makes the
dialog: fucking difference between winning
dialog: and losing -- between living and
dialog: dying... In any fight I can tell
dialog: you this, it's the guy who's
dialog: willing to die who's going to win
dialog: that inch.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 218
dialog: 197.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 218
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: And I know if I'm gonna have any
dialog: kind of life anymore, it's because
dialog: I'm still willing to fight and die
dialog: for that inch...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That's what living is.
dialog: (sweeps the team
dialog: with a look)
dialog: The six inches in front of your
dialog: face. I can't make you do it.
dialog: You have to look around -- look at
dialog: the guy next to you -- look into
dialog: his eyes -- and I think you'll see
dialog: a guy you know will go that inch
dialog: with you. You'll see a guy who'll
dialog: sacrifice himself for this team
dialog: because when it comes down to it,
dialog: he knows you would do the same for
dialog: him! That's a team, gentlemen!...
dialog: And either we will heal now as a
dialog: team -- or we will die as
dialog: individuals...
dialog: 
text: Willie listening to these words, with new meaning.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: That's football, guys.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: That's all it is.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Now what are you going to do?
text: Silence... The team, as if one mind, emits a roar of
text: approval. The players hug and slap each other on the
text: back. It is a joyous moment of sudden unification and
text: affection, a savage release of tension.
text: Julian jumps up onto a table, grabbing their attention.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Listen up, listen up! I got
dialog: somethin' to say!
text: The team falls quiet again.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Thank you, ‘Coach Stone Age'!
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 218
dialog: 198.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 218
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON (CONT'D)
dialog: (laughter)
dialog: But you're right! Hey, you all
dialog: know what I've been through. You
dialog: all know about the money I get. I
dialog: been hearin' all about people
dialog: sayin' this and that about me.
dialog: But lemme tell ya something: I'm
dialog: sick and tired of it!... I love
dialog: this game. I want to play this
dialog: game with you people -- as part of
dialog: a_team!!
dialog: (as the team cheers)
dialog: And I know this sounds corny but I
dialog: want to thank Willie Beamen, in
dialog: his own fucked-up way, for makin'
dialog: me care about this game again.
dialog: (turns to Willie)
dialog: Come here, you little bastard!
dialog: 
text: He grabs a smiling Willie into his bear-like hug and
text: swings him around. This is another moment of
text: significance. The team goes wild to see these two
text: finally connecting... And now Monroe feels he must leap
dialog: on the bench to speak his piece:
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Coach put his heart and soul out
dialog: for us. Give me that nasty D!
speaker_heading: TEAM
dialog: Nasty D!
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: I_want psychodrive -- I want mad
text: dog, drooling, rabid, teeth-bared,
text: balls-out, limb-tearing, face-
text: shredding INTENSITY! What -- do
dialog: -- we -- live -- for, defense?!
speaker_heading: TEAM
dialog: Turn-over! Turn-over! Turn-over!
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: What -- do -- we -- live -- for
dialog: offense?!
speaker_heading: TEAM
dialog: Touch-down! Touch-down! Touch-
dialog: down !
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Team! What do we live and die
dialog: for?!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 218 CONTINUED: (4)
speaker_heading: TEAM
dialog: Victory! Victory! Victory!
text: The team runs roaring from the locker room.
dialog: 199.
dialog: 218
dialog: When most of
text: the team has exited, Monty climbs down from the bench.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: (to Tony)
dialog: Goddamn! I'm too old for this
dialog: shit!
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 219 MEDIA BOOTH #1
text: Tug Kolowski and Ingo McNaughton are on the a
speaker_heading: TUG
dialog: And here we go, ladies and
dialog: gentlemen, get ready for a
dialog: classic! Here in Texas, they say
dialog: God made it so big and flat so
dialog: everybody could play football!
speaker_heading: INGO
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: «+. That's right, Tug, years ago
dialog: when Dallas was one and 15, they
dialog: blamed it on God, said he was on
dialog: vacation that year...
scene_heading: 220 VIDEO FROM MEDIA BOOTH POV - FIELD #1
text: The opening kickoff as McNaughton calls it.
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: It's a huge boot from Croft...
text: Scanlon takes it in the end zone...
dialog: He's running it out...
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Dangerous move...
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: Scanlon skirts a tackle... he's
dialog: got a block... He's got some
dialog: running roo
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Uh-oh! Watch out...!
dialog: 219
dialog: ir.
speaker_heading: 220
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 220
dialog: 221
dialog: 222
dialog: 223
dialog: 224
dialog: 200.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 220
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: He's at the thirty... the thirty-
dialog: five!... He's got some
dialog: daylight!... He's broken loose!
dialog: He could go all the way!!
text: The Dallas runner (Scanlon) races through Shark defenders
text: and into the end zone. Dallas fans leap to their feet
text: -- an enormous, pounding celebration, the sound
text: heightened by the ECHOEY nature of the stadium.
speaker_heading: LUXURY BOX #1 221
text: Christina, Ed Phillips, Joe Polito and others watch,
text: their hopes suddenly dashed.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: It's gonna be a long day...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #1 222
text: Coach D'Amato claps his hands and walks down the
text: sideline, talking to his troops, coming to a stop at Cap
text: Rooney -- Willie close by.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Awright, awright, no big deal. We
text: still block and tackle.
dialog: (to Rooney)
dialog: Stick with the game plan, Cap.
dialog: You set on the first series?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: ... Piece of cake, Coach.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Then bring it home, Rock!
text: Rooney strides onto the field.
speaker_heading: STANDS #1 223
text: The Miami section unleashes a great stomp of recognition
text: and adoration. Huge booing from the Dallas side...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #2 224
text: The Shark mascot dances. Cap Rooney is back! Two
dialog: Pantheon Cup rings, anything can happen in the memory.
text: Anything!! Willie applauds as well, looking over to see:
dialog: 225
dialog: &
dialog: 226
speaker_heading: A226
dialog: 227
dialog: 228
dialog: 229
dialog: 230
dialog: 201.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 225
dialog: &
dialog: 226
speaker_heading: STANDS #2 A226
text: His mom -- with an older lady friend and a younger sister
text: at the 50-yard line. She waves to him, in her Sunday
dialog: best, proud of him.
speaker_heading: STANDS #3 227
text: Cindy Rooney -- with a retinue of loyal wives -- clamor
dialog: for Cap.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #1 228
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Guys, I missed your ugly mugs.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Whoa!... Old times, baby! Howszat
dialog: disc of yours? Still spinning?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Like Jerry Lee Lewis! Okay, Blue
text: Twins Right Ace 90 Seam. On two.
dialog: And don't let that corner take
dialog: away the inside, Sandman.
dialog: (grins)
dialog: Trip him, tickle his nuts, I don't
dialog: give a darn.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Same old, same old. He is
dialog: nonexistent!
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: On two. Ready?
scene_heading: MONTAGE #4 - CAP ROONEY'S COMEBACK 229
speaker_heading: FIELD #2
text: The ball is snapped... and we go into a SERIES OF CUTS of
text: Cap Rooney's return -- four plays, all quick, on-the-
text: money passes, inside and out, Cap in control, moving the
text: team like a whipmaster.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: OMITTED 230
speaker_heading: 231
dialog: 232
dialog: 233
dialog: 234
dialog: 235
dialog: 236
speaker_heading: A236
dialog: 237
dialog: 202.
speaker_heading: FIELD #3 231
text: On the fourth play, Cap finds the second wide out (Owens)
dialog: for a TD!
speaker_heading: STANDS #4 232
text: A Dallas fan decks an overenthusiastic Miamian...
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #4 233
text: Shark sacks the Dallas QB -- jumpoing up and doing his
dialog: "sack dance."
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: There he goes! Sack number 12 of
dialog: the year -- a personal high for
dialog: Luther Lavay.
speaker_heading: FIELD #5 234
text: But Dallas stays right in the game. A short, broken-
text: field run, 22 yards for a touchdown. (Ingo AD LIBS.)
text: Each man obviously rooting against the other.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #6 235
text: Answered by a Miami 32-yard field goal...
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #3 236
text: Willie listens and watches closely as D'Amato confers
text: with Rooney, studying Cap's style on the field. He --
text: not Cherubini -- is calling in the plays, which puts him
text: in the heart of the conflict.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #1 A236
scene_heading: MIAMI 10, DALLAS 14. FIRST QUARTER 2:48...
speaker_heading: FIELD #7 237
text: Sharks are poised to score on the Dallas 11...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 237
speaker_heading: A237
dialog: 238
dialog: 239
speaker_heading: A239
dialog: 203.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 237
text: Cap fades back -- a Dallas defender breaks through the
text: line -- Cap scrambles out of the pocket -- no one can get
text: open -- he tucks the ball and decisively charges the goal
dialog: line.
dialog: The "old man" will not be denied in a race to the goal
text: line. A Dallas defender zeroes in on him. Rather than
text: slide, Rooney hurls himself into the air, inspired
text: possibly by the younger Willie and collides head-first
text: with a Dallas defender -- a thunderclap of sound.
text: The ball, tight in Rooney's grasp, is planted firmly
dialog: beyond the goal line -- touchdown!
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #4 A237
dialog: The Sharks taste the old glory!
speaker_heading: FIELD #8 238
text: Rooney pulls himself slowly to his feet, accepting the
text: congratulations of his teammates, inwardly numb, outwardly
text: ecstatic.
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: That is the meaning, in one
dialog: sentence, of ‘Captain’ Jack
dialog: Rooney. He will not take 'No' for
dialog: an answer. I deeply admire a man
dialog: of that caliber.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Ingo, I never seen you that moved
dialog: by anything.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #5 239
text: D'Amato watches Rooney intently, sensing the worst, but
text: basking in the glory of it -- the aging charioteer pauses
text: in the end zone, opens his breast to the roar of the
text: crowd. His moment in time.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #2 A239
scene_heading: MIAMI 17, DALLAS 14. SECOND QUARTER. 11:12...
dialog: 240
dialog: 241
speaker_heading: A241
dialog: 204.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #2 240
text: Rooney's significant pain carries over. His teammates
text: keep a respectful silence, but he sweats and breathes
dialog: with difficulty.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Awright, come on. Second and two,
dialog: gang. Let's get it. Pro Left Y
text: Switch Zig 90 Fade. On two.
dialog: Ready?
dialog: As they break:
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (urgent, drawing
dialog: a blank)
dialog: What's the color?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: The live color? I can't remember
dialog: the color --
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Red for Chrissake! On two! If
dialog: you're fucked up, Sandman? Take
dialog: yourself out, man.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: (panicked)
dialog: Can't remember the plays!
speaker_heading: FIELD #9 241
text: Cap fades back, a fake screen to Julian which deceives
text: Dallas, then he flings it far downfield -- headed for
dialog: Sandman...
text: Rooney thinks it's a lock... But the pass, 45 yards in
text: the air, is overthrown by inches! -- Sanderson, perhaps a
text: half step late on his own, stretches but cannot grasp it
text: -- missing by an inch -- the ball implodes, incomplete,
text: as the Miami fans moan and the Dallas fans roar.
text: As Cap walks to the sideline, crossing his punting unit,
text: an eerie feeling invades a mind already fragile in
dialog: confidence.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #3 A241
scene_heading: MIAMI 17, DALLAS 14. SECOND QUARTER. 03:57...
dialog: 242
dialog: 243
dialog: 244
dialog: 245
dialog: 246
speaker_heading: A246
dialog: 205.
speaker_heading: FIELD #10 242
text: Rooney scans the defense, sees the signs for a full
text: blitz. Under the center, his hands shake.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (audibles)
dialog: Set! Black 45... razor, razor...
dialog: 495 max, 495 max... Hut! Hut!
text: The full blitz at the Miami 35 -- two Dallas speedsters
text: come from either side -- Rooney fakes a handoff to Julian
text: and turns upfield -- but both Dallas defenders slam into
text: him, a devastating double hit -- his body crumples into
dialog: the grass.
text: The ball sails from his hands -- a Dallas lineman
text: snatching it up on the bounce and sprinting to the Miami
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: STANDS #5 243
dialog: The crowd, which a few short minutes ago loved this man,
text: has turned surly and unsure. Time is swift.
speaker_heading: STANDS #6 244
text: Cindy Rooney knows it's over.
speaker_heading: LUXURY BOX #2 245
dialog: So does Christina.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (to Phillips and
dialog: Polito)
dialog: I'm going down...
scene_heading: INT. VISITORS' LOCKER ROOM - HALFTIME 246
text: ON TV: The score reads Miami 17, Dallas 21.
scene_heading: STORAGE ROOM #1 A246
text: In a dark and solitary storeroom, Sanderson is shaking
text: and sweating, pathetically pleading to Dr. Powers:
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Doc, you're my man. I'm just
dialog: asking you this one time... Look
dialog: at me.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A246
dialog: 247
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 206.
speaker_heading: A246
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Stop begging, Jimmy. You're
dialog: making me nervous. You'd make
dialog: water nervous.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: It's like that, okay? It ain't
dialog: right, Doc, I never asked you for
dialog: nothing! M'fucker! Look at me,
dialog: look at my goddamn hands...
dialog: (shaking)
dialog: Man, i live to catch passes, you
dialog: understand that?! Ritalin, diet
dialog: shit, anything!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: Jimmy, we been through this. I
dialog: can't, I won't...
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: You're lettin' me die out there!
dialog: I can't beat ‘em anymore! Half a
dialog: step, it's all I'm sayin', half a
dialog: fuckin' step! I'm 28, man, I'm an
dialog: old man out there!
speaker_heading: POWERS
dialog: There is a line, Jimmy. I won't
dialog: cross it. You don't need it. You
dialog: can win without it.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
dialog: Who you shittin'! It's over...
dialog: If you could run, catch, feel
dialog: what I feel, you'd be a whole
dialog: different person, Doc. You're
dialog: just trying to hold me down. It's
dialog: all right, man, I'll make it
dialog: without you! I'll make it without
dialog: you, m'fucker...!
dialog: 
scene_heading: TRAINING AREA #2 247
text: Trainers #1 and #2 work on Cap Rooney, re-taping his
text: bruised ribs and back, as Tony crosses in.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Can you play?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: .+. Banged up, but I'm okay...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 207.
speaker_heading: 247 CONTINUED: 247
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Can you play?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Yeah... you bet.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Rock -- look at me -- can you
dialog: play?
text: Rooney looks at him. His face tells the story.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You fought like a son-of-a-bitch
dialog: out there, Rock... I will never
dialog: forget this.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: -++- Go do your job, Coach.
scene_heading: 248 LOCKER ROOM #4 248
text: Tony moves around the locker room, studying his team. He
text: locks eyes with Willie, who comes over. They speak
dialog: quietly.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: This isn't about you and me
dialog: anymore. You've got to lead them,
dialog: Willie. When they look in your
dialog: eyes, they gotta believe.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I know...
text: Christina -- surprising everyone -- enters the locker
text: room, moving quickly past the players. With Ed Phillips
text: and Joe Polito backing her, she seeks out Tony.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: What do you think you're doing?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (seething)
dialog: You got no business here -- I told
dialog: you not to come here!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Don't you see what's going on,
dialog: you...
text: Tony sweeps Christina by the elbow, into the small
text: visiting coach's locker room.
dialog: 208.
scene_heading: A248 COACH'S LOCKER ROOM #1 A248
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (as intense as
dialog: he can get)
dialog: Leave here before I lose my
dialog: temper, Mrs. Pagniacci, do you
dialog: hear me?!...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I_don't care what your problem
dialog: with him is -- alright!? Cap
dialog: Rooney is over! You're the only
dialog: one that's failed to see...
text: Outside, the players listen silently.
dialog: He throws
text: A pause.
dialog: Christina
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: NEVER -- NEVER -- talk that way in
dialog: front of my players! Do you
dialog: understand!... or I'll spank the
dialog: living shit out of you, little
dialog: girl!!
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (scared)
dialog: Don't talk to me like that! It's
dialog: MY team too! And I don't give a
dialog: fuck if Willie's changing the plays!
dialog: You let your ego get in the way of
dialog: this team, and it is going to cost
dialog: us the game!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: GET OUT! GET OUT NOW! Before I...
text: a chair. Willie enters tentatively...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Miss Pagniacci...? I'm sorry
dialog: but...
dialog: (as Christina waits)
dialog: «+. Coach D'Amato -- he already
dialog: told me I'm going in.
text: They all share looks.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Jesus Christ, Christy... What the
dialog: hell happened to you...?
text: exits, her dignity intact.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: A248
dialog: 249
dialog: 209.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: A248
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (nods to Willie)
dialog: Good...! Prove ‘em wrong, Willie...
text: She crosses to the main locker room, her entourage
dialog: following.
scene_heading: EXT. DALLAS STADIUM - TUNNEL - NIGHT (SECOND HALF) 249
text: Tony is talking fast to Willie as they move down the
text: tunnel. The sound of the CROWD GROWING...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: .»-- Take control of the huddle,
dialog: get ‘em in and out quick. Take
dialog: advantage of the box while the
dialog: speaker's hot.
speaker_heading: WILLIE (TBD)
dialog: Yup.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Keep an eye on the front four.
dialog: Make them work sideline to
dialog: sideline, they'll slow down, and
dialog: when you see them, take a knee,
dialog: lookin' for some air, they're
dialog: losing it. Then you go right at
dialog: ‘em. Control the line of
dialog: scrimmage, and you're gonna
dialog: control this game.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yup.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Stats don't mean shit to me. Get
dialog: me five yards on first, and
dialog: they'1l have to worry about
dialog: stopping both you and Julian.
dialog: Possession of the ball -- that's
dialog: all I want. Move those chains.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yup.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Read the safety's drop, if he's
text: flat footed or in his backpedal,
dialog: we go downtown. Keep ‘em honest
dialog: with your eyes. The longer you
dialog: look them off, the tougher it is
dialog: for them to make their break.
dialog: Surprise 'em, make it sudden, Willie.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 249
dialog: 210.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 249
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yup.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: What are you, Gary Cooper?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Forget it. Remember, keep them
text: off balance with the hard count.
dialog: That will slow the pass rush and
dialog: buy you more time. If you see
text: their arms shaking and their asses
text: up in the air, they're coming...
dialog: Control the line of scrimmage,
dialog: you're gonna control this game,
dialog: Willie
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Coach, you said that already...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. And don't forget to look for
dialog: the mismatches!
text: (as Willie sighs; he
dialog: repeats)
dialog: Look for the mismatches. You'll
dialog: find one... One more thing!
dialog: (carefully)
text: Right out of the gate, let it fly.
dialog: Go 999, and shock the shit out of
dialog: ‘em.
text: He grins at a surprised Willie.
text: As they now break from the tunnel, the ROAR of the Dallas
text: crowd, and the excitement of the sportscaster's voices
text: overwhelms all.
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: Well, everyone knows it's ‘crunch
dialog: time' for Steamin' Beamen. Cagey
dialog: old veterans have been known to
dialog: crack under playoff pressure -- so
dialog: you gotta wonder how this rather
dialog: volatile kid'll stack up...
speaker_heading: TUG (V.0.)
dialog: No, sir! Prisoners will not be
dialog: taken in this second half! The
dialog: surviving team goes to Minnesota
dialog: next week for the Conference
dialog: Championship.
dialog: 250
dialog: 251
dialog: 252
dialog: 211.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #5 250
text: Willie steps to the side, alone -- and vomits quietly...
text: then he jogs out onto the field for the second half.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Oh boy! Dallas is in trouble now
dialog: ‘Willie's Ritual.' You know,
dialog: Ingo, in Tampa Bay one time you
dialog: looked just like that after...
text: Ingo finally laughs.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #3 251
text: Willie, totally focused, assesses his teammates. He
text: spots Cap Rooney, in uniform, signaling in the play!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Okay, Strong Left Zig 90 Gun, on
dialog: three, serious -- it's their call.
dialog: And by the way, guys --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I apologize for having a big head
dialog: back there -- but that wasn't me.
dialog: It was the Devil Red 6-6-6.
dialog: (as they laugh)
dialog: Now let's get this bitch before
dialog: they know what hit ‘em! On
dialog: three. Ready!
text: They clap and break, believing it. Over Willie:
speaker_heading: CAP (V.O.)
dialog: (helmet)
dialog: Watch for the robber on the
dialog: right... you know it's a beautiful
dialog: thing to watch you throw, kid!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Good to hear you say that,
dialog: not-so-old-man.
speaker_heading: FIELD #11 252
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set! Black 41, Black 41! Hut!
dialog: Hut! Hut!
text: Willie steps back, flings it far... 50 aerial yards...
text: Interception!... An upset roar from the Dallas fans.
dialog: 212.
speaker_heading: 253 SIDELINE #6 253
text: Willie jogs back, past Tony, loose about it.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: ... hey at least he ran the play I
dialog: called!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (to Tony)
dialog: One inch to the left, it would've
dialog: worked.
scene_heading: 261 LUXURY BOX #3 261
text: The AFFA Commissioner, with a small entourage, is
text: watching part of the game in Christina's box.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: -.. Let me on the Finance
dialog: Committee, Phil, and I know I
dialog: could make a difference with the
dialog: networks. I know New York, I...
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Your mother looks great, by the
dialog: way...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Thank you. She's always loved
dialog: Dallas. Loves Neiman Marcus.
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Great lady. And your golf?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: I'm about an 11 now... from the
dialog: whites. Think you can take me?
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Whoa! Not bad! I'm afraid I'm
dialog: not in your class, Christina.
dialog: (cising to leave)
dialog: Good game. Good team.
dialog: (crossing to Margaret
dialog: with her two pet
dialog: dogs in hand)
dialog: Margaret...
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: It's nice to see you, Phil.
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Still miss Art.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 261
dialog: 213.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 261
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I do, too...
dialog: (displaying her new
dialog: dog)
dialog: Have you met Gabrielle?
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: ++. so I have.
text: He moves, with great dignity, to the door.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (following him,
dialog: unsatisfied)
dialog: Phil, I'd really like to...
text: They're out of earshot at the door. The Commissioner,
text: obviously under some pressure of his own, decides to
dialog: tell her now.
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Christina, the owners would like
dialog: you to come up to New York for a
text: meeting. Sometime before the
dialog: first of the year... if possible?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Oh? About what, sir?
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Well... there's a concern that's
dialog: been voiced about some moves that
dialog: were made... mmm, on your behalf,
dialog: for another Los Angeles franchise
dialog: -+. Several of the Association's
dialog: rules may have been violated on
dialog: this. We've heard that...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: Who! Who said this? Who's been
dialog: saying this...!
text: She checks herself.
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Is Wednesday this week too soon?
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Not at all. That'll be fine, sir.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 261
speaker_heading: A261
dialog: 261
speaker_heading: A254
dialog: 255
dialog: 214.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 261
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: Good. Then the best of luck to
dialog: you today...
text: He exits.
scene_heading: CORRIDOR OUTSIDE BOX A261
text: The Commissioner, on the way out, shakes his head, to
dialog: an associate.
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER
dialog: +. I honestly believe that woman
dialog: would eat her young.
speaker_heading: LUXURY BOX #4 261
text: Christina, staggered, turns to Ed Phillips and Johnny.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: What the hell happened!?
speaker_heading: ED PHILLIPS
dialog: I don't know, but somebody opened
dialog: his big mouth. And I'll bet you
dialog: it was our friend the Mayor!
speaker_heading: JOHNNY POLITO
dialog: You're missing the point, Ed.
dialog: This guy definitely doesn't want
dialog: her in L.A. That's the point.
text: Christina is worried.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #4 A254
scene_heading: Reads: MIAMI 17, DALLAS 28. THIRD QUARTER. 4:27...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #7 255
dialog: Dallas has added another TD! It looks dicey.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Willie)
dialog: Branco's aching to nail ya. He's
dialog: playing for the cameras. Go Split
dialog: Left 90 Hitch, but if you think
dialog: Branco's gonna bite, audible a
dialog: fade right to 'Sandman.'
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 255
dialog: 256
dialog: 257
dialog: 258
dialog: 215.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 255
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You gonna let me check off?
dialog: Where's the coach I know and love?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: If Branco bites.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: You git it, Coach.
speaker_heading: FIELD #12 256
text: Willie scans the defense. As predicted, the Dallas
text: player (Branco) is tensed for the blitz, his knuckles
text: white to the astroturf.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (audibles)
dialog: Set! Blue 22... razor, razor...
dialog: 955, 955... Hut!
text: Branco breaks through! Willie, expecting it, throws a
text: classic screen pass to Julian, who rumbles for 15 plus
dialog: yards.
text: Branco lies on the field, bleeding. His eyeball lies
text: several feet away. It is shocking, and quickly covered
text: up by the TV cameras.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Time out. And we'll be right
dialog: back, folks, after a word...
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #13 257
text: A classic sweep follows, run by Washington, thundering
text: towards Tony on the sideline; he turns the corner with a
text: great block from Madman, and picks up another 20 yards to
text: the Dallas 12-yard line.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #8 258
text: Tony, rediscovering the purity of the sweep, smiles to
text: himself. Monroe catches Tony's expression and gives him
dialog: the "up."
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 258
speaker_heading: 259
speaker_heading: A259
dialog: 260
dialog: 254
dialog: 216.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 258
speaker_heading: FIELD #14
text: Willie hands off to Sanderson, who hands it to the
text: second wide receiver, Owens, who runs a reverse 20 yards
dialog: in for a touchdown!
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #5 259
scene_heading: MIAMI 24, DALLAS 28. FOURTH QUARTER. 12:57...
speaker_heading: FIELD #15 A259
text: The Dallas QB answers right back. Running in for a TD!
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #9 260
dialog: It's now Dallas 35, Miami 24 -- 11 points. We PULL DOWN
dialog: FROM the scoreboard to:
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (re: Dallas QB,
dialog: to D'Amato)
dialog: Whatsamatter with this guy?
dialog: Doesn't he know I'm gonna whip his
dialog: ass?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Maybe no one's told him yet.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: (to Willie)
dialog: You can beat him, Willie. I know
dialog: his mind... If you hit for another
dialog: score now, quickly, he'll fold, I
dialog: know it.
text: Cap's eyes are solid, supportive. Willie believes.
scene_heading: CHRISTINA'S LUXURY BOX #5 254
text: In a quiet moment, Christina notices most of her
text: associates talk business on cell phones or to each other,
text: only watching the game in quick eyebursts -- she hears a
text: buzzing chorale of "increasing market shares" and
dialog: “merchandizing revenue streams" and "league relocation
text: protocols..." Margaret sits in a quiet corner with a
text: friend, sipping on a Bloody Mary. She smiles over at
dialog: her daughter.
dialog: 262
speaker_heading: 263
speaker_heading: A263
dialog: 264
dialog: 265
dialog: 217.
speaker_heading: FIELD #16 262
text: The Shark offense is on the Dallas 25, third and seven.
text: Willie is over the ball. His eyes focus... A Dallas
text: safety has his "go to" foot a slight inch ahead of the
text: other. Willie smiles.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (audibling)
dialog: Set! Zorro, Zorro... Red 66,
dialog: Red 66... Hut!
text: Willie spins back and hands the ball off to Washington on
text: a counter. Washington shoots through the line with room
dialog: to run.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Go, baby!
text: Downfield, a Dallas defender tries to force Washington
text: out of bounds, but spinning on a dime, Washington cuts
text: back towards the center of the field -- Dallas defenders
text: tackle him -- one, two, three at a time -- but he drags
text: them for another five yards -- into the end zone.
dialog: Touchdown!... Willie is the first downfield to jump all
text: over him.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #6 263
scene_heading: MIAMI 31, DALLAS 35. FOURTH QUARTER. 02:00... Miami
text: time-outs remaining: 2. A WHISTLE BLOWS. The clock
dialog: runs.
speaker_heading: FIELD #17 A263
text: The Dallas offense at the Miami 24 -- Third and seven.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #10 264
text: Tony talks closely and intently with Willie...
speaker_heading: FIELD #18 265
text: The Dallas QB pitches to the flat -- his running back
text: snares the ball and cracks back for a few extra yards --
text: tired tackling from the exhausted Sharks.
speaker_heading: 266
speaker_heading: 267
speaker_heading: 268
dialog: 218.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #11 266
text: Fourth down and one. Miami 18-yard line. Tony looks...
text: The Dallas field goal unit is not coming out. They're
dialog: going for it!
text: Tony calls a time-out... Shark runs off the field to
text: sidelines. Tony and Monroe converse with Shark.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: -.. And Dallas is goin' for it!
dialog: They're takin' as much time as
text: they can in their huddle. The
text: clock is tickin'. One minute
dialog: fifty. Whew, am I feeling this in
dialog: the pit of my stomach! Oh, boy!
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: Gutsy move on Dallas's part!
dialog: Fourth and one, they're taking a
dialog: big chance here. They could take
dialog: an easy field goal and even if
dialog: Miami got a touchdown, the game
dialog: would go into overtime. But ‘Coach
dialog: U' smells victory now, not a tie,
dialog: a real gambler...
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: .+. Hey, I'd do the same thing,
dialog: Ingo. That's the kind of play
dialog: calling I like! It wins ball
dialog: games !
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #12 267
text: Tony and Willie stand close as we hear:
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: This is the game, Tug! If Miami
dialog: can hold them here, Willie Beamen
dialog: will have one last chance.
speaker_heading: PRESS BOX #1 268
text: Jack Rose is outside himself, rooting.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: This is it, guys and dolls, this
dialog: is where the famous rubber meets
dialog: the famous road!
speaker_heading: 269
dialog: 270
speaker_heading: 271
dialog: 219.
scene_heading: MIAMI DEFENSIVE HUDDLE #1 269
text: Shark, bloody and exhausted, yells at his defensive unit:
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Y'all gonna make this tackle,
dialog: bitches! Everything we done
dialog: for is on the line!! This play!
dialog: Right now! Right here! Forever!
dialog: Be proud!
speaker_heading: DALLAS HUDDLE #1 270
speaker_heading: DALLAS QB
dialog: Make the first here, take a knee
dialog: and it's hello Minnesota. On one.
dialog: Ready?!
text: They clap and move to the ball.
speaker_heading: FIELD #19 271
text: As the Dallas QB scans the defense, Shark calls for a
dialog: shift in the Miami defense.
speaker_heading: DALLAS QB
dialog: Go! 47 Tiger... Monday, Monday...
dialog: 48 Bandit, 48 Bandit... Hut!
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (simultaneous to
dialog: Dallas QB)
dialog: Roll-left! Roll-left! Orbit
dialog: Wheel! Strong right! Edge
dialog: back! Orbit Left! Omaha Orbit
dialog: Left!
text: The defensive players scurry to new positions.
text: The Dallas QB shoots back, handing off to the running
text: back. Shark waits, poised to fill the hole. The back
text: powers forward, no running lanes -- he bounces to the
text: outside, sees daylight, speeds for it...
text: Shark runs desperately to the same hole on his bum and
text: swollen knee. The runner is almost to the first down
dialog: marker -- inches! -- He dives for it!
text: Shark dives at the exact same time -- an all-out lunge of
dialog: sheer faith to stop the first down -- at any cost!
text: Shark and the runner collide, a loud crash! The runner
dialog: is stopped! An inch or two short of the first down
dialog: marker! The Miami 18.
dialog: 272
speaker_heading: A272
speaker_heading: 273
dialog: 274
dialog: 275
speaker_heading: 276
dialog: 220.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #13 272
text: Tony and Monroe go nuts in each other's grasp. Just like
dialog: the old days!
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #7 A272
text: Clock stops for the change of possession. 01:34...
speaker_heading: FIELD #20 273
text: But Shark lies there like a dead man -- no motion! Dr.
text: Powers and two trainers race onto the field.
speaker_heading: STANDS #7 274
text: Shark's wife and kids look on, terrified.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #14 275
text: Tony hurries out, as does Monroe. In b.g., Willie and
text: Cap wait in the grip of fear. The entire team waits.
text: Tony and Monroe now run out.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
text: Shark Lavay is down and it looks
dialog: bad, but he definitely squashed
dialog: Dallas's first down, and it's now
dialog: Miami's ball. I can't think of a
dialog: finer way to take a hit like that
dialog: for your teammates!
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: No, sir! What a great tackle!
dialog: One for the record books!
speaker_heading: MEDIA BOX #1 276
text: ON TV: The tackle replayed... Then the medical cart is
text: shown on the field. Nothing is said. The stadium is
dialog: hushed.
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: Well, Miami has one time-out
dialog: remaining. They're down by 4 with
text: 1:34 left. Nothing less than a
dialog: touchdown will...
speaker_heading: 277
dialog: 278
speaker_heading: 279
dialog: 221.
speaker_heading: FIELD #21 277
text: Shark is definitely not moving. The ambulance waits near
text: the goalpost. Tony, Powers, Monroe, and the trainers
text: wait helplessly.
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: Shark, talk to me please!
dialog: (to others)
dialog: Jesus Christ, is this the way
dialog: it starts...? Is he ever gonna...?
text: They ease him onto a stretcher when suddenly Shark's eyes
text: open, falling on Tony with a glazy smile -- and a huge
dialog: headache!
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (weakly)
dialog: «+. I... stop ‘em?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (deeply relieved)
dialog: Oh, Shark! You stopped ‘em cold,
dialog: baby! Godammit!
speaker_heading: MONROE
dialog: You got the bonus, baby! A
dialog: million bucks!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: (dreamy )
dialog: A million dollars...!
dialog: (sees Powers)
dialog: Say, Powers...?
speaker_heading: Powers AD LIBS.
speaker_heading: SHARK
dialog: Are you still white?
speaker_heading: STANDS #8 278
text: Both sets of fans roar their appreciation for his valor,
text: as he tries to acknowledge them with a weak wave of his
text: arm, as they cart him off.
speaker_heading: STANDS #9 279
text: Shark's family, next to Willie's mom, reacts with great
dialog: relief and joy.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 279
dialog: 280
speaker_heading: 281
dialog: 282
speaker_heading: 283
dialog: 222.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 279
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: He's okay! He's okay! Shark
dialog: Lavay, one of the greatest the
dialog: game has ever seen, has probably
dialog: played his last game, but I can
dialog: think of no...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #15 280
text: Tony clasps Willie by the shoulders.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: He gave you the shot, Willie. Now
dialog: take it.
dialog: (as Willie nods)
dialog: -+. It's your time.
text: Willie runs out, the crowd going nuts!
speaker_heading: FIELD #22 281
text: First and ten on the Miami 18. 82 yards to go. 1:34...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
text: drops back in the shotgun formation -- no pass lanes
text: open, all covered, Willie drops a short screen to Julian,
text: who dazzles on a 16-yarder out of bounds.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #8 282
scene_heading: MIAMI 31, DALLAS 35. FOURTH QUARTER. 00:55...
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
text: Second and ten. 66 yards to go.
text: 55 seconds. One false step and
dialog: that's all she wrote, my friends.
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: Coach D'Amato is gonna need every
dialog: blessed one of those seconds.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #4 283
text: Willie notices Sanderson is rattled, his eyes closed,
text: sweating a storm.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 283
speaker_heading: 284
dialog: 285
dialog: 286
dialog: 223.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 283
speaker_heading: WILLIE
text: Fourth Quarter. 55 seconds left.
dialog: It's do or die. Pro Left Red 88
dialog: Bronco. On two... You tight,
dialog: ‘Sandman '?
dialog: Eye to eye.
speaker_heading: SANDERSON
text: Tighter than pussy on pre-wedding
dialog: day...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (grins)
dialog: That's why you're the best! You
dialog: like pussy as much as I do! Okay
dialog: then, let's show these big-ass
dialog: Texas boys what road-kill looks
dialog: like! Keep it lethal, ‘money.
dialog: We're through on two.
speaker_heading: FIELD #23 284
text: Willie in shotgun formation -- Three wide outs.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (scans the defense,
dialog: audibles)
dialog: Set! Red 44... Razor, Razor... 88
dialog: Sally, 88 Sally... Hut! Hut!
text: Willie again sees nothing, the receivers all expertly
text: covered. But then he sees -- a chance -- a desperate
text: chance -- Sanderson is slanting free downfield --
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #16 285
dialog: Tony sees it as well:
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Do it! Do it!
speaker_heading: FIELD #24 286
text: Willie takes that cubic centimeter of chance; he flings
text: it deep... In breathless suspense, the ball sails.
text: Sanderson, sweating like a pig in his helmet, sees it,
text: adjusts his route mid-stride... It's as if it is his soul
text: flying towards him, which he now catches! And then runs
text: it in another 15 yards into the end zone! A miracle!
text: Jimmy Sanderson feels himself freed of the demons!
speaker_heading: 287
dialog: 288
speaker_heading: 289
dialog: 290
dialog: 224.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #17 287
text: A frenzied celebration on the Miami sideline -- in the
text: stands -- they've won! But suddenly... Tony is
text: crestfallen.
speaker_heading: FIELD #25 288
text: A yellow penalty flag lies on the field... Holding!
speaker_heading: REFEREE #3
text: No touchdown. Holding on
dialog: offense #69. Repeat second down.
text: Ten yards.
text: Madman furiously shoves Referee #3 in argument, and the
text: Referee ejects him from the game (AD LIB).
speaker_heading: INGO (V.O.)
dialog: Oh, that might just be the back-
dialog: breaker right there!
speaker_heading: TUG (V.0.)
dialog: That would take the air out of any
dialog: tire. It's gonna take an enormous
dialog: amount of will now to...
speaker_heading: LUXURY BOX #5 289
text: Christina and her guests groan.
speaker_heading: THEIR POV
text: The entire field stretches before Willie and the offense
text: in the huddle. Never has 76 yards looked so long.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Christina sits down next to her mother; they talk
text: AD LIB -- a new attitude shaping between them.
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #4 290
dialog: 39 seconds.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Okay, this is the way I like it --
dialog: we got 'em just where we want ‘em.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: You are such a punk!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 290
dialog: 291
dialog: 292
dialog: 225.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 290
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Watch your mouth or I'll take it
dialog: in myself.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: I liked you better when you were
text: puking.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Nice and easy, boys. One play at
dialog: a time. Keep the routes sharp and
dialog: kiss the sideline like it's the
dialog: hottest momma you ever seen and we
dialog: are there! Lemme hear it,
dialog: brothers!
dialog: (as the team roars)
dialog: Lemme hear it again!
dialog: (louder, even more
dialog: inspired)
dialog: Now let's see the swagger,
dialog: motherfuckers!
text: The team claps, breaks, and starts to the line. The
text: Dallas defense is worn by the swagger and trash-talking
text: coming right at them.
speaker_heading: CAP (V.O.)
dialog: (helmet)
dialog: .«.. take another pop at that
text: weakside safety. He's pretending.
scene_heading: MONTAGE #5 - TWO-MINUTE DRILL (5TH GAME) 291
speaker_heading: FIELD #26
text: A flurry of plays -- Tony firmly in control -- each play
text: well-called and quickly executed -- relayed from Tony to
dialog: Crozier, to Cap to Willie. A chain of minds. Every
dialog: person doing their job.
text: QUICK CUTS AND FLASHES
text: Subjective -- A caught pass -- a runner leaps out of
text: bounds -- a screen pass slanting out of bounds...
speaker_heading: COACHES' BOOTH #1 292
text: Crozier reeling off the plays in conjunction with Tony.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 292
speaker_heading: A292
dialog: 293
dialog: 294
dialog: 226.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 292
speaker_heading: HIS POV
text: The Sharks moving downfield like a ravaged but hungry 4th
text: quarter machine. Sanderson is back to his natural glory,
text: playing without the help of substances.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #9 A292
text: MIAMI 31, DALLAS 35. 35 yards to go. 13 seconds.
speaker_heading: FIELD #27 293
text: Willie, gazing over the defense at the line, doesn't like
text: what he sees, calls his last "time out."
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: That's it! The last one!
dialog: Something seems to be wrong!
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #18 294
text: Willie jogs over to Tony.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: They had it cold.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Smart move. How ya doing?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I'm ready to win.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You know, there's something
dialog: important I gotta ask you...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: That day you came over to my house,
dialog: I made dinner for you?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (wary)
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Did you not like the jambalaya?
text: Willie looks at him and laughs.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 294
dialog: 295
speaker_heading: A295
dialog: 296
speaker_heading: A296
dialog: 227.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 294
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Well, frankly, Coach, it sucked --
dialog: needed more seasoning... That's
dialog: why I been throwing up every
dialog: week.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: I thought that. Just go out and
dialog: kick their ass and win the game!
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: FIELD #28 295
text: Willie scans the end zone -- would love to take a_ shot --
text: but there's nothing -- he throws the ball away, spikes
dialog: the clock.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #10 A295
text: Now reads 35 yards, 9 seconds left...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #20 296
text: Tony stares at the field, at Willie, deep in thought --
text: it seems the biggest decision of his career is always now.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Crozier)
dialog: Comanche.
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: COACH'S BOOTH #2 A296
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: You're kidding!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Let the kid do his thing!
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Jesus Christ, Tony, we got nine
dialog: seconds -- ! You're banking on...
text: Tony casts his eyes skyward at Crozier in the box.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 228.
scene_heading: A296 CONTINUED: A296
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: This is what coaching's all about,
dialog: Nick. You up to it?
text: Crozier breathes and relays the play to Cap, on to Willie.
speaker_heading: CROZIER
dialog: Okay you got it. Spread West
dialog: Hustle 60 Comanche Right. Remind
dialog: him he's got the option -- rifle
dialog: or spread formation, check at the
dialog: line...
speaker_heading: 297 HUDDLE #5 297
text: Willie hears it from Cap and looks over at Tony in
text: amazement. Tony nods... Willie shakes his head. Okay!
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (loose)
dialog: Okay, guys, it can't get more fun
dialog: than this! I swear to God I
dialog: didn't call this one. Spread
dialog: West Hustle 60 Comanche Right,
dialog: check with me. On one. Ready.
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
text: Man has balls of iron.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Tony is the man! We together on
dialog: this, J-man?
speaker_heading: WASHINGTON
dialog: Dynamic duo, brother.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: I feel you. Let's see that all-
dialog: pro strut, baby! Ready? Check
dialog: with me on one. Ready?
speaker_heading: 298 FIELD #29 298
text: They break and line up over the ball. Willie scans’ the
dialog: defense.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set, Rifle 22, Rifle 22! Hut!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 298
speaker_heading: A298
speaker_heading: B298
speaker_heading: C298
speaker_heading: D298
speaker_heading: E298
dialog: 229.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 298
text: Willie pump fakes a pass to Sanderson -- the Dallas
text: defenders flinch left to cover him -- Willie immediately
text: takes off right with the ball, skimming the outside of
text: the line -- Madman delivers a devastating block -- Julian
text: runs slightly behind Willie, ready to throw his block --
text: ... but Willie sees some daylight, and tears down the
text: sideline -- the Dallas safety is racing him -- Just as he
text: zooms in on Willie, he laterals the ball to Julian just
text: behind him...
text: Julian snags the ball -- leaps around the safety, who
text: slams Willie out of bounds --
text: Julian races against time down the sideline, turning on
text: the afterburners -- the game clock.
scene_heading: SCOREBOARD #11: A298
text: Game clock ticking down... 00:07... 00:06... 00:05...
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #20 B298
text: Faces: Tony, Cap, Monroe, others...
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: STANDS #10 C298
dialog: Faces: Cindy, others...
speaker_heading: FIELD #30 D298
text: A Dallas corner is moving fast onto Julian -- but Julian,
dialog: flashing the clock, plays smart -- without selfishness --
text: no dazzling spin moves -- no evasions -- he dives out of
dialog: bounds.
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #12 E298
text: The clock freezes. Three yards to go. No penalty. Four
dialog: seconds. One play.
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: Oh my God! My heart is up in my
dialog: mouth right now! Ingo! This is
dialog: what football's all about...
dialog: Torture!
speaker_heading: 299
dialog: 300
speaker_heading: 301
dialog: 302
dialog: 230.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #21 299
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (to Crozier, re:
dialog: Willie's running)
text: He's still holding onto that thing
text: like a loaf of bread. Someone's
dialog: gonna take it from him.
dialog: (to Cap and QB coach;
dialog: looking at Willie)
dialog: ... Is he okay?!
dialog: (to Julian)
dialog: Way to run!
dialog: (to Cap and staff)
dialog: He did it for once! He thought
dialog: with his head, not his balls --
dialog: unselfish! Great move... let's
dialog: go... four seconds. One time.
dialog: I love this game!
speaker_heading: PRESS BOX #2 300
text: Jack Rose is as excited as any ll-year-old kid, praying
dialog: to more worldly gods.
speaker_heading: LUXURY BOX #6 301
text: Christina and her Mother share the moment of together,
dialog: rooting for once as a family.
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #22 302
text: Willie now huddles with Tony, forehead to forehead,
text: talking low, confidently, as Cap listens.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Take a breath...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Okay... okay...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You set?
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Then make ‘em believe, Willie.
dialog: This time. Now.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 302
speaker_heading: B301
dialog: 302
dialog: 303
dialog: 304
dialog: 305
dialog: 306
dialog: 231.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 302
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Remember: See it before you do
dialog: it, kid.
text: Willie nods and runs back onto the field, as there are no
dialog: time outs left!
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #13 B301
scene_heading: MIAMI 31, DALLAS 35. FOURTH QUARTER. 00:04...
speaker_heading: STANDS #11 302
text: The fans are in an uproar, stomping, screaming! A man in
text: a gorilla suit with a placard: "I've gone ape over
text: Willie!" is pushed and mauled by irate Dallas fans. Off
dialog: flies his ape head!
speaker_heading: HUDDLE #7 303
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Well, it's our time in the sun,
dialog: guys.
dialog: (looks into each
dialog: face)
dialog: One on one, man on man, together!
dialog: Left Tank Stack 421 Rhino. Lean
dialog: and mean. On three. Ready!
text: They break and line up over the ball at the four yard
text: line. Willie scans the defensive alignment. The play
text: clock marches...
speaker_heading: STANDS - DAY (LAST PLAY) 304
text: The breathless crowd...
scene_heading: FIELD #31 - POV - DALLAS DEFENDERS 305
text: pointing, shifting positions, trying to confuse Willie.
speaker_heading: SIDE LINE #23 306
text: Players kneeling on the sidelines, some praying, barely
text: daring to watch, some chewing nails, others screaming
text: encouragement... Cap Rooney whispers a silent prayer for
text: Willie. Coach D'Amato -- the picture of a man at a zenith
dialog: in his life...
dialog: 307
speaker_heading: A307
speaker_heading: A307
speaker_heading: B307
dialog: 232.
speaker_heading: FIELD #32 307
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Set Black 66, Black 66. Hut!
dialog: Hut! Hut!
text: A sudden torrent of movement -- Miami slams forward --
text: Dallas slams back -- in SLOW MOTION, Julian reaches for
text: the handoff -- the ball slaps into his stomach -- a
text: convincing fake -- as Willie keeps the ball -- Julian
text: leaps left -- Dallas defenders surge to cover him -- at
text: that moment Willie chooses to go right back over the hole
text: Julian has collapsed.
text: High over the goal line -- he seems to sail through the
text: air for suspended moments -- he is almost there -- almost
text: across the plain of the goal line, almost to glory -- as
text: a wall of Dallas players rise up to meet him like a
text: breaker at sea... Willie crashes into it...
scene_heading: BRIEF SHOT OF GHOST A307
text: whoever he be -- from another time -- diving with him.
text: Willie seems to bauble the football as he disappears into
text: "big Wednesday." All SOUND CEASES. Wind plays off the
text: grass... In the silence of the major pileup, bodies
text: draped and intertwined like smoking car wrecks, referee
text: #2 digs out the players, one by one, looking for the ball
dialog: «+. the tension rising to extraordinary heights! Where
dialog: the fuck is it?
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #24 A307
text: Tony waits silently...
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: I think he lost it, Ingo!
speaker_heading: FIELD #33 B307
text: A player peels off, revealing Willie smiling, the ball
text: held awkwardly up around his neck, but firmly in his
text: possession... Referee #2's arms now shoot up in SLOW
dialog: MOTION -- touchdown! The Miami players go absolutely
text: nuts! The Dallas players are stunned, protesting!...
text: Willie is hauled into the air by his ecstatic teammates.
text: The Dallas crowd is stunned and silent; Miami fans are
dialog: ecstatic!
speaker_heading: TUG (V.O.)
dialog: I've seen Mecca, Ingo!! I have
dialog: seen Mecca! I am redeemed!
speaker_heading: C307
speaker_heading: D307
speaker_heading: E307
dialog: 308
dialog: 233.
speaker_heading: PRESS BOX #2 C307
text: Even Jack Rose is in love with the Sharks again.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: (into his TV camera)
dialog: ‘Never say never.' My Sharkies
dialog: have done it! A few short weeks
dialog: ago, who would've believed Willie
dialog: Beamen...?
speaker_heading: SCOREBOARD #13 D307
scene_heading: MIAMI 37, DALLAS 35. FOURTH QUARTER. 00:00...
speaker_heading: SIDELINE #25 E307
text: Pandemonium on the Shark sideline. Tony falls to his
text: knees in a prayer-like position... then finally rises,
text: and runs across the field to hug the Dallas coach.
scene_heading: INT. SHARK LOCKER ROOM - LOCKER ROOM #4 - NIGHT 308
text: Jubilation in the locker room... Willie gives and receives
dialog: congratulations from all...
text: Cap Rooney searches out Willie in the chaos. Their eyes
dialog: meet, with respect.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Great game... whoever you are.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Thank you, Cap.
text: They nod to each other. Simple as that.
text: SERIES OF DISSOLVES: The players and reporters and team
text: personnel gradually disappear until Coach D'Amato and
text: Rooney are left in a corner of the quiet locker room.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I'm calling it quits.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: You sure?
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: I'm sure.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 308
dialog: 309
dialog: 310
dialog: 234.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 308
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I'm sorry I put you in, Cap.
speaker_heading: CAP
dialog: Oh, hell!
dialog: (actually swears,
dialog: relieved)
dialog: I'm not. They needed to see me
dialog: fail. So I did! And I'm glad
dialog: Cindy got a taste of it. Now
dialog: maybe I can get on with my life...
dialog: I'll see you around the pasture,
dialog: old man.
text: He exits.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 309
scene_heading: COACH'S LOCKER ROOM #2 - LATER 310
text: Christina reenters the same small room where she fought
text: with Tony at halftime.
text: She nods, not surprised.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Congratulations!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: How's Cap?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: He's okay. He'll be leaving after
dialog: the season... So will I...
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (nods )
dialog: I'm sorry it ended up this way,
dialog: Tony, I know you don't believe it
dialog: but I really am... Seeing the team
dialog: out there today -- it was like
dialog: going back in time...
dialog: (remembering)
dialog: God, it was beautiful football!
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: It was. It was beautiful.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 310
speaker_heading: 311
dialog: 235.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: 310
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: This used to be a hell of a sport,
dialog: didn't it?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: It still is.
text: He walks on. Christina watches after him.
scene_heading: EXT. TEXAS STADIUM - NIGHT 311
text: Tony walks out onto the field where Willie stands alone,
text: a football in hand, watching as the groundskeepers unroll
text: the large tarps and stadium personnel pick through the
text: stands. The stars are abundant this night.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Nice night.
text: They walk together across the field.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Mmm... Can't get over Cap. I
dialog: learned more watching him in the
dialog: first half than I did in five
dialog: seasons... Next week I'm gonna
dialog: win it just for him.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Glad to see success hasn't gone to
dialog: your head too much, kid...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Steamin' Beamen...? Never.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Don't pat the ball.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: Coach...?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Don't pat the ball before you
dialog: throw, it's getting to be a habit,
dialog: and they're seeing it too easy...
text: (as Willie looks at
dialog: the ball he is
dialog: holding)
dialog: This is your moment, Willie.
dialog: Savor it.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 311
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: Tony gazes
dialog: 236.
speaker_heading: 311
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But never forget: on any given
dialog: Sunday, you're either gonna win or
dialog: you're gonna lose. The point
dialog: is...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: ++. Can you take it like a man?' I
dialog: got it, Coach!
text: around the stadium, taking it all in.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Next year I'm out of here.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: +. I figgered...
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: I'm not the right guy for this
dialog: team anymore. JI wanna see my
dialog: grandkids. I wanna start living
dialog: again... I wanna wait on a grocery
dialog: line. I wanna walk on a sidewalk.
dialog: I wanna do nothing... As long as
dialog: it's not fishing...
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: .»+. I don't think there's anything
dialog: else you could do, Coach.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: «+. There was this great
dialog: quarterback in the '70s I knew.
dialog: This guy was one tough
dialog: sonofabitch. Fought for every
dialog: inch he got. Didn't have your
dialog: natural skill, this guy, but he
dialog: made it happen, he won... So time
dialog: went by and he didn't know it,
dialog: but his day was over. He couldn't
dialog: go deep like he used to and he
dialog: started missing the easy
dialog: underneath routes... the game was
dialog: just passing him by... Anyway, I
dialog: ran into him a few weeks ago in
dialog: L.A. and we had a few beers, we
dialog: started talking and you know what
dialog: he said?
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 311
dialog: 312
dialog: 237.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 311
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: He said that when looked back at
dialog: those 200 whatever-they-were
dialog: Sundays, he didn't really miss the
dialog: Pantheon Cups or the girls or the
dialog: money or even the goddamned glory!
dialog: What he missed were those other
text: guys looking back at him in the
dialog: huddle. Those eleven guys --
dialog: their names he could hardly
dialog: remember -- but it was their faces
dialog: he remembered... every one of ‘em
dialog: seeing things the same way.
text: Looking downfield. Together.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: That's what he missed... I'll miss
dialog: you, amigo.
text: Tony pats Willie affectionately on the arm and walks off.
text: Willie's expression is gentle, appreciative. He drops
text: back three quick, lithe steps, and sails a long, perfect
text: spiral down the empty field.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: So... my arm, y'know, Coach, I met
dialog: with this specialist and...
text: He turns to look for Tony. But he's already gone.
speaker_heading: WILLIE
dialog: (quietly, to himself)
dialog: I'm scared...
scene_heading: EXT. VERANDA (MIAMI VILLA) - DAY 312
dialog: Press conference.
scene_heading: SUPERIMPOSE: ONE MONTH LATER
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (as if in response
dialog: to Willie)
dialog: .+. Hey, we're all scared. If you
dialog: think any coach these days got
dialog: himself a secure visa out of
dialog: Casablanca, you need a Mandrake
text: X-ray.
dialog: (off laughter)
dialog: I'm a triple-decker stress sandwich
dialog: right now...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 238.
speaker_heading: 312 CONTINUED: 312
speaker_heading: REPORTER #1
dialog: Why's that, Coach? The 32-13 loss
dialog: to Minnesota?
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Not even close... try fishing,
dialog: Johnny.
text: He's responding off-handedly to a FEMALE REPORTER'S question
text: on the stairs leading up to the veranda of an Italian-
text: style villa housing the Pagniacci Foundation. The group
text: mills nervously; something's in the air.
scene_heading: TIME CUT TO:
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
text: stands before the assembled press corps -- Coach D'Amato
text: moving to her side on cue. Nick Crozier sits close by.
text: Margaret Pagniacci and the Mayor attend.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: (reading)
dialog: Thank you all for coming today...
dialog: I guess you've heard all the
dialog: rumors about the Sharks leaving
dialog: for Los Angeles because Mayor
dialog: Smalls was reportedly unable to
dialog: get City Council approval for
dialog: stadium improvements...
dialog: (as Smalls tightens)
dialog: -+. but let me make this as clear
dialog: as I can to you: We -- the Sharks
dialog: -- have no intention of leaving
dialog: Miami. We love this town, and we
dialog: love our Shark Stadium -- and we
dialog: will continue to remodel it, at
dialog: whatever cost, to make it a home
dialog: away from home for our fans!
text: (looking pointedly at
dialog: the Mayor)
dialog: And we have great confidence at
dialog: the final hour that our Mayor will
dialog: be there for us...
dialog: 
text: The Mayor accepts the applause, but some in the press
text: mutter among themselves, believing they know the real
dialog: story.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 312
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 239.
dialog: (2) 312
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: --- You know, I came to a
dialog: revelation recently. I realized
dialog: how much I love this game, and I
dialog: want to live up to what my father
dialog: left me: a legacy, a feeling
dialog: that this is our house -- the
dialog: Pagniacci house... I am resolved
dialog: therefore to stick it out here in
dialog: Miami because the Pagniaccis
dialog: are not quitters and we will never
dialog: let this town down!
text: As they applaud, Christina turns to Margaret. United
text: behind the family name, they seem to have discovered
text: each other again.
speaker_heading: CHRISTINA
dialog: Nick...?
dialog: (sees Nick standing)
dialog: Nick Crozier -- our new Head
dialog: Coach. Welcome!
dialog: (as Crozier nods in
dialog: response to the
dialog: polite applause)
dialog: Tony D! Thank you!... Always!
dialog: Wherever you go, know this: you
dialog: will always be a 'Shark' in your
dialog: heart. You will always be
dialog: remembered with great respect and
dialog: love. ‘Whatever it takes,'
dialog: right?... And Tony...? Thanks
dialog: for making me understand what I'd
dialog: forgotten -- that football is more
dialog: than a game. It's a way of life!
dialog: Tony D'Amato, everybody, give him
dialog: a hand!
text: She hugs Tony as he steps to the podium.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Thank you, Christy... I really am
dialog: sorry I've not been able to
dialog: deliver to you and the fans
text: another Pantheon Cup. San
dialog: Francisco sure took care of that
dialog: for me...
dialog: (off good-natured
dialog: laughter)
dialog: It's been way too long not to win
dialog: the Big One. But in football, as
dialog: in life, things change and fresh
dialog: blood is needed...
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 312
dialog: 240.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 312
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ++. So I guess it's time for me to
dialog: get the hell outta the way. Bring
dialog: in the new. I think Nick Crozier
dialog: is gonna do a great job...
dialog: (nods to Crozier)
dialog: --- Most of all, I wanna thank the
dialog: people of Miami for their long
dialog: support over these last 20-
dialog: something years... Geez, it flew
dialog: by like... like any other Sunday,
dialog: but it's meant everything to me
dialog: and I've had a great ride. Too
dialog: good a ride for any one man. I'm
dialog: gonna miss you all. Thank you...
text: There is significant, heartfelt applause from some, not
text: all. Rose, in spite of himself, is regretful to see his
text: nemesis depart, muttering to a colleague.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: I'm gonna miss that arrogant
dialog: -O.B...
dialog: (studying Crozier)
dialog: Crozier's a wimp compared to
dialog: D'Amato.
text: Tony acknowledges the applause, about to leave the podium
text: -- but then seems to change his mind.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: .»+. I almost forgot... In thinking
dialog: about change, I guess I felt it
dialog: was time for me to change, too.
dialog: Y'know, like an old vampire, I
dialog: need a new blood supply...
dialog: (some laughter)
dialog: it was Willie Beamen who taught
dialog: me how... to give it another shot.
dialog: (as the press is
dialog: murmuring, wondering)
dialog: -+. So, starting today, I am
dialog: taking over as Head Coach of that
dialog: new expansion team in Albuquerque,
dialog: New Mexico, the Aztecs.
dialog: (as a wave of
dialog: questions roll across
dialog: the balcony)
dialog: Why? ‘Cause they're giving me
dialog: full management control. How can
dialog: I pass that up? I guess the
dialog: bigger I get, the more ridiculous!
speaker_heading: (MORE )
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 312
dialog: 313
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: Now there
text: expression drops, crossed.
dialog: (4)
speaker_heading: TONY (CONT'D)
dialog: (off laughter)
dialog: «+. But hoping not to make a fool
dialog: out of myself out there, I have
dialog: just signed Willie Beamen as
dialog: starting Quarterback and
dialog: ‘franchise player' for the
dialog: Aztecs...
text: is pandemonium on the veranda. Christina's
text: Crozier looks like he's going
text: to throw up. Tony grins. That's the way it goes.
text: He waves and walks out -- leaving Christina and Crozier
text: to deal with a bewildered and upset press corps.
speaker_heading: FADE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. PLAYING FIELD #1 - DAY 313
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: So, Miss P., I look forward to
dialog: seeing you next year across those
dialog: sidelines... and calling it what
dialog: it always was and still is: a
dialog: game. Let's keep it that way...
dialog: So long, everybody.
dialog: The same image that opened the story:
text: A football field. Any football field.
text: Grass sways in the wind.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
