dialog: 
scene_heading: A P O C A L Y P S E N O W
dialog: Original screenplay by John Milius.
text: Inspired by Joseph Conrad's "HEART OF DARKNESS".
dialog: This draft by Francis Ford Coppola.
dialog: December 3, 1975.
scene_heading: 1 PRIMEVAL SWAMP - EARLY DAWN
text: It is very early in the dawn - blue light filters through
text: the jungle and across a foul swamp. A mist clings to the
text: trees. This could be the jungle of a million years ago.
text: Our VIEW MOVES CLOSER, through the mist, TILTING DOWN to
text: the tepid water. A small bubble rises to the surface;
text: then another. Suddenly, but quietly, a form begins to
text: emerge; a helmet. Water and mud pour off revealing a set
text: of beady eyes just above the mud. Printed on a helmet,
text: in a psychedelic hand, are the words: "Gook Killer."
text: The head emerges revealing that the tough-looking soldier
text: beneath has exceptionally long hair and beard; he has no
text: shirt on, only bandoliers of ammunition - his body is
text: painted in an odd camouflage pattern. He looks to the
text: right; he looks to the left; he looks INTO CAMERA, and
text: slowly sinks back into the swamp, disapperaring completely.
text: Our VIEW HOLDS, We begin to HEAR natural, though
text: unrecognizable JUNGLE SOUNDS, far off in the distance.
text: We PAN TO REVEAL a clump of logs half submerged in the
text: swamp; and part of what seems to be a Falstaff beer can
text: in the mud. A hand reaches out, and the beer can disappears.
text: As we TILT UP, we NOTICE that the log is hollow
text: and houses the rear of a M-60 machine gun, hand painted
text: in a paisley design.
text: Now the VIEW MOVES AWAY, ACROSS the ancient growth, PAST
text: the glimmer of what seems to be another soldier hiding in
text: ambush, wearing an exotic hat made from birds and bushes.
text: ACROSS to a dark trail where the legs of those in black
text: pajamas move silently across our ever TIGHTENING VIEW.
text: Their feet, boots and sandals leave no impression; make
text: no sound. A slight flicker of light reveals a pair of
text: eyes in the foliage across the path, waiting and watching.
text: The VIEW PUSHES ALONG WITH the Vietnamese, MOVING FASTER
text: AND FASTER WITH them, until suddenly, directly in front
text: about ten feet away, an enormous AMERICAN clad in rags
text: and bushes and holding a 12 gauge automatic shotgun
text: casually at his side, steps in front of them. He smiles
text: laconically, and BLASTS OUT FIVE SHOTS that rip THROUGH
text: US. By the second shot, the whole jungle blazes out
text: with AUTOMATIC FIRE.
text: Out VIEW TURNS as the men around us are thrown and torn,
text: screaming and scattering into the jungle. More AMERICANS
text: appear; unexplainably, out of the growth. It is now that
text: we fully SEE the bizarre manner in which they are dressed.
text: Some wear helmets, others wear strange hats made from
text: feathers and parts of animals. Some of them have long
text: savage-looking hair; other crew-cut or completely shaved;
text: they wear bandoliers, flak jackets, shorts and little else.
text: They wear Montagnard sandals or no shoes at all, and their
text: bodies and faces are painted in bizarre camouflage patterns.
text: They appear one with the jungle and mist, FIRING INTO US
text: as they move.
text: The soldier we saw earlier emerges from the swamp, dripping
text: mud, his MACHINE GUN BLASTING FIRE.
text: We begin to move quickly with one Vietnamese, breathlessly
text: running for his life; we MOVE INTO the jungle with him,
text: only to be impaled on a large spear of a smiling AMERICAN
text: painted and wearing feathers like an Indian. OUR VIEW
text: FALLS WITH him to the ground, STARING UPWARDS, as FLAME
text: and EXPLODING MUD scatter above us. Men scream and die
text: around us. The screams amid the GUNFIRE and EXPLOSIONS
text: are piercing and terrible, as though the jungle itself is
dialog: frightened.
text: An AMERICAN wearing a jungle hat with a large Peace Sign
text: on it, wearing war paint, bends TOWARD US, reaching down
text: TOWARD US with a large knife, preparing to scalp the
dialog: dead.
text: OUR VIEW MOVES AWAY, along with the running sandals of a
text: Vietnamese soldier, MOVING FASTER AND FASTER, only to be
text: stopped by still another of the savage-looking AMERICANS
text: with primitive ornamentation, wearing only a loin-cloth
text: and green beret. He opens his flame-thrower directly ON US
text: and the NVA soldier and we are incinerated in flame,
text: bright psychedelic orange-red flame. Outrageous, loud,
scene_heading: electric ROCK MUSIC OVERWHELMS the SOUNDTRACK :
scene_heading: MAIN TITLE : APOCALYPSE NOW
scene_heading: 2 TITLE SEQUENCE
text: The CREDIT TITLES proceed as the FLANE CONSUME US,
text: growing more intense, brighter, more vivid, purifying;
text: transforming into an intense white heat that we can barely
text: look at, like the sun itself.
text: Then it EXPLODES, breking apart, and shattering once
text: again. It begins to cool, as the TITLES CONTINUE. It
text: is as though WE ARE MOVING through the white center of
text: cooling flame, forming a spinning web, and becoming more
text: distant. The TITLES CONTINUE.
text: We are MOVING TOWARD planetary nebulae; MOVING through the
text: stars; MOVING closer to the Earth. We can BARELY HEAR the
text: MUSIC now.
text: We MOVE CLOSER to the earth; beautiful, covered in clouds,
text: as though SEEN from a satellite. The TITLES CONTINUE.
text: We are MOVING CLOSER to the earth; through the soft clouds,
dialog: close enough that we can MAKE OUT the Western Hemisphere;
dialog: CLOSER to North America; CLOSER, to America, then California;
text: Los Angeles, STILL CLOSER to the odd, finger-like
dialog: shapes of :
scene_heading: 3 EXT. MARINA DEL REY
text: The VIEW finally SETTLES ON a partically luxury cabin
text: cruiser harbored at a particular dock late in the day.
text: It is large, pleasure boat: The people are relaxing in
text: bathing suits and towels and robes. They are drinking
text: cocktails, and snapping pictures. The boat belongs to the
text: head of a large American Corporation, and this is his
text: party. This man, CHARLIE, is sitting, his shirt off to
text: catch some of the late sun. Others have their faces
text: smeared with white suntan oil that reminds us of war
text: paint. Charlie is going on and on :
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: ... It's crazy -- sugar is up to
dialog: 200 dollars a ton -- sugar !
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: What about oil ?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Food, oil --look, let me show you
dialog: something. This is the economy of
dialog: the United States in two years --
text: He takes a newspaper, draws a circle.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: This is West Germany.
dialog: (he draws another,
dialog: bigger circle)
dialog: This is Japan.
dialog: (another , bigger)
dialog: This is Italy.
dialog: (a dot)
dialog: This is Iran.
dialog: (a very big circle)
dialog: And this is Saudi Arabia... In
dialog: two years ?
dialog: (a gigantic circle)
dialog: Do you understand ?
speaker_heading: ACCOUNTANT
dialog: What's to prevent it ?
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: Maybe nothing. But I'll tell you,
dialog: I didn't build a two-billion-dollar
dialog: company in the last twenty years
dialog: by doing nothing. We can protect
dialog: our interests.
dialog: (pause, for a drink)
dialog: We are still the most powerful
text: nation in the world. Militarily.
text: He leans to his associates, in a half-whisper.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You know bodyguard; he was a
dialog: captain in Viet Nam. You talk to
dialog: him, except he won't talk. This
dialog: kind of man can kill you with his
dialog: pinky. A nice quiet fella, though.
text: The VIEW BEGINS TO PULL AWAY from this group.
speaker_heading: CHARLIE
dialog: (continuing)
text: Carries a attache case at all
dialog: times. You know what's in it ?
dialog: (another sip)
text: An Ingram Machine pistol.
text: Gradually, Charlie's voice softens as we MOVE AWAY, and a
text: NEW VOICE, the voice of someone thinking, COMES IN OVER it :
speaker_heading: CHARLIE					WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: I don't tahe chances, and			Bullshit. You can kill
dialog: neither should this country.			with the ridge of your
dialog: If we're strong, we should			hand to the throat; you
dialog: protect our interests, and			can crush a skull with
dialog: we should have the respect			your knee... but you
dialog: of the world, even if it				can't kill anybody with
dialog: takes another war.				your pinky.
text: The VIEW MOVE ALONG the guests of this small party :
text: Pictures being taken, some people are swimming. It is the
text: good life. Now WILLARD'S VOICE TRACK DOMINATES.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
text: The attache case has been empty
dialog: for three years, but it makes him
dialog: safe to think there's a machine
text: pistol in it.
dialog: I don't like automatic weapons.
dialog: They jam.
dialog: I saw a friend of mine get
text: ripped open because he flicked his
text: M-16 to automatic, and it jammed.
dialog: How much money did the contractors
dialog: make on the M-16 ?
text: Our VIEW IS MOVING through the people on the boat; some
text: reading, flirting, drinking.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: He likes to hear stories about Nam.
dialog: I tell him I can't; they're not
dialog: cleared. The truth is he wouldn't
dialog: understand.
text: We can now SEE A MAN with his BACK TO US, looking the
text: opposite way. An attache case resting near to him. We
scene_heading: MOVE CLOSER.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: There's no way I can tell them...
dialog: what really happened over there.
dialog: I wouldn't've believed it if
dialog: someone'd told me.
text: We are now RESTING on his back. Occasionally, he sips
text: from a beer, but we cannot see his face.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: There was only one part that
dialog: mattered -- for me, anyway. I
dialog: don't even know if I remember
dialog: all of it. I can't remember
dialog: how it ended, exactly -- because
dialog: when it ended I was insane.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 4 EXT. A STREET IN SAIGON - DAY
text: A Saigon boom street in late 1968. There are bars and
text: shops for servicemen; the rickshaws, the motorbikes.
text: Our VIEW MOVES TOWARD one particular officer; B.L.
text: WILLARD , in uniform, a Captain of the Airborne, followed
text: by four or five Vietnamese kids trying to shine his
dialog: shoes and sell him things.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: But I know how it started
dialog: for me -- I was on R. and R.
dialog: in Saigon; my first time south
dialog: of the DMZ in three months. I
dialog: wasn't sure, but I thought this
dialog: guy was following me.
text: Willard looks back.
speaker_heading: 5 HIS VIEW
text: an American CIVILIAN.
scene_heading: 6 MED. VIEW
text: Willard ducks into a bar.
scene_heading: 7 INT. THE SAIGON BAR - DAY
text: Not much in this place -- a bar, linoleum flooring, a few
text: tables and chairs, and a juke box. The lounge is fairly
text: crowded. Willard takes off his cap and walks quietly
text: past the soldiers at the bar. Some of them, catching
text: sight of his ribbons, stop talking as he moves by.
text: An INFANTRY CAPTAIN enters the bar, buys a couple of
text: drinks and approaches Willard's table.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: How about a drink ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Sure, thanks.
text: He sits down at the table with the drinks.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Winning the war by yourself.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (he calls for the waiter)
dialog: Part.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Which part is that ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: My part.
scene_heading: (TO THE WAITER)
dialog: Beer, with ice and water.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: That's good gin.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm sure it is, but I had hepatitis.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Delta ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: North ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah. Way north.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: What unit were you with ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: None.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Rangers, eh?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Sort of.
text: The JUKE BOX starts BLARING. Annoyed , Willard looks over
text: his shoulder.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Were you Longe Range Recon --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No -- I worked too far north for
speaker_heading: LRRP.
text: He reaches into his shirt pocket for a cigarette, and the
text: Captain leans over the table to light it for him. Willard
text: notices the CIVILIAN on the street has glanced in the bar,
text: then enters and sits down at a table by the doorway.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: That's quite an array of ribbons...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Let's talk about you.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: I was an FO for the 25th.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Tracks ?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Fat. That's real fat.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Sometimes.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: At least you always have enough
dialog: water. How many gallons does
dialog: each one of those damn things
dialog: carry ?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Thirty -- sometimes fifty.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You know, I can remember once,
text: getting back below the DMZ -- and
dialog: the first Americans we ran into
dialog: were a track squadron. I just
dialog: couldn't believe how much water
dialog: they had. We'd been chewing
dialog: bamboo shoots for almost a week,
dialog: and before that, for two weeks,
dialog: we'd been drinking anything --
dialog: rain water, river shit, stuff
dialog: right out of the paddies. And
dialog: there were these guys standing
text: by their trucks spilling water
dialog: all over. I could've killed them.
dialog: (solemnly)
dialog: I swear to God I would have, too,
dialog: if ...
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: I didn't know we had units up
dialog: there in North Vietnam.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We do.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: How long were you up there ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: A long time.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: A year ? Waiter another beer.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I go up on missions. Listen
dialog: Captain, buy me all the beer
dialog: you want, but you better tell
dialog: that asshole over there you're
dialog: not going to find out anymore
dialog: about me.
text: Willard glances over his shoulder and indicates the
text: Civilian. The Civilian is given a sign by the Captain.
text: He rises and comes over to the bar.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: What do you want ?
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: (indicating the Army jeep)
dialog: If you're B.L. Willard, 4th Recon
dialog: Group, we'd like you to come with
dialog: us.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Whose orders ?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Headquarters 11 Corps -- 405th
scene_heading: A.S.A Battalion -- S-2 --
scene_heading: Com-Sec -- Intelligence --
dialog: Nha Trang.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who are you ?
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: The agency.
text: Willard looks at the Civilian a moment, and then walks
text: roght out toward the jeep without saying another word.
text: The Civilian follows.
scene_heading: 8 EXT. HELICOPTER - DUSK
text: A darkly painted "HUEY" ROARS over low paddies and jungle
text: before emerging onto an open plain. It crosses a barbed
text: wire and sand-bagged perimeter and lands in a heavily
text: fortified, concealed compound.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: They took me to some place outside
dialog: Nha Trang... Intelligence Headquarters
dialog: for all operations in South East Asia.
dialog: I'd worked for Intelligence before --
text: Armed men jump from the Huey -- among them Willard. A
text: large camouflaged cover is moved, revealing an underground
text: corridor -- they enter.
scene_heading: 9 FULL SHOT - UNDERGROUND PLOTTING ROOM
text: A door swings wide -- Willard steps through and comes to
text: attention, blocking the view of the room. A strange
text: reddish light pervades. The room is covered with plastic
text: maps and filled with smoke.
text: The whole place has been hewn out of the ground itself
text: and there is a sense of the cut-back jungle growth slowly
text: reclaiming it.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Captain B.L. Willard, G-4 Headquarters,
dialog: reporting as ordered, sir.
speaker_heading: COLONEL (O.S.)
dialog: Okay, Willard, sit down.
text: Willard sits in a chair that is set in a center of a
text: bare concrete floor. Across from him, around steel desks
text: and tables sit several men. The nearest one, a COLONEL
text: puts his cigar out on the bottom of his shoe -- behind
text: him sits a MAJOR and a seedy-looking CIVILIAN.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: Have you ever seen this officer
dialog: before, Captain Willard ?
text: He points to the Major.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No, sir.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: This gentleman or myself ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No, sir.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: I believe on your last job you
dialog: executed a tax collector in Kontum,
dialog: is that right ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I am not presently disposed to
dialog: discuss that, sir.
speaker_heading: MAJOR
dialog: Very good.
text: He turns to the Colonel and nods his approval. The
text: Colonel gets up and goes to a large plastic map.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: You know much about about Special Forces;
dialog: Green Berets, Captain ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I've worked with them on occasions
dialog: and I saw the movie , sir.
text: The officer smiles at this.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: Then you can appreciate Command's
dialog: concern over their -- shall we say
dialog: 'erratic' methods of operation.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I have never favored elite units,
dialog: Captain, including your paratroopers
dialog: or whatever. Just because a man
text: jumps out of an airplane or wears
text: a silly hat doesn't give him any
dialog: priviliges in my book -- not in
dialog: this man's army.
speaker_heading: MAJOR
dialog: We didn't need 'em in Korea --
dialog: no sir, give me an Ohio farm boy
dialog: and an M-1 Garand, none of this
dialog: fancy crap -- no sir.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: (stopping him)
dialog: Major.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: We have Special Forces A
dialog: detachments all along the
dialog: Cambodian border. Two here and
dialog: another one here -- twelve or
dialog: fourteen Americans -- pretty
dialog: much on their own; they train
dialog: and motivate Montagnard natives;
dialog: pick their own operations. If
dialog: they need something, they call
dialog: for it, and get it within
dialog: reason. What we're concerned
dialog: with is here.
scene_heading: 10 CLOSE VIEW - ON THE MAP
speaker_heading: COLONEL
text: The A detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
dialog: It was originally a larger base,
text: built up along the river in an
dialog: old Cambodian fortress.
dialog: 
dialog: The area has been relatively
dialog: quiet for the past two years --
dialog: but --
speaker_heading: 11 MED VIEW
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: ... Captain, we know something's
dialog: going on up there -- Major --
text: The Major looks at some papers in front of him.
speaker_heading: MAJOR
dialog: Communications naturally dwindled
dialog: with the lack of V.C. activity,
dialog: this is routine, expected ... but
dialog: six months ago communication
dialog: virtually stopped.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: About the same time -- large numbers
dialog: of Montagnards of the M'Nong descent
dialog: began leaving the area -- this in
dialog: itself is not unusual since these
dialog: people have fought with the Rhade
dialog: Tribe that lived in the area for
dialog: centuries. But what is unusual is
dialog: that we began to find Rhade refugees
dialog: too -- in the same sampans as the
dialog: M'Nongs. These people aren't afraid
dialog: of V.C. They've put up with war
dialog: for twenty years -- but something
text: is driving them out.
speaker_heading: MAJOR
dialog: We communicate with the base
dialog: infrequently. What they call for
dialog: are air strikes, immediate --
dialog: always at night. And we don't
dialog: know what or who the air strikes
dialog: are called on.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who ?
speaker_heading: MAJOR
dialog: You see, no one has really gone
dialog: into this area and come back alive.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Why me ?
speaker_heading: MAJOR
dialog: Walter Kurtz, Lieutenant Colonel,
dialog: Special Forces. We understand
dialog: you knew him.
text: He puts Kurtz' dossier in Willard's hand.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: He's commanding the detachment
dialog: at Nu Mung Ba.
text: The Colonel gets up and walks over to a tape recorder,
text: flicks it on. The recording is first STATIC -- the
text: AIR CONTROLLER then asks for more information on target
text: coordinates -- it all sounds very routine, military.
text: Then a frantic VOICE comes on, talking slurred, like
text: someone dumb, except very fast.
speaker_heading: VOICE (ON TAPE)
dialog: Up 2 -- 0 -- give it to me quick --
dialog: Mark flare -- affirmative damn --
dialog: Immediate receive -- hearing
dialog: automatic weapons fire man ...
text: GUNFIRE is HEARD and a lower, slower VOICE in background.
speaker_heading: SECOND VOICE
dialog: Blue Delta five
dialog: This Big Rhine -- three
dialog: Need that ordinance immediately
dialog: Goddamn give it to me immediate
dialog: Christ -- Big Rhino --
dialog: Blue God -- Delta damn -- goddamn.
text: A heavy BURST of AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE -- INSANE LAUGHTER
text: -- STATIC, and faintly, very faintly we HEAR HARD ROCK
text: MUSIC -- more STATIC -- suddenly a low, clear VOICE
text: peaceful and serene, almost tasting the words.
speaker_heading: THIRD VOICE
dialog: This is Big Rhino six -- Blue Delta.
speaker_heading: MAJOR
dialog: That's Colonel Kurtz.
speaker_heading: KURTZ (V.O.)
dialog: I want that napalm dropped in the
dialog: trees -- spread it among the
dialog: branches.
dialog: We'll give you a flare -- an
text: orange one -- bright orange.
speaker_heading: (STATIC)
dialog: We'd also like some white phosporous,
text: Blue Delta. White phosporous, give
dialog: it to me.
text: STATIC interrupts -- the Major turns the machine off.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I only met Kurtz once.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: Would he remember you ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: What was your impression of him ?
text: Willard shrugs.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: You didn't like him.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Anyone got a cigarette.
text: The Major offers him one; they wait as he lights up, thinks.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I thought he was a lame.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: A lame ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: This is years ago, before he
dialog: joined Special Forces, I guess.
dialog: We had an argument.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: About what ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I don't know. He was a lame,
dialog: that's all.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: But why ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He couldn't get through a
dialog: sentence without all these
dialog: big words; about why we kill.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: Well, he's killing now.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Maybe.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: What does that mean ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Maybe it's not Kurtz. I don't
dialog: believe he's capable of that.
dialog: I just don't believe it.
speaker_heading: COLONEL
dialog: It's got to be Kurtz.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: The point is that Kurtz or
dialog: somebody attacked a South
dialog: Vietnamese Ranger Platoon three
dialog: days ago. Last week a Recon
dialog: helicopter was lost in the area --
dialog: another took heavy damage --
text: direct fire from their base
dialog: camp.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Our Recon flight ?
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: Ours.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Touchy.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: You can see, of course, the
dialog: implications, if any of this --
dialog: even rumours leaked out.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You want me to clean it up --
text: simple and quiet.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: Exactly -- you'll go up the
text: Nung River in a Navy P.B.R. --
text: appear at Nu Mung Ba as if by
dialog: accident, re-establish your
text: acquintance with Colonel Kurtz,
dialog: find out what's happened -- and
dialog: why. Then terminate his command.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Terminate ?
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
text: Terminate with extreme prejudice.
scene_heading: 12 FULL VIEW - ON THE DELTA
text: A waterway leading out to the ocean -- it is broken and
text: divided into hundreds of channels, islands, water farms.
text: A Navy patrol boat (P.B.R.) is waiting by a dock area.
text: This is small, light craft, very fast, and heavily
text: armed. Its men stand at attention in a small and simple
text: military ceremony. Willard approaches them in battle-
text: dress: Tiger suit, full field pack, forty-five, helmet,
text: M-16. The boat commander salutes Willard.
scene_heading: 13 MED. VIEW
text: We hear the introductions faintly, UNDER Willard's VOICE.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: I met the P.B.R. crew; they were
dialog: pretty much all kids, except for
dialog: Phillips, the Chief -- Gunner's
dialog: Mate Third Class L. Johnson --
dialog: Lance Johnson; Gunner's Mate
dialog: Third Class J. Hicks -- The Chef --
dialog: Radio Operator Second Class T.
dialog: Miller; they called him Mr. Clean.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Chief, try to keep out of where
dialog: we're going -- Why we're goin' and
dialog: what's gonna be the big surprise.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: All right with me, I used to drive
text: a taxi.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Let's go.
text: The Chief nods. They all break formation and jump aboard
dialog: and otherwise go about their work.
text: The twin diesels kick up -- and t he boat moves away from
text: the dock. The Chef jumps aboard; Lance mans the forward
text: twin fifty-caliber machine guns -- they wave to the guards
text: on the dock and move away into the complexity that leads
text: to the ocean.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 14 FULL VIEW - STORMY SEA
text: The boat slams through the heavy sea ; hurtling off the
text: top of a wave and crashing full into the trough of another.
scene_heading: 15 MED. SHOT - BOAT COCKPIT - WILLARD AND CHIEF
text: Willard holds on to whatever he can -- he looks very pale.
text: Water crashes over the bow and drenches everyone. The
text: Chief mans the wheel and the ENGINES WHINE. Lance climbs
text: back from his position. He looks at Willard, who just
text: stares ahead into space, swallowing.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 16 LONG SHOT - BOAT DUSK
text: The dusk is spectacular through the broken storm clouds --
text: the sea is calm again.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 17 VIEW ON THE BOAT - PROCEEDING UP THE COAST
text: The Chief is at the helm -- Willard approaches him.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: The Delta closes off to us about
dialog: ten miles out of Hau Fat. We'll
dialog: be able to pick up some supplies --
dialog: bit I think there are only two
dialog: points we can draw enough water
dialog: to get into the Nung River. It's
dialog: all Charlie's turf from there on
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We're gonna have some help to
dialog: get in the river. You know
dialog: these waters, Chief ?
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: 'Bout six months ago I took a man
dialog: up to Lo Mung Bridge. He was
dialog: regular Army too. Shot himself
text: in the head. I brought his body
text: back down.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Shot himself. What for ?
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Beats me -- the sun was too much
dialog: for him, or the mud. Who knows ?
text: Pause, looking at Willard.
scene_heading: 18 CLOSE SHOT - ON WILLARD
text: Suddenly, his attention is diverted -- there is a slow
text: buffeting, as if the air around them is being sucked out
text: and replaced quickly. The boat shakes slightly. There
text: is a distant ROLLING NOISE like interrupted thunder. All
text: the men have stopped whatever they're doing -- stand up
text: and look out toward the shore and the green jungle hills
text: beyond. The buffeting and NOISE CONTINUES -- they all
text: stand silently -- suddenly it stops.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: Arch light.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: I hate that -- Every time I hear
dialog: that noise something terrible
dialog: happens.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Anybody see some smoke ?
speaker_heading: CLEAN
text: Too far inland.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: There they are.
text: He points up to the sky.
scene_heading: 19 FULL SHOT - ON THE SKY
text: Way up -- past any clouds and barely discernible, we SEE
text: the black silhouttes of four B-52 bombers, their vapor
text: trails streaming white against the dark blue sky.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Charlie don't ever hear 'em. Not
dialog: till it's too late -- don't have
dialog: to hit you neither, concussion'll
dialog: do it for a quarter mile or better.
dialog: Burst your ears -- suck the air
dialog: outta your lungs.
scene_heading: 20 FULL SHOT - BOAT - CREW
text: They are looking up. Willard sits down, unconcerned.
text: He takes out the dossier given him by ComSec. He
text: flips through the letters and other documents.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: The dossier on A detachment had
dialog: letters from Kurtz' wife and the
dialog: wives and families of his men.
dialog: All asking where to send future
dialog: mail, understanding the necessery
dialog: silence due to the nature of
dialog: their work -- None of the men had
dialog: written home in half a year.
text: Occasionally, in the b.g., we FEEL the terrifying buffeting
text: of the distant B-52 BOMBING.
scene_heading: 21 CLOSE - ON WILLARD
text: studying, examining a report.
scene_heading: 22 MONTAGE - PICTURES OF KURTZ
text: Kurtz' face evolves through the various stages of his
text: career as represented in the pictures in the dossier,
dialog: as Willard reads :
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Lieutenant Kurtz has shown a
dialog: dedicated and well-disciplined
dialog: spirit. He is a fine officer,
dialog: combining military efficiency --
dialog: with a broad background in the
dialog: Humanities, the Arts and Sciences ...
text: Another picture of Kurtz in Germany, standing next to the
dialog: 161st Petroleum Supply Group sign.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... He views his military career
dialog: as the dedication of his talents
dialog: to bringing our values and way of
dialog: life to those darker, less
dialog: fortunate areas in the world.
text: A SHOT of Kurtz at jump school.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... I feel Captain Kurtz' request
dialog: for Special Forces training is
dialog: highly unusual in regard to his
dialog: past humanitarian concerns, and
dialog: his somewhat liberal politics,
dialog: though I can see no reason to
dialog: deny it.
text: A CLOSE SHOT of Kurtz with Green Beret on in the Vietnam
text: jungle. His face is blank and vacant.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... We feel Major Kurtz' need to
dialog: bring a sense of Western culture
dialog: to the backward peoples of these
dialog: areas will be of use in
dialog: accordance with our 'Vietnamization'
dialog: programs ...
text: MOVE IN TO Kurtz' empty eyes until the photograph is just
text: a BLURRED MASS OF DOTS.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 23 EXT. HAU FAT - AN ADVANCE STAGING AREA
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: One day later we came to an
dialog: advanced staging area along the
dialog: coast. This was our last chance
dialog: to pick up supplies before
text: approaching the mouth of the
dialog: Nung River.
dialog: 
text: The VIEW OF THE COASTLINE leading up along the long load-
text: ing docks at Hau Fat, an advance staging area for opera-
dialog: tions "Brute Force" and "Mailed Fist."
text: Everywhere are tents -- oil drums -- sandbagged bunkers --
text: helicopters -- tanks -- guns -- men. Nobody builds
dialog: advanced staging areas like the Americans.
text: As the P.B.R. approaches the docking area, Lance notices
dialog: something.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Hey.
text: They look as a Chris-craft speeds by pulling a fancy water-
text: skier who waves as he slaloms by. The men just look at
dialog: one another.
text: 24 VIEW ON THE DOCK
text: The P.B.R. pulls in -- the men scan the busy surroundings.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Lance -- I want you to go with the
dialog: Captain an' get three extra drums
dialog: of fuel and maybe scrounge some
text: more 50 caliber.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Yeah -- look at those uniforms.
scene_heading: 25 FULL SHOT - PARADE GROUNDS - TROOPS
text: A platoon drills in the hot, lazy sun; they are clean and
text: pale, in contrast to Lance and the others, just off the
dialog: airplane.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Poor bastards, have a long year
dialog: to go.
text: The troops turn and march TOWARD US with six weeks of
dialog: Advanced Infantry Training to back them up.
scene_heading: 26 FULL SHOT - DOCK - P.B.R. - CREW
text: They are tying up at the dock -- a young SERGEANT is fill-
text: ing cut papers concerning them and talking with Willard.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: I don't know anything about these
dialog: papers, sir.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: They're in order -- it's perfectly
dialog: clean -- just check with ComSec-
dialog: Intel like I said.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Well, you know I don't have the
dialog: priority to do that, sir. It
dialog: says here not to contact Com-Sec-
dialog: Int. Who's your commanding
dialog: officer ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Right now -- I am.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Well who the hell verifies that ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I do.
text: He signs it quickly, leaving the Sergeant totally confused.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: No shit -- what's all the activity
dialog: for around here ?
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: The show --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What show ?
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Big show in the parade grounds
dialog: this noon -- some boss stuff --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: This -- Bob Hope or the like --
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: No sir, I think -- this'll be a
dialog: little bit different --
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Where's it gonna be ?
dialog: He points --
scene_heading: 27 FULL SHOT - PARADE GROUNDS - PEDESTAL
text: A large, well-built pedestal has been erected -- this is
text: surrounded by a deep moat filled with punji stakes and
text: garnished with concertina wire. It is empty --
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 28 FULL SHOT - PARADE GROUNDS - TROOPS
text: The entire area around the pedestal and right up to the
text: wire is mobbed with seething American fighting men. Some
dialog: of these boys have just gotten here -- others have been in
dialog: the jungle for months. All have one thing in common, to
dialog: see and if possible grab an American girl. Their need far
text: surpasses that of the run-of-the-mill rapist, pervert,
dialog: or child-molester. To counter their need of course are
text: the moat, punji stakes and barbed wire -- but implementing
text: this are seven "riot control positions" equipped with the
text: lastest in teargas launchers, attack-trained German shep-
text: herds and assorted psychological warfare aides. Even so
text: armed, the great mass of wild men are right up to the wire.
scene_heading: 29 FORWARD AREA
text: jammed in the crowd
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: It's really too much -- I mean
dialog: I've collected every picture of
dialog: her since she was Miss December.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Yeah -- you can really get hung
text: up on them like the cat in the
dialog: Delta.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: What cat ?
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: One that went up for murder -- he
dialog: was an Army Sergeant.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: I never heard about that.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Yeah -- he really dug his Playboy
dialog: mag, man -- I mean like he was there
dialog: when it arrived -- He just knew.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: So what happened ?
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: He was working A.R.V.N. patrols
dialog: and had one a them little cocky
dialog: gook asshole Lieutenants -- anyhow,
dialog: the Lieutenant took his new Playboy
text: one day, sat on the end of the dock,
dialog: and wouldn't give it back.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Yeah -- typical A.R.V.N.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Then went too far -- he sat
text: there and starts mutilating the
text: centerfold. Poking pins in her an'
dialog: all that. Sergeant says, don't do
dialog: her like that. You leave your
dialog: shitty little hands off that girl.
dialog: Gook Lieutenant says Fuck you in
dialog: Vietnamese -- Sergeant says, don't
dialog: do that again. You'll wish you
text: hadn't. Then he stood up, flicked
dialog: his iron to rock and roll and gave
dialog: the little zero a long burst
dialog: through the Playboy mag. Man, it
dialog: blew him clean off the dock --
dialog: Hell, just the magazine was floatin'
text: there all full of holes.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: They nail him for it bad ?
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: He's in the L.B.J. -- didn't
dialog: give him no medals or nothing --
text: In the b.g., we begin to HEAR a SWELL of TWO THOUSAND
text: MALE VOICES; the ENGINES of four helicopters approaching.
text: All heads turn skywards while one descends onto the
text: pedestal kicking up a lot of dust and general resentment.
text: On the nose amd doors of the black Huey are painted large
text: Playboy rabbits. Finally the blades are trimmed and a
text: strange silence descends over the men. The door of the
text: copter slides partially open -- two young Green Berets
text: step out with M-16's to varied catcalls. When this
text: abates a young, extremelly well-dressed man emerges. He
text: is the epitome of a Hollywood AGENT. Hair is combed
text: impeccably and free of dandruff -- clothes are formal
dialog: but hip -- shoes are shined -- Quite some dude -- his
text: presence causes some stirring but seems to strangely
dialog: quiet the man.
text: He walks over to the microphone.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: I'd like to say hello from all of
dialog: us up here, to all of you out there.
dialog: All of you who've worked so hard
dialog: during Operation Brute Force --
dialog: Paratroopers -- Infantry -- Airmen
dialog: -- Medics -- Marines -- and Sailors.
dialog: And I want you to know that we feel
dialog: proud of you and know how hard your
dialog: job is. To prove it -- we've brought
dialog: some entertainment we think you're
dialog: gonna like: The Playmate of the Year
dialog: and her two runners up !
text: He pulls open the door and three unbelieveably beautiful
text: sex playmates in fringed go-go outfits leap out and start
dialog: dancing to the Creedence Clearwater Revival singing
dialog: "Suzy Q."
text: 30 MONTAGE ON THE GIRLS AND MEN
text: VARIOUS SHOTS as the girls dance in an incredibly erotic
text: manner -- smiling.
text: The faces of the G.I.'s pass -- their jaws drop -- some
text: look almost horrified. Chef is hypnotized -- Mr. Clean
text: cries. Chief mouths unspoken obscenities with sentimental
dialog: tenderness.
text: Others grab the air in front of them. With each movement
text: their need increases by the square.
scene_heading: 31 FULL SHOT - PEDESTAL - GIRLS - MEN
text: They crush forward starting to scream -- men fall on the
text: wire -- the guards in the "riot control positions" forget
text: -- the attack dogs are trampled. The mob as one surges
text: forward onto the wire. Men scream and fall into the moat,
text: which is filling up fast. The Agent sees this all as he
text: has seen it before. He casually pulls the pin of a smoke
text: grenade; the girls retreat into the copter -- he follows,
text: then the two Green Berets. The ROTARS WHINE -- the black
text: Playboy Huey lifts off just as the first crazed men reach
text: it. They grab frantically for the wheels, but miss. The
text: Huey wheels up into the blue sky, leaving them all below.
dialog: Such are the ways of war.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 32 EXT. FULL VIEW - DAY
text: The P.B.R. moving further up the primitive coastline.
text: There are few signs of civilization; no villages, no
text: boats -- just the overwhelming presence of the jungle.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Two days out of Hau Fat, there was
dialog: nothing but us and the coastline.
dialog: I felt like I had set off for
dialog: the center of the earth...
text: Suddenly, Chief looks out, ahead.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Smoke !
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Where ?
text: They all turn. Chief points up the coast.
scene_heading: 33 FULL SHOT - THE COASTLINE
text: A thick train of black smoke rises from the green jungle.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: Black smoke ... secondary burning.
text: The Chief grabs field glasses.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Yeah -- fishing village --
dialog: helicopters over there. Hueys,
dialog: lots of 'em.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: First Air Cavalry. They're the
dialog: ones gonna get us into the River.
scene_heading: 34 FULL SHOT - THE BEACH AND VILLAGE
text: A vast field of devastation -- smashed and smoking palm
text: trees -- deep, ragged craters -- gutted and burning huts
text: -- shattered sampans and bodies washing around in the
dialog: surf.
scene_heading: 35 MED. SHOT - BEACH - WILLARD AND CREW
text: They wade through the water to the beach where they are
text: met by a heavily armed group of men.
text: Overhead jets swoop by FIRING ROCKETS, the NOISE drowning
text: out Willard's attempt at conversation with some of the men.
text: We can't hear any of the talk, but we notice that the
text: Sergeant turns up to a particular Huey, and points to it.
scene_heading: 36 FULL SHOT - HELICOPTERS
text: Three Hueys swoop in low -- they are heavily laden with
text: machine guns -- rockets and loudspeakers. The two out-
text: side copters hover, while the center copter lands, raising
text: a lot of dust. It cuts its rotors and the other copters
text: pull up and off to the side. Two armed soldiers jump
text: from the doors and stand with guns ready. Then a tall,
text: strong looking man emerges. He wears a well-cut and
text: neatly-stretched tiger suit. It is COLONEL WILLIAM KILGORE
text: -- tough looking, well-tanned, with a black mustache.
text: He crouches over, holding his hat in the rotor wash. It
text: is no ordinary hat but a L.A. Dodgers baseball hat. He
text: walks out, and then stards to his full immense height and
text: with his hands on his hips he surveys the field of battle.
text: His eyes are obscured by mirror-fronted sunglasses.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (bellowing)
dialog: Lieutenant: Bomb that tree line
dialog: back about a hundred yards -- give
dialog: me some room to breathe.
text: A Lieutenant and radio man nod and rush off.
scene_heading: 37 CLOSE VIEW ON WILLARD
dialog: He was not quite prepared for this.
scene_heading: 38 VIEW ON KILGORE
text: turning to his GUARDS
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Bring me some cards.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Sir ?
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Body cards, you damn fool --
dialog: cards !
text: The soldier rushes over and hands him two brand new
text: packages of playing cards wrapped in plastic. Two other
text: soldiers get out of the copter and walk over. They are
text: well-tanned and carry no weapons. They seem more casual
text: about the Colonel than anyone else. The Sergeant walks
text: up, leading Willard, the Chief and Lance.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (formally)
dialog: Captain B-L. Willard, sir -- 4th
dialog: Recon Group -- I carry priority
dialog: papers from Com-Sec Intelligence
dialog: 11 Corp -- I believe you understand
dialog: the nature of my mission.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (not looking up)
dialog: Yeah -- Na Trang told me to
dialog: expect you -- we'll see what we
dialog: can do. Just stay out of my way
dialog: till this is done, Captain.
text: He cracks the plastic wrapping sharply -- takes out the
text: deck of new cards and fans them. The Colonel strides
text: right past Willard with no further acknowledgement. The
dialog: others follow,
scene_heading: 39 TRACKING VIEW
text: The Colonel walks through the shell-pocked field of
text: devastation. Soldiers gather around smiling; as Kilgore
text: comes to each V.C. corpse he drops a playing card on
text: it -- carefully picking out which card he uses.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Six a spades -- eight a hearts --
dialog: Isn't one worth a Jack in this
dialog: whole place.
text: The Colonel goes on about this business.
scene_heading: 40 TRACKING ON KILGORE
text: moving through the corpses, dropping the cards.
text: On of the two tanned soldiers rushes up and whispers
text: something to him. He stops.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: What ? Here. You sure?
text: The soldier points to Lance, who immediately puts down
text: the card he was holding. Kilgore strides over to the
text: young man, who almost instinctively moves closer t
dialog: Willard.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: What's your name, sailor ?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Gunner's Mate, Third Class --
dialog: L. Johnson, sir.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Lance Johnson? The surfer?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: That's right, sir.
text: Kilgore smiles -- sticks out his hand.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: It's an honor to meet you Lance.
dialog: I've admired your nose-riding for
dialog: years -- I like your cutback, too.
dialog: I think you have the best cutback
dialog: there is.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Thank you, sir.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: You can cut out the sir, Lance --
dialog: I'm Bill kilgore -- I'm a goofy
dialog: foot.
scene_heading: 41 VIEW ON WILLARD
dialog: His entire, top priority mission has been put in the
dialog: background.
speaker_heading: KILGORE (O.S.)
dialog: This is Mike from San Diego and
dialog: Johnny from Malibu -- they're good
dialog: solid surfers -- none of us are
dialog: anywhere near your class, though.
text: Lance blushes, sort of mumbling thanks.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: My orders are from Com-Sec
scene_heading: Intel -- B.L. Willard, 4th Recon --
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Just hold up a second, Captain --
dialog: I'll get to you soon enough --
dialog: We've got things to do here.
text: Willard eats it, for now. Kilgore puts his hand on
text: Lance's shoulder, and continues flipping the cards in-
text: discriminately on the bodies as they talk.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... we do a lot of surfing around
dialog: here. Like to finish up operations
dialog: early and fly down to Vung Tau for
dialog: the evening glass. Have you ever
dialog: surfed the point at Vung Tau? I
dialog: liked the beach breaks around Na
dialog: Trang a lot -- good lefts.
text: He passes a twisted gun emplacement with about five
text: bodies -- sprinkles cards all over them.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... we keep three boards in my
dialog: Command Huey at all times. You
dialog: never can tell when you're gonna
dialog: run into something good. I got a
dialog: guy in Cam Rau Bay that can predict
dialog: a swell two days in advance. We
dialog: try to work it in.
text: He stops at a particularly wild-looking Viet Cong who
text: has died with his mouth agape -- staring wild-eyed in
text: horror at the sky. Kilgore pauses.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing; to himself)
dialog: Hell, that's an Ace if I ever saw
dialog: one.
text: He puts the card in the gaping mouth.
scene_heading: 42 CLOSE VIEW OVER THE VIET CONG
text: We SEE the Colonel and the others walk off -- the dead
text: Viet Cong and card are in the immediate f.g. The card
text: has the shield of the CAV printed bautifully, and above
text: it the motto: DEATH FROM ABOVE.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Where've you been riding, Lance?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: I haven't surfed since I got here.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: That's terrible -- we'll change
dialog: that -- I'd like to see you work --
dialog: I've always liked your cutback;
dialog: got a hell of a left turn, too.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 43 EXT. THE HELICOPTER - MED. SHOT
text: Willard is sitting with Kilgore on acouple of chairs by
text: a table set up in front of the command copter.
text: Everywhere we SEE armed men, sandbags, barbed wire, oil
text: drums etc. Hueys are constantly ROARING over. ARTILLERY
text: BOOMS in the far distance. Kilgore looks at the map.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Why the hell you wanna go up
dialog: to Nu Mung Ba for?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I got bored in Saigon.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: What's the furthest you been
dialog: in?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Haiphong.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Haiphong? Shit, you jump in ?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No. Walked.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: What'd you do for supplies?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (he shrugs)
dialog: Mercenaries -- agents, traitors --
dialog: they put out caches.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Can you trust them?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No. They put out two or three
dialog: for every one I needed. When
dialog: you get to the one you'll use,
dialog: you just stake it out. If
dialog: something feels wrong, you just
dialog: pass it up. On one mission, I
dialog: had to pass up three and ended
dialog: up living on rats and chocolate
dialog: bars.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Nu Mung Ba. Last I heard, Walter
dialog: Kurtz commanded a Green Beret
dialog: detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: When did you hear?
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: 'Bout a year ago? Is Kurtz
dialog: still alive?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who knows.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Seems to me he got himself
dialog: fragged. i heard some grunt
text: rolled a grenade in his tent.
dialog: Maybe a rumor. Helluva man --
dialog: remarkable officer. Walter
dialog: Kurtz woulda been a General
dialog: some day. General of the Army.
dialog: Shit, Head of the Joint Chiefs
dialog: of Staff. Did you knew Kurtz?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I met him.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Don't you agree?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He musta changed !
dialog: (pointing to the map)
dialog: I got to get into the Nung
dialog: River, here or here.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: That village you're pointing at
dialog: is kinda hairy.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Hairy ?
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: I mean it's hairy -- they got some
dialog: pretty heavy ordnance, boy --
dialog: I've lost a few recon ships in
dialog: there now and again.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: So? I heard you had a good bunch
dialog: of killers here.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: And I don't intend to get some of
dialog: them chewed up just to get your
dialog: tub put in the mouth of the
dialog: goddman Nung River. You say you
dialog: don't know Kurtz?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I met him.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: You talk like him. I don't
dialog: mind taking casualties,
dialog: Captain, but I like to keep
dialog: my ratio ten to one in this
dialog: unit -- ten Cong to one.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You'll find enough Cong up there.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: What about this point here?
text: He puts his finger on the map.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: What's the name of that goddamn
dialog: village -- Vin Drin Dop or Lop; damn gook
dialog: names all sound the same.
text: He motions to one of his surfers.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Mike, you know anything about
dialog: the point at Vin Drip Drop?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Boss left.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: It's really long left slide,
text: breaks on the short side of the
text: point -- catches a south swell.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Nice.
text: Willard looks at Lance -- then at Kilgore.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Why the hell didn't you tell me
dialog: about that place -- a good left.
dialog: (to Willard)
dialog: There aren't any good left slides
dialog: in this whole, shitty country.
dialog: It's all goddamn beach break.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: It's hairy ,though. That's
dialog: where we lost McDonnel -- they
dialog: shot the hell out of us. It's
dialog: Charlie's point.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: How big it is?
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: Six to eight feet.
text: Kilgore gazes out across the parked helicopters.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (to himself)
text: A six-foot left.
text: Willard nudges Lance -- who gets the idea.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Boss. What's the wind like.
speaker_heading: MIKE
text: Light off shore -- really hollow.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We could go in tomorrow at dawn
dialog: -- there's always off-shore wind
text: in the morning.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: The draft of that river might be
text: too shallow on the point.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Hell, we'll pick your boat up and
dialog: lay it down like a baby, right
dialog: where you want it. This is the
dialog: Cav boy -- airmobile. I can
dialog: take that point and hold it as
dialog: long as I like -- and you can
dialog: get anywhere you want up that
dialog: river that suits you, Captain.
text: Hell, a six foot left.
dialog: (he turns to an advisor)
dialog: You take a gunship back to division
dialog: -- Mike, take Lance with you -- let
dialog: him pick out a board, and bring me
dialog: my Yater Spoon -- the eight six.
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: I don't know, sir -- it's -- it's --
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (hard)
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: TOM
dialog: Well, I mean it's hairy in there
dialog: -- it's Charlie's point.
text: Kilgore turns and looks to Willard, exasperated.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Charlie don't surf.
scene_heading: 44 FULL SHOT - HELICOPTERS - DAWN
text: What seems like hundreds of Hueys standing, their rotors
text: churning a great wind -- Inside, the men of the 1st
dialog: Cavalry Airmobile -- toughest unit in Vietnam.
text: Kilgore's helicopter is being loaded with ammunition and
text: has surfboards strapped underneath.
scene_heading: 45 MED. VIEW
text: Kilgore strides up to the side door, dressed for battle.
text: He looks out, around. He turns to his door GUNNER.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: How do you feel, boy?
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: Like a mean motherfucker, sir.
text: He turns to his R.T. man.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Let's go.
speaker_heading: 46 FULL VIEW
dialog: Helicopter rotors build up speed -- gas turbines
text: belching fire from their jet pipes -- dust flying
text: as fifty helicopters rise; ROAR OVER CAMERA and
text: deploy into attack formation.
speaker_heading: 47 NEW VIEW
text: Helicopters moving THROUGH the FRAME: almost a dance of
text: dragonflies.
scene_heading: 48 INT. COMMAND COPTER - MED. SHOT - KILGORE, WILLARD,
speaker_heading: OTHERS
text: Willard looks ahead -- Kilgore sits near the door.
text: Below they see the jungle whisk by and they are
text: suddenly over the ocean, low and fast.
speaker_heading: 49 MONTAGE
text: CLOSE SHOTS of rocket pods -- mini-guns in bizarre
text: looking mounts.
text: CLOSE SHOTS of the three surfboards strapped below the
text: command helicopter, next to the fearsome weaponry.
text: And finally, CLOSE SHOTS of the men -- nervous, excited
dialog: very few of them really scared -- they fondle their
text: rifles, grenade launchers, anti-personnel grenades,
dialog: claymore mines; plastic explosives cord; flame-throwers;
dialog: M-60 machine guns; expandable rocket launchers; mortars
text: and bayonets.
scene_heading: 50 INT. COMMAND COPTER
text: Kilgore cranes his neck and almost leans out to watch
text: the waves -- then he sits back relaxed.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (to Willard)
dialog: We'll come in low out of the rising
dialog: sun -- We'll put on the music about
text: a mile out.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Music?
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Yeah. Classical stuff -- scares
dialog: the hell out of the slopes -- the
dialog: boys love it.
scene_heading: 51 MED. SHOT
text: POV behind the PILOT and CO-PILOT -- the ocean rushes
dialog: below.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: Big Duke six to Eagle Thrust --
dialog: turn on coordinates 1-0 -- niner,
dialog: assume attack formation.
text: The helicopter banks into a tight turn and bears
text: toward the coast.
speaker_heading: RADIO (V.O.)
dialog: Eagle Thrust formation target
dialog: 2800 yards -- begin psch-war
dialog: operations.
scene_heading: 52 CLOSE SHOT - LOUDSPEAKERS
text: The ocean rushes below as suddenly the LOUDSPEAKERS
text: BLARE out Wagner's "Ride of the Valkyries."
scene_heading: 53 FULL SHOT - HELICOPTERS
text: From the water we SEE the massive grouping of Hueys -- gun-
text: ships -- troop carriers -- medevac and recon -- ROAR over
text: low in battle formation BLARING out "Ride of the Valkyries."
scene_heading: 54 INT. HELICOPTER - MED. SHOT -CREW
dialog: POV behind pilot --
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: 700 -- 600 yards -- 500 --
text: Commence firing.
text: The whole copter shakes.
scene_heading: 55 EXT. VIET CONG FISHING VILLAGE - FULL SHOT
text: A Vietnamese coastal fishing village built along the
text: beach and palm trees -- with rice paddies behind. This
text: village commands a delta where ocean and river merge.
text: Sampans are pulled into a cover where they are being
text: unloaded. We SEE bunkers with N.V.A. regulars ambling
dialog: about.
text: Suddenly we HEAR the distant MUSIC -- Everyone stops;
text: they stare out to see. Men scream orders -- women run
text: from huts bearing ammunition and rifles -- Everywhere
dialog: there is activity to prepare for the defense of the
dialog: village.
text: Camouflage is removed from anti-aircraft emplacements.
text: People feverishly unlimber weapons of all types and run
text: to tunnels and trenches.
text: The MUSIC GROWS LOUDER with the FAINT SOUND of ROTORS
scene_heading: 56 EXT. THE HELICOPTER FORMATION - AERIAL VIEW
text: coming directly at us; WAGNER BLARING.
speaker_heading: 57 HIGH ANGLE
text: looking down through the helicopters as they approach
dialog: the village.
scene_heading: 58 INT. HELICOPTER - MED. SHOT - CREW
text: POV behind pilot
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: 700 yards -- 600 -- 500 --
text: commence firing.
text: The whole copter shakes.
scene_heading: 59 EXT. HELICOPTERS - MONTAGE
text: We SEE rockets ROAR from pods -- MACHINE GUNS RATTLE --
text: grenade launchers POUND away -- and MINI-GUNS pour
text: streams of lead and tracers with the SOUND of a DIESEL
speaker_heading: HORN.
scene_heading: 60 FULL SHOT - HELICOPTERS
text: POV behind lead gunship. They ROAR in over the beach
text: streaming FIRE from doors, pods and nose -- The ground
text: is alive with smoke and fire -- a hut EXPLODES. The
text: leads ship banks sharply up over the trees -- men run
text: below SHOOTING back.
scene_heading: 61 MED. SHOT - ANTI-AIRCRAFT EMPLACEMENT
text: EXPLOSIONS crash around -- the MUSIC and SOUND of the
text: COPTERS almost drown them out. The gunner FIRES
scene_heading: frantically -- COPTERS are ROARING over -- GUNFIRE
text: rips around. The gunner is blown away.
scene_heading: 62 MED. CLOSE ON WILLARD
text: as the ship he is in swoops down, its MACHINE GUNS
text: FIRING into the village.
scene_heading: 63 MED. SHOT - SWOOPING COPTER
text: The Pilot leans out and SHOOTS a charging V.C. in the
text: head with his .38, then ducks back in.
speaker_heading: CO-PILOT
dialog: We're down, Eagle Thrust -- we're
dialog: hit. We got a hot L.Z. here.
text: BULLETS RIP through the plexiglass. The Pilot FIRES
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: CO-PILOT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Hell of a hot L.Z. Need immediate
text: air strike on the tree line, Eagle
dialog: Thrust.
scene_heading: 64 INT. COMMAND COPTER - MED. SHOT - WILLARD, KILGORE,
speaker_heading: OTHERS
text: Kilgore has R.T. equipment -- he leans out near the
text: door gunner.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels Four
dialog: -- bring it in on along tree line
dialog: and huts.
speaker_heading: RADIO (V.O.)
dialog: Hell's Angels Four to Big Duke
dialog: Six -- we'll need green smoke --
dialog: suggest you have the FAC mark it.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Haven't got time, Hell's Angels --
dialog: lay it right up the tree line.
scene_heading: 65 FULL SHOT - JET SQUADRON
text: Four F-4H Phantoms peel off and streak toward the
dialog: coast.
scene_heading: 66 INT. COMMAND COPTER - VIEW ON WILLARD AND KILGORE
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Fucking savages.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: The enemy. Who else?
scene_heading: 67 HELICOPTER'S POV - THE JETS
text: The jets streak by below laying in huge gobs of orange
text: napalm along the trees.
speaker_heading: KILGORE (O.S.)
dialog: (on radio)
dialog: Very good, Hell's Angels -- suggest
dialog: you follow with cannon fire.
scene_heading: 68 INT. COMMAND COPTER - MED. SHOT
text: They circle the battle.
speaker_heading: RADIO (V.O.)
dialog: This is Baker Delta Four --
dialog: Captain hit bad -- need dust-off.
text: Receiving heavy automatic weapons
text: fire from huts about thirty yards
dialog: to our left.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Big Duke Six to Baker Delta Four
dialog: -- hold -- we're right over you.
text: He turns to door gunner.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
text: Right along the doors, boy.
text: The gunner FIRES leaning out --
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Fine... fine... little higher.
dialog: Through the roof; yeah, that's
dialog: good.
text: He leans back in.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Didn't anybody bring me any
text: bombs, grenades, claymores or
dialog: anything?
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: You didn't tell me to, sir.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (grumbling)
dialog: You shoulda known.
text: Suddenly, BULLETS SMASH through the copter -- Plexiglass
text: SHATTERS; the copter vibrates and turns sharply. Kilgore
text: is thrown down where he hangs on.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Sonuvabitch -- anybody hurt?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: Automatic weapons flashes along
dialog: those trees -- probably eleven
text: millimeter guns and AK-47's.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: The trees, eh...
text: He grabs the R.T.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Eagle Thrust Four -- Big Duke
dialog: Six. Join me in sparaying some
dialog: trees.
speaker_heading: RADIO (V.O.)
dialog: Affirmative, Big Duke Six -- We're
dialog: even got some rockets left.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Take her in low, Lieutenant.
scene_heading: 69 FULL SHOT - THE TREES, HELICOPTERS
text: The two helicopters swoop up out of the smoke and blast
text: the trees with ROCKETS, MACHINE GUNS and GRENADE LAUNCHERS.
text: Other copters join -- The V.C. break and run through
text: the rice paddies in the f.g. -- BULLETS EXPLODING around
text: them -- they scream and fall FIRING back.
scene_heading: 70 INT. COMMAND COPTER - MED. SHOT - KILGORE, WILLARD
text: Kilgore looks out as three V.C. break and run through
text: the rice paddies -- the helicopter turns and follows
text: them -- the door gunner swings out and BLASTS two of
text: them into the mud. He takes a bead on the third.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Hold it, boy.
text: He puts his arms across the sights -- the gunner swings
text: back inside.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Take her up to 300 feet,
dialog: Lieutenant.
text: They rise above the paddy -- the man below runs for
text: all he's worth. Kilgore motions to the door gunner who
text: steps aside. Kilgore buckles himself into the gunner's
dialog: harness.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Rifle.
text: A hand passes him a M-16.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing; hard)
dialog: My rifle, soldier.
text: There is some fumbling and then a hand passes him a 300
text: Weatherby Magnum with a zebra wood stock -- mother of pearl
text: inlays and a variable power scope. Kilgore takes it and
text: opens the bolt.
scene_heading: 71 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: Amazed at these proceedings.
scene_heading: 72 VIEW ON KILGORE
text: as he loads the rifle with huge cartridges. He gets
text: into the sling and slams the bolt shut.
scene_heading: 73 MOVING POV. ON THE V.C.
text: He is running hard, but starting to sink into the mud.
text: The Huey DRONES overhead, its huge shadow behind him
text: on the mud. He turns and FIRES with a pistol.
scene_heading: 74 INT. COPTER - MED. SHOT - KILGORE, WILLARD
text: Kilgore leans out; pulls the gun in tight -- takes
text: careful aim and the Cong is BLASTED flat into the paddy.
text: Kilgore leans back, opens the bolt, ejecting the spent
text: cartridge out the door. He hands Weatherby back
text: into the copter.
scene_heading: 75 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: The gaudy rifle passed by him.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER (O.S.)
dialog: That's 27, sir.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Anyone got a card?
text: Somebody hands Willard the deck. He takes a card and
text: flips it out of the copter, never lifting his gaze from
dialog: Kilgore.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 76 FULL SHOT - BATTLEFIELD - THE CAV, V.C.
text: Americans run through the hooches FIRING and throwing
text: GRENADES. Helicopters swoop overhead -- JETS ROAR by
text: -- Uniformed N.V.A. regulars burst from a tunnel en-
dialog: trance and charge the Americans. The SHOOTING is at
dialog: point blank range -- automatic, as the V.C. are cut
dialog: down.
scene_heading: 77 INT. COMMAND COPTER - KILGORE, WILLARD, LANCE, ETC.
text: Kilgore leans out carefully, looking over the battle-
dialog: field. He has the R.T.
text: He leans back, deliberately avoiding Willard to speak
dialog: to Lance.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
text: The L.Z.'s cooling off fast --
dialog: we'll move in another company
dialog: an' then we'll own it.
dialog: (he laughs to himself)
dialog: Charlie's point.
text: He looks out toward the ocean.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Good swell.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: What, sir?
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: I said it's a good swell -- hell
dialog: of a good swell 'bout six feet.
dialog: Let's get a look at it.
text: Lance looks at Willard and then agrees.
scene_heading: 78 FULL SHOT - COPTER, SURF
dialog: The pilots are used to this -- they bank sharply
text: and swoop in on the lineup of waves, coming in low
text: over the point and streaking down a long, lined-up
text: green wall as if surfing it. They tip up over and up
text: at the last minute as the wave breaks.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 79 FULL SHOT - BEACH HUTS, SOLDIERS
text: Americans line up blindfolded Viet Cong and N.V.A.
text: regular troops outside a burning hut. GUNFIRE is
text: DISTANT and sporadic -- an occasional MORTAR round
text: SCREAMS in. A soldier yells in Vietnamese in a
text: southern accent and the prisoners are marched away.
text: Other soldiers are already setting up heavy weapons
dialog: emplacements -- 50 cal machine guns etc. Three
text: Hueys ROAR in, fanning the smoke with their wind.
text: The center one, the command ship, lands. JETS SCREAM
text: over and the two gunships pull up at 200 feet. Another
text: Huey zooms in low and lands behind the Colonel's. The
text: doors open, guards jump out, check the situation, and
text: out steps Kilgore and Lance. From the other copter
text: are more guards, Kilgore's surfers and others of the
text: P.B.R. crew. Willard follows.
scene_heading: 80 FULL SHOT - THE POINT
text: They stride out across the debris-strewn beach. Kilgore
text: stands majestically on the point watching the waves. A
text: SHELL SCREAMS overhead.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Incoming !
text: They all dive, except Kilgore. He is watching a big set
text: -- the SHELL EXPLODES in the water about a hundred yards
text: away, sending up a huge geyser of spray. Kilgore is
text: unmoved.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Look at that.
dialog: They look.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: This L.Z. is still pretty hot,
dialog: sir, maybe we oughta stand
dialog: somewhere else.
text: Kilgore pays him no mention.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm waiting for the fucking boat,
dialog: Colonel.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (without looking)
dialog: It'll get here, soldier.
text: He turns to Mike and Johnny who have their faces in the
dialog: sand.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Change.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: Wh -- what?
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Change -- get out there -- I
dialog: want'a see if it's ridable --
dialog: change.
speaker_heading: MIKE
dialog: It's still pretty hairy, sir.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (bellowing)
dialog: You want'a surf, soldier?
text: He nods yes meakly.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: That's good, boy, because it's
dialog: either surf or fight.
text: They turn and hurry off -- Kilgore grabs an M-1 from
text: one of the guards. They all think he's going to
text: shoot the surfers or someone. They move back uneasy.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I'm gonna cover for 'em -- that's
dialog: all.
text: He cocks thye weapon. Lance looks around uneasily. The
text: Colonel walks over.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You think that section on the
dialog: point is ridable, Lance?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: I think we ought to wait for
dialog: the tide to come in.
text: A SHELL SCREAMS OVER -- they all hit the dirt except
text: for Kilgore. It EXPLODES throwing sand through the
text: air. Kilgore leans down yelling over the NOISE.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Doesn't happen for six hours.
text: Lance looks up at him terrified, holding onto
text: his helmet.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: The tide -- doesn't come in for
dialog: six hours.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 81 FULL SHOT - SURF - MIKE AND JOHNNY
text: They walk through shallows carrying brightly
text: colored boards. They look very scared. JETS SCREAM
text: overhead, FIRING CANNONS. Helicopters wheel by
text: carrying out wounded.
text: They wear olive drab surfing trunks with the Cav's
text: shield on the left leg. The same shield is emblazoned
text: on the boards along the word "Airmobile". They edge
text: into the water and paddle through the mild shorebreak.
scene_heading: 82 FULL SHOT - THE POINT - SURFERS
text: They paddle up the point in the calm channel -- the
text: beautiful waves breaking beyond them.
text: 83 CLOSE SHOT ON JOHNNY, MIKE
text: They paddle on their stomachs, keeping low -- breathing
text: hard and constantly looking around scared out of their
dialog: minds.
scene_heading: 84 MED. SHOT - KILGORE AND LANCE
text: Kilgore looks at them with his field glasses. Lance
text: kind of sits below taking cover in a shell hole.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: They far enough?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Sure -- fine --
text: Kilgore turns and takes a giant electric megaphone from
text: a waiting lackey.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (through megaphone)
dialog: That's far enough -- pick one
dialog: up and come on in --
scene_heading: 85 FULL SHOT - THE POINT, SURFERS
text: They line themselves up on the point. A good set is
text: building. Mike turns strokes into it -- takes off
text: -- drops to the bottom and turns -- trims up into a
dialog: tight section -- everything right except he keeps looking
text: around frantically.
scene_heading: 86 CLOSE SHOT ON LANCE AND KILGORE
text: Another SHELL SCREAMS over and EXPLODES down the beach.
text: Lance looks over at Willard.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Maybe he'll get tubed.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Maybe he'll get inside the tube --
text: where -- where they can't see him.
text: A SERIES of SHELLS ROAR in.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Incoming !
text: Lance ducks -- puts his hands over his head. The SHELLS
text: SCREAM over Kilgore and out towards the point. Kilgore
text: looks through his glasses -- two EXPLOSIONS in the water
dialog: are HEARD.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Son of a bitch.
text: Lance looks up and out toward the point in horror.
scene_heading: 87 FULL SHOT - THE POINT
text: Two surfboards float in the channel bobbing up and down
text: on the waves.
scene_heading: 88 MED. SHOT - LANCE AND KILGORE
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: The tragedy of this war is a
dialog: dead surfer.
text: Willard looks over, beginning to think Lance is crazy,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Just something I read in the
dialog: Free Press.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: They just missed a good set --
dialog: the chicken shits !
text: Lance looks up.
scene_heading: 89 FULL SHOT - THE POINT , SURFERS
text: They come up near their boards and climb on -- smoke
text: hangs over the water.
speaker_heading: KILGORE (O.S.)
dialog: (megaphone)
dialog: Try it again, you little bastards.
dialog: 90 BACK TO SCENE
text: He turns to Willard.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Im not afraid to surf this place.
dialog: I'll surf this place.
scene_heading: 91 CLOSE SHOT ON KILGORE
text: He turns, glowering to his lackeys.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Bring that R.T., soldier.
text: He grabs it.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels --
dialog: Goddamit, I want that treeline
dialog: bombed -- yeah -- napalm --
dialog: gimme some napalm -- son of a
dialog: bitch -- yeah, I'll take H.Z.
dialog: or C.B.U.'s if you got any of
dialog: them -- just bomb 'em into the
dialog: Stone Age, boy.
text: He throws the R.T. back to a soldier -- another SALVO
text: WHISTLES over -- everyone drops.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing; to himself)
dialog: Son of a bitch.
text: As the SHELLS EXPLODES on the beach behind him, KIlgore
text: raises his M-16 and EMPTIES it full automatic in the
text: general direction of the trees. He mumbles a few un-
text: intelligible swear words and jams a new clip into his
dialog: rifle turning to Lance --
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: We'll have this place cleaned up
dialog: and ready for us in a jiffy, boy.
dialog: Don't you worry.
text: He FIRES another clip as the JETS SCREAM overhead.
scene_heading: 92 FULL SHOT - RIVER - COPTERS
text: A sky-crane without pod descends slowly toward us --
text: The P.B.R. hangs below it.
text: The Chief, mr. Clean and Chef stand watching this sight
text: alomg with other soldiers. A man guides the descending
text: copter till the boat settles carefully in the shallows.
text: The Chief and others leap aboard; unshackle the hoists
text: -- load on ammunition and fuel. The battle is still
text: going on around them. They all look up as a wadge
text: of PHANTOMS streak over low and peel off one by one to
text: begin their bombing run.
scene_heading: 93 FULL SHOT - PHANTOMS - MONTAGE
text: Phantoms RAKE the trees with 20 mm CANNONS -- FIRE five
text: inch ROCKETS in salvo -- "Bull Pup" MISSILES -- drop
text: H.E. (high explosives) and C.B.U's (Cluster Bomb Units)
text: and finally an immense amount of NAPALM.
text: 94 FULL SHOT ON THE P.B.R.
text: The Chief is at the helm --the engine starts; Clean
text: and Chef work feverishly, ducking for cover every-so-
text: often when an EXPLOSION hits nearby. The boat begins
text: to back out of the shallows. The EXPLOSIONS of NAPALM
text: are reflected on their faces; the ROAR of the FIRE drowns
dialog: out almost everything.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Forget that extra drum -- it's
dialog: too damn hot.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Clear on starboard -- Where's
dialog: Lance an' the Captain?
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: I saw that Colonel's Huey on the
dialog: point --
text: Two HELICOPTERS SCREAM over FIRING ROCKETS.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Let's just get outta here.
scene_heading: 95 FULL SHOT - THE POINT - KILGORE, WILLARD , LANCE,
speaker_heading: OTHERS
text: Kilgore watches the waves with his field glasses --
text: smoke drifts over.
text: Lance crouches below. Willard is up looking off in another
text: direction. SHELLS SCREAM over, but even their noise is
text: drowned out by the fierce SHRIEK of the PHANTOMS and the
text: deafening BLAST of HIGH EXPLOSIVES. Willard stares at the
text: tree line where it comes down to the river. The JETS are
dialog: making a hell of the tree line; a hell of fire and bust-
text: ling steam thet nothing could live in. Willard's glance
text: goes further downriver through the black smoke and there
text: merging in the river -- small and vulnerable, is his boat.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (to Lance)
dialog: Look. There it is; the boat.
text: Lance looks over -- a tremendous relief on his face. But
text: still there remains the threat of Kilgore, standing stark
text: against the sky. Willard silently motions Lance toward
dialog: the boat.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: He'll kill us.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He can't kill us.
dialog: (realizing as he says it)
dialog: We're on his side.
text: Kilgore FIRES another clip at the tree line, and then
text: strides back without looking at them.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (almost to himself)
dialog: You smell that.
dialog: (louder)
dialog: You smell that?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: Napalm, boy -- nothing else in
dialog: the world smells like that --
text: They reflect the glow from the burning trees.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing; nostalgically)
dialog: I love the smell of napalm in
dialog: the morning.
dialog: One time we had a hill bombed
dialog: for 12 hours. I walked up it
dialog: when it was all over; we didn't
dialog: find one of 'em ... not one
text: stinking gook body. They
dialog: slipped out in the night -- but
dialog: the smell -- that gasoline smell
dialog: -- the whole hill -- it smelled
dialog: like ...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: victory...
text: He looks off nostalgically.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You know, some day this war's
dialog: gonna end..
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (sadly)
dialog: Yes, I know.
text: Suddenly he senses something -- he stops -- lifts his
text: hand -- then frantically licks his fingers and puts
text: them up in the air.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: The wind --
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: What?
text: Sure enough there is a rushing breeze that increases.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (rising maniacally)
dialog: Feel it -- it's the wind -- it's
dialog: blowing on shore -- It's on shore !
text: He leans down and practically grabs Lance.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing; screaming)
dialog: It's gonna blow this place out.
dialog: It's gonna ruin it ...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: The kid can't ride sloppy waves.
text: They turn and stare out to sea.
scene_heading: 96 FULL SHOT - THE POINT - SURFERS
text: The wind has changed. Instead of blowing spray back
text: over the waves and hollowing them out, this strange
text: wind is causing white caps and cross chop.. reducing
text: the swell to slop. Mike and Johnny lay low on their
text: boards, overjoyed.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (O.S.)
dialog: The kid can't stand sloppy waves.
scene_heading: 97 MED. SHOT - THE BEACH - LANCE, KILGORE, WILLARD
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You don't expect this kid to
dialog: ride that crap, do you? He's
dialog: a goddamn artist, he needs
dialog: something to work with...
text: Slapping Lance on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Yeah, I'm an artist, goddamit !
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (apologetically)
dialog: Yeah -- yeah, I can understand
dialog: how you feel.
text: He turns toward the trees.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: It's the napalm -- it's causing
dialog: the wind -- ruining my perfect
dialog: left.
text: He staggers off toward the trees followed by his
text: guards and other lackeys.
speaker_heading: KILGORE
dialog: (continuing; mumbling)
dialog: The napalm -- ruin -- napalm
dialog: my perfect left -- my perfect
dialog: left point break -- napalm --
text: Lance motions with his eyes to Willard.
text: 98 FULL SHOT ON THE P.B.R.
text: The P.B.R. along the river shallows -- The Chief and
text: crew waiting and yelling.
scene_heading: 99 MED. VIEW ON WILLARD AND LANCE
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Are you finished surfing?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Yeah... thanks.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Want to say goodbye to the
dialog: Colonel?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Nah.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Then let's get the hell out of
dialog: here.
text: They break and run like hell toward the boat in the
text: distance. OUR VIEW TRACKS with them. They are
text: cheered by the crew -- suddenly, Willard sees some-
text: thing and stops... Lance continuing. In a pile of
text: equipment that the Hueys have left are two surfboards
text: -- Willard looks at them.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: No -- no, Captain.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Which one's the Colonel's?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: The Yater -- the clear one
text: with the thin stringer.
text: Willard glances over to it with determination. There
text: is still MORTAR FIRE coming in between him and the
text: board. Suddenly, Willard makes a run for it.
speaker_heading: CHIEF (O.S.)
dialog: Incoming ! Incoming -- son of
dialog: a bitch.
text: The ROUNDS bracket the P.B.R. and line up the beach
text: toward Willard. He stands there and doesn't move, the
text: surfboard under his arm. The shells kick up sand.
text: Lance has dropped. Fragments whistle by, one rips
text: a chunk of foam and fibreglass from the rain of the
dialog: board.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (calm)
dialog: This one , Lance?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Yeah, Jesus Christ !
text: Once again, Willard takes off fast as hell with the
text: board under his arm. Lance follows toward the boat,
text: through the water. Willard hands the board up to Mr.
text: Clean, and they both scamper abroad, exhausted and
dialog: relieved.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: What'd you that for?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: When I was a kid I, never had
text: a Yater spoon.
text: Mr. Clean stuffs the board in the stern 50 Cal. mount.
text: The boat turns -- ENGINES RUNNING HARD and ROARS OFF
text: toward the deeper water of the river -- the board
text: clearly visible on the stern.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 100 FULL SHOT ON THE RIVER - P.B.R
text: The P.B.R. ROARS BY going down the river at full speed.
text: It is swerving and zig-zagging to avoid potential enemy
dialog: fire.
scene_heading: 101 MED. SHOT ON THE CREW
text: They all are in full battle positions -- their twin
text: fifty Cal. guns turning; warily covering the jungled
text: banks. The Chief is at helm -- Willard crouches
text: against some armor plate, huddled with his M-16 ready.
text: Chef is behind him at the radio. Lance leans back
text: from his forward turret.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Maybe we better stay in under
dialog: the trees till dark -- we got
dialog: his Yater.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He didn't look like he'd take
dialog: that sitting down.
text: They all look up into the sky -- expecting the worst.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Let's put some distance between
dialog: us and Charlie.
text: The Chief nods.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Lance ---
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Why don't you roll us a big
dialog: joint? I think the Captain'd
dialog: like that.
text: They all look at Willard uneasily. After a suspensful
text: pause, Willard smiles:
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Take one a mine --
text: He fishes into his breast pocket -- pulls out a huge
text: cigar-sized joint. They all smile -- Willard lights
dialog: up.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 102 FULL SHOT - THE P.B.R.
text: It zig-zags away from us down the river at high speed.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 103 FULL SHOT - THE TREES, BOAT, CREW - NIGHT
text: The boat is hidden under some trees along the river
text: bank. The men wait tensely listening --
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: You hear it again?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No -- I don't think so. But
dialog: it'll be back. They were
dialog: circling. It'll be back.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: You think he'd of shot us?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Any time -- us -- Americans.
text: Lance looks over at Willard.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I don't think hed of shot us on
dialog: the beach but -- he'd of shot us
dialog: if he saw me taking the board --
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: A Yater spoon is hard to get --
dialog: especially here.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He's a man who knows what he
dialog: wants -- he does know what he wants.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Can I go get those mangos now?
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: I'll go with you in a while --
dialog: judt hold tight awhile --
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Captain -- that was all true
dialog: about the rats and chocolate
dialog: and stuff?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: And you could just tell when
dialog: the supplies were booby trapped?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: It's a feeling you get in the
dialog: jungle. When you get good, you
dialog: can find a track and tell not
dialog: only how many they are, but
dialog: their morale, how far they're
dialog: going, whether they're near
dialog: their camp, the weapons they're
dialog: carrying.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: How can you tell their weapons..
dialog: an' how far they're going?
text: Willard smiles.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Mostly from the imprints when they
dialog: put them down to rest. their morale
text: from the way they drag their feet,
dialog: or the joints that may be lying
dialog: around. If they're near a base
dialog: camp, they wouldn't be conserving
dialog: food; they'll be throwing it away
text: half-eaten. If the branches aren't
text: broken, their weapons are slung.
dialog: But all this is just technique..
dialog: There's a feeling you get after a
dialog: while, that's what's important.
dialog: I was going through a village once.
dialog: I was looking for a certain party.
dialog: I took off my boots, and walked
text: into each hut. It was midnight.
dialog: I went into three like that and
dialog: suddenly I realized Id gone into
dialog: each hut the same way -- standing
dialog: up -- so the next one I went in on
text: my belly. An RPD burst took out
text: the door a bit above my head.
dialog: (he shrugs)
dialog: Things like that.
text: A pause, and then suddenly his attention is diverted --
text: They all are silent -- It is pitch dark -- we HEAR the
text: distant SOUND of ROTOR-BLADES and indistinguishable
text: language on a loudspeaker -- The talk stops -- the
text: ROTORS grow LOUDER until almost overhead.
speaker_heading: KILGORE (V.O.)
dialog: (over a loudspeaker)
dialog: I'm not gonna hurt or harm you,
dialog: boy -- I just want the board
dialog: back -- You can understand --
dialog: It was one of my best -- You
dialog: know how hard it is to get a
dialog: board you like, boy. I'm not
dialog: gonna hurt or harm you --
dialog: Just leave it where I can find
dialog: it --
text: The HELICOPTER DRONES on into the night -- the same
text: speech starts again further off -- Finally the noise
text: ceases.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Jesus -- that guy's too damn
dialog: much.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: I wonder if that was the same
text: copter.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He's probably got 'em all over
text: the river with that recording.
dialog: We better move now while it's
dialog: dark.
text: Chef steps forward with a plastic basket.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Yeah, Chef -- go ahead -- take
dialog: Lance with you --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'll go with him --
text: They all look at him.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I wanta get my feet on solid land
dialog: once in awhile --
text: He grabs an M-16 and follows Chef over the side.
scene_heading: 104 MED. SHOT - THE JUNGLE - CHEF, WILLARD - NIGHT
text: They cautiously walk through the underbrush.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Chef.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Yes, sir --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Why they call you that?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Call me what, sir?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Chef -- is that 'cause you like
dialog: mangoes an' stuff?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: No, sir -- I'm a real chef, sir
dialog: -- I'm a sauciere --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: A sauciere --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: That's right, sir -- I come from
dialog: New Orleans -- I was raised to
dialog: be a sauciere.. a great sauciere.
dialog: We specialize in sauces; my whole
dialog: family. It's what we do. I was
dialog: supposed to go to Paris and study
dialog: at the Escoffier School; I was
dialog: saving the money. They called
dialog: me for my physical so I figured
dialog: the Navy had better food.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What are you doing out here?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Cook school -- that did it.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: CHEF
text: They lined us all up in front of
dialog: a hundred yards of prime rib --
dialog: magnificent meat, beautifully
dialog: marbled.. Then they started
dialog: throwing it in these big
text: cauldrons, all of it -- boiling.
dialog: I looked in, an' it was turning
dialog: gray. I couldn't stand it. I
dialog: went into radio school.
text: They move into a slight clearing.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: -- quiet --
text: Chef crouches close -- redies his M-16. Willard ges-
text: tures that he heard something; he points.
scene_heading: 105 MED. SHOT - DIFFERENT ANGLE
text: PAN SLOWLY over jungle -- END REVEALING Willard and Chef.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (silent)
dialog: There...
text: He points -- motions Chef to move away -- they cover
text: the spot. A few yards from them they hear something
text: move. It is obviously no small jungle creature. They
text: walk toward a patch of black elephant grass; their guns
text: at the ready. They look at each other. Willard is
text: cold, methodical, doing something he knows well. There
text: is a noise again -- some of the growth rustles. He
text: and Chef move a distance apart, and join in stalking
text: the probable V.C. Willard directs the Chef with hand
text: gestures, and bird and cricket sounds. They move
text: stealthily, closing the apex of their triangle on the
text: hunted. The two men drop low into the elephant grass,
text: and remain motionless. Then Willard makes the cricket
text: noise, and they move closer. Willard's left hand edges
text: out along the M-16's far end, so that he only has to
dialog: point the finger of that hand and he will hit what he
text: wants. He makes another command and they rush the
text: trapped enemy.
scene_heading: 106 MED. SHOT - THE ELEPHANT GRASS - WILLARD AND CHEF
text: Suddenly there is a RUSHING SOUND -- The grass folds
text: down quickly toward them -- willard plants his feet and
text: from the hip lets go FULL AUTOMATIC. The Chef retreats
text: FIRING short BURSTS into the grass -- the grass folds
text: almost to Willard -- then a huge tiger leaps out at
text: them; snarling magnificently. They FIRE wildly,
text: emptying their clips.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: It's a motherfucking tiger --
dialog: goddamn...
text: He turns and bolts through the jungle, as scared as a
dialog: man can be.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (continuing; screaming)
dialog: Goddamn -- Jesus Christ tiger --
dialog: motherfucking tiger -- ohhhhhhhhh --
text: Willard jams another clip in his gun and backs out of
text: the clearing, covering the bushes and runs, scared
text: out of his head as well.
scene_heading: 107 FULL SHOT - THE BOAT - THE CREW
text: They all are armed -- Lance has the twin 50's pointed into
text: the jungle. Chef comes screaming out of the brush, throws
text: his rifle into the boat and dives headfirst after it.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (hysterical)
dialog: Ohhhh -- tiger ! Oh goddamn !
dialog: It's a tiger ! Jesus Christ !
dialog: Goddamn, a tiger ! Ohhhhhhhh.
text: The Chief tries to grab him; takes his gun away, but is
text: unable to take a hold of the Chef, as he slithers around
text: the boat, trying to find safety. willard follows from the
text: jungle -- The Chef is moaning and stares off into the night.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: What's this tiger shit?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No shit... I think I shot the
dialog: hell out of him.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: You think?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I wasnt looking.. I was running.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Was a big tiger -- no shit?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who stopped to measure him -- let's
dialog: get the hell out of here.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: A motherfucking tiger -- I could've
dialog: been killed.
text: The ENGINE ROARS to life -- the P.B.R. pulls away with great
dialog: speed.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: You forgot the mangoes, didn't
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Mangoes? There as a fucking
dialog: tiger in the woods -- I could've
dialog: been eaten alive. I'm never
dialog: going into that jungle again.
dialog: I gotta remember never get out of
dialog: the boat; never get outta the boat.
text: They move off; swallowed by the darkness. The JUNGLE
text: NOISES remain, as OUR VIEW BEGINS a MOVE INTO the jungle.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: He was right, the Chef -- never
dialog: go into the jungle, unless you're
text: ready to go all the way.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 108 EXT. THE BOAT IN MARINA DEL RAY - NIGHT
text: Willard, thinking, his BACK TO US. Suddenly, he turns
text: around, and we SEE his face.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: What was in the jungle? What was
dialog: there, waiting for me?
text: He lights the cigarette; the light of his match illuminating
text: his face momentarily. There is something different about
text: him; a maturity, a cool inner peace.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: ... Kurtz was in there. Or was he;
dialog: was it Kurtz? He was just a name
dialog: to me now; I couldn't remember a
dialog: face, a voice -- he just didn't
dialog: add up to me. all his liberal
dialog: bullshit about the end of savagery
dialog: -- and the role of our culture,
dialog: our way of life...
text: Willard looks toward the group of people on the boat --
text: there is still some MUSIC. They talk and drink and laugh.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Our way of life -- I really
dialog: started to look forward to
text: meeting Kurtz again.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 109 WATERWAY - MOVING FORWARD - DAY
speaker_heading: We HEAR:
speaker_heading: RADIO
dialog: -- must remember that we owe
dialog: our thanks for these to the
dialog: wonderful services of the U.S.O.
dialog: -- here's another oldie -- this
dialog: one dedicated...
speaker_heading: 110 VIEW ON CHEF
text: by himself on the P.B.R.; he has wiped mud under his
text: eyes to kill the glare; it is incredibly hot. He is
text: barechested, wearing a hat made of a banana palm.
speaker_heading: RADIO
dialog: ... to the fire team at An Khe
dialog: from their groovy C.O. Fred the
dialog: Head --
text: 111 VIEW ON THE GROUP
speaker_heading: RADIO
dialog: The Rolling Stones and "Satisfaction..."
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Outa sight.
text: The SONG BLARES ON -- they all dig it.
text: PAN TO Willard, sitting alone in the rear, reading from
text: his file on Kurtz. We REVEAL Lance in the b.g., water-
text: skiing behind the P.B.R., slaloming back and forth on
text: his single ski to the MUSIC -- jumping the wake occasion-
dialog: ally.
scene_heading: 112 NEW VIEW - ON THE P.B.R.
text: Lance waterskiing to "Satisfaction."
speaker_heading: 113 VIEW ON CLEAN
text: alert, at the rear of the boat -- his M-16 ready, just
dialog: in case.
scene_heading: 114 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: Willard opens a letter from the packet.
dialog: We can SEE it is a private correspondence -- feminine
text: writing on the envelope.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: The dossier of A Dtachment
dialog: contained letters from the families
dialog: and wives of Kurtz' men There
dialog: were letters from Kurtz' wife as
dialog: well.
scene_heading: 115 CLOSE SHOT - ON THE LETTER
text: It is addressed to Colonel Walter Kurtz -- in the corner
dialog: is the return addess of Mrs. Colonel Walter Kurtz --
text: Willard's hand fushes through the packet and comes up
text: with apicture of a very attractive, thirty-five year
text: old American Beauty... She is classically American.
scene_heading: 116 CLOSE SHOT - ON WILLARD
dialog: 
text: looking at the picture -- puts it back, then opens the
text: letter, straightens it.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Dearest Walt -- I have to confess
dialog: something. I know how you feel
dialog: about this, but I had to ask Bob
dialog: to find out what he could -- I
dialog: just couldn't stand it anymore,
dialog: not knowing where you are, whether
dialog: you're alive or dead. I'm sorry
dialog: Walt, I'm sorry I said that. Bob
dialog: didn't tell me anything -- he said
dialog: he couldn't -- I can't stand it
dialog: anymore, Walt -- I just can't
dialog: stand it.
text: Willard looks out at the jungle.
text: Deep imppenetrable jungle -- dark and primeval forests
text: pass by. The Rolling Stones CHANT on in the b.g.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I have to take the kids to school
dialog: every morning now -- carpools just
dialog: never work out.
text: Jeff came home with a black eye
dialog: on Tuesday but said he won anyway.
dialog: He wouldn't tell me what the fight
dialog: was about. Jeff keeps asking
dialog: where you are -- he has maps of
text: Viet Nam in his room now. He
dialog: misses you very much. I can't
dialog: take this much longer, Walt. I
dialog: love you and I just can't stand
dialog: it.
scene_heading: 117 CLOSE ON WILLARD
text: He folds the letter up, files through some others quickly
text: and gets to a peculiar envelope stamped Top Secret with
text: a stenciled date on it. It is also noted that this was
text: the last correspondence to leave Nu Mung Ba. It is
text: addressed to Kurtz' wife. He opens the letter -- it is
text: written in a scrawled savage hand to no one in partic-
dialog: ular. It reads:
dialog: Sell the house
dialog: Sell the car
dialog: Sell the kids
dialog: Find someone else
dialog: Forget it
dialog: I'm never coming back
dialog: Forget it --
text: He folds up the letter.
scene_heading: 118 CLOSE SHOT - WILLARD
text: He looks out at the ominous jungled mountains.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 119 FULL SHOT - P.B.R. - RIVER OUTPOST - RAIN
text: The P.B.R. pulls in towards an American outpost that is
text: being used as a forward medical evacuation center.
text: Various helicopters pads are SEEN, but only one heli-
text: copter -- the H-34 painted with Playboy rabbits that
text: brought the girls to Hau Fat. Several soldiers in rain-
text: coats come out the dock as the P.B.R. pulls up.
scene_heading: 120 MED. SHOT - WILLARD, SOLDIERS
text: Willard looks into some empty tents -- looks around the
text: dreary muddy camp. Two soldiers pass.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Soldier -- where's your C.O.?
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Stepped on a booby trap, sir --
dialog: got blown all to hell --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Well , who's in command here?
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: I don't know -- don't have any
dialog: idea -- I'm just the night man --
text: He turns and walks off babbling incoherently --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What about you, soldier?
text: The soldier he was talking to turns around smiling
text: idiotically and making animal noises. He stumbles off
dialog: after his friend.
scene_heading: 121 MED. SHOT - DIFFERENT ANGLE - WILLARD
text: He looks around disgustedly
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Captain --
text: Willard turns around looking for where the voice came
dialog: from.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Over here, Captain --
text: He turns to see the Hollywood Agent under the flap of a
text: large tent so that he won't get wet. He wears the same
text: clothes as before, but is much dirtier. He motions
text: Willard into the tent.
scene_heading: 122 INT. TENT - MED. SHOT - WILLARD, AGENT
text: They duck inside -- it is dark and damp.
text: On cots around astove sit the three playmates and the
text: pilot. The nearest one, CATHY, a blonde, picks leeches
text: out of her feet. The other two, TERRI and LYNDA, play
text: cards with the helicopter pilot. Willard looks over
dialog: the situation.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: You came in on that boat, didn't
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Where are you headed?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What's it matter? Get to the
dialog: point.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Look -- you know the girls --
dialog: Thta's Terri -- she was playmate
dialog: of --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah, I caught your show at Hau
dialog: Fat.
text: They all look over.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Oh -- I see -- Well, girls, this
dialog: is Captain -- eh --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Captain Willard -- go ahead.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Look -- we got in a little trouble
dialog: -- they rudely took our helicopter
dialog: for MedEvac work on this -- uh
dialog: Operation Brute Force -- They just
dialog: brought it back this morning.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Well I mean like they also took
dialog: our fuel -- We've been here two
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: Dreadful.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Look -- the girls could get
dialog: killed -- we're not supposed to
dialog: be this close combat, I mean
dialog: real combat.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Well --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: We could use some fuel -- just a
dialog: half drum -- just enough to get
dialog: us out a here.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We need all our fuel.
text: He turns and starts to leave.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: But, Captain, think what these
dialog: girls have done for the boys --
dialog: think of how they've risked --
text: Willard is almost out of the tent.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Captain --
text: He turns around.
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: It's really rough here -- Captain
dialog: -- we're just not built for it --
text: The Pilot laughs.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: That's rich --
speaker_heading: TERRI
dialog: Do us a favor -- I'd do one for
dialog: you -- if I could --
text: Willard just stares at her -- even though she's in jeans
dialog: and field jacket she is something to see -- The Agent
text: takes Willard aside -- Terri goes back to the others.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Look -- you know who that is,
dialog: Captain -- you know what she's
dialog: saying -- you'll never see stuff
dialog: that good outside of a magazine
dialog: for the rest of your life.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm not that fond of blondes --
dialog: maybe I like brunettes --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Take your pick -- they all like
dialog: you -- I can tell --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I like all of them --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Good -- like I said, take your
dialog: pick.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I said I like all of them.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Now just a second -- I'm doing
dialog: you a favor, buddy -- what're you
dialog: trying to pull?
text: Willard turns to leave again.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We need all our fuel anyway.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Wait -- wait -- don't get up tight
dialog: -- what I meant was we'd need a
dialog: whole drum for that --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Sit down -- we'll talk about it.
text: Willard sits down on a metal chair -- motions the Agent
dialog: to do likewise.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: What's there to talk about -- this
dialog: whole thing disgusts me.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: My men --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: What !
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: That's what there is to talk
dialog: about -- my man -- I take a good
dialog: care of my men --
text: The girls are trying to pretend they're not listening --
text: the helicopter Pilot is cackling to himself.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: You're out of your skull --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We have a lot of pride in our
dialog: unit --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: How far do you think you can
dialog: push -- what kind of people do
dialog: you think --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Esprit de corps --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: No -- absolutely not --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: One for all -- all for one --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: You can keep your fucking fuel --
text: Willard gets up.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You make some of your closest
dialog: friends in the army -- war has a
dialog: way of bringing men together.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Get out --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Men of all races -- nationalities --
text: He gets up and starts out.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: Two drums --
text: Willard turns around slowly.
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Two whole drums --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We can use some fifty caliber and
dialog: a 16 too --
speaker_heading: AGENT
dialog: I don't know what you're talking
dialog: about -- Get fucked --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I will -- I assure you that --
dialog: You got a fifty on that H-34 --
dialog: leave the ammo in boxes -- I'll
dialog: get my men to bring the first drum
dialog: with 'em --
text: He turns to go under the tent flap.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Have the girls freshen up a bit --
dialog: comb their hair -- put on
dialog: something -- you know what I mean --
text: He leaves.
scene_heading: 123 FULL SHOT - P.B.R. - CREW
text: They are all working on patching the boat and cleaning
text: it up in general. Mr. Clean sits in f.g., cleaning an M-16.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: You keep this thing in this
dialog: condition an' it's gonna jam,
dialog: Lance -- mark my words.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Why don't you go pet the water
dialog: buffaloes -- get off my back.
text: Behins them on the beach stand several water buffaloes
text: eating mud or whatever they do. They are painted jungle
text: brown and green camouflage with grey bottoms -- on their
text: sides the words have been stenciled in black:
dialog: 
dialog: 1 Each --
dialog: Buffalo, Water B-1A
speaker_heading: U.S. Army No. 15239
text: Willard walks through them down to the boat.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Careful, Captain, they've been
dialog: known to charge.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: All right I got a little surprise
dialog: for you --
text: They all look up.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I've arranged with those people
dialog: we saw at Hau Fat to give us some
dialog: 50 caliber in trade for a couple
dialog: a drums of fuel --
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: No shit.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Chef -- since you're such a fan
dialog: of Miss December's I think you
dialog: should be detailed with Lance and
dialog: Clean to take the first drum up
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: I don't believe you --
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: What're you trying to say, Captain --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You'll see soon enough -- get going,
dialog: sailor --
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: No shit -- hot damn --
scene_heading: 124 INT. TENT - MED. SHOT - LYNDA, CHEF
text: He has followed her into the tent awe-struck -- she
text: casuallu starts unbuttoning her fatigue jacket and taking
text: off her pants. he just stands there, his arms at his
dialog: sides.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: I've got every one of your
dialog: pictures -- I've got the
dialog: centerfold -- the Playmate's
dialog: review -- the Playmate of the
dialog: Year run-off -- everything, even
dialog: the calender --
speaker_heading: LYNDA
dialog: Well, get undressed and let's
dialog: get it over with --
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: I can't believe it -- I'd a
dialog: never even got to see you if it
dialog: wasn't for this war --
text: She lies down on the cot in only her panties.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You wouldn't mind -- uh kinda
dialog: draping that jacket over you
dialog: sort of the way you were in the
dialog: calender, would you?
speaker_heading: LYNDA
dialog: Come on -- cut this crap -- I
dialog: gotta get back to Saigon --
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Just let me look awhile -- I just
dialog: don't believe --
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 125 INT. TENT - CLOSE SHOT - LANCE, CATHY
text: They have just finished making love. cathy looks very
text: pleased. Lance finishes tying his boots -- she draws on
text: his back. He gets up -- starts to leave.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Well -- uh thanks -- see you around.
speaker_heading: CATHY
dialog: Yeah.
text: He leaves -- she pulls herself up and starts combing her
text: hair -- Mr. Clean walks in.
speaker_heading: CATHY
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: I'm next --
text: She shrugs.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 126 INT. TENT - MED. SHOT - WILLARD, TERRI
text: He finishes tying on his boots -- pulls on his jacket --
text: his gun belt and picks up his M-16. She looks up at him --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Ma'am -- I'd like to thank you for
dialog: what you an' all your friends have
dialog: done for us -- I want you to know
dialog: that me an' the men appreciate
dialog: you coming all this way -- riskin'
dialog: your lives -- living uncomfortably
dialog: an' doing all you can to entertain
dialog: us. I want you to know personally,
dialog: Miss, that for the past few minutes
dialog: you have made me feel at home.
text: She picks up a shoe to throw at him. he turns, exits f.g.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Just wanted to say that, ma'am.
text: The SHOE CLANGS off his helmet.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 127 EXT. THE P.B.R. APPROACHING DO LUNG BRIDGE - FULL SHOT -
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: The boat edges in toward the wrecked bridge in the
text: distance. Along the banks are sandbagged fortificvations
text: with U.S. soldiers in them. There is a bright fire
text: burning uncontrolled in the distance; the sparks and white
text: light from welding on the bridge momentarily lights up the
dialog: night.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Two days and nights later, we
text: approach the Do Lung Bridge.
text: 128 VIEW ON THE FACES OF THE P.B.R. CREW
text: watching. Everywhere are wrecked boats -- parts of trunks
text: sticking out of the water -- smashed helicopters on the
text: banks. The bridge is in a state of siege. Mortars and
text: rockets arc through the night indiscriminately and rip
text: through the nearby jungle. Soldiers are everywhere --
text: scurrying from trenches, carrying materials for the bridge
text: or tending to the wounded, the maimed and the dead. Light
text: automatic WEAPON FIRE is HEARD occasionally. The P.B.R.
text: edges in under the span of the old bridge. Soldiers run
text: up through the water. They are obscured in the darkness.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: I gotta get out a here -- Ill pay
dialog: -- I got money.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Get away from this boat.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who's your C.O., soldier?
text: The Soldier ducks back and runs away.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Fuck you, you'll get what's coming
dialog: to you.
text: Other men approach the boat. A young LIEUTENANT steps
dialog: forward.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: Captain Willard?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: That's me.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: Captain Willard -- we got these
dialog: from Nha Thrang two days ago --
dialog: they expected you here then --
text: He hands up a plastic bag, maximum security markings,
text: Willard takes it.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You don't know how happy that makes
dialog: me, sir.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: Now I can get out a here -- if
dialog: I can find a way out.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We'll be needing some supplies
dialog: and fuel -- do you know anybody
dialog: who can give me a hand?
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: I'd just clear out as soon as I
dialog: could if I were you, sir. They're
text: gonna start working on the bridge
text: with torches again. Charlie will
dialog: start throwing it in hard --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What is this bridge?
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: It's of strategic importance for
dialog: keeping the highway into Bat Shan
dialog: open -- the generals don't like to
text: admit that Bat Shan is surrounded.
text: He points to the men getting ready to work.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Every night we build it and by
dialog: 0800 they've blown it up -- it
dialog: and a lot of good men -- But the
dialog: generals like to say the road is
dialog: open -- ha ! Nobody uses that
dialog: road except Charlie.
text: He turns and splashes off into the darkness.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: This is the cesspool of hell.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER (O.S.)
dialog: Incoming.
text: SHELLS WHISTLE OVER and CRASH into the bridge -- MEN SCREAM
text: in the distance -- the EXPLOSIONS are thunderous.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: All right -- Lance, go with the
dialog: Captain an' see what you can
dialog: scrounge --
text: Willard climbs out with Lance.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (continuing; to Willard)
dialog: Better make it fast, sir -- we
dialog: don't really need much anyway.
text: Willard nods and they scurry off the bank under the
dialog: bridge.
scene_heading: 129 MED. SHOT - WILLARD, LANCE
text: They dash up the embankment and along the barbed wire
text: on the edge of the road. SHELLS SCREAM overhead, they
dialog: don't know where to run.
speaker_heading: VOICE
text: Straight ahead, son of a bitch.
text: They dive towards the voice.
scene_heading: 130 CLOSE SHOT - TRENCH
text: They dive in, a SOLDIER is crounched in f.g. holding his
text: buddy who is crying uncontrollably.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: You came right to it, son of
dialog: a bitch --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Son of a bitch, sir.
text: The Soldier doesn't respond.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Where's your chief supply officer?
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Beverly Hills --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
text: Straight up the road -- a concrete
dialog: bunker -- Beverly Hills -- where
dialog: else you think he'd be?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: C'mon --
text: There is an apparent lull and they dash out along the
text: road. Suddenly to their right an M-60 STARTS OPENING UP
text: from a sandbagged emplacement.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER (O.S.)
dialog: Get your asses down, buddy.
text: They drop and crawl to the slit trench and run up to the
text: emplacement. Several SOLDIERS man a M-60. One has a
text: sniper rifle -- another tries to spot for the Gunner.
text: Willard and Lance edge up along the trench. Willard
dialog: trips.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Watch your feet, asshole --
text: Willard looks down.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You stepped on my face.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: We thought you were dead.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: The whole world loves a smart ass.
text: They move ahead more carefully. The Gunner BLASTS away
text: into the night, there is a pile of brass cases about three
text: feet high next to him. Finally he stops swearing to
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What're you shooting at, soldier?
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: Gooks.
text: He turns and sees it's an officer.
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Im sorry, sir.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: It's all right, sergeant -- what's
dialog: out there?
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: They were tryin' to cut through
dialog: the wire -- I got 'em all I think.
speaker_heading: OTHER SOLDIER
dialog: Oh yeah -- listen.
text: There is a low moaning SCREAM from out in the wire -- it
text: stops for aminute then continues hideously.
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: He's trying to call his friends --
text: send up a flare.
text: The Spotter does, it arcs up, then bathes them in eerie
text: light. The Gunner FIRES a long BURST.
speaker_heading: SPOTTER
dialog: Those are all dead, stupid, he's
dialog: obviously underneath 'em --
text: They think about this as the flare goes out. The SCREAMING
text: gets more intense.
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: Wake up the Roach.
text: The Spotter moves down to where a tall lanky SOLDIER is
text: leaned up against the trench. He kicks him hard several
text: times. Roach wakes and just looks up. On his helmet are
text: the words: "GOD BLESS DOW."
speaker_heading: ROACH
dialog: Yeah, man.
speaker_heading: SPOTTER
text: Slope in the wire -- hear him.
text: He listens, he does, he nods.
speaker_heading: SPOTTER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Bust him.
text: Roach gets up somewhat annoyed but very cool. He saunters
text: up the machine gun dragging his M-79 which has paisley
text: designs all over it.
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: Hear him?
speaker_heading: ROACH
dialog: Sure , yeah.
speaker_heading: GUNNER
dialog: You need a flare --
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ROACH
dialog: No, its cool.
text: He opens the breech of his shotgun-like weapon and plunks
text: the big slug into it. He snaps it closed then rests it
text: across his forearm over the trench -- he listens to the
text: SCREAM, calculating.
speaker_heading: ROACH
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: He's close -- real close.
text: He adjusts his sights so that the gun is aimed high into
text: the air. He listens again then FIRES. The GRENADE
text: WHISTLES off into the night. There is a sharp EXPLOSION
text: that cuts off the scream. Then the THUD of bodies or
text: pieces of bodies coming down around them.
speaker_heading: ROACH
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Muhhh Fuhhh ...
dialog: 
text: He staggers back down the trench to go to sleep.
scene_heading: 131 FULL SHOT - P.B.R. - BRIDGE - CLEAN, CHEF
text: They stand in the shallows waiting for Willard and Lance.
text: Clean is nervous, he constantly checks his M-16. SHELLS
text: WHISTLE by and CRASH in the distance.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Geez, I wish they'd hurry.
text: A SOLDIER comes up on his way with some others to start
text: building the bridge.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Hey, buddy, that boat still runs,
dialog: eh?
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Yeah, it still runs.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Do me a favor buddy, please.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: What is it?
text: He takes out a handful of crumpled envelopes.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Send these out when you get back
dialog: to the world.
text: He puts them in Clean's hand.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: It's to everyone I really knew --
dialog: the first girl I screwed -- my
dialog: brother -- best friend -- I wanted
dialog: to tell 'em how much I enjoyed
dialog: knowing 'em -- it's been a great
dialog: twenty years. I gotta let 'em
dialog: know.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: What're you askin' me for -- put
dialog: 'em in the first helicopter comes
dialog: in tomorrow.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Nobody comes in here.
text: He points up at the mountain ridges.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: The N.V.A. 312th -- over there
dialog: the 307th -- on that hill we
dialog: counted fourteen different guns
dialog: in one minute -- they got rockets
text: mortars, snipers in those trees,
dialog: there's a million of those shitty
dialog: little bastards out there -- we're
dialog: all gonna die.
text: He grabs Clean and looks at him with a maniacal urgency.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I'm gonna be dead.
text: Clean takes the letters.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You got a chance in that boat --
dialog: by morning you could be five miles
text: down the river.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: We ain't goin' down the river.
text: The Soldier looks at him as if he is joking.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: What's up river from here anyhow --
text: The Soldier doesn't answer, just stares dumbfounded.
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Spooky.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: Charlie?
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: No, it'd be spooky without the war
dialog: -- give 'em back.
text: He takes the letters and leaves, somewhat disappointed and
text: disgusted. Willard and Lance come back down the beach
text: carrying some belts of ammunition and a couple of extra
dialog: M-16's.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We found some bodies -- let's get
dialog: out a here.
scene_heading: 132 FULL SHOT - DIFFERENT ANGLE - P.B.R.
text: They edge through the shallows as the men light up their
text: welding torches to start work on the pontoon bridge --
text: then pull away and accelerate fast.
scene_heading: 133 MED. SHOT - THE P.B.R. CREW
text: The Chief is at the helm -- they all look back in the
text: distance where the bridge was -- the hills flash with
text: artillery discharges -- there is a fiery glow from the
text: bridge area and the CONCUSSION of heavy EXPLOSIONS.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 134 EXT. FULL SHOT - P.B.R. - CREW - RAIN
text: The boat moves uneasily upriver, through this tropical
text: downpour. Mr. Clean is in thef.g., oiling and cleaning
text: his 50-cal, his M-11 and M-79 -- the rest of the crew are
text: forward, taking shelter from the rain under the canvas
text: canopy. Clean works methodically under an umbrella he was
text: set up by leaning the surfboard against gun mount.
scene_heading: 135 EXT. THE RUSHING RIVER - NEW VIEW - RAIN
text: The river is moving fast against them. all manner of de-
text: bris; tree trunks, sweeping by the P.B.R.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (to Willard)
dialog: I can't see a fucking thing.
text: There is a loud CRACKING SOUND, as one of the pieces of
text: tree- trunk whacks the hull, and bounces off. Willard
text: climbs forward, and looks down.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: We hit a big enough one this
text: hull will shatter like a Corvette.
text: Fucking plastic boat.
text: Willard practically hangs off forward with a long pole,
text: warding off the big debris moving toward the P.B.R. Clean
text: joins him, helping.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (shouting to Chief)
dialog: What about ducking into one of
dialog: those tributaries till this river
dialog: slows down?
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Who knows what's up there?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Can't be any worse than this.
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: I think this river wants to take
dialog: us home fast. I'm practically
dialog: goin' in reverse.
text: Willard points his pole in the direction of the mouth
text: of a tributary.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Well, get in there.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: This whole area is lousy with
dialog: V.C. -- We don't stand a chance.
dialog: Lemme turn around and we'll be
dialog: in Hau Fat in six minutes.
text: There is a really loud WHACK against the hull. willard
text: really mad, throws the pole at the Chief, who ducks.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Get in there !
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: This is my crew and my fucking
dialog: boat, and I'm the responsible
dialog: party.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Get in there now or I'll bury
dialog: you in this river.
text: It's clear that Willard will kill the Chief if he doesn't
dialog: do as he says.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
text: (finally relents,
dialog: turns the helm)
dialog: You're fucking crazy. You're
dialog: going to get us all killed.
text: The P.B.R. navigates through the rush and into the mouth
dialog: of the tributary.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 136 EXT. THE TRIBUTARY - P.B.R. - RAIN
text: Rain is pouring down, but the P.B.R. is slowed down to a
text: snail's pace by Hyacinths, literally across the
dialog: waterway.
text: Willard, Chef and Clean in the water, cutting through
text: them with machetes.
scene_heading: 137 VIEW ON LANCE
text: having climbed to the highest point of the cockpit.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: It breaks through in about
text: twenty feet.
scene_heading: 138 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: cutting through. he looks to Chef, who has stopped cut-
text: ting, and is staring into the jungle.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What do you see?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: I don't know.
text: He looks out -- the jungle at this point is very dark
text: and high -- totally impenetrable.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Keep cutting.
text: They work feverishly, knowing something is wrong.
speaker_heading: 139 VIEW ON CHEF
dialog: cutting with all he's got.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: I know it sounds stupid, but I
dialog: feel like the goddamn jungle's
dialog: watching us.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Probably is.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Whatdoya think it thinks.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: That we're dumber than we look.
text: Chef stops again, looks hard, trying to penetrate the
dialog: darkness and from the very depth of it -- the darkness of
text: it, comes a stream of tracers, lazily arching out at them.
text: It whips between them -- the SOUND FOLLOWING much later.
text: Other BULLETS SMASH through and ricochet off the deck
text: fittings. GLASS SHATTERS, and a huge hunk of paint is
text: removed from the armor shield by a 20 mm cannon.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Lance -- 'bout twenty meters
text: starboard.
text: Lance leaps down to his position. Willard, Clean and Chef
text: cut feverishly, as the trapped boat struggles to get free.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: There in the trees !
text: Everything is confusion -- yelling -- GUNFIRE -- the THUD
text: of heavy BULLETS ripping inti the P.B.R.'s fibreglass hull.
scene_heading: 140 VIEW ON LANCE
text: Lance's twin guns return the FIRE. The Chief moves to one
text: of the heavy guns and joins Lance in returning the FIRE.
text: 141 VIEW ON THE MEN IN THE WATER
text: pushing, cutting. Bullets SMASH and EXPLODE around.
text: Clean climbs onto the boat, and leaps onto a gun emplace-
dialog: ment.
scene_heading: 142 MED. VIEW
text: Nobody really knows where the erratic fire is coming from.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (back at the helm)
dialog: Elevate Lance, in the tree. No,
dialog: I saw another.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Thirty meters up, Lance; I saw
dialog: the fucking flash.
text: Lance grits his teeth, FIRING --
scene_heading: 143 CLOSE SHOT ON CLEAN
scene_heading: 144 POV BEHIND CLEAN
text: He BLASTS short bursts of tracers into the jungle, cutting
text: it to salad. Suddenly more tracers from another direction
text: -- Clean swings around -- BULLETS smash against his shield
text: and rip chunks from the surfboard. He BLASTS a long heavy
text: burst at the jungle -- trees crumble.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: I'm ripping 'em, man, son-of-a-
dialog: bitch, it's jammed, oh God,
dialog: it's jammed.
text: Clean is riddled by MACHINE GUN FIRE.
text: Chief runs to Mr. Clean -- it is obvious that he is dead.
text: He looks angrily to Willard.
text: Willard and Chef are practically through. Willard leaps
text: up, as Chef finishes the last strokes. He moves toward
text: the cockpit.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Throw me that ordnance.
text: Chef throws him an M-79 and several shells -- Willard
text: opens it, jams a huge projectile and pulls himself over
text: the edge of the cockpit.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Give me some kind a field a fire --
text: BULLETS rip by.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (exhausted)
dialog: We're through.
text: He climbs aboard and collapses.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Oh, God --
speaker_heading: LANCE
speaker_heading: (FIRING)
dialog: I ain't finished ! I ain't finished !
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Bring that bow ordnance into
dialog: those trees.
text: He jams his gun up as he sees a flash and FIRES -- there
text: is a low POP and a WHISTLE as the GRENADE arches into the
dialog: jungle.
scene_heading: 145 POV. - BEHIND THEM
text: He FIRES another burst as the GRENADE EXPLODES brightly.
text: There is another POP and WHISTLE , another BLAST. A large
text: tree falls, just as the craft speeds up through the thin-
text: ning growth. We HEAR strange SCREAMING from the trees and
text: jungle, hideous MOANS and terror-filled CRIES.
text: 146 CLOSE SHOT ON THE CHIEF
text: He jams the throttle forward -- the boat surges ahead.
text: Willard FIRES another GRENADE from his M-79.
text: 147 FULL SHOT ON THE P.B.R.
text: The boat slams through the hyacinth growth, moving through
text: the river, FIRING BACK at unseen enemy in the jungle.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 148 FULL VIEW ON THE P.B.R. - TWILIGHT
text: The boat moves ahead at half speed through a wide, flat
text: area in the river.
speaker_heading: 149 MED. VIEW
text: The men sit around, exhausted, brutalized, wounded.
text: They look like animals, but they are relaxed, be-
dialog: cause they know they're too far from the banks to
dialog: be shot at.
text: They smoke pot and eat silently. Lance smokes a
text: joint and looks at his gun. Splotches of paint
text: have been blown away from the armor shield -- pieces
text: of deck are ripped and ragged around the mount.
text: The boat is a floating wreck.
text: Clean's body is being prepared in a plastic sack
text: by Chief. All of the men are silent.
text: Chef comes up from below; he has been wounded in the
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: There's some bad holes, man,
dialog: and the cracks -- water's coming
text: through the cracks. Food's shot
dialog: to hell.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: How much is left?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Less than half -- sure is a
dialog: mess down there.
text: Chief has been silent by the body of Clean in a plastic
dialog: sack.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: And the grass?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Still got a lot of that stuff
dialog: from Nha Trang. But we're
text: running low on the other.
text: Chief pushes Clean's body into the river.
scene_heading: 150 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: He notices something in the distance.
speaker_heading: 151 WILLARD'S POV
text: A light.
speaker_heading: 152 MED. VIEW
text: Willard stands up, pointing up the river.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Hey.
text: They all look over.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: That's a light down there --
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Yeah, it is.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: What the hell is it?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: In the middle of the jungle --
dialog: a goddamn light.
scene_heading: 153 FULL SHOT - THE P.B.R. - THE TWILIGHT
text: The P.B.R. approaches the distant light -- which seems
text: to be on the dock of an overgrown plantation building.
scene_heading: 154 VIEW ON WILLARD, CHIEF
text: straining to see; he uses field glasses.
scene_heading: 155 POV - THROUGH THE GLASSES
text: Seems to be some figures standing on the dock. The
text: figures pull back behind some drums.
text: 156 BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Watch it !
text: They duck as SHOTS RING OUT from the dock, stitching the
text: water across the P.B.R.'s bow. The crew crouches, guns
text: trained on the dock as the boat still approaches.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: They're not Cong.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: (over the loud-hailer)
dialog: We're Americans.
text: Another BURST, closer.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Maybe you shouldn't say we're
dialog: Americans?
text: Willard stares at the dock and building, trying to figure
dialog: it out.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Chef, try your French.
text: Chief hands the loud-hailer to Chef, who shrugs and shouts:
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Nous sommes Americains --
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Nous ne voulon pas vous agresser.
scene_heading: 157 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: He looks through the glasses.
scene_heading: 158 POV THROUGH THE GLASSES
text: Gradually, a small group appears from behind the drums
text: on the dock.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (O.S.)
dialog: French Nationals -- they may not
dialog: be too friendly, though.
text: 159 BACK TO SCENE
text: We drift closer to the dock. The Chef starts enjoying
dialog: speaking French.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Nous sommes Americains -- nous
dialog: sommes des amis --
text: There is silence as the boat drifts closer. Then:
speaker_heading: FRENCHMAN
dialog: (shouting out)
dialog: Vous parlez Francais comme une vache
dialog: espanole.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: I thought it was pretty good,
dialog: myself.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: What'd he say?
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Said I speak French like a
dialog: Spanish cow.
speaker_heading: FRENCHMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Laisser tomber vos armes --
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Put the guns straight up -- stand
text: away from the mounts.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Do it.
dialog: They do.
speaker_heading: FRENCHMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Vous pouvez approcher mais
dialog: doucement --
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Take her in slow.
scene_heading: 160 FULL SHOT - DIFFERENT ANGLE - DOCK
text: The men on the dock move forward, cautiously. They are
text: a young man, PHILIPPE, about 25, strong and handsome, save
text: for a scar down on the side of his face and through his left
text: eye, which is covered by a patch. He is dressed in a
text: tiger suit and the red beret of the French colonial para-
text: troops. Also of the red beret are HENRY LeFEVRE, a bear-
text: ded, dark-looking man of 35, and TRAN VAN KAC, a middle-
text: aged half-breed slave. They all bear automatic weapons
text: and suspicious in their eyes. As the boat pulls up to the
text: dock, another Frenchman joins the group, obviously the
text: head man, GASTON De MARAIS, about fifty, small and deli-
text: cate, with a strength about him.
speaker_heading: PHILIPPE
text: Hands on the heads.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: I can't steer with my goddamn
dialog: feet.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Hey, they speak American.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Who is the commanding officer?
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: I --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I am -- I'm Captain B.L. Willard.
dialog: This is Chief Warrant Officer
dialog: Phillips -- it's his boat. We
text: were shot up bad downriver and
dialog: need repairs and food -- we can
dialog: pay you in gold.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Philippe --
text: Philippe moves to another position -- Kac grabs the rope
text: from the deck and ties it to the dock.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: I'll help you with --
speaker_heading: PHILIPPE
dialog: Do not move --
text: Gaston looks at the skyward pointed twin fifties admiringly.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Fifty calibers, eh, Captain --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: As I said, we can pay you in
dialog: gold.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Entirely unnecessary, Captain.
text: He puts down his gun -- the others do likewise --
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: We share a common enemy -- you
dialog: are our guests.
dialog: (he steps back)
dialog: I am Gaston de marais -- this is
dialog: my family's plantation. It has
dialog: been such for 121 years. It will
dialog: be such after I die.
dialog: This is my son, Philippe -- he
dialog: has fought in Algeria and held
dialog: the rank of Captain. And Henry
dialog: LeFevre -- a sergeant; he was
dialog: at Dien Bien Phu. My personal
dialog: servant, Tran Van Kac ---
text: Then he motions to the trees. A young man in a tiger suit
text: and three women come forward from different positions --
text: all wear bush clothing and bear weapons.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: My youngest son -- Christian --
scene_heading: 161 CLOSE SHOT - CHRISTIAN
text: He carries an M-60 machine gun in his hand -- a belt of
text: ammunition trailing off behind him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Christian's wife -- Ann-Marie --
text: A tall girl, goodlooking, but severe -- she carries an
dialog: M-16.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: And my youngest daughter --
dialog: Claudine.
scene_heading: 162 CLOSE ON CLAUDINE
text: an attractive girl about eighteen. She wears a red
text: paratrooper beret and a well-fitted bush suit. She carries
text: an M-79 grenade launcher and plenty of ammunition.
scene_heading: 163 FULL VIEW - P.B.R. - CREW, GASTON, OTHERS
text: They stand there, exhausted and amazed. Philippe yells
text: in Vietnamese -- about a dozen native men in tiger suits,
text: heavily armed, walk out of the trees from all around them.
text: They look the Americans over warily and assemble at
dialog: Philippe's command.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: American weapons?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: We took them from the dead.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Now -- I assume you want to rest,
dialog: to shower. We'll attend to your
text: repairs after dinner.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Shower.
text: Willard's men look at one another, dazed.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We don't want to bother you any,
dialog: we --
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: A man of war is never bothered to
dialog: aid an ally -- you will follow me,
dialog: Captain.
text: Willard steps off -- then stops, reaches back and picks
text: up his M-16 by the stock.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: A habit of men of war, sir --
dialog: you understand.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Of course, Captain -- an
dialog: unfortunate necessity.
text: The men are relieved. They pick up their weapons and
dialog: follow.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: What about the boat?
speaker_heading: PHILIPPE
dialog: My men will keep it for you --
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Yeah -- well, I'll stay with the
dialog: boat.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Chief.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Come with us.
text: They look at each other a moment. The Chief shrugs
text: and follows.
scene_heading: 164 FULL SHOT - PLANTATION - WILLARD, GASTON, OTHERS
text: Gaston stops, points to a guest house off the main struc-
text: ture which is a typical jungle plantation house, save the
text: many sandbagged gun emplacements and barbed wire.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: A suitable accomodation for
dialog: your men, captain -- you will,
dialog: of course, be quartered with us --
text: He indicates that the men should follow Philippe. The
text: Chief is hesitant.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Go ahead --
text: Philippe leads them on, muttering.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Captain, this way.
text: Willard follows -- they walk over past the house and toward
text: the jungle, approaching a huge crater, 100 feet across and
text: about thirty feet deep. The bottom is filled with water and
text: young French and Vietnamese children swim in it. On the
text: opposite rim, sit two men and a woman with machine guns.
text: Gaston strides up and looks down at the crater with pride.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Magnificent, eh, Captain?
text: Willard looks.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: It is very good -- there is no
dialog: current -- It is very good. I
dialog: have never seen one like it in
dialog: all Indochina. I was in Paris
dialog: when it arrived -- do you know
dialog: what might have caused --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Looks like a two thousand pound
dialog: to me. Yeah, a two thousand
dialog: pound bomb.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: No, I've seen those in Normandy.
dialog: This is much better.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: My country -- my country could
dialog: never originate this. Magnificent.
text: Gaston stands in serious admiration for this feat; Willard
text: looks between him and this big hole in the ground in
dialog: amezement.
scene_heading: 165 INT. WORKMEN'S SHOWER - EVENING
text: A foreman's shower from the old plantation days. The
text: Chief steps out of it, refreshed, though still exhausted.
text: Lance stands there, about to step in, absolutely filthy,
text: caked with blood. His reaction is odd; rather than just
text: stepping into the shower, he seems almost frightened,
text: reluctant to step in. Chef is waiting behind him.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: A hot shower, hot damn.
text: He pushes him forward into the water. The dirt and
text: caked mud go swirling off his face and shoulders, and
text: he relaxes as though he suddenly remenbers what a
dialog: shower is.
scene_heading: 166 EXT. THE DOCK - P.B.R. - EVENING
text: battered and torn -- a few of Philippe's Vietnamese
text: guard at the boat.
scene_heading: 167 INT. WILLARD'S QUARTERS - EVENING
text: A beautiful European room with tall ceilings. Still
text: elegantly furnished, although old and decaying.
text: Willard sits in a comfortable chair in the corner of
text: the room, looking out over the carpet, the bed with
text: its elegant spread; the wash basin; the bidet. His
text: battle dress is black with muck, with bloodstaines and
dialog: burns.
text: He rises from the chair and steps to a dresser above
text: which is a large mirror. There is an album on the
text: marble top of the dresser. He turns to a page at random.
scene_heading: 168 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: haggard, looking down at the album.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: I wondered -- how long has this room
dialog: been like this; how long has the
dialog: furniture been standing in these
dialog: places?
text: 169 VIEW ON THE ALBUM
text: Some old photographs of people standing around a car
text: in the 20's in front of the plantation. Another picture
text: shows a child playing by the rubber trees near the
dialog: plantation.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Was it like this sixty years ago?
dialog: Eighty years? But here, even
dialog: eighty years is nothing.
text: He turns the page,
text: The plantation being built. Pictures of the framing,
text: skeletal against the sky and jungle.
scene_heading: 170 VIEW ON WILLARD
dialog: fascinated
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: It was jungle, once; and it will
dialog: be jungle, again...
text: 171 VIEW ON THE ALBUM
dialog: Onlu the very beginnings of the house; the first struc-
text: tures. Then another picture of the jungle site where
dialog: it was to be built.
scene_heading: 172 CLOSE VIEW ON WILLARD
text: He looks up and sees his own face, reflected in the garish
text: mirror. He barely recognizes himself.
speaker_heading: 173 MED. VIEW
text: Willard looks at himself in the mirror, in this odd, out-
dialog: of-time room.
scene_heading: 174 INT. DINING ROOM GROUP - TRACKING SHOT
text: TRACK DOWN the long table, covered with delicious food.
text: The P.B.R. crew sits with others of the De Marais group.
text: The table is headed by St. LeFevre. Chef's face lights
text: up as he regards the wonderful European-style food.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: This food is wonderful ! I can't
dialog: believe the chef is a slope.
dialog: (turning to Clean)
dialog: Some more?
text: Opposite the table, sitting next to the Chief, Lance
text: reaches hungrily for bread and other food with his hands.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Hey -- Lance.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Huh? Oh. Um, wouldya ..
dialog: wouldya pass me the Rice-a-roni,
dialog: please.
text: And then he looks to his friends for approval.
text: Our VIEW REVEALS that behind a transparent silk curtain
text: there is another, more elaborate table, where the
text: De Marais family is dining with Willard. Our VIEW MOVES
text: through the curtain and settles in a MEDIUM VIEW of the
dialog: group.
text: The men rise as a very attractive woman enters the room.
text: Willard finally does as well, and she moves to the chair
text: next to him.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Roxanne, I hope you are feeling
dialog: better.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Je vais bien maintenant.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: May I present Captain Willard?
text: He is of a paratroop regiment.
dialog: You know the difference between a
text: paratrooper and a regular soldier,
dialog: don't you , my dear?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (smiling and taking
dialog: Willard's hand)
dialog: Yes, they come from the sky.
text: She sits -- there's an uneasy silence.
text: Willard is caught with this exotic woman on one side of
text: him, and the ongoing conversation on the other. He is
text: forced to face toward Gaston, and drawn to look at Roxanne.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I would like to know more about
dialog: the .. uh, plaque...
text: Philippe turns around, points to an elaborately scripted
text: wooden plaque with various tallies on it.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Attacks repulsed, as I was saying.
dialog: (hard)
dialog: This is only for this war, Captain.
dialog: Viet Cong -- 54; North Vietnamese
dialog: regular forces -- 15; South
dialog: Vietnamese -- 28 -- regular
dialog: forces and otherwise.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Americain -- 6. Of course, they
dialog: were, perhaps, mistakes, Captain.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Of course. I -- Once we make
dialog: our repairs, we could send word,
dialog: we could have you evacuated
dialog: from here.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Captain?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You'll get blown outta here some
dialog: day.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: We will never 'evacuate', Captain
dialog: -- this is our home. Indochina is
dialog: ours; it has been so for a hundred
dialog: and twenty-one years, there is
dialog: something to say for that.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: The Vietnamese think it's theirs
dialog: -- I guess the Americans do,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: But we civilized it. A place
dialog: belongs to those who bring light
dialog: to it, don't you agree.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I always thought the French came
dialog: here to get the rubber.
speaker_heading: PHILIPPE
dialog: Excuse me, I must attend to my
dialog: men.
text: He gets up, and leaves abruptely -- followed by his wife.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: May I ask where the Captain is
dialog: going in his little boat?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We were going upriver when we
dialog: got caught in a storm, ma'am.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Upriver? Why upriver? There is
text: nothing there, only jungle.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Do you know that jungle?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: When I was a boy, my father would
dialog: take me there, to hunt. There
dialog: are a few savages, but no man
dialog: can live there, no white man.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What about an American named
dialog: Kurtz?
text: There is a pause.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: We have never heard of him.
text: Gaston rises, and takes Roxanne's hand.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Bon nuit, Roxanne -- bon nuit,
dialog: Captain.
text: Willard turns.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Good night.
text: Gaston leaves. Willard and Roxanne are left alone. The
text: servants clear the table.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: You must realize, Captain -- we
dialog: have lost much here -- I, my
dialog: husband. Gaston -- his wife and
dialog: son.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm sorry to hear that.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (rising)
dialog: Cognac?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I should be checking on the
dialog: boat.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: The war will still be here
dialog: tomorrow.
text: She walks out of the room.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: I guess so.
text: He follows.
scene_heading: 175 INT. SITTING ROOM - FULL SHOT - WILLARD AND ROXANNE
text: Roxanne sits, pouring a brandy, while Willard stands.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Do you miss your home, Captain?
dialog: Have you someone there?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No. Not really.
dialog: 
dialog: I was discharged from the army
dialog: four years ago. I went home,
dialog: wasted some time, bought a Mustang
dialog: Mach 1, drove it a week. Then
dialog: I re-upped for another tour. No,
dialog: everything I love is here.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Then you are like us.
text: She reaches out to him; indicating that he sit.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: What will you do after the war?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I just follow my footsteps, one
text: at a time, trying to answer the
dialog: little questions and staying away
dialog: from the big ones.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: What's a big question?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Kurtz.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I know you've heard of him.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What did you hear?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: That strange things.. terrible
dialog: things have occured around this
dialog: American, Kurtz.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What things?
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Gaston would never tell me. It
dialog: was asubject not to be spoken of,
dialog: Captain.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Did you know -- deeper in the
dialog: jungle, upriver -- there are
dialog: savages?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: But Captain, I mean -- cannibals.
text: A long pause. Then she looks at the cognac she poured for
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: What a pity, you don't drink.
dialog: Since my husband died, there
dialog: are so many things I must do
dialog: alone.
text: She takes a sip.
text: Willard moves to the French doors, which have been left
text: partly open to let a breeze in. He steps onto a terrace
text: overlooking the river.
scene_heading: 176 EXT. THE TERRACE - MED. VIEW - WILLARD - NIGHT
text: A machine gun emplacement is situated on the terrace cover-
text: ing the front of house, from the river.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: (from the sitting room)
dialog: Are you warm, Captain?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: The river is beautiful.
text: In fact, we REALIZE that he is checking the boat.
scene_heading: 177 WILLARD'S POV.
text: The P.B.R. is under guard by a couple of Gaston's
dialog: Vietnamese.
scene_heading: 176 MED. VIEW ON WILLARD, ROXANNE
text: She, thinking it romantic to talk about the river, comes
text: up behind him.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: I spend hours watching that
dialog: river from my bedroom window.
dialog: It fascinates me.
text: She moves her body close to his; and, in a moment, he is
text: kissing her.
scene_heading: 179 CLOSE ON WILLARD, ROXANNE
text: One eye steals another look at the P.B.R.
text: 180 VIEW ON THE P.B.R.
text: Two of the guards leave -- two remain, getting ready
dialog: for the long night.
scene_heading: 181 VIEW ON WILLARD, ROXANNE - ON THE TERRACE
text: His hands wander over her body as she clings to him. Then
text: she takes his hand, and leads him back into the sitting
text: room, and up the stairs.
scene_heading: 182 INT. ROXANNE'S ROOM - FULL VIEW
text: It is dark. She leads him into her room and closes the
text: door. He stands there. In the center of the room is a
text: large canopied bed with mosquito netting hanging down over
text: it. The windows also have netting and barbed wire --
text: there is a .30 calibre machine gun mount in the far one.
text: He look around. she goes over to the bed, and turns
text: down the sheets. Then she slips out of her dress and
text: stands there facing him.
text: He puts down his gun and strips off his shirt. She lays
text: down on the bed and watches him.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: I have been lonely here, Captain.
text: He moves to her, slipping into the bed. M-16 is
text: leaning against the wall in his reach.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
scene_heading: 183 EXT. ROXANNE'S TERRACE - NIGHT
text: We can VIEW into the room, as Willard has silently
text: slipped out of her bed, and is a dark sinister figure
text: kneeling in final preparations for going out in the
dialog: night.
text: Without a sound, he comes out to the terrace, and
text: scales down the wall of the old building, disappearing
text: into the darkness.
scene_heading: 184 EXT. THE DOCK - P.B.R. - NIGHT
text: Two Vietnamese guard the P.B.R. -- suddenly, feet first,
text: the first disappears into the thicket.
scene_heading: 185 CLOSE VIEW ON WILLARD
text: in the thicket; we realize he has just killed the man with
text: a knife. Willard stalks the second guard and makes quick
text: work of him with his knife. He even enjoys it. Silently,
text: he drags the body out of sight.
scene_heading: 186 MED. VIEW ON THE P.B.R.
text: The dark figure boards the boat silently. He disappears
text: into the hold.
speaker_heading: 187 NEW VIEW
text: He lifts out several cases of supplies, working quickly,
text: with a grace that indicates he is a man who has done his
dialog: best work alone, and at night.
text: CUT TO.
scene_heading: 188 INT. ROXANNE'S ROOM - CLOSE SHOT - WILLARD - MORNING
text: He sleeps soundly alone in the bed - we HEAR SOMEONE
text: moving around in the room. He wakes suddenly -- PULL
text: BACK TO REVEAL Roxanne combing her hair and buttoning up
text: her blouse. She notices he is awake and smiles.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: I will fix you breakfast.
text: He starts to get up.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm afraid I won't have time --
dialog: I gotta --
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Whe you reach the boat you will
dialog: find that half your fifty calibre
text: stores -- a case of grenades, a
text: mortar and two M-16's and a
dialog: case of clips are being
dialog: transfered to us by your order.
text: He stops -- seemingly stunned.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: So that's it.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: You may think what you wish,
dialog: Captain, but I like you very
dialog: much.
text: She turns to go.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What if I say no.
speaker_heading: ROXANNE
dialog: Then Philippe will have to kill
dialog: all of you.
text: She leaves.
scene_heading: 189 EXT. DOCK - FULL SHOT - WILLARD, OTHERS
text: He walks down onto the dock. Gaston's men are transferring
dialog: ammunition boxes.
text: Gaston is standing with Philippe, who are covering the
text: Chief and crew with M-16's.
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: Two of my men deserted last
dialog: night. It happens from time
dialog: to time. I assume my daughter
dialog: told you of our conditions.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Your daughter.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: They taking half our ammo,
dialog: Captain -- said it was your orders.
text: He pauses for a second.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: That's right -- I did.
text: The Chief spits in the water disgustedly and starts the
text: engines. Willard looks hard at Gaston.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I guess this is whAt men of war
dialog: do -- eh?
speaker_heading: GASTON
dialog: We endure, captain -- you can
dialog: blow up the house and we will
dialog: live in the cellar -- destroy
dialog: that and we'll dig a hole in the
dialog: jungle and sleep on it. Burn
dialog: the forest and we'll hide in
dialog: the swamp. all the while, we
dialog: do but one thing -- clean the
text: blood off our bayonets.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Au revoir, Captain.
scene_heading: 190 LONG SHOT - DOCK - P.B.R.
text: Willard climbs on board and it pulls away.
scene_heading: 191 EXT. P.B.R. - MED. SHOT - WILLARD, CHIEF
text: The BOAT ROARS out across the river. The Chief looks over
text: at Willard. They stare at each other for a moment.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Next time we get in a good fire
dialog: fight -- I'd like to know how
dialog: she was, Captain.
text: Willard just smiles at the Chief. he leans over and pulls
text: up a floorboard -- the men stare in amezement; it contains
dialog: the contents of all those ammo boxes. .50 calibre; clips;
dialog: grenades.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Holy shit.
speaker_heading: CLEAN
dialog: What did you put in all those
dialog: ammo boxes?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Rocks, sand -- those two men
dialog: who deserted.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: When'd you do it?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: While you were sleeping.
text: He lets the board drop.
text: Willard moves to the back of the boat.
scene_heading: 192 FULL SHOT - P.B.R. - RIVER , CREW
text: The river has narrowed and runs swifter -- the water dark
text: and deep. The trees are higher in this area and much of
text: the river is shaded on one side. There is no undergrowth,
text: just the tall trees and ferms. They move ahead at half
text: speed, alert, ready for anything.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: We moved deeper and deeper into
dialog: the jungle. It was very quiet
dialog: there. It was like wandering on
text: a prehistoric planet, an unknown
dialog: world ... where the men thought
dialog: they crawled to, I don't know.
dialog: For me, we crawled toward Kurtz --
dialog: exclusively.
text: Willard looks out ahead and points.
text: They all turn their guns in that direction. We PAN TO
text: REVEAL a small village of huts along the bank.
scene_heading: 193 FULL SHOT - DIFFERENT ANGLE - VILLAGE
scene_heading: 194 POV. OF THE P.B.R.
text: They pass in front of the village which is rundown and
text: completely deserted. The huts are on stilts to avoid the
text: flooding of the river -- they are just skeletons of what
dialog: they once were.
speaker_heading: CHEF (O.S.)
dialog: Flood.
speaker_heading: CHIEF (O.S.)
dialog: No -- most of 'em are still
dialog: standing -- might've been
dialog: disease.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (O.S.)
dialog: I don't know -- there'd still
dialog: be some sign -- it's just like
dialog: the one this morning.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 195 POV BOAT - FULL SHOT - JUNGLE
text: The canopy of trees grows taller and stretches out across
text: the river filtering the sun. The forest itself has grown
text: darker and more twisted with ferns and creepers. Strange
text: birds fly out of the trees as the boat passes -- a huge
text: snake slips along an overheading limb. The depth of the
text: jungle is dark, ominous -- yet cool and strangely inviting.
scene_heading: 196 FULL SHOT - BOAT - JUNGLE
text: Suddenly the river widens, the trees give way to marsh
text: and as they emerge into the light a strange shadow falls
text: upon the boat. It is the shadow cast by an enormous
text: vertical tail section of a B-52 bomber thrusting out from
text: the mud. Pieces of aluminum hang loosely from it, oxi-
text: dizing in the sun. Creepers have already started to grow
text: up around its heights -- the jungle is claiming it. But
text: once under its shadow, they have passed a gateway. A
dialog: gateway to paradise.
text: The river widens and the trees at its edge are soft and
text: seductive. The hills beyond are purple and lush. Strange
text: orange colored water-fowl swim lazily out of their way.
text: The water itself is glass smooth and black as if there
text: were no bottom. The sun is warm and the breeze gentle
text: and laced with wild gardenians. It is indeed the most
text: peaceful valley in all the world and each man looks upon
dialog: it and has never known such a sense of peace and well-
dialog: being.
dialog: Each man in his heart feels a need to stay -- his soul
dialog: cries to stop -- stop their madness -- this spiral into
dialog: hell.
dialog: Here is all that can be had of earth. But no hand moves.
text: The boat drifts on its own toward a hole at the end of
text: the clearing. A hole into the jungle from which a
text: darkness permeats. The boat follows the river into this
dialog: hole.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 197 FULL SHOT - P.B.R. - RIVER - DAWN
text: The skull looms in the f.g. -- the P.B.R. is pulled back
text: about seventy yards -- Early morning mist still hangs on
text: the water -- as it clears, we SEE another post and skulls
text: on the opposite bank, It is strangely quiet.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: -- All right, Lance --
text: Lance's TWIN FIFTIES split the silence as they POUR into
text: the skulls on the opposite bank -- Suddenly there is a
text: tremendous EXPLOSION and SECONDARY ONES from the jungle
text: as shrapnel rips into the jungle and water from CLAYMORE
text: MINES obviously set to cover the mound of skulls. The
text: smoke clears.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: The other one --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No -- leave it --
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Why -- Charlie put it there to kill --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Thta's not Charlie's work --
text: There is silence.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Whoever put'em there didn't do it
dialog: to kill people -- They put 'em up
dialog: as signs --
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Signs?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah -- like keep out --
text: Willard motions -- the Chief accelerates -- they move ahead
text: past the smoking mound.
scene_heading: 198 EXT. THE RIVER - FOG - DAY
text: The P.B.R. pushed deeper into this mysterious area. Mist
text: swells in and around the river, as the boat moves into
text: an obscure fog. The Chief cuts the engine, and they coast.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Toward the night of the fifth
dialog: day out of Do Lung Bridge, we
dialog: judged ourselves about eight
text: miles from Kurtz' base.
text: Everything was still, the trees,
dialog: the creepers, even the brush
dialog: seemed like it had been changed
dialog: into some kind of stone. It was
dialog: unnatural, like a trance. Not
dialog: a sound could be heard. I began
dialog: to think I was deaf -- then the
dialog: fog came suddenly, and I was
text: blind too.
text: The boat disappears in the thick fog.
scene_heading: 199 MED. CLOSE ON WILLARD
text: We catch glimpses of him, even though we are close.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Listen.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Listen.
text: They are silent. We can HEAR the most ominous SOUND
text: COMING FROM THE BANKS. The GROANING, OR WAILING .. of
text: HUNDREDS OF MEN.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: They're on the banks of the
dialog: river.
scene_heading: 200 VIEW ON LANCE
text: Frantically, he swings the twin fifties around.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Jesus !
speaker_heading: 201 VIEW ON CHIEF
text: We can barely SEE him -- in and out of the fog.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: No, Lance. Not while you can't
dialog: see.
scene_heading: 202 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: listening. The SOUND IS TERRIBLE, HORRIFYING.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Will they attack?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: If they have boats ... or
dialog: canoes... they'd get lost in
dialog: the fog. We can't move either --
dialog: we'll end up on the shore.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: God...
speaker_heading: LANCE
text: Sounds like hundreds of them.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Shhhhhh.
text: The CHORUS OF GROANS in unbearable. But it is not ahostile
text: cahnt; or a war chant, but rather the SOUND OF HUMAN
speaker_heading: ANGUISH.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: It doesn't sound hostile --
dialog: it sounds like they've seen us
dialog: coming and it sounds like --
dialog: I don't know, a funeral. I
dialog: don't understand.
scene_heading: 203 VIEW ON LANCE
text: A glimpse of him, almost in tears. We then SEE glimpses,
text: fog moving, of all the men on the P.B.R.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 204 MED. VIEW - THE P.B.R.
text: MOVING THROUGH the thinning mist. The Navy craft proceeds
dialog: cautiously.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Two hours after the fog lifted,
dialog: we moved slowly to a spot we
dialog: thought was roughly a mile and
dialog: a half below Kurtz's camp. We
text: approached a long sand-bank
text: stretching down the middle of
dialog: the river.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Which way? Right or left?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who knows? Right.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Looks pretty shallow.
text: The P.B.R. moves toard the right-most channel. Chef
text: takes a long pole and begins sounding depth.
scene_heading: 205 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: The men are really tense now -- Lances swivels his gun from
text: bank to bank. Chief keeps his fingers on an M-16. Willard
text: takes out the TOP SECRET packet he received at Do Lung.
text: Tears it open. We MOVE IN ON him.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (reading)
text: Upon reaching objective. Target
dialog: key personnel and commence
dialog: operation. Should difficulty
dialog: arise from which extraction is
dialog: impossible, break radio silence
dialog: Com-Sec Command code Strong Arm --
dialog: indicate purgative air strike --
dialog: code -- Street Gang.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Purgative air strike ! Purgative !
dialog: They'd kill me too !
text: Suddenly Chef lays out flat on the bow. Hundreds
text: and hundreds of slender sticks fly onto the P.B.R.
text: rattling against the boat.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: Shit ! Fucking arrows ! They're
dialog: shooting fucking arrows at us.
scene_heading: 206 CLOSE ON WILLARD
text: looking toward the banks.
speaker_heading: 207 WILLARD'S POV
text: Frags of men -- naked limbs, arms, breasts, glaring eyes
text: entangled in the dense jungle gloom. And hundreds of
text: pathetic wooden arrows flying out toward them.
text: 208 VIEW ON THE P.B.R.
text: crazily zig-zagging up the river in the midst of the
text: childish assault.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: Steer her right.
text: 209 VIEW ON THE P.B.R.
text: arrows hitting the deck. The men open up everything
text: they've got. Lance is FIRING the two fifties wildly.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Keep going.. keep going.
dialog: They're just fucking sticks !
dialog: Chief, stay at the helm.
text: But Chief seems out of control -- he lets the clip of his
text: M-16 go. Then slowly lets the rifle fall out of his hands,
text: and falls to Willard's feet, a primitive spear having
text: caught him right through the ribs. Willard looks down in
dialog: horror.
speaker_heading: 210 VIEW ON CHIEF
text: laying at Willard's feet -- the long spear through him,
text: bleeding onto Willard's boots. He looks up at Willard,
text: about to say something.
speaker_heading: CHIEF
dialog: A spear?
text: He dies.
scene_heading: 211 MED. VIEW ON THE P.B.R.
text: The men are still crazily FIRING into the empty jungle
text: long after those who attacked beat their retreat.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Stop it. Stop it !
text: Slowly he pulls his boots from under Chief. They are
text: absolutely soaked in blood. He is stunned -- sits down
text: and begins to unlace the bloody boots, and take them off.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: Chief's dead.
text: Willard unlaces the other boot, and holds the bloody boot
text: in his hand.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: It was the strangest thing --
dialog: I don't know that I can explain
dialog: it. Two of my men dead, and all
dialog: I could think of was whether
dialog: Kurtz was dead too. That's all
dialog: I wanted: to see Kurtz, to hear
dialog: Kurtz.
text: He starts to wipe the blood off the boot.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Somehow, in the middle of this ...
dialog: carnival, Kurtz had grown into
dialog: something -- a gifted officer;
dialog: a great man.
dialog: Somehow, he was the only light
dialog: in this hopeless, hopeless
dialog: darkness.
dialog: And now I was too late --
dialog: he was probably gone, disappeared...
text: by a grenade rolled into his
text: tent -- or by some spear on the head.
dialog: Christ, I felt like howling like
dialog: those animals in the fog.
scene_heading: 212 EXT. THE BOAT AT MARINA DEL REY - NIGHT
text: The people at Charlie's cocktail party on the boat.
text: Some flashbulbs are going off. Some people are dancing
text: to the MUSIC. OUR VIEW MOVES SLOWLY TOWARD Willard, on
text: the edge of the party.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: Here they are in Los Angeles.
dialog: Everything is safe. There's a
text: supermarket around the corner,
dialog: the police station around the
dialog: other. It would seem ridiculous
dialog: to them that I was shot to hell
dialog: because I had lost the privilege
dialog: of listening to the mysterious
dialog: Colonel Kurtz.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Of course I was wrong. He was
dialog: waiting for me. Kurtz was alive
dialog: and he was waiting for me.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO :
scene_heading: 213 EXT. THE RIVER - P.B.R. DAY
text: The P.B.R. moving up the river. The men are practically
text: in a trance now, looking at the banks of the river. They
text: dont even make an effort to touch their weapons.
dialog: 214 WHAT THEY SEE
text: Hundreds and hundreds of Montagnard natives -- dressed
text: in the most ornate and primitive manner: feathers, parts
text: of birds and animals; cod-pieces -- all in body and face
dialog: paint of the most savage nature. But there is a purity
text: about them, men and boys, standing passively watching
text: the small Navy craft flying the strange flag of red,
text: white and blue.
text: 215 VIEW ON THE P.B.R.
dialog: The men of the crew are not the same men who began this
text: voyage. Their manner is lifeless as though in a trance.
text: The various decorations and paraphenelia that they have
text: picked up along the way seem oddly relevant to the
text: savages that stand before them. The Chef has made a
text: hat of birdfeathers; Lance's face has been painted with
text: mud under the eyes to block the glare of the sun. He
text: wears certain animal skins; trinkets; some animal teeth.
text: Their uniforms have been torn and patched throughout the
text: difficult journey. They start to move to their gun
dialog: positions.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Just stand here with me where
dialog: they can see us. Do nothing.
text: 216 VIEW FROM BEHIND THE P.B.R.
text: MOVING SLOWLY TOWARD the fantastic human wall of feathers
text: and war paint, standing on canoes across the river. The
text: men on the crew stand in a group, their hands visibly
text: without weapons. The natives standing across the river
text: make no hostile gestures as they approach. They accept
text: the small boat moving toward them with a sort of inevi-
text: tability. The boat moves closer, approaches the wall of
text: feathers -- which slowly and automatically gives away, in
text: almost a ritual of birth, undulating, allowing the little
dialog: boat to penetrate.
scene_heading: 217 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: Mus on his face (to protect it from the sun), the palms
text: of some jungle vegetation protecting his head, he looks
text: something like atribal chieftan himself. His intuition
text: was right. He senses that they would be allowed to pass.
scene_heading: 218 FULL VIEW ON THE RIVER
text: Hundreds of Montagnards who had been lining the river
text: now run, absolutely silently, along the banks, keeping
text: pace with the P.B.R. There is no hostility in these
text: faces, only curiosity and a sort of grief.
scene_heading: 219 VIEW ON WILLARD, THE CREW
text: They look up toward the bank.
speaker_heading: 220 THEIR POV
text: The temple at NU MUNG BA, a fortified encampment, built
text: around the ruins of a former Cambodian civilization.
text: Stone walls, barbed wire, cracked pyramids and rows and
text: rows of Escher-like sandbags arranged in an endless maze
text: around the fortress.
scene_heading: 221 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: He picks up his field glasses and looks through.
scene_heading: 222 WILLARD'S POV - THROUGH GLASSES
text: A sign entangled in the barbed wire -- its lettering
dialog: strict and military:
scene_heading: FOURTH SPECIAL FORCES
speaker_heading: MISSION F-82
speaker_heading: NU MUNG BA
text: The GLASSES POV MOVES REVEALING another sign written in
text: a wild psychedelic hand.
text: OUR MOTTO: APOCALYPSE NOW !
text: The POV OF THE GLASSES MOVE once again and come upon an
text: astonished sight, a black man dressed in a tatter of
text: colored fabrics, feathers, and an Australian bush hat.
text: He looks something like a multi-colored harlequin waving
text: frantically to the P.B.R. The POV OF THE GLASSES MOVE
dialog: OFF of him.
scene_heading: 223 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: not believing what he's just seen.
speaker_heading: 224 THE GLASSES POV
text: Once again the young black man is now waving his
dialog: Australian hat.
text: 225 VIEW ON THE P.B.R.
text: Willard shouts out to the starnge greeter.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We've been attacked.
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN
dialog: (shouting back)
dialog: I know, I know, it's all right.
dialog: Come in this way. It's mined
dialog: over there. This way. It's
dialog: all right.
text: Willard look at Chef who is at the helm. He shrugs and
text: they do as this man says. The P.B.R. moves towards the
text: water's edge where there is a dock covered with concertina
text: wire. The odd Australian stands waving his hat, guiding
text: them safely in.
text: A thick greasy smoke hangs from fires that burn near the
text: fort; fresh shell craters indicate a recent battle. Near
text: the dock there is a tangled clump of corpses -- half sub-
text: merged in the water. Other piles of bodies lie about, some
text: of them on fire. Fire literally burns from out of the
text: ground. Chef nods at the bodies.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Charlie?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Looks that way.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (looking at the Australian)
dialog: Who's he?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: God knows.
text: The boat pulls up. The Australian harlequin hops on
text: board; the crew regards him with their dark faces splat-
text: tered with mud and blood.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Who the hell are you?
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN
dialog: Moonby. Got any Winstons?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Moonby what?
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN
dialog: Moonby, 4th battalion, Royal
dialog: Australian Regiment, Task Force.
text: Ex-Corporal Moonby, deserted.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: (incredulously, indicating
dialog: the hundreds of natives)
dialog: What is this?
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Oh, they're simple enough people.
dialog: It's good to see you, baby.
dialog: Nobody has any Winstons?
text: Chef automatically offers Moonby a Winston.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: This boat's a mess.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Where's Kurtz? I want to talk
text: to him.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Oh, you don't talk to Colonel
dialog: Kurtz.
text: (he puffs, then smiles)
dialog: You listen to him. God, these
dialog: are good. I kept these people
dialog: off you, you know. It wasn't
dialog: easy.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Why did they attack us?
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Simple. They don't want him to
dialog: go.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You're Australian?
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Pre-Australian, actually. But
dialog: I'd dig goin' to California.
dialog: I'm California dreamin'.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (almost to himself)
text: So Kurtz is alive.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Kurtz. I tell you, that man
dialog: has enlarged my mind.
text: He opens his arms wide, to indicate the breadth of his
dialog: mind's expansion.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: But lemme tell you, he is the
dialog: most dangerous thing in every
dialog: way that I've come on so far.
dialog: He wanted to shoot me. The
dialog: first thing he said is, 'I'm
dialog: going to shoot you because you
dialog: are a deserter.' I said I
dialog: didn't desert from your army,
dialog: I deserted from my army. He
dialog: said, 'I'm going to shoot you
dialog: just the same.'
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Why didn't he shoot you?
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: I've asked myself that question.
dialog: I said to myself, why didn't he
dialog: shoot me? He didn't shoot me,
dialog: because I had a stash like you
dialog: wouldn't believe. I hid it in
dialog: the jungle; the wealth of the
dialog: Orient: Marijuana -- Hashish
dialog: -- Opium -- cocaine -- uncut
dialog: Heroin; the Gold of the Golden
dialog: Triangle. and Acid -- I make
dialog: Koolaid that makes purple Owsley
dialog: come on like piss. Now I'm
dialog: Kurtz' own Disciple -- I listen
dialog: he talks. About everything !
dialog: Everything. I forgot there's
dialog: such a thing as sleep. Everything.
dialog: Of love, too.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Love?
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Oh, no, not what you think...
dialog: Cosmic love. He made me see
dialog: things -- things, you know.
text: The whole time Moonby is chattering on, Willard has
text: picked up his field glasses and scans the fortress.
scene_heading: 226 WILLARD'S POV - THROUGH THE FIELD GLASSES
text: Men in small groups, huddled over food.
text: Now he settles on the entrance in the temple. There
text: are stakes in front, and on top of them are horrible
text: shrunken heads.
text: 227 BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: Sounds like he's gone crazy.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: No, Colonel Kurtz couldn't be
dialog: crazy -- if you heard him talk,
dialog: just last week, you'd never think
dialog: he was crazy.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Is that where he is? By the
text: shrunken heads.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Those heads, yes. Well, the
dialog: rebels...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (to his men)
dialog: We're going ashore. Tie her up
dialog: -- and leave your guns up, Lance.
speaker_heading: LANCE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Bring your rifles, that's all.
dialog: (looking at Moonby)
dialog: Take us to him.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Right on -- he's been waiting
dialog: for --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: And shut up.
text: Moonby nods and shrugs, and hops off the P.B.R. willard
text: and the men follow.
scene_heading: 228 MOVING VIEW - WILLARD, MOONBY AND THE CREW
text: As they proceed closer to the fortress-temple, men appear
text: where a moment before there was only jungle.
text: They are mostly Montagnards, but far more savage looking
dialog: than any we've seen before. They wear only loinclothes
text: and bandoliers of ammunition. their bodies are painted
text: in strange patterns. They carry Army M-16's, Russian
text: AK-47's and a wide variety of knives and clubs. Women
text: emerge from the brush as well. they are armed and
text: equally primitive looking. Interspersed among them
text: are a few taller men with paler skins, with the remnants
text: of Army insignia on them. The paint on their bodies is,
text: if anything more bizarre. We CONTINUE TO MOVE ACROSS
text: the entire group up to the stone gates of the fort,
text: where thirty or so more are seen silhouetted against
text: the sky. Willard and his men look up at people more
dialog: primitive and more savage than any since the time
dialog: of Captain Cook.
text: They encounter, in the center of the group, what once
text: appears to have been an American. he is tall, gaunt,
text: wears a flak jacket, but is otherwise naked, save a
text: loincloth. His face is darkened from dirt, battle smoke,
text: strange camouflage patterns. His hair and beard are
text: long, matted with mud and grease. He carries an AK-47
text: decorated with scalps and human ears. Willard approaches
text: this beast, who seems shy and retiring.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: (breaking in)
dialog: His name is...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm not ever goin' to tell you
dialog: to shut up again.
text: Moonby shuts up. The MAN tries to speak, but nothing
text: comes out. He is dumbstrucked at seeing them, as they
dialog: are to see him.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Colby. Exec. officer, A-Team...
dialog: Special Forces. F-82 -- Col.
text: Walter Kurtz, commanding.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What happened here?
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: What -- happened here.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Charlie?
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: NVA regulars. They're coming
dialog: again tonight. Tet -- their
dialog: big -- assault.
text: Willard is the man in the middle -- he doesn't know what
dialog: to say to this man, but he understands the forces that
text: pounded him. He takes his arm.
scene_heading: 229 REVERSE ON COLBY
text: looks at Willard, not understanding.
scene_heading: 230 REVERSE ON WILLARD
dialog: Six months later, and he and Colby would be identical.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm taking you back.
text: Moonby slaps himself in the head with his hand.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: Oh, no, dont say that.
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: Take us back. Take us back !
dialog: But, the operation -- the team.
dialog: Colonel Kurtz has such plans for
dialog: -- the team.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Take me to him, Major.
text: Colby starts, and then, seeing the shrunken heads on
text: poles, he turns, agitated, to Willard:
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: I had nothing to do with these
dialog: operations -- I did not do the
dialog: planning -- none of us did.
dialog: It was all Colonel Kurtz -- he
dialog: was the genius. You'll see --
dialog: the genius of our Colonel. He
dialog: should be made a General, don't
dialog: you think? A General? It's...
text: Suddenly, frightened, he stops. Without looking Willard
text: knows that Kurtz is standing behind him. He turns.
text: Kurtz has stepped out from his headquarters: He is
text: a powerful man, though obviously very ill. He slowly
text: attempts to pull the remnants of his uniform together,
text: though it is ripped and bloodied, and now combined with
text: primitive ornaments designating him a tribal chief, as
text: well as his U.S.A. Colonel's insignia. He is feverish,
text: with long blonde hair and beautiful features. His eyes
text: almost hypnotize. His midsection is bandaged from what
text: seems to be a serious wound.
scene_heading: 232 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: This is not what he expected. He is quiet, and then,
text: automatically, he comes to an attention.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Colonel Kurtz, I guess.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: I'm Kurtz.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (he salutes)
dialog: Captain B.L. Willard reporting
dialog: his presence, sir.
scene_heading: 233 VIEW ON KURTZ
text: looking at him a long time. Then he returns the salute,
dialog: and simply:
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: At ease...
dialog: (pause, as he regards him)
dialog: Sit down.
speaker_heading: 234 MED. VIEW
dialog: There is, of course, no chair or anything like a chair.
text: But behind and around him, Kurtz's men begin to sit on
text: the ground, cross-legged. Finally, Willard sits as well.
text: Then Kurtz does.
text: Moonby lights a joint, and passes it respectfully to
text: Kurtz -- throughout the scene, the joint is passed from
text: man to man, ritualistically.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (slowly)
dialog: Why did you come to ... my province.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We were attacked -- down river.
dialog: We need supplies and medical
dialog: help.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: You were not coming here, to
dialog: see me?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (finding it more and
dialog: more difficult to go
dialog: on with this lie)
dialog: No -- no, sir.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: You came up my river -- in that
dialog: small boat. So simple. I
dialog: always thought the final justice
dialog: would come from the sky, like
dialog: we did.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You are the final justice,
dialog: aren't you?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What do you mean, Colonel?
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (gently)
dialog: What other reason could you
dialog: have come? A Captain. Ranger.
dialog: Paratrooper. Graduate of the
dialog: Recondo School. Am I right
dialog: about these things?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You know you're right.
dialog: There is a clear, incredible intelligence about this man.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Then the Agency approached you.
dialog: Maybe in a bar in Quinon or
dialog: Pleiku. Simple. A year's pay
dialog: for one life. Perhaps a village
dialog: elder, or a tax collector.
dialog: Nobody's orders but your own.
text: Exciting work.
scene_heading: 235 CLOSE ON WILLARD
text: He remains silent.
scene_heading: 236 CLOSE ON KURTZ
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: You've spent tome at the Royal
dialog: Tracking School of Malaysia.
dialog: I can tell from the way the
dialog: laces on your boots are tied.
dialog: I understand you, Captain. We
dialog: understand each other.
text: There is a long pause, as the two men regard each other.
text: Then Willard reaches to his holstered .45 -- withdraws
text: it, and places it on the dirt before Kurtz, as an act
text: assuring Kurtz that he is not an assasin.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Do you know me?
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Yes.
text: Kurtz reaches down; takes the .45 -- and without another
text: word or gesture, shoots and kills a man.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Do you know me ?
text: He throws the .45 back on the dirt. Rises, and walks
text: back into the cavernous headquarters behind the shrunken
text: heads. Moonby scampers off after him, a respectful
text: distance behind. Even Willard is stunned.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Holy shit.
scene_heading: 237 EXT. KURTZ'S OUTPOST - FULL VIEW - TWILIGHT
text: Dotted with campfires; Montagnard families -- it is like
text: a primitive civilization.
text: 238 VIEW BY THE TEMPLE WALL
text: Willard is alone by a campfire -- his M-16 leans by a wall
text: next to him. He is exhausted.
text: Lance sleeps by the fire, a little distance away. Chef
text: approaches, crouches down.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Captain -- they've been probed
dialog: all this week -- Cong and NVA
dialog: regulars. There's gonna be a
dialog: big offense any time.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I know.
text: Lance stirs; starts to wake up.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: What are we doing here?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Kurtz. I'm supposed to kill him,
dialog: just like he said.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Yeah, I can see that. He's
dialog: fuckin nuts --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: He killed that guy without feeling
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Not a thing.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: When you kill Cong, don't you
dialog: feel something.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Sure.
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: Recoil... I feel the recoil of
dialog: my rifle.
text: Willard rises. Chef looks at him, confused and frightened.
scene_heading: 239 FULL SHOT - WALL - WILLARD, CHEF , LANCE
text: Willard walks along the top of a thick wall -- sandbagged
dialog: and dug out every so often for an M-60 or a mortar
text: emplacement.
text: Wild looking savages man these guns, and seem to bow
text: to Willard as he passes.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: This is good -- triple overlapping
text: fields of fire -- walls so thick
dialog: ordinary artillery just cleans
text: the moss off their surfaces.
text: A woman tentatively moves to Willard, bowing, and then
text: runs off to her bunker.
text: WE ARE TRACKING with them as they move past the groups
text: of people, huddled by their fires... men, women and
text: children. Skulls, shrunken and otherwise hang from
dialog: every hut -- adorn every sandbagged bunker -- dried
text: scalps hang from barbed wire. A child is chewing on
text: a big piece of almost raw meat.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: I've done things, when I was
dialog: alone in the jungle -- that I
dialog: never told anyone about.
text: They continue past amount where the shattered wreck of
text: half a helicopter is laying. It has been altered and
text: fortified with sandbags and concertina wire. The wreck
text: lays on its side so that a 7.62 mini-gun that was mounted
text: there sticks up above the sandbags. The emplacement is
text: built on amound so the gun commands a clear field of
text: fire into the jungle beyond.
dialog: Some Americans, barely recognizible because of their
text: beards and savage manner, sit near the gun. Several
text: Montagnard children giggle at their feet and play with
text: bayonets.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: This is evil -- evil, Captain.
dialog: We're all gonna die here.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah, I know.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: I don't get it -- You said your
dialog: mission was to kill him. Let's
dialog: do it, an' get our asses outta
dialog: here. This Kurtz is ruining the
dialog: war; I mean, this don't look
dialog: good for America !
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (lost in his thoughts)
dialog: ... he's an amazing officer.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: You got to kill this sonuvabitch
dialog: -- Lance and me, we don't
dialog: understand none of this -- Jesus,
dialog: Captain -- I don't wanna die here
dialog: -- Do it quick.
text: Lance just stands there; his eyes vacant.. He sort of
text: nods, sucking a joint.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah. I know.
dialog: He thinks.
scene_heading: 240 INT. KURTZ HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT
text: VIEW FROM INSIDE -- Willard approaches the stakes with
text: the shrunken heads. Chef and Lance with him. Willard
text: steps in -- Lance and the Chef crouch outside, waiting.
speaker_heading: 241 WILLARD'S VIEW
text: An austere stone savern in the temple: Kurtz's head-
text: quarters. Electric lights hanging in odd contrast to the
text: ancient stone. We SEE what is left of the maps and other
text: military charts -- they had been tacked up on big boards,
text: but have now fallen into decayed disuse.
text: There are other indications of the modern headquarters
dialog: this had been. Now all those things are no longer impor-
text: tant. Kurtz sits alone, slumped back in a wicker chair.
text: There is a large wooden planning table next to him, with
text: maps, lamps and apile of debris that is practically
text: garbage. There are native decorations to ward off evil
text: spirits; and graffiti on the stone walls, things ranging
dialog: fromm "Viet Nam, love it or leave it" to quotes of Nietzsche
dialog: "Nothing is true -- everything is permitted."
text: Moonby, who had been crouching in a corner, moves to
dialog: Willard.
speaker_heading: MOONBY
dialog: He's asleep -- don't bother him.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: I'm awake.
text: Willard steps in closer. Kurtz looks to Moonby.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: You. Get out.
text: Moonby hesitates -- not wanting to leave him alone with
dialog: Willard.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing; suddenly)
dialog: I said get the fuck out !
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: I'm going to kill the little
dialog: weirdo myself tomorrow.
dialog: (he shows some pain
dialog: when moving his
dialog: midsection)
dialog: Hes only stayed alive this long
dialog: because he's a good orderly and
dialog: medic. He knows how to use a
text: hypodermic.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You're gonna get hit tonight,
dialog: bad -- a whole regiment of NVA
dialog: regulars.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: That's right, the little gook-
dialog: pricks. But they are noble
dialog: little gook-pricks, noble.
dialog: Because they fight with their
dialog: guts, like animals. And for an
dialog: idea ! That's rich. We fight
text: with ingenious machines and
dialog: fire, like Gods, and for nothing.
dialog: But I'll call in a major blotto
dialog: airstrike tonight. We'll have
dialog: ourselves a helluva airstrike
dialog: tonight, a lightshow. How do
dialog: you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby
dialog: Light My Fire...'
text: Willard shrugs.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Do you?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah, I like it...
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: I love it.
text: He rests back, grinning.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You've gone crazy.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: No. My thinking is clear.
dialog: (calmly)
dialog: But my soul has gone mad.
text: Suddenly Kurtz is seized with a terrible pain from his
text: stomach wound. He groans horribly, clutching at it. He
text: literally falls from his chair onto the dirt floor.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: My gut -- Oh, Christ, my gut !
text: Willard leans over him; checking the seriousness of the
dialog: wound.
scene_heading: 242 EXT. THE HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT
text: Lance is crouching by the stone entrance -- Chef leans in,
text: witnessing the proceedings inside.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: Kill him -- come on, why don't
dialog: you kill him
scene_heading: 243 INT. THE HEADQUARTERS - MED, VIEW - KURTZ AND WILLARD -
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: Willard examining the wound.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (in pain)
text: Oh shit -- on the table; morphine.
text: Willard moves to the table, opens the medical packet. He
text: takes out a morphine capsule, leans over the writhing
text: Kurtz and injects him with the drug.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing; looking
dialog: up in pain)
dialog: You see how stupid it would have
dialog: been to blow out my brains? I'm
text: dying from the gut anyway.
text: Willard quickly prepares another shot. Kurtz, truly
text: frightened, holds up his hand.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: No -- I don't want to sleep.
dialog: I want to think. Water. Give
dialog: me water.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You can't have water after
dialog: morphine.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
text: Still playing by the rules.
dialog: (almost
dialog: affectionately)
dialog: You're a damn good kiler.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (still holding the
dialog: second morphine)
dialog: How's the pain?
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: How's yours?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I can handle it.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Pain is easy to handle -- but
dialog: nobility.. the nobility of a
dialog: man is judged by how much Truth
dialog: he can handle.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What Truth?
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: The truth that you were sent
dialog: here to murder me, ans so far
dialog: you haven't done it. And do
dialog: you know why?
dialog: (looks at him)
dialog: Yes, you know why.
dialog: (he looks)
dialog: Your mission makes about as much
dialog: sense as those idiots who sent
dialog: you on it. Asshole ! Schmuck !
dialog: How long does it take you to
dialog: figure out that nobody knows
dialog: what they're doing here.
dialog: (coldly)
dialog: Except me.
text: He rests back. The drug is beginning to take effect.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Gimme water.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: No water.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: You know what you're doing?
dialog: You are interfering with my
dialog: plans !
text: He crawls in pain toward the canteen Willard watches
text: him impassively.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: This water's got Moonby's acid
dialog: in it --
text: He drinks sloppily from the canteen, water spilling all
text: over. Then he throws the canteen to Willard.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Drink it -- drink it for tonight.
dialog: Think of it. A whole regiment
dialog: of those shitty little Cong --
dialog: War. Total war -- war like you've
dialog: never known it. It's beautiful
dialog: -- you'll love it. Trust me.
scene_heading: 244 EXT. THE HEADQUARTERS - MED. VIEW - LANCE AND CHEF - NIGHT
text: We can SEE into the headquarters: Kurtz offers the canteen
text: to Willard. Chef is terrified -- Lance is stoned out.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Lance -- the fucker's not gonna
dialog: do it.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Goddamn -- You've gotta dig
dialog: napalm on Speed, too. It's
dialog: spectacular, you'll see.
text: Lance stands up holding his M-16, looks into the cavern
dialog: with Chef.
scene_heading: 245 INT. HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT
text: Willard stands there, holding the morphine needle in his
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Look into the jungle. You can't --
dialog: it's too terrible. You have to
dialog: smear yourself with warpaint to
dialog: look at it -- you have to be a
dialog: cannibal.
dialog: (whispered)
dialog: That's why warpaint was invented.
dialog: Then it becomes your jungle.
text: Willard shoots himself in the arm with the morphine.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: How did we get here?
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Because of all the things we do,
dialog: the thing we do best -- is lie.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I think think a lie stinks.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Oh Captain, that is so true.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Stinks. I could never figure --
dialog: (he drinks from
dialog: the canteen)
dialog: I could never figure how they
dialog: can teach boys how to bomb villages
dialog: with napalm -- and not let them
dialog: write the word 'fuck' on their
dialog: airplanes.
text: Willard drinks more of the LSD water.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (angrily)
dialog: You could never figure it because
text: it doesn't make sense.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Fuck no.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: I'll tell you what makes sense !
dialog: Air strikes ! White Phosphorus !
dialog: Napalm ! We'll bomb the shit out
dialog: of them if they don't do what
dialog: we want.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: We'll exterminate the fuckers !
text: Chef steps into the Headquarters -- he is terrified.
text: He draws his bayonet.
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Captain -- kill him.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Think of it -- for years, millions
dialog: of years, savages with pathetic
dialog: painted faces were scared shitless
dialog: that fire would rain down from
dialog: the sky. And goddamn, we made
dialog: it happen. God bless Dow !
speaker_heading: CHEF
dialog: Kill him !
text: Chef rushes at Kurtz with his bayonet -- instinctively,
dialog: Willard GUNS him -- then there is additional automatic
text: FIRE. Chef is being riddled by bullets.
speaker_heading: 246 VIEW ON LANCE
text: He has let loose with his M-16 at Chef, like some sort
text: of mindless, programmed killer.
speaker_heading: LANCE
speaker_heading: (FIRING)
dialog: Hot damn !
text: Then hes tops -- Chef falls to the dirt -- there is an
dialog: instant of silence, then:
scene_heading: 247 EXT. OF THE TEMPLE AT NU MUNG BA - NIGHT
text: The DOORS begin LIGHT MY FIRE , loud and overwhelming,
text: as illuminating flares light up the blackness.
scene_heading: 248 MED. CLOSE VIEW
text: of enormous loudspeakers protected behind spirals of
text: razor-sharp concertina wire. LIGHT MY FIRE is blasted
text: out to the enemy, poised to attack.
scene_heading: 249 ANOTHER LOUDSPEAKER
text: Cannibal-painted men in savage decorations wait. Bay-
text: onets are fixed. Men are stoned to acid, injecting
text: speed, sniffing cocaine, eating grass, smoking hashish
text: in water pipes. One looks up to the sky.
speaker_heading: 250 EIS VIEW
text: A rocket illuminates the sky, strobing, as in a psyche-
text: delic hallucination.
text: 251 VIEW ON THE SOLDIER
speaker_heading: SOLDIER
dialog: Wow...
text: Another behind him is chanting the word NAPALM softly t
dialog: himself.
scene_heading: 252 MED. VIEW ON THE GATE
text: Willard strides out of the darkness, into the positions
text: around the gate. He looks like a magnificent warrior --
text: Genghis. All the men: Montagnards, fierce Americans,
text: even the savage men of the P.B.R. crew either bow,
text: salute or kneel before Willard. The color pulsates
text: around the edge of the image, red and green, mauve and
dialog: purple.
text: We SEE Lance; waiting, with his weapons -- garlands of
text: teeth around his neck, his face painted.
scene_heading: 253 FULL VIEW - MONTAGE
text: Enemy ARTILLERY BLASTING away at the fortress.
scene_heading: 254 CLOSE SHOT - A MORTAR
text: A hand drops a shell and it FIRES.
scene_heading: 255 CLOSE SHOT - ROCKET LAUNCHER
text: It FIRES. EXPLOSIONS around the fort, red and orange
text: and blue and green. They hit and grow, outward like some
dialog: sort of cosmic flower.
scene_heading: 256 CLOSE SHOT - A FLAME-THROWER (ON TANK)
text: Shoots out a stream of burning napalm that looks like a
text: death ray gun, radiating outward with ice-blue energy.
scene_heading: 257 SHOT ON LOUDSPEAKERS
text: blasting out music.
scene_heading: 258 MED. CLOSE VIEW ON YOUNG SOLDIERS
dialog: With the MUSIC, like those people you see listening to
text: radios in their cars.
scene_heading: 259 SHOT ON THE COMMAND BUNKER - WILLARD , KURTZ , OTHERS
text: (In SLOW MOTION) Shells WHISTLE in and EXPLODE on the
text: walls in the compound. The men behind them are setting
text: up rocket launcher (missile) . Everywhere metal and rock
text: and flame fly and it is beautiful to see.
text: Willard looks through the infra-red sniper scope.
scene_heading: 260 WILLARD - INFRA-RED POV
text: Strange, luminescent images of North Vietnamese approach-
text: ing the outer perimeters. Thousands of them.
scene_heading: 261 FULL SHOT ON KURTZ
speaker_heading: KURTZ
text: Mini-gun. Colby. Sergeant.
dialog: Mini-gun.
scene_heading: 262 MED. SHOT - MINI-GUN
text: A SERGEANT in feathered head-piece and wildly painted
text: operates the mini-gun with several native helpers. SHELLS
text: BURST around them. When they FIRE the SOUND is incredibly
text: loud and steady like a high-pitched foghorn. A solid
text: stream of molten lead seems to pour into the darkness as
text: 7000 rounds a minute rip into the enemy. The pass of
text: the lead reaches out in beautiful patterns as the Ser-
text: geant sweeps the area. The sergeant laughs maniacally
text: as the GUN resumes FIRING, right up to the moment he is
text: blown to eternity by an all-engulfing 105mm shell.
scene_heading: 263 VIEW ON WILLARD
text: Exhilarated, and moving with the MUSIC.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Napalm.
text: Colby pushes a row of plungers: Advancing NVAs il-
text: luminated by napalm drums, phosphorescent napalm EXPLODES
text: beautiful, like a magnificent firework.
scene_heading: 264 VIEW ON KURTZ
speaker_heading: KURTZ
text: Claymores, claymores.
text: The SOUND DISTORTED of tremendous HOWLING EXPLOSIONS
text: penetrate the track of LIGHT MY FIRE one after another.
text: Kurtz's face is illuminated by each of these. His face
text: seems to change from one grotesgue primitive face to
dialog: another, as though the whole history mankind is evolv-
text: ing in front of us.
text: The SCREAMS of maimed and dismembered men almost pene-
text: trates the INCREDIBLY LOUD MUSIC and we HEAR Kurtz's men
text: LAUGHING and SCREAMING in delight.
text: Kurtz looks out over the field of slaughter.
scene_heading: 265 FULL SHOT - NVA CHARGE
text: through wires and claymore glass, each wilder and more
text: extreme. They burn in the pools of luminescent napalm
text: but press relentlessly on. SHELL BURSTS overhead. They
text: chant to themselves as they advance. NVA have reached
text: the walls and throw down scaling ladders and start up.
text: Suddenly the sky is bright with flares which produce
text: weird psychedelic light. Blared out at tremendous vol-
text: ume over and above the DIN OF BATTLE is LIGHT MY FIRE.
scene_heading: 266 FULL SHOT - WALL - EVERYBODY
text: The Americans and Montagnards stand up screaming.
text: Spurred by MUSIC, they charge up. M-16's in both hands,
text: blasting, kicking, bayoneting, gouging, splittin throats,
text: biting necks, both sides collide in the utter and most
text: horrible savagery.
scene_heading: 267 MED. SHOT - WILLARD
text: standing on the wall BLASTING as bodies fall around him;
text: he thrusts his bayonet into one attacker, removes it with
text: a foot and stabs another. From him he takes his AK47 and
text: BLASTS more as they come.
scene_heading: 268 MED. SHOT - LANCE
text: The VC rush his position. Willard trips a claymore that
text: BLASTS most of them to shreads. More fill in. Lance
text: opens up FULL AUTOMATIC . Willard and Lance move down to
text: the nest wall, FIRING , bodies tumbling over.
text: Lance is caught in a CROSSFIRE and hit several times.
text: He pulls himself up -- FIRES a final BURST and then falls
text: under the enemy's feet.
scene_heading: 269 VIEW ON MOONBY
text: sees this and scampers off into the jungle, muttering
text: madly to himself.
scene_heading: 270 MED. VIEW - WILLARD AT THE R.T.
text: shouting into the radio
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Code -- Street Gang -- Street
dialog: Gang ! Purgative air strike;
dialog: Street Gang !
text: He turns and runs back through the compound with the
text: receding Montagnards. SHELLS are EXPLODING everywhere.
text: The light patterns are fantastic. Men fall, Viets break
text: over the walls and charge. They crouch and rip into
text: them FULL AUTOMATIC. They break the charge and continue
text: cutting their way through the NVA masses like torches
dialog: through metal.
scene_heading: 271 FULL SHOT - COMMAND POST - KURTZ
text: Kurtz watches as invaders swarm through his domain. Women
text: and children rush upon him now. Kurtz flicks some switch-
text: es and the whole north wall EXPLODES in overwhelming FIRE.
text: The gates are uprooted. The stone lions tumble, crushing
text: men below. Kurtz cocks an M-16 and walks off the bunker.
scene_heading: 272 VIEW ON WILLARD
dialog: watching this spectacle.
scene_heading: 273 MED. SHOT - DIFFERENT ANGLE - KURTZ
text: He rounds the shadow wall.
text: Kurtz sees a group of Viets and rushes up and prepares a
text: machine gun mount. They don't see him. He braces the gun
text: at his side and steps out.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: (yelling)
dialog: Charles !
text: They stagger and fall, shattered and bleeding, save one
text: who's merely lost his weapon. Kurtz looks at him, his
text: gun empty. He drops it and flips open the flap of his
text: holster. The Viet soldier goes for his pistol. Kurtz
text: beats him to the draw and bloes him into the night. He
text: moves over to pick up the NVA light machine gun. Holding
text: it at his hip, he stands atop one of the ruined walls
text: and FIRES into the masses. His native men see him and
text: rush for the chance to die beside him. They are quickly
text: encircled by onrushing Viets and are being overrun. The
text: machine gun jams and Kurtz grabs a rifle. When it's empty
text: and the bayonet is off he wields it as a club.
scene_heading: 274 MED. SHOT - LOW ANGLE - KURTZ
text: taking swings with his rifle, standing atop the
text: wall and battering the oncoming enemy like Davy Crockett
text: at the Alamo.
scene_heading: 275 FULL VIEW - THE FORTRESS
text: The air strike hits with all its force. Balls and rain
text: of fire sweeps down on the temple, the enemy, everything.
text: It is the biggest firework show in history.
text: The wall Kurtz was standing on, and he falls with it.
text: Willard sees this and makes his way toward him as the
text: air strike continues. All around us is a spectacle of
text: MUSIC and light and fire and overwhelming color.
text: 276 TRACKING SHOT ON WILLARD
text: following Kurtz's trail in the mud. He has crawled on
text: all fours back into the jungle to die. He stalks Kurtz
text: into the jungle ; moving around and cutting off the
dialog: crawling Kurtz
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Go away -- hide yourself.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Going back - to the jungle to
dialog: die.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm taking you back. You can
dialog: still live.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: I had immense plans.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm gonna get you out of here.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: I was on threshold of great
dialog: things.
text: Willard slings Kurtz's bleeding body around his neck,
text: holding his hand, dragging hom through the jungle. The
text: spectacle continues in the b.g.
scene_heading: 277 EXT. THE P.B.R. - THE RIVER
text: This wreck of a boat is still afloat. Willard crawls
text: out of the jungle, carrying the dying Kurtz and manages
text: to get him onto the boat.
scene_heading: 278 EXTREME FULL SHOT
text: The spectacle of total psychedelic war: the fortress of
dialog: Nu Mung Ba.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: FADE IN.
scene_heading: 279 EXT. THE TEMPLE - MORNING
text: The entire temple is devastation. Vultures by the hundreds
text: circle overhead. There are a few survivors. Everywhere
text: is smoke and heaps of bodies. Colby, a Sergeant, and
text: some Montagnards sit near them.
text: Their eyes are red and glazed, their jaws hang slack and
text: they tumble occasionally. They stagger away from the
text: field of slaughter. Willard looks down and sees something.
text: Moves over to it, kicks several bodies away and in the
text: f.g. below is Lance, dead.
text: Colby stumbles over. Willard holds Lance up by his hair.
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: Who is he?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He was the tragedy -- the tragedy
dialog: of this war.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
speaker_heading: 280 THE P.B.R.
text: battered, moving slowly down the river.
speaker_heading: 281 TIGHTER VIEW
text: Colby is at helm. Kurtz lies feverish, delirious.
text: Willard sits by him. As the boat moves, Montagnards, those
text: left alive, come and pay their respects by the riverbanks.
text: Colby takes an automatic weapon and FIRES it into the air.
text: Some of the natives move in terror, frightened of him.
text: The battle is not over.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Don't. Don't frighten them away.
text: Willard looks down at him.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: So you understand this?
text: Kurtz looks up at him, past him with fury, longing in his
text: eyes. There is a slight smile.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Do I not?
scene_heading: 282 EXT. RIVER - MED. VIEW
text: The boat moves as though naturally carried by the river.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: My river... my people... my jungle...
dialog: my ideas... my country...
dialog: my wife...
dialog: (he looks at Willard)
dialog: ... my death.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You had immense plans... immense plans...
speaker_heading: KURTZ
dialog: Yes...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I'm taking you back.
text: Kurtz looks up to him, then an expression of overwhelming
text: intense and hopeless terror, hopeless despair. A whisper
text: at some image, at some vision, he cries out twice, a cry
text: that is no more than a breath.
speaker_heading: KURTZ
text: The horror, the horror.
text: We HEAR the distant SOUND of HELICOPTERS approaching.
text: The SOUND of ROTORS in the distance. They look up,
text: craning their eyes at the sky. Colby points.
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: There.
text: Over the jungle mountains the small formation of MEDEVAC
text: helicopters hooping toward them.
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: How did they know?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
text: They must have seen the fire.
text: The helicopters are closer now but high up. Two of
text: them breaking off, spiraling in TOWARD US.
speaker_heading: COLBY
dialog: They're coming to rescue us.
dialog: They're Medevac.
scene_heading: 283 CLOSE SHOT ON WILLARD
text: He stares up at the sky.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: They're coming to take us back.
text: Copters directly overhead.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: COLBY
text: Colonel Kurtz, he's dead.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah.
text: He raises his M-16 and FIRES the entire clip at the ap-
text: proaching rescue helicopter.
scene_heading: 284 FULL SHOT - THE COPTER
text: It frantically pours on the power and wheels up to the
dialog: sky.
scene_heading: 285 FULL SHOT - WILLARD, COLBY
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yeah.
text: Colby takes his rifle and joins Willard in FIRING at
text: the retreating American helicopters.
scene_heading: 286 HELICOPTER'S POV - ON THE BOAT
text: The men in the boat FIRING AT US as we fly further into
text: the air, the boat getting smaller and smaller.
speaker_heading: WILLARD (V.O.)
dialog: ... Don't remember a lot about my
dialog: rehabilitation... but I was sent
dialog: back to the world before the fall
dialog: of Saigon...
scene_heading: 287 EXT. MARINA DEL RAY - EXTREME HIGH ANGLE - NIGHT
text: MOVING DOWN back to the pleasure boat at the Marina.
text: Pause. Willard is very silent.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: I never answered questions about
dialog: Kurtz -- I gave them a few of his
dialog: unimportant papers -- but for the
dialog: most part I saved everything.
dialog: There were other letters, personal
text: ones written earlier to his wife.
dialog: I brought them to het. I watched
dialog: the fall of Saigon on television
text: in a bar in Alameda...
scene_heading: 289 EXT. CALIFORNIA NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY
text: A bright clear day in a scrubbed-clean California neigh-
text: borhood. Some kids are playing in the street.
text: Willard, years later, dressed as a civilian, proceeds past
text: the lawn to the attractive home, carrying a packet under
text: his arm. He passes a lanky, young teen-aged boy working
text: on a motor-scooter. Willard looks at him. The boy
text: looks back.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Hi.
text: Then the door opens, and KURTZ'S WIFE is standing at the
text: door. She is still beautiful, blonde, and dressed in
text: mourning even though she doesn't wear black. There is a
text: sense of purity about her, though she is not young.
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: Come in, Captain Willard.
text: He enters.
scene_heading: 289 INT. KURTZ'S HOME - DAY
dialog: Everything good and secure and desirable about America.
text: She stands in the center of the room, a little nervous.
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: Can I get anything for you?
text: There are pictures of Kurtz, not too many... but he is
dialog: there in the various stages of his career.
text: Then she sits suddenly, and Willard sits by her.
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: (continuing)
dialog: Did you know him very well?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You get to know each other pretty
dialog: well out there.
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: And you admired him?
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He was a remarkable man. It was
dialog: impossible not to --
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: Love him... Yes, it is true.
dialog: That's the hard part for me... I
dialog: knew him better than anyone ... I
dialog: knew him best.
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: You knew him best.
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: You were his friend... You must
dialog: have been, if he had given you
dialog: this...
dialog: (the packet)
dialog: If he sent you to his home. He
dialog: was the best this country had --
dialog: he was --
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yes, I know...
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: I'll never get over it -- But
dialog: I'll always remember him...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Both of us...
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: Men looked up to him...
dialog: (she loses herself
dialog: in a thought)
dialog: He died as he lived...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: His death was -- yes, he died as
dialog: he lived.
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: Were you with him, when...
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: Yes I was... He said his last
dialog: words to me.
dialog: Pause.
scene_heading: 290 MED. CLOSE SHOT ON WILLARD
text: A little of the madness is still with him. He knows what
dialog: she will ask.
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: What were they?
scene_heading: 291 MED. CLOSE SHOT ON KURTZ'S WIFE
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: Tell me.
scene_heading: 292 MED. CLOSE ON WILLARD
text: remembering that incredible day moving down the river.
scene_heading: Our VIEW LOOSENS
speaker_heading: KURTZ'S WIFE
dialog: Tell me what he said.
speaker_heading: KURTZ (V.O.)
dialog: The horror ! The horror !
speaker_heading: WILLARD
dialog: He spoke of you, ma'am.
text: He sits there looking at her.
scene_heading: 293 EXT. TIGHT HIGH ANGLE ON THE MARINA DEL REY BOAT
text: The cocktail party is breaking up. Willard is one of
dialog: the few guests left.
text: We MOVE FROM Willard standing alone on the deck of the
text: boat. Moving back through the departing guests. Charlie
text: is getting ready to leave himself. We MOVE CLOSER to
dialog: Willard.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: 294 EXT. THE RIVER - P.B.R. - DAY
text: the boat floating down the river. Kurtz's body; an exhaust-
text: ed, half-dead Colby. And HOLDING Kurtz, Willard. We HEAR
text: THE DOORS' "THE END" as we present the END TITLES.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
