speaker_heading: ARRIVAL
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Eric Heisserer
dialog: Based on the Story "Story of Your Life"
dialog: written by Ted Chiang
dialog: Final Shooting Draft
dialog: August 20, 2015
speaker_heading: A2
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE ~- SUNSET 1
text: The sky is a shimmering expanse of stars, packed together.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: Memory is a strange thing.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE - SUNSET 2
text: A modern home built on the shore with a large deck.
text: The skin of the lake is a cloudy mirror.
text: LOUISE BANKS stares up at the sky, leaning against the deck’s
text: railing. Merlot glass in one hand.
text: Louise has a clean, timeless look about her; the kind of
text: woman who ages gracefully. Short hair.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.0O.)
dialog: It doesn’t work like I thought it
dialog: did. We are so bound by time; by
dialog: its order.
text: She steps back inside, a little tipsy, smiling.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - CONTINUOUS A2
text: Stacks of books on shelves and tables. A telescope against a
text: glass wall. And dry-erase boards, marked with foreign
dialog: languages. Different colors for different dialects.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.0.)
dialog: Maybe there’s a higher order.
text: Mingled here are also dinner plates. Candlelight.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Darling, is there any more wine?
text: She pauses when a deck light winks on outside. Her eyes
text: sparkle when she sees something:
text: A question, written on the glass, lit from outdoors.
dialog: “Do you want to make a baby?”
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: I used to think this was the
dialog: beginning of your story.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 2.
text: Louise goes right to the glass, wanting to touch the question
text: with her finger to make sure it’s real.
text: CLOSE ON HER FACE: From outside looking in, a curious
text: circular shadow is thrown from the deck light. But her eyes
dialog: start to water.
text: In the background, the bedroom door hangs open and the
text: silhouette of a MAN leans against the frame, watching her.
text: Louise turns around, smiling again. We know her answer.
scene_heading: INT. MERCY HILL GENERAL HOSPITAL ~ MORNING 3
text: Louise cradles a NEWBORN GIRL in her arms. Her name: HANNAH.
text: Hannah reaches up.
text: Crooks her tiny hand around Louise's finger.
speaker_heading: LATER
text: A NURSE starts to take baby Hannah to give Louise some rest.
text: Hannah BLEATS and reaches for her mother.
text: Louise smiles through the exhaustion and pulls her back--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Okay, come back, come back to me...
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE YARD ~ AFTERNOON 4
text: Four-year-old HANNAH dressed as a cowgirl.
text: On a toy riding horse with wheels for hooves.
text: Giggling like she can’t stop.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: I remember moments in the middle.
text: She pulls both finger-guns, aimed at us.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Stick ‘em up!
scene_heading: INT. HANNAH'S ROOM — NIGHT 5
text: Eight-year-old Hannah is tucked in bed.
dialog: Said to us as a prayer:
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I love you.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 3.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE — NIGHT
text: Twelve-year-old Hannah glowers at us:
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I hate you!
text: --and storms into her room.
scene_heading: INT. MERCY HILL GENERAL HOSPITAL - MORNING
text: Twelve-year-old daughter HANNAH lies, eyes closed.
text: Hannah is pale. Her head has been shaved in the last month.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: And this was the end.
text: Louise holds her daughter’s hand in hers.
text: Her thumb traces Hannah’s knuckles.
text: A life monitor beeps as Hannah’s heart stops.
text: Hannah’s eyes roll up and she sighs her final breath.
text: Louise’s grip on her daughter tightens. Trembling.
text: A Nurse starts to pull Louise away, but she hangs on-- now
text: it’s mother trying to return to her baby girl--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Come back-- come back to me, baby--
text: Louise is unaware she’s crying. Hannah remains motionless.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: But now I’m not so sure I believe
dialog: in beginnings and endings. There
dialog: are days that define your story
dialog: beyond your life.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.0.)
dialog: Like the day they arrived.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY - DAY
text: Storybook blue, patched with cumulous clouds.
text: Drifting down to find a tree line in motion.
text: Looking into a car on a road.
dialog: 10
speaker_heading: iL
dialog: 12
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 4.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING GARAGE - DAY 9
text: Louise parks her car end steps out. Her hair is longer here,
text: and there’s no wedding band on her finger.
text: She carries herself like someone who’s learned how to be
text: alone, handling her briefcase, coffee, keys, etc.
text: It’s oddly quiet in the garage around her.
scene_heading: EXT. UNIVERSITY CAMPUS — DAY 10
text: Louise crosses campus. Absorbed in her thoughts.
text: Overhead, a pair of F-22 fighters slice across the sky.
scene_heading: EXT. STUDENT CENTER - MOMENTS LATER 1i
text: Louise passes the campus center.
text: A crowd of STUDENTS are huddled around the glass outside the
text: student center, looking in at a large TV. The crowd is too
text: dense for Louise to see what is on the TV.
text: Louise frowns, but keeps going.
text: Overhead, a second pair of fighter jets rocket past.
text: Louise looks up at the sky. Apprehensive.
scene_heading: INT. UNIVERSITY CLASSROOM — DAY 12
text: Louise enters a classroom, leaving the door open behind her.
text: Out in the hall, a couple of STUDENTS run by, but it’s
text: unclear if they’re late for class or it’s something worse.
text: Louise steps to her desk to unload her briefcase and thermos.
text: The course name is written on the blackboard behind the desk:
dialog: “Advanced Linguistics” and “Dr. Louise Banks.”
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Good morning, everyone.
text: No response. Louise finally looks to the class to discover:
text: Only FOUR STUDENTS seated in an otherwise empty classroom.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Where is everyone?
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 5.
text: The Grad Students in the room shrug. These are the hardcore
text: learners, with their laptops out and textbooks open.
text: The class session BELL chimes over the PA. Louise looks back
text: at the door, silently considering something, then decides:
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Well, let’s get started. Today
dialog: we're talking about Portuguese, and
dialog: why it sounds so different from the
dialog: other Romance languages.
text: Louise walks to a MAP of western Europe on a rolling easel,
text: parked next to a TV.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
text: The story of Portuguese begins with
dialog: the Kingdom of Galicia, in the
dialog: middle ages, where the language was
text: seen as an expression of art. The
dialog: way it was written and spoken was
dialog: rooted in aesthetics.
text: One Grad Student’s phone CHIMES with an alert. Louise pauses,
dialog: thinking what the other Students are thinking--
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Any news you want to share?
text: The Student reading his phone frowns, suddenly nervous.
scene_heading: GRAD STUDENT WITH SMARTPHONE
dialog: Uhh, Doctor Banks? Can you turn on
dialog: the TV to a news channel?
text: Louise grabs her TV remote and turns the set to CNN, to
text: reveal AERIAL FOOTAGE from a helicopter, also live, as a
text: REPORTER narrates in a near panic:
speaker_heading: REPORTER IN HELI (V.O.)
dialog: Are you seeing this!? Oh dear god
dialog: what is that noise-- WHAT IS IT--
dialog: should we be this close to it?!
text: FOOTAGE shows wilderness, where a STRANGE, OBLONG OBJECT
text: hovers over the tree line. It absorbs sunlight and its
dialog: dimensions are difficult to grasp -- at times it appears
text: almost concave, poised as if to dig into the planet’s crust.
text: Another helicopter edges into view, and suddenly the scale of
text: the object is clear: It’s the size of a massive skyscraper.
text: Bumper text at the bottom of the screen reads:
text: “STRANGE CRAFT IN MONTANA”
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 6.
text: Amid the WHUFF of the helicopter, a reporter on location is
text: shouting in a voice on verge of a nervous breakdown:
text: The audio cuts out and an ANCHORWOMAN takes over. Cutting to
text: the studio where she pulls her attention to the camera:
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN
dialog: The object, uh, apparently touched
dialog: down forty minutes ago just north
dialog: of I-94, we're, we’re waiting to
dialog: hear if this is perhaps an
dialog: experimental vessel or--
text: She looks for help off-camera and they cut to:
text: MORE FOOTAGE, closer to the ground. The oblong ship is
text: immense. And seemingly without creases or windows.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: Hold on, it-- I’m learning that
dialog: more objects like this have landed
dialog: in as many as eight other locations
dialog: around the world. We’re waiting for
dialog: confirmation-- yes? Can we--? Okay--
text: New footage: a live feed in Japan. An identical CONCAVE SHIP
text: is parked above a stadium lot.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: This is from a site in Hokkaido!
text: The Grad Students all stare in silent horror at the footage.
text: One of them stands up and gathers his stuff, ready to leave.
text: But he only gets as far as standing up. Unsure what to do
dialog: next; where to run to.
speaker_heading: ANCHORMAN (V.O.)
dialog: (panicked)
dialog: This is worldwide, it is happening
dialog: right now! We don’t-- do we know
dialog: where they came from?
text: A campus SIREN spins up; the kind used for tornado warnings.
text: The STUDENTS now start to get their materials together, to
text: leave. Louise snaps out of her shock, and with authority:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Okay, yes, let’s go. Class over.
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: 15
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 7.
scene_heading: EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - MOMENTS LATER 13
text: Louise joins a FLOCK of people on campus hurrying to the
text: parking structures. Nearly everyone keeps looking up from
text: time to time. The SIREN is louder here.
text: Above: Another pair of FIGHTER JETS fly overhead.
scene_heading: EXT. UNIVERSITY PARKING STRUCTURE — DAY 14
text: Louise gets to her sedan, climbs inside, windows down. Her
text: satellite radio plays as she powers the car --
speaker_heading: PRESS SECRETARY (V.O.)
dialog: But for now we’re simply asking for
dialog: cooperation while authorities
dialog: assess the object. Until further
dialog: notice, the site is a no-fly zone.
text: From the street: Sounds of a car accident. It startles her.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (V.O.)
dialog: So you’re saying it’s not ours? Do
dialog: you know if it’s even from Earth?
text: Louise opens her door and steps out again, to look down at:
text: The wreck below. The aftermath. The two DRIVERS panicked and
text: on edge but uninjured.
speaker_heading: PRESS SECRETARY (V.O.)
dialog: We're still collecting information,
dialog: coordinating with other nations.
dialog: We're not the only ones with one of
dialog: these in our back yard.
text: Louise returns to her car and straps herself in.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (V.O.)
dialog: If this is some sort of peaceful
dialog: first contact, why send twelve?
dialog: Why not just one?
text: She backs out, tires yelping at her quick getaway.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE — EVENING 15
text: Her sedan pulls up at the lake house from the opener.
dialog: 16
dialog: 7
dialog: 18
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 8.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE —- FRONT ENTRY - EVENING 16
text: Louise enters with her cell phone to her ear, carrying her
dialog: valise.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: I don’t know, Mom, I’m listening to
dialog: the same news coverage.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don’t-- Mom, don’t bother with that
dialog: channel, how many times do I have
dialog: to tell you not to pay attention to
dialog: those idiots?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: All right then.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 17
text: Traversing a hallway to bedrooms. Louise pulls her shoes off
text: by the heel, switching hands with the phone as she goes.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Do I sound worried? Exactly.
text: Louise pauses at an open bedroom door halfway down the hall.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Me? Oh, you know. The same.
text: There’s a tiredness in her answer. Like she’s been down this
dialog: road with her mother before.
scene_heading: INT. SPARE BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 18
text: An empty room, save for a couple of stray book boxes and a
text: neglected stationary bike in the corner.
text: Louise surveys the room from the door.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I’m fine, Mom.
dialog: (not really)
dialog: Okay, call me later.
text: She disconnects the call and leans against the door frame.
text: Staring into the empty room with a quiet sadness.
text: Finally, having come to some decision, she pushes off again.
dialog: 19
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 9.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM — LATER 19
text: Louise, alone, on the couch. Half a bottle of wine left.
text: The place is furnished nicely, but there are telltale signs
text: of a single occupant in a larger space. No family photos.
text: A recliner by the couch has become a surrogate bookshelf.
text: TV is on. More coverage of the alien landing.
speaker_heading: CNN REPORTER (V.O.)
dialog: .+--and at around eight hours after
text: landing, there are still no signs
dialog: of what might be called ‘first
text: contact.’ The objects measure at
dialog: least fifteen hundred feet tall--
text: Changing channel. Footage changes to a snowy tundra where
text: another UFO has landed and flattened a section of fence line.
dialog: This is a foreign channel. Louise gets international
text: stations. The anchor speaks in Russian.
text: New channel: Another SHIP, hovering over the ocean.
text: AERIAL COVERAGE: Fleets from three different nations threaten
text: each other for possession of the massive UFO.
speaker_heading: NETWORK REPORTER (V.O.)
dialog: --none of whom can claim because
dialog: this ‘object’ as it’s being called
text: is actually hovering over
dialog: international waters. One Iranian
text: cruiser has fired across the bow of
dialog: the Indian fleet--
text: Louise changes the channel.
text: Finding: The press room in the west wing of the White House.
speaker_heading: PRESS SECRETARY
dialog: We have to entertain the idea that,
dialog: if it is a kind of vessel, it may
dialog: be unmanned. Regardless, we have a
dialog: protocol for scenarios like this--
text: The word “protocol” instantly sours Louise to the news. She
text: mutes the TV and shuffles off to her bedroom--
dialog: 20
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 10.
scene_heading: INT. LOUISE’S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 20
text: --picks up a remote off a nightstand and turns on a TV facing
text: her bed. More news, the volume low.
scene_heading: INT. LOUISE’S BEDROOM —- MORNING 21
text: Louise is asleep in bed. The covers are a mess. She’s
text: spooning extra pillows as if they were a bedfellow.
text: Louise wakes with a start, as if from a dream.
scene_heading: EXT. UNIVERSITY CAMPUS — MORNING 22
text: Louise returns to work.
text: The campus is empty. Two STUDENTS hurry between buildings.
text: Louise passes the student center.
text: It’s too quiet.
scene_heading: INT. UNIVERSITY CLASSROOM — MORNING 23
text: Louise enters her classroom. No one has showed up.
scene_heading: INT. LOUISE’S OFFICE - DAY 24
text: A cramped office with a window looking out on the city.
text: Sirens wail in the distance.
text: Louise has barely decorated the place. It’s the sign of
text: someone untethered from the world. Closed off. She sits at
text: her desk, grading papers. Streaming video news coverage plays
text: on her computer.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN (V.O.)
text: Forty-eight hours later, and still
dialog: no further developments from the
dialog: sites of the twelve UFOs. Borders
dialog: are closed and flights--
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (0.S.)
dialog: Two days and already the public
dialog: expects us to know the answers.
text: Louise turns to see the source of the voice at her office
text: door. COLONEL WEBER (50s) wears civilian clothing but his
text: body language screams career military. Callused hands, sharp
text: eyes, rigid posture.
scene_heading: Yellow (06/11/2015) 10A.
text: He steps in and reaches to her computer, powering off the
text: speakers. Behind him, two large MEN stand guard in the hall.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Who are you?
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) il.
text: Weber has his I.D. ready; shows it to her.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I’m Colonel G.T. Weber. You and I
dialog: never formally met but two years
dialog: ago you did some Farsi translation
dialog: for Army Intelligence.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I remember. Alan Boudreau hired me.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Alan works for me. You made quick
dialog: work of those insurgent videos.
text: Louise crosses her arms. He’s touched a nerve.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: You made quick work of those
dialog: insurgents.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You have another two years on your
dialog: SSBI so you still have top secret
dialog: clearance. That's why I’m in your
dialog: office, and not at Berkeley.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Okay...
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I need you to translate something
dialog: for me.
text: As one of the men guarding the door shuts it, giving them
text: total privacy, Colonel Weber places a pocket-sized digital
text: recorder on Louise’s desk.
text: He hits PLAY. White noise, shuffling.
dialog: Then murmured talk, and:
speaker_heading: MAN’S VOICE
dialog: (on recorder)
dialog: Why are you here?
text: In response: A SERIES OF SOUNDS that have no Earthly
text: comparison. An audio mixture of organic clicks, rushing
text: water, whispers, and low-octave moaning.
speaker_heading: MAN’S VOICE (CONT’D)
dialog: (on recorder)
dialog: Can you understand us?
dialog: 12.
text: Almost immediately, the SOUNDS return, this time slightly
text: different. The bass tone is lower. The whispers raspy.
text: Louise listens, rapt. As if she’s waking up from a long
text: sleep. She leans in.
text: Weber studies her face while she listens.
speaker_heading: MAN’S VOICE (CONT’D)
dialog: (on recorder)
dialog: Where did you come from?
text: Before an answer is heard, Weber stops playback and takes
text: back the recorder.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Well? What do you make of it?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Is that...
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Yes.
text: The weight of his answer settles on Louise. Beat.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How many?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: How many what?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How many of them were speaking?
text: Weber raises an eyebrow at her but answers.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Two. Assume they were not speaking
dialog: at the same time.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Are you sure? Do they have mouths?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Keep your focus on the sounds.
text: Weber replays a portion of the recording. The alien VOICE
text: sounds even stranger a second time.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (CONT’D)
dialog: What would be your approach to
dialog: translating this? Does any of it
dialog: sound like words to you? Phrases?
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 13.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I don’t know.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (said not as a question)
dialog: What can you tell me.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I can tell you it’s impossible to
dialog: translate this from an audio file.
dialog: To do this right, I need to be
text: there. Interacting with them.
text: Weber bristles at this.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You didn’t need that for the Farsi
dialog: translations.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It was Burushaski, not Farsi, and I
dialog: didn’t need it because I already
dialog: knew the language. This--
dialog: (points at recorder)
dialog: This is a whole new ball game.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I know what you’re doing.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Tell me what I’m doing.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I’m not taking you to Montana. It’s
dialog: all I can do to keep it from
dialog: becoming a tourist site for anyone
dialog: with TS clearance.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I’m just telling you what it will
dialog: take to do this job.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: We will set up a safe room at a
dialog: facility here in town where you can
dialog: observe video of the conversations
dialog: in real-time. I’1l put you on the
dialog: line with our team at the site.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: No.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 14.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What do you mean, ‘no’?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It won't work that way.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You’1l make it work.
text: Her patience wears thin.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Have they spoken to us in English?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Have they played back any of our
dialog: media, or given you any indication
dialog: they understand us?
text: Weber doesn’t have a reply for this. His eyes shift.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: So in order for this to work, I
dialog: might have to teach them English.
dialog: The basics. Nouns, verbs. I can’t
dialog: do that remotely. I have to be in
text: the room with them.
text: Weber and Louise stare down.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: There is one opportunity here, and
dialog: that is to study them remotely. If
dialog: I leave here, your chance is gone.
text: Weber turns to leave.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Colonel... You mentioned Berkeley.
dialog: You going to ask Danvers next?
text: Weber pauses at the door.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Maybe, why?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Before you commit to him, ask him
dialog: the Sanskrit word for “war” and its
dialog: translation.
dialog: 25
dialog: 26
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 15.
text: She grins at him.
text: Weber exits. After he leaves, her grin fades.
scene_heading: INT. LOUISE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT 25
text: Louise is asleep in her bed. Again with the formation of
text: pillows around her.
text: She wakes to a rhythmic thumping. Low; dull. Her hand goes to
dialog: her heart. It’s not her heart.
text: From her bedroom window: A distant flying object vaguely like
text: a helicopter. One thing is clear: it’s on fast approach.
text: As it gets closer, treetops bend and leaves scatter.
scene_heading: INT. LOUISE’S LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 26
text: Dressed in a bathrobe, Louise crosses to the front windows
text: looking out on her wide, flat front yard.
text: SPOTLIGHTS shine into her house, STROBES pop. We are so used
text: to how a helicopter sounds, but this is different. The engine
text: noises, the rotors -- it’s more muscular; threatening.
text: The lights finally dim to reveal: A Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk
text: has touched down on the lawn. The passenger door is open,
text: slid back to reveal someone riding in the rear compartment.
text: Her doorbell rings. Louise answers it.
text: Weber stands at the door, now in military uniform.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Good morning.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Colonel?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Gavisti.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: That's the word. But what did
dialog: Danvers say it means in Sanskrit?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: He said it means an argument.
dialog: What does it really mean?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: “BR desire for more cows.”
dialog: 27
speaker_heading: A27
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 16.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Pack your bags.
dialog: It hits Louise: She got the job.
dialog: All right. Give me twenty minutes.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You have ten.
text: Louise glares at Weber for just a moment, then dashes off to
dialog: her bedroom.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE —- PRE-DAWN 27
text: Louise (now dressed and carrying an overnight bag) hurries
text: for the Blackhawk. The rotor blades flatten the grass on her
text: lawn and pull at Louise’s coat.
text: Weber helps Louise inside and then shuts the door.
text: The helicopter rises immediately.
scene_heading: INT. BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER - PRE-DAWN A27
text: Louise drops into a bench seat still holding her bag.
text: As she buckles in:
speaker_heading: IAN (0.S.)
dialog: Language is the foundation of
dialog: civilization.
text: Across from her: IAN DONNELLY (late 30s), Oxford shirt, wild
text: hair, fierce eyes, and a smile in the corner of his mouth
text: that makes it hard to tell what he’s thinking.
text: Ian holds a book. He’s reading from it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Pardon?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: “It is the glue that holds a people
dialog: together, and it is the first
text: weapon drawn in a conflict.”
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Louise, this is Ian Donnelly.
text: Neither Louise nor Ian offer to shake hands. They study one
text: another as they talk.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 7.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: That’s quite a greeting.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: You wrote it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It’s the kind of thing you write as
dialog: a preface. Dazzle them with basics.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: It’s good. Even if it’s wrong.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Wrong?
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: The cornerstone of civilization
dialog: isn’t language. It’s science.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Ian is a theoretical physicist from
dialog: Los Alamos. He is the man with the
dialog: questions. You will be reporting to
dialog: me but you’1ll be working with him
dialog: when you’re in the shell.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: The shell?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: That’s what they’re calling the UFO.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Priority one: What do they want,
dialog: where are they from?
text: Weber speaks them as orders. Ian thinks it’s a conversation.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Yes, but beyond that: How did they
dialog: get here? Are they capable of
dialog: faster-than-light travel?
text: Ian pulls a Moleskine notebook from his pocket, excited to
dialog: share from it--
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I've prepared a list of questions,
text: starting with some “handshake”
dialog: binary sequences--
dialog: 28
dialog: 29
dialog: 30
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 18.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How about we just talk to them
dialog: first? Before we start throwing
dialog: math problems at them.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: This is why you’re both here.
text: Ian nods as he puts his notebook up, but it’s clear he’s
text: anxious to get past the small talk and on to the big ideas.
scene_heading: EXT. MONTANA LANDING SITE - DAWN 28
text: Wide angle on approach. A mile out. Roads and highways are
text: crowded with traffic, up against military blockades.
text: In the distance: The ALIEN SHIP, in silhouette behind the
text: rising egg-yolk sun.
text: The ship dwarfs the wilderness around it and stands out like
text: a Massive, strange edifice that would seem ancient were it
text: not hovering over the ground.
text: At this distance, a low TONE starts to resonate in everyone's
text: sternum. The Blackhawk lances over the treeline.
scene_heading: INT. BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER - MORNING 29
text: LOUISE'S POV: The alien ship towers over the field. It seems
text: impossibly balanced, as if it could tip over and crush
dialog: everyone at any time.
text: A mile away, a series of tents have been erected. Up close
text: the ship looks majestic; ominous.
scene_heading: INT. BLACKHAWK - CONTINUOUS 30
text: Louise and Ian stare out the side window at the ship.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Every thirteen hours a sort of door
text: opens up, at the base. That’s where
dialog: we go in.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How many of us are here?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You're the only scientists going
dialog: in. But you both have a team here--
dialog: 31
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 19.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: A team? What kind of team?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
text: Mostly NSA. Cryptanalysts, a couple
dialog: of signal processing experts...
text: A phone handset’s cradle lights up by Weber. He answers it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (sotto, to Tan)
dialog: When’s the next meeting?
text: Ian shrugs -- he just got here. He’s busy making a SKETCH of
text: the ship in his notebook. His notebook is a tiny library of
dialog: all his thoughts and ideas.
text: Weber hangs up.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: We’ll need to hurry you through.
scene_heading: EXT. HELIPAD - MOMENTS LATER 31
text: Colonel Weber, Ian, and Louise are escorted out of the
text: helicopter and into base camp. The camp is divided into two
text: clusters of tents/buildings: OPERATIONS and SCIENCE.
text: CAPTAIN MARKS (barely 30, disciplined; a man of rules) meets
text: Weber and updates him as they walk:
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Materials team called in with some
dialog: early analysis.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Tell me.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Normally you find three or four
dialog: elements in base material. Humans
dialog: have eleven. That thing is made of
dialog: every single element known to us
dialog: plus a dozen we’ve never seen.
text: Weber frowns, worried. But Ian has the opposite reaction: His
text: face lights up in wonderment, and a hundred questions pile up
dialog: in his mind but then —-
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: All right. Take these two to
dialog: Kettler.
dialog: 32
dialog: 33
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 20.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Yessir.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (to Ian and Louise)
dialog: You will follow this man to
dialog: medical. The procedure should take
text: just a few minutes.
text: Louise and Ian keep up with the Captain’s brisk march.
text: A Medevac helicopter powers up on a pad nearby. Someone is
text: strapped to a gurney inside, flanked by two Paramedics.
text: Ian notices. So does Louise. They exchange looks.
scene_heading: EXT. TENT COMPLEX - MOMENTS LATER 32
text: Captain Marks leads them to a large tent.
text: Louise looks back at the ship for a moment. Nervous.
text: Behind her, Ian looks back at it too. Curious.
scene_heading: INT. MEDICAL TENT - MOMENTS LATER 33
text: A staff of military medical personnel are busy testing new
dialog: diagnostic equipment.
text: Captain Marks opens a flap into a room where we find a man in
text: scrubs with a tray of hypodermics. This is DR. KETTLER;
text: professorial, even-toned voice, but a predator’s eyes.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: Louise Banks and Ian Donnelly?
text: Louise nods. Kettler gestures to two plastic chairs. They
text: sit, while he prepares a syringe with a vial attached.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER (CONT’D)
dialog: When is the last time either of you
dialog: have eaten?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Last night.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Same.
dialog: 34
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 21.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: When is the last time you did
dialog: something stressful?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Does right now count?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Who was being carted off on the
dialog: medevac?
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: Not everyone is wired for what
dialog: you’re about to do. Our brains
dialog: aren’t always able to process
dialog: experiences like this.
dialog: (then)
dialog: I’m going to get some blood from
dialog: you, and give you an immunization
dialog: dose that covers a battery of
dialog: bacterial threats. Roll up your
dialog: sleeves, please.
text: Ian begins rolling up his Oxford shirt sleeve. Louise notices
text: Ian is complying, then follows suit.
text: Kettler moves his tray over and wraps a band around Louise’s
text: arm, just above her elbow. As he draws blood:
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER (CONT’D)
dialog: The booster is a kick to your
dialog: system, so you might feel some side
text: effects. Nausea. Dizziness.
text: Headaches. A ringing in your ear
dialog: like you have Tinnitus.
text: Louise looks over at Ian to share a look of: Do you believe
dialog: what Kettler just said?
text: But Ian is staring out a window at the big ship.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT/INTEL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 34
text: Ian and Louise enter this tent that serves as the nerve
text: center of base camp. The room is fitted with dozens of
text: flatscreens, each one monitoring activity of a landing site
dialog: in some other part of the world.
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST (0.S.)
dialog: Honestly they’ve been mostly quiet
dialog: so far. And by the time we start to
dialog: make any real progress, it’s over,
text: and we're out the door again.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 21a,
text: Weber is waiting for them, now in full uniform. Behind him: a
text: large white board.
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST (0.S.) (CONT’D)
dialog: We're trying to reduce our setup
dialog: time, maybe limit the diagnostic
dialog: gear so we can focus more on our
text: friends across the glass.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN (0.S.)
dialog: How long are your sessions?
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 22.
text: On the white board: Twelve columns, with labels of countries.
scene_heading: CHINA / GREENLAND /RUSSIA 1 (SIBERIA) / RUSSIA 2 (BLACK SEA)
scene_heading: / JAPAN / UNITED STATES / SUDAN / VENEZUELA / SIERRA LEONE /
scene_heading: WALES / PAKISTAN / INDIAN OCEAN.
text: Information is written under the columns, and spy satellite
text: plus location photos are peppered throughout. It shows what
dialog: every country is doing at their separate sites.
text: Standing at a MONITOR is a MAN in a suit and tie. Arms
text: crossed over his chest. This is AGENT HALPERN: All business.
dialog: His job is international relations.
text: On the monitor is an AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST talking via VTC.
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST
dialog: The barometer readings don’t
text: change, but like clockwork, after
dialog: forty-six minutes and two seconds
text: the gravity slowly shifts to slide
dialog: us out of the room. Like we’re
text: insects on a piece of paper and
dialog: they’re easing us out of the house.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Is there a scientific explanation
dialog: for it? Like, is it for them?
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST
dialog: We think it’s for us. The air
text: doesn’t seem to circulate in the
dialog: chamber, so after about an hour
dialog: we’d run out of oxygen.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: But it doesn’t take thirteen hours
dialog: to pump fresh air into that room.
speaker_heading: IAN (0.S.)
dialog: Atmosphere.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: If their atmosphere is different
dialog: from Earth, it could take them
dialog: hours to re-balance the oh-two
dialog: content and pressure for us every
text: time they open their door.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: So, you’re saying they could
dialog: suffocate us if they wanted.
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 22a,
text: Weber guides Ian away from Halpern and the monitors, back
text: toward the way out of the tent.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Remember: We need answers as soon
dialog: as possible. Why they are here.
dialog: What they want, what they will give
dialog: us. This is the priority.
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 23.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Have they responded to anything?
dialog: Numbers? Shapes? Fibonnacci?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: We can’t tell what they’re saying
dialog: when they respond to “hello.” So
dialog: don’t get ahead of yourselves.
text: Louise frowns as a new question occurs to her.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What have you figured out?
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - MOMENTS LATER 35
text: On the other side of basecamp: Communications. Weber pulls
text: back the flap and Louise enters, Ian trailing behind her.
text: Inside: A dozen MEN AND WOMEN work at computer stations with
text: large monitors and at an oversized white board. The monitors
text: all display the same kind of data: audio recordings, visually
text: bouncing and fluctuating as the alien VOICES speak.
text: Some of the members approach to shake Louise’s hand, and AD
text: LIB their greetings before returning to analysis work.
text: A few of them remain at their stations, headphones on.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: We're just getting started.
text: Stepping back, Louise asks Weber:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Why not send them in?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Honestly, they all prefer to stay
dialog: out here.
text: Suddenly, a low, deep bass TONE vibrates the tent. A pen
text: falls off a desk. A TECH grabs his coffee mug. The tent-ties
text: CLATTER against the support poles. It’s terrifying.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (CONT’D)
dialog: That’s our ten-minute warning.
scene_heading: INT. “CLEAN ROOM” — DAY 36
text: A miniature Silkwood. Contained showers. Dressing areas.
speaker_heading: A36
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 24.
text: Full HAZMAT suits hang on a wall.
text: Captain Marks brings Ian and Louise in. They each have cotton
text: swabs taped to their elbows now.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Climb into these. I’ll help you
text: with the helmet seals.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What kind of radiation exposure are
dialog: we walking into?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Nominal. These are just for safety.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Is there physical contact with the,
dialog: the-- am I the only one who has
dialog: trouble saying “aliens”?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
text: There’s a wall. Like a glass wall.
dialog: You can’t get to them.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What do they look like?
text: A flashing light winks over the exit door.
text: Captain Marks claps his hands: Let’s go.
text: On Louise, wanting to get off this ride, but she follows--
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP — DAY A36
text: The Shell looms in the distance, at the other end of a mile-
text: long “road” formed in the grass from all the back-and-forth.
text: A dusty PICKUP TRUCK waits for them, its tailgate down, a
text: step ladder planted at its lip.
text: A second TRUCK is already on the road, its bed loaded with
text: gear and two SCIENCE TECHS in similar moonsuits.
text: Nearby, two DRONE OPERATORS launch a surveillance drone into
text: the air, which then flies ahead of the trucks, toward the
text: shell. Leading the way.
dialog: 37
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 25.
text: Louise and Ian are led into their pickup truck. Bench seating
text: has been set up, but it all feels a bit cobbled together.
text: Weber (in his suit and mask) nods at a LIEUTENANT who locks
text: the tailgate into place for them and slaps the truck: They’re
dialog: good to go.
text: The truck starts for the Shell.
text: Louise stares at it with wide eyes. Soon, the sun eclipses
text: the ship and the whole truck succumbs to shadow.
text: HIGH ANGLE: From a perch above the Shell: the two tiny trucks
text: slow as they arrive underneath it.
scene_heading: EXT. “THE SHELL” - MOMENTS LATER 37
text: The craft is even more intimidating close-up. Its surface on
text: the undercarriage portion seems to absorb light.
text: It’s also floating twenty or so feet overhead.
text: Louise and Ian join a small contingent of MILITARY PERSONNEL
text: also in HAZMAT suits, all attending crates of specialty gear.
text: One of them gestures at:
text: A SCISSOR LIFT parked directly under the Shell. Nearby, a
text: second “backup” scissor lift sits parked.
text: She follows Weber, Marks, and two other Science Techs (a
text: total of 6). Her breath is loud in her helmet. She’s shaking.
text: They step onto the Scissor Lift.
text: Captain Marks pounds a button and they start to elevate.
text: A safety CHAIN hooked to the guard rail on the lift RATTLES
text: incessantly. Louise notices it. Looks up again.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It’s just hovering...
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: They probably traveled millions of
dialog: light years, they couldn’t go an
dialog: extra twenty feet?
text: Said with a grin, but no one laughs.
text: The lift is now so close overhead, they can reach up and
text: touch it. The two TECHS do just that -- feeling the surface
text: for some purchase or change. But it’s so dark, there’s no
dialog: real sense of dimension here.
dialog: 38
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 26.
text: Ian tries, too. And suddenly they’re all reaching, feeling.
text: IAN’S GLOVED HAND curls into something. An edge. A hole that
text: can’t be seen on the surface.
text: It widens, as marked by his hand. Opening like a mouth to
dialog: accept the lift inside.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS 38
text: Looking down from within the tunnel: Flashlights clack ON
text: among the team, pointed up, seeking a sense of destination.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Is this how it always goes?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Yes.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: This is the easy part. Our job was
dialog: recon. Now it’s your job.
text: This does nothing to comfort Louise.
text: Above: A distant, indiscernible light.
text: Ian studies the surface of the tunnel as they ascend, moving
text: his flashlight beam over it. In the light’s edge, it seems
text: perfectly smooth, but in the full beam there’s a texture.
text: The lift stops. One of the Techs cracks a GLOWSTICK and
text: throws it straight up.
text: Louise watches it arc up... then veer to one wall, bounce...
text: and then it settles AGAINST THE WALL. Without falling.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Here’s where it starts to get
dialog: strange.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: “Starts?”
text: Everyone in the lift rises maybe an inch, like balloons.
text: Several of them immediately grab hold of the railing.
text: Louise looks down at her HAZ-MAT boots. Noticing the lower
dialog: gravity here. How easy it would be to float away.
dialog: That’s just what TECH 1 and TECH 2 do -- they grab their
text: gear, bend at the knees, and then launch upward in a floaty,
text: slow-motion leap...
text: Yellow (06/11/2015) 26a.
text: Ian lets out a spontaneous little LAUGH as he sees them go,
text: slowly righting themselves to the shift in gravity until
text: they’re both standing next to the glowstick.
text: Captain Marks follows, like it’s nothing; like it’s a commute
dialog: to a job.
text: Ian looks to Louise, as if they're both at the top of a ride
text: in a theme park and he’s looking to see if she goes first.
text: She’s terrified. So he jumps.
dialog: 39
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 27.
text: Ian lands gently, maybe twenty feet up. He looks down at
text: them, opens his mouth to say something, can’t figure out an
text: answer, so instead he turns to face the “top” of the tunnel.
text: And he slowly walks after the Techs. The light-and-dark in
text: the tunnel casts eerie reflections on his mask.
text: All that’s left is Louise and Weber. He can hear her
text: breathing shallow inside her suit.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: This. I don’t. I don’t know if.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: All right. It’s okay.
text: He holds onto her. Firm. Calm. Wise.
text: And then he launches them both.
text: Louise looks up, wide-eyed, fearful she’s breaking the laws
text: of physics, but tucked in next to Weber...
text: They “swim” toward the others, leaving the lift behind...
text: And then they come to rest on the wall/floor of the tunnel.
text: Louise finds her footing. And her breath. And they walk.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS 39
text: The chamber has no hard corners or edges. Vaguely
dialog: rectangular.
text: The room is bisected by a semi-transparent wall. The wall can
text: be seen through, but it renders the other side milky and
text: foggy-- it’s uncertain if the atmosphere on that side is some
text: sort of gas, or if the barrier just makes it seem so.
text: The TECHS with Weber and Marks quickly set up an arsenal of
dialog: video, audio, and other recording equipment to face this
text: glass-like partition. Chemical sniffers. IR and UV cameras.
text: Barometers. And most disturbingly, an old-tech detection tool
text: among the high-tech: A CANARY IN A CAGE.
text: On the other side, the room seems empty.
text: Louise and Ian are speechless. Their breathing is loud in
text: their ears. Colonel Weber steps up to them.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What happens now?
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 28.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
text: They arrive.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: And you’ve always worn this gear?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: The suits? Yes.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: So they haven’t really seen what we
dialog: look like.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What are you getting at?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Context.
text: Comparative data streams on the Techs’ small monitors. They
text: speak quietly into their headset mics behind the group:
scene_heading: ENVIRONMENTAL TECH 1
dialog: Barometric down two point one.
scene_heading: ENVIRONMENTAL TECH 2
dialog: No change in temperature.
text: A sound from the other end of the room quiets everyone.
text: They look to the wall, squinting into the haze...
text: TWO ALTEN FIGURES enter the room, and cause a breathtaking
dialog: silence.
text: They move in a foggy silhouette, making it impossible to see
text: much detail. They appear quadropedal with several appendages
text: along the torso that serve as arms. The arms are spread
text: equally around their bodies like spokes of a wheel.
text: One seems a bit shorter and stouter than the other.
text: Otherwise, their forms in the blurry mist are the same.
text: As they approach their podium, the forms undulate in ways
text: that make them seem like deep-water fish. There is no hint of
text: cavitation around them, yet the aliens move in a way best
dialog: described as “swimming.”
text: The silhouettes settle behind the raised podium.
text: Louise and Ian stare in awe of the creatures. Louise tenses,
text: realizing she’s leading the session. Ian is the only one in
text: the group smiling and nodding to himself, coolly confident.
text: This is right where he’s supposed to be.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 29,
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You’re up, Doctor Banks.
text: Louise tries to control her breathing.
text: Shrouded in the mist beyond the glass, the aliens stare back.
scene_heading: ENVIRONMENTAL TECH 1
dialog: (quietly)
text: Oxygen level dipping, point three.
scene_heading: ENVIRONMENTAL TECH 2
dialog: (quietly)
text: Gravity stable inside the chamber.
text: Ian squints his eyes and leans in.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: Seven? Seven arms?
dialog: (to Louise)
dialog: Are those arms?
text: Louise steps forward. Hesitant. Close to the boundary.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Hello.
text: Beat. No reaction. The vague alien forms stand and wait. They
dialog: are a good head taller than Louise.
text: She clears her throat. Still on the verge of an overload of
text: shock and stress.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Hello.
text: The blurry shapes seem to undulate, but it’s unclear if they
dialog: are moving or if there is some distortion in the partition
text: between their space and Louise’s.
text: Louise gestures at them, looking for some possible gesture in
dialog: response:
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Hello. Can you hear me?
dialog: (then)
dialog: Can you hear-—
text: She’s interrupted by a sudden LOW NOISE from the other side.
text: Followed by a strange endcap: Flutter-tone.
text: Tan and Louise both jump at the sounds, startled.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 30.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: (to Weber)
dialog: Is this what they do?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Sometimes.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What does it mean?
text: Louise looks to Ian, terrified at her own answer:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I don’t know.
text: The alien forms wait. Two “arms” on one of them flex and
text: relax again, seemingly random.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: If we can just... establish a
dialog: common form of communication, maybe
dialog: speech isn’t the--
text: She gestures at them again. No reaction.
scene_heading: ENVIRONMENTAL TECH 1
dialog: (sotto)
text: Thirty-two minutes remaining.
text: TIGHT ON Louise, trying to figure her next move, with
text: everyone waiting on her... Panic rising...
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (O.S.)
dialog: Doctor Banks...
scene_heading: 40 INT. “CLEAN ROOM” — DAY 40
text: Louise takes off her suit’s mask and gulps in air. Her eyes
text: are red from nervous tears. She looks physically drained.
text: She pulls off a glove and notices tremors in her hand.
text: Ian strides in and begins shedding his suit. She watches him.
text: Hears him softly laughing to himself.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Tan...
text: Ian faces her, his hair wild and his eyes wilder.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: Can you believe it? It’s just...
dialog: 4l
dialog: 42
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 31.
text: He shakes his head and laughs again, but Louise detects manic
text: in his voice now.
text: Ian moves suddenly for the bathroom stall behind a divider.
text: Louise hears him vomit into the toilet.
text: Colonel Weber steps in, pulling off his helmet. Oxygen
text: escapes with a soft hiss. He and Louise make eye contact.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: So. Am I fired?
text: Weber sits down opposite Louise.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You did better than the last guy.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: That doesn’t make me feel better.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Well, you got until 1900 hours to
dialog: figure something out.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What happens then?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You go back in.
text: Weber stands up to peel out of his suit.
text: STAYING ON Louise, looking like she just escaped a fire and
dialog: was told to run back into it...
scene_heading: EXT. MONTANA LANDING SITE - EVENING 4l
text: The sun sinks behind the sphere, casting long shadows over
text: the encampment.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT/INTEL ROOM ~ EVENING 42
text: Agent Halpern stands at the communications array, talking to
dialog: the Australian Scientist on the monitor, at the NZ site:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: We're up in fifteen. Got any new
dialog: intel? Anything working?
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST
dialog: We’ve been playing back some of
dialog: their sounds.
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 32.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Where does that get you?
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST
text: They play back audio at us, from
text: some unseen source.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Audio of what?
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST
dialog: Just bits of us talking in the
text: room. Random clips of dialog.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: So, really, we’ve got nothing.
scene_heading: 43 EXT. “CLEAN ROOM"/YELLOW TUNNEL - EVENING 43
text: Colonel Weber stands with Ian by the door. Both men are back
text: in the full HAZ-MAT suits. Waiting.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: How long has she been in there.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: (calling through door)
dialog: Doctor Banks? ...Louise?
scene_heading: 44 INT. “CLEAN ROOM” 44
text: Louise sits on the bench, still in her clothes. The HAZ-MAT
text: suit hangs across from her.
text: Her leg bounces nervously. She’s not ready to go back in. She
dialog: can hear Weber outside:
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (0.S.)
dialog: Did you two get any bright ideas on
dialog: how to talk to them this time?
speaker_heading: IAN (0.S.)
dialog: I’m really not that good at talking
dialog: to other humans.
text: It’s all on Louise. She sits up and looks away from the door,
dialog: afraid to step out...
text: And her attention lands on something. On the wall.
text: A SMALL WHITEBOARD. Used for recording the HAZ-MAT suit
text: cleaning schedule. Names and shifts in dry-erase markers.
dialog: 45
dialog: 46
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 33.
text: Louise sees it and is seized by an idea.
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP/YELLOW TUNNEL - MOMENTS LATER 45
text: Louise emerges in her HAZ-MAT suit, cradling the whiteboard
text: and a dry-erase marker.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What’s that for?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
text: A visual aid.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I’m never going to be able to speak
dialog: their words, if they are talking,
dialog: but they might have some form of
dialog: written language. Or a basis for
dialog: visual communication.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Okay.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Where do you start?
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER — EVENING 46
text: CLOSE ON the whiteboard. Louise has written the word “HUMAN”
text: in large block letters.
text: She stands by the whiteboard, marker in her trembling hand.
text: Ian is with her, along with the team of TECHS behind them.
text: THE VAGUE ALIEN FIGURES are back, on the other side. Quiet.
text: Louise speaks, and points to the word as she does:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Human.
text: She points to herself. Then to others on her side of the
dialog: room, including Weber.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Human.
text: She points at one of the aliens.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 34.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you?
text: Beat. The aliens seem unresponsive, until...
text: They both RETREAT from the screen, deeper into the mist on
text: their side of the room.
text: For a moment, all is quiet. Louise looks to Ian, Ian looks to
dialog: the Colonel.
text: CLOSE ON A NEEDLE-GAUGE: Dead, registering no frequencies.
text: And then it SPIKES to the other side --
text: Before anyone can speak, THE CANARY SQUAWKS in its cage.
text: Its wings flutter frantically.
text: INK GLOBULES float from the mist. Like oil in glycerine.
text: Thousands of drops; horizontal black rain, but intelligent...
text: They all start to form something against the partition:
text: A brilliant LOGOGRAM. An inkblot coffee-cup stain with
text: mesmerizing fractal embellishments.
text: The taller, slimmer alien steps forward and says something:
dialog: Click-flutter-tone.
text: Louise smiles. Nearly laughs. Wants to cry.
text: She just had her first real exchange with an alien.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Are you getting this?
text: Ian has taken control of a static video camera and holds it
text: at an angle that better captures the detail on the barrier.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Absolutely. It’s all downloading
text: back at basecamp.
text: One of the aliens “speaks” again. Flutter-tone, flutter-tone.
text: THE LOGOGRAM MORPHS into another form, replacing the previous
dialog: one. This one more intricate.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Whoa whoa, too fast, fellas.
text: She lifts her marker to make a note. For the first time, her
text: hand isn’t trembling.
dialog: 47
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 35.
scene_heading: INT. “CLEAN ROOM” - NIGHT 47
text: Louise drops the whiteboard by the door.
text: She doesn’t get more than her helmet/mask off before Colonel
text: Weber steps in and confronts her.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I said talk to them, not teach them
dialog: how to read. Do you understand what
dialog: this could mean?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It means if I play my cards right,
dialog: they’ll take some Shakespeare home
dialog: with them.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Only now you’ve made it twice as
dialog: hard, trying to learn how to speak
dialog: and read. That takes longer.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Wrong. It’s faster.
text: Louise starts marching past him. Weber keeps up with her.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I’m not saying no, I’m asking why.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It’s the only way this will work.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Hey. Everything you do in there I
dialog: have to explain to a room full of
dialog: men whose first and last question
dialog: is, ‘How can this be used against
dialog: us?’ So give me something.
text: Louise gestures at the whiteboard.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Kangaroo.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: In 1770, Captain James Cook’s ship
dialog: ran aground on the coast of
dialog: Australia. He led a party into the
dialog: country and met the aboriginal
dialog: people.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 48
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 36.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: One of his sailors pointed to the
dialog: animals that hopped around with
text: their young in pouches, and asked
dialog: what they were called. The
dialog: aborigine replied “Kanguru.”
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What’s your point?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It wasn’t until later that they
dialog: learned “Kanguru” means “I don’t
dialog: understand.”
dialog: (re: whiteboard)
dialog: I need this to make sure we don’t
dialog: misinterpret in there. Otherwise
dialog: this will take ten times as long.
dialog: Time wasted is the key phrase to convince Weber.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: All right. I can sell that for now.
dialog: But submit your vocabulary before
dialog: the next session.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And remember what happened to the
text: aborigines. A more advanced race
dialog: nearly wiped them out.
text: Weber walks off with Captain Marks.
text: Ian steps up, watching them go. Grinning at Louise:
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Is that true? The kangaroo story?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: No. But it made my point.
text: Louise starts walking out the clean room, leaving Ian to
text: shake his head in admiration.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - CRYPTO ROOM - NIGHT 48
text: The team of NSA cryptographers works diligently on one thing:
text: That alien logogram. As if it were the codes from an Enigma
text: machine and the key to winning a war. Louise steps in, sees
text: the frenetic action, and backs out.
dialog: 4g
speaker_heading: Pink (05/18/2015) 36A.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT/SKYPE ROOM - NIGHT 49
text: Through the busy activity at the various flatscreen monitor
text: stations, Halpern stands at one monitor, talking to a man
text: from the Wales Science Team at their landing site.
scene_heading: BRITISH SCIENTIST
dialog: Spent most of the time just trying
dialog: to establish a proper greeting.
dialog: We're analyzing the playback now,
dialog: to see if there is a pattern. I’m
dialog: doing a Zipf law analysis. But I’m
text: worried they aren’t really talking,
dialog: it’s just how they breathe.
dialog: 50
dialog: 51
dialog: 52
dialog: 53
dialog: 54
dialog: Goldenrod (08/03/2015) 37.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Like the time I got bronchitis. OK,
dialog: let me know if you figure that out.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - LOUISE’S DESK - LATER 50
text: Louise studies at her desk.
text: CELLO MUSIC distracts Louise, and she looks up.
text: On a screen, the Japanese site is performing ‘Canon in D’
text: with a cellist in their interview chamber.
text: Louise reviews the logograms from the session printed on
text: large photo paper. The one on top is labeled “EARTH.”
text: She’s circled pieces of the logogram in red pen, making notes
dialog: like “curling ascender = proper noun?”
text: With a straight edge, Louise divides the circular logogram
text: into twelve slices, isolating the different graphical
text: elements in the alien symbol. She labels them 1 to 12.
text: Louise blinks and takes a breath. Rubs the bridge of her nose
text: and works a kink in her neck. Then leans back in, momentarily
text: renewed with focus.
text: A high-pitched RINGING creeps into her ears. She winces--
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) 51
text: Four-year-old HANNAH giggles as she runs from us--
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - LOUISE’S DESK - BACK TO SCENE 52
text: Louise sits up at her desk as if yanked from the memory.
text: She takes a breath, rubs her forehead, confused by that
text: little moment. She stares at the logogram on her desk.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 53
speaker_heading: OMITTED 54
dialog: 55
dialog: Goldenrod (08/03/2015)
scene_heading: INT. BARRACKS - MORNING
text: ON A LAPTOP SCREEN: Aerial footage of the Shell appears.
text: Back from a safe distance. The Shell looks, as always,
dialog: intimidating.
dialog: 38.
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 39.
text: But now with the footage is a SINISTER SCORE added by shock-
text: jock radio host RICHARD RILEY, who emphasizes words--
speaker_heading: RICHARD RILEY
dialog: This is aliens we’re talking about.
dialog: The most important time in our
dialog: history as a people is right now,
dialog: first contact with whoever is
dialog: inside this thing, and who do we
dialog: have running the show? The
dialog: government. The same government
dialog: that ruined our health care and
dialog: bankrupted our military.
text: An image of the cluster of tents around the Montana site
text: appears, obviously shot with a long zoom lens.
speaker_heading: RICHARD RILEY (CONT’D)
dialog: Look at these people! Most of them
dialog: don’t even have guns. We could be
text: facing a full-scale invasion and
dialog: our president is ready to roll over
dialog: and let them take our country--
dialog: REVEAL the LAPTOP is in:
text: The military barracks. And PRIVATE LASKY listens intently to
text: it. Nodding. Glancing out the open flaps of the barracks tent
text: toward the giant Shell in the distance.
text: Three bunks over, a group of SCIENTISTS watch a news program
text: on a separate TV, following riots somewhere. Could be Prague,
text: could be Detroit. One SCIENTIST shakes his head in disgust.
text: Outside, Louise walks past the barracks, on her way to--
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT/SKYPE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 56
text: Louise enters the tent to find Ian and Weber already here,
text: with other team members.
text: Tan has a sketchbook, he’s busy with an art pencil, listening
text: and nodding to the British Scientist on his monitor.
scene_heading: BRITISH SCIENTIST
dialog: We think we were able to reproduce
dialog: some prime-number sequences back at
dialog: them, so that’s something.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Congrats. You’re a parrot.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 40.
scene_heading: BRITISH SCIENTIST
dialog: It’s more than that, you cheeky
dialog: bastard. Don’t you see? They can’t
dialog: seem to follow our algebra system,
dialog: but complex behaviors? That clicks.
text: Beyond Ian: Weber stands with Halpern, watching Middic
text: Eastern news coverage of an armored division mobilizing.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Problem is, that shell dropped at
dialog: the border, so when Pakistan rolled
dialog: out their army to secure the site
dialog: from locals, India got all fussy,
text: amassing two armored divisions at
dialog: the border.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We can’t get them to stand down?
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: And tell them what exactly?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Louise, Ian, this is Agent David
dialog: Halpern with the CIA.
text: Weber guides Louise and Tan away from the bank of monitors.
text: It’s clear he doesn’t like dealing with Halpern.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (CONT'D)
dialog: We need to gain ground today. You
dialog: have your vocabulary list for me?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I do.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (examines her list)
dialog: You're going to teach them your
dialog: name? And Ian’s?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It’s so I can learn their names. If
dialog: they have names. And so I can
dialog: introduce pronouns later.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: These are all grade-school words.
dialog: Eat. Walk. Tool. We need to get
dialog: more specific.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Do you know what a Pulaski is?
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 41.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It's a tool. Used by firefighters.
dialog: We can’t start specific.
text: Weber makes a noncommittal noise and reviews the words.
text: Ian reveals to Louise his sketch of an ALIEN.
speaker_heading: TAN
text: Heptapod. Seven limbs.
dialog: (gesturing at Louise)
dialog: She’s right-- it’s useless until we
dialog: can demonstrate some basics first.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: We have one question: What is their
dialog: purpose here on Earth? It isn’t
dialog: complicated.
dialog: (softening)
dialog: Help me understand.
text: Louise goes to a larger whiteboard stationed nearby and
dialog: writes the question “What is your purpose on Earth?”
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Okay, so this is where we want to
dialog: get. Right? This question.
dialog: (off Weber’s nod)
dialog: To get there, we have to make sure
dialog: they understand what a question is,
dialog: and the nature of a request for
dialog: information along with the
dialog: response. Then there is clarifying
dialog: the difference between a specific
dialog: “you” from a collective “you.” We
dialog: don’t want to know why Joe Alien is
dialog: here, we want to know why all of
dialog: them landed.
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 42.
text: She writes frantically over the words in columns, marking
text: relations with arrows. As she speaks, her voice gets louder
text: and more confident. This is her area of expertise.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Purpose requires an understanding
dialog: of intent. Which means we have to
dialog: find out if they make conscious
dialog: choices or if their motivation is
dialog: so instinctive they don’t
dialog: understand a “why” question, and
dialog: biggest of all, we need to have
dialog: enough of a vocabulary with them so
dialog: we understand their answer.
text: Colonel Weber nods and surrenders to her. Behind Weber, Ian
text: grins devilishly at Louise, even winks at her.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: All right, all right, I get it.
dialog: Stick to your list. Just--
text: Then: That low, bone-trembling BASS TONE echoing out from the
text: Shell, rattling the equipment.
text: Weber scraps what he was going to say, opting instead for:
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (CONT’D)
dialog: Good luck.
scene_heading: INT. “CLEAN ROOM” — MORNING 57
text: Louise and Ian suit up again. Louise notices the tremors in
text: her hands have returned.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER — MORNING 58
text: Louise faces the semi-transparent wall, holding a dry-erase
text: marker in one hand. Ian stands near the whiteboard. Everyone
text: is in full HAZMAT suits again. Weber isn’t here this time.
text: The heptapods watch Louise with a strange curiosity.
text: Louise points at herself.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Louise.
text: The whiteboard displays her name in large letters.
text: Beat. One heptapod speaks. Whisper-—flutter-click.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 43.
text: Inky drops float to the glass and a beautiful LOGOGRAM forms.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Well, that’s progress.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: No. That’s the symbol for “human”
text: again. But with a little curl at
dialog: the end of that leg. Probably to
dialog: indicate a question.
speaker_heading: TAN
text: They’re getting confused.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: You know what-- I can’t do it like
dialog: this. I just--
text: Louise looks over at something behind the Environmental
dialog: Techs: THE CANARY.
text: The little bird flaps its wings and crooks its head at her.
text: It’s alive and well.
text: Louise makes a decision. She takes her HAZMAT mask off.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Whoa whoa hey--
text: Weber's voice pipes in via intercom, from the ops tent:
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (V.O.)
dialog: You’re risking contamination.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: They need to see me.
text: Louise shirks out of the rest of her suit. She’s wearing her
text: civilian clothes underneath.
text: She takes a breath. It doesn’t kill her. Louise moves a step
text: toward the glass barrier...
text: The heptapods advance closer to the barrier. Curious. For the
text: first time, we can see a bit more detail; more focus.
text: Their skin is more mottled than a uniform color. Their torsos
text: move slightly, not from breath but as a jellyfish. And the
text: tips of one heptapod’s “feet” are dark with ink.
text: Everyone holds their breath a beat. Slowly, Louise puts a
text: hand on her heart and repeats:
dialog: Green (07/09/2015) 44.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: My name is Louise.
text: She takes the whiteboard and writes furiously.
text: Flips it around and shows: She’s drawn their symbol for
text: “human” next to the English word “HUMAN” and then a greater-—
text: than symbol leading to her name.
text: The two heptapods are unresponsive.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Ian, introduce yourself.
text: Ian noisily shirks off his HAZMAT suit. Louise looks on.
text: Weber gets more uneasy by the minute.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Made me look like a beekeeper.
text: Ian erases Louise’s name on the board and writes his.
speaker_heading: TAN (CONT'D)
dialog: My name is Tan.
text: A magical thing happens next: The shorter, rounder heptapod
text: steps forward. Click-tone. A small logogram appears on the
text: boundary in front of him.
text: Then the taller one ambles close. Flutter-swallow.
text: A different symbol appears in front of him.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: They have names.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: Yeah... So what do we call them?
dialog: Because if I try to make sounds
dialog: like them, I will end up insulting
dialog: their mothers.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Slim and Stout?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I was thinking Abbott and Costello.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (grins)
dialog: I like it.
text: Cautious, yet mystified, Louise takes another bold action:
text: She steps for the boundary. The light from that mist on the
text: other side of the glass illuminates her face, showing her
text: wonderment.
dialog: Green (07/09/2015) 45.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: (quieter)
dialog: You have names... You're
dialog: individuals. Aren’t you.
text: Tan and Captain Marks watch. Marks doesn’t like it.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Doctor Banks...
text: Louise then puts her HAND on the barrier. Leaves it there.
text: The shorter one (ABBOTT), drifts close, too.
text: And through the vague cloud, something specific: It raises a
text: limb and puts a SEVEN-FINGERED ‘HAND’ on its side.
text: Near Louise’s hand.
text: She smiles, still partly terrified but also reassured.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Now that’s a proper introduction.
scene_heading: INT. INFIRMARY - DAY AAS8
text: Colonel Weber, Agent Halpern, and Doctor Kettler step to one
text: of Kettler’s work tables in a private conference, as if they
text: just arrived in a hurry.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Tell me. Are they a contamination
dialog: risk without the suits?
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: No radiation. Nothing else we can
dialog: detect, either. But I’d give them a
text: strong cocktail, regardless.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Any other sites working like this?
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: No. But no one else has made this
dialog: kind of progress. You saw it.
text: Weber doesn’t like this decision, but he concedes:
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: All right, no suits for those two.
dialog: But watch them closely for any
dialog: signs.
speaker_heading: A58
speaker_heading: B58
speaker_heading: c58
dialog: Green (07/09/2015)
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: (as they leave)
dialog: Signs of what?
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS:
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER ~— DAY
text: Louise shows the word “WALK” and Ian demonstrates.
text: them wear their HAZMAT suits now.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: Session three. We're into verbs.
text: Slow and steady wins this race.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER - MOMENTS LATER
speaker_heading: A58
dialog: Neither of
speaker_heading: BS8
text: Costello saunters along his side of the wall and a heptapod
text: logogram appears. It’s simple yet complex, like a fractal in
dialog: line art.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER — NIGHT
speaker_heading: c58
text: Ian draws a Feynman diagram, next to a set of SCIENCE CARDS.
speaker_heading: IAN (V.0.)
dialog: Session six. Had some trouble with
dialog: basics, but they understand complex
dialog: interactions right away. Not that
dialog: it’s a race, but I’m totally ahead
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: D58
speaker_heading: E58
speaker_heading: F58
speaker_heading: G58
speaker_heading: J58
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 46.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT -~ CRYPTO ROOM - DAY D58
text: Louise debates some element of a logogram with members of her
text: cryptography team in their tent, pointing at a magnified
text: piece of one circular symbol.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.0O.)
dialog: Session eight was a failure. But
text: it’s clear their logograms are made
dialog: of twelve compartments.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER — DAY E58
text: Louise works with a spectrograph as Ian charts a basic
text: geometric curve. The heptapods are unresponsive in their
text: misty chamber.
speaker_heading: IAN (V.0.)
dialog: Session eleven. How can they stare
dialog: at me when I use simple math?
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER ~—- MOMENTS LATER F58
text: A graphic on the glass animates, showing our solar system,
dialog: highlighting “EARTH.”
scene_heading: INT. LOUISE'S OFFICE TENT — NIGHT G58
text: Louise practices drawing her own logograms, trying to mimic
text: the inkblot style. Nearby, the whiteboard with the goal:
text: “WHAT IS YOUR PURPOSE ON EARTH?” Several words leading to the
dialog: question have been marked -- she’s taught them those.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
text: Session fifteen. Back on track.
text: She smirks at a frustrated Ian. Their attention is drawn to:
scene_heading: THE BANK OF MONITORS
text: Footage on screens of anxious crowds massing around other
text: sites. Protesters, fanatics, the hopeful and the hopeless.
text: Ian and Louise watching the footage, disturbed by the effect
text: on the public of the ships’ mere presence.
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP — MORNING J58
text: High angle above the camp at sunrise.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 47.
scene_heading: 59 INT. “CLEAN ROOM”’/YELLOW TUNNEL - MORNING 59
text: Weber gives Louise a notecard before they step out.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
text: When Ian is done with his math
dialog: portion, include this word on
dialog: today’s vocabulary.
text: Louise frowns and hands it back.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: No way.
text: Ian leans over, takes the card and nods at Weber--
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Yeah, we can manage that.
text: Louise, now unsure whom she needs to convince first--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It’s dangerous. We could come
text: across as hostile.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Yes. But I trust you to choose your
dialog: demonstrations carefully.
scene_heading: 60 EXT. “CLEAN ROOM” /YELLOW TUNNEL ~ DAY 60
text: Ian and Louise approach the pickup truck. Louise takes this
text: moment to speak quietly at Ian, through her teeth:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What the hell was that?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I know you’re the language expert,
dialog: but I know how to talk to these
dialog: guys. You don’t say ‘no’ to them.
dialog: You say ‘yes’ and then find a way
dialog: to control the situation.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: So you have them all figured out?
text: Ian smiles sweetly at her. He’s not fighting with her.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: It wasn’t that hard.
dialog: 61
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 48.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER -— DAY 61
text: Captain Marks remains in the room in full HAZMAT suit,
text: monitoring the equipment with another TECH.
text: Ian looks on at Louise, worried. Louise holds a HUNTING KNIFE
text: in her hands, the notecard tucked in one palm.
text: On the semi-transparent wall facing her, the heptapods have
text: written a terse, angular symbol next to the word Louise has
dialog: written: “WEAPON.”
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: There’s your word, Colonel.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (V.O.)
dialog: (through speakers)
dialog: Let’s ask the big question now.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Hold on. We need to distinguish a
dialog: weapon from other devices or else
dialog: they’1l think everything is a
dialog: weapon.
text: Costello whisper-clicks at Abbott, then turns to leave. A
text: doorway irises open on the far wall.
text: Abbott wipes the podium and the logogram vanishes. The two
text: aliens begin to glide away from their stations--
text: Louise realizes they are leaving and calls out--
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Wait. Wait!
text: She steps to the boundary and puts her hand on it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Why are you here?
text: Abbott crooks his head.
text: Louise, desperate, looks back at the printer attached to the
text: still camera capturing everything written by the heptapods.
text: She riffles through the pages, looking for the words.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What can I do?
text: Louise gives him two print-outs.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Hold these up.
dialog: 62
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 49.
text: Abbott looks back at the door where Costello left. Then at
dialog: Louise and Ian.
text: Louise finishes drawing. Shows the board to Abbott. Puts it
text: against the boundary. She’s attempted freehand drawing their
text: gorgeous logograms, and she’s actually done a great job.
text: It’s not quite the phrasing; she hasn’t taught them “why” but
text: instead uses “heptapods purpose Earth” with a curl on the
text: logogram for Earth.
text: Abbott stares a beat. And writes on the podium.
text: As the logogram glows on the divider, Louise steps back in
dialog: shock. She’s translated it already.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What does it say?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: “Offer weapon.”
text: The phrase sends a tense hush through the team.
text: The unidentifiable light source in the interview chamber dims
text: and the transparent wall clouds until it’s fully opaque.
text: Louise, Ian, Captain Marks, and the other in-room Techs face
text: each other as if they've just learned a terrible secret.
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT/WAR ROOM - DAY 62
text: An eruption of sound and chaos, joining in mid-debate with
text: several people talking at once. Halpern is among them.
scene_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS LOUISE
dialog: But you saw what they wrote-- ~-using a word they don’t
dialog: fully understand!
scene_heading: IAN AGENT HALPERN
dialog: It could just be a request-- --or a warning--
text: Over the din of everyone talking and no one truly listening
text: comes the booming voice of Weber in his best stern father:
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Enough.
dialog: (as room quiets down)
dialog: I can’t agree with any of you when
dialog: you’re all talking at once. Now: I
dialog: want to hear theories. Louise?
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 50.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We don’t know if they understand
dialog: the difference between a weapon and
dialog: a tool. Our language, like our
dialog: culture, is messy. In many cases
dialog: one thing can be both.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: In addition, it’s possible they are
dialog: wanting us to offer them something,
dialog: not the other way around. Like the
dialog: first part of a trade.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: How do we clarify their intention
dialog: beyond those two words?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I go back in there. In thirteen
dialog: hours, we go in and clear this up.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: It’s more complicated than that.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How is that complicated?
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Set aside our own reaction to the
dialog: message, we have to consider the
dialog: other nations and how they will
dialog: interpret this.
dialog: (pointing at monitor)
dialog: Like China. Have you met General
dialog: Shang? How about a little round of
dialog: “meet the scary-powerful men.”
text: Halpern points at a profile photo of a distinguished Chinese
text: man in dress uniform: GENERAL SHANG.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN (CONT’D)
text: The call-sign for him is Big
dialog: Domino. Because he’s a tastemaker.
dialog: Whatever Shang does, at least four
dialog: other nations will follow.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We're on good terms with Shang.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: But we can’t say the same for other
dialog: nations where these ships have
dialog: landed. And Russia has control of
dialog: two sites. Twice the data.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 51.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How is that relevant to this?
text: A LIEUTENANT enters to address Weber:
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: Colonel, the Secretary of Defense
dialog: is on the line for you.
text: Weber reluctantly steps out. Halpern takes over:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: We need to sit on this information
dialog: until we know what it means. So we
dialog: aren’t sharing with our enemies.
dialog: We have to consider the idea that
dialog: our ‘visitors’ are prodding us to
dialog: fight among ourselves until only
text: one faction prevails.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: There’s no evidence of that.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Sure there is. Just grab a history
dialog: book. The British with India. The
dialog: Germans with Rwanda. They even got
dialog: a name for it in Hungary.
text: Halpern’s cell phone rings, and before he takes the call--
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN (CONT’D)
dialog: We are a world with no single
dialog: leader. It’s impossible to deal
dialog: with just one of us. And with the
dialog: word “weapon” now...
text: Louise pales. Feeling like she just broke something. She
text: looks for someone to talk to and finds Ian deep in thought,
text: keeping his eyes on the twelve monitors.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: That was my doing. I taught them
dialog: that. So, if we just go back in
dialog: tonight, go in and, and--
text: Frenzied activity at the monitoring station draws their
dialog: attention in time to see:
text: AN EXPLOSION at one landing site, the plume of the firecloud
dialog: lighting up the urban-located Shell-~-
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 52.
text: Communications Team Members stand up now, talking into their
dialog: headsets in four different languages-—-
text: ON THE CHINESE VIDEO STREAM, a Scientist is forcibly pulled
text: away by a Chinese Intelligence Officer who yanks at a cable
text: and then the video feed BLACKS OUT.
text: A moment later, a panicked Russian Officer does the same to
text: their feed. Two more black screens. Siberia and Black Sea.
text: Weber gets off the phone, focused on the feeds.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What's going on? What was that
dialog: explosion at Site Four?
text: Halpern keeps his ear to his phone, but answers:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: China and Russia are off the grid.
text: They aren't speaking to anyone.
dialog: Whatever they learned in their last
dialog: session has them spooked--
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yes sir.
dialog: (to Weber)
dialog: We have orders to do the same.
speaker_heading: LOUISE AGENT HALPERN (CONT'D)
dialog: What? These people are our Until we figure out what the
dialog: allies! Ian, tell him. message means--
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: That is a bad idea. It sends a
dialog: clear signal of hostility. If we
dialog: start this—~
text: A fourth monitor goes dark: Indian Ocean.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: It’s already started.
text: Halpern leans in at one station and orders a Team Member:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Put us on radio silence.
text: ON ONE SCREEN: It’s their own tent, the camera pointed at
text: Louise and Ian. Louise rushes to the mic--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Listen, we got a message from the
dialog: heptapods, “offer weapon--”
dialog: 63
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 53.
text: But as she says “offer” the U.S. SCREEN BLACKS OUT, leaving
dialog: the other countries hanging.
speaker_heading: AUSTRALIAN SCIENTIST
dialog: What is happening? U.S. Team,
dialog: please respond.
text: Louise whirls on Halpern--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Dammit, Halpern! We should be
text: talking to each other.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: You want to talk to them, find out
dialog: what this means. Please. I will
dialog: sleep better if you do.
text: He holds up the printout with the words “OFFER WEAPON.”
text: Louise grabs the page from him and storms off to her desk.
text: Ian (quietly boiling) passes by Halpern and hisses:
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: By then it will be too late.
text: ON THE MONITORS: four of the twelve now blacked out, with the
text: rest talking over each other, panicked... And then a FIFTH
text: monitor goes dark.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - LOUISE’S DESK -— NIGHT 63
text: Louise wears a set of noise-cancelling headphones at her
text: desk, listening to the spoken heptapod language and trying to
dialog: shut out the world beyond.
text: She stares at one of the logograms as she listens to the
text: audio. It’s a circular piece full of whorls and curls.
dialog: Writing notes to herself as she does:
dialog: “They have landed? Earth? Planet?”
text: Louise underlines that last word, she hears a new voice:
speaker_heading: HANNAH (V.O.)
dialog: (pre-lap)
dialog: What’s this word?
text: Louise hears Hannah’s voice and closes her eyes-—
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 54.
scene_heading: 64 EXT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) 64
text: Louise and Hannah (age 8) sit on the picnic blanket, under
text: the shade of a stately oak tree. They share a story book.
text: Hannah points at a page.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: “Planet.” Like Earth is a planet.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Mmmm-- what's that word?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How many words are you trying to
dialog: learn today?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: All of them.
text: Louise smiles and kisses Hannah on the forehead.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT’D)
dialog: Want to see my project for Mrs.
dialog: Garriott’s class?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: All right little-nose, whatcha got?
text: Hannah digs into her backpack and pulls out a sketch.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Supposed to draw what my Saturday
dialog: morning cartoon would look like if
dialog: I had one.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What is this place?
text: THE DRAWING depicts a Man and Woman (stick-figures) holding
text: up a really fat bird-like shape.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: That’s supposed to be a book.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Who are these two people?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: You and Daddy. The show is called
dialog: “Mommy and Daddy Save the World.”
text: Louise's smile sinks. She looks pained.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 55.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Well. That sounds lovely.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You know, it’s okay to be upset
dialog: that your daddy and I...
text: Little Hannah breathes through her nose.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I know. I’m not.
text: Louise brushes Hannah’s hair out of her eyes.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We both love you, very much.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I know.
dialog: (then)
text: It’s just a cartoon. It’s not real.
text: That same high-pitched WHINE escalates and--
scene_heading: 65 INT. SCIENCE TENT - LOUISE’S DESK - BACK TO SCENE 65
text: Louise flings off her headphones and tries to get up, but
text: she’s dizzy. Ian gets up from his station to help her--
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Louise? You okay?
text: Louise recovers from a sudden vertigo. She focuses on Ian.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I... Yeah, fine.
text: She bends over and takes a moment to refocus. When she stands
text: upright she faces a suspicious Weber, who’s come over.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: When was your last check-up with
dialog: Kettler?
text: Louise lets out a breath and passes him by, for the exit.
text: Ian considers going with her. Weber gestures: Stay back.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (CONT’D)
dialog: How about you?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Me? I’m fine.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 56.
text: Weber brings Ian close to Louise’s desk and surveys the
text: heptapod writing scattered over it. He takes a moment and
text: chooses his words carefully.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: A lot of work for one person.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: She’s not alone. We’re making good
dialog: progress. We’re teaching each other
dialog: physics and language.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Good. Learn as much as you can. In
dialog: case we need to bench Doctor Banks.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: No-- you can’t do that.
dialog: (recovers )
dialog: I’m saying, it won’t come to that.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: But if it does...
text: Weber leaves Ian to consider this scenario.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER (V.O.)
dialog: (pre-lap)
dialog: How do you feel?
scene_heading: 66 INT. MEDICAL TENT - DR. KETTLER’S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER 66
text: A pen light shines in Louise’s left eye.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Overworked.
text: Kettler tries to be casual but comes off awkward:
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: That makes two of us. I hear you
text: collapsed in the ops tent.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
text: Probably just lack of sleep.
text: Kettler readies a syringe.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: Well, you're not getting radiation
dialog: poisoning.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 67
dialog: 68
dialog: Goldenrod (08/03/2015) 57.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER (CONT'D)
dialog: We’ll see how your blood tests
dialog: look, but for now I’m going to give
dialog: you another boost. Try and sleep
dialog: this one off, okay?
text: He sinks the needle into her arm. Louise tries not to flinch.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS - [OMITTED]
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP OVERLOOK - EVENING 67
text: Armed SOLDIERS are stationed at regular intervals around a
text: tight perimeter. Disturbing, as the base camp previously did
text: not seem military-led. Their presence is slowly increasing.
text: Private Lasky stands guard, and looks back at the mammoth
text: Shell above him. He’s joined by Private COMBS, who gives the
text: ship a similar look of aggression. They notice each other
text: glaring at the ship, and share a wordless nod of solidarity.
text: Two soldiers who both spotted the enemy.
scene_heading: EXT. HILLSIDE NEAR BASE CAMP — DUSK 68
text: Ian sits atop a sleeping bag, staring out at the massive ship
text: with a look just the opposite of Lasky’s glare.
text: He has a sketchbook open, filled with mechanical drawings,
text: advanced equations, and notes to himself.
text: Louise ascends the hill toward him.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Weber is looking for you.
text: Ian smiles at her.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Why do you think I’m hiding out
dialog: here? Come, join me.
text: She considers it a moment, then sits down next to him as he
text: makes room for her on his sleeping bag.
speaker_heading: AG8
speaker_heading: B68
dialog: Goldenrod (08/03/2015) 58.
text: Louise looks down at the camp, her concern all wrapped up in
text: the military population, while Ian keeps staring out at the
text: massive shell a quarter-mile away.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT’D)
dialog: How are you so good at talking to
dialog: something so unlike us?
text: Louise notices the focus of his gaze and shrugs.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: There’s precedent.
scene_heading: EXT. RANCH - DAY (FLASHBACK) B68
text: Louise with Hannah at a RANCH with a horse. The horse's
text: nostrils flaring, standing eighteen hands tall, a gigantic
text: creature to the scared little 8-year-old Hannah.
text: But Louise puts her hands on the horse. Speaks to it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (0.S.)
dialog: Shh, shh. It’s okay--
text: The horse’s ears spin like radar dishes--
scene_heading: EXT. HILLSIDE NEAR BASE CAMP — BACK TO SCENE B68
text: Back with Ian and Louise on the hill.
dialog: Goldenrod (08/03/2015) 59.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: You know, you approach language
dialog: like a mathematician.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I‘ll take that as a compliment.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: You should! You steer us around
dialog: communication traps I didn’t know
dialog: existed. Which probably explains
dialog: why I’m single.
text: Louise studies Ian’s face to see if he’s being sarcastic.
dialog: He’s not. This is honesty.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: My father worked for a big energy
dialog: company. They’d relocate him every
dialog: year to some new country, and I
dialog: went with him. He used to say
dialog: learning all those foreign tongues
dialog: would make me the center of every
dialog: party. But you know what people say
dialog: when you're sixteen and fluent in
dialog: seven languages? “You're smart.”
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Oh no. “Smart” is bad.
speaker_heading: TOUISE
dialog: People are so afraid of smart.
text: Ian stares at the sky.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: When I was six, my parents bought
dialog: me a globe. One of those big ones
text: on an iron floor stand.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: Goldenrod (08/03/2015) 60.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT'D)
dialog: This was the same year I dressed up
dialog: as a wilderness explorer for
dialog: Halloween. My room was papered with
dialog: hand-drawn maps of my neighborhood.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I studied every inch of that globe,
dialog: and it was the saddest moment of my
dialog: childhood. Everything had already
dialog: been explored.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Next Halloween, I was an astronaut.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: “To boldly go...”
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I’ve spent the last thirty years
text: staring at the sky. Trying to find
dialog: a way out there. Now it’s here, and
dialog: I don’t know how I feel about it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Because you might finally get to
dialog: explore the galaxy?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Because they’ve already explored it.
text: Louise shivers; it’s getting cold up here.
text: Ian drapes a blanket over her shoulders and shares it with
text: her. The two huddle close together, under the massive
text: spherical Shell lit by drifting spotlights.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I feel like everything here comes
dialog: down to the two of us.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: That’s a good thing. Have you seen
dialog: the jokers around us?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Promise me. We’ll do this together?
text: Ian's smile falters, as he recalls his talk with Weber.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: Yeah.
dialog: 69
dialog: 71
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 61.
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP -— NIGHT 69
text: Aerial view. The compound has doubled in size.
scene_heading: INT. “CLEAN ROOM” — NIGHT 70
text: Tan and Louise prep for another session. Ian vigorously
text: applies antibacterial soap to his hands and arms, like a
text: surgeon prepping for the O.R. Louise still refuses to don a
text: HAZMAT suit, but she ties her hair back in a ponytail.
text: Captain Marks enters, carrying a pair of respirators with
text: small oxygen tanks attached.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: New policy. Carry these on you when
dialog: you're in the Shell.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: You're worried we'll run out of air
dialog: inside? Why?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Before the blackout, the Swedish
dialog: site reported their last session
text: ran long by about twenty minutes.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: But they were fine at the end of
dialog: it, weren't they?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
text: They still wear full HAZMAT suits,
dialog: doctor. Like the rest of the world.
text: Tan and Louise trade looks.
text: Dr. Kettler enters, with his medical bag.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: Let’s roll up those sleeves...
speaker_heading: OMITTED 71
dialog: 72
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 62.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER — NIGHT 72
text: Louise leads the team.
text: On the other side of the barrier, Abbott and Costello are
text: waiting. Costello stands at the podium. Abbott is closer to
text: the glass barrier. The glass-like surface is still milky, so
text: no one can get a good look at them.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (to Ian)
dialog: They’re already here.
text: Captain Marks stands at the back. Watchful.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Show them the question.
text: Louise takes a breath and holds up her whiteboard while the
text: Techs set up the video equipment behind her.
text: It reads, in subtitled logogram: “OFFER WEAPON?”
text: Abbott and Costello make little movement. No answer.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: This isn’t working.
text: Louise speaks directly to Abbott, stepping a bit closer:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Are you offering us something?
text: She holds up the whiteboard again.
text: Another quiet conference between Abbott and Costello.
text: More ink floats to the barrier to form a complex LOGOGRAM,
text: followed by the translation in subtitles.
text: “MUST LEARN MORE FROM IAN LOUISE”
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: They don’t have enough of our
dialog: language to share it yet.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Let’s fix that.
text: Captain Marks checks the flatscreen monitors and tablet
text: interfaces behind them -- one for Louise, one for Ian.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: You're good to go.
text: On one monitor, the library of new learned logograms is
text: currently blank. Like a spreadsheet waiting to be filled.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER ~ LATER
text: The sentence on Louise’s flatscreen reads: “Ian gives Louise
dialog: an apple because tomorrow she will be hungry.”
text: On the monitor behind her: the library is FULL of logograms.
text: Abbott replies. The written logogram is displayed: A gorgeous
text: interwoven circle of loops, whorls, and splotches.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What is that?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I think it’s what we wrote.
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: Look. This is the word for “apple”
text: but it’s conjoined with their
dialog: names... I can’t tell where it
dialog: starts or ends.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: No front or back. Like their
text: bodies. And the ship.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 64.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How do you begin to craft a complex
dialog: statement like this? The relation
dialog: each symbol has to another...
dialog: (then)
dialog: You know what? We’ve never seen
dialog: them write. Only the result. Let’s
text: see them in the act of writing.
text: Louise returns to the tablet. Erases the sentence on her
text: screen. And then, instead of preparing words and displaying
text: the result, she triggers the “live sketching” option that
text: shows her writing the letters and words in real-time.
text: She writes the sentence: “Louise writes so heptapods can see
dialog: her writing.”
text: Abbott and Costello crook their heads.
text: Then Abbott approaches the transparent boundary, which
text: becomes clearer than ever before.
text: Captain Marks notices. Tenses.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: (into mic)
text: One is approaching the boundary
text: with two, uh, limbs raised.
text: Abbott reaches the boundary, holding up two of his seven
text: “hands.” He places them at two points on the transparent wall
text: and begins to draw. Ink issues from his hands as he does.
text: Abbott writes a heptapod sentence in real-time. With two
text: hands simultaneously.
text: It is poetry in motion. A dance of ink. He begins at opposite
text: ends, and then writes phrases and symbols in a perfect pair
text: of arcs so that they connect as a circle at the end.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Oh my god. Nonlinear orthography.
text: Ian catches up to what she’s saying.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: They’d have to actually think
text: nonlinearly, then.
text: Louise grabs a tablet synced to the large flatscreen and
text: draws in heptapod logograms. She does it one-handed, but
dialog: she’s quite good at it.
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (V.O.)
dialog: (via intercom)
dialog: Explain.
text: As she draws her logogram, she walks him through it:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Imagine trying to write a long
text: sentence with two hands, starting
dialog: at either end. To do that, you'd
dialog: have to know every single word
dialog: you’re going to write, and the
text: space all of it occupies.
text: Ian struggles to find reference to her logogram.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: What is-- what are you writing?
text: She completes the ornate symbol.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I asked about predictability. If
dialog: “before” and “after” mean anything
dialog: to them. Or if they don’t know what
dialog: that means.
text: Ian shuffles through notes on his tablet.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: When did we teach them any of this?
text: Abbott answers in heptapod with another elegant logogram.
text: Louise smiles and nods at Abbott.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (astonished)
dialog: You can read that?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (V.O.)
dialog: (over intercom)
dialog: Get back to the weapon.
text: Louise sighs and uses her keyboard to type as she asks aloud:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Give weapon now?
text: Abbott draws a simple logogram. The translation: “SOLVE”
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Solve what?
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 66.
text: The transparent boundary clears itself of all its writing.
text: Abbott then draws two lines that meet in the middle to form
text: one long, contiguous line.
text: Abbott gestures at the timeline and speaks: Click-click.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: That’s their spoken word for time.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: How do you know?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I remember how it sounds.
text: Then, Abbott draws a logogram on the far end of the line.
dialog: Louise translates:
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Humanity. That’s us.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: So I see.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: At the end of our timeline.
text: The logogram from earlier forms again: “SOLVE.”
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Son of a bitch.
dialog: He’s giving us homework.
scene_heading: 74 EXT. BASE CAMP - NIGHT 74
text: Louise and Ian leave the trucks for the science tent,
text: escorted by men on either side. Weber walks with them. Louise
text: looks pale and slightly ill.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What is the answer?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I don’t know yet. I have to dig
dialog: into it, figure out what they’re
dialog: even asking.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: This is your new priority. No more
dialog: language lessons until you crack it.
speaker_heading: AT4
speaker_heading: B74
speaker_heading: c74
dialog: 75
dialog: 76
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 67.
text: His voice fades as the group marches on toward the tents,
text: unaware that Louise has stopped walking.
text: She puts her hands on her thighs, suddenly nauseated.
text: Nearby is a PUDDLE of rainwater. The moon is visible in
text: reflection, as is the silhouette of the Shell.
text: Louise stares at the puddle as a ringing swells in her ear--
speaker_heading: QUICK POPS:
speaker_heading: OMITTED A74
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) B74
text: The moonlit lake on the other side of a bedroom window.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) c74
text: Four-year-old Hannah's feet curl, inside pajama footies.
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP —- BACK TO SCENE 75
text: Louise stands upright again. Takes a breath, a little
text: unnerved. And continues on to the cluster of tents, alone.
text: One soldier has remained behind as escort. Watching her with
text: a growing suspicion. Private Lasky. With his rifle.
scene_heading: INT. MESS TENT - NIGHT 76
text: Louise sits alone, rubbing her temples. Her plate: untouched.
text: Ian enters, looking worse for wear. He grabs a pre-made meal
text: and joins Louise at her table. His eyes are bloodshot.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Didn’t expect to see you out.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I’m hiding from Weber.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How goes the riddle?
dialog: Tan grabs
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 68.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: It’s a timeline. I don’t know what
dialog: they’re asking me to solve. Is it
dialog: about population dynamics?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Why do you go there?
text: a salt shaker from the end of the table.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Let me tell you a story about
dialog: probability.
text: He pours a dollop of salt on the table between them. A few
text: quick shakes.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT'D)
dialog: The current world population is
dialog: hovering close to eight billion,
dialog: but we started out as just a
dialog: trickle, right? Things got really
dialog: populated in the last couple of
dialog: centuries, so here’s humanity:
text: He then shakes out a salt line for a bit until he unscrews
text: the cap and dumps a heap at the end.
speaker_heading: TAN (CONT’D)
dialog: This line represents the population
dialog: of the whole history of humanity.
text: Estimated at just over 100 billion.
dialog: What that means is: About eight
dialog: percent of every human who ever
dialog: lived is alive right now. And that
text: puts us at this pileup at the end.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: The end?
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: Well, some people call this an
dialog: “extinction burst.” I don’t,
dialog: because I think it’s junk science.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How can you be so sure?
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: People have been predicting the end
dialog: of civilization for ages. But
dialog: someone always comes along and
text: kicks us further down the timeline.
scene_heading: Yellow (06/11/2015) 68A.
text: Ian spreads out the salt like sand, and runs his finger
text: through it in a line, punctuating one end. The timeline.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 69.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Maybe it doesn’t happen this time.
dialog: They’re warning us. We’re running
dialog: out of time.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I can’t tell that to Weber.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Weber? The CIA guy is who worries
dialog: me. Halpern.
text: Louise suddenly winces and rubs her temples.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: How are you holding up?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
text: Headaches.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: My brain is scrambled.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I hear they have the prefabs up
dialog: finally. We get private housing.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (distant)
dialog: Yeah...
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Hey.
text: He reaches across the table and takes her hand in his.
text: Louise looks at Ian. Then at their hands.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT'D)
dialog: We'll get through. It’s all right.
text: She pulls her hands from him, suddenly shy.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I’m sorry, I just... I’m feeling
dialog: raw and unstable and...
text: Colonel Weber enters the mess tent and sets his sights on
text: Ian. Calls out from the door:
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Tan. You're needed in operations.
text: Ian keeps his focus on Louise.
speaker_heading: A76
speaker_heading: B76
dialog: c76
speaker_heading: D76
dialog: 77
speaker_heading: ATT
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 70.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I’1ll see you later.
dialog: (once more)
dialog: We’ll get a win soon.
text: Tan leaves. When he’s gone, Louise’s headache returns.
speaker_heading: OMITTED AT6
scene_heading: INT. PEDIATRICIAN’S OFFICE - DAY (FLASHBACK) B76
text: Hannah and Louise hold hands on the exam bed. Louise is
text: fighting back tears.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) C76
text: Louise stares at a shelf full of Hannah’s awards. Photos of
text: Hannah in sports, at band concerts, in a theme park.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) D76
text: Louise is bent over in her bathroom, ill.
scene_heading: EXT. MESS TENT - NIGHT 77
text: Louise is bent over a trash can as if she just vomited. She
text: coughs, looks around like she’s lost.
text: She notices tears in her eyes. Wipes them.
text: It disturbs her. She fights back the intense emotional impact
dialog: of these memories.
text: It takes a few breaths for her to compose herself.
speaker_heading: REPORTER (V.0.)
dialog: (pre-lap)
dialog: And why do you want to see the
dialog: ships destroyed?
scene_heading: TV COVERAGE - SOME LANDING SITE - NIGHT AT7
text: Handheld camera interviewing a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN holding a
text: sign in a protest line outside a barricade. She’s been
text: crying; her eyes are red with tears. And she speaks English.
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 80
dialog: 71.
text: Ticker at bottom of screen: “UFO ‘TRUTHER’ MOVEMENT GROWS”
speaker_heading: MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN
dialog: Because! It’s not right. We are the
dialog: only ones in this universe. This
dialog: whole thing is a hoax. Why d’you
dialog: think they haven’t shown an alien
dialog: up close? It’s all a conspiracy!
text: The sound of a KNOCKING wrenches from the news clip to--
scene_heading: INT. HOUSING PRE-FAB - BEDROOM - NIGHT 78
text: Louise wakes suddenly in bed. She’s fallen asleep atop the
text: covers, still in her clothes. Clutching a pillow as if it
dialog: were a child.
text: The loud KNOCKING comes again. And she gets up.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSING PRE-FAB - FRONT DOOR ~- MOMENTS LATER 79
text: Louise opens the door to find Weber and Ian standing outside,
text: their breath pluming in the cold air.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: May we come in?
text: Louise frowns.
scene_heading: INT. HOUSING PRE-FAB —- LIVING AREA - MOMENTS LATER 80
text: Louise, Weber, and Ian sit in this hotel-room-sized space.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: How are you feeling?
text: Louise tries to read the situation. Something is wrong.
text: Ian looks concerned. Weber looks suspicious.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I just need sleep. I’m fine.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You want to tell me what’s going on?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I don’t-- what, what happened?
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 72.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You used seven words in the last
dialog: session you never used before. And
dialog: you wrote all of them in heptapod.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What? What words?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You had three different exchanges
dialog: no one on our side of the glass
dialog: could follow.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Show me. I’1l tell you what I
dialog: wrote.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: That’s not the problem here!
text: Weber's getting more frustrated. Ian steps in to defuse:
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: All this focus on alien language.
dialog: Look, I did some research and
dialog: there's this idea that immersing
dialog: yourself in a foreign language can
dialog: rewire your brain--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, yes.
dialog: The theory that the language you
dialog: speak determines how you think.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Are you dreaming in this language?
text: Louise looks from Ian to Weber. Guarded.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What does that...? I’ve had a few
dialog: dreams. That doesn’t make me unfit
dialog: for the job.
text: Weber shows her a paper document signed at the bottom.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: This might.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: That’s just a prescription for my
dialog: headaches, Kettler--
text: Then she notices something.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 73.
text: THE SIGNATURE FORM, revealing Louise has signed her name in a
text: circle. Like a cursive logogram.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Kettler tells me you signed it with
dialog: your left hand. You’re right handed.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Well. I. I mean...
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: It was one thing when no one could
dialog: understand them. It’s another when
dialog: no one but you can.
dialog: (directed at Ian)
dialog: You think you can manage in the
dialog: room on your own now?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What?
text: Louise focuses on Ian now, her eyes pleading.
text: Ian sees her, this woman on verge of a breakdown, suddenly
dialog: quite fragile. It pains him, but he believes it--
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: If I had to. Yes.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Tan. Come on. Wait, just--
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (stands)
dialog: I’m pulling you out.
text: Louise and Ian follow. Louise intercepts Weber at the door:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I need to be in there. This is all
dialog: I do. Take it away and I’m just a,
dialog: what, a prisoner.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Louise, you just need to recover--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (snaps at Ian)
dialog: Shut up!
dialog: (to Weber)
dialog: This won’t work without me. I’m the
dialog: only one they really talk to.
dialog: 82
dialog: 83
dialog: 84
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 74,
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Which is why I can’t afford to lose
dialog: you! Do you get it now?
text: Suddenly frustrated by his confession, Weber steps back out
text: into the cold. But Ian pauses outside her door. Turns around
text: to face Louise again.
text: Louise looks devastated; untethered.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: I’m sorry. I got worried--
text: But she shuts the door on him.
scene_heading: EXT. MONTANA LANDING SITE — MORNING 81
text: The Shell gleams in the rising sun, casting a shadow over a
text: slice of the science camp site the shape of a tombstone.
scene_heading: EXT. “THE SHELL” ~ MORNING 82
text: Privates Lasky and Combs set heavy A/V boxes at a staging
text: area by the scissor lift.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - IAN’S AREA — MORNING 83
text: VIDEO of Abbott and Costello plays on a screen. The last
text: session in the room. Fast-forwarding to the appearance of the
dialog: timeline. Pause.
text: Ian studies it on the monitor at his desk. His team of
text: SCIENCE EXPERTS argue and gesture at one another in the
text: background, around a large table.
text: Behind him: A glass screen displays the timeline riddle,
dialog: big as life.
text: Ian rubs his face. Downs his coffee. Goes at it again.
scene_heading: EXT. HOUSING PRE-FAB —- MORNING 84
text: Weber knocks on Louise’s door.
text: Beat. Louise opens the door just a few inches.
text: Her eyes are bloodshot. She’s wearing yesterday’s clothes.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What.
dialog: 85
dialog: 86
dialog: Goldenrod (08/03/2015) 75.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Did you sleep?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: A little.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I need your brain.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: You're putting me back in?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: (evading)
dialog: Do you know Mandarin?
speaker_heading: OMITTED 85
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT/SPY ROOM - MORNING 86
text: The two push through the tent flap, and Louise is startled--
text: EVERY SINGLE TV SCREEN is filled with footage of violence.
text: Gunfire at the grounds of another alien site. Riots at
text: another. Naval maneuvers on the Indian Ocean.
text: Weber hands Louise a set of headphones, and replays a video.
text: ON SCREEN: Spy footage of two CHINESE MEN meeting at a camp
text: not unlike the Montana site. Muddled voices in Mandarin.
dialog: Louise translates:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: He’s saying each of the twelve is
dialog: offering advanced technology.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Spies report India and Sudan have
text: already received theirs. Like sets.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: A86
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 76.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Sets? I don’t know what he means-—-
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Something about an advantage. With
dialog: suits, honor, and flowers?
text: The clip ends abruptly. Weber takes the headphones back.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: We don’t know what it means,
dialog: either. But an hour ago China
text: scrambled fighters at airfields in
dialog: four different bases, and Sudan is
text: following suit. “Big Domino” is
text: about to start something.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Following suit...
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Suits, honor, and flowers. Colonel,
dialog: those are tile sets in Mahjong. Oh
dialog: god, have they been using a game to
dialog: converse with their heptapods?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Maybe. Probably easier than trying
dialog: to teach Mandarin. Why?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Say I taught them chess instead of
dialog: English. Every conversation is a
dialog: game, every idea expressed through
dialog: opposition-- victory and defeat.
dialog: You see the problem? If all I ever
dialog: give you is a hammer...
text: Weber looks back at the monitors, suddenly getting it.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: ..-Everything’s a nail.
text: Halpern enters, riled up. Steps up to Weber.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: May I have a word, Colonel?
text: Weber nods to Louise: Dismissed.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - MOMENTS LATER A86
text: Louise enters, distraught. Goes to her desk.
text: ANGLE ON IAN, engrossed in his study of previous sessions,
text: until he hears Louise gathering papers at her desk.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 77.
text: He sees her through the timeline screen bisecting their
text: workspace. It’s like the glass barrier in the chamber.
text: After a beat, he decides to approach her.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Hey.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Hey.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: How are you doing?
text: She keeps gathering printouts of logograms. Shoving material
text: into folders.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Why do you want to know?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Why? Because I-- because you were
dialog: starting to scare me.
dialog: (steps closer)
dialog: You would have done the same for
dialog: me, if you were in my shoes.
text: Louise turns to him now. Vulnerable, and mad about it. But
text: refusing to cry in front of him.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Oh, so I should see things from
dialog: your perspective, but did you ever
dialog: see it from mine? Just once?
dialog: (re: Timeline)
dialog: You got the symbol for ‘humanity’
dialog: wrong. Doesn’t that say it all.
text: She walks around to the other side of the screen and makes
dialog: adjustments by touch.
text: Ian watches from Louise’s desk on the other side... and he
text: nearly gasps in surprise.
text: From his POV, the timeline is reversed. And the logogram that
text: means ‘humanity’ now looks the same from either side.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Louise...their word is an ambigram.
text: It reads the same front or back.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It is? Oh-- You’re right.
text: He marvels at this mirror image of the timeline problem.
dialog: 87
speaker_heading: Blue Draft (05/06/2015)
dialog: ~
dialog: ©
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: On your side, the human race is at
dialog: the end of its time. But here-- to
dialog: the heptapods—- we’re just getting
dialog: started.
text: The low BASS TONE reverberates through the tents.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS (0.S.)
dialog: Ten minutes to session. Ian--
dialog: you’re up.
text: Louise leans in to Ian to keep him focused on the problem in
text: front of him.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How does that help us?
text: Ian frowns, thinking... then, in a sudden Eureka moment, he
text: gets it. Claps his hands--
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: My god. It’s not a problem at all,
dialog: it’s a choice.
text: He charges off, right out of the tent.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Ian? Ian, wait—-
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP — CONTINUOUS 87
text: Louise trails after Ian, who’s headed right for the pickup.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What choice?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: That’s what they’re saying. It’s
text: like a warning label on a power
dialog: tool. Whatever they’re offering us,
dialog: we can use it to flourish for
dialog: millions of years, or we can do
dialog: something stupid and end it all
dialog: right now.
text: Halpern steps out of the Ops Tent with Weber and zeroes in on
text: Tan leading Louise for the Shell door.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Doctor Banks!
text: Tan grabs Louise by the hand. He’s not going in alone.
speaker_heading: A87
dialog: 88
dialog: 89
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 79.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Come on.
text: Louise hurries after Ian.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: No one authorized you back inside--
text: But the two pile into a pickup and Ian peels out.
text: Halpern moves for the second truck, where two HAZMAT-suited
text: TECHS arrive looking confused -- the rest of Ian’s team.
scene_heading: EXT. “THE SHELL” — DAY A87
text: Ian slides the pickup to a stop close to the scissor lift.
text: Louise hurries out on one side, Ian following. Neither of
text: them in suits or with respirators.
text: In the distance, the other truck is on approach, leaving a
text: rooster tail of dust behind it.
text: Ahead, the scissor lift DESCENDS from its high perch at the
text: surface, revealing Lasky and Combs in full suits.
text: Ian and Louise climb in as they step out. Louise makes eye
dialog: contact with Lasky.
speaker_heading: PRIVATE LASKY
dialog: You can’t go in there.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: She’s with me.
text: Ian punches the ‘up’ button on the lift.
text: Louise checks to see how close the other truck is, but then
text: her attention drifts back to Lasky and Combs, below.
text: They both just stand and watch them, clutching their rifles.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 88
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER - MOMENTS LATER 89
text: Louise and Ian arrive to find Abbott already here, advancing
text: for the glass barrier. Abbott’s movement suggests an urgency.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Abbott?
speaker_heading: Pink (05/18/2015) T9A.
text: The timeline draws itself on the glass. And beneath it a
text: symbol appears. Louise points to it:
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: “Solve.” It’s all on you now.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: Is there a symbol for “choice?”
dialog: Both timelines are possible, it all
dialog: depends upon what we choose to do
dialog: with their offer.
text: Louise nods.
text: But then the tablet powers down; shorts out on its own.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Wait, what just--
dialog: Abbott writes on the barrier. Adding to the previous:
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: “Solve here.” He wants me to write
text: on the glass.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Can you?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It’s a complicated sentence. I’m
text: trying to figure it out.
text: Louise approaches the boundary, opposite Abbott.
text: The wall becomes more and more transparent, revealing Abbott
text: more intimately than ever before.
text: The alien gestures at her.
text: Louise tentatively puts up two hands, then lowers one.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I can’t. I can’t draw both ends at
dialog: the same time.
text: She holds her right hand up against the glass. It reacts by
text: forming ink on Abbott’s side.
text: As she does, Abbott holds up one hand against the glass on
text: his end, to the left of her position.
speaker_heading: AA89
speaker_heading: A89
speaker_heading: Yellow (06/11/2015) 79B.
text: Louise regards him curiously. Then she takes a breath, and
text: begins to draw one end of this elegant, complicated circle.
text: As she does, Abbott draws on his end. Working in the opposite
text: arc toward Louise’s starting point.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What is he doing?
text: Louise’s eyes widen as she realizes...
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: He's being my other arm. He’s
dialog: finishing my sentence.
text: The two co-authors finish simultaneously, connecting the arcs
text: of their logograms into a circle.
text: REVEAL an angle showing Abbott's hand perfectly aligned with
text: Louise’s, only the transparent wall between them.
speaker_heading: QUICK POP:
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - HANNAH’S ROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK) BA89
text: Baby Hannah reaches up from her cradle, her little infant
text: hand outstretched like Abbott’s. Louise reaching down to let
text: Hannah grip mom’s pointer finger.
scene_heading: INT. INTERVIEW CHAMBER - BACK TO SCENE A89
text: Louise snaps out of that quick vision. She takes a step back.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: That’s... That’s it.
text: Looking at it head-on, the logogram is complete.
text: Then: A tapestry of heptapod logograms begin flowing across
text: the entire transparent wall, like wallpaper patterns.
text: They appear with dozens of GEOMETRIC EQUATIONS. Circles.
text: Angular shapes. Equations in heptapod with Arabic numerals
text: around them like liner notes. A waterfall of data. It pours
text: down the screen.
text: PRESSING IN on Ian, who smiles broadly.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: This is it.
dialog: (into headset)
dialog: This is the gift!
speaker_heading: Yellow (06/11/2015) 79C.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (V.O.)
dialog: (over headset)
dialog: We got it over here.
dialog: (to Tech)
dialog: Christ, how much is this --
dialog: (back to Ian)
text: It’s two terabytes of data.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 80.
text: Abbott begins miming the “walk” action they taught earlier.
text: Simultaneously, a new set of logograms form from ink
text: splattered harshly against the glass --
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What is he saying?
text: Louise approaches the barrier, frowning.
text: Meanwhile, a faint BEEPING begins quickening somewhere in the
dialog: interview chamber.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Those are our names...
dialog: (translating)
dialog: Must leave?
dialog: (to Abbott)
dialog: You're asking us to go?
dialog: She gets close now--
text: Ian approaches a DUFFEL BAG toppled by the glass barrier on
text: the floor, getting closer to the sound-~
text: Pulling it away to reveal: A_set of wired C4 CHARGES stuck
dialog: against the glass--
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Louise!
text: Ian runs to grab Louise--
text: Louise looks back at Abbott-- he’s warning them--
text: Suddenly the gravity shifts in the chamber-- Louise and Ian
text: find themselves sliding AWAY from the barrier, right back
dialog: into the tunnel--
text: Louise looks one last time at Abbott and sees:
text: He’s pressing his seven-fingered hand to the glass once more.
dialog: The way he did when she first shared her name.
text: This image shrinks as gravity takes Louise away from the
text: chamber and then with a cacophonous BOOM--
text: The interview chamber is ENGULFED IN A FIREBALL, with an
text: impact so hard Louise sees it SHATTER THE BARRIER--
text: Ian and Louise stop sliding, but then the firecloud rolls
text: toward them out the chamber and into the tunnel--
speaker_heading: B89
dialog: 90
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 81-82.
scene_heading: BLACK. NO SOUND.
text: A beat. Then:
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - HANNAH’S ROOM - MORNING (FLASHBACK) B89
text: Louise and 4-year-old Hannah are on the bed. Louise has
text: fallen asleep with a storybook on her lap. Hannah leans in
text: and WHISPERS into Louise’s ear--
text: Louise’s eyes SNAP OPEN--
scene_heading: INT. MEDICAL TENT - INFIRMARY - DAY 90
text: TIGHT on Louise waking with a start.
text: A bandage has been taped to her forehead.
text: She sits up, and instantly regrets it. Her head hurts.
text: Kettler approaches.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: Careful. You suffered a concussion.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Tan... Is he--
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
text: Three broken ribs and a sprained
text: ankle, but otherwise he’s fine.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: How long was I out?
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: About two hours. Been strangely
dialog: quiet ever since.
text: Kettler tends to her, examines her pulse and temperature.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Who...?
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
text: It was a couple of soldiers. They’d
dialog: been watching too much TV, afraid
dialog: the gift was going to kill us all.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We don’t need help from another
dialog: race to do that.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: Pink (05/18/2015) 81-82A.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: (then)
dialog: What happened to them? The
dialog: soldiers.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: The agency man, Halpern, he shot
dialog: them, but it was too late.
text: Outside: The entire camp is mobilized. One tent one the edge
text: of camp is in the process of being collapsed.
text: Even more sobering: A truck parks nearby, towing the SCISSOR
text: LIFT used to get up into the Shell.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What’s going on now?
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
text: Preparing to evacuate.
text: Louise tenses. She looks around -- Ian isn’t in the tent.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Where is Ian?
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER
dialog: Weber came and got him, maybe ten
dialog: minutes ago. He wouldn’t leave
dialog: until he knew you were okay. But
dialog: your whole tent is on the clock to
dialog: figure out whatever it is you were
dialog: given up there. Because we’re
text: pulling up stakes.
text: Louise immediately gets up, past Kettler, and goes for the
text: tent exit.
speaker_heading: DR. KETTLER (CONT’D)
dialog: Medevac is on the way!
dialog: 91
speaker_heading: OMITTED
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015)
dialog: 83-84.
dialog: 91
dialog: 92
speaker_heading: OMITTED
speaker_heading: OMITTED
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015)
dialog: 85.
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 86-88.
dialog: 94
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 89.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - CRYPTO ROOM —- THAT MOMENT 94
text: The alien data spreads across all the flatscreens.
text: Weber watches it, arms crossed.
text: Ian stands at one computer, cycling through some subset of
text: the data. His button-down shirt is loose, showing the tight
text: bandage wrap around his ribs underneath.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Is this all of it? The feed wasn’t
dialog: cut before the explosion?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Not as far as we can tell.
text: Ian is visibly relieved.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: We should combine my team with
dialog: Louise’s and get them all working
dialog: on this.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I don’t know yet. But they’re
dialog: finally speaking my language.
text: Louise enters the tent, shoving the flap aside.
text: Weber sees her coming.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Doctor Banks--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We are not leaving.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Glad to see you’re awake.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (rolling through it)
dialog: We need to get back in there, talk
dialog: to them, explain what happened, it
dialog: wasn’t our fault——
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You’re not going back inside.
dialog: 95
speaker_heading: Pink (05/18/2015) 89A.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We have to.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What happened in there was an
dialog: attack. We can hope for the best,
dialog: but I have orders to prepare for a
dialog: retaliation. So we’re leaving in
dialog: twenty-four hours.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: That’s the wrong move. As long as
dialog: they stay, we have to stay. We have
dialog: to keep talking.
text: A low, STRANGE TONE reverberates through the tent.
text: This one is not the tone they’ve heard before.
text: And it’s accompanied by a RUMBLE.
scene_heading: EXT. SCIENCE TENT — DAY 95
text: Louise, Ian and Weber emerge from the tent to see:
dialog: 96
dialog: 97
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 90.
text: The Shell lifts higher into the sky.
text: It rises, vibrating everyone’s rib cages, the air beneath it
text: undulating as if reflected on water.
text: Then, several hundred feet up... it stops.
text: And hovers. Parked there. Staring down.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Well. They’re not leaving.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Why does this feel worse.
scene_heading: EXT. SCIENCE TENT — NIGHT 96
text: Outside, the canopy of stars above is staggering.
text: The Shell remains in the sky, partially eclipsing the moon.
text: Tilting down to find the Ops Tent, bustling with activity.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - NIGHT 97
text: Close in: the data playing out on a large flatscreen.
text: The twelve landing site MONITORS are all black.
text: Ian and Louise sit together, down from their early high of
text: receiving the gift. Now they face a mountain of material.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I don’t get it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: We’ve only been at this an hour.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: No, I mean-~ what is it?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I recognize maybe one in every
dialog: twenty logograms. It will take some
dialog: time to unpack the rest.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: But look at their math. This is
dialog: their code; their building blocks.
dialog: But I don’t know where anything
dialog: starts or ends! It may as well be
dialog: random.
text: Strange RORSCHARCH-LIKE DIAGRAMS animate on screen.
dialog: 98
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 91.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It can’t be random.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: I know.
text: Tan gets up and starts pacing. Stares at the dark monitors.
speaker_heading: TAN (CONT'D)
dialog: I wonder how the Brits are doing.
text: He kicks at the back of his chair and storms off.
text: Louise is too tired to get up and go after him. Her eyes are
text: heavy and she’s still wounded from the explosion. She rakes
text: her fingers through her long hair and stares at the screens.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (0.S.)
dialog: What’s this term here?
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - LOUISE’S STUDY - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 98
text: Louise reads papers at her desk. She runs her fingers through
text: her short hair, like she just did.
text: Her study is walled with books, and her desk allows her a
text: view through the open door all the way down the hall.
text: Hannah (age 12) steps to the threshold. Leans against it.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Mom.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Sweetie.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What's the term for that thing,
dialog: like a technical term, where we
dialog: make like a deal, and we both get
dialog: something out of it?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: A compromise?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: You remember what it sounds like?
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 92.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Like it’s a competition but both
text: sides end up happy.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Like a win-win?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: More science-y than that.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: You want science, call your father.
text: Louise returns to her papers. Hannah frowns.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: You always do that. You and Dad.
dialog: Put in just a little effort and
dialog: then kick me to the other parent.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Hannah, that’s not fair.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: It really isn’t!
text: She storms off down the hall. Louise watches her go. Tries to
dialog: think of what to say.
speaker_heading: TAN (V.O.)
dialog: Louise--
scene_heading: 99 INT. SCIENCE TENT —- LOUISE’S DESK - DAY 99
text: Louise snaps her head up, having drifted off to sleep at her
text: work table surrounded by computers.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: No. I’m up.
dialog: (then)
dialog: What time is it?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: That question is irrelevant, if
dialog: you’re a heptapod.
text: He smiles at her. Eager.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: You cracked something. Didn’t you.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 93.
text: Ian nods. He grabs a bottle of HAND SANITIZER stowed atop a
text: comms shelf and his pen-sized laser pointer.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I found something that demonstrated
text: Fermat's Principle of Least Time.
text: Tan shines the laser at the sanitizer and oddly, we can SEE
text: THE BEAM cutting through the bottle. Ian moves the pointer as
dialog: he talks, demonstrating:
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT’D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Light always knows the shortest
dialog: route to a point in terms of time,
dialog: even if it has to change course.
dialog: For a long time we thought it was
dialog: cheating. Like how does it know the
dialog: shortest path is this curve?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: The heptapods know?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: More than that.
text: He triggers an animation sequence of data that looks like a
text: three-dimensional network of nodes. Then one strand GLOWS
text: inside the network, linking two disparate parts.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT’D)
dialog: It’s how they see everything. How
dialog: they travel. Except the shortest
text: path is outside space and time.
dialog: With this, we could build a space
dialog: ship with no rockets. We’d just--
dialog: (snaps fingers)
dialog: ~-and we're there.
text: Louise catches her breath.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It's not a weapon.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Yeah. Well... Nobel thought the
dialog: same of dynamite...
text: Nonetheless, Louise is visibly relieved.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT’D)
text: There’s something else. At the tail
dialog: end of the code.
speaker_heading: Yellow (06/11/2015) 93A.
text: Tan makes a few keystrokes on a monitor and brings up an
text: image on a large flat-screen.
dialog: 100
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 94,
text: THE SCREEN shows a series of intertwined logograms. Like a
text: Persian rug of alien data.
text: Ian magnifies one corner... revealing:
text: “1 / 12" -- followed by an elegant little symbol.
speaker_heading: TAN (CONT’D)
dialog: They used Arabic numerals.
dialog: “One of twelve.”
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (a-ha moment)
dialog: Do you know what this means?
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT - “WAR ROOM” — DAY 100
text: Connected to the Operations tent, but made private, walled
text: off from the screens and the noise. Mainly it’s just a
text: conference table, some comms gear, and a world map.
text: Louise, flanked by Ian, confronts Colonel Weber at the
text: conference table with Agent Halpern.
text: She holds up the printout.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: This is just one piece of it. What
dialog: they're telling us, right here, is
dialog: that ours is one of twelve. We’re
text: part of a larger whole.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Or we’re one of twelve contestants
dialog: for the prize.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (to Weber)
dialog: Why do I have to talk to him?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You did your job, now he gets to
dialog: run the show.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (to Halpern)
dialog: We need to talk to the other sites
dialog: and help them with whatever they've
text: gotten from the other heptapods.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: In case you don’t remember, we're
dialog: blacked out. So are the other
dialog: nations. We’re on our own.
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 95.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: This is telling us the pieces go
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: And I’m telling you no one else
dialog: believes that.
text: Halpern swivels his laptop around and shows a recording:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN (CONT’D)
dialog: Two hours ago we pulled this audio
text: off a secure channel in Russia.
dialog: Someone on the science team there
dialog: was broadcasting wide.
text: He clicks playback, and we see a screen go black with English
text: translation appearing as the recording plays over the sound
dialog: of pounding on the door--
speaker_heading: RUSSIAN SCIENTIST (V.O.)
dialog: Their final words translate to,
dialog: “There is no time, many become
dialog: one.” I fear we have all been given
dialog: weapons because we answered the
dialog: timeline wrong, please, if you--
text: With the CRACK of a gunshot the recording abruptly ends.
text: Louise begins to fray at the edges. Staving off panic:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Well, I mean, there are ways to
dialog: interpret what he said...
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: I don’t need an interpreter to know
dialog: what this means. Russia just
dialog: executed one of their own experts
dialog: to keep their secrets.
text: He clicks through to show on his monitor:
text: Every Shell now hovers over their site. From Hokkaido to
text: Wales, the massive spheres hang in the air. Waiting.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: “Many become one” could just be
dialog: their way of saying “some assembly
dialog: required...”
dialog: 101
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 96.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Why hand it out to us in pieces?
dialog: Why not just give it all over?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What better way to force us all to
dialog: work together, for once?
text: Halpern looks to the other people in the room. Weber studies
text: him carefully. Ian nods, in support of Louise.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Even if I did believe you, how in
dialog: the world are you going to get
dialog: anyone else to play along and give
dialog: up their data?
dialog: Ian jumps on this one:
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: We offer our own in return.
text: Halpern looks to Weber. Is he serious?
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: A trade.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: So it’s a non-zero-sum game.
text: Louise hears this and it dawns on her--
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - LOUISE’S STUDY - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 101
text: Hannah storms down the hall. Picking up right where we left
text: her from the previous flashback.
text: Louise sits forward, with that same look of realization:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: A non-zero-sum game!
text: Hannah stops. Turns back around.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: That’s it! Yes! Thank you, Mom.
text: Hannah shuffles back into her room.
text: Louise slowly touches her face, an even deeper question now
dialog: creeping into her mind: Did I just alter my own past?
dialog: 102
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 97.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER (V.O.)
dialog: (pre-lap)
dialog: What did you just do?
text: Louise seems to hear the voice beside her and look--
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT - “WAR ROOM” - BACK TO SCENE 102
text: Weber stands at her side. Behind him, by a set of comms
text: stations, Halpern and his team are on phones.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I’m-- I’m sorry?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Nobody locks horns with the CIA
dialog: like that. What motivated you?
text: Louise is still a bit lost, reeling from the effect she just
dialog: had on her own memory.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Family.
text: Weber is surprised and confused by this answer.
text: They’re interrupted by Halpern, who steps up with:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Nine of the landing sites have gone
dialog: total comms blackout. Only way to
dialog: reach them is to physically drive
text: there and yell at the border guard.
dialog: Which we're doing, but it won’t be
dialog: fast enough.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: There's gotta be some way to get a
dialog: message to them.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: To our allies, maybe, but at this
text: stage it’s too little too late.
dialog: What we need is to get all the
dialog: nations online before one starts
dialog: global war, and there’s no way for
dialog: us to reach them.
dialog: It’s a living nightmare for Louise; all that needs to happen
dialog: is for people to talk to each other, but no one will. Then:
speaker_heading: IAN (0.S.)
dialog: Yes there is.
speaker_heading: A102
speaker_heading: B102
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 98.
text: All eyes on Ian.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT'D)
dialog: It’s right over our heads.
text: He taps a screen displaying the Shell hovering outside.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Maybe you see how that’s
dialog: problematic for us now.
text: PRESSING ON LOUISE, as the others discuss options:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN (0.S.)
dialog: And if their intent is global war?
speaker_heading: IAN (0.8.)
dialog: Then at least we know.
speaker_heading: QUICK POP:
scene_heading: INT. CYLINDER CHAMBER — DAY A102
text: Louise is in a dark space of unknown dimension, lit from a
text: bright light on one side, wearing a breathing mask, her hair
text: dancing weightlessly around her face--
scene_heading: INT. OPERATIONS TENT - “WAR ROOM” — BACK TO SCENE B102
text: She snaps out of the vision, looks around:
text: The men are still arguing.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: I’m not having our decisions
dialog: outsourced to the enemy--
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: They aren’t the enemy, when have
dialog: they made any act of aggression
dialog: toward us?
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Maybe this is their way of being
dialog: aggressive!
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: That isn’t the question.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Then what is?
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
speaker_heading: Al04
speaker_heading: B1l04
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 99.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: How do we get you back in the room
dialog: when it’s half a mile straight up?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I’m sure Louise would--
text: They all look to where Louise was standing.
text: She’s gone now.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 103
scene_heading: EXT. OPERATIONS TENT - DAY 104
text: It’s raining when Ian, Halpern, and Weber step out. Halpern
dialog: is first to point out:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Vehicle's missing.
text: Another low BASS TONE emanates from the ship-- and it seems
text: to PUSH THE CLOUDS around it like a ripple on water.
scene_heading: INT. “THE SHELL” - CONTINUOUS Alo4
text: FROM BLACK, a circle of BLACK separates and shrinks.
text: It takes us a moment to realize we’re inside the ship,
text: looking straight down as a cylinder descends to the ground.
scene_heading: EXT. OPERATIONS TENT - CONTINUOUS B104
text: Ian grabs a pair of binoculars from an OFFICER and looks out
text: in the direction of where the Shell had been.
speaker_heading: BINOCULARS POV:
text: Through magnification he sees the cylinder descend...
text: And where it lands is close to where LOUISE now waits for it.
text: Both of them are tiny, almost silhouettes at this range.
text: But it looks like Louise has a breathing mask in her hand.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN (0.S.)
dialog: What the hell is she doing?
text: She steps into the cylinder.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: What you hired her to do.
dialog: 106
dialog: 107
dialog: 108
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 100.
scene_heading: INT. CYLINDER CHAMBER — CONTINUOUS 105
text: Plain, dimly-lit from below, cramped.
text: Louise puts her fingers on the inside wall, feeling it--
text: --and then the cylinder seals her up inside, in darkness.
scene_heading: EXT. LANDING SITE - CONTINUOUS 106
text: The cylinder elevator lifts off. Noiselessly.
scene_heading: INT. CYLINDER CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS 107
text: Louise can feel the acceleration in her stomach, and in the
text: pitch of the low tone reverberating inside.
text: She looks around for anything else in the chamber with her.
text: No windows. No views outside.
text: Outside the walls of the chamber, another metallic ROAR.
text: Followed by a distant HIGH PITCH.
text: Louise waits for a portal to open. None do. She’s trapped
dialog: inside this space.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: «.-Hello?
text: At her feet, light sets the floor aglow.
text: And then a luminous GAS seeps in and begins to rise around
text: her. Filling the cylinder.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh god-- oh god oh god--
text: Louise puts on the oxygen mask as the barrier rises up to her
text: shoulders, then her neck and finally up over her head--
text: UNDERNEATH, the world is bright and mostly clear, and yet...
text: Louise’s hair drifts up around her face as if she were
text: underwater. Louise breathes through the mask. Looks around.
text: A portal opens up opposite her. Light shines on her face.
scene_heading: INT. “THE SHELL” - CONTINUOUS 108
text: Louise steps out to a dimensionless sea of bright mist.
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 101.
dialog: No walls or ceiling.
text: She looks up to see what might be a heptapod drifting into
text: the white void far above her.
text: Her breath is shallow. She is in a truly alien place now.
dialog: There is no reference for this experience.
text: Something dark and enormous “swims” through the mist, passing
text: by her, always just far enough to make it impossible to see
text: clearly -- it could be a swarm of small things, or something
text: the size of a blue whale.
text: And then a heptapod approaches from behind her. Louise spins
text: around in time to see it as its seven limbs advance to her.
text: Beat. She finally controls her breathing.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Costello?
text: Costello stands with limbs poised before her...
text: Then the mist clears a bit, revealing more of his heptapod
text: body. The limbs and torso? What seemed to be the entire form
dialog: of the alien? Not so. It is more like the fingers and hand of
text: a much larger being.
text: Costello towers over her. She looks up, in awe.
text: And then it writes on the invisible floor beneath them. With
text: two fingers. Ink sluicing out from them into a logogram.
dialog: SUBTITLES: “Louise.”
text: Louise takes a breath.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Where is Abbott?
text: Costello moves the ink around with one appendage and a new
text: logogram forms.
text: SUBTITLES: “Abbott is dead.”
text: Louise holds her stomach, she’s hit so hard by this.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: I’m sorry. We are sorry.
text: The logogram ink shifts again. Louise looks down to read it.
text: SUBTITLES: “Abbott chooses to save Louise and Ian.”
speaker_heading: Yellow (06/11/2015) 101A.
text: Another ink-shift for a second logogram:
dialog: SUBTITLES: “Louise has question?”
text: Louise remembers her mission. Her reason for making the trip.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: I need... need you to send a
dialog: message. To the other sites.
text: Costello replies by modifying the first logogram.
text: SUBTITLES: “Message here. Louise has weapon.”
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: That’s just it, I--
dialog: (directly)
dialog: What is your purpose here?
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 102.
text: Costello stares down at her.
text: Inky globules drift in from the mist, showering not randomly
text: but into patterns. Circles. A hundred logograms. A thousand.
text: Click-click, flutter-whisper-tone. SUBTITLES: “The story of
dialog: our people. A span of two point nine billion years.”
text: Louise marvels at it.
text: A chain of them light up at her feet, shifting for her to
dialog: see. Louise reads it aloud:
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: “Three thousand years from this
dialog: point, humanity helps us. We help
dialog: humanity now. Returning the favor.”
dialog: (to Costello)
dialog: You know both your past and your
dialog: future... How?
text: A podium screen rises between Louise and Costello. The
text: timeline riddle appears. Up close, more details are visible.
text: It’s more artful than a simple line segment with a large
text: bulbous flourish at one end. There are little stems and curls
text: along the line. And then that familiar logogram--
scene_heading: SUBTITLES: “Solve.”
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT’D)
dialog: Did we answer wrong?
text: A NEW SERIES OF SYMBOLS: “Many answers given. Many become
dialog: one. Only one matters.”
dialog: The message the Russian Scientist translated, in part. Louise
text: looks back at the timeline.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: But I don’t understand, it’s time--
dialog: (then)
dialog: Time. Wait. Is it? What's the
dialog: logogram for time...
text: Louise is seized with a realization. She reaches out and
text: touches the timeline on the screen. Nudges it. It moves.
text: From both ends, she wraps the line into its own circle... an
text: exact representation of the logogram. It pulses when she
text: completes the action.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: Time...
speaker_heading: A108
speaker_heading: B108
speaker_heading: c108
speaker_heading: D108
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 103.
text: Then, a few more inky shapes bleed into the symbol for a
dialog: crucial sentence.
dialog: The awareness causes a memory attack--
speaker_heading: QUICK POPS:
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) A108
text: Hannah age 8, skipping stones in the lake.
scene_heading: EXT. MONTANA LANDING SITE - DAY (FLASHBACK) B108
text: The Shell landing in Montana.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - LOUISE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) C108
text: Louise at home alone.
scene_heading: INT. “THE SHELL” - BACK TO SCENE D108
text: Louise sucks in a breath, mentally returning to present day
text: in a panic. Even more confused and frightened.
text: Costello retreats from her, as she translates the sentence--
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: “There is no linear time”--
dialog: (then)
dialog: Wait! What is happening to me?
dialog: What_do I do?
text: The ship shudders. The THRUM returns as the cylinder
text: descends, to seal Louise inside once more.
text: Costello turns to her, some of his arms float in the air like
text: the strands of Louise’s hair. Despite his unearthly figure,
text: he seems to look upon her with tenderness. A final logogram
text: forms on the floor between them:
dialog: SUBTITLES: “You already have. You choose life.”
text: The THRUM increases in urgency. That same cylinder rises
text: around her feet to encase her once again.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: I don’t understand-- WAIT--
text: With a ROAR, the cylinder seals her up, into darkness.
dialog: 109
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 104.
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP — DAY 109
text: From the top of the hill, the massive Shell begins to TURN on
text: itself. Rotating, yet remaining in place. Like spinning a
text: billiard ball on its axis.
text: The ovoid craft reverses its hemispheres until finally it’s
text: sitting upside-down from its previous position.
text: Louise emerges from behind the hill, running toward us. Her
text: hair is damp from the exposure to the alien atmosphere.
text: Three pickup trucks rush toward her. SIX MEN in full HAZMAT
text: suits grab LOUISE, as the spaceship starts to leave the
text: ground with an ASTONISHING SOUND.
text: Ian is among the men. He calls her name but it’s drowned out
text: by the sound of the ship overhead.
text: The spaceship then disappears in the clouds.
text: Everyone outside base camp stares up at the sky, every face
text: fretting and worried about what it means.
text: Weber is among the six. He steps close to Louise, grim.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You got everyone’s attention with
dialog: your little field trip.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I hope you got good news, too.
text: Captain Marks rushes to Weber:
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Sir! We’re getting the order from
dialog: command to evacuate immediately.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN MARKS
dialog: Big Domino.
text: Captain Marks and Weber move for the War Room tent.
text: Louise gives Ian a pained look. Like she’s lost and afraid.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Tan... I don’t know what it means.
text: Louise wobbles a step. Ian holds onto her.
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Whoa now. I got you.
text: Louise looks down at her boots--
text: They’re covered in mud from the slog across the field--
scene_heading: 110 EXT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) 110
text: Louise stands on the back patio, one hand on a deck post. Her
text: boots are covered in mud. She looks around. It’s raining.
text: A 7-year-old Hannah comes in from the rain and sits down on
text: the bench at the patio.
text: Louise reaches up and feels the length of her hair. Looks at
text: her hands. Notes her wedding ring-- she’s still wearing it.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (0.S.)
dialog: Help me, mommy.
text: Hannah struggles to get her muddy shoes off.
text: Louise bends down and starts to work the laces.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Baby? What day is it, do you know?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Sunday.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Are you gonna leave me like Daddy
dialog: did?
text: Louise snaps back to full attention on her daughter.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Hannah, honey, your father didn’t
dialog: leave you. You’1l spend time with
dialog: him this weekend.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
text: He doesn’t look at me the same way
dialog: anymore.
text: Louise touches Hannah’s hair. She has so much love for her
dialog: daughter.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Oh, god. I’m... That was my fault.
dialog: I told him something he wasn’t
dialog: ready to hear.
dialog: 111
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Believe it or not, I know something
dialog: that’s going to happen. I can’t
dialog: explain how I know, I just do. When
dialog: I shared it with Daddy, he got real
dialog: mad. Said I made the wrong choice.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Why? What’s going to happen?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It has to do with a very rare
dialog: disease. And it can’t be stopped.
dialog: Kind of like how you are when you
dialog: get focused on swimming, or poetry,
dialog: or any of the amazing things you
dialog: share with the world.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I’m unstoppable.
text: Said like a little mad scientist. Louise brings Hannah in
text: close, to hide the fact that she’s trying not to cry.
text: Louise breathes in the smell of Hannah’s hair.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (to herself)
dialog: Hold onto this moment--
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP — BACK TO SCENE 111
text: Ian holds onto Louise.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: Hold onto this moment.
text: She realizes she’s back. Sucks in a breath. She’s crying.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: What just happened?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I remembered something.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What was it?
text: Louise looks into his eyes. Then pulls him in for a hug.
dialog: 112
speaker_heading: A112
speaker_heading: B112
speaker_heading: c112
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 107.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Why my husband left me.
dialog: Ian didn’t expect that answer.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: You were married?
text: Louise wipes her eyes and struggles to find her game face.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - MOMENTS LATER 112
text: The translators, scientists, and techs are gone here. ARMED
text: SOLDIERS now populate the place, tearing down all non-
text: essential material as fast as possible. Halpern supervises.
text: Louise rushes in and gets to a keyboard at her hutch. She
text: calls up the heptapod data on the screens. Spreads it to
text: every available screen. Loops and whorls of logograms, all
text: strung together like DNA strands. Geometric formulae animate
text: around the cursive writing. A wall of alien graffiti.
text: Ian hurries in behind Louise.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: It's too late for this. We’ve only
dialog: cracked maybe one percent of it,
dialog: it'll take weeks-—-
text: Louise puts up her hand, silencing Ian. She closes her eyes.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - LOUISE’S STUDY - DAY (FLASHBACK) All2
text: Louise pulls a hardback book from a box of advance copies.
text: Its cover: “The Universal Language” by Dr. Louise Banks.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - LOUISE’S STUDY - DAY (FLASHBACK) B1l12
dialog: The table of contents show twelve chapters.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE ~- LOUISE’S STUDY - DAY (FLASHBACK) C112
text: Hannah’s drawing is now framed.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (V.O.)
dialog: That's supposed to be a book.
text: The girl’s handwriting: “Mommy and Daddy save the world.”
speaker_heading: D112
dialog: 113
dialog: Pink (05/18/2015) 108.
scene_heading: INT. SCIENCE TENT - BACK TO SCENE D112
text: Louise’s eyes snap open, and she takes in the sight of all
text: the alien symbols once more.
text: She lets out a ragged breath, in awe of it.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I can read it...
dialog: (then)
dialog: Ian, I know what it is.
text: A new SIREN now begins to wail around the campsite. Louise
text: and Ian look up, unsure what to do.
text: Colonel Weber enters and marches for them with Captain Marks
text: behind him-—
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: You two: We’re evacuating you right
dialog: now. Come on.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What’s happening?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: War, that’s what.
text: Weber grabs onto them both and wills them into motion.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Wait-- I figured out the gift!
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: Good for you.
text: He ushers them outside--
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP - HELIPAD - CONTINUOUS 113
text: --and they keep marching for the helipad, despite Louise
text: trying to slow things down.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: It's their language. They gave it
dialog: all to us. It’s in twelve parts
dialog: because I separated their first
dialog: symbol into twelve segments-- and
dialog: they knew I would. Understand?
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: So we can learn heptapod if we
dialog: survive. Not much of a gift.
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 109.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (emphatic)
dialog: When you learn it, truly learn it,
dialog: you perceive time the way they do.
text: Weber stops as they’re two dozen feet from the chopper. He
text: has to shout over the sound of the rotors and the siren.
speaker_heading: COLONEL WEBER
dialog: I see we are out of time. We did
dialog: our best, but it wasn’t enough. The
text: dominoes are falling now.
text: Weber gestures at Ian to suggest: Get her on the chopper.
text: Then he turns and hurries back for the ops tent.
text: Louise stands, rigid with tension. Ian tugs at her:
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Come on!
text: Louise whirls around to face Ian but when she does--
scene_heading: INT. BALLROOM — NIGHT 114
text: --she is dressed in a RESPLENDENT RED EVENING GOWN. Her hair
text: is done up. She looks stunning.
text: All around her is a cocktail party in full swing. Classical
text: music plays from a live band nearby.
text: Louise looks around and takes in the ambiance. A dozen
text: national FLAGS hang on the walls as a symbol of unity. On a
text: stage (currently unoccupied), that heptapod logogram for
text: “time” is on prominent display.
text: The crowd of PARTYGOERS is international and dressed up.
text: One of them sets their sights on Louise and advances: A
text: distinguished Chinese man (65) in a tailored tuxedo. She has
text: seen him before, on monitors. GENERAL SHANG.
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: Doctor Banks, what a delight.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: General Shang. The pleasure is
dialog: certainly mine.
text: They shake hands, but Louise offers a slight bow.
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: Your President said he was honored
dialog: to host me at the celebration, but
dialog: I confess I am only here because I
dialog: wanted to meet you in person.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Me? Well. I’m flattered.
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: Eighteen months ago, you did
dialog: something... remarkable. Something
dialog: not even my superior has done.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: What was that?
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: You changed my mind. In a way, you
dialog: are the reason for the unification.
dialog: All because you reached out to me
dialog: on my private number.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Your private number? General, I
dialog: don’t know what, uh...
text: Shang shows her his sleek SMARTPHONE. It’s open to an ID
text: screen with a number. She accepts it, staring at the screen.
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: Now you do. I do not claim to know
dialog: how your brain works, but I believe
dialog: it’s important you see that.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Wait. I called you, didn’t I...
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: You did. And you spoke to me. I
dialog: will never forget what you said.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: General, you must forgive me. I’ve
dialog: had a bit to drink tonight. I might
dialog: need a reminder.
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: Yes. You warned me of this as well.
text: He looks over his shoulder, to make sure no one is
text: eavesdropping. Then he leans close to her.
dialog: 115
dialog: Buff (08/20/2015) 111-112.
text: She turns her head so he can speak into her ear.
text: The classical MUSIC plays and the other Partygoers chat,
text: providing a drone of noise.
text: Louise’s eyes widen. She puts her hand over her mouth.
text: Above the music and chatter, that high RINGING TONE builds up
dialog: again, overtaking it all--
dialog: Louise blinks and--
scene_heading: EXT. MONTANA LANDING SITE - DAY 115
text: She’s right back where she was a moment ago. Ian tugs at her
text: to get into the helicopter.
text: Louise sucks in a breath like she was just pulled from cold
text: water. The memory of the future leaves her shaking.
speaker_heading: TAN
dialog: Come on!
text: But she doesn’t follow him. She turns and runs for the tents.
text: Ian runs after her.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT’D)
dialog: Louise!
dialog: All6é
speaker_heading: B116
dialog: c1ié
dialog: Buff (08/20/2015) 113.
scene_heading: INT. NEW OPERATION TENT 116
text: Halpern watches a monitor as others around him pack up for
text: evacuation. One of the SYSTEMS OPERATORS seated near him
text: frowns and gets Halpern’s attention.
speaker_heading: SYSTEMS OPERATOR
dialog: Sir! A sat line here is dialing
dialog: China.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Here? What do you mean “here”?
speaker_heading: SYSTEMS OPERATOR
dialog: Base Camp, sir.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR All6
text: Louise hurries down the corridor. Sat phone to her ear.
text: Waiting for an answer on the other end of the line.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: C’mon, C’mon...
text: A voice on the other end answers. It’s Shang. Louise gets a
text: jolt of hope.
scene_heading: INT. NEW OPERATION TENT B116
text: Halpern is now leaning over the Systems Op, focused on his
dialog: screen.
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: Whose phone is it?
speaker_heading: SYSTEMS OPERATOR
dialog: Sir, it’s your phone.
text: Shocked and alarmed, Halpern looks to the table for his
text: phone. It’s not there. Now Halpern is on the move, as he
dialog: goes:
speaker_heading: AGENT HALPERN
dialog: (to CIA)
dialog: Search the base now!
scene_heading: INT. CLEAN ROOM c1l6
text: Louise enters the clean room, speaking urgently with Shang.
speaker_heading: D116
speaker_heading: E116
speaker_heading: Buff (08/20/2015) 113A.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (in Mandarin)
dialog: General, I’m calling from the
dialog: American site.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR D116
text: CIA and Soldiers search the base.
scene_heading: INT. CLEAN ROOM E116
text: Louise speaks with Shang as two soldiers arrive in the clean
dialog: room.
text: Louise locks herself in the chamber, still talking to Shang.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (in Mandarin)
dialog: Your wife spoke to me in a dream,
dialog: she said you'd help save the world
dialog: by being braver than everyone else--
speaker_heading: SOLDIER #1
dialog: (in headset, to Systems
dialog: Op)
dialog: We found the source of the call,
text: waiting for instructions.
text: Tan arrives from Yellow Tunnel, opens the door of the
dialog: chamber.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Louise! What are you doing?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Changing someone’s mind...give me
dialog: 20 seconds.
text: Ian gets in the chamber and locks the door.
text: Halpern arrives from Yellow Tunnel and draws a gun. The two
text: soldiers raise their rifles on the other side of the chamber.
text: Ian locks the second door and puts himself between the
text: soldiers’ guns and her.
speaker_heading: HALPERN
dialog: Drop the phone now or we shoot!
text: Ian protects Louise from both sides with his body.
dialog: 4%
speaker_heading: HEF FF HHH OF
speaker_heading: OF
dialog: Buff (08/20/2015) 1138.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: You can’t stop this now.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: (in Mandarin)
dialog: War doesn't make winners, only
dialog: widows.
text: She listens briefly and then drops the phone.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (CONT'D)
dialog: I already did.
scene_heading: F116 EXT. HELICOPTER FIELDS F116
text: Weber, talking to officers, is interrupted by another
dialog: officer.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Colonel, urgent message from the
dialog: Pentagon.
scene_heading: G116 INT. CLEAN ROOM G116
text: On the walkies: "China is standing down!!!”
text: Halpern, hearing the news, lowers his weapon.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: What did you do?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I repeated what his wife told him
dialog: before she passed away...
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: How did you know that?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: He told me.
speaker_heading: (ALT)
dialog: He will tell me.
scene_heading: H116 INT. SKYPE ROOM H116
text: Weber and Halpern enter into the Skype room followed by
dialog: Louise and Ian.
dialog: +
speaker_heading: + HX
dialog: Buff (08/20/2015) 113¢c.
text: One of the monitors at another nation’s site comes to life.
text: CHINA. On screen is GENERAL SHANG. He looks shaken to his
text: core. In articulate English, he announces.
speaker_heading: GENERAL SHANG
dialog: China is standing down. Instead, we
dialog: offer the information we received
dialog: at our site-- the “gift.”
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It is one of twelve.
text: A second monitor awakens.
scene_heading: BRITISH SCIENTIST
dialog: We won’t be upstaged by you blokes.
dialog: Uploading our data.
text: Then a third monitor returns to life. Australia.
text: Everyone in the room starts to breathe again.
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP - MOMENTS LATER 117
text: Louise steps out with Ian close behind.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: (amazed yet scared)
dialog: Are you all right?
dialog: 
text: Louise is ily overcome by the emotion of what she just
text: experienced. She looks at Ian in an entirely new way. It’s a
text: moment where she wants to tell him everything, and doesn’t
dialog: know where to start.
text: And there’s a tsunami of joy, sorrow, pain, and hope hitting
text: her as she realizes where she is again.
dialog: 118
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 114.
text: Finally, she nods at Ian, wiping her face. Tenderly:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Ian... If you could suddenly see
dialog: your whole life, start to finish...
dialog: Would you change things?
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: I don’t say what I mean enough. And
dialog: I’m changing that right now.
text: Tan is just as tender with her.
speaker_heading: IAN (CONT’D)
text: I’ve been tilting my head to the
dialog: stars for as long as I can
dialog: remember, and you know what’s
dialog: surprised me the most? It’s not
dialog: meeting them. It’s meeting you.
text: That's all it takes for Louise. She puts her arms around Ian,
text: and kisses him on the mouth.
text: As the kiss intensifies, that high pitch returns. And when
text: Ian shifts from a kiss to a tight hug, when Louise hugs back--
scene_heading: INT. HANNAH’S ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) 118
text: Louise hugs Hannah (age 4, tucked in bed) goodnight. Louise
text: goes to click off the light by Hannah’s bed.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Mommy?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Yes, little-nose?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Why is my name Hannah?
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Don’t you like it?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I don’t know yet. Where did it come
dialog: from?
dialog: 119
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Oh, so this is another episode of
dialog: your series, “Why is it this way?”
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: You make me curious about
dialog: everything.
text: Louise smiles sweetly at her daughter. She then gestures at a
text: wooden NAME PLAQUE spelling out HANNAH on the wall.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Your name is special. It’s a
dialog: palindrome. That means you can read
text: it both forwards and backwards, and
dialog: it’s still the same.
text: Hannah gets it right away.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I’ve decided. I like my name.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I love you, Hannah.
text: Hannah smiles at her mother.
speaker_heading: IAN (0.8.)
dialog: Well, I love you both.
text: Louise looks back at--
text: IAN, standing in the doorway. Smiling.
text: Ian is Louise’s husband. And Hannah's father.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (0.S.)
dialog: Daddy!
text: Ian steps in and scoops Hannah and Louise into a bear hug.
text: A rush of noise again, and--
scene_heading: EXT. BASE CAMP —- BACK TO SCENE 119
text: Louise is still hugging Ian. Her face half-buried in his
text: shoulder, she says quietly:
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I forgot how good it feels to be
dialog: held by you.
dialog: 120
speaker_heading: A120
dialog: 121
dialog: Al21
speaker_heading: Bl21
dialog: Buff (08/20/2015) 116.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE — DAY 120
text: A black sedan pulls up to the driveway of Louise’s house.
scene_heading: INT. BLACK SEDAN A120
text: Louise and Weber both sit in the back seat. It feels like
text: they’ve been riding in silence for some time.
speaker_heading: WEBER
dialog: I’m not going to pretend to
dialog: understand what you did up there.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: I’m not going to try to explain it.
speaker_heading: WEBER
dialog: I took a lot of risk when I chose
dialog: you. But it was clearly the best
dialog: decision I’ve ever made.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Thank you for believing in me.
speaker_heading: WEBER
dialog: Goodbye Louise.
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Goodbye.
text: Louise steps out and walks towards the house.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.0.)
dialog: So that is your story, dear Hannah.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY 121
text: Louise stands in the empty room that we know is Hannah's.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE — DAY (FLASHBACK) Al21
text: QUICK POP: The artwork of Hannah's, with the stick figures.
scene_heading: INT. UNIVERSITY CLASSROOM - DAY (FLASH FORWARD) B121
text: QUICK POP: Louise teaching a group about logograms. On her
text: right hand is a sparkly ENGAGEMENT RING.
speaker_heading: HX kX
dialog: oe
dialog: 122
dialog: 123
speaker_heading: Buff (08/20/2015) 116A.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: It’s also the ongoing story of our
dialog: people. I can see moments as we
dialog: prepare for the future. Ian was
dialog: right: It’s about choice.
speaker_heading: OMITTED 122
scene_heading: INT. LOUISE’S FOYER - EVENING 123
text: The front door opens: It’s IAN. Dressed up as nicely as he
text: can be. Bottle of wine in hand.
text: Louise is dressed beautifully. With a new haircut: short.
text: Just like the flashbacks.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Wow. You look amazing.
dialog: (re: hair)
dialog: The change fits you well.
dialog: 124
dialog: Al24
speaker_heading: B124
speaker_heading: C124
dialog: Yellow (06/11/2015) 117.
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - NIGHT 124
text: Louise steps in, carrying her wine glass.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.0.)
dialog: I’m about to make a choice, too.
dialog: One that I will have to live with
dialog: forever.
text: This is the same scene as the first. Shot for shot.
text: She finds the message written on glass:
dialog: “Do you want to make a baby?”
text: Beat. The twinkle in her eye, the thoughtful moment...
dialog: It all breathes here.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: In some ways this choice saves the
dialog: world, but I’m not thinking about
dialog: that, Hannah. I never am.
scene_heading: FINAL SERIES OF SHOTS:
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - HANNAH’S ROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK) Al24
text: Louise cradles NEWBORN HANNAH in her arms. Hannah crooks her
text: tiny hand around Louise’s finger.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) B124
text: Four-year-old HANNAH dressed as a cowgirl.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Stick ‘em up!
scene_heading: INT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK) C124
dialog: Hannah, age 12, getting grounded:
speaker_heading: D124
speaker_heading: E124
dialog: 125
dialog: Blue Draft (05/06/2015) 118.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: When do I get to live my own life?
scene_heading: INT. MERCY HILL GENERAL HOSPITAL -— DAY (FLASHBACK) D124
text: Louise standing with DR. J. BYDWELL in a hospital hall. She’s
text: hiding her face in her hands. Bydwell reaches out and puts a
text: consoling hand on her shoulder. Her body shifts from a sob.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ~ PATIENT ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK) E124
text: Hannah, on her death bed in the hospital. Holding Louise’s
text: hand. The two clinging to each other.
speaker_heading: LOUISE (V.O.)
dialog: I’m just thinking about you.
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE HOUSE BALCONY - NIGHT 125
text: Louise touches the glass where the question is written...
dialog: “Do you want to make a baby?”
text: IAN steps into view, with a wine glass in his hand, too.
speaker_heading: IAN
dialog: Well? Do you?
dialog: She smiles broa
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LOUISE
dialog: Yes.
dialog: And now we stay here a moment longer than the opening scene,
text: and see that while Louise is smiling, a tear slips down her
text: cheek. She is both the happiest and the saddest right now.
text: Because she knows what happens next.
text: FADE TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
