dialog: 
text: AS GOOD AS IT GETSAS GOOD AS IT GETS
dialog: by
dialog: Mard Andrus
dialog: And
dialog: James L. Brooks
dialog: Story by
dialog: Mark Andrus
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK), HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: ANGLE ON apartment doorway. As it opens and an
text: enormously SWEET-FACED, ELDER WOMAN steps out, bungled up
text: against the cold -- turning back to call inside to the
dialog: unseen love of her long life.
scene_heading: SWEET-FACED WOMAN
dialog: I'm just going to get some
dialog: flowers, dear. I'll be back in
dialog: twenty minutes. It's tulip season
dialog: today. I'm so happy.
text: And now she turns and faces the hallway... her sweetness
text: dissolves in a flash... replaced by repulsion and that
text: quickly she has reversed herself and re-entered her
text: apartment... closing the door as we consider her vacated.
speaker_heading: POV - MELVIN UDALL
text: in the hallway... Well past 50... unliked, unloved,
dialog: unsettling. A huge pain in the ass to everyone he's ever
dialog: met. Right now all his considerable talent and strength
text: is totally focused on seducing a tiny dog into the
text: elevator door he holds open.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Come here, sweetheart... come on.
speaker_heading: ON DOG
text: Sniffing at a particular spot on the hall carpeting.
text: Melvin lets the elevator door close and advances on the
text: mutt who has ignores him.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Wanna go for a ride? Okay,
dialog: sweetie?
text: The dog lifts his leg at the precise moment Melvin lunges
text: and picks him up with a decisive heft -- so that dog
text: urine squirts the hall wall for a second or two. The DOG
text: sensing a kindred spirit starts to GROWL and BARK.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (a malevolent tone)
dialog: You've pissed your last floor, you
text: dog-eared monkey.
text: The dog takes a snap at Melvin, but the man is much
text: meaner and quicker than the dog -- he holds his snout
text: shut with his hand and reaches for the door of the
text: garbage chute.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'll bet you wish you were some
dialog: sort of real dog now, huh? Don't
dialog: worry... this is New York. If you
dialog: can make it here, you can make it
dialog: anywhere, you know? You ugly,
dialog: smelly fuck.
text: And with that, he stuffs him in the garbage chute and
text: lets go. We hear a FADING SERIES of PLEADING "ANOOOOS"
text: from the DOG fade to nothingness... as another apartment
text: door opens emitting the loud sounds of a PARTY and SIMON
dialog: NYE, early 30s. Simon has been born and raised with
dialog: Gothic horror and it's strange that what that stew of
dialog: trauma has produced is a gifted, decent man.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK), HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: Frantic... he bolts into the hall... Melvin is just about
text: to enter his apartment.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Verdell!?!! Here, good doggie...
text: He notices Melvin at the far end of the hall.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Mr. Udall... excuse me. Hey
dialog: there!
dialog: (as Melvin turns)
dialog: Have you seen Verdell?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What's he look like?
text: Melvin starts to walk back to his apartment door which is
text: directly opposite Simon's.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: My dog... you know... I mean my
dialog: little dog with the adorable
dialog: face... Don't you know what my dog
dialog: looks like?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I got it. You're talking about
dialog: your dog. I thought that was the
dialog: name of the colored man I've been
text: seeing in the hall.
text: Simon looks O.S. -- and sees his black friend.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Which color was that?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
text: Like thick molasses, with one of
dialog: those wide noses perfect for
dialog: smelling trouble and prison
dialog: food...
dialog: Simon has had it.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Frank Sachs -- Melvin Udall.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (not missing a beat)
dialog: How're you doing?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Franks shows my work, Mr. Udall. I
dialog: think you know that.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (overlapping)
dialog: Simon, you've got to get dressed.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: What I know is that as long as you
dialog: keep your work zipped up around
dialog: me, I don't give a fuck what or
dialog: where you shove your show. Are we
dialog: being neighbors for now?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (to Frank)
dialog: Do you still think I was
dialog: exaggerating?
text: FRANK can only smile.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Definitely a package you don't
dialog: want to open or touch.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Hope you find him. I love that
dialog: dog.
text: Simon, terminally non-confrontational, still finds
text: himself compelled to turn back toward Melvin.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (directly)
dialog: You don't love anything, Mr.
dialog: Udall.
text: Simon closes his door leaving Melvin alone in the
dialog: hallway.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I love throwing your dog down the
text: garbage chute.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT, BATHROOM - NIGHT
text: Melvin locks and unlocks and locks his door, counting to
text: five with each lock. He turns the lights quickly on and
text: off and on five times and makes a straight-line towards
text: his bathroom where he turns on the hot water and opens
text: the medicine chest.
scene_heading: INT. MEDICINE CHEST
text: Scores of neatly stacked Neutrogena soaps. He unwraps
text: one -- begins to wash -- discards it -- goes through the
dialog: process two more times.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT, ENTRANCE HALL - NIGHT
text: A group of PARTY GOERS enters -- followed by a HANDYMAN
text: holding Verdell who looks and finds:
speaker_heading: SIMON
text: who looks up -- lights up -- and tears up as he moves
text: quickly toward the group and his dog.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Thank the good Lord... wow... my
dialog: honey... where have you been?
speaker_heading: PARTY GOER
dialog: (thinking the greeting's
dialog: for him)
dialog: He always liked me.
text: As Simon goes past him to take the dog from the
text: Handyman... JACKIE, Frank's junior partner, barking a
text: laugh at the Party Goer -- VERDELL BARKING some love. As
text: the others greet Simon, Jackie directs the group inside.
text: Jackie lingers, looking on affectionately as Simon picks
text: some awful, sticky gunk from the dog's body... he puts
text: Verdell down to reach for his wallet -- the tiny DOG YAPS
dialog: in protest.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Just for a second, okay?
text: The DOG YAPS "no." Simon, delighted, picks him up again.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (kissing him on the mouth)
dialog: Look at him... where was little
dialog: baby?
speaker_heading: HANDYMAN
dialog: (smiling)
text: In the basement garbage bin eating
dialog: diaper shit.
text: Simon reacts -- then notices the Handyman, tongue in
text: cheek, trying to suppress his amusement.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Go ahead, John, you earned your fun.
dialog: (looking at Verdell)
dialog: How did he get down in the
dialog: basement? I mean even if he got
dialog: on the elevator how... ?
speaker_heading: HANDYMAN
dialog: Maybe some nice neighbor shoved
text: him down the garbage chute.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: My God! No!
text: He stares out... Frank frustrated following.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - OFFICE - NIGHT
text: Quiet -- safe -- just Melvin's voice reading aloud as he
dialog: writes.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: 'Somewhat in the dark, she had
dialog: confessed and he had forgiven.
dialog: This is what you live for, he
text: said. Two heads on a pillow where
dialog: there is only the safety of being
dialog: with each other. How, she
dialog: wondered, could she find such hope
dialog: in the most shameful part of her.'
text: He barely reacts as we hear a LOUD KNOCKING at he reads.
speaker_heading: SIMON (O.S.)
dialog: Mr. Udall.
text: But Melvin's into it. His fingers flying as he reads.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: 'At last she was able to define
dialog: love. Love was... '
text: More KNOCKING.
speaker_heading: SIMON (O.S.)
dialog: Mr. Udall, I'd like to talk to you
dialog: please.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: 'Love was... '
dialog: He almost has the rest of the sentence -- the meaning of
text: love -- but the knocking throws him.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: ... Son-of-a-bitch-pansy-assed-
dialog: stool-pusher.
text: He burst from his chair.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: As Simon hears MELVIN through the door and takes a step
text: back. Melvin throws open the door. He looks demonic.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (loud and angry)
dialog: Yeeeess!!!
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Maybe this can wait.
text: Frank signals encouragement as Melvin opens the door.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I found Verdell, Mr. Udall.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Well, that's a load off.
text: Melvin walks back into the apartment and is about to
text: close the door when Simon has another burst of bravery.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Did you... do something to him?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Do you realize that I work at
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (eyes downcast)
dialog: No, I didn't.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Do you like to be interrupt when
dialog: you are danging around in your
dialog: little garden?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: No... actually, I even shut the
dialog: phone off and put a little piece
dialog: of cardboard in the ringer so no
dialog: one can just buzz me from d...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Well, I work all the time. So
dialog: never, never again interrupt me.
dialog: Okay? I mean, never. Not 30
dialog: years from now... not if there's
dialog: fire. Not even if you hear a thud
dialog: from inside my home and a week
dialog: later there's a smell from in
dialog: there that can only come from a
dialog: decaying body and you have to hold
dialog: a hanky against your face because
dialog: the stench is so thick you think
dialog: you're going to faint even then
dialog: don't come knocking or, if it's
dialog: election night and you're excited
dialog: and want to celebrate because some
dialog: fudge-packer you dated has been
dialog: elected the first queer President
dialog: of the United States... and he's
dialog: going to put you up in Camp David
dialog: and you just want to share the
dialog: moment with someone... don't knock
dialog: ... not on this door. Not for
dialog: anything. Got me. Sweetheart?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Yes. It's not a subtle point
dialog: you're making.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Okay, then.
text: Melvin enters his apartment and slams the door shut.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: So the theory of confrontations is
dialog: that now he'll think twice before
dialog: messing with me?
text: Frank smiles affectionately. Simon turns serious.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: He's genuinely upsetting, isn't
dialog: he?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Won't worry about it. You go
dialog: ahead.
text: Frank waits till Simon EXITS SCENE and then knocks loudly
text: on Melvin's door. There is a sharp change in his demeanor.
speaker_heading: MELVIN (O.S.)
dialog: Oh, I'm pissed!! Now I am really
dialog: pissed!!!
text: Frank waits patiently as Melvin jerks his door back open.
text: Frank immediately grabs Melvin by his shirt and jerks him
text: forward... Melvin is scared. Operating on survival mode.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No touch. No touch. No touch.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You may think you can intimidate
dialog: the whole world with your
dialog: attitude, but I grew up in Hell.
dialog: My grandmother had more attitude.
dialog: You don't intimidate me.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Police! Police! Fucking crooked
text: police... doughnut-munching morons
dialog: help me!
dialog: (to Frank)
dialog: Assault and battery and you're
dialog: black.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Shhhh now. I like Simon. I like
dialog: him enough to batter you
dialog: unrecognizable if you verbally
dialog: abuse him or so much as touch his
dialog: dog again. Meanwhile, I'll try
dialog: and think how you can make this up
dialog: to him.
dialog: (suddenly loud)
dialog: I hate doing this. I'm an art
dialog: dealer.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Have a nice day. Party!
text: He tosses Melvin back and walks out. Melvin straightens
text: his shirt as he steps out into the hall. Frank smiles as
text: he re-enters the other apartment. Melvin appears
dialog: impressed.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET NEAR CAROL'S RESTAURANT - DAY
text: A crowded and dirty street and here comes Melvin. His
text: walk is brisk -- an animal wanting to pass through the
text: danger without giving off the scent of its mounting fear.
text: At times he places his palms together and extends his
dialog: arms cutting a path through people. We will be very
text: pointed in the fact that he avoids stepping on cracks.
scene_heading: CLOSER ON MELVIN
text: His eyes focused on the terrain.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S RESTAURANT - DAY
scene_heading: ANGLE ON WAITRESS
text: CAROL CONNELLY talks with another MOTHER -- a customer.
dialog: You would not guess it, but her working hours tend to be
text: the most carefree time of the day. She is telling a
text: story about her son for the umpteenth time.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to the Mother's
dialog: little girl)
dialog: Look at you, you're all better.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: It's that new medication.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You know all my son's stuff,
dialog: right?
text: The Mother nods too sympathetically that she does, but
text: Carol interrupts her.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No, no, no, I got a date tonight.
dialog: I'm walking out the door this
dialog: morning and he says to me, 'Mom,
dialog: I promise not to get one of my
dialog: fevers or coughs during your
dialog: date.'
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: Isn't that sweet.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Little blonde angle.
dialog: (to child,
dialog: affectionately)
dialog: Eat everything.
text: Melvin enters and moves past several empty tables to a
text: table towards the back and is obviously surprised to find
text: a MAN and WOMAN sitting at the table.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: It just came out of me. I said
dialog: you love me the way a remote
dialog: control loves a TV. As long as I
dialog: switch every time...
scene_heading: HER MALE COMPANION
dialog: Wonderful.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: People who talk in metaphors can
dialog: shampoo my crotch.
dialog: (on their look)
dialog: Eat up.
text: They turn away -- Melvin walks a few paces to the
text: waitress station where two waitresses, LISA and CAROL,
dialog: are talking.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Pay me back next week.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I owe you. I told you today...
dialog: them's the rules. Oh, excuse me,
dialog: Melvin.
text: She puts two hands lightly on his waist to move him out
text: of the way. He gulps at the contact (since no one else
text: ever touches him) but covers his self-consciousness.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm starving.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (firmly to Lisa)
dialog: Will you please take it?
text: Melvin intentionally moves a step in her path, with
text: stealth, so that she must touch him again to get him out
dialog: of the way...
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: This way you take a cab home so
dialog: you have time to get ready for the
dialog: date.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: "Ready" is not my problem.
text: She barks a mirthless though hearty laugh. If we could
dialog: read Melvin which we can't, we'd see him unsettled by the
text: date talk. To Carol he is as harmless as furniture.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Melvin)
dialog: Go sit down. You know you're not
dialog: allowed back here... Spencer's
dialog: more excited about it than I am...
dialog: He says, "Mom, I promise not to
dialog: get a fever or couch during your date."
text: The other WAITRESSES and the SHORT ORDER COOK all go
dialog: "awww."
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I know. He's just the best.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I've got Jews at my table.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: It's not your table. It's the
dialog: place's table. Behave. This
dialog: once, you can sit at someone
dialog: else's station.
text: The two waitresses signal their protests.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Or you can just wait your turn...
text: Melvin walks back into the restaurant proper... he hangs
text: near their table... his discomfort builds in this limbo...
dialog: then:
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: How much more you got to eat?
dialog: Your appetite isn't as big as
dialog: your noses, is it?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: What?!!
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (to Woman)
dialog: Let's go --
text: The Woman starts to protest.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Let's leave. We're going.
text: Melvin sits down at the table -- and takes from his
text: pocket a plastic eating utensil set wrapped and sealed.
text: As he opens his utensils.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Bryan says he doesn't care how
dialog: long you've been coming you ever
dialog: act like this again you're barred
dialog: for life. I'm gonna miss the
dialog: excitement, but I'll handle it.
text: There is in Carol's attitude toward Melvin some
dialog: ingredient of self-satisfaction -- that she is the only
text: one in the place who can handle him. She starts to clear
dialog: the table.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: The table's fine if it had some
text: cholesterol on it. Two sausages,
dialog: six bacon strips, fries, three
text: eggs over easy and coffee.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You're gonna die soon with that
dialog: diet, you know that?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: We're all gonna die soon. I will.
dialog: You will. It sure sounds like
dialog: your son will.
speaker_heading: ON CAROL
text: Stunned. Some crazy street-freak has slipped under her
text: perfect guard and momentarily devastated her. Melvin
text: senses that he's gone way too far. He wipes his knife.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: If you ever mention my son again,
dialog: you will never be able to eat here
dialog: again. Do you understand? Give me
dialog: some sign you understand or leave
dialog: now. Do you understand me...
dialog: (adds truthful label)
dialog: you crazy freak? Do you?!?
text: A beat and then Melvin nods, hardly breathing -- backing
dialog: down.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Okay. I'll get your order.
text: She walks away. Melvin watches her, biting his lower
text: lip. He takes some napkins and cleans the table himself.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: She is underneath a YOUNGER, cuter MAN on the living room
text: sofa. He is expertly into foreplay. She begins to make
text: noises as she responds... each time startling herself
text: with her own noise and trying to reign it in.
dialog: She's two women here -- one speeding the pleasure highway
text: -- the other -- functional mom so blown away by the
text: emergence of this sexy self that she laughs. The Young
text: Man stops and looks at her.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I... I... I don't know... You got
dialog: me.
text: His eyes try to burn into hers... She is getting excited
text: but doesn't know how to play it... He pushes one of the
text: fingers of the hand caressing her face toward her
text: mouth... She closes her teeth, his fingers attempt
text: opening her mouth. She stops him.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Let me just do whatever I do by
dialog: myself... I'll catch up to you
dialog: someplace I promise.
dialog: (as he's put off)
dialog: Oh, no... don't look like that.
dialog: No. I'm sorry if I'm a goof.
text: And so with earnestness and caring, she has transformed
dialog: the sex into something more intimate -- and, talk about
dialog: egg in your beer, hotter. Things are getting wild when
text: we hear from the distance a child, SPENCER, CALLING and
speaker_heading: COUGHING.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Kissing... kissing boys. Oh my.
text: Carol pulls her head away -- as Spencer's call continues.
speaker_heading: SPENCER (O.S.)
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Grandma, grandma...
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: Maybe you better check.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Like what did you think I was
dialog: going to do?
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY/BEVERLY'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: Pulling herself together she goes off down the hallway...
text: she ducks her head into the first bedroom where her
text: mother, BEVERLY, is listening to music on headphones...
text: she takes them off when she sees Carol, then hears the
dialog: cough.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: I'm sorry. I was hearing just
dialog: everything you were doing so I put
dialog: these on to give you privacy.
text: Carol now goes into her son's room.
scene_heading: INT. SPENCER'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: The room is a monument to horrible, sleepless nights...
text: two drugstore de-humidifying filters, a nebulizer
dialog: (breathing contraption) a waste basket... a night stand
text: filled with medicine, a blood pressure kit... along with
text: some stacks of seven-year-old toys and a small TV wedged
text: into the tiny space.
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Don't be silly. How bad?
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: Not bad.
text: Carol feels his head... that's okay. Then he coughs --
text: trying to suppress it... then a bigger cough... they each
text: know what that signals... She brings up a waste basket as
text: he throws up... she comforts him. He apologizes. She
dialog: loves him.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: As she re-enters. He is taking a cigarette from a pack.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (a bit panicked)
dialog: You can't smoke... He can't take
dialog: smoke.
text: He palms the cigarette -- resumes making out -- his hand
text: squeezes her breast -- then he stops and looks at his
text: hand. She looks down and sees a bit of throw-up he
text: picked up while feeling her and then notices him looking
text: at her with extreme distaste... She barks a laugh to
text: cover her embarrassment but speaks the truth.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Oh, God... I don't even notice
dialog: anymore.
text: She crosses to the kitchen for a dishtowel. Tries to make
dialog: light.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: That'll teach you.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: Don't apologize.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (perturbed)
dialog: That wasn't an apology.
text: She notices his demeanor -- how he avoids looking at her --
dialog: how uncomfortable he is.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Hey... this is just a little throw-
dialog: up -- it's nothing to be so
dialog: embarrassed about. Really.
dialog: (as he shifts
dialog: uncomfortably)
dialog: Thanks for the dinner. Let me
dialog: write down which trains you take
dialog: to get back.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: No way.
text: She brightens.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: I'll take a cab.
text: She deflates as he moves past her.
speaker_heading: YOUNG MAN
dialog: Too much reality for a Friday
dialog: night.
scene_heading: EXT. HOLLAND TUNNEL - NIGHT
text: A cold night in hell. Three young men bullshit near the
text: approach to the tunnel. Their names are VINCENT, EVAN
text: and DOUG, who is the oldest at 28. Vincent is dopey and
text: the most likeable of the gritty little trio.
speaker_heading: EVAN
dialog: Why is every customer surprised I
dialog: read books?
speaker_heading: DOUG
dialog: (amazed)
dialog: You read books?
speaker_heading: EVAN
dialog: Oh, wow! I know this guy! Look!
dialog: He even bought me dinner.
text: They all focus on a black BMW as it slows and stops in
text: front of them. CARL checks them out carefully through
text: the front window. He is talking on the speaker phone.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: (slightly exasperated)
dialog: Look, I just can't. I promised
dialog: Simon I'd find him a model.
speaker_heading: FRIEND (V.O.)
dialog: (on speaker phone,
dialog: flirting)
dialog: Carl, take me off the speaker.
dialog: Did I tell you that these are
dialog: house seats? C'mon, you could use
dialog: a break. Hello... Carl, are you
dialog: there... hello?
dialog: Seeing the hustlers:
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: .		... I just found a model.
speaker_heading: DOUG
dialog: (to Carl)
dialog: Hey, how it's goin'...
speaker_heading: EVAN
dialog: Hey, hi... remember?
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: I only need one.
speaker_heading: EVAN
dialog: You picked me up, maybe a few
dialog: weeks, I don't know, some time
dialog: ago. You were very flattering
dialog: about our... encounter.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: Maybe just you and me... but this
dialog: is for a painting. I need a
text: pretty face.
text: Carl beckons to Vincent who joins him, trying to conceal
dialog: his pride at winning this lowest end of beauty contest.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: There is a KNOCK at the door -- Simon crosses to answer.
text: He is more relaxed than we've seen him -- a man at peace
text: humming to his favorite music, talking to his dog who
text: scratches at the door. Simon opens the door to Vincent.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Sorry, I was out in the studio
dialog: doing some work and I forgot about
dialog: our appointment.
text: He leads the way back toward the studio -- chatting away
text: -- unaware that Vincent is disrobing as he follows him
text: and eyeing the expensive apartment.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I usually make such a big deal out
dialog: of picking models but Carl's so
dialog: thorough. I'll bet he drove you
dialog: nuts checking your references.
text: And he turns and sees the naked model.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: This isn't a nude.
text: Vincent moves back to retrieve his clothes.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: Just kidding around.
dialog: (then mutters)
dialog: So much for love.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - STUDIO (MINUTES LATER)
text: Vincent is striking blatantly sexual poses to the
text: increasingly uneasy Simon.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Exactly what is your previous
dialog: experience?
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: How about that pose?
dialog: (sing-song)
dialog: This is not fun...
dialog: (then)
dialog: Give me some direction.
text: Vincent has instinctively put Simon on the defensive. He
dialog: tries not to show it.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Nothing. I just watch till
dialog: something strikes me. Do anything
dialog: you think of -- try different
dialog: thing. Until I say, "hold that
dialog: pose." Then just try and
dialog: comfortably hold it.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: (trying another space)
dialog: The fact that you haven't said,
dialog: "hold it" means I haven't done it
dialog: right... is that correct? I
dialog: haven't done it right?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: No... Okay. What I do is watch
dialog: and wait for, um... You ever watch
dialog: someone who doesn't know you're
text: watching... an old woman on a bus,
dialog: kids going to school and you see
dialog: this flash come over them and you
dialog: know immediately that it has
dialog: nothing to do with anything
dialog: external -- that it's in respond
dialog: to a private thought they just
dialog: had? They are just sort of realer
dialog: and more alive. And when you
dialog: notice it so are you. If you look
dialog: at someone long enough, you
dialog: discover their humanity.
text: Vincent's slack-jawed expression changes. He feels an
dialog: intellectual tingle to be having this conversation.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: I know exactly what you mean.
text: There's a joy in him at this moment -- a bit of purity.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Hold it.
text: Vincent does so -- hums a bit of "Satisfaction" to
dialog: celebrate.
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT - DAY
text: Carol and LESLIE, another waitress, are waiting for their
text: order at the cappuccino bar. Leslie is telling the story
text: of the traumatic audition which may have turned her life.
text: Carol is rapt.
text: As they pass Melvin she does not break stride, nor give
text: him notice. Though she is aware of him -- resentfully so
dialog: -- hard not to be since he is giving a moment to moment
text: commentary on her every action.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Clippity clop -- clippity clop --
dialog: she has to pretend she doesn't
dialog: hear me. Listening to the story
dialog: from the upset friend... now she
text: drops off the cappuccino and
text: smiles at the putzette who doesn't
dialog: even say, "Thank you." No, the
dialog: putzette wanted the whipped cream
dialog: so back she goes and now she has
text: to pass him again and it's getting
dialog: tougher to make believe.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (reluctant forgiveness)
dialog: Okay.
text: Melvin stops -- she passes behind him to deliver an
text: uncharacteristic rabbit punch.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What's with the plastic picnic
dialog: ware? Why not try ours... afraid
dialog: it isn't clean?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I see the help -- judgement call.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Just give yourself a little pep
dialog: talk. "Must try other people's
dialog: clean silverware as part of the
dialog: fun of dining out."
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What's wrong with your son,
dialog: anyway?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What do you care?
text: Melvin just looks at her.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: He's gotta fight to breathe.
text: His asthma can just shoot off the
dialog: charts -- he's allergic to dust
dialog: and this is New York and his
text: immune system bails on him when
dialog: there's trouble so an ear
dialog: infection... Is this bothering
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (caught)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: An ear infection can send us to
dialog: the emergency room -- maybe five,
dialog: six times a month where I get
dialog: whatever nine-year-old they just
dialog: made a doctor. Nice chatting with
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: His name?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Spencer.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: Spence.
text: She exits.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - STUDIO - DAY (SEVERAL WEEKS LATER)
text: The greenhouse studio is a busy sanctuary, as Simon puts
text: the finishing touches on his painting of Vincent. A beat
text: and then a strange figure crosses between the CAMERA and
text: the scene -- gone before we can examine him further.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: You can put on anything you want
dialog: now. I might be sort of done
dialog: here...
text: Vincent quickly and expertly picks a CD to meet his
text: immediate needs and puts it on -- dying a little at every
dialog: second of silence during the transition... then LOUD
text: MUSIC PLAYS... Vincent even GOOSING the VOLUME. Simon
text: does a take -- he gestures Vincent to take it down --
dialog: which Vincent does.
scene_heading: ANGLE - APARTMENT
text: where it is not clear that a robbery is in progress --
text: Vincent's two friends from the street sweeping all
text: objects into large sacks -- one of them, Doug, pauses
text: to look past the terrace to the studio.
speaker_heading: DOUG
dialog: Lucky Vinnie -- he's a painting.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT, STUDIO - DAY
text: MUSIC PLAYS -- Simon cleaning up his stuff.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: So you're practically finished,
dialog: huh?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Yes... well, there's one more
dialog: stage -- trying to figure out if
dialog: it's any good.
text: Simon sneaks a look at the canvas from another
text: perspective... he focuses -- then the smallest shy nod
text: of self-approval -- he's finished. Vincent is desperate
dialog: to distract.
text: CLOSE ON dog as Verdell awakens, stretches and pricks his
text: ears. He moves quickly to the closed door and starts to
text: frantically scratch, attracting Simon's attention.
text: As Simon keeps walking... Vincent shoots over to the
dialog: canvas.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: Wait -- I want to see the
dialog: painting.
speaker_heading: SIMON
text: Just a second -- he has to go.
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: Please!! NO!!!
text: Simon opens the door and Verdell shoots out like a
text: bullet. Vincent pauses before the painting and is thrown
text: to see his humanity captured -- to be "immortalized."
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Doug and Evan are nearly to the front door as VERDELL
text: stops them with a vicious GROWL and BARK.
text: Simon is distracted -- looking down at his pet so that he
text: continues to walk toward Doug and Evan, not noticing
text: them -- Vincent, terribly afraid, appears behind Simon.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (to Vincent)
dialog: What's the matter, sweetheart?
text: He instantly stops. Shocked. Frozen. His eyes on the
text: stranger, Doug, looking at him. Now Vincent comes in.
text: Doug greets him.
speaker_heading: DOUG
dialog: Yo.
text: Simon turns to Vincent.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Why are you doing this?
speaker_heading: VINCENT
dialog: No. No. No. Hey, that painting
dialog: in there... I just want to tell
dialog: you...
text: Now Evan appears holding a brass hat rack.
speaker_heading: EVAN
dialog: (to Vincent)
dialog: What are you doing? Cruising him?
text: And he uses the hat rack first as a spear, then as a
text: club, as the brief savage attack begins.
speaker_heading: ON VERDELL
text: as he starts to go toward Simon and then scurries back in
text: fear. The three attackers leave. Now silence. A single
text: BARK from VERDELL.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY - DUSK
text: A mass of OFFICIAL PEOPLE clutter the hall as a gurney is
text: whisked down to the elevator. It's impossible to tell if
text: Simon is awake or dead. Melvin is standing against the
text: wall near his door a cop, RAY, interviewing him.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: Okay. So you call 911 and don't
dialog: leave your name -- even a dumb
dialog: geezer should know that emergency
dialog: automatically pulls up your name.
dialog: How come you make a mistake like
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: How come you're pretending to do
dialog: cop work -- 'cause I don't think
dialog: you could find your ass if you
text: were spotted the hole.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: (stunned)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Just move on. No one here killed
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: Oh, is he dead?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Ask him.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: We will if we can and if we can't,
dialog: we'll come back and ask you again
dialog: and again.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY -
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT
text: Frank standing upset, anxious, holding a dog bowl, a
text: leash and VERDELL, who is more upset making pathetic
text: little CRYING SOUNDS.
text: As we FOCUS BRIEFLY ON Verdell... Frank is talking to the
dialog: Sweet-Faced Woman.
scene_heading: SWEET-FACED WOMAN
dialog: I've been praying for him since I
dialog: heard.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: So I've got to get to the
dialog: hospital. If you could take the
dialog: dog just for tonight.
scene_heading: SWEET-FACED WOMAN
dialog: Oh, Lord -- I've got all these
dialog: antique knick-knacks... Or else
dialog: I'd be glad...
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Maybe if you kept locked in
dialog: the bathroom. No? Okay. Thanks.
text: (as he turns away and she
dialog: closes the door he adds)
dialog: Old bitch... Damn dog.
text: A short laugh makes us realize that Melvin has witnessed
dialog: and enjoyed Frank's hostile mutterings...
text: VERDELL starts WHIMPERING as a pissed Frank approaches
dialog: his mugger:
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: You're taking him... yes... you're
dialog: taking him -- this will clear the
dialog: books. One night. You want to
dialog: say "no" to me? Try... because
dialog: I've never felt as nuts as I do
dialog: right this second. I almost want
dialog: you to try saying "no."
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: I'm not saying nothing to you.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Thanks for looking after him.
text: Frank pushes open the door to Melvin's apartment and
text: places Verdell inside.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: MUSIC IN: as Frank pulls the door partially closed to
text: block Verdell's escape.
text: The music represents Verdell's state of mind -- trapped
text: in the apartment of the man who tried to kill him. We
text: STAY with the dog during the O.S. dialogue: As his head
text: turns in panic we see his various POVs as the dialogue
dialog: continues O.S.
speaker_heading: MELVIN (O.S.)
dialog: Hey, where are you going? You
dialog: can't do this.
dialog: (calls after Frank)
dialog: I can't take a dog.
dialog: (a confession)
dialog: Nobody's ever been in here before.
speaker_heading: FRANK (O.S.)
dialog: (threatening)
dialog: You don't want to mess with me
dialog: today. I'll figure something else
dialog: out tomorrow.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Melvin enters -- the dog cowers in the shadows. Now
text: Melvin sees him.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You're dead!!
text: VERDELL STOPS -- gives Melvin wide berth -- slinking
text: along the far wall. Melvin finds Verdell's fear of him a
dialog: bit calming.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I don't have dog food. And I
dialog: won't want dog food here. You'll
dialog: eat what we have. You'll eat what
dialog: we eat.
text: Melvin exits. Verdell is in a major funk.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Melvin breaks two eggs over a large pile of prime chopped
text: meat, sticks raw pieces of bacon into it and exits the
dialog: room.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Don't you touch anything.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Verdell cringing as his new master approaches -- MUSIC
text: CONTINUES ominously. Melvin sets the bowl down and
text: exits... Verdell breathes excitedly though looking
text: alternately in all directions... his recent past making
text: him suspect this feast is a trick. He sniffs
text: cautiously -- then dives in -- GOTHIC MUSIC CHANGING on a
text: dime TO SCORE his RAPTURE... from O.S. we hear the sound
text: of RUNNING WATER as steam escapes the bathroom -- then
text: MUSIC OUT -- as Melvin returns... ignoring Verdell he
text: sits at the piano and his one key repeatedly. It's odd.
text: Verdell shifts his body so he is eating from the bowl
text: with his tail to Melvin. Then Melvin begins to play and
dialog: sing Monty Python's "Always Look On The Bright Side Of
text: Life," with its cheerful whistle refrain. Verdell looks
text: over with surprise and pleasure. But just as mood lifts
text: and warmth threatens, Melvin stops abruptly, turns out
text: the lights and exits.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
text: Frank on the phone.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (into phone)
text: Put the solid red dots on three of
text: them and the hold blue dots on two
dialog: others... Well, we're not going to
dialog: sell anything if they know we're
dialog: two weeks into a show and have no
dialog: sales. No, you can't reduce a
dialog: price at this stage... We're in
dialog: free fall here. Any calls?
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: We can see him.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'll meet you in there.
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
text: As Jackie enters.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: How you doing, great one?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I haven't looked at myself yet. I
dialog: figured I could tell from your
dialog: reaction.
text: He turns toward her. Much of his body -- taped -- his
text: painting hand wrapped. Simon's face is something of a
text: horror. Swollen, one savage discolored cut. We are into
text: yuccchhh... The sight is a jolt. Jackie breaks into
text: tears... sobs, actually.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: That bad, huh?
text: They share a helpless half-laugh -- then Frank appears in
text: the doorway.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Hey, hey...
dialog: (as he sees him)
dialog: Haaa... bad but temporary. The
dialog: nurses say it's much better than
dialog: you looked three weeks ago... the
dialog: hand will come back... they're
dialog: sure...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Jackie, will you hand me the
dialog: mirror?
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: (a small voice)
dialog: No.
text: She starts to hand him a large mirror from her purse --
text: then thinks better of it.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: Wait, I have a smaller one.
text: But he holds out his hand and she gives him the mirror --
text: he starts to look -- then thinks better of it.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: So, what's new anyway? How's
dialog: Verdell?
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: (sheepish)
dialog: Your neighbor -- Udall -- is
dialog: taking care of him.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (suddenly alive and upset)
dialog: How could you do that? He'll hurt
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: No, I promise... not a chance. I
dialog: own this guy. There was no one
dialog: else. I'm on the move too much.
dialog: Trust me.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: You are very certain my dog is
dialog: okay... because you have no
dialog: idea...
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Yes. Your dog is fine, Simon.
text: Simon holds the mirror poised for a moment of discovery,
text: then he takes a breath -- like someone about to dive
text: underwater. First a small, mumbled pep talk to himself.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Okay, waiting gives the devil
dialog: time. Now!
text: He quickly brings his hand up and looks at the mirror...
text: he is startled -- the bottom drops out -- leaving him
text: awed by his misfortune.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Oh my... Where'd I go? Ummmm?
scene_heading: EXT. CAROL'S RESTAURANT - DAY
text: AN ESTABLISHING SHOT FEATURING Verdell tied up in front.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S RESTAURANT - DAY
text: Melvin finishing a plate of eggs, bacon and sausage with
text: his plastic knife and fork. Carol looks totally beat as
text: she sets down a cup of coffee. Melvin is craning
text: periodically to keep an eye of his dog.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: So what are you doing with a dog?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
text: Suckered in. Set up. Pushed
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You're not worried that someone
dialog: might take him?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Well, not until now -- for
dialog: Christ's sake.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It's okay -- I'll sit here.
text: He changes tables for the first time ever so that he can
text: keep an eye on Verdell. Carol is amazed.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You know he's a little dog. Next
dialog: time, if Bryan's not here, you can
dialog: bring him in.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: How old are you?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Oh, please...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: If I had to guess by your eyes,
dialog: I'd say you were fifty.
text: Carol looks at him.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: And if I had to guess by your
dialog: eyes. I'd say you were kind. So,
dialog: so much for eyes. But as long as
dialog: you bring up age... how old are
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (quickly)
dialog: Otherwise, you're not ugly.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (laughs out loud)
dialog: Okay, pal... I accept the
dialog: compliment, but go easy -- my
dialog: knees start a-knocking when you
text: turn on the charm full blast.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What's with the dark?
text: He indicates the bags under her eyes by tapping his own.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Dawn patrol -- major dawn patrol.
dialog: My son had a full blown attack.
dialog: And this time, for extra fun, they
dialog: gave us the wrong antibiotics, so
dialog: I get him home...
text: She reaches for the plate of uneaten bacon -- he goes
dialog: nuts.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No... no... leave it... the
dialog: bacon's for the dog.
text: She is jolted by the insensitivity of his interruption,
text: but he doesn't notice, turning, almost chatty.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Last week I was playing the piano
dialog: for him and he likes it, and so I
dialog: decide I'm going to make a little
dialog: joke...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You all set here?
text: Melvin nods -- a bit frustrated about not being able to
text: finish his dog story. He pockets the remaining bacon.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY
text: As Melvin walks Verdell back home, we notice, perhaps a
text: beat before Melvin, a remarkably event. Verdell is
text: avoiding the cracks in the sidewalk.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It's a beautiful day for our walk.
text: Melvin slows -- observes the dog mirroring his behavior.
speaker_heading: ON VERDELL
text: again carefully placing his paws to avoid a crack in the
text: sidewalk. Melvin laughs out loud -- puts on plastic
text: gloves hurriedly so he can lift the dog to eye level.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Don't be like me, don't you be
dialog: like me. You stay just the way
dialog: you are because you are a perfect
dialog: man. I'm gonna take you home and
dialog: get you something to eat... what
dialog: you love.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
speaker_heading: FEMALE PASSERSBY
dialog: (charmed)
dialog: Ohhh. I'd like to be treated like
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (all smiles to Verdell)
dialog: Let's go home and do some writing.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Melvin whaling away at his computer, reading to himself
text: with great satisfaction as he goes.
text: Verdell sits at his chair, fascinated by the speed of his
text: master's fingers on the keyboard. He reads his writing
text: aloud to the dog.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: "He turned off the gas jets and
text: carried her outside. He kissed
text: her brow and when her eyes opened
dialog: and found him, he said, 'there are
dialog: easier ways to break a date.' She
dialog: laughed. The only sensible
dialog: ambition he had ever known was now
dialog: realized. He had made the girl
dialog: happy. And what a girl. 'You've
dialog: saved my life,' she said, 'you'd
dialog: better make it up to me.'"
text: Exhilarated by his own words, he shuts down the machine...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (singing to Verdell)
dialog: Done!
dialog: (playing with him some)
dialog: Yes, I hate the doggy... yes, I
dialog: hate the doggy.
text: He exits.
speaker_heading: MELVIN (V.O.)
dialog: Sixty-two books... done!
text: As the dog goes shooting off to the kitchen we leave our
dialog: couple's play time for...
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM/LIVING ROOM/HALLWAY - DAY
text: As the rookie invalid awakens in precisely the same foul
text: mood he'd had on falling asleep. In the living room, the
dialog: maid, NORA, is talking with Jackie -- we catch only a few
text: words as they review Simon's mounting pile of bills and
dialog: talk of how long Nora can stay on.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - DAY
text: Frank knocking on Melvin's door. He opens it.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: How's Verdell doing?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: He's a pain in the ass.
text: As he looks over at the dog, Verdell trots over and,
text: without realizing it, Melvin smiles at him to Frank's
dialog: surprise.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Simon's home. I was sort of
dialog: hoping you could keep the dog
dialog: until he's had a chance to think
dialog: and adjust...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (leaping at the chance)
dialog: It's been five weeks... another
dialog: few won't kill me.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: No. He wants him back. He'll be
dialog: by tomorrow.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (too loudly, weirdly)
dialog: Okay by me.
text: Frank exits.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Melvin sits -- Verdell looks up at him. Melvin walks to
text: the door. He turns the lock... then checks that they are
dialog: locked... checks again to make sure he turned them in the
text: correct direction... turns from the door... then back to
text: check once more. And again... and again... anguished,
text: until now he breaks briefly, the dog looking on.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK BUILDING - MELVIN'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY - DAY
text: Melvin opens the door -- looks at the scarred Simon in a
text: wheelchair and shudders...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: That's some face they left hanging
dialog: on you. You look like...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Could you take it just a little
dialog: easy, Mr. Udall?
text: A beat of silence as Melvin thinks whether to comply.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Thank you. Verdell... sweetheart?
dialog: (to Melvin)
dialog: By the way, thanks for saving me.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I called. I never touched you. I
dialog: didn't leave my name or nothing.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (not listening)
dialog: Verdell?
speaker_heading: ON VERDELL
text: Totally weirded out... hiding behind Melvin... now Melvin
text: shifts and Simon and Verdell see each other... Simon
text: smiles at the dog... he is emotionally caught up in the
dialog: reunion.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Hi, sweetheart.
text: Verdell isn't eager.
speaker_heading: ON SIMON
text: The first gnawing pains of rejection.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Simon pats his leg -- trying unsuccessfully to get
text: Verdell to approach him. Instead the dog goes to the
text: door and scratches at it. Jackie starts to pick the dog
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: No. Please, don't force him.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: (to dog)
dialog: You little stinker. He's given
dialog: you everything.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: MELVIN'S POV
text: Verdell's towel on the floor -- near his bowl.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Melvin's lips compress... he sits on the piano bench and
text: hits a few keys... looks at Verdell's empty spot again...
dialog: there are those who "get the joke" -- Melvin is clearly
text: one -- he laughs suddenly and helplessly even as he feels
text: the panic rise in him...
dialog: ... all his painstaking success in keeping the lid on and
text: now it threatens to blow for a reason he articulates.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
text: Over the dog... an ugly dog.
text: It's hilarious. But now the humor detours. An actual
text: sob is choked back... he gets up -- following a definite
text: pattern across the room. He is conducting a small but
text: highest-stakes fight for survival. Momentarily a scared,
text: beaten middle-aged man -- he races out the door.
scene_heading: EXT. NYC STREETS - DAY
text: Melvin charging as fast as crack checks allow and then
text: turning into a building with a copper sign reading
dialog: "Grammercy Park Psychiatric Group."
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Worst sidewalk in New York and
dialog: look where they put in.
scene_heading: INT. PSYCHIATRIST'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Melvin bursts in on the psychiatrist and emits one word.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Help!
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: If you want to see me you will not
dialog: do this. You will make an
dialog: appointment...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Explain to me how you can diagnose
dialog: someone as "obsessive compulsive
dialog: disorder" and then act like I have
dialog: any choice in barging in.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: There's not going to be a debate.
dialog: You must leave.
text: The Doctor moves into the hallway, forcing Melvin to
dialog: follow.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You said you could help me --
dialog: what was that -- a tease?
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: I can help you if you take the
dialog: responsibility to keep regular
dialog: app --
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (suddenly)
dialog: You changed the room around...
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Two years ago...
text: Melvin shakes his head -- as if things weren't bad enough
text: he must go through a careful exercise noting every new
text: element before he's at all comfortable... as he studies
text: each object. The Doctor is professionally intrigued
dialog: despite himself.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: I also regrew my beard... but
dialog: you're not interested in changes
dialog: in me... so it's like I always
dialog: told you... when it comes to
dialog: people you...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Shhhhhhh. I don't have this
dialog: mountain of available time... I
dialog: got to get to my restaurant on
dialog: time. Do you know how hard it is
dialog: for me to be here?
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Yes.
dialog: (as Melvin starts
dialog: for the office)
dialog: No.
scene_heading: INT. PSYCHIATRISTS' WAITING ROOM - DAY
text: More PATIENTS in the almost-crowded waiting room. Melvin
text: passes through -- visibly drawn and upset. He stops.
text: Eyes on them. Then:
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (to other patients)
dialog: What if this is as good as it
dialog: gets?
text: They look stricken. He exits.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S RESTAURANT - DAY
text: As he walks to his booth and sits down. Enormous relief.
text: CHERYL, a heavy-set waitress, reluctantly moves to his
text: table -- unseen by Melvin as he takes out his utensils
text: and arranges them. In a corner booth, four big TRANSIT
text: AUTHORITY POLICE are having a meal together. Cheryl
text: looks at his utensils.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: What the heck are those for?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No. No. Get Carol.
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: I'm filling in. We don't know if
dialog: she's coming back. She might have
dialog: to get a job closer to home.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What are you trying to do to me?
speaker_heading: CHERYL
dialog: What the heck do you mean?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Hey, elephant girl, call her or
dialog: something... just let her do my
dialog: one meal here. I'll pay whatever.
dialog: I'll wait.
dialog: (as she doesn't
dialog: budge; he screams)
dialog: Do it!!!
text: The MANAGER comes over, gesturing to the table of police
text: that he can handle it. All attention is on Melvin.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Out. Be silent or leave.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'll be quiet. Just let me wait.
dialog: No problem. Get her here -- have
dialog: her get me two sausages, four
dialog: bacon, two eggs over easy and
dialog: coffee. I'm not a prick here --
dialog: I'm a great customer. This day is
dialog: a disaster. I can't handle this,
dialog: too.
speaker_heading: MANAGER
dialog: Get out immediately or there's
dialog: going to be trouble.
text: Melvin looks at the police, sizes up the hopeless
text: situation and rises.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: There's going to be trouble???
text: He walks toward the door as Cheryl and all the other
text: employees applaud his defeat. As he passes a BUSBOY near
text: the door he hands him 20 dollars.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Carol's last name?
speaker_heading: BUSBOY
dialog: Connelly.
scene_heading: EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - DAY
text: An uncomfortable Melvin sitting in the back of a taxi.
speaker_heading: MELVIN'S POV
dialog: A neighborhood in Brooklyn -- a community. Melvin, ever
text: the shark observer, looks from the cab to see slices of
text: community life -- MEN in front of a bar, PARENTS giving
text: their CHILD a ride on a mechanical horse outside a local
text: store -- two YOUNG WOMEN discuss dating.
scene_heading: EXT. CAROL'S BUILDING - DAY
text: As he exits -- RINGS the BELL and is BUZZED in.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DOOR/HALLWAY - DAY
text: Carol opens the door just as he arrives on her landing.
text: She holds a container of ice, washclothes and a
dialog: thermometer.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm hungry.
dialog: (on Carol's astonished
dialog: look)
dialog: You've upset my whole day. I
dialog: haven't eaten.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What are you doing here?
text: Melvin ignores the question, instead answering a charge
dialog: he had imagined she might make...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: This is not a sexist thing. If
dialog: you were a waiter I would still be
dialog: here saying...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Are you totally gone? This is my
dialog: private home...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I am trying to keep emotions out of
dialog: this. Even though this is an
dialog: important issue to me and I have
dialog: strong feelings about the subject.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What subject? That I wasn't there
dialog: to take crap from you and bring
dialog: you eggs? Do you have any control
dialog: over how creepy you allow yourself
dialog: to get?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Yes, I do, as a matter of fact...
dialog: and to prove it I have not gotten
dialog: personal and you have. Why aren't
dialog: you at work? You're not sick --
dialog: you don't look sick... just very
text: tired and bitter.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: My son is sick, okay?
dialog: Even saying the sentence, "My son is sick" pushes some
text: emotions toward the surface which are wasted on the crazy
text: man at her threshold.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What about your mother?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: How do you know about my mother?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I hear you talk when I'm
dialog: waiting!!!
text: She crosses to the sink to dump the ice. Melvin takes a
text: step inside. Spencer, seven and looking ill, walks into
dialog: the room.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Sorry, honey... I'll be right
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (uncomfortably)
dialog: How ya doing?
text: Spencer just stares at him.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (miffed)
dialog: You should answer when someone
dialog: talks to you...
text: Carol eyes Melvin with disgust and disbelief then
text: emphatically gestures him to "clear out." Melvin backs
text: out the door.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Sorry. There is a limit, Melvin,
dialog: and I can't handle you teaching
dialog: my son manners.
text: She closes the door in his face, then walks to her son
text: and leads him back to his room.
scene_heading: INT. SPENCER'S ROOM
text: CAMERA MOVES TOWARD mother and son sitting on the edge of
text: Spencer's bed. She holds a digital thermometer to his
text: ear. They both count down the seconds.
speaker_heading: CAROL AND SPENCER
dialog: 5... 4... 3... 2... 1... Bingo.
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: 104.9
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: We are going to treat ourselves to
text: a cab ride.
scene_heading: EXT. BROOKLYN SIDEWALK - ANGLE ON CAROL - DAY
text: As Carol carries her young son through a class of
text: uniformed KIDS from a Catholic elementary school. She
text: spots Melvin about to enter a cab.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Melvin, wait!
text: The school kids pick up the chant in unison.
speaker_heading: SCHOOL KIDS
dialog: Melvin, wait! Melvin, wait!
dialog: Melvin, wait!
text: He turns to face them.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Shut up, kids!
text: They immediately obey as Carol approaches him.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Melvin... give us a lift. We've
dialog: got to go see our friends at the
dialog: hospital.
text: Melvin is thrown... he pauses a beat... then holds the
text: rear door open as Carol hustles the kid inside. The
text: maneuver puts the beet red, sweating Spencer at his face.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'll ride up front. Cover your
dialog: mouth when you cough, kid.
scene_heading: INT. BROOKLYN CAB - DAY
text: As they settle in and drive off.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Brooklyn Presbyterian Hospital,
dialog: please and quickly please.
scene_heading: EXT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM - DAY
text: As Carol enters the hospital.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (calling back)
dialog: I owe you three dollars.
text: Melvin follows behind her as she carries her son...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Yeah, yeah... any chance you'll
dialog: get back to work today?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (furiously)
dialog: No!!! Stay away from me!
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Verdell lies just inside the front door whimpering for
text: Melvin. Jackie sits across from Simon's wheel chair...
text: she has some index cards in her laps which she
text: occasionally consults and shuffles.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: I feel terrible that I have to...
dialog: Simon? Forget about the dog for a
dialog: second.
text: Simon forces his attention to Jackie.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Sorry. What are those cards?
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: (a bit embarrassed)
dialog: Frank's idea. He thought I should
dialog: have notes so I did this right...
dialog: maintained focus, didn't get
dialog: emotional and tried not to terrify
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (scared shitless)
dialog: Terrify me?
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: See, he's right. I need the
dialog: cards.
dialog: (reading from cards)
dialog: Simon, you're broke.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON VERDELL
text: as their conversation continues -- the dog is distressed.
speaker_heading: JACKIE (O.S.)
dialog: The medical bill are 61 thousand
dialog: now. I've spoken to your parents
dialog: and they didn't hang up or
dialog: anything -- they just said they
dialog: would feel strange calling you.
speaker_heading: SIMON (O.S.)
dialog: Well, I can't reach them.
text: Verdell walks out on the terrace and looks off. He turns
dialog: for:
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (to Verdell)
dialog: Here, baby... what is it,
dialog: Verdell?... You miss the tough
dialog: guy...
dialog: (trying to be
dialog: Melvin-like)
dialog: Well, here I am, you little pissant
dialog: mop, happy to see me? How about
dialog: another ride down the chute? Oh,
dialog: God... I don't mean it,
dialog: sweetheart...
dialog: (on Jackie's look)
dialog: I'm sorry. I know...
text: Verdell hides behind a chair.
speaker_heading: JACKIE
dialog: Frank loves you. You know that...
dialog: but I've spoken to him and he
dialog: feels that --
dialog: (reading from card)
dialog: -- as a businessman, with limited
dialog: resources...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I'll be able to keep my apartment
dialog: and studio, won't I?... Just tell
dialog: me.
text: As Jackie looks at him then thumbs for a card.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (overwhelmed)
dialog: Wow...
text: Verdell has come near him -- he reaches out a hand to pet
text: the dog and the dog ducks.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: He is trying to write. He can't. His world has been upset.
text: He walks away from his work -- a highly unusual act. He
text: is distressed -- and then an idea and he exits.
scene_heading: INT. PUBLISHER'S OFFICE - DAY
text: We are looking at ZOE, the receptionist. She is listening
text: with interest to an O.S. conversation while answering
dialog: phone calls, "Premier Publishing."
speaker_heading: FEMALE EXECUTIVE (O.S.)
dialog: Yes, you write more than anyone
dialog: else. Yes, you make us a lot of
dialog: money, but isn't there someone
dialog: more appropriate to...
speaker_heading: MELVIN (O.S.)
dialog: I need this. Just say, "Melvin,
dialog: I'll try," okay?
speaker_heading: FEMALE EXECUTIVE (O.S.)
dialog: (resigned)
dialog: Melvin, I'll try.
text: They appear now -- the woman tall, attractive, etc. She
text: pauses at the elevator.
speaker_heading: FEMALE EXECUTIVE
dialog: Now, on a pleasant note, our son
dialog: got accepted at Brown. My
dialog: husband...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (curtly)
dialog: Great, wonderful. I don't need
dialog: you to wait with me.
text: She nods, pissed, waves and leaves. As Melvin waits, Zoe
text: summons her moxie.
speaker_heading: ZOE
dialog: I can't resist. You usually move
dialog: through here so quickly and I have
dialog: so many questions I want to ask
dialog: you. You have no idea what your
dialog: work means to me.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What's it mean?
speaker_heading: ZOE
dialog: That somebody out there knows what
dialog: it's like to be...
dialog: (taps her head and heart)
dialog: in here.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Oh God, this is like a nightmare.
speaker_heading: ZOE
dialog: Aw come on, just a couple of
dialog: questions -- how hard is that?
text: As he hits the button, wipes his fingers, hits the button
dialog: etc.
speaker_heading: ZOE
dialog: How do you write women so well?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (as he turns
dialog: toward her)
dialog: I think of a man and take away
dialog: reason and accountability.
text: The fan is jolted as the elevator doors open and close.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET NEAR CAROL'S BUILDING - DAY
text: A depleted, exhausted Carol approaches her home. She is
text: suddenly wary -- SOUND DIALED DOWN -- as we MOVE CLOSER.
speaker_heading: CAROL'S POV
text: A car at the curb with "MD" license plate.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: As Carol breaks into a run.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING, STAIRWAY/HALLWAY - DAY
text: As she bounds the stairs, comes to her apartment door and
text: jiggles with the keys, a strange prescient whimpering
text: sound coming from her. As she enters the apartment.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Hello? Hello?
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Mrs. Connelly, I'm in here.
text: The worst confirmed, she moves down the narrow hallway,
text: her innards squirting the same chemicals that drives elk
dialog: on opening day of the hunting season.
scene_heading: INT. SPENCER'S ROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What? Please? Now? Tell me?!
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: Mrs. Connelly. I'm Martin Bettes
dialog: ... Dr. Bettes.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Not your name... what are you
dialog: telling me your name for!! Where
dialog: is he?
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
text: He's in the bathroom... He's fine.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (overlapping)
dialog: Tell me how bad it is. I let him
dialog: go out last night when it was so
dialog: cool without an overshirt -- just
dialog: and underone with just the straps
dialog: and I know better... and I let him
dialog: talk me into it. He was whining
dialog: and... you don't need this. Give
dialog: me a second to catch hold.
dialog: And so she does. Wow does she... and gives us some
dialog: notion of the size of her fear demon and the strength it
text: takes to subdue it as Dr. Bettes keeps reassuring her and
text: she keeps nodding... finally a deep breath as Spencer
text: enters from the bathroom. All at hyper speed now.
dialog: Salvation as farce.
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: (to his mother)
dialog: Hi...
dialog: (they kiss)
dialog: Did you know there are doctors who
dialog: come to your house?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No, I didn't.
dialog: (to Bettes)
dialog: So why are you h...
text: Beverly, Carol's mother, enters the room. She is ebullient
dialog: which, if life allowed, would be her natural state.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: I didn't know you had a secret
dialog: admire.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Huh?
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: You met the gift.
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: He's good... And I'm an expert on
dialog: doctors.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Spencer)
dialog: Stay out of this... Doctor?
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: My wife is Melvin Udall's
dialog: publisher.
dialog: (as Carol reacts)
dialog: She says I have to take great care
dialog: of this guy because you're
text: urgently needed back at work.
dialog: What work do you do?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I'm a waitress.
text: ON Dr. Bettes' reaction her mother adds a saving grace.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: In Manhattan.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Dr. Bettes?
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: In here.
text: A NURSE enters.
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Sorry it took so long. I don't
dialog: know Brooklyn.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: It's okay, Terry.
dialog: (hands her blood
dialog: vail)
dialog: Tell the lab I'd like the report
dialog: back today.
text: Carol and her mother exchange a look of incredulity.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You're going to get the results
dialog: today?!
speaker_heading: MOVING SHOT
text: As we approach the doctor and Carol seated across from
text: each other at a small table... soft voices... relaxation.
text: Bettes is examining medicine bottles.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: How long has he been having
dialog: problems?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Since forever.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: Have they done blood tests on him?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: Only in the emergency room or when
dialog: he was well.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Emergency room only.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: Have they done skin testing for
dialog: allergies?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: They haven't done the standard
dialog: scratch test. Where they make
dialog: small injections into the skin?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No. I asked. They said it's not
dialog: covered under my plan. And it's
dialog: not necessary anyway.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: It's amazing these things weren't
dialog: done.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Fucking H.M.O. bastard piece of
dialog: shit... I'm sorry... forgive me.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: No. Actually, I think that's
dialog: their technical name.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Once the tests come back, is there
dialog: someone I can reach in your office
dialog: for the results?
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: Me. My home number is on this
dialog: card.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: His home number.
text: Carol look at her mother -- they share a laugh. Beverly
text: has a hard time stopping.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to doctor)
dialog: Do you want some juice or coffee
dialog: or two female slaves?
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: Water... Nobody told you it might
dialog: be a good idea to remove the
text: carpeting and drapes in Spencer's
dialog: room?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No.
text: She starts towards Spencer's room.
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: You don't have to do it this
dialog: second... it's not dangerous or
dialog: anything. It's just something
dialog: that's advisable. Look, there's
dialog: a lot to be checked but... Hey,
dialog: your son is going to feel a
dialog: good deal better at the very
dialog: least...
text: She pats his head... Then embraces him with fierce
dialog: intimacy.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Doc!!!
dialog: (then)
dialog: So listen, you gotta let me know
dialog: about the additional costs -- one
dialog: way or the other we'll...
speaker_heading: DR. BETTES
dialog: They're considerable. But Mr.
dialog: Udall wants to be billed.
text: She takes this as a blow to the heart, stomach and groin.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Simon practices walking using his cane. A tearstained
text: Nora hugs him good-bye.
speaker_heading: NORA
dialog: You poor, poor man.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Let's use just one poor, okay?
dialog: Anyway, dear, thanks for
dialog: everything. Forgive my recent
dialog: crankiness and as soon as things
dialog: are on track again I'll call.
text: She kisses him and starts for the door and suddenly a
text: sharp intake of breath -- she's forgotten something.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: NORA
dialog: Who's going to walk Verdell?
dialog: Simon hadn't thought of this either.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: No, no.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - HALLWAY - DAY
text: Nora holding her things, knocks on Melvin's door. Melvin
text: opens the door. Nora is still sniffling. He misinterprets.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Is he dead yet?
speaker_heading: NORA
dialog: No! Would there be any way for
dialog: you to be willing to walk his dog
dialog: for him?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Absolutely.
speaker_heading: NORA
dialog: Not just today -- Uh, could you
dialog: do it -- until, until he gets
dialog: back on his feet?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Sure thing.
speaker_heading: NORA
dialog: You're a wonderful man. Two
dialog: o'clock is a good time. Here's
dialog: the key in case he's asleep. Open
text: the curtains for him, so he sees
dialog: God's beautiful work and knows
dialog: that even things like this happen
dialog: for the best.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Where'd they teach you to talk
dialog: like this -- some Panama City
dialog: "Sailor want to hump-hump bar"?
dialog: Or was today getaway day and your
text: last shot at his whiskey. Sell
dialog: crazy some place else -- we're all
dialog: stocked up here.
text: He closes the door in her face. She stands there...
text: thrown by the abruptness -- then lifts the two paper
text: shopping bags holding her things -- walks back toward the
text: elevator -- pausing briefly outside Simon's door -- then
text: continues on her way.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT
text: The doctor gone, mother and daughter arguing.
speaker_heading: CAROL
text: There is a seriously goofy man
dialog: behind this. You are not allowed
dialog: to block out that fact.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Do you really want to go back to
dialog: the runt doctors in Emergency who
dialog: keep telling us they can't help?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: It lets a crazy man into our
dialog: lives.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Come on. Why fight when we know
dialog: how it will come out. This isn't
text: like stocking or a string of
dialog: pearls. You don't send this one
dialog: back.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK APARTMENT - ESTABLISHING - DAY
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: Shades drawn. Simon is a wheelchair... the PHONE RINGS.
text: He goes to answer... the phone across the bed so that
text: reaching for the phone is a brief but difficult
text: struggle... he grunts with pain, hope and anxiety as he
dialog: answers.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Hello?... yes... sure... finally,
dialog: huh? Why, "finally"? Because I
dialog: called you so many times. Maybe
dialog: 20.
dialog: (relief)
dialog: Oh, boy... I was hoping it was
dialog: something like that. You didn't
dialog: get one of them, huh? 'Cause I
dialog: mean it wasn't only your office --
dialog: it was your home, hotel and the
dialog: cigar club you like in San
dialog: Francisco. No -- Sarcastic... Of
dialog: course. I believe you. No, don't
dialog: fire anyone... Please. Maybe I'm
dialog: wrong about the 20 times. Take a
dialog: breath...
dialog: (more)
dialog: So, you miss me a little? Hey,
dialog: strike the question -- How's the
dialog: case going? Really. Fantastic.
dialog: I didn't hear. I haven't been
dialog: watching. Great. Just great.
dialog: I'm so happy. Whoopie! Me?
dialog: Well, I'm mending. No, I look
dialog: fine. Well, some of the damage
dialog: might still be noticeable if you
dialog: look closely...
text: He runs a hand across his scarred and still bloated and
dialog: beaten face...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Carl, I need some help and you're
dialog: the logical one to turn to.
dialog: (aghast)
dialog: No! Not 'cause I blame you for
dialog: what happened. I hardly get how
dialog: you can ever think that. No, I'm
dialog: not being sarcastic.
dialog: (trying to figure it
dialog: out)
dialog: I guess because you hired the guy
dialog: who did this you think... No, I am
dialog: a sarcastic person. Well, if
dialog: you must know, the reason I said
dialog: you were the logical person is
dialog: because you always told me how you
dialog: thought I was this great person
dialog: who made you feel good about
dialog: humanity and everything. You do
dialog: remembering saying that? Well, whew.
dialog: Okay, so Carl. I hate asking but
dialog: this money thing is ridiculously
dialog: serious...
text: He picks up an index card from his night stand and takes
text: the leap -- reading the text he prepared in advance.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: "Will you please loan me money? I
dialog: will pay you back. I will give
dialog: you whatever percentage of my
dialog: income I don't absolutely need
dialog: until I do. It will take a while.
dialog: But I don't know what I'll do if
dialog: you say"... that.
dialog: (as he listens)
dialog: I understand... yes... No, I do.
dialog: (a bit of boldness)
dialog: But you know, you know -- you
dialog: didn't even ask how much, Carl?
dialog: Well, Frank has no right to
dialog: discuss how much I'm in hock...
dialog: no, you're right -- not the point.
dialog: So... what have you been up to???
dialog: Uh-huh... Oh, the group show...
dialog: how was it? Well, I'm not
dialog: surprised that there's that much
dialog: talent around... great... Look --
dialog: gotta go... no, you shouldn't feel
dialog: that way at all... take care, you,
dialog: too... you, too... Good-bye.
dialog: (as he hangs up)
dialog: Pal o' mine.
dialog: It's very quiet.
speaker_heading: LONG SHOT - SIMON
text: A lonely figure -- who now holds his good hand up to his
text: face and appears on the verge of enormous emotional
text: release -- CAMERA MOVES TOWARD him as if to rendezvous
dialog: with the moment of catharsis...
dialog: ... but Simon is denied even this small luxury as the
text: CAMERA ABRUPTLY ADJUSTS just as he begins sobbing to
text: focus on the door opening and Melvin and Verdell entering
dialog: the room.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Maybe I'll bring him some food by.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Thank you for walking him.
text: Simon wheels away from Melvin.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: If you'll excuse me I'm not
dialog: feeling so well.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It smells like shit in here?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Go away.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: That cleaning woman doesn't...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Please, just leave.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Where are all your queer party
dialog: friends?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (his first shout)
dialog: Get out.
text: Melvin pauses -- Simon weeping... Verdell looks at Simon
text: with concern. Melvin is thrown. Moved?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Nothing worse than having to feel
dialog: this way in front of you?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Nellie, you're a disgrace to
dialog: depression.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Rot in hell, Melvin.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No need to stop being a lady...
dialog: quit worrying -- you'll be back on
dialog: your knees in no time.
text: Simon swings his arm and cast at Melvin -- the sudden
text: attack jolts Melvin but not as much as what follows.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Is this fun for you? Well, you
dialog: lucky devil... It just gets better
dialog: and better. I am losing my
dialog: apartment and Frank wants me to
dialog: promise to paint hotter subjects
dialog: and to beg my parents, who haven't
dialog: called, for help... and I won't.
dialog: And I don't want to paint anymore.
text: Melvin has made for the door... Simon blocks him.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: So the life I was trying for is
dialog: over. The life I had is gone and
dialog: I am feeling so damn sorry for
dialog: myself that it is difficult to
dialog: breathe. Right times for you --
dialog: huh, Melvin. The gay neighbor is
dialog: terrified...
dialog: (a sudden screamed
dialog: word surprises them
dialog: both)
dialog: Terrified... Lucky you, you're
dialog: here for rock bottom... me
text: wallowing in self-pity in front of
dialog: you, you absolute horror of a
dialog: human being...
text: As Simon works to stop crying, Melvin is weird with
dialog: discomfort.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Well, I'll do one thing for you
dialog: that might cheer you up.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Get out.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Don't piss on a gift, tough guy.
dialog: You want to know why the dog
dialog: prefers me... it's not affection.
dialog: It's a trick.
text: Simon looks up, his mood turning on a dime -- he's
text: rapt... Melvin comes and stands by his wheelchair.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
text: I carry bacon in my pocket.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (pleased)
dialog: Oh, my gosh.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (hands him bacon)
dialog: Now we'll both call him.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Come on, sweetheart...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Yo, yo, yo...
text: Verdell goes like a bullet to Melvin... who is totally
text: surprised and staggered by the implications. True love
dialog: and such.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Would you leave now, please?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Stupid dog.
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: I don't get it.
text: He exits... looking apologetically at Simon in stoic
dialog: ruin.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Carol in bed on the pullout sofa... She is in turmoil...
text: there is THUNDER, but no rain. She walks to the kitchen.
text: She is trembling as she drinks a glass of water and exits.
scene_heading: INT. BEVERLY BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: The room is on an air shaft and this is where Carol
text: shares a closet with her mother, who is now asleep.
text: Carol quietly extracts a dress from the closet, leaving
text: her nightgown on the floor. There is something sexy
text: here, the woman in Carol churning. She plops on a summer
dialog: dress -- no time for underwear.
scene_heading: EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - NIGHT
text: Carol seeing a bus and dashing after it.
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN BRIDGE - TWO AM
text: Carol crossing to Manhattan. She looks as if she's on
text: her way to some final exam where she has no notion of the
dialog: subject.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET - NEAR MELVIN'S BUILDING -
speaker_heading: NIGHT (RAIN)
text: Hot summer night as she gets off the bus and now the
text: rains come... We are in a familiar neighborhood.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON MELVIN AND SIMON'S APARTMENT HOUSE
text: As Carol consults the slip of paper with the address on
dialog: it.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT (RAIN)
text: As she enters building and realizes it's not just that
dialog: she's wet -- the thin summer dress is a winner in any wet
text: T-shirt contest... the fabric clinging to her breasts,
text: like the old movie poster of The Deep.
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: As Carol passes Simon's door... stands in front of
text: Melvin's apartment -- twists herself to ease nervousness
text: and knocks on the door... then RINGS the BELL. Finally
text: Carol hears MUFFLED THROAT CLEARING on the other side
text: of the door.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Uh, Udall?
speaker_heading: MELVIN (O.S.)
dialog: Carol the waitress?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Yes.
text: As we hear him unlock the door, Carol looks at her
text: breasts and gasps. She grasps the fabric and holds it
text: straight out just as Melvin opens the door. His hair is
text: static city, standing on end as he periodically gives it
text: self-conscious pats.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: The doctors had your billing
dialog: address. I'm sorry about the
dialog: hour.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I was working... can't you just
dialog: drop me a thank-you note?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: That's not why I'm here...
dialog: (tearing suddenly)
dialog: ... though you have no idea what
dialog: it's like to have a real
dialog: conversation with a doctor about
dialog: Spencer...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (very uncomfortable)
dialog: Note. Put it in the note.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Why did yo do this for me?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: To get you back at work so you can
dialog: wait on me.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: But you do have some idea how
dialog: strange that sounds??? I'm
dialog: worried that you did this
dialog: because...
text: She pauses -- the beginning of an extraordinarily long
text: silence. Finally.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You waiting for me to say
dialog: something?
dialog: (as she shakes her head)
dialog: What sort of thing do you want?
dialog: Look, I'll be at the restaurant
dialog: tomorrow.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't think I can wait until
dialog: tomorrow. This needs clearing up.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What needs clearing up?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (strong and true)
dialog: I'm not going to sleep with you.
dialog: I will never, ever sleep with you.
dialog: Never. Not ever.
dialog: Melvin's reaction? Well, he'll never get credit for the
dialog: brief but intense inner struggle -- the struggle not to
dialog: scream --
text: -- not to cry -- to process the sudden and stunning hurt
text: during his half turn away from her -- and then answer
text: hoarsely.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm sorry. We don't open for the
dialog: no-sex oaths until 9 a.m.
text: Carol is amused, surprised... maybe, in some small way
dialog: ever taken by his style... but top priority is clarity.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I'm not kidding.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Okay!!!! Anything else?!?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Just how grateful I am.
text: Her mission completed -- she turns.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: So you'll be at work?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Yes.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: It's a 3:22 a.m. as the two digital clocks on Melvin's
dialog: night stand tell us... He gets up -- the first time we've
text: seen his waking routine -- taps one foot on the floor
text: twice -- then the other foot -- two more taps and his
text: body angles from the bed in a deliberate way.
text: He is having anxiety. He sits at the piano and plays
text: very briefly... Stops -- wipes some sweat from his
text: forehead... Walks to his computer room -- turns the light
text: on and then quickly off... Walks to his refrigerator...
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT, KITCHEN, INSIDE REFRIGERATOR -
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: As he grabs a cardboard take-out box...
scene_heading: INT. NEW YORK APT. BUILDING - HALLWAY/SIMON'S APT.
dialog: 
text: He knocks of Simon's door... It opens quickly.
speaker_heading: SIMON'S APARTMENT
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I took a chance you were up.
text: Simon walks painfully back to a chair.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I brought you Chinese soup.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I have never been so tired in my
dialog: life. Okay, if I sit here?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Got any easier questions?
text: Melvin sits and moans -- the dog sitting near him.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I haven't been sleeping. I
dialog: haven't been clear or felt like
dialog: myself. I'm in trouble. Some son
dialog: of a bitch is burning my bridges
dialog: behind my back... But the
dialog: tiredness -- boy... Not just
dialog: sleepy.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: But sick -- nauseous -- where
text: everything looks distorted and
dialog: everything inside just aches --
dialog: when you can barely get up the
dialog: will to complain.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (brightening)
dialog: Yeah...
text: He feels a touch of community and not knowing where to
dialog: take it from here.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm glad we did this.
text: He rises and makes an awkward exit.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Good talking to you.
text: He exits -- Simon puzzled and concerned.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Carol seated working on a letter... She is trying to
text: express her gratitude... An enormous sheaf of completed
text: pages sit next to her... She is so involved she doesn't
text: even look up as a young man, SEAN, knocks on the door and
text: is let in by Beverly.
text: They exchange greetings and move inside where we faintly
text: hear Spencer greeting him... We MOVE IN and read over
dialog: Carol's shoulder -- "I'm sorry to have gotten sloppy and
dialog: emotional in this letter, but it would have been on my
dialog: conscionce (sic) forever if I didn't tell you how
dialog: gratefull (sic)... "
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: You're not still writing that
dialog: thank-you note?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I'm on the last page. How do you
dialog: spell conscience?
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
text: C-o-n-s-c-i-e-n-c-e. I got Sean
dialog: from the bakery to baby-sit so
dialog: let's go out.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I still don't feel safe leaving
dialog: Spencer with someone. How do you
dialog: spell it again?
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Spencer is okay. You'd better
dialog: start finding something else to do
dialog: with your free time. If you can't
dialog: feel good about this break and
dialog: step out a little...
dialog: (struts and pumps
dialog: her arms)
dialog: You ought to get Mr. Udall to send
dialog: you over a psychiatrist.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (more emotionally
dialog: than she intended)
dialog: I don't need one 'cause I know
dialog: what's really going on here. I
dialog: have to finish this letter or
dialog: I'll go nuts.
dialog: (looking at paper;
dialog: weepy)
dialog: This can't be right -- con-
dialog: science.
text: Carol breathes heavily -- gets control, stopping herself
text: on the brink of crying.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Carol. What?
text: Carol is amazed at herself... that she might not be able
text: to stem the flow... wide-eyed with apprehension, she
text: looks at her mother, who, in return, only nods permission
text: for Carol to let it go. A last defiant snort from Carol
text: -- and then she is overwhelmed. The headline comes first.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't know... It's very strange
dialog: not feeling that stupid panic
dialog: thing inside you all the time.
dialog: Without that you just start
dialog: thinking about yourself -- and
dialog: what does that ever get anybody.
dialog: Today, on the bus there was this
dialog: adorable couple and I felt myself
dialog: giving them a dirty look -- I had
dialog: no idea everything was...
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Go ahead.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (great, forceful
dialog: hand gestures)
dialog: ... moving in the wrong
dialog: direction... Away from when I
dialog: even remembered what it was like
dialog: to have a man to... anything...
dialog: hold fucking -- sorry -- hands
dialog: with, for Christ's sake. I was
dialog: feeling like really bad that Dr.
dialog: Bettes is married.
dialog: (this next one's
dialog: tough)
dialog: Which is probably why I make poor
dialog: Spencer hug me more than he wants
dialog: to... Like the poor kid doesn't
dialog: have enough problems. He has to
dialog: make up for his mom not getting
dialog: any.
dialog: (weeps at her
dialog: insight)
dialog: Oh, boy. Who needs these
dialog: thoughts?
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Spencer's doing fine. So what are
dialog: you saying, that you're frustr...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Leave me be! Why are you doing
dialog: this? Why are you picking at my
dialog: sores... What is it that you
dialog: want?... You want what? What's
dialog: with you? I hope getting me
dialog: thinking of everything that's
dialog: wrong when all I want is to not
dialog: do this has some purpose.
dialog: (puffy; red;
dialog: furious)
dialog: What is it, Mom? No kidding.
text: Slumped, fought out -- Carol gets out one last, naked
text: husky voiced question.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What is it you want? What?
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: I want us to go out.
text: A beat, then.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (simply)
dialog: Okay.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APT, SPENCER'S ROOM, HALLWAY - NIGHT
text: As they enter, still wiping away the effects of their
dialog: cry.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Sean)
dialog: We're going out.
speaker_heading: SEAN
dialog: (looking at their
dialog: red eyes)
dialog: Looks like fun.
text: She kisses Spencer -- almost getting involved in what
text: he's doing -- then sees her mother waiting.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Okay -- we're out of here. I love
dialog: you.
text: Spencer nods -- involved with Sean. CAMERA FOLLOWS Carol
text: as she exits the apartment -- her mother leading.
text: Halfway down the stairs, she stops and reverses herself,
text: going back to the apartment which she re-enters -- then
dialog: to her son to ask:
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Do you love me?
speaker_heading: SPENCER
dialog: Uh-huh.
text: Carol exits.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NEAR CAROL'S BLDG. (MOVING) - DAY
text: Beverly and Carol walking past the store windows. A
dialog: simple and unprecedented experience in their recent
dialog: lives.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Nice to get out, isn't it?
text: Carol nods tightly... then they wrap arms around each
text: other and continue walking, turning into a corner bar.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S RESTAURANT - CLOSE ON CAROL - DAY
text: As Carol stands nervously while Lisa finishes reading her
text: 14-page letter. In the b.g. Melvin and Frank are seated
text: at the same table and in earnest conversation. Lisa
text: keeps flicking away tears -- a few drops on the pages.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Don't get it wet.
text: Lisa brushes the paper -- finishes and embraces Carol.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: So it's okay?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You almost have me liking him.
dialog: You sure come from the heart. I
dialog: never knew what you went through
dialog: with everything.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I wanted him to know how much he'd
dialog: done.
dialog: (looking over)
dialog: Can you believe he's eating with
dialog: someone.
scene_heading: ON MELVIN &amp; FRANK
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It's not my dog and this Simon
text: seems to have enough on his mind
dialog: -- but he did throw up twice and
text: his spark is off.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Sure -- take him to the vet.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I did. And his stomach is out of
dialog: whack. So they need him for a
dialog: couple of days.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Do it.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Melvin.
text: She self-consciously hands him with the thick envelope.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: A thank-you note for what you did
dialog: for me.
text: He hands it back to her deliberately. She takes it and
text: walks back to the service area where, embarrassed,
text: confused, and messed with -- she tosses the note.
text: After Carol leaves...
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: She's nice.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (to Frank)
dialog: Really nice. Shouldn't that be a
dialog: good thing... telling someone,
dialog: 'no thanks required.'
speaker_heading: FRANK
text: It looks like it really went over.
dialog: You're sure making the rounds.
dialog: Simon says you brought him soup
dialog: last night. I hope he doesn't
dialog: write you a note.
text: Melvin looks up -- wary -- his brain sends a disturbing
dialog: message.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: "What?" Look at you... You sense
dialog: a mark.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Hey -- you called me... I...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
text: About a dog.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Yeah, but it's all about Simon
dialog: now... you helped with the dog...
dialog: And now there are other things.
dialog: I'm just as concerned as you are
dialog: about Simon.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Concerned. I'm just the hall
dialog: monitor here.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: It's not only financial
dialog: assistance. What he's got to do
dialog: is go to Baltimore tomorrow and
dialog: ask his parents for money. It's
dialog: not going to happen on the phone.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Yeah. If his parents are alive
dialog: they've got to help -- those are
dialog: the rules. Good.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Yes. And tomorrow? I have a high
dialog: maintenance selling painter coming
dialog: through... So I'm out. Can you
dialog: take him?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Think white and get serious.
text: Carol enters scene.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: Take my car -- a convertible. Do
dialog: you drive?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (loudly)
dialog: Like the wind but I'm not doing
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: CAROL
text: Getting loud, getting loud.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: He wants me to take his car and
dialog: his client to Baltimore.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I want your life for a minute
dialog: where my big problem is someone
dialog: offers me a free convertible so I
dialog: can get out of this city.
text: She exits. Frank prepares to depart.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Okay. I'll take him. Get him
dialog: packed -- ready -- tomorrow
dialog: morning.
text: Frank stumbles back... self-satisfied, he relaxes.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (excited)
dialog: Okay... so I'll see you tomorrow.
dialog: Let's not drag this out. We don't
dialog: enjoy another that much.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: If there's some mental health
dialog: foundation that raises money to
dialog: help people like you be sure to
dialog: let me know.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Last word freak.
text: Frank adjusts and exits... Carol approaches calling a
dialog: "good-bye" to him.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: So. Anything else?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Yes. I'm going to give my queer
text: neighbor a lift to Baltimore.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Hey, what I did for you is working
dialog: out?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (a breath; then)
dialog: What you did changed my life.
text: She offers him the note.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No... no thank you notes.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Well, part of what I said in this
dialog: entire history of my life which
dialog: you won't read is that somehow
dialog: you've done more for my mother, my
dialog: son and me, than anyone else ever
dialog: has... And that makes you the most
dialog: important, surprising, generous
dialog: person I've ever met and that you
dialog: be in our daily prayers forever.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Lovely.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I also wrote one part... I wrote
dialog: I'm sorry... I was talking about I
dialog: was sorry when I got mad at you
dialog: when you came over and you told my
dialog: son that he ought to answer back
dialog: so I wrote that.
dialog: (reading from the
dialog: letter, Melvin
dialog: wildly uncomfortable)
dialog: I was sorry for busting you on
dialog: that... and I'm sorry for busting
dialog: in on you that night... when I
dialog: said I was never... I was sorry
dialog: and I'm sorry every time your food
dialog: was cold and that you had to wait
dialog: two seconds for a coffee filler...
text: Melvin wants to disappear but Carol is getting into it --
text: emotionally moved by her own words.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: ... and I'm sorry for never
text: spotting, right there at the table
text: in the restaurant, the human being
dialog: that had it in him to do this
dialog: thing for us... You know what, I'm
dialog: just going to start from the
dialog: beginning... I have not been able
dialog: to express my gratefulness to
dialog: you... even as I look at the word
dialog: "grateful" now it doesn't begin to
dialog: tell you what I feel for you...
text: And finally Carol notes Melvin's mood and pauses.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Nice of you... thank you.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Now I want you to do something for me.
text: She looks at him for a very strange, long beat.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Oh, I'm sorry... Didn't I say,
dialog: "what?" I thought I said,
dialog: "what?"... What?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I want you to go on this trip.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No, sir...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I can't do this alone. I'm afraid
dialog: he'll pull the stiff one eye on
dialog: me. I need you to chaperon.
dialog: Separate everything but cars. You
dialog: said you liked convertibles. Now
dialog: I'm on the hook.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: The stiff one eye?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Two days.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I can't. I work.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You take off when you have to.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: My son.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Bettes tells me he's doing fine.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (no other way)
dialog: Melvin, I'd rather not.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What's that got to do with it?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Funny, I thought it was a strong
dialog: point.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Write me a note and ain't she
dialog: sweet. I need a hand and where'd
dialog: she go.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Are you saying accepting your help
dialog: obligates me!?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Is there another way to see it?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - BEVERLY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Carol takes an old weekend case down from the top shelf
dialog: of the closet.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Well, here's a little suitcase
dialog: shocked that it's been used.
text: She holds up a dress -- a pretty one... then decides it's
text: too pretty and puts it back... Now she looks in another
text: drawer and pauses as if she ponders one of the mysteries
text: of the ages. She hesitates then talks to herself.
scene_heading: INSERT -- UNDERWEAR DRAWER
text: Her best underwear neatly stacked alongside her everyday
dialog: "girl Jockies." She fingers the good stuff -- puts it
text: back -- then the everyday -- hesitates.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (furiously exasperated)
dialog: There's not way to pack for this
dialog: trip... well, I'll tell you -- I'm
text: not packing the camera.
text: As she exits the room --
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: As she picks up the phone.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Melvin is in his bedroom -- everything he's taking neatly
text: stacked on the bed waiting to be packed (he is taking a
dialog: camera). He has a list of what he needs. All items --
dialog: underwear, socks, etc... with four checks next to each
text: one and still he -- checks each stack on the bed and adds
text: another check. The PHONE RINGS. This is an amazing
dialog: development. He has almost no recent experience with
text: receiving a nighttime phone call. He makes a little
text: comment to himself as he moves.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Woo-woo.
text: He stops -- briefly trying to remember where the phone is
text: -- and then, remembering, crosses and picks it up but
text: before bringing it to his mouth nervously clears his
dialog: throat.
speaker_heading: ON CAROL
text: As she hears his throat being cleared. It is not a
text: pretty sound. (The following conversation is INTERCUT.)
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Hello?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Are you still coming?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Yes.
text: Melvin visibly relaxes.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Melvin... I'd like to know exactly
dialog: where we are going.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
text: Just south to Baltimore, Maryland.
dialog: So I know what you're going to ask
dialog: next.
dialog: (correcting himself)
dialog: That you might ask -- I'm not
dialog: certain.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: There's... there's no need to
dialog: bring anything dressy... or... I
dialog: mean -- I didn't know if we'd be
dialog: eating at any restaurant that
dialog: have dress codes.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Oh.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: We might. Yes. We can. Let's.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Okay, gotcha. What did you think
dialog: I was going to ask?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Whether crabs are in season there
dialog: now...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Oh. Okay, then -- Melvin. Good
dialog: night.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - BEVERLY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Beverly looks up expectantly as her daughter enters.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: How was it talking to him?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Stop treating this like I'm going
dialog: away with a man. He's just going
dialog: to say those crappy, sick,
dialog: complaining, angry things to me.
dialog: I hate this, Mom -- I hate this.
dialog: He's a freak show -- the worst
dialog: person I ever met.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Well, maybe he has nice friends.
scene_heading: EXT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
text: Beverly and Spencer wait with her. The bus approaches.
text: She kisses them.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Spencer)
dialog: You stand there and I'll wave to
dialog: you from the back window.
text: As she boards the bus.
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: Call me as soon as you're settled.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Spencer)
dialog: I love you.
text: The bus driver closes the doors on her -- she shoves them
dialog: open.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to bus driver)
dialog: Sensitive, huh?!
text: The bus pulls out. He runs after the bus -- waving at
text: his mother who grows concerned that he might be taxing
dialog: himself.
scene_heading: INT. VETERINARIAN'S WAITING ROOM - DAY
text: A female VETERINARIAN in surgical scrubs holds Verdell as
text: Melvin finishes filling out some forms.
text: On opposite sides of the waiting room, a very large black
text: dog and a tiny Chihuahua sit patiently with their owners.
speaker_heading: VETERINARIAN
dialog: Anything unusual in the dog's
dialog: diet?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No. Everybody gets their own
dialog: cage?
speaker_heading: VETERINARIAN
dialog: Certainly.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (pointing to
dialog: Chihuahua)
dialog: Put him in with that one, not that
dialog: one...
dialog: (pointing to large
dialog: dog)
dialog: ... Builds his confidence.
scene_heading: EXT. BUS STOP NEAR APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - DAY
text: Carol disembarks.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - DAY
text: As she walks and turns a corner.
scene_heading: CLOSE ON CAROL
text: The shot of the prisoner taking the walk toward the death
text: chamber. But the prisoner -- has grit -- her knees do
text: not buckle. She does not whimper. No prison "screws"
dialog: will have to support her weight. Still, the prospect
dialog: couldn't be grimmer.
speaker_heading: CAROL'S POV
text: Melvin next to a spiffy convertible. Top down. Trunk open.
scene_heading: CLOSER ON MELVIN
text: He is wearing driving gloves and turns to witness the
text: tussle Frank and Simon are having just inside the
dialog: building.
speaker_heading: FRANK
dialog: I'm sorry that I'm not taking
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (upset)
dialog: So am I, Frank.
text: Frank starts to leave -- Simon stops him. They embrace.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Soak it up -- it's your last
text: chance at a hug for a few days.
text: As Frank moves off Melvin sees Carol and his demeanor
text: changes... that quickly there is a shyness.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Thanks for being on time... Carol,
dialog: the waitress, this is Simon, the
dialog: fag.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Hello... Oh, my God, who did that
dialog: to you?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I, uh... I was... attacked.
dialog: Walked in on people robbing me. I
dialog: was hospitalized. I almost died.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Let's do the small talk in the
dialog: car. Load up.
text: Carol puts her bag in the car.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I was going to do that for you.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: It's okay. No problem. Where
dialog: should we sit?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (totally non-plussed)
dialog: I -- uh, I... Well, there is no
dialog: place cards or anything.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: Let me go in back. You look like
dialog: you need all the room you can
dialog: manage.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: That's very thoughtful.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Never a break. Never.
text: Carol steps into the back. Melvin disappointed that he's
text: not sitting next to Carol... Carol is wedged in the small
text: back seat. She struggles to get her feet in.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You're really jammed back there.
text: He reaches for the latch between his legs and slides his
text: seat and, with some effort, wrenches it forward giving
text: Carol more room and putting his right against the wheel.
text: She is startled by the gesture.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Thanks, Melvin.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Welcome.
text: And off they go. Simon and Carol stunned by the manners.
scene_heading: EXT. 12TH STREET
text: Turning onto Fifth.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I got the whole ride programmed.
text: CAMERA FOLLOWS as Melvin goes to a rack of CDs -- all
text: carefully labelled. He selects and begins to play the
text: one marked "ICEBREAKER." It is a song which we clearly
text: and quickly judge as off the circumstances -- a quick
text: burst of "Y.M.C.A." Melvin STOPS the MUSIC and chuckles.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Just wanted to see what you'd do.
dialog: No, we have greatness here.
text: He goes for another CD labelled "FOR USE TO REP THINGS
dialog: UP."
text: The car turns onto Seventh as we hear BEAUTIFULLY
scene_heading: SELECTED MUSIC.
speaker_heading: CAROL (O.S.)
dialog: Hey, I like this music.
text: And, as the MUSIC PLAYS, Simon looks out.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: The three of them... Carol chattering away.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't know the last time I've
dialog: been out of the city... Hey, my
dialog: arms are tanning. I used to tan
dialog: great. We gotta stop soon so'se
dialog: I can check on Spencer.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (during the above)
dialog: I'm sorry... I can't hear you. I
dialog: can't turn my head all the way
dialog: yet... tell her we can't hear her.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Doesn't matter. She's enjoying
dialog: herself. Consider it part of the
dialog: music.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - DAY
text: A short time later. Carol is now driving.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I'm sure, Simon, they did
dialog: something real off for you to feel
dialog: this way... But when it comes to
dialog: your partners -- or your kid --
dialog: things will always be off for you
dialog: unless you set it straight. Maybe
dialog: this thing happened to you just to
dialog: give you that chance.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Nonsense!
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Anybody here who's interested in
dialog: what Melvin has to say raise their
dialog: hands.
text: Simon does not raise his hand. Simon and Carol have thus
dialog: declared their majority.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Do you want to know what happened
dialog: with my parents?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Yes. I really would.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Well...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No, let me pull over so I can pay
dialog: full attention.
text: Car pulling over toward parking spot.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - CURBSIDE - CONVERTIBLE - DAY
text: She takes the car curbside and parks.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Now go ahead.
text: Simon looks back at Melvin as does Carol. He looks
text: innocent. Several beats -- Melvin almost says something
text: -- a hidden hand gesture from Carol stops him. Finally.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Well, I always painted. Always.
dialog: And my mother always encouraged
dialog: it. She was sort of fabulous
dialog: about it actually... and she used
dialog: to... I was too young to think
dialog: there was anything at all wrong
dialog: with it... and she was very
dialog: natural. She used to pose nude
dialog: for me... and I thought or assumed
dialog: my father was aware of it.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: This stuff is pointless.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Hey -- you let him...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You like sad stories -- you want
dialog: mine.
speaker_heading: CARL
dialog: . Go ahead, Simon. Really.
dialog: Please. Don't let him stop you. Ignore him.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Okay. Well, one day my father
dialog: came in on one of those painting
dialog: sessions when I was nine -- and he
dialog: just started screaming at her --
dialog: at us -- at evil. And...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (very quickly)
dialog: ... my father didn't leave his
dialog: room for 11 years -- he hit my
dialog: hand with a yardstick if I made a
text: mistake on the piano.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Go ahead, Simon. Your father
dialog: walked in on you and was yelling
dialog: and... really, come on.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I was trying to defend my mother
dialog: and make peace, in the lamest way.
dialog: I said, "she's not naked -- it's
dialog: art." And then he started hitting
dialog: me. And he beat me unconscious.
dialog: After that he talked to me less
dialog: and less -- he knew before I left
dialog: for college, my dad came into my
text: room. He held out his hand. It
text: was filled with money. A big wad
text: of sweaty money.
dialog: (gathers himself)
dialog: And he said to me, "I don't want
dialog: you to ever come back." I grabbed
dialog: him and I hugged him... He turns
dialog: and walked out.
text: Carol, whose life has been rugged but basic, feels as
text: strange as she does moved by Simon's trauma which is so
dialog: much more complicated than her meat and potatoes
text: troubles. She looks out her window -- then kisses her
text: fingers and touches them to Simon's cheek. A nice,
text: understated, gesture of friendship.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Well, you know -- I still stay
dialog: what I said. You've got to get
dialog: past it all when it comes to your
dialog: parents. We all have these horror
dialog: stories to get over.
text: Melvin shifts INTO the FRAME.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: That's not true. Some of us have
dialog: great stories... pretty stories
dialog: that take place at lakes with
dialog: boats and friends and noodle
dialog: salad. Just not anybody in this
dialog: car. But lots of people -- that's
dialog: their story -- good times and
dialog: noodle salad... and that's what
dialog: makes it hard. Not that you had
dialog: it bad but being that pissed that
dialog: so many had it good.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Not it at all, really.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (a veteran's irony)
dialog: Not at all, huh?!... Let's go to
dialog: the hotel. And if you're lucky
dialog: tomorrow Dad will give you another
text: wad of sweaty money.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - LIVING ROOM/CARL'S ROOM - DAY
speaker_heading: MELVIN
text: Two bedrooms and the sofa opens...
text: Carol is on the phone in the living room -- she hangs up.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: No answer... Maybe we should just
dialog: drive there tomorrow. Can I have
dialog: that one?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Yes... sure.
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: I'll take the sofa.
text: Carol walks into her room -- the nicest room she'll ever
text: have slept in... She goes to the phone and dials...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Hello... Hi, Spencer... Why are
dialog: you out of breath? You did?!?
dialog: That is great... So great... So --
dialog: no, wait a second, Spence...
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - MELVIN AND SIMON'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY
text: Melvin watches Simon struggle to unpack his especially
text: neat suitcase. Melvin is uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Can I ask you a personal question?
text: Simon laughs loudly in apprehension squared.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Do you ever get an erection for a
dialog: woman?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Melvin...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Wouldn't your lie be a lot easier
dialog: if you were not...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: You consider your life easy.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I give you that one...
dialog: (eyes suitcase)
dialog: Nice packing.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Carol enters the common living room... Melvin is sitting
text: there. Carol is dealing with a number of unsettling new
dialog: factors in her life.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: My son was outside playing soccer.
dialog: I never saw him playing ball. Come
dialog: on, you guys -- take me out for a
dialog: good time... Take me out dancing.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Dancing?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I can't, I'm exhausted.
text: Carol walks to Simon and puts an arm on him. Melvin is
text: visibly disturbed by her gesture.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: I don't blame you... This is a
dialog: monumental first day out... You
dialog: sad or anything?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: No... Nervous. It would be very
dialog: rough, Carol, if you weren't
dialog: along.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What a nice compliment.
text: She gives Simon a kiss... Melvin deals with jealousy.
text: She turns to him.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I'm happy. And you're my date.
dialog: Let's get dressed.
text: She exits the room. Melvin unnerved.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm going to jump in the shower.
dialog: I'll be right with you.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT
text: As Carol, dressed in a thrift shop find, enters the main
text: room of the suite and hears the SHOWER running -- she
text: sits down to wait -- through...
scene_heading: SERIES OF DISSOLVES
text: Showing the enormous length of time which transpires until
text: finally a seriously clean Melvin emerges from the bathroom
text: through a cloud of steam. They exit.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRST RATE RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: As they drive up.
speaker_heading: VALET
dialog: Good evening, sir.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: They sell hard shell crabs here?
speaker_heading: VALET
dialog: Yes.
scene_heading: INT. FIRST RATE RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: As they enters...
speaker_heading: HEAD WAITER
dialog: Good evening.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Hi. You have hard shells, right?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Stop asking everyone.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Just him and that's it. Okay, you
dialog: can answer -- we've worked it out.
speaker_heading: HEAD WAITER
dialog: Yes, we do... And I can give you a
text: tie and jacket.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: HEAD WAITER
dialog: They require a tie and jacket but
dialog: we have some available.
text: He reaches into the coat and check room and withdraws them.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No... I'm not wearing that -- and
dialog: just in case you were going to ask
dialog: I'm not going to let you inject me
dialog: with plaque either.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You promised a nice place -- can't
dialog: you just...
dialog: (to Head Waiter)
dialog: You have these dry cleaned all the
dialog: time, don't you?
speaker_heading: HEAD WAITER
dialog: Actually, I don't think so.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (to Carol)
dialog: Wait here.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRST RATE RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: As Melvin takes his car back from the valet.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - SHOPPING MALL - NIGHT
text: As the car goes right across the street to a shopping
dialog: mall.
scene_heading: INT. SHOPPING MALL - MEN'S STORE - NIGHT
text: Melvin walks to the doorway and stops suddenly.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Good evening.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I need a coat and tie.
speaker_heading: OTHER ANGLE
text: CAMERA REVEALS that the floor is intricately patterned so
dialog: that passage for Melvin is impossible.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: Come on in.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SALESMAN
dialog: No?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (pointing)
dialog: That jacket and give me a tie.
scene_heading: EXT. FIRST RATE RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: As he pulls up - a new VALET taking his car.
speaker_heading: VALET #2
dialog: Good evening.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You have hard shells?
speaker_heading: VALET #2
dialog: I'm not sure.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Everyone else says you do.
speaker_heading: VALET #2
dialog: Then I guess we do.
scene_heading: INT. FIRST RATE RESTAURANT
text: As he enters, looks for and then spot Carol. She is
text: having a martini at the bar... Sitting on a stool --
text: watching COUPLES dance... Happy by herself... Turning
dialog: down a MAN who wants to buy her another... And Melvin
text: watches... Watches his date.
speaker_heading: HEAD WAITER
dialog: Shall I get her for you?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No, it's all right. I'll just
dialog: watch.
text: He enjoys watching her for a few more beats... She turns
text: -- Melvin makes a "Haul your ass over here" gesture...
text: and she smiles and walks toward him... A WAITER has
text: lifted her drink -- placed it on a tray and follows her.
text: She takes a bit of a slalom course through the tables,
text: giddy as the MUSIC PLAYS and couples dance in the b.g.
text: She notices the waiter in her trail.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (mouthing the words
dialog: to Melvin)
dialog: My drink is following me.
text: Melvin watches her approach. It is all too exquisite.
text: He takes a breath -- it doesn't come easily.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You look s...
text: She stops herself from saying "sexy," regathers, then...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You look great.
text: They arrives at the table. He holds out her chair for her.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You wanna dance?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I've been thinking about that
dialog: since you brought it up before.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (rising)
dialog: And?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No...
dialog: (and before she can
dialog: digest that)
dialog: ... I don't get this place. They
dialog: make me buy an outfit but they let
dialog: you wear a house dress. I don't
dialog: get it.
speaker_heading: ON CAROL
text: Melvin has no idea he has insulted her. Sandbagged in
text: extreme, she gets up -- actually ready to leave.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: No. Wait. What? Why? I didn't
dialog: mean it. You gotta sit down. You
dialog: can still give me the dirty
dialog: look... just sit down and give it
dialog: to me.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Melvin, pay me a compliment... I
dialog: need one and quick... You have no
dialog: idea how much what you said just
dialog: hurt my feelings.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (really pissed,
dialog: mutters)
dialog: That monominute somebody gets that
dialog: you need them they threaten to go
dialog: away. Never fails.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: That's not compliment, Melvin...
dialog: That's just trying to sound smart
dialog: so I feel stupid... A compliment
dialog: is something nice about somebody
dialog: else... Now or never.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Okay.
text: He waves her down.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (sitting)
dialog: And mean it...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Can we order first?
text: She thinks and then nods. The waiter is across the room.
dialog: This does not stop Melvin.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (calling)
text: Two crab dinners and pitcher of
dialog: cold beer.
dialog: (to Carol)
dialog: Baked or fries?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Fries.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (calling)
dialog: One baked -- one fries.
scene_heading: STARTLED WAITER
dialog: (shouting back)
dialog: I'll tell your waiter.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (to Carol)
dialog: Okay, I got a real great
dialog: compliment for you and it's true.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I am so afraid you're about to say
dialog: something awful...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Don't be pessimistic. It's not
dialog: your style. Okay... Here I
dialog: goes... Clearly a mistake.
dialog: (this is hell
dialog: for him)
dialog: I have this -- what? Ailment...
dialog: And my doctor -- a shrink... who
dialog: I used to see all the time... he
dialog: says 50 or 60 percent of the time
dialog: a pill can really help. I hate
dialog: pills. Very dangerous things,
dialog: pills. "Hate," I am using the
dialog: word "hate" about pills. My
dialog: compliment is that when you came
dialog: to my house that time and told me
dialog: how you'd never -- well, you were
dialog: there, you know... The next
dialog: morning I started taking these
dialog: pills.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (a little confused)
dialog: I don't quite get how that's a
dialog: compliment for me.
text: Amazing that something in Melvin rises to the occasion --
text: so that he uncharacteristically looks at her directly --
dialog: then:
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You make me want to be a better
dialog: man.
dialog: Carol never expected the kind of praise which would so
text: slip under her guard. She stumbles a bit -- flattered,
text: momentarily moved and his for the taking.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: That's maybe the best compliment
dialog: of my life.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Then I've really overshot here
dialog: 'cause I was aiming at just enough
dialog: to keep you from walking out.
text: Carol laughs.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: So how are you doing with those
dialog: pills? Well, I hopahopahopa.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Takes months to know... They work
dialog: little by little.
dialog: (holds his head;
dialog: then)
dialog: Talking like this is exhausting.
text: Carol moves to the chair next to him... She sits very
text: close -- he tenses.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Have you ever let a romantic
dialog: moment make you do something you
dialog: know is stupid?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Never.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Here's the trouble with never.
speaker_heading: TIGHT SHOT
text: for the kiss. Their faces are close -- she looks at
text: him... She closes her eyes -- her face moving toward him
text: -- he is wide-eyed and afraid... His face almost moves
text: away -- in a shot this close it's almost flight... But
text: now his head moves back and he receives her kiss. It is
text: brief. Carol smiles encouragement to him and herself.
dialog: Melvin can't bear the pleasure.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You don't owe me that.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: That wasn't payment. When you
dialog: first came into breakfast, when I
dialog: saw you -- I thought you were
dialog: handsome... Then, of course, you
dialog: spoke... So now that your soft
text: li'l underbelly is all exposed.
dialog: Tell me, why did you bring me?
text: Melvin's voice is soft -- hesitant, okay, vulnerable...
text: as he holds up his hands in a "stop" signal.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Well, ah... that's a personal
dialog: question.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Tell me even if you're scared.
dialog: Tell me why you wanted me here.
dialog: It's okay.
text: She kisses him again.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: If you ask me... I'll say, "yes."
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (dissembling)
dialog: There are lots of reason... I had
dialog: a thought that if you had sex with
dialog: Simon it might...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (humiliated)
dialog: Sex with Simon?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It's one idea...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: That's why you brought me? Look
dialog: at me! Is that really why you
dialog: brought me... Like I'm a what and
dialog: I owe you what?!
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I don't know why I brought you --
dialog: that idea occurred to me is all...
dialog: It came out first... Hey, you kiss
dialog: him -- me... He says he loves
dialog: you. You two hit it off. But you
dialog: don't want to... fine... Forget
dialog: what I said about sex with Simon.
dialog: It was a mistake.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (wiping away tears)
dialog: I'll never forget you said it.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It was a mistake.
text: But she has already turned away and exits the
text: restaurant... Melvin alone and miserable.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT
text: He finishes dialing. He is extremely tense -- not
text: breathing -- a lump in his throat -- trying not to let
text: the anxiety immobilize him... the NUMBER RINGS twice,
text: then a humorless male voice:
speaker_heading: PARENTS' VOICE
dialog: (humorless male
dialog: voice)
dialog: Hi. This is Fred Bishop...
dialog: (perky woman's
dialog: voice)
dialog: ... and Betty.
dialog: (Fred again)
dialog: We are sorry to be unable to take
dialog: your call right now. Please leave
dialog: a message and we'd appreciate your
dialog: including the time/date and
dialog: purpose of your call.
dialog: (Simon mouths the
dialog: word "date," then
text: Betty speaks before
dialog: the beep Bye-bye.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Ah, this is Simon... I'm here in
dialog: town...
dialog: (he waits)
dialog: ... and, folks, you haven't come
dialog: home later than 10 in your lives.
dialog: Please pick up -- really...
dialog: Okay... I'm going to call again in
dialog: the morning. I need to see you.
dialog: Or, at least get you to answer the
dialog: phone.
text: He hangs up. His parents want no part of him and he
dialog: needs help.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - CAROL'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: As Carol enters with some energy. We FOLLOW her as she
text: goes into her room -- takes her suitcase, begins throwing
dialog: things in.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - SIMON'S ROOM - NIGHT
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Hello... Hello???
text: Carol thrusts open the door and enters...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Was this supposed to be your room?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Our room. I don't want to see him
dialog: and he's not going to come
dialog: knocking on your door.
text: Simon struggles with his shirt -- she helps him,
text: inadvertently venting some anger as she does so.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Can you not be violent?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't think so. You need help
dialog: with the pants?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (emphatically)
dialog: No!!!
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I'm going to take a big bath and
dialog: order a big meal.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Uh-huh...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I'm sorry... are you okay?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Well, considering everything's
dialog: horrible and tomorrow I have to
dialog: face my parents... Don't ask me
dialog: ... I'm sick of my own complaints
dialog: ... got to get me a new set of
dialog: thoughts.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Why? What have you been thinking
dialog: about?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: How to die, mostly.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Can you believe in our little mix
dialog: you're the good roommate.
text: Simon laughs -- as she crosses to the bathroom and begins
dialog: to prepare a bath.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (turning off the light)
dialog: Good night.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Good night.
dialog: We are ON Simon settling in for sleep, when instinct or
text: sounds or the faint glow of hope turns him so that he
dialog: faces the bathroom and we have...
speaker_heading: SIMON'S POV
text: Carol sitting at tub's edge -- a towel around her and now
text: as Simon looks at the bathing beauty she adjusts her hair
dialog: -- the towel falls -- a better than perfect breast
dialog: exposed...
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (a whisper)
dialog: Hold it.
text: He leaves the bed.
scene_heading: ANGLES ON HOTEL DESK
text: What's he up to... he takes the blotter from the desk set
text: and a pen from his jacket pocket which hangs on the chair
text: and with vigor and faint pain moves to the other side of
text: the bed where he turns on the light and stares at Carol.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I've got to sketch you.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No... Absolutely not. I'm shyer
dialog: than you think. I give the wrong
dialog: impression sometimes and...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I haven't even been thinking about
text: sketching for weeks.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Stop staring. Do a vase.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: But you're beautiful... your skin
text: glows.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Thanks. But I just want to take a
dialog: bath and...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: That long neck -- the line of
dialog: you... you're porcelain... your
dialog: back goes on forever. You're
dialog: classic... you're why cavemen
text: chiseled on walls...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: All right, cut me a break.
text: Simon's pen moves across the blotter -- Carol sees him
text: earnestly engrossed, a beat of indecision and then shyly
text: but deliberately she lowers the towel. He's right.
text: She's breathtaking.
scene_heading: INT. BAR - NIGHT
text: Melvin sits alone, nursing a drink. He's been talking to
dialog: the bartender.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: So then, the next thing I know,
text: she's sitting right next to me,
dialog: and then, well, it's not right to
dialog: go into the details, but I screwed
dialog: up. I got nervous. I said the
dialog: wrong thing and if I hadn't, I
dialog: could be in bed now with a woman
dialog: who if you could make her smile
dialog: you got a life. Instead, I'm here
dialog: with you, no offense, a moron
text: pushing the last legal drug.
text: He sits there, just another Joe on a bar stool with his
text: heart breaking.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - SIMON'S ROOM - CLOSE ON SIMON - NIGHT
text: He's excited -- smiling... We hear Carol -- also revved.
speaker_heading: CAROL (O.S.)
dialog: I don't care how you put it --
dialog: We're being naughty here, pal.
speaker_heading: FULL SHOT
text: Carol holding a pose for Simon... He is holding a
text: ballpoint over the back of a hotel desk blotter. His
text: style cramped by his cast.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: No. No. This is great, this is
dialog: so great. I can't get the angle
dialog: with this cast.
text: He struggles with the cast, and then decides to struggle
text: no more. Summoning remarkable strength, he rips a piece
text: from the cast, freeing his hand -- he roars ironically --
text: a lion's roar of liberation. He is back at his center.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: Melvin is having a room service breakfast.
text: The door opens... Simon enters. A new Simon -- better
text: than ever, clearly happy -- a morning-after glow.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Did you have sex with her?
text: Carol follows his out. Her arms are filled with the
dialog: hotel soaps, shampoos, etc.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Sorry, didn't realize she was
dialog: right there.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Did you have sex with her?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: To hell with sex.
text: Carol looks at Melvin -- he can't meet her gaze.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: We held each other. It was better
dialog: than sex. What I need he gave me
dialog: great.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I just love her.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: How're you doing?
text: Melvin reacts.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY
text: Simon finishes dialing the phone... a brief wait, then:
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Hello, hi, Mom -- I can barely
dialog: hear you. Do you have to whisper?
dialog: No -- don't apologize -- it was
dialog: the luckiest thing for all of us
dialog: that you didn't answer last
dialog: night... I can't hear you... okay,
dialog: dear, just listen to me then.
scene_heading: ON MELVIN AND CAROL
text: Melvin has been reduced to straight talk as Carol brings
text: the bathroom bounty into the room and begins to put it in
dialog: her suitcase.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I get why you're angry. It's no
dialog: snap to explain why I was like
dialog: that, but let's not try to do it
dialog: on the run...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: ... so Mom. Truly no grudges --
dialog: truly. A little odd that you
dialog: didn't come to see me when you
dialog: heard I was hurt, but the
dialog: important thing I want you to know
dialog: is your son is happy. I'm working
dialog: again. I'll make do -- I don't
dialog: want a thing. Wouldn't take it if
dialog: it was offered. I'll drop you a
dialog: note from wherever I land and then
dialog: it's up to you. I hope we patch
dialog: things up but know that if we
dialog: don't, I wish you both the very
dialog: best... I can't hear you. You
dialog: heard me, though, right? Good --
dialog: take good care. 'Bye.
text: He hangs up, totally satisfied with himself and rips over
dialog: to Carol and Melvin.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: ... Now he's going to want to
dialog: stay. And they'll want to take a
dialog: ride to the lake or whatever. So
dialog: it's a good five hours back. It
dialog: gives us a chance to take it easy
dialog: and...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I'm going back with you.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: But what about...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I'll take care of myself --
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What are you talking about? You
dialog: got real problems.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I know. I'm a little bit nervous.
text: Suddenly everything seems so easy.
text: Carol, a load has been lifted.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: One night with me!
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: You think you're kidding.
text: Melvin stalks out.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
text: The car parked near a phone booth --
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (to Frank over
dialog: the phone)
dialog: Aww Jesus! No choice.
text: Carol walks up to Simon in the car.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I got a gift for you.
text: She hands him a base ball cap.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Nothing like no choice to make you
dialog: feel at home.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: Let me see... Ahh, gorgeous!
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Do it then. Get the dog picked
dialog: up. I can't believe you let it
dialog: stay there.
text: Melvin hangs up the phone.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Good-bye.
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: Well, your luck is holding. They
dialog: sublet your place. You're
dialog: homeless. Frank's got a line on
dialog: another place you can use for now.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Another place where?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Does it matter?
text: Melvin gets in -- goes to the glove compartment for a
text: special CD labelled "For Emergency Use Only." As it
dialog: PLAYS a confessional love SONGS:
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't want to hear that music
dialog: right now.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What do you mean? You said you
dialog: liked it.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: This one has a special meaning.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: It's your car but I don't want to
dialog: hear it. If that means anything.
text: Melvin hesitates and then turns OFF the SONG in mid-
dialog: proclamation of love.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING (NEW YORK) - NIGHT
text: As the car arrives... They get out...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Here are the keys to my apartment.
dialog: I'm going to park you in my place
dialog: while I take Carol home.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (hefting bag)
dialog: I'll take a bus.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'll take you... why not?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't care what you did for me.
dialog: I don't think I want to know you
dialog: anymore -- all you do is make me
dialog: feel badly about myself.
dialog: (turning to Simon)
dialog: You have my number.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (hugging her)
dialog: I love you...
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: Let him take you home.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Don't want to. I love you.
text: She shakes her head and walks off. Simon looking at
text: Melvin with some sympathy.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Don't say anything.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: Where Verdell's ears prick.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: As they enter.
speaker_heading: MELVIN (O.S.)
dialog: I told you to go on in.
speaker_heading: SIMON (O.S.)
dialog: Look, I've got to get a hold of
dialog: Frank and see where I'm hanging my
dialog: hat 'cause...
text: The door opens, revealing them:
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I think you gotta camp it here...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: What are you talking about?
text: The dog vaults toward them -- all else forgotten as the
text: dog greets his two favorite people and they talk to him.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (to Verdell)
dialog: I know the feeling -- you feel
dialog: like your ol' self again, huh? --
dialog: Mommy and Daddy are home.
text: Melvin reacts.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Sorry... You're fun to mess with.
dialog: 
text: Melvin gets up... Simon notices some of his paintings.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: They took your place furnished.
dialog: Jackie said she grabbed your
dialog: personal stuff -- they were
dialog: supposed to set you up here.
dialog: (leading the way)
dialog: There's this extra room -- I
dialog: never use. It gets good light.
dialog: No other answer really.
text: Simon follows.
scene_heading: INT. SIMON'S NEW ROOM - NIGHT
text: As they enter... the room clean and organized -- a small
dialog: but lovely garret.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Thank you, Melvin. You overwhelm
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: They did a nice job... Cozy, huh?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I love you.
text: Melvin looks at him finally -- pretensions fall.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'll tell you, buddy, I'd be the
dialog: luckiest guy alive if that did it
dialog: for me.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: As Carol unpacks, she gives gifts to her mother and
text: Spencer. But clearly something gnaws at her psyche.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Melvin's two digital clocks are two minutes apart... each
text: around 1:55 a.m... He sits in a chair still fully
text: dressed... forlorn... Verdell in his lap. A beat then we
text: hear Simon's whispered voice.
speaker_heading: SIMON (O.S.)
dialog: Where is my big hairy boy?
text: Melvin is alarmed. He stops breathing as his gay houseguest
text: approaches.
speaker_heading: SIMON (O.S.)
dialog: Verdell, sweeties?
text: Melvin breathes again. Simon enters the room.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Sorry, didn't know you were awake.
dialog: I just thought Verdell shouldn't
dialog: get too used to sleeping in here
dialog: 'cause then...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Look, we both want the dog --
dialog: and...
text: The PHONE RINGS... they look at each other. Melvin
text: doesn't move.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Should I get it?
text: Melvin nods. Simon walks into the next room... several
text: beats as he finds the phone. We hear him pick it up and:
speaker_heading: SIMON (O.S.)
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: ON SIMON
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Hello. It's me. He took me in.
dialog: Did you know? Hold on, I'll get
dialog: him for you.
text: He walks back to Melvin's room.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S ROOM - NIGHT
text: As he enters.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: It's Carol.
text: Melvin is quickly out of his chair -- the dog in one
text: mitt... he thrusts it at Simon.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Here. Take the dog.
text: As he speeds him out...
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Good luck.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: As Melvin picks up the phone... He clears his throat
text: loudly. Following is INTERCUT between Carol and Melvin
text: -- the first such CUT showing Carol blasted by the throat
dialog: clearing.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Yeah... Well...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (very concerned)
dialog: How you doing?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I can trust my brain.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: That seems like a good choice.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I don't know whether I'm being
dialog: sensible or hard on you.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: The two might go together.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: See. There's an example. I don't
dialog: know whether you're being cute or
dialog: crazy now.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (what the hell)
dialog: Cute.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You don't have to answer
dialog: everything I say. Just listen to
dialog: me. Okay?
text: He nods his head, "yes."
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: It's really something that you're
dialog: looking after Simon. And what I
dialog: said on the street. That was a
dialog: bad thing to say. And it made me
dialog: sick to my stomach. It was a bad
dialog: thing to say. And I'd be lying if
dialog: I didn't say that I enjoyed your
dialog: company... but the truth is you do
dialog: bother me enormously and I know --
dialog: think -- that it's best for me to
dialog: not have contact with you because
dialog: you're just not ready and you're a
dialog: pretty old guy to not be ready...
dialog: and I'm too old to ignore that.
dialog: But there were extraordinary
dialog: kindnesses that did take place.
dialog: So thanks for the trips...
text: She's just broken up with him but she's being nicer than
dialog: ever. It's hard to know whether to die or not.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Okay to say something now?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Go ahead.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I should've danced with you.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Okay. Good-bye.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: So long.
text: Carol hangs up. She feels strange. A shoe hasn't dropped.
dialog: Oh, hell... she missed him.
scene_heading: INT. MELVIN'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
text: Melvin walks in anxious circles in the living room. He
text: is impatient.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: You going to come talk to me or
dialog: not?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I'm coming.
text: We enters the room carrying Verdell who strains to be
text: allowed closer to Melvin. Simon releases him.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: What did she say?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm a great guy --
dialog: "extraordinary"...
dialog: (before Simon can
dialog: celebrate)
dialog: ... and she doesn't want contact
dialog: with me.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I'm dying here.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Because...
dialog: (gently)
dialog: ... you love her?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (sharply)
dialog: No... and you're supposed to be
dialog: sensitive and sharp.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Okay... you tell me why --
dialog: (mimics him)
dialog: "You're dying here."
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I don't know... Let me sleep on it
dialog: and figure it out.
dialog: (then)
dialog: Because I'm stuck! Can't go back
dialog: to what I had... She's evicted me
dialog: from my life.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Did you like it that much?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (furiously)
dialog: It was better than this... Look,
dialog: you, I'm very intelligent. If
dialog: you're going to give me advice or
dialog: conversation or consolation or
dialog: hope, you got to be better than
dialog: you're doing. If you can't be at
dialog: least momentarily interesting than
dialog: shut the hell up. I'm drowning
dialog: and you're describing water.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: (getting pissed)
dialog: Picking on me won't help.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Well, if that's true then I'm
dialog: really in trouble.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: But you know where you're lucky?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Absolutely not.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: You know who you want. I'll take
dialog: your seat any day. So do
dialog: something... don't sleep on it...
dialog: go over there. I don't think
dialog: anybody should ever sleep on
dialog: anything -- it's not always good
dialog: to let things calm down.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Hey... I'm charged here. But she
dialog: might kill me for showing up this
dialog: late.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Then get in your jammies and I'll
dialog: read you a story... I think you've
dialog: got a chance. The only real enemy
dialog: you have is her ability to think
dialog: logically -- the best thing you
dialog: have going for you is your
dialog: willingness to humiliate yourself
dialog: if it gives you one chance in
dialog: whatever -- so go catch her off-
dialog: guard.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Okay. Thanks a lot. Here I go.
text: He moves for the door... stops suddenly, jolted.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I forgot to lock the door.
scene_heading: EXT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING (CAROL'S NEIGHBORHOOD) -
speaker_heading: NIGHT
text: As he parks. He exits the car -- now wary... looks at
text: his watch... hesitates... walks reluctantly into the
dialog: apartment house.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - VESTIBULE - NIGHT
text: As Melvin looks at Carol's doorbell with great
dialog: uncertainty.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Carol in a cotton wrap-around dress/bathrobe... sitting
text: directly in front of a fan... the windows open, reading
dialog: one of Melvin's books...
text: There is the briefest possible sound of a DOORBELL...
text: someone has jabbed her downstairs button ever so briefly
text: -- so briefly that she's not certain it's her DOORBELL --
text: until the same brief sound REPEATED... She walks to
text: her wide open window and looks over.
speaker_heading: HER POV
text: The convertible at the curb.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
dialog: She hesitates --
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - VESTIBULE - NIGHT
text: As Melvin gives up and starts out... turning as the
text: sudden blast of being BUZZED into Carol's life sounds.
text: He bolts for the door and enters.
scene_heading: INT. CAROL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: She opens the door... she hears the sound of MELVIN
text: SOUNDING HEAVILY up the stairs... He reaches her side.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What do you want, Melvin?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Were you asleep?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: 'Cause if you were asleep -- I'm
dialog: sorry. And you could be grouchy.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Grouchy?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: ... 'Cause of being woken up, and
dialog: it would make my job impossible.
dialog: So then I wouldn't even try.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What job?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Were you asleep?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: What are you doing here?
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: Beverly in the hallway looking on --
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm sorry I woke you -- some other
dialog: time.
text: He half turns to leave.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: I wasn't asleep!!
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: What a break...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (losing it a bit)
dialog: Is it a secret what you're doing
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I had to see you...
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Because...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It relaxes me... I'd feel better
text: just sitting on the curb in front
dialog: of your house than anyplace else
dialog: I can think of or imagine.
dialog: Carol has not ever heard anything like that before...
dialog: it's sort of sexy in its sincerity.
speaker_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE
text: As we see in the b.g. that Beverly, standing near her
dialog: door down the hallway, has heard at least this last
dialog: part...
dialog: Melvin, of course, cannot leave well enough alone...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (serious)
dialog: Wait a minute, I'm overstating
dialog: here, maybe the inside stairs. I
dialog: don't want to sit with my feet in
dialog: the gutter. What does that serve?
dialog: It only...
text: But suddenly Carl is shouting to the heavens.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Stop it!! Why can't I have a
dialog: normal boyfriend??? Why? Get out
dialog: of here. Just a regular boyfriend
dialog: who doesn't go nuts on me...
speaker_heading: BEVERLY
dialog: (butting in)
dialog: Everybody wants that, dear -- it
dialog: doesn't exit...
dialog: (as Carol turns
dialog: to her)
dialog: Sorry... didn't mean to interrupt.
text: She disappears into her room. Carol snorts a laugh --
text: gathers herself. A beat.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (hopefully)
dialog: Boyfriend?
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Oh, come on in and try not to ruin
dialog: everything by being you.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Maybe we could live without the
dialog: wise cracks.
text: She looks at him -- then:
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Maybe we could...
text: Melvin glances at the cracked pattern of Carol's kitchen
text: linoleum and stalls at the door.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: It feels a little confined here.
dialog: Let's take a walk.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: See. It's four in the morning. A
dialog: walk sounds a little screwy to me,
dialog: if you don't mind.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: If you need an excuse, there's a
text: bakery on the corner. There's a
dialog: shot it'll open soon -- that way
dialog: we're not screwy -- we're just
text: two people who like warm rolls.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Okay.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NEAR BAKERY - NIGHT
text: They walk quietly -- Melvin still walking with his usual
text: attention to where he steps.
speaker_heading: CAROL'S POV
dialog: Melvin walking -- and though we can see an improvement --
text: it is still decidedly strange as he conspicuously avoids
text: stepping on the lines.
dialog: BACK TO SCENE
text: Carol sighs. It is the sound of possibilities crashing
text: down. Melvin looks at her -- embarrassed, self-conscious
text: -- his habits making him appear unworthy.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: (gently; almost
dialog: lovingly)
dialog: I'm sorry, Melvin -- but whatever
dialog: this is -- is not going to work.
speaker_heading: ON MELVIN
text: He takes this hard. It forces him to half-whisper
dialog: something he hasn't at all said to himself... given his
dialog: history... this is an extraordinary intimacy.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I'm feeling... I've been feeling
dialog: better.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Melvin, even though it may seem
dialog: that way now -- you don't know me
dialog: all that well...
dialog: (as he scoffs)
dialog: I'm not the answer for you.
text: She starts to turn. He tugs at her arm. As she turns
text: back to him.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Hey, I've got a great compliment
dialog: for you.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: You know what? I...
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: Just let me talk.
dialog: (gathers himself
dialog: with uncertainty,
dialog: then:)
dialog: I'm the only one on the face of
dialog: the earth who realizes that you're
dialog: the greatest woman on earth. I'm
dialog: the only one who appreciates how
dialog: amazing you are in every single
dialog: thing you do -- in every single
dialog: thought you have... in how you
dialog: are with Spencer -- Spence...
dialog: (he has reached
dialog: her)
dialog: ... in how you say what you mean
dialog: and how you almost always mean
dialog: something that's all about being
dialog: straight and good...
speaker_heading: ON CAROL
text: She stands on the precipice of being transported away
dialog: from the logic which has been her lifeline.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I think most people miss that
dialog: about you and I watch wondering
dialog: how they can watch you bring them
dialog: food and clear their dishes and
dialog: never get that they have just met
dialog: the greatest woman alive... And
dialog: the fact that I get it makes me
dialog: feel great... about me!
dialog: (a real question
dialog: filled with
dialog: concern for her)
dialog: You got a real good reason to walk
dialog: out on that?
dialog: That last question clearly a true question, not the least
text: rhetorical -- she considers her answer, then:
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: No! It's certainly not. No -- I
dialog: don't think so. No.
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: (tentatively)
dialog: I'm gonna grab you.
dialog: (with conviction)
dialog: I didn't mean it to be a question.
dialog: I'm gonna grab you.
text: He kisses her. An awkward bomb of a kiss. They separate.
text: A tense beat. Then:
speaker_heading: MELVIN
dialog: I know I can do better.
text: They embrace again. He does indeed do much better. A
text: first-class smooch. CAMERA MOVES DOWN to see his foot
text: land squarely on a crack in the sidewalk without his
text: knowledge. They break -- look at each other without a
dialog: notion of where to take it from here, and the ALMOST in
text: unison begin to walk away FROM CAMERA, Melvin following a
text: path that avoids cracks. Suddenly the lights of the
text: bakery turn on as it opens for business.
speaker_heading: CAROL
dialog: Warm rolls...
text: They walk to the bakery, Melvin avoiding the cracks. As
text: they enter the bakery, a WORKER moves toward them to
text: clean the entranceway. Melvin, forced to step back onto
text: a crack, this time notices -- registers the momentous
text: fact and joins Carol inside as we:
speaker_heading: FADE OUT
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
