dialog: 
speaker_heading: ASSASSINS
dialog: Written by
dialog: Larry and Andy Wachowski
dialog: August 12, 1994
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: PERFECT SQUARE OF BLACK
dialog: We know that we are looking at something because its
text: polished surface shimmers with light.
text: PULLING BACK, other squares are revealed; the black and
text: white tiles of a chess board.
text: The board rises and spins, slipping beneath us we find
text: ourselves MOVING ACROSS the board, MOVING THROUGH a chess
dialog: game.
text: The pieces are everywhere, checking and covering other
text: pieces. It has reached that critical moment when pieces
text: are traded and the board begins to clear as two strategies
text: unravel towards a final outcome.
text: Standing above the pieces around him, we see the black
dialog: king.
text: We MOVE CLOSER TOWARDS his face, CLOSER TO his chiseled
text: ebony features, CLOSER UNTIL we are staring into his cold
dialog: black eyes...
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. MARSH - SUNGLASSES - DUSK
text: The red setting sun is reflected in the black lens.
text: Two men are tromping through the calf-deep mud of an end-
text: less marsh. It is fall, the first frost not far away and
text: the foliage is brown and bare. With the red-orange ball
text: of fire melting into the horizon, the two men at first
text: appear as only silhouettes or shadows slogging through the
dialog: mire.
text: The man with the sunglasses walks behind the other man.
text: He is very well-dressed in a dark suit. A .22 caliber
text: gun, fitted with a long silencer, dangles from his hand.
text: His name is ROBERT RATH.
text: The other man is WILLIE KETCHAM. He is also wearing a
text: very expensive suit though it is being destroyed by the
text: brambles and mud.
text: As he lifts his foot his Gucci shoe is sucked off by the
text: mud.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Aw-shit!
text: He balances on one leg, holding his silk-socked foot in
text: the air. He looks at the shoe, already filling with mud.
text: He looks at Rath.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: How much farther?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Just a little ways. Up to those
text: trees.
text: About a half mile further into the thickening marsh there
text: is a small cluster of trees.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Oh, fuck it.
text: He pulls his sock off and plunges his foot into the mud.
text: He smiles. It feels good. He hurls the sock. Lifting
text: his other foot he pulls his shoe off and hurls that. He
text: grabs for the other sock, struggling to get it off,
text: laughing at himself as he slips and falls into the mud.
text: Rath waits, a faint smile.
text: He manages to get the sock off and then stands digging
text: both feet into the dark, wet earth.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Hey, this feels kinda good.
text: They move on, Ketcham almost playing, sinking his feet
text: deep pulling them out to make a SPLURCHING, SUCKING NOISE.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Hey, do you mind if I talk a
dialog: little? I feel like, I don't
dialog: know, talking I guess.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Funny, I've never been a talker.
dialog: My wife was always getting on me
dialog: about that. 'Say what you feel,
dialog: tell me what's bothering you,
dialog: you ve got to talk to me.' I
dialog: never would though. Not really.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I don't know. Part of me wanted
dialog: to but part of me always said,
dialog: 'What's she going to be able to
dialog: do?' I don't know. Maybe I
dialog: didn't trust her.
text: He picks up a handful of mud and begins shaping it like a
text: snowball.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: My Margaret... I loved her but you
dialog: know what? I cheated on her. All
dialog: the time. I don't even know why.
dialog: It wasn't the sex, Margaret was
dialog: great in bed. I think if I wasn't
dialog: married I wouldn't have even looked
dialog: at some of those women. I knew she
dialog: couldn't trust me, so how could I
dialog: trust her? If she was here right
dialog: now I'd think that I would tell her
dialog: that I was sorry... 'course, if she
dialog: were here right now, maybe I
dialog: wouldn't feel like talking.
text: He throws the mud ball at the grove of trees but they are
dialog: too far.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I think I've heard of you.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's possible.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: You're pretty famous aren't you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I hope not.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I know this may seem like a strange
dialog: question, but can I ask you how
dialog: much the contract was for -- not
dialog: to insult you or anything, I know
dialog: you're a professional, but just
dialog: for me, I was just wondering.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's a common question.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Oh yeah? I guess we still need to
dialog: see that price tag. Like art,
dialog: right? You hang some painting
dialog: that looks like baby-puke in your
dialog: living room only if it costs a
dialog: bundle.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: A dime.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: One hundred thousand? That's it?
dialog: Jesus... Is that a lot?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Average.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Shit... oh well.
text: Ketcham laughs.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I have been thinking about this
dialog: for a long while. I knew this day
dialog: was coming. I knew someday
dialog: someone would make the call on me.
dialog: I never thought about anyone that
dialog: I had whacked. What do you call
dialog: it anyway?
speaker_heading: RATH
text: Taken.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: 'Taken.' That's nice. When I had
dialog: someone taken I would call our
dialog: General Contractor, transfer the
dialog: money and as soon as I hung up the
dialog: phone I forgot about them.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Everyone who plays the game knows
dialog: the rules.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: That's exactly what I told myself.
text: Ketcham laughs again. He is getting kind of giggly, like
text: he's high.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I always wondered what I'd be
dialog: thinking at this exact moment. I
dialog: imagined that I would be thinking
dialog: about the fucker who contracted
dialog: this, trying to figure out who
dialog: it was...
text: Something occurs to him and he looks back at Rath.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Don't know. That's how it works.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: That's what our General Contractor
dialog: told us but how can you trust
dialog: someone like that?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I thought that I would be thinking
dialog: about Margaret, or work, or that
dialog: I'd be having these deep, profound
dialog: and depressing thoughts but I'm
dialog: not. I'm trying to think really
dialog: profound thoughts, but I can't.
dialog: It seems very funny to me.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What are you thinking about?
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I'm thinking about Moonpies. Ain't
dialog: that funny? I haven't had a
dialog: Moonpie since I was ten years old.
dialog: Right now, I'm thinking how much
dialog: I'd love one.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: And an R.C.
text: He's 'laughing' and Rath laughs with him. Ketcham suddenly
text: stops laughing. They are nearly to the cluster of trees.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Can I ask you something?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Go ahead.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: What do other guys do?
text: He looks at the trees, his voice dying in the WIND.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Everyone handles it differently.
dialog: Some are ready, some are not.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Do they get down on their knees,
dialog: begging and crying?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Some.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: When I thought about this, that
dialog: was always there, in the back of
text: my head, that image of me on my
text: knees, crying. It wouldn't go
dialog: away and it would really upset me.
dialog: It was something that I could never
dialog: get away from... but now, I feel
dialog: it's okay. I feel good.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Can I ask you a question?
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Anything.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why didn't you fade?
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: You mean quit?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I used to think about it. I had
dialog: Margaret. She wanted kids. I
dialog: thought about moving somewhere
dialog: far away like, Europe. I could
dialog: see all of that, the first part,
dialog: the getting away but I couldn't
dialog: see that next part. 'Then what?'
dialog: So I'd stop thinking about it and
dialog: go back to work. You understand?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yeah.
text: Ketcham smiles and looks around at the grove of birch
text: trees.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: I always pictured that I would end
dialog: in some land fill, under
dialog: someone else's garbage. I kept
text: picturing those plastic diapers
text: filled with some baby's green shit,
dialog: covering me. But this is nice...
text: He looks at the sun, bloody red seeping into the black
dialog: horizon.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Look at that. I haven't watched
dialog: the sun set in a million years.
dialog: Do you mind?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
text: Ketcham stares at the last of the light.
speaker_heading: KETCHAM
dialog: Nice... real nice.
text: With his face hidden from Rath he begins to cry.
text: Rath watches Ketcham staring at the setting sun. Rath
text: looks down at the gun limply held in his hand.
text: When the sun is gone, a red glow at the bottom of a dark-
text: ening sky, we hear the GUN, SILENCED, ONCE, then the BODY
text: FALLING INTO THE MUD. After a beat we hear TWO MORE
speaker_heading: SHOTS.
text: Ketcham is lying face down, already sinking into the mud,
text: a red cloud mushrooming around his head like the red haze
text: left by the dying sun.
text: Rath breathes in deep and lets the air out slowly, stand-
text: ing alone in the middle of nowhere.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT
text: The room is dark and still.
text: A man is standing at a wall of windows that glow from the
text: amber wash of urban light.
text: Snow is falling, heavy white flakes glittering in the
dialog: city's electric night.
text: The man finishes his bourbon, ICE CLINKING in the empty
text: glass. He is slightly drunk and he sways forward until
text: his forehead rests against the window.
text: In the dim light, we recognize the man as Rath.
text: Outside there is a beautiful stone church decorated for
text: Christmas. He watches the snowflakes drift to the
text: distant street below.
text: He is wondering what it would feel like to let himself
text: fall, when there is a KNOCK at the door.
text: Crossing the room, he opens the door. Backlit by the
text: bright hallway light is a WOMAN. She has already removed
text: her coat and though she is only a silhouette we can see
text: that her dress is very short and very tight.
speaker_heading: ESCORT (WOMAN)
dialog: Hi. Did you call --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes. Please come in.
text: Her HIGH HEELS TAP against the tile foyer as she enters
text: and he takes her coat.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Goodness, it's so dark...
text: She reaches for the wall switch but he stops her.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I prefer it like this.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: How can a beautiful man like you
dialog: be shy?
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I prefer it, that's all.
text: She moves closer to him, the sexual confidence of her
text: body radiating like heat.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: It's okay, honey. We can do it
dialog: anyway you want.
text: Rath is obviously uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Would you like a drink?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: I'd love one. Whatever you're
dialog: having.
text: They move into the room, from a distance, as featureless
text: as two shadows.
text: She stands at the windows watching the snow-bubble of a
dialog: city night.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Beautiful.
text: He hands her the drink. Her smile is bright and perfect.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Good will towards men.
text: Their glasses clink as he drains half his drink. If she
dialog: drinks at all, we can not tell.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why are you working today?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Holidays are our busiest days. No
dialog: one likes to be alone on holidays.
dialog: I know I don't.
text: She touches his face, the caress and her expression of
text: tenderness seemingly genuine.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You're very good at this aren't
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: I think you're supposed to answer
dialog: that question.
text: Her hand slides down his chest, but before it goes any
text: farther Rath turns away, returning to the bar.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I know what you expect, but I
dialog: don't want...
text: He pours himself another drink.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: That's okay, hon, I always expect
dialog: the unexpected.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I called because I just want... I
dialog: need to talk.
text: She sits on the couch, her body language changing, as she
text: becomes a listener.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I've been thinking about my life,
dialog: about things I have done... What I
dialog: do for a living is in some ways
dialog: similiar to what you do.
text: He sits on the other end of the couch, his words thickened
dialog: by the alcohol.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I know that everything has a
dialog: price. I want you to understand
dialog: that I'm willing to pay.
text: He takes out an envelope and puts it between them. She
text: picks it up, glancing inside at a stack of hundred
dialog: dollar bills.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Honesty.
text: She puts the envelope down.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I just want to ask you some
dialog: questions.
text: Uncomfortable, she waits as he searches his drink for
dialog: the right words.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Do you ever regret things you've
dialog: done?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
text: Everyone regrets something.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: But when you finLsh a job,
dialog: afterwards do you think about
dialog: them?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Sometimes.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Do you think about their wives or
dialog: their families?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: No. They call me, I don't call
dialog: them. If they didn't call I
dialog: wouldn't exist.
text: Rath nods. His next question is barely audible.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Do you ever think about starting
dialog: over?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: All the time.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Can you tell me about it?
text: For the first time we really see her take a drink. She
text: closes her eyes.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Sometimes I dream that I meet a
dialog: man, this good, honest man and we
dialog: fall in love. I imagine us living
text: on a boat, reading books, sailing
dialog: to places where no one knows who
dialog: we were or cares what we did.
text: She opens her eyes and looks at him.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: And what if you never meet that
dialog: man?
text: She smiles.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Then, I'll sail alone.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Do you believe that?
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Are you asking me if I believe in
dialog: another life?
text: Rath nods.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: I have to.
text: She finishes her drink.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Is that all you want?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
text: She picks up the money and stands.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: ESCORT
dialog: Anytime.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT
text: It is the same room but now it is very cluttered, room
text: service trays and empty liquor bottles tossed about.
dialog: He has been here for a while.
text: He is sitting at the table, staring intensely at a chess
text: game; we see the board and all of the pieces set in the
text: same positions as in the opening sequence.
text: He rubs at the whiskers that have darkened his face and
text: then finishes off another bottle of bourbon.
text: He flings the empty bottle across the room as he reaches
text: over the board and moves one of white knights, taking a
text: black rook.
text: A sequence begins, obvious, and he works through it moving
text: both the black and white pieces. Suddenly he stops. He
text: gets up and shifts to the other side of the board,
text: studying the game from white's perspective.
text: Another sequence emerges and he trades the pieces through
text: it as he moves around the table, returning to his place
text: behind the black king.
text: The games reaches its end as black is check-mated.
text: He slumps down onto the table and looks across at the
dialog: white king.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Fuck you, Nick.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAWN
text: Rath is at a desk where he has set up his computer
text: office; a cellular phone is plugged into a modem with
text: cables winding through a scrambler and then into a fax
text: machine and the latest high-powered lap-top computer.
text: On the table near the desk, we see the .22, dismantled
text: and cleaned, spread out on a white towel.
text: He types in a complicated access code sequence, then
text: waits, staring at the blank screen.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Where have you been, Robert?
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: Sick. The flu.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: I don't believe you.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I don't give a fuck --
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: It's true.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: I have been sitting on a contract
dialog: from Cleveland for six days
dialog: because of you.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Fuck you, fuck Cleveland, and fuck
dialog: your contracts --
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: I need a rest.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/ SCREEN
dialog: That's impossible, Robert. You're
dialog: at the top of your field. These
dialog: are the best contracts. To stop
dialog: now would be self-destructive.
text: He looks away from the screen and sees the chess game on
text: the table.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: Send the file. I'll have the
dialog: estimate tonight.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: I'm worried about you, Robert.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You fucking should be --
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: Don't be.
text: On the screen the word "Transmitting" appears. Rath
text: slowly gets out of his chair.
text: The FAX MACHINE CLICKS and HUXS to life as a photograph
text: of a smiling, old Italian man curls onto the desk.
text: Rath begins destroying the hotel room, smashing anything
text: he can get his hands on.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY
text: Rath is in the middle of the room which he has
text: demolished. Having showered and shaved, he is now
text: standing naked, in the midst of the rubble, practicing
text: the slow and graceful art of Tai Chi.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT
text: Rath is working at the desk. He is tallying numbers,
dialog: materials, totaling his estimate.
text: Spread out over the table are several faxed photos of
text: the old Italian, Leevio Valli, usually surrounded by
text: bodyguards.
text: The file details Valli's life and his daily routine. It
dialog: includes: phone bills, credit card and bank account
dialog: statements, driver license and vehicle registration, the
dialog: real estate listing of his house and even a copy of his
dialog: income tax return.
text: Satisfied with his figures, Rath plugs the phone into the
text: modem and makes a call.
text: The network comes on-line as the General Contractor
dialog: types:
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: You're too late, Robert.
dialog: Rath types.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: The contract was stolen.
text: Rath stares at the screen.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
text: A new player. He's using the name
dialog: Nicholai.
text: The name hits Rath and he sits, unable to breathe.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: You know what must be done.
text: The screen goes black as the network shuts down.
text: Rath looks down at the pile of assembled facts. He lifts
text: a credit card bill on which the name of a restaurant
dialog: appears every Friday. The name of the restaurant has been
text: circled in red pen by Rath: "Trattoria Roma."
scene_heading: EXT. TRATTORIA ROMA - NIGHT
text: A red awning spans the entrance of a popular Italian
dialog: restaurant.
scene_heading: INT. TRATTORIA ROMA
text: It is a large establishment with many tables and booths.
text: The dinner crowd is a mix of yuppies and older Italian
dialog: families who have been eating here for years.
text: Rath is sitting alone at a booth. With very subtle
text: changes to his appearance, he looks like an older Italian.
text: In front of him is a glass and a carafe of dark red wine.
text: He touches neither of them. His eyes shift as he studies
dialog: the room.
text: LEEVIO VALLI pushes into the restaurant surrounded by five
text: gorillas in Italian suits. The owner hurries to greet
text: them, hugging, kissing, speaking only Italian.
text: The entourage moves through the restaurant to the over-
text: sized booth in the back.
text: Rath does not look twice at them. Immediately he is
text: watching everyone else, looking for the other assassin.
text: Leevio slides into the booth as his goons stand and sit
text: around the table, obscuring him from all parts of the
dialog: room.
text: A wine steward immediately brings a bottle of red wine and
text: fills their glasses. A pretty waitress sets a steaming
text: loaf of garlic bread out and a giant bowl of minestrone in
text: front of Leevio. He tells her something and she giggles.
text: They joke in Italian, watching her ass as she wiggles back
text: to the kitchen.
text: At Leevio's table the wine steward returns to fill their
dialog: glasses.
text: It is the goon standing against the wall that is the first
text: to realize that it is not the same wine steward. He is
text: the second assassin, much younger than Rath. His name is
text: BAIN. He smiles.
text: The goon reaches for his gun as --
text: Bain SHATTERS the BOTTLE of wine into his face. He
text: screams.
text: Leevio coughs a spray of minestrone, as a GUN flashes free
text: from the white linen towel hung over the steward's arm.
text: It happens instantly. FOUR SHOTS and the goons are dead.
text: Leevio screams.
speaker_heading: LEEVIO
dialog: Don't!
text: A FIFTH, SIXTH and SEVENTH SHOT.
text: Leevio's body falls forward and softly thuds on the table.
text: Bain whips around drawing a small SEMI-AUTOMATIC WEAPON
text: from his belt expecting an attack.
text: Facing the screaming crowd, he begins to SHOOT anyone who
text: moves or stands, men or women.
text: There is chaos in the restaurant. People scream, falling
text: to the ground, scrambling under tables.
text: Bain is sweating, his eyes shifting wildly from one end of
text: the room to the other.
text: The restaurant falls quiet except for several people who
text: are sobbing.
text: He moves through the room, watching, searching.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Don't anybody move. You move,
dialog: you're dead.
text: He passes the table Rath was sitting at, but it is empty.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Come on, you chicken shit
dialog: motherfucker. I know you're here.
dialog: Let's go.
scene_heading: EXT. CONCRETE PARKING GARAGE
text: Across the street from Trattoria Roma, Rath jacks together
text: a German assault rifle with night scope.
scene_heading: INT. TRATTORIA ROMA
text: Bain looks out the window at the dark street.
text: He turns and searches through the people huddled on the
text: floor. He aims his gun.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You! Get up!
text: A quivering wine steward stands.
text: He points to another.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You, too! Up!
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING GARAGE
text: THROUGH the NIGHT SCOPE we see the front door to the
text: restaurant open and a group of wine stewards clumped
text: together slowly back out.
scene_heading: INT. TRATTORIA ROMA
text: Bain is second from the end, both guns aimed at the
text: stewards.
text: One of them begins to cry.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Not yet. Don't move or you're
dialog: fucking dead.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath moves the scope back and forth, unable to pick out
dialog: the assassin.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Shit. Just do them all. All of
dialog: them. Shit.
text: He can't pull the trigger.
scene_heading: EXT. TRATTORIA STOREFRONT
text: The group moves toward the street.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Now run!
text: Like dogs out of the gate, they bolt.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath watches as they scatter, finding Bain in his scope.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: A chunk of BRICK EXPLODES from the wall just behind Bain's
text: head as he drops behind the row of parked cars along the
text: curb. He laughs. We get the idea that Bain is enjoying
dialog: this.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath looks over his scope, talking to himself. He is
dialog: sweating.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Shit. What are you doing, old man?
dialog: You're too fucking slow.
text: He looks back into the scope and begins scanning the line
dialog: of cars.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Okay. Which one? Which one is
dialog: yours?
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET
text: Bain is crawling alongside the tightly parked cars,
text: staying low and out of sight.
text: He works his way up to a black Mercedes that is parked
text: illegally next to a fire hydrant and takes out his keys.
text: He hits the remote unlocking the doors.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath finds the fire hydrant in his scope, almost obscured
text: by the parked Mercedes.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Amateur.
text: He takes aim.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET
text: Just as Bain starts to open the door, the front TIRE
text: EXPLODES. Another second, the back TIRE EXPLODES.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Fuck!
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath waits, steely calm, his finger on the trigger.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Your move.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET
text: Bain hears the growing wail of POLICE SIRENS. Thinking
text: for a moment, he opens the car door and pulls a long
text: handled switchblade and a roll of electrician's tape from
text: the glove compartment.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath sees the car light go on, but can't make out what
text: Bain is doing. The SIRENS are GETTING LOUDER. There's a
dialog: lot of them.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET
text: Bain finishes taping the knife to his forearm and rolls
text: his shirt sleeve down. From his pocket he takes out a
text: Gameboy and begins playing "Tetris."
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath watches as the police cars come racing down the
dialog: street.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET
text: The CARS SCREECH to a halt in front of the restaurant.
text: The COPS jump out, drawing their weapons.
text: Bain throws his guns down, raising his hands in the air.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Don't shoot! Don't shoot! I give
dialog: up!
text: More CARS come SCREECHING up as the two officers hold
text: their beads on Bain.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Hit the ground! Face down! Spread
dialog: your legs!
text: Bain follows the orders as the second cop edges up to him,
text: frisking him. In this position the Cop is unable to find
text: the knife strapped to Bain's forearm, but finds the
dialog: Gameboy.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Hey, don't touch that!
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Shut up!
text: The Cop twists Bain's arms behind his back, handcuffing
text: him tightly.
text: They drag him to his feet, a swarm of police and
text: paramedics in the street.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE
text: Rath holds them in his cross hairs as they move to the
text: police car, but is unable to get a clean shot. Bain is
text: using the cops for cover, keeping his head low.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Son of a bitch.
text: The Cops shove Bain into the back seat.
text: Rath very quickly walks to his car, tossing his gun into
text: the trunk. He gets in and STARTS the ENGINE.
scene_heading: INT. PATROL CAR
text: The two Officers are outside the car talking with the
dialog: sergeant.
text: Bain, laying low beneath the windows, peeks up at the
text: shadowy parking garage. He smiles.
text: The two Policemen get in the car, the second picking up
text: the radio. The driver GUNS the ENGINE and the black and
text: white RUMBLES down the street.
speaker_heading: COP #2
text: This is 181, returning with suspect
text: involved in multiple shooting at
dialog: Trattoria Roma. Repeat, en route
dialog: with suspect.
text: He hangs up the radio and looks back at Bain through the
text: metal caging.
speaker_heading: COP #2
dialog: Jesus Christ, do you know who you
dialog: shot in there?
text: Bain almost laughs.
speaker_heading: COP #2
dialog: What are you? Some kind of a
dialog: hitman?
text: Bain looks out the window.
speaker_heading: COP #2
dialog: You know what we call guys like you?
text: Bain looks at him.
speaker_heading: COP #2
dialog: Sizzle lean. They're gonna fry your
dialog: ass.
text: He laughs at his own joke, looking at his partner, who
text: chuckles.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET
text: Rath's car races down the street trying to catch up with
text: the patrol car.
scene_heading: INT. PATROL CAR
text: Bain stares out the window, silent.
text: Behind his back, he takes hold of his left thumb with his
text: right hand.
text: The Cop is playing with the Gameboy.
text: With a quick jerk, he yanks the thumb out of its socket.
text: His expression remains perfectly blank.
text: The thumb hangs unnaturally from the hand. The skin
text: stretches strangely as he pulls the metal cuff from his
dialog: wrist.
text: The Cop turns as the SWITCHBLADE CLICKS and Bain sticks
text: the knife through the wire mesh, into the cop's eye. A
text: font of blood arcs onto the windshield.
text: Grabbing hold of the driver's shirt collar, Bain jabs the
text: blade into the back of his neck.
text: The driver screams trying to pull free of Bain's grip.
text: He slams on the brakes, groping for his gun and the CAR
text: SKIDS out of control.
text: Bain stabs the Cop again, his GUN FIRING WILDLY as --
text: The patrol car starts to flip and roll.
scene_heading: INT. RATH'S CAR
text: Rath turns as he hears an EXPLOSION, several blocks away.
text: The TIRES SQUEAL as he makes a hard right.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET
text: Orange flames lick up from the belly of the overturned
text: patrol car. Oil black clouds billow into the night sky.
text: Rath's car cruises past.
text: Rath sees the back seat window shattered, kicked out.
text: Bain is gone.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm not done yet.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREET INTERSECTION
text: A brand new cab is sitting at a red light.
text: The cabby looks into the rearview mirror, as a pair of
text: headlights roll up behind him. The car gets closer, the
text: lights brighter; they don't stop.
text: He shrieks as the CAR SMASHES INTO HIS, TEARING OFF HIS
scene_heading: BUMPER.
text: The cabby jumps out, rattling off a string of obscenities.
text: Rath gets out of the white car, starting to apologize, as
text: the cabby moves toward him.
text: When he's close enough, Rath decks him, knocking him
text: unconscious.
text: He picks him up and puts him in the white car.
text: Rath then gets in the cab and when the light changes to
text: green, he drives off.
scene_heading: INT. CAB
text: Rath circles the area, turning up the cab's CB.
text: A couple of CALLS CRACKLE through the speaker, before he
text: hears what he's waiting for; an airport fare in this area.
text: At the intersection of Adams and Nine.
text: He picks up the mike.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: This is 1242. I got it.
scene_heading: EXT. ADAMS AND NINE
text: It is a deserted intersection. The buildings are dark and
text: some of the street lights are out.
text: The cab sits by itself, ENGINE RUNNING, its taillights
text: glowing through the exhaust.
scene_heading: INT. CAB
text: Rath holds his gun cocked beneath his coat. His other
text: hand grips the door handle.
text: As he waits, watching the intersection, he notices the
text: cabby's ID pinned to the dashboard.
text: Leaving the gun in his jacket, he reaches for the ID card.
text: He rips it from the dash and as he drops it under the
text: seat, the door behind him opens. Someone gets in and
text: closes the door. Rath peers into the rearview mirror.
dialog: It is Bain.
text: For the first time we realize that the front and back of
text: the cab is separated by an inch of bullet proof glass.
text: There is an awkward silence as Rath sits, unsure.
text: Bain looks at him.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Is there a problem?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. No problem. The airport,
dialog: right?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Right.
text: The cab pulls out of the intersection.
scene_heading: INT. CAB
text: Rath studies Bain. There is a thin line of blood down his
text: temple. Bain is oblivious to it and pulls out his
text: Gameboy, resuming his game of Tetris.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: How'd you cut yourself?
text: Their voices are distorted through the small electric
text: amplifier set in the bullet proof glass near the metal
dialog: money exchanger.
text: Bain touches the blood on his forehead, looking at it a
dialog: bit surprised.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Oh? Working. A little accident.
text: He wipes it off as best he can.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You a waiter? You look like a
dialog: waiter.
text: Bain is uninterested.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yeah. Yeah, I'm a waiter.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What restaurant?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Uh, Fontella's
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: So you're from around here?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: No. No I'm not.
text: Bain is getting agitated.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Where you from?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What is this?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Not too good at small talk, eh?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Look, I'm real tired and I'm not
dialog: interested in fucking chit-chat.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I know just what you mean. I'm
dialog: pretty beat myself.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Since you looked like a waiter, I
dialog: had to ask what restaurant because
dialog: of what happened at the Trattoria
dialog: Roma.
text: Bain looks up.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Why? What happened?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Didn't you here all them sirens?
dialog: It's been all over the radio. Some
dialog: guy shot Leevio Valli, and a bunch
text: of bystanders, in the Trattoria
dialog: Roma.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: No shit.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yeah, it's terrible. I mean Valli,
dialog: and I don't care what office he's
dialog: running for, the guy's a crook. He
dialog: probably had it coming, but all the
dialog: other people. Real sad.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: But they caught the guy. I heard it
dialog: all. Sounded like he just went
text: berserk, fucking loco. Shooting
dialog: anybody. Drugs, probably.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Probably.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'd love to sit in that jury. Send
text: that S.O.B. right to the chair.
text: Bain allows himself a bemused smile.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Sizzle lean.
text: The cab passes the intersection for the airport.
text: Bain sits up.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: That was Peterson back there. That
dialog: goes to the expressway for the
dialog: airport.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You're right. Talking too much
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yeah well, you just blew your tip,
dialog: pal.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What? You think I'm running you up?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Just do your job.
text: Rath pulls over and slaps the cab in park.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Get out. You think I'm running you
dialog: up? Get out.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You can't --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The hell I can't. It's my cab. I
dialog: don't like you. So, get the hell
dialog: out!
text: Bain can't figure out what is wrong, when he sees the
text: dashboard and the missing ID.
text: Their eyes meet in the rearview mirror.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Holy fucking shit!
text: The cab rocks as both men move. Instantly guns fill their
text: hands. Bain ripping out a .357 lifted from one of the
text: dead cops. Rath rolls to the side whipping the gun free
text: from his jacket.
text: Bain throws open the door, about to run, but stops. He
text: looks at Rath. He wants him to run. Anyone who moves
text: away from the bullet proof glass is dead.
text: Both men are silent, each holding the other in their gun
text: sights.
text: Bain blinks, sweat forming on his lip.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: I get out, you got me.
text: Bain reaches over and closes the door. He smiles knowing
dialog: it is the right move.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Now what?
text: Rath calmly uncocks his gun.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: We're both going to the airport.
text: Bain nods.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Sit back. Put your seatbelt on.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: No fucking way.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Okay, don't.
dialog: Bain thinks.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: If either of us fucks around, the
dialog: other can blow the fuel line.
text: He points his gun at the floor where the fuel line runs.
text: Bain sits back, aiming his gun, watching Rath.
text: Rath eases back into the driver's seat, also holding his
text: gun on the fuel line.
text: He puts the car into drive and slides back into traffic,
text: turning back towards Peterson.
text: They sit in silence, studying each other, when they hit
text: the expressway. Bain can't contain himself, giddy on
dialog: adrenaline.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Jesus -- I'm being driven to the
text: airport by Robert Rath.
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: I can't believe this. You rolled
text: some cabby for the radio, then
dialog: waited for an airport fare.
text: He laughs again.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Boy, that's fucking genius. You're
dialog: a fucking genius. Then you're just
text: sitting there, bullshitting with me.
dialog: Man, no way I coulda done that!
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What's your name? We both know it's
dialog: not Nicholai.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Holy shit! Robert Rath wants to
dialog: know my name.
text: He leans back. This is a big moment for him.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Bain. Michael Bain.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: How long have you been freelance?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Two years. Two long fucking years.
text: Something occurs to him and he leans close to the window.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Hey. What I don't get was why
dialog: didn't you take the shot inside the
dialog: restaurant? I mean you had me, a
dialog: free shot. That's what I would have
dialog: done.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's just a shoot-out then. Sixty-
dialog: forty, at best. Not my odds.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Sounds like chickenshit --
text: He laughs hard.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Listen to me calling you
dialog: chickenshit!
text: He stops laughing and looks closely at the back of Rath's
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Is that a wig? Shit, I hate wigs!
dialog: Wigs are the worst part of this job.
dialog: I'd rather dye my hair than wear a
dialog: wig.
text: Rath studies him.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You're wearing a wig now.
text: Bain chokes on his laugh.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: God damn are you good. Everyone
dialog: says you're so fucking good. I just
dialog: can't believe I'm still alive. If I
dialog: believed in God, I'd be down on my
dialog: knees. Right now -- Hey, how come
dialog: you just didn't plug us all when we
dialog: came through the door?
text: Rath does not answer. Bain smiles. He knows something
text: about Rath now; he doesn't like killing innocent people.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Shit if I was you, back there --
text: He holds his gun up to the bulletproof glass behind Rath's
dialog: head.
speaker_heading: BAIN
text: Game over.
text: He laughs.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Do you mind if I ask you a couple of
dialog: business questions? You know I was
dialog: wondering how much you bid this job
dialog: at?
text: Rath says nothing.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You don't have to tell me that.
dialog: It's just, I know my bid was low,
dialog: but was it too low? I mean, did I
dialog: seem like an amateur, like I didn't
dialog: know what I was doing?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: We both know what you were doing.
text: Bain moves close to the glass again, checking out Rath's
dialog: gun.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Smith and Wesson .22 with an eight
dialog: inch silencer. Classic. When I
dialog: first heard you used that, I
dialog: thought, shit, that's a lady's gun.
dialog: Now, it's all I use. Clean, real
dialog: clean.
text: He looks at the gun, still trained at the floor.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Would you really blow us?
text: Rath does not have to answer.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Oh! I got a question. Jesus, this
dialog: has been driving me crazy for years
dialog: -- shit, listen to me. I sound like
dialog: some fucking fanboy. I'm sorry, but
dialog: I just got to ask you. Everybody
dialog: talks about how you left the Agency
dialog: and got into the business and then
dialog: how you went after the Russian,
dialog: Nicholai Talinkov --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Tachlinkov.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yeah, that's it. And he's like a
dialog: fucking genius. They said he shaded
dialog: you over and over. And in the end,
dialog: he aced you again. Shaded and
dialog: faded. They say he's living on some
dialog: Greek island, but I say that's
dialog: fucking bullshit. I say you're the
dialog: best and that you planted his ass.
dialog: Am I right?
text: Rath says nothing.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: I bet I'm right.
text: The car passes under a sign indicating the ramp for the
dialog: Cleveland airport.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Robert Bain, driving me! Jesus
dialog: fucking Christ!
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: After those cops, you'll never be
text: able to come back to Cleveland.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Who the fuck cares about Cleveland.
dialog: Cleveland blows. What kind of marks
dialog: have they got here? Greasy mobster,
dialog: teamster or some hand job
dialog: politician. I want the money marks.
dialog: I want the marks that you get.
text: A long beat of silence.
text: The CAB RUMBLES up onto the "departures" ramp which
text: circles past all of the terminals.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: So what happens now?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: We go around once.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Bullshit.
text: He throws off his seatbelt.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You tell me that we're gonna go
dialog: around once, then, while I'm
dialog: checking out the lay of the land,
dialog: you bail out and send me flying over
dialog: the bridge. Right? Am I right?
text: Rath doesn't answer, studying the terminals, noting the
text: police and airport security.
text: Rath studies the terrain. Bain studies Rath.
text: Soon they have passed the entire airport. Rath nods.
text: Steering the car through traffic in onto a circle
dialog: interchange that will bring them to the beginning.
text: Bain wipes the sweat from his face.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What? What's okay?
text: Rath begins to accelerate, rounding the interchange.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: RATH
text: There's a sand barricade up ahead;
dialog: I'm going to ram this cab into it.
dialog: The cab has an airbag, odds are good
dialog: I'll survive. But with this steel
text: casing and bullet proof glass, odds
dialog: for you are not so good.
text: Bain laughs.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Oh man, that's sweet. That's
dialog: fucking sweet.
text: The speedometer continues to climb.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You're bluffing.
text: Rath says nothing. Ahead, at the ramp to the terminals,
text: is the sand barricade.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You're fucking with me. You want me
dialog: to jump. I jump, you hit the brakes
dialog: and bang -- Game over.
text: The cab is flying at its target.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: No, no. Wait. You don't want me to
dialog: jump. You're going to jump. I'm
dialog: stuck back here until it's too late.
dialog: Wham -- over!
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I know you're going to jump.
text: Bain looks at him and then at the barricade.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You're still young. Young enough to
dialog: still think you're indestructible.
dialog: Invincible. You believe with utter
dialog: certainty you can bail out at the
dialog: last second and survive.
text: The barricade hurtles toward them, rising up, filling the
text: windshield.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: If you do survive, we'll see each
dialog: other again.
text: Bain screams, throwing open the door and hurling himself
dialog: out.
text: Rath jams on the brakes, TIRES SCREAMING, steering into
text: the steel side rail, banking the car into the drums of
dialog: sand as --
text: Bain hits the pavement, bouncing like a stone skipped
text: across water.
text: A driver hits his brakes, swerving, just missing him.
text: SAND EXPLODES from the impact and the cab bounces up over
text: the median into the bus-only lanes as the driver's airbag
text: balloons out of the steering wheel.
text: Bain rolls and rolls, finally stopping sprawled out like a
text: piece of roadkill.
text: The cab careens up onto a curb, slamming into a pole, the
text: radiator spitting out a cloud of WHISTLING STEAM.
text: Several cars lock up and collide to avoid Bain; one car
text: stopping inches from him. A woman jumps out, rushing to
text: the front of the car, but Bain is gone.
text: Police CARS ROAR up into the midst of the accident. One
text: of them pulling alongside the demolished cab. The door is
text: open, the airbag popped. Rath is gone.
scene_heading: EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
text: A large six flat leans out from a hill in San Francisco.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT - DAY
text: The apartment is always dark; heavy drapes cover the
dialog: windows.
text: The dining and living rooms look like the control booth of
text: a network television show, stacks of video monitors and
text: consoles, cables, electric wiring, coils of fiber optic
text: cord duct-taped to the floors, walls and ceilings. They
text: snake through holes punched in the plaster walls and hang
text: everywhere like some technological jungle.
text: At the center of this tangled web is ELECTRA, a beautiful
text: athletic looking woman wearing only her underwear and a
text: worn robe. She is curled up in an overstuffed chair, a
text: bowl of popcorn in her lap.
text: On the monitors, she is watching what at first might be
text: mistaken for a soap opera; a young couple are having an
dialog: argument.
dialog: What is strange is that the angle never changes; a fish-
text: eye lens staring down into the room.
speaker_heading: MAN (V.O.)
dialog: I don't give a shit what your mother
dialog: thinks. I'm not sleeping with your
dialog: mother, I'm sleeping with you.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: You won't be for long, with that
dialog: attitude.
speaker_heading: MAN (V.O.)
dialog: Jesus, Jennifer, if you're so god
dialog: damned worried about your mother's
dialog: approval, why don't you move back
dialog: home so she can pat you on the head
dialog: when you do something right.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Jerk.
text: Jennifer is too stunned to say anything. There is a long
text: pause that is not at all like television. It seems very
dialog: real.
text: She starts to say something, but stops, trying to keep
text: herself from crying.
speaker_heading: MAN (V.O.)
dialog: Oh good. Go ahead and cry.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER (WOMAN) (V.O.)
dialog: Would you please leave?
text: Electra lifts her head, smelling the air.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Mmm, smell that, Nikita?
text: Nikita, Electra's black cat, is stretched lazily across
text: the top of a chair, her tail twitching absently. Every
text: corner of the chair has been clawed open.
text: Electra reaches for the control board and throws a series
dialog: of switches.
text: The monitors flicker as the image changes. We are now
text: looking down into a kitchen. A stove is beneath us,
text: almost like a cooking show, where a round woman is taking
text: out a tray of chocolate chip cookies.
text: Electra smells them again, smiling as she inhales.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I hope she saves some for us.
text: There is a BANG, a DOOR SLAMMING in another apartment, and
text: a MAN YELLING.
text: Electra switches back to Jennifer's apartment.
text: The man is still in the living room, but Jennifer is gone.
speaker_heading: MAN (V.O.)
dialog: Do you think slamming doors is going
dialog: to help work this out?
text: Electra punches a command into a keyboard. Several of the
text: screens change, showing different rooms of the same
text: apartment. Jennifer is in the bedroom, lying on the bed
text: sobbing, her face buried in a pillow.
speaker_heading: MAN (V.O.)
dialog: I can slam doors too!
text: We hear the front DOOR SLAM in the hall outside of
text: Electra's apartment and through the monitor speakers. His
text: stomping FOOTSTEPS FADE as he storms down the hall and
text: staircase out of the building.
text: Electra switches all of the screens to Jennifer.
text: She watches and listens to her cry alone in her bedroom.
text: Electra reaches out; her fingers lightly touch the monitor
text: screen.
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT HALL
text: Electra's front door opens slowly. Timidly, she steps out
text: of her apartment and walks down the hall until she is
text: standing in front of Jennifer's door.
text: She starts to knock, but stops herself. She isn't sure
dialog: she should do this.
text: She paces, then turns to the door.
text: She knocks, so softly it's almost impossible to hear.
text: She stands, trying to force herself to knock again, when
text: she hears Jennifer.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER (O.S.)
dialog: Hello? Ken, is that you?
text: Electra panics.
text: The door knob turns, the door opens and JENNIFER looks out
text: into the hall. It is empty.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT
text: On the monitors, Electra watches Jennifer pick up the
dialog: phone.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER (V.O.)
dialog: Hi, Mom, it's me. Ken and I just
dialog: had a big fight.
text: Electra's PAGER suddenly SOUNDS. She shuts down the
text: screens and pulls out the pager, checking the number.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Crap.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT
text: There is a system set up that is not unlike Rath's system;
text: all of the same components, though the equipment is
text: bigger, more powerful and less portable.
text: On a table there is a bank of phones, several cellular.
text: Electra is talking on one.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: Electra, they are not paying you to
text: sit at home and watch television.
text: Electra is fiddling with five plastic computer disks; each
text: has a MicroCell trademark and is labeled "Back-Up."
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I wasn't watching television.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: The point is, they are paying for
dialog: information. Real information. Not
dialog: tooth paste brands. Not whether he
text: wads of folds his toilet paper. And
dialog: no 16 hours of recorded phone sex.
dialog: You are wasting everyone's time with
dialog: this shit.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I thought it was interesting --
speaker_heading: WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: God damnit, Electra. This is not a
dialog: game. This is business.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Right. In my hands I have five
dialog: back-up disks he made of all of his
dialog: work last night.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: Jesus! Why didn't you tell me?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I'll make my usual arrangements and
dialog: expect my usual bonus.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (V.O.)
dialog: Electra --
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: A pleasure doing business with you.
text: She hangs up.
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY
text: Electra comes down the stairs.
text: Outside the large glass door she sees KEN, Jennifer's
text: boyfriend, leaving.
text: On the lobby floor is a letter, apparently slipped under
text: the door, addressed to Jennifer Morgan.
text: Electra looks out the front door window, making sure that
text: Ken is gone.
text: She picks up the letter and stuffs it into her pocket.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT
text: Rath is at his computer system.
text: He is staring at it, like it is a living thing, a person
text: that he despises, the blank screen reflecting his own
text: face. It is an effort to bring himself to touch the
text: keyboard, to type in his code.
text: He waits.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Hello, Robert.
text: Rath wants to type something but hesitates.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: I know what happened.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I bet you fucking know!
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: It cost us.
text: Rath jumps out of his chair, screaming at the screen.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I give a fuck? I'm done! I quit!
dialog: Do you fucking hear me! I'm fucking
dialog: gone!
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: He stole another contract.
text: Rath turns from the monitor, pacing. Trying to collect
dialog: himself.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm being set up. Fucking set up!
text: He looks at the chess board. He hovers over it, the
text: pattern completely familiar.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Is this how it went, Nick?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Robert? Robert?
text: Rath turns back to the screen, speaking as he types.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: How did he know?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Know what?
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: The fucking contract! How in the
dialog: fuck did he know.
text: A long beat.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
text: Such language in front of a lady.
text: Rath still talking and typing.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: I don't know what the fuck you are.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: I know. It was a joke.
text: Rath stands, no longer typing.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: A joke? A joke?
text: Rath takes out his gun and levels it at the face of the
text: screen.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You think this is a fucking joke?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: $1,000,000.
text: Rath looks at the number.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: That's the bonus on the contract.
text: Rath puts the gun down.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: Deadline?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
text: Tomorrow. The buyer is Japanese.
dialog: His retirement a condition of the
dialog: bonus.
text: The FAX MACHINE COMES TO LIFE, printing an inky image.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: Who is the mark?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
text: Freelancer. A woman. Surveillance
dialog: specialist.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: A player?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: We have an M.O... Her system is
dialog: protected by her 'pussy virus.'
text: Rath looks at the fax; almost entirely black except for
text: the wide, slit-iris cat eyes.
scene_heading: EXT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT - DAY
text: There is a SCREECH and BLAST of ENGINES as a 747 touches
text: down, heat rising off the tarmac.
scene_heading: INT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT - DAY
text: Several passengers walk through the gate into the
dialog: terminal.
text: Across from the gate, Rath sits in a grungy airport
text: cafeteria, reading a folded paper.
text: He is wearing an airport security uniform, a gun holstered
text: to his side.
text: Taped inside the newspaper is a faxed Interpol photograph
text: of a Japanese man wanted for "industrial espionage."
text: At the gate, five Japanese men emerge. Leading the group
text: is the man in Rath's photo. The other four are obviously
dialog: muscle.
text: Rath watches as they walk down the crowded terminal hall.
text: When they are almost out of sight, he folds his newspaper
text: and begins to follow.
text: His pace and manner is that of a cautious predator. His
text: focus shifts continually from face to face, expecting to
dialog: find Bain's.
text: His hand hovers near his gun.
text: Ahead of him a thin young man, wearing a long blue trench
text: coat, stops. Rath cannot see his face.
text: The man starts toward a drinking fountain.
text: Rath catches a glimpse of his face. It could be Bain, but
text: he isn't sure.
text: The young man bends over and slurps at the stream of
text: water. He rises into the barrel of Rath's .22.
text: A mouthful of water coughs from his mouth.
text: It is not Bain and in the next instant, the gun is gone.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Sorry. My mistake.
text: Rath continues. They young man is unable to move.
scene_heading: EXT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT - DAY
text: The five men stride through the automated terminal doors
text: and towards a waiting limousine.
text: Further down, Rath, now wearing a black T-shirt and jeans,
text: exits and hails a cab.
scene_heading: INT. CAB
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Hi. Up ahead my boss is in that
dialog: black limo. We're not sure which
dialog: hotel we're at, so could you just
dialog: follow them?
speaker_heading: CABBY
dialog: Sure.
text: Rath sits back studying the faces exiting the terminal as
text: the cab pulls away.
scene_heading: INT. LIMOUSINE
text: The five men sit in silence. Strangely, a PHONE begins to
speaker_heading: RING.
text: The older man, whose name is AKIRA, opens his briefcase,
text: removing a cellular phone.
speaker_heading: AKIRA
dialog: Hello?
text: We hear Electra's voice. She speaks in Japanese; he uses
dialog: English.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA (V.O.)
dialog: I trust your flight was comfortable?
speaker_heading: AKIRA
dialog: Your Japanese is excellent.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA (V.O.)
dialog: Tell the driver: the Hyatt Hotel.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY
text: Electra is pacing, talking into the cellular phone.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I'll call you again in twenty
dialog: minutes.
text: She punches a button and shoves the antennae down.
text: The hotel room looks like her apartment. There is a
text: computer and a series of monitors stacked on top of the
text: wood laminate desk. Cables whip and wind across the
text: carpeted floor to the central air duct.
text: The panel has been removed and intertwined black and gray
text: coaxial run up inside the duct.
text: Immediately, Electra is busy finishing her preparations.
text: She snaps in several power cords and the system comes on-
dialog: line.
text: On the monitor screen, we see an empty hotel room that
text: looks exactly like the one she is in.
scene_heading: INT. CAB
text: Rath stares out the window, watching the surrounding
text: traffic, the limo still in sight.
text: Something occurs to him and he looks down at the folded
text: newspaper where he had hid the contract file.
text: He flips past several documents before finding what he's
text: looking for; the cat.
text: He pulls the dark fax of Nikita and stares at it.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Laying on the bed, in a patch of sunlight, Nikita watches
text: Electra rush about.
text: Electra grabs the sheet from under the comforter and yanks
dialog: it out.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Excuse me, your Highness.
text: Nikita casually walks off the bed.
text: Electra takes the sheet to the open duct and tears off a
text: long piece of duct-tape.
scene_heading: EXT. HYATT HOTEL
text: The limousine pulls up in the lavish circular driveway.
text: The cab pulls in behind it.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra checks her watch and picks up the cellular phone.
scene_heading: INT. HYATT LOBBY
text: The Japanese men stand in a cluster looking very rigid and
dialog: uncomfortable.
text: The BRIEFCASE RINGS.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra is pacing again.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Room 1414.
scene_heading: INT. HYATT LOBBY
text: With several other guests, the Japanese men crowd into an
text: elevator. The doors close.
text: Across the lobby, Rath enters, walking past the elevators.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR
text: As the elevator rises, we begin to hear a SOUND, a
text: familiar sound.
text: Cramped in the corner is Bain. He is PLAYING "TETRIS,"
text: wearing dark sunglasses and a WALKMAN PUMPING SPEED METAL
text: into his ears.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra continues to pace, checking the monitors.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM SERVICE KITCHEN
text: At the switchboard, a YOUNG HOTEL EMPLOYEE wearing an
text: operator's headset, takes a late breakfast order, typing
text: the order in the hotel computer.
scene_heading: YOUNG MAN (YOUNG HOTEL EMPLOYEE)
dialog: Yes, sir. That'll be up in about
dialog: thirty minutes. You're welcome.
text: He turns around and Rath is right behind him.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR
text: The fourteenth floor; the BELL CHIMES, the doors slide
text: open and the clump of Japanese men get out.
text: Just as the doors begin to close, Bain steps out.
scene_heading: INT. HALL
text: Bain follows them down the hall, still PLAYING the GAME.
text: There is again an ominous sense of predator moving in on
dialog: its prey.
text: As Akira finds 1414 and opens the door, another door burst
text: open, a large family, heading for the pool.
text: The moment is gone; the Japanese men close the door and
text: Bain continues down the hall again, PLAYING the GAME.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE
text: When the Japanese men enter the suite, we realize that
text: this is the image on Electra's monitors. Surveillance
text: camcorders and microphones are mounted in various
text: locations to display every inch of the room. The group
text: hesitates for a moment, under the electronic eyes.
text: The four goons have their hands in their jackets.
text: A small LAPTOP COMPUTER sits on the coffee table HUMMING
text: SOFTLY. It is the only noise in the room until a speaker
text: crackles.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA/SPEAKER (V.O.)
dialog: Good morning, gentlemen. I
dialog: apologize for the arrangement, but
dialog: we all know those aren't business
dialog: cards you're reaching for. If
dialog: anyone leaves this room, the deal's
dialog: off.
scene_heading: INT. ROOM SERVICE KITCHEN
text: The operator is unconscious, slumped in the corner.
text: Rath studies the hotel computer screen intently, the
text: information rolling by.
text: We see that it is the previous night's room service
dialog: receipts.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: One vegetarian plate and a can of
text: tuna fish. Room 1014.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra stands in front of the monitors watching the men
text: as she speaks into the microphone.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Ten thousand dollars per disk.
dialog: Insert the first disk now.
text: On the monitor, we see Akira at the coffee table shove the
text: first disk into the laptop disk drive.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE
text: Akira turns from the small computer screen and nods at a
text: goon, who drops a green brick of bound one hundred dollar
text: bills, down the central air duct.
text: The little clock on the laptop ticks away as it copies.
scene_heading: INT. HYATT HALL
text: Bain is sitting on a bench entrenched in a fevered game of
text: "TETRIS."
text: Suddenly, he stops.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yes!
text: The display of the game reads "Game Over" and
text: congratulates Bain on a new high score.
text: Bain stands, smiling. He puts the game in his pocket and
text: starts down the hall.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra is crouched at the open duct, grabbing another
text: stack of money, stuffing it into her bag.
text: A LOUD BANG EXPLODES out of the SPEAKERS and she looks up
text: at the monitor.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE
text: The lock on the door has been broken and standing in the
text: frame is Bain.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Surprise!
text: He raises his arm, his GUN spitting SILENT BULLETS.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra stares in horror at the monitors as Bain grabs the
text: nearest bodyguard, FIRING a SHOT into his belly.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Oh, God.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE
text: Another SHOT and the second bodyguard falls. The other
text: two draw their handguns and Bain shields himself with the
text: lifeless body of his first victim.
text: They FIRE at Bain but are unable to hit him.
text: Bain squeezes off TWO MORE SHOTS and the two men fall
text: dead. He lets his human shield fall to the ground and
text: levels his gun on the shaking Akira.
speaker_heading: AKIRA
dialog: Don't kill me.
text: Bain looks at him and smiles, then FIRES.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra leaps at the computer, ripping the cord from the
dialog: modem.
text: Bain sees the fiber optic cable and looks right into it.
speaker_heading: BAIN (V.O.)
dialog: Tricky. Boy, you just can't trust
dialog: anyone these days.
text: He licks the lens, leaving a smear of saliva.
text: She stuffs the disks into her bag. She puts Nikita in her
text: "travel kitty" and charges for the door, grabbing her
dialog: coat.
text: Flinging it over her shoulder, she does not notice the
text: letter from Ken slip out of her pocket as she bolts from
dialog: the room.
scene_heading: INT. HALL
text: Electra explodes through the door and suddenly freezes.
text: She is staring down the barrel of Rath's .22.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Don't be stupid and you will live.
text: The elevator behind Rath opens and closes against a hotel
text: lobby ashtray. He waves her into the elevator with his
dialog: gun.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Hurry.
scene_heading: EXT. HYATT HOTEL - DAY
text: Electra's black CAR ROARS out of the garage, onto the open
dialog: street.
scene_heading: INT. HYATT HOTEL - DAY
text: The door swings open. From the hall we can hear the
text: familiar BEEPING of the COMPUTER GAME. The room, 1014, is
text: the same as Electra had left it when she ran out.
text: Jutting from a shadow on the floor is the corner of Ken's
dialog: letter.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S CAR
text: Electra drives, obviously nervous, as Rath watches out the
text: rear window.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Turn here.
text: No one follows. He turns back to her.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: How many bodies were there?
text: He checks his watch.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He has to clean up. How many bodies
dialog: were there?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Um, five.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: One hour per man.
text: Rath sets the timer on his watch for five hours.
scene_heading: INT. HYATT HOTEL ROOM - DAY
text: Bain has returned to room 1414. Wearing rubber gloves, he
text: clicks open a black leather attache and pulls out a can of
dialog: rug cleaner.
text: He picks up the phone for room service.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Hi. This is room 1414 --
text: Behind him, in the bathroom mirror, we see one of the
text: Japanese men hanging from the shower by his feet. He is
text: naked.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yes, could you send up a pot of
dialog: coffee and my friends are going to
dialog: need some more towels. Thanks.
text: He hangs up the phone and walks over to one of the large
text: blood stains on the carpet. He points the rug cleaner at
text: the stain covering it with white foam.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S CAR
text: Rath sees the entrance for the expressway.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Get on the expressway.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Where are we going?
text: Rath glances back.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Nowhere yet.
text: Electra turns onto the highway and NIKITA HOWLS from the
text: "travel kitty" in the back seat.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: Nikita, hush.
text: NIKITA wants out and HOWLS again.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: She won't stop unless you let her
dialog: out.
text: Rath reaches back and opens the box. Nikita springs into
text: the front seat onto Rath's lap.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Nikita? She helped me find you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What? How did you know I had a cat?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Took a guess. Lucky for you, I
dialog: guessed right.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Who the fuck are you? Who do you
dialog: work for?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I work for the government.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Yeah?
text: She studies his face, his eyes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Bullshit.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You're one of them, aren't you? A
dialog: fucking pro.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm part of the game, just like you.
text: Electra pounds the steering wheel.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Jesus!
text: He reaches into the back seat, grabbing her bag.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What do you think you're doing?
text: Rath plucks out the bundles of money.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Twenty large? That's all?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What do you mean, 'that's all'?
dialog: What in the hell do you know?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The bonus on the contract for you
dialog: was one million dollars.
text: Electra seems ready to jump out of her skin. The
text: speedometer is floating around 90.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Slow down.
text: He pulls out the disks.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I figure that means these are worth
dialog: ten times that, maybe more.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Ten million --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Now you understand why I'm here.
text: Electra wants to scream. The speedometer is climbing over
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I really think you should slow down.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT
text: The room is immaculate; near the door, several over-sized
text: suitcases line the wall.
text: Bain is sitting at the desk. His WALKMAN is on, MUSIC
text: BLASTING, as he flips casually through the telephone
dialog: directory.
text: His finger eases down a column stopping at "Morgan
dialog: Jennifer."
text: There is a KNOCK at the door.
text: He smiles and tears out the page.
text: There is another, LOUDER KNOCK which Bain hears this time.
text: He TURN OFF the WALKMAN and opens the door; a BELLBOY is
text: waiting with a luggage cart.
speaker_heading: BELLBOY
dialog: Hello, sir. Have you some luggage
dialog: you need carried.
text: Bain gives him a wink and a smile.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Indeed I do.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S CAR - NIGHT
text: The red "low fuel" light is on.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Now what?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Turn off the engine.
text: Electra twists the ignition and the CAR DIES. Rath
text: glances around and we see the car is parked in a gas
dialog: station.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You want me to pump?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No, stay in the car. I want you to
dialog: understand something. If I intended
dialog: to kill you, you would already be
dialog: dead.
text: Electra says nothing.
text: He reaches over and takes the car keys.
text: When he is out of the car, Electra slowly releases the
text: strangle-hold she had on the steering wheel.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Okay, Nikita, stay calm, think,
dialog: breathe, think...
text: Electra checks the rear view mirror, listening as Rath
text: pumps the gas. Her eyes flash down to her bag.
text: Outside, Rath watches Electra through the windows. She
text: appears motionless.
text: The electric gas counter races like a stop watch.
text: In the car, Electra eases her hand into her bag.
text: The tank full, Rath re-hangs the pump. He walks around
text: the car and heads for the station.
text: Electra waits until his back is turned. She pulls her
text: tool pouch from her bag, throws it open and finds her wire
text: stripper. Reaching under the dash, she yanks out a
text: tangled handful of wire.
text: She looks up; Rath is inside paying.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Come on, come on, it's a cake walk.
text: Her fingers fly with surgical precision, snipping,
text: stripping, twisting.
text: Rath steps out of the station as her head pops up, looking
text: for him. It takes only a second for him to realize what
text: she is doing.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Oh shit.
text: He runs at the car as she strips the last set of wires and
text: strikes them; the BATTERY GRINDS.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Please, please.
text: He is almost there when the ENGINE FIRES. She stomps on
text: the gas, ramming the shift into drive.
text: TIRES SQUEALING, the car swerves forward as Rath slams
text: into it. He bounces backward, falling to the ground.
text: The car fishtails away, accelerating as Rath rolls to one
text: knee, his gun automatically in his hand. He draws a bead,
text: but, he does not shoot.
text: With a concerted effort, he puts the gun away.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Dammit.
scene_heading: EXT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
text: Electra's car is parked out front.
text: She unlocks the lobby door and drags herself inside.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT LOBBY
text: Standing at the mailboxes flipping through her mail is
text: Jennifer Morgan. What she was hoping for is not there.
text: She looks up and sees Electra.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Excuse me --
text: Electra stops.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: You live here, don't you?
text: Electra nods.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I'm sorry, this may sound really
dialog: weird, but my friend told me he
dialog: slipped a letter under the door here
dialog: and I was wondering if you happened
dialog: to see it?
text: Electra is in a daze, her hand moving into her pocket.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Letter?
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: Yeah. He said he saw a woman with
text: dark hair going into the building
text: when he dropped it off.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: No. I don't have it.
text: Electra's mouth opens and she backs away. Jennifer is
text: bothered by her reaction and she doesn't push it.
speaker_heading: JENNIFER
dialog: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to -- I'm
dialog: sorry.
text: She shrugs and unlocks the interior door, leaving Electra
text: in the lobby.
text: Electra watches her, as her hand moves from pocket to
dialog: pocket.
text: A worried expression tightens her face; the letter is
dialog: gone.
text: She opens the interior door, following Jennifer up the
dialog: stairs.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE
text: Electra climbs the stairs, her mind pouring through the
text: possibilities, filled with fear.
text: By the time Electra reaches the top floor, Jennifer is
text: entering her apartment.
text: Electra hurries past Jennifer's door to her own.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Electra flies across the living room to the monitors.
text: She clicks them on, putting on Jennifer's channel.
text: On the screen we see Jennifer in her living room checking
text: her phone messages. One from her mother.
text: Electra throws a few switches so that Jennifer's entire
text: apartment is in front of her.
text: On one of the monitors we see a shadow slide across the
text: oak floor as something moves along the edge of the room.
text: Jennifer has moved to the bathroom and is drawing a bath.
text: Electra clamps her hand over her mouth when he steps out.
text: Bain moves into the dining room where Jennifer had just
dialog: been.
text: Wearing rubber surgeon's gloves, he picks up the mail that
text: she had dropped on the table and sorts through it.
text: Bain moves about the apartment with complete indifference
text: to Jennifer's presence; as if he were invisible, as though
text: he knew she couldn't see him.
text: He moves into a room, just as she moves out.
text: Electra watches, dizzy, sick with terror, but she is
text: unable to turn away.
text: Bain searches through a desk drawer, while Jennifer starts
text: undressing for her bath.
text: He walks down the hall and stands outside of the bathroom.
dialog: If Jennifer would turn around she would see him.
text: Electra is about to run, to call out when --
text: Something catches Bain's eye.
text: He moves into the bedroom, and is turned so that he is
text: looking straight up into the camera.
text: He inches towards it, not sure what it is. The fiber
text: optic cable is hidden in the light fixture hanging over
dialog: the bed.
text: Staring at it, he is looking right at Electra.
text: Bain steps up onto the bed, his face distorting as he
text: moves close to the fish-eye lens. Poking it with his
text: finger, he realizes what it is. A warped smile stretches
text: across his face as he whispers --
speaker_heading: BAIN (V.O.)
dialog: Oh, you sick little bitch --
text: Electra tears away from the screen, panic seizing hold of
dialog: her.
text: She rips entire drawers out of her dresser, dumping them
text: into a suitcase, stuffing in anything that looks
text: important. She grabs Nikita in the "travel kitty."
scene_heading: EXT. BACK PORCH
text: The door opens and Electra jumps out, slamming it behind
dialog: her as --
text: Bain turns from the back stairs.
text: She leaps back inside as he whips out his GUN, PUMPING TWO
text: HOLES in the door.
scene_heading: INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT
text: She scrambles from the kitchen, throwing her suitcase,
text: still clutching the "travel kitty," as --
text: The back DOOR EXPLODES from its hinges, Bain charging,
text: FIRING his GUN.
text: BULLETS HISSING past her, Electra crashes through the
text: front door into the hall.
scene_heading: INT. HALL
text: The stairs are at the far end. She is only halfway,
dialog: when --
text: Rath rises up the stairs, his gun cocked.
text: Electra drops to the floor as --
text: Behind her, Bain barrels from the apartment.
dialog: Rath FIRES.
text: The wood DOOR SPLINTERS, BULLET HOLES surrounding Bain.
text: Off balance, he lunges back into the apartment.
text: Rath continues FIRING, grabbing hold of Electra.
text: They run down the stairs.
scene_heading: EXT. REAR STAIRCASE
text: Bain leaps down the flights.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY
text: Bain rushes into the street, looking in every direction.
text: They are gone.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Fuck me!
scene_heading: EXT. LARGE CHAIN HOTEL - NIGHT
text: Somewhere in the city.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra and Rath enter the room together but they are both
text: immediately alone.
text: She walks across the room to a chair in the corner,
text: curling into it even as Nikita jumps up and curls into her
dialog: lap.
text: He sets his briefcase on the table at the opposite end of
text: the room and sits.
text: They watch each other. Silence.
text: Between then is the liquor cabinet. Rath knows a good
text: idea when he sees one.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Want a drink?
text: Her face is as expressionless as Nikita's.
text: He pours himself a very large bourbon and slugs it down.
text: Takes a deep breath, then pours himself another one.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Okay...
text: He returns to his table with his drink.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm not good at this sort of thing,
dialog: but we don't have a lot of time, so
dialog: I'll just go ahead and get started.
dialog: First: you. I ask myself, 'What is
dialog: she thinking?'
text: Her body tightens, coils.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: Simple. She's scared. She's almost
dialog: been killed twice and now she is
text: alone in a room with a man that she
dialog: believes is an... assassin.
text: Another deep pull on the bourbon.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Furthermore she was brought here not
dialog: entirely on her own accord which
text: only increases her fear and
dialog: suspicion. Thus, as long as she is
dialog: afraid, her first, maybe her only
dialog: thought will be escape. Does that
dialog: leave me any other option?
text: He slugs down the rest of his drink and stands, whipping
text: out his gun.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
text: Crossing the room, he turns the gun around and offers it
text: to her. She looks at it. Back at him.
text: He puts it on the bed beside her, turns his back and walks
text: to the bar.
text: She picks up the gun.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: The gun is silenced. She could
dialog: shoot me right now.
text: She stands, Nikita jumping from her lap.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: She could take the car and be far
text: from here before the maid comes in
dialog: the morning, but --
text: She starts squeezing OFF ROUNDS; the LAMP EXPLODES, the
text: CHAIRS around him ERUPT, tufts of white stuffing leaping
text: into the air.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Shut up!
text: He freezes, bottle in one hand, glass in the other.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Stop trying to tell me what I'm
dialog: thinking!
text: She moves closer to him, the gun squeezed in her fist.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I'll tell you what you're thinking
dialog: -- you think I'm not going to shoot
dialog: you but right now you're not so
dialog: sure, are you?
text: A slight shake of the head, no.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You're thinking that maybe it was a
dialog: mistake to give me this gun, that
dialog: maybe I'm not going to think about
dialog: things logically because I'm a woman
dialog: and I'm freaked out and I'm going to
dialog: do something impulsive and
dialog: irrational -- right?
text: She FIRES the GUN to both sides of his head. He's
text: surprised to be alive.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You don't know shit about me! Now
dialog: sit down!
text: He returns to his chair and sits with the same expression
text: she had worn sitting a moment ago.
text: She opens the cabinet and grabs one of the sample bottles
text: of liquor. She sucks it all down and throws the bottle
text: across the room.
text: Grabbing another, she sits on the edge of the bed.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Okay. How did you find me?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You're the computer hacker, you tell
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You didn't know anything about me.
text: Nikita rubs up against her leg.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Nikita?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yellow Pages. V for veterinarian.
dialog: There aren't that many.
text: She nods, slurping at her bottle.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You're one of them, aren't you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: 'Them'?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: An assassin?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Until a minute ago.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What does that mean?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: If I still was what I used to be,
dialog: you would not be pointing that at
dialog: me.
text: Electra eyes him, considers shooting him right now.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Who is that other guy?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Another contractor.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Someone hired both of you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. They hired Bain. The contract
dialog: would have been mine, but Bain took
dialog: it from me as he took the previous
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: So this is something between you and
dialog: him?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He stole the contract knowing that
dialog: I would come after him.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Because he is trying to retire me.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: He wants to kill you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The nature of the business. You
dialog: remove your competition.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: And you want to use me to get him?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Forget it!
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: We don't have a choice.
text: She FIRES the GUN, pocking the wall behind him.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Don't tell me I don't have a choice!
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: I'm two seconds away from making my
dialog: choice which means you've got two
dialog: seconds to tell me why I shouldn't
dialog: shoot you.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's simple. You need me. I need
dialog: you. And we will both need money.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I don't need you to get the money --
dialog: my money!
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: If it hadn't been for me, you would
dialog: be dead.
text: She's up pacing, knowing there is some truth in that.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I don't need the money.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: This is something that is never
dialog: going to end. You can never work in
dialog: the business again with this
dialog: contract, because he will find you.
dialog: To survive, you have to go into deep
dialog: hiding. And that's going to take
dialog: money, a lot of money.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Then you can have the disks and I'll
dialog: just walk out that door --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: If you walk out that door, Bain will
dialog: still come after you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Because he took a contract on you.
dialog: He'll come for you and he'll find
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You don't know that -- you're trying
dialog: to scare me.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. It's the truth. I know what
dialog: you are. Like me, like Bain, you're
dialog: a ghost, you're not part of the real
dialog: world. You don't have a social
dialog: security number. You don't pay
dialog: taxes. You've probably used ten
dialog: different names over the last ten
dialog: years. A long time ago something
dialog: probably happened, something illegal
dialog: and you ran, you disappeared and it
dialog: was easy. You think you can do it
dialog: again. But I'm telling you, fading
dialog: from the law is nothing. No matter
dialog: what you do, where you go, I swear
dialog: to you that Bain will find you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Right now, as we sit here, he is
dialog: tearing through your apartment. He
dialog: is digging through your drawers,
dialog: emptying your closets. He will take
dialog: your telephone and address books,
dialog: your appointment books. If you keep
dialog: a diary, he is reading it. He'll go
text: into the kitchen and find out what
dialog: kind of food you eat, liquor you
dialog: drink, cigarettes you smoke. In the
dialog: bathroom he will find any
dialog: prescription drugs you take and
dialog: where you get them filled. If you
dialog: have video tape or recordings he
dialog: will watch and listen to all of
dialog: them.
text: She is coming unglued. Imagining him watching her tapes,
text: going through her possessions. She is moving, pacing,
text: ready to explode.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Oh Jesus Jesus...
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He will know everything about you.
dialog: Everything. I know, because I've
dialog: done it. Once you've been inside a
dialog: mark's home, you're in their head.
dialog: If you're any good, you'll find the
dialog: mark in a week, and Bain is good
dialog: because I was the best and I
dialog: couldn't take him.
text: She whirls and starts FIRING the GUN, firing it
text: everywhere, fear and anger rocketing out of her in
text: WHISTLING hot wads of LEAD.
text: When she stops, he starts to say something but she levels
text: the gun at him.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Shut up! All right! You've said
dialog: enough!
text: She forces herself back, grabbing handfuls of the sample
dialog: bottles.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I need to think... To be alone.
text: With the gun and an armful of booze and Nikita following
text: at her feet, she goes into the bathroom and slams the
dialog: door.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: She locks the door and then collapses. Her body seems to
text: fold up onto itself as she slides down the wall; the GUN
text: and the BOTTLES falling from her arms, CLATTERING SOFTLY
text: on the bath rug as she buries her face in her hands.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: Very mechanically, Rath begins setting up his chess board,
text: putting the pieces into the same positions. It is a
text: ritual, and with it he enters a kind of trance.
text: From the bathroom, almost inaudible, he hears Electra
text: CRYING.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: With her head now buried in her arms and knees, she is
text: sobbing, her body rocking. The crying seems very similar
text: to Jennifer's; a complete emotional release.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: Rath stares at the board. The CRYING grows LOUDER. He
text: stands and walks to the door. He starts to knock but
text: stops himself.
dialog: Like Electra with Jennifer, Rath would like to help, he
text: just has no idea how to. He turns back to the desk, to
dialog: his chess game.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Her eyes are now burning red. She stops crying long
text: enough to suck down an entire sample of Scotch. Nikita
text: rubs against her and she strokes her.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Oh shit, Nikita.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: Rath is setting up his computer system. He hears the TUB
text: FILLING UP.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Nikita jumps up onto the toilet seat and starts drinking.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Cheers.
text: Electra finishes another sample and drops it to the floor
text: where we see that many of the bottles are now empty.
text: In the tub, steam rising off the surface, she wrings out a
text: wash cloth and covers her face, sinking deeper into the
dialog: water.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: When Electra comes out of the bathroom, Rath is again at
text: his chess game. She sits down across from him and sets
text: the gun on the table between them.
text: Rath looks up at her.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Listen -- I don't even know your
dialog: name.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Rath. Robert Rath.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Electra.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Just Electra?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: As in daughter of Agamemnon?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: No. Just Electra.
text: The conversation dies.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What I'm trying to say is that --
dialog: I'm not sure I can do this, help
dialog: you, unless I know more about you.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What do you want to know?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: If Bain hadn't taken the contract on
dialog: me, would you have?
text: He stares at her.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Because I'm done.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: This is crazy. I can't trust you.
dialog: You can't trust me. How can we
dialog: possibly help each other?
text: They sit in silence, the gun and the chess game lying
dialog: between them.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Do you play?
text: She looks at the chess board.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: With computers.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's not the same, is it?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Better than playing with yourself.
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I had an opponent.
text: She understands that he is trying to tell her something.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Had?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He was Russian. Nicholai
dialog: Tachlinkov. A legend in the
dialog: business when I was just starting.
dialog: I admired him. When I heard he
dialog: loved chess I became obsessed with
dialog: the game.
text: Electra studies the board.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: He was white?
text: Rath nods.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: It looks like white's game.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: We played with a code using The New
dialog: York Times obituaries. Over three
dialog: years we played twelve matches. I
dialog: never won.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why didn't you finish this game?
text: She reaches over and lifts a White Knight and takes a
text: Bishop. Rath counters, taking her Knight.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He was... taken.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: He was killed.
text: Rath nods.
text: Throughout the entire conversation they continue to play
text: out the chess game.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: By who?
text: A long beat.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I killed him.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Because that's how it works. That's
dialog: what it's about. He was the best.
text: He was on top.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Where you wanted to be?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes. As soon as you get into this
dialog: business, all you can think about is
dialog: getting to the top. That's all
dialog: there is. Until then, there is
dialog: nothing. You are nothing.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: How did you get into the business?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The same way everyone does; the
dialog: government, the Agency.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: The C.I.A.?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: More or less.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: How old were you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: They recruited me when I was in high
dialog: school.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Jesus -- why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Languages. I was already fluent in
dialog: nine languages.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You were like a boy genius?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Some people said that. I never
dialog: thought so.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I was just different.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You went from high school to the
dialog: Agency?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. I graduated from George
dialog: Washington University. Then I
dialog: entered the Agency training program.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: They didn't give you a choice, did
dialog: they?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No, they didn't.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: But you knew what they were training
dialog: you for?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Of course. I was going to be James
dialog: Bond.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Ahhhh...
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: They are very good at what they do.
dialog: It's very seductive. The training,
dialog: the weapons, the travel --
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: The exotic women.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Women? No... not really.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Women... I don't... I don't want to
dialog: talk about women.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Because you are a women.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why did you leave the Agency?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The same reason everyone does. You
dialog: hear your name on C-SPAN and you
dialog: realize you're a skeleton in
text: someone's closet and they're coming
dialog: to bury you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: They tried to kill you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes. It didn't matter much to them
dialog: as long as I disappeared.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Then you went freelance?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The only thing different about the
dialog: private sector is that a General
dialog: Contractor takes less of a
dialog: percentage than the government, so
dialog: you make more money. Then once you
dialog: make the transition, you realize you
dialog: were never working for the
dialog: government; it was always the
dialog: private sector, the vested interests
dialog: and it's the same vested interests
dialog: that continue to buy your plane
dialog: tickets.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Tell me about the first time.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: My first take?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Because I want to know.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It was... mechanical. Very precise.
dialog: It was exactly like the training
text: drill except for the adrenaline.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Are they usually like that?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. Just the first one.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: After that?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: They become complicated... messy.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Did it ever bother you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Did it ever bother James Bond?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: That's fiction.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: This is fiction! Don't you see
dialog: that? This is another reality. And
dialog: the people that come into the world
dialog: to play this game -- nobody forces
dialog: them! They're here, they know the
dialog: rules, the stakes, the risks! Do
dialog: you understand what I am saying? No
dialog: one is innocent -- including you!
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Does that mean it didn't bother you?
text: Rath leans back and stares at her. She waits.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You get a job swinging a hammer, the
dialog: first day you get a blister, it
text: tears open, it bleeds and it stays
dialog: sore a long time. You keep swinging
dialog: the hammer, you get a good hard
dialog: callous that covers that spot and it
dialog: never bothers you again.
text: Electra says nothing. He leans forward and slides a rook
text: into her back row.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Check.
text: He leans back.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Is that what you wanted to hear?
dialog: Something cold blooded... something
dialog: remorseless...
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: No. Something honest.
dialog: A beat. Rath likes this woman.
text: She moves her Queen.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Mate.
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I hope your plan is better than your
dialog: game.
scene_heading: INT. CHEAP HOTEL - NIGHT
text: The room is ugly. Shag carpeting, wood paneling and
text: polyester patterned curtains.
text: We hear a COMPUTER KEYBOARD CLICKING away as we MOVE
text: ACROSS a table. The hotel phone is in a modem, which is
text: held together with duct tape. Between the modem and the
text: computer is a scrambler constructed out of a series of
text: naked circuit boards.
text: It is a very similar set up to Rath's, only it has been
text: put together with a fraction of the resources.
text: Bain sits, typing at the computer, his shirt off. Beside
text: the desk-top is a six pack of Old Style beer, a bag of
text: Doritos and his Gameboy.
text: On the floor, disassembled neatly on a small white towel
text: is his cleaned gun.
text: Bain finishes punching in a code, sits back and sucks down
text: his beer.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Where have you been, Michael?
text: He belches.
text: He is communicating with his General Contractor.
text: On the table is a collection of personal objects, much of
text: it stuffed in pillow cases, taken from Electra's house.
speaker_heading: BAIN/SCREEN
text: Tracking the mark.
text: Bain fingers a pair of satin panties. He smiles as he
text: smells them.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: I'm on the scent.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: You're too late.
text: Bain slams his beer down.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: I've learned from MicroCell, Rath
dialog: fulfilled the contract.
speaker_heading: BAIN/SCREEN
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: He took out the mark and sold the
text: disks back to MicroCell.
text: Bain falls back in his chair, thinking. He runs his hands
text: through his sweaty hair.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Michael?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: No. No. No. I don't believe it.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: They money will be standard bank
dialog: transfer. We believe we will know
dialog: where and when.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BAIN/SCREEN
dialog: How?
text: There is no response.
speaker_heading: BAIN/SCREEN
dialog: How in the fuck do you know that?
text: A long beat.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
text: Such language in front of a lady.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: I don't give a fuck what you are. I
dialog: asked you --
text: He hits the repeat key.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: (types)
dialog: How in the fuck do you know that?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Do you want Rath or not?
text: Bain stares at the screen, thinking. Thinking hard.
scene_heading: INT. LARGE CHAIN HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT
text: Another computer screen, but we don't know that it is
dialog: different.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: It will take three days to arrange
dialog: the transfer.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Three days?
text: We are in Electra and Rath's hotel room. She is standing
text: behind him, reading as he types.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Which account?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Are you going to tell him?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It. Tell it. For all I know it
dialog: could be a machine.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You said you didn't trust it.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I don't.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Which account?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What kind of bank is going to allow
dialog: us to withdraw ten million dollars
dialog: the day it is transferred?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The kind preferred by drug
dialog: smugglers, arms dealers and
dialog: politicians.
text: Rath types in an account number.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Do you have a passport?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Several.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Good.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Where is it?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Mexico.
scene_heading: INT. AIRPLANE - DAY
text: Rath and Electra are sitting in the first class section,
text: which she is obviously enjoying, smiling and sipping
dialog: champagne.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: God, I love first class. I remember
dialog: when I was a little girl, I would
dialog: wonder what it was like up here. I
dialog: would always try to peek through the
dialog: curtains.
text: Rath says nothing, staring out the window.
text: Electra shakes her head.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I hope Nikita's all right.
text: He still does not respond.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Hey, where are you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Thinking.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: About?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Nothing.
text: Electra sips the last of her champagne.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I've never been to the Gulf of
dialog: Mexico. Is it as nice as they say?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You were there?
text: A long beat.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL MEXICAN AIRPORT - DAY
text: The plane lands.
scene_heading: EXT. TERMINAL CAB STAND
text: Rath and Electra hand their bags to a CABBY who puts them
text: in his trunk.
scene_heading: INT. CAB
dialog: Rath speaks perfect Spanish.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Good afternoon. We have
dialog: reservations at the Hotel Paraiso in
dialog: Costa Blanca.
speaker_heading: CABBY
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Yes, sir.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DAY
text: The cab pulls up in front of a large, brand new glass
text: hotel, which shimmers in the blue green reflection of the
dialog: gulf water.
text: Rath is upset.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: No, no. I said the Hotel Paraiso.
speaker_heading: CABBY
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Yes. This is the Hotel Paraiso.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: No, the other Hotel Paraiso, in the
text: city. Near the Plaza del Sol.
speaker_heading: CABBY
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: I'm sorry, sir. A year ago there
text: was a fire in the old Hotel Paraiso.
text: This is the new Hotel Paraiso.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: (in Spanish)
dialog: Take us there.
scene_heading: EXT. COSTA BLANCA - DAY
dialog: American tourist dollars have built up the coasts, but
text: much of the out-lying city is very poor.
text: The old Hotel Paraiso is a five story blackened husk. The
text: face of the building is burnt black and it seems to hang
text: in space as something non-corporeal, like the shadow of
text: the building rather than the building itself.
text: Rath stares at it, remembering.
text: Electra is behind him, standing in the midst of the Plaza
dialog: del Sol.
text: He looks up to the fifth story window, then turns directly
dialog: opposite of that.
text: The International Banco de Mexico, an enormous, beautiful
text: old building; its exterior walls are white-washed
text: concrete, blindingly bright white.
text: Electra looks at the bank and smiles.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: So, that's where all that S &amp; L
dialog: money is?
text: Rath is not listening to her. He is somewhere else. He
text: turns back to the fourth story window.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: That's where he'll be.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I wasn't expecting this. I need to
dialog: think.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - NIGHT
text: Beyond the lights of the hotel the gulf darkens to
dialog: midnight oil.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL PARAISO ELEVATOR
text: On one side of the elevator is a young couple who look
text: like newlyweds. They are cuddling, kissing and giggling
text: as though they are alone.
text: Electra and Rath are on the other side of the elevator.
text: It is a strange contrast.
text: Electra is staring at them.
text: Rath, behind his sunglasses, is in his own world.
text: The ELEVATOR CHIMES and opens.
text: Nobody moves.
text: The DOORS CHIME again and start to close, as everyone
text: realizes that this is their floor.
text: Rath and the other man grab the doors, which spring back
dialog: open.
text: It is a funny, awkward moment, as everyone apologizes and
text: smiles politely, on the way out.
scene_heading: INT. HALL
text: The couple move down the hall, the newlyweds finding their
dialog: door first.
text: Rath reaches the door to their room, opens it and enters.
text: Electra lingers, watching the other couple, watching as he
text: fumbles for his keys, her hand running up between his legs
text: and over his ass.
text: He finally manages to open the door and she pushes him
text: inside.
text: Electra softly closes her door.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL PARAISO - HOTEL ROOM
text: Rath is sitting in a desk chair staring out of the sliding
text: balcony doors at the dark gulf water.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Did you see them?
text: Electra moves about the large suite.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: They looked like they were in love.
text: Rath says nothing.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Well, I think I'll take a bath.
dialog: Come on, Nikita!
text: The two of them walk into the bathroom, leaving Rath to
dialog: himself.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM
text: Electra sits on the edge of the over-sized tub, water
text: running through her fingers as she adjusts the
dialog: temperature.
text: After a beat she hears a SMALL CRASH, a GLASS BREAKING.
text: It is followed by other MUFFLED NOISES, a WOMAN GIGGLING
text: and a THUMPING. The sounds are coming from the other side
text: of the tub wall, from the other suite. Electra puts her
text: ear against the tile to listen.
text: The WATER FILLING her TUB is too loud for her to hear.
text: She turns it OFF.
text: There is more BUMPING and THUMPING, the WOMAN LAUGHING and
text: then, the LAUGHS SHORTEN into SOFT WHIMPERS.
text: Electra hangs on each sound, slowly lifted by it, moving
text: up toward the over-head fan and ducts.
text: The SOUNDS get LOUDER as she moves closer to the vents,
text: until she is standing precariously on the edge of the tub,
text: listening to what is clearly the sounds of TWO PEOPLE
scene_heading: MAKING LOVE.
text: Their MOANS and SHRIEKS CLIMAX and Electra smiles.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM
text: It is dark now. A single desk light is on, under which
text: Rath is setting up his chess board, putting the pieces in
text: their familiar pattern.
text: Electra comes out of the bathroom. She seems very clean
text: and fresh, wearing a long white T-shirt and thin robe.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: That felt great. You should try it.
text: She watches him setting the pieces onto the board.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Don't you ever get tired of playing
dialog: the same game?
text: He looks at her.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It helps me to focus. It centers
dialog: me, helps me think.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Oh. What do you think about?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Work. The things I need to get
dialog: done.
text: She sits across from him looking at the board.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Do you think about the game?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: But you've never figured out a way
dialog: to win.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Not even a stalemate?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What happens if you do?
text: This strikes Rath as a very strange question and he is
text: suddenly annoyed by her.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Can I ask you something?
text: He knows she will anyway.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What will you do if this works, if
dialog: we get the money?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I don't know... maybe I'll live on a
dialog: boat, sail to all the places I've
dialog: never been.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: That sounds nice.
text: He finishes his glass of bourbon.
text: She is not sure what to say next, if she should say
dialog: anything at all.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I'm kind of tired. I think I'd like
dialog: to try and get some sleep.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You can have the bed. The chair is
dialog: fine for me.
text: He pours himself another drink, dropping in some ice from
text: the ice bucket.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Thanks.
text: She slips out of the robe and in between the sheets.
text: Rath sits across the room, his back to her.
text: She tries to make herself comfortable, but cannot.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Do you think he's here?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Here?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: In Costa Blanca.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
text: She thinks.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What do you think he's doing?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I don't know... But I'm sure he's
text: not sleeping.
text: She pulls the covers tightly to her chin. Her eyes do not
dialog: close.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL (COSTA BLANCA) - NIGHT
text: A small hotel in the city, away from the beaches, built
dialog: before there was such a thing as central air conditioning.
text: Bain is naked, except for a small pair of camouflage
text: jockeys and his Walkman strapped to his shoulder. His
text: head is pumping wildly with the speed metal thrashing in
text: his ears.
text: He is tearing open a long box wrapped in "Happy Birthday"
dialog: paper.
text: Inside the box is a massive black hi-tech assault rifle.
text: He smiles.
text: He assembles it quickly, snapping it together with
text: automatic ease. When the sight is tightened in place, he
text: jumps up.
text: In the mirror over the dresser, he poses down with the
dialog: gun.
text: Not satisfied, he grabs his shades and checks himself
text: again. He starts moving with the music, playing with the
text: gun, first as a guitar, then whipping it around, spinning
text: it expertly, like a drum and bugle corpsman. The gun zips
text: and flashes around as he whirls in place, then freezes.
text: The butt of the rifle to his shoulder, he peers down the
text: scope at his own head reflected in the mirror. He is
text: sweating and breathing, but the barrel does not move.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You're dead, motherfucker.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DAY
text: Electra leans out over the railing, smiling, inhaling the
text: warm air, the scent of the shimmering blue-green sea.
text: Rath stands in the shadow of the door frame.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Breakfast.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why don't you bring it out here?
dialog: It's beautiful out here.
text: Rath steps a little farther out. He looks down either
text: side of the building, checking sight lines. He looks out
text: and sees another hotel with windows facing them.
text: He turns to her. Says nothing. Moves back inside.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: The breakfast trays are empty. Rath is sipping coffee,
text: scribbling notes and diagrams on a piece of paper.
text: Electra comes out of the bathroom dressed for the beach.
text: He stops working.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I know what you are thinking. I'm
dialog: not going to disappear, okay? I'm
dialog: not going anywhere, just down there,
dialog: to that beautiful beach. I got to
dialog: get out of this room, just for a
dialog: little while.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He won't be looking for you. Just
dialog: be careful. Buy a book. Keep your
text: sunglasses on.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Book. Sunglasses. Great.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL HALL
text: Electra steps out of the hotel room ready for the beach.
text: At the end of the hall, she sees the newlywed couple get
text: on the elevator. She starts to call to them to hold it
text: for her, but she stops herself.
text: The elevator closes.
text: She edges slowly down the hall, stopping outside the door
text: to their suite. She touches it with the tips of her
dialog: fingers.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY
text: Rath is still at the table.
text: The curtain begins to billow, a soft breeze blowing
text: through the open patio door. They swell open and fall.
text: It seems for a moment that there is a figure, a shadow, in
text: the changing shape of the curtain.
text: Rath stands. He walks to the open door. Standing in the
text: frame, he looks out at the blue ocean below.
text: He slides the door closed, and the curtains fall still.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA DEL SOL - DAY
text: Bain moves through the market, booths lining the edges of
text: the plaza. His eyes shift rapidly behind his sunglasses.
text: He buys an apricot and strolls into the center of the
dialog: plaza.
text: He looks at the bank, at the military-style security
text: guards that patrol the front.
text: He turns in the plaza, checking the perimeter, his gaze
text: falling on the tall, burned-out building.
text: He looks back at the bank, imagining the sight line.
text: He bites into the apricot, its juice gushing, running down
text: his chin.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Rath is leaning back in the bed, NIKITA PURRING in his
dialog: lap.
text: He did not sleep last night and is very tired. His eyes
dialog: fight to stay open.
text: The sound of the TELEVISION momentarily hangs in the hotel
text: room as he sleeps. The program is a SPANISH DUBBED
text: version of GOLDFINGER.
text: The door bangs open and Rath springs off the bed, a gun
text: flashing in his hand, leveling it at a dazed, blinking
dialog: Electra.
text: Rath sighs slowly, letting the hammer of the GUN CLICK
text: back into place.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You should knock.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: How was the beach?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: The beach? It was nice.
text: She smiles.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DUSK
text: The sun burns a tropical red against the mirrored windows
dialog: of the hotel.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL ROOM
text: Electra is sitting on the bed, her back against the wall.
text: In her hands is a paperback romance novel that she is
text: looking over the top of, staring intensely across the
dialog: room.
text: We can hear Rath, his breathing deep and even. He is
text: doing Tai Chi, wearing only his boxer shorts. His body is
text: coated in a sheen of sweat, his muscles strained as he
text: moves fluidly through space.
text: Electra begins to breath with him.
text: She moves her body slightly, her hips rising as though to
dialog: meet his.
text: He empties his lungs entirely in one exhale and stops, his
text: eyes closed, rested.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: That was beautiful.
text: He looks at her.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Tai Chi, right?
text: He nods.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Where did you learn it?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Taiwan.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Not that I would know, but you look
dialog: like you're really good at it.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I've always wanted to learn
dialog: something like that.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You should. It's very important,
dialog: that the body release the energy
text: that builds in it.
text: Electra nods, watching him bend, reaching for a change of
dialog: clothes.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm going to shower. If you're
dialog: hungry, go ahead and order some
dialog: dinner.
text: Electra nods again.
scene_heading: INT. COSTA BLANCA HOTEL - NIGHT
text: Bain is doing push ups. He is naked except for his
text: camouflage bikinis.
text: He has his feet up on a chair, making it harder, the dip
dialog: deeper.
text: His body is gushing sweat, his face a burning red.
text: He is like a piston firing up and down. The muscles in
text: his neck and shoulders are bulging cords.
text: Slowly, his arm begin to tire, the strain seen in his
text: knotting and twisting expression.
text: Half way up, he collapses, feet falling off the chair.
text: He rolls onto his back, rubbing a tricep. It hurts. He
text: licks the sweat off his upper lip and smiles.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL PARAISO ROOM - NIGHT
text: Rath checks his watch. It's after eight o'clock. He
text: lifts the phone and plugs it into the modem.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm going to call.
text: Electra drops her book and climbs off the bed.
text: He dials, types the code and waits.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Hello, Robert.
speaker_heading: RATH/SCREEN
dialog: The contract?
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
text: Paid in full.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Oh, my God. Ten million dollars.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Transferred to the specified
dialog: account.
text: Rath stares at the screen.
speaker_heading: CONTRACTOR/SCREEN
dialog: Goodbye, Robert.
text: Rath disconnects. The PHONE HUMS.
text: Electra picks it up, placing it back in the cradle.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Sit down.
text: She does.
text: He opens a case and pulls out his gun, some paper and pens
text: and two small mikes that look like hearing aids.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Okay --
text: He starts drawing several squares on the paper, as Electra
text: picks up the mike. She looks over it, frowns.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Two way?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Transmits and receives.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Cheap as shit.
text: He looks at her.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I paid a lot for these.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: They saw you coming a mile away. If
dialog: I had known we'd be using --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's too late now. Okay? We'll have
dialog: to deal with these.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Fine.
text: He goes back to his drawing.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: This is the bank. This is the
dialog: hotel. In the morning I will enter
dialog: the bank.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Check.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He will be hidden somewhere out
dialog: here, probably somewhere low, in the
dialog: crowd. He'll stay there until he
text: sees me enter the bank.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: But he won't shoot you right then?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. It would be amateur. A risk.
dialog: He'll wait for the prime shot, that
dialog: he knows is coming. Once I'm
dialog: inside, he'll move to the hotel.
dialog: He'll go up the back, too much
text: traffic in the front.
text: He draws another square.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You'll be here. A restaurant. A
text: public place far enough away that he
dialog: won't notice you, but with a good
dialog: enough view you'll be able to see
text: him when he moves inside.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Okay. Then what?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Then, we wait.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Aiiee. More waiting? I don't know
dialog: if I like this plan.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It will take the entire day, but he
dialog: will begin to doubt himself. He
dialog: will begin to believe that he missed
dialog: me, that somehow I slipped by and am
text: already on a plane to Europe.
text: He describes this as though remembering it.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: The sun will be low, almost dark,
dialog: the air cool and the bank will
text: almost be closed. 5:45. 5:50. He
dialog: will put the rifle down, he will get
text: up and he will walk across the plaza
text: to the bank.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why won't he wait until the bank
dialog: closes?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He won't be able to. He'll have to
dialog: go inside. He'll have to see with
dialog: his own eyes, whether or not I am
dialog: there. If the bank closes, he won't
dialog: know for sure. He'll come. I'm
dialog: sure. And when he does you'll go
dialog: into the hotel, go upstairs and take
text: the gun.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What? What if he brings it with
dialog: him?
text: He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He can't. The bank has an expensive
dialog: security system; metal detectors and
text: X-ray machines.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: That means you won't have a gun.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: And with the mikes, I'll tell you
dialog: when he leaves the hotel and you'll
dialog: tell me when he leaves the bank.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: If things go well, I don't have to.
dialog: You'll already be in a rented car
dialog: waiting for me.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You'll have the money. How do I
dialog: know that you won't --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'll be walking out of the bank,
dialog: unarmed. You'll have the gun and
dialog: I'll drive the car.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: We split the money?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Five million apiece. You get on
dialog: your plane, I get on mine.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Sounds pretty well figured out.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I've been thinking about it for a
dialog: long time.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Except --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Except, if he doesn't come out of
dialog: the hotel.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I told you, he will.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You can't know for sure, how can
dialog: you? I mean, you're not him.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I was.
text: She waits for him to explain.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Ten years ago, I sat there in that
text: same hotel window, sweat pouring off
dialog: of me waiting --
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: For Nicholai?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You killed him here? In this city,
dialog: outside that bank?
text: Rath nods.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What is it? I don't like this at
dialog: all. What is going on here?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I don't know. It just happened. I
dialog: was here ten years ago, I'm here
dialog: now. That's it.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I don't believe that.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It wasn't planned or premeditated.
dialog: I swear. Things happened beyond my
dialog: control. I understood; I saw where
dialog: they were leading and I suppose that
dialog: it just made sense.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Ten years ago.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I waited until I was insane and then
text: I walked into the bank. He was
text: sitting there, very calm, waiting
dialog: for me.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What did he want?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He wanted what I want now; to get
dialog: out of the business. To disappear
text: to some empty Greek island.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What did he say?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: He said I couldn't win. That no one
dialog: wins at this game.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Was that it?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Then he offered me one million
dialog: dollars to walk away, to quit the
dialog: business.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: You didn't take it.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. I went back to the hotel. And
dialog: waited.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Ten years later, here you are again.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes. Here I am again.
scene_heading: POV - THROUGH TELESCOPIC LENS - MARBLE STATUE
text: The cross-hairs of a telescopic sight are lined-up on the
text: head of a marble statue.
scene_heading: INT. COSTA BLANCA HOTEL - NIGHT
text: Bain is laying on the floor in the dark. The rifle is
text: under him as he aims out of his balcony, down the street
text: at the statue.
text: He looks up from the scope, checking the street. It is
text: dark and empty and he shifts back looking into the sight.
text: His finger squeezes, the GUN ALMOST SILENT, as --
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
speaker_heading: STATUE
text: A chunk of STONE EXPLODES out the head of the statue.
text: Again, the GUN SPITS and another cloud of dust and ROCK
text: BURSTS from the head. His finger is pumping the trigger,
text: until the head cracks and falls.
text: He's laughing, hysterical, looking down the street at the
text: headless statue.
text: He rolls onto his side still laughing. Then, suddenly, he
text: stops, staring up at the stars in the night sky.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL PARAISO ROOM - NIGHT
text: Electra is still at the table, staring at the diagrams, in
dialog: another world.
text: Rath pours a glass of bourbon and sets it in front of her.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: This has been the longest day of my
dialog: life.
text: Rath nods, pouring himself a drink. Electra looks at the
text: drink, downs the whole glass. He refills it.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Do you have ulcers?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I think I got one today.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Five million dollars will buy a lot
dialog: of Rolaids.
text: She smiles. They both gulp down their drinks and he fills
dialog: them again.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What do you suppose he's doing now?
text: Rath shrugs. He is no longer looking at her; staring at
text: the board, moving his mind into the chess game.
text: She watches him and then begins to study it with him, the
text: way a child does, almost imitating him. She does not want
dialog: to be left alone right now.
text: She reaches over and moves a white knight.
text: He blinks. His eyes shifting, sorting the possibilities.
text: He picks a bishop and counters.
text: After another sequence, he takes her bishop and she takes
dialog: his knight.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why did you trade a bishop for a
dialog: knight?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I hate bishops. They're useless. I
dialog: like knights.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: They're worth less points.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: So?
text: There is no point in arguing.
text: As they continue to play, we begin to hear in the
text: distance, the COUPLE in the adjoining suite MAKING very
text: vigorous LOVE.
text: Electra watches Rath to see if he hears them. He shows no
text: sign of it, concentrating on the game.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Do you hear them?
text: He looks up.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Listen.
text: He hears it. Not interested.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Did you think they were newlyweds?
speaker_heading: RATH
text: I didn't notice them.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: When I first saw them I thought they
dialog: were married.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: How do you know they're not?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I went into their room this
dialog: afternoon.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: It was no big deal. I saw them
dialog: leave, I went in.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Jesus, if someone had --
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Nobody ever sees me.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why in the hell would you take that
dialog: chance?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I heard them last night and it made
dialog: me want to know something about
dialog: them. I wanted to, so I did.
text: Rath shakes his head. In the b.g., the WOMAN is ALMOST
text: SCREAMING.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: She is married, but not to him.
text: Another man, much older. She has
text: four kids. The young guy works for
dialog: her. And I think she likes kinky
dialog: sex.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Isn't it interesting though? I
dialog: mean, look at us, in this room. Or
dialog: yesterday, when we were walking in
dialog: the plaza market. I mean, we look
dialog: like just another couple. But what
dialog: are we? Doesn't it seem so crazy?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: No?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's always been that way. The
dialog: world has always functioned on two
dialog: levels.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I know. It makes me crazy.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I don't know. When I was in
dialog: college, I was forced to go to a
dialog: psychiatrist because I was caught
dialog: drilling holes in my dorm room
dialog: floor.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: And you were drilling these
dialog: holes...?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: So I could watch the girl that lived
dialog: under me.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Apparently this doctor was unable to
dialog: cure you.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: He told me that my curiosity became
text: unnaturally entangled with my sense
dialog: of self-preservation.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Did he explain how this happened?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: He believed it all went back to one
dialog: night, when as a little girl. I
dialog: watched my parents have this big
dialog: fight, really big. I thought my
dialog: mother was going to kill my father.
dialog: Then they went into their room and
dialog: made up. And I watched them make
text: love through the keyhole.
text: The WOMAN SCREAMS a final time in CLIMAX.
text: Electra moves her queen, taking his other knight.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: That's a ridiculous move.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Because, I'll take it.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I'm playing white, remember. You
dialog: can't tell me which pieces to move.
dialog: It doesn't work that way.
text: He shrugs and takes her queen, the game continuing.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Can I ask you something?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm sure you will.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Am I attractive?
text: This gets his attention.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Are you attracted to me?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why? I don't know.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Is it a physical thing, or a mental
dialog: thing?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Both.
text: A good answer. Electra smiles.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Is that why you didn't want to talk
dialog: about women before?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I didn't want to complicate the
dialog: situation.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Attraction is a complication?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It can be.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: It happened to you before?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Who was she?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Someone like me, like you. A pro.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What happened to her?
speaker_heading: RATH
text: She was taken.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Did you --
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No. I tried to stop it. I
dialog: couldn't.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Was she the only one?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: After her, I realized that to
dialog: survive I had to live without...
dialog: It's dangerous to let things become
dialog: complicated.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Is this becoming complicated?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm not sure that I care anymore.
text: He looks up from the game.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Were you attracted to me right away?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: When did it start?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Honestly?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Uh-huh.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: When I gave you my gun and you
dialog: almost shot me.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Maybe you should see a psychiatrist.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: That doesn't sound normal.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm not normal.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I know. That's why I'm attracted to
dialog: you. I mean, you make me nervous.
dialog: You're intimidating. Maybe it's my
dialog: curiosity/self-preservation thing,
dialog: but all I can really think about
dialog: right now is kissing you.
text: They rise up from the table, together, knocking over the
text: chess game. The pieces fall to the floor.
text: They grab at each other, kissing, both of them hungry,
text: aggressive. They tear at each other's clothes and at
text: their own clothes; it has a very awkward sense to it, as
text: they become naked in front of each other. There is
text: nothing smooth or fluid about it, which makes it seem very
dialog: real.
text: He takes her, lifting her onto the table.
text: She scoots and wiggles back, the chess pieces falling out
dialog: of the way.
text: She opens her legs and he moves in between them.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I wanted to tell you --
text: Her breath rushes out, then back in.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: My real name is Anna.
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Martin.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Martin.
text: Her legs wrap up around his hips and he pushes deeper into
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Nice to meet you, Martin.
scene_heading: INT. HOTEL PARAISO - HALL - NIGHT
text: Outside of the room, we can hear the MUFFLED SOUNDS of TWO
scene_heading: PEOPLE MAKING LOVE.
scene_heading: EXT. COSTA BLANCA - NIGHT
text: We are MOVING DOWN the street, LOW, OVER the old
text: flagstones, TOWARDS the marble statue that Bain shot.
text: On the ground are the shattered pieces of the head.
speaker_heading: CLOSER
text: We see one of the pieces is part of the face, the eyes,
text: which seem like the iris-less eyes of a chess king.
speaker_heading: CLOSER
text: We MOVE INTO the blank white of that eye.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: WHITE SQUARE GLOSSED WITH LIGHT
text: We PULL BACK, RISING UP and AWAY, and see other squares,
text: black and white like a chess board.
text: A woman's HIGH HEELS CLICK past.
text: RISING HIGHER, we see the woman walking. A man crosses
text: behind her, in another direction.
text: HIGHER STILL, and we realize that we are looking at the
text: black and white marble floor of the --
scene_heading: INT. INTERNATIONAL BANCO DE MEXICO - DAY
text: It is a strange and beautiful bank.
text: The ceilings are vast, the suspended lights elaborate,
text: baroque, the enormous clock on the wall, built to resemble
text: a sun.
text: It looks almost as though it could be a museum, with its
text: massive oil paintings and bronze statues of important
dialog: Mexican figures.
text: Already it is crowded, people and security guards moving
text: about beneath us.
text: Rath steps onto the checkered floor and remembers.
scene_heading: EXT. OUTDOOR CAFE
text: The cafe is off the plaza.
text: Electra sits at a patio table. Down the street she can
text: see the back of the burned-out hotel.
text: She hears Rath in her ear-piece.
speaker_heading: RATH (V.O.)
dialog: All right. I'm in the bank. He'll
dialog: move now. How are you doing?
text: She is nervous.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: I'm ready.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Good.
text: Rath is wearing a well-tailored, gray silk suit and dark
text: sunglasses. In his hand is a very large briefcase. He
text: crosses the checkered floor to the teller windows.
speaker_heading: TELLER
dialog: May I help you?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes. Could you check on a transfer
dialog: for me?
speaker_heading: TELLER
dialog: Your name, or account?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Rath. Robert Rath.
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE
text: Electra smiles when she hears him, mouthing the name
dialog: "Martin."
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: A BANK OFFICIAL walks over to the window, carrying a
text: printed receipt, with a very bright smile.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: Senor Rath, we have received your
dialog: transfer.
text: He hands Rath the receipt. He glances at it, checking the
text: zeros. There are seven of them.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Good. Now I'll need to close this
dialog: account. I'd like you to ready the
dialog: paperwork.
text: The smile fades.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: You wish to close this account
dialog: today?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: That's correct.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: How would you like the funds?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: American currency.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: This will take some time.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I have all day.
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE
text: Electra looks up over her book and Bain is there, moving
text: down the side street, gliding through the crowd with the
text: menacing indifference of a shark.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: The Official is talking to the teller in Spanish, when
text: Electra whispers in Rath's ear.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: He's here.
text: Rath freezes.
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE
text: Electra watches as Bain moves along the plywood wall,
text: covered with bills and posters, built to keep people out
text: of the burned hotel. He is carrying a long nylon duffel
dialog: bag.
text: At the corner, a section of the plywood has been pulled
text: loose and Bain squeezes through, into the hotel.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: He's inside.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: Rath is sitting in one of the high backed leather chairs
text: set in pairs along the wall of the bank.
text: He glances at the enormous clock, which reads 10:10. He
text: checks his Rolex.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Now, we wait.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL PARAISO
text: The center of the hotel is open. Interior hall balconies,
text: which line each floor, look down onto an old atrium
text: courtyard. The fire did the most damage here, spreading
text: easily throughout the entire building.
text: The skylight and ceiling at the top of this open area, has
text: been destroyed and sunlight streams through throwing
text: broken patterns of shadow and light onto the blackened
text: floors and walls.
text: Bain enters, and carefully begins climbing the charred
text: staircase to the fifth floor.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM
text: The room has been heavily burned, stained black from
text: smoke. The charred carpet crunches and cracks, as Bain
text: walks across it to the window.
text: As he nears the exterior wall, several FLOOR BOARDS BREAK
text: with a brittle SNAP and he almost falls through.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Shit.
text: He pulls his leg free.
text: Outside the window, across the plaza, he sees the bank; a
dialog: perfect site.
text: Quickly he unzips the bag and lifts out the gun.
text: He grabs a magazine and snaps it into place.
text: He aims down at the bank's bright white stairs. A man is
text: walking down the steps and Bain finds the center of his
text: forehead in the cross-hairs of the scope.
text: Bain makes a gun noise, followed by the sound of a head
text: bursting open.
text: He giggles.
text: Leaning against the wall, in the shadows of the window,
text: the gun in his lap, he waits.
text: Time slows to a crawl.
text: Without taking his eye from the bank, Bain rummages
text: through his bag and finds a pack of cigarettes. He pulls
text: one out with his lips and lights it.
text: Taking a deep drag, he lets the smoke slowly leak out and
text: drift up into the night.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
speaker_heading: SUN
text: White hot.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM
text: There are five cigarette butts ground into the blackened
text: window sill, where Bain extinguishes another.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What in the fuck are you doing in
dialog: there?
text: The room is hot, a streak of sweat up his back and front.
dialog: It is difficult to breathe.
text: A man walks out of the bank, wearing a suit similar to
text: Rath's. Bain's body snaps erect, rifle instantly leveled.
text: He sights the man's head, his finger tightening on the
text: trigger, but he is not sure it is Rath.
text: He looks over the scope, looks back. The man reaches the
text: bottom of the stairs. Bain's body sags.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: That's not him. Jesus, Bain, baby,
dialog: chill the fuck out.
text: He takes a deep breath and wipes the sweat from his
text: forehead, leaving a smear of black from the charcoal wood.
text: He again fumbles through his bag, finding a container of
text: bottled water. He chugs the whole thing.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: The Official walks over to Rath with a number of papers to
text: sign.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: Your signature, senor. Everything
dialog: is ready.
text: Rath signs them, but does not get up.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: Excellent, senor. If you could
dialog: follow me?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I'm sorry, but I am waiting for an
dialog: associate. Can you hold everything
dialog: for me until he arrives?
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: Of course, senor.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Thank you.
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE
text: Electra is sipping at some iced tea, dizzy at the thought
dialog: of all that money.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: Ten million dollars, sitting there.
dialog: Waiting... this is insane.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: There is a faint smile on Rath's lips.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA
text: The shadows are getting longer.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM
text: Bain is rocking back and forth, breathing through his
text: teeth. He has to urinate. Bad.
text: He is checking every face that comes out of the bank with
text: the scope. Still nothing.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: This is fucking insane.
text: He grabs the empty plastic bottle, unzips his pants and
text: begins refilling it.
text: A man in a suit appears on the steps and Bain fumbles the
text: bottle, spilling it as he lifts the gun. It is not Rath.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Fucking God dammit!
text: He hurls the bottle of piss across the room.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: The sun clock on the wall, perfectly still, reads 5:20.
text: After a long beat a single minute clicks off.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM
text: The sun is getting low. The room much darker now.
text: Bain sits at the window; his body a knot.
text: A large group of tourists flow out of the bank and Bain's
text: eyes light up. One by one, the scope passes over each
text: face.
text: They trickle down the steps and into the plaza.
text: The stairs are again empty.
text: Bain screams, pounding the butt of the gun down, splitting
text: open the floor.
text: He looks at the bank. Nothing. He checks his watch. In
dialog: fifteen minutes the bank will close.
text: He stands up.
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE
text: Electra is watching the back of the hotel, when Bain
text: emerges from the shadows.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Oh my God.
text: He is moving like a bullet, knocking into people who don't
dialog: get out of his way.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
text: He's coming.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: Rath looks up at the clock, smiles.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: Four minutes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I waited another four minutes.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Shit.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: Wait until he is on the stairs.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Right.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: I'm taking off my mike.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra --
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Last night --
scene_heading: EXT. CAFE
text: Electra smiles.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Was nice.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yes.
text: She sees Bain storming up the stairs. She stands, tosses
text: several bills on the table and leaves.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: Bain charges into the bank, tearing off his sunglasses,
text: scanning the room. His face is a twisted grimace,
text: streaked with black charcoal. His body and clothes are
text: covered in sweat and large salt rings. His breathing
text: labored.
text: He sees Rath sitting comfortably, calm, his suit not even
text: wrinkled and realizes that Rath has been waiting for him.
text: His first instinct is to turn and run, but he stops
text: himself. He is confused, unsure.
text: Then, as though understanding he has no choice, he puts
text: his sunglasses back on and strides over to Rath, BOOTS
text: CLICKING against the polished MARBLE.
text: Bain sits down in the leather chair across from him.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: How'd you know? Just tell me that.
dialog: How'd you fucking know?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: I knew the same way in ten years
dialog: you're going to know.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What does that fucking mean?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It means that I'm going to tell you
dialog: things, even though I already know
dialog: that you're not going to listen to a
dialog: God damned thing I say.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra carefully moves up to the fifth floor, then
text: navigates around a large hole, towards the last room.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: It's irony. That's what it is. But
dialog: the real irony is that you won't
dialog: know it's irony until you're sitting
dialog: over here.
text: Bain isn't listening. Instead he's watching, everyone who
text: walks near them.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: When you walked in here and you saw
dialog: me, sitting here, waiting; the first
dialog: thing that went through your head
dialog: was that you were a dead man.
text: This catches Bain's ear.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You're thinking that you've been
dialog: sold out. That's the only way I
dialog: could know you were out there. Why
dialog: would you think this? Because you
dialog: don't trust your contractor. You
dialog: don't trust anyone. It's automatic.
dialog: It's the first and last commandment.
dialog: It's the only thing that keeps you
dialog: alive. So, try as I might to tell
dialog: you the truth, you can't believe me.
dialog: Do you see the irony of the
dialog: situation? It's kind of funny,
dialog: isn't it?
text: Bain is not laughing.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM
text: Inside the burned out closet, Electra finds Bain's nylon
text: duffel bag.
text: Digging through it, she finds his Gameboy, his Walkman,
text: his .22, ammunition clips and several issues of Soldier of
text: Fortune and a Punisher comic book.
dialog: The rifle is not here.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Listen to me, Bain. Two days ago,
dialog: you contacted your contractor, who
dialog: told you that they knew when and
dialog: where I was going to pick up the
dialog: transferred money from MicroCell.
dialog: You don't know how they got the
dialog: information. It bothered you, but
dialog: you didn't care. How do I know
dialog: this? Because ten years ago, I was
text: sitting in that chair, as scared
dialog: shitless as you are now.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: I ain't scared of you.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yeah you are and you hate it. You
dialog: hate the fact that your hand is
dialog: shaking and mine isn't. That you're
dialog: sweating your balls off and I'm not.
dialog: You've got fear and hate in your
text: belly like battery acid, all because
dialog: of me.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: If you think you can take me, quit
dialog: fucking bullshitting and try it.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: All right, Bain. Pay attention,
dialog: because this is where everything
dialog: changes.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra is beginning to panic. She cannot find the gun
text: and has started looking in other rooms.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You're a businessman, right? This
dialog: is a business deal. Behind that
dialog: counter, I have over ten million
dialog: dollars. I'll give you half of it,
dialog: more money than you'll make in the
dialog: next ten years if, you walk away.
text: Bain's face changes, muscles relaxing, the tension
text: slipping out of him.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Five million dollars?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: That's right.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Shit. That sure is a lot of money.
text: Bain is smiling.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Did you see how I did that? Magic
dialog: wasn't it?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You understand what's going on? It
dialog: makes sense, right?
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Oh, yeah.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: What I just said, no assassin would
dialog: say. What I've said, only a mark
dialog: would say.
text: They stare at each other.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You think I would be an idiot to
dialog: pass up five million dollars.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: You would be.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You don't know a fucking thing about
dialog: me. You don't have the slightest
dialog: fucking clue.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Why don't you tell me.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: I'll tell you this. After
dialog: Cleveland, I thought I was lucky to
dialog: be alive. But now, here, I just
dialog: realized that you were the lucky
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Now I'll tell you something. It
dialog: wouldn't fucking matter if I offered
dialog: you one hundred million dollars.
dialog: You'd still be thinking the same
dialog: thing, that you're going to take me.
dialog: And here I am, sitting through this,
dialog: knowing it's bullshit, looking at
dialog: you and the only thing going on in
dialog: my mind, the only thing I can think
dialog: is that, in just a few minutes I'm
dialog: going to take you.
text: Bain jumps out of the seat.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yeah, okay! I'm ready! Let's
dialog: fucking go!
text: He's walking, turning, watching everything, everyone.
text: He's out the door.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra is on the fourth level, searching desperately for
text: the gun, rushing through the black skeletal remains of the
dialog: hotel.
text: In her ear she hears Rath.
speaker_heading: RATH (V.O.)
dialog: Electra?
text: She shrieks.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: Rath is at the counter, as the Official loads perfectly
text: stacked blocks of crisp one hundred dollar bills into the
dialog: case.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra?
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra is frantic.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: God, I can't find it! I can't find
dialog: it! I can't find the fucking gun!
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: For Rath, everything has changed.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA
text: In long, pounding strides, Bain crosses the square,
text: twisting, glancing back, watching.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra nears the room below the fifth story window.
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: It wasn't with his other stuff!
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: Rath is now afraid.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra, get out.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET
text: Bain nears the opening in the plywood wall.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra looks up and there is the gun; supported by black
text: plumbing pipe and charred lathe. It hangs in the space
text: between two joists, hidden in the upstairs floor.
speaker_heading: RATH (V.O.)
dialog: He's coming, Electra! Get out now!
speaker_heading: ELECTRA
dialog: Oh, God. I see it!
text: She reaches for it, but it's too high.
speaker_heading: RATH (V.O.)
dialog: Electra, listen! You have got to
dialog: come to the bank for the money! The
dialog: money!
text: She is not listening; she is rushing down the hall, back
text: toward the stairs.
text: Just as she grabs the rail, she hears BAIN STORMING INTO
text: THE LOBBY below.
text: She begins climbing the stairs, quickly but quietly.
text: Bain is a rampaging beast, lunging up the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: The bank is almost empty. Rath has begun to sweat.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra!
text: The Official looks at him strangely, stacking the last of
text: the green paper blocks.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra peeks over the rail to see Bain right behind her.
speaker_heading: RATH (V.O.)
dialog: Electra!
text: The voice screams in her ear and she tears the mike off,
text: stuffing it in her pocket.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra, what's happening? What are
dialog: you --
text: The Official closes the case and snaps the clasps shut.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: Finido, senor.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Electra turns into the hotel room just as Bain reaches the
text: fifth floor. There is no time.
dialog: 
text: She slips into the closet, as Bain whips around the corner
text: into the room. He rushes to the window, slamming himself
dialog: against it.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You're gonna take me? Come on!
dialog: Come on, motherfucker!
text: He bends down and from the hole that he fell into, pulls
text: out the assault rifle.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Take this! Take this, you fuck!
text: Electra watches through the slits of the blackened wood
dialog: lathe.
text: He pounds his fist rapidly into his thigh and then through
text: the wall.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Motherfucker!
text: He stands suddenly, perfectly still, gun aimed at the
dialog: bank.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Comeon-comeon-comeone-it'sover-
dialog: gameover-comeon.
scene_heading: INT. BANK
text: The sun clock reads six o'clock.
text: There is no one left in the bank except for employees and
dialog: guards.
text: The Official is at Rath's elbow leading him towards the
text: metal gates.
speaker_heading: OFFICIAL
dialog: We are closed, senor. Thank you for
dialog: banking with us.
text: It is happening as it happened ten years ago. Rath knows
text: that he is unable to stop it.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Bain is rigid, cast in iron, the rifle rammed under his
text: chin, sight tight to his eye, finger wrapped around the
dialog: trigger.
text: Electra silently, ever so delicately opens her bag,
text: lifting out her gun.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Make me shit, you sorry ass piece of
dialog: mark meat! Come on, come on. It's
dialog: over! I know it! You know it! We
dialog: know it!
dialog: In the...
scene_heading: TELESCOPIC SIGHT
text: we watch Rath step out of the bank, the doors closing
text: behind him.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Bain smiles.
speaker_heading: INSIDE CLOSET
text: Electra slowly rises, still watching Bain.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA
text: The sun has begun to set and the entire plaza has a deep
text: orange and auburn cast.
text: Rath looks down at the descending, white, stone steps.
text: He steps down to the first stair.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Lift your head, motherfucker.
text: Electra is standing. The gun clenched in her shaking
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Look up here.
scene_heading: TELESCOPIC SIGHT
text: The cross-hairs are an "X" on Rath's head.
text: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Look up. Look at me. I want to see
dialog: your face.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA
text: Rath looks across the square, up the side of the hotel, at
text: the window; there is only black shadow.
text: He knows it is over.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Yes.
text: Electra shoves open the door, leveling the gun --
text: As Bain turns.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Wha --
dialog: She FIRES.
text: His shoulder explodes, blood spraying the black wall.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA
text: Rath hears BAIN SCREAM.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra.
text: His eyes, his whole body comes to life.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Bain is twisting in mid-air, diving as --
text: She FIRES again, moving at him. A chunk of WOOD EXPLODES
text: as she misses.
text: He falls, the burned FLOOR SHATTERING, charred JOISTS
text: SHEARING with the sound of BREAKING GLASS.
text: She watches him fall through, hears him HIT the FLOOR
text: below, ASH and WOOD CLATTERING around him.
text: The gun trained on the hole, she peers over the edge, but
text: he is gone.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA
text: Rath races wildly across the darkening market square.
scene_heading: INT. BURNED HOTEL
text: Bain, lying on his back, aims the rifle at her FOOTSTEPS.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Die, bitch!
text: He FIRES, finger pumping, BULLETS ERUPTING through the
text: floor around her feet.
text: Screaming, she leaps out of the room, into the hall.
text: His shoulders oozing blood, Bain clenches his teeth and
text: rises, listening as --
text: She sprints for the stairs at the far end of the hall.
text: Beneath, he moves to the railing and aims at the
dialog: staircase, waiting, until --
text: Electra freezes at the top of the stairs, realizing that
text: they are exposed.
text: She flashes her head, quickly dipping back as the WALL is
text: PERFORATED with BULLETS.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Fuck! God damn bitch! What are you
dialog: doing? I don't believe this is
dialog: happening!
text: She can hear him coming, his voice ECHOING through the
text: hollow building. She looks down the stairs, the hall,
text: above; there is nowhere to go.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: You're dead! You're fucking dead!
dialog: I'm going to kill you a hundred
dialog: fucking times for this!
text: Bain FIRES up at the ceiling, the BULLET tearing through
text: the floor, WHIZZING past Electra's head. If she moves
dialog: he'll know her position.
text: He FIRES another.
text: Electra sinks down, her back against the wall and aims at
text: the floor.
text: Another SHOT.
text: She FIRES back.
text: Bain closes, as they both start FIRING, silenced WEAPONS,
text: flashing, PUMPING LEAD at unseen targets.
text: Her gun empties first.
text: He laughs hearing the CLICK.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Game over, bitch!
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Bain!
text: Rath's scream ECHOES up through the building.
text: Before Bain can target him, Rath is gone; a shadow, a
text: ghost. He scans the hotel's courtyard. The last light
text: from the setting sun slips through the slits, cracks and
text: broken window panes, casting patterns; a surreal dream-
text: like grid resembling a chess board.
text: Electra sees her chance. She leaps to her feet, throwing
text: the gun over the balcony.
text: The two men watch the GUN CLATTER to the floor as she
text: races back to the room.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Fuck no!
text: Rath grabs the gun tracking Bain hurling up the stairs to
text: the fifth floor. Rath pulls the trigger and finds the gun
text: is empty.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Shit!
text: Bain reaches the top of the stairs before Electra gets to
text: the end of the hall.
text: Rath sees it all happening.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra!
text: Bain snaps into a targeting stance.
text: Electra is flying toward the door, her feet hardly
dialog: touching the floor --
scene_heading: TELESCOPIC SIGHT
text: When the cross-hairs find her back.
text: BACK TO SCENE
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra!
text: Time becomes syrup.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Down! Get down!
dialog: Bain FIRES.
text: Electra dives.
text: The blackened DOOR JAMB SPLINTER-BURSTS in front of her.
text: She bounces, scrambling on all fours into the room.
text: Bain hurries down the hall after her as Rath bolts for the
dialog: stairs.
text: Seeing Rath exposed on the stairs, Bain whips around and
text: FIRES, the WALL SHREDDING behind Rath as he dives back
text: down into the shadows.
text: Ripping open Bain's duffel bag Electra grabs Bain's .22.
text: Bain advances steadily, the rifle trained on the door.
text: Inside the room Electra grunts, hurling the duffel bag out
text: the door. It spins over the balcony and plummets to the
text: ground and bursts open.
text: A GUN CLIP SKITTERS across the stone tile coming to rest
text: in the middle of the courtyard.
text: Rath and Bain both see it.
text: Staying hidden, Rath immediately circles towards it.
text: Bain sweats, looking at the door, down at the clip, then
text: back at the door. Something's got to give.
text: Unsure what to do Electra waits, the gun clenched between
text: her two hands, covering the empty, dark space of the door.
text: Bain makes his choice, moving towards room 502.
text: Rath sees that Bain is going after Electra. He takes a
text: slow breath and tears from the shadows --
text: Bolting into the open, Rath is focused wholly on the clip,
text: the ground a blur beneath him --
text: Bain reacts; the rifle swings, rushing, arcing after Rath.
text: Two more steps and Rath dives, sliding, snagging the clip
dialog: as --
scene_heading: The RIFLE SPITS --
text: Rath screams, his leg erupting with blood.
scene_heading: TELESCOPIC SIGHT
text: The scope glides up zeroing the back of Rath's head.
text: BACK TO SCENE
text: Rath rams the clip in place.
speaker_heading: BAIN
dialog: Game --
text: Bain squeezes the trigger --
text: CLICK -- the rifle is empty. Bain screams in disbelief.
text: Rolling over, Rath jacks back the slide and sights the
text: balcony but Bain is gone.
text: Electra searches the room for a way out. Keeping the gun
text: trained on the door she steps carefully over to the hole
dialog: that Bain fell through.
text: Grimacing, Rath struggles to his feet.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Electra!
text: Bain explodes through the wall, charred wood and plaster
dialog: flying.
text: Electra spins to shoot but the FLOOR suddenly CRACKS OPEN,
text: swallowing her.
text: Limping, lurching up the stairs, Rath hears the CRASH.
text: Jarred by the fall, Electra drags herself away from the
text: open ceiling.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: The gun! He needs the gun! Get rid
dialog: of it! Throw it!
text: She looks up for Bain but he has again disappeared. She
text: looks at the gun, thinking, turning it over in her hands.
text: His leg soaked with blood, Rath rumbles down the hall.
text: Black with soot, Bain descends soundless, serpent-like to
text: the fourth level through another burned opening.
text: Electra moves towards the door aiming at every sound, at
text: every dark corner. She is almost there when we see Bain,
text: a shadow coming to life, emerging behind her.
text: Lumbering, Rath is halfway there, his eyes riveted on the
text: door to room 502.
text: Hearing Bain, Electra turns. In one smooth motion, he
text: snatches her arm and breaks her wrist. The gun falls.
text: Rath hears her scream.
text: Electra kicks at his groin but he drops, leg sweeping her
text: to the ground.
text: She gropes for the gun when he kicks her in the face,
text: jack-knifing her body back, knocking her unconscious.
text: Bain grabs the gun.
text: Rath whips into the room BLASTING --
text: BULLETS CHASING Bain as he disappears into a blackened
dialog: hole.
text: Rath goes to Electra not knowing if she is alive or dead.
text: Gently he turns her, cradling her head, her face, smeared
text: with blood.
text: From within the labyrinth, Rath hears BAIN begin to LAUGH.
speaker_heading: BAIN (O.S.)
dialog: Hey! Tell me something, Bobby-boy.
text: Electra comes to, her eyes blinking open.
speaker_heading: BAIN (O.S.)
dialog: Are you still thinking that you're
dialog: going to take me?
text: Electra is trying to focus, as Rath listens to the voice,
text: searching the shadows but the voice seems to come from
dialog: everywhere.
speaker_heading: BAIN (O.S.)
dialog: No, I don't think you are. You know
dialog: what I think?
text: The voice is closer. Rath wipes the stinging sweat from
text: his eyes.
speaker_heading: BAIN (O.S.)
dialog: I think you're thinking what I'm
dialog: thinking.
text: Still dizzy, Electra taps her fist against Rath's chest.
speaker_heading: BAIN (O.S.)
dialog: You know what I'm thinking,
dialog: Bobby-boy?!
text: It seems as though Bain is in the room.
speaker_heading: BAIN (O.S.)
dialog: You know what I'm thinking?!
text: Electra opens her fist and inside Rath sees the handful of
text: bullets from the other gun.
text: Bain whirls INTO VIEW, his gun whipping around to Rath who
text: turns too slow.
text: Bain pumps the trigger. ONE CLICK. ANOTHER. And
text: ANOTHER. The gun is empty.
speaker_heading: RATH
dialog: Yeah, I know what you're thinking.
text: He levels his gun.
speaker_heading: RATH
text: Game over.
text: Rath FIRES, OVER and OVER, emptying the GUN into Bain's
text: head and chest, even as he crashes through the balcony
text: railing and falls, twisting through lightless space,
text: slamming to the stone floor dead.
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA DEL SOL - NIGHT
text: The sun is gone, the market is closing, the crowd drifting
text: from the plaza.
text: A man and a woman emerge from the shadows of the alley
text: beside the boarded hotel. Although they walk a bit slow,
text: leaning on one another, they become it seems, like just
text: another couple, arm in arm, holding tightly to each other
text: and to a very large suitcase.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
