dialog: 
scene_heading: AUTHORS ANONYMOUS
dialog: Written by
dialog: David Congalton
dialog: July 14 2012
speaker_heading: REVISED
scene_heading: FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 1 EXT. FITZGERALD/GRAHAM APARTMENT -- HOLLYWOOD - DAY
text: North Hayworth Avenue, off Sunset Boulevard. A quiet, tree-
text: lined residential street. Note the small apartment complex
text: set back from the curb.
scene_heading: CAPTION: HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA
scene_heading: Our narrator is HENRY OBERT (O-BURT)(30).
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: This is where where F. Scott
dialog: Fitzgerald died on December 21, 1940.
text: INSERT ARCHIVAL PHOTOS of Fitzgerald. His work. His life.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Fitzgerald was one of the truly great
dialog: American writers of the 20th century.
dialog: Tender is the Night. The Last Tycoon.
dialog: This Side of Paradise. And, of course,
dialog: my favorite, The Great Gatsby. But
dialog: Fitzgerald ended up out here. Writing
dialog: movies that never got made. Drinking
dialog: too much. Alienating people. Losing
dialog: his way.
scene_heading: 2 EXT. FITZGERALD/GRAHAM APARTMENT -- SIDEWALK - DAY
text: Henry stands on the sidewalk. Full of promise and hope.
text: Wears a pizza delivery outfit as he stares at the apartment,
text: more with reverence than curiosity.
scene_heading: CAPTION: HENRY OBERT
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: I stop by here sometimes--out of
dialog: respect. Fitzgerald had this amazing
dialog: gift.
scene_heading: 3 EXT. FITZGERALD/GRAHAM APARTMENT -- SIDEWALK - CONTINUOUS
text: Henry crosses the street--heading for his parked Honda. He
text: unlocks the car. Swings open the back door.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: But he wasted it. He wasted his
dialog: talent.
text: Henry yanks a MAGNETIC SIGN out of the back seat and slaps
text: it on the outside of the driver's door: PIZZA STARZ. One
text: last glance at the fabled apartment complex.
dialog: 2.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: When I sell my novel, I won't make
dialog: his mistakes.
scene_heading: 4 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: The man (40's) and woman (30's) sit on the couch in their
text: tastefully-decorated San Fernando Valley home. Expensive
text: taste in clothes. Her cleavage a bit too obvious. Both
text: seem a little uncomfortable. Uncertain.
scene_heading: CAPTION: DR. ALAN &amp; COLETTE MOONEY
text: They look off to the side, speaking to someone off-camera.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: We thought this was going to be a
dialog: reality series.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: You know, like the Kardashians.
dialog: They listen. Here comes the bad news.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Oh. Really? A documentary? This
dialog: is going to be a documentary about
dialog: our writing group?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: The whole group. Not just us, right?
dialog: Not that it should be just about
dialog: us...
text: Nervous laugh.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: No.
text: They look at each other: A documentary? They try to mask
dialog: their disappointment.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: So this is going to be like--like
dialog: what I saw the other night on cable?
dialog: About bees mating.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Or that, um, that one about the
dialog: Holocaust.
text: Colette nods, remembering.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Pretty...Pretty--
dialog: 3.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: --Powerful.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Powerful. Yes. Powerful.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: We love documentaries.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: We do.
text: They look at each other again: What have we gotten into?
speaker_heading: COLETTE (V.O.)
text: Natasha, the Russian peasant, dressed
dialog: oh-so-slowly...
scene_heading: 5 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DINING ROOM - EVENING
text: A POSTER BOARD SIGN--someone went to Kinko's--is posted
text: prominently reading: QUIET, PLEASE--WRITERS AT WORK.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (V.O.)
dialog: (Reading)
dialog: ...consumed totally, completely,
dialog: absolutely, by endless thoughts of
text: Yuri fondling her breast, his other
text: hand groping her womanhood, knowing...
text: They sit around the dining room table. Colette, convinced
text: she's the next Amy Tan, reads aloud from her TYPED PAGES.
text: The others all have copies in front of them. We recognize
text: Henry, the frog waiting to become a prince, making copious
text: notes and Alan, oh-so-proud, hanging on every word. Beaming.
text: Three others round out the group:
text: Younger MAN (early 30s). Unshaven. Always thinks he's the
text: coolest guy in any room. Can't avoid glances at the camera.
scene_heading: CAPTION: WILLIAM BRUCE
text: The OLDEST MEMBER of the group (over 60) sits with his arms
text: folded as he listens, shifting in his chair. Captain Grumpy.
scene_heading: CAPTION: JOHN K. BUTZIN
text: Finally, the young (mid-to-late 20s), angelic, WOMAN listening
text: intently, the one who probably stopped to rescue a cat on
dialog: her way here.
scene_heading: CAPTION: HANNAH RINALDI
dialog: 4.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: ...Any second that she might explode,
text: her chastity spraying across the
text: ceiling...Spraying across the ceiling
dialog: like passionate graffiti. Natasha
dialog: never thought such a moment possible.
dialog: "Have I satisfied you, Natasha?"
dialog: Yuri had inquired after their fourth
text: round of vodka-soaked lovemaking.
dialog: "Nyet, Not yet," Natasha stated,
text: exhausted, but grateful.
text: Awkward silence around the table as Colette removes her
text: reading glasses and waits. Alan clears his throat, looking
dialog: cheerful.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Well? Comments?
scene_heading: 6 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 6
text: Henry's sparse studio apartment. Minimal furniture. His laptop
text: is set up on an old door, stretched across some blue plastic
dialog: crates.
text: There are BOOKS piled everywhere. All sorts of books. And
text: PAPER -- pieces of paper, including letters and cards and
text: printed emails, dozens of them, are taped throughout the
text: small apartment.
text: We are introduced to Henry the writer: pondering over his
text: battered laptop, pacing up and down the floor, checking his
text: nearly empty refrigerator, stretched out on his Goodwill
text: couch, watching TV.
text: Finally, inspiration. Henry rushes to his desk and taps out
text: a sentence or two on his computer, feeling proud for his
dialog: accomplishment.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: I graduated from the University of
dialog: Illinois. English major. Taught
dialog: high school for a couple years, but
dialog: hated it. Moved out here to be a
dialog: writer.
scene_heading: 7 EXT. HOUSE - DAY/NIGHT 7
text: As Henry's voice over continues, we see him in uniform with
text: pizza in hand at the front door of a house. Rings doorbell.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: I work two jobs. Delivering pizzas
dialog: and cleaning carpets. Good jobs for
dialog: a writer.
dialog: 5.
scene_heading: 8 INT. HOUSE - DAY/NIGHT 8
text: Henry cleaning the carpets as the heavily-tattooed MOTORCYCLE
text: DUDE points to a dirty spot: Over here.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: You meet lots of interesting people.
scene_heading: 9 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 9
text: Henry points to the letters on the wall. C.U. picks up on
dialog: phrases like "We regret to inform you," or "Sorry, but this
dialog: story isn't right for us," or "The Baxter Agency currently
dialog: isn't accepting new clients."
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: I have two unpublished novels.
dialog: Working on my third, Pizza to Go.
dialog: These are my rejection letters.
text: Rejected by agents. Rejected by
dialog: publishers. When you think about
dialog: it, it's pretty amazing how many
dialog: ways people can reject you.
scene_heading: 10 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DINING ROOM - NIGHT 10
text: Henry, John, Alan, Colette, Hannah, and William sit around
text: the table. Impressive buffet of cold cuts, cheeses, and
dialog: shrimp has been set out.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: Our writing group meets every Tuesday
text: night. Mostly at Alan and Colette's.
dialog: Sometimes we rotate.
text: John helps himself to some shrimp. Then helps himself to
dialog: some more.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: I love coming to the group. Everyone
dialog: always has such constructive feedback.
dialog: It's like we're all in this together.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I really like the way Yuri is
dialog: developing, Colette.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: You do?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Well, if you ask John K. Butzin...
text: Can't help looking at the camera. Making sure it's on him.
dialog: 6.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: You're still going to have to explain
dialog: why this Natasha dame goes AWOL on
dialog: her husband. Still kinda iffy to
dialog: me.
dialog: Another glance at the camera: Did you get that?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I was bothered by that, too. Why
dialog: would Natasha betray a reliable,
dialog: dependable husband for a washed-up
dialog: young punk?
text: All eyes on Colette. She shifts in her chair. Uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Oh. Well...um...um...
text: An uneasy silence. Colette is blocked--nowhere to go
text: creatively. Her face tightens up. Bites her lip.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh God. I've been rewriting and
dialog: rewriting and rewriting and--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Poodles. It's OK.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: No. It's not OK. I still can't
dialog: explain Natasha's motive. What's
dialog: the use? I'm not a writer.
text: William to the rescue.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Whoa. Whoa. Time out. The dude's
dialog: good in bed. Trust me, that's all
dialog: the motive she needs.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Roger that. Torpedo Chapter Three.
dialog: Blow it up. Get the focus back on
dialog: this broad--Natasha.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: --Yes. I was thinking the same thing.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Make it clear that Natasha wants to
dialog: be closer...
text: Colette makes notes furiously, nodding in agreement.
dialog: 7.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: Writing can be such a solitary
dialog: existence, so it's good to have this
dialog: outlet where you can meet other
dialog: writers and exchange ideas. Here it
dialog: really is all for one and one for
dialog: all.
scene_heading: 11 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DINING ROOM - NIGHT 11
text: Later that evening. Meeting is over.
text: Alan, Colette, Hannah, Henry, William, and John are all
text: standing up now. William stretches. John reaches for more
text: shrimp. Friendly banter. Laughter.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Who wants coffee?
text: Everybody does. William taps Henry on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Lend me ten bucks? I'm having cash
dialog: flow issues.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Thanks, bro'. You're the best.
scene_heading: 12 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 12
text: Henry sits at his desk, staring at the blank computer. Lost
text: in thought. Emphasis on lost.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: This new novel Pizza to Go is about
text: Scott, a pizza delivery guy in LA.
text: He comes across some interesting
dialog: characters. I like what I have so
dialog: far, but it's only a hundred pages
dialog: and I'm stuck...
scene_heading: 13 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - LATER - DAY 13
text: Henry stands in front of the mirror in his apartment, wearing
text: the Pizza Starz hat and shirt. Ready for work.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: ...Haven't written a word in the
dialog: last two weeks. Not one. Hannah
dialog: teases me about having writer's block.
dialog: 8.
scene_heading: 14 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DINING ROOM - NIGHT 14
text: FLASHBACK to the last group meeting. Focus on Hannah. Her
text: smile. Her warmth. She listens and comments. Actively
text: engaged in the conversation.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: ...I keep thinking about her. She's
dialog: all I think about. Really would
dialog: like to ask her out.
scene_heading: 15 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - DAY 15
text: Hannah reaches for a pair of READING GLASSES and slips them
dialog: on. Talks to someone O.S.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What do you think? On or off? Do
dialog: they make me look smarter? I need a
dialog: new pair.
text: She takes the glasses off. Puts them back on. Off again.
text: Debating. Hannah prepares herself with a series of quick
text: breaths and waves her hands in the air. Then she stares
text: directly into the camera.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi. I'm originally from Prescott,
dialog: Arizona. Followed my mom out here
dialog: about four years ago. That's her
dialog: back there.
text: Camera picks up a wisp of a WOMAN (over 50)in the background,
text: waving, with an equally pleasant smile.
scene_heading: CAPTION: MAUREEN RINALDI
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: My parents are divorced. Not her
dialog: fault.
scene_heading: 16 INT. RESTAURANT #1 - DAY 16
text: William favors jeans and faded tweed jacket. Sits in the
text: corner of a Valley restaurant, nursing a cup of coffee and
text: talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What do you want to know about me?
dialog: I'm 27. Single. A virgin.
text: He flashes that wicked, seductive smile.
dialog: 9.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Just kidding. I'm actually 28.
dialog: Hometown is Modesto, California, A
text: sprawling junk heap of a town without
dialog: a soul. Why did I come to LA? Um,
dialog: because I knew you were here and
dialog: that you'd loan me a hundred bucks
dialog: if I needed it. Right?
text: WAITRESS #1 refills his coffee cup. Her reward is that smile.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Thanks, babe.
text: She walks away. William admires the view.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: I already got her number. Maybe I'll
dialog: text her. Maybe I won't.
text: Eyes back towards the camera.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: So 'bout that hundred bucks? What
dialog: d'ya think?
text: A hint of desperation in his voice.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: OK. What about fifty? C'mon, bro'.
dialog: Support the arts.
scene_heading: 17 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT -- DAY 17
text: Hannah continues talking to the camera. Maureen still in
dialog: background.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I've always had this knack for telling
dialog: stories. Ever since I was a kid.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: She's a natural.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Moved here. Took a couple writing
dialog: classes. Decided to go for it.
dialog: 24/7. Total dedication to my craft.
dialog: The writing always comes first. My
dialog: latest effort is called Sleeping on
dialog: the Moon. It's about rejection. And
dialog: pain. Not really about the moon
dialog: itself. More of a...
dialog: 10.
text: She searches for the word that escapes her. Maureen to the
dialog: rescue.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Metaphor.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Right.
scene_heading: 18 INT. RESTAURANT #1 - DAY 18
text: William continues talking to the camera.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: So. LA? I'm here because of Bukowski.
dialog: Charles Bukowski. Greatest writer
dialog: ever. Period.
text: INSERT ARCHIVAL PHOTOS of Charles Bukowski.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: LA is his town, man. If I'm gonna
dialog: be a writer, then I have to walk in
dialog: Bukowski's shoes. Experience and
dialog: capture the plight of the working
dialog: class.
text: He waves to WAITRESS #1.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: I like the people in the group. But
dialog: they can't write worth shit. But,
dialog: man, Hannah is something. She's the
dialog: only reason I keep going. Not because
dialog: I'm learning anything. Hell, no. I
dialog: just think she's hot.
scene_heading: 19 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT -- DAY 19
text: Hannah leans forward towards the camera, as if to hear better.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: My favorite writer? Favorite writer.
dialog: Favorite writer...
text: Hannah goes blank. The smile disappears as her face goes
text: into noticeable contortions. This is worse than Final
text: Jeopardy. She turns quiet, squirming.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Favorite. Wow. Hard to say. I've
dialog: studied Composition more than actual
dialog: Literature. Gee. I know Maureen
dialog: enjoys Jane...
dialog: 11.
text: Searching for a last name, Hannah looks back to Maureen for
dialog: help.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Jane Austen.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: That's the one. I hear she's good.
dialog: But my favorite writer? Let me think
dialog: about that a bit, OK?
text: Short beat. Hannah lowers her voice, almost a loud
text: confessional whisper.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I didn't go to college.
scene_heading: 20 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 20
text: John is holding court at his mobile home, showcasing the
text: finest in furniture from Sears. John stuffs his home with
text: various MILITARY ARTIFACTS--photos, equipment, books. He's
text: got it all. John talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Everything John K. Butzin knows
dialog: about writing comes down to two simple
dialog: words: Tom Clancy. Yes, sir. Tom
dialog: Clancy. The man's a genius. Does
dialog: his research. All those nitty-gritty
dialog: technical details. Now that's writing!
dialog: John K. Butzin has one agent very
dialog: interested in Roaring Lion. And a
text: publisher up in Oxnard is looking at
dialog: it as we speak. Plus a certain
dialog: cousin's best friend has a neighbor
dialog: who has an in with Clint Eastwood,
dialog: so Hollywood might be calling soon.
dialog: Don't know how the other members of
dialog: the writing group will handle all
dialog: this success by one person. They
dialog: better not be pussies.
scene_heading: 21 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- LIVING ROOM - DAY 21
text: Alan and Colette remain on the couch. Talking to the camera.
text: All smiles. Much more comfortable with the camera.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Well, I'm an optometrist in Glendale.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: And I write full-time.
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Our last name's Mooney. You could
dialog: call us Mooneys. We get that joke
dialog: all the time.
text: The couple giggle at the joke. Forced.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Which writer do I admire? Hmmm. How
dialog: about John Grisham? Look at all
dialog: that money he's made! Just teasing,
dialog: John. We know you deserved every
dialog: dime, but, hey, John, could you spread
dialog: it around a bit, pal?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Alan likes to tease.
text: She gives her husband an affectionate squeeze.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Colette, here, is the real writer.
dialog: I'm more of an idea guy. I come up
dialog: with great ideas, but don't always
dialog: follow through. I'll show you.
text: He picks up his mini-digital Olympus RECORDER off the coffee
text: table. Thinks for a second.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (To recorder)
dialog: Idea for romantic novel.
text: Alan catches himself.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: No. Make that, idea for romantic
dialog: ebook.
text: He winks at the camera--showing he's hip to the jargon.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Possible movie option, too: Frovers.
dialog: They couldn't be friends. They
dialog: couldn't be lovers. So they became
dialog: Frovers.
text: Satisfied, Alan turns off the recorder.
scene_heading: 22 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 22
text: Colette opens the sliding glass door and steps out into a
text: beautiful garden area. Quiet and private. Camera follows
text: her over to a solitary BENCH.
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: This is where I come for inspiration.
dialog: I believe a writer must have quiet
dialog: and solitude. I'll meditate. Write
dialog: in my journal. Set out my creative
dialog: path for the day. This is my Walden
dialog: Pond.
text: Colette sits down on the bench. Takes in the environment.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Favorite author? I'd have to say
dialog: Joan Didion. Her writing sends
text: shivers down my spine. Though Joyce
dialog: Carol Oates has been known to bring
dialog: me to actual orgasm.
scene_heading: 23 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 23
text: Colette sits on her bench, reading a BOOK. C.U. reveals
text: that it is a novel by Joyce Carol Oates. Colette appears to
dialog: be getting into the story just a bit too much.
scene_heading: 24 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 24
text: POOL GUY and GARDENER hear Colette's sensual cries drifting
text: over the hedge. What the hell? They exchange puzzled looks.
scene_heading: 25 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 25
text: Back to the present. Camera picks up a FRAMED PHOTO OF OPRAH
text: from a corner of the bench. Holds it up for camera.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Oh, this? I keep Oprah out here for
dialog: luck. She's done so much to help
dialog: writers. I know I'm going to be on
dialog: her television show one day. I just
dialog: know it.
text: Colette can already see the moment in her mind. Short beat.
text: Then she looks off-camera--listening to someone.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: What? Oprah doesn't have a TV show
dialog: anymore? Really? Since when?
text: Short beat as she hears the answer.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh...
text: Short beat as she tries to cover.
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: I knew that. I did. I-I knew.
scene_heading: 26 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 26
text: Henry stands in front of his mirror. Checks his appearance.
text: Again. Talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Tonight's the night. I'm going to
dialog: ask Hannah out.
text: Henry becomes lost in thought. Regroups.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: It's time. I like her. She likes me--
dialog: I think. I've got to take action.
dialog: Still stuck on Page 100. So I'm
dialog: asking Hannah out on a date tonight.
dialog: It'll be great. And I'll put this
dialog: writer's block behind me.
text: Checks his appearance one last time in the mirror.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Wish me luck.
scene_heading: 27 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 27
text: Alan sits in his favorite chair, talking directly to the
dialog: camera.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I'm the group leader. After all,
dialog: getting together was my idea. They're
dialog: all my patients. That's how we met.
dialog: First one published gets a free eye
dialog: exam.
text: Alan cackles a bit too hard at that joke. He listens to a
dialog: question being asked.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Why did I form the group? To help
dialog: Colette. Oh, I certainly enjoy the
dialog: creative process, but Colette?
dialog: Writing is her dream. I'd do anything
dialog: for her because...because she's my
dialog: dream. So there you have it.
text: Alan reaches for his tape recorder.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Possible names for future characters.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Anthony Gilmore. No, wait. Make
dialog: that Anthony T. Gilmore. Much
text: better. Slate McCoy. Fletcher Peck.
dialog: Fiona Foxx. And...a man known simply
dialog: as Banjo.
text: Satisfied, Alan turns off the recorder.
scene_heading: 28 INT. RESTAURANT #1 - NIGHT 28
text: Place is empty. Alan, Colette, William, John, and Henry
text: gather around the center table.
text: The WRITERS AT WORK poster is propped up against a nearby
text: empty chair. Hard not to notice the EMPTY CHAIR at the table.
text: Hannah is missing.
text: Waitress #1 pours coffee all around. Henry fidgets in his
text: chair, focused on the empty chair.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (To William)
dialog: How come we never chow down at your
dialog: place?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: This is my place. Close to the working
dialog: people.
text: John rolls his eyes.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Where's Hannah? Anyone know?
text: Nobody responds. Alan checks his watch.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Time to get started.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Shouldn't we wait for Hannah?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Let's go, people. I'm ready to read.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: William's right. We'll start. She'll
dialog: show up.
text: William starts passing out pages. Henry eyes the empty chair.
text: Colette looks over William's pages. There are only three.
text: She has a puzzled look.
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: William, aren't these the same pages
dialog: you read last time?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Nope, they're different.
speaker_heading: JOHN
text: They look the same.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: They're different. I changed a word.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: One word?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: That's it?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
text: Writing is rewriting, Colette.
dialog: Bukowski said, "Write five words.
dialog: Rewrite seven."
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: No. Dorothy Parker said that.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: One word? Jesus H. Christ.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: It's my creative vision, John.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (Jumping in)
dialog: Which we are here to support. This
dialog: is William's decision.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Let me just read. See if you can
dialog: pick out the word. Tell me if it's
dialog: better, or worse.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (Muttering)
dialog: One goddamn word.
text: Henry continues staring at the empty chair.
scene_heading: 29 INT. RESTAURANT #1 - NIGHT 29
text: The evening meeting is winding to an end. John stands up to
text: stretch. Alan slides papers into his leather satchel.
text: HANNAH'S CHAIR remains empty. Henry remains concerned.
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I wonder what happened to Hannah.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: It's not like her to miss.
text: The mystery is quickly solved. Front door opens. In rushes
text: Hannah, dashing directly towards the others, looking harried.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry for missing
dialog: the meeting.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: What happened? Your car break down?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: You oversleep?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Maureen. Is Maureen OK?
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: People. C'mon. Look at her. That
dialog: glow. Hannah met a guy. She got
dialog: laid.
text: Hannah gives William a playful smack on the back.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: As a matter of fact, I did meet a
dialog: guy.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Told ya.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: His name's Brian.
text: Check out Henry. He looks absolutely horrified. No!
text: Hannah takes a deep breath and flashes a smile the size of
dialog: the Grand Canyon.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: He's my new agent!
text: She remembers the camera.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: (Directly to camera)
dialog: An agent. I've got an agent!
text: Surprise and silence. The writers look at each other and
text: then back at Hannah. Not quite sure how to react.
dialog: 18.
text: Stunned as Hannah turns her attention back to the group.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: That writing class I took? Well,
dialog: for the final project, I turned in
dialog: the first chapter of Sleeping on the
dialog: Moon. I guess the teacher liked it.
dialog: Then he gave it to his friend who's
dialog: an agent. Brian. He called. Had to
dialog: see me right away. Brian wants to
dialog: sign me.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Bet Brian wants more than that.
text: Playful smack from Colette to William on the shoulder: Behave.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: That's so great, Hannah.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I salute you, young lady.
dialog: And he does.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Yes. Fantastic. Fanntasstic.
text: Henry takes it all in quietly, unable to speak.
text: Alan bounces up and gives Hannah a big hug as the others
text: immediately start peppering her with questions.
scene_heading: 30 INT. RESTAURANT #1 - NIGHT 30
text: Colette, Alan, John, William and Henry encircle a beaming
text: Hannah as Waitress #1 snaps their PHOTO.
scene_heading: 31 INT. RESTAURANT #1 - NIGHT 31
text: Alan pops the drugstore CHAMPAGNE and pours into the cheap
text: plastic cups, as Colette passes them around to Hannah, Henry,
dialog: John, and William.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (Raising cup)
dialog: To Hannah!
text: Everyone clinks their cups together.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Thank you. But I just want to remind
dialog: everyone that we're all in this
dialog: together. I couldn't have come this
dialog: far without the group.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (Smiling)
dialog: All for one . . . .
text: But our camera picks up on the individual writers and
text: something is amiss. Everything seems a beat off. People
text: appear happy, but a little subdued. The joy seems a bit too
dialog: forced.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I'm merely the first one to get
dialog: signed. But we're all going to have
text: an agent soon.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Well, as a matter of fact, there's
dialog: an agent in Santa Monica very
dialog: interested in John K. Butzin. He's
dialog: reading the manuscript as we speak.
text: The others let John's remark pass without comment. William
text: taps Henry on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (Lower voice)
dialog: Hey, can you lend me ten bucks?
text: Henry is still a bit dazed by this unexpected turn of events.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Sure.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Thanks, bro'. You're the best.
text: Henry's eyes can't leave Hannah.
scene_heading: 32 EXT. RESTAURANT #1 - NIGHT 32
text: The front door to the restaurant swings open and the writing
text: group members tumble out into the evening. Alan carries his
text: WRITERS AT WORK sign.
text: William makes a move towards Hannah, but the the ever-
text: protective Henry grabs her gently by her elbow, cutting
text: William off. They start walking in one direction. William
text: and John head out in the other. Meanwhile, Alan and Colette
text: wave enthusiastically to Hannah.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Congratulations again, Hannah!
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Yes, yes. Way to go, Hannah!
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Calling back)
dialog: Thank you! 'Night.
text: Alan and Colette continue to smile and wave until Hannah is
text: out of ear shot.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Well, Hannah's got an agent.
dialog: Short beat.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
text: She must have slept with him.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Of course she did.
scene_heading: 33 EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT 33
text: Henry and Hannah arrive at her car. She unlocks the front
text: door of her clunker-of-a-Ford as Henry waits.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I'm so proud of you, Hannah.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Your turn will come, Henry. You're a
dialog: better writer than I am. So much
dialog: better. You went to college.
text: Hannah looks directly into the camera, pointing to Henry.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: He's a great writer. Henry Obert. I
dialog: knew him when.
text: Henry, clearly embarrassed, puts his hand up to block the
text: camera. Tries to change the subject.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Listen. Maybe some afternoon we
dialog: could go for a drive. There are
dialog: some special places I'd like to show
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Sure. I can't believe I've lived out
dialog: here four years and haven't seen --
text: She stops in mid-sentence. A light goes on in her head.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, my.
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Four years. It's been four years
dialog: since I moved here. And now I have
text: an agent. It's the number four again.
dialog: My lucky number. I should have known
dialog: this was going to happen.
speaker_heading: HENRY
text: There is no one more deserving.
text: Hannah rewards Henry's praise with a peck on the lips. And
text: a warm hug.
text: Hannah steps in her car, starts it up and rolls down the
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I'm going to dedicate my novel to
dialog: you.
text: A final wave and Henry watches as she disappears into the
text: night. He sighs.
scene_heading: 34 INT. MONTAGE OF SHOTS - DAY 34
text: A series of shots featuring the writers writing--or, at least,
text: trying: Alan pauses between eye appointments to record an
dialog: idea.
text: William continues scribbling at the restaurant, this time
text: eyeing WAITRESS #2.
text: Hannah, sitting cross-legged on her bed, types away on her
text: laptop computer.
text: Colette sits on her private bench, seeking inspiration.
text: John sits at his keyboard. Vintage black-and-white war movie
text: plays on the TV. John appears more interested in the movie.
text: Henry stares at his laptop. The screen is blank. Henry
text: surrenders yet again and flips off the computer.
scene_heading: 35 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 35
text: Henry, sitting in his studio apartment, wears his pizza
text: delivery outfit. Ready for work. Talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I'm happy for Hannah.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Still, her getting an agent sort of
dialog: ruins my plans, doesn't it? I mean,
dialog: Hannah has an agent. I don't. That
dialog: won't work for dating. I can't ask
dialog: her out until I get an agent.
text: Henry gestures at a PHOTOGRAPH taped to the wall among his
dialog: rejection letters.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: That's Richard Benedict. He's written
dialog: seven novels. Fantastic writer.
text: INSERT ARCHIVAL PHOTOS of Richard Benedict.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: The Fitzgerald of his generation.
dialog: Richard Benedict made me want to be
dialog: a writer.
scene_heading: 36 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- LIVING ROOM - DAY 36
text: Colette dressed in a leotard, practices basic yoga on a mat
text: in her living room. Chanting. Overly dramatic, as always.
text: Takes a break and talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: My novel is called Nyet, Not Yet.
dialog: It's about a Russian woman who comes
dialog: to this country in search of love.
dialog: It was inspired by a story I heard
dialog: from one of my massage clients, Yuri.
dialog: Yes, it's true--I used to do massage.
dialog: In fact, that's how I met Alan, though
dialog: I certainly didn't give him the kind
dialog: of massage he really wanted. At least
dialog: not the first time.
text: Colette allows herself a slight smile at the memory.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: I will get an agent. It comes down
dialog: to this: if Hannah can get an agent,
dialog: I can get an agent. After all, I am
dialog: a graduate of Mills College.
scene_heading: 37 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - DAY 37
text: Plopped down in her rocking chair, Hannah talks to someone
text: O.S. Maureen goes about her day in the background.
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Have I thought of my favorite author
dialog: yet? No. Not yet. There are so
dialog: many, you know?
text: The deep breaths and waving of hands begin again. Here comes
text: that smile as she looks directly into the camera.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: So. I am somewhat superstitious.
dialog: Yes. Guilty. I'm drawn to the number
dialog: 4. I was born at exactly 4:04 p.m.
dialog: on April 4th. 4-4-4-4. That wasn't
dialog: an accident. No way.
text: She's dead serious.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Certain things I've learned to avoid.
text: Black cats. Cracked mirrors. Oh.
dialog: And the number 13 especially. I hate
dialog: the number 13. Hate it.
text: Conversation interrupted by RINGING DOORBELL. Hannah frowns
text: at the interruption as Maureen scurries to the door and opens
text: it, revealing Colette hiding behind a HUGE GIFT BASKET. She
text: breezes in. Takes over. Over the top.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Hi...Hi...Hello everyone. I was
dialog: just in the neighborhood and--
text: Colette freezes when she notices the camera.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, Hannah. I'm so sorry. I didn't
dialog: know they'd be here--
text: Yeah, right. Hannah springs up. Follows Colette as she sets
text: the basket down for all to admire.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Colette. What a lovely surprise!
text: Hugs all around between Hannah and Maureen and Colette.
text: Hannah looks blown away by the gift basket.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: My, what's this?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Oh. It's nothing. I just had to
dialog: say "Congratulations" to my new
dialog: favorite author.
dialog: 24.
text: Hannah is truly touched. Maureen notices a CARD attached to
dialog: the basket.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: (Reading)
dialog: "For Poodles...Now may we have sex
dialog: again? Love, Alan."
text: What? Embarrassed, Colette snatches the card from Maureen.
text: Hannah is more focused on the gift. Doesn't really hear.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: So sweet of you, Colette.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: My pleasure. Say, Hannah...about
dialog: your agent?
text: Hannah looks over at Colette: What?
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Is he--Is he taking on new clients?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Gee. I don't really know.
text: Colette blurts out without thinking.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Think you could ask?
dialog: Awkward situation for Hannah. How best to respond?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I guess so. Maybe.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Because if he is...
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Let's talk about this at group
dialog: meeting, OK?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Oh. Of course. Of course.
dialog: Absolutely.
text: Long beat. Conversation over. The three women wait for one
text: another to speak. Colette checks her watch.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Well...
text: A hug for both Maureen and Hannah.
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: I've got to go. Talk soon. By the
dialog: way, everything in the basket--gluten
dialog: free!
text: A final wave to the camera and Colette disappears.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Colette Mooney. My, that woman is
dialog: something else.
text: A light goes off in Hannah's head.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (To herself; counting
dialog: on her fingers)
scene_heading: Colette Mooney. C-o-l-e-t-t-e M-o-o-
dialog: n-e...
text: She can't finish the count. The ugly truth is staring her in
text: the face.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: 13 letters. Oh, dear...
text: Hannah and Maureen exchange concerned looks.
scene_heading: 38 INT. ALAN'S OFFICE DAY 38
text: Hannah and Henry sit together in the reception area. Alan
text: breezes in, ever-smiling, greeting both enthusiastically.
scene_heading: 39 INT. ALAN'S OFFICE - DAY 39
text: Rows of EYE GLASSES on display as Alan guides Hannah over to
text: the fitting table. Henry tags along.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Thanks for seeing me today, Alan.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: No problemo. Let's get you some new
dialog: eye wear.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Something that makes me look smart.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You're already smart, Hannah.
text: Hannah gives Henry's hand a playful squeeze: Thank you.
text: Alan and Hannah sit down opposite from each other. Henry
text: pulls up a chair to the side. Alan selects a pair. Puts them
dialog: on Hannah.
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: How about...
text: Hannah shrugs her blase reaction.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Mmmmmmm.
text: Alan removes the brown-colored frames. Studies them for a
text: second. Then -- inspiration arrives.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Excuse me. One sec.
text: He reaches inside his coat pocket for his RECORDER. Speaks
dialog: into it.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Ah. Name for character. Alexander
text: Brown. Wears brown-colored glasses.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Of course he would.
text: Henry nods, agreeing. Satisfied, Alan puts the recorder
text: away and reaches for another pair of glasses.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: You know this great idea for a novel
dialog: hit me this morning. It's called
dialog: Unleashed.
text: Alan tries the second pair on Hannah. She checks herself in
text: the mirror. Then she shows Henry. They both shake their head:
text: No. It is a funny moment between friends. They laugh as Alan
dialog: reaches for pair #3.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
text: It's about a dog who becomes human
dialog: for 24 hours in order to rescue his
dialog: kidnapped owner. I love this idea,
dialog: Hannah.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Could be a winner.
text: Alan puts the third pair of glasses on Hannah. She checks
text: herself in the mirror, finally liking what she sees. She
text: looks over towards Henry.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: What do you think?
text: Poor Henry. She does look good. He's falling even harder for
text: her by the moment.
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You look great, Hannah.
text: Hannah can't decide. She studies herself in the mirror as
text: Henry studies her. Henry reaches for his ANDROID and snaps
text: a photo of her. Alan brings them back to real time.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Question: You think your agent might
dialog: be interested in this idea? Does he
dialog: have a dog?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Evading)
dialog: Oh. I don't know--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: How about a cat? It could be a cat.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Um. Sure. Probably could be.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Think about mentioning it to your
dialog: agent, OK? Unleashed. Dog -- or cat --
dialog: becomes human.
text: Alan beams with pride at his imagination on display. Hannah
text: fidgets. Avoids Alan. Henry jumps in to save the moment.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I'll help you develop the idea, Alan.
text: Alan looks pleased. Hannah looks grateful.
scene_heading: 40 INT. RESTAURANT #1 - DAY 40
text: The TWO MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN (CUSTOMER #1 AND CUSTOMER #2) sit
text: across from each other in the nearly-deserted restaurant.
text: Body language suggests an intense, passionate, personal chat.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.)
dialog: A writer has to hear everything. On
text: the streets. In the restaurants.
text: But something's amiss. Customer #1 stops abruptly, glancing
text: at the table next to them: William has suddenly materialized.
text: Sitting with a cup of coffee and a legal pad, scribbling.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: My dialogue has to be real so I'm
dialog: everywhere. Standing behind you at
text: the checkout stand.
dialog: 28.
text: Customer #1 resumes conversation, but looks sharply back at
text: William. His head is tilted towards them. Listening.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Peeing next to you at the urinal. I
dialog: watch. I listen.
text: Customer #1 says something to Customer #2. Looks back at
text: William. His head is still cocked as he makes notes.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
text: Writing down scraps of conversation.
text: Customer #1 grows more agitated. Customer #2 tries to calm
text: her down. Finally, Customer #1 shoots up and marches over
text: to William, her finger jabbing in the air towards the
text: notebook. William shrugs, playing dumb.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: That's right. I eavesdrop.
text: Customer #1 reaches down and grabs the notebook from William.
text: He tries to stop her, but too late.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: How else do you accurately capture
dialog: the misery of the human condition?
text: She reads the page and shows it to Cutomer #2 who reads the
text: notes and is equally shocked.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Now Bukowski says "An intellectual
dialog: says a simple thing in a hard way."
text: The two women start yelling at William. He keeps shaking his
text: head. Customer #1 tears the page into shreds.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: "An artist says a hard thing in a
dialog: simple way."
text: Waitress #2 comes over. The women talk to her and she starts
text: yelling at William. Customer #1 poking her finger in his
text: chest. Escalates to a push. The COOK comes out and starts
text: yelling at William.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Gotta love it. That's me. Simple.
dialog: Real.
text: Surrounded by yelling people, William breaks through the
text: circle and moves towards the door. The BUS BOY yells, too.
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Powerful. An artist.
scene_heading: 41 EXT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 41
text: John grins for the camera. The reason why sits next to him
text: in the matching LAWN CHAIRS.
text: The WOMAN is clearly younger than John. Plainly dressed in a
text: faded sweat shirt. Little makeup. Nervous in front of the
text: camera, but she looks more at us than she does at John. He
text: can't keep his eyes off her.
scene_heading: CAPTION: SIGRID HAGENGUTH
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Meet someone very s-p-e-c-i-e-l.
dialog: Here with us today all the way from...
text: Coaxing Sigrid to finish the thought.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: Germany.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Oh! That accent! Found her working
dialog: at the hardware store. Went in for a
dialog: drill bit. Came out with a prime
dialog: candidate for Mrs. John K. Butzin.
scene_heading: 42 INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY 42
text: Watch Sigrid work. Hard. Uber hard. Stocking shelves. Running
text: cash register. Consulting HER BOSS -- an older man.
text: Assisting customers. Moving boxes. Always wearing a red
text: employee vest. She does speak with a thick accent. Sincere,
dialog: if naive.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: (Starts speaking
text: German. Stops. In
dialog: English)
dialog: Apologies. American only. I come
dialog: from Dusseldorf, yes? Came to this
dialog: great country 90 years ago -- no, 90
dialog: days ago. Apologies. Took job in
dialog: store as cleaning lady. Promoted to
dialog: cashier. Now assistant, assistant
dialog: manager.
scene_heading: 43 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 43
text: Sigrid stands next to a wall display. Everything and anything
dialog: to do with the U.S. is hanging on this wall: Magazine covers
text: of Obama. A U.S. flag. Burger King logo. Photo of Jay Leno.
dialog: 30.
dialog: N.Y. Yankees pennant. Whatever comes to mind for the U.S.
text: seems to be taped, tacked, glued or whatever to that wall.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: This my 'Wall of America' tribute,
dialog: yes? To my new country. And in the
dialog: center, of course, the three men I
dialog: admire most in America.
text: First we see the FRAMED PHOTO of a certain business mogul.
speaker_heading: SIGRID (CONT'D)
dialog: Herr Trump. Very rich. Very famous.
dialog: Very sexy.
text: Then we move on to the second PHOTO of a certain TV celebrity.
speaker_heading: SIGRID (CONT'D)
dialog: Herr Simon Cowell. Very rich. Very
dialog: famous. Very sexy.
dialog: Move on to the third PHOTO. Hey, we know this person:
speaker_heading: SIGRID (CONT'D)
dialog: Ja. My special guy. Herr Bootzin.
dialog: About to become very rich. Very
dialog: famous. Already very sexy.
dialog: (Beat)
dialog: Then maybe Sigrid Hagenguth becomes
dialog: Mrs. John K. Bootzin, ja?
scene_heading: 44 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 44
text: Colette sits. Focused on the WHITE ENVELOPE in one hand.
text: Alan sits next to her, squeezing her other hand. Photo of
text: Oprah on the other side.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I know this is a rejection letter.
dialog: I can't open this. I can't be
dialog: rejected today. I take rejection so
dialog: personally.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I bet it's good news.
text: She opens the envelope. Peeks inside. No letter. Just the
text: SMALLEST POST-IT NOTE flutters out on to the ground. Colette
text: picks it up.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: "Sorry. Not interested." I knew it.
dialog: How can such a big rejection come
dialog: from such a small piece of paper?
dialog: 31.
text: Colette folds the Post-It Note in half--and then in quarters.
text: Holding it in her hand, she begins to chant. Alan holds on
text: to her hand and pats her on the back. Good husband.
scene_heading: 45 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - DAY 45
text: Hannah and Maureen watch with interest and obvious
text: appreciation as Henry, dutifully wearing his uniform, cleans
text: their living room carpet.
text: Open PIZZA STARZ ÍBOX on the breakfast bar. Looks like Henry
text: has brought dinner, as well. Hannah's iPhone goes off. As a
text: courtesy, Henry stops the machine.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (On phone)
dialog: Hello? Yes. Oh, hi, Brian.
scene_heading: (LISTENING) Really? (LISTENING) Oh
dialog: my god! Oh my god! Oh my god!
text: Hannah starts jumping up and down like a little girl while
text: Maureen and Henry look on in bewildered anticipation.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: (On phone)
dialog: Oh my god!
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: What's he saying?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: He sold my novel.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Nodding excitedly)
dialog: Brian sold Sleeping on the Moon!
text: Now Maureen starts jumping up and down. Henry can't hide his
dialog: surprise.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Oh my god! Oh my god!
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (On telephone)
dialog: Yes, Brian. I will. Thank you.
dialog: Thank you. Thank you. I will.
dialog: Promise. Thank you!
text: Hannah turns off her iPhone. Mother and daughter can't
text: believe the news. Jumping up and down. Warm embrace.
dialog: 32.
text: In turn, they both embrace Henry, who also shares the
text: genuine, sincere moment.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You did it, Hannah! You did it!
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: I'm so proud of you, dear!
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: Another embrace between mother and daughter. This could go
dialog: on all night.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: We need to tell the group!
text: The smile disappears from Hannah's face.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: The group. Oh, dear. The group. No,
dialog: no, I can't tell them about this.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Why not?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh.
text: She looks to Maureen for support.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: It will seem like I'm bragging or
dialog: something. I mean I'm the one with
dialog: an agent. Now this. It could be
dialog: too much, too soon, don't you think?
text: Henry understands. He wants to help.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Suppose I tell them? They could hear
dialog: the news from me.
text: Hannah lights up at the suggestion. She goes to Henry and
text: gives him a tight hug. So very tight. Blesses him with another
text: friendly peck on the lips.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Thank you, my friend. I can always
dialog: depend on you, can't I?
scene_heading: 46 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 46
text: John talks to the camera.
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: That's great for Hannah, her little
dialog: book deal, and all. But John K.
text: Butzin has some news to announce, as
dialog: well.
text: John holds up a BROCHURE.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: I've just inked a deal with U R the
dialog: Publisher, a reputable company based
dialog: in New Delhi. They publish 5000 titles
dialog: internationally every year. Paying
dialog: 'em two hundred dollars and they're
dialog: going to format and publish my novel
dialog: Roaring Lion. I've waited for this
text: moment forever. Finally, a Butzin
dialog: is going to be a published author.
text: A voice drifts in from another room.
speaker_heading: SIGRID (O.S.)
dialog: Yoo-hoo. Mr. Published-Author-to-Be.
dialog: Sigrid would like you to come in for
dialog: personal, private autograph. Please.
dialog: Please.
text: John gulps. Then he remembers the camera. Makes a "cut"
text: motion with his finger across the neck.
scene_heading: 47 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 47
text: Henry's turn to host the group meeting. Alan, William,
text: Colette, and John share the lumpy couch and the folding metal
text: chairs. Open PIZZA STARZ BOXES in the background.
text: Everyone is enjoying a single slice of pizza off a paper
text: plate--except for John, who is inhaling two pieces at once.
text: The mood is somber. Quiet.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hannah's just lucky. That's all.
text: John tries to agree, but his mouth is too stuffed with pizza.
text: Cheap FLOWERS from Ralph's and BALLOONS in full display on
text: the coffee table. Henry stands--listening--by the front
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Here she comes!
text: Henry opens the door. Hannah floats in.
text: The serious expressions suddenly, magically, turn to broad
text: smiles. Henry is the first to offer a hug.
dialog: 34.
text: Alan, William, Colette, John give her a standing ovation.
text: Hannah notices the balloons and flowers.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Ohhhhhh. For me? You shouldn't have.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Way to go, Ms. Published Author!
text: Everyone gets a hug from Hannah. William gives Hannah an
dialog: extra long hug.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: We're all jealous, Hannah. Just
dialog: teasing.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: No. Seriously. We're all jealous.
text: Nervous laughter around the room.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: You're all making too much of a
dialog: spectacle here.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: When will your book come out, Hannah?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: A year. Takes about a year.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: So how much did you get?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Don't ask her that.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (Shrugging)
dialog: Why not? How much did you get?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I did OK. Leave it at that. What's
dialog: important is that I owe this success
dialog: to all of you. I would be lost without
dialog: this writing group.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (Louder than normal)
dialog: I don't know if anyone heard.
text: All eyes turn to John, still inhaling pizza.
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: But U.R. the Publisher has agreed to
dialog: publish Roaring Lion by John K.
dialog: Butzin.
text: Puzzled looks are the reaction.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: U.R. the Publisher?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: They self-publish. E-books. Print on
dialog: Demand.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: That's right, Obert. But I'll have
dialog: my book in two weeks. None of this
text: B.S. waiting around. John K. Butzin
dialog: will be a published author. And be
dialog: published first.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Ever-diplomatic)
dialog: Well, John. Congratulations.
text: She leans over and gives him the briefest of hugs. There are
text: other congratulatory murmurs coming from the group.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: My, two published authors in the
dialog: group. The rest of us are going to
dialog: have to catch up.
scene_heading: 48 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 48
text: The meeting gets down to business. Alan, Colette, Henry,
text: William and Hannah, wearing her new glasses, listen as John
text: reads from Roaring Lion.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (Reading)
text: Gunner stared out over the bleak
text: horizon, seeing one dead Viet Cong
text: after another lay scattered on the
dialog: bloody hillside. He had won this
dialog: time, but Gunner knew Charlie would
dialog: be back in the morning. By god, he
dialog: would be ready. So would his M60
dialog: General Purpose Machine Gun and Mark
dialog: 2 Fragmentation/Hand Rifle Grenade.
text: John finishes and sits back in his chair, quite pleased with
dialog: himself.
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: OK, John. Nicely done. Let's get
dialog: some feedback.
text: Henry, as always, has been making notes.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Well. In terms of the characters--
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (Jumping in)
dialog: --Hold on, Obert. I wanna hear from
dialog: her.
text: John points towards Hannah.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: We'll hear from everybody.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I don't want to hear from everybody.
text: She has a book coming out. John K.
dialog: Butzin has a book coming out. I want
dialog: to hear from Hannah, author to author.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Oh, screw you.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: This is really going against the
dialog: spirit of the group, John. Everyone's
dialog: opinion is valid.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Hers is more valid. What'd you think,
dialog: Hannah? Tell me.
text: Hannah struggles to speak. Clearly uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I-I . . .
text: The words freeze in her mouth. Awkward silence. Finally.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (Standing up)
text: Going outside for a smoke.
text: William thunders away from the group. Colette watches him
dialog: go.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I'll go talk to him.
text: Colette follows, calling after William.
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Let's take a fifteen minute break,
dialog: shall we?
text: Embarrassed, Hannah excuses herself. Henry trails along after
text: her, leaving a muttering John and calm Alan alone. Alan
text: reaches for his recorder. Talks into it.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Ahhh, idea for Michael Crichton-type
dialog: novel. Members of Antarctic research
text: station attacked by mutant penguins.
text: Satisfied, Alan turns off the recorder while John reaches
dialog: for more pizza.
scene_heading: 49 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 49
text: Colette is back on her bench. Standing behind her is a
dialog: mysterious MAN (Over 40) who favors black clothes and dark
dialog: shades.
scene_heading: CAPTION: DR. XIROMAN
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I want you to meet someone special.
dialog: This is my spiritual adviser. Doctor
dialog: Xiroman has taken a vow of silence
dialog: for one full year to protest climate
dialog: change. What an amazing man. Dr.
dialog: Xiroman is going to cleanse the air
dialog: of all this rejection.
text: Camera goes to Dr. Xiroman. Somber, expressionless. Does he
dialog: even have a pulse?
text: Dr. Xiroman walks over to small fire pit and meditates as he
text: places his hands over the rising flames. Colette begins a
dialog: New Age chant for added support.
scene_heading: 50 INT. RESTAURANT #2 - DAY 50
text: THREE YOUNG MEN in the corner booth. Jeans and baseball caps.
text: Very animated conversation. Loud, punctuated by laughter.
dialog: They think they're the only people in the joint. The WAITRESS--
text: EUDORA (20's)--with the purple streaks in her hair and
text: matching purple glasses, refills their cups.
text: William sits alone at the counter, impossible to hide his
text: disdain. He talks to the camera with the three men in the
dialog: background.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: See those jokers back there?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: They "write" for TV. Town's full of
dialog: them. Creative vultures. Anything
dialog: for a paycheck. Fade in. Fade out.
dialog: C.S.I. 24. Who Wants to Suck My --
text: William scoffs as the disdain drips from his mouth.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
text: Gimme a break. Television. Telecrap.
dialog: They've sold their souls to the devil.
dialog: For what? A house in Malibu? A tennis
dialog: court?
text: William glances over his shoulder, shaking his head in
text: disgust. Another table catches his eye. TWO ATTRACTIVE WOMEN
text: engage in friendly banter over coffee. William stares them
text: down, making friendly eye contact.
text: The woman facing him returns eye contact. She smiles. William
text: smiles, watching them as he continues.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: That will never be me. I will never
dialog: compromise my vision for financial
dialog: gain. I'd rather borrow money from
dialog: friends than sell out for a quick
dialog: dollar.
text: The two women stand up. William is stoked. This is too easy.
text: But the women instead go to the three TV writers. Immediately
text: invited to sit down with them.
dialog: William can't believe it. What the...
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: "...Gatsby had an extraordinary gift
dialog: for hope, a romantic readiness...
scene_heading: 51 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 51
text: Henry reads from The Great Gatsby.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: "...such as I have never found in
dialog: any other person and which it is not
dialog: likely I shall ever find again..."
text: Henry is always moved whenever he reads Fitzgerald. Putting
text: down the book, he talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: You know, the year before he died,
dialog: F.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 39.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Scott Fitzgerald made a grand total
dialog: of $13.13 in royalties from his
dialog: writing. I guess Hannah's right
dialog: about 13 being unlucky.
text: A question is asked O.S. Henry listens.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Sure. Sure. I know that. Gatsby
dialog: does end tragically. But that's
dialog: fiction. Hannah...She's real. Our
dialog: story will have a happy ending.
text: Pause. Henry rethinks.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Maybe. Maybe a happy ending.
text: His confidence flies out the door.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Hope. Hope we have a happy ending.
text: Fingers crossed.
scene_heading: 52 INT. ALAN &amp; COLETTE'S HOUSE -- LIVING ROOM - DAY 52
text: Alan and Colette hold court on their living room couch,
text: talking to the camera.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: There's been one rule in this house.
dialog: Whatever Colette wants, Colette gets.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Thank you, Alan.
text: They look at each other adoringly. Real or fake?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: She wants a Mercedes? No problem.
dialog: Credit cards? How many? Her own
dialog: business? Done. An agent?
text: Colette eats it up.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Call it karma or serendipity or
dialog: kismet. Whatever. But it just so
dialog: happens that very well-known literary
dialog: agent David Keller--
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: (Interrupting)
dialog: --Very well-known. He's so known.
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Exactly. Well, guess who is coming
dialog: in tomorrow to see Dr. Alan Mooney
dialog: for an eye examination and new
dialog: glasses?
text: Colette starts squealing in anticipation. Alan nods with
text: confidence and flashes a "thumbs up."
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I love you, Poodles.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Love you more, Poodles.
scene_heading: 53 INT. ALAN'S OFFICE - DAY 53
text: The casually dressed MAN (40's) sits in the waiting area for
text: Alan Mooney, spending time on his iPhone, conducting business
text: as he waits.
scene_heading: CAPTION: DAVID KELLER
text: He doesn't have to wait long. Alan personally comes out
text: into the waiting area to fetch him. Big grin. Hand extended.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Dr. Alan Mooney.
text: David, caught off guard by the doctor's sudden appearance,
text: winds up his phone conversation.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: (on phone)
dialog: Let me call you back.
text: David stands up.
speaker_heading: DAVID (CONT'D)
dialog: David Keller.
text: They shake hands.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I know. Big fan. Big fan.
text: David can't help but notice the camera.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, that. They're doing a little
dialog: documentary about my writing group.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Really?
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Just act natural.
text: Lowering his voice.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: It was supposed to be a reality
dialog: series.
scene_heading: 54 INT. ALAN'S OFFICE -- EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY 54
text: Standard examination room. Alan guides David into the chair.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Great. Let's start out with a basic
dialog: eye examination.
text: Alan flips a couple SWITCHES. Eye reading CHART appears on
text: the wall. Alan turns off the lights.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: OK, David. See if you can read that
dialog: first line for me, please.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: (Reading)
speaker_heading: X7K6AC
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Very good, David. Would you like to
dialog: try for what's behind Door Number
dialog: Three? Try this one, please.
text: Alan brings up a different line on the screen.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: (Reading)
speaker_heading: E2PH8S
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: 20/25. Looking good, David. But
dialog: anyone can identify simple letters
dialog: and numbers. Let's see how you do
text: reading a more challenging text.
text: Alan brings up a different page. Several paragraphs on a
dialog: printed page.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: See that?
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Yes.
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Good. Read me the first paragraph,
dialog: please.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: (Reading; monotone)
text: Natasha, the Russian peasant, dressed
text: oh-so-slowly, consumed totally,
dialog: completely, absolutely, by endless
dialog: thoughts of Yuri.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Oh. Very nice. Very nice. Now the
dialog: next paragraph, please.
text: David looks rather puzzled, but complies.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: (Reading; monotone)
dialog: "I never, ever thought I could feel
dialog: this way," Natasha said excitedly.
dialog: "Nor could I," Yuri said happily,
text: his body dripping with enormous beads
dialog: of sweat.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Man. Wow. Gee. Isn't that great
dialog: writing? My wife Colette wrote that.
dialog: The patients just love reading her
dialog: stuff. It's from her new novel,
dialog: Nyet, Not Yet.
text: A loud KNOCK on the examination room door. David is saved by
dialog: the bell.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: My, I wonder who that could be.
text: He walks over to the door, opens it and feigns surprise to
text: see Colette. She moves right in.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Hi, honey. So sorry to intrude.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Colette? Gee, this is an incredible
dialog: coincidence. We were just talking
dialog: about you. And here you are!
text: Colette is locked like a laser beam on David Keller.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: (Gushing)
dialog: Hello.
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Oh, where are my manners? Colette,
dialog: this is David Keller. David, this is
dialog: my wife, Colette Mooney. The writer.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Pleasure to meet you, David.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Actually, Colette wrote this beautiful
dialog: prose you've been reading, David.
dialog: Honey, I can't believe this
dialog: coincidence.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Well, I was just dropping off--
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (Overlapping)
dialog: Oh, of course. Thanks for bringing
dialog: it by. Say, honey, David's been
dialog: reading that first page of yours.
dialog: You don't happen to have any more of
dialog: that opening chapter, do you?
text: Colette thinks for a second.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: As a matter of fact, I think I do. I
dialog: think I do.
text: Colette searches her large PURSE and produces a manila folder.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Say, how about that?
text: Colette hands the manila folder to David, who accepts it
text: reluctantly. He's been had.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: How about that?
scene_heading: 55 INT. ALAN'S OFFICE -- EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY 55
text: Colette sits in the chair, Alan stands behind her, massaging
text: her shoulders. Both share that smirk of satisfaction.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: That went very well.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Oh, yes, Poodles. Very.
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Though David Keller did seem in a
text: hurry to leave.
speaker_heading: ALAN
text: The sooner he can begin reading.
dialog: Colette buys that. Of course.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I bet he calls tomorrow with an offer.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I bet he calls tonight.
text: Alan's left hand starts to slide down towards Colette's chest.
text: She doesn't notice--her mind is elsewhere.
scene_heading: 56 EXT. OUTSIDE ALAN'S OFFICE - DAY 56
text: DAVID takes Colette's pages and tosses them in city TRASH
text: CAN, muttering to himself as he walks away.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (V.O.)
dialog: (Overlapping Alan)
dialog: I did it.
speaker_heading: ALAN (V.O.)
dialog: (Overlapping Colette)
dialog: We did it.
scene_heading: 57 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - DAY 57
text: Hannah sits cross-legged on her living room floor, wearing
text: her new glasses, reading typed pages. Henry sits close to
text: her. Not too close. Waiting. Hannah finishes. Impressed.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Henry. This is good. So good.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Really?
text: Hannah nods. Really.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: But I've only got 100 pages. Can't
text: seem to move forward.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I'm dying to know more about Scott
dialog: and Christy. What great characters.
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Yeah. Sure wish I knew what was going
dialog: to happen with them.
text: Hannah gives Henry a friendly tap on the knee for
dialog: encouragement.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: You'll figure it out, Henry. It'll
dialog: pass. Focus on your writing. No
text: distractions. The writing comes first.
text: Henry lets it sink in. Changes the subject.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Say, um, remember I offered to drive
dialog: you around and show you a couple
dialog: special places?
scene_heading: 58 EXT. RICHARD BENEDICT HOME - DAY 58
text: The imposing house screams success. Henry and Hannah sit in
text: Henry's parked car, taking it in.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Who lives here?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Richard Benedict.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh. That writer you like?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Like? No. It's much more than that.
dialog: Wow. He...He...
text: Henry struggles to put it into words.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: ...Reading Richard Benedict...made
dialog: me want to be a better writer. He's
dialog: that good, Hannah.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Can't say I've read his stuff. Nice
dialog: house, though.
scene_heading: 59 EXT. FITZGERALD/GRAHAM HOME - DAY 59
text: Henry and Hannah stand on the sidewalk in front of the North
text: Hayworth home. Henry seems barely able to contain his
dialog: excitement.
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Here we are.
text: Hannah stares blankly at the house.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: North Hayworth Avenue. Hollywood,
dialog: California.
text: Hannah smiles politely, but it's clear she doesn't recognize
dialog: the house.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Big clue time. Sheila Graham.
text: Still nothing registers with Hannah.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: OK. Give up? Writer Sheila Graham
dialog: lived here. Fitzgerald was her lover.
dialog: This is where he died on December
dialog: 21, 1940.
text: Hannah lets it all sink in.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Fitzgerald? He's the one who shot
dialog: himself, right?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: No. Fitzgerald. F. Scott Fitzgerald.
dialog: He wrote The Great Gatsby.
text: The name doesn't register with Hannah.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: (Reciting from heart)
dialog: Gatsby believed in the green light,
dialog: the orgiastic future that year by
text: year recedes before us. It eluded us
dialog: then, but that's--
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Interjecting)
dialog: I've never read it.
text: Henry can't hide his surprise.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: What?
text: Hannah stops, cognizant of the ever-present camera.
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (To camera)
dialog: Could you turn that off for a few
dialog: minutes, please?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You know they can't. What's wrong?
text: Hannah hesitates. Counts to three. Lowers her voice.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I've never read The Great Gatsby.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You're kidding.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Henry. I never went to college.
dialog: I've heard of Hemingway. A little.
dialog: Fitzgerald. Somewhere. But I don't
dialog: have your education. Your smarts. I
dialog: haven't read all these great novels.
dialog: My stories come from my heart.
text: Henry lets it all sink in. Hannah looks at the house.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Tell me about the book.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Gatsby is about social position and
dialog: the American Dream and . . .
text: Henry stops. Rethinks his explanation.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Actually, it's quite simple. Boy
dialog: meets girl. Boy loses girl. Boy
dialog: moves heaven and earth to win the
dialog: girl back.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: And it's your favorite?
text: Henry nods with his heart.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: So how does it end? Does boy get the
dialog: girl?
text: Long beat. Then Henry reaches into the back seat of his car
text: for his KNAPSACK. Puts it on his lap, unzips it. Pulls out
text: his personal copy of Gatsby.
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Here. Take my copy.
text: He hands the well-read book to Hannah.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Now you can find out for yourself.
scene_heading: 60 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 60
text: John is on the telephone, clutching a copy of Roaring Lion.
text: He does not look happy.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (On telephone)
dialog: Yes. I'm still holding. Where are
dialog: you again? New Dehli? Oh.
text: John stares at his book, shaking his head. Waits for a few
dialog: seconds.
text: Sigrid is in the background, doing light housekeeping, trying
text: not to listen, but obviously can't avoid it.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: (On telephone)
dialog: Butzin. John K. Butzin. Right. That's
dialog: me. Roaring Lion. Yes. Well, I
dialog: have a copy of my book you sent, but
dialog: there must be some mistake...Well,
dialog: you put a dog on the cover. Not a
dialog: lion like we agreed.
text: John holds the book up for the camera to catch the
text: unmistakable dog barking on the front cover.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: (On telephone)
dialog: Plus the back cover is written in
dialog: Chinese. Chinese...Yes, I know
dialog: Chinese when I see it. One of those
dialog: Chinese assault rifles almost cost
dialog: me an eye at Hamburger Hill...
text: John listens--trying to remain calm.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: I seem to be missing pages 1-0-7 to
dialog: 1-1-2...Yes, I'm sure. And what in
dialog: blazes is this Chapter Eight?
text: Sigrid keeps cleaning. Stoic expression.
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: (On telephone)
dialog: This Chapter Eight isn't mine. It's
dialog: about hormone replacement for women.
dialog: Do you think John K. Butzin would
dialog: write that? Must be from another
dialog: goddamn book. So what the hell you
dialog: going to do about this? You, sir,
dialog: are dealing with a decorated veteran--
dialog: a combat veteran--of the United States
dialog: Army.
text: John waits for an explanation.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: Yes. I'll hold.
text: John looks again at his book in disbelief. Then he remembers
text: the camera. Forces a faint smile.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: (To camera)
dialog: Minor details. That's all. All that
dialog: truly matters is that John K. Butzin
text: is finally a published author.
text: But catch Sigrid's expression. She is quiet. More than a
text: little concerned at what she is hearing.
scene_heading: 61 INT. RESTAURANT #2 - DAY 61
text: Henry and Hannah at a table, sharing coffee. Eudora the
text: waitress swings by with a refill, hair purple as ever. Hannah
text: thumbs through her copy of Gatsby, looking interested. And
text: pleased. Eudora notices the book.
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: Great book. Classic.
text: Henry nods in agreement. Eudora moves on.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh, I needed this break. Thank you,
dialog: Henry.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You're welcome.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: It's just that I'm starting to feel
dialog: the pressure, you know? There is so
dialog: much riding on this first book.
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Don't be silly. Sleeping on the
dialog: Moon will hit the bestseller list.
dialog: You'll be the toast of the literary
dialog: world. And I'll come over to Beverly
dialog: Hills and deliver a pizza to you.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Beverly Hills, ah...
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Definitely.
scene_heading: 62 EXT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT / CITY STREET - DAY 62
text: Parked on the street in front of Hannah's apartment. Henry
dialog: and Hannah, this mutual admiration society, stand by the
text: car. Hannah still has her copy of Gatsby. Short beat.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What a dear, sweet friend you are.
text: Hannah graces Henry with another hug. Another quick peck on
text: the lips. But wait--Henry wants more. He kisses her back.
text: More than a peck. Too much more. Hannah, surprised, pulls
text: back--her hand on his chest: Stop.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: (Gently)
text: No distractions. The writing comes
dialog: first, 'kay?
text: Henry nods reluctantly: Understood. One last hug from Hannah
text: before she heads for her front door, smiling back over her
text: shoulder at Henry. Henry watches her leave, knowing that
dialog: this was absolutely, positively, the best day of his life.
scene_heading: 63 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT -- LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 63
text: The writing group meets. Hannah, Henry, John, William, Alan
text: and Colette sit around the living room, pages in front of
dialog: them.
text: WRITERS AT WORK sign on display.
text: Maureen, trying not to be in the way, goes from writer to
text: writer, carrying a large TRAY OF VEGGIES.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Alright. Whose turn is it to read?
dialog: Henry?
text: All eyes on Henry. He shifts uncomfortably in his chair.
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Oh. Um. Someone else go. I don't
dialog: have anything new ready tonight.
text: Concerned looks all around.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: It's been weeks, Henry.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I know. Still can't focus.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Don't be a pussy, Obert. Get writing.
dialog: Complete the mission.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Writer's block can be very serious,
dialog: John.
text: John scoffs in disbelief. Maureen offers William some veggies.
text: He helps himself and checks out Maureen as she moves on to
dialog: Alan.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: What's so hard, bro'? I mean, you've
dialog: got Scott and Christy. Two friends.
dialog: Tell their story.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: That's the problem. I think the
dialog: story's changing.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Changing? How so?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Lately I'm feeling something much
text: deeper, much richer. Scott and
text: Christy, um, growing closer.
text: The other group members appear puzzled.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Christy's a beautiful, wealthy author
dialog: in Beverly Hills. How close can they
dialog: get?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Follow me. Something happens.
dialog: Christy has an epiphany. She-She
dialog: realizes her feelings run much deeper
dialog: now for Scott.
dialog: 52.
text: Henry does everything he can not to look at Hannah. Short
dialog: beat.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Nah. Don't buy it.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: They're friends. Why muck it up?
dialog: Don't put 'em in the same foxhole.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Is this Scott wanting to go beyond
dialog: the friendship? There's no way
dialog: Christy would suggest it. What do
dialog: you think, Hannah?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Yes. Hannah, what do you think?
text: All eyes go back to Hannah. She does not want to answer.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Gee, I-I guess...I really never
dialog: thought of them that way.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Never?
text: Hannah shakes her head. Chooses her words carefully.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: No. It's always been a friendship.
text: Henry takes a moment. Thinking.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You don't see anything possibly
dialog: happening between them?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: No. Friends. Nothing more.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Exactly.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I'd be uncomfortable with any changes
dialog: in the relationship.
text: Message received. All eyes on Henry. Defeated.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: OK. Thanks, everyone. I'll try to
dialog: have something on paper next time.
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Remember, Obert. Complete the mission.
scene_heading: 64 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT -- LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 64
text: Meeting over. Writing group starts breaking up. William
text: leans in close by Hannah.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: (Lowered voice)
dialog: Got a sec?
text: William motions Hannah over to the corner of the living room,
text: away from the others. She follows, looking puzzled. Henry
text: watches with curiosity. William starts speaking to Hannah in
text: hushed tones, trying not to let anyone else overhear the
dialog: conversation.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: How much?
text: More hushed tones from William. Hannah shakes her head.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: But if I loaned you money, then I
dialog: wouldn't have it.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hey, I just figured, you know. You
dialog: got that big advance. Help out a
dialog: fellow writer. I'm good for it,
dialog: Hannah.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Sorry. It's bad luck to loan money.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: OK, then, just give it to me.
text: Henry makes a point of moving in and standing directly by
text: Hannah, staring William down. Henry and Hannah make eye
text: contact. Henry looks to her: Are we OK? Hannah looks away.
text: Colette comes up next to William.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: How much do you need?
text: William looks surprised.
scene_heading: 65 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 65
text: John sits in his comfortable chair. Sigrid is nearby, at the
text: computer. John talks to the camera.
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: JOHN
text: This is a big moment. Roaring Lion
dialog: has been posted on Amazon.com. Now
dialog: all books. Your fiction. Your
dialog: nonfiction. They're ranked on Amazon
dialog: by sales. Obviously everyone wants
dialog: to be number one. They say a book
dialog: is selling well on Amazon if it's in
dialog: the top 5000. Time to run it up the
dialog: flag pole. Sigrid?
text: Nervous, Sigrid takes a deep breath and taps away on the
text: computer keys. She waits, focused intently on the screen.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: (Reading slowly aloud)
dialog: 2,472,899 . . .
text: Silence. Long silence as it all sinks in. John seems suddenly
text: uncomfortable. Sigrid types away on the computer keys again.
text: Reads off the screen.
speaker_heading: SIGRID (CONT'D)
dialog: Tom Clancy. 32.
text: John discovers a new interest in the ceiling.
scene_heading: 66 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - DAY 66
text: Hannah plops in her chair, upscale SHOPPING BAGS at her feet.
text: Maureen hovers in the background.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: How am I doing? OK. Sort of. Brian
dialog: called. Looks like there's real
dialog: interest in movie rights for Sleeping
dialog: on the Moon. Yeah, thanks.
text: Heavy sigh. Not excited in the least. Matter-of-fact.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: But I don't dare say anything to the
dialog: group. They find out I've got a
dialog: movie deal--I don't know. I'm sensing
dialog: enough jealousy as it is, you know?
dialog: Could be awkward if they found out.
dialog: It's a real--what's that word?
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Conundrum.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: That's it. I'm in one.
dialog: 55.
scene_heading: 67 EXT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - NIGHT 67
text: WRITERS AT WORK poster taped to the front door.
scene_heading: 68 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - NIGHT 68
text: Full meeting of the writing group, all crammed around the
text: dining table. Henry and Hannah sit apart.
text: A single BOWL OF PRETZELS has been placed before them. Hannah
text: reads from her typed pages. Alan, William, Colette, and Henry
text: hang on her every word.
text: John is half-listening at best, more interested in the
text: MAGAZINE he's thumbing through.
text: William REACHES UNDER THE TABLE and gently squeezes Colette's
text: hand. Surprised, she pulls her hand away.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Reading; with feeling)
dialog: "Please come home, Michael." "Why
dialog: would you want to marry me, Kyra? I
dialog: barely graduated high school."
dialog: "Michael, I don't care about some
dialog: silly college degree. You're the
dialog: most intelligent person I've ever
dialog: known. You are my shining star."
text: Then Colette puts it back and squeezes William's hand. It's
text: his turn to be surprised.
text: Hannah slides off her new reading glasses, waiting for someone
text: to react. The room falls silent. Alan steps in.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: OK. Comments. Anyone?
text: No response. Group members look at the pages. At each other.
text: No one steps forward.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I value your feedback. We're all in
dialog: this together, right?
dialog: Nobody bites.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Colette--Did the new scene work for
dialog: you?
text: Colette seems thrown by the direct question.
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Oh...Gee...Hannah. What? I mean,
dialog: you're being published. This is
dialog: being published.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: But my editor wants rewrites. Am I
dialog: on track?
text: Colette punts. Alan jumps in to save his wife.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Of course you are, Hannah.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: You got the deal. You got the check.
dialog: First one to be published.
text: John CLEARS HIS THROAT rather loudly: What about me, butthead?
text: William ignores him.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I think what I'm hearing from the
dialog: group is...is...you're fine. We all
dialog: love it. Nothing here to critique.
dialog: You don't need us--well, it's not
dialog: that you don't need us, but, you
dialog: know...
text: Alan's voice trails off before he can dig himself any deeper.
text: More silence as Hannah wrestles with this unexpected reaction.
text: Finally looks to Henry for help.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What do you think, Henry?
text: All eyes on Henry. He hesitates. Then --
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Yes. Actually, it is really good,
dialog: but there are a couple things--little
dialog: things--I'd point out. For example--
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Holy Douglas MacArthur --
text: All eyes on John. Finally holds up magazine to reveal that
text: he's been reading VARIETY.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: (Reading)
dialog: "Hollywood decides to go sleeping on
dialog: the moon.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: First-time scribe Hannah Rinaldi,
dialog: repped by Brian Barkley of SoHo,
dialog: scores six-figure movie deal. Ink is
text: still fresh, but Barkley boasts keen
dialog: interest by..."
text: John keeps reading. Various reactions, mostly muted, around
text: the table. Can Hannah's face turn any redder?
scene_heading: 69 INT. MONTAGE OF SHOTS - NIGHT 69
text: Members of the writing group struggle to deal with Hannah's
dialog: latest success:
text: Alan and Colette sit on their living room couch together,
text: wearing matching pajamas, staring straight ahead like zombies.
text: His tape recorder sits on the coffee table. Alan reaches
text: for it. She grabs it from his hand and throws it.
text: William sits at the counter of Restaurant #2, drumming his
text: fingers on the legal pad, half-heartedly trying to write.
text: WAITRESS #3 pours him some more coffee, trying to make eye
text: contact with him. William ignores her.
text: John sits in front of his computer screen, but he can't
text: concentrate. Gives up. Shuts down computer. Flips on TV.
dialog: Another war movie.
text: Henry stares absent-mindedly at his wall of rejection letters.
text: Hannah sits at her computer--the only one actually working
text: at the moment--but she stops long enough to take a deep,
text: deep sigh. A lot weighs on her mind.
scene_heading: 70 EXT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DRIVEWAY - DAY 70
text: Alan arrives home. Steps out of his Lexus. Whistling. Happy-
text: go-lucky. Pauses in the driveway to record another idea.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Idea for novel. Perhaps screenplay.
text: The Amazing Doctor Eckleburg. An eye
dialog: doctor turned crime fighter. Ladies
dialog: man.
scene_heading: 71 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- LIVING ROOM - DAY 71
text: Alan sails through the front door. His smile disappears.
text: William is plopped on the living room couch. Shirt half
text: unbuttoned. Smoking. He freezes mid-puff.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: William?
dialog: 58.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Hey. Alan.
text: SOUND OF SHOWER AND COLETTE SINGING OFF-KEY echoes throughout
text: the house. Alan turns quiet as he makes the connection.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Just, um. Just stopped by to...read
dialog: some pages for Colette. Yeah.
text: There are no pages on the coffee table in front of William.
scene_heading: 72 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - MOMENTS LATER 72
text: Alan steps outside. Somber. Focused. Acts like the
text: Terminator in his scanning of the area. Man on a mission.
text: What is he looking for? He finds it almost immediately,
text: zeroing in on Colette's bench. Alan marches over and grabs
text: Colette's prized framed photo of Oprah. Clutching it in his
text: hand, Alan looks at Oprah's smiling face, then back towards
text: the house. Then he takes the frame and smashes it down on
text: the ground as hard as he can. Next he jumps up and down on
text: the smashed frame multiple times. Not satisfied, Alan bends
text: down, picks up the photo and rips it to shreds with his hands.
dialog: There. That felt good.
text: Pool Guy and Gardener have witnessed the whole scene. What
text: the hell? They exchange puzzled looks.
scene_heading: 73 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 73
text: Henry talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Hannah's avoiding me. She doesn't
dialog: respond to emails or voice messages.
dialog: She's "busy." Always an excuse.
scene_heading: 74 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 74
text: Henry talks to the camera--his concern unmistakable.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Things have definitely changed between
dialog: us. I did get to go to her place
dialog: for dinner last night.
scene_heading: 75 INT. HANNAH'S APARTMENT - EVENING 75
text: A spruced-up Henry sits down for dinner. All smiles.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: Hannah wasn't there. She was in New
text: York with her publisher. But Maureen
dialog: and I had a lovely time.
dialog: 59.
text: Maureen passes Henry more vegetables.
scene_heading: 76 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 76
text: Colette sits on her private bench. Note the NEW PHOTO OF
text: OPRAH in a new frame. Colette talks to the camera.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Yes. You noticed. I replaced the
dialog: photo. I may be replacing other
dialog: things around here soon...I was just
dialog: using William...for research.
text: She holds up THREE MORE LETTERS.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Speaking of rejection...three more
dialog: letters saying Nyet, including one
dialog: from David Keller. I should have
dialog: offered him a massage. How much
dialog: more rejection can I take?
text: Colette stares at the letters, focusing on remaining strong.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: (Reciting)
dialog: "We keep going back, stronger, not
dialog: weaker, because we will not allow--
text: Her voice cracks. She stops. Fighting for composure
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: --Rejection to beat us down--
text: Colette's frustration is boiling into anger as she struggles
dialog: to keep it under control.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: --It will only strengthen our resolve.
dialog: To be successful there is no other
dialog: way." Mr. Henry D. Thoreau.
dialog: Short beat.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Rejection sucks.
scene_heading: 77 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 77
text: Smoke rises from the fire pit, burning what's left of the
text: letters. Colette sits cross-legged, devoting her full energy
text: to chanting and beating her hands on a small DRUM.
text: It isn't enough today. Watch as Colette's solemn chant
text: dissolves into tears of frustration.
dialog: 60.
text: Dr. Xiroman places a comforting hand on her shoulder, trying
dialog: to calm Colette down.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 78
text: Sitting outside in the cheap lawn chairs with Sigrid, John
text: addresses the camera. He cleans up pretty good.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: This is going to be a great day for
dialog: John K. Butzin. Yes, sir. First
dialog: official book signing.
text: Sigrid holds up a copy of Roaring Lion. The dog on the cover
text: has had an image of a lion slapped over it. Sigrid beams
dialog: with pride.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: Ready and raring to go. Of course,
dialog: it would have been better to do this
dialog: in an actual bookstore, but, hell,
dialog: they're dropping faster than Charlie
dialog: at Dak To. Not to worry. Since Sigrid
dialog: works at the hardware store, they're
dialog: going to let her favorite author
text: sign a few books there.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: More than a few books. Many, many
dialog: books, Ja?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Ja, my Strudel. Many books.
scene_heading: 79 EXT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY 79
text: SIGNS in front window announcing hammers, ladders, paint on
text: sale. Also a handwritten PIECE OF PAPER taped to the window
text: with masking tape, announcing AUTHOR SIGNING.
scene_heading: 80 INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY 80
text: John sits at his card table in the corner. Alone. A stack of
text: books sit piled in front of him. CUSTOMERS walk all around,
text: ignoring John completely. John tries to stay relaxed, smiling
text: and nodding at people, not being too forceful.
text: Sigrid, wearing her little red work vest and glasses, stands
text: off to the side, beaming with pride. She hurries over to a
text: cash register, takes the telephone out of her surprised boss'
text: hand, and jumps on the store's PA SYSTEM, blasting throughout
dialog: the store.
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: (On PA system)
dialog: Attention shoppers. Famous author,
dialog: Mr. John K. Bootzin, signing new
text: best seller. Up front of store.
dialog: John K. Bootzin. Also, special
dialog: today in plumbing department.
dialog: Ballcocks. Two for one. All
dialog: customers guaranteed will be
dialog: satisfied. Ja.
scene_heading: 81 INT. HARDWARE STORE -- DAY 81
text: The PILE OF BOOKS seems untouched.
scene_heading: 82 INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY 82
text: Still no takers. Sigrid comes over to console him.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Sorry, Strudel. Seem to be shooting
dialog: blanks today.
text: John looks past Sigrid. His face brightens. A smiling Alan
text: has arrived, flanked by Colette, Henry and Hannah. Hannah
text: holds a cupcake. Alan has a bottle of champagne and some
text: plastic cups. But there is no touching, no direct
text: interaction, between Colette and Alan.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Author! Author!
text: John stands up. Clearly touched.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Hey-Hey. The cavalry's arrived.
dialog: Look who's here.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: Hello, everyone!
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Wouldn't miss your signing, John.
text: Hannah presents John with the cupcake and leans in for a
text: friendly peck on the cheek. Colette aims her cell phone
text: camera at John.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Smile, John!
text: John half-smiles in response. Henry reaches over and shakes
text: his hand.
dialog: 62.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Congratulations, John.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Thanks, Obert. Where's the Bukowski
dialog: wannabe?
text: Awkward silence as the group members exchange puzzled looks.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: William said he'd meet us here.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: What a turd. Never liked that punk
dialog: anyway.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Maybe he's still at our house.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Maybe he is. Maybe I should go see.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Maybe you should.
text: What's that about? Henry studies John's book. Flips to the
text: back cover. Surprised.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: This is in Chinese.
text: All eyes on John. Squirming, he looks over to Sigrid: Help
text: me. She thinks for a second.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: International edition!
text: John nods convincingly in agreement.
speaker_heading: ALL
dialog: (Except John and Sigrid)
dialog: Oh...
scene_heading: 83 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 83
text: Sigrid sits alone on the couch as John floats in and out of
text: camera, humming to himself, dancing like Fred Astaire. John
text: is happy. Sigrid seems more subdued. Marked contrast.
text: John addresses the camera.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Know what the hardware store manager
dialog: said? He said today was their most
dialog: successful book signing. Ever.
dialog: 63.
text: A question is asked. John listens.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: This was their first book signing?
dialog: Oh.
dialog: Think, John. Think.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, John K. Butzin set the bar
dialog: pretty high for the next writer, let
dialog: me tell ya. That's right: 1-2-3-4-5-
dialog: 6-7-8-9-10-11. Eleven books sold.
text: Sigrid clears her throat and flashes ten fingers in the air.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, that's right, Strudel. You
dialog: borrowed one at the store to help
dialog: prop open the side door. I forgot.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: Ja...
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Ten books. But there are now at
dialog: least ten homes in California where
dialog: folks have books by Melville.
dialog: Hemingway. Clancy. And now Butzin.
dialog: It's a humbling thought.
text: John goes back to his routine. Sigrid offers up a supportive
text: smile, but she doesn't seem quite as impressed.
scene_heading: 84 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DINING ROOM - NIGHT 84
text: Alan sits at the writers' table. Alone. Talks to the camera
text: in whispered tones.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I've made an important decision as
dialog: group leader. I've decided to ask
dialog: William to leave the group. Now it
dialog: has absolutely nothing to do with
dialog: that incident at our house. It has
dialog: nothing to do with the fact that I'm
text: now sleeping in the guest room. But
dialog: let's face it--the kid's a slacker.
dialog: No contribution to the group. Zero.
dialog: Zip. Nada. I'm sure he'll be fine
dialog: with it.
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: 85 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DINING ROOM - NIGHT 85
text: William kicks his CHAIR over. Alan, Colette, John, Henry and
text: Hannah sit calmly around the table. Henry and Hannah apart.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: There's no need to get so upset.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Fine. I was going to quit anyway.
dialog: Leave this bunch of losers.
text: William makes eye contact with Colette: You too? She looks
text: away: Sorry. Only fuels William more. He points to Alan.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Christ. You and your stupid recorder.
dialog: And your stupid ideas. And your stupid
dialog: character names.
text: William clenches his fist and pretends it's a microphone.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Name for character. Bobby Blow Me.
dialog: Gimme a break.
text: Alan sits stone-faced. William turns to John.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: And G.I. Joe over here with that
text: piece-of-crap, self-published tripe.
dialog: Who are you kidding?
text: Flustered, John starts to stand up. Alan grabs John's arm,
text: pulls him back down.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Just ignore him.
text: William continues on his rant with Colette.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: Colette, Colette, my pet. News Flash
dialog: for you: Oprah's not calling--unless
dialog: she needs a massage. Get real!
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Oprah? She's not on TV anymore.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I know that.
text: William turns his attention to Henry.
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: The great Henry O. Man, you got the
dialog: gift, bro'. But your head is up
dialog: your ass over poor, sweet, successful
dialog: Hannah here.
text: Hannah and Henry avoid looking at each other as William smiles
dialog: at Hannah.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Hannah. Hannah. Hannah. We could
dialog: have been so hot together. I'm just
dialog: as good a writer as you are, but you
dialog: sure look better in a skirt --
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (Voice rising)
dialog: That's enough.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I don't need any of you. I don't
dialog: need any of your pointless, pedestrian
dialog: feedback. I'm a writer.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You've got goddamn three pages.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: They're a great three pages! You
dialog: just don't appreciate my dedication.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: You're a pretend writer, William.
text: Silence. William is surprised that Hannah speaks out.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: She's right. You act the part. You
dialog: like the lifestyle. You hit on women.
dialog: You quote Bukowski. But Bukowski did
dialog: the work. Each and every day he
dialog: wrote. That's your problem, William.
dialog: You don't do the work.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: I don't do the work? Man, that sounds
dialog: frickin' hilarious coming from you.
dialog: When's the last time you wrote
dialog: anything?
text: That hits a nerve. William and Henry stare each other down.
text: Enough. William flips off the group with his middle finger.
text: Mumbling, grumbling under his breath, he starts to leave.
text: Pauses at the WRITERS AT WORK sign. Picks it up.
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Not the sign!
text: Too late. William RIPS it in two. And a second time for
text: good measure. Throwing the pieces on the ground. Stomps out
text: of the house, slamming the front door.
text: The group turns quiet for a long beat. Everyone calming down.
text: Alan takes control again -- eyes still darting over to what's
text: left of his beloved sign.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Let's move on. Next item. Richard
dialog: Benedict is going to be doing a
dialog: signing at Wordsmith next week.
text: Alan looks directly at Henry.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Who wants to go?
scene_heading: 86 INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY 86
dialog: Large bookstore. Long line. Why? Because Richard Benedict
text: is in the building, doing a signing of his new novel The
dialog: Pineapple Man.
text: Hannah, Henry, Alan, and Colette stand in line together,
text: waiting. Colette is holding one copy of the BOOK. Hannah
dialog: has one. Henry has one.
text: Alan reaches inside his coat pocket for his RECORDER. Snaps
dialog: it on.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Idea for novel. Jealous husband
text: murders his tramp-of-a-wife and buries
text: her chopped-up body in the back yard.
text: Colette pretends not to hear. Line inches forward. Alan cranes
text: his neck to see what's happening.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (To himself)
dialog: Mr. Benedict, I just want to thank
dialog: you. No. You've inspired my writing--
dialog: No. Hi. I'm Henry. I just think you're
dialog: the greatest...
text: Colette puts a friendly hand on Henry's shoulder.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Let me tell you something, Henry.
dialog: 67.
text: Henry looks to her, expecting words of comfort.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: One day, I'll have a signing like
dialog: this.
text: Colette looks around, already imagining the event.
scene_heading: 87 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 87
text: John is bent over his PRINTER, jiggling the front end, trying
text: to open it. Tapping it on the side. No luck.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Nope. Not going to see Richard
dialog: whatever-his-name-is. John K.
dialog: Butzin, author, doesn't need to stand
dialog: in line anymore. No, sir. This soon-
dialog: to-be best-selling writer is spending
dialog: every minute, every dollar, on
text: promoting Roaring Lion.
text: Try as he might, John can't open up his printer. Sigrid
text: appears. Leans in. Effortlessly opens up the printer. Takes
text: the cartridge from John. Snaps it in. Shuts the lid. Done.
text: John grunts his thanks.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: Strudel, check my sales ranking again.
text: Sigrid steps to the computer and taps a couple keys. Stares
text: at the screen.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: (Reading out loud)
dialog: 1,644,973 . . .
text: Not quite the hoped-for response. Turns quiet inside the
text: mobile home. John clears his throat.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Wow. Look how far I've moved up
dialog: already.
text: Sigrid types again. Reads off the screen.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: John Grisham. 12.
text: Forget about John for the moment. Watch Sigrid as her eyes
text: dart around--from the screen, to John in the chair, out the
text: window. Back again. This is the moment. Sigrid gets it
dialog: now: John K. Butzin is not the author he pretends to be.
text: Very quiet in the mobile home.
dialog: 68.
scene_heading: 88 INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY 88
text: The AUTHOR (50's) sits at the signing table, obliging, but
text: not outgoing, grunting hello to people and smiling (somewhat)
text: for photos as he signs BOOKS. He is not here by choice today.
scene_heading: CAPTION: RICHARD BENEDICT
text: The young CLERK hovers nearby, assisting with books and trying
dialog: to keep the line moving.
text: Henry is first, followed by Alan and Colette, then Hannah.
text: Henry clutches his copy. Good luck trying to rip it from
text: his hands. The four get nearer to Benedict.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: He's older than I thought.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I've never seen him before.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (To himself)
dialog: Pleasure to meet you. No. Honor to
dialog: meet you. He She They is my favorite
dialog: novel.
text: Closer...Closer...Closer they get to the table. Richard signs
text: away. Henry seems transfixed by him. Now it's his turn to
dialog: have his book signed.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Next, please.
text: The moment has arrived. Henry stands directly in front of
text: Richard Benedict. Henry seems nervous. Too nervous to speak.
text: Richard looks up and for the slightest, milli-second their
text: eyes meet.
text: At that exact moment, RICHARD'S CELL PHONE GOES OFF. He
dialog: answers.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (On phone)
dialog: What?!
text: Henry stands there, unable to move, staring at Richard while
text: he speaks on the phone.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (To Henry)
dialog: Sir?
text: No response. Alan nudges Henry. No good.
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: CLERK (CONT'D)
dialog: Sir? We need to keep the line moving.
dialog: Sir?
text: Alan intervenes. He takes Henry's copy of the novel and slides
text: it over to Benedict. Benedict scribbles his name quickly and
text: slides it back with no eye contact, yelling on the phone.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (On phone)
dialog: Absolutely not! I'll sue that bastard
dialog: first...
text: Alan grabs the book and gives it back to Henry, nudging him
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: We need to move, Henry.
text: Alan and Colette slide their book over to Richard.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Hi there.
text: Richard looks up at her for a split second and decides to
text: ignore her. Another scribbled signature as he remains on
dialog: the phone.
text: Colette takes the book, trying not to look hurt. Alan grabs
text: Henry and they leave the area. Hannah is next up. She puts
text: her book down on the table.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: (On phone)
dialog: Damn it! That simply won't--
text: Richard glances up. Sees Hannah standing there. He stops in
text: mid-sentence. Smiles.
speaker_heading: RICHARD (CONT'D)
dialog: Hi.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Hello.
text: Richard hangs up the phone.
text: The two start chatting. Camera goes over to the shell-shocked
text: Henry, still clutching his book, watching as Hannah and
text: Richard carry on. Henry is so disconcerted by what he sees
text: that he fails to notice Eudora, still with purple hair and
text: matching glasses, the very next person in line behind Hannah,
text: waving at him.
dialog: 70.
scene_heading: 89 EXT. BOOKSTORE - DAY 89
text: Outside bookstore. After the signing. Alan and Colette walk
text: ahead. Henry and Hannah follow. Colette, Henry and Hannah
dialog: each carry book bags.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: So what did he say?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Who!?!? Richard Benedict. You know,
text: the guy who just held up the line
dialog: for five minutes talking to you?
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (Over his shoulder)
text: Ten. It was closer to ten minutes.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I don't know. We just talked.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: He sure liked you.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: We just talked, Henry. I mentioned
dialog: my book. He started asking about it.
dialog: Writer to writer. No big deal.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: No big deal? Talking to Richard
dialog: Benedict. No big deal!
text: Colette keeps walking. Biting her lip. Very quiet.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: You gave him your phone number.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Look, a guy like that reads more
dialog: books in a week than I ever have.
dialog: Why would he bother call--
text: Just then, Hannah's iPhone goes off. She answers. The other
text: three stop in their tracks.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: (On telephone)
dialog: Hello? Who? Richard? Oh. Richard.
dialog: Hi.
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Unbelievable.
text: Henry inches closer to Hannah, forcing Hannah to move back,
text: creating an uneasy dance between the two. She turns her
text: back on Henry.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (On telephone)
dialog: Coffee? Oh, God. I don't know,
dialog: Richard. I really appreciate the
dialog: invitation, but--
text: She listens. Her face is anguished. Finally --
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: This isn't a good time. Call me later.
dialog: Yes. I'll think about it. Yes. Bye.
text: Hannah turns off her phone. Alan, Colette, Henry stand there,
text: gaping jaws wide open.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Amazing.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: This isn't fair. This just isn't
dialog: fair.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: First, you get an agent. Then you
dialog: sell your book. Then the big movie
dialog: deal.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Please don't.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: No. This isn't fair. And now Richard
dialog: Benedict wants to have coffee with
dialog: you? All this is happening to you.
dialog: And only you. Isn't there anything --
dialog: I don't know--some kind of cosmic
dialog: creative crumb for the rest of us to
dialog: nibble on?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I don't like what you're suggesting,
dialog: Colette. You know how hard I work.
dialog: How devoted I am. And I have been
dialog: totally supportive of your writing.
dialog: I've encouraged you all along.
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: You wouldn't introduce me to your
dialog: agent.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Brian didn't want to meet you. I
dialog: asked.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Hannah has earned her success.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Butt out Mr. Idea Man.
speaker_heading: ALAN
text: Hannah is a writer. She devotes
dialog: herself one hundred percent to
dialog: writing. Not one hundred percent to
dialog: sleeping with writers.
text: Henry steps in. Finally.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Why don't you two just go on ahead?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: It's not fair that she be the only
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Go.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: C'mon. Let's go.
text: Colette marches off in a huff; Alan in pursuit. She looks
text: over her shoulder, shouting back at Hannah.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: 13! 13! 13! 13!
scene_heading: 90 EXT. CITY BENCH - DAY 90
text: Henry and Hannah sit on opposite ends of the bench. Hannah
text: looks distraught, lost in thought, simmering.
text: Henry knows to keep his distance. Waits.
scene_heading: 91 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 91
text: Colette looks frazzled. Pondering. Plotting. She finally
text: notices the camera.
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I know. I'm a shit for exploding at
dialog: Hannah, aren't I?
text: Runs her hands through her hair.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Poor, sweet, superstitious, everybody-
dialog: loves-Hannah.
text: Starts massaging forehead--trying to reduce stress.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: If she can succeed, so can I. "We
dialog: were born to succeed, not to fail."
dialog: Hears a question O.S.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Who said that? I don't know.
dialog: Somebody famous. Somebody with an
dialog: agent.
dialog: Now come the deep breaths. More stress control.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: I can't accomplish anything without
dialog: an agent. They won't come to me.
dialog: Fine. I'll go to them. I'll make it
dialog: happen.
scene_heading: 92 EXT. CITY BENCH - DAY 92
text: Hannah and Henry remain on the bench. Hannah takes a breath
text: and finally breaks her silence.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Your writer's block?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: It's because your focus is always on
dialog: everything else. Gatsby. Fitzgerald.
dialog: Me.
text: Whoa. Henry isn't about to argue.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Listen to me, Henry Obert. Your
dialog: writing must come first. Take this
dialog: passion you have. Put it on the page.
dialog: Forget everything else. All you're
dialog: doing is wasting...
dialog: 74.
text: Hannah continues the lecture, speaking from the heart.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: She's right. But I know what's really
dialog: happening here. Hannah's telling me
dialog: she has every intention of talking
dialog: to Richard Benedict. She has every
dialog: intention of seeing him.
scene_heading: 93 INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY 93
text: There. On the discount table up by the cash register lies a
text: pile of Roaring Lion books under another handmade SIGN: 50%
text: OFF! Sigrid stares at the pile of unwanted books in quiet
text: contemplation. Heavy sigh.
text: Sigrid glances up. Her boss watches her from the cash
text: register with a certain longing. He smiles. Sigrid returns
text: the smile.
text: Back to business. Sigrid pulls a wad of DOLLAR BILLS from
text: her hip pocket. Counts quickly. Then picks up John's books,
dialog: one by one.
scene_heading: 94 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 94
text: John looks like the proverbial kid in a candy store. In
text: total shock as he clutches a handful of TWENTIES.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Wow! All the books sold at the
dialog: hardware store?
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: Ja. Every one.
text: John claps his hands together. There is a certain spring in
text: his feet.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Didn't I tell you, Strudel? Write
dialog: it and they will read.
text: John can't contain his enthusiasm as he paces the mobile
text: home, his mind racing. Sigrid is more composed.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: Get some more copies down there.
dialog: Maybe do another signing. Yeah.
dialog: No. Time for a real tour. Fresno.
dialog: Bakersfield. Stockton. Call a few
dialog: bookstores. Let 'em know John K.
text: Butzin is coming. Lock and load.
dialog: 75.
text: And he's off, leaving the frame, already planning his big
text: adventure, leaving Sigrid alone.
text: Facing the camera, she nods slightly. Then offers us a small
dialog: wave.
speaker_heading: SIGRID
dialog: Bye. Bye.
scene_heading: 95 INT. LOIS PIPER AGENCY - DAY 95
text: The small reception area for The Lois Piper Agency. Tastefully
text: decorated. PHONES constantly chirping.
text: The young MALE ASSISTANT behind the counter, obviously paid
text: to be patient, points to the framed sign on the counter, in
text: large letters: NO UNSOLICITED MANUSCRIPTS WILL BE ACCEPTED.
text: Colette and Dr. Xiroman will not be deterred. She holds a
text: thick MANILA ENVELOPE.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I have to see Ms. Piper. We just
dialog: need five minutes. 1-2-3-4-5 minutes
dialog: of her time.
text: The assistant points back to the sign.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Can you just please stick your head
text: in her office, tell her that Colette
dialog: Mooney is here. I know she's busy,
dialog: but she'll certainly want to see my
dialog: manuscript.
text: The assistant ignores her.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: (Flustered)
dialog: I'm a graduate of Mills College.
text: Behind them, coming from the inner office, we hear LOIS PIPER
text: YELLING.
speaker_heading: LOIS (O.S.)
dialog: If I have to read one more vampire
dialog: story, I swear I'll drive a stake
dialog: through my own goddamn heart.
text: MANUSCRIPT comes flying out of her office. Loose pages
text: splatter everywhere in the main office. Lois Piper quickly
text: follows. Older. Tired. Needs a drink. Now.
scene_heading: CAPTION: LOIS PIPER
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Vampires! Zombies! Harry Potter
dialog: knock-offs! People writing about
dialog: their dogs! Just shoot me now!
text: It is at that moment when Lois first notices the camera.
text: Caught off-guard. What the hell??? Colette cranes her neck
text: over the assistant.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Ms. Piper? Ms. Piper?
text: Lois turns her attention to Colette. Who are you? Then--
text: magically--Lois changes. A big smile replaces the scowl.
text: She marches towards Colette, who is clearly not expecting a
text: warm reception.
text: Lois walks right past Colette and instead warmly shakes hands
dialog: with Dr. Xiroman.
speaker_heading: LOIS
dialog: Dr. Xiroman. I can't believe you're
dialog: here. How lovely to see you again.
text: Dr. Xiroman nods his head in greeting.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Just in the neighborhood? Please
dialog: come in for a minute.
text: Another glance at the camera. Then, taking Dr. Xiroman by
text: the elbow, Lois guides him back towards her office, completely
text: snubbing a bewildered Colette.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: My family talks about you all the
dialog: time. You were so helpful to my
dialog: sister. She's doing much better.
text: Colette stands there helplessly, watching her future walk
text: away. The assistant points in their direction: Get in there!
scene_heading: 96 INT. PIPER OFFICE - DAY 96
text: Lois plops down behind her desk. Stacks of MANUSCRIPTS cover
text: her desk. Dr. Xiroman sits quietly in one chair. Colette
text: sits next to him.
speaker_heading: LOIS
dialog: (Sighing; Distraught)
dialog: Look at my desk, Dr. Xiroman. Look
dialog: at all this. Do you know what it is?
dialog: Crap. It's all crap. Crap. Crap.
dialog: Crap. I hate my job. I hate my life.
dialog: 77.
dialog: Dr. Xiroman nods: I understand.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Know what I feel like doing?
text: She looks at the camera.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Come in closer. I want you to get
dialog: this. Closer. C'mon. More. Closer.
text: Satisfied, Lois takes her free hand and SHOVES ALL THE
text: MANUSCRIPTS off her desk, sending them flying on the floor.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Wheeeeee!
text: Colette looks aghast. Lois seems free at last.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: That was so...liberating. I haven't
dialog: felt this good since that night in
dialog: Paris with Salman Rushdie.
text: Lois growls like a tiger at the memory.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: I envy you, Dr. Xiroman. Know that?
dialog: Look at your life. Your work. You
dialog: helped my sister. You've helped so
dialog: many people. You have such a positive
dialog: message to share.
text: The camera picks up on Lois as the light goes on, the wheels
text: start turning in her head.
speaker_heading: LOIS (CONT'D)
dialog: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a
text: minute. A positive message to share.
dialog: Helping people. That's it!
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: (Confused)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: LOIS
dialog: Of course. Dr. Xiroman, you should
dialog: write a book. This could be a whole
dialog: series.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: But--
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: LOIS
dialog: --It's perfect! Television. Your
dialog: own blog. Personal appearances.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: But--
text: Dr. Xiroman has no reaction. Colette can't believe what she
dialog: is hearing.
speaker_heading: LOIS
dialog: Getting from Xiro to One by Doctor
dialog: Xiroman. Oh, I like that.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: But--
speaker_heading: LOIS
dialog: --In fact, as long as you're here
dialog: today, why don't we just get you
dialog: under contract? I know just who to
dialog: call in New York.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: But--But. What about me?
text: Lois shoots her a look: What about you? Colette backs down--
text: not wanting to spoil the moment. Lois yells for her assistant.
text: Finally a slight smile crosses Dr. Xiroman's face.
scene_heading: 97 INT. PIPER OFFICE - DAY 97
text: Dr. Xiroman beams as he signs the standard agency contract
text: so quickly drawn up for him. Lois and her Assistant appear
text: equally excited.
text: COLETTE fidgets off to the side. Then Lois hands her the pen
text: and points her towards the contract.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (V.O.)
dialog: Co-Authors. Actually I'll be listed
dialog: as junior author. It's not exactly
dialog: what I wanted, but at least now I
dialog: finally have an agent. And a book
dialog: deal.
scene_heading: 98 INT. PIPER OFFICE - DAY 98
text: Lois and the Assistant wave goodbye as Colette and Dr.
text: Xiroman leave.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (V.O.)
dialog: My novel will have to wait a while
dialog: longer. Nyet, Colette. Not Yet. But
dialog: soon.
dialog: 79.
scene_heading: 99 EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - NIGHT 99
text: Henry delivers another pizza. Pockets the money as he walks
text: back to his car, whistling. Checks his delivery list. Stares
text: at the next address in sudden disbelief.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Shit!
scene_heading: 100 EXT. RICHARD BENEDICT'S HOUSE - NIGHT 100
text: Henry stands in the doorway, glumly clutching the PIZZA BOX.
text: Hesitates. Finally rings doorbell. Pause. Followed by LOUD
text: LAUGHTER. Door swings open. Richard stands there, wearing
text: only his jeans. His hair is a mess.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: You're late, Pizza Boy.
text: Richard finally notices the camera.
speaker_heading: RICHARD (CONT'D)
dialog: What the --
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (Overlapping)
dialog: They're with me. Your total comes to
dialog: nineteen dollars and sixty-five cents.
text: Richard pulls a crumpled twenty from his jean pocket. He
text: hands it to Henry. Then reconsiders, calling inside.
speaker_heading: RICHARD
dialog: Babe, I need a single.
dialog: No response.
speaker_heading: RICHARD (CONT'D)
dialog: C'mon, babe. Got a dollar for Pizza
dialog: Boy?
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE
dialog: Coming!
text: Richard gives a last glance to the camera. He's got better
text: things to do. Off he goes.
text: Short beat. Hannah comes to the door wearing Richard's shirt
text: and little else, carrying a single dollar bill.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Here you--
text: Her words freeze up as she recognizes Henry. Henry and Hannah
text: lock eyes for a long beat. Poor kid. This is the moment.
dialog: 80.
text: Reality smacks him in the face. Hard.
text: Hannah starts to hand Henry the money. He puts his hands up:
text: No thanks. Hannah doesn't press. Henry can't hold back any
dialog: longer.
speaker_heading: HENRY
text: No distractions. The writing comes
dialog: first.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: He's making me a better writer.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Yeah. I bet he is.
text: Quietly seething, Henry nods towards the camera.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: How much better are you, Hannah?
dialog: Show us. Who wrote Slaughterhouse
dialog: Five? D'ya know?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Henry. Don't.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: No, No. This could be quite
dialog: educational. How about Native Son?
dialog: Catch-22?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Why isn't it enough that I'm your
dialog: friend?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Lord of the Flies? Portnoy's
dialog: Complaint? Do you know any author?
dialog: Harry Potter--You must know Harry
dialog: Potter.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Why isn't it enough that I believe
dialog: in your writing?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: --Sophie's Choice? Anything published
dialog: in the English language.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: --That I believe in you?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You didn't read Gatsby, did you?
dialog: Never even opened it, I bet.
dialog: 81.
dialog: Enough.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I'm not--
text: She hesitates. Not for long.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm not the one delivering pizzas
dialog: for a living.
dialog: Score one for Hannah.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm not the one wasting my talent.
dialog: You've read all those books, sure,
dialog: but my book is being published. Is
dialog: yours?
text: Henry has no comeback. Hannah stares him down. The dollar
text: bill drops from her hand on to the ground. She retreats
text: back inside the house, firmly closing the front door, leaving
dialog: Henry alone.
text: Only then do we notice the number of the house: 4441.
scene_heading: 101 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 101
dialog: We've never seen Henry like this. He rips down all his Richard
text: Benedict photos from the wall. Collects all his Benedict
text: books. Stuffs everything in a CARDBOARD BOX. Next he turns
text: his attention to all the rejection letters on the wall. Lot
text: of rejection. Gives them a long look. Then he snaps up the
text: photo of Hannah from near his computer. He takes the photo
text: and tacks it dead center in the middle of all his rejection
dialog: letters.
text: Henry stares at the photo, oblivious to the camera, consumed
text: by Hannah's radiant smile. His latest, and most painful,
text: rejection. It's over.
text: Henry understands what must be done. He goes over to his
text: desk. Sits down at his laptop. One last glance over at
text: Hannah's photo as he turns the computer on.
text: He contemplates for a second. Then begins typing.
scene_heading: 102 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 102
text: Sigrid's Wall of America has been taken down. A few nail
text: holes and tape marks are all that remain--except for the
text: single PHOTO of John still hanging in the center.
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: 103 EXT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 103
text: Back to the two lawn chairs--with one prime difference.
text: Sigrid's chair is empty. John sits by himself. This is a
text: softer, more reflective, John talking to the camera.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Well, Strudel shipped out.
text: A side glance to the empty chair.
speaker_heading: JOHN (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh, she wanted to stay, but... I
dialog: didn't have time for a relationship.
dialog: Not with my book selling like it is.
dialog: She, well, she became collateral
dialog: damage. Hated to end it. What a
dialog: dame. I mean...Sigrid. She had the
dialog: smarts of my first wife. The body
dialog: of my second wife. Thank god she
dialog: wasn't anything like my third wife.
dialog: I did the right thing. Yes, sir.
text: Good acting, John. He looks back to the empty chair. Can't
text: avoid reaching over and giving the arm rest a little love
dialog: tap.
scene_heading: 104 INT. JOHN'S MOBILE HOME - DAY 104
text: John packs COPIES OF HIS BOOK ever-so-carefully into an old
text: standard issue military DUFFEL BAG.
speaker_heading: JOHN (V.O.)
dialog: What matters now is that the Roaring
text: Lion book tour is about to begin.
dialog: Can't wait to hit the road and meet
dialog: the good people of this nation.
dialog: Good American people.
text: John gazes over at his photo on the wall. Salutes himself.
scene_heading: 105 INT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE -- DINING ROOM - NIGHT 105
text: Meeting of the writing group. Not yet started. John, Alan,
text: and Hannah sit around the table. No refreshments being
text: served. No small talk. Everyone is quiet.
text: Hannah looks fantastic. More makeup. Nicer clothes. Fidgets
text: in her chair. Seems anxious. Stares at her new KINDLE.
text: FRONT DOOR opens and closes. FOOTSTEPS approaching. It's
text: Henry. Looks determined. Man on a mission. Carries a satchel.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Sorry I'm late.
dialog: 83.
text: John grunts something. Hannah remains quiet. Avoids eye
text: contact with Henry. Henry reaches into his satchel and pulls
text: out stapled, typed pages. Multiple copies. Hands one to
text: each of the three group members. Puts another down where
dialog: Colette will sit.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Wutch you got here, Obert?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: New pages. I'm ready to read.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Way to go, Henry.
text: Even Hannah looks surprised. She and Alan thumb through their
text: copies. John sniffs at the front page. Henry slides in across
text: from Hannah. Looks satisfied. FRONT DOOR opens again. MORE
text: FOOTSTEPS. Colette arrives with Dr. Xiroman in tow. Xiroman?
text: The others exchange puzzled glances.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Christ. What's he doing here?
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I've invited Doctor Xiroman to join
dialog: our writing group.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: You must be joking, Colette.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I am not joking. And, as a matter
dialog: of fact, I'll have all of you know
dialog: that the doctor and I are soon to be
dialog: published authors. We've signed with
dialog: The Lois Piper Agency.
text: Colette stands there, waiting for the applause and
text: congratulations, but all she receives is stunned silence.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You can't do this.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Why not? With William gone, we have
text: an opening.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Henry's right. We all have to agree
dialog: on new members.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: I don't care about your silly rules.
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: I am the leader of the group--
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: --Oh, please. Alan.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: (Voice rising)
dialog: I am the leader of the group.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: And Dr. Xiroman is my co-author and
dialog: he is joining "the group."
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: He is not.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: He is.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Is not.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Is.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Is n--
text: Hannah can't take it any longer. She throws up her hands.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Yelling)
dialog: STOP!
text: The room turns quiet. All eyes on Hannah. She composes
dialog: herself.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm leaving.
text: Surprise all around. Hannah avoids looking at Henry.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: It's time. Richard is going to mentor
dialog: me. Today's the 22nd. Two plus two
dialog: equals four and we all know four's...
text: Her voice trails off. Why bother explaining. Just do it.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Anyway, I'm quitting.
text: There. She said it. Hannah looks so relieved. She's done.
text: Indignant, Colette stares her up and down.
dialog: 85.
text: Points to Dr. Xiroman.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Well, in this case one plus one equals
dialog: one very successful writing team. I
dialog: can't believe you, Hannah. You're
dialog: doing this just to upstage our news
dialog: about landing an agent.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Stop it...
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: No, this is what it's all about.
dialog: The spotlight always has to be on
dialog: Little Miss Sunshine. Her agent. Her
dialog: book deal. Her movie deal.
text: John shoots to his feet.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: News flash for you all. John K.
dialog: Butzin is also saying Sayonara.
dialog: Heading off on my international book
dialog: tour.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: International?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Damn straight. Tijuana.
dialog: (Beat)
dialog: I'm done with you pussies.
text: John snatches up his folder and marches out of the house.
text: Silence. Colette starts to sit down at the table--motions
text: for Xiroman to join her. Final straw for Alan. Stares
text: directly at Colette.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Get out. Now.
text: Colette can't believe what she's hearing.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: As the leader of this writing group,
dialog: I've determined your actions are
dialog: contrary to our stated purpose. Get
dialog: out.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: You can't kick me out. I live here.
text: She's right. Alan considers his options.
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Fine. Then go to your room.
text: Points to Xiroman.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: And take him with you. Won't be the
dialog: first guy.
text: Alan means business. Colette stands up straight. Gathers
dialog: up her materials.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: We'll certainly have plenty to discuss
dialog: in therapy.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Go by yourself. I'm done.
speaker_heading: COLETTE
dialog: Oh. Just like always--Alan finishes
dialog: first.
text: She grabs Dr. Xiroman's arm.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Come, Dr. Xiroman. I'm looking forward
text: to working with a real doctor. On
dialog: our new book.
text: Colette and Dr. Xiroman disappear. Frustrated, Alan takes a
text: deep breath. Reaches inside his coat pocket for his recorder.
dialog: Turns it on.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: Idea for novel.
text: Alan hesitates. Thinks for a second. Turns off the recorder.
text: Slides it across the table to Henry.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Here. Take it. Maybe you can use
dialog: some of my ideas in your novel.
text: Alan flashes a "thumbs up" sign to Henry and to Hannah. He
text: starts to leave, but remembers the camera.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: (To camera)
dialog: This was supposed to be a reality
dialog: series.
text: That's off his chest. Alan leaves Henry and Hannah alone at
text: the table. Awkward silence.
dialog: 87.
text: He stands up. Calmly puts his typed pages back in his
text: satchel. Leaves Alan's recorder on the table, walks away
text: without looking back.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Henry . . .
dialog: Don't waste your breath. He's gone.
scene_heading: 106 INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY 106
dialog: Hannah's book release party. Great turnout. Her professional
text: PHOTO adorns a POSTER announcing the publication of Sleeping
text: on the Moon. Boy, Hannah looks terrific in that photo.
text: Richard hovers around the makeshift bar, drink in hand.
text: Maureen, looking radiant, accepts the congratulations of
text: well-wishers. TABLE prominently centered has piles of Hannah's
text: novel, waiting to be signed.
text: Hannah talks to the camera, looking especially radiant. This
text: is her day and she is more than ready for her close-up.
dialog: Totally different in wardrobe and appearance.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Exciting, isn't it? I'm so nervous.
dialog: I don't know half these people. Most
text: of them are Richard's friends.
text: Hannah waves to Richard. He waves back. Hannah glances around
text: the room, as if looking for someone in particular.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Nobody's showed up from my old writing
dialog: group. Not one. Probably shouldn't
dialog: be surprised. Haven't really heard
dialog: from anyone in months.
text: She is asked a question.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Favorite writer? You keep asking me
dialog: that. Too funny. Sorry. Still can't
dialog: think of one.
scene_heading: 107 INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY 107
text: Hannah sits behind the table, signing books. Maureen stands
text: behind her helping to orchestrate the line of people.
text: Hannah acts very gracious. Signing a book, smiling and
text: chatting up the guests. She seems at ease. Everything is
text: going her way. She looks past the line. Her eyes light up
text: and she jumps to her feet.
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh my God!
text: Hannah bolts from the table, cuts through the line and finds
text: Henry standing alone.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Hi, Hannah.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Henry. Ohhhhh. Thank you. Thank
dialog: you. Thank you so much for coming.
text: Hannah throws her arms around Henry, giving him a long
text: heartfelt hug, almost smothering the poor guy--not that he
text: complains. She lets go and gives Henry a friendly once-over.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: You're the only one from the group
dialog: who showed up.
text: Still awkward for them to be around each other.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I can't believe you remembered my
dialog: signing.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Well, pretty hard to miss that article
dialog: about you in People magazine. Just
dialog: wanted to say hi. And congratulations.
text: Maureen comes up behind Hannah. Beams at Henry, and waves.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Hello, Henry.
dialog: (To Hannah)
dialog: Hannah, come back. Your public awaits.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Go on. They need you.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Please stay.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Can't. Sorry.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Yeah. Hot date. You know. Can't keep
text: her waiting. A flight attendant.
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (Buying the obvious
dialog: lie)
dialog: A flight attendant?
text: Henry nods.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Well, then. Guess you can't stay.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Sorry.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: One sec. Wait here.
text: Hannah runs back to the signing table, pulls out a book and
text: scribbles something inside. She brings the book back over to
dialog: Henry.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: This is for you.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (Protesting)
dialog: Hannah . . .
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Take it.
text: Henry accepts the book. Hannah gives him another long hug.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Do you want to say hello to Richard?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: No. No, thanks.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: C'mon. It will take just a minute.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I can't. Really.
speaker_heading: MAUREEN
dialog: Dear, sweet Hannah. Please!
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Just say hi.
text: Henry tries to back away. Hannah leans forward, grabs his
text: hand and tugs him in the other direction.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: I've really got to --
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh, c'mon. You'll --
text: Then -- BAM, Henry, not looking where he's going, slams into
text: Richard accidentally, spilling Richard's drink all over the
text: author. Horrified looks all around.
scene_heading: 108 EXT. OUTSIDE BOOKSTORE - DAY 108
text: Outside the bookstore, Henry stands on the sidewalk, talking
text: to the camera as he clutches Hannah's book.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Well, I did it. I showed up to
dialog: Hannah's signing. I congratulated
dialog: her. I supported her, writer to
dialog: writer. And I finally got introduced
dialog: to Richard Benedict--formally. Sort
dialog: of.
text: Henry opens up his copy of Hannah's novel. He turns quiet,
text: obviously moved. He holds the book up for the camera to
dialog: see.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Look. Hannah dedicated her novel to
dialog: me. Just like she promised.
text: Right beneath the printed dedication For Henry Obert, Hannah
dialog: has written, For Henry, My Forever Friend xoxoxo Hannah.
text: Henry studies the book for a second. Snaps it shut.
scene_heading: 109 INT. KELLER OFFICE - DAY 109
text: Literary agent David Keller being interviewed for the camera
text: in his office. Stacks of MANUSCRIPTS on his desk. David
text: pulls one out.
speaker_heading: DAVID
dialog: This is why I love LA. True story.
dialog: This guy delivers a pizza to my house
dialog: one night. Then the very next week,
dialog: my wife has someone come in and clean
dialog: the carpets. Guess what? Same guy.
dialog: Small world, isn't it? So we get
dialog: talking. He tells me his name's
dialog: Henry. He's a writer. He's just
dialog: finished a manuscript. Offers us a
dialog: discount on the carpets if I'll read
dialog: ten pages. I like that thinking.
dialog: So I read ten pages. Wow. I want to
dialog: read ten more. Before I know it,
dialog: I've read the entire book.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: DAVID (CONT'D)
dialog: Just loved it. Fresh voice.
dialog: Interesting characters. And that
dialog: ending.
text: David thumbs through the manuscript.
speaker_heading: DAVID (CONT'D)
text: The washed-up, impotent novelist
text: getting gunned down by Scott, the
text: jealous, underemployed, pizza delivery
dialog: man. This kid nailed it. It's on the
dialog: page, know what I mean? So I intend
dialog: to sign Mr. Henry Obert and get Pizza
dialog: to Go out there. I predict a best
text: seller. Probably a movie, too.
dialog: I'll call him with the good news. Or
dialog: maybe I'll just order a pizza.
scene_heading: 110 INT. HENRY'S APARTMENT - DAY 110
text: Henry taking down the rejection letters from his walls and
text: packing them in a cardboard BOX.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: David Keller did call me. One week
dialog: later, he sold Pizza to Go to a New
dialog: York publisher. They decided to
dialog: rename it A Slice of LA. I did it.
dialog: I sold my novel.
text: Henry puts the last of the rejection letters away. Finally,
text: he picks up a FRAMED PHOTO. INSERT shows the six members of
text: the writing group from happier times--the photo snapped in
text: the restaurant. Full of hope and promise.
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: I miss the Tuesday night group.
dialog: They made me a better writer. They
dialog: taught me how to handle rejection.
text: Henry lingers on the photo before packing it away, as well.
scene_heading: 111 INT. RESTAURANT #2 - DAY 111
text: Mostly empty. Henry sits at a booth, alone, a new copy of
text: Gatsby in his hands. He talks to the camera. CUP OF COFFEE
text: in front of him.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Hannah was right. The writing must
dialog: always come first. Everything else
dialog: waits. Everything. That's what I
dialog: did finally. Finished my novel.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Sold it. Now? Now I'm open. Ready
dialog: for whatever--
text: WAITRESS stops by the table, refilling Henry's cup. Then
text: setting the pot on the table, she reaches over and snatches
dialog: the copy of Gatsby.
text: Surprised, Henry glances up.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: --happens next...
text: It's her again. That young waitress with purple streaks in
text: her hair and matching purple glasses thumbs through the book.
text: Henry finally checks out her name tag: Eudora.
text: Clutching the book, Eudora recites from memory:
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: Gatsby believed in the green light,
dialog: the orgiastic future that year by
text: year recedes before us. It eluded us
dialog: then, but that's no matter--
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: (Surprised)
dialog: --Tomorrow we will run faster, stretch
dialog: out our arms further...
text: Eudora nods. Henry is amazed.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: You know Fitzgerald?
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: Not intimately. He died here, you
dialog: know.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: December 21, 1940.
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: I go by there sometimes.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: The place on Hayworth.
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: Is that weird. That I do that?
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: No. No. Not at all.
text: Eudora smiles, glad for the positive reinforcement.
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: OK. Good. Because, you know, I don't
dialog: want people to think I'm weird.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Of course not. Do you write?
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: Kinda, sort of. But I'm thinking of
text: joining a writing group.
text: Henry bites his tongue. Eudora nods towards the camera.
speaker_heading: EUDORA (CONT'D)
dialog: So what's this? Some kind of reality
dialog: show, or something?
text: Henry smiles. The two continue their idle chatter.
speaker_heading: CARD: EPILOGUE
scene_heading: 112 EXT. MOBILE HOME PARK, PHOENIX -- DAY 112
scene_heading: Caption reads: PHOENIX, ARIZONA.
speaker_heading: JOHN (V.O.)
dialog: After a very successful book tour,
dialog: John K. Butzin heard the Grand Canyon
dialog: State calling. This is home now.
scene_heading: 113 EXT. MOBILE HOME PARK (ARIZONA) -- DAY 113
text: John's trailer. COSTUMED CHILDREN knock on the door while
text: holding their trick or treat bags.
speaker_heading: JOHN (V.O.)
dialog: Real God-fearing Americans live here.
dialog: Good people. Not those La La pussies.
text: John opens the front door.
speaker_heading: CHILDREN
dialog: Trick or Treat!
text: John responds by dropping a BOOK in the first bag.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Look at this treat you get. A copy
text: of Roaring Lion by John K. Butzin.
dialog: Happy Halloween.
text: The children are dumbfounded. John moves on to the next child.
dialog: 94.
scene_heading: 114 INT. RESTAURANT #2 - DAY 114
text: William is back at the counter, looking as scruffy as ever.
text: Off to the side stands a GEEKY KID, gripping a FLIP PHONE
text: aimed directly at William. William talks to our camera.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM
dialog: C'mon. Admit it. You missed me.
dialog: It wasn't as interesting once I left,
dialog: right?
text: He winks. The Kid doesn't move.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: I knew the group wouldn't last without
dialog: me. No way. Losers.
text: He nods towards his companion.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Him? Oh. It's my new project. A
dialog: reality TV show based on my life.
dialog: You know...women I meet...thoughts
dialog: that pop into my head. Kid follows
dialog: me all around. 24/7. Actually I got
dialog: the idea from you guys. Same concept--
dialog: just better characters.
text: A question is asked.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Which network? Um, well...it's
dialog: a...it's P-P-A...Pasadena Public
dialog: Access. Oh, people watch. Yeah.
dialog: We're on right after that pet psychic.
text: A waitress's HAND reaches in and refills William's coffee
text: cup. He likes what he sees.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Thanks, babe.
text: He looks over to Geeky Kid.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: Get a close-up on her. Nice and
dialog: tight.
dialog: William will never change.
speaker_heading: WILLIAM (CONT'D)
dialog: And, hey, Kid. Lend me five bucks.
dialog: I want to leave an extra special
dialog: tip.
dialog: 95.
scene_heading: 115 INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY (LOS ANGELES) -- DAY 115
text: TWO POSTERS ON EASEL in the hallway. First poster announcing:
speaker_heading: ALAN (V.O.)
dialog: After I sent Colette packing, I was
dialog: ready for a new chapter in my life...
scene_heading: SATURDAY'S ADULT EDUCATION CLASSES.
text: PUPPET MAKING meets in Room 22, and QUILTING is in Room 24.
text: WRITING 20/20 is in Room 26.
text: And DOG OBEDIENCE is out in the courtyard, but we already
text: know that--the loud sound of BARKING DOGS and PEOPLE YELLING
text: "SIT" is heard in the background.
text: Second poster is a new version of QUIET, PLEASE--WRITERS AT
speaker_heading: WORK.
speaker_heading: ALAN (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: I found it teaching Adult Ed. "Writing
dialog: 20/20" is the class. Helping writers
dialog: to see. Inspired by my new self-
dialog: published e-book of the same title.
scene_heading: 116 INT. SCHOOL CLASSROOM - DAY 116
text: STUDENTS scattered around the classroom. All adult. Ethnic
text: and demographic mix. Listening attentively. Taking notes.
text: The DOGS continue barking outside.
text: Alan stands in front of the class. Beaming. Excited, He CLAPS
dialog: his hands once.
speaker_heading: ALAN
dialog: OK. You've got ten seconds. Write
dialog: down the name of your character.
dialog: First name that pops into mind. C'mon.
dialog: Tell me your character.
text: Students think for a second. Start scribbling a name.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-9.5-9.75-10 seconds.
dialog: OK. Pass your names up front here.
dialog: Let's see what you came up with.
text: Students hand their papers forward. Alan starts collecting
dialog: them.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: The right name is so important for
dialog: your character. OK. What do we have?
dialog: 96.
text: He looks at the first piece of paper.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Here's one I haven't heard. Heywood
dialog: Ja-Jabloom???
text: That's not it. Alan tries again.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Or is it Jablom? Maybe Jablowme.
dialog: Heywood Jablowme?
text: Laughter and guffaws from the students. Alan looks puzzled.
speaker_heading: ALAN (CONT'D)
dialog: What's so funny? Heywood Jablowme?
dialog: Am I missing something? Heywood
dialog: Jablowme?
text: The students continue to laugh. Poor Alan.
scene_heading: 117 EXT. ALAN AND COLETTE'S HOUSE - DAY 117
text: Catch the FOR SALE sign posted on the front lawn.
scene_heading: 118 EXT. COLETTE'S GARDEN - DAY 118
text: Colette engages in intense meditation on her bench. The garden
text: around her is now dead.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (V.O.)
dialog: Dr. Xiroman and I wrote our book. It
dialog: actually did fairly well.
text: INSERT BOOK. Title in large letters: Getting from Xiro to
text: One by Dr. Xiroman in equally large letters. At the bottom
text: of the book, in very tiny letters, reads With Colette Mooney.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Dr. Phil turned us down. But we had
dialog: a lovely time on Anderson.
text: INSERT PHOTO of smiling Anderson Cooper.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: Anderson actually wanted us back,
dialog: but Dr. Xiroman and Lois Piper started
dialog: dating. They eloped to Vegas last
text: month. Off on a world cruise.
text: INSERT PHOTO of Dr. Xiroman and Lois being married in Vegas
speaker_heading: by ELVIS.
dialog: 97.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: So in less than a year, I've lost my
dialog: husband, my co-author, and my agent.
dialog: But I still have Nyet, Not Yet. And
dialog: I will find an agent to sell my novel.
dialog: Look. I bought an ad in the trades.
text: Colette reaches for her reading glasses and shares the ad
dialog: copy with us, reading aloud:
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: "The magic fingers that just typed
dialog: the publishing world's next best
dialog: selling novel are now waiting to
dialog: provide free massage to interested
dialog: literary agents. Experienced.
dialog: Sensitive. Discreet. Memorable. No
dialog: Junior Agents, please."
text: Looking quite pleased with herself, Colette lets the copy
text: fall away.
speaker_heading: COLETTE (CONT'D)
dialog: It's how I met my last husband. I
dialog: think it can work again. No worries.
dialog: After all, I am a graduate of --
text: Her iPhone starts playing music, signaling a phone call.
text: Colette smiles in knowing satisfaction--publication is just
dialog: a touch away
scene_heading: 119 EXT. MOVIE SET -- DAY 119
text: The MOVIE CREW, on location, scurries about, trying to line
dialog: up their next shot.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (V.O.)
dialog: Welcome to Sleeping on the Moon: The
dialog: Movie! It's so exciting!
scene_heading: 120 EXT. MOVIE SET -- DAY 120
text: Hannah, looking good, sits in a chair, a BOOK on her lap.
text: She is talking to the camera. CREW in the background.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Let's see. My book ended up on the
dialog: best sellers list. Stopping at Number
dialog: 13.
text: She crinkles her nose in obvious disappointment.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Then Richard left me.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm sure the two were connected. No
dialog: loss. Such an ego. But guess what?
dialog: I've gone back to school!
text: To underscore the point, she holds up a the book--it's The
dialog: Great Gatsby.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Look what I'm reading for class.
dialog: Isn't that pretty, you know, what do
dialog: they call it? What's that word?
text: She hears an answer.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Ironic. That's it. Pretty ironic.
dialog: But I'm going to get my degree.
dialog: Then I'll be smart. Really smart.
dialog: Short beat
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: You know how you kept asking me that
dialog: question. Who's my favorite writer?
dialog: Short beat.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Turns out I do have one. Mr. Henry
dialog: Obert. He's become a great writer.
dialog: A published author.
text: She smiles.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I knew him when.
text: She likes her answer. But then hesitates.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Probably shouldn't tell him I said
dialog: that, 'kay?
text: She winks.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Keep it between us.
dialog: Goodbye Hannah. Good luck.
dialog: 99.
scene_heading: 121 EXT. FITZGERALD/GRAHAM HOME -- HOLLYWOOD - DAY 121
speaker_heading: HENRY (V.O.)
dialog: Well, my novel finally came out.
dialog: Seems to be doing OK.
scene_heading: 122 EXT. FITZGERALD/GRAHAM HOME/SIDEWALK -- DAY 122
text: Henry looks more confident. More poised. Better clothes.
text: The frog has become the prince.
text: He glances back at the building.
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: You know Fitzgerald said that all
dialog: good writing is swimming under water
dialog: and holding your breath. He was right.
dialog: But after all I've been through, I
text: think I'm finally ready to exhale.
text: He looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: HENRY (CONT'D)
dialog: Oops. I'm late. Gotta go.
scene_heading: 123 EXT. BOOKSTORE -- DAY 123
text: SHOPPERS coming in and out of the store. POSTER in front
text: window announces book signing for Henry Obert, author of
dialog: Slice of LA.
text: Right next to BANNER announcing GOING OUT OF BUSINESS. And
text: next to the banner--a YOUNG MAN leans up against the wall,
text: waiting, passing time reading his KINDLE.
scene_heading: 124 INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY 124
text: We jump to the woman clutching FOUR COPIES of Henry's novel.
dialog: Wait a minute--we recognize those trendy glasses. It's Eudora,
text: a rather pregnant Eudora.
speaker_heading: EUDORA
dialog: (Laughing)
dialog: Yes, I'm totally busted. I'm buying
dialog: four copies of A Slice of LA. One
dialog: for each member of my writing group.
dialog: Also because I think Henry Wayne
dialog: Obert is the greatest new writer of
dialog: the decade! Sexiest, too!
text: Eudora is having way too much fun.
speaker_heading: EUDORA (CONT'D)
dialog: OK. So he's my husband. I'm biased.
dialog: But I still think the kid can write.
dialog: 100.
scene_heading: 125 INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY 125
text: Henry sits at the table in the bookstore, graciously and
text: happily signing copies of his book for the SHORT LINE OF
text: PEOPLE waiting.
text: This is his moment, the one that brought him all the way
text: from Illinois. He has arrived. As a person. As a writer.
text: Henry looks up. Eudora is nestled comfortably in a nearby
text: leather chair, reading away. She looks up.
text: They make eye contact. Her smile is all the encouragement
dialog: Henry needs. All that he will ever need.
text: He reaches for the next book to sign.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT:
dialog: 
