dialog: 
scene_heading: AUTUMN IN NEW YORK
dialog: Screenplay by
dialog: Allison Burnett
dialog: Shooting Draft
dialog: 2000
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- SEPTEMBER AFTERNOON
text: A COUPLE moves down a walkway, deep in subdued conversation.
text: All around them trees explode with autumn color. Birds sing.
text: Their path is dappled with leafy shadow.
text: To their left, on the sunny meadow, TEENAGERS throw saucers
text: and footballs, smoke cigarettes and joints, drink beer and
text: soda, savoring the waning hours of summer.
scene_heading: CLOSER ON THE COUPLE
text: He is WILLS KEANE, late 40's to early 50's, strikingly
text: handsome, impeccably dressed, and supremely poised. At first
text: glance he has the proud glow of a hedonist who in the war
text: against time has been the undisputed victor.
text: Only a closer look hints at the toll of battle. His shoulders
text: strain under the weight of so much repetition. His eyes are
text: touched by regret. The lines in his face reveal an emerging
text: disenchantment not so much with the world as with himself.
text: Walking at his side is a WOMAN, 30, attractive and bright.
text: Her name is unimportant because so many have come before her
dialog: and, if the past prevails, so many will come after.
text: She listens intently, as Wills finishes speaking --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: -- and I could have waited to tell
dialog: you, but I wanted to leave no room
dialog: for misunderstanding.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Well, you certainly didn't.
scene_heading: EXT. ANOTHER CENTRAL PARK WALKWAY -- LATER
text: Still talking quietly, they pass into a more secluded area
dialog: of the park--
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: No, I see how you could feel this
dialog: way. Of course I do. It's human. But
dialog: what I don't get is why you'd want
dialog: to announce it so quickly. I mean,
dialog: we just met. Feelings change. You
dialog: don't even know me.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Yes, I do.
text: She is amused by his confidence --
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Oh, really?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The minute I laid eyes on you. It's
dialog: the saddest thing about getting older.
dialog: You know people so quickly. I even
dialog: knew you'd end up hating me.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Well, you're wrong. I don't.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (with a weary smile)
dialog: Give it time.
text: She laughs. Then he stops. He hears something. She stops.
text: She hears it, too. It's a GIRL'S VOICE. He casually turns
text: and looks, squinting into the sun.
text: He takes a few steps and there, between trees, he sees TWO
text: DOZEN PEOPLE sitting on the grass and on folding chairs --
text: most are middle-aged or older with a distinctly intellectual-
text: bohemian look to them.
text: Standing and addressing them is CHARLOTTE FIELDING, 19, fair,
text: willowy, pale, lovely in an unconventional way. She wears an
text: eccentric hat and a vintage dress. Her bearing is upright,
text: her gaze warm and intelligent, her voice rich with emotion --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: -- and for weeks I sat by her bed
dialog: and cried. I told her I loved her
dialog: and I begged her not to leave me.
dialog: All I could think about was what I'd
dialog: lose if she died. And then one
dialog: night... she was in really bad pain...
dialog: I stopped thinking about myself for
dialog: a second and I thought about her.
dialog: (fighting tears)
dialog: I stopped crying. I said goodbye.
dialog: And in less than an hour Ella was
dialog: gone.
text: The woman whispers in Wills' ear --
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: It's so sad.
text: But Wills ignores her. He watches Charlotte with keen
text: interest, touched by the depth and sincerity of her emotion.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I really think it's possible to hold
dialog: a person back... cry them back...
dialog: from dying. That's what I did to
dialog: Ella and I'll never do it to anyone
dialog: else again.
dialog: (softly)
dialog: I hope no one ever does it to me.
text: She looks out at the group, many of whom are crying. A tear
text: runs down her cheek. She smiles and wipes it away.
text: The woman, seeing Wills' interest in the girl, whispers --
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: So what do you know about her?
text: He knows a great deal. Or at least he thinks he does. But
text: his answer is nonchalant --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That she's just a kid.
text: He takes the woman gently by the elbow and guides her away.
text: He steals one last look back.
text: Charlotte, returning to where she was sitting, notices Wills.
text: Their eyes meet and a charge passes between them.
text: Meanwhile an OLD MAN has risen from his chair --
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: I met Ella at City College in 1938...
text: Wills slowly turns and walks away.
scene_heading: MUSIC AND TITLES IN:
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN SUBWAY STOP -- AUTUMN DUSK
text: A SWARM OF PEDESTRIANS ascends the steps to the bustling
dialog: street.
text: FIND CHARLOTTE amid the swarm, struggling with a load of
text: BOXES and SHOPPING BAGS, carrying an antique, wood-and-wire
scene_heading: DRESSMAKER'S MANNEQUIN.
text: She wears a peasant dress with a cycle jacket, a backpack,
text: and another eccentric hat.
scene_heading: EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK -- DUSK
text: Charlotte makes her way down the leaf-strewn pathway. Wheeling
text: the mannequin by the neck, she passes NYU STUDENTS smoking,
text: laughing, and chatting on their way to class.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST VILLAGE AVENUE -- DUSK
text: Charlotte hauls the mannequin down the block. A YOUNG MAN
text: offers her assistance, but she politely and firmly refuses.
scene_heading: EXT. WEST VILLAGE STREET -- DUSK
text: Charlotte wearily hauls the mannequin across the cobblestone
text: street, over the curb, and up to the stoop of a charming but
text: slightly dilapidated BROWNSTONE.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- DUSK
text: Charlotte opens the door into the darkness. She hits a light
text: switch and nothing happens. She flips it back and forth --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Shit.
text: She dumps her boxes and bags, then wheels in the mannequin.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Dolly! The bulb burned out!
scene_heading: MUSIC AND TITLES OUT:
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- SAME
text: EIGHT SILHOUETTES are crouched in the dark room. The mantel
text: is draped with a HAPPY BIRTHDAY BANNER. The coffee table is
text: stacked with WRAPPED GIFTS.
scene_heading: INT. FOYER -- SAME
text: Charlotte looks suspiciously at the living room door --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Dolly?
text: She tiptoes through the darkness and lays her ear against
dialog: it.
scene_heading: INT. LIVING ROOM -- SAME
text: We hear chuckles and whispers of anticipation. An older
text: woman's raspy, boozy voice growls --
speaker_heading: RASPY VOICE
dialog: My ass hurts.
text: A few people chuckle, but they're quickly hushed. The DOOR
text: KNOB TURNS and the DOOR OPENS. Everyone leaps up in a blaze
dialog: of light --
speaker_heading: ALL
speaker_heading: SURPRISE!
text: The MANNEQUIN bursts into the room, teetering crazily, wearing
text: CHARLOTTE'S JACKET, BACKPACK, and HAT.
text: Everyone FLINCHES and SCREAMS. Amid a chorus of laughter,
text: Charlotte enters. Grinning, she wags a facetious finger --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: See? Surprises suck!
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: An antique clock ticks crisply on the dresser. Wills stands
text: before a mahogany mirror, buttoning a freshly laundered white
dialog: shirt.
text: Lying on the cradle bed, half-wrapped in a sheet, naked but
text: for a string of pearls, is TANYA, 35, raven-haired, much too
text: thin. She smokes a cigarette.
speaker_heading: TANYA
dialog: Oh, Wills, please, not again. It's
dialog: our third date and we're already in
text: a rut.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: But I thought you loved it.
text: She stretches with her cigarette but before she can make it
text: to the ashtray, her ASH FALLS on a New York magazine.
text: On the cover is a PHOTOGRAPH OF WILLS standing next to a
text: YOUNG CHEF in a fashionable restaurant. The caption reads:
dialog: "The Prodigal Son Returns."
speaker_heading: TANYA
dialog: Oh, I do -- except for the fact that
dialog: there isn't a single thing on the
dialog: menu I can eat.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (with a chuckle)
dialog: Sure, there is; there's just very
dialog: little you're willing to digest.
text: He slips in a cuff link. She affects a breezy indifference --
speaker_heading: TANYA
dialog: Fine then. We'll go, I'll get big,
dialog: fat, and horrible, and it'll serve
dialog: you right.
text: Wills slips on a silk tie --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: No, it won't. Because it takes at
dialog: least a few weeks to get fat and by
dialog: then you won't even be speaking to
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: TANYA
dialog: (curiously)
dialog: Why do you say that?
text: He stops tying his tie and stares at her in the mirror --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Because we have no future. All I can
dialog: offer you is this... what we have
dialog: right now... nothing more
dialog: meaningful... until it ends.
text: He goes back to tying his tie, then adds softly --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I could have waited to tell you, but
dialog: I wanted to leave no room for
dialog: misunderstanding.
text: She stares at him, speechless.
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT -- THAT NIGHT
text: Its decor is exquisitely tasteful, its ambiance warm and
text: convivial. The night is in full swing. Most of the tables
text: are taken and the bar is packed.
scene_heading: EXT. UPPER EAST SIDE -- SAME
text: From amid the RUSH OF TRAFFIC, a TAXI breaks free and glides
text: to the curb in front of the RESTAURANT.
text: Its facade is windowless. Only a small brass plaque on the
text: grey marble reveals that this is ELYSIUM.
text: Wills and ERIKO, 30's, Japanese, aloof and stunning, emerge
text: from the taxi, elegantly dressed, and move to the front door.
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM -- CONTINUOUS
text: TWO TIPSY DEBUTANTES pass Wills and Eriko as they enter. One
text: recognizes Wills and smiles flirtatiously.
text: Wills stops and helps Eriko off with her jacket. JESUS, 30,
text: the dashing Cuban-American maitre d', superbly discreet,
dialog: approaches --
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: Good evening, Mr. Keane. Will you be
dialog: dining with us tonight?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: We certainly will. Table seven, Jesus,
dialog: if it's available.
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: Yes, sir.
text: Wills hands Eriko's jacket to MELISSA, 20, the hat check
dialog: girl --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How are you, Melissa?
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: (blushing)
dialog: Fine, Mr. Keane.
text: CELIA, mid-20's, the chipper, blonde Midwestern hostess,
text: arrives, wearing a stunned, glassy smile.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Good evening, Celia. And how --
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: (with forced cheeriness)
dialog: Just dandy, sir, thanks!
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: Table seven.
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: This way, please.
text: Celia, barely making eye contact with Eriko, walks quickly
text: away. Wills is amused and a little confused by Celia's
text: behavior. He lays a hand on Eriko's back --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'll be right with you.
text: Eriko nods and follows Celia.
text: Wills moves to the reservation stand where his best friend
text: and the restaurant's manager, JOHN VOLPE, 40, a brilliant,
text: dapper, tough as nails Brooklynite stands, listening to
text: someone on the telephone.
text: Wills lays a hand on his shoulder and mutters into his ear --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How's it going?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (covering the phone)
dialog: Chaos.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The house specialty.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Easy for you to say, ya prick.
dialog: Waltzin' in here like you own the
dialog: joint.
text: Wills laughs and takes a look into the bar. John gestures
text: with his head in Eriko's direction --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: So who's the new potential ex-wife?
dialog: I thought you were still wastin'
dialog: time with Tanya-von-What's-her-name.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: We wisely agreed to cut our losses.
text: Wills exits into the bar. John smiles and shakes his head.
text: FOLLOW WILLS, as he glides along the bar. CUSTOMERS and STAFF
text: greet him warmly.
text: As he enters the main dining room, DINERS spot him --
text: sprinkled among them are CELEBRITIES from every walk of city
text: life. Wills greets them, stopping to shake their hands and
text: kiss their cheeks.
text: Suddenly, Celia, the hostess, red-faced, blocks his path --
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: Look, I have no right to say this,
dialog: okay? And you can fire me if you
dialog: want, but in the six weeks we've
dialog: been open you've brought in six
dialog: different women -- tonight makes
dialog: seven -- and it's really starting to
dialog: get to me.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: In what way?
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: I have to greet them! It's like
dialog: working at a dog shelter! I'm afraid
dialog: to learn their names or even smile
dialog: at them because I know any minute
dialog: they could be put down!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I assure you it's an absolutely
dialog: painless procedure.
text: Shocked, she can't help but sputter a laugh --
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: It is?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Sure.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Especially for me.
text: They both laugh. He moves closer, lowers his voice, and speaks
dialog: with warm sincerity --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Actually, I appreciate your concern,
dialog: Celia. The truth is I'm a little
dialog: worried myself.
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: Seriously?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Seriously. I've been trying to do
dialog: better.
dialog: (uneasily)
dialog: But... you know how it is... old
dialog: habits die hard.
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: So I'm not fired?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Nope. In fact, John's been looking
dialog: for an assistant. Tell him you've
dialog: just been promoted.
text: Wills smiles, pats her in the shoulder, and moves on. She
dialog: can't believe it.
text: A WAITER carrying a BIRTHDAY CAKE -- blazing with candles
text: and decorated with a WOMAN'S HAT made of MERINGUE LATTICEWORK --
text: passes by on his way to the REAR DINING ROOM.
text: From inside, VOICES begin to sing HAPPY BIRTHDAY. Wills, his
text: curiosity piqued, follows.
scene_heading: INT. REAR DINING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: The waiter sets down the cake at the center of a round table.
text: There's a CHEER and APPLAUSE as the song ends. Wills cannot
text: see whose birthday it is because the waiter blocks his view.
text: Just as Wills is about to exit the room, the waiter steps
text: away. Wills glances over and sees the birthday girl. At first
text: he can't place her, but then he does, and his face softens
text: and brightens.
text: It's Charlotte. She wears a black velvet dress and a
text: wonderfully eccentric hat. Her eyes glow in the candlelight.
text: Through the chorus of voices, urging her to make a wish, she
dialog: cries out --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You guys! Let me think!
dialog: (concentrating)
dialog: Okay. Okay.
text: Charlotte blows hard, and, with a little more effort than
dialog: you might expect, extinguishes the candles. Everyone APPLAUDS
text: and CHEERS.
text: To Charlotte's right sits SIMON LORING, late 20's, English,
text: sardonic, adoring. He gestures at her CHEST and says --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Watch carefully, everyone -- they
dialog: ought to begin emerging any moment
dialog: now.
text: Everyone laughs. Charlotte playfully slaps him --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Very funny! Actually, any moment now
dialog: you're gonna turn straight and fall
dialog: at my feet.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Oh, darling, you know I would if I
dialog: could.
text: Charlotte's best friend, SHANNON HARRIS, 19, a spoiled but
text: big-hearted redhead, drowning in curls, mutters --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: The only time he falls at your feet
dialog: now is when he wants to borrow your
dialog: Prada loafers.
text: More laughter.
text: BACK TO WILLS. He considers approaching Charlotte, but then
text: he looks back and sees Eriko sitting alone at their table,
text: idly stabbing at her drink with a straw.
text: Regretting his rudeness, he takes a step toward her, but
dialog: then hears --
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE
dialog: Is that Wills Keane?
text: He turns and sees DOLORES TALBOT, 70, blonde wig, spindly
text: frame, weathered skin, large, sad eyes. She holds a mixed
dialog: drink --
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: It sure as hell is and he hasn't
dialog: changed a bit!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm sorry, do I --
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: You little fool, it's Dolores Talbot.
dialog: Dolly!
text: His smile shows uneasy surprise --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: My God, it is.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Yeah, I know, time's kicked my ass
dialog: but good. Come on, Romeo, let's bury
dialog: the hatchet. Give me a hug. Careful
dialog: of the cocktail.
text: As he hugs Dolores, he can't help but look over at Charlotte
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: So what the hell're you doin' around
dialog: here? Last I heard you were out in
dialog: earthquake country blowin' the family
dialog: fortune.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Actually, I doubled it.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Good for you!
text: ON CHARLOTTE. She looks over. Her view is such that she sees
dialog: Wills but not Dolores.
text: A faint blush creeps into Charlotte's cheeks. She pretends
text: to listen as Shannon tells a story --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: -- and you know how bouncer's get.
dialog: He's like, "That's the worst fake
dialog: I.D. I've ever seen." And I'm like,
dialog: "Yeah? Well, you have the worst dread-
dialog: extensions!" And then just when --
text: Noticing Charlotte's distraction, Simon whispers calmly to
dialog: her --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Are you feeling all right? You look
text: positively green.
text: Charlotte speaks under her breath without moving her lips --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: He's here. And he's staring at me
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: No way!
text: Both Shannon and Simon turn to look, but like lightning
text: Charlotte grabs them both --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Don't!
dialog: (to Simon)
dialog: Wait a few seconds, then go to the
dialog: bathroom.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: How will I know him?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: He's beautiful. And much older.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Really?
dialog: (getting up)
dialog: If he's rich you might have a fight
dialog: on your hands.
text: Charlotte watches furtively as Simon rises from his chair
text: and walks over. As he passes Wills, he flashes him a seductive
text: smile. Wills is confused by it.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Okay, look.
text: Shannon swivels her head and throws an aloof, vacant stare
text: in Wills' direction. Then she looks back at Charlotte, mouth
dialog: agape --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: He's as old as my dad!
text: Charlotte laughs.
text: BACK ON WILLS. He does his best to be attentive as Dolores
text: exhales a plume of smoke into his face --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Sure, L.A.'s okay if you're a cactus
dialog: or a lizard, but if you're a New
dialog: Englander, your soul dries up and
text: blows away like a god damn leaf.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It only took me twenty years to come
dialog: to my senses.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: So what're you doin' now? You owned
dialog: some restaurants out there, didn't
dialog: you?
text: ON CHARLOTTE. She sits listening to Shannon --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: And so, after all that, we pay our
dialog: cover, we get in, and it's totally
dialog: heinous! Nothing but losers and --
text: Charlotte looks over and pales, her eyes widening --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh, shit.
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: What?
text: Dolores walks up, hauling Wills by the arm --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Kids! I want you to meet an old chum
dialog: of mine, the owner of this fine
dialog: establishment -- Wills Keane!
text: The table greets him. Wills, slightly self-conscious, looks
text: at everyone but Charlotte.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: And that over there's the birthday
dialog: girl -- my granddaughter, Charlotte.
text: The news hits Wills hard. But he does his best to hide it.
text: He musters a casual smile --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Not Katie and Jay's daughter?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: You bet. She got her height from her
dialog: dad. But her talent's all Katie's.
text: Dolores indicates the hat that Charlotte's wearing --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Made it herself from scratch. That
dialog: one, too.
dialog: (to Shannon)
dialog: Honey, show 'im.
text: Shannon makes an elaborate comic show of modeling the hat
text: she's wearing. The table laughs.
text: Wills levels his gaze at Charlotte --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Impressive.
text: Try as she might to accept the compliment with grace,
text: Charlotte can't help but grin.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Thanks.
text: The WINE STEWARD stands at a station on which sit TWO BOTTLES
text: OF CHAMPAGNE on ice. He reaches for one. Wills stops him --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I think we can do better than that.
text: The steward, understanding, nods and departs, taking the
text: champagne with him.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Happy birthday, Charlotte.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: (under her breath)
dialog: Twenty years old and never been...
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Shut up!
text: Amused, he flashes Charlotte his most dazzling smile.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'll let you get back to your
dialog: celebration.
dialog: (kissing Dolly's cheek)
dialog: A pleasure to see you again.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Same here.
text: Wills turns to exit. Simon, returning to his seat, murmurs
text: seductively to Wills as he passes by --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Leaving so soon?
text: Wills looks at him, confused again, then continues on. As
text: Simon sits, he mutters to Charlotte --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Be still my beating heart.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Or is that your heart?
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: (whisper to Charlotte)
dialog: You're not really into him, are you?
text: Charlotte turns to Dolores who has just sat down.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hey, Dolly, how do you know him?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: (uneasily)
dialog: From Newport. Old friend of your
dialog: mom's.
text: Dolores eats a sloppy forkful of birthday cake.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WINDOW -- ESTABLISHING -- MORNING
text: A gentle breeze tickles a white lace curtain. A PHONE RINGS.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE KITCHEN -- SAME
text: Charlotte, standing in the small antiquated kitchen, wearing
text: flannel pajamas, tenses when she hears the PHONE RINGING
text: UPSTAIRS. She snatches an apple from a bowl and dashes out
dialog: of the room.
text: FOLLOW CHARLOTTE running through the DINING ROOM... into the
text: LIVING ROOM... into the FOYER... and up a DARK STAIRCASE.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLOTTE'S BEDROOM -- MORNING
text: A startling clash of childhood, adolescence, and womanhood.
text: Everything from stuffed animals to posters of pop icons to
dialog: volumes of great literature.
text: THE PHONE RINGS AGAIN
text: Charlotte bangs in, flings herself on the bed, and grabs the
dialog: phone --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Okay, bitch, I'm ready!
scene_heading: INTERCUT WITH:
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' ROOFTOP TERRACE -- MORNING
text: Wills sits in his woolen robe, holding a portable phone.
text: Amused, he smiles into the morning sun --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh my God, I'm so sorry! Wait. Who
dialog: is this?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Wills Keane.
text: Her heart stops. She sits up slowly, her body tensed.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Who did you think it was?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: My friend Simon, actually. He always
dialog: calls me the morning after to sort
dialog: of... you know... sum everything up.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: And how would you sum it up,
dialog: Charlotte? Turning twenty.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Kinda cool, kinda creepy. Anyway,
dialog: you wanna speak to my grandmother?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (with a chuckle)
dialog: I don't think so.
text: OLIVIA, 30's, Wills' Jamaican cook and housekeeper, enters.
text: Plump, handsome, and perpetually amused, she carries a tray
text: laden with continental breakfast and a New York Times. Wills
text: mouths a greeting. She smiles back and sets the tray on a
dialog: table.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I called because I'm going to be
dialog: attending a benefit... a black-and-
dialog: white ball.... and I'd like you to
dialog: design a hat... for my date.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Really? Wow. Sounds fun. Okay.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It's a gift. I don't have her
dialog: measurements, but she's about your
dialog: size. What're you, a six?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-huh.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Good -- then let's assume your hat
dialog: size is also the same.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: But that doesn't necessarily --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It's a risk we'll just have to take.
text: Charlotte runs over to her sewing table, looking for a pen
text: and paper. She finds paper, but no pen --
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: Her dress is a sheath... sleeveless,
dialog: black. The hat must, of course, be
dialog: black or white or both.
text: She finds a pen but it doesn't work. She grabs an eyeliner
dialog: and uses that --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Any particular style?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (sipping his coffee)
dialog: No, just plenty of it. How long will
dialog: it take?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: A week or two.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You have till Thursday. I'll need it
dialog: here by seven o'clock. I'm at the
dialog: Pembroke on Central Park West and
dialog: 76th.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh. Wow. Okay.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What's your fee?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (faltering)
dialog: I don't really have one. I usually
dialog: just make them for friends.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How's five hundred dollars?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Really? Wow.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Charlotte?
text: His tone has abruptly shifted; it's intimately hushed. It
text: both daunts and excites her --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You say "wow" a lot.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It has to stop. You're a woman now.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Bye.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Bye.
text: She clicks off the phone, wilts into a swoon on the bed, and
text: breaks out laughing.
text: Wills, still holding the receiver, stares dreamily into the
dialog: middle distance.
text: He snaps to when Olivia enters. Her accent is as much Queens
dialog: as it is Caribbean --
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: See, now you got me worried.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: You slept alone last night. You must
dialog: be sick or somethin'. You want me to
dialog: call a doctor?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Thank you, no, I'm fine.
text: She throws him a sly, sidelong glance, then exits. Wills
text: laughs and contentedly sips his coffee.
text: FROM THE NEXT SCENE, we hear the sound of SQUEALING, LAUGHING,
text: SHOUTING CHILDREN.
scene_heading: INT. FAO SCHWARZ -- NIGHT
text: Surrounded by swarming PARENTS and KIDS, Wills stands with
text: John, the manager of Elysium, and his wife, SARAH VOLPE, 30,
text: who, gazing out of frame, keeps a watchful eye on their kids --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Save it, pal! Don't even bother! I
dialog: may not have gone to a fancy school
dialog: like Bendover --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (to Sarah)
dialog: That would be Andover.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Sure, if his folks could have afforded
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: -- but when Wills Keane comps three
text: bottles of Dom to a twenty-year-old
dialog: girl, then tells me he did it 'cause
dialog: he likes the kid's grandma, I smell
dialog: a rat!
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Oh, is that what that is? I figured
text: there was a dirty diaper somewhere.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (lightly)
dialog: Okay, I admit it, she interests me.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (turning to Sarah)
dialog: He's gonna do it! I don't believe
dialog: it! He moved us back here for nothing!
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: So much for that turned leaf.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (amused)
dialog: Come on, you're overreacting.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Is that what you think? Buddy, since
dialog: we hit town, I have done nothin' but
dialog: cut you slack! Every week a new woman
dialog: on your arm and I didn't say a word.
dialog: Why? 'Cause I figured at least they're
dialog: in the right demographic. Maybe by
dialog: accident you'll trip over something
dialog: substantial. But this little girl?
dialog: Best she could be is Miss Right's
dialog: daughter!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (uneasily)
dialog: I know. It's just that there's
dialog: something about her. She's special...
dialog: and I just thought --
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: "She's young. She's hot. I'm on the
dialog: verge of menopause. Why not go for
dialog: it?"
text: Wills and Sarah meet eyes.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: There wouldn't be much point in lying
dialog: to you, would there?
text: Sarah shakes her head.
speaker_heading: KIDS' VOICES
dialog: Mommy, Daddy, look, look!
text: MOLLY and CARLA, the Volpes' five-year-old TWIN DAUGHTERS
text: run up, beaming, each carrying a huge stuffed animal.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Hey, they're bigger than you are!
text: John scoops both his daughters up in his arms and kisses
text: them repeatedly.
text: Wills watches, his eyes filling with a vague, wistful envy.
text: He sees Sarah staring at him. She smiles sympathetically.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON
text: The furniture is antique and dark. The white walls are tinged
text: with yellow from years of cigarettes. In one corner, the
text: paint has chipped off the ceiling in a jagged plate.
text: Dolores sits on a worn-out leather arm chair, smoking, sipping
text: a cocktail, watching a DAYTIME TALK SHOW.
text: In the background, we see Charlotte working in the ADJOINING
text: DINING ROOM which she has turned into a lovely sewing room.
text: CLOSER ON CHARLOTTE. She builds her hat on a HAT BLOCK -- a
text: wooden mannequin head. Strewn all around her are the materials
text: of her hatmaking -- bolts of cloth, hat blocks, a sewing
dialog: table.
text: Shannon, wearing sweats and a T-shirt, lies on the floor,
text: eating M+M's and drinking diet soda, while heavily marking
text: up a text book with a YELLOW HIGHLIGHTER.
text: Charlotte stops and rubs her eyes, then she glances down at
text: Shannon and smiles --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Why don't you mark what isn't
dialog: important? That way you'll save ink.
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Why don't you sew your mouth to my
dialog: butt? That way you'll stop annoying
dialog: me.
text: They both laugh. Overhearing, Dolores croaks facetiously --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Now, now, if you two kids can't play
dialog: nice --
text: Shannon rolls over onto her back --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: God, I hate school.
text: Charlotte pins a strip of black lace to the hat --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh, come on, just last week, you
dialog: said you were on a roll. You loved
dialog: it!
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Well, now I'm on the rag and I hate
dialog: it.
text: Charlotte chuckles and sets the half-finished hat on her
text: head. Still seated, she wheels her work chair over to a mirror --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I think you're incredibly lucky. I'd
dialog: love to be going to college.
text: Shannon rolls over and looks at her. Suddenly her expression
dialog: is inexplicably solemn --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Am I the most spoiled brat in the
dialog: world or what?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Spoiled brats don't even ask questions
dialog: like that.
dialog: (re: the hat)
dialog: What do you think?
text: She models the hat. Tears well in Shannon's eyes and she
dialog: says without even a hint of irony or sentimentality --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: That you're the most beautiful person
dialog: in the entire world.
text: Charlotte smiles, looks away, and, trying not to cry, fusses
text: with the hat.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST -- NIGHT
text: A cold autumn rain falls. The Irish doorman, MICHAEL, 60's,
text: melancholy, stoop-shouldered, smokes a cigarette, looking up
text: at the unburdening sky.
text: A LIMOUSINE pulls up. The passenger window glides down --
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Mikey! How ya doin'?
speaker_heading: DOORMAN
dialog: A bit early, aren't you?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Hey, in this soup, better safe than
dialog: sorry, you know what I mean?
text: RUNNING FOOTSTEPS approach. Michael looks. The driver looks,
dialog: too.
text: It's Charlotte, dressed in tattered jeans, a light rain coat,
text: and sneakers, dashing at breakneck speed down the street,
text: carrying something in a GARBAGE BAG.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
speaker_heading: KEANE!
text: She runs right past Michael --
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR -- NIGHT
text: Michael works the shiny brass controls. Charlotte, winded,
text: hair dripping wet, watches the numbers tick by overhead.
text: Michael smiles at her with paternal fondness --
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: He's goin' to a fancy party tonight.
text: Charlotte, nonplused by his lack of discretion, smiles
dialog: politely --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh, really?
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' PENTHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER
text: The elevator doors open.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Watch your step, Miss.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Thank you.
text: She emerges, moves to Wills' door, and waits for the elevator
text: to close. When it does, she hurries back to a table over
text: which hangs a GILDED MIRROR.
text: She takes a LOVELY OLD HAT BOX out of the garbage bag and
text: ditches the bag under the table. Then she quickly checks
text: herself in the glass.
text: She doesn't like what she sees. She pokes at her sopping
text: hair and squeezes it, but it's hopeless. Remembering the
text: time, she hurries back to the door, takes a deep breath, and
text: rings the bell.
text: She waits. And waits. Then she hears footsteps approaching.
text: She realizes she's left the hat box on the table.
text: She rushes over and grabs it, just in time to get back to
text: the door when it OPENS.
text: Olivia, the housekeeper, steps out, wearing her coat and
text: carrying her purse. Her voice is low and gentle --
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: He's waitin' for you, Miss Fieldin'.
text: They exchange cordial smiles. Charlotte enters.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' APARTMENT -- CONTINUOUS
text: Charlotte steps into a dim hallway lined with oil paintings,
text: carpeted with a Persian runner, and lighted by three antique
text: sconces. She walks slowly, terribly self-conscious.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: The room is vast, furnished with antiques, decorated with
text: the same masculine good taste. Charlotte enters timidly,
dialog: then hears --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What happened?
text: She looks and sees Wills standing, back turned, before a
text: broad set of high windows. City lights glimmer in the
text: distance; beneath them lies the vast gloom of Central Park.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I couldn't get a cab, so I took the
dialog: subway... only it was an express and
dialog: it didn't stop at --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You realize, don't you, that you're
dialog: a full eighteen minutes late?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I know... I'm so sorry... I --
text: Wills turns around. A magnificent figure -- expertly tailored
text: tux, every hair in place, freshly manicured. And then he
text: offers her an amused, reassuring smile --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Charlotte, relax. What's the point
dialog: of being a beautiful young woman if
dialog: it isn't to keep your admirers
dialog: waiting? In fact, you disappoint me:
dialog: I was looking forward to at least
text: another half hour of suspense.
text: Flattered, her face brightens --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I could leave and come back.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Nope, too late. Anyway, I want to
dialog: see the hat.
text: He walks over to her. Smiling, she sets down the box, unties
text: the ribbon, and gingerly removes the hat. It's sublimely
text: simple and elegant. She looks at him with hope. His face
dialog: betrays nothing --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Try it on.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I can't. I'm soaked.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It's all right.
text: Charlotte, a little confused, carefully sets the hat on her
text: head. She steps to a wall mirror, pulls the veil down, and
text: sets it at the correct angle.
text: Wills appears behind her and shares the reflection. She feels
text: his presence, hears his breathing. They speak in hushed tones --
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: It's perfect. It's like a tiny
dialog: sculpture.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I wanted it to be a tiny poem.
text: She smiles. Their eyes meet in the glass.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: If only I had some use for it.
dialog: (off her look)
dialog: My date canceled a few hours ago.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I don't know. She was vague. Would
dialog: you... like to come in her place?
text: Charlotte can't believe it. She smiles at his reflection.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Like this?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The outfit I bought her is hanging
text: in the guest room closet.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (anxiously)
dialog: It's okay? Are you sure?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (amused)
dialog: Of course.
text: He gestures toward the half-open door on other side of the
text: room. Charlotte turns and, biting her lip, looks at the door,
text: then back at Wills, then back at the door.
scene_heading: INT. GRAND BALLROOM, PLAZA HOTEL -- NIGHT
text: A spectacular affair is in full swing, a benefit for the
text: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART attended by FIVE HUNDRED GUESTS
text: from HIGH SOCIETY dressed only in black and white.
text: A LARGE BAND plays -- everything from waltzes to jazz to
text: swing. Chandeliers glisten. Guests, sitting in ornate boxes,
text: look down on the marble dance floor where a WALTZ is in
dialog: progress.
text: FIND WILLS AND CHARLOTTE, dancing together. Charlotte looks
text: sophisticated and beautiful beyond measure, wearing a
text: sleeveless black sheath with a fake fur wrap, and, of course,
text: her hat.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Nonsense. You're very good. Where
dialog: did you learn?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: From Ella. The woman whose memorial
dialog: you crashed.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So you did see me there.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-huh. And the next time I saw you,
dialog: you were on the cover of New York
dialog: magazine. And I had to pick a place
dialog: for my birthday. So...
text: It takes a few beats for Wills to put it together. He smiles,
dialog: realizing that her presence at Elysium wasn't a coincidence.
text: She smiles back, sweetly, coyly.
text: ON THE PERIMETER, FIND TWO RICH WOMEN, 40's, too thin, too
text: lifted, watching Wills and Charlotte waltz.
text: They stand with LISA, 23, unassuming, fair-haired, simply
dialog: dressed.
speaker_heading: RICH WOMAN #1
dialog: Of course he moved back. I mean,
dialog: he'd already seduced every A- and B-
dialog: list actress in town. What was left
dialog: for him?
text: Pause. Lisa looks at her, feigning naivety.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: The C-list?
speaker_heading: RICH WOMAN #2
dialog: Exactly.
speaker_heading: RICH WOMAN #1
dialog: But if what I hear is true and he's
dialog: shopping for a bride, I can tell you
dialog: one thing -- he's barking up the
dialog: wrong tree there.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Why do you say that?
speaker_heading: RICH WOMAN #1
dialog: (with an icy smile)
dialog: Good wives are rarely found up cherry
dialog: trees.
text: The women share a laugh. Lisa, slightly discomposed, looks
text: back at Wills and Charlotte.
scene_heading: INT. GRAND BALLROOM -- LATER
text: Wills and Charlotte slow dance to a romantic ballad. Wills
text: seems entranced by her easy manner of expression --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I met Ella in the fourth grade. She
dialog: was my teacher at the Little Red
dialog: School House. We stayed friends after
dialog: she retired. She taught me how to
dialog: cook and sew... speak Italian...
dialog: basically enjoy life, have fun --
dialog: that's what she was best at... even
dialog: when she knew she was dying.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: The most important thing she did was
dialog: introduce me to poetry. She believed
dialog: it was the highest form of art and
dialog: that everything we say and do should
dialog: aspire to it.
text: Wills is uncomfortable for a moment, then ventures quietly --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It sounds as though, in a way, she
dialog: took your mom's place...
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: My mom and my dad's. After they died,
dialog: Dolly was so devastated she pretty
dialog: much gave up on everything. It was
dialog: like if something that tragic could
dialog: happen, there was no way she was
dialog: ever gonna care about anyone else
dialog: ever again. Including herself. She
dialog: wasn't a horrible parent... she didn't
dialog: abuse me or anything... she just
dialog: ignored me. She was more like a weird
dialog: landlady than a grandmother.
text: Charlotte smiles sadly. Her eyes glisten in the light.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm sure she did the best she could.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: For a long time I kinda thought that,
dialog: too, and I made excuses for her, but
dialog: now I don't. I was seven years old
dialog: and I needed her and she wasn't there.
text: Silence as Wills somberly reflects. Finally, he speaks --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I remember when I heard the news
dialog: about your parents. You know how
text: after a crash they print a long list
dialog: of names in the newspaper? Well, I
dialog: grew up outside Boston, so I naturally
text: started to scan the list. But
dialog: casually, not expecting to --
text: Suddenly, a SWING SONG starts. Wills smiles at the ironic
text: change of mood, then turns to escort Charlotte away --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh, no, come on! I love this stuff!
dialog: Don't you? Didn't you grow up on it?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How old do you think I am?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Ancient!
text: Holding his hand, she starts moving to the music. Wills laughs --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I have no idea what to do!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Have fun!
text: She flings her wrap onto a chair and keeps dancing. Wills,
text: charmed senseless, finally surrenders.
text: A SEQUENCE BEGINS during which we see WILLS and CHARLOTTE
text: having an inordinately good time. Wills maintains a modicum
text: of reserve; Charlotte is joyful and entirely unembarrassed.
text: CERTAIN GUESTS NOTICE THEM. The reactions to their pairing
text: runs from confusion to disgust to amusement.
text: But no one watches them more carefully than Lisa.
text: Finally, in the middle of a song, Wills and Charlotte make
text: their way off the floor, winded and laughing. Wills heads
text: off to the bar. Charlotte turns around and watches the other
dialog: dancers.
text: Then we notice Lisa standing next to her. They smile at each
text: other. Lisa offers her a cocktail napkin. Charlotte takes it
text: and wipes off her brow.
dialog: They speak above the music --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I had to come. I work at the Met.
dialog: What's your excuse?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Sort of a date.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: With Wills Keane, right?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You know him?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Just by reputation.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: A major womanizer, right?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: That's what they say.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I'm Lisa.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Charlotte Fielding.
text: They shake hands. Lisa looks away and sees Wills making his
text: way toward them with two glasses of punch.
text: Coolly covering, Lisa beats a hasty retreat --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Anyway, I should keep mingling. But
dialog: it was nice to meet you.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Same here.
text: Lisa smiles politely and walks away.
text: Wills walks up, watching Lisa melt into the crowd. His brow
text: is furrowed. He's wondering if his eyes have deceived him.
text: He hands Charlotte a punch --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Who was that?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Lisa something.
text: The name hits home. Wills is flustered, but then he covers
text: as best he can and lifts his glass --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (lifting his glass)
dialog: Here's to --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Us.
text: Wills smiles slowly and they toast.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: The room is empty. There's laughter in the distance. The
text: front door opens and shuts. We hear Wills and Charlotte,
text: both a little tipsy, advancing down the hall toward us --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: God, you talk like you're a hundred
dialog: and sixteen!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That's usually how I feel. But not
dialog: tonight. Tonight I feel sixteen...
dialog: just sixteen... and three-quarters.
text: Wills crosses to the bar and from a small refrigerator pulls
text: out a BOTTLE OF CHAMPAGNE already sitting in an ice bucket.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Champagne?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: He asked nonchalantly.
text: Wills laughs, then opens the bottle as he picks up his
dialog: previous train of thought --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You see, Charlotte, the way you know
dialog: you're getting older is that you
text: start to notice patterns. People
text: start falling into types. Pretty
dialog: soon you know a person before you've
dialog: even been introduced. And if it's a
text: woman, before the romance even starts,
dialog: a whisper in your head tells you
dialog: exactly what it is and how long it's
dialog: going to last. And the saddest, the
dialog: most tedious, part of all is that
dialog: that little voice is almost always
dialog: right.
dialog: (popping the cork)
dialog: Now, what I like about you -- and I
dialog: think that's actually what inspired
dialog: this little lecture -- is that I
dialog: find you completely unprecedented...
dialog: and, therefore, wholly unpredictable.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: God, it must be a relief.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (confused)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: To finally deliver that speech to a
dialog: woman and actually have it apply to
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Now wait a minute.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No, because coincidentally I am all
dialog: those things you just said. And more.
text: Wills chuckles, shaking his head, charmed but a little
text: unsettled.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I'm a "unique". At least that's what
dialog: my yoga teacher says. He says there
dialog: are very few uniques in the world
dialog: and I'm one of them.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Well, he's a wise man.
text: He hands her a glass of champagne.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You, on the other hand, are what
dialog: he'd call a "typical."
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Oh, really?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-huh. And I can prove it. Want me
dialog: to? Come here.
text: Wills moves a few steps closer.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: Closer.
text: Wills walks even closer, until they are just a few feet apart.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No, come on, really close.
text: Wills can't believe his good luck. He nears her until their
text: faces are almost touching.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Perfect. Now watch very carefully.
text: She rises on tiptoe and puts her mouth just inches from his.
text: Their breathing mingles. Wills seems almost dizzied by it.
text: And then, very slowly, he kisses her.
text: She does not kiss back.
text: Finally, he pulls away, staring blankly, breathing hard, not
dialog: sure what to say.
dialog: Charlotte whispers --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: See? You're a typical.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: And for what you just did, most girls
dialog: my age would slap your face. Or ask
text: to be put in a cab.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Lucky for you, I'm a unique.
text: She smiles, then kisses him deeply on the mouth. Her arms
text: wrap around his neck.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Cloaked in deep shadow, set off against a rainy window pane,
text: we see Wills, his shirt off, on top of Charlotte whose blouse
text: is open. He passionately kisses her neck and mouth.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- MORNING
text: The room is bathed in golden light. Charlotte lies naked
text: under the covers asleep on her stomach. Her brow is tense
text: and one of her hands is slightly clenched.
text: ANGLE ON WILLS, standing in the doorway, watching her, his
text: face a portrait of conflicted thoughts.
text: Finally, she stirs. Smiling and squinting into the sun, she
text: gets up on one arm and looks at him, standing there in the
dialog: doorway --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Boy, do you look guilty.
scene_heading: EXT. WILLS' TERRACE -- LATER
text: Charlotte happily wolfs down her continental breakfast. Wills
text: sits across from her, watching and worrying.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Didn't anyone ever teach you that
dialog: it's bad manners to stare at a girl
dialog: when she's eating like a pig?
text: Wills chuckles, then his smile fades and he clears his throat.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Listen --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-oh. Here it comes.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That's right, because, look, I could
dialog: put this off, but I genuinely like
dialog: you. So I want to be clear... right
dialog: now... from the start, so there's no
dialog: chance for misunderstanding later.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What I want to say you is.... well...
dialog: that all I can offer you is this...
dialog: what we have right now... nothing
dialog: more substantial... just this...
text: until it ends.
text: She looks at him. Lowers her fork. He adds almost reluctantly --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The truth is, we have no future
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I know. I'm dying.
text: Wills' face reddens slightly. He shifts uneasily in his chair.
text: A suggestion of a smile plays along his features --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What... what do you mean?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What I said. Nobody thought I'd even
dialog: last this long.
text: Wills stares at her blankly, not knowing what to think or
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I could have put off telling you,
dialog: but I genuinely like you, so I wanted
dialog: to be clear... you know, right from
dialog: the start.
text: Olivia enters, takes her orange juice glass and leaves a
dialog: full one.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Thanks, Olivia!
text: Charlotte gulps down the juice. Wills watches, his mind
text: reeling.
scene_heading: INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE -- DAY
text: Wills sits across from a large desk, beneath a wall of framed
text: certificates and diplomas. The door opens and DR. PAUL SIBLEY,
text: 60, African-American, dour and forbidding, enters --
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: Mr. Keane? Dr. Sibley.
text: Wills jerks to his feet and they shake hands --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Thank you so much for taking the
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: It's my job, sir. Please, sit down.
text: He walks around the desk. Sibley is all business, but his
dialog: brusqueness masks genuine regret --
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: Now, Mr. Keane, on the phone you
dialog: referred to Charlotte's condition as
dialog: cancer. That isn't strictly accurate.
dialog: Neuroblastoma is a soft tissue
dialog: malignancy, but it isn't cancer --
dialog: although it sometimes can be just as
dialog: aggressive.
dialog: (sitting)
dialog: It's most common in children. In
dialog: young adults, the condition is
dialog: extremely rare. In Charlotte's case,
text: the tumor is located in her chest.
dialog: It's growing rapidly and has proved
dialog: resistant to both irradiation and
dialog: chemotherapy. And because of its
text: proximity to her aorta, surgery is
text: out of the question.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So then what treatment is she getting?
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: At present? Nothing.
text: Wills shifts uneasily in his chair.
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: Eventually she'll be treated for
dialog: pain. In the end, surgery could become
dialog: an option, but her chances of survival
dialog: would be slim. Right now Charlotte's
dialog: against it. She's signed a directive
dialog: forbidding any sort of heroic
dialog: intervention.
text: A silence settles between them. Sibley opens a folder on his
dialog: desk.
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: There's more here if you're
dialog: interested, but it won't mean much
dialog: to you.
text: Wills shakes his head and rises from his chair. He turns to
text: the door, then turns back to the doctor --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: Optimistically? A year.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM -- LATER
text: Wearing her tattered jeans from the night before, Charlotte
text: sits on the couch doing the New York Times crossword. Wills
text: emerges, walking slowly, pensively, as though in a trance.
text: Charlotte looks up and masks her anxiety with a grin --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: A real charmer, isn't he?
text: Wills doesn't react. He keeps walking toward her. Unsettled,
text: she holds up the puzzle.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: How are you on Cambodian money units?
text: Wills keeps advancing.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Are you okay, old man? You look kinda
dialog: woozy.
dialog: (jokingly calling out)
dialog: Is there a doctor in the house?
text: Ignoring her, Wills sits down, takes her in his arms, and
text: embraces her. At first she resists, but slowly she surrenders
text: and hugs him back.
scene_heading: INT. TAXI -- AFTERNOON
text: As the cab bounces down a cobblestone Village street, Wills
text: and Charlotte stare straight ahead, each following the
text: tortuous path of his own thoughts.
text: Slowly, Charlotte steals a sidelong look at him. His face is
text: tense, ashen, and unreadable --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hey.
text: Wills slowly turns his head. She smiles sweetly --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Look on the bright side: if I weren't
dialog: sick, there's no way we could hang
dialog: out together.
dialog: (off his look)
dialog: I'm serious. You'd be scared of
dialog: hurting me and I'd be scared you
dialog: were just using me for my perfect
text: young body.
text: He can't help but smile. Encouraged, she moves closer --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: And then our friends would say we
dialog: were just into each other for weird
dialog: psychological reasons. You know,
dialog: because I'm looking for a daddy
dialog: substitute and you're looking for
dialog: someone you can feel superior to so
dialog: you won't have to confront how scared
dialog: you are of real intimacy -- and, of
dialog: course, they'd be right and eventually
dialog: we'd break up.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: But since I'm so sick it doesn't
dialog: really matter what deep-seated
dialog: weirdness has brought us together
dialog: because there's no way we can possibly
dialog: screw each other over... or up...
dialog: because that takes time. And I don't
dialog: have much left.
text: The cab comes to a stop in front of her brownstone. She smiles
text: archly, savoring the irony --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: So considering everything, don't you
dialog: think we should just sort of chill
dialog: out, forget I'm sick, and enjoy what
dialog: we have... right now... no strings...
dialog: just this... until it ends? 'Cause
dialog: that's really all I have to offer.
text: Wills grimly appreciates the irony.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Think about it, okay? But not too
dialog: hard.
text: She kisses his cheek and jumps out of the cab. She skips up
text: the steps of the brownstone, then immediately turns around
text: and runs back down to the open window.
text: She leans in and mutters sexily --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Last night was so incredibly hot.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: By the way -- it was my first time.
dialog: And I picked you for the job. I hope
dialog: you're flattered.
text: Wills is shocked. She turns and runs back upstairs. She sticks
text: in the key, then turns and waves at Wills before banging
text: open the door with her hip.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Okay, pal, where to?
text: Wills hasn't moved a muscle.
text: FROM THE NEXT SCENE, we hear the pop of FLASHBULBS and the
text: whirr of SHUTTERS --
scene_heading: INT. DOWNTOWN LOFT -- NIGHT
text: YOUNG FASHION MODELS OF EVERY RACE strut down a runway,
text: modeling a new line of WOMEN'S URBAN CASUAL WEAR.
text: FIND CHARLOTTE, ignoring the show, pushing through the crowd,
text: hurrying toward the side of the stage. She speaks to a GUARD
text: at the entrance and he lets her pass.
scene_heading: INT. BACKSTAGE -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Charlotte searches amid the chaos of models dressing and
text: undressing. Finally, she spots them.
text: FIND SIMON AND SHANNON styling a BLACK FEMALE MODEL in a
text: tank top and fatigues.
text: He applies a finishing touch, adjusting the tilt of the
text: model's baseball cap. Shannon, lacing the girl's boots, works
text: as Simon's assistant.
scene_heading: EXT. SOHO STREET -- NIGHT
text: The threesome, in high spirits, bangs open a fire door.
text: Shannon is beside herself, frantically half-screaming --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: I don't believe it! I don't believe
dialog: it!
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I think what Miss Harris is trying
dialog: to say, is that you've strained her
dialog: credulity.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Really? Better put some ice on that.
text: Shannon lifts a hand to high-five her --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Girlfriend, you are so incredibly
dialog: cool!
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: So I've been told.
text: Simon high-fives her instead. The girls laugh.
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Okay, now tell us everything! Don't
dialog: leave anything out!
text: FROM THE NEXT SCENE, we hear --
speaker_heading: JOHN'S VOICE
dialog: Okay, then what happened?
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM -- LATE AFTERNOON
text: The restaurant is empty. John stands behind the bar, taking
text: an inventory of the liquor. In the background, TWO BUSSERS
text: mop up. Wills sits on a bar stool, nursing a mineral water --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Not much. I took her home and she
dialog: pointed out an irony -- that fate
dialog: was now offering us the very same
dialog: thing that just this morning I'd
dialog: told her was all I could offer her:
dialog: a relationship with no future.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (chuckling)
dialog: A kid figured that out?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: She's not a kid! That's what I've
dialog: been trying to tell you. Nothing's
dialog: lost on her. I'm the kid. She... I
dialog: don't know what the hell she is...
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: But I do know what she was.
text: John looks at him curiously. Wills glances over his shoulder
text: at the bussers, then leans in close --
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: A virgin.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: What?
text: The busboys turn their heads.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I had no idea. That's the only reason
dialog: she had her party here, so she could
dialog: lure me into doing the honors.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: She used you, pal.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: The hangman got hanged. How's it
dialog: feel?
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: Embarrassing.
text: John laughs. Wills settles into a brooding silence. John
dialog: goes back to work --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: So what now?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I end it.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: How come?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What, you're endorsing this now?
text: John, continuing his work, smiles sweetly --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I don't know, when you talk about
dialog: her, you're not such an arrogant son
dialog: of a bitch. You get all whiny and
dialog: stupid. I like that.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: And since I don't see you gettin'
dialog: serious with any of your other
dialog: victims, I figure why not spend a
dialog: little time together?
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: Because she's dying.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I got bad news for you, brother, so
dialog: are you.
text: Wills stares at him thoughtfully.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWNSTONE STOOP -- DAY
text: Wills stands stiffly at the door, holding a bouquet of
text: flowers. He stares at his own reflection in the porthole
text: window. He straightens his hair, tugs at the collar of his
text: cashmere jacket.
text: Footsteps approach. The door opens and there's Dolores, bleary-
text: eyed and disheveled. She smiles sourly --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Well, well.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Through the dark prism of Dolores' inhospitable wariness, we
text: catch glimpses of the high-society hostess she once was --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: She'll be right down. She's upstairs,
dialog: gildin' the lily.
dialog: (shouting up the stairs)
dialog: HE'S HERE!
dialog: (wryly)
dialog: Do come in.
text: They move through a doorway --
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Wills is surprised by the room's run-down state.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Excuse the mess. My maid died fourteen
dialog: years ago and it's been simply
dialog: impossible to replace her. She did
dialog: windows and spoke English.
text: She chuckles to herself. Wills hands her the flowers.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: For you.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Well, aren't they loverly.
text: She casually drops them into an EMPTY BLENDER at the bar.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Care for a cocktail?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: No, thanks.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLOTTE'S BEDROOM -- SAME
text: Simon lounges on the bed. Charlotte stands before a full-
text: length mirror, trying on a dress.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: It really is uncanny. I tell you, in
dialog: that dress you're the spitting image
dialog: of Michel Simon.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (flattered)
dialog: Who's she?
speaker_heading: SIMON
text: A French character actor, long dead,
dialog: who was not only hideous and fat,
text: but quite male.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: So that would be a "no."
text: Simon nods. Charlotte takes off the dress.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- SAME
text: Wills looks around the room. Dolores splashes her drink with
dialog: vodka --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: What can I say? Time's a thief. One
dialog: day you're rich as an Arab, the next
dialog: you're lucky if you can afford a god
dialog: damn can of pistachio nuts.
text: Wills wanders over to the mantel where FAMILY PHOTOS sit in
text: tarnished antique silver frames. He picks up a photograph of
text: a YOUNG GIRL in TENNIS WHITES -- it's Charlotte's mother,
dialog: Katie.
text: Wills' face is suffused with tenderness as he studies it.
text: Dolores walks over and looks --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: How about that, huh? That was the
dialog: summer you two --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Who'd have guessed what time had in
dialog: store for her, huh? Look at that
dialog: smile.
text: Eyes moistening, Dolores crosses to her armchair. Her tone
dialog: is slightly bitter --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Then again, time loves some people.
dialog: Like you, for instance. Oh, time's
dialog: just wild about you.
text: She plops down unsteadily and reaches for her cigarettes --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Just as handsome and charming as
dialog: ever. And still up to the same old
dialog: tricks.
text: Wills sets the photo back on the mantel --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: First time you came to pick up Katie,
dialog: you brought me flowers. Just like
dialog: those.
dialog: (to herself)
text: Flower the mother; then deflower the
dialog: daughter. But Katie was too smart
dialog: for you...
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Dolly, look --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: (abruptly)
dialog: Aw, why the hell don't you leave her
dialog: alone? Christ, she's sick!
text: But before Wills can answer, they hear footsteps on the
text: stairs. Neither moves.
text: Charlotte enters, wearing a peasant dress and felt hat,
text: looking pretty, pale, and excited.
text: Wills and Dolores slowly turn. They smile at her, then
text: exchange a quick glance. Charlotte catches it and becomes
dialog: self-conscious --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What? What's wrong?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: You look like your mom is all.
text: Charlotte looks to Wills to see if that's, indeed, what he
text: was thinking. He nods his agreement. She is pleased.
scene_heading: EXT. GREENWICH VILLAGE STREET -- MINUTES LATER
text: Charlotte, full of energy, hauls Wills down the block by the
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What do you mean, you knew?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I did! I just didn't think it would
dialog: take so long!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Two days is long?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: It is when you're sitting by the
dialog: phone. You wanna know how I knew?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You're psychic?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I am, but no -- it's because of my
dialog: birthday wish.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: But we hadn't even been introduced
dialog: yet.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I know, but I wished that whatever
dialog: happened... you know, with my
dialog: illness... I'd go out with a bang.
dialog: Nothing heavy. No violins. No
dialog: melodrama. Just fun. A total
dialog: adventure!
text: Charlotte jumps off the curb.
speaker_heading: WILLS
speaker_heading: CAREFUL!
text: He yanks her back just as a TAXI, horn blaring, SPEEDS PAST,
text: nearly hitting her.
text: For a moment, they both stand there, hearts pounding,
text: breathing hard. Then Charlotte looks back at him and grins --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Wow, it's getting exciting already.
scene_heading: EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK -- AFTERNOON
text: Under a perfect blue sky, the park swarms with autumn
text: celebrants. Charlotte and Wills move together down a walkway.
text: Half-joyously and half comically, Charlotte addresses the
dialog: heavens with grand theatricality --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: "Lord, I do fear
dialog: Thou'st made the world too beautiful
dialog: this year!
dialog: My soul is all but out of me, -- let
dialog: fall
dialog: No burning leaf; prithee, let no
dialog: bird call!"
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: We could go to a museum.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No, that would be a thing! I don't
dialog: want to do any thing today. I want
dialog: to do no thing all day.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Nothing at all?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-huh. No thing at all.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So a movie is out.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Way out!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Ice cream at the Plaza? High tea at
dialog: the Palace?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Both out.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What about shopping?
text: She considers for a few moments --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Possible.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It's not a thing?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Only when I have money.
scene_heading: EXT. FIFTH AVENUE IN THE 50'S -- AFTERNOON
text: The sidewalk swarms with pedestrians. Wills and Charlotte
text: emerge empty-handed from the revolving door of a department
dialog: store --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: But all I gave you was champagne.
dialog: That's not a proper birthday present.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I agree, and I promise I'll let you
dialog: give me something else, but not today.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: When?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Soon. But I'm warning you, it's not
dialog: going to be anything material.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Why not?
dialog: (then solemnly)
dialog: Oh, I see... because you're sick.
dialog: Because --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: That's right, but we're not gonna
dialog: talk about that.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How come?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Because it's my rule.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Any particular reason?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Yeah, because everybody always wants
dialog: to talk about miracles, or about
dialog: some genius quack-doctor, or their
dialog: friend's friend who went into
dialog: remission eating nothing but sunflower
dialog: seeds. It's boring and pointless.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Are you sure? I mean, there are
dialog: specialists who --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Don't start, okay?
dialog: (abruptly)
dialog: Now what I would enjoy is taking you
dialog: shopping. For clothes. I'm serious.
dialog: It's quality not quantity, you know.
scene_heading: INT. BARNEY'S MEN'S DEPARTMENT -- AFTERNOON
text: Wills sits in a chair while Charlotte looks through silk
dialog: scarves --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: At work you should look perfect, but
dialog: in everyday life you need to delight
dialog: in disorder more. Don't you know? "A
text: sweet disorder in the dress kindles
dialog: in clothes a wantonness."
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I think that goes without saying.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: It was true when that poem was written
dialog: three hundred years ago and it's
dialog: true today. Wouldn't it be fun to
dialog: look wanton occasionally?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It's been a lifelong dream of mine.
dialog: But will a scarf do it?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Totally. Accessories rule. But we
dialog: have to be careful. I don't want you
dialog: looking too young. Nothing's worse
text: than an old guy trying to look young.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Good advice. I'll remember that for
dialog: when I get old.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You know what I meant.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That I'm old.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-huh.
scene_heading: INT. BARNEY'S LOBBY -- LATER
text: Wills walks a little self-consciously. He wears around his
text: shoulders a sloppily draped wrinkly silk scarf.
text: He walks past OTHER SHOPPERS. Among a GROUP OF WOMEN walking
text: past him FIND CHARLOTTE who subtly checks him out as though
dialog: he were a stranger.
text: As she passes by, she gives him a sexy look, then, not very
text: subtly, she spins around to look at his ass.
text: Finally, she breaks character, runs after him, and throws
text: her arms around his neck from behind.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Perfectly imperfect!
text: Laughing, he holds her hands and hauls her on his back to
text: the door.
scene_heading: INT. ITALIAN RESTAURANT -- NIGHT
text: Wills and Charlotte are in the middle of a candlelight dinner.
text: Wills refills her wine glass --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I don't know why, but for some odd
dialog: reason, I feel absolutely compelled
dialog: to tell you the truth about this...
dialog: even at the risk of --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hey, you're giving me the creeps.
dialog: Just spit it out.
text: Wills holds his breath for a moment, then exhales and says
dialog: it --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I never had a date for the benefit.
dialog: My plan from the beginning was for
dialog: you to come with me.
text: Charlotte sets down her wine glass as she pieces it together --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: So I made the hat for myself?
dialog: (He nods.)
dialog: And you bought that dress for me?
dialog: (He nods.)
dialog: And you did all this just so you
dialog: could sleep with me?
dialog: (He nods.)
dialog: Why? I mean, why me?
text: Wills settles himself, then, meeting her eyes, speaks softly --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The eulogy you gave at Ella's service
dialog: was so... impressive. You spoke about
dialog: her death... about loss... in a way
dialog: that I could never have done. You
dialog: understood life emotionally in a way
dialog: that I didn't. Whatever that
dialog: understanding was, I wanted to get
text: close to it.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: And sex seemed like the best way to
dialog: do it.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: And the most enjoyable, yeah.
text: Charlotte sips her wine and considers. Then she sets down
dialog: her glass --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Well, first of all, let me say, you
dialog: have great taste because that little
dialog: Dolce &amp; Gabbana was to die for.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: And, second, don't ever lie to me
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: All right.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Seriously. There isn't a lie in the
dialog: whole world I'd rather hear than the
dialog: truth.
text: Wills stares at her solemnly. Her expression just as somber,
text: she lifts a hand and points to her lips. He leans forward to
text: kiss her.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Wills and Charlotte, kissing deeply, tumble fully clothed
text: onto the bed. As their passion builds, Wills reaches for the
dialog: bedside lamp.
text: Charlotte watches curiously, thoughtfully, as he pulls the
text: cord, plunging the room into UTTER DARKNESS.
scene_heading: MUSIC UP: A SEQUENCE BEGINS
text: -- Savoring the last sunny days of autumn, Wills and Charlotte
text: walk across the green of Central Park, which swarms with
text: happy, healthy teenagers.
text: -- At night, Wills and John and his wife Sarah sit in box
text: seats at Yankee Stadium watching the play-offs. Bernie
text: Williams hits a colossal shot. The crowd jumps to its feet.
text: As the ball flies over the right field wall, we see that
text: Charlotte sits next to Wills, munching a hotdog, her nose
text: buried in a book, utterly uninterested.
text: -- In Elysium's kitchen, Wills watches on as Charlotte,
text: wearing an apron over her clothes, prepares bisque under the
text: approving eye of the CHEF. She quickly and expertly pours a
text: cup of cream and a cup of broth into a large blender. Then
text: she dumps in lobster meat and adds some saffron. Just when
text: she, with a dramatic flourish, is about to hit the start
text: button, Wills INTERRUPTS and puts the lid on the blender.
text: -- One morning, Charlotte sits up in bed doing the Sunday
text: New York Times crossword puzzle. Olivia sits on the chair
text: next to the bed, chatting and laughing with her. Wills enters,
text: carrying a silver tray laden with breakfast. Olivia looks up
text: and gestures haughtily for him to set it down, as though he
dialog: were the housekeeper.
dialog: -- At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Wills and Charlotte
text: wander amid the shadows of Egyptian ruins.
scene_heading: MUSIC OUT.
scene_heading: INT. METROPOLITAN MUSEUM LOBBY -- LATER
text: Flipping through a stack of postcards he has just purchased,
text: Wills waits for Charlotte to come out of the ladies room.
text: He idly glances up as a STREAM OF TOURISTS moves past. He is
text: about to look away when his eye catches someone.
text: It is Lisa, the young woman who spoke to Charlotte at the
text: benefit. Around her neck she wears a chain bearing a Met
text: employee photograph I.D. She carries a take-out coffee.
text: Wills FOLLOWS HER, agitated and curious.
text: He sees her pass through a set of glass doors into the Watson
dialog: Research Library.
text: He hurries over to the doors just in time to see her disappear
text: behind a bank of card catalogues.
text: Wills notices a sign at the door that forbids entry to the
text: public. He hesitates, then enters.
text: He speaks to the first person he sees -- a ROTUND FEMALE
text: LIBRARIAN IN HER 60'S. He stops and asks a question about
text: Lisa. She nods.
text: Wills is shaken by the answer. He stares into the middle
text: distance, wondering what to do, his mind racing.
text: The librarian, a little nervous now, reminds him that he is
text: not allowed in the library. He snaps to, thanks her, and
text: moves away.
text: But then he stops, takes out a BUSINESS CARD, and returns to
text: the librarian. He is about to hand it to her, but then he
dialog: thinks better of it.
text: Flustered, he thanks her again and exits. The librarian looks
text: after him, confused and a little apprehensive.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE THE LIBRARY -- SAME
text: Wills sees Charlotte at the end of the hall looking around
text: for him. When she spots him, her face brightens. She calls
text: out facetiously as she walks to him --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I thought I told you to wait right
dialog: there!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I got restless.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Well, I hope you didn't talk to
dialog: anybody!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Not a soul.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Wills and Charlotte stand, disrobing in the near-total
text: darkness. They converse in whispers, between kisses --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You know what would scare me right
dialog: now?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What?
text: Charlotte moves slowly through the darkness.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: This.
text: She yanks a cord by the window. The BLIND OPENS and the room
text: is flooded with MOONLIGHT. The room is still dark, but she
text: is far more clearly visible.
text: Her dress is unbuttoned down the front. She walks back to
text: him and stops about five feet away.
text: She releases the last buttons on her dress, then slides it
text: off her shoulders to the floor. She wears only her underwear.
text: She crosses her arms over her breasts, and smiles --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Have I told you my latest motto?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: If it's scary, do it.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm not sure I like that motto.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I'm not sure that matters.
text: She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, then slips off her
text: underwear. She drops her arms to her side.
text: She stands before him entirely naked.
text: Her self-consciousness is excruciating but she is determined
text: to endure it. Finally, she opens her eyes and smiles with a
text: hint of pride.
text: Wills' eyes widen as he takes her in. He crosses to her and
text: lays his hands on her hips. He kisses her neck.
text: As their breathing quickens, she begins to unbutton his shirt
text: and pull it free of his pants.
text: He takes hold of her hands, stopping her, and starts to ease
text: her toward the bed. She resists. Wills falters and she
text: realizes something.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh my God.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You're scared, too.
text: From his expression, she knows she is right.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Your turn.
text: For the first time since we've met him, Wills is utterly at
text: a loss. But he sees that Charlotte has no intention of backing
dialog: down.
text: He begins to undress. His hands are uncertain as he untucks
text: his shirt and unbuckles his belt. When he is finished
text: undressing, he turns to face her, his arms at his side.
text: Although we cannot see him in the moonlight and shadows,
text: Charlotte can. She looks down at his naked body and studies
text: it. He stares back with shy wariness.
text: Then she breaks into a crooked grin --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What's the matter, old man? Can't
dialog: afford a gym?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That's it!
text: Laughing, he grabs her wrists and throws her on the bed. She
text: dissolves into paroxysms of laughter.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS BEDROOM -- LATER
text: Wills and Charlotte make love. As their passion builds,
text: Charlotte is suddenly stabbed with a pain in her chest.
text: She grabs his back, her face twists. She holds her breath,
text: not wanting to reveal the incident to Wills. She closes her
text: eyes and exhales as the pain subsides.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- LATER
text: Wills and Charlotte lie in bed with the blinds open and the
text: city glimmering in the distance.
text: Charlotte's head rests on his chest. Eyes closed, he brushes
text: his hand along her face as though he were a blind man
text: committing every detail to memory.
text: Charlotte's voice, almost inaudible, drifts up through the
dialog: dark --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: "Counting the beats,
text: Counting the slow heart beats,
dialog: The bleeding to death of time
text: In slow heart beats,
dialog: Wakeful they lie."
text: Wills, half-asleep, murmurs deeply --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So many words in that wonderful head
dialog: of yours...
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: If I could give you anything in the
dialog: whole world, that's what it would
dialog: be.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Words?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Poetry.
text: They lie in silence.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST -- LATE AFTERNOON
text: Dusk falls on the park. Charlotte, red-cheeked and happy,
text: carrying shopping bags, walks into a brisk autumn breeze.
text: She smiles at a BUNCH OF SCHOOL KIDS, dressed in HALLOWEEN
text: COSTUMES, being led on their trick or treating.
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM REAR OFFICE -- AFTERNOON
text: Wills sits at a desk, reading the newspaper. John, inspecting
text: a KING HENRY VIII COSTUME on a hanger, shouts into the
dialog: telephone --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Oh no, your boy made it! At ten
dialog: minutes before close! All night I
dialog: got a card announcing a halibut
dialog: special, only I got no halibut! Now
dialog: it's Sunday and I got three dozen
dialog: cats lickin' their chops in the alley!
dialog: Tony, I don't wanna hear it! I don't
dialog: wanna hear it! I don't wanna -- MAN,
dialog: GO TO HELL!
text: He slams down the phone. His face is beet red. Wills looks
text: up calmly from his paper --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Are you familiar with the phrase,
dialog: "You can catch more flies with honey
dialog: than with vinegar?"
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Are you familiar with the phrase,
dialog: "Mind your own god damn business?"
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Sure, it's from Poor Richard's
dialog: Almanac. But the last time I checked --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: No, your business is to smile, make
dialog: friends, and get rich! My business
dialog: is the business.
text: John heads out, then stops abruptly and looks back. His tone
text: is suddenly calm and curious --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: What're you doin' here, anyway? You
dialog: got a girl. Go home. Carve a pumpkin.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: We can't spend every waking moment
dialog: together.
text: John looks at him strangely, with a hint of suspicion --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Why not?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: No, seriously. Why not?
text: Wills has no answer. John moves closer when Celia, his new
text: assistant, enters cheerily --
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: Special delivery!
text: She tosses him a paper bag; he catches it.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: No trouble?
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: None.
text: Wills removes a PAIR OF RED PLASTIC HORNS. John shakes his
text: head with disbelief.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Every year. You got no imagination.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It's a classic. A little spirit gum
dialog: and voila!
text: He holds the horns up to his forehead.
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: -- young women are rendered helpless.
speaker_heading: CELIA
text: It's true. I see a guy with horns
text: growing out of his head and my knees
dialog: go weak.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Of course -- it's biological.
text: They share a laugh. A flirtatious charge passes between them.
text: She blushes slightly and exits. John looks suspiciously at
dialog: Wills.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: What's goin' on?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: JOHN
text: At home.
text: Wills smiles at him as though he were insane --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Nothing. Honestly. We're having a
dialog: lot of fun. We're very happy.
text: From the next scene, we hear Charlotte laughing --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE'S VOICE
dialog: Don't come in! Don't!
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON
text: A fire burns in the fireplace. Still wearing his coat, wills
text: stands by the mantel, sorting through a stack of mail --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm not even tempted!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE'S VOICE
dialog: (from another room)
dialog: I'll be right out!
text: Olivia enters with a steamy mug --
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: You like hot cider?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Sure, thanks.
text: She carefully takes his coat off him as he sips the cider --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Mmmm.
speaker_heading: OLIVIA
dialog: Charlotte made it. I just poured it
text: in the cup.
text: She exits. As Wills sips the drink, he sits on the leather
text: sofa and continues to glance through his mail.
text: Suddenly, shocked, he stops on a letter. He sets his mug
text: down. He hears Charlotte making noise in the next room. He
text: opens the letter and begins to read.
text: His eyes dart down the page, but he quickly sees that the
text: letter is not friendly. His face shows disappointment.
text: He hears footsteps in the hall. He folds the letter up, slips
text: it back into its envelope, and jams it in his back pocket.
text: Charlotte enters and throws her hands out to her side --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Ta-da!
text: She stands before him, dressed in a WHITE SPINSTERLY VICTORIAN
text: OUTFIT with braids coiled at her ears. Wills smiles with
dialog: appreciation --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Incredible.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Don't I look just like her?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Absolutely incredible.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You have no idea who I am.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Give me a hint.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: "Hope is the thing with feathers
dialog: that perches in the soul."
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Was that the hint?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You dummy! Emily Dickinson! Only the
dialog: greatest American female poet ever!
text: She hugs and kisses him --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: Uncultured swine.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The truth is out. I've lost you
dialog: forever.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Wanna bet?
text: She lays her head on his chest, smiling contentedly. A subtle
text: shadow of apprehension passes over Wills' features. Eyes
dialog: closed, she asks --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: When do I get to see your costume?
scene_heading: EXT. BROOKLYN BROWNSTONE -- ESTABLISHING -- NIGHT
text: A cardboard ghost hangs on the door. A Jack-o'-lantern grins
text: in the window. A HALLOWEEN PARTY is in full swing.
scene_heading: INT. BROOKLYN LIVING ROOM -- SAME
text: John's wife, Sarah, dressed as QUEEN ELIZABETH, walks through
text: the crowd, picking up empty glasses and bottles.
text: As she moves among COSTUMED GUESTS and their CHILDREN, we
text: notice a few of Elysium's customers and staff, including
text: Celia, dressed as GLINDA, talking to the maitre d', Jesus,
text: dressed as a COWBOY --
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: No, I think we make a great couple.
dialog: A good witch and a bad hombre. That
dialog: could make for some very interesting
dialog: sex.
text: Celia laughs.
scene_heading: INT. BROOKLYN KITCHEN -- CONTINUOUS
text: Wills stands off to the side, wearing his devil's horns,
text: sipping a drink, watching an EIGHT-YEAR-OLD BOY bob for
text: apples, while other BOYS and GIRLS cheer him on.
text: John, wearing his king costume, supervises, as the boy, wildly
text: sputtering, struggles to bite into a renegade Granny Smith.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: O, Ricky, chill out! You're gonna
dialog: get snot in the water!
text: The boy laughs even harder. John facetiously grabs his collar --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: That's it -- outta the pool!
text: The boy, choking with laughter, plunges his face into the
text: water again. Sarah enters and calls out over the din --
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Where're the girls? I thought you
dialog: were tucking them in!
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: We got a volunteer!
text: Sarah, smiling curiously, heads to the back stairwell.
text: She sees Wills standing there. Watching the kids, his eyes
text: are filled with the same sort of wistful yearning that she
dialog: noticed at the toy store --
text: She gives him an affectionate poke in the stomach as she
text: passes by and disappears upstairs.
text: Finally, the boy grabs the apple in his teeth and lifts his
text: soaked head to the cheers of his friends.
text: Then he grabs it out of his mouth and begins taking big bites
text: out of it until he uncovers a SILVER DOLLAR.
text: Wills laughs at the kids' excitement. A moment later a WOMAN'S
text: GLOVED HANDS cover his eyes.
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Guess who?
text: Wills feels her LONG GLOVES.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Wonder Woman?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Batgirl?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: I'll give you a hint. You dumped me.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Princess Di?
text: She laughs and playfully strangles him.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Wendy?
text: He turns and sees that it's the woman from the film's opening,
text: dressed as HOLLY GOLIGHTLY.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Yup, I'd know that throttle anywhere!
scene_heading: INT. BROOKLYN SECOND-FLOOR HALLWAY -- SAME
text: Sarah stops silently at an AJAR DOOR and looks inside.
text: Charlotte sits on a bed between the twin girls who are nestled
dialog: up against her --
speaker_heading: MOLLY
dialog: Just one more.
speaker_heading: CARLA
dialog: Please?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: All right, but this is the last last
dialog: one!
text: She clears her throat and settles herself. The twins listen
text: with rapt attention as she recites from memory, slowly as
dialog: though it were a suspenseful bedtime story --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: "Because I could not stop for Death,
dialog: He kindly stopped for me;
dialog: The carriage held but just ourselves
dialog: And Immortality.
dialog: We slowly drove, he knew no haste,
dialog: And I had put away
dialog: My labor, and my leisure too,
dialog: For his civility."
text: Charlotte looks up and sees Sarah, who face is beaming with
text: affection. They share a smile and Charlotte keeps reciting --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: "We passed the school where children
dialog: played
text: At wrestling in a ring;
text: We passed the fields of grazing grain,
dialog: We passed the setting sun."
text: Sarah eases the door shut and steps away.
scene_heading: INT. BROOKLYN LIVING ROOM -- HOUR LATER
text: THE CAMERA makes a CIRCUIT of the THINNING CROWD. Sarah blows
text: out candles, dumps ash trays, and collects empties.
text: Charlotte, rubbing a knuckle into her sleepy eye, descends
text: the stairs. She sees Celia talking to Jesus, and walks over
dialog: to them --
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: Sweet dreams?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I had no idea I was so tired.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (from across the room)
dialog: They're down?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: And out.
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Where's Lucifer?
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: (jokingly)
dialog: Last time I saw him, he was in the
text: kitchen going pretty heavily with
dialog: Holly Golightly.
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: Hey, no gossip! Holly's a valued
dialog: customer.
text: Charlotte pretends to be fighting mad --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Lemme at 'er!
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: Hell hath no fury like a recluse
text: scorned.
text: Charlotte laughs and heads to the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. BROOKLYN KITCHEN -- SAME
text: John wipes down the table which is littered with bits of
dialog: apple.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hey, shouldn't one of your minions
dialog: be doing that?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You know, in my day, you bobbed for
dialog: the apple, and, sure, maybe there
dialog: was a nickel inside it and that was
dialog: sweet -- but you ate the god damn
dialog: apple! These little animals grab the
dialog: coin and they're out the door!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: -- off to buy crack!
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Exactly my point.
text: They share a laugh.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Seen Beelzebub around?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: The Prince of Darkness?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-huh.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Yeah, he went upstairs.
text: Charlotte is puzzled.
scene_heading: INT. BROOKLYN SECOND-FLOOR HALLWAY -- LATER
text: Charlotte walks down the hall, opening doors and glancing
text: inside. She opens a bathroom and THREE CATS dash out.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Shit.
text: She gets to the end of the hall and is about to give up.
text: When she hears FOOTSTEPS.
text: She walks around the corner and sees a NARROW STAIRCASE
text: leading to the third floor.
text: At the dark at the top of the stairs Wills and Wendy appear.
dialog: Charlotte smiles --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You lost your horns.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Hey, looking for me?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-huh.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: We were checking out the roof. John's
dialog: got quite a set-up.
text: They arrive at the bottom of the stairs.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Wendy, this is Charlotte Fielding.
dialog: Charlotte -- my friend Wendy Lister.
text: They smile and shake hands. Charlotte looks at them both
text: carefully for any sign of uneasiness. There is none.
speaker_heading: WENDY
dialog: Actually, I saw you at that memorial
dialog: service in Connecticut. Your eulogy
dialog: was beautiful.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Thank you.
speaker_heading: WENDY
dialog: (re: her outfit)
dialog: Betsy Ross, right?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You guessed it.
text: Wills smiles and rubs his hands together --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Is the party over?
scene_heading: EXT. BROOKLYN BRIDGE -- NIGHT
text: A TOWN CAR speeds toward Manhattan.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR -- SAME
text: Wills and Charlotte stare straight ahead, each lost in
text: thought. The lights of the city illuminate their faces in
text: eerie flashes.
text: Finally, Wills glances over and smiles --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I have a strange feeling that you're
dialog: upset with me.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No, I was just wondering if you had
dialog: sex with that woman.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Ever?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No, the answer to that's pretty
dialog: obvious. I meant tonight. On the
dialog: roof.
text: Wills breaks into a grin --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You're not serious.
text: Wills laughs to himself, then glances up and sees the
text: reflection of the driver's amused eyes in the rearview mirror.
text: Wills smiles back at Charlotte --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Of course not. Why would I want to
dialog: do something like that?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: That's what I was wondering. I
dialog: thought, "We're so happy he'd have
dialog: no reason to do it. And if he did do
dialog: it, he'd at least look guilty,
text: wouldn't he? But he doesn't. He looks
dialog: more relaxed than before the party
dialog: started."
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Well, there you have it.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: But then I thought, "He's a womanizer --
dialog: that's what they say." Funny word,
dialog: huh? Sounds like some sorta machine.
dialog: "And how do you get to be a womanizer?
dialog: Obviously by sleeping with lots of
dialog: different women for no good reason
dialog: and being really good at lying about
dialog: it."
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Sure, except that --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Let me finish.
text: Again, Wills looks up at the driver's eyes in the mirror.
text: They seem more serious now.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Anyway, there's something about being
dialog: sick right here --
text: She touches her own chest. Her voice trembles slightly --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: -- that has made me acutely aware of
dialog: my heart. Nothing corny -- I mean,
dialog: literally... I feel every beat. I
dialog: know how sensitive it is. It reacts
dialog: to everything.
text: She turns in her seat and lifts an OPEN PALM.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: If you're lying to me, I'll know it.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Did you have sex with Wendy on the
dialog: roof?
text: He smiles at her as though he were indulging a child. She
text: looks him deeply in the eye and opens a button of his shirt.
text: She slips her palm inside, over his heart.
text: Still smiling, he doesn't move a muscle.
text: Their eyes are locked.
text: Ever so slowly, her face crumples and tears appear in her
text: eyes. She shakes her head --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: My God... oh my God.
text: She slides away from him, drops her face into her hands, and
text: begins to cry. Wills looks down, then glances up at the
text: rearview mirror.
text: Illuminated in flashes, the driver's eyes have taken on an
text: ominous, unblinking quality as though they were the outward
text: embodiment of his own conscience.
text: Wills looks out the window. When he finally speaks, his voice
dialog: is calm and a little cold --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Look, I never pretended to be anything
dialog: other than --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (a piteous cry)
dialog: You hate yourself so much!
text: Wills is stunned. He looks out the window, speechless, his
text: eyes small and frightened.
scene_heading: EXT. CHARLOTTE'S BROWNSTONE -- NIGHT
text: The town car is stopped at the curb, motor running, lights
dialog: on.
scene_heading: INT. TOWN CAR -- SAME
text: Charlotte and Wills sit in silence --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: This was all a mistake. Right from
dialog: the start. All of it. I'm a grown
dialog: man and you're a child.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Anyway, you have better things to do
dialog: with your last -- With your time
dialog: than spend it with me.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (distantly)
dialog: What about you? Do you have anything
dialog: better?
text: Wills has no answer. Charlotte slowly gets out of the car.
text: She leans back in, her eyes narrow with disdain --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You know, maybe you're right. Maybe
dialog: this is the best time to end it.
dialog: Because I was actually starting to
dialog: love you, Wills, and that's the last
dialog: thing I ever wanted.
text: She shuts the door.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- NIGHT
text: As Charlotte enters, we hear Wills' cab pull away. She moves
text: to the stairs and sees a LIGHT shining beneath the living
text: room door.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- SAME
text: Dolores sits watching an old movie, her eyes dulled by a
text: cataract of boozy fatigue. The door opens. She looks up and
text: sees Charlotte in costume.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Well, if it ain't the Belle of
dialog: Amherst.
text: Charlotte smiles feebly and plops down on the cracked leather
text: ottoman. She looks blankly at the TV. She sniffles and wipes
text: a hand across her nose. Dolores glances over, then back at
dialog: the set.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Seen that face before.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You have?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: And for the same god damn reason.
text: Charlotte is confused, but then puts it together --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: But you said Wills and my Mom were
dialog: just friends.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Sure, but she was nuts about him.
dialog: The only reason she didn't sleep
dialog: with him is 'cause she was
dialog: sentimental. And smart. She wanted a
dialog: ring first.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Why didn't he give her one?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: 'Cause he knocked up little Millie
text: Tyler instead. In Newport. At Bailey's
dialog: Beach. During the Labor Day clam
dialog: bake.
text: She chuckles grimly, coughs, and sips her drink.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Millie was your mom's best friend
dialog: from Nightingale. You had to hand it
dialog: to him. He sure knew how to make a
dialog: point.
text: She coughs again. Charlotte struggles to make sense of it
dialog: all.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Why did he do that?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Aw, who the hell knows? 'Cause the
dialog: moon was full. 'Cause life's short.
dialog: 'Cause he's Wills Keane. I'll tell
dialog: you a little secret -- after that,
dialog: your Mom hated his guts, but your
dialog: dad never made her smile like he
dialog: did.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: 'Course your dad never made her cry
dialog: like that either.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (softly)
dialog: Why didn't you tell me any of this
dialog: before?
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Oh, I dunno...
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You never talk to me! You never try
dialog: to help me!
text: Dolores' eyes grow nervous. She swallows hard.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Christ, look at me. I'm gonna tell
dialog: you what to do?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Yes! You're my family. You're supposed
dialog: to take care of me.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Aw, you wouldn't listen. That's the
dialog: thing about people -- they just do
dialog: what they want from the day they're
dialog: born till the day they die.
text: She realizes her poor choice of words. She looks over and
text: their eyes collide. Charlotte begins to cry --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No, that's you, Dolly! People who
dialog: have given up don't listen to other
dialog: people! People who want to die close
dialog: off! That's not me! I wanted your
dialog: help! I wanted to learn!
text: Charlotte drops her head dejectedly.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Anything... anything you would ever
dialog: have told me, I would have listened
dialog: to! I promise.
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: (fighting tears)
dialog: Aw, come on, honey. I can throw a
dialog: party and I can mix a gimlet. After
dialog: that, what the fuck do I know?
text: She rises, gives Charlotte a nervous, awkward pat on the
text: shoulder, then crosses over to the bar.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Wills stands in the center of the room, looking around
text: blankly. He disappears into the bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Wills enters and sees some of Charlotte's clothes folded
text: neatly on the bed. A LITERARY ANTHOLOGY lies open, showing a
text: DRAWING OF EMILY DICKINSON.
text: He grabs the clothes and the book and puts them in a SHOPPING
text: BAG that she has left on the floor.
text: Then he walks into the bathroom. We see him gathering BEAUTY
text: PRODUCTS off the sink. He walks back in and sets them into
text: the shopping bag.
text: He looks around and spots a nearly completed crossword puzzle
text: sitting folded on the dresser. He drops that in the shopping
text: bag, too, then sets it by the door.
text: He feels a draft and spots an OPEN WINDOW. As he crosses to
text: it, he notices something on his pillow. A blank ENVELOPE. He
text: picks it up and rips it open.
text: It's a HALLOWEEN CARD of a grinning JACK-O-LANTERN. He opens
text: it and inside is handwritten:
text: The scariest night of the year and only one thing haunts me:
dialog: that we might never have met.
dialog: All my love,
dialog: XXX Charlotte.
text: Wills lowers the card and heaves a deep breath. His jaw tight,
text: he walks over and drops the card into the shopping bag.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE FOYER -- SAME
text: Charlotte emerges from the living room and shuts the door
text: behind her. She climbs the stairs to her solitary bedroom.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. UPPER EAST SIDE -- NIGHT
text: From amid the RUSH OF TRAFFIC, a TAXI CAB breaks free and
text: glides to the curb in front of Elysium.
text: Wills emerges with PATTY, 35, bosomy, bright-eyed, pitched a
text: little too loudly. Wills seems stiff and tentative, a shadow
dialog: of his former self.
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM -- CONTINUOUS
text: AN ELDERLY COUPLE passes them as they enter. Wills stops at
text: the coat check and helps Patty with her coat. She admires
dialog: the decor --
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: Oh, Wills, it's beautiful!
text: Although his spirits are low, he is effortlessly cordial --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Thank you. It was designed by a team
dialog: from --
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: So functional! Is that stainless
dialog: steel?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Actually, no, it's velvet.
text: She furrows her brow, squints, then laughs.
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: Oh, my God, it is!
text: Wills hands Patty's coat to Melissa, the hat check girl, and
text: asks under his breath --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How are you?
text: Looking at Patty, Melissa asks with deep sympathy --
speaker_heading: MELISSA
dialog: How are you, sir?
text: Before Wills can respond, Patty takes his arm --
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: Well, if the food's even half as
dialog: good as the moldings I'm in for a
dialog: very special treat.
text: Jesus is surprised to see that Wills is not with Charlotte --
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: Uhhh, good evening, Mr. Keane. Will
dialog: you be dining with us?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Yes, Jesus. Table seven, if it's
dialog: available.
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: Certainly, sir.
text: Celia approaches, equally surprised not to see Charlotte --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Hello, Celia.
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: (sincerely)
dialog: How are you this evening, sir?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I've been worse.
speaker_heading: CELIA
dialog: (under her breath)
dialog: Are you sure?
text: The NEW HOSTESS, Celia's replacement, arrives.
speaker_heading: JESUS
dialog: Table Seven.
speaker_heading: NEW HOSTESS
dialog: This way, please.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (to Patty)
dialog: Order a drink. I'll be right with
dialog: you.
text: Patty follows Celia. Wills moves to the reservation stand
text: where John stands, stone-faced, flipping through the
dialog: reservation book --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Where the hell you been?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Splendid, how are you?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Where's Charlotte?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Deliveries on time?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Who's the broad? She looks like a
dialog: Holiday-Inn hooker from Ohio.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Keep up the good work!
text: Wills walks away.
scene_heading: INT. DOWNTOWN BAR -- NIGHT
text: Dark, smoky, and boisterous. FIND CHARLOTTE, standing with
text: Simon. She looks around disgustedly and shouts above the
dialog: roar --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: Okay, I'm chugging Scotch, gagging
dialog: on smoke, and losing my hearing! Now
dialog: why is this so good for me again?!
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: That's just it! The great spiritual
dialog: benefit in leaving one's room is
dialog: that it reminds one of how odious it
dialog: is to leave one's room!
scene_heading: ACROSS THE ROOM
text: FOLLOW SHANNON, coming out of the ladies' room. She makes
text: her way through the crowd--
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Excuse me! Excuse me! Sorry! Excuse
dialog: me!
speaker_heading: BOY'S VOICE
dialog: No problem!
text: She looks up and can't believe her eyes.
text: BACK TO CHARLOTTE AND SIMON
text: Simon, shouting above the music, speaks with difficulty --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: There's one thing you don't know
dialog: about Mr. Keane and his adultery and
dialog: as painful as it is I feel that I
dialog: should tell you!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (alarmed)
dialog: What? What is it!
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: That woman on the roof? That was no
dialog: ex-girlfriend! In fact, no woman at
dialog: all. It was I, Simon Loring, master
dialog: of disguise! Willsy and I have moved
dialog: in together!
text: Charlotte laughs and slaps him. Shannon approaches hauling
text: by the hand ERIC BALES, 24, small, beautiful, long-haired,
dialog: glasses.
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Look what I found!
dialog: Charlotte can't believe it either --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Eric! Wow!
speaker_heading: ERIC
dialog: Hey, Char!
text: They hug and kiss with some slight awkwardness, then shout
dialog: above the music --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: God, long time no see! One night we
dialog: show up to rent Eraserhead and you're
dialog: just gone!
speaker_heading: ERIC
dialog: Sorry about that!
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: It was such a drag! You know, having
dialog: to actually start paying to rent
dialog: movies!
speaker_heading: ERIC
dialog: I bet!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What's up? Ralph said you moved to
dialog: Rockland County!
speaker_heading: ERIC
dialog: Yeah, I got a job working for my
dialog: mom's new boyfriend!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What does he do?
speaker_heading: ERIC
dialog: He sells pot!
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Cool!
speaker_heading: ERIC
dialog: Not really. I was a driver! I got
dialog: laid off when he got busted. He's
dialog: awaiting trial!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: So what're you doing now?
speaker_heading: ERIC
dialog: Same thing pretty much. Only for
dialog: Domino's!
text: Charlotte laughs.
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: Whoa, I don't believe it!
dialog: (to Eric)
dialog: She hasn't laughed in like a week!
text: Eric smiles quizzically at Charlotte, wondering why.
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM -- NIGHT
text: Wills sits listening to Patty talk --
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: -- so everybody on the conference
text: call starts introducing themselves.
dialog: Ned Lewey, Paris Office. Takashi
dialog: Matsuo, Tokyo Office. Whoever, the
dialog: London Office. And then someone says,
dialog: "Will the architect from the New
dialog: York office please identify himself."
dialog: And I pipe up and say, "Well, guys,
dialog: I'm not a him or an architect. I'm
dialog: Patty Strauss and I'm head of East
dialog: Coast marketing." And there's like
dialog: total silence. It was hysterical!
text: Wills smiles feebly. He looks away and sees John holding the
text: TELEPHONE, urgently signaling to him. Alarmed, Wills jumps
dialog: up --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm sorry, would you excuse me?
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: Of course.
scene_heading: AT THE RESERVATION STAND
text: Wills, fearing the worst, hurries to John --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Nobody!
text: John slams down the phone, grabs him by the arm, hauls him
text: through the reception area and out the door. Patty watches,
dialog: confused.
scene_heading: EXT. ELYSIUM -- CONTINUOUS
text: John walks quickly down the block, still hauling Wills --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Last time I checked I was your best
dialog: friend!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: So after the party, no thank you! I
dialog: call you three times -- no call back!
dialog: And for six days you don't even eat
dialog: at your own god damn restaurant!
dialog: What am I supposed to think? Huh?! I
dialog: was ready to call the morgue!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Relax, I'm alive.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Well, you sure don't look it!
scene_heading: EXT. ANOTHER BLOCK -- MINUTE LATER
text: John walks as quickly as he can with Wills struggling to
dialog: keep up --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: I'll tell you why it's my concern!
dialog: Because I had a god damn swimming
dialog: pool! An ocean view! A fabulous lemon
dialog: tree hangin' right over my Jacuzzi!
dialog: And I gave it up for you, brother!
text: Back to a life of concrete and dirt
dialog: and sirens just so you could get
dialog: your shit together!
scene_heading: EXT. ANOTHER BLOCK -- MINUTES LATER
text: John, walking a little more slowly now, cannot believe his
dialog: ears --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: On my roof? You gotta be kiddin'!
dialog: Not on my green chair! Tell me it
text: wasn't on the green chair.
text: Wills winces.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Oh, great. Now how am I gonna clean
dialog: that?
scene_heading: EXT. ANOTHER BLOCK -- MINUTE LATER
text: John walks slowly now, backward, listening to an anxious
dialog: Wills --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Look, it doesn't matter that she's
dialog: sick -- she's still a kid and there's
dialog: no way we should be together. It's
dialog: unhealthy... it's... it's
dialog: inappropriate...
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: (with disgust)
dialog: What the hell is that? Some sorta
dialog: shrink talk?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Look, if she were just fun... just
dialog: some sort of diversion... maybe I
dialog: could justify it. But the worst part
dialog: is that it's becoming more. Much
dialog: more. It's embarrassing how much I
dialog: like her. She gets to me. She affects
dialog: me...
text: He stops and leans back against a building. He looks around,
text: avoiding eye contact with John, as tears rise into his eyes.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: And she's gonna be gone and... I'm
dialog: not sure I can... I mean... I already
dialog: think about her all the time...
dialog: (fighting tears)
dialog: Her smile kills me... and the
dialog: thought... that it'll be gone...
dialog: forever... that I'll never see her
dialog: again... I don't know... I can't --
dialog: I don't think I'm that strong, Johnny.
dialog: It's too much. I'd rather have it be
dialog: over... over now. I'll start missing
dialog: her now.
text: Wills is still unable to look at him. John speaks softly --
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Buddy, I hate to break it to you,
dialog: but in the real world... where I
dialog: live... there're only two kindsa
dialog: love stories. Boy loses girl and
dialog: girl loses boy. That's all there is.
dialog: Somebody always gets left behind.
dialog: You try to avoid that, you'll end up
dialog: an old man toastin' yourself with
text: egg nog in the mirror on Christmas
dialog: Eve. You'll end up dying in your own
dialog: arms.
text: Wills lifts his frightened eyes. John pats him on the cheek.
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH-RISE APARTMENT BUILDING -- NIGHT
text: Wills stands with Patty in the driveway in front of the glass
text: lobby. He is distracted and terribly anxious. She looks as
text: though she expects, at the very least, a kiss --
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: Thank you so much. I had such a great
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Good. I'm... I'm glad.
speaker_heading: PATTY
dialog: Didn't you?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Patty, I... I want to be honest with
dialog: you... right now, from the start...
dialog: so there's no room for
dialog: misunderstanding. I didn't have a
dialog: good time, but it's nothing personal.
dialog: I just split up with someone and
dialog: rather than admit to myself how much
dialog: I miss her, I asked you out instead.
dialog: And it's unfair. If I feel sad I
dialog: should just feel sad and not try to
dialog: use you... and your body... as some
dialog: sort of painkiller, right?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Anyway, I think you're a warm and
dialog: engaging woman and I wish you all
dialog: the best.
text: Relieved to have unburdened himself of the truth, he shakes
text: her hand. Patty, utterly baffled, doesn't know what hit her.
scene_heading: EXT. WILLS' BUILDING -- LATER
text: The doorman Michael, smoking a cigarette, sees Wills walk
text: up, his expression pensive.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Mr. Keane --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Good night, Michael.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: You've got a visitor.
text: Wills stops and turns --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: She's been waitin' almost an hour.
text: In the lobby.
dialog: (off Wills' look)
dialog: A little surprise for ya.
text: He winks. Wills realizes that it's Charlotte. It must be. He
text: smiles and hurries inside.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LOBBY -- CONTINUOUS
text: Wills bursts in and freezes. A WOMAN stands across the way,
text: studying an oil painting. She turns quickly. It's LISA. She
text: sees his excited expression fall. Beneath her rather composed
text: facade, Lisa is a chaos of conflicting emotions --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Sorry to disappoint you.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: No, no. Not at all. You surprised
dialog: me, that's all. I didn't expect to
dialog: see you... not here... not after
dialog: your letter.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Well, I didn't expect you to show up
dialog: at my job.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I followed you in. I wasn't even
dialog: sure it was you. All I have is an
text: old snapshot.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: My boss thought you were a stalker.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I didn't mean to run off like that.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: But you did.
text: An awkward silence.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: So you got my letter. What'd you do?
dialog: Freak out? Burn it?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I saved it.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I was just blowing off some steam,
dialog: okay? I think I have the right.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So do I. Look, why don't we go
dialog: upstairs.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: (uneasily)
dialog: No. I didn't plan to come. Peter...
dialog: my husband... he agrees. He thinks
text: it's a futile exercise. But it turns
dialog: out I'm pregnant. Just a few months,
dialog: but --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Lisa -- Congratulations. That's
dialog: wonderful.
text: His sincerity stops her. She softens slightly, mustering a
dialog: tiny smile --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Thanks. Anyway, I guess it made me
dialog: want to meet you. I've been a little
dialog: sentimental about parent-hood.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Is that what you consider me?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: In a lousy absentee sorta way, sure.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How's your mom?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Great. Nuts. She moved to Costa Rica
dialog: last summer.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: A guy, what else? He owns a charter
text: airline and wears sunglasses indoors.
dialog: I think he might be a gunrunner.
text: Wills chuckles. For the first time, Lisa relaxes enough to
dialog: take him in.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You know, you're much better looking
dialog: in person than in photographs. I
dialog: always assumed Mom was exaggerating,
dialog: but she wasn't.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Thanks. You're not bad looking
dialog: yourself.
text: Lisa smiles, and, much to her embarrassment, tears come to
text: her eyes. She shakes her head at how absurd she is, treasuring
text: kind words from a father she doesn't know.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Anyway... I should go...
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Already?
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I really just wanted to meet you
dialog: and... maybe... I don't know...
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (gently)
dialog: What is it? Tell me.
text: She sniffles and looks away --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Nothing earth-shattering. Maybe just
dialog: to hear you say you were sorry.
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I am. I'm very sorry.
text: She stares at him long and hard, waiting for some more
text: palpable sign of remorse. It isn't forthcoming. Finally, she
dialog: nods.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Okay. Thanks.
text: She turns and walks away. His voice stops her --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Can I call you?
text: She turns around, hesitates for a moment, then nods. She
text: continues to the door. But then she stops and turns --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Before... when you came in... who
dialog: did you think I was?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: A friend.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: You must like her an awful lot.
text: She smiles simply and heads for the door. When she is gone,
text: Wells slowly walks back toward the elevators, but then
text: abruptly stops in his tracks, deliberating...
scene_heading: EXT. VILLAGE -- DAWN
text: THE CAMERA CRANES DOWN SLOWLY from a view of the sun rising
text: in the EASTERN SKY to a TAXI gliding over to the curb in
dialog: front of...
scene_heading: CHARLOTTE'S BROWNSTONE -- DAWN
text: Charlotte, looking tired and a little pale, pays the driver
text: and emerges from the taxi. She makes her way up the steps.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE -- CONTINUOUS
text: Looking down from the second-floor landing, we see Charlotte
text: enter and walk up the stairs toward us.
text: As she reaches the landing, she feels a STABBING PAIN IN HER
text: CHEST and stops walking. Wincing, she waits for the pain to
dialog: subside.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLOTTE'S BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS
text: Charlotte enters wearily, drops her purse on the floor, then
text: turns and GASPS.
text: Wills lies sprawled in an armchair fully dressed, sound
dialog: asleep.
text: Charlotte is offended by the intrusion. She hurries over to
text: awaken him. But then she stops. Her face softens slightly.
text: She studies his face... touches his cheek with the back of
text: her hand... traces the lines at his eyes with a fingertip..
text: smooths back a wisp of hair.
text: Finally, snapping to, steeling herself, she jostles him --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hey.
text: Wills wakes with a violent start. When he sees her, he drops
text: his head back. He closes his eyes again and murmurs sleepily --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Where were you? I was worried.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: So worried you fell asleep. What're
dialog: you doing here?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I've missed you. You have no idea
dialog: how much.
text: She crosses coldly to her closet and, half-shutting the door,
text: blocking his view, starts to undress.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: How'd you get in?
text: He sits up, rubbing his eyes in the morning light.
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: Dolly. We watched TV. She fell asleep.
dialog: What time is it?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I didn't know I had a curfew.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Where were you?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: None of your business. So what is
dialog: it? What do you want?
text: Wills sits forward, more alert now. He exhales heavily and
dialog: begins:
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: To tell you that you were right. I
dialog: do hate myself. But not so much that
dialog: I can't see how stupid and despicable
dialog: and --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Cowardly.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: And cowardly what I did was. And
dialog: even though there's no excuse for
dialog: it, I want you to forgive me.
text: She turns and looks at him. She feels herself relenting. She
text: turns away and continues undressing --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Why should I?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Because, for better or worse, I'm
dialog: falling in love with you, and the
dialog: thought of our not being together is
dialog: unbearable to me.
text: She stops, then glances at him with a flash of pain and
text: longing. Determined not to surrender to her feelings, she
text: crosses to the bed and throws open the covers.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Let's sleep.
text: She crawls into bed.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: In the morning, we'll talk about
dialog: what a gigantic asshole you are.
text: Wills, relieved, crosses to the bed and begins to undress.
text: He asks casually --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So where were you?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: With Shannon and Simon and Eric.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Who's Eric?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
text: An old friend who used to work at
dialog: Blockbuster.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What'd you guys do?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Talked and drank. Simon and Shannon
dialog: finally went home. Eric and I hung
dialog: out.
text: Thinking nothing of it, Wills nods. He slips into bed. Her
text: back is to him. He drapes an arm around her and pulls her a
dialog: little closer.
text: He smiles contentedly and closes his eyes. But then something
text: occurs to him. He opens his eyes --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Hung out where?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Stop. We'll talk about it tomorrow.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Fine.
text: He closes his eyes again. A few beats later, they open.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Talk about what? Is there something
dialog: to talk about? What happened?
text: Charlotte, eyes still closed, breaks into a sly, amused smile.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST -- DAY
text: Wills and Charlotte, collars turned up against the brisk
text: wind, walk together. Charlotte wears a backpack. Wills tries
dialog: desperately to appear casual --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: No, honestly, I think I have a right
dialog: to know.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: And I honestly think I have a right
dialog: not to tell you.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You're being unreasonable.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You're being nosy.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- DAY
text: They move down a winding walkway beneath barren trees --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You know, in this day and age it's
dialog: not so outrageous a request. I mean,
dialog: I don't know this kid. I don't know
dialog: where he's been.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (laughing incredulously)
dialog: You're worried about where he's been?
dialog: Give me a break!
scene_heading: EXT. WOLLMAN RINK -- DAY
text: Wills watches as Charlotte laces up her figure skates --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It requires balance and I have lousy
dialog: balance, okay?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh, come on, what's the worst that
dialog: can happen?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Well, I guess you could break a hip.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Look, I'm not in a sporting mood!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: How come?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm jealous, okay?! Is that what you
dialog: want to hear? Are you satisfied now?
text: She burst out laughing --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Not even close!
scene_heading: EXT. WOLLMAN RINK -- DAY
text: Wills paces the bleachers, furious, while Charlotte skates
dialog: nearby --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: All I want is a simple answer and
dialog: you're torturing me! And I resent
dialog: it! It's cruel and juvenile! And I --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (exploding)
speaker_heading: HEY!
text: Her anger startles him. She skates over quickly and skids to
dialog: an abrupt stop --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: It's not! It's adult! It's revenge!
dialog: And if you think it's bad not knowing
dialog: what I did -- well, it's even worse
dialog: knowing exactly what you did!
text: She turns and skates away.
scene_heading: EXT. WOLLMAN RINK -- AFTERNOON
text: Wills sits on the bleachers, miserably brooding, while
text: Charlotte gracefully glides by, laughing and chatting with
text: THREE YOUNG MALE SKATERS whom she's just met.
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- NIGHTFALL
text: They walk together in silence. Wills is sullen. Finally,
text: Charlotte takes his hand and speaks gently but firmly --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Do me a favor, okay? Never ask me
dialog: again what happened with Eric. Just
dialog: accept the fact that you'll never,
dialog: ever know. And if that hurts, then
dialog: think about it next time you want to
dialog: cheat on somebody.
text: Wills reflects.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Charlotte and Wills are little more than silhouettes, lying
text: entwined in the rich darkness, conversing in whispers:
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I wish I were exaggerating, but I'm
dialog: not. I slept with every one of them.
dialog: Really. Look through Dolly's old
dialog: photo albums... or any movie
dialog: magazine... visit Aspen at Christmas.
dialog: I was on a mission. And until recently
dialog: I really didn't think I had a problem.
dialog: Or if I did, it was definitely the
dialog: most pleasurable one I could imagine.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What changed?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: My house in Malibu burned to the
dialog: ground.
text: Charlotte laughs. Wills smiles with sad irony.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I know, it sounds funny. But it must
dialog: have triggered something because the
dialog: next thing I knew I couldn't sleep.
dialog: I'd lie awake at night absolutely
text: terrified. Like a kid left alone in
text: the dark.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What were you scared of?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: How quickly time was passing and how
dialog: adolescent I still felt. How
dialog: meaningless all my choices seemed.
dialog: How lonely I was. So I liquidated my
dialog: portfolio, sold my businesses, and
dialog: moved back here. To start over, settle
dialog: down, start acting my age.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You were supposed to be my one last
text: dalliance with youth.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Well, for your sake, I hope I am.
text: He thinks for a moment, then smiles, and kisses her brow.
scene_heading: INT. MACDONALD'S -- DAY
text: Wills sits with John, Sarah, and the twins at a plastic table
text: overrun with food, wrappers, and squashed condiment tubes.
text: Sarah speaks to Wills --
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Judge you? Why would I? Screw the
dialog: age difference -- I like the new
dialog: you! Before Charlotte came along, do
dialog: you have any idea how hard it was to
dialog: get you to sit down for a Happy Meal?
text: Wills and John laugh. Molly, one of the twins, chimes in --
speaker_heading: MOLLY
dialog: Uncle Wills, how come you don't get
dialog: married?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Yeah, how come, Uncle Wills?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I want to, Carla, but --
speaker_heading: MOLLY
dialog: I'm not Carla! I'm Molly!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Well, Molly, I just haven't met the
dialog: right woman yet.
speaker_heading: CARLA
dialog: What about Charlotte? She's funny-
dialog: pretty.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: (aside to Wills)
dialog: It means funny and pretty. It's their
dialog: highest compliment.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I agree.
dialog: (rising from the table)
text: She's also demanding.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Where're you goin'?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: She's decided she wants her birthday
dialog: present today.
text: Wills gives both of the little girls hugs and kisses.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: But that was last month.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The Dom didn't count. This is her
dialog: real present. She chose it herself
dialog: and it's not material.
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: Now you got me curious.
speaker_heading: SARAH
dialog: Yeah, what is it?
text: Wills shakes his head and smiles, reluctant to answer.
text: From the next scene we hear the sound of TWO DOZEN PEOPLE
scene_heading: BREATHING FURIOUSLY.
scene_heading: INT. STUDIO -- AFTERNOON
text: On a slightly elevated stage, HARI SINGH, 35, an American
text: Sikh wearing a white robe and turban, sits in the lotus
text: position before a lighted candle, softly instructing the
dialog: crowded class --
speaker_heading: HARI
dialog: Okay... breath of fire... now inhale
dialog: deeply... hold the breath... let
dialog: your heart lotus blossom... feel the
dialog: energy rise... and exhale. Good. Now
text: peacock pose.
text: Hari rolls forward, digs his elbows into his midsection, and
text: pops up so that he is parallel to the floor with his legs
text: still crossed.
text: ANGLE ON THE CLASS, all moving into the pose. In the center
text: of the class are Wills and Charlotte, wearing sweats. His
text: arms shaking, Wills is clearly in pain. He mutters --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: When does the enlightenment start?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: When you realize that I'm God.
text: Wills laughs. A moment later, Charlotte winces and falls out
text: of the pose onto the mat. Hari looks over, confused --
speaker_heading: HARI
dialog: Are you all right?
text: Charlotte sits up quickly, smiling --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Yeah. No big deal. Cramp in the old
dialog: fifth shakra!
text: She glances over at Wills. He sees that she's scared to death.
text: He helps her to her feet, speaking softly in her ear --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Don't worry. You're gonna be okay.
text: She nods. They move toward the door. But after a few steps,
text: her eyes flutter, her body goes limp, and she slams down on
text: the mat, UNCONSCIOUS.
scene_heading: INT. SPEEDING AMBULANCE -- AFTERNOON
text: Charlotte lies on a stretcher near Wills and a PARAMEDIC --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: It's no big deal. I just
dialog: hyperventilated. Really.
text: But then she gasps as she's hit by a stab of pain. Wills
text: throws a grave look at the medic and squeezes her hand more
dialog: tightly.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL -- ESTABLISHING -- NIGHT
text: The building is brightly illuminated against the night sky.
scene_heading: INT. ST. VINCENT'S WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Wills sits, anxiously struggling with a half-finished
text: crossword puzzle. He hears the click of a lighter. A GRUBBY
text: LITTLE MAN standing by the coffee machine lights a generic
dialog: cigarette.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Excuse me... do you have an extra
dialog: one of those?
speaker_heading: LITTLE MAN
dialog: (eyes narrowing)
dialog: You a smoker?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Not for years.
speaker_heading: LITTLE MAN
dialog: Well, hell, if I'm gonna be the one
dialog: to get you goin' again.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Thanks.
speaker_heading: LITTLE MAN
dialog: Don't mention it.
text: Wills looks up and sees Dr. Sibley standing in the doorway.
scene_heading: INT. TELEMETRY FLOOR CORRIDOR -- NIGHT
text: Sibley walks Wills down the hallway --
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
text: The repeat MRI and CAT scan do show
dialog: interval progression.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (uncertainly)
dialog: Which means the tumor's grown?
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: Yes. Yes, it has. Considerably. As
dialog: for her loss of consciousness, one
dialog: explanation is a disturbance in her
dialog: heart's electrical function. We'll
dialog: be monitoring her overnight for any
dialog: arrhythmias. If we find something,
dialog: we'll treat it. Unfortunately, the
dialog: more likely explanation is that the
text: tumor has begun to obstruct the
dialog: outflow of her heart. If that's the
dialog: case, there's little we can do. We
dialog: could be speaking in terms of weeks
dialog: not months.
text: They arrive at Charlotte's room.
speaker_heading: SIBLEY
dialog: When she returns home, we'll want
dialog: her to stay active, but don't let
text: her overexert herself.
dialog: (off Wills' nod)
dialog: Don't stay long. She's been sedated.
scene_heading: INT. CHARLOTTE'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- SAME
text: Charlotte lies in the bed with her eyes closed. An EKG monitor
text: bleeps steadily in the corner. An IV drip hangs by her bed.
text: Wills enters and sits down at her bedside. He touches her
text: hand. She opens her eyes and smiles drowsily --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hey.
text: Wills is terribly anxious. His speech is accelerated
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Are you all right? You're okay? How
dialog: do you feel?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Stoned.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'll let you rest. I should. You'll
dialog: sleep and then --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (touching his hand)
dialog: Shhh.
text: He nods and inhales deeply. His heart is racing. She murmurs --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You still owe me a birthday present.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I do not.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Just 'cause I fainted is no excuse
dialog: for you to bail on your peacock pose.
text: She smiles sleepily. Wills lifts a hand to her mouth and
dialog: whispers:
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It ought to be illegal.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Your smile. It's too pretty.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I've ruined you for other women.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You have.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: All part of my master plan.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Do you wanna hear a story... a bedtime
dialog: story?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Shouldn't I be telling you one?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Once upon a time, there was a woman
text: on a ship crossing the Atlantic and
dialog: her little boy got sick. Very sick.
dialog: And she said whoever saves my boy's
dialog: life... I'll name my next baby after
dialog: them. Well, they got into port and
dialog: they rushed her son to St. Vincent's
dialog: hospital... to here... and they saved
dialog: his life. And so the mother named
dialog: her next baby Edna St. Vincent Millay.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And Edna grew up to be, as I am sure
dialog: you know, the second greatest female
dialog: poet in American history.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: The first would be Emily Dickinson.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You're a quick learner -- I like
dialog: that about you...
dialog: (half to herself)
dialog: "It may be, when my heart is dull,
dialog: Having attained its girth,
dialog: I shall not find so beautiful
text: The meagre shapes of earth,
dialog: Nor linger in the rain to mark
dialog: The small of tansy through the dark."
text: Her eyes drift shut --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I am so pretentious...
text: Wills laughs, then clears his throat, and looks suddenly
dialog: serious --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Charlotte, listen, I --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Uh-oh. Heavy, heavy...
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I just think --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No. No violins. I'm fine. Go home...
dialog: sleep...
text: He considers for a moment, then, tears welling in his eyes,
text: he lifts her hand to his mouth and kisses it.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE LIVING ROOM -- AFTERNOON
text: Wills sits across from Simon who strokes Shannon's back as
dialog: she weeps --
speaker_heading: SHANNON
dialog: It just didn't seem real and now
dialog: that it is, I hate it! It's so unfair!
text: Dolores, sitting in her armchair, mutters as though by rote --
speaker_heading: DOLLY
dialog: Fare is what you pay on the train to
dialog: Jersey. Fair is the place that smells
dialog: like manure where, if you're real
dialog: lucky, you win a blue ribbon for
dialog: your home-made pickles. Fair is a
text: sky without a cloud and a face with
dialog: a mark. Fare is food. What fair isn't
dialog: is everything else.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Well, I think I speak for all of us
dialog: when I say that we've heard quite
dialog: enough from Dolores.
text: Dolores chuckles. Simon continues to Wills --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but I
dialog: believe what you're saying is that
text: while the end may be in sight, it
text: has not yet arrived.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That's right. The tumor's begun to
dialog: interfere with the function of her
dialog: heart, but she --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Then why exactly have you called us
dialog: here?
text: Wills falters, looking at him incredulously.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I cut short a lunch date, Shannon's
text: missing her low-impact aerobics class,
dialog: and Dolores has delayed the start of
dialog: her happy hour -- surely you must
dialog: have had good reason.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I thought Charlotte's health might
dialog: be of some interest you.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: It is. You could have told me all
text: about it on the telephone.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I also thought it might be a good
dialog: idea if we discussed ways to make
dialog: her as comfortable as possible for
dialog: the --
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: Charlotte loathes comfortable. I
dialog: never sought to bore her with comfort
dialog: while she was well, why should I
dialog: start now that she's sick?
text: Wills stares at Simon, his face ashen and full of contempt --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Tell me, are you really so cold? Or
dialog: is it just a pose that you've
dialog: cultivated?
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: It's a pose that I've cultivated.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I chose it, as a sort of smoke screen,
dialog: some time after attending my twentieth
dialog: funeral in as many months.
dialog: Pause.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: It's quite all right. But, honestly,
dialog: it shocks me how often you people
dialog: forget. Our phone books have as many
text: numbers crossed out as written in.
dialog: So that while death is certainly as
dialog: painful to us as it is to you, we do
dialog: not find it nearly so...
dialog: extraordinary.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Don't misunderstand me. I adore
dialog: Charlotte and when she dies, I
dialog: would... were it not already in that
dialog: state... cry my heart dry.
text: Shannon looks at Simon and burst into tears again. Simon
text: holds her even closer, rubbing her back.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP:
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN STREET -- NIGHTFALL
text: Wills emerges from Charlotte's brownstone, hails a cab, then
text: decides against it.
scene_heading: EXT. CITY STREETS -- NIGHTFALL
text: Head down, eyes desolate, Wills walks uptown. The roaring
text: traffic, dense crowds, blaring music, flashing neon -- the
text: great welter of urban life is entirely lost on him.
text: He can think only of Charlotte.
scene_heading: EXT. HELL'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT
text: Wills walks down a dark block, his jacket open to the cold
text: night wind, his cheeks and ears burned red.
scene_heading: INT. HELL'S KITCHEN WALK-UP FOYER -- NIGHT
text: Wills enters, checks the tenant list, then presses a buzzer.
text: He speaks into the intercom and a moment later is buzzed up.
scene_heading: INT. WALK-UP STAIRWELL -- NIGHT
text: FOLLOW WILLS, running up the stairs. He arrives at a door,
text: cold and gasping for breath. He hears footsteps.
text: THE DOOR OPENS, but we do not see who is there.
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT:
scene_heading: INT. WALK-UP LIVING ROOM -- LATER
text: Wills paces, speaking desperately to someone. He seems on
text: the verge of a total nervous collapse --
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: She's in the hospital now. She doesn't
dialog: have long. Weeks maybe and -- She...
dialog: Anyway, I have something to ask you.
dialog: A favor. I have no right to ask. I
dialog: know. I'd do it myself, but I can't.
dialog: I'm too... I'm...
text: He takes a deep breath to keep himself from crying.
text: ANGLE ON LISA, his daughter, sitting on the couch, listening,
text: her face unreadable --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I want you to find a surgeon. Dr.
dialog: Sibley told me... Charlotte's doctor
dialog: told me... he said at some point,
dialog: when it's hopeless, surgery could be
dialog: an option. Heroic surgery, he called
dialog: it. I want to make sure that when
dialog: the time comes a hero is performing
dialog: that heroic surgery. Do you
dialog: understand? You'll have to make calls.
dialog: I'll get names. Sibley will give me
dialog: names.
dialog: (fighting tears)
dialog: I'm sorry to ask you... I have no
dialog: right. But, you see, she doesn't
dialog: want it... this surgery... I'll have
dialog: to convince her. So no one can know...
dialog: for now. And I trust you. You're my
dialog: only family and I...
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You have every right to refuse me.
dialog: After what I did. You were a child...
dialog: and you needed me... and I was nowhere
dialog: to be found. There's no excuse for
dialog: that. I'm so terribly sorry!
dialog: Silence.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I'd be happy to do it.
text: Wills, stunned, deeply grateful, allows himself a breath.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Dad, I'm really sorry she's sick.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (almost inaudible)
dialog: I am, too. So sorry. I should be the
dialog: one. It should be me.
text: Lisa, flooded with compassion, wants to go to him, comfort
text: him, but she stays where she is.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. CARL SCHURZ PARK -- LATE AFTERNOON
text: The darkening sky is swept with a brisk wintry breeze. Shadows
text: descend from the trees and towering rocks. AN OLD MAN sits
text: on a bench, reading a newspaper. A NANNY pushes a baby
text: carriage past.
text: Wills and Charlotte walk together, bundled up again the cold.
text: Charlotte walks backward, her breath shooting out into the
dialog: cold air like smoke --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You never talk about my mother.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Talk about her.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What do you want to know?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Everything. All I remember is that
dialog: she smelled like vanilla, loved to
dialog: read to me, and was really good at
dialog: cutting up fruit. I couldn't believe
text: she didn't cut her fingers off.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Well, I remember a little more than
dialog: that. Let's see... she was blonde...
dialog: about your height --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I've seen pictures, dummy.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Oh, okay. She... always ate her ice
dialog: cream with a fork -- how's that?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Much better.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: And she wrote great letters, but
dialog: couldn't spell at all.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Neither can I.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: She was a McGovern Democrat but also
dialog: an incredible snob. She loved
dialog: blueberries. She had the world's
dialog: worst backhand. Her favorite singer
dialog: was Stephen Stills.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Who?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Never mind. She was afraid of sharks.
dialog: And, considering the times, she was
dialog: pretty square. She only tried drugs
dialog: once -- a lifeguard gave her a hash
dialog: brownie and she threw it up all over
dialog: him.
text: Charlotte laughs.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: And she laughed just like that. And
text: she bit her fingernails. And she
dialog: couldn't tell a joke.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: In short, she was a unique.
text: Charlotte smiles happily.
scene_heading: EXT. EAST RIVER ESPLANADE -- MINUTES LATER
text: Wills and Charlotte lean down on the railing, watching the
text: water purl and eddy around Randall's Island.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Did you know she was in love with
dialog: you?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: She told me.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Were you in love with her?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Why? Because she was the only girl
dialog: in Rhode Island who wouldn't sleep
dialog: with you?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That's how she got my attention;
dialog: it's not why I fell in love with
dialog: her.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I fell in love with her because she
dialog: charmed me senseless day and night
dialog: for an entire summer.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Then why did you screw her best friend
dialog: on Labor Day?
text: Wills looks at her darkly. She smiles and shrugs --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: It's just a question.
text: Wills sighs and looks away, reflecting --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I have no idea. The summer was over.
dialog: Your mom was going back to Smith. I
dialog: was moving down here to work on Wall
dialog: Street. It was our last day together.
dialog: She was crying. She told me, for the
dialog: first time, that she loved me. I
dialog: said I loved her, too. I promised to
dialog: call and visit. A few hours later I
text: was in a cabana with Millie.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: When Millie told me she was pregnant
dialog: and that she wanted to marry me, I
dialog: escaped to L.A... and I never saw
dialog: her or your mom again.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (wryly)
dialog: Well done.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I think it's part of the reason I
dialog: never came back.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: But why're you like that? What is
dialog: it? I mean, you weren't born that
dialog: way.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I might as well have been. For as
dialog: long as I can remember, I've always
text: run off at the first sign of a woman
dialog: wanting anything from me... relying
dialog: on me in any way.
dialog: She considers for a moment --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: But I want everything from you, Wills.
dialog: I rely on you in every way.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: So the only reason you don't dump me
dialog: is because I'm sick? Because you
dialog: know that it's all going to be over,
dialog: anyway?
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: Maybe. But it doesn't feel that way.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It feels as though I'm not afraid
dialog: anymore.
text: She looks at him and smiles. He puts an arm around her and
text: draws her close.
scene_heading: INT. TAXI -- AFTERNOON
text: Wills looks out the window, his arm draped around Charlotte
text: who lies nestled against him, eyes closed.
text: He suddenly sees something. He thinks. Checks his watch. His
text: eyes ignite and he calls out excitedly to the driver --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Driver! Quick! Pull over here! Right
dialog: here!
text: Charlotte, a little sleepy, comes to. She looks out the window
text: and her face softens with happiness.
scene_heading: EXT. THE BRICK CHURCH, 92ND AND PARK -- SAME
text: On the steps of the old church a CHOIR sings Christmas carols.
text: All around them, a LARGE CROWD sings along.
text: Wills and Charlotte get out of the cab. His arm around her,
text: Wills pulls her into the crowd. They join the carol. Wills
text: sings well. Charlotte is tone deaf.
text: In between lines of the song, she calls out --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I didn't know you could sing!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I didn't know you couldn't!
text: She laughs and continues to sing.
text: THE CAROLS ENDS to cheers and applause. THE CHOIRMASTER steps
dialog: forward to a microphone --
speaker_heading: CHOIRMASTER
dialog: Well, you all know what time it is!
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (confused to Wills)
dialog: No, I don't. Do you?
text: He grins. The choirmaster nods at someone in the distance.
text: Then holds up a hand, fingers spread, and begins to count
text: down. The crowd joins in --
scene_heading: CHOIRMASTER AND CROWD
scene_heading: TEN, NINE, EIGHT, SEVEN, SIX, FIVE,
scene_heading: FOUR, THREE, TWO, ONE!
text: At that instant, ALL THE WHITE CHRISTMAS LIGHTS on the trees
text: of the median from 96th Street to 44th Street POP ON
text: SIMULTANEOUSLY -- an enchanted fairy-tale spectacle.
text: The crowd and the choir cheer and clap, cars honk their horns.
text: Charlotte's eyes are filled with happy wonder.
speaker_heading: CHOIRMASTER
text: HAPPY HOLIDAYS!
text: As another carol begins, Wills wraps his arms around Charlotte
text: and kisses her. He pulls away, looks deeply into her eyes,
text: and whispers with passionate sincerity --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I love you, Charlotte.
text: For an instant, her eyes flare as though she were surprised.
text: Then her eyes fill with tears. She tries to speak but she is
text: choked by a sob.
text: She buries her face in his chest and cries. Wills smiles
text: with warm, almost paternal, indulgence. He strokes her hair.
text: She hugs him as though she'll never let go.
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM -- NIGHT
text: The restaurant is packed. John, overwhelmed by the crowd
text: waiting for tables, glances angrily away when he hears the
text: phone ringing and no one answering it.
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM KITCHEN -- SAME
text: Amid the Pandemonium, Wills watches as Charlotte teases HENRY,
text: 30, the young chef, as he lays the beet garnishes on a fish
dialog: entree.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: You call that a rose? It looks more
dialog: like a hand grenade!
speaker_heading: HENRY
dialog: Mr. Keane, you get her outta here
dialog: or, I swear to God, I'm gonna
dialog: butterfly and stuff her!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'll add it to the specials list.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: No way! I'm too pricey!
text: The door bangs open. John enters, looking angry --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hello, Sunshine!
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: You seen Celia?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What's the matter?
speaker_heading: JOHN
dialog: The matter is I got a half-hour wait
dialog: and no help up front! You got a call
dialog: on Two!
scene_heading: INT. ELYSIUM OFFICE -- SAME
text: Wills enters, picks up the phone, and hits a flashing button--
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Wills Keane.
scene_heading: INT. LISA'S LIVING ROOM -- EVENING
text: Lisa's face is flushed with excitement --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: I've got him!
scene_heading: EXT. WILLS' BUILDING -- MORNING
text: A TOWN CAR is parked out front. Michael, the doorman, chats
text: with the driver.
speaker_heading: LISA (V.O.)
dialog: His name's Tom Grandy. Harvard
text: undergrad. Columbia Medical School.
dialog: He's at the Cleveland Clinic. I know,
dialog: I know. But don't laugh. It's one of
dialog: the best in the world.
text: Wills exits the building and gets into the car.
scene_heading: EXT. QUEENS -- MORNING
text: The town car speeds down the expressway.
speaker_heading: LISA (V.O.)
dialog: He did his residency at the Brigham
dialog: in Boston... his cardiac surgery
dialog: training at Cleveland.
scene_heading: EXT. LA GUARDIA AIRPORT -- MORNING
text: Wills walks quickly through the terminal.
speaker_heading: LISA (V.O.)
dialog: He was so good they kept him on and
dialog: within three years he was chief of
dialog: the program.
scene_heading: EXT. CLEVELAND CLINIC -- DAY
text: Wills gets out of a taxi and heads inside --
speaker_heading: LISA (V.O.)
dialog: He travels a lot. Spends lots of
dialog: time lecturing. I got you an
dialog: appointment tomorrow at twelve-thirty.
dialog: Don't be late. He only has fifteen
dialog: minutes.
scene_heading: INT. CLEVELAND CLINIC CORRIDOR -- DAY
text: TOM GRANDY, 35, long-hair, small beard, loose-limbed, wearing
text: scrubs, saunters down the hall, wearing a vaguely goofy smile.
text: Wills watches him approach with some apprehension.
speaker_heading: LISA (V.O.)
dialog: The surgeon that recommended him
dialog: said, and these are his words not
dialog: mine, "Don't let his appearance fool
dialog: you. He's brilliant and has balls
dialog: the size of your head."
scene_heading: INT. GRANDY'S OFFICE -- SAME
text: Wills listens to Dr. Grandy who speaks casually, more like a
text: benign hippie than a renowned surgeon. Charlotte's X-rays
text: hang between them in an illuminated view box --
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: Listen, I'm not gonna bullshit you.
dialog: If she were a baby, she'd have a
dialog: decent chance, 'cause these sorts of
dialog: tumors can regress like crazy, but
dialog: she's twenty and... I don't know,
dialog: man... I've never seen anything like
dialog: it.
dialog: (pointing at the X-
dialog: ray)
dialog: I mean, look! It's wrapped around
text: her vital structures like an octopus!
dialog: (sitting)
dialog: You know, just once I'd like to get
dialog: sent something simple. A "cabbage,"
dialog: a valve replacement. Even a good old-
dialog: fashioned transplant. But it doesn't
dialog: happen anymore. It's the downside of
dialog: being good at my job.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Good? They say there's no one better.
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: I don't know. I'm like most people.
dialog: I do the best I can.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Can your best save her?
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: Probably not.
scene_heading: INT. CLEVELAND CLINIC CORRIDOR -- LATER
text: Grandy and Wills walk together --
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: In these sorts of cases, it's best
dialog: if she signs a consent.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (covering)
dialog: No problem.
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: Good.
dialog: (stopping at the main
dialog: entrance)
dialog: The last time Charlotte passed out,
dialog: she regained consciousness almost
dialog: immediately. The next time or the
dialog: time after, she won't. When that
dialog: happens, call me.
dialog: (handing him a card)
dialog: Here's my service. They'll reach me
dialog: no matter where I am. In the meantime,
dialog: I'll coordinate with Dr. Sibley.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I can't thank you enough.
text: Grandy smiles and pats him on the shoulder.
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: I haven't done anything yet.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT
text: Wills sits up, wearing glasses, reading a book. Charlotte
text: enters from the bathroom wearing a flannel night shirt --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: By the way -- where were you today?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: When you called I assumed you were
dialog: at the restaurant, but when I called
dialog: back later, Jesus said you hadn't
dialog: been in all day.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I was in Montclair, New Jersey.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (playfully vague)
dialog: An opportunity.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Oh, really? Sexual or professional?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I was considering opening a
dialog: restaurant. But the rents are too
dialog: high.
text: He smiles at her. And she smiles back.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- MORNING
text: Charlotte lies asleep with her head on his chest. She opens
text: her eyes. The room seems strange. It's the light.
text: She rises up and turns around. Her eyes narrow with curiosity.
text: She crawls out of bed and runs to the window and looks out.
text: She can't believe her eyes. Central Park is blanketed by
text: deep snow and more is falling. She calls out gaily --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Hey! How do you feel about Christmas?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (sleepily)
dialog: Bah humbug...
text: She runs back, laughing, and jumps on the bed, rousting him.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP:
text: A SEQUENCE BEGINS showing Charlotte and Wills during a day
text: of holiday shopping. The deep snow has slowed the city to a
dialog: crawl but filled everyone with good spirits.
text: Charlotte and Wills move from store to store; they buy
text: wreaths, garlands, ornaments, candles, and, finally, a
scene_heading: CHRISTMAS TREE and STAND.
text: Wills starts to lug the tree, but when it's obvious that
text: it's too much for him, Charlotte spots a GROUP OF KIDS
text: spilling out of a record store.
text: The next thing we know the kids are lined up, carrying the
text: tree over their heads like a battalion of ants.
text: Wills and the kids load the tree into the freight elevator
text: and squeeze in. There's no room for Charlotte. She'll take
text: the lobby elevator.
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT:
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY ELEVATOR -- AFTERNOON
text: Charlotte, carrying shopping bags, ascends in silence with
text: Michael. She has no interest in chatting. He, as ever, does.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Will you and Mister Keane be goin'
dialog: away for the holidays?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I doubt it.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: I've seen so little of America. I
dialog: don't care for airplanes, you see,
dialog: and I have so little time to travel.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Did Mister Keane enjoy his trip then?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What trip?
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Why, just yesterday.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I wouldn't really call that a trip.
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: Perhaps not. But I've never been to
dialog: Ohio myself. They say parts of it
dialog: are quite lovely.
text: Charlotte goes pale. The elevator stops and he opens the
dialog: door.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' FOYER -- CONTINUOUS
text: Charlotte steps out right into the kids who are roughhousing
text: and laughing. Each holds a five-dollar bill --
speaker_heading: MICHAEL
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: All right, you little hellions! Get
dialog: in here!
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER
text: Charlotte wanders in. The tree stands erect. Wills, on all
text: fours, tightens the screws on the stand. He crawls to his
text: feet and studies it.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Straight?
text: Then he sees her grave expression and freezes.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I thought we had a deal.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I'm sure we do. About what?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Lying.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: You were in Ohio yesterday.
text: Wills stares at her for a moment, then explains without
dialog: apology --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I met with a heart specialist. He's
dialog: willing to operate.
text: For an instant she is surprised, but then her indignation
dialog: takes over --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: But you know I don't want that! You
dialog: know I've signed papers that --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Well, maybe I want it.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: It isn't your decision!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Of course not, but if you'll hear me
dialog: out --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No! I told you right from the start
dialog: how I felt and you went behind my
dialog: back! You lied and --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: (exploding)
dialog: Oh, Christ, knock it off! You're
dialog: such a god damn saint, so above it
dialog: all, but you're scared to death! You
dialog: do want to live! And if you were as
dialog: honest as you say you are you'd let
dialog: the doctors do whatever they can to
dialog: help you!
text: Her face shuts like a trap. She walks toward the bedroom
dialog: door --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I won't give people hope when there
dialog: isn't any.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Why not?! Maybe we want hope! Or
dialog: maybe we just need to know that we
dialog: did everything we could! Maybe I
dialog: need to know that... if I'm going to
dialog: be able to live... to go on without...
dialog: without --
text: Suddenly, a sob catches in his throat. Charlotte, on her way
text: to the bedroom, stops and slowly turns around.
text: She speaks matter-of-factly, without judgment or feeling.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Now I know why you hurt so many women.
dialog: Because you always knew if you held
dialog: on to one of them, you'd never let
dialog: go.
text: She turns and exits coldly to the bedroom. Wills sinks into
text: an armchair.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- LATER
text: In grey afternoon shadows, Charlotte lies on her side, fully
text: clothed under the covers, with her eyes open, thinking. She
text: hears something and looks back.
text: Wills stands in the lighted doorway.
text: She gestures for him to come. He walks over and lies down
text: next to her. She turns her back to him, so that he's spooning
text: her, but she takes hold of his hand, pressing it against her
text: chest and squeezing it like a doll.
text: For a long time, they lie in silence. Finally, she murmurs
text: almost inaudibly --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: When we met, I was so lonely. But I
dialog: didn't even know it. I'd been alone
dialog: so long.. almost forever...
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: So had I.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: But now we have each other.
dialog: (beginning to cry)
dialog: Oh, what would I do, Wills? What
dialog: would I do if you weren't here? Where
dialog: would I be?
text: Fighting his emotions, determined to stay strong for her, he
text: holds her close.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You don't ever have to worry about
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: I'll do whatever I have to! I'll
dialog: tear up the papers! Whatever you
dialog: want! Tell the doctor! Because... I
dialog: really do want... I don't want to
dialog: leave you!
text: The dam breaks and she is wracked by sobs. Wills closes his
text: eyes, holds her even tighter, and rocks her in his arms.
scene_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' BEDROOM -- THAT EVENING
text: Charlotte, still fully clothed, lies sound asleep. She slowly
text: awakens and sees that Wills is gone. She gets up on one elbow --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Wills?!
text: She waits, hears hurried steps, then Wills sticks his head
dialog: in --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Yeah?
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: How long was I asleep?
speaker_heading: WILLS
text: A couple of hours.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Wow. And I'm still tired.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: That's all right. Relax.
text: Charlotte senses something odd in his tone. Her eyes narrow
text: with suspicion.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What're you doing in there?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Nothing.
text: She laughs and starts to get up --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: Liar!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Don't! Don't move! Just one more
dialog: minute!
text: He closes the door.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- SAME
text: Wills runs back into the room. The tree is fully decorated
text: now. He dashes back and adjust some lights along the base.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE'S VOICE
dialog: (from the bedroom)
dialog: What're you doing?!
text: He runs over, inserts the plug and the TREE LIGHTS UP with
text: LITTLE WHITE LIGHTS, but for the STAR AT THE TOP.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE'S VOICE
dialog: Oh no! You didn't!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You were just going to tire yourself
dialog: out!
text: He grabs a chair and fiddles with the bulb inside the star.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE'S VOICE
dialog: This I've gotta see!
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Just hold on!
text: THE STAR LIGHTS UP. He jumps down and puts the chair away.
text: Then he runs over and dims the lights --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Finishing touches!
text: He runs over and adjusts a garland. He runs back to the dimmer
dialog: and adjusts it again --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Almost!
text: He runs back to the bedroom door and flings it open.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Voila!
text: He looks into the room and freezes in the doorway. He backs
text: up a step, then, crying out, lunges into the room.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP:
scene_heading: EXT. WILLS' BUILDING -- NIGHT
text: Charlotte, lying unconscious on a stretcher, wearing an oxygen
text: mask, is rushed into a waiting ambulance. Wills, beside
text: himself with panic, is gently barred by a MEDIC from jumping
text: in with her.
scene_heading: INT. NEW HAVEN HOSPITAL LECTURE HALL -- NIGHT
text: In the reflection of a projected slide, a hand offers a
text: CELLULAR PHONE to Dr. Grandy, standing at a lectern in front
text: of a group of doctors. He stops his lecture and takes the
dialog: call.
scene_heading: EXT. MANHATTAN STREET -- NIGHT
text: The ambulance rushes, light flashing, sirens wailing,
text: downtown.
scene_heading: INT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL -- NIGHT
text: Charlotte's stretcher is rushed into the emergency room at
text: the same time that Wills' cab pulls up.
scene_heading: EXT. NEW HAVEN HOSPITAL HELIPORT -- NIGHT
text: Grandy is rushed into a MEDICAL HELICOPTER.
scene_heading: INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Wills looks up and sees Dolores and Shannon arrive.
scene_heading: EXT. SKY -- NIGHT
text: Grandy's helicopter speeds toward the City.
scene_heading: INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Wills comforts Shannon. Dolores looks up and sees Simon
text: standing in the doorway. Then a CORONARY CARE NURSE appears.
text: She asks to speak to Wills.
scene_heading: INT. MEDICAL HELICOPTER -- NIGHT
text: Grandy looks out the window as the helicopter swoops down
text: toward the lights of lower Manhattan.
scene_heading: INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT PRE-OP -- NIGHT
text: Charlotte lies, semi-conscious, on a gurney. Wills appears
text: in the doorway with the nurse.
scene_heading: EXT. ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL HELIPORT -- NIGHT
text: The helicopter lands and Grandy jumps out.
speaker_heading: MUSIC OUT:
scene_heading: INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT PRE-OP -- NIGHT
text: Wills sits down next to Charlotte's bed. He touches her hand.
text: Her eyes open then close again. Her breathing is heavy and
dialog: labored.
text: Wills pushes a lock of hair off her brow, then whispers,
dialog: half to himself --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Time cannot break the bird's wing
text: from the bird. Bird and wing together
dialog: Go down, one feather. No thing that
dialog: ever flew, not the lark, not you,
dialog: Can die as others do.
text: Charlotte's eyes open dreamily. She shows a faint smile at
text: the poem and murmurs almost inaudibly --
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: What have I done to you?
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: Ruined me for other women.
speaker_heading: CHARLOTTE
dialog: No... I saved you for them...
text: Her eyes close. Wills takes her hand and presses it to his
dialog: cheek.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: Is she type 'n' cross for six units?!
speaker_heading: NURSE'S VOICE
dialog: Yes, Doctor.
text: Wills turns around and sees Grandy standing in the doorway.
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: What're we waiting for?
speaker_heading: PRE-OP NURSE
dialog: Just you, Doctor!
speaker_heading: GRANDY
dialog: Then let's move!
text: The NURSE rushes over to the gurney and in an instant
text: Charlotte is gone -- wheeled with a bang through SWINGING
text: DOORS into the operating room corridor.
speaker_heading: MUSIC UP:
scene_heading: INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Everyone is there now -- John, Sarah, Celia, Simon, Dolores,
text: and Shannon. Wills enters silently. He walks to the new
text: arrivals and greets each one with an embrace.
scene_heading: INT. CORONARY CARE OPERATING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Charlotte lies on the table. Grandy's eyes, visible above
text: his mask, are fiercely focused on his work.
scene_heading: INT. CORONARY CARE UNIT WAITING ROOM -- NIGHT
text: Shannon lies with her head in Sarah's lap.
text: Dolores, ignoring the sign, smokes a cigarette.
text: John and Celia sit side-by-side in silence.
text: Wills stands at the window. He looks over and see Simon
text: standing close by. Simon looks at him, his eyes sad but eerily
text: calm. Wills shakes his head --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: It happened so quickly. We'd just
dialog: talked about the surgery. She agreed
dialog: to it. But I thought there'd be time.
speaker_heading: SIMON
dialog: I've had friends who weren't expected
dialog: to last till morning who lived another
dialog: seven years. Another ran a marathon
dialog: and died the next weekend. It's all
dialog: so terribly random the way life
dialog: actually works. I take nothing for
dialog: granted.
text: A light enters Wills' eye. He smiles as he remembers --
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: You know, it's funny, the first time
dialog: I saw her, I --
text: But then Wills hears something. He turns and there's Grandy
text: at the end of the long hall, walking toward the waiting room.
text: Simon looks and sees him, too.
text: Wills looks at Simon with alarm. It's impossible. How could
text: Grandy be finished so soon? Wills looks back at Grandy.
scene_heading: SLOW-MOTION
text: Grandy moves with long strides down the corridor.
text: One by one, as they notice, Charlotte's loved ones react to
text: the sight of Grandy.
text: Shannon rises from Sarah's lap, looks at the doctor, then
text: covers her face with her fists, holding her breath.
text: Dolores crushes out her cigarette, her expression falling.
text: Celia touches John's back as he rises and walks over to Wills.
text: Simon's face turns to stone.
text: John reaches for Wills, but Wills advances a few steps toward
text: the corridor, almost defiantly, his eyes riveted to Grandy.
text: Grandy's head is down.
text: Then, ever so slowly, Grandy lifts his head and in one
text: decisive move YANKS OFF HIS SURGICAL MASK and THROWS IT
text: AGAINST THE WALL.
text: CLOSE ON WILLS' FACE as he realizes.
text: His mouth opens wide as though to cry out, but no sound comes.
scene_heading: INT. WILLS' LIVING ROOM -- DAWN
text: Wills stands in the center of the room wearing his overcoat.
text: He is pale, exhausted, his face expressionless.
text: John stands, also wearing his coat, in the hall archway,
text: unsure whether he should stay or leave.
text: Wills looks at the Christmas tree, whose lights still burn.
text: He slowly walks over and pulls the cord from the wall.
text: The lights go out.
scene_heading: FADE TO BLACK:
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- SPRING AFTERNOON
text: A COUPLE walks down the same walkway. They are deep in subdued
text: conversation. All around them spring is in full glory. Melted
text: snow. Trees exploding with green. Birds singing.
text: The man is Wills Keane, but he has markedly changed. His
text: dress is not so impeccable, his hair has gone grey at the
text: temples. His face, though still beautiful, has gracefully
dialog: turned the corner into middle age.
text: Walking at his side is his daughter, Lisa, now well along in
dialog: her pregnancy --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: Actually, to be honest, Peter's more
dialog: than a little freaked. I mean, how
dialog: could he not be? He's twenty-six.
text: His first child. A baby girl, no
dialog: less. Nothing really prepares you
dialog: for it.
speaker_heading: WILLS
dialog: I guess not.
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: He said it's the first time since we
dialog: got married that he's actually
dialog: realized what marriage is. That it's
dialog: forever. That he can't just pick up
dialog: and run away to Nepal or something
dialog: if we have a fight. That he's part
dialog: of the cycle of things now. That
dialog: he's gonna die some day. That it's
dialog: the next generation's turn to take
dialog: the stage.
scene_heading: EXT. ANOTHER CENTRAL PARK WALKWAY -- LATER
text: Wills and Lisa walk together in silence, enjoying the perfect
text: afternoon. Then Lisa smiles crookedly and slaps his shoulder --
speaker_heading: LISA
dialog: So what about you, Mr. Keane? You
dialog: ready to be a grandpa?
text: Wills looks over at the spot where he first saw Charlotte.
text: He smiles with wistful confidence then, a little awkwardly,
text: puts his arm around his daughter.
text: She is surprised at first. But then slowly, trustingly, she
text: rests her head on his shoulder.
dialog: And they walk.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT:
speaker_heading: THE END
dialog: 
