speaker_heading: AWAKENINGS
dialog: Scree nplay by
speaker_heading: Steven 2ai11Ian
dialog: Based on t he Book by
dialog: Olive r Sac ks
speaker_heading: OCTOBER 2, 1989
speaker_heading: (BLUE)
speaker_heading: REV .10/1 3/89
speaker_heading: REV.1 0/16/ 89 (PINK)
speaker_heading: REV.1 0/25/ 89 (YELLOW)
speaker_heading: REV.1 1/6/8 9 (GREEN)
speaker_heading: REV.1 1/10/ 89 (GOLDENROD
speaker_heading: REV .11/1 4/89 (SALMON)
speaker_heading: REV .11/1 6/89 (LAVENDER)
speaker_heading: REV .11/2 2/89 (CHERRY)
speaker_heading: REV .12/4 /89 (WHITE)
speaker_heading: REV.1 2/5/8 9 (BLUE)
speaker_heading: REV.1 2/12/ 89 (PINK)
speaker_heading: REV .12/ 13/89 (YELLOW)
speaker_heading: REV. 1,2/15/89 (GREEN)
text: 1. A dusty deserted street - saloon, livery stable, sunset.
dialog: Only there is something unsettling about it all. The colors
text: are too muted and the angles not quite in perspective. Pulling
text: slowly back eventually reveals the edges of a narrow wooden
dialog: picture frame ...
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT - 1930
text: Drifting away from the painting and slowly across a room.
text: Across Venetian blinds, open, letting in moonlight, across
text: intricate handmade wooden models, dime novels and comic books,
text: across the arm of a metronome gently slapping back and forth,
text: and settling finally on a small hand writing slowly and
text: deliberately, over and over, in synchronization, it seems, to
dialog: the rhythm of the metronome, the word, " L E O N A R D . "
scene_heading: 2. INT. DINING ROOM - MORNING - 1930
text: The pendulum of a clock. An adult hand placing a bowl of
text: cereal on a table. Leonard, ten or eleven, waits a moment for
text: the adult to leave, grasps his spoon, and manipulates it from
text: bowl to mouth in time with the soft regular rhythm of the
dialog: clock.
scene_heading: 3. EXT. STREET - NEW YORK - MORNING - 1930 3.
text: Schoolbooks slung over their shoulders, Leonard and another boy
text: his age, a classmate, move along a street.
text: All around them are "visual rhythms" - lines in the sidewalk,
dialog: the even placement of trees, the sunlight breaking through the
text: branches above them - and somewhere unseen, the rhythmic
dialog: pounding of an elevator train.
text: As they climb a fence, a pocket watch, Leonard's, falls to the
dialog: ground.
dialog: 4.
scene_heading: 4. INT. CLASSROOM - DAY - 1930
text: An adult hand chalking the words of a poem on a blackboard.
text: Children at desks dutifully transcribing the lesson.
text: All but one. Leonard. Whose hands are trembling slightly and
text: whose paper is blank. There is a noticeable lack of rhythms.
text: A cold silence. The broken watch rests on his desk.
text: The boy from the train, glancing at Leonard, begins gently
text: tapping the end of his pen against his desk. Leonard, "guided"
text: by the cadence of his friend's tapping, begins to write.
text: (o The teacher's hand at the blackboard hesitates. Distracted by 4.
text: the rhythmic noise, he traces it to the offender and silences
dialog: him with a look.
dialog: \ '
dialog: Without the rhythm, and without, apparently, inner natural
text: rhythms to replace it, Leonard's hand begins dragging the pen
text: across the paper, forming vague scrawl, each word less defined
text: than the last, until they begin melding together into what
dialog: resembles nothing so much as a child's rendering of ocean
dialog: waves.
text: The teacher resumes chalking on the board. The boy from the
text: train begins tapping his pen again, and, "guided" again by the
dialog: rhythm, Leonard is able to give definition to the "ocean
dialog: waves," to form recognizable letters.and words.
text: The teacher hesitates again and glares at the boy making the
text: irritating noise. The boy stops tapping and Leonard's writing
text: again becomes formless.
dialog: 5.
scene_heading: 5. INT. CLASSROOM.- LATER - DAY - 1930
text: The finished poem on the blackboard. The sounds of children at
text: play on the schoolyard. The teacher, alone in the classroom,
text: o at his desk grading the penmanship lesson.
text: He circles offending errors on the last page of the last
text: composition book. He scribbles a grade opposite the student's
text: name in a grade book. He notices the absence of a grade in
dialog: Leonard's column. .
text: Leonard's desk. The teacher locates the missing composition
text: book buried under textbooks. He takes it back to his own desk,
text: opens it, and stares curiously at the last lesson, the poem, or
text: rather Leonard's illegible representation of it.
text: He considers earlier lessons in the book. He begins to see in
text: the script a pattern of deterioration. He reaches the last
text: entry again and stares at the few recognizable words drowning
dialog: In "the waves."
dialog: &lt;
dialog: 6
scene_heading: 6. INT. LEONARD'S BEDROOM - DAY - 1930 - WINTER
text: The painting on the wall. The intricate wooden models and dime
text: novels. The Venetian blinds, closed, shutting out sunlight.
text: Voices, barely audible, from somewhere else in the house:
speaker_heading: BOY'S VOICE
dialog: When can I see him?
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE
dialog: When he's well.
speaker_heading: REV.12/15/89 (GREEN) Pg.3
scene_heading: 6.C0NT. BOY'S VOICE 6.CONT,
dialog: When will he be well?
dialog: After a moment --
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE
dialog: I don't know.
text: -- and the sound of a door closing.
text: A small twisted hand lifts a slat of the Venetian blinds
text: revealing the snow-patched street below. Leonard's friend,
text: crossing it, glances back . . . then disappears around a corner.
text: And the small gnarled hand lets the slat slide down,
text: extinguishing the single ray of light.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
scene_heading: 6A. EXT. BAINBRIDGE -HOSPITAL - THE. BRONX - DAY - 1970 . 6A
text: Tight on the face of a man (SAYER), late thirties, glasses,
text: staring up at the face of a building, imposing in its
dialog: institutional dullness.
scene_heading: 6B. INT. LOBBY - BAINBRIDGE - DAY 6B.
text: A dim, sleepy cavern of a lobby. No one but a switchboard
text: operator thumbing through a magazine. Echoing footsteps reach
text: her station and she glances up and at the man from outside.
dialog: i
speaker_heading: OPERATOR
dialog: Yes?
scene_heading: 7. INT. ADMINISTRATION OFFICE - BAINBRIDGE - DAY
text: He seems uncomfortable. Perhaps it's the suit. Or the place.
text: Or the situation. Or the hard straight-backed chair he's in.
dialog: When he does finally speak, it's with great sincerity --
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: When you say people ... you mean
dialog: living people, .
text: Behind an old oak desk, the hospital's Director glances over
text: to its Chief of Medicine, Dr. Kaufman, with a look that seems
dialog: to wonder, As opposed to what?
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Living people, yes. Patients.
speaker_heading: REV.12/15/89 (GREEN) Pg.4
dialog: 7.C0NT. 7.
text: There's some mistake. And Sayer's chair begins to feel more *
text: uncomfortable. He tries to clear up the confusion -
dialog: *
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I ' m here for the research *
dialog: position . . . in your neurology *
dialog: lab.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Neurology lab?
text: He doesn't laugh at Sayer, just at the thought of it.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: We have an x-ray room.
dialog: Sayer tries to share the Director's amusement with a good- *
dialog: natured smile, but doesn't really understand it. Kaufman seems *
dialog: to have less time for this, and in plain English, unadorned - *
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: - The-position-ds-Staff-^Neurologist. .
dialog: Sayer looks like a man who's just learned that everything he *
dialog: knows about the world is wrong. f
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (pause)
dialog: A doctor ... doctor.
text: The Director refers to stapled sheets of paper in his hands,
dialog: Sayer's resume.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: The Camel Institute. Tell me *
dialog: about that, anything with patients *
dialog: there? Or . . . *
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (burying it)
dialog: Earthworms.
dialog: The Director isn't sure he heard right.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Sorry? ,
dialog: &gt;
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: It was an immense project. "
dialog: I was trying to extract a decigram
dialog: of myelin from four tons of
dialog: earthworms.
speaker_heading: REV.12/15/89 (GREEN) Pg.5
scene_heading: 7.C0NT. DIRECTOR 7.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Really.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I was on it for five years.
dialog: I was the only one who really
dialog: believed in it. The rest of them
dialog: said it couldn't be done. t
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: It can't.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Well, I know that now. I proved
dialog: it.
text: The director offers a slow tentative nod before consulting the
dialog: resume again.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Maybe before. At Saint Thomas.
dialog: (Sayer is already
dialog: shaking his head no)
dialog: All research. Earth - ?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Pigs brains . . . they·re quite
dialog: similar to human brains.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (hopefully)
dialog: Are they?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Oh, yes . . . three years.
text: As the Director retreats back to the resume, hoping against
text: hope of finding in it something germane, Sayer glances away to
text: a window. He wishes he were outside it. He has no business
dialog: being here. He should leave.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Excuse me, I made a mistake coming
dialog: here. Clearly you're looking for
dialog: someone with more of a clinical
dialog: background.
text: He stands up to leave. Kaufman stands to see him out. But the *
text: director keeps searching the resume.
dialog: Q
speaker_heading: REV.12/15/89 (GREEN) Pg.6
text: 7.C0NT. SAYER . 7.
dialog: I've taken enough of your time.
dialog: You must have a hundred applicants
dialog: more suitable.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: Thanks anyway.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Back in medical school ...
dialog: Kaufman shoots the Director a look that says, No, we're not
dialog: that desperate.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: I mean, you couldn't have
dialog: graduated without some clinical
dialog: experience. .
text: Sayer hesitates. And eventually manages sort of a shrug and a
dialog: n od ., v'
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Well, there we are, doctor.
text: Kaufman can't believe it, but is sent back a look that says,
dialog: We have no choice. The Director gets up out of his chair, and,
text: smiling broadly, extends his hand to Sayer. Which unsettles
text: Sayer. Which in turn unsettles the Director.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (not far from v
dialog: begging)
dialog: You do want the job, don't you?
dialog: Sayer isn't so sure. He thinks about it long and hard . . .
scene_heading: 8. INT. CORRIDOR - BAINBRIDGE - DAY 8.
text: Moving along a corridor crowded "with patients, some ambulatory,
dialog: some in wheelchairs, "living people" living with profound
dialog: neurological disease.
speaker_heading: ANTHONY O.S.
dialog: Spent much time in chronic
dialog: hospitals, doctor?
text: A patient approaches, and, passing Sayer and the orderly who's
dialog: escorting him (ANTHONY), offers -
speaker_heading: FEMALE PATIENT 1
dialog: Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello . . .
speaker_heading: REV.12/15/89 (GREEN) pg.7
scene_heading: 8.C0NT. ANTHONY 8.
dialog: (to Sayer)
dialog: You'd remember.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I guess not.
text: As they pass an old patient in a wheelchair -
speaker_heading: ANTHONY
dialog: Hey, how you doing?
dialog: (calling to someone
dialog: down the hall)
dialog: Dr. Sullivan.
text: Staying on the old patient, he eventually manages, too late -
speaker_heading: OLD PATIENT
dialog: Fn ...
dialog: ie
text: Down the hall in an alcove, Dr. Sullivan glances up long
dialog: sufferingly from-a.patient~with'.an .Ouij a-board who !.s mumbling, *
text: complaining, unintelligibly. Anthony and Sayer arrrive.
speaker_heading: ANTHONY
dialog: Dr. Sullivan, this is Dr. Sayer;
dialog: ' ': : ' ' -'.
text: There's a kind a "deadness" in Sullivan's eyes and voice; he's
dialog: been here too long.
speaker_heading: SULLIVAN
dialog: Not the neurologist, that'd be
dialog: asking too much. You're not the
dialog: neurologist.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I think I am.
text: Sayer extends his hand. Instead of shaking it -
speaker_heading: SULLIVAN
dialog: Well, come on, Anthony, get him a
dialog: coat for Christ's sake.
text: - Sullivan thrusts his clipboard into Sayer's hand.
speaker_heading: 9. OMITTED 9.
scene_heading: 10. INT. DAYROOM (A) - DAY 10.
text: A woman in a wheelchair uttering high-pitched screams (FEMALE
text: PATIENT 2 ) . Sayer in a lab coat trying to calm her.
speaker_heading: REV.12/15/89 (GREEN) Pg.7
text: 10.CONT. SAYER . 10.
dialog: They're just pencils, pens.
text: He tries to prove it to her by removing one of them from the
text: pocket of his white coat. Screaming louder at the sight of it,
text: she tries to protect her face with her hands like a boxer being
dialog: beaten senseless.
dialog: v
scene_heading: 11. INT. DAYROOM (B) - DAY 11.
text: A man in his sixties confronts Sayer with an announcement in a
dialog: loud commanding voice -
speaker_heading: MALE PATIENT 1
dialog: X was born in I911f in
dialog: Kinasbridae, New York. I came
dialog: here in July of 1955. Prior to
dialog: July of 1955. I resided a£ the
speaker_heading: Brooklyn Psychiatric Centerf
dialog: Brooklyn. New York. Prior to
dialog: thatP I was a person. And you.
dialog: sir.- i Who the* hell &gt;are.*v.ou? .
scene_heading: 12. INT. DAYROOM (C) - DAY 12.
text: Stepping around a wheelchair, Sayer finds in it an elderly
text: woman, nicely dressed, her hair done-up, a ribbon in it.
text: Glancing at the chart in his hand -
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Mrs. Cohen?
speaker_heading: MRS. COHEN
dialog: He·s here?
text: She smiles, glances around. Sayer hesitates, uncertain who she
dialog: means.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I 'm here.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: To examine you.
speaker_heading: MRS. COHEN
dialog: Oh, no, I ' m leaving today. My
dialog: son's coming to take me home.
dialog: (6 Confused, Sayer tries to find a discharge form among the papers
text: on the clipboard. Unsuccessful, he excuses himself from her
text: and crosses the room to a nurse.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Excuse me. Mrs. Cohen's son.
dialog: He's coming today?
speaker_heading: NURSE 1
dialog: I wouldn't bet on it, he hasn't
dialog: for twenty years.
text: The nurse turns away. Sayer crosses slowly back to Mrs. Cohen,
text: trying to find the words to tell her. He doesn't have to; his
text: discomfort does it. Her hand slowly reaches up and pulls the
dialog: ribbon from her hair.
speaker_heading: 13. OMITTED .
dialog: v
scene_heading: 14. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM/OFFICE- LATER - DAY
text: Silence. Institutional beige walls. Glass cabinets, locked,
text: containing medical instruments. A metal examination table with
dialog: leather straps.
text: Sayer alone at one of three old desks in the large room, still
text: unsettled from the experience with Mrs. Cohen. Eventually, he
text: gets up, crosses to a window and tries to open it.
text: It's jammed shut, painted shut perhaps, but finally gives way,
text: sliding up. He lets the air from outside wash over his face as
text: he stares out absently at children on an elementary school
text: playground beyond a debris-strewn field.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO O.S.
dialog: (a matter of fact)
dialog: It gets easier.
text: Sayer turns to the voice, to Miss Costello, the hospital's head
text: nurse, a veteran of this place, a woman who has seen it all.
text: She's standing in the doorway.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: You don't think it will, but it
dialog: does.
text: A moment and she A urns and leaves.
dialog: t
scene_heading: 14A. EXT. TENEMENT (LUCY'S) - ESTABLISH - DAY
scene_heading: 15. INT. TENEMENT - NEW YORK.- DAY 1
text: The needle of a Victrola clawing at the endless music-less
dialog: inner bands of a 78 . . . .* .
text: Cold eggs and toast and prescription medicine on a kitchenette
text: table. A puddle of coffee on the floor. Ceramic shards, a
dialog: broken cup. .
text: An old woman on her knees, eyes closed, arms tangled in an
text: aluminum walker, limp and stiff at once somehow, like the limbs
text: of a discarded marionette. Beyond her, beyond a threshold, a
text: shuttered living room. Furniture from another era and the
dialog: clutter of a lifetime.
text: A shadowy figure in a wicker wheelchair near the Victrola.
text: Another old woman, with spindly limbs, profoundly afflicted and
text: preposterously still. The back of her head is flat and bald,
dialog: the result of lying supine upon it for much of several decades.
text: On her passive face rest round wire-rim glasses. Insane or
text: retarded and unaware of the dead woman, she mumbles, just
text: barely audibly, a melody.
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE
dialog: Can you hear me? .
dialog: 16
scene_heading: 16. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM/OFFICE - BAINBRIDGE - DAY
text: Distant music of children's laughter. Perhaps real, emanating
text: from outside; perhaps imagined, remembered, playing in a remote
text: region of the woman's damaged mind. Arrested of all movement,
text: she stares, transfixed, at the blades of a fan.
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE
dialog: Do you know where you are?
dialog: (nothing back)
dialog: Do you remember being brought
dialog: here?
dialog: (nothing back)
dialog: Do you know what has happened?
text: If she does, she gives no indication. No word or gesture. No
text: change of expression on her mask of a face. She is elsewhere
text: (or nowhere), cut adrift by her illness, living in a private
dialog: world (or hell).
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE
dialog: Can you hear me?
text: Sayer, wearing a white lab coat, tries to read her eyes.
text: Behind thick lenses, uncleaned for weeks or months, the eyes
dialog: are inscrutable. . ··
speaker_heading: REV. 12/5/89 (BLUE) Pg.-lO
dialog: 16.CONT. 16.
text: Sayer reaches to her face and carefully pulls the glasses from
text: it. He cleans them with a flap of his lab coat -- they are
text: loose, bent out of shape*-- and gently slides the temples back
dialog: over her ears.
text: He turns away from her and types at a manual Underwood. The
text: form in the machine, at the top, reads -- BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL /
scene_heading: ADMISSIONS / CONSULTATION REQUEST / NEUROLOGY. Sayer types in
text: a lower section headed -- FINDINGS / DIAGNOSIS.
text: He turns back in his chair to find the woman doubled-over in
text: her wheelchair, one arm very close to the floor, the hand
text: clutching the glasses. She is not moving, but she has moved.
dialog: That, or she is dead.
text: Sayer rights her, takes the glasses from her hand and slips
text: them back onto her face. He studies her for a moment, and for
text: that moment remains as still, as entranced, as her.
text: He takes the glasses from her face again and sets them on the
text: floor. He waits. She doesn't retrieve them. He picks them up
text: and holds them out to her. She doesn't move to take them. He
text: lets go of them and she lunges forward, catching them the
text: instant before they hit the floor. Sayer just stares.
speaker_heading: SAYER«S VOICE
dialog: Her name is Lucy Fishman . . .
dialog: r
scene_heading: 16B. INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE EXAMINATION ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 16B.
text: Dr. Kaufman, the hospital's Chief of Medicine, notices a number
text: of patients lined up in their wheelchairs as he passes them on
dialog: his way into Sayer's examination room -
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE
dialog: She was found by neighbors with *
dialog: her sister, several days after the ,
dialog: sister had died . . .
scene_heading: 17. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 17.
text: The same room as before. The same woman. All that has changed
text: is the light. It's late afternoon.
speaker_heading: SAYER (CONT'D)
dialog: According to the neighbors, *
dialog: she's never set foot outside her *
dialog: apartment, has no other living *
dialog: relatives, and has always been the *
dialog: way she is now - without any *
dialog: comprehension or response. *
text: Kaufman tries to feign interest. He glances to the others 1
text: Sayer has summoned to the room -- two other doctors, Tyler and
dialog: Sullivan, and Miss Costello.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: And yet . . .
text: Without any warning whatsoever Sayer tosses a tennis ball at
text: her. Her hand suddenly jerks up out of her lap and catches it.
dialog: And stays there, stiff, still.
text: Sayer is delighted but the expression on Kaufman's face is that
dialog: of one who has long ago learned and tired of simple card
dialog: tricks. Dismissing the phenomenon --·
speaker_heading: DR. KAUFMAN
dialog: A reflex.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: If she batted it away I might call
dialog: that a reflex. She doesn't bat it
dialog: away, she catches it.
speaker_heading: DR. KAUFMAN
dialog: - It's still a reflex.
dialog: ..·. : · ·' .· " .'
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I'm sorry, if you were right I'd
dialog: agree with you.
text: Kaufman, understandably, takes some offense at the comment.
dialog: Sayer, however, is unaware that he has caused any.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: It's as if . . . having lost all
dialog: will of her own on which to act,
dialog: she borrows the will of the ball.
dialog: Awkward silence. Eventually--
speaker_heading: DR. TYLER
dialog: The "will of the ball?"
dialog: .
text: Sayer nods. Kaufman and the other doctors concur with glances
dialog: that the theory and theorist are absurd.
speaker_heading: DR. SULLIVAN
dialog: Excuse me.
dialog: Sullivan has better things to do and leaves the room. So does
dialog: Tyler. Kaufman and Miss Costello remain.
speaker_heading: DR. KAUFMAN . I
dialog: (hopefully)
dialog: You're trying to make a good
dialog: impression. That's it, isn't it?
dialog: You're still settling in.
text: Sayer isn't sure if he should agree or not. He does neither.
speaker_heading: DR. KAUFMAN
dialog: Miss Costello, you'll see that Dr.
dialog: Saver's patients waiting out there
dialog: are rescheduled for tomorrow?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: DR. KAUFMAN
dialog: Good night.
text: Sayer watches Kaufman leave. So does Miss Costello. Lucy,
text: looking less like a woman than a Diane Arbus photograph of one,
dialog: doesn't.
scene_heading: 18. EXT. PARKING LOT - BAINBRIDGE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: C'\ Sayer climbs into his Toyota and, as he buckles his seat belt,
text: -*© recites in a mumble to himself --
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: One . . . .
dialog: *
dialog: (he turns the key)
dialog: Two . . .
dialog: (puts on sunglasses)
dialog: Three . . .
dialog: (releases the brake)
dialog: Four . . .
dialog: (shifts out of
dialog: 'park')
dialog: .
dialog: Five.
text: Just as he's depressing the accelerator, someone raps on his
text: window. He slams on the brakes. Miss Costello's face appears
text: at the window. Recovering, Sayer rolls it down.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What'd I forget?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: I just wanted to say to you I
dialog: preferred your explanation.
dialog: () It's unclear whether he knows what she's referring to.
dialog: r
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: And that I'll look after things
dialog: for you until you've "settled in."
dialog: Good night, doctor.
text: She leaves. He stares blankly out after her, then at his
dialog: dashboard. To it eventually, quietly --
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Thank you . . .
text: He glances to his rear view mirror and can see her walking away
dialog: toward her car. To the reflection --
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Thank you very much.
scene_heading: 18A. EXT. SAMMY'S FISH GROTTO - ESTABLISH - NIGHT 18A.
scene_heading: 19. INT. SAMMY'S GROTTO, CITY ISLAND, THE BRONX - NIGHT 19.
text: Sayer at a table eating dinner alone. He should've brought
text: along something to read. He glances at the little "Catch of
dialog: the Day" notice on his table for the tenth time, then absently
text: in at an eel in a fish tank, which seems to be peering back out
dialog: at him.
speaker_heading: SIDNEY V.O.
dialog: I am not mad ... not mad . . .
scene_heading: 20. EXT. SCHOOLYARD &amp; BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL - DAY 20.
text: A tether ball dangling from a rope, resting against a pole.
text: The chains of a swing. Pigeons scavenging scraps on the
text: asphalt of the elementary school playground, deserted.
dialog: ·
speaker_heading: SIDNEY V.O.
dialog: I know the difference between what
dialog: is real and what is not . . .
text: Beyond a chain-link fence, across the field, on the roof of one
text: of Bainbridge's brick buildings, peering down from the edge of
text: it, coat over his smock, hat on his head, an elderly man.
scene_heading: 21. INT. SIDNEY'S DAYROOM - DAY 21.
text: Tight on the elderly man's face.
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: The voice was real.
speaker_heading: REV.12/12/89 (PINK) Pg.14
dialog: 21.C0NT. 21.
text: Sayer nods in agreement though he is not altogether as certain
dialog: of tne claim. They are in a ward crowded with many patients
dialog: who are mad, obviously and irretrievably so.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What did the voice say?
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: "Mr. Titch, get your coat and hat,
dialog: go up to the roof and jump off."
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Did you recognize it as belonging
dialog: to a person? Or was it just a
dialog: voice?
text: Sidney considers Sayer suspiciously ... then smiles slyly. *
dialog: *
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: You don't deny it was you. *
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: *
dialog: Me?
text: Sayer is taken aback. As is Sidney. One of them, and Sidney
dialog: believes he knows which, is lying or crazy.
dialog: ' ' · * SAYER ' .
dialog: I do deny it. It wasn't me.
dialog: It wasn't real.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: We've only just now met, sir. »
text: Sidney, suddenly completely disoriented, withdraws.
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: If that's true . . . I'm in a
dialog: predicament.
scene_heading: 22. INT. STAFF CAFETERIA - BAINBRIDGE - DAY 22.
dialog: Sayer in line with Drs. Tyler and Sullivan, both younger than *
text: himself. He seems distracted, Sayer, lost in the color of the
text: beets on his tray. Or a thought.
dialog: Like George telling Lenny again about the rabbits:
speaker_heading: DR. SULLIVAN
dialog: *
dialog: We'd be high up - 40th, 50th
dialog: floor, nice midtown view - suite *
dialog: of offices, carpeted, good-looking *
dialog: receptionist - *
speaker_heading: REV.12/12/89 (PINK) Pg.15
scene_heading: 22.CONT. DR. TYLER 22
dialog: fp\ · Aquarium in the waiting room,
dialog: \_J) George. ,
speaker_heading: DR. SULLIVAN
dialog: We could have all that ... but
dialog: we'd miss all this. We'd miss the
dialog: wards.
speaker_heading: DR. TYLER
dialog: The smell of them.
speaker_heading: DR. SULLIVAN
dialog: We'd miss this place -
dialog: (this cafeteria)
dialog: We'd miss this . . .
dialog: (the plate of mush as
dialog: it's set down onto
dialog: his tray)
dialog: Whatever this is. .
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Ye ....
dialog: s
text: Sayer glances up at them, having paid attention to nothing
dialog: they've said, and nods at some other thought.
speaker_heading: . ' SAYER
dialog: Yes . . . ,'
text: He leaves his tray where he stands, and heads out of the
dialog: cafeteria. v
scene_heading: 23. INT. SIDNEY'S DAYROOM - DAY 23.
dialog: Sayer back with Sidney.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Did you see me when-1 "spoke?"
text: Sidney thinks about it, tries to remember, to summon back the
dialog: moment in question, to picture it exactly as it happened, or
dialog: didn't happen.
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: You see me now though.
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: REV.12/12/89 (PINK) Pg.l5
dialog: 23.CONT, (continuity only)
text: Sidney turns to a patient, an elderly woman in a wheelchair
dialog: beside him. Her state resembles that of Lucy's, that is, she
dialog: appears to have no awareness of Sidney, Sayer, or anything else
text: in her environment. It is only now, in fact, as Sidney spoons
dialog: soup into her mouth, careful not to spill any, that Sayer
dialog: notices her.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: sr^ SAY ER
dialog: (y--\ I f it ha p pe n s ag a in , M r. Ti t ch , I
dialog: v_y w an ty ou to l oo k a ro u nd . If yo u
dialog: d on 't act u al l y se e me , i f yo u o n ly
dialog: h ea rm e, you c an be s u re th a t I ' m
dialog: n ot re a l, a nd y ou c an i g no re m e.
dialog: Sa ye r sm il es , pl ea se d w it h hi s so lu ti on .
speaker_heading: SID NE Y
dialog: U nle ss you us e th e P .A. sy ste m.
dialog: S a ye r' s sm il e fa de s. Si d ne y is s ti ll i n a pr ed ic a me nt a nd
dialog: Sa ye r has n' t t he a nsw er .
scene_heading: 2 4. INT . NUR SE S' ST AT ION - D AY 24
dialog: ;
dialog: Sa ye r di al s th e ho sp it a l op er at or .
speaker_heading: S AY E R
dialog: Mai nten ance, plea se.
dialog: W ai ti n g t o be co n ne ct e d, he n o ti c es a n ot h er " s ta t ue " ( BE R T) .
dialog: W ha t's un se t t l i n g a b ou t t h i s o n e, a pa r t f r om t he ma n ' s g h os t -
dialog: l ik e ap p e ar a n ce , i s th e an g le o f h i s w he e l ch a i r. I t ' s l i ke a n
dialog: P~ -\ ask e w p ai n ti n g, a s i f w ho e ve r w as wh e el in g i t s im p ly le t g o o f
dialog: \TS? the c h ai r and t h i s i s wh e r e i t a n d i t s c a r g o h a p p e n e d to c o m e
dialog: *to r est, faci n g th e wal l.
dialog: N ot wa nt i ng to l o se th e c al l , Sa y er mo ve s t o wa r d th e p at i en t ,
dialog: k ee p ing the r e c e i ve r t o h i s e a r . At f u l l e x t e n sion of th e
dialog: c or d , un f or t un at e ly , h e' s s t il l t wo pa ce s s h or t .R e ac hi n g b ac k
dialog: w it h the arm w it h th e ph o ne , he g ai n s d i st a n ce a nd tu r n s the
dialog: w he e lc ha i r q ui ck l y j us t a s h is c a ll co nn e ct s .
speaker_heading: SA Y ER
dialog: Yes. Hi. I need a lock installed
dialog: on th e d oo r to th e E as t Win g roo f.
dialog: A b ig l oc k . T he s oo n e r t he
dialog: better.
dialog: ( pa us e )
dialog: I'm sor ry, th is i s D r. Say er. .
dialog: (p au se )
dialog: I'm sorry, form . . .
dialog: H e s c ri b b le s a n um b e r o n t h e b a ck o f h is h an d an d h a n gs u p. He
dialog: wa nd e rs ov er to th e " st a tu e" ag a in .
speaker_heading: S AY E R
dialog: H ow ar e y ou ?
dialog: No re s p on s e w h at s o ev e r . Sa y e r m a na g es h is p en i nt o t h e m a n 's
dialog: ha nd an d s ea r ch e s hi s p o ck et s f o r pa p er .
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p. 17
text: He glances around. Sees an orderly reading a newspaper.
dialog: (P\ Borrows a section, returns with it, slides it under the pen and
text: waits. The man doesn't write. Doesn't move.
text: Sayer takes the pen back, returns it to his coat pocket,
text: hesitates, pulls it out again, holds it out . . . and lets it go.
text: The man, lightning quick, catches it.
scene_heading: 25. INT. ANOT HE R DAYRO OM ( B) - L ATE R - DAY 2 5.
text: Another man rigid as stone (FRANK). This one peering up at a
text: television set with a horizontal hold problem.
text: Sayer drags a chair over, stands on it, adjusts the set,
dialog: corrects it, gets a picture . . . but the man's "attention"
text: slowly drifts away. Sayer "read justs" it, gets the jumping
text: horizontal lines again, and the man's vacant eyes return.
scene_heading: 26. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - LATER - DAY . 26.
text: Another dayroom crowded with patients, one of which stands
text: before a table, absolutely motionless, on thin bird-like legs.
dialog: It is Lucy, the one who caught/the tennis ball. The movement
text: of nurses and other patients only accentuates her stillness.
dialog: Sayer considers her from all angles as one considers an
dialog: abstract art piece that baff les but in trigues. Unlike the
dialog: others, she's on her feet. A nd unlike the others, she seems,
dialog: to Sayer, to have been headed somewhere before turning to stone
dialog: again.
dialog: - ." »
dialog: He decides that her destination was the drinking fountain
dialog: across the room. And that it's the table, like a barrier, that
text: has arrested her progress. He moves the table.
text: In what appears to be slow motion, she takes a tiny step. And
dialog: another. And another before encountering and being "blocked"
text: by an empty wheelchair. She stops.
text: Sayer moves the wheelchair and all other obstacles out of her
text: path. She continues and eventually makes it halfway to the
text: fountain before mysteriously stopping again.
dialog: Sayer studies the puzzle ... there are no longer any barriers
text: in her way, but she's not moving. Defeated, he goes to the
text: fountain himself, fills a paper cup, and takes it to her.
text: Across the room, a man in a wheelchair, another "ghost"
text: (LEONARD), stares through eyes which seem more dead than alive.
dialog: "At" Sayer.
scene_heading: 27. INT. FILE ROOM, BAINBRIDGE - DAY 27
dialog: o An admission form, yellowed and brittle with age --
speaker_heading: BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL / ADMISSIONS
speaker_heading: STATE OF NEW YORK
text: A typed date / AUGUST 2, 1929. The admitting physician's name.
dialog: The patient's name. And age / 15. An identification number
dialog: and ward assignment number.
text: As Sayer pulls the folder and closes the drawer of one of
text: several filing cabinets lining the walls of a claustrophobic
text: room, Miss Costello slides open another, locates a particular
text: folder in it and in the folder another admitting form -- The
dialog: date / MAY 7, 1932. Names and numbers.
text: Another drawer. Sayer pulling another folder. Another
dialog: admission form ~ Date / DECEMBER 12, 1930. Age of the patient
dialog: / 22.
dialog: 28
scene_heading: 28. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER - DAY
text: The files spread out on a table. Sayer and Miss Costello
dialog: leafing through them. .
dialog: .
dialog: Sayer considers one's original admission forms. He scans
text: bodies of text and finds a diagnosis -- ATYPICAL SCHIZOPHRENIA.
text: He sets it aside and picks up another.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: "Atypical Hysteria," this one.
text: Sayer nods to himself and keeps reading his. He eventually
text: finds in its text -- ATYPICAL RABIES. He flips to the end of
dialog: the file. "No change since last examination" it reads. He
dialog: turns the page. "No change, no therapy recommended." He turns
dialog: the page, the last entry. "No change." The date, "11/9/44."
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: There must be more recent files we
dialog: missed somehow. "Part Twos" to
dialog: their medical histories.
dialog: (Miss Costello is
dialog: shaking head 'no.')
dialog: In some other filing cabinet
dialog: somewhere. . ..
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: NO.
dialog: o
speaker_heading: REV. 10/13/89 p.19
scene_heading: 29. EXT. PARKING LOT - BAINBRIDGE - EVENING 29.
dialog: (&gt;~s, Sayer and Miss Costello walking to their cars.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: One would think that after a point
dialog: enough atypical somethings would
dialog: amount to a typical something.
dialog: But a typical "what?"
dialog: Miss Costello, no doubt, has less of an idea than Sayer what
dialog: the "what" could be.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: , Doctor . . . would you like to g e t a
dialog: cup of coffee somewhere?
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Tea?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Ah . . . normally I'd say yes . . .
dialog: only I've made other plans . . .
text: She nods quickly. She seems, strangely, relieved.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: Some other time.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: ,
dialog: Good night.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Good night.
dialog: They veer apart to their respective cars.
scene_heading: 30. INT. SAMMY'S GROTTO, CITY ISLAND - NIGHT 30.
text: The tiny gree/i eyes in the head of the eel staring out at
text: refracted light and shadow. Sayer, alone at the same table as
dialog: before, finished with his meal.
dialog: i
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Tea, right? ·
dialog: /
dialog: ·
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: P e s . '...-·
dialog: lae
text: The waiter leaves. Sayer glances back into the fish tank at
text: the eel behind the rock, its rock, its home.
speaker_heading: (RE V. 10 /1 6/ 89) Pin k _ p. 2 0
scene_heading: 31. EXT. CITY ISLAND - LATER - NIGHT 31.
speaker_heading: fpl
text: Sayer strolling down a dark side street. He reaches a snail
text: wooden house near the water and climbs three steps to the
text: porch. He gets the front door opened and bends to pick up mail
dialog: (including a few book parcels from antiquarian shops) just *
dialog: inside the threshold. *
speaker_heading: 32. OMITTED 32.
dialog: i
scene_heading: 33. INT. SAYER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - LATER - NIGHT 33.
dialog: Tight on (Ernst Heckle) drawings of primitive life forms. *
text: Sayer, in his dining room, leafs through the old first edition, *
text: pleased it has arrived, intrigued by its pictures. The parcel *
text: paper lies beside it on the table. *
scene_heading: 34. INT. SAYER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER - NIGHT 34.
text: Fingers on the keys of a baby grand piano that seems out of
text: scale with Sayer's small living room. Wrapped in a robe, he
text: plays a melody.
text: fcuJ All around him lay packing boxes, some empty, many not. The
dialog: *^^ books are out at least - many of a medical nature, many others
dialog: on nature itself,, botany, many first editions - two and three
text: deep on shelves, on the floor, on tables, stacked on the couch -
dialog: and chairs almost like figures of people.t
scene_heading: 35. INT. SAYER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER - NIGHT 35.
text: A lamp, on, in the living room. Sayer asleep on the couch, an
text: open book and reading glasses resting on his chest.
text: His eyes blink open. Not at a noise. At a thought.
scene_heading: 36. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - BAINBRIDGE - LATER - NIGHT 36.
dialog: A n i g h t ja n i to r w i th a p a i l -o n -w h e e l s a n d a m o p m o v e s p a s t
dialog: da r k e n e d o ffi c e s. H e p a u s e s a t o n e , th e fi l e r o o m , l i g h t u n d e r
dialog: i ts d o o r , a n d o p e n s i t. . -.. *
speaker_heading: JANITOR
dialog: I'm sorry, doctor. I thought
dialog: someone left the lights on.
dialog: Q
speaker_heading: REV.,12/5/89 (BLUE) Pg.2
speaker_heading: 36'.CONT. 36.
text: Glancing up from files strewn across the table, Sayer shares a
dialog: discovery with the janitor -
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: They all survived encephalitis
dialog: years before they came here. In
dialog: the 1920' s .
text: He taps a finger at the files - the patients' medical histories
dialog: prior to admission - forms listing childhood diseases and
text: ailments. The janitor, having no idea of course what he means,
text: retreats with his pail and mop, closing the door.
scene_heading: 36A. EXT. MEDICAL LIBRARY, NEW YORK - ESTABLISH - DAY 36A.
scene_heading: 37. INT. MEDICAL LIBRARY, NEW YORK - DAY 37.
text: Sayer displays what he has written on the back of his hand to
dialog: *
dialog: an assistant librarian: NEJM 4-6-35.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: The New England Journal of
dialog: Medicine, April 6th, 1935. *
scene_heading: 38. INT. MEDICAL LIBRARY - LATER - DAY . 38.
text: A microfilm machine. Sayer manipulating its levers and
dialog: eventually finding what he's after, an article titled:
scene_heading: ENCEPHALITIS LETHARGICA, TEN YEARS LATER.
text: Accompanying the text are grainy black and white photographs
text: taken in an old operating theatre. An anatomical skeleton, a
dialog: doctor in a white coat, subjects-- men, women and children
dialog: with haunting eyes.
scene_heading: 39. EXT. RESIDENTIAL GARDEN, NEW YORK - DAY 39.
dialog: Close on the doctor from the photographs - ancient and ill.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: (philosophically
dialog: detached)
dialog: Pus and pain, that's the final *
dialog: reward. Pus and pain and
dialog: obscurity.
text: He's in a small unkept rose garden. With Sayer. *
dialog: No te: To g et c lear anc e fr om t he N ew En gla nd Jo urn al of *
dialog: Medicine, we must indicate that it is a weekly publication, *
dialog: which is why the "6th" has been added. *
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR .
dialog: I believe you when you say some
dialog: still live. But I can assure you
dialog: they're medically irrelevant. As
dialog: they were thirty years ago when I
dialog: fought to get my work published.
text: He smiles at a thought, at once wistful and bitter.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: That's the problem with a unique
dialog: disease. Once it no longer rages,
dialog: I'm telling you, it becomes very
dialog: unfashionable. .
text: He buries his face into his mask, manages to get some deep
text: breaths into his lungs and shakes his head at Sayer.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: What would I be without this
dialog: thing? A man with a1 shred of
dialog: dignity le_ft.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Should I get your nurse?
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: God forbid, no.
text: He lights a cigarette, coughs and puts it out.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: How many have you found there?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Five. So far. I think there may
dialog: be more.
text: The old doctor nods. He has the torn look of someone reminded
dialog: of an unfaithful lover just when he'd managed to forget about
dialog: her. He wants and doesn't want to know how they're doing.
dialog: Finally --
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: How are they?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: As you described them. As they
dialog: were back then. As "insubstantial
dialog: as ghosts." Only I guess most of
dialog: them were children then.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: Yes. Children who fell asleep.
scene_heading: o 40. INT. OLD DOCTOR'S STUDY - DAY 40
dialog: Boxes of ancient history have been dragged out of storage, the
dialog: emphysema-plagued doctor's post-encephalitic research, files
dialog: and photographs and cans of 16mm film.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: Most died during the acute stage
dialog: of the illness, during a sleep so
dialog: deep they couldn't be roused. A
dialog: sleep that in most cases lasted
dialog: several months.
dialog: The doctors, in the dark, watch forty year old footage
text: projected onto a screen by a pre-World War II Bell &amp; Howell -
text: a motionless man in a chair, his head thrust back, mouth gaping
text: open, arms suspended out from an emaciated torso as if from
dialog: invisible strings.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: Those who survived, who awoke,
dialog: seemed fine, as though nothing had
dialog: happened. Years went by - five,
dialog: ten, fifteen - before anyone
dialog: suspected they were not well. .
dialog: They were not.
text: A doctor, this doctor decades younger, appears beside the
text: subject on the screen and lowers the man's arms.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: I began to see them in the early
dialog: 1930's - old people brought in by
dialog: their children, young people
dialog: brought in by their parents - all
dialog: of them complaining they weren't
dialog: "themselves" anymore. They'd
dialog: grown distant, aloof, anti-social,
dialog: they daydreamed at the dinner
dialog: table. I referred them to
dialog: psychiatrists.
text: The man on the screen disappears and is replaced by a seal-
dialog: shaped woman in whom a hundred strange diseases seem to reside.
text: They conspire against her, torment and harass her, force her to
dialog: perform incessant and meaningless actions with her hands, to
text: paw her chin, to flutter, to adjust glasses that aren't there.
speaker_heading: REV.12/5/89 (BLUE) Pg.24
speaker_heading: 40.CONT. DOCTOR 40
dialog: 0&lt;
speaker_heading: ID
dialog: Before long they were being
dialog: referred back to me. They could
dialog: no longer dress themselves or feed
dialog: themselves. They could no longer
dialog: speak in most cases. Families
dialog: went mad. People who were
dialog: normal, were now . . . *
dialog: (searches for the
dialog: word)
dialog: . . . elsewhere ...
text: The woman on the screen is replaced by a young man, a teenager,
text: who seems composed less of flesh than wax, a wax figure with
dialog: real eyes.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What must it be like to be them?
text: On the screen, the young man's eyes, entranced, gaze upward as
dialog: if trying hard to remember something. Or trying hard to forget
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What are they thinking? .
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: 0 They're not. The virus didn't :
dialog: spare the higher faculties.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (hopefully)
dialog: We know that for a fact.
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Bec use . . .
dialog: a
dialog: 4
dialog: Sayer waits for the old doctor to tell him the reasons, the
dialog: data, to support the merciful truth. But he doesn't seem to
dialog: possess it any more than Sayer does. Long silence before:
speaker_heading: OLD DOCTOR
dialog: Because the alternative is
dialog: unthinkable.
scene_heading: 40A. INT. DAYROOM (C) - DAY ' 40A.
text: The hand of a stone-like woman catches the tennis ball while
text: the rest of her remains absolutely still. Sayer gestures to
text: Anthony, Okay, and the orderly wheels her out of the crowded
dialog: room.
scene_heading: 4OB. INT. WARD 5 DAYROOM - DAY · 4OB
text: The hand of an otherwise still-life man snaps to catch the
text: ball. Sayer nods to an orderly who wheels him out past younger
dialog: patients, Ward 5's residents.
dialog: i
scene_heading: 40C. INT. CORRIDOR - DAY 40C
text: The ball glances off the face of a nan who turns in his
text: wheelchair and glares at Sayer.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Sorry. .
dialog: 41
scene_heading: 41. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - LATER - DAY
dialog: Sayer has assembled them all, the fourteen or fifteen he has
text: decided are post-encephalitics, and wanders among them like a
text: naturalist in a garden of stone.
text: He lifts an arm of one particularly remote male patient. It
text: remains suspended, doll-like.
text: He tries to follow the trajectory of another's gaze. It leads
dialog: only to blank space.
dialog: He considers another who appears "deeply involved" in some
text: minute and curious activity with his twisted hands, a kind of
text: tearing, shredding motion.
dialog: . v
text: Across the room, paying no attention to Sayer, are Sidney and
text: Lolly. He's gently brushing her hair.
text: Sayer manages a pen into the hand of another woman and she
dialog: "draws" a kind a kind of circular shape that spirals in on
text: itself until it reaches a "vanishing point" in the center.
scene_heading: 42. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER - DAY 42.
text: The results of standard perception tests scotch-taped to a wall
dialog: of the examination room.
dialog: Sayer and Miss Costello, like visitors to a museum, consider
text: each for a moment before moving onto the next.
text: Printed in the left column of each are a circle, square,
text: triangle and daisy. In the right are the post-encephalitics'
dialog: failed "attempts" to copy them.
dialog: REV. 10/13/83 p.26
text: Sayer keeps coming back to one in particular. Unlike the
dialog: others which, if you use your imagination, vaguely correspond
dialog: somewhat positionally to the pre-printed shapes, this one bears
dialog: no resemblance. This patient has instead scrawled over the
text: shapes, seemingly violently.
text: Miss Costello joins Sayer and ponders it along with him.
dialog: Eventually, as if to excuse it and its maker--
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: It's different.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Quite. It's quite bad.
dialog: Sayer keeps studying it.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (more to himself)
dialog: Did he fail to understand? Or was
dialog: he unwilling to fail?
dialog: He isn't really asking her to answer, which is fine with her
dialog: since she doubts equally both hypotheses.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Could he be saying, "I can't draw
dialog: a triangle, don't make me"?
dialog: (before she can
dialog: respond:)
dialog: Could it be willfully bad?
text: She doesn't say it but it's clear she thinks Sayer is reading
dialog: far too much into the "badness" of the patient's scrawl. To
dialog: himself -
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Which one is this?
text: He leans closer to see the typed name . . .
scene_heading: 43. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - DAY 43.
dialog: The painting of the Western town from the prologue - saloon,
text: livery stable, sunset. Below it, in his wheelchair, Leonard.
text: His face is unlined and passive, like a mask. His body is
dialog: still, like the dead.
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE &gt;| v
dialog: Does he ever speak to you?
text: Leonard's mother, a woman of seventy or so, is combing her
dialog: son's hair, being careful to get the part straight.
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.27
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: Of course not. Not in words.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: He speaks to you in other ways.
dialog: How do you mean?
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE i
dialog: You don't have children.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: No. ,
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: If you did you'd know.
text: Finished with his hair, she wheels him from the sleeping ward *
dialog: and into the -
scene_heading: 43A. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - CONTINUOUS - DAY 43A
text: Sayer, trailing after Mrs. Lowe and her sonr becomes
text: momentarily distracted by Lucy, the most recently arrived post-
dialog: encephalitic, the one he tried unsuccessfully to coax to the
text: drinking fountain. She is there again, "stuck" at the same
text: point, angled toward the fountain but unable to reach it.
text: Sayer brings her a cup of water and rejoins Mrs. Lowe. -
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I'd like to examine him again-if
dialog: that's all right with you.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE ,
dialog: He did well.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: In a sense.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: He's very clever. Aren't you,
dialog: Leonard. .
dialog: Sayer shows her the perception test "drawing** Leonard made.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Does this mean anything to you?
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE .
dialog: (more to Leonard) ;·
dialog: It's very good. '·
dialog: .
text: She glances back to Sayer who nods uncertainly. She recognizes.
text: the look on his face; she's seen it before on the faces of more
dialog: doctors than she cares to remember. ' f
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.28
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: (becoming impatient
dialog: with him)
dialog: Well it's abstract, isn't it.
dialog: Sayer can't bring himself to agree with her.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: That's the problem with all you
dialog: doctors, you have no imagination.
dialog: Everything has to be real to you.
text: No longer having any use for him, she pointedly ignores him.
dialog: *
text: Taking the hint, Sayer's wanders off, past Lucy, looking like a
text: statue, holding the paper cup he brought her.
scene_heading: 43B. EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING (MRS. LOWE'S) - ESTABLISH - NIGHT 43B.
scene_heading: 44. INT. MRS. LOWE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 44
text: The door opens from the inside revealing Sayer in street
text: clothes. Judging from the look on Mrs. Lowe's face, he has
dialog: arrived unannounced.
speaker_heading: SAYER .
dialog: I want to know more about him.
scene_heading: 44A. INT. MRS. LOWE'S APARTMENT - LEONARD'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 44A.
dialog: An old photograph. A sixth grade class picture from 1930?,
text: Moving slowly across the young faces to Leonard, eleven, at the
dialog: end of a row.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE 0.8.
dialog: Something was wrong, they said,
dialog: with his hands. He couldn't write
dialog: anymore, he couldn't do the work,
dialog: I should take him out of school,
dialog: they said. He was eleven.
dialog: They're in Leonard's old bedroom, Sayer and Mrs. Lowe. Except
dialog: for the Western painting that's missing, nothing has changed in
dialog: it in thirty years.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
speaker_heading: REV. 10/13/89 p.28A
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: He slowly got worse. He'd be
dialog: talking, suddenly he'd come to a
dialog: stop. After a few seconds he'd
dialog: finish what he was saying like
dialog: nothing happened, but these
dialog: standstills got longer. Sometimes
dialog: he'd call to me and I'd come in
text: and find him at his desk in a
dialog: trance. An hour, two hours. Then
dialog: he'd be okay again.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
text: Sayer glances around the room. It's been preserved, like a
dialog: shrine.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: One day I came hone from work and
dialog: found him in his bed, his arm like
dialog: this, reaching.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: "What do you want, Leonard?"
text: She pictures the moment in her mind, and waits, it seems, for
dialog: the young Leonard to speak, to tell her what it is he wants.
text: Finally she lowers her arm and shrugs.
speaker_heading: MR.S LOWE
dialog: He never spoke again. It was like
dialog: he'd disappeared. I took him to
dialog: Bainbridge later that year.
dialog: November fourteenth, 1937.
dialog: He was twenty.
text: Sayer glances away from her to the room itself again.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What'd he do with himself, Mrs.
dialog: Lowe, those nine years he stayed
dialog: in this room?
text: She smiles to herself, proudly it seems.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: He read. y
scene_heading: 45. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - BAINBRIDGE - DAY 45
text: Leonard's face in shadow. Wires emerging from his scalp. A
dialog: sluggish EEG pattern.
text: A blinding flash from a strobe.suddenly lights up the room.
text: The pupils of Leonard's eyes shrink, but his EEG remains
text: stuporously slow.
scene_heading: 45A. EXT. RESEARCH LAB, NEW YORK - ESTABLISH - DAY 45A.
scene_heading: 46. INT. RESEARCH LAB - DAY 46
text: A monkey flipping switches on a panel built into a laboratory
text: room, searching for a sequence.
dialog: In an observation booth, years of collected data - charts and
dialog: graphs, EEG's and notes.
text: There, Dr. Mann, a contemporary of Sayer's, stares at Sayer Ay
dialog: curiously. Eventually he manages --
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: When you say you're working with
dialog: people, you don't mean living
dialog: people. (
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Living people, yes. Patients.
text: Mann just stares. He's a scientist, they both are, and the
dialog: idea of Sayer working with living people, rather than expired
text: ones laid out on the pathology table, is inconceivable to him.
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: (fearing the answer)
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: It's in The Bronx. It's a poor
dialog: private chronic hospital called
dialog: M ou nt --
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: (appalled)
dialog: Oh, Malcolm, Malcolm, come back,
dialog: come on. You're a benchman,
dialog: you're no clinician, why would you
dialog: lower yourself?
dialog: Sayer hasn't an answer for him. »·
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: How's Hank?
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: How's Hank? He's great, he's
dialog: brilliant, look at him.
text: Sayer glances away to Hank the monkey, watches him. Mann
text: studies Sayer, chagrined and incredulous.
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: A physician? You?
text: He slaps him angrily across the shoulders with some papers.
text: The monkey completes a complex sequence which opens a chamber
text: revealing an electric train. The animal jumps and hoots with
text: wild glee. Sayer reaches out and presses the button on the
text: stop watch dangling from Mann's neck.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Subtract two seconds off his
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: 47. OMITTED 47
scene_heading: 48. INT. RESEARCH LAB - LATER - DAY 48
text: Rats in cages, wired up, manipulating elaborate series of
text: ladders and pulleys, traversing catwalks, or ratwalks, leading
dialog: to glucose rewards.
dialog: While Mann, with something less than great enthusiasm,
dialog: considers an EEG Sayer has brought, his monkey drags toys over
text: to Sayer and tries to engage him in play. One of the toys is
dialog: an Ouija Board.
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: (to, Sayer)
dialog: Don't look at me like that. It's
dialog: for his alphabet lessons.
dialog: (to the monkey)
dialog: We're busy, Hank, go play
dialog: solitaire.
text: The monkey obediently goes off in search of a deck of cards.
dialog: Gesturing at patterns on the EEG --
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: Asleep. First stage normal.
dialog: Second a little dull. Normal
dialog: RM...
speaker_heading: E
text: He shrugs, lays out a second EEG, and gestures at patterns on
dialog: it --
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: Awake. Slightly erratic. No more
dialog: so than a lot of people walking
dialog: the streets of New York.
dialog: (shrugs again)
dialog: I give up, what's wrong with him?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: You have them backwards. This is
dialog: him awake . . .
dialog: (points to one EEG;
dialog: then the other)
dialog: This is him asleep.
dialog: .-," - . ^ ·
dialog: Mann thinks Sayer is kidding. He isn't.
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: This is him awake? This is him
dialog: asleep?
text: Sayer nods. Mann tries, without success, to make some sort of
dialog: sense out of that.
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: What are you saying? When he's
dialog: awake, what, he's dreaming?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: When there's any brain activity at
dialog: all, which is infrequent, yes.
dialog: Dreaming or hallucinating.
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: And when he's asleep . . . ?
speaker_heading: SAYER
text: When he's asleep he manages to
dialog: create a kind of reality. What we
dialog: might call reality.
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: That's what you think these say?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: 1 don't know.
dialog: Mann studies the "waking" EEC He points to its one and only
dialog: large electrical peak. ;
speaker_heading: MANN
dialog: What's this peak? Strobe?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: No. This is the strobe.
text: Sayer indicates a flat section of the pattern where there is
dialog: scribbled in pencil a small "s."
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: This . . .
dialog: , (the large peak,
dialog: marked with an "L") /
dialog: . . . is me saying his name to him.
text: Mann stares rather dumbly at Sayer. Then at Hank the monkey on
dialog: the floor dealing solitaire.
scene_heading: 49. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY 49
text: Tight on Leonard. Something blurs past him but his eyes don't
text: follow it. Pulling back, the object blurs by again from the
dialog: other direction.
text: Tight on Sayer. The thing blurs past his face. His eyes don't
text: follow it either. Pulling back, it blurs again.
dialog: REV. 10.13/89 p.33
text: A circle of patients in wheelchairs. The post-encephalitics
dialog: reunited. "Waking" just long enough to catch and release the
text: object, a small beach ball.
text: Leonard and Sayer, on opposite sides of the circle, ignoring
text: the ball and the other patients. He's reached a dead end,
dialog: Sayer, right where he began, his only "accomplishment,"
dialog: this, ball-catching patients.
scene_heading: 50. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY 50.
text: Sayer alone in the examination room, tired, at its window
text: staring blankly out.
text: His perspective: The empty lot below littered with abandoned
text: couches, refrigerators, rusting automobile carcasses.
text: And beyond the lot, the elementary school playground. Laughing
text: children on swings and slides. Jumping rope. Batting tether
dialog: balls. Playing hopscotch.
text: Moving slowly in on one of the hopscotch games. On a girl
text: tossing a bean bag into a square. Jumping over it and into the
text: next square. Turning and jumping back. Balancing on one foot.
text: Retrieving the bean bag and tossing it down again. Into the
text: next square of the tile pattern chalked on the asphalt.
scene_heading: 51. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY 51.
text: From above, patients in wheelchairs dot the black and white
text: checkerboard linoleum-tile floor like chess pieces. The
dialog: pattern is regular to a point but then breaks up -- is
text: interrupted by an area of solid white, where a wall once stood
dialog: -- before being restored. It forms a kind of narrow "sea," the
dialog: white area, on either side of which lies "land."
text: At floor level Sayer and Miss Costello, on their hands and
text: knees, are "blacking in" the missing tiles with shoe polish,
text: "bridging" the gap between the two checkerboards. The retarded
text: patients around them ignore them. The ward nurses pretend to. '
text: Completing the pattern Sayer glances across the room to
text: Leonard. He seems to be "watching." His mother, nearby, idly
text: thumbing through a magazine as she brings Leonard up to date on
dialog: neighborhood news, isn't.
dialog: ·t, .
text: Sayer crosses to Lucy. Lifts her gently out of her chair.
text: Points her in the direction of the drinking fountain.
text: She begins to move. To step slowly over each tile. She
text: reaches the "bridge" and hesitates. Then crosses it.
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.34
text: Sayer doesn't know whether to applaud or cry. He does neither,
text: burying his emotions behind a professional mask instead, and
text: watches as Lucy, "delivered" to the other side, free now, lets
text: the regularity of the pattern guide her toward the fountain.
text: She nears it. She is almost there. Then she is. there. But
text: doesn't drink. Doesn't stop. She continues past it . . .
text: To a window, the window bevond the drinking fountain which
dialog: Sayer hadn't noticed before, had no reason to notice, had no
text: need to notice, with a broken pane allowing a view to the
dialog: outside.
text: She stares out at the traffic below, in hopes no doubt of
dialog: figuring out where she is.
text: And Sayer's eyes, behind which exhilaration and horror rise up,
dialog: shift from her to Miss Costello, and then to Leonard, in whose
text: mask of a face Sayer thinks he sees a faint glimmer.
dialog: These people are alive inside.
dialog: 52
scene_heading: 52. INT. DAYROOM (B) - DAY
text: A soap opera on a portable black and white TV in a narrow
text: passageway of a nurses' station. Beyond.it, beyond a glass
text: partition, a crowded idle dayroom.
text: Miss Costello crosses into and out of view and reappears
text: moments later next to the TV. She switches it off and turns to
dialog: face the three RNs who were watching it. In their defense --
speaker_heading: V
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: The patients have all been given
dialog: their morning medication.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: Good. Dr. Sayer was hoping you'd
dialog: have some free time.
text: She hands a book to the nurse who spoke (MARGARET), a first
text: edition worn /rom many readings. Margaret glances from it to
dialog: the other nurses and back to Miss Costello.
scene_heading: 53. INT. DAYROOM (B) - LATER - DAY 53
text: The nurse holds the book like it's something quite foreign to
text: her. She finds the beginning of the first chapter, clears her
dialog: throat, and reads --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: "Call me . . . Ish-ma-el . . .
text: She glances up at her audience: three blank-faced post- ,55
text: encephalitics. Miss Costello, who is nearby, nods to her to
text: continue. She clears her throat again, and, feeling like a
dialog: fool, reads --
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: "Some years ago, never mind how
dialog: long precisely, having little or
dialog: no money in my purse, and nothing
dialog: particular to interest me on
dialog: shore, I thought I would sail
dialog: about a little and see the watery
dialog: part of the world . . . "
dialog: Miss Costello leaves.
dialog: 54
scene_heading: 54. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY
text: Leonard's head locked on his shoulders at an improbable angle
text: that forces his entranced gaze upward to a point well above
dialog: Sayer.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Can you hear me, Leonard? I want
dialog: to hear you speak your name. :
dialog: . -
text: Sayer waits . . . but Leonard remains mute.
scene_heading: 55. INT. SAYER'S HOUSE - MORNING " 55
dialog: Tight on Sayer pulling record albums from his extensive
dialog: classical collection.
scene_heading: 56. INT. DAYROOM (D) - DAY 56
text: An.old box-style phonograph. The kind whose top is also a
dialog: detachable speaker.
text: An orderly, Fernando, dusts it off, rigs it, takes the record
text: Miss Costello holds out to him, gets it spinning, and sets the
dialog: needle down.
dialog: Opera music. For the "enjoyment" of two more post-
text: encephalitics. The eyes of one narrow slightly, almost
dialog: imperceptibly. -.
dialog: -
dialog: i
scene_heading: 57. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY 57
dialog: The keys of Sayer's old manual Underwood typewriter. And
text: Leonard's claw of a hand hanging over them like one of those
text: unmanageable penny arcade cranes.
speaker_heading: REV. 10/2/85
speaker_heading: SAYER 57
dialog: L . . . Leonard . . . L . . .
text: Leonard's hand remains still, suspended above the keys, for
dialog: what seems an eternity.
scene_heading: 58. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY 58.
dialog: Under Miss Costello's supervision, maintenance men remove the
text: gratings from the windows and washhthe panes.
scene_heading: INT.- DAYROOM (D) - DAY 59.
dialog: 59.
dialog: 30's jazz music. The orderly from before with "his" two post-
text: encephalitics. Each has a tray of cafeteria food, but only one
dialog: is eating, and mechanically at that. &lt;
speaker_heading: FERNANDO
dialog: . . . not just any music, it has to
dialog: be the right, music for them. Jazz
dialog: does nothing for Bert. Only Rose.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: It's like they're only moved by
dialog: music that moves them. I'm that
dialog: '*''-
dialog: w ay .
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (intrigued)
dialog: Yes, so am I. &gt;
text: The moment Fernando takes the record off, Rose stops eating,
text: stops moving. The orderly puts on Mozart and waits. Neither
dialog: patient moves.
speaker_heading: FERNANDO
dialog: I haven't found anything that
dialog: moves Bert yet.
scene_heading: 59A. INT. CORRIDOR - DAY ' 59A.
dialog: A " no r ma l" pa t ie nt wi t h m ul t ip le sc l er os is h as ma na g ed to
dialog: inte rcep t S ayer on hi s w ay some wher e el se, his ar ms f ull wit h
text: an 8mm camera and tripod and screen.
speaker_heading: j MS WOMAN
dialog: I don't interest you like those
dialog: other people, those ones with that
dialog: disease.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: That's not true.
speaker_heading: REV. 10/2/89
speaker_heading: MS WOMAN
dialog: I wish I had something like that.
dialog: SSmething that would interest you
dialog: instead of this stupid boring MS.
scene_heading: 60. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY 6
text: Leonard in his wheelchair, absolutely motionless. Sayer behind
text: the lens of the 8mm camera on the tripod. Drs. Tyler and
text: Sullivan, at the doorway, watch with some amusement.
scene_heading: 60A. INT. DAYROOM (A) - DAY 60A
text: Miss Costello wheels the man who shreds invisible things to a
text: window and places a piece of toast from a tray into his hands.
text: He tears at it, the crumbs sailing out onto a landing, and a
text: flock of pigeons swoops up.
scene_heading: 61. INT. DAYROOM (C) - DAY 61
text: Three post-encephalitics with cards in their hands and the best
dialog: poker faces you ever saw. :
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: They'll sit there all day like
dialog: that if I let them. I have to
dialog: play the first card.
dialog: &gt;
text: Sayer watches her pull a card from one of their hands and place
text: it on the table. All three "wake" and begin throwing down
dialog: cards, one after another.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Is it a real game I wonder?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: If it is, I don't know it. Maybe
dialog: it's three different games.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (delighted)
dialog: Yes.
dialog: 62
speaker_heading: 62. OMITTED ,
scene_heading: 63. INT. CORRIDOR / DAYROOM (B) - DAY 6
text: Sayer moving past "normal" patients lined up in the hall like
text: planes on tarmac. Suddenly, from a dayroom, booms the opening
dialog: bass line of Hendrix's "Foxy Lady."
speaker_heading: (WHITE) REV. 12/4/89 P. 38
dialog: 63.CONT. .. .. ,, . ,, « 63.
dialog: Sa ye r pe er s cu ri ou sl y i nt o th e ro om . B er t is ea ti ng a nd
dialog: An tho ny is g rin nin g. He see s S aye r i n t he d oor way an d s ends
dialog: him a s elf -sa tis fied th umb s-u p s ign.
scene_heading: 64. INT . DAY ROOM (C) - DAY 64.
dialog: Mi ss C os te ll o si tt in g wi t h a po st -e nc ep ha li ti c m an . (F RA NK )
speaker_heading: M IS S COS TE LLO
dialog: Ther e's so met hin g el se tha t
dialog: r eaches th em.
dialog: She t ouc he s the m an' s ha nd, h old s it , a nd hi s he ad sl owl y tu rns
dialog: to fa ce her.
speaker_heading: M ISS CO STE LLO
dialog: Human cont act.
dialog: Sh e pu ll s hi m ge nt ly t o h is if ee t an d wa lk s wi t h hi m a fe w
dialog: steps. .
speaker_heading: M IS S CO ST EL LO
dialog: H e ca n' t wa lk w it ho ut m e . I f I
dialog: let go - ;
dialog: (to the patient)
dialog: I won't let go of you' -
dialog: (to Sayer)
dialog: - if I let go , he 'll fa ll. H e'll
dialog: wa lk wit h me an ywh ere .
dialog: They wa lk a f ew more st eps an d t ears be gin to fo rm i n M iss
dialog: Coste llo's eyes .
speaker_heading: M IS S CO ST EL LO
dialog: It's like the ball . . . only it's
dialog: my wi ll he's bo rro win g.
dialog: Sa ye r, to o, is m ov ed. But a s he wa tch es M iss C ost el lo an d her
dialog: p at ie nt w al k aw ay , hi s e xp re ss io n ch an ge s; s om e th in g sh e ha s
dialog: sa id o r do ne h as s tr uc k a c ho rd , or u nl oc ke d a d oo r:
dialog: Close on their hands . . .
speaker_heading: 65. OM IT TE D - 65.
scene_heading: 66. IN T. BAI NBRI DGE - NIG HT 66.
dialog: -
dialog: Em pt y cor ri dor . E cho in g f oo ts tep s.
scene_heading: 67. IN T. LEO NARD 'S WAR D - NI GHT 67.
dialog: Le o na r d . T uc k ed i n b u t " a wa k e. " St a r in g a t th e ce i li n g .
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.39
speaker_heading: SAYER O.S.
dialog: Leonard?
scene_heading: 68. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - LATER - NIGHT 68.
text: In a far corner of the darkened ward, in a pool of lamp light,
text: two silhouetted figures. Sayer and Leonard. Sleeping patients
dialog: all around them.
text: Sayer carefully, awkwardly, places his hand on Leonard's.
text: After a moment, the contact brings the useless appendage "to
text: life." As it slowly turns over and grasps the doctor's hand, a
text: glimmer of life seems to appear in Leonard's eyes as well.
dialog: Sayer, unfamiliar, it seems, with the feeling the contact
text: produces in him, nonetheless places his other hand on Leonard's
text: other. Soon it too turns and holds onto Sayer's.
text: The doctor draws both of Leonard's hands toward him and sets
text: them down on the pointer of an Ouija Board.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I'll begin moving the pointer
dialog: toward the "L." For "Leonard."
dialog: Once I feel you beginning to move
dialog: it, I'll stop and you'll take .
dialog: over. Do you understand?
dialog: Leonard, of course, cannot say whether he does or not. The
text: look on his face is "thoughtful." The look on Sayer's, hopeful
dialog: and foolish.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I'm beginning . . .
text: The pointer begins to slowly move past stars and moons.
text: Judging from Sayer's expression he begins to feel Leonard's
text: movement of it and, presumably, stops his own.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Yes, good . . .
text: The pointer moves across the letters, but passes the "L"
text: without stopping. It stops on the "R."
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: No. No, I didn't make myself
dialog: clear. My fault. I . . . .
text: The pointer begins moving again, "interrupting" Sayer. It
text: passes the "L" again, reaches the "I" and stops.
dialog: ..
dialog: SAYER ' ".,
dialog: No. No, I . . . . .
speaker_heading: REV. 10/13/89 p.40
text: But the pointer is moving again. It stops on the "L."
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Yes. Yes. That's what I meant. .
dialog: "L." Good. Now the "E."
text: It begins moving again. But not to the "E." To the nK," where
text: it hesitates briefly before moving again.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (realizing, to
dialog: himself)
dialog: . . . you're spelling something
dialog: el e . . .
dialog: s
text: Keeping one hand on the moving pointer, Sayer fumbles a pen
text: from his shirt pocket and scribbles on his lab coat what
dialog: Leonard has and is continuing to "write":
speaker_heading: RILKESPA
scene_heading: 69. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: Sayer alone in the examining room, standing over his desk. The
text: lab coat is on it. And on it is scrawled:
speaker_heading: RILKESPANTHERILKE
text: He has to study it only a moment before he sees the meaning of
text: it; he quickly scratches out the last four letters,and adds a
dialog: slash between the "S" and the "P," so that it reads:
speaker_heading: R I L K E s/p A N T H E R BmBJUP*
scene_heading: 69A. EXT. PUBLIC LIBRARY. - ESTABLISH - DAY 69
scene_heading: 70. INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY ' 7
text: A card catalogue. Cards flipping by, stopping on one that
dialog: .reads:
dialog: 831 R Rilke, Rainer Maria
dialog: German poet and fiction&gt;fwriter;
dialog: 1875-1926; Collected Poems
dialog: tr. fr. German by --
scene_heading: 71. INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - LATER - DAY . ., 7
text: Moving slowly in on Sayer at one of the library tables with a V .
dialog: book. , ·..
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p."
dialog: (continuity onxy;
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE
dialog: "His gaze from staring through the
dialog: bars has grown so weary that it
dialog: can take in nothing more . . .
scene_heading: INT. LEONARD'S WARD - DAY
dialog: 72. 72.
text: Moving slowly into the Western painting.
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE
dialog: "For him it is as though there
dialog: were a thousand bars, and behind
dialog: the thousand bars, no world . . .
scene_heading: 72A. EXT. BRONX ZOO - DAY 72A.
text: Moving in on a panther, limbs weakened, spirit broken, slowly
text: pacing back and forth before the bars of a small cage.
speaker_heading: SAYER V.O.
text: "As he paces in cramped circles,
dialog: over and over, his powerful
dialog: strides are like a ritual dance
dialog: around a center where a great will
dialog: stands paralyzed . . .
text: Moving slowly away from Sayer watching, moving high above him;
text: the place is virtually deserted.
scene_heading: 73. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - DAY 73.
text: Moving slowly in on Leonard as, in bed, flannel pajamas, as his
dialog: mother diapers him for the night.
speaker_heading: SAYER V.O.
dialog: "At times the curtains of the eye
dialog: lift without a sound . . .
text: Moving slowly&lt; in on Sayer, unseen in a doorway, staring at
text: Leonard, at the look of contentment on his face. Or is it a
dialog: look of impotent rage?
speaker_heading: SAYER V.O.
dialog: ". . . and a shape enters, '.slips
dialog: thr ough the tightened silence of
dialog: the shoulders, reaches the heart
dialog: and dies .i." . ...
dialog: FADE TO BLACK . '''.'
speaker_heading: REV. 10/13/89 p.41A
dialog: (continuity only)
scene_heading: 73A. EXT. AUDITORIUM - NEW YORK - AFTERNOON 73A.
text: Professional and professorial types filing in past a placard,
text: an enlargement of an article from the Journal of Neurochemistry
text: titled: LEVADOPA IN THE TREATMENT OF PARKINSONISM. Below it:
scene_heading: A DISCUSSION WITH MARTIN S. THOMAS, PH.D.
text: There's excitement (and jealousy) in the air.
scene_heading: 74. INT. AUDITORIUM - AFTERNOON 74
text: An anatomical skeleton dangling from a metal stand.
speaker_heading: NEUROCHEMIST
dialog: There's an ordinary medicine with
dialog: which we are all familiar. An
dialog: everyday medicine of stubbed toes
text: and bunions and boils.
text: A man at a podium in a modern version of the 1920's basement
dialog: operating theatre.
dialog: ·
dialog: ,
speaker_heading: NEUROCHEMIST
dialog: And then there is another kind.
dialog: A medicine that holds out to the
dialog: afflicted the promise of restored
dialog: life.
text: He glances to a point above his listeners, and an overhead
text: projector splashes a diagram of molecular structure (and the
text: silhouette of a raised hand) onto a screen. The neurochemist
text: traces the shadow to its maker in the audience.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Thank you. Yes. Yes, I'm very
dialog: much interested in your work with
dialog: this drug. I'm curious if . . .
speaker_heading: NEUROCHEMIST
dialog: Doctor ...?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Sayer. I'm curious if you . . .
speaker_heading: NEUROCHEMIST
dialog: After I'm through, Dr. Sayer. If
dialog: you wouldn't mind.
text: Sayer glances around the auditorium. Everyone's looking at
text: him. He grasps the offending hand and holds it in his lap with
dialog: the other.
scene_heading: 75. INT. AUDITORIUM LOBBY - LATER - AFTERNOON 75,
text: Refreshments on tables. Sayer, uncomfortable in his suit,
text: wandering around the crowded room with a glass of wine. He
text: approaches its hub of activity, the neurochemist surrounded by
dialog: several impressed colleagues, but can't manage to get close
dialog: enough to speak with him.
scene_heading: 76. INT. MEN'S ROOM, AUDITORIUM - LATER - AFTERNOON 7
text: The neurochemist walks in and crosses to the urinals. A moment
text: later, he hears the door opening, and footsteps, and then
dialog: nothing, until --
speaker_heading: SAYER O.S.
dialog: Do you think it's possible that
dialog: simple Parkinsonian tremor taken
dialog: to its furthest extreme could
dialog: appear as no tremor at all?
text: When no one answers, the chemist glances over his shoulder.
text: Sayer is there, quite alone, looking at him.
speaker_heading: NEUROCHEMIST
dialog: Are you speaking to me?
dialog: Sayer is. And really wants to know the answer. The chemist
text: zips up and moves to the sinks to wash his hands.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: If jail the compulsions in the
dialog: Parkinson's patient were somehow
dialog: .
dialog: accelerated -
dialog: (demonstrating what
dialog: he means)
dialog: - the hands, the shaking, the
dialog: tics, the head bobbing, the
dialog: quickening speech -
dialog: (he's become a mass »
dialog: of tics and
dialog: accelerated speech)
dialog: - might they not cave in on
dialog: themselves and, in effect, turn
dialog: the person into stone?
text: He comes to a abrupt stop, his eyes transfixed like a post-
text: encephalitic's, staring. The chemist slowly dries his hands
dialog: with a paper towel.
speaker_heading: NEUROCHEMIST
dialog: Dr. Sayer, yes?
dialog: (Sayer nods)
dialog: I'm a chemist, doctor. I leave it
dialog: to you guys to do the damage.
text: He drops the paper towel into the trash and leaves
scene_heading: 77. EXT. PARKING LOT - BAINBRIDGE - MORNING 77
text: Emerging from his car with some papers, Dr. Kaufman is ambushed
dialog: by Sayer. ..
speaker_heading: REV.12/13/89 (YELLOW) Pg.
text: 77.CONT. SAYER 77.
dialog: Did you have a chance to look at
dialog: any of the -.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: Freud believed in miracles.
dialog: Prescribing cocaine like it was
dialog: candy . . .
text: Sayer has to hurry to keep up with his supervisor as he heads
dialog: toward the hospital.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: We all believed in the "miracle"
dialog: of Cortisone until our patients
dialog: went psychotic on it. Now it's
dialog: L-Dopa.
text: He hands over the papers - xeroxed articles from medical
dialog: journals and newspapers which Sayer gave him to read - and
text: keeps going, Sayer straggling a few steps back.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: With all due respect, I think it's
dialog: rather too soon to say that.
dialog: :
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: With all due "respect," it's
dialog: rather way too soon. Let the
dialog: chemists do the damage.
text: The gap between them widens as Sayer slows. He expected this
dialog: sort of reaction from Kaufman, but had hoped for another.
text: Kaufman disappears into the building.
scene_heading: 77A. INT. KAUFMAN'S OFFICE - LATER - MORNING 77A
text: The stack of papers drops onto Kaufman's desk. The one on top
dialog: reads, NEW DRUG LETS SHAKING PALSY PATIENTS EAT JELL-O.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Did you read the case - the
dialog: husband who came home to find his
dialog: wife singing. She hadn't felt
dialog: like singing in years.
text: Kaufman, on the phone, glances to Sayer long-sufferingly, lets
text: him wait while he finishes with his call, and eventually sets
dialog: down the receiver.
speaker_heading: REV.12/13/89 (YELLOW) Pg.
scene_heading: 77A.CONT. KAUFMAN 77A.
dialog: I read them all. Soberly. All
dialog: thirty cases had mild Parkinson's.
dialog: Your Parkies - if that's what they
dialog: are - haven't moved for decades.
dialog: You know better than to make a
dialog: leap like that, you want to
dialog: believe there's a connection, that
dialog: doesn't mean there is one.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What I believe, what I know, is
dialog: that these people are alive
dialog: inside.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: How do you know? Because they
dialog: catch tennis balls?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I know it.
text: Sayer doesn't elaborate, but his tone is resolute. And it has
dialog: the intended effect on Kaufman, causing him to consider the
dialog: possibility that Sayer could, somehow, know it as a fact.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: r..iiJi! And what if this drug were to
dialog: kill them?
speaker_heading: SAYER -
dialog: (right back) &gt;
dialog: And what if this drug were to
dialog: cure them?
text: Somewhere behind Kaufman's eyes Sayer can see, he thinks, a
dialog: change, or reminiscence, long ago, long buried, of things he
dialog: once believed or wanted to believe.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: How many did you think I ' d let you
dialog: put on it?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: All of them ... some of them ...
dialog: one of them . . .
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: One. With the family's consent.
dialog: Signed.
text: Sayer tries to hide his elation and turns to leave before
dialog: Kaufman changes his mind.
speaker_heading: REV.12/13/89 (YELLOW) Pg.46
scene_heading: 77A.CONT. KAUFMAN 77A.
dialog: Sayer -
text: Sayer turns. He was almost to the door. He had almost made *
dialog: it out.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: That "immense" project of yours.
dialog: The myelin? The worms? When that
dialog: failed, what was the reaction of
dialog: your lab supervisor? ·
dialog: Sayer thinks about lying, but senses Kaufman knows the answer *
dialog: already and just wants to hear him say it. So he does:
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: He asked me to leave. .
dialog: Kaufman nods like, Just checking. And -
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN .
dialog: Good luck.
dialog: Sayer leaves.
scene_heading: 78. INT. MRS. LOWE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 78.
dialog: :
text: A standard consent form and pen on a kitchenette table. Two
dialog: coffee cups. One used tea bag.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: People with ordinary Parkinson's
dialog: Disease sometimes complain that
dialog: they've "lost their grace . . . "
dialog: (he picks up a cup
dialog: with a shaking hand)
dialog: They have to think about the
dialog: things we just do . . .
dialog: (with great "trouble"
dialog: he sets it down)
dialog: It has to do with a chemical in
dialog: the midbrain, or rather the lack
dialog: of it, called dopamine. L-Dopa
dialog: replenishes this dopamine, making
dialog: it possible for these patients
dialog: to move more naturally.
text: He picks up the cup again, gracefully, and sets it down.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: Leonard has Parkinson's Disease?
dialog: Q
speaker_heading: REV.12/13/89 (YELLOW)
speaker_heading: 78.CONT. SAYER
dialog: No. No, his symptoms ... are
dialog: like Parkinsons ... and then again
dialog: they're not.
dialog: She doesn't understand what he means; there's no reason why she
dialog: should.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Then what will this medicine dp.
dialog: for him?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I don't know what it'll do for
dialog: him, if anything.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: What do you think it will do?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: What db&lt; you hope it will do?
speaker_heading: REV. 10/13/89 p.47
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I hope it'll bring him back from
dialog: wherever he is.
speaker_heading: (O MRS. LOWE
dialog: To what?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: To the world.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: (pause)
dialog: What's here for him after all
dialog: these years? '
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: You are here.
dialog: She ponders that and the enormity of the whole situation, all
text: the while staring at the consent form.
dialog: 79
scene_heading: 79. INT. PHARMACY, BAINBRIDGE - DAY
text: The hospital pharmacy, a subterranean structure built into the
text: basement, cluttered from floor to ceiling with medicines.
text: Ray, the pharmacist, dips into a bag of powder. He spoons some
text: out onto a scale and looks to Sayer to tell him the dosage.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I have no idea. What do you say
dialog: we ease into it with ... what, » .
dialog: fifty milligrams?
text: Ray begins to measure five milligrams.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Let's say a hundred.
text: Ray shrugs; it's okay with him. He knifes at the powder,
dialog: removing all but 100 milligrams.
scene_heading: 80. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY 80
text: Leonard, sphinx-like in his wheelchair, his mother by his side.
text: Sayer, stirring the L-Dopa into a paper cup of orange juice.
text: Miss Costello, in the doorway, watching. Sayer hands the glass
dialog: to Mrs. Lowe. v
dialog: (NOTE: Consult w/Sacks on this; may need the contents of a ' *
dialog: capsule emptied into the cup) - '-'
dialog: RSV. 10/13/89 p.48
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Leonard? Your mother's going to
dialog: give you some juice. There's
dialog: medicine in it which is why it may
dialog: taste more bitter than usual.
text: Sayer glances to Mrs. Lowe. It's as if they've rehearsed it
text: all. She holds the glass to her son's lips and gradually
text: drains the liquid down his throat.
dialog: Nothing immediately happens, of course, but they all, with the
dialog: exception of Leonard, look as if they expect it to. Mrs. Lowe
text: hands the empty glass back to Sayer.
dialog: And they all wait.
scene_heading: 81. INT. THE PHARMACY, LATER - DAY 81.
dialog: Ray measuring out another 100 milligram dose.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: Maybe the acid in the orange juice,
dialog: neutralized it.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Or maybe it's not enough.
dialog: . * ·
dialog: ^··,-N . Ray tosses Sayer a look that says, "don't push it." Sayer
dialog: \0 " n od s . · ."'· "
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I'll try it in milk.
scene_heading: 82. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - NIGHT 82.
text: An empty milk glass on a night table. "
text: Leonard, in his wheelchair, in pajamas, still and silent under *
dialog: the painting of the boat.
text: His mother, Sayer and Miss Costello watch and wait while around *
text: them nurses atid orderlies hoist other patients into bed.
scene_heading: 83. INT. THE PHARMACY - DAY 83.
text: Ray scrapes powder from the scale into a pharmaceutical funnel
text: which takes it down onto a miniature glass dish. Handing the
dialog: dis h to Say er -- ;
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: Five hundred milligrams.
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.49
scene_heading: 84. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY 84.
text: Another empty milk glass. Leonard, stoic, or so it seems, in
text: his wheelchair. His mother and Sayer and Miss Costello waiting
dialog: for a movement, a change of expression, a sign of any kind that
text: something is happening inside him. But there's nothing . . .
scene_heading: 85. INT. BAINBRIDGE - NIGHT 85.
text: A corridor. Mrs. Lowe is leaving. Sayer is with her, seeing *
dialog: her to the door.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I'll call if there's any change.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: Yes.
dialog: Neither really knows what else to say except for good night.
dialog: She leaves.
scene_heading: 86. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - NIGHT 86.
text: Sayer and Miss Costello lift Leonard out of his wheelchair and
dialog: into his bed.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: I'm going home too. If you need
dialog: me . · *
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Yes, I'll call.
text: They nod "good night" atT each other and Miss Costello leaves.
text: Sayer slumps into Leonard's wheelchair. lAnd waits.
scene_heading: 87. INT. THE PHARMACY - NIGHT 87.
text: Ray has gonejhome, too. Sayer, alone in the pharmacy, measures
dialog: out 1000 milligrams, ten times the original dose.
scene_heading: 88. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - NIGHT 88.
text: Sayer at Leonard's bedside, holding the glass to Leonard's
text: lips, draining the liquid into him, all of it.
scene_heading: 89. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - LATER - NIGHT . 8
text: Sayer asleep in the wheelchair. He stirs. Wakes. And takes a
text: moment to remind himself where he is. And why. His eyes
text: narrow, uncomprehending.
text: Leonard's bed is empty.
dialog: 9
scene_heading: 90. INT. DAYROOM - LATER - NIGHT
text: A claw of a hand dragging a crayon across a sheet of paper.
text: Tight on Sayer, framed in a doorway, as still and silent and
dialog: entranced as a post-encephalitic.
text: His perspective of the dayroom -- deserted except for a figure,
text: a patient, Leonard, hunched over the table.
text: As Sayer crosses toward him, Leonard's head slowly rises.
text: Sayer sits opposite him and they consider each other in silence
dialog: for several moments.
text: Leonard struggles to speak, to form words. They come out in a
text: halting cadence, flat, without inflection, and are only barely .
dialog: recognizable as words: .
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: It's quiet.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: It's late. Everyone's asleep·&gt;
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: I'm not asleep?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: No. You're awake.
text: Though he nods, it's unclear whether Leonard realizes how
text: significant that is. Sayer gestures at the piece of paper
text: beneath Leonard's hands.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: May I?
text: Sayer draws the paper across the table. It's covered with what
text: seems imponderable hieroglyphic-like scrawl. But there is
text: order in the chaos. Letters. Leonard's name.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Me.
scene_heading: 91. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAWN 91
text: Alone in the room, Leonard moves slowly around it, feeling
dialog: things: the smoothness of the cabinet glass/ the warmth thrown
text: by a desk lamp, water from the cooler splashing onto his hand.
speaker_heading: SAYER O.S.
dialog: Leonard?
text: Leonard turns to Sayer's voice with an expression of child-like ,
text: wonder on his face.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Your mother is here.
text: She appears in the doorway of the room. She's done her hair,
text: her face, she's put on a nice dress, yet she remains unprepared
dialog: for this reunion. She can do nothing but stare at her "infant
dialog: son" who is now, "suddenly," a man.
text: As he slowly crosses toward her, she is struck by the fact she
text: must look u£ in order to meet his eyes. He reaches her.
text: Reaches out to her. And she embraces him.
scene_heading: 92. INT. CORRIDOR - MORNING .92.
dialog: :
text: A corridor crowded with patients in wheelchairs with nowhere to
dialog: go and nothing much to do.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: My name is Elizabeth. It's a »
dialog: pleasure to meet you.
text: Leonard, standing, reaches for her hand and struggles to
text: pronounce her name correctly. Fighting to keep from crying in
text: front of him, Miss Costello glances to Sayer and Mrs. Lowe.
dialog: 93.
scene_heading: 9.3. INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR - MORNING
text: Miss Costello, flanked by Sayer and Mrs. Lowe, watches as
text: Leonard extends his hand to the "card playing nurse."
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: How do you do, sir? My name is
dialog: Margaret.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Margaret.
scene_heading: o 94. INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR - MORNING 9
dialog: Margaret has joined the "tour, group" and introduces Leonard to
dialog: the "music orderly." They shake hands.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Fernando. How are you?
speaker_heading: FERNANDO
dialog: Great, man. How're you?
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Great, too.
dialog: 9
scene_heading: 95. INT. THE PHARMACY - MORNING
text: Fernando is along for the ride and watches Leonard shaking Ray
dialog: the pharmacist's hand.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: How do you do, Mr. Lowe?
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: !
dialog: Good, sir.
dialog: 95
scene_heading: 95A. INT. CAFETERIA KITCHEN -MORNING
text: The cooks and kitchen workers around Leonard and his entourage,
dialog: shaking his hand.
dialog: &gt;. .
scene_heading: 96. INT. STAFF CAFETERIA - LATER - DAY 9
text: A tray of truly awful cafeteria food. The group, minus Sayer
text: and Miss Costello, watches Leonard dip a fork into some mush-
dialog: like concoction and manipulate it, with difficulty, to and into
text: his mouth. He seems amazed by its flavor.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: It's delicious.
speaker_heading: FERNANDO
dialog: I wouldn't go that far, Len.
text: Sayer and Miss Costello, at another table, glance over to the
text: others who are all laughing. Sayer smiles.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: I don't think I could deal with
dialog: losing 3D years of my life. I
dialog: can't even imagine it.
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.53
text: Sayer's smile fades. The possibility that Leonard might not
dialog: have realized the extent of the passage of time had not, until
text: this moment, occurred to him. He stares blankly at Miss
dialog: Costello.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: He does realize it, doesn't he?
text: Sayer nods uncertainly.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: He must.
dialog: 97.
scene_heading: 97. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER - DAY
scene_heading: (NOTE: CONSULT SACKS ON THIS SCENE:)
text: Sayer demonstrates a clapping motion. Leonard repeats it more
dialog: slowly but with decent motor control.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Splendid.
text: Sayer makes a note. They are alone in the examination room
dialog: which, like most of the hospital, has little in it to indicate
dialog: that it is not the 1930's.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Can I see you walk the length of
dialog: the room? *
text: Leonard walks slowly across the room past the perception tests
text: and notes and Polaroids cluttering the wall. Coming back, he
text: pauses. He's looking at a picture of himself taped there.
text: Sayer watches him slowly reach his hands to his face to feel
text: his features. He stares at the photograph of himself, trying
dialog: to comprehend that which cannot be comprehended.
dialog: He's not younjg anymore.
dialog: 98.
speaker_heading: 98. OMITTED
scene_heading: 99. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - NIGHT 99.
text: Sayer and Mrs. Lowe at Leonard's bedside.
speaker_heading: RE V. 10 /1 3/ 89 p .54
speaker_heading: L EO N AR D
dialog: I ' m af r ai d to cl os e m y ey e s . . . If
dialog: (y\ I close my eyes . . .
text: He hesitates, as if saying it may make the fear more real.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: . . . you'll sleep. And when you
dialog: wake up in the morning, it will be
dialog: the next morning. I promise.
text: Sayer's smile tries to assure them both that it will happen
text: just that way. He excuses himself, leaving Leonard with his
text: mother, joins Miss Costello by the door and glances back. Mrs.
text: Lowe is stroking Leonard's head as she hums a lullaby.
scene_heading: 100. INT. ROOM ADJACENT TO EXAMINATION ROOM - MORNING 100.
text: Sayer comes in with some books, sets them on Miss Costello's
text: desk and crosses to a closet.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I didn't sleep, did you?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: Does it look like it? .
text: Sayer hangs up his jacket and slips into a lab coat.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Do you know if Leonard's awake?
dialog: v
text: She smiles and points toward the adjoining examination room.
scene_heading: 101. INT. THE EXAMINATION ROOM - MORNING 101.
text: Showered and shaved and groomed and bright-eyed, Leonard sits
text: listening to his own heartbeat with Sayer's stethoscope.
dialog: Coming in --
speaker_heading: i SAYER
dialog: Good morning.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Good morning. .
text: His speech is still rather flat, halting.,
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Been waiting for me long?
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Yes.
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.55
text: Sayer smiles. He hands Leonard the books. History books. An
dialog: almanac.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Some things have happened while
dialog: you've been away. I thought you'd
dialog: be interested.
text: Leonard opens one carefully, reverently, and begins reading
dialog: from it to himself.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: You don't have to read them now,
dialog: Leonard. They're yours. At your
dialog: leisure.
text: Leonard closes the book but holds onto it and the others like
dialog: they're gold.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: I used to read quite a lot.
dialog: .
dialog: Before.
speaker_heading: SAYER i
dialog: Yes, I know. .
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Thank you for these.
dialog: i .
dialog: Sayer nods that he's welcome.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Have you thought about what you'd
dialog: like to do today?
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Everything.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: I'm not sure I can arrange that.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Try.
dialog: Sayer smiles again. For a man who just yesterday learned he
dialog: has been cheated out of the greater"- part of his life, Leonard
dialog: seems to have recovered extraordinarily.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Let's approach it this way. What . ".
dialog: x do you think you'd like to do .
dialog: 1J first? ..·
speaker_heading: REV. 10/13/89 p.55A
dialog: (continuity only)
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: I'd like to go outside.
scene_heading: 101A. EXT. BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL - DAY 101A
text: Sayer and Leonard emerge from the hospital and move under trees
text: along a path toward the parking lot. At a point, the doctor
text: realizes his patient is no longer at his side; he's several
text: steps back, feeling the sunshine on his skin.
scene_heading: 102. EXT. PARKING LOT, BAINBRIDGE - MORNING 102
dialog: (p\
text: Though it is only a Toyota, its dashboard, to Leonard,
text: resembles something out of Jules Verne. He allows Sayer to
text: buckle his seatbelt for him and watches with fascination as
dialog: Sayer performs the "complex" preparatory sequence necessary,
dialog: apparently, to make the car go.
text: The car pulls away. Above, framed in a second story window of
text: one of the buildings, stands a lone figure looking out --
dialog: Leonard's mother.
scene_heading: 103. INT. SAYER'S CAR - MOVING - MORNING 103
text: Tight on the radio. Sayer switches it on. To Leonard's
dialog: amazement, classical music fills the interior
speaker_heading: and CONTINUES OVER:
scene_heading: 104. EXT. THE BRONX - MOVING SHOTS - MORNING 104
text: Billboards advertising color televisions and electric shavers.
text: Buses which have grown over the decades to a behemoth scale.
dialog: "Ultra-modern" housing projects and gas stations.
dialog: "Futuristic" cars.
dialog: Leonard cannot imagine a more enthralling re-introduction to
text: the world and stares at it all with wonder. Everywhere he
dialog: looks there is something "extraordinary."
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: What a wonderful place The Bronx
dialog: has become.
speaker_heading: The music CONTINUES OVER:
dialog: '' ' *
scene_heading: 105. INT/EXT. NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDENS - DAY 105
dialog: A rose. ,
text: Leonard puts his face close to it to appreciate its fragrance.
text: He touches its petals gently, explores them, and is quietly
dialog: astonished by the tactile sensation.
dialog: Sayer watches. He, too, can appreciate wonders of the real
dialog: world, especially those of a botanical nature, but not with, the
dialog: purity or intensity Leonard can.
text: Pulling back reveals them in the middle of a vast garden of
dialog: countless thousands of roses.
scene_heading: 106. INT. SAYER'S CAR - MOVING - DAY 106
text: Leonard turns the radio dial from the classical station to
text: another playing a very different kind of music, and listens to
text: it bemused but intrigued. It's John Lennon singing "A DAY IN
speaker_heading: THE LIFE"
speaker_heading: and it CONTINUES OVER:
scene_heading: 107. EXT. PARK - THE BRONX - LATER - DAY 107
text: Children playing flag-football on an expanse of grass. Dogs
text: running around, nannies with prams, lovers.
text: A disk, a frisbee, falls at Leonard's feet. He retrieves it
dialog: but has no idea what it is or what to do with it. Sayer
text: demonstrates the wrist action with an invisible one. Leonard
text: doesn't get it. Sayer takes it from him and flings it
text: pathetically not halfway back to its owners.
speaker_heading: The music CONTINUES OVER:
scene_heading: 108. EXT. STREET CORNER JOINT - THE BRONX - LATER - DAY 108.
text: Leonard watches with interest a Carvel ice cream machine. He
text: and Sayer are handed cones and Leonard's attention moves to a
text: girl wearing an unbelievably short skirt.
text: Her boyfriend stares at Leonard. Sayer tries to pull his
text: charge's attention elsewhere. Leonard, finally, glances away,
text: up, to a sound overhead.
speaker_heading: The music CONTINUES OVER:
dialog: 109
scene_heading: 109. EXT. KENNEDY AIRPORT - DAY
text: A 747 roaring down a runway. At the edge of it, it lifts off
text: and thunders over Sayer and Leonard and the parked Toyota.
dialog: Exhilerated, Leonard waves.
speaker_heading: The music CONTINUES OVER:
speaker_heading: 110. OMITTED 110
scene_heading: 111. EXT. THE BRONX / CITY ISLAND - DAY 111
text: An expressway. The Toyota traveling at "astounding" speed,
text: passing a sign that reads CITY ISLAND.
dialog: R!V. 10/13/89 p.58
dialog: Boats and fish markets and lush vegetation. Paradise compared
text: to the Bronx. The Toyota turns down a side road near the water t
text: and into the driveway of Sayer's small wooden house.
dialog: w '.·. . '
dialog: And the mus ic ends.
scene_heading: 112. INT. SAYER'S KITCHEN / DINING ROOM - DAY 112.
text: Tea bags steeping in a pot on a cluttered kitchen counter.
text: Sayer, exhausted from the day, hunts in vain through packing
dialog: boxes on the floor for crackers, cookies, something he can
dialog: offer his guest.
text: He keeps glancing in at Leonard, who's wandering around the
text: dining room, navigating around packing boxes, to browse at the
dialog: spines of books. Noticing Sayer watching -
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: You just moved here.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Yeah. Well, five years ago. ,
text: Sayer shrugs, disappears into the kitchen a moment . . . before ;
text: peeking back in to see what Leonard is looking at now: a small i
text: framed photograph of a boy with a toy sailboat and a forlorn
text: expression posed in front of a curtain; the boat obviously a
dialog: photography studio prop.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Your son?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Me, actually.
dialog: ' ,," t
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: (looking closely at '
dialog: the photograph)
dialog: You seem uncomfortable.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I probably was.
text: Sayer disappears into the kitchen again. And a moment later
dialog: .
text: glances back in around the door frame at Leonard who has moved
text: over to an old sideboard on which several pairs of glasses are
dialog: neatly arranged. ·
dialog: /·
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Each has a specific purpose.
dialog: REV. 10/13/89 p.59
dialog: As Leonard considers each pair of glasses ...
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Those are my normal interior
dialog: glasses. And spare pair. Those,
dialog: I wear outside. Two pairs, in
dialog: case I los.e one. Those, those are
dialog: my daytime reading glasses. And
dialog: spare. Those are for close work.
dialog: For fine print. Those are my
dialog: nighttime reading glasses -
text: Leonard's examining the frames of this last pair closely.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: That's heavy-gauge metal so when I
dialog: fall asleep and roll over on them
dialog: I don't wreck them. They're
dialog: indestructible.
dialog: Leonard returns the indestructible ones to their proper place
dialog: and considers them all together.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: As long as I pretty much know
dialog: ahead of time what I'll be looking '
dialog: at, it works out, I don't have to
dialog: carry all five pairs around.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: What if you just want to go for a
dialog: walk?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Walks are a problem. Walks are
dialog: the hardest thing. You just never
dialog: know.
dialog: He's absolutely serious, like a man plagued for years by an
text: imponderable dilemma. He retreats back into his kitchen before
text: reappearing again with the pot of tea, two mismatched cups and
text: some saltine% on a tray.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I hope you'll forgive the
dialog: inelegant presentation. I don't
dialog: entertain much. ·/· .
dialog: 113.
scene_heading: 113. INT. SAYER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY
text: They've cleared places on the sofa and chair and sit there
dialog: Q sipping their tea. *
speaker_heading: REV. 10/13/89 p.60
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I can date my interest in science
dialog: precisely, actually. I'd been *
dialog: sent off to boarding school - a
dialog: place perhaps not quite as
dialog: Dickensian as I remember it - when
dialog: I happened to come across the
dialog: periodic table of elements.
dialog: (smiles at the
dialog: thought)
dialog: I memorized it. Which I admit was
dialog: a rather precocious thing for a
dialog: seven year old to do. And I
dialog: remember feeling . . . not so much a
dialog: sense of accomplishment . . . as
dialog: comfort. The halogens were what
dialog: they were. The alkali metals were
dialog: what they were. Each element had
dialog: its place, and nothing could *
dialog: change that. They were secure, no *
dialog: matter what. *
dialog: Leonard nods, perhaps more out of politeness than *
text: understanding. Sayer nods too, feeling, perhaps, a little *
dialog: exposed.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: :
dialog: You're not married.
dialog: * It seems to Sayer a non sequitor. *
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: No.
text: He smiles. Sips his tea. Silence except for the ticking of a *
dialog: clock somewhere. Then, very matter of factly -
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I'm not terribly good with people.
dialog: I like them. I wish I could say I
dialog: had more than a rudimentary
dialog: understanding of them.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Maybe if they were less
dialog: unpredictable . . .
text: He shrugs. Silence again.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Eleanor would disagree with you. *
text: Sayer stares at him blankly. He doesn't seem to know who
dialog: "Eleanor11 is. . *
dialog: REV.10/13/89 p.61
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: -~ Eleanor?
speaker_heading: ^r * LEONARD
dialog: Miss Costello.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Oh, yes, of course.
dialog: (uneasy)
dialog: She's spoken to you about me?
dialog: Leonard nods. Sayer can't imagine why, nor what she might have
dialog: said. Fearing the worst --
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What'd she say?
speaker_heading: LEONARD '
dialog: That you're a kind man. That you
dialog: care very much for people.
text: Sayer shifts in his chair uncomfortably.
dialog: a.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: But you meant normal people.
text: Sayer seems at a loss as to how to respond. The accompanying
dialog: /til**) silence grows awkward. 7
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: We should be getting back.
text: Sayer crosses over to the sideboard, to the pairs of glasses,
text: stares at them for several moments, and picks up two pairs.
speaker_heading: 114. OMITTED 114
scene_heading: 114A. EXT. PARKING LOT - BAINBRIDGE - DAY 114A.
text: Climbing out of his car, Kaufman sees Sayer striding toward
text: him. He glances to the sky, Kaufman, to God, and silently
dialog: complains to Him.
dialog: '4
scene_heading: 115. INT. STAFF CAFETERIA, BAINBRIDGE - LATER - DAY 115
text: Cafeteria workers carting serving trays back to the kitchen.
dialog: Nurses and orderlies and office workers at tables with finished'
text: meals and cups of coffee. They seem unaware of Drs. Sayer and
text: Kaufman at a table near the door.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: z^ When you say expensive, what are
dialog: we talking about?
dialog: <d <="" b="" sayer=""> To put them all on the dosage Mr.
dialog: Lowe is on . . . about twenty
dialog: thousand dollars.
text: Kaufman stares at Sayer aghast. He knew L-Dopa was expensive,
text: but not that expensive. He manages to recover somewhat.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: That would be for how long?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: About a month.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: A month?
text: Sayer nods. Kaufman glances away. Stares blankly at faces at
dialog: other tables. Back to Sayer.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: I can't go before the board with
dialog: that. I could . . .
text: He laughs to himself at the futility of it.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I was thinking of speaking to the
dialog: patrons.
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: The few patrons this hospital has
dialog: give what they can.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Well, we'd have to convince them
dialog: to give more than they*re
dialog: accustomed to giving.
dialog: He hadn't intended as impudent a tone as that which came out.
dialog: More calmly ~
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Perhaps if they saw Mr. Lowe.
dialog: . .;. ·· -; ' ..'·' ' : '. :..;. .,.-, ' ·' "' · ·' ·:
speaker_heading: KAUFMAN
dialog: I think you overestimate the
dialog: effect Mr. Lowe has on people.
dialog: We're talking about money here.
text: Kaufman sips at his coffee and slowly becomes aware of the
text: silence around them. No one is talking. He glances up as Miss
text: Costello walks by setting something on the table in front of
text: him. She leaves the cafeteria without a word.
dialog: CD Kaufman glances down. She has left a Bainbridge payroll check )\cz&gt;
text: made out in her name. Kaufman turns it over. She has endorsed
dialog: it back to Bainbridge Hospital.
text: Fernando walks by and out, leaving his salary check on the
text: table. Then Ray, the pharmacist, leaving his. Then the nurse
text: who reluctantly read "Moby Dick" to the patients. Then a
text: cafeteria worker. A secretary. A clerk. A janitor.
text: The cafeteria is soon empty, except for Sayer and Kaufman.
dialog: Long silence.
scene_heading: 116. INT. BOARD ROOM - NIGHT 116
dialog: 8mm film of Leonard before L-Dopa -- a wide shot of him
text: absolutely motionless in his wheelchair.
speaker_heading: SAYER O.S.
dialog: There was extreme rigidity of the
dialog: axial musculature . . . only vague
dialog: available motion in the neck . . .
dialog: no voluntary movement in the
dialog: limbs . . .
text: A tight shot of Leonard's entranced face appears on the screen.
speaker_heading: SAYER O.S.
dialog: Perhaps most striking was the
dialog: profound facial masking -- which
dialog: we now know should not have been
dialog: confused with apathy. *
text: Tight on Sayer, the light from the projector flickering on his
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Virtually aphonic, Mr. Lowe could
dialog: articulate no words, but rather
dialog: only, with considerable effort, an
dialog: occasional noise, a kind of,
dialog: "h .. . "
dialog: A ·
text: In the darkness sit Kaufman, the rest of the Board of
dialog: Directors, some elderly patrons of the hospital, and, near
text: Sayer, Miss Costello. She hands him a scribbled note.
dialog: "Less scientific" it reads.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Isolated circumstances -- the
dialog: mention of his name, notes of
dialog: particular pieces of music, the
dialog: touch of another human being --
dialog: managed on occasion to briefly
dialog: summon him, but these awakenings
dialog: were rare and transient, lasting
dialog: only a moment or two.
dialog: Sayer glances to Miss Costello. She nods, "Good, that's
dialog: better."
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: The rest of the time he remained
dialog: in a profoundly eventless place ~
dialog: deprived of all sense of history
dialog: and happening and self --
text: encysted, cocooned, enveloped in
dialog: this metaphorical if not
dialog: physiological equivalent of sleep
dialog: . . . or death.
text: Tight on the screen, on Leonard, as he was. Looking more like
text: a photograph of a man than a motion picture of one.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: This was his condition when first
dialog: seen by me in a remote bay of this
dialog: hospital. And the quality of his
dialog: life for the last 30 years.
text: The "before picture" of Leonard on the screen is replaced with
text: the "after" -- his eyes alert, his hands exploring a desk
text: microphone. He glances up and off at something.
speaker_heading: LEONARD (FILM)
dialog: Now?
speaker_heading: SAYER'S VOICE
dialog: Whenever you're ready.
speaker_heading: LEONARD (FILM)
dialog: My name is Leonard Lowe. It has
dialog: been explained to me that I have
dialog: been away for . . . quite some
dialog: time . . .
text: He seems to withdraw, to wrestle with the thought, to try to
text: somehow come to terms with it, to somehow resolve it. He nods
text: as he finds within himself some source of strength and looks
text: directly at the camera.
speaker_heading: LEONARD (FILM)
dialog: I'm back.
scene_heading: 117. INT. BOARD ROOM, LATER - NIGHT 117
text: The lights are on, the screen rolled up, the board members and
text: patrons visibly moved, almost shaken, and silent.
text: Eventually one of the patrons, an old woman, reaches into her
text: purse for her checkbook and a pen. Another patron, an elderly
text: man, pulls a checkbook and pen from an inside jacket pocket.
text: Another already has hers out in front of her ...
text: Sayer and Miss Costello exchange a glance. The room is
text: absolutely silent, except for the muted scratch of pens on
dialog: paper.
dialog: 118.
scene_heading: 118. INT. THE PHARMACY - DAY
dialog: The raw L-Dopa powder, 20,000 dollars worth, has arrived. It
text: sits on a pharmacy counter in large clear bags. Sayer and Ray
text: peer between racks of medicine at two teenage girls and two
text: very old men chatting in a corner of the pharmacy.
speaker_heading: RAY
dialog: They're volunteers from the :
dialog: neighborhood.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Wonderful.
dialog: v 119.
speaker_heading: 119. OMITTED
scene_heading: 120. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY 120.
dialog: Several empty medicine paper-cups. The "garden of stone,"
dialog: reassembled. Sayer knows better than to sit and wait, that
text: nothing is going to immediately happen, but he sits and waits
dialog: anyway. As does Miss Costello. As does Leonard and his
dialog: mother.
scene_heading: 121. INT. STAFF ROOM - NIGHT . 121
text: Sayer asleep on a couch that's too short for him. Miss
dialog: Costello asleep on another.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Dr. Sayer?
text: Sayer wakes to find a night nurse standing over him.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What is it?
dialog: ry
dialog: (continuity only)
dialog: 121. CONT. 121.
speaker_heading: NIGHT NURSE
dialog: It's a miracle.
scene_heading: 121A. INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 121A.
dialog: i
text: They move along a silent corridor that seems to stretch out
text: forever -- the doctor, the two nurses -- carrying themselves
text: professionally, with sobriety and restraint. But as they near
text: the ward, as they're joined by others, other nurses, orderlies,
text: their steps and hearts quicken. They break into a trot.
dialog: 122.
scene_heading: 122. INT. LEONARD'S WARD - MOMENTS LATER - NIGHT
dialog: They appear at the threshold, Sayer, Miss Costello, the night
text: nurse, the others, and peer into the darkened room:
text: In the quiet, in the shadows, in the moonlight filtering in
text: through the windows, the post-encephalitics are emerging from
dialog: their "cocoons," rising from the "dead" like Lazarus from the
dialog: earth, reborn.
text: Moving slowly past the beds: A figure rediscovering the
dialog: feeling of her skin; another, the sound of his breath; another,'
dialog: the beating of her heart.
text: A figure still asleep . . . wakes. And for the first time in
dialog: nearly half a century sees herself in the world.
text: Tight on Sayer, on the look of awe on his face as he stares at
text: the scene going on in the darkened ward. His glance finds
text: Leonard who is sitting up in his bed, smiling.
scene_heading: 123. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY 123,
text: Tight on Lucy's face, deep in thought, lost in thought. After
dialog: several moments of silence, she speaks -
dialog: .,:, · . :... . ,.LUCY V . .· * .-.. .
dialog: . . . I just had the strapgest
dialog: dream . . .
text: A cacophony of off-screen voices - from a radio, the
dialog: television, and the awakened post-encephalitics themselves -
text: rises up as another woman, Miriam, moves past Lucy's face. We
text: follow her, as does a nurse with a blood pressure guage on
dialog: wheels. ,
speaker_heading: 11/ b/ aa) tireen Pg
speaker_heading: 123.CONT. NURSE 12
dialog: Miriam, please, I - (have to
dialog: check your blood pressure - )
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: I've been sitting for 25 years,
dialog: you missed your chance.
text: Miriam and the nurse trailing after her pass in front of a man *
dialog: with no English (Josef) trying to explain something to a couple
dialog: of orderlies. One to the other - .
speaker_heading: ORDERLY 1
dialog: You're Italian, he's Italian,
dialog: what's the problem?
speaker_heading: ORDERLY 2
dialog: I was born here - X don't speak ·
dialog: Italian.
dialog: Nearby, another man. This one does speak English -
speaker_heading: BERT
dialog: I want a steak, rare. I want
dialog: mashed potatoes and gravy, string
dialog: beans, a slice of pie and a '
dialog: chocolate phosphate.
text: Anthony turns away with the tray he just brought in - broth,
dialog: jello and juice - and carries it away, passing the "card
dialog: playing nurse," Margaret.
speaker_heading: ANTHONY
dialog: I think I prefer them the other
dialog: way.
text: Having settled on Margaret: she smiles, glances to "her"
text: patient, Rose, who, staring at her reflection in a hand mirror,
text: tugs at her grey hair.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: And some dye. Black.
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: (jotting down the
dialog: request)
dialog: Black, are you sure?
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: And some clothes . . . my. clothes.
dialog: i.1/ b/«y)Green Pg.
dialog: 123.CONT. - 123
dialog: Sh e p ull s at he r f ade d s hape les s d res s w ith gre at dis dai n.
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Who put me in this?
dialog: A be wi ld er ed m an o n st if f l eg s (F RA NK ) wa lk s by . Fo ll ow in g
dialog: h im , we c at c h a gl i m ps e of a D u tc h wo m an i n a wh e el c h ai r , w i t h
dialog: a nurse -
speaker_heading: MAG DA
dialog: ... t he garden er, he mus t prune
dialog: the fruit trees ... the roses . . .
dialog: I think he's forget . . .
dialog: - be f or e se t t li n g o n M i s s C o st e ll o wi t h a ma n wh o se e ms l os t in
dialog: a w or ld o f hi s ow n, h is he ad n od di ng s li gh tl y t o mu si c fr om a n
dialog: unseen radio.
speaker_heading: M I SS C OS TE LL O
dialog: Ca n you s pe ak to me , Ro lan do ?
dialog: Ro lan do, it' s M iss Co ste llo. C an
dialog: yo u u nde rsta nd me?
dialog: Ap p a r e nt l y n ot . A fi g u r e bl u r s pa s t . An d a m om e n t la t e r ,
dialog: an oth er, t he nu rse w ith t he pr ess ure g auge , sti ll tr ail ing
dialog: af te r Mi ri am. T he c ame ra f ol low s th em -
speaker_heading: NUR SE
dialog: Miriam ... Miriam . . .
dialog: - befor e set tling on a man , Des mond, doin g a soft- shoe.
dialog: Le on ar d, a nd a f ew o th e rs , wa tc h. Fr an k bl ur s b y ag ai n, p as se s
dialog: a w oman , Fra ncis, sort of l ost, seat ed Wi th a nurse :
speaker_heading: F RANCIS
dialog: . . . I was aware of things, but
dialog: no thi ng mea nt a nyt hin g, the re w as
dialog: no connection to me.
dialog: (vagu e recollec tion:)
dialog: There was a war . . .
dialog: (pailse)
dialog: ... or two . . .
dialog: Mi ss C os te ll o no ti ce s F ra nk , st an di ng n ea rb y, lo ok in g pu zz le d.
speaker_heading: M IS S C OS T EL LO
dialog: F r a nk ? A r e y o u al l r i gh t ?
speaker_heading: FRANK &lt;
dialog: M y wi fe a nd s on . A re th ey w el l?
speaker_heading: xu/ os &gt; vaU.bL&gt;£NKUD Pg.6
text: 123.CONT. 123.
text: Hiss Costello finds herself at a loss for a moment . . .
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: We'll find them for you. We'll
dialog: track them down.
text: Lucy again, Sayer still at her side.
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: . . . I called to my sister, but she
dialog: couldn't hear me. No one could
dialog: hear me. I was alone . . .
dialog: (pause)
dialog: And then I woke up.
text: She smiles. Sayer tries to. He hesitates ... but finally
dialog: can't help asking her - ·
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Lucy, what year is it?
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: What year is it? You don't know?
text: He shakes his head 'no.' She glances around the place, then
text: leans close to him and whispers -
speaker_heading: LUCY
dialog: ·26.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM O.S.
dialog: DoctorI Doctor! .
dialog: * ,
text: Sayer turns to the urgent voice, concerned, and sees Miriam
text: flanked by a large group of staff from other parts of the
text: hospital gathered at the threshold of the room.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: I walked all the way over there.
dialog: And back. What a perfect day.
text: The group at the doorway applauds, and it CARRIES OVER:
speaker_heading: 123A. OMITTED 123A.
scene_heading: 123B. INT- CORRIDOR - SAME TIME - DAY 123B. *
text: The corridor, and the sound of a woman's voice, very faint, .*
dialog: from somewhere unseen: *
speaker_heading: PAULA O.S.
dialog: " . . . Like crowds storming the *
dialog: Bastille ... *
dialog: 124.-128. OMITTED 124.-12
scene_heading: 129. INT.'POST-ENCEPHALITIC DAYROOM - CONTINUED - MORNING 129.
text: Sidney bursts into the room out of breath and scans the faces
text: of the awakened post-encephalitics and staff. He spots Sayer,
text: seated with a woman, her back to him and the door. She slowly
text: turns to look over her shoulder and, seeing Sidney, smiles.
speaker_heading: LOLLY
dialog: Hi, Sidney.
text: There's a kind of hush. Conversations, activities cease.
text: Everyone is looking at Sidney. Not knowing what else to say,
dialog: he manages a hesitant --
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: Hi. i
text: He smiles and crosses toward her, but by the time he reaches
text: her the smile has disappeared. Something troubling has
text: occurred to him. He glances to Sayer and whispers --
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: Is it real . . . or . . .
speaker_heading: SAYER :
dialog: As real as real can be.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: f<j <b="">123B.CONT. , 123B
text: </j></d>Leonard, moving along the corridor with Saver's camera and
dialog: tripod (or looking for something to read at the magazine table)
dialog: slows and listens:
speaker_heading: PAULA O.S.
dialog: . . . the Mighty Mets stormed
dialog: 11
dialog: their locker room shortly after
dialog: nine o'clock on their night to
dialog: remember -
text: He moves toward the voice, traces it to a crafts area, where a
text: young woman is reading from the sports page to an older man
dialog: tied to his wheelchair.
dialog: Though it's doubtful the man is even aware of her presence, she
text: reads to him as if her were, and in the process, draws Leonard
text: into the sound of her words until there are no sounds but her
dialog: words:
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: "Released from bondage and
dialog: ridicule after seven destitute
dialog: seasons, they raised the roof of
dialog: Shea Stadium - while their fans
dialog: attempted to dismantle it - in one
dialog: of the loudest, wildest victory
dialog: celebrations in baseball :
dialog: history - " ._
text: The reverie is suddenly shattered, the real sounds of the
text: hospital rising back up, as Sidney, wild with excitement, bangs
text: through the far doors of the corridor. He sprints past the
dialog: crafts area, past Leonard, runs the entire length of the
dialog: corridor, and -
dialog: 124-12
speaker_heading: 124-128. OMITTED
scene_heading: 129. INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - CONTINUED - DAY 1
text: Sidney bursts into the room out of breath and scans the faces
text: of the awakened post-encephalitics and staff. He spots Sayer,
text: seated with a woman, her back to him and the door. She slowly
text: turns to look over her shoulder and, seeing Sidney, smiles.
speaker_heading: LOLLY
dialog: Hi, Sidney.
text: There's a kind of hush. Conversations, activities cease.
text: Everyone is looking at Sidney. Not knowing what else to say,
dialog: he manages a hesitant --
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: Hi.
dialog: . x x / x u / o ; I V a U i i U &amp; e mU U J r* g »
dialog: 129.CONT. 129
text: He smiles and crosses toward her, but by the time he reaches
text: her the smile has disappeared. Something troubling has
text: occurred to him. He looks to Sayer and whispers --
speaker_heading: SIDNEY
dialog: Is it real ... or . . .
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: As real as real can be.
text: Sidney lowers himself to his knees before Lolly and, weeping
dialog: *
text: quietly, rests his head on her lap. She strokes his head.
speaker_heading: FADE TO BLACK
scene_heading: 130. INT. CORRIDOR - ANOTHER DAY 13
text: Sidney and Lolly emerge from the dayroom, followed by the other
text: post-encephalitics. They're all wearing suits and dresses and
dialog: walk with purpose past wheelchair-bound patients with
dialog: "uninteresting" diseases.
text: As they wait for the elevator, Leonard wanders slightly down
text: the corridor to see if the girl is there again reading in the
text: crafts area. The chair she was in is empty.
scene_heading: 130A. INT. ELEVATOR &amp; CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER - DAY 130
text: The elevator door slides open revealing them. Paula, inside,
text: hesitates: the sight is almost surreal. &gt;As they crowd in, she
text: wedges out, and down the hall, Leonard watching after her.
speaker_heading: ANTHONY
dialog: Len - come on.
text: Leonard steps into the elevator, the last one in.
scene_heading: 131. EXT. BAINBRIDGE -SAME DAY 13
text: They're going on a field trip. As they're escorted onto an
text: idling hospital bus, Leonard, outside it, tries to reason with
dialog: his mother:
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: Sidney's going.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: He's a patient, Mom.
speaker_heading: A3 MRS. LOWE
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: C -j He's not the same kind of patient.
speaker_heading: XX / XU /O y / V aU J jU K NK U D P
dialog: 131.CONT. . 13
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: He's still a patient. You're not
dialog: a patient.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: I'm your mother.
text: Inside the bus, Miriam, anxious to leave, leans over the driver
text: to honk the horn. Leonard kisses his mother on the cheek and
dialog: turns away.
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: Wait a minute.
dialog: (he turns back)
dialog: What on earth have you done to
dialog: your hair?
text: He's parted it, apparently, on the "wrong" side. She pulls a
text: comb from her purse, recombs it "correctly," straightens his
text: jacket lapels and steps back. '
speaker_heading: MRS. LOWE
dialog: There.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: There's your bus. .
text: The public bus, behind her, coming down the street. As she
text: hurries to the corner, Sayer climbs down off the hospital bus.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Ready?
dialog: *
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: I've decided not to go.
text: He waves to his mother. Sayer stares at him.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: I'm staying here.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Why? What's wrong?
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Nothing. Wave.
text: He waves again to his mother; she's boarding the public bus.
text: Sayer does as he's told, waves too. Impatient, Miriam honks
dialog: the horn again.
speaker_heading: MIRIAM
dialog: '(_J) Let's go, already.
dialog: 131.C0NT. . 131
text: As the public bus pulls away, Leonard pats Sayer on the
dialog: shoulder.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: I'll see you later, have a good
dialog: time.
text: He climbs the hospital steps and disappears inside, Sayer
text: staring after him. Miriam honks the horn again, and he climbs
text: aboard. The doors hiss shut and driver turns to him.
speaker_heading: BUS DRIVER
dialog: Where to?
text: Sayer suddenly realizes he has no idea "where to." He glances
text: over his shoulder at the expectant faces of the patients, all
text: dressed up with nowhere to go. It's up to him . . .
text: His face brightens; he's thought of a good place.
dialog: 132
scene_heading: 132. INT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - NEW YORK - DAY
text: Moving slowly toward a herd of still and silent elephants in a
text: cavernous, darkened room.
text: As a nun counts the heads of parochial school children filing
text: past the huge beasts, Miss Costello counts the heads of the
dialog: post-encephalitics.
text: Both come up short and glance frantically around.
speaker_heading: NUN v
dialog: (calling)
dialog: William?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Dr. Sayer?
scene_heading: 132A. INT. ANOTHER ROOM - NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - DAY 132A.
text: A lifeless polar bear in a diorama "stares" out at Sayer who's
text: peering in, intrigued. Miss Costello appears at his side.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: It's very hard to keep everyone
dialog: together, doctor.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: Has someone wandered off?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: You.
speaker_heading: (REV.11/10/89)GOLDENROD Pg.
speaker_heading: 132A.CONT. 1
dialog: .,-&gt;, She leads him away by the arm.
dialog: CO . .
scene_heading: 133. INT. SIDNEY'S DAYROOM - SAME DAY 13
dialog: A dayroom thick with inactivity. And the voice:
speaker_heading: PAULA O.S.
dialog: "From the sleek skyscrapers
dialog: of Wall Street where a tickertape
dialog: blizzard filled the sky . . .
text: From the doorway, from a distance, Leonard watches Paula across
text: the room with her father, reading to him again from the
dialog: newspaper:
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: " . . . to the undistinguished
dialog: bars of a hundred neighborhoods,
dialog: New York yesterday went pleasantly
dialog: mad over the World Champion
dialog: Mets . . .
dialog: ' ·
scene_heading: 133A. INT. PATIENTS' CAFETERIA - LATER - DAY 133
text: Paula moving along the serving line with a tray. Leonard, next
text: in line, moving along with his tray, a little too close. He
dialog: steals a glance.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: You following me? *
text: Startled and embarrassed, Leonard withdraws.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I'm kidding. I'm sorry. I saw
dialog: you upstairs . . . just now.
text: Leonard nods without looking at her.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Visiting someone?
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: No. ·
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: You work here.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: I live here.
speaker_heading: (REV.11/10/89)GOLDENROD Pg.75
dialog: 133A.CONT. . 133
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (pause)
dialog: You're a patient?
text: He admits it with a nod, lags back again, and eventually dares *
text: another glance at her.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: You don't look like a patient.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I don't?
text: She smiles and shakes her head 'no.1
dialog: 134.
scene_heading: 134. INT. PATIENTS' CAFETERIA- LATER - DAY
text: Leonard and Paula at a table. At other tables are patients who
dialog: do look like patients.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I don't know if he knows I
dialog: visit him or not. I don't know
dialog: that he knows who I am. My mother
dialog: doesn't think so. She doesn't;
dialog: come around any more--
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: (pause)
dialog: But you do.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Sometimes I think I see something. *
dialog: I think I see a change. And for a *
dialog: second, I see him like he was . . . *
text: She smiles at the memory of her father like he was . . . but then *
text: it's gone and her smile fades.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Does that make any sense?
text: A slow nod from him . . . · *
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: s
dialog: Yes. · *
dialog: His tone is that of someone speaking of a fact, rather than *
dialog: offering an opinion. She studies him . . . and eventually: *
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Why are you here?
speaker_heading: (REV.11/10/89)GOLDENROD Pg
dialog: 134.CONT.
text: He doesn't know how to begin to explain it to her.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: (pause)
dialog: ' I receive medication.
text: , She waits for more, but it doesn't come. Only a smile.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: , I'm okay now.
dialog: * - '
speaker_heading: 135. OMITTED 1
scene_heading: 136. INT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - ANOTHER ROOM - DAY 13
dialog: , . The post-encephalitics filing past still figures in African ·
dialog: , ceremonial costumes and masks.
dialog: s
speaker_heading: NUN O.S. '"'
dialog: (calling)
dialog: William?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO O.S.
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Dr. Sayer?
scene_heading: 136A. INT. ANOTHER ROOM - NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - DAY 136
text: A working display of a tide pool. Anthony's reflection joins
text: Sayer's in the glass.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I've always loved tide pools,
dialog: haven't you?
text: Anthony doesn't answer. He seems troubled.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: ANTHONY
dialog: You chose this place?
dialog: (Sayer nods)
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: (pause) ,
dialog: I come here all the time.
speaker_heading: ANTHONY
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: (REV.11/10/89)GOLDENROD Pg.
dialog: 136A.CONT. .
text: Sayer glances away, sees Miss Costello coming. She looks a
text: little irritated. As she arrives -
speaker_heading: ti^ SAYER
dialog: Miss Costello, I think Anthony
dialog: thinks they're bored.
dialog: He says it like, Have you ever heard anything so ridiculous?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: They are.
text: Sayer, taken aback, glances back to Anthony, whose look says,
dialog: There you go.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: I ' d thought about the opera house.
dialog: Do you think they'd prefer that?
speaker_heading: ANTHONY
dialog: The opera house?
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: The Botanical Gardens?
text: Anthony looks to Miss Costello and rolls his eyes.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: y5?. Well, where else is there?
scene_heading: 137. INT. ROSELAND - LATE AFTERNOON
dialog: Roseland's Big Band belting out "That Old Black Magic."
text: On the dancefloor, the post-encephalitics dance with one
dialog: another amidst "normal" middle-aged and older couples, all
dialog: having a great time.
text: At the bar, Sayer tries to get the attention of a young
text: bartender busy mixing drinks. Watching, it slowly dawns on
dialog: Rose that something is "wrong" here. More to herself -
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: It's legal again?
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: (pause)
dialog: For some time now.
text: Rose is delighted; she can hardly believe it. She gets the
dialog: bartender's attention.
speaker_heading: -( ) ROSE
dialog: A Rob Roy on the rocks.
speaker_heading: P
dialog: 137.CONT. .
text: The young bartender has to think a moment. Rose turns back to
text: watch the action on the dance floor. Gesturing to Rose, Miss
dialog: Costello whispers to the bartender -
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: A Shirley Temple.
scene_heading: 138. INT. LOBBY, BAINBRIDGE - LATE AFTERNOON
text: Leonard and Paula crossing toward the front doors. She's just
dialog: chatting but he's taking it seriously.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Things happen, people are late.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: They won't be angry.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Oh, they'll be angry. What're
dialog: they going to do, fire me?
text: He doesn't realize she's not asking him. He has to shrug that
dialog: he doesn't know.
speaker_heading: , PAULA _ :
dialog: (U*T I'll just take the graveyard.
dialog: Her look to him says, Right? He has no idea what she means,
text: but finally nods in agreement.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Okay.
dialog: ]
text: They're almost to the doors. She offers her hand to him.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Bye.
text: He shakes the hand gently, lets it go.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: Bye.
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: Thanks for talking to me. ·
text: She steps away toward the door.
speaker_heading: LEONARD
dialog: He knows.
speaker_heading: (REV.11/10/89)GOLDENROD Pg.7
dialog: 138.CONT. 138
text: She glances back at him. She's not sure what he means.
speaker_heading: · LEONARD
dialog: Your father. He knows you visit
dialog: him.
dialog: Whether he's saying it just to be nice doesn't matter to her.
text: It's what she wants to believe. She smiles gratefully.
dialog: *
speaker_heading: PAULA
dialog: I'll see you.
dialog: She leaves.
speaker_heading: 138A.
speaker_heading: 138A. OMITTED
scene_heading: · 139. INT. ROSELAND - LATER - EVENING 139.
dialog: The band in the middle of "You Hade Me Love You."
dialog: At the bar -
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: Is he betrothed, do you know?
dialog: Miss Costello doesn't know who she could possibly mean. She
text: ,- follows her sightline to the opposite wall, to a chair, to
dialog: Sayer sitting alone.
speaker_heading: MISS COSTELLO
dialog: Not that I know of. I kind of
dialog: doubt it.
text: Rose gets up and crosses toward Sayer. Seeing her coming, he
text: smiles ... but the smile slowly begins to fade as she sings to
dialog: him:
speaker_heading: ROSE
dialog: You made me love you
dialog: I didn't want to do it ·
dialog: I didn't want to do it . . .
text: Singing as she does it, she pulls him out of his chair.
text: Embarrassed, he resists, but she finally gets on the dance
text: floor. Never more mortified in his life (it seems as if
dialog: everyone is watching) he "dances . . . "
dialog: And the band finishes the song. '
dialog: ' (")
scene_heading: (REV.11/10/89)GOLDENROD . Pg.76
dialog: (continuity only)
dialog: . 14
speaker_heading: 140. OMITTED
scene_heading: 141. INT.- CORRIDOR &amp; LEONARD'S WARD 14
text: Returning from their night out, happy and satisfied, the post-
text: encephalitics come down a quiet corridor, trailed by their
dialog: chaperons.
text: Passing the examination room, Sayer hears faint typing, and
dialog: slows.
scene_heading: 142. INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - MOMENTS LATER - NIGHT 14
text: Sayer steps into the room to find a figure hunched over his
text: typewriter in a pool of lamplight. Glancing over to the door,
text: the figure is revealed to be Leonard.
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: 142
speaker_heading: LEONARD "
dialog: Everybody have a good time?
text: Leonard doesn't wait for the answer, returns to his typing.
text: Sayer comes closer.
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: What are you doing?
text: He peers over Leonard's shoulder to read what he's typing, and
text: a slow smile crosses his face.
speaker_heading: SAYER V.O.
dialog: "One - typewriters and writing
dialog: supplies in all dayrooms at all
dialog: times . . .
dialog: 143
scene_heading: 143. INT. BOARD ROOM - DAY
text: Drifting slowly across the faces of Kaufman, the director and
text: the other board members as Sayer reads to them from a
dialog: typewritten sheet of paper --
speaker_heading: SAYER ;
dialog: " . . . Two - music and dance
dialog: classes for those patients who
dialog: desire them. Three - technical
dialog: courses for those who wish to
dialog: learn a trade. Four - patients'
dialog: grievance committees. Five - the
dialog: same food in the patients'
dialog: cafeteria as in the staff's. Six
dialog: . . . " and I happen to think this is
dialog: an excellent idea, "the
dialog: establishment of a permanent
dialog: hospital library. And "Seven -
dialog: televisions that work."
text: Sayer sets the paper down on the table --
speaker_heading: SAYER
dialog: "Respectfully, Leonard Lowe."
text: -- and listens to the silence. It's a long one.
scene_heading: 144. INT. BASEMENT - BAINBRIDGE - DAY 144.
text: Rumbling furnaces. The boiler room. Exposed conduit and pipes
text: and ducts on the ceiling like tangled roots of an enormous
dialog: metal tree.
speaker_heading: (REV.11/22/89)CHERRY Pg
speaker_heading: 144.CONT. I
text: A subterranean corridor. Deserted except for Sayer and Leonard
scene_heading: <d <b="" above="" along="" and="" boiler="" ducts="" it.="" moving="" past="" pipes="" room.="" the="" them.=""> 145. INT. BASEMENT OPERATING THEATRE - DAY 1
dialog: </d>
