dialog: Written by
dialog: Kyle Killen
speaker_heading: TEASER
scene_heading: EXT. HILLSIDE - NIGHT
text: A gentle slope. The city shimmers like a postcard below.
dialog: Peaceful. Calm. SILENT. Perfect. Then-
text: SCREECHING TIRES. Suddenly a CAR COMES CRASHING THROUGH THE
text: FRAME, a flipping blur of flying metal and BREAKING GLASS.
text: And then it’s gone. Everything’s still, just as we found it.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.)
dialog: So, tell me how it works.
text: ANGLE ON the wrecked car, CLOSE ON the eyes of MARK BRITTEN,
text: unconscious, hanging upside down by his Seatbelt. We can hear
text: the WHEELS STILL SPINNING helplessly in the air.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
text: I don’t know. I close my eyes. I
dialog: open them. Just like you.
text: Very slowly pull back from his eyes until we see other
text: passengers in the car:
text: HIS WIFE (HANNAH BRITTEN) and a TEENAGE SON (REX BRITTEN) -
text: more on them in a moment. They’re also hanging from their
text: seatbelts, bloody and unconscious.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.)
dialog: Let’s just start at the beginning.
text: Suddenly, Britten’s eyes flutter open. He looks around. As he
text: takes in his wife and son hanging from their belts-
speaker_heading: SMASH TO:
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: CLOSE ON Det. Mark Britten, 40ish, handsome, healed, but a
text: weight to his stare. He’d rather not remember the beginning.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: No. Let’s start at right now.
text: REVEAL DR. LEE, late 30’s, Asian-American, a cerebral
text: presence in a muted, calming, vaguely Zen environment.
text: He makes a note in his book then looks back at Britten.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Very well. You’re back to work?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Yes.
scene_heading: EXT. LOWEN’S RESTAURANT/BAR - NIGHT
text: Britten, suit and tie, steps through barricades holding back
text: a crowd.
text: As he does, DET. RICHARD VEGA, 30's, gregarious, the type of
text: person who talks to strangers in elevators, steps over.
text: He’s the only one who seems excited to be at a murder scene.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Detective Britten! Over here.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.)
dialog: And they've got you working with a
dialog: partner?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: New guy. Vega; They just want
dialog: someone to hold my hand until they
dialog: know I’m okay.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Lee leans on his fingers and looks at him.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: And are you okay?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: Yes.
scene_heading: EXT. LOWEN’S RESTAURANT/BAR - NIGHT
text: There’s a cab with a shattered window, a DEAD DRIVER slumped
text: behind the wheel.
text: Vega walks Britten through the scene like a tour guide with a
text: slight case of nerves. He refers heavily to his notes.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: So... the driver picked up a fare
dialog: downtown, registered this address
dialog: with dispatch. Um, he’s still got
text: his wallet, and there’s a twenty on
dialog: the seat beside him, so I think not
dialog: only was it not a robbery, it looks
dialog: like the fare was actually paid.
dialog: Then, either the rider or someone
text: else puts a gun to the window,
text: BOOM, BOOM, BOOM... leaves us this
dialog: messy little mystery.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Witnesses?
text: Vega nods proudly. He’s on that. He motions to an OFFICER who
text: brings over a WITNESS, knit cap, 30’s, skinny, very polite.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Okay, so I’ve interviewed about
dialog: thirt Basically everybody came
text: out of the bar when it happened.
dialog: But this guy lives in the apartment
text: building above it, saw from his
dialog: window.
speaker_heading: WITNESS
dialog: After I heard the shots I looked
text: out, Saw a man in a cowboy hat run
text: that way, up the block, and then
text: turn into that alley.
dialog: Thanks. I’ it Pet you know if I have
dialog: other questions.
text: The Officer leads the witness away. As he goes-—
speaker_heading: WITNESS
dialog: Happy to help.
text: Vega turns to Britten.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Exact same report from the bar
dialog: witnesses, just_a little more chaos
text: on the ground. Guy in a cowboy hat
text: running away, but no one close and
dialog: no one who claims to have seen the
dialog: shooting.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What do we know about the driver?
text: Back to his notes.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Right. Driver. Married. No kids.
dialog: Dispatcher says he wasn’t the type
text: to get in an argument. At this
dialog: point nothing really suggests he
dialog: should be dead except for the fact
dialog: that he is.
text: Britten surveys the scene. Looks past the crowds at the
text: barricades and notices the building across the street.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
text: Building looks like it’s got a
dialog: secured front door. Let’s see if
dialog: they've got a camera on it. Might
dialog: have caught something we can use.
text: Vega smiles, stares at him a beat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: I just, um... want to thank you.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: I got passed over for detective
dialog: three times before this assignment.
dialog: I’m pretty sure I only got the
dialog: boost because you requested me. I
dialog: just wanted you to know I, uh... I
dialog: won't disappoint you.
text: Britten’s starts away.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I didn’t request anyone. If you got
dialog: promoted it’s because they didn’t
dialog: want to waste anyone else’s time
dialog: baby-sitting me.
dialog: As Vega takes that in-
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.)
dialog: And then what?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: I go home.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - NIGHT
text: It’s a modest but homey craftsman bungalow that looks a
dialog: million miles from murder investigations.
text: As Britten steps in, his wife, HANNAH, the woman from the
text: wreck, late 30’s, stunning, warm, looks down from a ladder
text: where she’s repainting a wall. She smiles.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Perfect. Just in time to help me
dialog: clean up.
text: He looks at the dropcloth, brushes, paint.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN |
dialog: Maybe it’s time to just embrace the
dialog: mess.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Lee is making notes.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Did she start redoing the house
dialog: after the accident?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: After the funeral.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: That’s a common reaction. We all
dialog: look for ways to start fresh. Has
dialog: she gotten to your son’s room?
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN'S HOUSE - REX'S ROOM
text: Britten opens the room. Typical teenage chaos with an odd
text: sense of being frozen in amber. He stares at it.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: No. I’m not sure she’s even been in
dialog: it yet.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: Britten crawls into bed next to Hannah, who’s asleep. He
text: gives her a kiss on the cheek, lays back, closes his eyes.
text: CLOSE ON HIS EYES as we hear DR. STEPHANIE EVANS.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS (V.O.)
dialog: And then?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK’S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: Britten opens his eyes.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: I wake up.
text: He looks beside him. His wife isn’t there. He looks down at
text: his wrist. There’s a GREEN rubber band around it.
scene_heading: DR. EVANS ee
dialog: What’s the purpose of the rubber
dialog: bands?
speaker_heading: ; BRITTEN (V.O.
dialog: Sometimes it gets confusing. They
dialog: just help me keep things straight.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - HALLWAY - MORNING
text: Britten pulls on his coat as he steps into the hall.
text: Then, post as he passes his SON’S DOOR, IT SUDDENLY OPENS and
text: into the hall comes REX BRITTEN, the other passenger from the
text: wreck, 15, tall, good looking, and only moderately awake.
text: Britten doesn’t seem at all surprised to see him.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Morning.
text: Rex simply emits a half awake GRUMBLE.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING
text: Britten and Rex eat cereal, watch Sportscenter. Not a lot of
text: chatter, but Britten seems unsure how to change that.
text: A car outside HONKS. Rex jumps up, grabs a large TENNIS BAG,
text: stuffs in an extra racquet.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: That’s Aaron. I gotta go.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What about the uh... the match.
text: Rex stops.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: What about it?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Do you want me there?
text: Rex shrugs.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: Whatever you think.
text: He starts out.
speaker_heading: / BRITTEN
dialog: Wait.
text: Britten stands, walks over, hugs the boy. Rex more endures
text: than reciprocates. Britten doesn’t care. He just holds on.
scene_heading: INT. DR. EVANS’ OFFICE - DAY
text: REVEAL DR. STEPHANIE EVANS, late 20’s, attractive, with all
text: the eagerness of someone new enough to her job to still love
text: it. Her office is modern but not stark.
text: She takes no notes. Instead, she tends to smile and tilt her
text: head as she listens, as if every answer is right.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: And you said the tennis is new?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Sort of. His mom was very good.
dialog: Played in college. She taught him.
dialog: He used to play until he discovered
dialog: football.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: But he’s decided to take it up
dialog: again. Since the funeral.
text: Britten nods.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS (CONT’D)
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Great. What else?
scene_heading: INT. BAKER HOUSE - MORNING
text: Britten steps into a MURDER SCENE. Two bodies, TOM and IRENE
text: BAKER are laid out, stabbed, blood everywhere.
text: Vega walks toward Britten, but then simply nods curtly and
text: WALKS BY AS IF THEY BARELY KNOW EACH OTHER.
text: Instead we hear the voice of DET. ISAIAH FREEMAN (‘BIRD’)
speaker_heading: BIRD (0.C.)
dialog: You see this coffee maker?
text: Britten turns to see BIRD, African-American, 50’s, salt and
text: epper hair and an air of having seen it all, twice. He
text: indicates a complicated coffee maker on the counter.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT’D)
dialog: My ex always wanted one of these.
dialog: Told her she wanted a six hundred
dialog: dollar coffee maker she should not
dialog: have married a police.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We eventually agreed on that.
dialog: (re: the scene)
dialog: Tell me what you see, I’1ll tell you
dialog: what you miss.
text: Britten surveys the mess.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Husband and wife victims?
text: Bird is playing with the coffee machine, but nods.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
text: Multiple stab wounds, Some signs
dialog: that they put up a fight.
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: Also some signs that they lost.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: No wallet or purse?
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: Gone, along with one of the cars.
speaker_heading: BMW
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: So what, just a home invasion that
dialog: turned messy?
text: Bird stares at the coffee maker.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Why I’ve avoided success at all
dialog: costs. Work your whole life to get
dialog: some nice stuff just so someone can
dialog: kill you for it.
text: Britten looks around, notices pictures on the walls. Many
text: show a YOUNG GIRL with the couple. Bird picks up on this.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT'D)
text: No sign of the little girl.
dialog: Checking with friends, family,
dialog: hoping someone tells us she wasn’t
dialog: ome.
scene_heading: INT. BAKER HOUSE - GIRL’S BEDROOM
text: Britten walks into a nexus of Twilight posters and the color
text: pink. Begins to poke around. Bird waits in the doorway.
text: Britten opens the closet, stops.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You smell that?
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: I’ve been nursing a cold since the
dialog: Carter administration.
text: Britten leans into the closet, kneels, pokes his head into
text: the corner. SNIFFS. When he comes out-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Girl was here when it happened.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: How do you know?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Because she hid in the closet and
dialog: pissed her pants. Either she ran
dialog: when the killer left or he-
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: What I get for hoping.
text: Bird turns, shouts to the officers in the other room-—
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT’D)
dialog: Boys! New deal!
text: As Bird starts to give orders, Britten looks back at the
text: closet. OFF his expression -
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS (V.O.)
dialog: And this has been happening since
dialog: the accident?
scene_heading: INT. DR. EVANS’ OFFICE
text: Britten looks at her.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
text: Fascinating.
dialog: (reigning it in)
dialog: Not to be insensitive, it’s just...
dialog: our brain’s main function is to
dialog: protect us. Sometimes that means
dialog: sensing danger or feeling pain. And
dialog: sometimes it actually means
dialog: deceiving ourselves.
dialog: (to explain)
dialog: The {38s OF a loved one is one of
dialog: the most emotionally crippling
dialog: things we face. We come up with all
dialog: sorts of ways to get through it.
dialog: Like your son taking up his
dialog: mother’s sport to maintain some
dialog: sense of connection with her. But
dialog: your brain... it’s created an
dialog: entire reality where i¥ou haven't
dialog: actually lost your wife at all.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Dr. Lee is in the middle of a similar thought.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
text: An elaborate and ongoing dream in
dialog: which you haven’t lost your son,
dialog: relieving you of the ob igation of
dialog: dealing with his death. I’m not
dialog: sure I’ve ever seen a coping
dialog: mechanism quite like it.
text: Britten looks at him. A beat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: How do you know it’s a dream?
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: I'm sorry?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: How do you know that the world
dialog: where my wife died and my son lived
dialog: is my dream? Maybe that’s reality,
dialog: and this world, where my wife lived
dialog: and my son died, is the dream.
dialog: 10.
scene_heading: INT. DR. EVANS’ OFFICE
text: Dr. Evans looks genuinely surprised.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Wait. You mean you can’t tell them
dialog: apart?
text: Britten shakes his head. She’s practically giddy.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS (CONT’D)
dialog: Incredible.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Lee looks incredulous.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: oxen re saying you’re not
dialog: eon ident whether you’re asleep or
dialog: awake at this very moment?
text: Britten looks at the rubber band on his arm. It’s BLUE.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
text: Everything feels just as real in
text: one world as it does in the other.
dialog: I never look down and discover I’m
dialog: naked, or late for a test. Never
dialog: suddenly start to fly. Whether I’m
dialog: with my wife or my son, everything
dialog: is completely normal. Then I close
text: my eyes, open them, and the other
dialog: one 1s waiting.
text: A long beat. Dr. Lee makes a note.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Well, I can assure you, Detective
dialog: Britten, this is not a dream.
text: Britten can’t help but smile.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: That’s exactly what the other
dialog: psychiatrist Said.
speaker_heading: END OF TEASER
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: ACT ONE
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY
text: Britten and Vega are scanning through the security camera
text: footage. As a cab rolls into frame-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Whoa. Right there.
dialog: They let it play.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Could hardly ask for a better
dialog: angle.
text: A SKINNY MAN IN A COWBOY HAT opens the rear door, hands a
text: twenty to the driver, then gets out.
text: He takes a step and then turns and FIRES THREE SHOTS through
text: the window, ling the driver.
text: Then he looks DIRECTLY AT THE CAMERA, and TIPS HIS HAT before
text: running away. Vega and Britten look at each other, surprised.
speaker_heading: VEGA (CONT'D)
dialog: Wow. Part murder, part performance
dialog: piece.
text: Britten rewinds, watches the shooting again, then the polite
text: hat tip. The killer’s hat is low, his sunglasses large.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Disguise doesn’t give us_a lot to
dialog: go on. Let’s pull’a still and put
dialog: it out to all the local-
text: Suddenly an OFFICER anxiously sticks his head in.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Detectives? We’ve got another one.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Another what?
speaker_heading: OFFICER
text: Dead cabbie.
text: OFF Britten and Vega exchanging a look-
scene_heading: EXT. PEDESTRIAN SHOPPING MALL - DAY
text: Britten and Vega step through the large crowds to find a cab
text: driven up on the curb and into a pole outside a bustling
text: outdoor shopping mall, driver slumped behind the wheel.
text: As they take it in, an OFFICER steps up, gestures.
dialog: 12.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
text: Cab pulls up. Door opens. Three
text: loud bangs. Everyone scatters, the
text: driver manages to run up on the
text: sidewalk until he smacks into this
dialog: pole.
text: He turns back to the crowds of people.
speaker_heading: OFFICER (CONT’ »)
dialog: Everyone reports seeing an
text: overweight man, heav eard,
dialog: glasses, some kind of ball cap,
text: walking away from the scene. Heads
text: straight into the crowd and then...
dialog: disappears.
text: Bird steps up.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: No heros today boys, just a hundred
dialog: something witnesses who can’t wait
dialog: to tell you their story. Over and
text: over and over.
text: He tears some sheets out of his notebook, hands them to
text: Britten with a smile.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT'D)
dialog: Still happy you came back?
text: As Bird goes Britten stares at him. It’s weird, switching
text: partners. Vega doesn’t seem sorry to see Bird go.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: (muttering)
dialog: Burnout.
dialog: Off Britten’s look-
speaker_heading: VEGA (CONT'D)
dialog: Sorry. Just... I work my ass off to
dialog: get the same job he sleepwalks
dialog: through.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Maybe he just knows where to spend
dialog: his energy.
text: Britten turns back to the cab, follows a line of sight to the
text: top of a pole across the way. On top- a camera.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D) .
dialog: Wanna take a guess what we’re going
dialog: to see?
scene_heading: INT. PEDESTRIAN SHOPPING MALL - SECURITY OFFICE
text: Britten, Vega, and a MALL SECURITY OFFICER are gathered
text: around the small bank of monitors. They focus on one as-
dialog: 13.
text: A cab pulls up. The door opens. AN OVERWEIGHT MAN IN A
text: TRUCKER HAT starts to get out, and as he does, fires three
text: shots through the backseat.
text: The cab lurches forward. As people panic, the overweight man
text: looks right at the camera, DOFFS HIS CAP, and then walks on.
text: Britten freezes the tape on the suspect, the face disguised
text: behind the beard and coke bottle glasses, almost useless.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’1l take this back to the lab, see
dialog: if they can enhance it.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: What should I do?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Didn't Bird say something about a
dialog: hundred witnesses to interview?
text: OFF Vega’s fading expression-
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE - DAY
text: Dr. Lee looks up from his notes.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: What does your wife say about your
dialog: condition?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We don’t talk about it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - FLASHBACK
text: Britten is talking while Hannah prepares dinner.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: At first I told her everything.
dialog: That he’d given up football and
dialog: gone back to tennis. About the girl
dialog: e was getting calls from.
text: Suddenly Hannah just bursts into tears.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.) (CONT’D)
dialog: But it’s not the same for her. To
dialog: her he’s not still alive, it’s just
dialog: some dream I keep having. And
dialog: hearing about it isn’t comforting,
dialog: it’s... torture.
dialog: 14.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
text: Britten looks at Lee.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I actually wasn’t looking to come
dialog: back to work. She sort of forced my
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: She wanted you to get back to a
dialog: routine?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: No. She wanted to break all our
dialog: routines. She wanted to move. Like
dialog: cross the country and start over.
dialog: She says it’s hard to live with
dialog: that empty room upstairs. My best
dialog: argument for staying was that the
dialog: seniority and benefits I'd worked
dialog: for wouldn’t follow us.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: But you don’t really care about
dialog: those things? You just wanted to
dialog: remain where you are.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: For me, the room upstairs isn’t
text: empty.
dialog: Lee notes this.
speaker_heading: LEE
dialog: Detective, I’m going to be frank.
dialog: For you to process what’s happened,
dialog: heal, and move on, it’s imperative
dialog: that you, acknowledge what’s real
dialog: and what’s fantasy. We can talk
dialog: about your dreams, but we have to
dialog: accept them as just that, dreams.
dialog: Do you understand?
text: Britten eventually nods.
speaker_heading: LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Let’s talk about your partners. Why
dialog: do you think they’re different
dialog: between your dream and reality?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT
text: Britten and Vega interview a witness. Vega smiles broadly as
text: Britten makes notes.
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: I don’t know. I never worked with a
dialog: partner before the accident.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT
text: Britten and Bird are looking over bloody crime scene photos,
text: pointing out various items, making notes.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O. :
dialog: They told me they dante me with
dialog: someone for while and... I don’t
dialog: know, I got one in one world and
text: the other in the other.
scene_heading: INT. DR. EVANS’ OFFICE
text: Dr. Evans is nodding adamantly.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: But you said that they don’t like
dialog: each other, this Bird and Vega?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Vega’s just new. Still thinks we
dialog: fix things. Bird knows better.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: It makes perfect sense. Your brain
dialog: doesn’t want you to know which
dialog: world is real and which isn’t. It
dialog: would defeat the purpose of the
dialog: coping mechanism. If you had the
dialog: same partner, you mig t invent
dialog: details about them in your dream
dialog: that were disproved in reality and
dialog: you'd suddenly know which was
dialog: which. This way, you’re free to
dialog: create a story for each of them,
dialog: and their animosity helps keep them
dialog: from crossing paths and forcing you
dialog: to reconcile what you’ ve imagine
dialog: with the truth. It’s the same
dialog: reason you've given yourself
dialog: different therapists.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Dr. Lee closes his notebook.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: It’s these little details and
dialog: differences we should focus on.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 16.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT
text: Britten and Vega step out of the interview room, call their
text: next witness in. As they wait Britten looks across the
text: department at BIRD, NOSE IN A BOOK AT HIS DESK, oblivious.
speaker_heading: , BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET —- AFTERNOON
text: Britten and Bird stand outside of a house. There’s a CAR in
text: the street surrounded by OFFICERS and TECHS.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.)
dialog: Because dreams aren’t meant to be
text: sustained. When we pull at the
text: threads they tend to fall apart.
text: As Britten watches, VEGA GETS INTO A CAR DOWN THE BLOCK.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Your partners are threads. And once
dialog: we start to pull on them, I think
dialog: we can help you see the truth.
text: Vega shoots Britten a brief glimpse from the car, then drives
text: away. Britten stares after him.
text: The sound of Bird KNOCKING on the house’s door snaps Britten
text: back to the task at hand. An UPPER MIDDLE CLASS HOUSEWIFE
text: opens the door.
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: Ma‘am. Detectives Freeman and
dialog: Britten. We’re working the Baker
text: homicides down the street.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: We're told you noted this car in
dialog: the area yesterday?
text: He indicates the car crawling with officers and techs.
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: Yes. We’re all pretty close on the
dialog: street. You kin8 of have a sense of
dialog: what people drive. It just didn’t
dialog: look like it... fit
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Did you see anyone in or around the
dialog: car?
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: No. Is it involved in the case?
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: It’s a_ stolen vehicle. It’s
dialog: ossible the suspect used it to get
text: into the area and then left it.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: When did you notice the vehicle?
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: (thinking)
dialog: I guess... around five.
text: This raises eyebrows.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Are you sure?
speaker_heading: HOUSEWIFE
dialog: Yes. My husband had just texted me
dialog: he was on his way home. I could
dialog: check the text for the exact time
dialog: if you want.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Why don’t you do that.
text: As she disappears the detectives eye one another, thinking.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
text: The father made a call from inside
text: the house at 5:30.
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: Mom's car was confirmed home by 6.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: And time of death was around 9. So
dialog: that means we’ve got the suspect in
dialog: the area for almost four hours with
dialog: both of his victims home before he
text: actually strikes.
dialog: (beat )
dialog: When did the girl get dropped off?
text: Bird's already thinking the same thing.
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: Close to 8:45.
text: Everything clicks in a way Britten was hoping it wouldn’t.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: If he post wanted to rob a couple
dialog: of rich people he had all the time
dialog: in the world. He didn’t want money.
dialog: (looking at Bird)
dialog: He was after the girl all along.
speaker_heading: END OF ACT IT
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: ACT IT
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT
text: Britten and Bird address other officers as papers are passed.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: This wasn’t random. He knew who he
text: was after, and he waited for her,
dialog: which means he had to have come
dialog: into contact with her before the
dialog: night of the murders. These are all
dialog: the registered sex offenders whose
dialog: homes or work might have put them
dialog: in contact with our missing girl.
dialog: There’s a lot here so we’re going
dialog: to divide them up for the first
dialog: sweep. If you get someone you can’t
dialog: immediately eliminate, let’ Bird or
dialog: myself know and we’ll get into them
dialog: personally.
text: Everyone breaks up, begins to head out. Bird starts to go,
text: looks back to see Britten standing, staring at his watch.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: You coming?
text: Britten hesitates. Then-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’ve got something I’ve got to do.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Now?
text: Britten thinks about that. Wavers. Then-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Just take the first couple. I only
dialog: need an hour or two.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: For what?
text: As Britten starts to go -
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I told someone I’d be somewhere.
text: Bird, annoyed and confused, watches him leave.
scene_heading: EXT. TENNIS COURTS - DAY
text: Britten sits in the bleachers. It’s not a packed house, but
dialog: there’s a fair number of people for a tennis match.
text: On the court Rex tosses up a ball and whips a blistering
text: serve right past his opponent. Britten smiles, CLAPS.
dialog: 19.
text: Suddenly, Rex’s COACH (TARA) slides in next to Britten.
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: After two years playing football I
dialog: didnt expect him to end up in the
dialog: inal.
text: Britten looks over at her. 30’s, long, slender, like someone
text: who not only plays a sport for a living, but does it well.
text: She extends her hand.
speaker_heading: TARA (CONT'D)
dialog: Tara. I’m the coach.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (shakes her hand)
dialog: Right.
text: As Rex wins another point-
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: He’s exceptionally talented.
text: Britten CLAPS, keeps his eyes on Rex.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: He had a very good teacher.
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: (genuine)
dialog: I’m so sorry. She was an amazing
dialog: person.
text: Britten looks at her, nods.
speaker_heading: TARA (gONr’D)
dialog: You know, we used to play doubles
dialog: together. She could have played
dialog: professionally.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You think so?
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: I did, and she was always better
dialog: than me. I think the grind just
dialog: didn't appeal to her.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: But it appealed to you?
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: Thought it would be more winning
dialog: Wimbledon and less qualifying in
dialog: New Jersey.
text: Britten smiles. A beat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m not sure what he’s doing out
dialog: there to be honest.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: I know it’s been hard on him, but
dialog: he doesn’t really tell me much. His
dialog: mom was the one he talked to.
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: We've talked about it a little.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (surprised, a little hurt)
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: (easing the blow)
dialog: Sometimes it’s just easier for boys
dialog: to talk to a woman about that kin
dialog: of stuff.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’ve tried. I just... my job makes
dialog: it hard to be around. And the work
dialog: is like learning another language.
dialog: At some point I think I forgot how
dialog: to have conversations that weren’t
text: evidence, suspect, motive.
dialog: (beat
dialog: What... what’s he say?
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: Nothing you don’t know. He misses
dialog: her a lot. This helps him miss her
dialog: a little less.
text: Rex wins another point. They both CLAP.
speaker_heading: TARA (CONT'D)
dialog: Match point. If he wins this easily
dialog: after a long layoff I may never get
dialog: him to practice.
text: Rex throws the ball up and absolutely HAMMERS it over the
text: net. The other player doesn’t even move. Game, set, match.
text: Britten, Tara, and the other spectators CLAP and CHEER. But
text: REX JUST STANDS THERE, staring over the net. Then-
text: He simply falls to his knees and begins CRYING. Not victory
text: tears. Kid who’s lost his mom tears.
text: Britten and Tara rush to him. But as they get close, it’s
text: TARA THAT REX GRABS FOR. He wraps himself around her and
text: CRIES into her shoulder.
text: Britten stands watching, helpless.
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT - EVENING
text: Britten, Rex, and Tara sit at a table in the largely deserted
text: bar area. Each has a soda, some picked at fries between them.
dialog: 21.
text: Rex is recovered, but the conversation is mostly two way with
text: Britten spectating.
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: No way. I watch total garbage TV
dialog: and I don’t even watch that.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: Come on. It’s about models.
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: I think that holds a different
dialog: appeal for a 15 year old boy than
dialog: it does for me.
text: Rex smiles, which Britten sort of marvels at. Tara seems to
text: notice Britten on the outside looking in.
speaker_heading: TARA (CONT'D)
dialog: What about you, Mark? You have a
dialog: favorite show?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (trying)
dialog: Um... I don’t know. I like that one
text: with the deranged chef.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Really? I always thought mom
dialog: recorded that.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Nope That’s mine.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Why? You like it?
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: (shrugs )
dialog: It’s okay.
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: Did you see the one where he made
dialog: that guy eat the-
text: Suddenly, Britten’s cell RINGS. Rex stops mid sentence.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m sorry. I just-
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: (flat)
dialog: It’s fine.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (answering)
dialog: Britten.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: (filter)
dialog: Bird. We found the Bakers’ car.
dialog: Waverly Long Term Parking lot by
dialog: the airport.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT'D
dialog: We may have just missed him. How
dialog: quick can you get here?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Um...
text: He looks at Rex who can already read his mind.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: You have to go.
text: Britten dies a little at his son’s words. Then-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (into phone
dialog: I’ve gotta get Rex home and I’1l be
dialog: right there.
text: As he hangs up-
speaker_heading: TARA
dialog: I can take him if you want.
dialog: REX . .
dialog: Yeah. I’1l get a ride with Tara.
text: It’s clearly not about convenience, it’s what Rex wants.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Uh. Yeah. Okay. I’1ll, um, I’1l see
dialog: you in a bit then.
text: Rex gest nods. Britten doesn’t know what else to do. He heads
text: for the door, disappointed with how that went.
text: He almost gets there when Rex jogs up behind him.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: Dad?
text: Britten turns. A beat as Rex seems unsure what to say.
speaker_heading: REX (CONT'D)
dialog: Um... I’m glad you came today.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Me too.
text: A beat. REX HUGS HIM. The look on Britten’s face says the
text: gesture means everything to him. They break. A long beat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
dialog: Your idea or Tara’s?
text: Rex smiles. His dad’s not stupid.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: She's good at this kind of stuff.
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: I won't be late. Promise.
text: As Rex goes, Britten catches Tara’s eye. He mouths ‘thanks’.
text: She smiles, nods.
scene_heading: EXT. WAVERLY LONG TERM PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: It’s drizzling. Bird is standing under an umbrella by a BMW
text: as TECHS crawl around it taking pictures.
text: Britten reaches him, looks inside the car, dried blood all
text: over the seats. Bird motions to the passenger side, points
text: out blood on the ground.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: When they got spe here they said that
dialog: was stil resh
text: He hands Britten some photos of the same scene, but from
text: earlier, when the daylight was just fading. He points to the
dialog: blood trail.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT'D)
text: Drizzle makes it hard to say, but
dialog: they think we missed him by less
text: than 45 minutes.
text: Britten looks around. They’re at the edge of a large and
text: intermittently populated parking lot.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I don’t suppose anyone saw
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Nope. And no cameras, But the
dialog: stolen car we found in the
dialog: neighborhood was taken less than a
dialog: mile from here.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: So_he drives his car to this lot,
text: walks off and steals one to get to
text: the girl’s house. Kills her
text: parents, abducts her, and then
text: comes back here and ditches the
text: family BMW for his vehicle.
dialog: (walking along the car)
dialog: If you're going . to move a
dialog: kidnapping victim from one car to
dialog: another, you probably don’t park
text: far away.
text: He looks at the number on the parking space that the BMW is
text: in. 589. He looks at the space right next to it. 590.
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
dialog: So we need someone who can tell us
text: about the car parked in space 590
dialog: for_the last day and_a half. Let’s
dialog: pull the plates on all these cars,
dialog: see if anyone remembers it.
text: Bird nods. Britten eyes the photos again. Notices something.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: We should also try to figure out
dialog: who was in this space directly
text: behind 590. 611.
speaker_heading: Ih BIRD
dialog: Why?
text: Britten shows him the photo.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: It’s got a dry spot that the rain
dialog: hadn't covered about the same size
dialog: as the one in 590. So they probably
dialog: left around the same time. If
dialog: anyone's going to have seen
dialog: anything or remember what was in
dialog: space | 590 it’s probably whoever was
dialog: in
dialog: tres blood on the ground)
dialog: We find any of the girl’s blood in
dialog: the house?
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Just the parents.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Well, if this was fresh it
dialog: certainly ¢ didn’t belong to them. So
dialog: either she’s somehow gotten our
dialog: killer bleeding-
text: They share a look.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Or we don’t have a lot of time.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - LATE NIGHT
text: Britten works the phones. Photos of license plates surround
text: him as well as a drawing on his wall with the space 589, 590,
text: and 611, right behind 590, all circled.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Right - I’m calling about _a car you
dialog: t parked at the Waverly Long
dialog: erm Parking Lot. Yes.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS:
text: We see him crossing license plates off a list.
dialog: 25.
text: We see his eyes glazing over as he struggles to stay awake.
text: We see him sipping a cup of coffee.
text: Bird steps over.
speaker_heading: . BIRD
dialog: Anything?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: You?
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Nope. Apparentl eople don’t
dialog: memorize all ‘the Rearby cars when
dialog: they park.
text: Britten looks at his watch.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Dammit. It’s almost two. I told him
dialog: I wouldn’t do this.
text: As Britten starts to gather his things-—
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Your boy. How’s he... handling
dialog: things?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (shrugs )
dialog: I don’t know. I can read you better
dialog: than him. But then I’ve probably
dialog: Spent more time in the department
dialog: an at home over the last fifteen
dialog: years.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Birthdays, anniversaries,
dialog: graduations. You name it, I’ve
dialog: missed it. Used to feel bad about
dialog: but... what we see, people stabbed
dialog: to death, kids taken... it’s toxic
dialog: waste. Work in it, you end y
dialog: radioactive. So for every thin
dialog: I've missed, there’re ten I ruined
dialog: because I came home with dead
dialog: people on my mind. Job’s not just
dialog: about catching bad guys. It’s about
dialog: making sure the people you love
dialog: don’t see just how ugly it really
dialog: is out there.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Sometimes staying at your desk
dialog: doesn’t mean you’re neglecting
dialog: anyone. It just means you don’t
dialog: want them to see what’sS on it.
text: Bird pats the bloody crime scene photos, walks off.
dialog: 26.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S CAR - LATE NIGHT
text: Britten drives, Bird’s words ringing in his ears. The hand on
text: the wheel has a GREEN rubber band around the wrist.
scene_heading: MATCH CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S CAR - MORNING
text: Britten’s hand on the wheel, but now with a BLUE rubber band.
text: He fights the morning traffic as he heads for the station.
text: As he sits at a light, a YELLOW CAB pulls up beside him. He
text: looks over as the ight changes.
text: Britten starts his turn into the station, then notices the
text: cab pulling to a stop right in front. He pauses mid turn.
text: A BLONDE WOMAN IN A BLACK DRESS AND WIDE HAT gets out. She
text: puts her purse on the roof, appears to dig for her wallet.
text: Britten is about to dismiss it when BOOM, BOOM, BOOM, the
text: woman fires a gun from inside her purse right through the
text: roof of the cab and into the driver.
text: As people SCREAM and start to run, the woman looks up at the
text: station and TIPS HER HAT.
text: Britten jams on the accelerator and TEARS OUT, barreling over
text: the sidewalk towards the cab.
text: The Woman bolts. As Britten dodges pedestrians, the woman
text: races into _an alleyw yway between the station and the large
text: office building next door.
text: When Britten’s way is blocked, he abandons the car and leaps
text: out only to find OFFICERS sprinting towards him, guns drawn.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
speaker_heading: FREEZE!
text: Britten slows up, reaches into his pocket.
speaker_heading: OFFICER (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: DON'T!
text: Britten stops, slowly draws his badge, keeps his tone even.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Detective Britten. I’m just getting
dialog: my badge.
text: The officer holds his bead as Britten produces his badge. A
text: beat, then, satisfied, they take off towards the alley.
dialog: 27.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEYWAY - MORNING
text: Britten and the officer run down the deserted alley. They
text: stop, unsure which way to pursue.
text: Britten spots a side entrance to the office building.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
text: Business people move about through the lobby, oblivious to
text: the scene outside. As Britten eyes them-
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: Detective!
text: Britten turns to see the Officer standing next to a trashcan
text: in an alcove. Hanging out is a bit of BLACK FABRIC.
text: Britten walks over to the can, pulls the lid off. Inside is
text: the black dress, hat, and a long blonde wig.
text: Britten looks up, making eye contact with various people
text: moving in and out of the lobby. The suspect could be anyone.
speaker_heading: OFFICER (CONT'D)
dialog: What are we looking for?
text: Britten looks back at the disguise in the trash.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I wish I knew.
speaker_heading: END OF ACT II
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: ACT III
scene_heading: EXT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - MORNING
text: Britten and Vega are looking at the madhouse of police and
text: spectators surrounding the murder scene outside the station.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Should I take statements again?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: They saw what I saw: someone in
text: disguise who got away with murder.
dialog: The tapes, the witnesses, he likes
dialog: that we have everything and still
dialog: end up with nothing. Makes him feel
dialog: smarter than us. Invisible.
dialog: (a thought)
dialog: Where would you go if you were
dialog: invisible?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: I’m going to take the 5th on that.
text: Britten stares into the crowd.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I bet you wouldn’t be able to,
dialog: resist admiring your own handiwork.
text: He turns, walking toward the department. Vega follows.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
text: Once he ditches the disguise, he
dialog: could stand in that crowd all day
dialog: and we'd never know it.
dialog: (beat )
text: We pull the security tapes from all
text: three scenes, but let them run
text: through the hours after the murder.
text: Maybe we get a face that pops up in
dialog: all three crowds.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT
text: Britten and Vega sit at a monitor when a TECH approaches,
text: holding a plastic bag with a single RED HAIR in it.
speaker_heading: TECH
dialog: Looks like your suspect left
dialog: something behind this time.
text: Britten takes the bag, eyes it.
speaker_heading: TECH (CONT’D)
dialog: Pulled it out of the wig you found
dialog: in the trash. We’1ll run the DNA,
text: but the database is small.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: TECH (CONT'D)
dialog: Unless he’s been in serious trouble
dialog: before we probably won't get a hit.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Hey, we know we're looking for a
dialog: red head. That’s something, right?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Thanks.
text: Britten hands back the bag. Vega turns to the monitor.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: First up, 611 Waverly.
dialog: (starting the tape)
dialog: Okay, carrot top. Where are you?
text: The address hits Britten like a brick.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What did you say?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: 611 Waverly?
speaker_heading: FLASH TO:
text: WE SEE the parking space, 611 written at the bottom.
speaker_heading: VEGA (V.O.)
dialog: The restaurant where the cabbie got
dialog: killed. That’s the address.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT
text: Britten is struggling to process this.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Did I know that?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: It’s been on the paperwork. Why?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: There's... a Waverly Parking Lot by
dialog: the airport.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: What that’s have to do with this?
text: Britten’s not sure.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Play the tape.
dialog: 30.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE - AFTERNOON
text: Dr. Lee takes a moment then-
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: I'd say it’s entirely reasonable,
dialog: even expected that these sorts of
text: details would begin to cross over.
text: He closes his notes, looks at Britten.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Sleep not only recharges us, but
dialog: during the REM cycles it’s where we
dialog: actually process and store the
dialog: day's information. Normally this
text: all goes unseen or vaguely
dialog: remembered as random dreams, but
dialog: because you’ve constructed an
dialog: entire reality out of your sleep,
dialog: this processing is simply going to
dialog: become folded in, meaning the
dialog: things you're wrestling with in
dialog: real life are likely to manifest
dialog: themselves in your dream.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: But I knew about the Waverly
dialog: parking lot and space 611 before I
dialog: new the address of the first cab
dialog: murder. How could I have dreamed it
dialog: before I knew it?
speaker_heading: / DR. LEE , :
dialog: You didn’t. You said yourself it
text: was on the paperwork.
speaker_heading: FLASH TO:
text: WE SEE the address on the side of the building. 611
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.) (CONT'D
dialog: You were at the location. Even i
dialog: you didn’t consciously note it,
dialog: your brain did, and apparently it
dialog: ound it important enough to put
dialog: the details-
speaker_heading: FLASH TO:
text: WE SEE the Waverly Long Term Parking Lot sign.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.) (CONT’D)
dialog: Waverly and 611-
text: TIGHT ON the 611 in the parking space.
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.0.) (CONT'D)
dialog: ~- into your dream via this
text: imaginary parking lot.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Britten isn’t so sure.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Or I really saw it first in the
dialog: parking lot and the dream I’m in
dialog: now is repeating it to tell me that
dialog: it’s important over there for some
dialog: reason.
text: Dr. Lee takes a beat.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Detective Britten, as I’ve said,
dialog: there’s no therapeutic value in
dialog: allowing you to pretend that your
dialog: realities are interchangeable.
dialog: There is no es soarkin child. There
dialog: is no car ina ing lot. And...
dialog: sadly, but. crucially, there is no
dialog: world in which your son has
dialog: survived the accident.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What makes you so sure?
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: That this is reality? Well, for
dialog: starters I know I’m real. I know I
dialog: talked to my wife twenty minutes
dialog: before you came in. I know what I
dialog: ate for breakfast. I know where I’m
dialog: going this evening.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I could just be inventing all those
dialog: details as part of my dream.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Then let’s try looking at it from
dialog: the perspective of causality. Which
dialog: murder happened first?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Well... the cab driver.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: So you begin a case in reality, and
dialog: then suddenly you’re working a case
dialog: in your dream.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
text: A beat.
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (CONT'D)
text: As one story unfolds the other
dialog: twists and turns in response as you
dialog: process the days’ events and
dialog: sometimes as you key on a detail it
dialog: calls specific attention to itself
dialog: in your imagination. The
dialog: consequence of returning to work in
dialog: your condition is that in addition
dialog: to trying to keep your son alive,
dialog: you're using your dreams to try to
dialog: Solve your caSes.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: But-—
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: We should also examine the e of
dialog: case you're working in your ream.
dialog: A missing child. The very issue
dialog: you're struggling to come to terms
dialog: with. So your subconscious turns it
dialog: into a case you have to solve.
dialog: geeat)
dialog: I understand the pain you feel
dialog: Detective. But once you accept that
dialog: this is reality, you’ll release
dialog: your son from your dreams, and yon
dialog: can begin the crucial process o
text: mourning him and ending that pain.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: So as soon as I accept that he’s
dialog: dead, he’1ll stop showing up?
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: I believe that’s very likely.
text: Britten absorbs that thought.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH END RESTAURANT - NIGHT
text: Britten and Hannah, well-dressed, sit among others equally
text: so, trying to be a couple instead of grieving parents.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You already applied?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What? You think I’m too old?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m sure you can still do keg
dialog: stands with the best of them. I
dialog: just... what about your work?
speaker_heading: ; HANNAH
dialog: I quit.
dialog: 33.
text: Britten senses she’s trying to draw him into something. He
dialog: resists.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I see.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Where are these schools at?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
text: One’s in the city. One’s in Oregon.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Oregon.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: It’s a really great program.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I thought we talked about this.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Then let’s see if I get in before
dialog: we talk about it again.
text: This isn’t how he wants the night to go. A long beat. He
text: tries to shift gears.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You... you remember that time we
dialog: were at that restaurant like this
dialog: in New York and you pretended to be
dialog: a food critic? Got us that amazing
text: table, huge meal, all for free.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What made you think of that?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I don’t know. Maybe I was thinking
dialog: about how persuasive you can be.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: I must_have been. Who believes a 23
text: ear old who orders fries with her
dialog: obster is a critic?
text: Britten LAUGHS. But Hanah’s smile is muted. Long beat.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: You know they say there’s a point
dialog: in every relationship w where you
dialog: stop talking about w ou’re
dialog: doing and only talk abou what you
speaker_heading: 1
text: She sees this suck the life out of him.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm sorry. I don’t know what’s
dialog: wrong with me.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I mean, we can say it’s time. Sa
dialog: we need to get dressed, go out like
dialog: normal people again, have a good
dialog: time, but... I wonder if there’s
dialog: ever a point where having a good
dialog: time isn’t going to feel wrong.
text: She looks down.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I guess saying it out loud doesn’t
dialog: really help the cause.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: It’s okay. I know what you mean.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
dialog: How’s the house coming?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Just one room to go.
text: He nods. They both know which one that is. As he thinks on it
text: his words just slip out.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I saw him play a match the other
dialog: day.
text: She looks confused, slightly troubled.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Who?
text: He catches himself.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: My new partner- his son, he’s on
dialog: the tennis team. He invited me out.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh.
text: Britten can’t help it. He smiles with pride.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: He was amazing. Twenty five aces in
dialog: the final. Reminded me of you.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Me?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Yeah. Just the way he crushed the
dialog: ball. The way he poured himself
dialog: into it. It... was almost like I
dialog: was watching you.
dialog: 35.
text: She’s sees right though him, knows he’s talking about Rex.
text: She puts down her napkin, stands.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Dammit, Mark.
text: She walks away.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK'S BEDROOM
text: Hannah’s on the bed, looking down. He approaches from behind,
text: puts his hands on her shoul lers, apologetic.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: I’m sorry.
text: She looks back at him.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: You can’t do that to me.
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: (nodding, soft)
dialog: I know.
text: A beat and then they kiss. It’s gentle: careful, like they’re
text: not sure they’re ready for all this. As they continue-
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM
text: We see paint cans and brushes stacked in the corner, the wall
text: behind them hidden under a perfect new coat of paint.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK'S BEDROOM
text: Britten and Hannah move under the sheets, cautious and
dialog: considered.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - HALLWAY
text: We stare at Rex’s closed door.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 36.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK’S BEDROOM
text: We see the couple moving faster, faster.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - REX’S ROOM
text: The teenage chaos. Clothes on the floor, untouched.
text: A couple of trophies on a shelf. A picture of the whole
text: family, Rex between Hannah and Britten.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK'S BEDROOM
text: The after: Britten spoons Hannah from behind. She begins to
text: play with the BLUE rubber band on his wrist.
dialog: Long SILENCE. Then-
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I... think that we should get
dialog: pregnant.
text: She can sense his reaction. Jumping ahead of it-
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: I know it’s fast. And you can say
dialog: whatever you want about working
dialog: through issues and all of that, but
dialog: this is not about replacing him. I
dialog: just know that I’m going to want
dialog: another one and I don’t want and be
dialog: a hundred when he’s in high school.
dialog: So...
text: Britten sits on this, unsure what to say.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: How do you know it would be a boy?
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You said when ‘he’s in high
dialog: school.’
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Oh.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I don’t.
text: Neither seems sure what to say next. She turns to him.
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: What do you think?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m not sure I know what to think.
text: She accepts that. A beat.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: How's it going with the
dialog: psychiatrist?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK’S BEDROOM - LATER
text: The couple sleeps beside one another in the darkness.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: He’s trying to get me to understand
dialog: some things.
text: CLOSE ON Britten as he lays in the darkness, eyes closed.
speaker_heading: ; HANNAH (V.O.)
dialog: Is it helping?
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK’S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: Britten opens his eyes. Rex is standing over him.
speaker_heading: REX
dialog: Dad?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: post-lap)
dialog: I’m not sure I want it to.
speaker_heading: END OF ACT IIT
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: ACT IV
scene_heading: INT. DR. EVANS’ OFFICE
text: Dr. Evans seems more incensed than we’ve seen her.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: That's ridiculous. Trying to force
dialog: ou into some revelation is not his
dialog: ob. The coping mechanism is there
dialog: or a reason, to let you deal with
dialog: this when you’re ready.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: But he’s right. Things seem to
dialog: start there and get repeated here.
dialog: I had the cab driver case, and then
dialog: suddenly I had this one.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: You knew you were coming back to
dialog: work. You could have dreamed up a
dialog: case in anticipation as your mind
dialog: had already begun to focus on what
dialog: you'd be up against. Notice that
dialog: the cab driver murders didn’t
dialog: become an ongoing SERIES of murders
dialog: until AFTER you were faced with an
dialog: ongoing situation where a child was
dialog: missing.
text: Britten shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I can’t even keep this straight.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: You don’t need to. At this point,
dialog: that’s not where I think our focus
dialog: should lie.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: That’s exactly what Dr. Lee would
dialog: expect you to say. He’d tell me
dialog: that the only reason you're
dialog: agreeing with me is because you ARE
dialog: me, just my imagination trying to
dialog: hold onto the idea that this dream
dialog: could be real.
text: Dr. Evans takes a beat.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Okay.
text: She goes to her computer. Types something in, hits print. As
text: pages start to come out of her printer, she grabs a small
text: stack and brings them over, hands them to Britten.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS (CONT'D)
dialog: Here.
dialog: 39.
text: He looks at the pages. Before he can ask-
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS (CONT'D)
dialog: Turn to any page. Just pick one.
text: He hesitates, then flips through. He stops on the third page.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS (CONT’D)
dialog: Now. Pick a spot somewhere about
dialog: half way" down and start reading.
dialog: Out lou
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What-
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Read.
text: He looks at the page. Begins.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (reading)
dialog: The House of Representatives shall
dialog: be composed of Members chosen every
dialog: second Year by the People of the
dialog: several States, and the Electors in
dialog: each State shall have the
dialog: Qualifications requisite for -
dialog: (break: S)
dialog: What the hell are we doing?
text: She looks at him.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Have you memorized the entire
dialog: constitution?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (baffled)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Then if this is a dream, if your
dialog: son has really died instead of your
dialog: wife and you're just making all
dialog: this up, explain to me how you
text: turned to a random page and were
dialog: able to read it back, word for
dialog: word.
text: Britten is dumbstruck.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I... I don’t know.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Tell Dr. Lee that Dr. Evans says
dialog: it’s not as simple as he made it
dialog: sound.
text: The more he thinks about it, the more bothered he becomes.
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Why would you do that?
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: What do you mean? I just thought if
dialog: I could counter balance the-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You just said we shouldn't be
dialog: trying to force any sort of...
dialog: realization and then, I mean, how
dialog: could I possibly have done that
dialog: unless-
text: Britten’s phone rings.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Britten.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: (filter)
dialog: We got a suspect.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: On my way.
text: He hangs up. Stands.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Detective Britten, please-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Just... don’t say anything else.
text: OFF her look as he walks out -
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - EVENING
text: Bird meets Britten at the door. As they walk down the hallway-
speaker_heading: _. BIRD
dialog: Vega picked him up.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Vega?
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Yeah, you know him, young guy,
text: ready to commit a murder and solve
dialog: it just to get a promotion. This
dialog: just might be his ticket.
dialog: (looks at a sheet)
dialog: Registered sex offender with two
text: priors, works at the car wash.
dialog: Records show the family was there
dialog: eleven times in the last six
dialog: months. Found his prints in the
text: recovered car.
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You just said he worked at the car
dialog: wash.
speaker_heading: IRD
dialog: Also quite 5 child porn collection
dialog: on his computer-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: still-
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: AND pictures of various kids from
dialog: the neighborhood taken in parks, on
text: the street, at the car was
dialog: (beat )
dialog: Want to guess who one of the stars
dialog: of that show is?
text: He hands Britten photos of the missing girl.
speaker_heading: BIRD, (CONT’D)
dialog: He’s got no alibi for the night of
dialog: the murders or for the period of
dialog: time when the car would have been
text: left at the parking lot. DA says
dialog: she’s probably got enough to
dialog: indict.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: We find his car?
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: Doesn't have one. Rides the bus.
dialog: There’s a stop two blocks from
text: where the first car was stolen.
text: Figure he takes the family BMW back
dialog: to the parking lot and steals
dialog: another one we’re not looking for.
dialog: For all we know that car and the
text: girl are at the bottom of a lake.
text: They arrive at the interrogation room.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT'D)
dialog: If she is still alive, the only way
dialog: we're going to find her is to get
dialog: him to tell us where, so let’s keep
text: him heading in that direction.
text: Britten nods, stops just before they go in.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Does he have red hair?
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: (thrown)
dialog: Red hair? No. Why?
text: Britten isn’t even sure himself.
dialog: 42.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I don’t know.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - INTERROGATION ROOM
text: Bird and Britten enter to find Vega with the SUSPECT
text: (TAYLOR), 40's diminutive, creepy, and genuinely frightened.
text: Vega steps over to them.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: (sotto)
dialog: I think with just a little more
dialog: time, Detectives-
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: We've got it, thanks.
text: Vega grudgingly steps aside. Bird takes a seat. Britten seems
text: caught looking at Vega, then back at the suspect’s hair.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT'D)
dialog: Mr. Taylor. Detective Freeman. This
dialog: is Detective Britten. I’m going to
dialog: be frank, and this is going to be
dialog: fast. You are in a significant
dialog: mess. The pornographic material by
dialog: itself was already a violation of
dialog: your parole. We also have your
text: prints in the victims’ car, as well
dialog: as your own private photos of the
dialog: missing girl. It’s a double murder
dialog: with or without her, so you’re not
dialog: saving ferrets from anything by
dialog: hiding At this point, her
dialog: location is the ONLY, and I repeat,
dialog: ONLY thing you can use to help
dialog: yourself. We find her alive, maybe
dialog: the rest of your life gets a little
dialog: longer. So let’s talk about where
dialog: you went after you left the BMW at
dialog: he Waverly parking lot.
speaker_heading: TAYLOR
dialog: (exasperated, terrified)
dialog: Please. I already told the officer
dialog: I don’t know what you’re talking
dialog: about.
text: Britten takes a seat next to Bird. They both sound
dialog: sympathetic.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: She was bleeding. Was she hard to
dialog: control? Was she fighting you?
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: You needed to go someplace private,
dialog: right? Some place you could be
dialog: alone? Did you drive out of the
dialog: city? Where did you go?
dialog: 43.
text: Taylor starts to CRY.
speaker_heading: TAYLOR
dialog: I told you. I was at home.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Watching TV by yourself is not an
dialog: alibi.
text: Taylor just puts his head down, CRYING. Vega makes a
text: dismissive gesture. Britten finds himself staring at the top
text: of the guys head. At his thinning BROWN hair.
speaker_heading: FLASH TO:
text: WE SEE the ziplock bag with the single red hair from the
dialog: other case.
speaker_heading: BACK TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - INTERROGATION ROOM
text: Britten can’t shake a sense of unease. A beat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What were you watching?
text: Taylor looks up.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Monday night, when the murders
dialog: occurred, what were you watching?
text: Taylor reigns in his tears, thinks.
speaker_heading: TAYLOR
dialog: I don’t... uh, the football game?
text: Britten looks at the reports on the desk.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: 9 pm. That would have been about
dialog: the third quarter. You remember the
dialog: third quarter?
speaker_heading: TAYLOR
dialog: I... maybe. Why?
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Detective Britten-
speaker_heading: _ BRITTEN
dialog: Who was winning?
speaker_heading: TAYLOR ;
dialog: The... the Steelers. They’d just
dialog: scored.
dialog: 44,
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Which you could have learned
text: watching Sportscenter.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You remember anything the
dialog: commentators said? Anything
dialog: specific?
text: Bird stands.
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: Detective. Outside.
text: Britten isn’t going anywhere.
speaker_heading: TAYLOR
dialog: I don’t know. Like what?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You tell me.
speaker_heading: TAYLOR
dialog: I... something about, the defense?
dialog: (remembering)
dialog: About the defense being so banged
dialog: up, and one of the commentators
dialog: said they were missing so many
dialog: people t ey :d asked him to play.
dialog: omething like that.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Is that right?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I don’t know. I wasn’t watching.
text: He gets up, walks out, Bird and Vega angrily following.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - HALLWAY
text: As soon as the door closes Vega explodes.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: What the hell are you doing?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
text: He has an alibi.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: It’s football! He could have heard
dialog: about the game anywhere.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I didn’t ask about the game, I
dialog: asked about the commentary.
speaker_heading: (MORE )
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: He’d have needed to have watched
dialog: the game or to have seen a tape to
dialog: memorize commentary, and since he
dialog: didn’t think he had an alibi to
dialog: begin with I doubt he watched the
text: game on tape to create one.
text: Vega wants to say something but thinks better of it.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
dialog: Just get us a copy of the
dialog: broadcast, officer. If he’s lying
dialog: we hammer him, but I don’t think he
dialog: is. He was home when that girl was
dialog: taken.
text: Vega stalks off. Bird looks at Britten evenly.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
dialog: This isn’t about finishing our
dialog: homework. It’s about finding the
dialog: girl. If he’s not the guy, it
dialog: loesn’t help us.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - TAPE ROOM
text: Britten and Bird playback a tape of Monday Night Football.
speaker_heading: JON GRUDEN
dialog: (on monitor)
dialog: They've got so many people injured
dialog: I think I’m in their dime package.
text: Bird looks at Britten, stops the tape. SILENCE.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Why’d you ask if he had red hair?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m honestly not sure.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Well, not sure, you just tanked our
dialog: only suspect and most of our good
dialog: leads, so what do we do now?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: It’s got something to do with the
dialog: Waverly lot.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: What makes you say that?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN.
dialog: I’ve been seeing it in my sleep.
speaker_heading: END OF ACT IV
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: ACT V
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK'S BEDROOM
text: Britten wakes up alone. He looks at his wrist. He’s wearing
text: the BLUE rubber band, but there’s no sign of his wife. He’s
text: immediately troubled.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Hannah?
dialog: Nothing.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE
text: He walks into the living room. It’s repainted, but the paint
text: cans are gone. He grabs his phone, dials.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: (voicemail recording)
dialog: Hi, this is Hannah. Leave a
dialog: message.
text: As he walks through the house-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Um, it’s me. I’m pest wondering
dialog: where you are. I feel... I’m not
dialog: sure what’s going on and it would
dialog: post really help me out if I could
dialog: ear your voice.
text: He hangs up. Then-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D)
dialog: Hannah! HANNAH!
speaker_heading: SILENCE.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - REX’S ROOM
text: Britten steps in. It’s just as it always is on this side, an
dialog: untouched mess, no one here.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: REX!
text: But this is clearly not the room of the living Rex. He takes
text: a seat on the bed.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT’D) .
dialog: No. She can’t be gone. I’m... this
dialog: is... I’m imagining this.
text: He SLAPS himself.
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Wake up!
text: Again. HARDER.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Wake UP!
text: He spots a multi-tool on his sons desk. He grabs it, flips
text: out the knife.
text: A beat, then he presses the knife into his palm until it
text: draws blood. He GASPS at the pain as he opens a wound.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Come on!
dialog: Then-
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Mark?
text: He turns. There she is. In the doorway. Almost too quickly.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: What are you doing in here?
text: She notices the blood.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh my God, what happened?
text: He drops the knife, goes to her, throws his arms around her,
text: his hand bleeding all over her back.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: You’re still here! Thank God.
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Mark, what's going on?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (emotional)
dialog: I don’t know. I don’t know. I’m so
dialog: confused. I just... I was calling
dialog: you. How did you not hear me
dialog: galling if now you’re... I thought
dialog: I was losing you.
text: She pulls back, looks him in the eyes. Softly-
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: I’m still here, Mark. I’m not going
dialog: anywhere.
text: He seems buoyed by this, collects himself. He nods.
speaker_heading: HANNAH (CONT'D)
dialog: Let’s look at that hand.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: EXT. LOWEN’S RESTAURANT/BAR - AFTERNOON
text: Britten and Vega stand outside the restaurant where the first
text: cab driver murder took place, Britten’s hand bandaged. He
text: still looks a little frayed.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: You sure you’re okay?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Can you just let me think?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Can you at least tell me what we’re
dialog: looking for? Maybe I can help.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m not sure.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Then... why are we here?
dialog: Dismissive-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I had a dream about it.
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Or I’m having a dream about it.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Nothing. Will you just-
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: We've still got partial face
dialog: matches from the tapes to look
dialog: over. There’re witnesses to
text: interview from the scene outside
dialog: the station. There’s-
text: Britten looks up at the side of the building. The big
text: numerals 611 stare back at him.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Shh!
text: Britten focuses on the numbers, waiting for them to tell him
text: something. Then he notices-
text: The windows of the apartment building just above them. He
text: squints at the windows, then down the street. A thought.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: The witness.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
text: The witness from the 611 building.
dialog: He said the killer ran up the
dialog: street, around that corner and into
dialog: the alley.
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: All the witnesses said that. That’s
text: what the security tape shows.
dialog: That’s what happened.
text: Britten looks back at the numbers.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Did anyone actually go to the guy’s
dialog: apartment? Look out his window?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: Why? I just told you. Everyone had
dialog: the same story.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Because if you’re looking out of
dialog: that building, there’s no way you
dialog: can see around that corner. From
dialog: the ground you could have seen the
dialog: killer go up that alley. But from
dialog: up there there’s no way you know
dialog: that unless-—
dialog: 
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: (Holy shit)
dialog: You happened to be the one who
dialog: actually did it.
text: Britten looks at Vega.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: He likes to feel smart? Invisible?
dialog: What's ging to make you feel more
dialog: invisible than actual talking to
dialog: the detectives trying Lo catch you?
text: They both stare up at the windows of the apartment building.
scene_heading: INT. 611 WAVERLY APARTMENT BUILDING - 5TH FLOOR
text: Vega_and Britten exit a bank of elevators. As they move into
text: a hall a HASID in full dress passes them, gets in an elevator
dialog: going down.
text: Britten stops. A thought. He turns as the elevator doors
text: start to close.
text: The HASID glances back ever so slightly. His eyes meet
text: Britten’s. The two of them lock on one another. Even in the
text: garb, Britten sees it. It’s the WITNESS.
text: As the doors close, the Hasid cracks a tiny smile.
dialog: 50.
text: Britten rushes for the elevator, but it’s too late. He flies
text: into the stairwell. Vega, confused, tries to keep up.
scene_heading: EXT. 611 WAVERLY APARTMENT BUILDING
text: Britten hits the street, spots the Hasid bolting up the
text: block. Britten breaks into a dead sprint, not willing to miss
text: his man a second time.
text: Britten makes up ground. The Hasid seems to be slowing when-
text: Suddenly, the Hasid stops, turns, gun drawn. Britten freezes,
text: his own weapon still in its holster. Then in a FLASH-
text: TWO SHOTS. The Hasid goes down. Britten turns to see Vega a
text: hundred feet behind, gun drawn.
text: They move in on the downed body. On the ground the hat and
text: hair have gone slightly askew revealing not only that it is
text: indeed the witness, but his red hair underneath.
scene_heading: EXT. 611 WAVERLY APARTMENT BUILDING - LATER
text: Britten and Vega are now surrounded by other officers, the
text: coroner, onlookers.
text: As the body is loaded into the rear of an ambulance-
text: Britten just stares at the address on the outside of the
text: building. 611 Waverly.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WAVERLY LONG TERM PARKING LOT
text: Britten stands staring at space 611, case file in his hand.
text: Bird stands behind him, sipping coffee.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Britten, you’ve been staring at the
dialog: pavement for the last hour. I think
dialog: it’s told you what it knows.
text: Britten shakes his head, in his own little world.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: This has to be it.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: The blood trail led right to the
dialog: car in 590. Why does it matter what
dialog: was parked in $119 Don’t you think
dialog: if they’d have seen anything, like,
dialog: say, a bleeding little girl being
text: forced out of one car and into
dialog: another, we'd have heard from them?
dialog: 51.
text: Britten thinks about that. He opens the file, looks at the
text: photos of the scene again. The back to back dry spots in
dialog: Space 590 and 611.
text: And then it hits him.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Oh my God. 611. That’s what it was
dialog: trying to tell me. It was in 611.
text: He drops everything else, holds the picture close.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: We had it backwards.
text: Bird steps over.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D)
dialog: There was no car in 590.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: But the blood trail-
text: Britten points to the photo.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: These two cars didn’t leave at
dialog: about the same time. They left at
text: EXACTLY the same time.
text: He points to a little thread of dry pavement between the dry
text: spaces where the cars were parked.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (CONT'D
dialog: See that little strip of dry
dialog: pavement. That means there was
text: something above it. Something
dialog: connecting whatever was in these
dialog: two spaces.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: (getting it)
text: A tow hitch.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
text: It wasn’t a car in 590. It was a
dialog: camper or something else he could
text: stick her in. The car was in 611.
dialog: OFF Bird-
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S CAR
text: Britten and Bird are driving. Bird is on the phone.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Yeah. Yeah. Send it over.
dialog: (hanging up)
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT'D)
text: Four camper hits in the same area
dialog: we canvassed for sex offenders.
text: Three of them are sitting in their
dialog: driveways. One’s not. Neighbor says
dialog: it’s been gone since Monday.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Day of the murders.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Says the guy talks about a lake up
dialog: in the foothills. Vega’s sending us
dialog: a description of the area, the
text: camper, and the guy’s ID.
text: Bird taps at his laptop. Suddenly he freezes.
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT’D)
dialog: What the hell?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What?
text: Bird turns the screen to Britten. It’s an ID PHOTO from a
text: driver's license. The MAN in the photo has RED HAIR.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: You want to explain to me how you
dialog: knew he was going to be a red head?
dialog: OFF Britten’s look -
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUND - AFTERNOON
text: Britten and Bird spot a camper attached to a truck parked by
text: an idyllic looking little lake. They move toward it
text: carefully, guns drawn.
scene_heading: INT. CAMPER
text: Britten swings the door open, darts in, gun out. But it’s
text: quiet. And then he hears something MUFFLED.
text: He opens the closet sized bathroom, finds an YOUNG GIRL,
text: bound and gagged inside.
text: He quickly pulls her out, begins to release her. As soon as
text: the gag comes down, she Simp y starts to CRY. Britten takes
dialog: her in his arms when-
text: The door to the camper opens.
speaker_heading: MAN (0.C.)
dialog: We'll have a good fire tonight. I
dialog: got us-—
text: As the man steps in and notices Bird and Britten he freezes.
dialog: 53.
text: He grabs for a knife on the counter, but Bird’s gun is up.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: Don’t even think about it.
text: A beat, and then the MAN bolts.
text: Bird is out the door after him, but Britten doesn’t move. He
text: just sits there, holding the girl. Outside we hear-
scene_heading: TWO SHOTS.
text: A long beat as the girl just CRIES into Britten’s shoulder-
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.)
dialog: I think the red hair settles it in
dialog: just the way we’ve been looking
dialog: or.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Dr. Lee looks like a_man with all the answers. Britten
text: doesn’t seem particularly threatened.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: There’s no evidence suggesting the
dialog: suspect in your kidnapping case
dialog: would have red hair. e only
dialog: reason he did is because it’s a
text: reflection of the REALITY in which
dialog: your actual suspect in the cab
dialog: river murders, which came first,
dialog: had red hair. If this were a dream,
dialog: ou’d have come up with the red
dialog: air clue before it occurred in
dialog: reality. Which would make you
dialog: psychic.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: (unfazed)
dialog: So the red hair proves this is
dialog: reality. And reading the
dialog: constitution proves the other’s
dialog: reality. So we're back where we
dialog: starte
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Remembering a portion of the
dialog: constitution proves nothing. I
dialog: could put you under hypnosis a and
text: drag out a litany of facts and
dialog: tidbits from your subconscious that
dialog: you'd be stunned to find hiding
dialog: there.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 54.
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - KITCHEN
text: Britten works with a MUCH YOUNGER REX, cutting and gluing.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (V.O.)
dialog: Perhaps you helped your son with a
dialog: project at some point and very
dialog: specific portions of the
dialog: constitution found their way into
dialog: your memory. In the trancelike
dialog: state of your dreams, you simply
dialog: dredged them up to help deceive
dialog: yourself.
text: ANGLE ON the project at hand. A Constitutional diorama.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Britten smiles.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: By that logic I could just as
text: easily have come across a red hair
dialog: in the kidnapping case and never
text: consciously noticed it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK'S BEDROOM
text: Britten looks down at his suit jacket, the one he’s been
text: wearing the whole time. He stares at the sleeve. He reaches
text: down and picks off a single red hair. Stares at it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BAKER HOUSE - GIRL’S BEDROOM - FLASHBACK
text: As Britten reaches into the closet to smell the carpet his
text: sleeve contacts the hanging clothes, picking up the red hair.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.
dialog: Maybe I picked it up during the
dialog: investigation and the only way to
dialog: bring it to my attention was to
dialog: make it a detail of my dreams.
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Britten looks happy with himself.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: The dreams in which I have to come
dialog: see you.
dialog: 55.
text: Dr. Lee nods. Okay.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: You’ve created a mental Mobius
dialog: strip: Your mind is free to 99 back
dialog: and fill in any hole if you let it.
dialog: So if youre unwilling to commit
dialog: yourself to making meaningful
dialog: rogress, I’m not sure why you’re
dialog: ere.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m here, because they told me I
dialog: had to come.
text: Dr. Lee takes a beat. Then -
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Your Blood Alcohol Level was
dialog: elevated the night of the accident,
dialog: wasn’t it?
text: This suddenly sucks the wind out of Britten’s sails.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I don’t drink.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: That‘s what you said in the report,
dialog: but it was elevated, was it not?
text: Britten is silent.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE (CONT'D)
dialog: Perhaps your condition comes not so
text: much from a benevolent desire to
dialog: keep YOUE son alive, but an intense
dialog: nee o try to shield yourself from
dialog: your own responsibility for his
dialog: death.
scene_heading: INT. DR. EVANS’ OFFICE
text: Dr. Evans looks concerned.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
text: It does raise a host of questions.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I’m telling you. I never drink. And
dialog: if I did, my wife would never have
dialog: let me get behind the wheel.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: And you don’t remember anything
dialog: about the night leading up to the
dialog: accident?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: EXT. HILLSIDE - NIGHT
text: CLOSE ON Britten waking up, bloody, hanging from his
text: seatbelt.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: No.
scene_heading: EXT. HILLSIDE - LATER
text: Britten is taken in one ambulance as his wife and son, still
text: unconscious are put into another.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DR. EVANS’ OFFICE
text: She’s thinking.
speaker_heading: DR. EVANS
dialog: Maybe this is all your way of
dialog: trying to remember.
dialog: (to explain)
dialog: Just as you seem to work out your
dialog: cases in your dreams, I wonder if
dialog: the entire construction of those
dialog: dreams is meant to try to draw your
dialog: attention to something bigger.
dialog: Maybe that your wife survived in
dialog: one and your son in the other, or
dialog: the fact that you have different
dialog: partners is actually all a way of
dialog: getting you to think about that
dialog: night. Clues, so to speak, as to
dialog: what actually happene
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE DEPARTMENT - NIGHT
text: Vega is doing paperwork at his desk.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What are you still doing here?
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: You see all this stuff? Guy had
dialog: like a hundred different costumes
dialog: in that apartment, was still
dialog: showing up to teach 8th grade math
dialog: everyday. Nobody suspected a thing.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: It’s one in the morning. Don’t you
dialog: have someone waiting for you?
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: VEG:
dialog: I don’t care fe I got the promotion
dialog: just to hold your hand. I’m gonna
dialog: prove I deserve it. My wife
dialog: understands.
text: A beat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Vega. Trust me. Go home.
text: Britten turns to leave, but Vega doesn’t move. Britten
text: shrugs. As Britten starts to walk-
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: You were joking right?
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
speaker_heading: wat or OPPin9)
speaker_heading: VEGA
dialog: About going back to that crime
dialog: scene because of a dream. That’s
dialog: not why we went, right? Cause, you
dialog: know, weird stuff like that, it’s
dialog: sort of what they told me t6 look
dialog: out for.
text: OFF Britten’s expression-—
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CAMPGROUND
text: Police everywhere, ambulance, reporters. Bird steps next to
text: Britten. They see the GIRL with officers.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: She says he kept talking about
dialog: marrying her. That the Lord had
dialog: brought them together.
dialog: (long beat)
dialog: So, the red hair. The obsession
dialog: with that parking space. They’re
dialog: going to ask how you put all that
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Right.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Can we call it a hunch for now?
text: Bird looks at him.
speaker_heading: BIRD
dialog: I've been a cop for thirty years.
text: Only seen hunches on TV. But for
dialog: now... okay, we go with hunch.
dialog: 58.
text: We see the Girl being led into an ambulance.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: What happens to her?
speaker_heading: BIRD
text: She goes to an aunt or something.
dialog: I’m not sure she even understands
dialog: what’s happened yet.
text: As they watch the ambulance doors close behind the girl-
speaker_heading: BIRD (CONT’D)
dialog: Remember when you used to think
dialog: solved and fixed meant the same
dialog: thing?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DR. LEE’S OFFICE
text: Dr. Lee leans forward.
speaker_heading: DR. LEE
dialog: Detective, turning yourself in
dialog: circles like this, over and over,
dialog: it will catch up with Yous This
text: fantasy is far from a benign coping
dialog: mechanism. When your brain should
dialog: be resting, recharging, you’re
text: using it to hold up a detailed and
text: complicated alternate reality. A
dialog: reality that only gets more
dialog: complicated the longer it exists.
dialog: That is unsustainable, Detective
dialog: Britten. I’m afraid that the longer
dialog: ou continue, the more you
dialog: jeopardize your already tenuous
dialog: grasp on reality. It is, quite
dialog: simply, a road to madness.
text: A long beat as this weighs on Britten. Then-
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: The thing is doctor -
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVEYARD - DAY
text: Britten and HANNAH are in black, surrounded by mourners.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: - yes, I still see both my wife and
dialog: my son.
dialog: 59.
text: Hannah leans on him SOBBING as a casket is lowered into the
dialog: ground.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GRAVEYARD - DAY
text: Britten and REX are in black, surrounded by mourners.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: But I’ve also watched each of them
text: lowered into the ground.
text: REX WEEPS as the casket descends.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - REX’S ROOM
text: Britten assists Hannah, clearing out the last of Rex’s stuff.
text: She looks at him, leans down, opens a paint can.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O. :
dialog: And when yoo see a Vee one being
dialog: buried, the one thought you have
text: over and over and over again, is
dialog: that you would give ANYTHING to
dialog: change it.
text: Suddenly, her ‘move past it’ exterior cracks and she finally
text: begins to CRY. As he pulls her into his arms-
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. TENNIS COURTS
text: Britten sits alone in the stands watching Rex practicing
text: relentlessly with his coach TARA.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: So if you're telling me that the
dialog: price of being able to see them, to
dialog: eel them, to have them, is my
dialog: sanity-
text: After crushing a forehand that sends Tara sprawling, Rex
text: looks up at his father, smiles.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT
text: Britten and Rex have dinner in the bar, watching football
text: highlights on the screen.
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.
dialog: Then let me assure you I will
dialog: happily pay it.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - KITCHEN
text: Britten and Hannah eat. She’s still raw, emotional.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.)
dialog: I’1l come here as long as they make
dialog: me, but trust me-
text: She puts her hand on his. They look in one another's eyes.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN (V.O.) (CONT’D)
dialog: I have no desire to ever make
dialog: progress.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRITTEN’S HOUSE - MARK'S BEDROOM
text: Britten and his wife hay. in bed together, only a sliver of
text: light sneaking through the window. A LONG SILENCE. Then -—
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Will you see him tonight?
text: Britten looks over at her. He’s not sure what she wants to
text: hear. He simply opts for the truth.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: Yes.
text: She takes that in. He prepares | himself for the
text: recriminations. Instea she kisses him on the cheek.
dialog: Softly-
speaker_heading: HANNAH
dialog: Tell him that I love him.
text: As she turns away Britten fights the lump in his throat.
speaker_heading: BRITTEN
dialog: I will.
text: Britten closes his eyes.
text: We push in very close on his closed eyelids. A long beat.
dialog: Then-
text: He opens them.
speaker_heading: END OF SHOW
dialog: 
